 

Che Ring-tum 7

£3

R552
i

V.

A SPECIAL EDITION OF °°."

  

AUG 9 ) 109

7
It

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 1

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

AUGUST 30, 1990

omer pleads guilty, gets

six months and probation»

 

By Brian Root and Jason Kelley
of The Ring-tum Phi staff

 

Saying ‘‘I can never make proper
restitution for what I’ve done,’’ for-
mer Washington and Lee student
Charles Blakely Comer pled guilty
yesterday moming to involuntary
manslaughter and hit and run and
was sentenced to six months in jail
for the death of W&L freshman
Mary Ashley Scarborough in March
of 1989.

The guilty plea was part of a sen-
tencing agreement with the com-
monwealth’s attorney. In the agree-
ment, Comer waived his right to a
jury trial as well as his right against
self-incrimination during his trial,
which lasted only an hour Wednes-
day morning.

Judge Rudolph Bumgardner III
accepted the agreement and sen-
tenced Comer to five years in jail,
and, as part of the agreement, sus-
pended all but six months of the
term.

“‘We were relieved that he pled
guilty,’’ said Dr. D.E. Scarborough,
the victim’s father. ‘‘We did not
want to have to go through a trial.’’

Scarborough praised the Lexington
Police Department for its handling
of the investigation and its after-
math.

“‘Lexington is very lucky to have
dlice department like this one,’’
‘borough said.

It’s impossible for me to de-
be what my feelings are,’’ he

. “‘The only thing I can say is
to put yourself in our position, if
can.”’

‘This is a black mark on you,
© associates, and the instituion
*re you attended,’’ Bumgardner

1 Comer after announcing the
tence. ‘‘This tragedy is a low

nt for an institution known for its

lesty and integrity.’’

Bumgardner criticized the univer-

/ for allowing an ‘‘uncontrolled

vironment where such events

ald take place.’’
}

To our
readers

This special edition of The
Ring-tum Phi was published in
order to present the University
community with accurate and
timely information about am
event that has greatly affected
Washington and Lee.

_. The trial was attended by
two of our staff and the infor-
mation was compiled and edited
by Editors Pat Lopes and Brian
Root and Senior Copy Editor
Jason Kelley.
Special thanks to W&L Dir-

Shaw and Lexington Police
Chief Beard for giving us valu-
able help and information.

 

PRN

Commonwealth’s attomey Ray
Robertson said that W&L student
Ann Armentrout testified to the
grand jury that she had seen Comer
that night at a fraternity party.

According to Robertson, Armen-
trout said Comer was intoxicated to
the point that he ‘‘just slid down the
wall and hit his head against the
floor.’’

During the trial, Robertson dis-
closed that after hitting Scarborough
and fleeing the scene, Comer went
back to his house, known as Bear
Farm, and told his three roommates
what had happened.

‘*He went back to Bear Farm and
told his roommates ‘I just hit some-
one and I might have killed her,’’’
said Robertson.

The three roommates Richard
Brock, Greg Hartman and Dodd
Crutcher then told Comer that if he
did not plan to turn himself in, that
he should replace the car’s wind-
shield, which had been damaged in
the accident. Comer drove to
Northern Virginia that night and had
the windshield replaced.

“This tragedy is compounded by
the attempts to cover up the truth,”’
said Bumgardner.

According to Robertson, the three
roommates told Comer that he was
“*in no shape to drive.’’

 

“This tragedy is a
low point for an in-
stitution known for
its honesty and
integrity.”

— Judge Bumgardner

However, Robertson said Comer
claimed he could drive safely, saying
thast the accident had been ‘‘a sober-
ing experience.”

Although Roberson said that all
three roommates could ‘‘easily’’ be
charged with being an accomplice
after the fact, circumstances have
prevented it.

 

 

Comer’s

 

 

 

 

Bileke Comer

_..Sentenced to 6 months

 

court confession

I, Charles Blakely Comer, do
hereby voluntarily make the fol-
lowing statement.

On March 16, 1989, in the
City of Lexington, Virginia, I had
attended a party at my fraternity
house on Henry Street. I was at
the party for approximately three
hours during which time I con-
sumed beer. I do not know exact-
ly how much beer I had had, but
I acknowledge that I had had
enough beer to impair my ability
to operate a motor vehicle.

I left the party around 2:00
a.m. and was going out Wash-
ington Street. I admit that I had
had too much to drink and was
operating my vehicle recklessly
when I struck Ashley  Scar-
borough, a pedestrian. I knew that
I had struck a pedestrian and that
I should stop. I was afraid,

panicked and did not stop at the
scene of the accident. I deeply
regret my negligent acts and ack-
nowledge that I can never make
proper restitution to the Scar-
borough family or to society.

I am making this statement
voluntarily because I want to tell
the truth in order to help me con-
front the guilt and remorse that |
feel. I want to publicly ac-
knowledge my responsibility and
express my regret and sympathy
for the Scarborough family.

I accept the shame that I feel
and the responsibility for the pain
I have caused the Scarborough
family and my family as a part of
my punishment.

— C. Blake Comer
August 28, 1990

 

 

According to Robertson, one of
the three was given immunity from
prosecution in exchange for his testi-
mony, and the others are citizens of
Texas. Because most states do not
extradite persons charged only with
misdemeanors, the state would not be
able to get them to Lexington for
trial.

Scarborough was killed at the
intersection of Washington and Estill
Streets at about 2:10 a.m.

Robertson also introduced the
results of the autopsy performed on
Scarborough, which determined that
she had died of a fractured skull, and
had been pronounced dead at the
scene of the accident.

The last piece of evidence intro-
duced by the prosecution was a pre-
pared statement, which Comer read,
admitting his involvement.

‘I accept the shame that I feel
and the responsibility for the pain
that I have caused the Scarborough
family and my family as part of my

punishment,’’ said Comer in the
prepared statement.

Following the sentencing, Comer
gave another, more emotional state-
ment.

“*T apologize to the court, to Lex-
ington and to the Scarborough family
for what I’ve done,’’ said Comer in
a halting voice. ‘‘I wish I could bring
back Ashley, but I can’t. I pray for
her and the Scarboroughs.”’

Robertson also disclosed that there
was a woman, also a W&L student,
in the car at the time of the accident.
However, according to Lexington
Police Chief Bruce Beard, she will
not be prosecuted because ‘‘there is
no evidence that shows she had any
knowledge of the accident.’’

Despite a lengthy investigation, the
Lexington police uncovered no sub-
stantial leads until Lexington police
officer Jerry Knick received an anon-
ymous phone call on Nov. 29 nam-
ing Comer as the driver of the car
that killed Scarborough.

Robertson said the anonymous
caller heard of the accident from one
of Comer’s roommates.

Knick traveled to Greenville,
South Carolina, Comer’s hometow::
and found the car, a blue Hons
Accord on Nov. 30. That same day,
Comer confessed to Beard after being
taken into custody on campus.

The trial, originally scheduled for
June 24, but was postponed when the
original prosecutor, Eric Sisler re-
cused himself from the case.

The Scarborough family objected
to Sisler’s previous work for the
university as well as his membership
in Phi Delta Theta, Comer’s fraterni-
ty, while a W&L student.

“I’m glad to see that you’ve taken
the first steps toward taking responsi-
bility for your actions,’’ Bumgardner
told Comer. ‘‘Perhaps the one good
thing to come out of this is that
students will reevaluate their own
standards and rededicate themselves
to honesty and integrity.”’

Swift, emotional trial closes case

 

“tf By Jason Kelley and Brian Root

of The Ring-tum Phi staff

the judge.

‘‘What do you plead to the first of these

charges?”’

 

“Guilty.”

Others in the room quietly chatted or left to get a

drink of water.

When the judge had reentered and the spec-

ector of Communications Beian ,

 

 

In one hour and fifteen minutes, 17 months of
questions were answered and a new chapter in the
lives of two families began.

When Dr. Scarborough entered the courtroom
alone, the Comer family was already seated in the
front row. There wasn’t any contact between the
two sides, but Mrs. Comer leaned a few times over
her husband’s shoulder to look over at Dr. Scar-

| borough. She never caught his eye.

Blake was escorted into the room by two
county jail officers and silently sat down at the
defense table with his lawyer, Thomas Spencer.
He and his lawyer talked quietly until the bailiff
called the court to order.

Judge Bumgardner entered and the clerk read
the formal charges against Blake. ‘‘Involuntary
manslaughter,’’ and, ‘‘felony hit and run,’’ were
the words that stood out.

The agreement between the prosecution and the

' defense was read by the clerk: five years, mostly

suspended, six months jail time.
Blake was then barraged with questions from

‘‘What is your plea to the second of these
charges?”’

“‘Guilty.”’

‘‘Do you understand what these charges mean
and what their penalties are?’’

“70, i.

‘‘Do you understand that in pleading guilty that
you waive your right to a jury trial?’’

“Yes, your honor.’’

The questions went on and on.

It was then the Commonwealth’s turn to present
the evidence. The people presented the autopsy
report: fractured skull, dead at the scene. The
people presented an accident reconstruction report:
tire tracks, blood stains. The Commonwealth’s
attorney read testimony of people)who had seen
Blake and Ashley before the accident.

When the people had nothing further, Blake read
his statement, and the judge then retired to his
chambers to consider the evidence and the agree-
ment.

Blake sat alone, silently at his table and waited.

tators were again seated, Blake and his attorney
remained standing. The judge asked if there was
anything more from the prosecution. No. From the
defense? Blake asked the judge for a few moments
to speak to the court, but the judge asked him to
wait a moment.

“Your plea of guilty will be accepted,’ the
judge said.

Blake was then allowed to speak.

He said many things but his voice faltered and
his mother cried as he said, ‘‘I can not bring
Ashley back, I wish I could. I pray for her and
for the Scarboroughs.’’

When it was all over a few family and school
friends came up to hug Blake or pat him on the
back. His parents did not and, he was handcuffed
and escorted out of the courtroom before they
spoke to him.

Mr. Scarborough left to speak with the press.
The Comers soon followed, but stopped to speak
with no one. And, as it was an hour and fifteen
minutes earlier, the courtroom was empty and
silent. .
 

September
 

 

i

Freshman orientation edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 2

 

By Brian Root
Editor

 

Once again, Washington and Lee
has attracted a competitive freshmen
class from across the country and
around the world.

This year’s freshmen come from
44 different states, D.C., Puerto Rico
and six foreign countries, according
to the W&L Admissions Office.

There are about 390 freshmen,
160 women and 230 men. Exact
numbers depend on how many fresh-
men actually came to Lexington this
weekend.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

W&L class of 1994 arrives on campus

Virginia contributed 41 freshmen,
the most of any state, followed by
Texas with 35. The only states not
represented are Alaska, North Dakota,
South Dakota, Rhode Island, Nevada
and Vermont.

Freshmen have also arrived from
Egypt, Italy (which sent two stu-
dents), Kenya, Korea, Norway, Pana-
ma and Sweden.

The freshmen survived a tough,
competitive admissions process. Of
the 3,067 applicants, 958 were ac-
cepted,

The freshman class enters W&L
with some impressive academic cre-
dentials and honors garnered in high

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

Nice Numbers

* 532 of 958 accepted applicants scored over 600 on the verbal

portion of the SAT

* 6 scored between 750 and 800 on verbal portion

* 656 of 958 accepted applicants scored over 600 on math portion
* 48 scored between 750 and 800 on math portion

source: W&L Admissions Office

 

 

school,

According to the admissions of-
fice, 34 incoming freshmen were Na-
tional Merit Finalists and 157 were
members of the National Honor Soci-

 

Thirty-four finished first or sec-
ond in their high school graduating
class. Forty-seven served as student
body president, class president or
vice-president.

Ninety incoming freshmen were

ety.

 

 

 

      

if
"Ts
o/

 

 

So, this is water polo

 

W&L's water polo team traditionally has been successful against Memorial Pool, located in the Warner Center. Please see Page 3 fo
tough competition. The team's matches are held in the Cy Twombley more details about the sport. File photo. |

team captains in high school and 52
were the editor of a campus publica-
tion.

For SATs, the majority of ap-
plicants scored between 550 and 600
on the verbal part of the test, and
between 600 and 650 on the mathe-
matical part.

However, high SAT scores do not
guarantee admission. An admissions
office publication said, ‘‘The infor-
mation provided reflects a statistical
range of standardized test scores for
those students offered admission. An
applicant falling within these ranges,
however, cannot assume admission to
Washington and Lee.’’

SEPTEMBER 1, 1990

For example, 289 of 583 ap-
plicants who scored between 600 and
650 on the verbal section of the SAT
were not accepted.

‘‘The single most important ele-
ment in the Admission Committee’s
review is an applicant’s achievement
in a rigorous college preparatory
curriculum,’’ said the pamphlet.

Accordingly, seventy-four percent
of incoming freshmen have taken
advanced placement courses in high
school.

Because this year’s freshmen class
is smaller than incoming classes in
the last several years, no freshmen
will be living in Gaines Hall.

IFC prepares
schedule for
fraternity rush

 

By Andrew Waters
Associate Editor

 

 

 

Hatcher: EC will be fair and open

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

Executive Committee President Thompson
Hatcher, ’91, advocates objectivity and accessi-
bility as themes for this year’s student govern-
ment.

Hatcher presides over the EC, a body of 13
elected representatives which supervises most
student activities and the honor system.

“The EC should not be seen as a prosecuto-
rial board,’’ said Hatcher. ‘‘Our main job with
the honor system is to be objective.

‘‘An honor violation, as far as this committee
is concerned,’’ he explained, ‘‘is a violation of the
student body’s trust. The EC realizes that people

week’s issue of the Phi

NEWS...

funds
Fraternity Renaissance update

Will the Lensfest Center ever be com-
pleted?

An interview with the new Dean of Students
Weekly coverage of the EC, IFC and PHC
W&LIFE...

Production continues on the movie version
of W&L alumnus Thomas Wolfe's novel
Bonfire of the Vanities

Where to go to find fraternity parties now
that Red Square is being renovated

SPORTS...

The W&L football team faces its first game
of the season against Emory

Fall sports preview, also including soccer
and water polo by Jay Plotkin

 

 

What’s coming in next

W&L’s ROTC program faces a cutoff in

make honest mistakes.’’

Hatcher said that the honor system favors the
accused, who are innocent until proven
guilty. He said the EC ‘‘may make mistakes,’’ he
said, ‘‘but we are not going to make mistakes on
convictions,’’

Accessibility is the other key point in Hatcher’s
administration. In addition to maintaining an
open-door policy, he plans to initiate bimonthly
forums at the undergraduate and law campuses
where students may provide constructive criticism
to the EC.

Students should not ‘‘have to wait until an
election to get their points across,’’ emphasized
Hatcher.

Hatcher has been involved in student govern-
ment since he served as freshman class president.

for new sorority

By Ashley Harper
Entertainment Editor

Mitchell, PHC prepare

 

He lost reelection to the class presidency in his
sophomore year but returned to government last
year as the junior EC representative.

In his sophomore and junior years, he helped
organize Superdance, a university-wide fundraiser
to fight Muscular Dystrophy. He has also served
in Kathekon, an alumni-liason organization for two
years.
“I would encourage everyone to get in-
volved,’ said Hatcher. ‘‘That’s the main thing
about W&L; students have virtually every oppor-
tunity to get involved in decision making and
policy making. Seek the vote and make a differ-
ence.”’

The first EC session will begin at 5 p.m., Sept.
10 in the EC Room in the University Center. The
EC holds weekly meetings open to all students.

With the beginning of fraternity
rush just a few days away, members
of the Interfraternity Council have set
the schedule that will dictate the
social lives of about 200 potential
pledges in the next few weeks.

Rush begins unofficially next
Saturday with open contact from 4
p-m. to 7 p.m. after the football game
against Emory; band parties at frater-
nity houses begin at 8 p.m.

‘“‘Open contact means that fresh-
men can do just about anything with
a fraternity,’’ IFC president Goodloe
Lewis said.

Places traditionally frequented
during open contact include fraternity
houses, country houses and Goshen
Pass on the Maury River about 15
miles west of Lexington.

No contact is allowed between
freshmen and upperclassmen Saturday
from 7 to 8 p.m. Later those nights
W&L’s 16 fraternities hold band
parties, but may not supply alcohol
bought by house funds.

Rush officially begins Sunday
with an assembly in Lee Chapel at 1
p-m. followed immediately by open
house sign-up in the Gilliam, Davis,
Baker dorm quadrangle.

At the sign-ups freshmen choose
their nine preferred houses and a
computer randomly matches them up
with a time.

An open house is the first time
rushees meet formally with members
of a fraternity. Rushees spend 6 hours
and 45 minutes over three nights in
coat and tie talking to fraternity
members in nine houses.

Rushees can informally drop by a
fraternity house between 4 and 8 p.m.
Sunday.

Fraternities will conduct three
open houses each night starting at
6:45 p.m. Sept. 10, 11 and 12.
Rushees and fraternity members are

only allowed casual contact -- which
basically amounts to saying ‘‘Hi’’ on
campus, Lewis said -- outside of
open houses those three days.

Preference cards listing the
tushees four favorite houses are due
by 3 p.m Thursday, Sept. 13 in Ev-
ans Dining Hall.

The rest of the day is ‘‘pretty
much a day off,’’ Lewis said.

A computer will match the
freshman lists of favorite fraternities
with the fraternity lists of favorite
freshmen and come up with a sched-
ule of rush dates.

Fraternities will throw parties both
Friday and Saturday night.

The first two rush dates will be
held Sunday, Sept. 16 from 6 to 9
p-m., the next two on Monday night.
Rush dates have the same basic
format as open houses.

Fraternity members can invite any
rushee from the first four rush dates
to the next four rush dates to give
them a ‘‘bid,’’ or an invitation to
join the fraternity.

The Fraternity Renaissance has
made it impossible for sone fraterni-
ties to conduct rush in their houses,
so those affected were assigned alter-
nate locations at random.

IFC vice-president Mike Skarda
said the arrangement has worked out
well.

“IT don’t know that everyone’s
absolutely thrilled but they all know
it was done fairly,’’ Skarda said.

The last week’s activities climax
Friday, Sept. 21 when rushees are
first allowed to ‘‘tear,’’ or join a
fraternity.

If he remains undecided Friday
night, there’s still time during Satur-
day night’s band parties to for the
rushee take the final plunge into
fraternity life.

It all ends Sunday, Sept. 23, when
the new ‘‘social members’’ can grab
some sleep, hit the books and wait
for formal pledging activities to begin
in the winter.

Greek leaders see busy year ahead

 

By Rick Peltz

 

Staff Reporter

 

IFC faces fraternity changes

will take over the titles on most of the fraternity

properties.

Lewis does not, however, want the IFC to be
characterized solely as a police organization.

‘Sororities at Washington and Lee, established in
1989, are organized into the Panhellenic Council, which
has the authority to deal with all matters pertinent to
sororities. Its decisions and statements are subject to
review of the Student Affairs
Committee. All sorority mem-
bers are also members of the
Panhellinic Council. Meetings
are held every Tuesday night.
Its purpose is to promote coop-
eration among all sorority
chapters on campus.’’ a
1990 Student Handbook

Panhellenic President Nancy
Mitchell said the typical sorori-
ty member is active in the
W&L community and believes
joining a sorority will help her
become even more involved -
~ socially, academically and in
the Lexington community.

In addition to her duties as Panhellenic president,
Mitchell, a psychology major, participates in soccer and
the Student Activities Board.

W&L’s three sororities - Chi Omega, Kappa Alpha
Theta and Kappa Kappa Gamma — were colonized in
1989. The national officers of each sorority conducted

 

Nancy Mitchell

 

 

Interfraternity Council President Goodloe Lewis,
*91, foresees a busy year for the IFC as changes to the
physical and social structure of W&L’s 16 fraternities
continue with the Fraternity Renaissance program.

“‘T think the university administration will assume
a much larger role in fraternity affairs,’’ said Lewis,
‘*When they own it, there’s no limit to what they can
do.

“If the guys are perceptive,’’ he said, ‘‘they will
realize that the IFC is going to crack down ... or the
Hill is going to step in.’’

Lewis said the IFC will ‘‘keep the fraternities in
line.’’ Under the Fraternity Renaissance program, W&L

 

‘Public relations can always use improvement,’ he
said. The IFC holds regular meetings with the police
and the community. They also sponsor fundraising
events for charity and encourage philanthropy projects.

‘*We are a liaison between the administration and
the fraternities,’’ Lewis added about the IFC. Lewis
was a junior justice on the IFC last year and headed
the IFC’s role in co-sponsoring Springfest, a student-
oriented weekend of activities in May. He has also
been active in Liberty Hall Volunteers, a Civil War
reenactment group.

‘“‘He will do a great job on the IFC,’ said EC
President Thompson Hatcher. ‘‘He’s not going to play
around.... It’s going to be interesting.’’

 

 

rush that winter, and chapters from other schools helped
the colonies initiate new members. This past winter each
sorority, with the help of a chapter consultant, was on its
own to conduct rush, pledgship and initiation.

The Delta Gamma Rush Team will rush, pledge and
initiate upperclassmen this fall to establish W&L's fourth
sorority charter. DG will also be allowed to offer bids
throughout the year until they reach their chapter total of
70 active members.

Mitchell said the Panhellenic Council has accom-
plished the goals they had set for this year. ‘‘We have

established working chapters and we have finalized our
bylaws and constitutions.’’

Spring Fest, a student-oriented activities weekend and
semi-formal dance, took the place of a mixer last year.
A Panhellenic mixer was not feasible last year because
of the cost, liability and exclusion of the non-Greek por
tion of the campus, Mitchell said.

“Spring Fest was a way to include all Greeks, the
Independent Union, the Minority Students Association and
the International House. It was fun for everyone on
campus, and, hopefully, we'll do it again next year.”’
 

OPINION

ne es

The Phi wants to
hear from you

With this special edition, the staff of The Ring-tum Phi
welcomes all entering students to Washington and Lee.
We wish you the best of luck during your time here.

The articles in this edition were written for freshmen,
exchange students and transfer students. We have not
included any hard news, which we saved for our first
regular issue of the year to be published on the first day
of classes.

Facing days of orientation, you have probably already
realized that although W&L and Lexington are small, a
lot goes on here. When classes start, we hope you will
turn to our newspaper for accounts of campus events and
issues.

The Ring-tum Phi is W&L’s student newspaper. We
operate independently of the journalism department.
Although most of the staff are journalism majors and
some articles double as assignments and Phi stories,
editorial decisions are ours.

We have two major goals. First, we strive to write
objective, fair and accurate stories. As best we can, we
seek to work without bias to produce a paper that meets
or exceeds the standards of professional papers.

Second, we strive to cover all newsworthy events. We
regularly cover the Executive Committee, the
Interfraternity Council, the Panhellenic Council and W&L
athletics. We also cover local politics and police
whenever their work affects the university and its
students.

How close are we to reaching these goals? That is a
question often debated on Thursday evenings, when the
Phi is published and distributed. When you have become
familiar with campus issues and organizations, you may
feel we are far from the mark.

Did we tell both sides of a story? Are the basic facts
correct? Did we miss an important point? Did we unjustly
criticize a student, an administrator, a fraternity or a
campus organization?

We know people are from time to time dissatisfied

with our coverage. This is only natural, since one
function of a newspaper is to bring information and ideas
into the forum of public debate. Occasionally this requires
us to step on some toes and print unpopular ideas and
opinions.

Since few of our readers know what each of the
editors look like, we often hear comments on the paper
from people who do not even realize they are talking to
or near someone on our staff.

We would prefer that when: you feel ‘strongly about.

something we printed, write us. We print all literate.
letters to the editors and we will seriously consider what
you have to say. If you have a grievance, the student
body would be best served if you interject your complaint
into the stream of public discussion.

If you do not have time to drop us a line or you are
not satisfied with our response to a letter, call the Phi
office, stop an editor if you know one of us or come by
our office. We will discuss our editorial decisions and
your comments.

We are striving to be as professional as possible, and
part of being professional is responding to guidance from
our readership. We look forward to hearing from you.

Quote of the week

I got some, but I didn’t get as much as I wanted.
— President George Bush, complaining that he didn’t

receive enough... relaxation during his recent vacation in
Maine.

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The, Ring;tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 1, 1990
os Sarees

 

 

 

FEL [FALE TE

2

 

 

 

  

 

 

= ff gj ia

How Ani ssiavs

REALLY WorK

  

|

 

W&L: work hard, play harder

 

MY VIEW
By Chris Baradel

 

Just a few thoughts, observations, recommenda-
tions and requests I thought I’d pass along to the
Class of 1994...

If you can brook the mind-numbing tedium of
the multiple daily lectures that comprise your
orientation, these next few weeks can be some of
the most fascinating and enjoyable you've seen so
far.

Never again will you encounter so many new

people in such a condensed period of time (unless
you join the Army or move to Tokyo), so revel in
the opportunity.
Should you start to feel like a goldfish who’s
been transferred from its bowl to the Pacific
Ocean, don’t sweat it. The best way to pare down
the daunting task of introductions ahead of you is
to begin with the one essential: meeting everyone
on your hall within the first few days. The other
meetings and greetings will take care of them-
selves...

Baptize yourself into the Washington and Lee
culture. Immerse yourself completely in our com-
munity’s traditions and customs, for they have
stood the test of time and will be as in vogue
‘when you. graduate. as they are ‘now. : Be

Some ._W&L’s. more . renowned... conventions,
whose subtleties and nuances you will (hopefully)
acquire during your four years are: the honor code,
the speaking tradition, strong Greek life, close
student-faculty relations and the devotion to the
duality of ‘‘work hard/play hard.’

Undoubtedly you have an intellectual knowledge
of many of these elements of the university’s
culture, now you have the opportunity to know
them as a part of your environment...

Although you probably didn’t come here be-
cause the nightlife of Lexington proper attracted
you, the diminutive size of the town provides for
some imaginative forays. Of course, to find anyth-
ing to occupy your time while you wait for Rush

and open parties to begin, you'll have to be im-
aginative.

Nonetheless, there are some things that can be
considered must-see.

Visit the infamous Lloyd’s of Lexington
(preferably after midnight) for an unforgettable
dining experience and a first-hand, slice-of-life look
at the local populace.

Go to the Hunan Gardens restaurant and see
why it has become overwhelmingly popular with
the undergraduate student body.

Venture up past the athletic fields to the Liberty
Hall ruins for the best view of Lexington (if there
is such a thing) and the campuses of W&L and the
Virginia Military Institute.

 

Immerse yourself completely
in our community’s tra-
ditions...they have stood the
test of time and will be as
in vogue when you graduate
as they are now.

 

Above all, if you can’t keep yourself enter-
tained enough while waiting for Rush to gear up,
console. yourself with the knowledge that it could

- bé’ much, much worse.

You could be a VMI cadet, jogging several
miles per day in the hot sun, with a bad haircut
and no foreseeable prospects for an improvement
of your situation...

One of the best pieces of advice regarding
freshman year I’ve ever heard was: ‘‘go through
the first year to get to the last three.’’ In other
words, the freshman year is a time to experiment
with different interests, both academic and extra-
curricular, so that by the time sophomore year
starts you have a handle on how you want to
approach the final three years.

For example, the first year is a good time to
learn such things as: how much carousing you can
do before your grades fall off to a level that you

(or worse, your parents) feel is unacceptable; what
subject you might want to pursue as a major
course of study; and what clubs and organizations
you want to be a part of.

The best way to find these things out is simple:
Do it all. If Bo Jackson can manage more than one
hobby, so can you. Burn the candle at both ends at
times to find out what you like and can handle.

Pursue every activity that interests you, and
over the course of the year time pressures will
“‘assist’’ you in choosing the ones that are most
enjoyable, interesting and worthwhile.

As you experiment, you will probably
experience some setbacks, some defeats and some
abject failures. Your grades will probably suffer.
But you will be the wiser for having learned who
you are, and you won’t have to spend the next
three years fumbling around trying to find yourself.

Be willing to trade one year for three, and you
might find the bargain worthwhile. I did....

On a most serious concluding note, I ask all of
you to keep in mind the closing remarks of Judge
Rudolph Bumgardner III at Blake Comer’s trial.

He criticized the university for allowing an
“‘uncontrolled environment’’ to exist. He was
correct in calling the hit-and-run death of Mary A.
Scarborough, and resultant coverup, a tragedy and
a ‘“‘low point for an institution known for its
honesty and integrity.’’

Although your class was not here at the time |

this trauma was inflicted upon our community, you

would have to be callous not to imagine the pain ‘

it caused the student body.

Blake Comer is paying for what he did, serving
a sentence in the Rockbridge County Jail. But that
price is nothing compared to the guilt and remorse
he must feel over what has happened.

We have the advantage of seeing his mistake,
and we must learn from his failure. If we don’t,
we are not nearly as smart as we thik we are or
as W&L promotes us to be.

Play hard, indeed, for that is your legacy and
your right. But be smart when you do so. Don’t
drink yourself into a coma, and never, never drive
after drinking.

Speaking Tradition: just do it

 

MY VIEW
By Josh Manning

 

I remember my freshman orientation very well.
Despite all that has happened, it was only last
year. This coming week, you will be confronted
with many new concepts, traditions, indeed a
whole new way of life.

Names will be thrown at you: President Wilson,
Dean Ruscio, Tom Hatcher, and various faculty
advisors, dorm counselors, professors, representa-
tives from every organization under the sun, and a
dozen dorm-mates that you’ll live with for the next
nine months. You'll be ‘‘briefed’’ on the honor
system. Everyone will expect something else from
‘the freshmen.”’

During the coming week, someone will spend
a few minutes talking to you about something
called the Speaking Tradition, Probably just another
one of those derelict duties that can wait until

October or November, after things settle down.

But wait! The Speaking Tradition is not just
another piece of orientation trivia. The faculty and
students make W&L what it is academically, the
diverse variety of activities make it what is social-
ly, and the Honor System makes it what it is
ethically. The Speaking Tradition, however, makes
W&L a home.

The Speaking Tradition is
not just another piece of ori-
entation trivia... the Speak-

ing Tradition makes W&L a
home.

 

 

It doesn’t take much to do your part. A friend-
ly smile, a polite nod, a slight salute, or a little
‘*hi’’ is all that is necessary. Whatever you feel is
most necessary. You'll be amazed how catchy it
soon becomes. It’s comfortable to know that you

belong. °

I live in New York. Needless to say, the city
does not participate in the tradition. The Speaking
Tradition became such a part of my mannerisms,
that it even followed me home. It’s amazing the
strange looks you get when you offer people in
New York a smile and a nod. Too bad. I guess not
everybody can be as civilized as we are here at
W&L. 5

Every year, the doomsayers report that the
Speaking Tradition is dying away. Granted, it is no
longer strictly enforced as it was in the days of
yore, but this special tradition has proven its
durability. Nevertheless, every September tests the
Speaking Tradition again. Its continued survival
depends completely on you and your peers. Don’t
let an apathetic few get you down. Keep Washing-
ton and Lee our home. I have complete faith in the
class of 1994,

P.S. — I'll catch you one moming on the Collon-
ade.

Rush: one of the first lessons

 

reason.

MY VIEW

But there is a lot more to it.

ably noticed, is not particularly stimu- ever, you have to participate in Rush.
lating) would be considerably less Simply going to an open house or to

By Brian Root

 

I know....I know. All this summer,
your mailbox has been deluged with
letters from fraternities or sororities.
After the first few, you realized that
they said essentially the same thing
and you started throwing them away
unopened,

Chances are, you've seen Animal
House and you think you know what
greek life is about. Well, actually you
do know what part of greek life at
W&L is about, at least in its
exaggerated, Hollywood form.

But there is a lot more to it.

You may have been told by par-
ents, teachers, friends or whomever
that greek organizations are a dying
breed, derelicts of a bygone genera-
tion practicing medieval rituals for no

There’s only one way to find out
for yourself what greek life at W&L
is really about, however, and that is
to participate in Rush.

For the rest of my life, when I
think back to the most enjoyable,
interesting, and indeed educational
experiences of my life, the three
weeks in which I chose a fraternity
will immediately come to mind.

Was it all fun? No. Was pressure
applied to me? Yes. Was the decision
difficult? Yes. Will I ever forget it?
No way. Do I regret any of it?
Well..I did do a couple of foolish
things, but no.

Sororities are a relatively new
phenomenon at W&L. Their system
operates differently from that of fra-
ternities, but the principle is the
same. Without either, social life here
in Lexington (which, as you've prob-

interesting.

There’s only one
way to find out for
yourself what greek
life at W&L is really
all about, however,
and that is to partici-
pate in Rush.

 

 

The most important thing to bear
in mind is that you must make up
your own mind whether to pledge.
Everyone will have advice, your
dorm-mates, your professors, and
particularly your parents. Throughout
it all, however, the decision must
remain yours.

To make the best decision, how-

a rush date in no way obligates you
to any house, or even to pledging at
all.

Besides, it’s fun. I met some of
my best friends during Rush, and had
some of my best times at Rush
events,

Give it a chance. Chances are,
you will learn something about both
Greek life and yourself that you
didn’t know before (one of these
facts is that sororities aren't sorori-
ties, they’re ‘‘women’s fraternities,’’
don’t ask me why).

Rush is a valuable introduction to
W&L’s fraternities and sororities . It
would be a shame to miss out.

Education comes in many
disguises. I think you'll find that
Rush, while it does not count for
credit (not even P.E.), is a class
worth taking.

a

ioe
 

: ‘during the
¢ ‘ Goodwill Games or are from a few

SPORTS

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

Freshmen. Going through a new
period in your life, trying to make

, the adjustment from high school life

‘to college life. You probably

‘expected a few new things, but most

‘of you probably didn’t expect a new
: sport.

Unless you got a quick look at it
1988 Olympics, the

‘select geographic regions, in all
; probability, you don’t know very
. Much about one of Washington and
‘ Lee’s more successful teams, the
. ‘*Polo’’ team, as it is affectionately
called on campus.

No, this isn’t the sport played with
clubs and horses, this is water polo.

Coached by Page Remillard, one of

, the most respected coaches in the
: game, the water polo team has year
in and year out posted one of the
best records of any team on campus.
Last year, the team finished eighth in
the East Region. Remillard
conducted a special clinic in
association with the Goodwill Games.
The team has never had a losing
season (a .675 career winning
percentage) and has had a
stranglehold on the state title.

The team hosts several annual
tournaments, which are an adventure
to watch, especially if you are
unfamiliar with the rules. When you
go to one of these games, the
Generals will be the team in the blue
swimming caps cheered on by the
reserves in yellow rain coats.

Crowds for home polo games are
large and raucous, and watching the
game is an adventure. If possible,
listen to what someone who has seen
a game before is shouting down
towards the pool. Then try to
understand just what it is that he is
shouting about.

Remillard described the game in
terms of basketball. ‘“The offense is
trying to put pressure on the defense
to take advantage of ordinary fouls,
which are part of the game. The
fouls create dead time, which occurs
when an offensive player is fouled
with the ball. He gets three seconds
of dead time to put the ball back in

play. During dead time, the defense
cannot foul, or the foul results in a
35-second ejection. The offense
creates scoring opportunities by
keeping pressure on the defense and
making them commit fouls.”’

One key to remember: the whistle
means go.

For the first-time spectator, water
polo seems nothing more than a
series of frequent whistles stopping
play. But there is more to the game
than just frequent stoppages of play.
The game is four quarters seven
minutes each. Unlike hockey, there
are no substitutions on the fly.
Changes may be made only after a
goal or between periods. Like football,
teams get three timeouts.

The regulation pool is 30 meters by
20 meters. However, the Cy Twombly
Pool, where the Generals play, is 25
yards by 15 yards. The game takes a
great deal of endurance. Players must
tread water for the entire game. They
are not allowed to touch the bottom of

the pool.

There are several rules. In a four
meter area in front of the goal, any
foul committed results in a 35-second
penalty. A foul in this area is called
a major foul. Major fouls include
kicking an opponent, deliberate
splashing, unsportsmanlike conduct,
and holding an opponent off the ball.
Three major fouls will result in a
disqualification from the game. The
penalty for a major penalty on the
defense committed against an offensive
player with the ball is a penalty shot
from four meters in front of the goal.
Only the goalie may defend.

There are also ordinary fouls.
These are touching the ball with two
hands, taking the ball under water, and
failing to shoot the ball before the 35-
second shot clock expires. The
penalty for an ordinary foul is loss of
the ball at the point of infraction.

Offensively and defensively, the
strategy resembles that of basketball to
a degree. Teams play six to a side.
Obviously there is no walking with the
ball or no double-dribble, but there are
set plays and lots of motion by the
offensive players, cutting to and from
the goal. Defensively, man-to-man is
the most frequent defense, but zones
are also employed, mostly in man-

The Ring-tum Phi, September 1, 1990
EO A RETO

SLED TE

‘Water polo provides spectators
with fast-paced interesting sport

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Point man

 

Wa&L junior Stu Towns looks to pass the ball on offense in a game last
year played in Cy Twombly Pool. The main point on offense is to get
the ball into the four meter “hole” to try to draw a foul or get an easy
shot. The 1990 Generals will be ranked eighth in the East.

 

 

 

down situations.

“Tf I had to give advice to first
time spectators, when the whistle
blows, don’t watch the ball. Look for
the action off the ball. That is where
the finesse takes place,’ said
Remillard.

‘Water polo is an artistically
physical game, depending on the
-quality of officials,” he continued

“The official is like an orchestra
director. He creates a rhythm, and the
players try to adjust to his rhythm."’

The polo season begins September
15, but Generals will not host an event
until October 27 in the W&L Fall
Classic. The Generals’ will also host
the Southern Championships the
following weekend, which is Parents’
Weekend.

 

 

 

 

 

From Staff Reports
Intramurals

Washington and Lee offers an
intramural program for both resi-
dence hall and fraternities.

Residence hall intramural
teams are broken down into by
halls. Teams will compete in
football in the fall, three-on-three
basketball and volleyball in the
winter and softball in the spring
among other events.

Fraternities compete in the fall
in football, tennis, golf, soccer
and the 3.1-mile Turkey Trot run.
In the winter, wrestling, basket-
ball, volleyball and swimming
highlight the schedule. In the
spring, softball and track headline
the schedule.

Freshmen who pledge frater-
nities are allowed to represent
their house in all sports starting
after football.

Athletics

All athletic events on campus
are free of charge. Washington
and Lee competes athletically on
the Division III level, offering 19
varsity sports and an extensive
club sports program.

W&L is a member of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference,
which was founded in 1976.

Football games are played on
Wilson Field. Water polo is
played in Cy Twombly Pool.
Men’s and women’s soccer games
are played on the Liberty Hall
fields, adjacent to the Freshman
parking lot. Cross country begins
its races from the Law School
Field. Volleyball games are held
in Warner Center.

Coming
Attractions

The W&L football team is
joined by two new coaches and a
graduate assistant coach. The
new additions to the staff make
for one of the most experienced
staffs in Division III and a staff
that head coach Gary Fallon calls
his best ever.

 

 

 

 

 

Jim Stagnitta (foreground)

Head lacrosse coach Jim Stag-
nitta, who led the Generals to a
9-4 record last season and a No.
11 ranking, was nearly gone as
quickly as he came.

A University of Pennsylvania
grad and. a former assistant coach
for the Quakers was a finalist for
the Quakers’ head coaching job,
which opened up when the
Quakers’ former head coach took
the top job at Johns Hopkins.

Stagnitta guided the Generals
to their first winning season since
1987 and the total of nine wins
was more than the Generals tal-
lied in the previous two seasons.

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi needs you!

Wanted: reporters,

Attention freshmen:

 

Benefits:

 

resume

ad salesmen
looks great on a

Sion up at the Student Activites Fair

SepT .

5 on the Lee House Lawn

Organizational meeting --- Sept.6 at S$ p.m.
in Boem 203 cof Reid Hail

 
 

Wé&LIFE
Bon Appetit!

A guide for W&L freshmen to Lexington’s culinary hot spots

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

By the end of Freshman Orienta-
tion next week most freshmen will
have grown familiar with the funda-
mentals of Washington and Lee cam-
pus culture and traditions. Most fresh-
men will have learned about the
Honor Code, will be able to locate
any book they want in the four-story
W&L Library, will have heard stories
about the legendary Fancy Dress Ball,
and will have attended at least one
pre-matriculation party.

Freshmen might not have been
told, however, of the options which
exist off campus for those suffering
attacks of the munchies, or those who
seek alternatives to Evans Dining
Hall. Below is a culinary guide to the
Lexington restaurants most frequented
by college students.

Spanky's, 110 S Jefferson St.

Spanky’s offers a variety of eat-
in or take-out appetizers, sandwich or
submarine combinations with names
like The Bouncy or The Carpetbag-
ger, and drinks. The restaurant also
has a bar and its front room features
gourmet items from all over the
world. Spanky’s is open for lunch
and dinner from 9 a.m. to 1 a.m.
Monday through Saturday and 10
a.m. to 1 a.m. on Sunday.

 

The Palms, 101 W Nelson St.

The Palm’s is another restaurant
equipped with a bar that offers a
variety of food items that will please
any appetite. Favorite offerings at the
Palms are its Curly Fries and differ-
ent types of hamburgers. The Palms
has also become a landmark stop for
the celebrations of those turing 21
years old. The Palms is open for
lunch and dinner 11:30 a.m. to 1:00
a.m. Monday through Friday and
12:00 p.m. to 1 a.m. on Sunday.

El Cafe, 116 N Main St.

El Cafe, which opened in June, is
one of Lexington’s newest restaurants.
E] Cafe features a Mexican cuisine
and atmosphere. El Cafe serves a la
carte choices such as burritos, tacos,
or enchiladas and different combina-
tion plates. El Cafe, which also has a
bar, offers a variety of Mexican
beers, daiquiris and other drinks. El
Cafe is open for lunch and dinner
11:30 am. to 10 p.m. Sunday
through Thursday and 11:30 a.m. to
11 p.m. Friday and Saturday.

Hunan Gardens Chinese Restau-
rant, E Nelson St.

Hunan Gardens provides Lexing-
ton with authentic Chinese cuisine
and a bar to serve exotic cocktails
and drinks. The restaurant offers a
variety of Chinese dishes, combina-
tion plates, and soups. You even can
get fortune cookies! Hunan Gardens
is open for lunch and dinner all week
form 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m.

 

Sycamore Farm Market, 14 S
Randolph St.

Sycamore Farm Market is a deli-
catessen-type restaurant that sells
different kinds of sandwiches, drinks,
salads, and desserts to eat-in or take-
out. Sycamore Farm Market also sells
freshly baked breads and desserts, as
well as other goodies from trail mix
to gummy bears. The restaurant also
offers a large all-you-can-eat Sunday
buffet.

Willson-Walker House, 30 N Main
St.

The Willson-Walker House is
located in a restored classical revival
town house and offers American
Cuisine. The Willson Walker House
is one of Lexington’s finest restau-
rants and is a popular selection
among students for Fancy Dress
dinners and other important celebrato--
ry meals, The Willson-Walker House
is open Tuesday through Saturday
11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. for lunch and
5:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. for dinner.

Southern Inn, 37 S Main St.

The Southern Inn has served
breakfast, lunch, and dinner to Lex-
ington for over 50 years. The restau-
rant offers an assortment of steak,
chicken, and seafood dishes. The
Southern Inn also serves Greek and
Italian specialties. The Southern Inn
has a family-style atmosphere and is
open Tuesday through Sunday 8 a.m.
to 9:30 p.m.

Lloyd's of Lexington, 19 W Wash-
ington St.

Eating at Lloyd’s has become a
legendary experience in which every
W&L student must partake at least
once in his/her four year college
career. Lloyd’s offers a variety of
fast-food breakfasts, as well as ham-
burgers, pizzas, milk shakes, with lots
of video games to play while you
wait. A late-night favorite among
students, Lloyd’s is currently open
from 5 a.m. to 2 a.m., but may return
to its usual 24 hours service later on
this year.

The Ring-tum Phi, September 1, 1990

Saterday, September 1:

 

 

 

 

Lee-Hi Truck Stop, Highway 11 N
Lexington.

Lee-Hi Truck Stop offers anything
a student could possibly want, from
groceries, gas, and fishing gear, to
He-Man breakfasts, lunch plates, and
dinners. Lee-Hi offers reasonably
priced meals and has a juke box that
will play anything from Tammy
Wynette to John Cougar Mellancamp.
Lee-Hi is open every day 24 hours.

Frank's King of Pizza, E Nelson
St.

Frank’s specializes in Italian pasta
dishes, pizzas, submarine sandwiches,
and calzones. Restaurant favorites
include Phillie Cheese-steak Subs,
Meatball or Italian Sausage Subs, and
lots of pizza! Frank’s is open from
11 a.m. to 11 p.m. every day.

Sweet Things, 106 W Washington
St.
Got a sweet tooth? Dip into Sweet

Things, which offers an assortment of

home-made yogurt, shakes, and ice
cream with all sorts of toppings, from

 

hot tudge to Oreo. Sweet Things is
open Monday through Saturday 12
pm. to 10:30 p.m. and Sunday 2
p.m. to 10:30 p.m.

In addition to the above restau-
rants, Lexington also contains several
of the popular restaurant chains like
McDonald's, Wendy’s, Kentucky
Fired Chicken, Pizza Hut, Burger
King, Long John Silvers, and Domi
no’s Pizza, another late night favor
ite. Bon Appetit!

 

 

 

 

1990 Freshman
Orientation Schedule

9:00 a.m.- ‘
4:00 p.m. Freshman Check-in
and Matriculation Commerce Schoc
3:30-5:00 p.m. Parents’ Orientatior Lee Chape ,
$:30-6:30 p.m. Parents’ Dinner Evans Dining Hal
(Parents are guests of the University)

* 9:00 p.m. Dormitory Section Migs. Dormitor:
Sanday, September 2:
11:00 a.m.-
12:30 p.m. Brunch Evans Dining Hal
*1:00 p.m. President's Welcome snd P
Class Meeting Lee Chape.
*2:00 p.m. English Placement '
Test Evans Dining Hali ;
*3:30 p.m. Foreign Language Placement Test
+a. French Evans Dining Hall |
+b. Spanish Evans Dining Halt.
+c, German Tucker Hall. ,
+d. Lutin Newcomb 9
6:00 p.m. Alumni Association BBQ Pavilion »
Monday, September 3: 3
7:00-8:00 a.m. Breakfast Evans Dining Hall:
*8:30 a.m. Mathematics Placement és
Test Evans Dining Hall «
*9:30 a.m. Class Meeting Evans Dining Hall’
11:00 a.m. 2nd Language Placement
Test Evans Dining Hall”
*11:00 a.m.-noon University Heritage Panels TBA*

Noon-1:00 p.m. Lunch Evans Dining Hall"
*2:00-3:15 p.m. Class Meeting ‘‘Academics’’ :

 

(Dean John Elrod) Lee Chapel -
*3:30-5:00 p.m. Departmental Representatives *,
, Meeting Stemmons Plaza
*5:30-6:30 p.m. Faculty Advisers’
Dinner Evans Dining Hal!
9:00-11:00 p.m. Music & Refreshments Davis-Baker-
Gilliam Quad
Tuesday, September 4:
7:30-8:30 a.m. Breakfast Evans Dining Hall
*8:30 a.m.-noon Registration with Faculty
Advisers Faculty Offices
Noon-1:00 p.m. Lunch Evans Dining Hall

*1:30 p.m. Class Meeting ‘‘Beyond the Classroom’’ |
_______ Dean David Howison) Lee Chapel
**3:00-4:00 p.m. Financial Aid
Meeting Northen Auditorium |
5:30-7:00 p.m. Adopt-A-Freshman Dinner Front Lawn |

*7:30 p.m. Honor System Orientation Lee Chapel
Wednesday, September 5
7:30-8:30 a.m. Breakfast Evans Dining Hall
*8:30 a.m-
3:30 p.m. Freshman
Scheduling Colonnade/Payne Hall
8:30-9:30 a.m. A-C
9:30-10:30 a.m. D-G
10:30-11:30 a.m. H-L
11:30-12:30 p.m. M-O
1:30-2:30 p.m. P-S
2:30-3:30 p.m. T-Z
*8:30 a.m.- ®
3:30 p.m. Library Orientation
8:30-9:30 a.m. D-G
9:30-10:30 a.m. A-C
10:30-11:30 a.m. M-O
11:30-12:30 p.m. H-L
1:30-2:30 p.m. T-Z
2:30-3:30 p.m. P-S
Noon-1:30 p.c Student Activities Fair Front Lawn ,
(Com: nce Regular Dining Hall Hours as
Posted in the Dining Hall) 4
*7:00-9:00 p.m. Swimming Proficiency
Tests Warner Center *
7:00 p.m. Men A-D
8:00 p.m. Women A-G
*6:30-9:30 p.m. Responsible Dating Discussions TBA ,
Thursday, September 6
Classes Begin (Note Shortened Class Schedule)
*3:00-9:00 p.m. Swimming Proficiency Warner ©
Tests Center |
3:00 p.m. Men E-H

 

4:00 p.m. Men I-M

7:00 p.m. Women H-M

8:00 p.m. Men N-S
*6:30-9:30 p.m. Responsible Dating Discussions TBA

Friday, September 7

*3:00-6:00 p.m. Swimming Proficiency Warner
Test Center +
3:00 p.m. Women N-Z
4:00 p.m. Men T-Z "
5:00 p.m. (Make-Up)
5:30-8:00 p.m. Fridays Alive Concert Davidson Park °
9:00 p.m. Student Pavilion Party Pavilion

Sunday, September 9
1:00-2:00 p.m. Greek System Orientation Dorm Quad ,
2:00-4:00 p.m. Sign-Up for Open Houses _—_ Lee Chapel

 

 

 

When you party
remember to...

Don't get wrecked. If you're not
sober—or you're not sure —
let someone else do the driving

A message provided by this newspaper
and Beer Drinkers of America

~
ty
* *
x +
+ Wx
BEER DRINKERS

OF AMERICA
PARTY*SMART

National Headquarters
150 Paularino Ave., Suite 190
Costa Mesa, CA 92626
714/557-2337
1-800-441-2337

Beer Drinkers of America isa non-profit consumer membership

onwni7ation open onl) 10 pers over the age of 21

 
Interview with new Dean

Che Rin

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

&

of Students

-tum Phi

1N0
“Mii

--- see page 2

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 3

 

 

 

 

 

Washington
and Lee’s
Fraternity
renaissance
turns the Phi
Kappa Sigma
fraternity
house on
Jefferson
Street into a
shell of its
former self.
University
officials hope
construction
on the house
will be
finished by
January.
(Staff photo
by Chris
Leiphart)

 

Hill says phase one on time

Parsons and contractor optimistic, architect has doubts

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

Fraternity Renaissance is on schedule and the
phase one renovations will be completed on time,
Washington and Lee director of capital planning
Frank Parsons said. But architects handling the
renovations doubt that phase one can be com-
pleted by January.

“T have no reason to believe otherwise,’’
Parsons said, ‘‘Bass Construction has said that
they are proceeding on schedule and will be
finished with the current renovations by Janu-

Bill Shirey, site supervisor for Bass Construc-
tion, said the company originally had some
problems with a few of the sub-contractors
working on the houses, but that now everything
is back on schedule.

But Architect~David Oakland of the -Char-
lottsville firm VMDO, which is he: ‘ling all the
renovations, disagreed.‘‘They coul’” have every
contractor in Southwest Virginia working on
those houses full-time and they still wouldn’t
finish on time.’’

Oakland noted that there were delays at the
beginning of the project in the spring as Bass
began hiring and organizing a largely local work
force that now numbers 70.

‘‘They had to find and hire all these people.

Phase two will start faster since Bass will already
have its work force in place,’’ he said.

The university is renovating six W&L frater-
nity houses, including those in Red Square —
near the intersection of Henry and Jefferson Str-
eets — and Sigma Alpha Epsilon, in exchange
for the house’s land titles.

Other fraternities will follow suit in the
second phase of the Fraternity Renaissance. Their
houses will be vacated and renovated after the
compeltion of phase one.

Construction on the SAE house is scheduled
to be finished by November. SAE members will
not, however, re-occupy their house until Red
Square fraternity members move back into their
houses.

Houses will have new heating, plumbing, and
electrical systems. Most of the floors have been
re-configured to make better use of the space,
and extensive landscaping work is being done.

At the Red Square houses; werkers -are~still~

using jackhammers and rock crushers in the
basements, and the upper floors have only bare
stud walls and loose, disconnected pipes. Bull-
dozers push piles of old bricks and concrete
around the backyards and new foundation walls
are being built.

Over at SAE, sheetrock contractors walk
around on stilts to finish touch-up work on the
ceilings and electricians are installing recessed
lighting in the hallways. Cleaned and patched

radiators have been returned to the rooms, ready
to be connected to the new furnace.

Shirey said that wherever possible, original
moldings and hardware have been saved from the
houses and will be re-hung in order to maintain
the unique character of each house.

Houses will get new hard-wood main floors,
concrete or tile floors in the basements and
carpet on the upper floors.

Each fraternity must meet the University’s
new Standards for Fraternities. Among other
things, these guidelines require that houses hire
a live-in resident advisor, install a sprinkler
system and other safety devices, and build a
separate area for parties that can be closed off
from the rest of the house.

Parsons said all fraternities are participating in
the University’s funding program except Chi Psi
and Sigma Phi Epsilon. Phi Gamma Delta,
whose house was rebuilt after being destryoed by
va~fire> in~1984,~ulready «meets -the- University
Standards.

Kappa Sigma will move across the street
from Lambda Chi Alpha into the old Zeta Beta
Tau house, which is scheduled for renovation in
phase two. Their old house will become Univer-
sity property and might be used to house a
sorority.

Parsons says that the University has not yet
received an application to participate from Kappa
Alpha, but they assume KA will participate.

 

 

 

, By Brian Root
Editor

 

Although former Washington and
Lee student Charles ‘‘Blake’’ Comer
; was sentenced to six months in jail
for involuntary manslaughter and
‘felony hit and run, he could be re-
leased as early as the end of this
" month.
. Virginia State law states that for
each day a jail sentence is served
*-peacefully, time is removed from the
sentence. The law was enacted to
“relieve overcrowding in the state

‘‘A six-month sentence is very
light, particularly for the two crimes
involved,’’ said Lillian DeVenney, the
chairwoman of Virginians Opposed to
Drunk Driving. ‘‘Hundreds of inno-
cent people are sentenced to death
every year by drunk drivers. That’s
forever, they’re never coming back.

Although his trial was held Aug.
29, Comer turned himself in to the
Lexington police and began serving
time in the Rockbridge County jail
on June 23. That time is considered
part of the six-month sentence im-
posed on him by Judge Rudolph
Bumgardner III.

something wrong and he wanted to
pay for it,’’ said Comer’s attorney,
Thomas Spencer, before the trial.

‘The severity of the sentence is
not that unusual,’’ said Washington
and Lee law professor William S.
Geimer. ‘‘Sentencing is supposed to
be an individual matter for each
judge concerning the offense and the
offender.”

“‘T believe he (Comer) should
have been given the fullest sentence
possible,’’ said DeVenney.

Geimer said, if a defendant is
trying to mitigate a possible sentence,
the judge must believe he is truly

‘The problem is, the judge must
determine whether the defendant
regrets committing the crime, or is he
just sorry he got caught,’’ Geimer
said.

Comer’s sentence came in a time
when judges are becoming more
willing to impose stricter penalties for
such crimes. Last month, in Norfolk,
Va., a judge sentenced a 47-year-old
housewife to one year in prison for
involuntary manslaughter, the crime
with which Comer was charged.

“IT think this decision will help
others to know where their responsi-
bilities are,’’ said Circuit Judge John

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 6, 1990

ROTC
retreats

from

W&L

Tight budget causes
cuts at 49 campuses

 

By Tracey Thornblade
Staff Reporter

 

The United States Army an- °

nounced in July that it would deac-
tivate Washington and Lee’s Officer
Training Corps program after this
school year, along with programs at
49 other college campuses.

As budget cuts in the military are
made, the number of troops are re-
duced. Consequently, fewer junior
officers are needed to fill the ranks.

The deactivation of ROTC
programs around the nation was
based on each program’s viability.
The United States Army judges
viability according to enrollment
figures, the number of officers a
program produces and the quality of
the officers.

‘*Quality has never been a prob-
lem at W&L,’’ Lt. Col. Joel J. Snow,
chairman of W&L’s Military Science
Department, said. For nearly 40 yea-
rs, the program has produced fine
officers, Snow said, but ‘‘Our num-
bers have been consistently low for
the past six years.’’

~ W&k's-pregram was placed under
‘region intensive management,’’ a
form of probation, four years ago.
At that time, the department intensi-
fied its recruiting efforts, but the
results were not sufficient to keep
ROTC on campus.

The ROTC program will continue
to operate at W&L this year. Twen-
ty-three returning cadets, along with
seven freshmen scholarship recipients,
will participate. No new students will

Involuntary manslaughter caivies .
possible prison term of 10 years, and
felony hit and run is punishable by
five years.

However, Geimer said that state
judges are not bound by precedent in
sentencing.

Following his release from the
Rockbridge County jail, Comer will
be placed on probation for an addi-
tional five years, the terms of which
will be implemented at that time.

Because Comer withdrew from
W&L as a student in good standing,
he is eligible to apply for readmission
to school. Comer has not said wheth-

be admitted.

Once the program is deactivated,
all cadets will have the option of
leaving the program with no obliga-
tion to the Army, transferring to
another school that has an Army
ROTC program or completing the
program at W&L under the direction
of the Virginia Military Institute’s
ROTC personnel.

VMI will begin conducting the
ROTC program at W&L in the fall
of 1991 using the same program. Col.
James Joyner of the Army ROTC
program at VMI said one of their
goals will be to ‘‘keep the spirit and
identity of the W&L cadets at the
same level as before.’’

There are no plans to continue
ROTC at W&L with VMI’s personnel
after the current freshmen class
graduates in 1994. ‘‘More man-
power would be needed to continue
the program in the long-term,’’ Joy-
ner said.

Tim Wolff, a sophomore cadet,
said that he first heard about the
closure at the end of the summer.
Wolff said that he was ‘‘surprised’’
because ROTC has been on campus
for-so long and there are so many
ROTC-related activities to participate
in. He plans to remain in the
program and complete his training
with VMI’s personnel.

“‘ROTC has been a tradition at
Washington and Lee for the past
forty years,’’ Wolff said. ‘‘The values
that we often associate with W&L -
- honor, service to country, service to
humanity — are the same set of
values that ROTC represents.”’

Comer may go free soon, sentence criticized

 

 

, penal system.

.

‘*He (Comer) knows

he did

remorseful of the crime.

IFC ears closed to excuses

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

‘Ignorance will not be an excuse’’ for
freshmen who go to fraternity parties before
Rush has begins, Interfraternity Council
President Goodloe Lewis said at the first
+ IFC meeting of the year Tuesday night.

Some potential pledges this year at-
* tempted to attend fraternity parties over the
weekend despite Rush rules prohibiting off-
campus contact, Lewis told the council, and
» he will accept ‘tno more excuses.”’

He noted, however, that some freshmen
were unaware of the casual contact rule that
, remains in effect until contact is allowed
Friday night.

In response to these problems, Lewis and
IFC vice-president Mike Skarda posted
flyers in freshmen dorms advising freshman
‘ men that they would lose Rush privilidges

for a year if they were caught breaking

Rush rules,

, Lewis warned that watchful dorm coun-
selors would report to him if the freshmen
were ‘‘coming in late at night throwing up
all over the place because they got drunk at
a fraternity party.”’

Lewis scheduled the next IFC meeting
for Sept. 18, three days before rush ends.

Associate Dean of Students for Greek

Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins echoed
Lewis’ point that ignorance of Rush rules
would not be considered an excuse for rule
violations.

‘The old palms-up salute just doesn’t
cut it anymore,’’ he said. ‘‘There shouldn’t
be any Rush violations. There’s just no
reason for them because you know the rules
now.”’

Noting that there are 30 fewer freshman
men enrolled this year than last and that
usually 75 percent pledge a fraternity, Skar-
da said ‘‘If we cooperate and let them have
a good fraternity experience during Rush so
they’re turned on by the system .., we
should look for 90 percent to pledge.”’

Atkins agreed. ‘‘The ideal is for every-
one to get 15 pledges; the idea is for every-
one to just be in a fraternity, to be able to
have the fraternity experience. The idea is
not for one house to beat out another.”’

Atkins also warned that fraternitites need
to be especially careful not to serve alcohol
to the freshmen as they come through Rush
in the next two weeks.

Because some fraternities will hold rush
functions on athletic fields as a result of
Fraternity Renovation, Atkins warned about
the potential danger of an intoxicated per-
son walking home along Route 60.

‘*You never know when some local
wahoo is going to come roaring over that

hill in a pick-up truck and then it’s bye-
bye,’’ he said. ‘‘People would blame the
fraternity system at W&L for allowing this
dangerous situation to occur.”’

Skarda, who’s role as IFC vice-president
designates him as IFC Rush Chairman, ex-
plained to the committee how rush would
work this year.

All this week freshman men and fraterni-
ty members are only allowed to be in casual
contact while on the hill.

On Friday night during the band perfor-
mance at the student activities pavillion, the
two groups will be able to meet each oth-
er, but no fraternity members are allowed to
offer freshmen rides to or from the event.

Saturday after the W&L football game,
freshmen are allowed to be at fraternity
houses or at other locations with members
until 7 p.m.

Contact is then closed again until 8 p.m.
when freshmen may attend parties thrown by
fraternities.

Freshmen who intend to go through
Formal Rush must attend a Rush orientation
meeting 1 p.m. Sunday in Lee Chapel.
There, the procedure will be explained by
Skarda and Lewis.

Formal Rush begins at the shot of the
gun at 6:45 Monday night when Fraternity
members will begin picking up freshmen for
the first Open Houses,

Clarkson upon sentencing the woman.

er he plans to apply.

Blake Comer

 

 

New card to make W&L
a campus free of cash

 

By Cathy Lopiccolo
Assignment Editor

 

Now that you have the University Card,
what can you do with it? Eventually, you’ll
be able to do a lot, Washington and Lee’s
Assistant Treasurer John Cuny said.

The University Card not only replaces
the old student I.D.’s, it will replace copier
cards, point cards and bookstore charge
cards, Washing and drying machines and
vending machines are also being adapted to
accept the card.

‘‘Wherever cash is used on campus, the
University Card will take its place. It will
be a full service card in every sense of the
word,’’ Cuny said.

The card’s features will be phased in
throughout the year, depending on when the
university buys or leases the necessary
equipment. Cuny estimated the price tag for
the card readers and a central computer at
about $100,000,

Students should be able to use their
University Cards for copying by Oct. 1.
Cuny said the bookstore and food services
will be equipped to use it by winter term.

The University Card is ‘‘a step above’’
similar cards at other schools because it
gives students the ability to charge some
purchases, Cuny said.

‘‘We do what most colleges do not. We
put charging as a possible option. Most
cards like this operate on a declining
balance, but ours can do both,”’ Cuny said.

The card has two magnetic strips that
contain account information. The bottom, or
‘‘off-line,’’ strip functions like the one on
copier cards used now. Students will
purchase credit from the Business Office,
and when the University Card is used, the
cost will be deducted from the student's
existing balance.

The wider, ‘‘on-line’’ strip contains a

student’s account number. Food and
bookstore purchases will be relayed to a
central computer that will tally each

student’s total charges. Students or their
parents will be billed monthly. The Business
Office can also deactivate lost or stolen

cards.

Cuny said the card might someday be
used to charge tickets to activities like
Fancy Dress, and to monitor elections by
limiting each student to one vote.

 

 
 

6
. .

ccereter*

OPINION |

Business ethics in
fraternity Rush

Next week, it’s going to get serious. Fraternity Rush,
by this time next week, will have begun in earnest. Open
houses, rush dates, and also the occasional party will fill
the social calender.

Rush is no longer quite as lighthearted as it once was,
however. Fraternities no longer enjoy the lofty, protected
Status either at W&L or nationwide. Here, Rush is now
cutthroat competition for an ever-dwindling number of
potential pledges.

The numbers are clear. Washington and Lee may soon
not be able to successfully support 16 fraternities. With
the Fraternity Renaissance, each house’s costs will rise
greatly.

How do you defray those costs? Get more members.
To do that, you have to have big pledge classes each
year. Increasingly, houses are deciding that the answer to
this Catch-22 is simple...you cheat.

The present environment is a dangerous one. Each
house feels compelled to break Rush regulations because
if it doesn’t, the members feel other houses gain an
enormous advantage. This can result is games of one-
upsmanship between competing houses.

The only people who lose in this are the houses, who
can be fined upwards of $1,000 for repeated violations,
and the freshmen, who could lose their precious Rush
privileges.

Attempting to evade Rush regulations must surely be
a practice as old as Rush itself. However, these days, the
stakes are much higher than they ever have been for the
whole fraternity system. If the faculty perceives that
fraternities are unable to regulate themselves, they will be
more than happy to regulate it for them.

For fraternities, we believe, that is not an acceptable
option for a number of reasons.

Virtually every fraternity was founded on the principle
that such organizations build character in its members. If
the houses at W&L cannot enforce the rules they
themselves enacted, does that not betray a lack of
character?

Also, we fear that some members of the faculty, in
their haste to limit fraternities, may also eliminate what
makes fraternities special.

In our opinion, the only solution is for the
Interfraternity Council to fairly and equally enforce its
Rush regulations.

Rest assured, the Hill will be watching Rush very
closely. It’s time for W&L’s fraternities to prove
something to them, and to themselves.

 

To our readers

The Ring-tum Phi is Washington and Lee’s only
student newspaper. Not all of it, however, is under the
control of the editorial board.

The opinion page of the Phi presents the university
community with a unique opportunity to comment on
issues concerning W&L.

We are obligated to publish every letter and ‘‘My
View’’ that we receive, as long as they conform to
simple rules against libel or obscenity.

We welcome your submissions.

Quote of the Week

Let's sit on top. I like sitting on top.

— An unidentified freshman woman, indicating to a
friend that the best view of the... Honor System
Orientation lecture may be obtained from the upper level
of Lee Chapel.

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

   

 

      
     
         
     
     
 
  

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lepiccolo

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor

ee Pe ce = 6 Chris Baradel
ew ae es Jason Kelley
men) Rg. sss ss i Se Ashley Harper
ees i i Jay Plotkin
(ee eae oS eS John Laney

Photo Editor

 
 
   
 

la 3 a Se eae Anne Dysart
Pes Wee ao eee John Miller
ee eS Chris Mark

    
    
     
   
   
   
        
 
 
 
     
 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

  

 
  

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

  
     

The Ring-tum Phi, September 6, 1990

 

vA Fe: ~
LLL ;

BFL Ms, Ag

 

 

 

 

 

Howison talks to the Phi |

New Dean of Students supports fall Rush, |
PHC voice on Student Conduct Committee |

 

MY VIEW

By David Howison
with Chris Baradel

 

PHI: I think there is a lot of confusion among
the student body as to what exactly the Dean of
Students does. Could you shed some light on that?

HOWISON: First of all, I have administrative

responsibility for’ staff, ‘so ‘on’ Gné ‘level its ‘pure ”
administration. My own personal philosophy. is,

that; you get good people, don’t try to over-
manage; you give a lot of autonomy to people.

I see myself as an educator with ideas about
education and whenever I have a chance I'll try
to present those ideas. I also see myself as very
formally being charged by the president through
the Board of Trustees to support certain rules and
regulations, but I don’t want to be preoccupied
with that.

What I try to do is encourage student leaders to
be responsible. Ninety-nine percent of the time it
will work, but that one percent of the time it
doesn’t work, there has to be accountability.

PHI: What do you think of the fraternity re-
naissance program? Was it a good investment?

HOWISON: I think Washington and Lee has
made absolutely the right decision. There’s not a
school in America that has made a commitment
comparable in terms of strengthening the fraternity
system.

I tend to look at it not just as a fraternity issue,
but also as a residential issue. These are houses,
and obviously they will house several hundred
men...[ would say when this project is completed
in two years, Washington and Lee will have a
fraternity system that is physically incomparable.

PHI: Can it be said you think perhaps your
role will be more one of overseeing the people in
charge of the fraternity system rather than getting
personally invoived in every aspect of fraternities?

HOWISCN: Absolutely. I have — great
confidence ir. Buddy Atkins; and I’ve got confi-
dence in the leadership of the Interfraternity Cou-
ncil, so it remains to be seen just how direct I’ll
be involved in this...I see [running fraternities] as

* a cooperative adventure, and its obviously one of

the major challenges of this job.

PHI: There’s a rumor going around campus
that when you were at St. Lawrence three
fraternities were closed down. Could you comment
on that rumor?

HOWISON: I’ve heard a couple of people say

I was brought here to "shape up" the fraternities;
I hope people will find out that’s not my personal
professional style. I don’t see’ myself as a hard-
nosed person coming in here to shape up anything,
I think what we’ve got here is absolutely
extraordinary. Its a matter of refining it.

Now to your question, "were three houses
suspended?" I think two were. Both were reinstated
and both are in good standing at this point, but
yes, when I was there in the course of six years,

_because of really extraordinary problems in the two .
houses, thousands, of dollars worth. of. damage:

during .a certain specific time, houses were
suspended...I have to be frank with you, one of the
things I caution myself about is reflecting too
much on my past, because I’m here at Washington

I really want to concentrate on what we can do
here and now. I’d like to see fraternities maintain
high standards, emphasize academics, have great
responsible social life, establish close friendships
and get involved in spirited intramural competition,
which I understand is really an important part of
the fraternity experience right now.

I’d also like to see in the long run...a balance
in student activities outside the classroom in all
areas, whether its athletics, or independent students,
or the development of a student activities center, so
that even though maybe 80% of the men belong to
fraternities, the 20% or so that aren’t don’t feel
excluded,

PHI: The faculty has shown support for a plan
to move fraternity Rush to the winter. What’s your
feeling about the current Rush system, and what
are your views of the proposal to move Rush to
the winter?

HOWISON: I’ll be very interested to see how
the Rush program works. If things work, I don’t
think there’s much of an interest to change them.

PHI: Where do you stand on the question of
the interests of the faculty verses the interests of
the students?

HOWISON: I see a balance there. Students
have the primary focus on their lives, but I will
look very carefully at what the faculty believe and
the one thing that I guarantee is that there is an
open discussion of all of this.

On some issues the faculty have more input,
obviously in the classroom, than students, on other
issues relative to student life, students have more
input.

PHI: The IFC has input into the Student
Conduct Committee, but the Panhellenic Council
does not. Do you think this is fair?

HOWISON: No, it’s not fair. It doesn’t make

’

sense to me that the Interfraternity Council is
represented, but for some reason the Panhellenic
Council is not. I have not had a chance to talk to
the president of the Panhellenic Council but I look
forward to meeting her and getting her thoughts
about it...absolutely the Panhellenic Council ought
to be directly represented as far as I can tell.
PHI: How do you think the increase in the
academic credentials of the incoming freshmen
class has impacted the student body? Do you think
that the character of the student body has been

_ sacrificed for the school’s academic reputation?

HOWISON: I certainly hope we haven’t seen
the death of the well-rounded student because
that’s a hallmark of Washington and Lee. If the
climate the students come to supports the idea of
a well-rounded education, then a student’s SAT
scores aren’t really going to make that much
difference. ’

I guess that the new admissions standards have
in fact made some changes, but I can’t believe it’s
fundamentally changed the character of W&L.
Women certainly have. I’ve got to believe that’s
one of the best decisions the university has made.

PHI: What are your views on the Conduct
Review Committee? Where do you stand on the
problem of the right of privacy for the person who
is accusing verses the right to an open public trial
for the accused?

HOWISON: I think that a residential college
should establish some reasonable guidelines that
deal with cases of date rape and sexual assault if
their existing judicial system is not equipped to do
so. My impression is that the judicial network here
would have a tremendous problem dealing with a
real case of sexual assault. : :

I support the concept of the CRC, but the key
to it is having honorable men and women involved
in the system. You can have the best system in the
world, but if you’ve got people in that system who
have a preconceived notion of what should happen,
you’ve got problems.

As I understand it from talking to Anece
McCloud, she dealt with quite a few cases, but
none were forwarded to the CRC. To me, that
would be the ideal, where a person would feel free
to come forward with a concern and hopefully the
people could work things out. The existence of a
CRC does encourage the possibility that a victim
would more likely come forward then if he or she
had to go before an open forum.

PHI: What you think about W&L making

Q Please see Howison page 4

Equal justice for all at W&L

 

MY VIEW
By Brian Root

 

‘‘Whoever said that this world
was fair?’’

How many times were you told
that as a child? Your parents, teach-
ers, or various other authority figures
probably told you this when they
couldn’t think of a better answer to
one of your questions or complaints.

Nevertheless, the message is a
good one. The world isn’t fair. Want
proof? Blake Comer could be out of
jail by Halloween. If he so chooses,
he can, upon his release, apply for
readmission to Washington and Lee,

Now, you may say something like
‘Yeah, but there’s no way they
weuld ever let him back in.’’

But, as Bart Sizxpson says in the

Butterfinger commercial, ‘‘au con-
traire, mon frere.”’

Imagine yourself as a member of
the readmissions committee. You are
presented with a student who with-
drew from W&L while still a student
in good standing. Yes, he committed
a terrible crime, but has he not paid
his debt to society? There can be no
doubt of his remorse for what he has
done. After all, he started crying
during the trial, didn’t he?

Let’s take another example. Let's
say, hypothetically, that a student
accused of raping another student is
taken before the CRC. Because the
vast majority of rapes go unreported
to the police, no formal criminal
charges are filed by the victim.

The CRC finds the student guilty
and expels him from school. How-
ever, it stipulates that the student may
be readmitted after one year if he

undergoes therapy for his disorder.
He does so, and is subsequently
readmitted.

One more hypothetical example. A
student is thrown out of school be-
cause he turns in another student's
homework for his own, even though
he wasn’t aware that the work was
not in fact his.

Because, as the White Book
States, ‘ignorance is not an excuse,’
the EC has no choice but to find the
student guilty.

College life and life in the real
world, as our professors are eager to
remind us, are very different. No one
can confuse the stress of 10 a.m.
accounting class with commuting to
your job every morning.

Unfortunately, there is one aspect
of real-world life from which not
even the ivory tower of academia can
protect us. Injustice

there 1s one difference. At W&L,
injustice is a little bit easier to fight.
For years, the call has gone out for
volunteers to serve on the White
Book Revisions Committee. Until last
spring, the call went largely ignored
by students. As the committee works
to finalize its recommendations, we
should all pay close attention.

Washington and Lee has long
been enamored with ‘‘the single
sanction.”’

Yet, this single sanction seems to
be danced around with frightening
regularity on matters not strictly
concerning the White Book.

For better or worse, this is a
betrayal of the standards that Gen.
Lee’s college was founded on.

Something's got to give here. The
best any community can hope for is
an evenhanded distribution of justice,
-

ee

The Ring-tum Phi, September 6, 1990

 

 

fe

The Lenfest Center on East Nelson Street i
November, in time for the Drama Departmen

 

university will credit the EC’s ac-
counts with the full amount of ac-
tivity fees even though students are
only required to pay half for the first
term.

The EC will release a schedule
for budget allocation hearings Mon-
day night.

Hatcher added that the EC will
discuss the financial performance of
last year’s Student Activities Board as
soon as possible, but those figures are
not yet definite.

Vacancies in committee appoint-
ments left by the current EC last
spring will also confront the EC

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

Allocation of over $185,000 in
student body funds and appointments
to the Fancy Dress Committee and
Student Activities Board will top the
agenda Monday night at the first
1990-91 Executive Committee meet-
ing.
EC President Tom Hatcher said
that the amount of money available
for student body allocation will not
be certain until two weeks from yes-
terday’s matriculation, but the EC

 

anticipates at least $185,250.

Monday night.

EC to budget $185,000
at Monday meeting

and Mock Convention secretary.
Applications for the SAB and FD
positions will be available at Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center by Monday. EC Vice Presi-
dent Raymond Welder said that the
Mock Convention officers will select
someone to fill the secretary position.
The EC will set a schedule Mon-
day night for the election of first-year
law and freshman EC representatives.
Hatcher said that the EC will wait
until at least October to handle the
recommended amendments of the
Constitutional Revisions Committee.
The revisions committee last
spring introduced a set of proposed

 

s still under construction Builders say it will be completed in
t's first production in January. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

New date set for Lenfest

 

By Chris Bray
Staff Reporter

 

The Lenfest Center, Washington
and Lee’s new center for the per-
forming arts, should be ready for
occupancy by Oct. 23, according to
the University’s Coordinator of Capi-
tal Planning Frank Parsons.

Barring further delay, the Drama
Department will occupy the building
by November, giving the department
time to prepare for its first production
of the year, Skin of Our Teeth by
Thornton Wilder. The production
will open in the Lenfest Center Jan.
18, 1991.

Although the Lenfest Center will
be ready for the Drama Department
soon, Parsons said that a familiar
problem to W&L construction work
may delay completion of the struc-

ture.

‘The ‘curse of the gatehouse’ has
hit W&L again,’’ said Parsons. ‘‘In
the Lenfest Center, as was the case
in Gaines Hall, the gatehouse will be
the last part of the building to be
completed.”’

Parsons said completion of the
gatehouse, which will be ready by the
first production, will have no effect
on the occupancy of the building.
The Gaines Hall gatehouse was fi-
nished while students resided in the
dorm.

Originally scheduled to open by
April of this year, the Lenfest Center
has fallen victim to the usual delays
encountered on a construction site,
according to Parsons.

Initial delays stemmed from a
combination of the Bass Construction
Company’s underestimation of con-
struction time and site problems such

 

 

 
 
  
 

FOR RENT
House in Country
463-5383

  

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

703-463-3478

   

Charge Accounts

PDP PV LPV PVP OPV VIVA

   

For all your book needs

 

107 West Nelson Street
‘‘Hundreds of new and thousands of used.’’

LEE il

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

Nationwide is on your side

tt

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN

Agent
203 South Main Street

Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

1-800-768-LEHI

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ¢Perfumes

e Free Delivery

LIFEGUARDS NEEDED

Anyone interested in lifeguarding call:

Tom Sheppard - Head Lifeguard at 464-5493

  

Paige Remillard - Aquatics Director at 463-8693

    

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

a. —s

 

Beads * Sequins © Pompons ¢ Bandannas ® T-Shirts ¢ Incense
Balloons * Clay ® Flags © Games ® Rockets @ Paint *Models
Stamps * Trains @ Feathers ¢ Stencils ¢ Velcro *Clothespins
Eyes * Ribbons ¢ Styrofoam ¢ Adhesives ¢ Glitter Chenille

 

Monday - Saturday

 

31S. Main St., Lexington

10a.m.-5 p.m.
463-3355

 

   
   

 
 
   
        

  
   
      
     
   
       
 
      

as rock excavation that arose during
early construction. In the Univer-
sity’s contract with Bass, site
problems permit delays in the com-
pletion of the Center, said Parsons.
As a result of these delays, August
31, 1990, was set as the new date of
completion.

The most recent delay, however,
sets the completion date at Oct. 23,
and results from a request from Bass
for an additional 35 working days to
make up construction time lost during
the winter due to inclement weather.

Construction of the $9.8 million
project began in the summer of 1988
after the school received a $3 million
donation earmarked for the fine arts
center fom Mr. and Mrs. Gerry Len-
fest of Huntingdon Valley, Pennsyl-
vania. Lenfest is a 1954 graduate of
W&L.

For your extra pieces of furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington

 

&.

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

PVP VL PV LPVLPVLPVLPVLP\ PVP PV PV PV PIP POPP LP LPP

 

   

NE
@« e a a, :
: | @| Mountain Copy Graphics
® 11 S. Randolph Street ® A Better Alternative for:
. 464-4050 . Résumes
@ Hours: M-F 11:00 a.m. - 8 p.m. ® Flyers
= Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 5 p.m. * Copies

New & Used CD ssettes an
z Free, Fast oo ake r : Newsletters
ee a INVITATIONS
meee : Term Papers
FAX
28 AS
ROCKBRIDGE MUSIC

Amps, and accessories.

 

Energetic person to be a
representative for Coppertone
Springbreak trips to Cancun,
Daytona, Nassan, and Jamaica.

Best programs available ANYWHERE
Great incentives & free trips possible

Call for more information:

1-800-222-4432 and ask
for Brenna or Bruce

 

appagodico’

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

 
 

Featuring Fender, Martin, Ovation, Takamine & Peavy Guitars,

205 N. Main St.

The university transfers $95 to the
EC from each student’s $120 student
activity fee, the other $25 paid to-
ward the pavilion. Hatcher expects
no less than 1,950 undergraduate and
law students enrolled this year. The

Acting as EC-elect, the 1990-91
EC decided last spring not to appoint
applicants to the positions of SAB
operations director and Law School
publicity director/representative, FD-
chairman, vice chairman and auditor;

amendments, including a clarification
of the use of executive session. The
1989-90 EC voted to refer those
amendments to this year’s EC for
consideration.

 

 

 

Blue and White

The Washington and Lee Generals battle among themselves in the Blue and White scrimmage last

Saturday. The Generals play their first game of the season against Emory and Henry Saturday at 1:30
p.m. on Wilson Field. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

 

Furniture Dealers

 

463-3106

QWHETE FRONT og sus

463-2742

_ Serena ero
—

Student Charge Accounts

Are Available

Come by today and open up your student charge accounts. We will
be glad to mail bills home. Stop by and see our new look, we think
you'll be surprised! We also have a new take-out deli for sandwiches
and salads! Stop by & see us today!

Serving The W&L Community

(703)463-5988 For Over 35 Years

 

 

 

 

 

 

R.E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church

Welcomes Back W&L Students
and invites you to become part
of our Parish Family.

 

 

Services:

Holy Eucharist, 8:30 a.m.

Church School Adult Classes 9:20 a.m.
Holy Eucharist, 10:30 a.m.

Holy Eucharist, 5:00 p.m.

Canterbury Club, Retreats,
Fellowship, Bible Study
will begin soon,
The Rev. R. David Cox, Rector & Chaplain
The Rev. Dr. Barbara Taylor,
Assistant Rector & Co-Chaplain

   
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, September 6, 1990

 

Howison

from page 2

 

perhaps some special efforts to recruit minority
students?

HOWISON: One of the principles of a liberal
arts education is that you’re exposed to new ideas.
Outside the classroom there also should be oppor-
junities to have your ideas challenged. So, for
example, your roommate happens to be from
Alaska. That brings a little different perspective.

The bottom line here is qualified. I wouldn’t
compromise the standards in any way...[but] yes, I
do believe the university should continue to look
at ways to bring in diverse people.

PHI: Do you think W&L should concentrate on
making an extra effort to recruit minority
professors to come to campus and teach?

HOWISON: To me, that is a much more
difficult issue than the issue of recruiting minority
students. The reason is that, over the last ten years,

_the number of, we'll focus on blacks in this case,
“who are completing their doctorates has declined,
so the pool of available people is relatively small.
“So, when Washington and Lee says should we
attempt to bring in qualified minority teachers--
“absolutely. But we've got to realistic about it, it’s
‘very difficult.

I do think the university has to use its
resources in a reasonable way to find ways to
diversify the environment, and getting a first-rate
teacher with a different perspective is one way to
do it. But we should not kid ourselves, this is a
very difficult and tough process.

PHI: W&L has a number of "senior" faculty
members. As they retire, do you think there’s
going to be a shortage of professors in the
upcoming years, and do you think the quality of
the faculty is going to be affected?

HOWISON: That's a very significant concern
because the national market for outstanding
teachers is declining at the time that there is this
significant number reaching retirement age.

The difficulty with Washington and Lee is that
even though we are extraordinarily strong, we are
going to be competing with the finest schools in
America for these teachers, and that’s the key: we
want the best teachers possible. I am confident we
can do it, but it’s not going to be easy. It is vital
to find the people that would find Washington and
Lee and Lexington an attractive community.

PHI: Since you really haven’t had a chance to
meet with the whole student body, if you could tell

them something as a group, what would you like
it to be?

HOWISON: First of all, I’m honored to be
here as the dean and I couldn’t be happier. I see
my role as being a facilitator to achieve the goals
of Washington and Lee, and that’s the key thing
for me.

At all times when there are tough issues and
we have differences of opinion, what I try to do is
come back and say “what are the fundamental
purposes of this university?", so that whatever
we're doing we're not compromising those in any
way.

"hes I see myself as being here 24 hours a
day, 365 days a year, right on campus, and I look
forward to individual contact so that students feel
welcome to walk in here. I have an open door
policy. I also will plan to have what I call an
auxiliary office where a couple of times a semester
I just set up my office on a table out on the
campus somewhere and the people will just walk
by and see me.

Let me try to tie it together: commitment to the
university and personal accessibility. Those are the
main messages.

 

Egon es

cha
4 hor)

Rl tel

 

 
 
   
  
  

EL CAFE

Phone: 464-TACO

Come visit Lexington’s only
Mexican Restaurant - El Café

116 North Main Street

Y Open 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m., Sunday - Thursday
11:30 a.m. - 11 p.m., Friday and Saturday

Our menu is filled with all the favorite Mexican dishes -
Nachos, Chili, Beef and Chicken Fajitas, Enchiladas,
Burritos - and the list goes on. To compliment your meal
there are a variety of Mexican beers to choose from and au-
thentic, delicious Margaritas. And if all this isn’t enough
we have a unique dessert menu to top off your meal.

We have at our
new location
flowers, balloons,
gifts and more...

WE WIRE ANYWHERE

Teleflora’

SSeforist uv The Homestead

n East Nelson
463-9841

a aaenaainiad

A
f

a
Goa,
Kise

et

 

 

 

Wé&L alums head
to Persian Gulf

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

 

At least six Washington and
Lee alumni are amid the military
buildup in the Persian Gulf, ac-
cording to W&L’s Military Sci-
ence Department and the Alumni
Office.

Three alumni are part of Oper-
ation Desert Shield, now the larg-
est U.S. military mobilization since
D-Day in World War II. The
other three reside and work in
Saudi Arabia.

Second Lt. Jon D. Missert ’88,
2nd Lt. Clifford Deal ’88 and 1st
Lt. Arthur A. Kandarian ’86 are
part of the 82nd Airborne Divi-
sion, the first unit that went to
Saudi Arabia.

cencaaamaacercascmcnmanal

Missert and Kandarian were
also in Panama in December as
part of Operation Just Cause.

Lt. Col. Joel J. Snow, W&L
professor of military science, said
that other W&L graduates may be
stationed in the Persian Gulf at
this time, but he docs not yet
know who they are.

Snow also said that any cor-
respondence to these three soldiers
would be appreciated. Their ad-
dresses can be obtained from the
military science department.

The W&L Alumni Office listed
three alumni with addresses in
Saudi Arabia. The list said that
Robert A. Cashill ’68, an industrial
engineer, and Ellen Westbrook
*89L live in Dhahran, while
Norton L. Wisdom, Jr. °59, an
architect, lives in Tobuk.

 

 

 

\.

 

 

 

 

 

a )
9 * ® ‘
George’s Hairstylist
136 Varner Lane
463-3975
LL] Yes Location
Ww ‘
A W&L
N MainSt. §
Ample Free
Parking “iii | j Preston St ;
ston St. ‘
George’s en Varner Ln.

 

[|] Yes Products

Redken ¢ Nexxus ® Paul Mitchel ¢
Sebastian (Itd.) © Matrix

[} Yes People

Experienced Professional Stylists

[] Yes Walk-In or Phone

—-SPECIAL OFFER-~~~
Two Dollars Off On Haircuts {
Four Dollars Off On Perms :
Good through Sept. 30/90 w/coupons i

2S NS ES NS SEN GN RES EISEN GEES GL SENSES KIMEN WELT Seer HN

r
{
i
|
|
Abeernae

 

130 S. Main St.

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

463-7969

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name:

PARENTS
ALUMNI

Stay informed of what’s going on at
Washington and Lee!

Subscribe to
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee’s only Student Newspaper
P.O.
Lexington, VA 24450

Box 899

poo oo ooooooooooooOoOoOooN000000000000000000000000000008
O

Enclosed is my check for $25

Please bill me when my issues
start arriving.

 

Address:

 

 

 

Ooo000o00000000000000000000

 

 

Oo00DDDDODDDDOOOOoDOROOOoOoOOOOooOOOoD0Co0000000000000000000

  
 

  
 

in Buena Vista.
Work: 261-2112

Ford

2019 Forest Avenue
Buena Vista, VA

        
         
   
    
      
   
   
    

-Dirty Bucs

-Sero Shirts

ooocoooCoo0000o0o000000000000

 

 

 

 

eA NR NE cm ete

-Bass Weejuns

Welcome Back
Students & Faculty!

Doug Turrell ’87

lf you want professional automotive sales treat-
ment, then see or call me at Courtesy Ford-Mercury

COURTESY
(By

ay

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
        
   
      

Home: 463-1952

Mercury

DL 1916

Aluin-Beunis

Fine Men’s Clothing
102 W. Washington St.

Welcome Freshmen

-W&L Belts, Ties & Keychains

Summer Clearance Still In Progress

Visa, MasterCharge & Student Accounts

Since 1963

 

 

JOOOODOOOOODODOODOOoOOR *

Indoor-Outdoor Flying Saucer
Bounces like a ball.
Floats like a feather.

Great gift. Hot colors
Best flying toy ever invented.

Play Today!

POSTMARKS |:
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 7 am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

 

oooooooo00000000000N%

-Woolrich
-Flannel Shirts
-Khaki Pants

 
SPORTS

Women’s soccer enters tell-tale year

 

From W&L Sports Information

In three years of guiding varsity
women’s soccer, head coach Janine
Hathom has seen marked improve-
ment with each passing season. Each
campaign has brought new highs, and
with those highs have come new
expectations and new challenges.

In 1990, the expectations again
have risen, and Hathorn says the
struggle now is particularly important.

Hathorn sees 1990 as the water-
mark year for W&L women’s soccer.
While the Generals have gotten them-
selves in position to contend for the
ODAC crown, getting there and doing
so are two different things. Four
veteran starters, including two gritty
defenders and W&L’s all-time leading

, Scorer, have been lost to graduation.

Hathorn will have to mix the old
carefully with the new to get the
right formula for success. So far, the
strides have been gradual, but pro-
gressive. Her team finished fourth in
the 1988 ODAC standings and
reached the ODAC semifinals with an
upset of Roanoke in 1989.

One of the permanent parts of the
W&L soccer program is talent. Hath-
om has plenty of that commodity
returning. Nineteen letterwinners from
last year’s 6-9-3 squad return, includ-
ing seven starters and four of last
year’s six goal-scorers.

Heading the list of returnees is
two-time All-ODAC honoree Nancy
Mitchell, the junior who is the guts
of the W&L defense. Joining Mitchell
on the defensive end is two-year
letterwinner Ashley Hurt.

Also gone is two year starter in

The Ring-tum Phi, September 6, 1990

goal Sherri Brown. Her 12 carcer
shutouts and experience will be sorely
missed, but talented freshmen Sarah
Butler and Katie Stimeling will look
to make it as tough if not tougher on
opposing offenses to score.

So it appears there will not be too
much of a problem with defense. The
same cannot be said for the W&L
scoring punch. Only two players who
scored more than one goal last year
are back. Sophomore Andrea Carda-
mone, who led W&L in scoring with
five goals and two assists and junior
Ann Shaughnessy, who had two
goals, are the Icading returning scor-
ers.

Goal production was a problem in
89. The Generals were shut out
themselves 11 times. Hathorn hopes
some of the problem might be allevi-
ated by the healthy return of junior

W&L faces QB questions

 

« By Jay Plotkin

j Sports Editor

* In 1989, the Washington and Lee
passing attack was deadly for oppo-
nents. Over the course of the season,

s head coach Gary Fallon’s offense
either tied or set 26 school records as

"a direct result of passing the ball.

The entire offensive line returns,
as do a host of experienced, young

' players, so it would be fair to say

« that the future looks bright for W&L.

But inspite of the experienced

" players returning, Fallon still has one

« simple question to answer. But this
question has a not so simple answer.

' Who will direct the team on offense?

Gone from the 1989 team are
record setting quarterbacks Phillip

‘ Sampson and Chris Smythe. In their

. stead stand juniors George Sakin and
Fred Renneker and sophomore Darren

‘Johnson. None of the trio have

. thrown a pass in a college game, and
only Sakin has taken a snap. Ren-

‘ neker was a defensive back last sea-

- son, and Johnson lent his 6-5 frame
to the basketball team.

‘ — Sakin will be the starting quarter-

+ back on Saturday when the Generals
take the field against Emory and

‘Henry, but if he is unable to-move

+ the team, Fallon won’t waste any

, time going to Renneker and Johnson. _

The quarterbacks should have
plenty of time to pick out a host of
more than capable receivers, led by
pre-season first team All-American
Craig Irons, who is just 45 catches
shy of the W&L career record.

Four Generals should handle the
rushing chores in 1990. Two time
leading rusher senior Mason Pope
will handle the bulk of the load.
Spelling him will be the tandem of
senior Kirk Sohonage and sophomore
Wade Robinett. Sohonage and sopho-
more Mark Goglia will take turns at
fullback leading the way for the tail-
backs.

Paving the way for the offense
will be a five-man front that averages
6-2, 237 pounds. Senior preseason
All-American Rob Roberton will look
to rebound from a preseason hamstr-
ing injury to anchor one side of the
line at tackle along with classmate
Rob Christensen at guard. Senior
Frank Sudell will again handle the
snapping duties, and juniors Rob
Thomas and Jim Henry will anchor
the other side of the line.

Defensively, the Generals are
young, experienced and ready to take
on the world. Back to bolster the
defensive line are junior middle guard
Greg Kiehl, sophomore tackle Phil
Spears and junior ends John Mc-
Callum and Scott Williamson.

At linebacker, junior Trey Cox

will get lots of help trying to fill the
shoes of the graduated Mike Pack.
Sophomores Paul Mallos and Lyle
Smith will play large roles immedi-
ately, as will newcomer Evans Ed-
wards.

In the secondary, juniors Doug
Lefevre and David Frankhouser will
be hard pressed to replace Warren
and Rimmer, both all-Old Dominion
Athletic Conference players. They
will join the experienced duo of
Clark Wight and Brad Miller, who
occupy the safety positions. Also
seeing time in the secondary will be
sophomore Donald Dempsey and
newcomers Tom Mandia and Bill
Harker.

Renneker, says Fallon, might see
time in the secondary while also
occupying the second-string quarter-
back position.

The questions remain for the Gen-
erals. Can Sakin or Renneker or
Johnson move the team and keep the
ball in the capable hands of Irons?
Will the young defense mature quick
enough to bail out the offense should
it falter? Will Fallon’s love affair
with the passing game continue in
1990?

All questions will be answered on
Saturday against Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference favorite Emory arid”

Henry. Game time is 1:30 on Wilson
Field.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

With

} Earn Extra Money

W&L Catering

Need: Bartenders *

Waiters

Waitresses

B ©Interested persons please contact
| Linda Russ at 463-8655
or drop by the catering

office in

| Evans Dining Hall

* Must be 21 years old

 

scorers Ashley Gray and Morgan
Warner, both of whom were slowed
by injury last year. Gray, a 15-game
Starter as a freshman, had four goals
and four assists in her first year,
while Warner, who also started 15
games in '88, had a pair of goals her
freshman season.

Hathorn hopes the scoring will
come. She has faith in her team’s
work ethic, and she says that will
help her players reach their goals.

“IT think we’ve got some good
leadership, players who lead by ex-
ample,’’ she said. ‘‘We will be a
little more intense, make more sacri-
fices. I like the mindset of these
women. They're aware of where they
are and where they can go, and
they’re ready to make that commit-
ment.’’

 

Lacrosse Meeting

There will be a meeting of all
those interested in playing men’s
lacrosse this year. Meet at 8:00
p.m. on Monday, September 10th
on the 500 level of the Doremus
Gymnasium. All players interest-
ed must attend. Bring writing
utencils.

 

 

 

 

Volleyball set to spike
conference opponents

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

Washington and Lee volleyball
head coach Susan Dittman is tired of
hearing how well her teams have
done despite the relative youth of the
volleyball program.

In just their third season of Old
Dominion Athletic Conference play,
the Generals and their coach are
eyeing a shot at the league title, a
crown that has been captured by only
one of two schools in ODAC history.
But Dittman sees it as a pretty logi-
cal next step in the development of
the W&L program.

Six of last year’s top seven per-
formers return, including All-ODAC
first team playmaker Lisa Jay and
All-ODAC second team hitter Mena
McGowin. The senior-junior duo were
a large part of why W&L averaged
over eight kills per game last year.

Jay has been the mainstay of the
W&L program since her arrival, and
1990 figures to be no different. Jay
accounted for over 80 percent of
W&L’s assists last year, and she will
direct the W&L attack. Jay also had
13 block points, which was fourth
best on the team, and she served at a

.922 clip.

Jay obviously can’t do it all by
herself, and in 1990 she'll have a
proven stable to fuel her attack. Mc-
Gowin’s 214 kills led the team last
year, and the 5-10 junior figures to
be the go-to gal again this season.
But she will have company. Leslie
Hess is coming off a fantastic fresh-
man season in which she was third
on the team in kills, first in digs, and
fifth in block points.

Other returning players who
should bolster the W&L attack in-
clude junior Rashmi Sachan and
sophomore Liz Randol. Sachan
saw action in 68 games and had 32
kills and 15 block points last year.
Randol had 17 kills and a healthy
-172 attack percentage in '89. ;

With all those positives, it’s hard
not to think the Generals should be a
shoe-in for the conference finals. But
Dittman knows there are too many
intangibles along the way for her to
start making reservations for the
championship match.

With a supply of veterans and an
impressive group of youngsters nip-
ping at their heels, there’s no reason
not to think big.

Men look to retain title

 

From W&L Sports Information

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer program put together one of
the most impressive finishing runs in
school history with last year’s 10-5-
2 campaign. W&L closed the, season
with six consecutive victories, the
Old Dominion Athietic Conference
Championship and a victory over
cross-town rival VMI.

With 17 lettermen and a host of
starters returning from that cham-
pionship season, it would be fair to
say the Generals are already on their
way to defending that ODAC title.
Indeed the other coaches in the
NCAA Division III South Region.
They picked the Generals tenth in the
preseason poll.

There’s no question about the
talent at W&L for 1990. Three all-
«conference players return to the Gen-

erals’ lineup this year. All-ODAC

 

 

pega UKeRSaNAS MS UreAS SR e a ychaR UT RTES
Jititiililitibiitiiti

  

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
   

first-teamer Mike Mitchem led W&L
in assists with nine and tacked on
five goals to place him second in the
conference scoring race. The Gener-
als also will benefit from the return
of All-ODAC second-teamers Greg
Williams, a defensive stalwart, and
Reid Murphy, a versatile player who
combined three goals with tenacious
defensive play last year.

And defense is where the defend-
ing ODAC champs will start. W&L
allowed more than two goals in just
four contests last year, while shutting
out five opponents in posting a team
goals against average of 1.5.

Another vital contributor is senior
goalie Jon Bull, a seven-game starter
in 1989. Bull led the Generals in
minutes played (715) and saves (58)
and had a 1.51 goals against average
last year.

Head coach Rolf Piranian says the
goalkeeping will have to be more

 

 

 

Sot eer ee

 

SS oS SS eee eee eee

 

 

peo ee oe

ab
X

d 4>
ae N

SS SSS oe

    
 
   

Soe ee eee eee ee

SoS o roe

 

Seer re eee
ae ea ee

 

 

 

 

vidas

 

rE
Le

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pe

 

 

 

 

 

(b

  

fs WET ime MN ad
\ s

ie bly db AS EAL. che: MAL. i { 3

pede Seo ost

DEAVERS ALLEY
BUSINESS SERVICES

- Word Processing -
- Term Papers -
- Applications Typed -
- Resumes -

- Binding -

- Mailings -

- FAX -

- UPS -

IBM Compatible
WordPerfect
Lotus 1-2-3

Ventura

Harvard Graphics
Corel Draw

Laser Printers
Print from your disk

Student Accounts
"We Bill Home"

203 North Main Street
463-9455

Wy) BAR “sf
ih ne !
A sai An
he oe fA

4 A

TUE Fi ? u

peothrens

Ny

| 2

ll any . fl
Ny, c Tu

th Ae AT

NN

i

 

consistent than it has been, but he
says a larger problem will be finding:
some finishers to make the offense:
go. In all, W&L will be without=
nearly half of its goal production of;
last year. :

The potential is there, though.
Mitchem’s nine assists last year tied»
a single-season record. Murphy is a=
proven goal-scorer, as are junior co-:
captain David Hooker and quick-:
footed junior David DeFalco. :

The ODAC again will be a strug-:
gle, and W&L will try to play itself-
into position for the conference tour-*
nament against a field that hasn’t lost
a step from last year. d

Making the whole thing even:
more of a challenge is the dearth of.”
home games. At least 10 road games’
await W&L in 1990, and after a 2~:
5-1 road record in ’89, Piranian is.
justifiably concerned, but still very:
optimistic.

 

 

 

 

=

  
  

oat ad ot

Soe ee

=

oor

Soe ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
W&LIFE ties
Wolfe to hit Hollywood again | wat weekly calendar

By Ashley Harper é a — :
Entertainment Editor

 

 

 

September 7 to September 17
Novelist Tom Wolfe, Washington

and Lee class of 1951, will hit the
big screen once again. =

First, Wolfe’s novel The Right
Stuff hit the silver screen. Now his
most recent best seller, The Bonfire

Class Agents’ Weekend.
Hall of Fame Banquet.

Class Agents’ Weekend. onc Ae nia
ii i 11:30 a.m, WOMEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. Gettysburg. Liberty Hall Ficid.
rl oT ae oo 1:30 p.m FOOTBALL: HALL OF FAME GAME: Generals vs. Emory & Henry. Wilson Ficld.

released.

At W&L, Wolfe majored in Eng-
lish and was a member of the Phi
Kappa Sigma fraternity. He went on
to earn a doctorate’s degree at Yale
University.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: VOLLEYBALL: Haverford Tournament,
MEN’S SOCCER: York College (at Franklin & Marshall).

SUN
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: MEN’S SOCCER: Franklin & Marshall.

All Day ance RESEARCH POSTER SESSION: An exhibit of student research projects by

R.E. Lee Summer Scholars, Lower Level One, University Library (through Sept. 14),
Public invited.

i i : Pre-Law Meeting. Moot Courtroom,
Brian De Palma directed the film, 7p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Pre-Law Meeting
. wis *
which stars Tom Hanks as Sherman
c elani i : JES EMBE
Mc Coy, M lanie Griffith as McCoy 8 12 Noon W&L Employee Christian Fellowship Brown Bag Lunch, Room 114, University Center.
mistress Maria Ruskin and Bruce 4 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Senior Placement Meeting. Lee Chapel.
Willis as tabloid reporter Peter Fal- 8 p.m. RECITAL: Amy Cochrane, soprano. Lee Chapel. Public invited,
low. saad -
‘ Drop/Add ends (4:30 p.m.) . :
Other stars include Morgan Free- 4p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Resume Workshop. Room 109, University Center

man, F. Murray Abraham, Kim Cat-
trall, Saul Rubinek and John Han-

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN’S SOCCER: Sweet Briar.

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 13
f itati “lub.

_ All Day GOLF: W&L Fall Invitational. Lexington Golf & Country Cc he ; :

7p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Senior Placement Meeting (athletes and make-up)

Room 114, University Center.

McCoy is a successful business- Last date to register for Oct. 13 GRE Exam. CD&P Office.

man and father who is caught with

‘ ‘ ° ‘ . : j ‘
his mistress in a hit and run accident All Day MEN'S TENNIS: Rolex Regional Tournament. Varsity Courts. | :
which leads to an entanglement with All Day CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Resume Crigue alk). coaP or fie.

oe . 8 p.m. GALLERY RECEPTION/LECTURE: “Landscape Paintings y rt Stuart, Ry: ssell,
de 9 peeretret ~— ae = : and John Borden Evans.” duPont Gallery. Public invited. .
New York City. 8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Do the Right Thing (USA, 1989), directed by Spike Lee. Classroom “A,

Lewis Hall. Public invited.

Although much of the filming
took place in California, the com-
pany spent 10 weeks in New York

 

SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 15
: MCAT Exam.
and New Jersey after filming began All Day MEN'S TENNIS: Rolex Regional Tournament. Varsity Courts.
April 16th. 1 p.m. WOMEN’S SOCCER: Generals vs. Guilford. Liberty Hall Ficld.
8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Do the Right Thing (USA, 1989), directed by Spike Lee. Classroom “A,”

Lewis Hall. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: WATER POLO: EWPA “South” Varsity Invitational, Annapolis; ,
VOLLEYBALL: RMWC Tournament; FOOTBALL: Methodist, MEN'S SOCCER: Johns Hopkins
(at Carnegie-Mellon); MEN’S CROSS COUNTRY: Eastern Mennonite, Messiah College.

Some of W&L’s students from
New York will recognize the Rock-
efeller Center, Park Avenue, the
Supreme Court Building in the Bronx
and the Bronx Expressway ramp.

The screen play was written by
Michael Cristofer, a Pulitzer Prize-
winning playwright and screen-play
writer.

me
All Day MEN'S TENNIS: Rolex Regional Tournament. Varsity Courts.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: WATER POLO: EWPA Invitational, Annapolis;
MEN’S SOCCER: Carnegie Mellon.

 

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: VOLLEYBALL: Bluefield College, Concord College.

One of many award winners con-
tributing to Bonfire’s production is
Academy Award recipient Richard
Sylbert, recognized for his production
design on Dick Tracy, Who's Afraid
of Virginia Woolf? and Reds.

 

 

Tom Hanks, Melanie Griffith and Bruce Willis star in Bonfire of the Vanities, a movie based on the best-
selling novel by W&L graduate Tom Wolfe. Hanks plays main character Sherman McCoy, Griffith plays his
mistress Maria Ruskin and Willis plays reporter Peter Fallow. Publicity photo.

 

 

 

 

audiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

dni nemennt ROME ities ale pe Ce A eee DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
- Oo CwD

ae? mer eae
HOUSE pass ey bg cman i

~ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
Restaurant) - IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

+ WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
+ TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

 

Q-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

if

 

Reservations are recommended (800) 468-6667
sarin Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
pars : ne ZEEE me emma ms Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
(C OLOIR |D) Ni (C A\|R \) IAN 30 N. Main St., Lexington 463-3020 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke
2 N CAVRINIWAY

     
   

ma nee

Gs) CATHOLIC
2 CAMPUS
MINISTRY

 

Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money.
You do not need to be a League bowler to bow!!

 

St. Patrick’s Church

Mass Schedule:
Saturday 5:00 p.m.
Sunday 8:00 a.m.

10:00 a.m.

 

 

 

 

Penance: 4:00 p.m. Saturday

Liturgy of the Hours
8:30 a.m. at the Church
Noon, Sept. 9,
Woods Creek Park Picnic

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials
$1.50 per Game $1.50 per Game

Welcomes Back!

 

 

Monday 9 PM-1 AM Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM Saturday Noon- 6 PM

 

  
  

 

 

 

©Moonlight Red Pin ¢:) Red & Green Pin a o Se
Rock-N-Bowl Bowling chool Year Calendar $7.

Every Friday Night Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM Special through September

11 PM- 2AM Win FREE games And walls, ceilings, furniture

Indian tapestry bedspreads.
Bright colors.
Beautiful designs.

POSTMARKS ||
& PLEASURES Caravans

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10am- 7am Sunday Noon - 6 pm 121 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 7 pm/Sunday Noon - 6 pm

US HWY - 11 North 464-BOWL (2695)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

 
~

-

‘

DG ay also continue to
waa ae

‘

if pe pe
¢ C a

R552

y- AO

“WO. uy

SAB announces fall

 

schedule --- see page 3

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 4

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Students
injured in
car accident

 

By Pat Lopes
Editor

 

A Washington and Lee sopho-
more was charged with driving while
intoxicated after he and another W&L
student were seriously injured in a
car accident early Saturday morning
on Route 631 near Lexington.

Brandon J. Green was allegedly
driving under the influence of alcohol
shortly after 1 a.m. when he lost
control of his car in an area known
as Bean’s Bottom, Virginia state
trooper Steve Canada said.

Elizabeth C. Hancock, a W&L
sophomore who was riding in the
front seat wearing her seat belt, was
gashed on her forehead, scalp and left
hip and her left leg was bruised, she
said. She was transported by
helicopter to the Roanoke Memorial
Hospital intensive care unit from
Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

Green, who was not wearing his
seat belt, had glass from the wind-
shield embedded in the right side of
his face, forehead and scalp. His left
leg was also bruised. He was treated
and released at Stonewall Jackson
Hospital.

Coleman J. Devlin, a W&L
junior, who was riding in the back
seat, was not injured, police said.

Green was driving half a mile east
of Route 604 on Route 631 when he
lost control of his car, Canada said.
The car swerved to the right, back on

‘to the road and then off the right

shoulder, smashing into a tree, he
said.

A Lexington rescue squad spent
about 20 minutes cutting Hancock out
of the car, Canada said.

Doctors at Roanoke Memorial
Hospital stitched the gash on her
head, which stretches from her right
eye, up onto her forehead, around the
top of her scalp and to the back her
head.

Hancock is now in stable condi-
tion at Roanoke Memorial awaiting
plastic surgery.

Green said his face hit the wind-
shield and shattered it and splintered
glass gouged into his face. Doctors at
Stonewall Jackson Hospital gave him
thirteen stitches.

Green is back at school attending
classes.

Hancock said road conditions lead
to the mishap. Green was unfamiliar
with the twists and turns on the dark
country road, she said. A lead car
was also kicking dust and gravel into
the headlights of Green’s car.

“Tt wasn’t like it was Brandon’s
fault,’’ Hancock said. ‘‘Those country
roads can really be dangerous.”’

Green will not comment on details
of the accident or the drunken driving
charge because of his upcoming trial.
His court date is set for Oct. 24 in
Lexington.

Green expressed remorse for
Hancock. ‘‘The thing I feel so bad
about is the fact that the injury oc-
curred to Liz. I kind of wish that all
that happened to me,’’ he said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 13, 1990

 

 

 

 

| got it!!!

 

 

 

Senior Mason Pope leaps to snag junior George Sakin’s pass
for the two-point conversion that tied Saturday’s game with
Emory and Henry at 14-14. The conversion came after senior

Craig Irons made a diving catch off a Sakin pass for a
touchdown. E&H won the game on the last play, 22-21. See
story on page 6. (Staff photo by Chris Leiphart)

 

Committee to re-evaluate spring term

 

By Blair Simmons
Staff Reporter

 

Dean of the College John Elrod is
forming a committee to evaluate the spring
term in response to the ‘‘chorus of voices
raised’’ questioning the effectiveness of the
term, he said.

‘‘The current calendar is 21 years old and
it was an experimental calendar then and we
haven’t, so far as I know, in that entire
history examined carefully the most
experimental part of the calendar, the short
six week term,’’ Elrod said.

The committee, which consists of nine
faculty members and two students, is charged
to ‘‘put the term under a microscope’’ and
determine how the faculty and students are

utilizing it, he said.

‘“‘The committee has to ask itself these
fundamental questions: Does the spring term
advance our academic purposes? Does the
spring term enhance our desire for academic
excellence? Is it, from the standpoint of
fulfilling our purposes in creating academic
excellence, an asset or a liability?’’ Elrod
said.

Saying the committee will make a
recommendation to him in early February,
Elrod emphasized it is not designed to be a
think tank or a forum for opinions.

‘*These committee members are not going
to sit around and think about the term but are
going to go to work and gather specific data
about how the term is affecting our academic
programs,’’ Elrod said.

Prof. H. Thomas Williams, the chairman

of the committee, said they will begin by
looking at historical documents about the
term, and then specifically at the spring term
now: what kind of courses are offered and
what kind of enrollment patterns exist.

Calling it ‘tan awful lot of quantitative
data analysis,’’ Williams said the committee’s
main job will be to poll the student body, the
faculty and the administrators.

“‘The committee is asked to end up with
one of three conclusions,’’ said Williams.
‘*One conclusion might be characterized as:
the spring term is healthy in its present form
and should be retained. Another is that in its
conception the spring term is a good idea but
needs some adjustments in the course
offerings to make it better. The third possible
conclusion could be that the spring term as
a notion is intrinsically flawed.’’

Although the viability of the spring term
has been questioned several times in the past,
Elrod said this is the first in depth study on
it.

Two years ago, Elrod asked each
academic department to inform him of its
preference regarding the elimination of the
term, and the majority (although ‘‘not a
strong majority’) were in favor of keeping
the term, he said.

In 1984, a calendar committee
recommended the reaffirmation of the 12-12-
6 calendar after a cursory analysis, Elrod
said.

‘*Whenever you’re evaluating an academic
calendar the primary consideration is does it
contribute to the realization of our goals and
purposes as an academic institution; but it is
also important to look at a calendar in terms

of the things outside the classroom,’’ Elrod
said.

He said he tried to get a balance of the
divisions within the undergraduate program
when choosing the committee members, with
a representative from the Commerce School,
the physical sciences, the social sciences, the
humanities and the languages. He also tried
to get a cross-section of senior and junior
faculty members.

Willard Dumas and Elizabeth Talkington,
the students on the committee, will convey
student attitudes and serve as a liaison
between the committee and the student body,
Elrod said.

The next step in the evaluation of the
spring term will be determined by the content
of the committee’s report and its
recommendation, Elrod said.

 

 

 

Ready to Rush

 

IFC vice-president Mike
Skarda gives this year’s
crop of rushees the go-
ahead to start Tuesday’s
night of open houses.
Lexington police said the
first weekend of Men’s
Rush was “relatively quiet”
despite one noise violation,
one DUI, three drunk in
publics and six possession
of alcohol violations. (Staff
photo by Chris Leiphart)

 

 

 

 

DG Rush begins next week

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

The Delta Gamma Women’s Fraternity is hoping the
approximately 180 unaffiliated upperclass women at
Washington and Lee will take heed of its colonization
slogan ‘‘Catch the Wave,’’ and participate in its first
formal Rush, which kicks off with an open house on
Sept. 19,

According to Kathy Wood, a member of DG’s
expansion team who is currently on campus to handle
DG’s initial publicity and legwork, DG will hold sign-
ups starting Monday in front of the Co-op for all upper-
class women interested in attending its open house on
campus some time next week.

Wood said that those who do not sign up are also
welcome to attend,

Rush will be conducted by DG national representa-
tives, active members from nearby chapters, and local
alumni advisors, who will be on hand to meet rushees.

DG rush begins with the open house and concludes
Sept. 22, when bids will be extended.
extend bids to up-

perclassmen after the formal Rush period is over and will
participate in the Winter Rush for freshmen with the three
established W&L sororities, Kappa Alpha Theta, Kappa
Kappa Gamma, and Chi Omega.

Wood, who will also serve as the DG colony’s
collegiate development consultant, was on hand in the
upperclassmen matriculation line with local DG Interest
Group members to let independent females know more
about DG.

The approximately 15-member interest group, which
is comprised of women who were either not extended
bids or did not sign preference cards during Winter Rush,
began meeting after DG's January decision to delay
colonization because of a disappointing turnout at its first
open house, which followed Winter Rush.

Most of the members of the interest group formally
committed themselves at that time to rush DG if the
sorority decided to colonize at W&L. The group said they
hoped to increase interest in DG among the unaffiliated
women On campus.

DG President Maureen Syring said although the
number of interested women was quite disappointing in

() Please see RUSH page 5

Survey data withheld

Results from
date-rape survey
called ‘in line’

By Alisann McGloin
Staff Reporter

 

 

Results of a date rape survey con-
ducted at Washington and Lee last
winter term have not yet been rel-
eased despite promises of a fall an-
nouncement, but Associate Dean of
Students Anne Schroer-Lamont said
the data is ‘‘right in line with nation-
al statistics,’’

Though the actual results have not
yet been released, Schroer-Lamont
said steps have already been taken to
reduce the risk of date rape at W&L
through education and information.

Schroer-Lamont pointed to the
honor code as a reason why W&L’s
numbers should be significantly low-
er. ‘‘Honor in dating and sexual
relations is as important as cheating
on a test,’ she said.

The survey, which was composed
by a support group for date rape
victims, was completed by one-third
of W&L’s female students. One-fifth
of them were law students,

Seventy-eight percent of last
year’s freshmen women who re-
sponded to the survey revealed cer-
tain problems during the year that
enabled this year’s freshmen to ben-
efit from their experience. A question
asking women the month and year of
a date or acquaintance rape revealed
that the occurrence of these incidents
1s greatest early in the freshman year.

 

By Tracey Thornblade
Staff Reporter

‘Morning after’ pill
prevents pregnancy

 

 

physician Jane Horton said.

the drug.

 

unnecessary.

Ovral, a legal ‘‘morning-after’’ pill that prevents implantation of a fer-
tilized egg in a woman’s uterus, has been available at Washington and
Lee’s Health Center since coeducation was established in 1985, W&L

Ovral is used differently than the highly-publicized RU 486, more
commonly known as the abortion pill. RU 486, which is illegal in the
United States but used throughout Europe, is taken once a woman has
tested positive for pregnancy, at least a month after conception. The drug
causes a spontaneous chemical abortion.

Ovral is taken before a fertilized egg has time to implant itself in the
uterus, usually within 12 to 72 hours after intercourse.

Studies have shown near perfect success rates among women who have
used the drug. Only minor adverse affects, such as nausea, vomiting and
breast tenderness have been reported.

Based on recent studies, the risk of cancer is not related to the use of

Horton said Orval can be used only under the advice of a doctor. A
woman will not receive a prescription if the doctor deems it medically

 

 

Schroer-Lamont met at the beginn-
ing of the summer with President
John Wilson regarding the survey, at
which point a complete analysis of
the results had not yet been comp
leted. Schroer-Lamont and Wilson
were to meet yesterday to discuss the
final results and how the
University will respond to and report
the results officially.

““‘W&L is an educational leader in

decide

the state on this subject,’’ Schroer-
Lamont said. Posters all around cam-
pus warn students of the risk of
‘‘campus rape.”’

Although Schroer-Lamont empha-
sized the need to begin awareness
with freshmen, certain measures have
been taken to reach upperclassmen as
well, she said. An informational vid
eotape is currently being shown in
the waiting room of the infirmary.
OPINION

Wa&L environment

Blake Comer failed the tradition of Washington and Lee,
its students and, most of all, Ashley Scarborough and her
family by refusing to come forth and accept the blame for
his misdeeds.

To have him back in our community, as a member of the
student body, would make fallacies of all the qualities that
Washington and Lee purports to claim as part of its
environment; values such as honesty, integrity, courtesy and
compassion. His return would be wrong, no matter how
well-intentioned are the technicalities that would allow his
return.

But, has he alone failed the university and its heritage?
We don’t think so.

Certainly, no one would be foolish enough to believe that
Comer was the first W&L student to drive after drinking too
much, and it’s unlikely that Comer’s example will be
enough to forever disuade other students from drinking and
driving in the future. In fact, the example may not have
even lasted two weeks. Yet another W&L student stands
accused of driving under the influence, resulting in a
accident.

This sort of nonchalance regarding responsible behavior
caused Judge Rudolph Bumgardner III to characterize
Washington and Lee, in his final remarks in the Comer case,
as being an ‘uncontrolled enviornment.”” He also called the
tragedy ‘‘a low point for an institution known for its
honesty and integrity.”’

The Honor Code is the most revered convention we live
by. We pride ourselves on having our conduct governed by
one simple over-arching principle, that of acting honorably,
instead of a volumous series of trite, shallow and
insignificant rules and regulations.

Every aspect of Comer’s behavior and that of his friends
was so far from the principle of honorable behavior as to
chill even the most cynical observer. The accident itself was
horrifying and tragic, but what followed was just as rotten.

Comer fled from the scene and covered up his guilt for
several months. The actions of Comer and his friends, who
lived with the terrible secret of their role in this tragedy,
reeked of subterfuge, deceit_and treachery.

Their gross disregard for the conventions of honorable
behavior belied what President Wilson termed in his address
at Opening Convocation, a ‘‘failure of nerve, failure of
moral courage and failure to see the right thing to do.”

Wilson called out to the Class of 1991 to provide
leadership, direction and maturity, and presented the seniors
with this special challenge, ‘‘to try to help our new students
to fasten lastingly upon the best of our traditions and values
and expectations.”’

Every member of the Washington and Lee community,
especially those in the student body, must strive in the
utmost to return our code of conduct to what General Lee
intended.

We must view the honor code as an all-encompassing
ethical code, rather than merely a set of printed edicts
riddled with loopholes. Let the principle of honorable
behavior guide us in the larger decisions we make, and the
smaller decisions will fall naturally into line.

If we fail to heed Wilson’s request, then our community
is as bad as Judge Bumgardner would believe.

But if we persevere and instill in our successors a
reverence for the best of the traditions of Washington and
Lee, then we have made our university richer. As Wilson
concluded, ‘‘You cannot make a greater contribution to
Washington and Lee than to succeed in this undertaking.”’

Quote of the Week

Tom, if a guy is with a girl and she fakes it, is that

an HV?

— An unidentified freshman, pondering aloud to EC
President Thompson Hatcher about one of the more gray
areas of the White Book.

 

oe
The uncontrolled

However, it should not be the seniors’ burden alone.

 

 

 

  

 

   

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

SS A a 5 Ga Gs Ft es Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Associate Editors ........+.+6+ Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Assignment Editor Cathy Lopiccolo
Editorial Page Editor... 1. cscs tsererccseces Chris Baradel

  

 
  
  

Senior Copy Eder cc cc ce eset ee tesee Jason Kelley
Bntertainmeht Heiter 2. ttt eee Ashley Harper
Soars BOs ee ot a I Et Jay Plotkin
Associate Sports Editor 2... oc ccc ect erteeees John Laney
oe! ae Se Se Se ee Chris Leiphart

 

Editorial Cartoonist

   
 

S204 0 4 O44 6 6 £4044 £2 8S

Business Manager... ....---++sserererrreees
Advertising Manager .......---+-eeeerreeres
Circulation Manager

 
 

   
 
 
 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The Ring-tum Phi

Lexington, Virginia
24450

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 13, 1990
eT a

 

MY VIEW

By J. Cameron
Humphries

 

Memory serving, the first issue of
last year’s The Ring-tum Phi also
contained a ‘‘My View’’ questioning
the logic, justice, and effectiveness of
our Honor Code in the modern world.
How could any system of honor, the
article questioned, expel a person for
stealing’ a candy bar while allowing

~ ‘a -fapist’ to remain a part of our

community? Though I remember few
of the article’s specific details, I do
recall its message leaving a
significant impact upon me, and an
impression which was not particularly
favorable. If my recollection is at all
correct, then last week’s ‘‘My
View’’, which again questioned the
justice in our Honor Code, presents
the beginning of a dangerous and
potentially destructive tradition at
Washington and Lee - a
misunderstanding and misapplication
of the spirit and purpose of General
Lee’s greatest gift to our University,
the Honor System.

This year’s ‘‘My View”
questioned any Honor Code which
could expel a person for mistakenly
presenting someone else’s work as
his own, while possibly allowing a
hit-and-run driver to retum to the
University after a only a year’s
absence. Quite simply, this is a very
valid, important, and indeed necessary
question. Furthermore, the article
also included a scenario involving a
student and the CRC. If stealing a
candy bar is an honor violation,
shouldn’t raping a woman be

considered one as well? How, then,
should the University respond to a
world in which the ideals of honor,
truth and integrity have been long
since abandoned?

“‘Duty,’’ General Lee stated, ‘‘is
the sublimest word in our language.”’
Yet, our present society does not like
the concept of duty, especially duty
to something as abstract as honor.
Instead, our society rests upon
detailed rules. And it is far easier, it
requires far less moral fibre to follow
a coded book of rules and regulations
than to live one’s life by the ideal of

an_absiract concept. *

To dilute the Honor
System by altering
the single sanction,
or creating degrees
of honor debases
the heritage of the

 

Honor Code
But it is living one’s life by an
abstract ideal that General Lee

commanded his students to do, at all
times, in all places, and under all
circumstances. Quite simply, he left
no loopholes for Washington and Lee
students to use as an escape from
doing their duty to honor. And
unlike the concept put forth in the
CRC, his command left no second
chance for students who violated their
honor to ‘“‘undergo therapy,’’ or to
“pay their debt to society.”
According to the Honor Code, either
you are honorable or you are not.

I will always remember the
example of my Scoutmaster when I
was a young boy. At summer camp,
he secured the soft drinks, candy and

 
  

other valuables with only a cheap
lock which any one could hime easily
picked or broken if they wished to
help themselves to a Coke or a
Snickers bar. When I pointed this
out to him and asked him why he did
not use a more secure lock he said,
‘Scouts, locks aren’t designed to
keep thieves out. All they can do is
keep honest people, honest.’’

It is no different with our Honor
System. No system, no set of rules,
regardless of how detailed and
encompassing, can keep dishonorable
persons from lying, cheating, or
stealing. As General Lee noted, there
is but one solution: excusing them
from our community.

Therefore, while the current
system may allow rapists to remain
in our midst, freeing others who have
violated our community of trust from
their duty to honor does nothing to
restore or strengthen our community.
A jail keeper does not release the
petty-cash thieves merely because he
cannot catch the armed robbers. And
in the framework of the Honor
System, the candy-bar thief is as
dishonorable as the thief who steals
Washington’s painting from Lee
Chapel. To dilute the Honor Code
by altering the single sanction, or
creating degrees of honor debases the

heritage of the Honor Code to this
point: it insults those honorable
persons who will graduate from
Washington and Lee in the future, it
tarnishes our tradition of honor, and
it also belittles the loss of those who
have left our community because they
were unable to meet Lee’s standards
of honor. The system must enforce
the principle that either you are
honorable, or you are dishonorable.
It is exactly such black-and-white,

OH Boy!
LIAATA SELECTIONT

many rules stifle honor

such either-or philosophy which
discomforts so many people today.’
And why should it not? Taking a,
stand, perhaps more than any other
action, terrifies the twentieth century
person. Society tells us that no
action, no belief, and no moral
position is completely wrong. And:
when we choose to judge an action.
at all, its usually to diminish its
significance. Our lives are full of’
“‘little’’ lies, sins, and crimes. Once
again, it offers us one more
opportunity from within our fallen
state to point the finger and to
divorce ourselves from. accountability
to ourself, to mankind, and to our '

As a community,
Washington and Lee
must return to a
concept of duty to —
honor

God, by observing a morally destitute
world and then finding comfort in the
belief that we are not as bad as
some.

If the Honor System is to survive,
it needs fewer rules, not more. As a
community, Washington and Lee
must return to the concept of duty to
honor, and not a system of rules set
forth in a book. Our White Book
revisions committee needs to force its
students to live by moral character,
and not by rules. ’

Then, not only will there be equal
justice for all at W&L, but there will
also be the opportunity for its
graduates to promote justice in the
real world, which now surrounds us
in crumbling decay at the base of our
Hill.

 

Sbar examines the Middle East

 
   

 

 

 
  

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

Due to a recent case of boredom compounded
by the frontal lobotomy I received over the
summer, I have decided to write some
distinguished commentary involving the recent
crisis in the Middle East.

The Middle East, which lies between the Near
East and the Far East, is a hostile, sun-scorched
piece of worthless desert inhabited by religious
zealots who express themselves by burning
American flags in front of television cameras. This
is why whenever we turn on our televisions to
watch Bullwinkle, we see religious zealots in the
Middle East burning American flags.

Of course, the religious zealots in the Middle
East must compete for air time with the First
Amendment zealots in America, who are also fond
of burning American flags in front of television
cameras.

Someone besides me should probably travel to
the Middle East and tell the religious zealots that
burning American flags is getting a bit old. If they
want to really make a statement, I suggest that
they pour kerosene on their local politicians. We'd
probably watch that even before Bullwinkle.

Although no one wants to admit it, we're all
kind of relieved by the recent tension in the
Middle East. For one thing, it means that we no
longer have to hear about Mikhail ‘‘stop staring at
my forehead mole’’ Gorbachev and the recent
Russian discovery that Chicken McNuggets taste
better than boiled potatoes.

 

‘*Perestroika’’ is supposed to denote the Soviet
Union’s recent move towards democratic reform ,
but it sounds more like a Soviet slang word for
male genitalia or a drink tasting like a Harvey
Wallbanger that one might order in a bar. This is
getting slightly off of the subject, but if any one
out there has ever had a Harvey Wallbanger I'd
like to hear about it.

A major problem with the Middle East is that
we're having a great deal of trouble distinguishing
allies from enemies. Even the people in friendly
countries are wearing turbans and buming
American flags.

It’s also difficult keeping track of the individual
countries. Iraq, for example, used to be a puny,
good for nothing country that couldn’t even win a
war against our long-time nemesis, Iran. Now, all
of a sudden, they show up in Kuwait with a
million-man army, an arsenal of chemical weapons
and a dictator with a Ghenghis Khan complex.

Speaking of Kuwait, no one besides a handful
of geography teachers even knew that the place
existed before this crisis. Now it pops up as a
critical oil producing nation and we all have to
pretend that we knew it’s exact location years ago.

An interesting aspect of this Middle East fiasco
is the subtle influence involved leaders have on
the stock market. It’s impossible to pick up a
newspaper these days for some innocent reason like
whacking your girlfriend across the face without
seeing some Earth-shattering news of the stock
market:

“The stock market rose 50 points yesterday
morning after reliable sources reported that
Saddam Hussein woke up with a bad case of
diarrhea. Later in the day, however, the market
fell 50 points after reporters following President
Bush around on his Kennebunkarunkfunk

vacation witnessed the Secretary of State snag
his fishing hook on the president’s ear.”’

Another important player in the complex
Middle East affair is OPEC (Old Potbellied
Eggheaded Codfish), a group of buddies who meet
every so often at Octnod’s Bar and Grill to drink
beer and cause world turmoil by raising or
lowering the price of gasoline for completely
random reasons.

OPEC Representative: ‘‘I heard Iraq invaded
Kuwait yesterday just for the hell of it. I say we
raise oil prices so that it costs an extra quarter to
purchase a gallon of gasoline in America.”’

Second OPEC Representative: ‘‘Good idea.
Hey, where is Kuwait anyway?”’

Third OPEC Representative: ‘“‘Hey Octnod,
how about another round of brew for the OPEC

_

Unfortunately, the United States has been forced
to send young men over to Saudi Arabia in order
to protect vital oil interests and hopefully rescue a
few American flags. Somehow, it doesn’t seem fair
that males in the bloom of youth are the ones that
get sent to die in war.

People in their early twenties should be home
experimenting with psychedelic drugs, enjoying
their sexual primes and listening to rock music. In
other words, people in their early twenties should
be in college.

Wait a minute, that’s the wrong generation.
People in their early twenties should be at home
joining gyms, dating people who haven't tested
positive for AIDS and getting into law school.

What I’m trying to say, in a very roundabout
manner, is that I think President Bush should round
up the nation’s rednecks, arm them with pick-up
trucks, shotguns, country music and smokeless
tobacco products and drop them off in Iraq.
+

;

‘

«NEWS

Sn

hy

tr
:
°
t.

‘Corral’ to reopen soon >

The Ring-tum Phi,

SAB announces'‘plans for

 

By Macon Miles
Staff Reporter

The SAB opened its concert
schedule last Friday night with the
Waxing Poetics performing at the
student pavilion. The low attendance
disappointed the SAB, which fell
short of breaking even by 50 percent,
according to SAB Chairman Katie
Duwel.

“‘We were a little disappointed
that rush played such an important
role in participation in the concert,”’
said Duwel, ‘‘but I think people liked
it.”” Duwel and Concert Coordinator
Dabney Collier said they remain
optimistic about the remaining events
planned for this academic year.

The SAB’s fall concerts include a
free concert by Left Exit on Sunday,
Sept. 16. It will be held either in the

_ Dell or on the Law School fields.
Echo’s Farm will play in the General
Headquarters on Wednesday, Sept.
19. The Boneshakers will also play in

ARE koe

the GHQ on Oct. 3.

Ticket prices for the two perfor-
mances in the GHQ will be an-
nounced at a later date. ‘‘We’re not
trying to make money. We just want
to provide students with activities
they enjoy,’ said Duwel. ‘‘We’re
trying to keep the prices down so
more people will come.’’

According to both Duwel and Col-
lier, the Smithereens are scheduled to
be the feature band for Homecoming,
although plans are not definite.

Duwel said tentative events for the
SAB are planned for November,
Christmas Weekend, and the opening
of the Lenfest Center.

Duwel also mentioned that the SAB
wants to book a comedian and pos-
sibly a hypnotist this year.

In addition, the SAB is consider-
ing combining Lip-sync and bingo in
late January, having bingo games
between lip-sync acts. These plans
and others will be finalized after the
SAB members are chosen.

Interviews for this year’s SAB
will be Monday and Tuesday, Sept.
17 and 18. Interviews may also be
held on Wednesday if an excessive
number of students apply.

‘We're really looking for inter-
esting people and diversity. We really
welcome freshman  involvement,’’
Duwel said.

Applications will be accepted until
interviewing begins at 4 p.m. Mon-
day.

In addition to the regular mem-
bership, positions for the operations
director and the Fancy Dress chair-
man, vice chairman , and auditor are
available.

The results of the interviews will
be available on Friday, Sept. 21.

Duwel says that the SAB would
like to do more this year than they
did last year if the budget permits.
The SAB ended last year with a
$7,000 surplus after spending $3,000
on FD bills. Duwel said that the SAB
is asking the Executive Committee

 

err
i

 

 

A bigger Corral parking lot will be open by the end of this week, according to Frank
. Parsons. Nineteen new spaces are being added to the lot to provide parking for members of
‘oo fraternity undergoing renovation. Photo by Chris Leiphart.

‘

+

’

,

 

< By Mike Badger
Staff Reporter

Students who drive to class each
day will be glad to know that the

*"* “Corral’’ parking lot across from Red

o

., Square is scheduled to be reopened

, » by the end of next week, according

‘

‘

‘

.

to Washington and Lee’s Coordinator
. of Capital Planning Frank A. Parsons.
The lot has been closed off since
August while workers removed a few
,. old trees, re-constructed the entrance
and put in new curbing in order to
"maximize the amount of parking area
‘available. The effort should provide
for about 19 extra parking spaces,
Parsons said.
‘‘We’re remedying the entryways
and in general reconfiguring space in

By Rick Peltz

 

David Lyons, ’94, Dale, OR -
- ‘It was the biggest party I’ve
ever been to.”’

 

 

 

the lot. So it’s not exactly like just
digging 19 extra spaces at the end of
the lot,’’ he said.

The project involved the use of
heavy earth-moving and paving ma-
chines. Parsons said $74,000 has been
budgeted for the new spaces.

The newly-expanded lot will be
open to any students with ‘*C’’ park-
ing stickers and will now be able to
accomodate at least 94 cars, Parsons
said. The adjoining Lee Chapel park-
ing lot, which holds about 15 cars,
will remain designated for staff and
visitors.

Parsons said the expansion of the
Corral was done as ‘‘a good faith
effort’’ on the part of W&L in con-
junction with the Fraternity Renais-
sance program. He said the university
wants to provide as much off-street

      

parking as possible for members of
the five Red Square fraternity houses
which are now under construction, as
well as for Sigma Chi members,
whose house is scheduled to begin
renovation in December.

According to Parsons, those houses
are not bound to a Lexington City
ordinance requiring a fraternity to
provide one off-street parking space
for every bed in the house because
they are located in a Historical Dis-
trict.

Members of some of the Red
Square houses and Sigma Chi who
were not allowed to have ‘‘C’’ park-
ing stickers in the past have been
issued the stickers this year so they
can use the Corral lot, Parsons said.

September 13, 1990

fall

for no more than last ;
; ear :
tion of about $45,000. —

According to EC Representative
for the SAB Clayton Kennington, the
EC has not thoroughly discussed the
appropriation of its $185,000 budget
yet. Concerning the SAB’s prelimi-
nary budget request Kennington re-
marked, ‘‘I don’t know exactly what
our stance will be this year.”

Both Duwel and Kennington said
they are optimistic about the two
relationship between SAB and EC
this year.

“I’m just trying to set down the
guidelines quickly,’’ said Duwel.
“Last year was a growing year and
for cleaning out old habits. I don’t
think that there is any animosity bet-
ween the EC and SAB.”’

Kennington said the last SAB
meeting was run smoothly and effi-
ciently. ‘‘I really commend Katie and
her committee. I don’t foresee any
problems between the SAB and EC,”’
he added.

EC awaits
requests
for money

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

EC Vice President Raymond Wel-
der announced he would release this
week a tentative budget allocation
hearing schedule for student organiza-
tions.

The EC will hear budget requests
next week and deliberate final deci-
sions the following week.

Welder expressed concern over the
hearings in the wake of many budget
cuts last fall. The 1988-89 Student
Activities Board debt of more than
$20,000 contributed to last year’s
need for tighter purse strings. Weld-
er said he fears that organizations
will consequently bloat their requests
this year, a practice against which he
advises.

“I encourage all organization
representatives to. show us what they,
need, nothing more, nothing less,”’
said Welder. He explained that the
EC will be more likely to grant a
request that seems reasonable than
one that seems exaggerated.

The schedule will be posted and
distributed to student organizations.
Welder said that organizations wish-
ing to add or change the time of their
budget hearing should contact him at
463-8588.

The Executive Committee opened
the year Monday night with a brief
meeting disclosing deadlines in other
upcoming business.

Applications for Student Activi-
ties Board operations director and law
school publicity representative; Fancy
Dress chairman, vice chairman and
auditor; and Mock Convention secre-
tary are available in the University
Center and due 5 p.m. Monday.

Petition forms to run for fresh-
man EC representative will be avail-
able in the University Center on Sept.
24, due Oct. 1 for an Oct. 8 election.

 

TALKBACK

 

 

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Concert at VMI

The U.S. Marine Band from
Washington will present a concert
at Virginia Military Institute’s
Cameron Hall at 8 pm Tuesday,
October 2. Admission is free, but
patrons will be required to have
tickets in advance. Tickets are
available at the Cameron Hall box
office, by mail, or at Lexington
radio station WREL. Up to six
tickets per request will be mailed
to those sending a stamped, self-
addressed envelope to: Marine
Band, VMI Public Relations,
Lexington, VA 24450.

Faculty News

Anece McCloud, Associate
Dean for Minority and Interna-
tional Affairs is on leave working
on her doctorate at SUNY Bin-
ghamton. Terry Morgan Grant
had replaced Dean McCloud this
year as W&L’s Coordinator of
Minority Affairs. Ms. Grant's of-
fice is in Payne Hall 3, 463-
8766.

Nancy A. Margand, Associate
Professor of Psychology has ag-
reed to serve as the University
official responsible for receiving
reports of alleged harassmant or
sexual assault/date rape involving
students. Dr. Margand will be
available at her Tucker Hall 315
office, 463-8835. Her home
phone is 463-5628.

Rugby

W&L’s rugby team will play
Mary Washington College at 1
pm Saturday, September 15 on
the Upper Practice Field. Be
there or miss out!

Evans Openings

Anyone interested in working
in the dishroom at Evans Dining
Hall (evenings/weekends) please
contact Mr. Robert Dunlap at
463-8933 or David Farace at 463-
3297.

Film Society

Wahington and Lee Film So-
ciety’s first presentation of the
1990-91 season will be Spike
Lee’s Do the Right Thing.
Showings will be on Friday and
Saturday, September 14 and 15 at
8:05 PM in Lewis Hall class-
room A. There is no charge for
admission.

Do the Right Thing is Lee’s
popular and controversial exam-
ination of racism, focusing on a
single very hot day on one block
in Bedford-Styversant. It is fun-
ny, bitter and perceptive. The
brilliant cast includes Danny
Aiello (Oscar nomination), Ossie
Davis, Ruby Dee, and Lee him-
self.

—

Research

Are you studying computer sci-
ence, engineering, physics, en-
vironmental or life sciences, math-
ematics or chemistry? If so, you
may be interested in the Oak
Ridge Science and Engineering
Research Semester. ORSERS
offers college juniors and seniors
an opportunity to do hands on re-
search at Oak Ridge National
Laboratory in Tennessee during
the academic year.

For more information, contact
Emestine Friedman, ORSERS
Program Manager, Science/En-
gineering Education Division, Oak
Ridge Associated Universities,
P.O. Box 117, Oak Ridge, TN
37831-0117. The application
deadline for the 1991 spring se-
mester is October 20.

Job Fair

Seniors need to attend a meet-
ing on Wednesday, September 19
from 4 to 5 pm in room 109 of
the University Center. The meet-
ing will explain the large regional
“‘Challenge Job Fair’’ scheduled
for November 8. Registration
forms, list of companies, and
procedural guidelines will be cov-
ered at this time.

Outing Club

The biking section of the Out-

ing Club will have its first
meeting of the year on Thursday,
September 13, at 7:00 pm at the
Newcomb Hall colonnade en-
trance. Come find out about the
weekly rides, shop hours, and
weekend trips we're planning.
Both mountain and road bikers at
all skill levels are welcome.

The Outing Club equipment

room (Baker 109) will be open
for equipment check-out and
return at the following times: M-
F104, W205.

Journalism

The Department of Journalism
and Mass Communications an-
nounces the competition for the
first fellowship memo: ializing
W&L alumni Todd Smith, °82.
The fellowship provides an an-
nual stipend to enable a W&L
student to pursue accreditable
academic work in a foreign coun-
try immersed extensively in that
culture. Application deadline is
September 24. Further informa-
tion is available from the jour-
nalism department.

  
  

Photos by Chris Leiphart

What did you think of the
Hollins apartment parties?

 

 

Chris Walker, 94, Miami, FL -
- ‘Lots of beer, lots of women,
lots of fun.’’

 

Melissa Mayer,
FL; Mignon Crockard, ’90, Bir-
mingham, AL; Betsy Griffin,

90, Bedford, VA —

 

 

 

 

 

 

90, Gainesville,

‘*There

were too many girls, and the guys
were either drunk or rushing.”’

Meghan Hall, 94, Princeton, NJ
— ‘‘We got home really late on
a school night.’’

John Layman, ’93, Huntington, WV
— ‘'There was a big fight; I got hit

on the head with a beer bottle.’’

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

a eee WF

a
eee

.
~e

OS LEE ELLE LINCO NOON EEE TE COE EE TEES SOE EEELEREE EEL EEE SE SS EEE EC

see

veeeeeeeee
eee as

. .
eS

+

%

I SW

ssh sh

The Ring-tum Phi, September 13, 1990

 

 

 

 

 

Running wild

 

Senior Mason Pope breaks through the line for some of his 93 yards rushing in Saturday’s heart-
breaking game against Emory and Henry on Wilson Field. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Student center construction
to begin in spring of 1992

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

 

The spring of 1992 would be the
earliest starting point for construction
on Washington and Lee’s new stu-
dent center, said Robert Akins, as-
sociate professor of engineering.

The student center, part of W&L’s
Master Plan, will require about two
years of construction time.

Akins and Leroy Atkins, associate
dean of students, are the chairman
and assistant chairman of the yet-to-
be-completed planning committee for
the center.

‘‘Nothing is a give in yet,’’ At-
kins said. ‘‘We’re discussing the
process by which we should proceed
along. We’ve got to work this all out
and keep the students involved.’’

“This year will be spent with on-
campus planning and the selection of

an architect,’ Akins said.

A projected location for the new
center is across the parking lot from
the Graham-Lees dormitory and the
C-School.

‘‘We’re not exactly sure how or
where, but we want it in a central
location,’ Atkins said.

While the center will have a bet-
ter bookstore and snack bar, Akins
stressed that it will be ‘‘more than

just a Co-op.”
“*The key to it is a meeting place
for students and student organ-

izations — a place for social interac-
tion on campus,’’ Akins said.

‘*We want it so every student has
a reason to go there every day,”’
Atkins added. ‘‘We want the center
to provide whatever any student
needs.”’

As a central resource for the
campus, the center will contain loun-
ges, offices for student organizations

Parents, Alumni

 

 

Let’s hear from you!
Contribute _letters
and “My Views” to
the Phi.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Subscribe to the Phi
Send your request to:

P.O. Box

Lexington, VA 24450

appagalo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

 

PAP VAP OLS

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

PPL LPV PVP LPP LP PVP LP PPP APP POP APP LPP

and a mail room for campus com-
munication, which might also be used
for U.S. mail and UPS pickup and
delivery.

Atkins estimated the usable space
of the center to be 40,000 square
feet.

The Co-op will probably be
remodeled as additional classroom
and office space for the C-School and
the University Registrar. The space in
the current University Center may be
shared between the dining hall, the
Career Development and Placement
Office and the administration, Atkins
said.

Akins and Atkins spent four days
during August gathering ideas for the
center by visiting schools similar to
W&L in size and philosophy that
have good student centers. The pair
travelled to Hiram College, the
College of Wooster, Ohio Wesleyan,
Denison and Wittenberg.

 

899

 

 

(703)463-5988

4

Old George full of tales

 

By Ashley Harper
Entertainment Editor

For approximately 150 years high
atop Washington Hall, Old George

 

greeted students and faculty every 4

day and therefore has been an ideal |!

tool in statements or for pranks.
Courageous pranksters have found

ways to ascend to Old George's j

watchful perch 120 feet in the air in
order tO  omament the _ statue.
Washington and Lee Director of

Communications Brian Shaw said

‘‘George has always been decorated,
painted and has had things hung on
him.’’

In the past, George has wom a
cap and gown, has held a lacrosse
stick and has been painted by Vir-
ginia Military Institute students. The
two campus crew teams [the Albert-
Sydney and the Harry-Lee] would
alternate painting George different
colors each night leading up to their
big regatta.

In 1976, in order of United States
bicentenial patriotic _ celebrations,
George was painted red, white and
blue and wore a top hat. During one
Fancy Dress, George was adored in
a top hat and wore a cape. A VMI
cap and cape have also been found
with the statue.

The co-education issue years ago
inspired someone to attempt to put a
skirt on old George. The statue also
has held a sign that said ‘‘No Mar-
tha’s’’ to speak against co-education.

This piece of folk art, carved in
1842 out of a pine log found in the
Maury river, has come to represent
the spirit and tradition of W&L.
Branco Medenica, sculpture in charge
of the statue’s restoration, told the
Birmingham Post-Herald, ‘‘It’s just a
folk pieces of art, but to the folks at
W&L it means everything.’’

Old George was removed April
17, after keeping watch on the cam-
pus and Lexington for approximately
150 years. Shaw said, ‘‘The first
couple of days after they took him
down, it made you stop. Now I don’t
stop anymore, but it looks strange.’’

Lexington Cabinet Maker Mat-
thew Kahle, carved Old George and
it was placed on top of Washington
Hall in 1844, The statue has been
deteriorating due to the weather and

 

oe
oe neers

practical jokes since.

Medenica told Birmingham Post
Herald, ‘‘It’s amazing what a jigsaw
puzzle this all is. There's‘ pieces if
concrete and wood putty, pieces of
all kinds of stuff used through the
years to sort of patch things up.
There was even a pair of boxer
shorts stuffed in his head.’’

After Medenica stripped approx-
imately 120 coats of paint, he found

__George had been subjected to rotted

Furniture Dealers

For | your extra pieces of furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington

 

See

QOD OO000000S
RRs

ens

700 8 0 08 6 8 8 ws
cratetatatetetatatot

a

ronen

rae aees

 

PR IIOII PIII RII
Seco Sete eecoeeeeeneeeees

 

463-2742

WEL Panhellenic
Welcomes

Delta Gamma

As W&L’s
Fourth Sorority

Colonization Sept. 19th-22nd

 

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

463-7969

 

ise

EARN MONEY RIGHT NOW!

¢ Full & Part-Time Positions NOW OPEN.
¢ Flexible Hours to fit
* Enjoy the best benefits
¢ Come meet our friendly team.

ur schedule.
package available.

 

 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE a

Lee Hi Truck Stop

Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales

703-463-3478

QA W__0_ rV0 nr AAAANKELLLLLKLKK

Addressers Wanted
Immediately!

MG

No experience necessary. Excellent pay!
Work at Home. Call Toll-Free:
1-800-395-3283

A WW, ”rr ra kkii

Lee Hi Restaurant

1-800-768-LEHI

 

NX

J
J
J
J
J
Z
Z
y
Z

WH

OG

GS

aa

WM. L. HESS, Jr.
Owner

Prescriptions ®
Charge Accounts

 

Cosmetics

Welcome Back W&L!

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal

A large selection of Gift Items

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-2833

ePerfumes
e Free Delivery

PVP VI LP AP VPVPOPVIPVIPV PV PV PV PV PV PV MPV MPV MPP

 

 

 

wood, wood peckers and insects.’
Metal plates had been installed on the:
statue to try to protect the statue
from the weather and a metal rod had
been installed to stabilize George. |

Medenica will restore George and
make a cast from him. A bronze’
statue of Old George will inherit:
command of watching over the cam-
pus. The original wood statue will’
be then kept on display somewhere.
on campus.

=

‘2

a=

Se oe

We have at our
new location
flowers, balloons,
gifts and more...

WE WIRE ANYWHERE

Teleflora’

Morint to The

Ten East Neilso:
463-9841

Introducing Fender and Gibson Electric Guitars and

Basses & Fender Amplifiers.

Come and meet them at

ROCKBRIDGE MUSIC

Christmas Layaways Available
Open Weekdadys 11:00-5:00
Friday 11:00-7:00
205 N. Main St., Lexington
463-5455

 

 

(Whe FRONI)

167 S. Main St.

 

Student Charge Accounts

Are Available

Come by today and open up your student charge accounts. We will
be glad to mail bills home. Stop by and see our new look, we think
you'll be surprised! We also have a new take-out deli for sandwiches
and salads! Stop by & see us today!

Serving The W&L Community
For Over 35 Years

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 13, 1990

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rush begins

The gun, wielded by IFC Vice-
President Mike Skarda, sounds,
and the open houses begin.
W&L’s sixteen fraternities rush to
claim their freshmen. Staff photo
by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

 

_City ponders

 

 

The city of Lexington, in an attempt to solve its
parking problem, is considering the construction of a
parking garage near the Washington and Lee campus.

At a Sept. 6 meeting, the Lexington City Council
reviewed an architecture firm’s solution to the parking
problems that plague the streets around campus — a three-
story parking deck near W&L.

The deck would be constructed in the interior of the
block bordered by Nelson, Jefferson, Washington and Lee
streets with exits on Jefferson and Lee. The deck, de-
signed by the firm of Marcellis, Wright, Cox, and Smith

 

parking plan

of Richmond, would hold 152 cars.

“There are times when parking is very difficult
downtown,’’ said Lexington interim City Manager David
Woody when asked why the study was requested. Lexing-
ton’s former City Manager Joe King resigned this summer
to become city manager for Richland, Wash.

‘A lot of students try to park as close as they can to
campus. A parking deck may be the answer,’’ Woody
said.

A major problem with the plan, according to Woody,
is the price tag. The construction estimate offered by the
architects is about $2.3 million, which does not include
land acquisition or the demolition of one entire building
and part of another which would be required. Woody said
the budget this year is close to $11 million.

 

 
   

MINISTRY

 

St. Patrick’s Church

Welcome Back
Student!
Mass Schedule:

Saturday 5:00 p.m.
Sunday 8:00 a.m.
10:00 a.m.

Penance:
4:00 p.m. Saturday

 

 

 

 

fee THUNDERBIRD”

 

AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL
OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
Glendale, Arizona 85306 USA

A representative will be on campus
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 1990

to discuss
GRADUATE STUDY

Interviews may be scheduled at
CAREER DEVELOPMENT & PLACEMENT

Counselors change focus

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

 

In a move that is expected to
better serve Washington and Lee
students, the peer counseling program
will replace its telephone hotline with
a service in the Student Health Cen-
ter.

University Psychologist Dr. James
Worth said a peer counselor will be
available at the health services desk
in the infirmary each day between 6
p.m. and 8 p.m. The counselors will
aid those students in the infirmary by
running errands, reading books and
magazines, or simply listening to
problems.

“This service is an attempt to
expand the peer counselor’s role in

such a way as to better serve the
student body,’’ Worth said. ‘‘The
counselors will be contributing to
mental health by creating a healthy
atmosphere.”’

Head peer counselor Mary An-
stine, who has been involved with the
program for two years, agrees that
the service contributes to mental
health.

‘‘The peer counseling program is
an outlet for students who do not
need professional counseling,’ said
Anstine. ‘‘These people just need to
talk.”’

Worth implemented the peer coun-
seling program at W&L three years
ago after attending several workshops
and seeing the success of similar
programs at other universities.

“‘T saw students who were going

through periods of stress or even
distress, but they did not wish to
seek professional counseling,’’ said
Worth. ‘‘Peer counselors are safe
people to talk to, people with special
training. The program is not meant to
be psychotherapy. It is an opportunity
to talk to someone who will really
listen.”’

There are currently twenty-five
peer counselors at W&L who are
chosen on the basis of their social
skills, maturity, common sense, com-
mitment and responsibility. After
being picked for the program, the
counselors attend intensive training
sessions throughout the year.

Students interested in becoming
peer counselors can pick up applica-
tions from Carol Calkins in the Uni-
versity Center during winter term.

Mathis heads Live Drive

 

By Chris Bray
Staff Reporter

 

Live Drive enters a pivotal year
this year with great enthusiasm and
many new faces.

Live Drive, a group of student
volunteers committed to providing
safe, sober transportation for the
Washington and Lee community,
faces an important year of transition
according to new Live Drive Presi-
dent Stephen Mathis.

“‘There’s a changing of the guard
taking place within Live Drive,”’ said

Mathis, who was the organization’s
secretary last year. ‘‘Younger people
are being brought in to help insure
that Live Drive lives on.”’
Concerned with the possibility that
Live Drive might graduate with those
individuals in the class of '91 who
have been instrumental in the organi-
zation since its birth in 1988, Mathis
needed to find some new blood and
is encouraged with the early results.
““We should have a really good
year,’’ said Mathis, who was excited
over the many unfamiliar faces in
attendance and the willingness to
contribute displayed at Monday’s

Live Drive meeting
Auditorium.

Mathis’ Live Drive goals for the
1990-91 year are to find more coor-
dinators, people that supervise the
call in service on the weekends, and
to develop a good relationship with
the IFC.

Live Drive will begin operation
this weekend with its regular hours,
10 p.m. - 2 a.m. Friday and Saturday
nights. The number to call for a
sober ride is 463-8947.

Those interested in becoming a
Live Drive member may contact
Mathis at 464-3708.

in Northen

 

RUSH

from page 1

 

January, the interest group’s deter-
mination to bring DG on campus has
been impressive.

In April, after months of delibera-
tion, DG formally accepted the uni-
versity’s invitation to colonize this
fall and become W&L’s fourth sorori-

Some members of the group say
they are concerned about the DG’s
mandatory 12-week __ installation
period, which could prohibit fall
pledges from being initiated before

 

 

 

audiotronics

We Sell the Beet Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O CWD

KEF NEC
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

 

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

+ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

+ TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mali
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BED!
4

And walls, ceilings, furniture.

Indian tapestry bedspreads.
Bright colors.
Beautiful designs.
Best prices.

Caravans

 

 

 

How birds see the world

School Year Calendar $7.95

URINE RRANCR ES
Special through September

 

& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington

Winter Rush or cause them to initiate
during Fall term exam week. There is
also concern among the group that
there may be only a few upperclass
women interested in rushing.

Wood said it’s too early to com-
ment on either of the issues because
its hard to tell right now what num-
bers will work for DG at W&L.

She also noted that certain re-
quirements conceming pledge educa-
tion and the colony’s basic readiness
to be a chapter must be met before

Waiters

it can initiate its members and be-
come a chapter.

‘*We’ll have to follow it by ear;
colonizations vary for every campus,”’
she said.

Wood said that she is optimistic
about the upcoming Rush and that
she thinks this year’s slogan, ‘‘Catch
the Wave,’’ is a good way to ap-
proach the colonization.

“I know people are aware we're
coming and we’re definitely ready to
be here,’’ she said.

Earn Extra Money
With W&L
Catering

Need: Bartenders*

Waitresses
Dish Crew

please contact

or drop by

Interested persons
Linda Russ at 463-8695

the catering office
in Evans Dining Hall

*Must be 21 years old

ee ee

*,

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington
7 pm/Sunday Noon - 6 pm

Open daily 10am-7am Sunday Noon - 6 pm

Open daily 10 am

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
SPORTS

Generals drop thriller to E&H

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

Emory & Henry 22, Washington
& Lee 21. So close yet so far.

It is a simple cliche, but one that
sums up last Saturday afternoon’s
football game between Old Dominion
Athletic Conference foes E&H and
W&L on Wilson Field.

The Generals came into the game
heavy underdogs, having been picked
fifth in the conference while the
Wasps were once again picked to
finish first.

The main question being asked
around Wilson Field was not about
the outcome of the game, but about
would direct the W&L attack.

While answering the latter ques-
tion, the Generals nearly sent more
than 5,000 fans home with a win that
no one expected. Well, almost no
one.

“‘No one gave us much of a
chance but ourselves,’’ said W&L

_ head coach Gary Fallon. ‘‘We gave it

everything we had, but it just wasn’t
enough.”’

With junior quarterback George
Sakin making his first collegiate start
after learning from the graduated
Phillip Sampson and Chris Smythe
for two years, and with All-American
Craig Irons returning at split end,
expectations would be for Sakin to
pick up where Sampson and Smythe

left off, throwing the ball with a
great deal of success.

Trailing 14-0 and struggling, the
W&L offense started to click and
went on its first sustained drive of
the day. Starting from its own 27, the
Generals drove 64 yards and used
9:03 off the clock. On third and four
from the W&L 34, Sakin hit senior
fullback Kirk Sohonage for a gain of
six and a first down.

After a penalty gave W&L the
ball on the E&H 40, the Generals
faced a fourth and six on the 36.
Sakin calmly stepped up in the pock-
et and hit Irons for a gain of 12 and
a first down. Two plays later Soho-
nage carried tacklers for 11 yards and
another first down to the E&H seven.

After a sack and a defensive
holding penalty, W&L had a first and
goal at the five. Sakin looked for a
wide open Tyler Suiters in the end
zone, but the senior slot back
couldn’t hang on, and the Generals
settled for a 26 yard field goal from
senior Carter Quayle to make it 14-
a:

After forcing an E&H punt, the
Generals got one more chance to
move the ball before halftime, but
they needed to go 91 yards in 50
seconds. On the first play, senior
tailback Mason Pope carried on what
looked to be a routine handoff up the
middle. Pope broke through the line
into the secondary, cut out to the left
sideline and rambled 56 yards to the

 

 

W&L hosts Rolex tourney

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, which has served as the site
for the 1985 and 1988 NCAA
Division II national men’s tennis
championships, has been selected
as the host of the 1990 Rolex
Southeastern Division III Men’s
Tennis Championships this fall.

The championships, sponsored
by Rolex and the Intercollegiate
Tennis Coaches Association, will
feature an expected draw of 64
singles players and 32 doubles

teams. Play begins Friday, Sept.
14 and will conclude with the
championships in singles and
doubles on Sunday, Sept. 16.
W&L will be one of eight
regional events held this fall in
Division III. The winners of each
regional will qualify for a spot in
the Rolex National Division III
Championships in Corpus Christi,
Texas on October 19-21. The
winner of the national event will
have the opportunity to play in
the Rolex National Division I
Indoor Intercollegiate Champion-
ships in the winter of 1991.

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi,

E&H 35.

Two plays later, Sakin hit a diving
Irons for 24 yards to put the ball on
the E&H 7. After a timeout with one
second left, Quayle converted a 21-
yard field goal to send the Generals
into the locker room down 14-6.

Midway through the third quarter,
the W&L defense forced E&H to
punt. Starting from its own 11, the
W&L offense went to work behind
Sakin. On second down, Sakin hi:
Pope for 15 yards and a first down.
Another holding penalty on the
Wasps gave the Generals another first
down at the 38, and three plays later,
W&L faced a third and nine from its
own 46.

Sakin calmly hit Irons for 27
yards to the 27 of E&H for another
first down, and after Sakin bulled his
way for four yards on third down,
the Generals had first down at the
E&H 16 as the third quarter expired.

On the first play of the final quar-
ter, Sakin, who had completed five of
his last six passes after missing on
his first four attempts, hit paydirt. He
went up top with a timing pattern to
the comer of the end zone, where
Irons made a diving catch in double
coverage. Down 14-12, the Generals
went for two points and the tie.
Sakin rolled right and hit a wide
open Pope for the two points, and
with 14:54 left, the Generals had

O Please see THRILLER page 7

Promotion

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee Athletic
Department has formed a committee
in charge of promoting school sport-
ing events to students and the com-
munity.

Said men’s lacrosse coach Jim
Stagnitta, who is the head of the
committee, ‘‘The committee is the
brain-child of [Athletic Director]
Mike Walsh. Our goal is to promote
all athictics among both students and
the community.”’

At halftime of each home football
game, a drawing will be held in
which a prize will be given away.
“The giveaways are an ongoing thing

 

 

“Over 50 ways to win money
You dor not t need to be a Leaque bowler to bowl

 

 

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

Bowling

     
      

September 13, 1990

 

 

Murphy leads
Generals to
tourney win

By John Laney

 

“| Associate Sports Editor

 

Senior Craig Irons makes an All-American catch for a fourth-quarter
touchdown in Saturday's game against Emory and Henry. Staff photo

by Chris Leiphart.

committee formed

with local vendors donating very
generous gifts and prizes. We haven’t
finalized anything yet, but students
and fans will be able to take part in
raffles both during the week and at
games,’’ said Stagnitta.

The main goal of the promotions
is to draw people out to games of
each team at W&L. The hope is that
the fans will develop a love for the
sports and eventually come without
the incentive of a prize, said Stagnit-
ta.

Among the local merchants con-
tributing to the giveaways are the
University Store, the Palms, Frank’s
Pizza, the W&L Bookstore and the
W&L Food Service. One of the
promotions and halftime features of
the committee will be a Captains

KENNEYS

Welcome Back Students!

Student Special:
Footlong Hotdogs with mustard,
onions & homemade chili
99° with this ad or W&L ID

Good Through Sept. 22
Waddell Street next to
Greyhound Station

Appreciation Day, where all the cap-
tains of W&L sports will be honored.
The Rockbridge Area Recreation As-
sociation will also be featured, as will
the W&L Intramural program.

The committee consists of Stagnit-
ta, W&L Club Sports Director Joe
Lyles, Associate Athletic Director
Cinda Rankin, head aquatics coach
Page Remillard and Sports Informa-
tion Director Mike Stachura.

Said Stachura, ‘‘It is obvious that
our ‘athletes want and need all the fan
support they can get. It is the job of
our committee to get that to them.
Look at the 1989 basketball team.
They went 14-0 at home. At least
half of those wins were at least par-
tially the result of fan support.’’

 

 

predicted to be the Generals’ top

of the 1990 season.

and Franklin and Marshall 3-2 on
Sunday. Both games were played at
F&M in Lancaster, Pa.

team wanted to emerge from the
weekend with at least a split.

‘We did that. We were excited
and we came back with the trophy.
You can’t do any better than that,’’

he said.
‘ On Saturday, W&L took a 1-0 ,

lead late in the first half. Junior

kick from the right corner to the

Dominion Athletic Conference Player-
of-the-Week, ran to the near post and
headed the ball into the net off the
chest of a York defender.

With about 20 minutes remaining,
senior back Duke Dillard delivered a
right-footed crossing pass from the
left side of the penalty box. The ball
and Murphy’s head met again, and
the Generals had their second goal.

‘*We opened up disorganized. We
had some great chances to score
early, but we struggled to find some
rhythm,’’ Piranian said. ‘‘We were
clearly the better team and we domi-
nated all the way through.”’

Against F&M the Generals
jumped on the scoreboard within the
first five minutes. Sophomore sweeper
Greg Williams headed the ball
straight up off of a comer kick.
When it descended back to the play-
ers’ level, Murphy’s body collided
with F&M goalie, his head hit the
ball, and Murphy had his third goal
in two games.

Later in the first half, Dillard

QO) Please see MURPHY page 7

FOR RENT
House ix Country
463-5383

Place ads in the
Phi, so there won't
be any blanks

 

 

TIOOO SE
TIO0O XE
TI200 XE
T1600

T3100 SX

 

TOSHIBA ~

a All Battery Powered Laptops ///
NOW _IN STOCK!

LOWEST PRICES EVER

WITH

EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNTS!

Call about your EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNT today!

DSR, Inc

1-800-326-0037

  
 

 

 

-Dirty Bucs

Alvin-Bennis

Fine Men’s Clothing
102 W. Washington St.

Welcome Freshmen

     

 

-Woolrich
-Flannel Shirts

As a midfielder for the Washing-

HM ton and Lee men’s soccer team last
4 year, Reid Murphy tallied three goals.
This past weekend, the sophomore '
who now plays at forward and was ,

offensive menace, scored three goals, :
4) helping W&L win its first two games

The Generals won the champion- ,

| ship of the Diplomat Classic by de-
| feating York College 2-0 on Saturday °

Head coach Rolf Piranian said the

midfielder David Hooker sent a free .

front of the goal. Murphy, the Old ‘

-Bass Weejuns
-Sero Shirts
-W&L Belts, Ties & Keychains

     
   
   
    
 

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM °

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

-Khaki Pants

Summer Clearance Still In Progress

Visa, MasterCharge & Student Accounts
Since 1963

US HWY - 11 North 464-BOWL (2695)

 
SPORTS
Volleyball opens
season with split

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

This could be the year. In just
the third year since being started as a
club sport, Washington and Lee
women’s volicyball is standing at the
doorstep of Old Dominion Athletic
Conference competition hoping to
become the third team in ODAC
history to capture the tournament
crown.

The Generals opened the season
with fourteen other teams at the
Haverford Tournament. W&L
finished sixth with a record of 3-3,
with wins coming over Ursinus, Cab-
rini, and Allentown.

Washington and Lee the
tournament with a 15-5, 15-1 thrash-
ing of Cabrini before falling 15-11,
15-6 to Amherst. In the third match,
the Generals met Allentown in a duel
which may indicate that this team has
indeed arrived. Down one game and
trailing 12-3 in the second, W&L
rallied with thirteen straight points to
win 15-12. The third and final game,
a 16-14 nailbiter, gave the Generals a

come-from-behind victory.

With senior star and 1989 first
team All-ODAC selection Lisa Jay
unable to compete due to injury, the
Generals were having trouble with
their setting game. As game two of
the Allentown match fell before her
eyes, Dittman called on sophomore
B.J. League, a back-up setter to spark
the team. League responded with
nine assists as W&L rolled on to
victory.

League went on to record a team-
high 47 assists for the remainder of
the tournament. Still, without the
gifted Jay, the Generals suffered a

in their attack percentage which
dropped to .141.

Rounding out the team’s arsenal
was junior Mena McGowin, who has
changed positions this year, and soph-
omore Leslie Hess, collecting 27 and
24 kills respectively.

Despite dropping two of their
final three matches to Wilmington
and Catholic, the Generals showed
that they can run with what Dittman
considers strong Division III competi-
tion.

Polo set to swim

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

Nine lettermen and five of last
year’s top six scorers return to the
water this fall for Page Remillard’s
twelfth season at Washington and
Lee, and the veteran mentor says if a
few pieces fit together, 1990 could be
even more eventful than 1989.

That’s saying something.

The 1989 Generals got off to the
best start ever for a W&L polo team
when they won their first 11 contests.
The 21-7 final record included a state
title, a second-place finish in the
Southem Championships and a bergh
in the all-important Eastern Champi-
onships.

Remillard has the same set of
goals in mind for his squad this year,
and with a healthy load of proven
performers returning, all of those

goals could be within reach. The .

Generals. must. answer..some key

“some answers to their special teams
play.

 

Delta Gamma Rush,
or for more information,
contact the table in front
of the Co-op building
beginning Friday, Sept. 14th

. “From an athletic standpoint this
could be a very exciting year,’’ said
Remillard, who brings a career .686
winning percentage to his twelfth
season at the W&L helm. ‘‘There
should be an awful lot of healthy
competition for playing time. We
have a young but talented team.”’

Included in that talented group of
returnees are all-state players Alan
Herrick and Tomas Perez. Herrick
and Perez are joined by 28-game
starter Will Davis as returning start-
ers. Herrick, Davis and Perez were
third, fourth, and fifth in scoring last
year, while the trio also accounted for
a combined total of 136 steals.

Even more comforting for Remil-
lard is the return of Scott Strader,
who as a freshman led W&L in goals
per game in ’89. Strader’s proven
production level should secure him at
the two-meter position. Others ex-
pected to contribute include senior

senior Jim Dunlevy, who had 16

goals in ’89 and sophomore Chris

Hagge, who scored 12 times last fall.

Catch The Wave
with
DELTA GAMMA

Come Aboard and
Discover New Horizons.
Delta Gamma, an international
women’s fraternity,

is colonizing at W&L
on Sept. 19th-22nd.

To sign up for

The Ring-tum Phi,

THRILLER

from page 6

September 13, 1990

 

drawn even at 14-14.

After E&H missed a field goal,
the Generals regained possession at
their own 20. On first down, junior
Jeff Kreis carried on a reverse for 17
yards. Sakin hit Irons on successive
plays for gains of seven yards, mov-
ing the ball to the E&H 49,

After Pope carried for a gain of
three, the Generals went deep. Sakin
led Kreis perfectly and the speedy
slotback never broke stride, outrun-
ning the E&H secondary to the end
zone and a 21-14 Generals lead.

“‘As the game went along, George
really started to click. He had a feel
for what was happening out there,”’
said Fallon. ‘‘He threw some passes
that couldn’t be thrown any better.’

After trading punts, E&H drove
again. From their own 18, the Wasps
used nine plays to get to the W&L
seven yard line. But the defense rose
to the occasion again. Junior John
McCallum stripped Verran as he went
through the line and sophomore Paul
Mallos fell on the ball at the W&L
19 with 1:36 left.

Trying to kill the clock, the Gen-
erals ran three plays and forced E&H
to use all of their timeouts. On fourth
and 12 from the 18, Fallon ordered
punter Bob Ehret to take a safety to
avoid blocking a punt, making the
score 21-16. ‘‘I think it was the
smart thing to do. We wanted them

to earn a score, not get one by block-
ing a kick and getting a cheap one,”
said Fallon.

Ehret’s free kick after the safety
was retumed by Perkins to the W&L
40, where the Wasps had 30 seconds
to score and no time outs. On first
down Walker hit Perkins for 14 yards
to the 26. And after three straight
incompletions, E&H had a fourth
down with seven seconds left.

Walker sent three receivers to the
right side, and a fourth, Todd Wood-
all was supposed to go that way. But
he stayed on the left side and broke
open for a split second. Walker spot-
ted Woodall just before being hit by
junior Greg Kiehl. Woodall caught
the ball and fell into the end zone as
time expired, and the Wasps cele-
brated before a stunned W&L team
and 5,087 Wilson Field spectators.

“It was a nice catch. The throw
was right where it had to be,”’ said
Fallon. ‘‘It was an unbelievable fin-
ish.

“I’ve never had a group try hard-
er than they did. We just wanted
anything but for the game to be
over.”’

The Generals will look to rebound
Saturday at Methodist College. The
game will be broadcast on 91.5
WLUR-FM and 1450 WREL-AM.
Kickoff is at 1:00.

 

MURPHY

frem page 6

 

tapped the ball to freshman stopper
Dan Rhodes, who knocked a low shot
with the outside of his right foot
from the left edge of the penalty box
to the right side of the net to give
W&L a 2-0 lead.

The Generals went up 3-0 at
about the 10:00 mark of the first
half. Sophomore midfielder Mike
Mitchem hit the ball forward to
freshman forward John Robinson.
Robinson’s shot went over the goal-
ie’s head and into the goal.

In the second half, F&M scored
twice in the final six minutes. A pass

from the left side was poked past
sophomore’ goaltender Mike
Steinbrook, while the second goal
came on a penalty kick. For the
weekend, starting goaltender a

Jon Sbar, who had 26 goa)s Jast Year.» Corbin had 153 minutes of scoreless’

bon 4A }
While Piranian said the Generals
played ‘‘extremely well’’ and beat a

 

 

 

“‘very good team,’’ he also said the
team got tired and ‘‘a bit complacent
in the second half.’’

“In the last ten minutes things got
ugly and we struggled to win a game
that we should have put away easi-
ly,’’ he added.

This weekend W&L will travel to
Pittsburgh, Pa., to play Johns Hopkins
and Camegie-Mellon.

‘‘We’re positive about last week-
end, but we’ve got some things to
work on. The two teams we play
next are a notch above F&M,”’
Piranian said. ‘‘We’re going to work
hard to make sure we can run and
gun with anybody.”’

9

*

[|] Yes Location

WwW
4

S a

George’s Hairstylist
”" 136 Varner Lane :
463-3975

, WEL

7

 

Women’s soccer gets
two wins by shutout

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team began the 1990 season
with victories over Gettysburg Col-
lege and Sweet Briar.

In their opening game against
Gettysburg at Liberty Hall Field on
Saturday, the Generals earned a 1-0
win.

Junior Katie Seeman registered
W&L’s lone goal after stealing the
ball and scoring from 10 yards away.
Freshman goaltender Katie Stimeling
made eight saves as she recorded her
first collegiate shutout.

Head coach Janine Hathorn said
she was pleased with Saturday's
game.

‘*We really came a long way in
one game. It was really fun to watch
the team gel over 90 minutes. It gave
me a lot of confidence,’’ she said.

Yesterday, at Sweet Briar, two
second half goals gave W&L a 2-0
victory.

Freshman Corinda Hankins scored
an unassisted goal with just under
seven minutes remaining in the con-
test and senior Kathi Moritz had an
unassisted goal of her own in the
final minute.

W&L outshot SBC 31 to 1.

Stimeling, with one save, registcr-
ed another shoutout.

W&L's 2-0 record is the best start
in the program’s four-year history.

The Generals will host Guilford
on Saturday and visit Virginia Wes-
leyan next Thursday.

History says it's W&L’s turn
to bring home league titles

 

From W&L Sports Information

It would be quite natural for the
Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams to win
respective Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championships this year.

Fueling such a hypothesis are a
few important facts. More than a
dozen proven runners return to Lex-
ington this fall to perform for W&L.
Both the men’s and women’s teams
are coming off winning seasons in
1989 and the women posted their best
mark ever with a 5-2 mark.

Beyond these important prerequi-
sites however is the Generals’ recent
historical progression. Both teams
finished third in the ODAC Champi-
onships in 1988. They followed that
up with second-place finishes in the
1989 conference meet. Certainly the
natural progression would have the
W&L men and women raising the
championship plaque in 1990.

If only it were that easy. Both
men’s head coach John Tucker and
women’s head coach Jim Phemister
know it won’t be. But both see their

 

Ample Free
ee Le Pt

N_ Main St.

 

 

v
E

[] Yes People

[) Yes Walk-In

: Four Dollars
|

 

Products

Redken ¢ Nexxus ® Paul Mitchel ¢
Sebastian (Itd.) ¢ Matrix

Experienced Professional Stylists

-—-SPECIAL OFFER---+
Two Dollars Off On Haircuts

Good through Sept. 30/90 w/coupons

Brera nae esa se SORA ARE SANLY SRS READ NN HORE caen MER MRE EE eS at

Randolph St.

 

Varner Ln..

or Phone

Off On Perms |

 

 

 

respective squads having a right to
claim some title aspirations.

Both coaches have reason to feel
good about their returning talent. Six
lettermen return to the men’s team,
and while the Generals will miss the
consistency of graduated Joe Geitner,
there are plenty of horses in the
stable ready to fill the void.

Junior Charles Edwards was
W&L’s top runner in 1989 and is
back after leading W&L runners in
four different races last fall. He
finished tenth in the ODAC Charpi-
onships.

Behind Edwards is a_ talented
group of runners, any of which could
lead W&L at any time this season.

The women have even more depth
than the men with seven letterwinners
from last year returning to compete
this fall. On top of that list is veter-
an Cecily Tynan, who led W&L
runners in all seven races she ran last
season. Tynan, who won four races
outright, will be backed up by anoth-
er proven veteran senior Shawn Wert,
who was right behind Tynan in six
races last year and finished first for
W&L in one race.

 

Indoor-Outdoor Flying Saucer.
Bounces like a ball.
Floats like a feather.

Great gift. Hot colors.
Best flying toy ever invented.

Play Today!

POSFMARKS
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 7 am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

 

 

 

  
    

 

EL CAFE

Phone: 464-TACO

Come visit Lexington’s only
Mexican Restaurant - El Café

116 North Main Street
* Open 11:30 a.m. to 10 p.m., Sunday - Thursday
11:30 a.m. - 11 p.m., Friday and Saturday

Our menu 1s filled with all the favorite Mexican dishes -
Nachos, Chili, Beef and Chicken Fajitas, Enchiladas,
Burritos - and the list goes on. To compliment your meal
there are a variety of Mexican beers to choose from and au-
thentic, delicious Margaritas. And if all this isn’t enough
we have a unique dessert menu to top off your meal.

 

 
 

W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, September 13, 1990

 

Time’s Up for Living Colour

 

By Andrew Keller
Staff Reporter

 

Having waited three years for
Living Colour’s latest release, Time's
Up, the title is rather appropriate.
However, considering the number of
bands that fall prey to the sophomore
jinx, it’s encouraging when groups
take enough time to produce quality
rather than a one-week wonder.

Wisely not changing a good thing,
Living Colour has kept their original
producer, Ed Stasium. By doing so,
the huge Zeppelinesque sound is still
present but at the same time they've
begun stretching themselves in dif-
ferent directions musically and lyri-
cally.

While songs like Pride and Type
sound eerily like they may have
appeared on Vivid, the album’s open-
er and title track will take some by
surprise. With its thrash/hardcore
origins, let’s just say it gets the lis-
teners attention as well as the list of
guest performers: Little Richard,
Maceo Parker, Mick Jagger, and
Queen Latifah to name a few.

Although all the players on the
album are exceptional, no_ per-
formance outshines that of guitar
wizard Vernon Reid. Burnin’ Vernon

seems to have loosed any chains that
may have held him back on the first
record. Carefully employing the use
of dissonant seventh, minor seven
sharp nine, sixth and ninth chords
with innovative intertwining melodies,
Reid continues his pursuit for the
unknown. Have no fear speed fans,
Reid also uses many of his trademark
scaler runs that often move in and
out of key.

While much of the black message
these days is being preached by rap-
pers like Public Enemy, Living
Colour has continued to fight the
fight in a funk/rock/metal format.
This can be seen on one of this
record’s best tracks, Elvis is Dead.
The lyrics prove to be difficult to
understand because of the many pot-
ential interpretations they lend them-
self to. For the most part, the lyrics
seem to be anti-Elvis for two reasons.
The first seems to stem from Vernon
Reid’s belief that a black man taught
Elvis how to sing and yet Elvis gets
all the credit.

The second reason Reid would
like Elvis forgotten is because of his
and many others’ belief that Presley
was a racist. At first Vernon Reid
attempts to avoid this concept by
quoting the Public Enemy line, ‘'‘-
Elvis was a hero to most’, and

rather than completing it with the PE
line, ‘‘Straightout racist,’ Reid opts
for, ‘‘But that’s beside the point.”’
However later Reid twists a line by
Paul Simon, into, ‘‘I’ve got a reason
to believe we all won't be received at
Graceland,’’ showing his continuing
concer towards Elvis as a racist.

Another facet of the song sur-
faces with a small rap in the middle
of the piece by Little Richard. Un-
like Reid, Richard praises Elvis
saving condemnation for those that
try to make money off of his fame.
Obviously this song is full of poten-
tial messages, unfortunately the clarity
is blurred by contradiction.

Another fine song very different
from anything on Vivid is Fight the
Fight. Its opening line is, ‘‘We all
are fighting the same fight.’’ In this
line ‘‘we’’ could be the black popula-
tion or the whole world, it’s really
impossible to know. At the same
time, ‘‘the fight’’ could be black
man’s struggle for equality or every-
one’s struggle for survival. Regard-
less, its main point is for the union
of ideals which allows for anyone
who believes in the fight to fight it.
The best line comes when Glover
sings, ‘‘You got to know what you’re
fighting for’’, which calls for know-
ledge of the issues and action that

will make a difference, both of which
seem to be missing from current
society.

The most intriguing songs on the
album would have to be the instru-
mental Ology and the closing track
This is the Life. Ology is all bass
except for the obvious drum loop. It
showcases Muzz Skillings’s innova-
tive bass playing as he layers many
tracks of unrelated parts to end up
with an odd jazzy piece.

This Is The Life ends out the
album with a Jane’s Addiction/-
Kashmir-ish hypnotic sound. While
it carries the age old message of
bloom where you are planted, its tone
is not quite as soothing as one might
expect. Rather, it tends to condemn
those that spend their time making
excuses for not doing well in life. A
message worthwhile for everyone to
hear.

While this album is not quite as
ready for the airwaves as their first
was, it has many great songs. In my
opinion it is a fine follow up to
Vivid and definitely one of the best
new releases on the market. Having
surmounted what many believe to be
the most difficult task, creation of a
strong second album, it seems we
may now expect great things from
this original band.

Patterson found by Supermarket

 

By Ashley Harper
Entertainment Editor

 

Lost in the Supermarket has found
a new lead singer.

Bryan Patterson, a senior eco-
nomics major, had his debut perfor-
mance with the Washington and Lee
student band on Saturday at the Kap-
pa Alpha fraternity house. However,
this wasn’t Patterson’s first musical
performance. He has had a history of
musical involvement.

Toward the end of Patterson’s
sophomore year in high school in
Shreveport, LA, he and four of his
friends formed a band called Critical
Mass for which Patterson sang lead
vocals. Two years later, after grad-
uation, Critical Mass was playing
night clubs in downtown Shreveport.

Patterson, at W&L, became inter-

ested in the choral groups his fresh-
man year when he joined the Glee
Club. The next year he joined
University Chorus and Southern Com-
fort as well. Last year, Patterson
arranged and sang Tenor solo for the
song Caravan of Love, originally
done by the Isle Brothers and re-
made by the House Martins.
Patterson said, ‘‘When singing in
a band, you must put more effort into
the performance, and it is much more
tiring. In Southern Comfort, a better
trained voice is of greater importance
than in a band. The length of the
performances with the band as well
as the intensity and volume of the
music we play incidentally strains the
voice more than in a chorus. In a
chorus you sing one certain musical
range, whereas in a band, sometimes
you must sing a wider voice range.
Although showmanship and stage

rea o td

presence is required in Southern
Comfort, more is needed in a band.’’
In 1988, Patterson’s freshman
ear, Lost in the Supermarket was
i rmed and played at various frater-
nity parties on campus. The next
year, lead guitarist David Klabo,
aware of Patterson’s previous band
experience, suggested the band ask
Patterson to run the sound system at
various functions. Patterson worked
the PA and also filled in for previous
lead singer Lee Fleming ’90, when
Fleming was unable to sing due to
sickness or prior engagements.
Keyboardist and guitarist Niko
Lorentzatos, who handles most of the
band’s business, approached Patterson
before he left with the University
Chorus for Italy Spring Break 1990
and to spend last Spring Term in

London. : :
Patterson is an independent in

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 16 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY

 

LOW PRICES!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

what has been thought of as a KA
band. Patterson said, ‘‘When the
band was formed, Niko Lorentzatos,
Matt Stover and Bob Fuller knew
each other through KA and now they
live together so they knew each
other’s abilities. They didn’t find a
KA and teach him to play guitar.
Klabo [Sigma Nu ’89] plays guitar. I
guess it is a wide misconception that
Lost in the- Supermarket is a KA
band. I always knew the band mem-
bers and didn’t think of it as a KA
band. It was a natural progression for
me to take over for Fleming.’’

The band members include Patter-
son on lead vocals, Lorentzatos on
keyboards and guitar, Klabo on lead
guitar, Stover on drums, and Fuller
on bass. The band will be playing at
Sweet Briar Sept. 29 and many other
times this fall, so keep a look out to
find Lost in the Supermarket.

All Day
All Day

8 p.m.

8 p.m.

All Day

1 p.m.
8 p.m.

SUN
All Day

VES
4p.m.

4 p.m.

All Day

4 p.m.
5 p.m.

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 17

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20

MEN'S TENNIS: Rolex Regional Tournament. Varsity Courts. :

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Resume
Critique (walk-in). CD&P Office.

GALLERY RECEPTION/LECTURE: "Landscape Paintings by :
Robert Stuart, Ryan Russell, and John Borden Evans."
duPont Gallery. Public invited.

FILM SOCIETY: Do the Right Thing (USA, 1989), directed by ;
Spike Lee. Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.

MCAT Exam.

MEN'S TENNIS: Rolex Regional Tournament. Varsity Courts. '

WOMEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Guilford. Liberty Hall Field. ,

FILM SOCIETY: Do the Right Thing (USA, 1989), directed by
Spike Lee. Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public invited. ‘

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: WATER POLO: EWPA "South"
Varsity Invitational, Annapolis; VOLLEYBALL: RMWC
Tournament; FOOTBALL: Methodist; MEN'S SOCCER:
Johns Hopkins (at Carnegie-Mellon); MEN'S CROSS
COUNTRY: Eastern Mennonite, Messiah College.

PTEM

MEN'S TENNIS: Rolex Regional Tournament. Varsity Courts.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: WATER POLO: EWPA Invitationa!
Annapolis: MEN'S SOCCER: Carnegie Mellon.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: VOLLEYBALL: Bluefield College,
Concord College. ‘

MBER 1
CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Resume i
Workshop. Room 109, University Center.
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN'S TENNIS:
Randolph-Macon Woman's College.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Challenge °
Orientation. Room 109, University Center. ’

Rosh Hashanah.

EAST ASIAN STUDIES CONFERENCE: "Oppositional Politics,
in Twentieth-Century China" (through Saturday, Sept. 22).
Registration begins at 3 p.m. For more information, call
Roger Jeans (463-8777) or Karen Lyle (463-8798).

CAREER DEVELOPMEN™ AND PLACEMENT: Resume
Critique (walk-in). CD&P Office.

CD&P: SLAC Orientation. Room 109, University Center.
CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Teri L. Snyder '91. Room 401, Howe |
Hall. Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WOMEN'S SOCCER: Virginia
Wesleyan.

 

 

 

Agqua-Fresh
Tube Toothpaste

Q K
Control
4.3 Oz.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Glacier Club

Borden

 

Ice Cream > Gal.

 

 

 

 

 

Sven
or
= =

vie CATAES Poteet

16 Oz, -¢

a =——Pepsi Cola,
-Mouwhtain Dew

ee Beane See .

- 6 Pack Non-Returnable

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, September 18, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, September 18, 1990 In Lexington Store Only

We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities

None Sold To Dealers

We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 
~

~

>

he King

-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 5

VMI gives
list to city
for car tax

 

By Gregory Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

Virginia Military Institute has
agreed to turn over to Lexington a
list of cadets who have cars on cam-
pus so the city can tax the cars.

Meanwhile, a standoff continues
between the city and Washington and
Lee administrators, who still refuse
to submit a list of W&L student cars.

Lexington officials first asked the
colleges in February for the informa-
tion, which they plan to use to assess
car owners with personal property
tax — $5.50 for every $100 of as-
sessed value, Out-of-state students
who pay property tax on the cars in
their home state, however, would be
exempted.

Thomas Joynes, public information
officer at VMI, said VMI has agreed
to turn over the requested information
because the school is state-supported
and must comply with the requests of
other public entities.

“We're a public college and
they’re a public entity,’’ Joynes said.
‘All the lawyers say any public
institution has to provide requested
information to a public entity.’’

Lexington Commissioner of Rev-
enue Courtney Baker said the city
can tax student cars because of a
clause in the Virginia state code that
says personal property tax on cars
should be paid where the cars are
‘‘normally garaged and_ parked.’
Since the cars are in Lexington nine
months of the year the tax should be
paid here, Baker said.

The state attorncy general stated
that college students should pay the
tax to the town where the college is
located. Baker said the practice is not
uncommon -- Salem, Charlottesville
and Prince Edward’s County each tax
student cars.

“If a car is here, it’s here and
that’s where it should be taxed,”’
Baker said.

Baker said once she receives the
list of student cars from VMI she
will assess the value of each car and
the city treasurer will bill the owners.

W&L President John Wilson,
however, says he is still not willing
to give a similar list of W&L cars to
the city because he does not think
they have a right to the list and does
not think the tax would be worth the
effort for the city.

Wilson, in a March, 1990 letter to
then-city manager Joseph King, said
student automobile registration is a
part of the student’s record protected
by the 1974 Buckley Amendment.

The university is ‘‘constrained by
federal law to protect student records
from release to outside persons or
agencies without the permission of
the individual student,’’ Wilson wr-
ote.

Wilson also said students would
stop registering their cars with the
school or if the university began
turning over the list to the city. Stu-
dents might also seck ‘‘residential
space in the county, thus jeopardizing
our residential hall movement and our
desire to see more campus participa-
tion in co-curricular life,’’ he said.

Wilson also thinks the city has
overestimated the revenues it will
receive from taxing W&L cars. Wil-
son said 80 percent of W&L students
are from other states and have prob-
ably paid a personal property tax on
the vehicles. He said the tax is an
‘unwise course to invest in a tax-
collecting effort with such a small
number of potentially eligible tax
payers at stake.’’

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

Bidness as usual

 

 

 

Members of Sigma Nu Fraternity extend a bid to a freshman rushee at a Rush Date
last night in the University Center. Sigma Nu is one of six fraternities that have
been forced out of their houses for Rush because of Fraternity Renovation. Staff
Photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

SEPTEMBER 20, 1990

Conflicts
worry W&L,

city leaders

Locals clash with students
during weekend festivities

 

By Cathy Lopiccolo
Assignment Editor

 

Violence last weekend between
Washington and Lee students and
Lexington residents has police, stu-
dents, and administrators worried
about student safety.

A group of men harassed W&L
students on Nelson Street Sunday
night, and another group of youths
raided a fraternity party Saturday
night injuring one woman, according
students and police.

Junior Macon Miles said eight
black men threw objects at him and
followed him as he left an apartment
near The Palms restaurant about
10:45 p.m. Sunday.

‘One of the guys put his foot in
the small of my back and shoved me,
and I tumed around and told them to
leave me alone,’’ Miles said. ‘‘A girl
in the Baptist Student Union heard
the noise and yelled out the window
at them. That really startled them, that
someone had seen them, so they kind
of backed off for a minute.”’

When Miles ran toward the Chi
Psi fraternity house, the men chased
him. Miles said the group stopped
following him when an unidentified
man on a bike rode up Lee Street.

The men ‘‘knocked him off the
bike. I tumed to see what they were
doing to him, but he had already
gotten back on his bike and rode
off,’’ Miles said.

Miles said he ran toward the
W&L campus and called police about
ten minutes later. Lexington Police
Chief Bruce Beard said an officer

was responding to another call from
a woman who complained about the
group of men at about the same time
Miles was harassed. The officer pur-
sued four or five youths on foot, but
was unable to catch them, Beard said.
Police have not made any arrests.

Dean of Students David Howison
said he had spoken to both Miles and
senior Bryant Spann, who was in-
volved in a similar incident Sunday.
Howison said he is working with
Lexington police and the campus
security staff to improve security.

“On incidents like this, close
cooperation between local police and
our own security staff is essential. I
expect the local police and security
will be more sensitive in the area
where these incidents occurred, espe-
cially in the next few days,’ How-
ison said.

Howison said students should
‘use common sense in their comings
and goings,’’ because no community
is free from crime. At Monday nig-
ht’s Executive Committee meeting,
President Tom Hatcher urged all
students to walk in groups if they
must walk in Lexington at night.
Miles said he plans to continue walk-
ing downtown as usual.

“I’m not going to let this affect
the way I live. It really disturbs me
to see people in Lexington that are
scared to go out by themselves or to
walk up the- Hil} at night. Things like
that shouldn’t happen in Lexington,”’
Miles said.

At the EC’s Tuesday night meet-
ing, Hatcher added that the EC is

Q Please see VIOLENCE page 3.

Delta Gamma drops anchor at W&L

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

Friday,

invitation to DG’s

 

Delta Gamma Women’s Fraternity kicked
off its first Rush at Washington and Lee last
night with an open house for independent

upperclass women.

Approximately 20 women attended the open
house to learn how they could heed DG's
slogan and ‘‘Catch the DG Wave’’ that is
spreading across campus by participating in

DG’s Rush this week.
Interviews

signed up earlier this week.

with DG_ colonization
members were held today for rushees who

evening.

issued envelopes,

W&L.

team

each rushee will be given an
envelope containing either a decline or an
Preference Party

Saturday morning all rushees will again be
which will contain either
declines or bids to pledge DG and eventually
become charter members of its first colony at

Later Saturday morming, DG will have a
formal pledging for those who accept bids. A
closed reception will follow, which will also be
attended by members of the administration and
Panhellenic and IFC officers.

DG’s colonization team on hand to conduct
Rush this week, includes approximately 25

that

collegiate members of DG’s Virginia Tech
chapter, two national DG representatives, and
five local DG alumnae advisors who will assist
the chapter during colonization.

Kathy Wood, who is currently involved with
the Rush, will serve as the colony’s collegiate
development consultant.
campus for the past two weeks to handle the
initial publicity for Rush.

Wood has been working closely with the
15-member DG Interest Group, which has been
meeting since January. Most members of the
group are currently participating in Rush.

Colonization Coordinator Karel Lambell said
DG’s hope is to use the interest group members
as a nucleus for the colony. Lambell said the

that

She has been on

EC considers new budget requests

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

Student Activities Board Chair-
woman Kathleen Duwel told _ the
Executive Committee Tuesday night
that she would consider moving the
Fancy Dress Ball to March 1.

FD is currently scheduled for
Friday, March 8, the day the Law
School spring holiday begins and the
second weekend after undergraduates
return from Washington holiday. EC
Secretary Jeffery Kelsey and Law
Reps. Mark Cobb and Giles Perkins

supported the idea to move FD to
increase Law School support for the
event.

Last year’s FD was also sched-
uled on the first day of Law School
spring holiday, but Kelsey said it
could not have been moved because
the gym was occupied the prior
weekend.

In response to SAB concerns that
the FD committee would only have
one week to prepare for the event,
Perkins and Kelsey said that law
students would be available and will-
ing to work while undergraduates
were away for Washington holiday.

The plausibility of moving Fancy
Dress will be decided within two
weeks, said EC President Tom Hat-
cher.

Duwel also announced that the
SAB plans to have open _ sign-ups
rather than an interview process for
the FD Committee in January.
Applicants will be asked to sign a
contract listing obligations to the FD
Committee and the consequent bene-
fits, such as a free ticket to the ball.

The main business of the EC this
week has been budget allocation
hearings. The Student Bar Associa-
tion made its requests first at Monday

night’s EC meeting, asking for more
than $40,000.

The SBA requests a budget for
almost all Law School organizations,
including publications and athletics,
and the three classes.

The organizations and classes
requested $91,984 from the SBA.
Their budget requests were cut to
$62,255, $40,839 of which the SBA
requested from the EC. The rest
will come primarily from SBA fees
at $51 per an estimated 386 law
students,

Q) Please see BUDGET page 4

colonization team is looking for a woman ‘‘who
is interested in Delta Gamma, her university,
and wants to contribute to her university
through a women’s fraternity experience,”’
‘‘numbers are not an issue.”’
Lambell said that although the number of
girls participating in the Rush may seem small
in comparison to the existing sororities on
campus,‘‘There’s no set number we’re looking
for here. Delta Gamma was started by three
women in 1873, I think they would be thrilled
with the women who were at the Open
House.”’

Lambell remarked she was very impressed
with the caliber of the W&L women she had
met thus far, calling them ‘‘exceptional.’’

and

 

Tom Hatcher

IFC decries dirty rush, threatens punishment

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

Be careful and be good were the messages
from Interfraternity Council President Goodloe
Lewis and Associate Dean of Students Buddy
Atkins at Tuesday night's IFC meeting.

The two criticized the use of dirty rush
tactics by some fraternity members over the
past few weeks, and they warned that houses
need to be particularly careful this weekend
during’ tear night activities.

‘Dirty rush is as much a rush violation as
a contact violation,’’ Lewis said. He prom-
ised that if any specific instances of dirty
rushing were brought to his attention, the IFC
would prosecute the offenders.

Atkins said, ‘‘I don’t think there’s a place
for that. I don’t think there’s an excuse for

that.’”’

Atkins said that houses need to emphasize
their own strong points rather than point out
others’ weaknesses.

‘*The standard, canned answer to a fresh
man who asks about another house should be
‘That's a fine house, but we’re better be-
cause...,’ ’’ he said.

John Flippen, President of Sigma Phi
Epsilon, said dirty rushing is not only bad for
the houses criticized, but also for the ones
who are doing the criticizing.

‘‘Most are complete lies. It really turns
freshmen off on your own house when you
say these things,’’ he said.

Pi Kappa Phi president Skip Sugarman

also spoke up, saying, ‘‘Dirty rush is just
wrong. I wouldn’t stand for it from any of
my guys.’’

Atkins warned fraternities that there are a

number of things that they need to be careful

of this weekend.

He said tear night activities must be kept
under control, and he advised houses to
celebrate in a mature, responsible way.

‘*Think about what you’re really celebrat-
ing on tear night. You're celebrating what is
essentially the first long-term decision that
this freshman has made without the influence
of his parents. This is one if his first steps
to real manhood,”’ he said,

‘‘If you celebrate that decision of his with
beer slides and mud-wrestling,’’ Atkins con
tinued, ‘‘that isn’t too far removed from the
sandbox. Don’t belittle his decision with chil
dish antics.’’

Atkins also told the fraternities not to
allow any local residents into parties. He said
a group has been trying to get into fraternity
parties and cause problems,

‘*These seem to be groups from Charlot
tesville and Roanoke that come

up here, get

together with all the local trouble-makers, and
then try to go out and hurt people,’’ he said.

He advised fraternity members to call the
police if they saw these people.

‘You won't be able to keep these people
out and you don’ t want to fight them because
you will lose,’’ he said, ‘‘Some of them don’t
know the difference between killing you and
saying hello.”’

Atkins said he believed some of the prob-
lems between the fraternities and group seem
to be racial, some may be caused by drugs.

Lewis said that his fraternity, Kappa

Sigma, had problems with this ‘‘gang’’ last
Saturday night.
Flippen, who is also the IFC's Public

Relations Chairman, passed out flyers to the
fraternity representatives that give advice on
how to ‘‘party smart’ in Lexington.

Lewis asked fraternity members to give
the flyers to people who come to parties at

their houses.

‘*Put them on girls’
have to,’’ he said.

The flyers advise girls to, among other
things, lock their purses in their trunks and
have someone walk them back to their cars
after parties,

“This is probably the best thing that the
IFC has done in all the years I’ve been
here,’’ said Atkins about the flyers.

Steven Mathis, the new president of Live
Drive, also addressed the council. He said
fraternities who are having large parties,
especially ones in the country, should get in
contact with Live Drive at least two weeks
before the party if they want shuttle service
to be provided.

He also reminded the that
every Friday and Saturday night people need
ing rides can call Live Drive and they will
provide transportation

windshields if you

fraternitie
OPINION

-

~

 

Take me out
to the ballgame

The Washington and Lee Athletic Department has a
new toy this year, and it’s called the University
Athletics Promotion Committee. Its purpose? To get
you to come to a game every once in a while.
According to an article in last week’s Phi, the
committee is the brainchild of new Athletic Director
Mike Walsh.

No fool, Walsh has obviously noticed the habit we
have of attending only certain games. When we do go,
we're out of there by halftime. For example, about half
the crowd that was on hand for the Generals’ home
opener in football missed the exciting ending.

Local merchants, such as The Palms, Frank’s and the
University Bookstore will sponsor giveaways at halftime
of various events, in an attempt to force you to stay.
The theory is, if school spirit doesn’t compel you to
attend women’s soccer, free food might. If you read
carefully, you'll notice that each giveaway
announcement carries the famous phrase, ‘‘You must be
present to collect your prize.’’

The funny thing is, the athletic department shouldn’t
have to give away pizza to ensure fan support. Okay,
we admit it. Most of us have left during halftime, just
like everyone else. And, like everyone else, we have
missed some good games, matches, meets, etc., because
of it.

Yes, W&L is Division III, but that is not as much of
a liability as you might think. Although W&L will not
be in the Orange Bowl soon, that in no way takes
away from the competitiveness on the field. Also, these
are our friends out there. When you go to a W&L
sporting event, you will probably know most of the
players on our team. If you see George Sakin get
drilled on a safety blitz, you know he’ll be limping into
Journalism 201 on Monday.

Besides, Division III sports is probably the last
bastion of amateurism left these days. If you participate
in a varsity sport at W&L, you don’t do it because you
want to get drafted by the pros, or because that’s how

you can pay for school. You do it because you love the
game, and that’s what sport used to be all about, back
in the Dark Ages.

Give it a chance. You might even enjoy taking in a
game or two.

To our readers

Okay, we’re going to try this one more time. Once
again, the call goes out: contribute to the Opinion page
of the Phi. You can be serious, funny, irreverent,
repulsive (at least to a point), or sad. Deep in your
heart, you must believe that you can write better than
any of us clowns on the Phi staff. So, prove it.

We welcome, indeed crave, your submissions.

Quote of the Week

Dance, laugh, and be merry. Remember, life’s too short for
hassles.

— Excerpts from ‘‘A Friendly Reminder on How to Party
in Lexington,’’ a poster put out by the Interfraternity
Council and the Lexington Police.

The Ring-tum Phi, September 20, 1990

 

 

—

 

One paragraph, 13 topics |

 

MY VIEW
By Chris Baradel

 

Just a few random musings,
thoughts, ideas and opinions about
some of the events going on here at
Washington and Lee and in the world
beyond---Let’s start by reiterating the
fact that if people would start turning
in My Yiews, I wouldn’t have to do
this---Doesn’t it just warm your heart
to know that poor old Marion Barry
won’t have to go through another tri-
al? It seems to me that if that man
can squirm his way out of 13 of the
14 indictments against him, despite
the testimony of a phalanx of wit-
nesses who testified under oath that
they had seen Barry use drugs over
200 times combined, maybe someth-
ing is wrong with the criminal justice
system. Wonder how the Colombian
people feel about the fact that their
judges, elected officials and innocent
citizens are being assassinated in their
fight against the drug cartels, all so
that the people of D.C. can watch
Marion smoking a crack pipe and
then basically let him off scot-free?-

--Based on the evidence of the first
two games, it appears that the W&L
football has got the kind of defense
that could carry them to a very suc-
cessful season---I don’t see how we
can stave off war much longer in the
Persian Gulf, and believe me, those
Iraqis are going to be what is known
as ‘‘a tough proposition’’---I haven’t
heard a bad thing said about our new
Dean of Students, David Howison,
yet---I couldn’t believe Larry King
said that Miss Pennsylvania (of the
Miss America Pageant) was uglier
than her ventriloquist dummy. As if
he isn’t captain of the All-Ugly team-
--The only suspense left in the Oak-
land A’s assault on the World Series
is whether anybody will be able to
steal a game from them in the post-
season. Boston, with a healthy Roger

Clemens on the mound would have

the best shot of vanquishing the A’s
in any one game, but nobody is
going to be able to keep them away
from a repeat title. As they stand
now, they are undoubtedly the best
baseball team of our generation, so
appreciate them for their greatness
before they break apart---When is
Lindy Felix, the ‘‘massage therapist,”’

going to open up shop in Lexington?-
--Congratulations are in order for the
many Atlantans here, as their home
city was selected to be the site for
the 1996 Summer Olympic Games--
-Supreme Court nominee David So-
uter can’t be anything but ecstatic
about the way his Senate confirma-
tion hearings have gone thus far. He
seems to be locked into a seat on the
Court---It’s sick that Blake Comer is
out of jail and lounging comfortably
at home already, after serving just
slightly more than two months in
prison. What kind of example does
that set for those who might be temp-
ted to act as he did? And Judge
Bumgardner was complaining about
W&L’s ‘‘uncontrolled environment’’-
--Ty Detmer is the best player in
college football right now. That the
guy could throw for well over 400
yards against the University of Mi-
ami, when he has a set of receivers
that could barely out-run the Hurri-
canes coach (much less their second-
ary), and follow that up by leading
his team to score 36 fourth-quarter
points in a come-from-behind triumph
the next week says to me that no one
does it better. If he doesn’t bring the

Heisman to Provo, the Mormon Tab-,
ernacle Choir ought to start singing
the blues---It’s a mystery to me why’
these gangs that supposedly converge,
on Lexington from Roanoke and
Richmond waste their time here.‘
Aren’t there enough placesto get in,
trouble where they’re from?---Finally,
it wouldn’t be possible to avoid com-'
menting on the cavalier attitude W&L,
students seem to have regarding
drinking and driving. What does it'
take to get people to realize that,
people get hurt and, yes, killed that
way? One would have thought that’
the students here would have learned,
that terrible lesson from the Blake
Comer incident, but no. Yet another‘
W&L student awaits his trial on,
charges of driving under the influence
of alcohol, after an accident that put'
his»friendin ‘the’ hospital. Most ‘pre-
posterous of all, she defended ‘him,
saying that it ‘‘wasn’t his fault.’’ I'
can understand that she would feel,
loyalty toward her friend, but come
on! It’s time for us to start holding:
people accountable for their actions, ,
especially when these actions are
reckless and put innocent people at’
risk.

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee, The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel’ arid obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

Theory and reality in Rush

 

MY VIEW
By Brian Root

 

Freshmen at Washington and Lee learn quickly
the dramatic difference between theory and reality.

Freshmen learn about theory first, during
Freshman Orientation. Soon after arriving in
Lexington, the school makes a great effort to
expose them to the Honor System, and all that it
entails.

Thus indoctrinated, they enter Rush, and that’s
when they learn about reality. Reality is dirty rush.

Almost every rushee has a story to tell, and
they all are basically the same. A freshman is at
a house, where a fraternity member asks him what
other fraternities he is considering and then pro-
ceeds to insult each fraternity named.

Where is the honor here? The answer is simple,
there is none. It has been said innumerable times
that Robert E. Lee asked only that students behave
as gentlemen. I see little evidence of that rule
being obeyed now.

Time to take
responsiblity

Just when you thought you had seen it
all....‘‘It wasn’t like it was Brandon’s fault, those
country roads can be really dangerous,’’ I’m
simply amazed that Elizabeth Hancock can so
defensively state that Brandon Greene was a
victim of circumstances beyond his control. Per-
haps that country road wouidn’t have been so
threatening if he wasn’t ‘‘allegedly under the in-
fluence of alcohol.’’ Perhaps he wouldn’t have
been following the ‘‘lead car,’’ causing blindness
from the dust and gravel if he had been in better
control of himself. | wonder who would be to
blame if someone had been killed. Most of all, I
am saddened that such an incident is ‘‘hot potat-
oed’’ out of the hands of those students and into
the hands of the world around them. I suggest
they take a good look at themselves and start
taking some responsibility for their actions. I am
appalled that in this day of awareness, ‘‘intel-
ligent’’ people refuse to consider the consequen-
ces of drinking and driving.

 

IFC President Goodloe Lewis reminded the
houses that dirty rushing is ‘‘as much a rush
violation as a contact violation.’’ I think he’s
missing the point somewhat.

To attempt to classify dirty rushing as an
honor-related matter is, to say the least, complicat-
ed.

 

Without knowing it, W&L’s
fraternities may now be their
own worst enemies.

 

Nevertheless, I believe the proper punishment
for intentionally deceiving another student about
fraternities or their members should be more than
a $500 fine.

As has been noted previously, fraternity Rush
is now a very intense time, for both fraternities
and freshmen. The pressure to succeed during Rush
is possibly greater now than it ever has been,
because of the impending financial crunch facing

LETTERS

I sign this not only on behalf of Ashley Scar-
borough, but for the rest of the citizens here who
are at risk. Think about it!

 

Macy Coffey
Washington and Lee University, Law Library

Visitor Center
falls prey
to vandalism

This letter is about the vandalism at the Lex-
ington Visitor’s Center, on Washington Street. It
happened happened Friday, Saturday and Sunday
nights.

‘The Lexington Visitor Center spends time,
energy and money making visitors feel welcome
in Our community, so that they will spend their
time, energy and money here. What we do may
seem frivolous to some, but it helps to keep
businesses in business, people working and mon-
ey flowing around the community.

many of W&L’s 16 fraternities.

It seems odd that fraternities, organizations that ,
for so long have been the primary promoters of
“‘tradition’’ at W&L, almost routinely ignore the.
principle of gentlemanly behavior during Rush,
regarding their treatment of other houses. ’

The competition now is already intense, and
does not need to be made more so by spreading '
rumors designed to deceive a rushee.

Fraternities have long known that, however
imperfect the present system of regulation may be, +
further regulation and restriction by the Hill would
be far worse. ;

However, that holds true only if the fraternities ,
can effectively police themselves.

Without knowing it, W&L’s fraternities may .
now be their own worst enemies.

The Greek system at W&L has much to offer ‘
to the community, and particularly freshmen. |
Membership in a fraternity is one of the best
investments a student can make at W&L.

The problem is, rushees won’t learn that if all
they hear during Rush is how bad another house ‘
is.

When we moved into the new Visitor Center
two years ago, we were not able to fund a
beautiful landscaping project in front. We have
made do with barrells of flowers, and a couple
of planters full of welcoming plants. Even this
costs money, but it does show visitors that the
people of our community care about our town.

This is the fourth time this season the vandals |,
have struck the planters and destroyed a good
many of the flowers. I have always had a hard
time understanding what fun this kind of destruc-
tion is for someone, but it happens over and
over.

These flowers not only welcome visitors, they
provide beauty to those of us who live here and
those that go by the Visitor Center. I am not
blaming students at W&L or their guests. If any-
one sees vandals doing their ‘‘thing,’’ please call
the police. In the long run, it will save tax dol-
lars. In the short run, you will be doing the right
thing.

Sincerely,
Martha M. Doss, Director
Lexington Visitors Bureau

P.S. A letter similar to this appeared in the
News-Gazette in August when struck last time.

 

 

t.
om « ”

ws”

The Ring-tum Phi, September 20, 1990

 

 

 

The big night

 

 

 

Sigma Nu extends a bid to a freshman In the Unversity Center last night on the first night of
bid extensions. Fraternities will give out their final bids tonight, and the freshmen will tear on
Friday and Saturday nights. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Minority Dean on leave

 

By Tracey Thornblade
Staff Reporter

With Accosiate Dean of Students Anece McCloud on
leave this term, Washington Hall finds itself with a new

face around the office.

Mrs. Terry Morgan Grant is fulfilling Dean Anece
McCloud’s responsibilities as Associate Dean of Students
for Minority and International Affairs while she is on
leave. McCloud is working on her doctorate in Sociology
at the State University of New York in Binghamton this

year.

of taking any formal action.

Professor Nancy Margand will be the CRC (Conduct
Review Committee) officer while McCloud is on leave.
She stresses that anyone with a complaint should feel
comfortable talking to her even if they have no intentions
She said it is’ not her
decision to take cases to the CRC, and that all action is
completely up to the students. In addition, she says all
meetings are kept strictly confidential.
her duties on August 15 and will remain here until
August 15 of next year, when McCloud returns.

Grant received a bachelor’s degree in psychology and

biology from Fordham University in New York and a

South Carolina.

Master’s education from the College of Charleston in

Her experience includes teaching preschool and grade
school children through fifth grade, and tutoring and

counseling high school students. In addition, she was a

Monterey, CA.

students.

Grant began her arrival.

her duties.

homebound instructor in the Lexington School District,
and has counseled at a suicide prevention center in

Grant’s responsibilities include assisting minority and
international students in adjusting to academic life;
however, she stresses that any student has access to the
services her office provides. This includes both academ-
ic and personal counseling to students encountering
difficulty at W&L. One service is a tutorial program
through which Grant is able to locate tutors for interested

So far Grant is thoroughly enjoying her job. She: said
that there has been,"a warm display of camaraderie” since
She feels comfortable and well-accepted in
her position and feels it enables her to better carry out

Shillington,
Leslie look
to future

 

By Alisann McGloin
Staff Reporter

 

Two of Washington and Lee’s
faculty, despite serious illnesses last
year, are recovering well.

Coach Emmett ‘‘Buck’’ Leslie,
who was diagnosed with leukemia
last January, is back teaching and
coaching golf this term. Although he
is not working out as much as he
prefers, he said he plans to take
things slowly rather than jumping
right back into his normal routine.
While Leslie said his endurance is
not what it used to be, his health is
improving.

Since March, Leslie had been
undergoing a treatment successful in
England. He has been able to forego
the final step of the treatment because
his sickness was brought ‘‘under con-
trol.’’

Leslie’s doctor at Roanoke Reha-
bilitation Center gave Leslie a good
report at his last visit so his biweekly
visits have been cut to a visit every
three weeks.

“Every day is a new thrill. It’s
great to be back,’”’ Leslie said.

Chemistry Department Dr. J.
Keith Shillington, who had a stroke
last January, returned to his home
just before this term began.

Dr. William Watt, also of the
chemistry department, said while Dr.
Shillington’s left arm is still para-
lyzed and he has difficulty walking,
‘the walks some every day.’’ Work-
ing with his nurse, Shillington prac-
tices with a walker as much as possi-
ble.

According to W&L senior Katie
Duwell who has been helping him
with the groceries, Shillington ‘‘ is
managing to lead a pretty normal life
under the circumstances.’’

“It’s not easy but he still has a
lot of spirit,’’ Duwell said.

Shillington is looking forward to
Homecoming. ‘‘Right now, more than
anything, his short-term goal is to be
able to kiss the homecoming queen,”’
Duwell said.

 

VIOLENCE

from page 1

drafting a letter to Beard, informing
him of students’ concerns, and asked
that any student involved in a similar
encounter contact the EC so the letter
can include details of specific inci-
dents.

Saturday night, about 8 to 12 men
“‘muscled their way’’ into a Kappa
Sigma party, according to Alex Hitz.

‘‘They came to the door and said
they were friends of the band, which
they weren’t. Once they got in, they
started throwing their weight around
and ended up getting pretty violent,”’
Hitz said. Hitz said he thought the
men might have been members of a
gang.

Beard said the police reported the
incident as assault and battery. Beard

       

By Rick Peltz

 

 

 

Ben Eggleston, ’94, Plantation,
FL = — “I haven't heard much
about it, so it doesn’t seem to be

that rampant.”’ >

 

said Tiffani Board, a student from
Hollins College, was struck by a beer
can and treated at Stonewall Jackson
Hospital emergency room for lacera-
tions on her lower lip. Although the
officers made no arrests Saturday
night, Beard said there are suspects
and the police department is inves-
tigating both the assault and battery
and trespassing charges.
“‘Apparently, the majority of the
locals had run out of the fraternity
house by the time the officers got
there. The police were not totally
aware of what was going on, so they
went straight inside, but the youths
had all cleared out,’’ Beard said.
Hitz said at least some of the
youths were still in the house when

police arrived, and he thinks the
officers should have made arrests at
that time.

“‘The guys were on their way out
the door when the police got there.
They just told the guys to go home
and go to bed,”’ Hitz said.

Beard said he didn’t know if the
incidents Saturday and Sunday nights
were related and attributed them to
the large number of rush parties last
weekend.

“I hope it was a one-time
happening, but we never can predict
things like this,’’ Beard said.

Beard said his office has inves-
tigated violence between youth groups
from Lexington and Buena Vista, but
that he does not think of them as

‘*gangs.”’

“I don’t think that’s the right
word. They might like you to call
them that, but I just think they’re
youths with too much leisure time,’’
Beard said.

Beard met this afternoon with
members of the student body as part
of a Community Partnership Program
between the police department and
the university. Beard says he usually
meets with some fraterrity presidents,
members of the Interfraternity Coun-
cil and sometimes administrators to
exchange ideas.

‘‘Hopefully the students can give
us any ideas they have, and we can
make some suggestions about how to
party more safely,’’ Beard said.

 

TALKBACK

   

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Fulbright Grants

Applications are now available for
the Fulbright Foreign Scholarship.
The Fulbright grant is for
graduate study abroad. For more
information and to pick up an
application, see Professor Bruce
Herrick in Room 212 of the
Commerce School by Oct. 12.

Season Opens

W & L’s Concert Guild season
will open with the highly
acclaimed Audubon Quartet on
Tuesday, Sept. 25. The concert
will start at 8 pm in Lee Chapel,
and is free to all W & L
students.

Trail Rides

Stoney Run Trails in Buena Vista
has set up their fall schedule for
horse trail rides. They will offer
half day and all-day rides through
mid-November. For more infor-
mation or reservations, contact
Deborah Sensabaugh at (703) 261-
1910 or 464-3555.

Poetry Contest

The American Poetry Association
announces its poetry contest for
all poetry writers. The contest is
open to everyone, and entry is
free. Original poems under 20
lines should be sent by Sept. 30
to the American Poetry Associa-
tion, Dept. CO-84, 250-A Potrero
St, P.O. Box 1803, Santa Cruz,
CA 95061 by Sept. 30.

China Forum

Historians of China from around
the world will gather at W & L
for a special conference on Sept.
20-22. The conference topic will
be "Oppositional Politics in Twen-
tieth-Century China.” All W & L
students and faculty are invited to
the panels (Law School Moot
Courtroom beginning at 8:30 am
on Friday, Sept. 21) and to the
evening lectures. Programs are
available in Newcomb, Room 26.

Outing Club

The Outing Club will climb Elliot
Knob (elevation 4463 feet) on
Sept. 29. For those interested in
the climb and many other out-
door activities, see the bulletin
board on the Colonnade. The
equipment room’s (Baker 109)
hours are Mon. to Fri, 1-4 pm
and Wed. 2-5 pm. Mountain bike
rides are Tuesdays at 3:30 pm
and road rides are Thursdays. at
3:30 pm. Meet at Baker 109.

Club Soccer

First practice Tuesday, Sept. 25
3:30 p.m. at the uppermost ath-
letic fields. Be ready to pay club
fees. Call Woody for questions,
463-9180.

Oxford Study

Students interested in a term or
year’s study at one of the Oxford
colleges should attend a meeting
on Thursday, Sept. 27 at 3:30 pm
in Baker 106. A 3.2 GPA is
required. Those interested in a
London internship should meet
with the director of the
Marymount program on Wed.,
Sept. 26 at 3:30 pm in Baker
106.

General Notes

Need to get the word out? Put it
in the Phi. Leave a brief, typed
note in the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office at room 208 in the
University Center.

Rugby!

The Rugby team will take on
Radford this Saturday, Sept. 22 at
1 p.m. on the Upper Practice
Field.

Concert at VMI

The U.S. Marine Band from
Washington will present a concert
at Virginia Military Institute’s
Cameron Hall at 8 pm Tuesday,
October 2. Admission is free, but
patrons will be required to have
tickets in advance. Tickets are
available at the Cameron Hall box
office, by mail, or at Lexington
radio station WREL. Up to six
tickets per request will be mailed
to those sending a stamped, self-
addressed envelope to:” Marine
Band, VMI Public Relations,
Lexington, VA 24450.

Journalism

The Department of Journalism
and Mass Communications an-
nounces the competition for the
first fellowship memorializing
W&L alumni Todd Smith, °82.
The fellowship provides an an-
nual stipend to enable a W&L
student to pursue accreditable
academic work in a foreign coun-
try immersed extensively in that
culture. Application deadline is
September 24. Further informa-
tion is available from the jour-
nalism department.

 

Do you think drunk driving Is
a problem at W&L?

 

Bill Meadows, 791, Lexington,
KY -— “‘I don’t think it’s more
a problem here than anywhere
else, but ut’s played up more
because it’s a small campus.’

 

 

 

Kim Marcott, ’93, Bradford, PA — ‘‘The system here condones it more
than at other places... I think Live Drive would help a lot if it was used

more.”’

Tonya Yoder, ’93, Vienna, VA — ‘‘As students there is a

particular tendency toward irresponsibility with alcohol. I think people try

to be responsible at least.”’

 

Jo Forrest, Ex., Birmingham,

England — ‘‘In an environment
with so much emphasis on al+
cohol, | would be. surprised if no
one drove under the influence.’’

Photos by Chris Leiphart

 

 

Willard Dumas, ’91, New Or.
leans, LA = ‘‘Yes, it’s a prob-
lem across the nation, especially
for people our age. We think
we're so impervious to injury. It
took me a long time to realize
that one drink can affect your
judgement."’

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi,

 

 

 

 

Bigger and better Corral

 

 

The Corral parking lot was to have opened today
Corral has been closed since August due to the co
off lots or two-hour street spots. The Corral will now

with 19 new spaces for student cars. The
nstruction, forcing students to park in far-
hold 94 cars. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

DC spring: Look, learn

 

By Matthew Jackson
Staff Reporter

 

Interning for a U.S. Senator or
Representative as part of the Wash-
ington Term Program rewards stu-
dents with six political science
credits, a deeper understanding of the
federal government and the practical
experience of working for a national
lawmaker.

During spring term, _ selected
scholars live in Washington, D.C.
while attending a weekly seminar and
lecture series, accomplishing academic
work including a detailed journal and
a paper and serving a four-day-per-
week internship.

In order to experience the six-
week program, students must meet
certain requirements. The completion
of Politics 101, 102 or 111 with at
least a 3.0 grade point average en-
ables a student to apply. After ar

Autumn Flowers
wrapped
Half Price

cash
and
carry
Saturdays
3-5:30 PM

Teleflora’

ANANAAANANAAAAAANS

Morist to The Homestead

Ten East Nelson
463-9841

oN

 

“4

interview, the Department of Politics
relies on evidence of interest, acade-
mic record and personal qualifica-
tions to influence its decisions.

Although freshmen may apply, the
program prefers upperclassmen. Ac-
cording to Professor William F, Con-
nelly, Jr., the program’s resident
director, mostly sophomores and
juniors attend. Scholars concentrating
in a major other than political science
share an equal opportunity for selec-
tion as those who major in politics.

Fifteen W&L students, including
one freshman, 13 sophomores and
juniors and one senior, participated
last year.

Senior John Buchanan, who spent
last spring in Washington, said, ‘‘Be-
ing on the inside, even though we
weren’t doing extremely important
work, was a big advantage. We had
great opportunities like attending
hearings, committee meetings and
mark-ups.”’

Professor Connelly added, ‘‘Al-

though routine intern work may seem
boring, that’s the price to be paid to
gain more substance of respon-
sibility.” The increase of respon-
sibility may include speech and letter
writing as well as attending hearings
and other sessions.

The course emphasizes a wide
range of activities for the interns
including the viewing of house and
senate debates. The program stresses
participant observation.

‘T want each scholar to ‘soak and
poke,’ to gain insight of the func-
tions of Congress and to learn their
way around the Capitol complex
through active participation,’’ Con-
nelly said.

Students can obtain applications
and course prospectuses from Profes-
sor Connelly in room 108 of the C-
School. Office hours are 10-11 a.m.
on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays
and 3-4 p.m. on Tuesdays and Thu-
rsdays.

 

[] Yes Location

George’s Hairstylist
136 Varner Lane
463-3975

 

 

 

 

 

 

=

A WEL
aide - = N_ Main St.
Parking —_— \
Randolph St.
v Varner Ln.
E
[] Yes Products
Redken ¢ Nexxus ¢ Paul Mitchel ¢
Sebastian (Itd.) ¢ Matrix
L] Yes People
Experienced Professional Stylists
(} Yes Walk-In or Phone

-—-SPECIAL OFFER--~--

Two Dollars Off On Haircuts i
i Four Dollars Off On Perms |
i Good through Sept. 30/90 w/coupons |

Mere Sees SEE SR ORR Fem ees cette sonme RM eRe cone Sines nRLGS REE cE rm om J

 

 

All Seniors and
Law Students

You are invited to the

 

ane

Party

the GC

Uy

 

 

Class of 1991

In the DELL,
Friday, September 28

6:30 to 8:30 p.m.

sponsored by
Kathekon

Student Bar Association

 

 

September 20, 1990

4

Offices to fill game room

 

By Macon Miles
Staff Reporter

 

The game room in the University
Center is closed this year and will be
renovated this fall in order to house
new student offices, according to
Assistant Dean of Students Leroy
‘*Buddy”’ Atkins.

‘‘The game room wasn’t being
used to its fullest potential,’’ said
University Center Manager Carol
‘Caulkins.

The International House was
moved into the Lee House this year,
and several student organizations lost
their offices. These organizations will

move into the new offices.

According to Dean Atkins, there
will be either five or six offices,
depending on whether the Dining
Hall relocates one of its storage
rooms. The organizations that are
scheduled to move into these offices
are Alpha Phi Omega, Contact, the
Independent Union, and the College
Republicans. There may be room for
other student organizations, according
to Caulkins, but no plans are definite
at this time.

The plans for the renovations
include a common meeting room
which will be surrounded by the
offices. All the organizations in the
new offices are to share this room for

their meetings. This experimental
arrangement is a new concept for the
student center according to Caulkins.

Frank Parsons, Coordinator of
Capital Planning, said that there are
no definite plans for moving the
student offices into the old game
room, however.

The estimated cost for the renova-
tions is $19,000. Renovation was to
start over the summer, but it was
delayed because PiKA was originally
scheduled to hold formal Rush in the
game room. Buildings and Grounds
stated that this is their next major
project and that they will start work
early this fall. The renovations will
be completed by the end of this term.

 

BUDGET

from page 1

SBA President Grant Bums em-
phasized that the most significant
budget adjustments were the elimina-
tion and consolidation of parties.
The social fund received the largest
cut of $6,250, and the first and
second-year class budgets were cut
almost $2,900.

The SBA received $35,000 of
their $37,503.13 request last year.

The Contact Committee appeared
before the EC Tuesday night with a
request for $21,000, $3,000 more
than last year’s allocation and
$1,000 more than last year’s request.

A more active schedule and high-
er speaking fees are the reason for
Contact’s proposed increase, accord-
ing to their report.

Contact Chairman Charles Kranich
told the EC that Contact plans to
request $13,000 from the Interfrater-
nity Council, the same amount the
IFC granted last year. Kranich said
that the IFC granted last year’s
$4,000 increase over 1988-89 with
“‘controversy,’’ and Contact would
not ask for another increase.

The Ring-tum Phi presented a
budget request for $15,600 Tuesday
night, which raised many questions
from the EC.

The Phi anticipates $18,000 in
advertising and subscription revenue,
versus $33,600 in expenses.

The newspaper received all of its
$14,600 request for 1989-90. Ac-

cording to EC Vice President Ray-
mond Welder, a remainder of
$5,303.91 was tumed into the Publi-
cations Board account at the end of
the last academic year, as per stan-
dard procedure.

‘‘Last year we cut back because
of the SAB,’’ explained Phi Busi-
ness Manager Anne Dysart. ‘‘We’re
asking for more money this year.”

Welder said that according to
Business Office records, the Phi
generated just over $22,000 in reve-
nue last year. Dysart responded that
last year was ‘‘a fluke’’ in advertis-
ing, and $18,000 remains a reason-
able projection for 1990-91.

In response to questions about
salaried Phi circulation personnel,
Dysart told the EC that after they are
familiar with their jobs they work an
average of three hours per week.
After the Phi’s budget hearing, Weld-
er noted that three persons employed
for three hours per week at $6 per
hour for 30 weeks totaled an expen-
diture of $1,620, less than the
$3,000 requested for those salaries.

Several EC members said they
were confused about the Publications
Board budget and money the board
recieved from the 1989-90 Phi.

Welder said that the EC does not
grant money to the board, but Busi-
ness Office records show the board
starting fall 1989 with $8,000 and
ending spring 1990 with $4,951,

 

 

before the Phi remainder was trans-
ferred. Hatcher instructed Welder to
determine the source of the board’s
budget and report back to the EC.

Director of Communications and
member of the Publications Board
Brian Shaw said yesterday that ‘*The
Pub Board gets its funding from the
efficient management of _pub-
lications,”’ meaning savings such as
that of the Phi from 1989-90.

Budget hearings continue tonight
from 7-9 p.m. and conclude tomor-
row night from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m.,:
when SAB will present. Over the
next two weeks the EC will deliber-
ate and make allocations from the
more than $185,000 expected in
student activities fees. All budget
hearings and deliberations are open
to the student body.

The EC held closed interviews
last night for the positions of Stu-
dent Activities Board operations di-
rector and Law School publicity
representative; Fancy Dress chairman,
vice chairman and auditor; and Mock
Convention secretary.

Petition forms to run for fresh-
men EC representative will be avail-
able in the University Center on
Monday, due Oct. 1 for an Oct. 8
election.

Newly elected first-year law Rep.

Daniel Munroe joined the EC Tues-
day night.

 

 

not

 

 

- You do

eed t

o be a League bowler to bowl!

 

 

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin
Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

 

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)
SPORTS

W&L wins
third by
' ghut out

By John Laney
‘Associate Sports Editor

¥

, The Washington and Lee women’s
Soccer team keeps rolling along.

« The Generals continued their
unbeaten and unscored w start by
defeating Guilford 1-0 this past Satur-
day at Liberty Hall Field.

W&L launched 27 shots at the
suilford goal, and the one that nes-
tled into the back of the net was
€nough for the Generals’ third
straight win.

With just over seven minutes
kemaining in the match, freshman
forward Karen Stutzmann found her-
Self in a race to the ball with the
Guilford goalie. Stutzmann got to it
first and her shot deflected off of the
Boalie and into the goal.

“She had many opportunities to
Score on Saturday. I knew she was
going to convert one if not more,”
head coach Janine Hathom said of
Stutzmann. ‘‘She’s one of the more
critical forwards we have on the
feam.”’

» The Generals’ chance to take a
lead five minutes into the first half
was turned away when junior mid-
fielder Ann Shaughnessy’s penalty
kick was blocked.

+ ‘I think we got a little nervous
‘after that,’’ Hathorn said. ‘‘We
thought we should have scored.’’

» According to Hathom, W&L
played well, but nervously against
Guilford.

“‘We came out like a storm and
we were doing all the right things,”’
She said. ‘‘But we petered out after
15 minutes and then the game be-
came frenzied and turned more into
Kickball than soccer for the rest of
the first half.

“The feeling of being in synch i is
fiot quite there yet. I think we’re still
tyying to find the right rhythm, but I
think we are another step down the
Yoad to playing the type of soccer we
want to play,’’ Hathorn added.

At the defensive end, freshman

‘

 

The Ring-tum Phi,

 

 

 

 

 

Turning upfield

Junior Morgan Warner moves the ball upfield in last Saturday’s 1-
0 win over Guilford College on Liberty Hall Field. W&L photo by

W. Patrick Hinely.

goalkeeper Katie Stimeling made
eight saves on the afternoon as she
eared her third consecutive shutout.
Stimeling has collected 19 saves so
far this season.

“{Stimeling] is an_ incredible
player and she’s very athletic. She
could start as a field player for any |
other team,’’ Hathorm said.

W&L’s three victories have come
on just four goals and Hathorn said
she is concerned that the team is not
able to convert more of its shots.

Defense comes

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

« 1989 was Methodist College’s
first year of college football. When
fhe Monarchs came to Lexington last
year, Washington and Lee trounced
them 47-0.

‘So naturally, when the Generals
travelled to Methodist this year, many
expected much of the same.

* But the 1990 version of the Meth-
edist Monarchs was nothing like the
1989 version. And if not for the play
‘of the W&L defense, the Generals
snight not have escaped North Caroli-
na with a 10-0 win.

 

  
  
   
   
     
 

   
  
 

FOR RENT
House in Country
463-5383

_

]
]
Z
]

OMG

      
 
   
     

 
 
 

WQQQNHHI MH nw}

Addressers Wanted
Immediately!

No experience necessary. Excellent pay!
Work at Home. Call Toll-Free:
1-800-395-3283

| A, WW™s

UNIVERSITY
SPORT WEAR

Stop By Today To See Lexington’s
Best Selection of W&L and VMI
Imprinted T-Shirts, Sweatshirts,

On the opening drive of. the game,

‘the Monarchs proved they would be

tough, and the Generals’ defense
proved it would be equal to the chal-
lenge.

In 1989, the Monarchs got one
first down for the entire game. Sat-
urday it took them just three plays to
equal that feat. Starting from their
21, the Monarchs drove to the W&L
43 before stalling.

On second down and 18, junior
nose guard Greg Kiehl sacked Mon-
arch quarterback Robby Barnhill for
a loss of eight. On the next play,
sophomore comerback Don Dempsey
broke up a pass with a vicious hit,
forcing a Methodist punt.

‘Our number one focus is putting
the ball in the goal. We need to
deflect the ball more to beat goal-
tenders. We’ve had some incredible
scoring opportunities,’’ Hathorn said.

The Generals play at Virginia
Wesleyan today and at Marymount on
Saturday before hosting Roanoke on
Tuesday.

“Our largest obstacle will be
Virginia Wesleyan. They’ve always
beaten us by one goal,’’ Hathorn
said.

September 20, 1990

 

Cross country sprints to wins

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee cross
country teams have the theory of
natural progression on their side this
year. Each of the past two years, the
teams have improved one place in the
final standings, and last year, the
teams each finished second in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Cham-
pionships.

And to start the 1990 season last
Saturday, both the men and the wom-
en made it known early that they are
making serious runs toward the
ODAC titles.

The women’s team started the
season against ODAC rivals Eastern
Mennonite and Bridgewater in a meet
at EMC. Led by seniors Shawn
Wert and Cecily Tynan, the Generals
won the meet, besting EMC 23-35
and Bridgewater by 23-91. The win
over EMC was the team’s first ever.

Wert finished second overall, and
the Generals placed five runners in

. ning 16-47.

the top seven and six in the top 10
to take the win. Sophomore Susie
Wootton, senior Pat Lopes and junior
Brannon Aden rounded out the top
five W&L finishers.

It was the first time that Wert had
ever finished ahead of Tynan when
the two have run together. Said head
coach Jim Phemister, ‘‘The top five
runners finished within 1:40 of each
other. It was one of our tightest
finishes ever.

“‘Our times on this course in our
first meet are on a par with the times
we had at Eastern Mennonite two
years ago in the ODAC finals.’’

The men, led by junior Charles
Tdwards, ran away from EMC, win-
Bridgewater was for-
feited.

The Generals swept the top four
spots, led by Edwards’ time of 26:27
and had seven of the top eight finish-

ers. Sophomore Bo Hannah finished ©

second while running a personal best
26:46. Junior Lee Parker finished
third despite falling once, and class-
mate David Martin finished fourth.

Sophomore Keith Dunn finished
sixth overall, followed by junior
David Phillips and senior Kennon
Walthall. Phillips ran a personal best
28:24.

Parker fell down while running
through some construction material on
the course, and Martin finished in
27:39 despite stopping to tie his shoc.

“I’m really thrilled that we started
off so well with two guys running
well under 27:00,’’ said head coach
John Tucker. ‘‘But I’m a little
scared that we may have started too
well and set too high a standard for
the rest of the year.’’

Both W&L teams will put their 2-

0 records on the line this Saturday
with the women hosting Mary Wash-
ington and the men hosting Washing-
ton College along with Mary Wash-
ington.

Said Tucker, ‘‘Mary Washington
has what may be their best team
ever. But I think our guys can run
with them.”’

Generals finish ninth in tourney

 

3y John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

Heading into this past Saturday’s
water polo game against Princeton,
seventh-seeded Washington and Lee
needed a victory to remain among the
top eight at the South Varsity Invita-
tional.

Although the Generals lost that
game, they returned to win their next
three games, finishing ninth at the
tournament.

At the weekend-long invitational,
held in Annapolis, Md., W&L won
the ninth-place game over Richmond
after winning back-to-back games on
Saturday. The strong finish puts the
Generals into the top bracket for the
North Varsity Invitational next month.

Princeton topped the Generals 14-

9, and head coach Page Remillard
said it took awhile for the team to
come together.

*‘[Princeton] was very fast and
very skilled. That and the fact that it
was our first game was too much to
overcome,”’ he said.

Against MIT, W&L emerged from
the water with an 11-5 win.

‘That was an important game for
both teams,’’ Resnillard said. ‘‘We
just got on a roll.”

Next up was Dayton. The Gen-
erals beat the Flyers 13-6 to reach
the ninth-place game and a date with
arch-rival Richmond.

In the game against Richmond,
who dominated W&L in a scrimmage
at the end of the preseason, the Spid-
ers held a three-goal advantage before
the Generals came back to lead by
three. Richmond scored two late

goals to provide the final margin of
11-10.

In the invitational, sophomore
Scott Strader, who led W&L in goals
scored per game last season, scored
eight goals. Following him were
junior Will Davis and senior Tomas
Perez with six goals apiece and sen-
ior Jim Dunlevy and freshman Greg
Golub, each with five goals. Sopho-
more goalkeeper P.J. Waicus made 22
saves with a goals per game average
of 9.25.

This weekend W&L will journey
east to defend their state champion-
ship at the Virginia State Champion-
ships in Richmond. W&L will be
joined by Lynchburg, Hampden-Syd-
ney, Mary Washington and Richmond
in the competition. W&L is seeded
second behind Richmond.

up big in 10-0 win at Methodist

On W&L’s first possession, the
offense showed signs of life before
committing the first of six turnovers
on the day. Junior quarterback
George Sakin hit senior Craig Irons
on a third down play for a gain of
11 yards and a first down at the
Methodist 49, but three plays later,
senior Mason Pope fumbled and the
Monarchs recovered.

The W&L defense caused a turn-
over late in the first quarter, setting
up the offense’s first sustained drive.
Kiehl and sophomore Phil Spears
stripped Barnhill and junior defensive
end John McCallum recovered at the
W&L 27.

The offense then drove to the

Anyone interested in writing
sports contact The Phi or call
Jay-464-4244 or John-463-3103

 

 

130 S. Main St.

 

My,

NS

law

MAY

  

MAS

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

     
   
   
   
 

Shorts, etc. our Major League
sized W&L Baseball.caps will

15 W. Washington St.
464-3000

be in any day. We’re located at:

   
  
  

  

463-7969

Methodist 24: benefitting from anoth-

er Sakin to Irons pass play and a
personal foul against the Monarchs
before _ stalling. Senior Carter
Quayle’s field goal try from 41 yards
was wide to the left, and the Gener-
als were turned away.

The game remained scoreless until
late in the second quarter. Junior
Scott Williamson retumed a punt 26
yards to the Methodist 41, where the
offense moved quickly into scoring
position. Sakin ran the two-minute
offense like a veteran, hitting sopho-
more Josh Levinson for a gain of 18
and Irons and Pope for gains of eight

each to get the ball to the Methodist
seven.

yer

“But the offense stalled again, and
Quayle was again summoned to kick
a field goal. His 21-yarder was
perfect, and the Generals led at the
half 3-0.

In the second half, the W&L
defense survived an early scare when
the Monarchs drove to the Generals’
22 yard line. But on fourth down,
McCallum and senior safety Brad
Miller dropped Steve McNeil behind
the line of scrimmage, and the Gener-
als took over on downs.

While the W&L offense was un-
able to move the ball successfully,
the Methodist offense was kept at

QO Please see DEFENSE page 6

 

$5

 

Quick ~ Inexpensive ~_Easy Parking

Quality Quick Print, Ink.

- all student printing needs

214 South Main Street, Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9232

LEXINGTON’S ORIGINAL ,

OFF ANY SERVICE
WITH THIS AD

OPY

 

 

 

 

John McCallum

 

 

audiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O CWD

KEF NEC
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

+ ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
+ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
+ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

ea, &
a &
# 11 S. Randolph Street @
. 464-4050 °
@ Hours: M-F 11:00 a.m. - 8 p.m. a
@ Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 5 p.m. @
: WE BUY NEW & USED CDs :
SO*eSCeSeSe ee see sees ee oe eee

LHe oO

463-3106

QW FRONT) |

67S. Main St.

_ TERRA
a

Student Charge Accounts

Are Available

Come by today and open up your student charge accounts. We will
be glad to mail bills home. Stop by and see our new look, we think

you'll be surprised! We also have

a new take-out deli for sandwiches

and salads! Stop by & see us today!

Serving The W&L Community
For Over 35 Years

 

;

PVPVPV Vr

appogalWo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

 

 

3

and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

(703)463-5988

DPM DPVLPV PV LPVLPV LPO LPO LP PV PVP PPP PVP POMP LP LPP

   

Petite ciiindtitadiheliedtaaitaaitnaitn insite tintin tie ae ie ae ee ee

sete WT SST TTT STF See esses

Part-Time Help Wanted

Approximately 10-15 hours per week
Evenings and/or weekends
Apply in person at

Bt ln in Bi Si i So Statin te Tie th the hes ncn noe nh en he ee OE

      
  
     
     
   
   

     

   

106 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
703-463-6055

Ree ee See eee et

ee ew!

‘-

os

4%” 7 > % ¥ é
ROVE ee

+

.
*

Y

.
«%, .%»
Va ee

oe aa
Sate!

a te
 

ee C6 SSE TESS

t= st ~~ 2 @

SPORTS

Soccer finds turf
tough in two losses

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

After coming off two season-
opening victories, the Washinton and
Lee men’s soccer team fell to Johns
Hopkins and Carnegie-Mellon in
Pittsburgh, Pa., this past weekend.

The Generals lost to Camegie-
Mellon 2-1 on Saturday and Johns
Hopkins 5-1 on Sunday. Both games,
played on AstroTurf, were hosted by
Carnegie-Mellon.

“‘We were manhandled and physi-
cally outfought,’’ said head coach
Rolf Piranian. ‘‘Saturday, we at least
were in the game, but on Sunday we
were totally out of it, period. It was
a disappointing weekend.’’

The game against Hopkins on
Saturday was scoreless at the half.
With 15 minutes gone in the second
half, a crossing pass from the left
side that was redirected into goal
gave Hopkins a 1-0 lead.

W&L evened the score with about
20 minutes remaining when sopho-
more forward Reid Murphy scored
after a one-on-one encounter with
Hopkin’s goaltender. Hopkin’s one-
goal margin of victory came after a

free kick from 22 yards out resulted
in a goal.

On a rainy and cold Sunday after-
noon, Camegie-Mellon scored within
the first five minutes. W&L scored
its goal shortly thereafter when fresh-
man midfielder Dan Rhodes knocked
a bouncing ball from the front of the
goal into the back of the net. Soph-
omore midfielder Mike Mitchem was
credited with an assist on the play.

The tie game was short lived,
though, as Carnegie-Mellon scored
again to go up 2-1. Two more goals,
each within the final five minutes of
the half, gave Carnegie-Mellon a 4-
1 halftime lead.

Beginning Saturday, W&L will
play three games in five days. The
Generals will begin their Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference schedule at
Roanoke on Saturday, will have their
home-opener against Guilford on
Monday and will head north to Shen-
andoah on Wednesday.

“‘We’re not looking beyond Ro-
anoke,”’ Piranian said. ‘‘People may
tend to put us on the shelf after this
weekend, but one day doesn’t make
a season. We’re a team that will be
back in full force.’’

The Ring-tum Phi, September 20, 1990

DEFENSE

from page 5

 

 

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

The Washington and Lee
University Athletics Promotion
Committee has two halftime give-
aways scheduled on the weekend
of Sept. 28-29.

On Sept. 28, a Friday night,
the water polo team will play a
single game against the University
of Richmond in Cy Twombly
Pool. At halftime, a raffle will
be held to give away W&L Water
Polo parafanalia as well as clothes
and free meals from area mer-

 

Halftime promotions

chants.

On Saturday, Sept. 29, the
W&L football team will host
Randolph-Macon College. At
halftime, another raffle will be
held to give away merchandise
from area merchants.

Frank’s Pizza, The Palms and
the W&L Food Service will be
giving away free dinners and the
University Store and the W&L
Bookstore will be giving away
hats, t-shirts and sweatshirts. You
must be present at the game to
win a prize.

 

 

 

NOTA

Have you:

A. Written mom?

B. Remembered your
roomie’s birthday?

C. Senta “thank-you” card?

D. Hung the moon?

 

PO
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 7am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

 

 
   
 
     
   
  

  
     
   
      
   
   
     

@)) 203 N. Main St.

-Dirty Bucs
-Bass Weejuns
-Sero Shirts

 

 

 

 

 

EL CAFE

Your Favorite ‘‘Lex Mex’’
Place To Dine

Coming Attractions of Friday 9/21/90

.

*Expanded Luncheon Menu
“Expanded Hours: Mon.-Sat. 11:30 - 1:00 a.m.
Sun. 11:30 a.m.-10:00 p.m.

Watch For

‘*The Back Room’’

Coming Soon

116 N. Main St.

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

Alvin-Beuniz

Fine Men’s Clothing
102 W. Washington St.

Welcome Freshmen

-W&L Belts, Ties & Keychains

Summer Clearance Still In Progress

Visa, MasterCharge & Student Accounts
Since 1963

bay by the W&L defense as well,
making only one other sustained drive
in the game.

After recovering a W&L fumble,
the Monarchs drove to the W&L 32
where they faced a fourth and one.
As Barnhill started to roll out, sopho-
more linebacker Paul Mallos made
the biggest play of the game, sacking
Barnhill for a 14 yard loss. Said
Spears, ‘‘The ‘Red Sea’ parted, and
Paul made the play.’’

Sakin then marched the offense
downfield, getting big plays from
junior Jeff Kreis and Pope to get to
the Methodist three, where Pope
followed the blocks of seniors Tyler
Suiters, Rob Roberton and Rob Chris-
tensen and 6-6 260-pound sophomore
defensive tackle/goal line fullback
Thomas May into the end zone for a
10-0 W&L win.

Said senior tri-captain Clark
Wight, ‘‘The defense really reacted
well all day long after turnover. We
kept up our intensity and heart and
got the job done. We had a great
team effort. Everybody played
well,”’

McCallum made 17 tackles, and
three tackles for losses, recovered two
fumbles and was named Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Defensive
Player of the Week. Mallos made 13
tackles, registered a sack and had an

 

 

 

 

Paul Mallos

..Sack sets up only TD
interception.

Although the Generals came away
with a win to even their record at 1-
1, the team suffered a tremendous
loss. In the second quarter, Kiehl
saw his season come to an end when
he broke his leg. The all-ODAC nose
guard had surgery to put a plate on
his leg Sunday and is out for the
season.

This week, the Generals will travel
to Danville, Ky. to take on Centre
College. Kickoff is scheduled for
1:30 p.m. WLUR-FM and WREL-
AM will provide radio coverage
beginning at 12:30 with ‘‘W&L Foot-
ball Gameday.”’

 

Generals win R-MWC
tourney, top Concord

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee volley-
bail team recovered from some first-
week injuries to take the Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College Tournament
championship for the third straight
year, highlighting a week that saw
the Generals lose only once.

After splitting six matches in the
Haverford Tournament to start the
year without the services of senior
Lisa Jay and junior Mena McGowin
for several games, the Generals were
glad to see the two team leaders
return.

W&L rolled through the R-MWC
tournament field, getting contributions
from the whole team, before facing a
tough Meredith team in the finals.
The Generals fell behind but rallied
to take the title.

Although the results of the tourna-
ment do not count toward W&L’s
overall record, the Generals were
feeling confident when they traveled
to West Virginia to take on Bluefield
and Concord.

With a healthy team, W&L forced
Bluefield to three games before fall-
ing 15-11, 10-15, 15-5. In the night-
cap, against Concord, the Generals

 

 

 

 

 

Lisa Jay

...48 assists leads team ,

rebounded from the setback to Bluey
field with a 15-12, 7-15, 15-6 win
over Concord to even their record at
4-4 on the season.

A healthy McGowin teamed with
sophomore Leslie Hess tg lead the
Generals’ attack. Each répistered 21
kills on the evening, while Jay, thé
team’s quarterback, handed out 48
assists.

The Generals will host Shen:
andoah on Friday in the Warmer
Center before starting their Old Do‘
minion Athletic Conference schedule

next week.

{

Meadows runner-up in Rolex event»

 

From Staff Reports

 

Last weekend, Washington and
Lee played host to the NCAA
Division III Rolex Southeast Regional
Tennis Championships.

Although the tournament was an
individual tournament, the W&L team
made an impressive showing.

Senior Bill Meadows, the defend-
ing NCAA Division [II doubles
champion and second seed in the

     

-Woolrich
-Flannel Shirts
-Khaki Pants

 

Phone 464-TACO

 

 

tournament, played his way through
the 64-man draw into the finals.

In the finals, he was beaten in
straight sets by the top seed Scott
Flippen-Read from Washington Col-
lege. Flippen-Read knocked W&L’s
John Morris out of the NCAA Div-
ision III singles championships last
year.

Meadows did not lose a set en
route to the finals before falling 6-1,
6-4 to Flippen-Read. Meadows de-
feated Hannu Martti (Averett) 6-3, 6-

3, Rush Cole (Christopher Newport)
6-2, 6-1, Tom Sullivan (Lynchburg)
6-4, 6-4, and Alberto Diaz (Washing-
ton College) 6-1, 6-3 to get to the
finals.

W&L’s Rob MacNaughton, a
sophomore, reached the quarterfinals
before being ousted by Flippen-Read
6-1, 6-4. To reach the quarterfinals,
MacNaughton topped teammate Rob-
ert Wein 6-3, 6-4.

Senior Reid Manley reached the
round of 16 before falling to Diaz,

the tournament’s sixth seed, 6-2, 7-
is ,

In the doubles tournament, Mead-
ows and MacNaughton, the second
seeds, reached the semi-finals before
falling to Carlos Nuno and Andy
Bohutinsky 6-3, 7-6 (8-6). ’

The eighth seeded duo of W&L’s
Wein and Richard Yates reached the
quarterfinals before losing to eventual
champions Flippen-Read and Trevor
Hurd of Washington College.

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC. —

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

 

Beads ® Sequins * Pompons ¢ Bandannas ® T-Shirts * Incense
Balloons ¢ Clay * Flags © Games ® Rockets * Paint *Models
Stamps ¢ Trains ® Feathers ¢ Stencils * Velcro *Clothespins
Eyes @ Ribbons ¢ Styrofoam ¢ Adhesives ¢ Glitter ¢Chenille

 

 

   

   
   
 

Monday - Saturday
ae 31S. Main St., Lexington

Jills a Lady

Welcome Back W&L

We have a full line of clothes
for the well dressed Co-ed
Robert Scott Sweaters - David Brook Sportswear
Skyr Turtlenecks
(long sleeves & sleeveless)

10 a.m. -5 p.m.
463-3355

Colors Galor 463-5434

Pam says read.
next month’s_ .
supplement

 

 

 

 

 

 

MOUNTAIN COPY-GRAPEICS

IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE NEW SATURDAY HOURS!
ene 9:00 AM TONOON ———

RESUMES

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA e« ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

PHONE : 463 - 1712

 

——_—-,,

CATHOLIC
CAMPUS

CC MINIsTRY
St. Patrick’s Church

 

Welcome Back Students!

Mass Schedule:

Saturday 5:00 p.m.
Sunday 8:00 a.m.
10:00 a.m.

Penance:
4:00 p.m. Saturday

 

 

 

 

FAX #: 463- 6918

 

 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE i]

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales

703-463-3478

Lee Hi Restaurant

1-800-768-LEHI

 

 

eee FE ee

WILLSON-
WALKER
HOUSE

Restaurant

Have A Date With A Lobster

Lobsterfest Saturday Only
5:30 -
1 1/4 Lb. Live Maine Lobster
Includes: Homemade Muffins & Rolls
Fresh Vegetables
Potato or Rice

$24.00
463-3020 Reservation Requested

9:00

 

CAUTION!

Books at work: the way ‘

equality is presented in

these titles Is offensive to

same people ‘

© Bury My Heart at '
Wounded Knee by Dee
Brown

¢ The Rabbit's Wedding by
Garth Williams {

¢ The Adventures of
Huckleberry Finn by
Mark Twain

* Color Purple by Alice
Walker

¢ | Know Why the Caged
Bird Sings by
Maya Angelou

¢ Jubilee by Margaret
Walker

¢ Slaughterhouse Five by
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.

* Tell Me How Long the
Train's Been Gone by
James Baldwin

* To Kill a Mockingbird by
Harper Lee

Banned Books Week:
Celebrating the
Freedom to Read
September 22-29,1990

The University Bookstore
is proud to sell

BANNED BOOKS
Mon.-Fr. 8-4, Sat. 10-2

 

 

 

 
gi W & ( i : ’ The Ring-tum Phi, September 20, 1990

«
.
=
¥
-

 

 

 

Profs’ offices have personality

 

By Ashley Harper
Entertainment Editor

 

Whether Washington and Lee’s
faculty offices are filled with element
charts, skeletons, thousands of com-
pact discs, books, maps or artifacts,
€ach one is unique and has a story
to tell.

As nervous accounting students
enter Associate Professor of Account-
ing Lyn F. Wheeler’s office in the
Commerce school, they might not
notice the collection of over 150 toys
which line his book shelves.

Wheeler said, ‘‘Toys are more
reflective than you would think, eco-
nomically speaking. I think the level
of the toy satisfaction reflects well
the country’s economy.

“I moved to the capital of Malay-
Sia to teach for a year. While I was
there I realized the world of toys is
changing to plastic and Nintendo.
There aren’t any real toys anymore.
My interest in toys got me to go
places.’’

Wheeler spent nine weeks in
Saigon, where they sell only hand
made toys, such as the airplane made
out of Coca-cola and Heinekin cans
in his collection. While in Burma,
Wheeler found only primitive wooden
toys. These toys are the best these
areas can produce, he said.

The Eastern Block toys, such as
those from the USSR, are heavy and
bulky. However, in Czechoslovakia
the toys are more advanced. East
German stores will only buy West
German toys even though no one can
afford to purchase them. Egypt man-
ufactures no toys; they are all made
in other countries, Wheeler said.

Other toys in his collection in-
clude dump trucks, trains, double
decker buses, horses and _ tankers,
flying toys, noisy toys end many
others.

When asked about how he started
his collection, Wheeler said it wasn’t
intended to be a collection. It is a
hobby he acquired.

Wheeler said, ‘‘It is not important
what your hobby is, but thai you
have it. Hobbies make you more
interested, not more interesting.”’

Professor of Politics Craig W.
| McCaughrin recalled a few years ago
when he came to his office to do
work on a Saturday and found some-

 
    

  

one preparing for a debate in his
office. The student said, ‘‘I’m sorry,
I just wanted to find an empty room
to practice in.’’

It may be a bit shocking when
you first enter McCaughrin’s office,
but it is an office. Every one of his
besk shelves, his desk and all his
counter space are completely empty.
Some may think he hasn’t settled into
his office yet, but it has remained
empty ever since he came to W&L
ten years ago.

McCaughrin has the few books he
needs in his office behind cabinet
doors. These are only the books he
will use for the entire year and the
books he is reading in order to write
reviews for the six different journals
he submits to.

McCaughrin said,‘‘In teaching, I
believe in varying the medium such
as with video tape, computers, films
and speakers instead of just reading
out of a textbook.

“I remember as a student myself,
I had a very short attention span.
The class that kept my attention was
the one which had variety. Can you
imagine a 15 week or even year long
course, in some cases, that doesn’t
vary from the textbook?’’

Even at home, the few books on
his shelves belong mostly his wife,
Russian instructor Greta McCaughrin.
McCaughrin said the C-school jan-
itors tell him that his is their favorite
office to work in.

McCaughrin said he always laughs
when he thinks of a period during an
office scramble in the C-school. All
the other Political Science professors’
offices were located upstairs. When
asked if he would like join the rest
of his department, the person said,
‘Would you like to move to another
office? You won’t have much trouble
moving your books upstairs.”’

In Robinson Hall, Professor of
Mathematics Thomas O. Vinson
proudly displays an Elvis lamp in his
office.Vinson said, ‘‘i have always
admired the King up through movies
like Love Me Tender and Blue Haw-
ati: My wife bought the lamp for my
birthday.”’

Although the Elvis lamp may be
the prominent article in his office,
Vinson has much more in store. He
has funny pictures hanging on his
bulletin board, as well as a present
from his son’s friend, a sumo wres-

Penh

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 16 DIFFEREN T MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY
LOW PRICES!

 

tling calendar.

One of Vinson’s oldest novelties
is an electric rolling ocean scene
valued around $250. Vinson said,
“You wouldn’t think something so
tacky would cost so much. I found
this one in my wife’s mother’s attic.’’

Associate Accounting Professor J.
Kevin Green has moved into a new
office, adding an oriental rug and
comfortable chairs.

Green said that he didn’t expect
reactions from other faculty members.
Green said, ‘‘I have never cared
much for sitting behind a desk to talk
to someone on the other side of a

 

desk. I am more comfortable talking
in a situction like this.”’

The living room aura surrounding
this part of the old C-school study
lounge was created by his wife, and
interior decorator. The office is still
not complete, however. Green’s
WWII American and British aircraft
prints haven't been hung, and a few
other pieces of furniture haven't
arrived.

Green uses lamplight instead of
fluorescent light because, ‘‘(icmplight)
reduces the artificiality of the place.
Fluorescent lights make it look like a
professional office, a doctor’s office.’

 

 

 

 

All Day

6 p.m.

7 p.m.

All Day

11am.

7 p.m.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 24

WEEKLY CALENDAR

S B

EAST ASIAN STUDIES CONFERENCE: "Oppositional Politics
in Twentieth-Century China." Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall.
For more information, call Roger Jeans (463-8777) or
Karen Lyle (463-8798).

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Last date to
register for Oct. 6 LSAT. CD&P Office.

VOLLEYBALL: Generals vs. Shenandoah College, Southern
Seminary. Warner Center.

POLITICS FILMFEST: A Clockwork Orange. Northen
Auditorium, University Library.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: MEN'S TENNIS: James Madison
Invitational.

 

EAST ASIAN STUDIES CONFERENCE: "Oppositional Politics
in Twentieth-Century China.”

MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY: Generals vs. Mary Washington,
Washington College; WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY:
Generals vs. Mary Washington, University of Richmond.

POLITICS FILMFEST: A Clockwork Orange. Northen
Auditorium, University Library.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: FOOTBALL: Centre College;
WATER POLO: Va. State Championships, Richmond;
WOMEN'S SOCCER: Marymount; MEN'S SOCCER:
Roanoke; MEN'S TENNIS: J.M.U. Invitational; WOMEN'S
TENNIS: Centre College.

AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: WATER POLO: Va. State
Championships, Richmond.

 

 

Professor of Accounting Lyn Wheeler's office is not quite what
you'd expect from a C-School professor. His shelves are lined with
more than 150 toys he has collected from all over the world. Staff

photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 p.m. Informational briefing on deactivation process for W&L Army
R.O.T.C. program. Military Science Building.
4 p.m. MEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Guilford. Liberty Hall Field.
4:30 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Deadline for
Resume Drop | (Oct. companies).
Last date to register for Oct. 20 GMAT. CD&P Office.
4 p.m. WOMEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Roanoke. Liberty Hall Field
, 8 p.m. CONCERT GUILD: Audubon Quartet, with Pamela Woods,
oboe. Lee Chapel.
B
7 p.m. LECTURE: "The Politicization of Higher Education," Charles
P Sykes, author, journalist. Lee Chapel. Public invited,
AWAY ATHLETIC EVENT: MEN'S SOCCER: Shenandoah .
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27
3:30 p.m. MATH COLLOQUIUM: "An Unsolved Problem on the d-cube,'
Kathy Hoke, University of Richmond. Room 6, Robinson
Hall. Refreshments at 3 p.m. in Room 2. Public invited.
4 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Test
Interpretation. Room 108, University Center;
Resume Workshop. Room 109, University Center.
5 p.m. CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Amy E. Aussiker '91. Room 401,
Howe Hall. Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.
6 p.m, VOLLEYBALL: Generals vs. Sweet Briar. Warner Center.
8 p.m. SHANNON-CLARK LECTURE: "Reading and Theory: The

Example of Cranford," J. Hillis Miller, University of Californie
at Irvine. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public
invited.

 

 

 

pe Stn, ee

 

Charmin
Bath Tissue

 

 
 

Anacin Tablets
Or Caplets

  
  

  
 

 

 

 

 

|
|Old Fashioned

 
   

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

 

 

Tn i

be nit add

 

2 Liter Bottle

Coca-Cola,
Sprite

199

  

 

 

 

  
 
 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, September 25, 1990
 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 20, 1990

I would've bought a Macintosh even without

 

the student discount.

Greg Gallent
Consumer Economics and Housing
Cornell University

 

“The first time I saw a Macintosh, was immediately hooked. 15 hours. What a waste.

Ita work of art. saw the student pricing and my next move “Macintosh, on the other hand, is a logical extension of the

was obvious: get one. mind. It lets you concentrate on what's in your paper, not
“Some other computers are cheaper, but they're a pain on how to get it on paper. You can create professional-looking

to leamn,and working on them can be agruel-
ing experience. Last year, a friend bought
another kind of computer against my
advice and has used it for maybe

documents in minutes, and you lose the fear of learning
new programs because they all work in the same way.
“Once you've worked with a Macintosh,
there's no turning back’

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 

For more info contact
the Computer Center
Tucker Hall, Room 215A

é.

Why do people love Macintosh?
Ask them.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1m

ae | Mraintosh 630

Y ioersaae, F hicehls “7 Rand CO SOO NEON Ge CD Ne ene ce

Re emer man crite Mert en manent ma eouenrne et mheanee att tr Me ae sesst mongers gm erp eR Ltnneg sl | -RaRON im ob Sy paler tate ma in (fam GREATS WHE ERA AN lOO EBERT EHO ORIG I EON NN

 

 
~

¥]

Dorm counselor takes aim at Spectator -- see page 3

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 6

 

 

Study break

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 27, 1990

IFC heads break rules

Freshmen say Lewis gave beer, Skarda dirty rushed

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

Interfraternity Council President Goodloe Lewis gave
beer to a freshman during Rush, and IFC Vice-President
Michael Skarda dirty rushed a freshman, both of which
are violations of IFC Rush regulations, according to two
freshmen.

Freshman Trevor Norris said Lewis gave him beer at
the Hollins Apartment Party on Tuesday, Sept. 11, during
the first week of Rush.

‘‘We were sitting there rapping. I had had a beer,
but I put it down when I saw Goodloe. We were talk-
ing and I told him I was going to go look for my
roommate. Before I left, he said, ‘Hey, man, do you need
a beer?’ I said ‘yes’ and he went and got me one,”’
Norris said.

Lewis would not comment on the specific incident,
saying he had responded to those charges two weeks ago

House faces
drug charges

Pi Phi under investigation for
offering drugs during rush

Howison said he had talked to

 

By Jason Kelley

in an interview with the Phi and that he felt he didn’t
need to comment on them again.

‘If he wants to bring it up as a Rush violation, he
should bring it before the board and we will investigate
it,’’ Lewis said.

Jeffrey Mikita, also a freshman, said that Skarda made
disparaging remarks about other fraternities to Mikita
while he was at Skarda’s fraternity house.

‘In my case, the time I got the worst dirty rushing
was when ... Mike, who already knew me — he knew
my name — grabbed me a beer, took me back to his
room and told me how certain other houses were hor-
rible and how I should be at’’ his house, Mikita said.

Skarda originally said he did not remember the
incident.

‘*I wish I could remember that incident. If he says I
did it, then I suppose I did. If I had a lot of liquor in
me, it’s possible,’’ Skarda said.

Skarda later said he doubted the incident occurred.

‘I have wracked my brain trying to remember. I
don’t believe I did that,’’ he said.

Skarda also agreed that Mikita’s complaint should
have been brought before the IFC.

‘tHe should have handled it through the IFC and not
through the Phi,’’ he said.

Skarda said he thought Mikita’s accusations warranted
an EC investigation.

‘*As far as I’m concerned, this should not be a Phi
investigation,’ he said, ‘‘This should be turned over to
the BC.’

Mikita said, ‘‘The thing I find most ironic is that
Mike Skarda stood up at the rush orientation meeting and
said there should be no dirty rush, and that if there is by
any house you should come up and talk to him.”’

Skarda agreed that dirty rush is a Rush violation.

‘I don’t approve of dirty rush and I don’t think it’s
right,’’ he said.

Mikita said, in his opinion, dirty rush reflects badly
on houses that do it.

‘I’m not saying this just to screw someone,”’ he said,
‘but every freshman I talked to said when they’re dirty
rushed, they’re immediately turned off on that house.’

 

OKE
K®

THE SNAG

 

 

 

Attack
reports
continue

Wa&L seniors cite
Sunday attack

 

By Macon Miles

 

 

Garnet Wilbourne, a W&L

under the watchful eye of
Cyrus McCormick, the 19th
century Rockbridge Countian

crop by Inventing the reaper,

allowed the Collonade to
compete with University
Library for the study
atmosphere of choice.
Staff Photo by Chris
Leiphart.

junior, hits the books yesterday

who made cotton a viable cash

thus perpetuating slavery in the
South. Mild temperatures have

Staff Reporter

Pi Kappa Phi is under investiga-
tion for allegedly offering or giving
illegal drugs to freshmen during
Rush, according to Dean of Students
David Howison.

“The Dean of Students office, in
conjunction with Dean Ruscio (Assis-
tant Dean of Students in charge of
freshmen), did a preliminary inquiry
and at this point the investigation is
still open,’’ Howison said.

Howison refused to say whether
the Lexington police were involved in
the investigation.

Pi Phi President Skip Sugarman
vehemently denied the allegations that
members of his fraternity gave drugs
to freshmen. ‘‘I have no control over
the rumors floating around campus,”’
he said.

‘I asked every member of the
fraternity individually, on their honor
and witnessed by two officers of the
house, if they had offered any drugs
to freshmen,’’ he said. ‘‘Every one of

members of the fraternity about the
problem and had been in consultation
with Sugarman. He also, noted that
University President John Wilson is
not involved in the investigation.

Ruscio said he understood that
there were allegations of a specific
member of the Pi Phi giving drugs to
a specific freshman, but he refused to
say who was involved or how the
Dean’s office learned of the allega-
tions.

‘‘There’s not nearly enough hard
facts to know which way to go at
this point,’’ Ruscio said.

Ruscio said that he and Dean
Howison were working together on
the investigation and that he did not
know if the police were involved.

Sugarman said his fraternity
would not stand for anyone who gave
out drugs to freshmen.

“My position on this, and the
houses -- we voted on this -- is that
if someone were offering a freshman
drugs, they have no business being in
this house,’’ he said. ‘‘And if they

sat across from me and lied, they
have no business being in_ this

 

 

LE

 

 

 

Staff Reporter

 

Lexington police are investigating
an assault on two Washington and
Lee students who said they were at-
tacked by a group of men early Sun-
day morning.

Seniors John Phoenix and Chris
Berdy said they were harassed by the
black men as they walked on Ran-
dolph Street between 2 and 2:30 a.m.
Sunday.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard said the men allegedly fol-
lowed Phoenix and Berdy a few
blocks to Henry Street, where they
exchanged blows. ‘‘Berdy was struck
numerous times in the back of the
head, but no visible injuries resulted.
Phoenix suffered a laceration of the
lower right side of the lip,’’ Beard
said.

Beard said the case is under in-
vestigation.Phoenix and Berdy claim
to be able to identify the men who
attacked them.

Police reported that a group of
youths raided a fraternity party last
Saturday and and another group of

 

 

them said no.”’

 

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

When the Executive Committee
begins budget deliberations tonight,
they will face concerns posed by Stu-

» dent Activities Board Chairwoman

Kathleen Duwel about the relation-
ship of the SAB and the Student Bar
Association.

Duwel expressed concern the SAB
in past years has been held account-
able for involvement of law students
in SAB-sponsored events because the

_ SAB is funded by the student activi-

*

ties fund. The SBA, however, re-
ceives a budget for law school enter-
tainment from the student activities
fund as well.

The SBA usually recovers most
of the law students’ contribution to
the student activities fund. Much of it
is allocated to class parties, which are
not advertised on the undergraduate
campus, though Duwel said past ECs
have expected the SAB to advertise
its functions on both campuses.

Duwel also said a substantial
amount of SBA money goes to the
purchase of alcohol, while the EC
ordered that the SAB purchase no

school.’’

alcohol with student body funds.

The SBA charged a fee of $51 a
law student, which will supplement
the student activities funding for a
1990-91 projected total of $62,111
available. More than $11,000 of that
budget is specifically designated to
purchase and serve alcohol in the
1990-91 SBA budget request. The
SBA requested $40,839 fron the EC
this year, $4,169 more than law stu-
dents contribute to the student activi-
ties fund for EC disbursement. Seco-
nd-year Law Class President David
Giles said such an allocation is war-
ranted,

 

 

men harrassed W&L students leaving

 

‘SAB, SBA divided on purpose of student fee

‘I feel that most of our enter-
tainment comes from the SBA bud-
get,’’ Giles said, though he does
maintain that the SAB has an obli-
gation to the law students.

Giles noted that the SBA budgets
many events where alcohol is not
served, Moreover, he cited the Out-
ing Club, an SBA-sponsored group,
as an example of undergraduate use
of student dollars granted to the SBA.
Giles said undergraduates have priori-
ty in using Outing Club equipment.

Giles also said the SBA request is

 

a bar last Sunday. One woman was
reported injured in the incident Satur-
day night.

Despite the latest incident, Beard
said he was pleased with the relative-
Renee 4 ly uneventful weekend. Only eight

— arrests were made for minor in pos-
session and three arrests for drunken
in public. Most of these were stu-
dents from other schools, Beard said.

Concerning tear night Beard said,
“Tt has been a whole lot better than
in years past.”’

Every other Thursday, the presi-
dents of the fraternities meet with the
police. ‘‘I believe the student rela-
tions program has helped a whole
lot,’’ Beard said. ‘‘I’m very pleased
with the student body this year. I’m
pleased with the cooperation of the

 

 

Q Please see SAB page 6

Kathleen Duwel

students this year when it comes to
noise violations or confrontations.’

White males predominate in new faculty crop

 

By Andrew Schneider
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee hired 16 new faculty
members this year, but only four of them are
women and none is black.

‘‘We are very interested in having both
women and minorities join the faculty, but we
are always guided by the principle of hiring
the most talented and best person in the
pool,’’ Dean of the College John Elrod said.

W&L will never hire someone just be-
cause that person is a female or a minority,
Elrod said, unless that person is also the best-
suited for the job.

Pamela Simpson, an art history professor
and the only female full professor and
department head at W&L, said, ‘The scenario

that you'll hire only the best qualified,
regardless of whether they’re women or
blacks, is a little simplistic. There are all
sorts of things that come into the decision-
making process,”’

New faculty members are more likely to
be male, Simpson said, because they are
expected to fit into the predominately male
W&L atmosphere easier than women and
minorities.

Elrod said the university tries to get as
many women and minorities as possible into
the applicant pools. Advertising openings in
journals targeted to black people, writing to
graduate school deans to inform them of
openings and the minority All But Disserta-
tion (A.B.D.) program are examples of
W&L’s effort to attract minority faculty mem
bers, he said.

A major difficulty of getting a repre-
sentative and diverse group of faculty
members is that the pool of women and black
candidates with Ph.D.’s is so small, Elrod
said. In 1989, he said, women received only
38 percent of the Ph.D.’s in the United
States. For blacks that number was only 800,
half of which were in education — a field not
taught at W&L.

‘‘We have to compete with every other
top college and university in the country for
the 400’’ black ‘‘Ph.D.’s in the fields that
we're trying to make appointments,’’ he said.

Jarvis Hall, visiting minority A.B.D.
professor who is one of only two black
faculty members at W&L, thinks more can be
done to increase the number of minority fac-
ulty members here.

‘‘The limited pool issue is a real one,”’

Jarvis said. ‘‘But speaking in general and not
just of Washington and Lee, the limited pool
issue is sometimes used as a convenient way
of saying, ‘Well, we just can’t get them.’ But
the next question has to be what are you
doing to attract and compete for this limited
pool.”

Professor Bruce H. Herrick, a professor of
economics who helped conduct the search for
new faculty members in the Commerce
School, said that he often asked himself the
question, ‘‘If I were black and my ancestors
were slaves how would I feel about coming
to a place where Lee, who fought very
valiantly and effectively to maintain my
ancestors in slavery, is buried?’’

But Hall said, ‘‘It obviously didn’t hinder
me from making the decision to come here.’’
Hall said important things to him were the

‘opportunity to teach what I wanted to teach
and the opportunity to teach very good stu-
dents,”’

Ann Wortham, an assistant professor of
sociology and the only black tenured
professor at W&L, said she thinks it is wrong
for W&L or any other school to make it a
priority to hire a diverse faculty.

‘‘The University’s purpose is to hire the
most qualified people to teach and not to
duplicate every facet of the larger external
social environment,’’ she said.

But Simpson says it is important to have
a diverse faculty because it provides role
models for people like women and minorities.
“If you’re a young black student and the
only other black faces on campus are janitors
and food workers, then what's the subtle mes-
sage there about where you belong?”’
 

 

 

OPINION

When honor. is
used to conceal

So much talk about honor and so little indication of it.

Today’s issue of the Phi contains a story about al-
legations of rush violations committed by the top two
officials of the Interfraternity Council. That’s the bad news.

The worse news is that one of those named in the story,
Michael Skarda, seems intent on sweeping the revelation of
the scandal under an Executive Committee rug. Skarda
threatened to turn the investigation of his alleged Rush
violation over to the EC; a move that, if successful, would
prohibit further discussion of the case. According to White
Book regulations, once an honor investigation begins,
nothing can be written or spoken about the case.

There is an old journalistic tenant that says if truth and
falsehood are allowed to grapple freely in the arena of
public discourse, truth will always prevail eventually. That
belief, among other things, is what keeps us going when
public figures bluster their way around probing questions
and refuse to give straight answers. ‘‘Just keep the matter in
the forefront of the public’s attention,’’ we tell ourselves,
‘‘and sooner or later the truth will be revealed — for
whomever’s benefit.”’

Unfortunately, Skarda doesn’t, in our opinion, seem to
want to let truth and supposition battle publicly in this case.
He appears intent on keeping the accusations against him out
of the public eye. He is threatening to take an honor case
before the EC that is invalid on its face — nobody is
accusing anyone of lying at all here.

The freshman said Skarda dirty rushed him, and the best
:| reply Skarda could muster was that he might have done it
:| but — by golly — he really can’t remember. The freshman
‘| isn’t accusing Skarda of an honor violation; he is accusing
Skarda of fracturing Rush rules the other fraternities trusted
him to enforce and uphold. This is a problem not addressed
by the White Book. And since Skarda can’t seem to
remember whether he dirty rushed or not, it doesn’t appear
from our viewpoint that he has a solid recollection of facts
on which to base any charges of a breach of the Honor
Code.

It should not be tolerated that he could hush up public
discussion of the allegations, and silence debate on the
repercussions that would follow swiftly and surely if the
accusations are in fact true.

In order for our principle of student government to work,
we must be able to hold our representatives accountable for
their failures as well as their triumphs.

Skarda is: rendering.asunder the very fabric of the Honor
Code, perverting and debasing it to cover up for the wrong-
doing that he may (or may not) be responsible for. How
honorable, we ask, is it to use the confidentiality of an
honor investigation to prevent the W&L community from
knowing the truth about what really happened?

Nowhere in his statements printed today does Skarda
accuse the freshman of being less than forthright, so why
therefore does he desire to take the matter before the EC?

It would be logical for a neutral observer to wonder why
Skarda wouldn’t want our community to judge the facts in
an open, public forum if he really believes he is innocent of
:| dirty rushing. That way, everyone could make up their own
:| mind as to the veracity of his denials. Perhaps that is
» | exactly what Skarda fears the most.

President Wilson charged the seniors with providing
| leadership and setting the proper example for the classes to
‘| follow. Skarda’s desire to close off discussion of the
allegations against him is not the type of leadership this
campus needs.

The two freshmen acted nobly and courageously in
bringing forth their stories of hypocrisy at the very top of
the IFC. We ask Skarda to act equally bravely and
honorably by letting each member of our community make
up their minds about the charges against him.

 

 

ey

The Ring-tum Phi,

September 27, 1990

 

  

  

IFC WARNING
All Dirty RUSH
trespassers
will be

pre secutect,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

: f Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208

of the University Center,*by noon on Tuesday to appear in that

week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
. Post Office Box:899
Lexington; Virginia
24450

enna

 

 

 

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

 

Every year it gets cold. The leaves begin
changing colors, the grass stops growing and every
cricket in Virginia migrates into my bedroom to
spend the fall and winter communicating in their
native chirping language. Initially, I try to tolerate
the crickets and their ear drum-piercing chirping
antics. Next, I kindly return them to their natural
habitat in my front yard. But somehow, the crick-
ets always return. I wonder how they keep getting
in the house. Maybe my landlord, in an under-
handed attempt to torture me, built a secret cricket
entrance into my. house. Finally; when. I ,can.no
longer take the chirping, I normally round up the
crickets in the middle of the night and angrily
avenge myself by flushing them down the toilet
into the sewer, which is probably even colder than
my front yard.

This year, however, I hired a friend’s expert
cricket-catching dog (half-beagle, half-hound) to
exterminate my house. The dog, whose name is
Frick, represents everything I hate in dogs. Frick is
a female and rodent-sized, which contradicts my
definition of a dog. Dog: (Dog) n. a big, hairy,
male canine creature who salivates heavily,
devours cow cartilage in a matter of seconds,
parts his hair with his tongue, and feels that it

“Dorm Nazi’
clarification

The recent ‘‘dorm Nazi’’ article in the Spec-
tator requires at least one clarification.

It mentioned that ‘‘pass keys were used’’ last
spring by dorm counselors searching rooms for
alcohol. In fact, as the Phi accurately reported at
the time, one pass key was used in two rooms
by one counselor. It was wrong. He made a
mistake, and I told him so.

I do not know if he agreed with me. I sus-
pect he did not. He was a frequent contributor to
the Spectator, and | recall several good-natured
debates with him about the course of liberal
jurisprudence in this country. He decried the
tendency of ‘‘liberal’’ judges to be obsessively
concerned with the rights of the accused, the
careful adherence to procedure, and even the
right to privacy. He worried about letting viola-
tors of laws escape punishment because of
‘‘minor’’ procedural flaws. As someone slightly
to the left of him, I disagreed, and I am glad to
see the Spectator and I at last occupy some
common ground, even if it does come at the
expense of consistency on their part.

I look forward to further elaboration of the
Spectator’s new liberalism. An article justifying
why individuals need not obey laws they find
inconvenient or standing in the way of their self-
gratification would be much farther to the left
than I find comfortable, but now that the Spec-
tator is headed in that direction it is hard to
predict where they might stop.

Finally, in the interest of full disclosure, I
should add that the counselor who used his pass
key and wrote for the Spectator was one of the
five best counselors I have ever worked with, as
demonstrated by the countless hours he spent
helping freshmen out of academic difficulty,

- helping them survive (literally) some of the more

excessive violations of the alcohol policy, helping
them through several difficult personal problems
here and at home, and generally being one of the
most committed and’ insightful counselors we
have ever had.

He was also one of the finest individuals |
have ever known; and I, for one, can excuse the
only two errors of judgement he made at-W&L -
inappropriately using his pass key and unwisely

a WL a j

ig

 

IF you HAVE A PRoBLEM ~~~
WITH THIS, PlgAse REPORT - 2 ~

 

 

44 . , i
ee ne coe -
nee x ca
, , eee _ a = :
- fh —— = —_
Pe

 

 

a gee ee ict ae é ‘
: - gor: Sie : = ae ao =
ete — Pa es panes ey wot Ee ae 2
: Ss a pt merenetens oe = 2 a ee ‘g a <<a ~ es we poe
= - ae ee a Ei eS en , see
ee a i = OS = Se a : ae eh oar a “we
Sg, OD eras od =e ee =e SS ees 2 = j
<a ee sed ee et

— a or

Sbar: The new etiquette columnist? ©

is his inalienable right to sniff your prom date’s
genital area. Watching Frick run around my house
eating crickets made me re-evaluate my dog
prejudices. Frick’s no Labrador Retriever, but she
definitely ranks above your average toy poodle that
wears sweaters and goes to the hair stylist.

You know, it’s tough writing humor. Sure, it’s
easier that manual labor or banking or jumping
rope, but it’s still pretty tough. For one thing, it’s
hard to tell if what you just wrote will make
people laugh so hard that they urinate in their
pants and accidentally snort the soft drink they
were drinking. Sometimes I ask myself if writing
about crickets and cricket-eating dogs is a worthy
pursuit. To diminish these doubts, I do all of my
writing with a laugh track playing in the back-
ground.:I,used to pay attractive, models. to come.to
my house in skimpy lingerie and laugh every time

I finished a sentence, but I ran out of money. My,

laugh track is a great asset. He laughs at everyth-
ing I write, he never gets philosophical and he
makes a great drinking buddy. Unfortunately, he
does have a minor personality conflict with my
computer. Once the laugh track convinced my dog
Billabong (who, incidentally, is large and male) to
help him take the computer apart and salivate on
the microchips.

It just occurred to me that my best friend is a
laugh track. Maybe I should quit writing humor.
Maybe I should write a_nationally-syndicated
column advising people on the complex subject of

 

    

human behavior. Maybe I should become a male
version of Miss Manners. For those barbarians out
there who don’t read her column, Miss Manners is
a syndicated columnist who advises people on the

finer points of etiquette, and refers to herself in the ,

third person as if she were a professional athlete.
Here’s a typical Miss Manners reply to the much-
debated question of fork use: ‘‘Dear Gentle Reader,
Miss Manners thinks anyone who eats his main
course with a salad fork should be politely beaten
over the head with a baseball bat.’’ ;

I think I will become male version of Miss
Manners. How convenient, I just received an
important etiquette question by telegram.

Dear Mr. Manners,

When I am using a urinal in a public bath-
room, is it appropriate to strike up ‘a conversa-
tion with the person next to me?

Dear Gentle Reader, =

Mr. Manners thinks it is best to remain silent
and stare at the bathroom tiles in front of you
when you are using a public urinal. If, however,
you do decide to strike up a conversation with
the person using the urinal next to you, I sug-
gest that you say something very macho, like,
“I’ve already consumed a case of beer tonight
and this is the first time I’ve had to urinate.’’

Remember readers, send your important eti-
quette questions to my home at 800 McCorkle Dr.,
Lexington, Va, 24450. In the meantime, I will be
busy with Miss Manners making a Mr. Manners Jr.

piacower bh?

 

LETTERS

being associated with a publication that now calls
him a Nazi.

Sincerely,

Kenneth P. Ruscio
Assistant Dean of Students
for Freshmen

A reminder
from the Pit

It’s that time of year again, to bring to the
attention of the student body a reminder of the
Virginia ABC laws and how they apply to our
GHQ tavern.

The Student Activities Board will continue
their ‘‘Wednesdays in the Pit’’ program again
this year. Students are reminded that the GHQ,
unlike the Pavilion, which is not licensed by the
state, does hold an ABC license that allows us
to serve beer and wine in the restaurant. Unlike
the Pavilion, the GHQ stands to lose its ABC
license to serve beer and wine if the laws are
violated.

The following rules are in effect in the GHQ
on band nights:

1. Only those 21 years of age may purchase and
consume alcohol.

2. Non-W&L students under 18 years of age will
not be admitted.

3. All students will be required to show 2 forms
of I.D. — a valid driver’s license and a college
L.D.

4. No pitchers will be sold on beer nights, only
glasses.

5. Any student caught giving beer to a minor or
any minor caught consuming beer will have
his/her W&L I.D. confiscated, be ejected for the
evening and banned from GHQ band nights for
a month. I.D.’s may be picked up the following
morning in my office in Evans Hall. Second
violations will result in banishment from GHQ
band nights for the remainder of the year in ad-
dition to being reported to the Student Conduct
Committee.

Kemember two things, using a false 1.D. is a
possible honor violation and secondly, you do not
want to be the.one responsible for causing the
university to lose its privilege of offering the sale

 

of beer and wine on our restaurant menu.

The message is clear. Come on down, ‘‘get
down,”’ have a good time. Enjoy our expanded
alternative beverage menu. If you are 21, you
may continue to purchase your favorite cold bev-
erage.

Sincerely,
Jerry Darrell
Director of Food Service.

Extend limits
of honor code

The Sept. 13 editorial page statements con-
cerning the W&L Honor Code suggest that
responsible students recognize the university faces
a moral crisis. In view of the campus debate
over how to meet the crisis, I offer the sugges-
tion that W&L students begin thinking of lying,
cheating and stealing in terms beyond the limits
of candy bars, class assignments and the like.

Legalities fall by the way in the light of
broader ethical concepts. Date rape, for example,
becomes the theft of another person’s right to
choose. Encouraging other students to drink
excessively is, in this larger view of honor,
stealing intangibles such as clear thinking and
safe driving skills from peer victims.

Students who trash a house in a neighborhood
cheat long-time residents out of the tranquility of
their environment. And students who travel at
high speed along a road rob security from every
other driver and pedestrian in their path. The
merry-maker who blows an auto horn or parties
loudly at 2 a.m. steals rest from persons dis-
turbed by the noise.

A multitude of other examples suggest them-
selves when an individual reflects on ethics from
this larger view. True community is possible
when the student body moves beyond the candy
bar limits of honor. Take a look in the mirror,
Instead of lying to yourself about whose life or
property it is, think of whom you may be robb-
ing or cheating with your actions. Honor is no
small matter.

Sincerely,
Dolores Bausum
area resident

 

 
OPINION

Counselor rebukes Spectator

 

MY VIEW :
By Mary Hampson

 

To the Spectator Staff:

This letter is not to be read in part; if you start
it, please finish it. .

While sending a copy of this letter to the Spec-
tator, | am also submitting it to the Phi so that it
will be printed soon and I can get this over with.

Reading the recent article entitled ‘‘Dorm
Nazis,’’ I was surprised and saddened by several
aspects of not only the article itself, but of the
attitude of the whole publication. The first frus-
trating aspect of the article was its irrelevance.
Let’s get this straight: last year’s incident was an
admitted error in judgement; it took place in the
past, under a completely different Executive Staff,
and not one of us this year was involved at all. A
long time before this article came out, I, as the
Head Dorm Counselor, made it abundantly clear
that such an incident would not reoccur. So relax.
But what was the point of bringing it up again?
What axe are you trying to grind?

These questions lead to a second frustrating
aspect of the article: its tone. Your insensitivity
as a publication to the dorm counseling staff is
astounding. By the biting sarcasm of the article,
I gathered that the author has an abiding distaste
for the concept of dorm counselors in general
which leaves me a bit puzzled about the Spec-
tator's traditional party-line. You moan endlessly
about erosion of student government and yet here
is a case of an effective, student-run system (the
dorms) in which, by articles such as these, you end
up pitting one group of students (freshmen) against
another group (dorm counselors) for no apparent
reason. While you relish the game of stirring
people up by provocative articles, this is distinctly
unhelpful when we are trying to establish the ever
delicate relationships with the freshmen right now.
Although I know how dearly you love to feed the
flames of controversy on this campus (all justified
in your own heads by what you perceive to be val-
iant journalistic exposition), to fling this up in our
faces after it was a dead issue was a cheap shot.

However, the Spectator’s hostility toward the
dorm counselors throughout this issue continues to
confuse me. Do you, the editing staff a) truly
believe that the dorm counselling system is as
sneaky, power-oriented and clannish as it sounds?
and b) actually think that the freshmen dorms need
no imposed order, no organized guidance for their
first year on campus? Surely not. If so, you may

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

have become numb to some of the disturbing

realities of life at W&L, or perhaps you are still

naive. You may say, “I had a great time fresh-
man year! I made it through just fine and my
dorm counselor had nothing to do with it." Well
we're all very happy for ycu, of course. But
unfortunately not everyone is like you. Not
everyone adjusts easily in the dorms and gets a bid
at the house they want. Not everyone
unscrupulously embraces the social scene here at
W&L which, so sickeningly enslaved to peer-
pleasing and alcohol worship as a social lubricant
and equalizer, can turn out to be a rather hollow,
vicious thing when all the glamour wears off, can
it not? (By the way, I was amazed by the flip
attitude toward alcohol over-use in this issue of the
Spectator. It is without a doubt one of the most
damaging and ignoble aspects of this campus, and
should be viewed by the Spectator as antithetical
to the very spirit of Washington and Lee since it
generally leads to self-centered and singularly
ungentlemanly/unladylike behavior.

 

All | am asking is that you
re-think your Criticisms of
the dorm counselors. And
this time, really do the
research.

All I am asking is that you re-think your
criticisms of the dorm counselors. And this time
really do the research. Bring a sleeping bag and
come into the dorms with us for a few days; you
can see what it’s like for yourselves if you've
forgotten. There is far more for dorm counselors
to do than act as policemen.

Perhaps you, the Spectator critics, think that all
of the touchy-feely counselling part is fine but
when it comes to enforcing the rules you would
prefer us to be impotent? We should listen to
their problems all they want but then wink and
smile and turn a blind eye when rules are broken?
You would have all the comforts of the system
without the teeth. Of course we cannot run things
that way. We live in the dorms obviously because
we like the freshmen, but there are also rules to
enforce (no alcohol, drugs, vandalism, etc.), to
preserve a peaceful, livable atmosphere in the
dorms. Surely you can understand this.

"Well, enforce the rules then,” you say. "Just
don’t be unconstitutional about it. Don’t break the
law of the land." Quite right; of all people I
couldn’t agree with you more. Thank you for your

 

concern for rule-breaking. However, your
impassioned cries for law-abiding make me laugh
when I think of how comfortable you feel with all
of the violations of Virginia State Law and even
the Interfraternity Council that goes on in fraternity
houses all the time. Could it be that the Hill and
dorms are the only entities you hold accountable to
rules? If your purpose in attacking the dorm
counselors is because of law-breaking, look

around you. Why are you not uniform in your
rage? Be consistent in your attacks; it is the least
you can do.

On a different issue, as far as the Spectator
itself goes, I sincerely regret the turn it has taken
as a publication. I hold what many would call a
pretty “conservative” line on many issues, but I
find myself strangely alienated intellectually from
the opinions in the Spectator. 1 cannot honestly
say that it is gracious, or enlightening, or even that
intellectual. It consistently seeks to tear down
more than build up. To spend the sponsors’ funds
solely to provoke seems wasteful.

I have also been shocked by the brazenness of
its insensitivity to minorities, and its carping on
and on about various campus committees without
offering any thoughtful, alternative solutions. The
readers hear ad nauseam about gentlemanliness; I
see it nowhere in the Spectator. You are dis-
respectful of faculty, administration and deans; your
criticisms are without finesse. You don’t have to
like all of their views--I know I certainly don’t--
but you ought to show them proper respect. Man-
ners are not incompatible with constructive
criticism.

Ray, Paul, Cameron, I know that you are all
intelligent and passionate about what you are
doing, but the Spectator is turning so many people
off to the few worthy portions of your publication
that it might be wise to reconsider your approach.
In this age of graceless, trashy writing, why not
publish a constructive, thoughtful journal instead of
slinging mud? It is usually better not to be a
stumbling block on the way to a cause if you want
to win advocates to it.

One final correction: you don’t seem to
understand a term you use. The word “Nazi” is
short for National Socialist, the German name for
an extremist political party that rose in post-World
War I Germany under the demonic misguidance of
Adolf Hitler. Nazis dabbled in the occult, twisted
Christian symbols, and exterminated millions of
Gypsies and Jews. As far as I know, this descrip-
tion does not characterize any of the dorm coun-
selors on my staff. Words have specific meanings;
you really ought to stop flinging this one around.

Molly Yard’s Frankenstein monster

 

argues that judges like the retiring

reached political and social Nirvana

But when Molly Yard and

MY VIEW

«By J. Cameron
Humphries

 

Lord only knows just what Molly
Yard and her entourage intended to
accomplish in their excursion to
Capital Hill and the Senate
confirmation hearings of Judge David
Souter. Perhaps they nostalgically
remembered the lynching of Judge
Bork and hoped that it might be once
more. Well, as Bart Simpson so
often says, "Au contraire mon frére."
Instead of discrediting the character
of Judge Souter, their words and
actions served only to enlighten the
confirmation committee and _ the
nation as to the true character of
themselves and the radical feminist
movement.

In an ironic sense of justice, Ms.
Yard finds her movement at the
mercy of a judicial monster that she
herself helped to create. The
appointment of a new Supreme Court
justice should mean as much to NOW
as most congressional elections
currently mean to the majority of the
populous -- very little. While most
concede that the liberals did not
invent judicial activism, no one

By Rick Peltz

John Quinn, ’91, Shreveport, LA -
- ‘Tear night is an evening full of
sound and fury, signifying nothing.’’

 

Justice Brennan resurrected, refined,
and perfected its art. Within the
framework of the constitution, the
Supreme Court should serve only to
interpret the constitution, not reshape,
redefine, and -- more often than not
-- blatantly rewrite it.

If these are functions of the
government at all, then they are
functions of the Congress and not
activist judges and their legal clerks.
And as the mandates of the Warren
court so clearly attest, this is most
definitely for a reason.

For nearly thirty years, it seemed
that every liberal special interest
group had their time at bat in the
Supreme Court. The liberals and the
nation ignored the Congress, allowing
its members to forget their constitutes
in favor of lucrative PACs and the
power-brokering game of throwing
other people’s money at every social
ill which somehow - struck _ the
conscience of a heartless political
body.
To Molly Yard, it did not make
sense to convince a divided and weak
Congress to enact legislature when all
she had to do was sit on papa
Brennan’s lap and ask for another
judicial decision.

The liberals thought they had

when Ronald Reagan slipped through
their choke hold on the nation.
Though much of the constitution’s
safeguards lay in ruin due to their
efforts, the liberals have not -- as yet
-- effectively dismantled its system of
checks and balances. As the first
generation of liberal judicial activists
retired, many of whom appointed by
Republican presidents in good faith,
Ronald Reagan had the opportunity to
restore much of the judicial system,
unquestioned. And he did so until
the nomination of Judge Bork and the
bloodletting which followed. For the
liberals, Bork’s confirmation did not
pose the question of judicial activism
versus constructionism, they were
concerned only with how activist the
judge was and for what political
purpose. Ms. Yard did not mind that
the Justices legislated from the bench
-- indeed, she hoped the justices
would -- but she saw _ the
confirmation hearings as an national
election campaign of sorts. The
liberals wrote letters to congressional
leaders, appealed to the nation
through the media, and acted as
though the Supreme Court were a
political body. Which, of course,
largely as a result of their own
actions it was and still is.

company returned to Capital Hill, the
nominee they faced was no Judge
Bork. In the weeks which preceded
the confirmation hearings, ~ the
feminists, and ironically practically
only the feminists, whined and
complained merely because the
nominee would not enable them to
politicize the nomination. They could
not attack his credentials. They
could not question his character.
They could only question his silence,
and those complaints fell largely on
deaf ears. What they did not want
was a judge with an open mind, for
a judge who intended to impartially
listen to both sides of a case before
making a decision lacked the one
qualification they sought. They
wanted a judge with an agenda.

It is precisely such a judge, one
who has left behind him a substantial
paper trail of stances on controversial
issues which, due to their own
actions, will soon no longer exist.
And the new type of justice resulting
from their own labors will be so
apolitical that the feminists will have
little to question other than the
appropriateness a senator referring to
Ms. Yard as a "lovely lady,” while
the rest of the nation ponders the
same,

 

TALKBACK

 

 

   

 

Concert at VMI

The United States Marine Band
from Washington will present a
concert at Virginia Military Insti-
tutc’s Cameron Hall at 8 pm.,
Tuesday, Oct. 2. Admission is
free, but patrons will be required
to have tickets in advance. Tickets
are available at the Cameron Hall
box office, by mail or at Lexing-
ton radio station WREL. Up to
six tickets per request will be
mailed to those sending a
stamped, self-addressed envelope
to: Marine Band, VMI Public
Relations, Lexington, VA
24450.

An Invitation

The International Club is holding
weekly meetings every Tuesday at
7 p.m. at the International House,
8 Lee Avenue. New members
are always welcome. For more
information, contact Rick Peltz at
464-5518.

Trail Rides

Stoney Run Trails in Buena Vista
has set up their fall schedule for
horse trail rides. They will offer
half day and all-day rides through
mid-November. For more infor-
mation or reservations, contact
Deborah Sensabaugh at (703) 261-
1910 or 464-3555.

Fulbright Grants

Applications are now available for
the Fulbright Foreign Scholarship.
The Fulbright grant is for
graduate study abroad. For more
information and to pick up an
application, see Professor Bruce
Herrick in Room 212 of the
Commerce School by Oct. 12.

Lecture Series
The Telford Lecture series will
debut its new season with Marina
Chetverikova, who will speak at
7:30 p.m. on Monday, Oct. 1 in
Northen Auditorium. Chetverikova
is a researcher on the U.S. and
Canada for a “think tank" in

Moscow. She will speak on the
future of socialism.

Lost and Found

A square-faced Hamilton watch
with the initials "JCF" on back
has been lost. If found, leave in
Carol Caulkin’s office in the
University Center. Also, a black
leather triangular-shaped key chain
with keys to a Honda has been
found, as has a gold charm
bracelet with five charms. Both
can be picked up in Caulkin’s
office.

 

GENERAL NOTES

Poetry Contest

Big Plans

The Outing Club is sponsoring
numerous activities, including a
hike up Elliot’s Knob (Sept. 29),
a hawk migration watch (Oct. 2),
biking trips (Sept. 29 and Oct. 6) |
and environmental action projects. ©
For more information, check the

bulletin board on the Colonnade
or contact Kirk Follo at 463-8828. :

Free Flick

The W & L Film Society will
show Jean de Florette (France,
1987), the movie adaption of
Marcel Pagnol’s novel of the
good and evil among Provencal
peasants in the 1920's, on Sept.
28 and 29. The movie will start
at 8:05 both nights and will be
shown in Lewis Hall, Classroom
ie

Foreign Study

The director of the Advanced
Studies program in England will
be on campus to meet with inter- ©
ested students on Thursday, Oct.
4 at 3 p.m. in Baker 106.

Save Money

The United Way of Lexington is
offering “Taste of the Town"
coupon booklets with discounts at
17 area restaurants. The booklet
has a value of $30, but is sold
for $10. The proceeds go to the
United Way and the booklet can
be bought in the GHQ, the Co-
op and the Bookstore,

The American Poetry Association
announces its poetry coutest for
all poetry writers. The contest is
open to everyone, and entry is
free. Original poems under 20
lines should be sent by Sept. 30
to the American Poetry .\ssocia-
tion, Dept. CO-84, 250-A Potrero
St., P.O. Box 1803, Santa Cruz,
CA 95061 by Sept. 30.

General Notes

Need to get the word out? Put it
in the Phi. Leave a brief, typed
note in the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office at room 208 in the
University Center.

 

Photos by Chris Leiphart

 

What was your impression of

this year’s tear night?

 

 

 

Tim Wolff, ’93, Ossining, NY, —
‘I fell off a table and got four stitch-

es in my_ back. Great

though.”’

night,

Thomas Gottsegen, ’°91, New Orle-
ans, LA; and Graham, Tunica, MS
- ‘‘Thank god that Graham and |
were there to restore order.’’

Susan Moseley, ’93, Atlanta, GA -
- ‘It was fun, a little wild, but fun.
It was different without all the hous-

”

es.

 

 

Nikki Eden, ’94, York, PA — ‘‘I Foster Bowman, °91, Little Rock,
AR = “‘I don’t remember a whole
lot, but it was good, clean fun,’’

thought it was incredible, the most
wild party I’ve ever seen, almost
scary, but a lot of fun.”’

 

 

 
 

 

NEWS

 

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

After having served 82 days on a
five year sentence for the hit-and-ru
and involuntary manslaughter of Mary
Ashley Scarborough, former Washing-
ton and Lee student Blake Comer
was released from Rockbridge Re-
gional Jail last Thursday.

According to Chief Correctional
Officer Lt. John M. Higgins, Comer
tured himself in on June 23 to begin
serving time before his trial.

On the day of his trial, Aug. 29,
Comer plead guilty and was sen-
tenced to two five year terms to be
served concurrently. The judge sus-
pended four and a half of those
years, so Comer had to serve only
six months and five years of proba-
tion after his release.

Higgins explained, ‘‘Once incar-

erated, for every day a_ subject
‘pulls,’ he gets one day ‘good time.’
‘In addition to that Blake also did
‘trustee work to eam more good
time.’
: Inmates who don’t cause problems
‘or have been in jail for long periods
‘of time are able to be jail trustees,
‘helping the guards and supervising
‘other prisoners, he said.

W&L history Professor J. David
‘Parker, Comer’s advisor while he was
‘a student here, took Comer to the
airport after his release.

Parker said Comer told him that
some of the other inmates would say
obnoxious things to him. People who
did not know him were angry at what
they considered a light sentence.

“I don’t think he has any notion
that he has paid his debt. He will
never pay his debt. It’s an unpayable
debt,’’ said Parker.

Parker admitted that it was ‘‘very
likely’’ that Comer was given special
treatment in such light sentencing.

: “If he had been a poorer member
of society or an ethnic minority, it
would have been very different,’ he
said.

' However, Parker said he felt the
jail sentence itself was of no real

importance. ‘‘The jail time is largely
an irrelevant issue. There could never
be enough,”’ he said.

Many people in the community
question whether or not justice was
served by Comer’s term in prison.

In an interview with The Rock-
bridge Weekly, Lexington resident
Frank Johnson said, ‘‘I don’t think
it’s fair. If the driver had been some-
one local, the penalty would have
been much more severe. There’s no
justice at all. A person was killed.’’

A W&L student, who asked not
to be named, expressed much the
same sentiment.

“It just goes to show that the

If you W&L students

are so smart, why

do you do such stu-

pid things to get

yourself in trouble?
— Lt. John Higgins

criminal justice system isn’t as scary
as we think it is if you can kill
someone and get out of jail in three
months.”’

Jail officials said some of the
other inmates felt that Comer’s case
was not fair, but fellow inmate and
trustee Mike Wade disagreed.

“I feel like he paid his debt.
People that think he didn’t just don’t
understand the system. That wasn’t
his fault. It was the judge’s,’’ he
said.

‘*Besides,’’ Wade added, ‘‘that’s
a heck of a load for a young man to
carry on his shoulders for life.’’

Wade said that Comer was always
worried about what he'd done, but
tried to hide it.

“You could tell how much he
worried about it. He lost over twenty
pounds while he was in here,’’ he
said,

Delmas Breeden, one of Comer’s
cellmates, asked, ‘‘What’s the use of
punishing him in here for something
he’ll carry with him the rest of his
life?”’

Breeden said when Comer was

 

 

 

Comer gets out of jail,
to attend U. of Georgia

released ‘‘everybody shook hands
with him, glad to see him get out.”

During the time Comer was in
jail, Sheriff Fred Spence said that
Comer was a ‘‘model prisoner.’’ Jail
officials were impressed by his ap-
parent sincerity and remorse.

Higgins said Comer was _hard-
working and got along well with
other inmates. Wade called Comer a
“*good ole’ boy,’’ and said he and
Comer would stay up and have late-
night talks together.

While in prison, Comer’s daily
routine consisted of a thirteen-hour
shift (5:30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.) working
as a kitchen trustee, scrubbing pots,
floors, and walls and helping prepare
and serve meals. He had a half-hour
recreation break in the afternoons.

“Blake was very concerned with
his education. He had his scopes sct
on finishing,’’ said Higgins, who
approved Comer’s request to continue
correspondence classes while he was
in jail.

“He didn’t have the usual crowds
of visitors we get when we arrest
W&L students,’’ said Higgins, ‘‘It
was different for Blake.”’

Higgins said Comer did have a
few regular visitors — a minister from
Lynchburg, Parker and very few
schoolmates.

. Higgins seemed sympathetic to
Comer, saying, ‘‘He didn’t know why
he reacted the way he did. He wanted
so badly to do something to help, but
there’s no way to bring the dead
back.”’

Higgins asked, ‘‘If you W&L stu-
dents are so smart, why do you do
such stupid things to get yourself in
trouble? I don’t understand why you
do the things you do.”’

Still, Higgins would like everyone
to ‘‘put yourself in the position of
Blake Comer. Put yourself in the
position of his parents. Remember
that sometimes when we do wrong,
we really don’t know we're doing
| ga

Comer is now serving five years
of probation in South Carolina and is
planning to attend the University of
Georgia next semester.

 

ove res ree eee ERSTE

 

 

 

weave eee ewe

Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

©Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin
Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2AM

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

 

 

Houses go head-to-head

 

 

 

fields yesterday. The warm tem
a match, FiJl beat SPE 1

8 Gamma Delta and Sigma Phi Epsilon face off in intramural football on the Law School

peratures made it a perfect day for the IM games. In this
6-0. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Hatcher: MSA request
for money ‘out of line’

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

The Minority Student Association
appeared before the Executive Com-
mittee last Thursday night for a sec-
ond budget request hearing.

‘The MSA was asked back, first
of all, because they received a grant
last year from Dean McCloud and
Dean John unbeknownst to us,’’ said
EC President Tom Hatcher.

MSA President James Rambeau
reported to the EC in MSA’s first
budget hearing Tuesday night that a
breakdown in communication between

Sy;

=

Autumn Flowers

wrapped
Half Price

cash
and

carry

Saturdays
3-5:30 PM

Teleflora’

he

ANANAANAAAANS

forint iu The Homestead

Ten East Nelson
463-9841

Th hh te he

oe

ah es

oe
Py adi ta apny . ° °
par ee tee ~ Inexpensive ~_Easy Parking
7 ns

ck Print, Ink.

 

‘i
&

MSA and Contact left MSA unable
to pay the full $2,500 cost of a Black
History Month speaker.

Rambeau told the EC that night
that he sought funding from the of-
fices of Associate Dean of Students
Anece McCloud and Dean of Stu-
dents Lewis John, who provided
about $1,800.

Hatcher said that MSA was also
summoned back to provide the EC
with ‘‘a budget request that I deem
reasonable.’’ He said that MSA’s
request of $8,400 was ‘‘out of line’
with requests in previous years.

Last year, the MSA _ received
$2,000 of their $6,400 request. In
1988, the EC granted MSA $1,600 of

a $2,500 request.

MSA’s original 1990-91 request
included $4,000 for two speakers for
Martin Luther King Day and Black
History Month. Those figures were
eliminated in MSA’s final request of
$2,537.50.

“‘The EC requested that the MSA
return for another budget hearing to
streamline our request’’ and detail
activities, said Rambeau. He added
only that ‘‘there’s something else
underlying going on, but we'll have
to wait for Thursday’s deliberations
to see that.’

**We’re not down on MSA,”’ said
Hatcher, ‘‘we just have all these
questions.”’

 

Quality Qui

$5

 

for all student printing needs

214 South Main Street, Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-9232

LEXINGTON’S ORIGINAL 8¢ COPY

OFF ANY SERVICE
WITH ais AD

 

 

_—— R HH HH» nn

 

 

hice wt ipiiore pega ae

464-BOWL (2695) —

 

 

 

Addressers Wanted
Immediately!

No experience necessary. Excellent pay!
Work at Home. Call Toll-Free:
1-800-395-3283

 

Your Favorite ‘‘Lex Mex’’
Place To Dine

Coming Attractions of Friday 9/21/90

*Expanded Luncheon Menu
*Expanded Hours: Mon.-Sat. 11:30 - 1:00 a.m.
Sun. 11:30 a.m.-10:00 p.m.

Watch For

‘*The Back Room’’

Coming Soon

116 N. Main St.

Phone 464-TACO

 

 

 

"od gigas

'

f
NEWS

 

* By Pamela Kelly
, Staff Reporter

 

Delta Gamma Women’s Fraternity
ytook its first steps toward establish-
ment at Washington and Lee Saturday
“when 11 upperclassmen pledged to
, become its first members.
According to local DG alumna
+ Pree Ray, the members of the DG
expansion team who conducted the
"Rush last week were hoping for a
, Pledge class of at least 20.
‘We had hoped to get a few
* more pledges than 11, but we feel the
girls we got are so strong and dedi-
* cated we decided to go with that,”’
« She said.
Ray said of approximately 20
* women who went through Rush, all
_ 11 pledges were members of a DG
Interest Group which began meeting
sin January in hopes of convincing
DG to begin a chapter here.

Ray said when DG representatives
met and interviewed the 11 women
from the interest group, they were
impressed with the group's collective
desire for the sorority to be at W&L.

‘When it just came down to the
crux of the matter there were only 11
and they just said o.k., we’re going
to go with these 11,’’ she said. Ray
cited grades and an interest in Winter
Rush as reasons why others did not
get bids.

DG pledge and former interest
group member Kim Marcott says she
thinks the DG expansion team real-
ized that most women who are inter-
ested in going Greek either joined
one of the existing three on campus
or held out for DG. She thinks the
numbers will pick up in time.

The sorority hopes to increase its
membership at W&L by encouraging
some of the approximately 170 unaf-
filiated women to go Greek and may
extend more bids to upperclassmen

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

11 women pledge DG

this fall. DG will also participate in
the Winter Rush for freshmen in
January.

Marcott said that the DG pledges
will probably not initiate before Win-
ter Rush, and instead will initiate
with the freshmen pledges they pick
up in January. Ray said that DG will
probably have collegiate members
from a nearby university on hand to
aid the DG pledges in their first
Rush.

Ray hopes that DG’s small num-
ber in comparison to the approxi-
mately 75 members in each of the
other sororities will attract more
women. She feels the sororities are
too large now and which makes it
hard for women to really get to know
one another.

“It shouldn’t be that way. Hope-
fully with four sororities now, it will
even out in size and won't be so big
so girls will have more opportunities

 

Kim Marcott

..new DG pledge

to get to know their own sisters,’’
she said.

The DG pledge class met for the
first time Monday night. For the rest
of the semester the pledges will dir-
ect their energies toward the up-and-
coming Winter Rush and, according

to Marcott, let everyone know DG is
here.

Dorm’s fire alarms

are too sensitive

 

By Mike Badger
Staff Reporter

 

The smoke alarm system in
Graham-Lees dormitory, widely
known for its over-sensitivity, has
Washington and Lee students and
administrators worried.

According to Head Dorm Coun-
selor Mary Hampson, who lives on
the third floor of Graham-Lees, the
system is so sensitive that it is
‘talmost dangerous.’’

Hampson said that the alarms go
off so frequently when there is no
fire very few people take the alarms
seriously anymore.

‘When there really is a fire,’’ she
said, ‘‘people aren’t going to know
it,"

“| chink there’s a problem,”’ said

Associate Dean of Students Ken
Ruscio. ‘‘As I see it, the state fire
code is so strict that it requires al-

arms that are too sensitive.”’

According to Hampson, freshmen
smoking or making popcorn in their
dorm rooms often set off the alarms.

Superintendent of W&L's Building
and Grounds Department James L.
Arthur said that even hairspray or the
cleaning fluid used in the dorm halls
and bathrooms will cause the alarms
to go off.

Ruscio said the over-sensitivity of
the smoke alarm system in Graham-
Lees is ‘‘definitely an issue,’’ but
that the strictness of the state fire
codes has made it difficult to come
up with a solution to the problem.

According to Ruscio, the alarm
system in Graham-Lees and Gaines
Hall are more sensitive that the sys-
tems in other dorms. Gaines Hall was
completed only four years ago and
Graham-Lees was renovated in the
early 1980's, putting them both under
the restrictions of the most recently
amended fire codes.

.

ihe
’ '
; i

 

FD date remains same

Organization and attention to detail-will be key factors
in a successful and financially responsible 1991 Fancy
Dress Ball, said recently appointed Fancy Dress Chairman
John Flippen.

Flippen, a junior, said ‘‘excesses of the past’’ will not
be repeated this year.

‘*You must keep in mind that it is a celebration and
not to get caught up in the politics. We will have to do
lots fo preplanning. This FD will be under budget this
year,’” he said.

The Student Activities Board decided last night to not
change the date of FD from March 8 to March 1, 1991.
The SAB had been considering changing the date because
the Law School leaves for its spring break on the 8th.
Last year’s FD also fell during the Law School’s spring
break.

SAB Chairman Katie Duwel said the SAB felt ‘‘it is
too late in the year to change the date.’’ She said they
had to take into consideration the alumni who have made
arrangements to fly in as well as the 80-plus athletes
who will be away at scheduled games.

Law School SAB Director of Publicity Martika Parson
said, ‘‘The Law students are disappointed that FD falls
in spring break. It is always a key event. We have to

deal with it this year and make sure it doesn’t happen in .

¥ eh wre* o¢ wr * a a

RE On  coccicacnansstecasncenmuincnsqaientiannes
*

‘

Cees

Gossman faces charges

William Gossman, a Former W&L student charged
with passing a bad check, will stand trial at the Rock-
bridge County Circuit Courthouse Oct. 24.

If convicted, Gossman could face up to five years in
jail and up to $1000 in fines,

 

BRIEFS

A Grand Jury indicted Gossman, 24, of Forest Hills,
MD, Sept. 4. He allegedly wrote a bad check for
$17,410.70 to the Lexington Motor Sales on April 3, the
same day he withdrew from school.

Despite negotiations between the dealership and his
family, Gossman never made good on his check.

Sergeant Torben, officer in charge of the arrest,
apprehended Gossman April 18 in Charlotte, NC. He
attended a preliminary hearing May 1 at the courthouse.

Gossman was a junior at W&L.

Cancer walk aids victims

Lexington residents will have the opportunity to
benefit cancer research and aid local cancer victims by
participating in ‘‘Making Strides for Cancer.”’

Lexington will be one of many towns in Virginia
hosting a walk for cancer Oct. 7. The Catholic Campus
Ministry is sponsoring the event, which will begin at
Harris Teeter at 1:30 p.m. Participants may collect
pledges to raise additional money.

Electra Martin, student coordinator of the event, said
she wants to ‘“‘bring to awareness that diagnosis [of
cancer} is not a death sentence.’’

Several members of the Lexington community have
successfully undergone cancer treatment. Coach Emmett
"Buck" Leslie, a leukemia victim, returned to teaching

~and coaching golf this term and has completed treatment.

year. Cunningham relearned to speak after the removal
of his larynx.

‘People always think that if you have cancer, it’s all
over. He [Cunningham] shows that’s not true,’’ said
Martin.

Next month Cunningham will run a marathon in
Athens, Greece, the origin of the marathon. ‘‘He’s always
wanted to do that and now he’s going to do it,”’ said his
wife June. ‘‘There’s not anything that he can’t do that he
ever did [before his diagnosis].’’

After the finish of the event at Harris Teeter, there
will be a picnic, where the participants who raise the
most money will be awarded prizes donated by local
businesses.

The first walk for cancer in Lexington occurred last
spring. Seventy-five people participated and the CCM
hopes for a larger turnout this year. Registration forms
will be available in the Co-op and at VMI this week.

New club tries to cash in

The Investment Club, Washington and Lee’s newest
club, is hoping to make some big bucks.

Approximately fifty club members have risked twenty
five dollars, plus one dollar for club expenses, for the
chance to strike it rich. President David Bohigian said he
started the club to give students an opportunity ‘‘to learn

sabout personal finance, investment banking and possible

Dean of the Commerce School Larry’C, Peppers’ secré- -job opportunities.’’ ‘

tary, Anne Ziegler, had a malignant melanoma removed
15 years ago and said that when a person is diagnosed
as having cancer ‘‘it’s very hard to realize that that’s
happened to you and you have to say you’ve got to beat
this thing and you have to fight.’’

‘Il applaud what they’re doing because it’s certainly
needed for research. Cures can be found,”’ she said.

Retired Lexington Post Office worker George Cun-
ningham, 70, was treated for cancer 12 years ago. He
will run in ‘‘Making Strides for Cancer’’ as he did last

The club has an executive éommittee to meet with the
club’s broker, Doug Roper, who is with A.G, Edwards
and Sons Inc. in Lexington. ‘‘The executive committee
acts as a liaison between the club and the broker,”’
Bohigian said. After meeting with Mr. Roper, the invest-
ment club’s executive committee reports back to the club
with investment recommendations,

Once ideas are presented not only by the executive
committee, but also by club members, the club votes on
one investment. At the end of the year, members will

receive anywhere from zero dollars to perhaps ten- |
thousand dollars, depending on the market.
The club will have occasional lectures during the year
by various financial experts, such as Roper, Professor of
Administration Joseph Goldsten and possibly parents who
are involved in the financial world during Parents’ '
Weekend.
Meetings for the investment club will occur at least ’
once a month, but they are not mandatory. The only
mandatory obligation of the club is the twenty-six dollar
fee. Officers of the club include President David Bohi- '
gian, Vice-President Scott Swigert, and Secretary Gabrey
Croft. Additional officers will be elected at the next
meeting, which has not been announced yet. For addi-
tional information, call 463-1561. q

Portrait gets new case

The scaffolding that decorated the University Library

‘at the beginning of the term was for the construction of

a case for the 9 foot by 6 foot portrait of George |
Washington that has been in the library since its opening
in 1979. |

According to Librarian Barbara Brown, ‘“The purpose
of the case is to allow the portrait to be hung so that it
can be properly lighted.”’

Former Board of Trustee member Jack W. Warner,
after whom the Warmer Athletic Center was named, gave
both the portrait to. W&L when the library first opened
as well as the funding for the construction of the case.
The case was designed by the architects who designed
the library.

— These briefs have been compiled by members

of The Ring-tum Phi staff

 

 

 

 

When you
mae

 

in Northen Auditorium.

W&L Bookstore
will sell books by Daniel Hoffman following his reading

October 3, 1990

 

 

 

ave

 

 

 

Don't get wrecked. If you're not sober-

or youre not sure—

let someone else do the driving.

A message provided by this newspaper
and Beer Drinkers of America

   

OF AMERICA
PARTY *SMART

National Headquarters
150 Paularino Ave., Suite 190
Costa Mesa, CA 92626
714/557-2337
1-800-441-2337

Beer Drinkers of America is a non-profit consumer membership
organization open only to persons over the age of 21°

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

haan

 

 

 

 

—

 

ight >

Cia

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

R

 

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

Please

 

LHe

OWIHIINE FRONT)

167 S. Main St.

__ See
a

Student Charge Accounts

Are Available

Come by today and open up your student charge accounts. We will
be glad to mail bills home. Stop by and see our new look, we think
you'll be surprised! We also have a new take-out deli for sandwiches
and salads! Stop by & see us today!

Serving The W&L Community

For Over 35 Years

Recycle

This

Newspaper

Outing Club

A message from the Washington and Lee

 
“NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi,

 

SAB

from page 1

justified because of last year’s stu-
dent body surplus.

‘‘The EC has sufficient cash over-
flow, and we are entitled to a share
of that,’’ he said.

EC Vice President Raymond Wel-
der reported that though the student
body as a whole generated a $16,216
surplus last year, the SBA recorded
a deficit of $213.53.

‘Our view is that the SAB isn’t
prepared to provide the Law School
with the kind of entertainment they
feel is necessary for a good social
life,’’ said EC President Tom Hat-
cher on behalf of himself and Weld-
er.

Hatcher said that this year’s EC
will not hold the SAB accountable

for law school participation in SAB-
-sponsored events.

SBA President Grant Burns said
he will not comment on the SBA
budget request until after EC alloca-
tions are decided.

The SAB requested $53,090, the
bulk of which is $43,205 for enter-
tainment. The remainder is broken
into $4,490 for facilities, $3,545 for
operations, and $1,850 for general
office expenditures.

Welder announced Monday night
that the business office has billed
$120,240 in student activities fees
which will be available for EC allo-
cation tonight.

The business office reported that
2,004 students matriculated, accord-

OVO OOP LIV IVI IOI OLIV POPOL OLD POP OP

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics Perfumes

Charge Accounts

   
 
     
     
   
         
     
  

  
 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

703-463-3478

  

 
  

 
  
 
 

LEE di

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

A warm welcome to all Washington and Lee Students
from R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church. We would
like to greet you all formally with a picnic on Sunday,
October 7, after the 10:30 a.m. Eucharist Service. Come
meet fellow students and faculty.

A Cantebury Bible Study and Fellowship is held every
Sunday evening with dinner provided. 6 p.m. at the Rec-
tory, 107 Lee Avenue, monthly brunches and dinners
will be provided by faculty at various times of the year.
Come join us and become part of our Parish Family.

The Rev. R. David Cox The Rev. Dr. Barbara Taylor

Mr. Clean Car

207 N. Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450
463-3087

Complete Car Care
Detailed Inside and Out
$40.00-

M-F open at noon
Saturday open at 8:00 a.m.

George’s Hairstylist

e Free Delivery

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

1-800-768-LEHI

$45.00

 

136 Varner Lane
463-3975
N
() Yes Location
A W&L
S Main St.

 

Parking PLL |
Parking

 

George’s

 

 

Randolph St.

Varner Ln.

 

 

v
E

() Yes People

 

CJ Yes Products

Redken @ Nexxus ® Paul Mitchel ¢
Sebastian (Itd.) © Matrix

Experienced Professional Stylists

(] Yes Walk-In or Phone

---SPECIAL OFFER--~-“4
| Two Dollars Off On Haircuts |
j Four Dollars Off On Perms |
| Good through Sept. 30/90 w/coupons |

. ce ES SRR HN ANDY GE uN GETS SEND REE: care SEER SORE ENE See tet tants J

 
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
 

      
 
  
    
 
   
  

 

 

ing to Welder. Each student is billed
$120 in student activities fee, $60
now and $60 in winter term, $25 of
which will pay for the pavilion.

Welder said the business office
told him to count on 1,950 students
when conducting budget allocations,
as many students may not remain
the full year. 1,950 students would
generate $185,250 in funds for EC
allocation over the year.

The EC has thus far received
budget requests totalling
$193,058.15. Last year, the EC al-
lotted an additional $27,300 for stu-
dent body and executive committee
reserves and honor matters.

Petitions for candidates for fresh-
man EC representative, class president
and vice president are due Monday
for an Oct. 8 election.

I'd never have believed that one little computer could make

 

September 27, 1990

 

 

SSS eeaae

D.U.I. accidents, arrests
significantly reduced

 

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

 

Despite recent local incidents that
would seem to indicate otherwise,
both state and local police assert that
arrests for and accidents involving
drunk driving have been significantly
reduced in the last few years.

According to the Rockbridge
County Centralized Accident Process-
ing Report, out of the 923 crashes
that occurred in Rockbridge County
last year, 857 did not involve alcohol.

This translates into 97 percent of
all accidents in and around Lexington
being caused by drivers who had not
been drinking.

According to Sgt. J.T. O’Neil of
the Virginia State Police, out of the

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

    

Macintosh SE

32 accidents that were alcohol related,
12 resulted strictly in property dam-
age, 18 involved injuries and only
two resulted in deaths.

O'Neil said that the first two
quarters of 1990 have continued to
show significant reductions in D.U.I.
accidents and arrests, and that he is
“tickled to death to see it drop.’

Lexington Police Officer Fred
Smith, who for the last three years
has been the department’s top arrest-
ing officer of drunk drivers, agreed
with O’Neil, saying that D.U.I's
‘have drastically dropped off in the
last two years.”’

Smith said the biggest nights for
D.U.I. arrests of students are still
Wednesday, Friday and Saturday, but
that those getting pulled over are
“mostly female students from sur-

such an incredible difference in my academic and working life.

 

Miriam Stoll
B.A. History, Dartmouth College
M.B.A. Stanford Graduate School of Business

business school.

they‘d all be taken.

ry

“T became a Macintosh convert in

“At our computer lab I'd always find
lines of people waiting to use the Macintosh
computers, while other computers just sat
there. So I had a choice: wait for a Macintosh,
or come back at 6 AM.to grab one before

“After business school, I took a job at a
x large bank and used my Macintosh for
fi producing everything from spreadsheets
to a company newsletter.
“Today I use Macintosh to help me
run my own management consult.
ing firm. When give a presentation,
I can see in people's faces
that they're really impressed.
And that makes me feel great.
“Sometimes I take Friday
off, put my Macintosh and skis
in the car, and head for the
mountains. I ski days and work
nights. It's perfect.

“You know, I can't say
where I'll be in five, ten, or
fifteen years, but I can say that

my Macintosh will be there
with me?

For more info
contact the
Computer Center
Tucker Hall
Room 215A

Why do people love Macintosh’?
Ask them.

¢ 1990 Apple Computer, inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc

rounding girls’ schools who come in
to party and try to drive back that,
night.”

Both Smith and O'Neil attribute’
the decline to new and stricter laws, »
successful designated driver programs
and support in the community in‘
educating people about the problem. ,

‘So much emphasis is being put»
on the problem and its paying off,”
said Smith, although he said he be-*
lieves it is more a fear of getting ,
caught than anything else that is
keeping students from driving drunk. }

O'Neil agreed that a _ certain
amount of fear and intimidation is’
effective ‘‘because if we're out there ,
and you know we're out there, maybe
you won’t drink and drive.’’ ‘

«

 

sg

tli ln

se”
SPORTS

Perez leads W&L
-by U of R in OT

 

: By John Neumann
» Staff Reporter

q

The Washington and Lee water
* polo team improved its record to 7-
1 by winning the Virginia State
" Championships in dramatic fashion
, last weekend at the University of
Richmond.
‘ After breezing through their first
three opponents, head coach Page
* Remillard’s team faced their toughest
, Challenge, top seeded and arch-rival
University of Richmond, in the Spi-
* ders’ web.
, Four quarters went by, and both
teams had netted nine goals. The
« teams than battled in two overtime
periods to determine the victor.
’ Following the first overtime period,
, Richmond held a 3-1 advantage over
the Generals.
+ But the W&L defense stiffened,
keeping UR out of the nets, and the
‘ offense got going just in time to
, Score twice to stay alive and reach
sudden death.
+ Neither team scored in the first
sudden-death period, but in the sec-
* ond, the outcome was decided. Se-
, hior co-captain Tomas Perez ended
Richmond’s hopes with a goal that
‘gave W&L a 13-12 win and the
, championship. It was the second goal
for Perez in the overtime and third in
« the game.
, . His championship game heroics,
along with his steady tournament play
+ earned Perez a spot on the all-state
, team. Teammate Will Davis, a ju-
nior, was also named to the team.
+ W&L’s road to the championship
, Was relatively easy. The Generals
routed Lynchburg 21-8, Mary Wash-
’ Pg 15-4, and Hampden-Sydney
15-8.
* For the tournament, Perez scored
« eight goals, two off the team pace set
, by sophomore Scott Strader who

Pope’s legs not enough as Centre beats W&L 24-13

 

* By Jay Plotkin
, Sports Editor

 

tat

4

Coming. into this season, Wash-
+ ington and Lee hadn’t beaten Centre
College in football at Centre since
* 1980. For 30 minutes last Saturday, it
+ looked like the Generals would
finally beat the ‘‘Centre Jinx.’’
* —W&L opened up a 13-3 second
¢ quarter lead behind the running of
senior tailback Mason Pope and tough
* defensive play to keep the nation’s
+ third-leading rusher, Tim McDaniel,
in check. But the ‘‘Centre Jinx’’
* kicked in late in the second quarter,
+ and the Generals fell to the Colonels
, 2413.
Centre scored first on a David
« Harr 37-yard field goal. The Generals
took the ensuing kickoff and began
* their first drive of the day.
, Sophomore linebacker Evans Ed-
wards started the drive with a sliding
+ catch of a low kickoff at the W&L

tallied ten goals in the four games.
Strader leads the team in scoring with
eighteen goals in eight games and his
converting shots at a 53 percent clip.

The Generals and Spiders will
square off once again Friday night at
Cy Twombly Pool at 7:30 p.m. in a
rematch of the State Championship
thriller.

If their past meetings are any
indications of what this match will
show, it will no doubt go down to
the wire. The past three meetings
between these two teams have all
ended with one goal differences,
twice being decided in overtime.
Remillard said, ‘‘We’ve beaten Rich-
mond at a neutral site (South Varsity
Invitational) and at their pool, now
we have to do it here.’’

Remillard’s team is young, but
that has not stopped them from rising
to third in the Division III rankings,
behind only University of California
at San Diego and . Claremont-
McKenna.

‘*There is no individual superstar
on this team. The team is the star,”’
said Remillard. ‘‘If the other team
stops the six players in the pool,
guys will come off the bench and
beat you.”’

Remillard believes that team play
rather than individuals will push the
team to the next level.

Some looked at 1990 as a rebuild-
ing year for the Generals, but not
Remillard. Rebuilding is associated
with losing, he said, and his team
would not adopt that philosophy.
‘*You take what you have and do the
best you can.’’

There are no long term goals set
for the team except to keep improv-
ing and try to make progress as a
team. However, Remillard did men-
tion one thing that would make this
season a sweet one. ‘“‘It will be a
great season if we beat Richmond
every time we play them.”’

41. Wanting to establish the run, the
Generals called on Pope to

m
raion 10 bi x
Wed running ‘plays, including ‘a

'15-yards scamper by junior slot back
Jeff Kreis got the ball to the Centre
41, and Pope went to work. Two
Straight carries gained eight yards
each and a third gained four more to
put the ball on the 22-yard line.

Junior quarterback George Sakin
then rolled left and kept the ball for
a gain of 12 to the 10-yard line, and
Pope went back to work. A nine-
yard burst got the ball to the one-
yard line, and two plays later, Pope
scored to give the Generals a 7-3
lead.

Ordinarily a passing team, the
Generals did not attempt a pass on
their first drive, going 59 yards in 10
plays, all runs behind the offensive
line of seniors Rob Christensen, Rob
Roberton, Frank Sudell and juniors
Jim Henry and Rob Thomas.

Said Fallon, ‘‘We knew coming

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant

‘ Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

. $$$,

, CATHOLIC
CAMPUS
' MINISTRY

: St. Patrick’s Church
Mass Schedule

 

Saturday 5:00 p.m.

: Sunday 8:00 a.m.
‘ 10:30 a.m.

‘Does Religion have a place on a secular
campus!’’
A Student/Faculty Dialogue
Thursday, Sept. 27th
Student Center Room 113
from noon until 1:00 p.m.
, Bring Your Lunch!

 
  

Caps (Sized W&L

 

UNIVERSITY
SPORT WEAR

W&L Imprinted Sportswear Plus:
Oakley Sunglasses, New Era Baseball

With W&L win over R-MC, all
shirts discounted (Must bring
program.) Open 7 Days A Week

15 W. Washington St.
464-3000

463-7969

 

 

audiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O CwD

KEF NEC
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

+ ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

Caps Due Shortly.)

“had to take ¥

  
 
       
   
     
     

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

 

W&L opens
ODAC with
Sweet Briar

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

 

Washington and Lee women’s
volleyball will host Sweet Briar to-
night at home, and head coach Susan
Dittman hopes a large turnout from
the student body will root her team
on to victory.

After falling twice to Sweet Briar
last year, once during the regular
season, and once in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference tournament,
Dittman and the Generals are gunning
for their old foe like Michigan shoots
for Notre Dame.

The 5-5 Generals face a tough
conference opener which may deter-
mine whether or not they will con-
tend for the ODAC title this year.
All this pressure on a team that is
only beginning to gel.

“This is the first time we have
really had everyone here,”’ said Ditt-
man, reflecting on the toll injuries
have taken so far this year.

Senior captain Lisa Jay, and ju-
niors Rashmi Sachan and Marcy
Brown all suffered brief setbacks with
early season injuries. Both Sachan’s
consistent serving and Brown's steady
defense are vital cogs in the W&L
line-up. Jay’s setting game is critical

. to an effective offensive attack.

.In their final preseason matches
before Thursday’s ODAC season-
opener, the Generals met Shenandoah
and Southern Seminary last Friday,
September 21. Shenandoah provided
the only memorable competition as
W&L fell in three games, 2-15, 15-
5, 7-15. Junior captain Mena Mc-
Gowin led the team with 10 kills and
16 digs. Sophomore Leslie Hess
contributed six kills while Jay, back
to old form, handed out 22 assists.

“We're playing very __in-
consistently right now,’’ said Dittman.
“This team could beat anyone and
could lose to anyone.”’

With injuries hampering the team,

into the game that they tend to drop
seven people to defend the pass. We

they gave us the run.”’

W&L extended ‘the lead in the
second quarter after two big defensive
plays. The first came with Centre
facing a fourth and one from the
Generals’ one-yard line. Quarterback
Kelly Sandidge tried to sneak in for
the touchdown, but he fumbled the
ball into the end zone and junior
Fred Renneker covered it for the
Generals.

The second big play came when
backup quarterback Michael Jackson
tried to pass from his own 19. Senior
Brad Miller intercepted his pass and
returned the ball to the 23-yard line.
Two plays later, Pope scored from
five yards out to give the Generals a
13-3 lead.

On the afternoon, Pope ran for
119 yards on 28 carries, both season
highs. Said Pope, ‘‘The offensive
line blocked really well, so our runn-

 

 

 

 

Running away

Patrick Hinely.

Junior Charles Edwards leads the pack in Saturday’s cross
country meet. Edwards placed first, but Mary Washington .
topped the Generals. Story on page 8. W&L photo by W.

 

 

 

 

they gave us, and

Dittman has been forced to shuffle
the starting line-up. Hess will be
moved to quick-hitter and freshman
Tara Burns will see considerable
playing time outside. She may start
against Sweet Briar.

Following tonight’s big match that
Starts at 6 p.m., the Generals will
head north for the Catholic University
tournament. There they

ing game tumed out pretty well.
Everything was coming together.”’

And then the Centre Jinx kicked
in. ‘In the past, Centre has gotten
some big special teams plays against
us. Two years ago, they scored two
touchdowns off special teams and
beat us 30-16,’’ said Fallon.

On the ensuing kickoff, Bert
Driver returned Carter Quayle’s kick
up the W&L sideline for 56 yards to
the W&L 36-yard line. Four plays
later, Tim McDaniel scored from four
yards out to make it a 13-10 game at
the half.

The late touchdown gave the
Colonels momentum to start the
second half, and Centre rode that
momentum on their first drive of the
half. After driving to the W&L 30-
yard line, McDaniel took over the
game. He carried for 18 yards to the
12 and three plays later scored his
second touchdown of the game,
giving Centre a 17-13 lead.

To start the fourth period, the

| ( Sppance
Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

(703)463-5988

DPPVP OLIV PVP AP VPP! LP VAP AP APO AP POMP AP PAPO

 

meet defending tournament champ
Gettysburg and Catholic. Catholic
topped W&L at the Haverford
Tournament earlier this season.

‘We're hoping to take first or
second this year,’’ said Dittman.

Lofty expectations? Possibly, but
that’s what it will take if the Gener-
als are to win in the ODAC.

Generals had a chance to regain the
lead after Harr missed a field goal
from 37 yards: out. W&L took over
on ds own 20, and after moving out
tothe 35, faced a second down and
10. Sakin tried a throwback pass to
junior tight end Brian Hodges, but
Centre’s Scott Downey intercepted it
and retumed it to the W&L six-yard
line.

“The receiver was open — the
tight end on a safety valve play. But
their defensive end stopped his rush
and hid in the open area and
intercepted the pass,’’ said Fallon.
‘‘Not only that, he returned it to our
six-yard line. That kind of deflated
us.””

Two plays later, McDaniel scored
to make it 24-13 and ice the game
for the Colonels. On the day, he ran
for 151 yards, 46 yards under his
average.

Said Fallon on his team’s perfor-
mance, ‘‘Looking at the film, the one
thing I see is that our team needs to

thé’ éortiplete 60 ‘full’ riiriutes.

i

Generals top
Marymount,
fall to RC

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

 

For goalkeeper Kate Stimeling,
zero has been a recurring number so
far this season.

Through six games the freshman ;
has recorded four shutouts while
allowing just four goals as the Wash- .
ington and Lee women’s soccer team
has posted a 4-2 record.

The first goal allowed by the.
Generals this year slid between the
posts with :44 seconds remaining in:

the match at Virginia Wesleyan this »:

past Thursday. The other three were
scored on Tuesday as W&L lost to’
Roanoke, ranked sixth in the South
Region, 3-1 at Liberty Hall Field.

“IT thought Kate played great, .

considering our defense didn’t have
its best game,’’ said head coach
Janine Hathorn.

‘*She made some _

great saves to keep the score where it

was. Roanoke scored twice on one-
on-one breakaways and those are
tough situations.’’

Speaking for herself, Stimeling
attributed her success this season to
other players on the field.

‘We have a very good defense
and there is good communication
between myself and them, especially
[junior] Nancy Mitchell. She’s an
outstanding sweeper,’’ Stimeling said.

After the loss to Roanoke, Ha-
thorn said the chances were there for
W&L, but so were some problems.

‘This was the first time we had
a solid opportunity to beat Roanoke,”’
she said. ‘‘But we had problems
anticipating the ball and playing hard
consistently. Those were the holes
Roanoke exploited. They caught us
flat a couple of times and that was
all they needed. But we needed to
learn that someone could score more
than one goal against us.’’

Q Please see SOCCER page 8

get some consistency. There wasn’t

one aspect of the game--offense, +}

defense or special teams--that played),

‘‘We did make some good plays
offensively, some great plays defen-
sively and our special teams came
through at times, but to beat a team
like Centre you need to be able to
function with all the valves open all
the time. We just didn’t do that.’’

Said senior split end Craig Irons,
‘‘We came out ready to play. In the

first half things went really ‘well. :

Then we all made some physical and
mental errors. We got behind and had
to play catch-up football, and the
passing game just wasn’t there for us.
We’re looking for a much better
game this week.”’

The Generals, 1-2 on the season,
play host to Randolph-Macon, 2-1,
Saturday on Wilson Field at 1:30.
WLUR-FM (91.5) and WREL-AM
(1450) will broadcast all the action.

 

 

PO

 

MAGAZINES

Smithsonian,
New York, Premiere
Sporting News, Elle

Sports Illustrated
Metropolitan Home
Glamour, Cosmopolitan

 

& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-4096
Open daily from 10AM-7PM/Sundays from Noon - 6 PM

Rolling Stone

 

 

 

 

 

 

Open Daily 10 am

 

 

American Southwest. Nepal. Thailand. india

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington
7 pm/Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

y
:
‘
‘
%

a

afew Se

o>»

ene Spresie Se

       
 

»

 
 

RTS

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

Cross country runs tough in loss

 

By John Kleckley
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams lost
to Mary Washington this past Satur-
day, but in two very different fash-
ions.

In dropping their first meet of the
season, the W&L women were over-
matched by a more powerful team.
Mary Washington captured the top
seven spots (only the top five are
counted in the scoring) to’ score the
minimum 15 points. W&L finished
with 50 points.

In defense of the women’s per-
formance, head coach Jim Phemister
pointed out that Mary Washington is
the strongest team in the state and
has advanced to the NCAA Division
Ill championships two of the last five
years.

Despite losing 22-32 to a strong
Mary Washington squad, men’s coach
John Tucker said he considers it a
win by pointing out that last year’s
score was 18-42.

Tucker admitted that Mary Wash-
ington had a better team but stressed
that the score could have been even
closer if senior co-captain Kennon

Walthall, who was out with a sore
hamstring, participated and if a
couple of other runners had not had
disappointing times.

Junior Charles Edwards won the
race in 27:52, giving him his second
victory in as many meets. Edwards’
time was the fastest on W&L’s
course in the last two seasons, and he
shaved almost 45 seconds off his
time from the same point last season.

Tucker credits Edwards’
advancement on intense personal
preparation both during summer and
weekly practice, but he is not the
only runner showing improvement.

Sophomores Bo Hannah and Keith
Rinn, and junior Lee Parker are well
ahead of last year’s pace, said Tuck-
er. Newcomer David Martin, a junior
track standout, has also performed
well, finishing fourth for the team in
both meets.

“The guys are motivated and
they’re running on their own in the
morning,’’ Tucker said.

Since Mary Washington is not an

Old Dominion Athletic Conference
member, the Generals will have to
wait until the state tournament to race
them again. Both W&L teams will
face Norfolk State and Roanoke on
Saturday at Roanoke.

Staff adds new coaches

 

From W&L Sports Information

Four new assistant coaches in the
sports of football, men’s soccer/la-
crosse and aquatics have joined the
Washington and Lee coaching staffs.

Debbie Thompson comes to W&L
from Kent State and serves as assis-
tant coach for the water polo and
swimming teams. A graduate of
Purdue, Thompson was a member of
two school record-setting relay teams
and two NCAA-qualifying relay
teams. She was head coach of the
women’s swim team at Oberlin in
1989.

Steven Bristol comes to W&L
from the Trinity-Pawling School in
Pawling, N.Y. and is an assistant
coach in men's soccer and lacrosse.
At Trinity, Bristol taught both En-

glish and mathematics and coached
varsity soccer, junior varsity lacrosse
and served as an assistant trainer.

Gavin Colliton, a 1984 graduate
of Salisbury State College, comes to
W&L from Princeton and coaches the
defensive line for head coach Gary
Fallon’s football team. At Princeton,
he was an assistant in charge of
linebackers and special teams.

Also joining the football staff is
Frank Miriello. Méiriello is in his
second stint as an assistant to Fallon.
He assisted Fallon from 1978 to
1982. Miriello was most recently the
head football and lacrosse coach at
Mercersburg Academy. Miriello will
work with linebackers this season.
He will also serve as an assistant
coach on the men’s lacrosse team.

Junior Charles Edwards rounds a turn en route to a win in
Saturday’s cross country meet against Mary Washington. He
finished with a time of 27:52. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

 

 

 

SOCCER

from page 7

The Generals took a 1-0 lead
about 20 minutes into the first half
on freshman Karen Stutzmann’s goal.
The Lady Maroons returned after
halftime to score three times, the
final two on breakaways.

On Saturday W&L defeated Mary-
mount 1-0 in Arlington, Va. Stutz-
mann scored the only goal that the
Generals would need, her second
game-winning goal of the season.

‘“‘She’s really coming on well.
When she starts to get comfortable, I
think she’ll be pretty explosive,’’

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

Sophomore Reid Murphy and
freshman Dan Rhodes have been in
the right place at the right time this
year.

With seven games played in the
1990 season Murphy and Rhodes
have emerged as the leading scorers
for the Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team.

Murphy and Rhodes each scored
a goal in Saturday’s 3-3 tie at Roa-

 

 

Giveaways galore at water

polo, football halftimes

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

The Washington and Lee
University Athletics Promotion
Committee has two halftime give-
aways scheduled this weekend.

On Friday night, the water
polo team will play a single game
against the University of Rich-
mond in Cy Twombly Pool. At
halftime, a raffle will be held.
Winners will participate in a
halftime contest to throw a water
polo ball into a hoop from the
balcony seats.

On Saturday, the W&L foot-
ball team will host Randolph-
Macon College. Another raffle

will be held, and winners will
participate in a halftime contest
involving a nerf football. Those
selected through the raffle will
receive prizes, and the winner of
the contest wins the grand prize.

All those selected to partici-
pate in the contests will receive a
prize. Those who win the grand
prize will receive a free dinner at
a local restaurant.

Frank’s Pizza, The Palms and
the W&L Food Service will be
giving away free dinners and the
University Store and the W&L
Bookstore will be giving away
hats, tee-shirts and sweatshirts.
You must be present at the game
to win a prize.

noke, and Murphy helped create the
Generals’ lone goal in Monday’s 1-
1 tie with Guilford. Murphy now has
five goals while Rhodes has three.

‘Sometimes it’s just a matter of
being in the right place at the right
time,’’ Rhodes said.

Murphy explained that most of his
goals come from determination, and
not necessarily from good shots.

“It’s obviously a team effort, but
I’m looking to score when I can,”’
Murphy said.

Head coach Rolf Piranian said
Murphy and Rhodes have been op-
portunistic in taking their shots.

“Those two have been the right
guys at the right time. We don’t have
a prime target to go to.’’ he said.
“But offensively and defensively
we've got to have 11 guys do their
job.”’

In the first half against Roanoke
the Generals did not do their job as
they fell behind 2-0.

In the second half, though, W&L

 

 

 

 

 

HE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDE

THE SMART MONEY AT
WASHINGTON AND LEE
IS GOING WITH TIAA-CREF

UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ON IT.

 

aren teen at ea ORR ty tected

‘Furniture Dealers

For your extra pieces of furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington

 

463-2742

Hathorn said.

'

that we hung in there very well. We
outshot them and they got away with
a somewhat fortunate win,’’ she said. «

This week the Generals will play '
at Emory, ranked 11th in Division ,
Ill, on Sunday and host Randolph- |
Macon on Tuesday. p

“Right now, we're down, but
we're not out,’’ Hathorn said. ‘‘If we‘
keep up our enthusiam we'll be,
okay.”’

Generals struggling .
as schedule heats up

came back to knot the score at 2-2, '
With 1:41 elapsed, Rhodes headed the |
ball into the goal. With 18 minutes
remaining in the game, junior:
midfielder Dave Hooker sent a shot
to the right corner of the net.

The Maroons scored again on a.
breakaway with 11 minutes left. Two
minutes later Murphy, on a crossing .
pass from Hooker, flicked the ball
from the right to the inside of the‘
left post to make the score 3-3.

“That was a real moral victory
for us,’’ Piranian said. ‘‘We made,
some mistakes, but we’re excited that
the kids came back and played with ‘
intensity.”’

At Liberty Hall Field on Monday,
collisions were the name of the game. ‘
W&L scored first after Murphy col- ,
lided with Guilford goalie Will
Grimes. The ball popped loose and '
Mitchem kicked it into the net.

The Quakers evened the score late
in the first half, also off a collision. *
This time sophomore goaltender Mike ,
Steinbrook was hit, lost his grip on
the ball and had it kicked past him. '

Yesterday afternoon, W&L lost to ,
Shenandoah 2-0 in Winchester, Va.
W&L was outshot 17-13. ‘

This week, W&L, now 2-3-2, has ,
two matches on the road. The team
will head to Atlanta to play Emory ’
on Sunday and travel to Hampden- ,
Sydney next Tuesday.

‘The rest of the teams we play '
are more talented than us,”’ Piranian ,
said. ‘‘The only salvation we have is
to play better as a team. We better ‘
have our act together.’’

¢

;  OnenT
House in Country
463-5383

 

 

TOSHIBA

aa All Battery Powered Laptops
= N IN STOCK

 
 

 

 

 

know that your future depends on

how well your retirement system
performs. TIAA-CREF has been the
premier retirement system for people
in education and research for over 70
years. We have enabled over 200,000
people like you to enjoy a comfortable
retirement. And over 1,000,000 more
are now planning for the future with
TIAA-CREF.

SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY,
GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR
RETIREMENT SAVINGS.

Security—so the resources are there
when it is time to retire. Growth—so
you'll have enough income for the
kind of retirement you want. And
diversity —to help protect you against
market volatility and to let you benefit
from several types of investments.

THAT’S EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET
WITH TIAA-CREF,

TIAA offers you the safety of a
traditional annuity that guarantees
your principal plus a specified rate of
interest, and provides for additional

B ecause it does. Smart investors

growth through dividends. CREF’s
variable annuity offers opportunities
for growth through four different
investment accounts, each managed
with the long-term perspective essen-
tial to sound retirement planning:

The CREF Stock Account

The CREF Money Market Account

The CREF Bond Market Account*

The CREF Social Choice Account*

CALL 1-800-842-2776
TO FIND OUT MORE

Our experienced retirement counselors
will be happy to answer your questions
and tell you more about retirement
annuities from TIAA-CREF.

Experience. Performance. Strength.
Your future is protected by the largest
private retirement system in the world.
We have done so well, for so many, for
so long, that we currently manage
some $85 billion in assets.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

* The CREF Bond Market and Social Choice Accounts may not be available under all institutional retirement plans, but are

available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuity plans.

 

For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call | 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a
prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.

 

wooo xt LOWEST PRIGES EVER
T1200 XE WITH
T1600 EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNTS!
T3100 SX
Call about your EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNT today!
DSR, Inc
1-800-326-0037

 

 

 

 

eee

 

DELTA GAMMA

is proud to present
the 1990 colony pledge members
at Washington & Lee

Meredith Gronroos
Laura Howard
Karin Johnston
Kathryn Lopiccolo
Kimberly Marcott

Elizabeth Besenfelder
Karen Bosi

Mignon Krockard
Alice Cythers

Julie Edgar

Tonya Yoder

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

9

Football & Murphy’s Law: Wé&L vs. RMC

 

‘ By Jay Plotkin
_, Sports Editor

Anything that can go wrong will go wrong at the

, Worst possible moment.

Murphy could have written his golden rule based on

* the football series between state rivals Randolph-Macon

and Washington and Lee. For a football team, that time

* could be on an extra point situation.

One of the most important — and most overlooked -
— facets of a football game is the point-after-touchdown.

* Successful extra points can win games. And missed

PATs can be fatal.

No one knows this better that W&L head football
coach Gary Fallon. Through the Generals rivalry with
R-MC, Fallon has seen all too many times how costly a

* missed extra point can be, for either team.

The two Old Dominion Athletic Conference foes

* have met 37 times over the years, with W&L holding a

19-15-3 edge. In the 1980s, the Generals held a 5-4-1
edge in the 10 games played. Three of the last four

“ games and seven of the 10 were decided by a touchdown

_ or less. Or a missed extra point.
Said Fallon, ‘‘It seems that when we play

» Randolph-Macon, the queer and odd seems to happen.’’

In 1980 and 1981, R-MC came from behind to win
both games with a combined margin of seven points. In
1980, the Yellow Jackets won 14-10 on a fourth quarter

“ touchdown. In 1981, R-MC prevailed 13-10 on another
e fourth quarter touchdown. But, oddly enough, the extra

point was no good, possibly setting the stage for years to
come.

On October 2, 1982, the Generals hosted R-MC on
Homecoming. The game started slowly. W&L took the

., early lead on senior Bill Devine’s 25-yard field goal late

‘in the first quarter.

R-MC then went to work. On the second play of
the second quarter, R-MC took the lead when Gary
Richins went in from eight yards out, giving R-MC a 6-3
lead. But Reid Laughlin’s extra point attempt was wide
ight.

‘ After forcing a W&L punt, R-MC went back on the
attack. On first down from the R-MC 46, Richins went
off left tackle for 54 yards and his second touchdown of
the afternoon. Again, the kick was no good, this time
Cody Dearing was guilty of the miss, and R- MC was
forced to settle for the 12-3 lead.

Devine added a second field goal to close the gap
to 12-6 at the half. With a touchdown and successful

' conversion, W&L was still in a position where one score

would give them a lead.
And with 6:10 left in the third quarter, senior

« tailback Chris Cavalline capped a four-play, 20-yard drive

“

~

deal fobs eu,

 

}papers;,

with a one-yard touchdown run. But with the score tied
at 12, Devine missed the PAT to the right, and the
Generals were unable to take the lead.

R-MC regained the lead on Richins’ third touch-

_ down of the day, set up by a 76-yard scamper by Alan

Wright. This time, Dearing’s extra-point was good, and

R-MC led 19-12.

After R-MC kicked off, W&L gained possession at
po gol | see ete q i ? Wi

Me

FRAT

 

 

GEN LLL!

its own 37, With sophomore John Thompson at quarter-
back having taken over for Al Paradise late in the first
half, W&L drove to the R-MC one-yard line, where Gene
Girard scored to finish the job.

But because the Generals had missed an earlier extra
point, they still trailed by one, 19-18, and Fallon elected
to go for two points and the lead. Thompson's pass was
caught by Cavalline for the conversion and a 20-19 lead,
which the defense made stand up. And that was the
first game where missed extra points affected the out-
come.

In 1986, almost four years to the day, W&L and
R-MC hooked up on Wilson Field in what was one of
the most exciting games of the decade for both teams.

The teams played to a 7-7 tie through three quarters,
with W&L scoring on a 17-yard pass from Jon Thornton
to Gar Prebor in the second quarter and R-MC scoring
on a 41-yard interception retum by Doug Wright.

Thornton gave W&L a 14-7 lead with a one-yard
dive to cap a seven-play drive highlighted by Kevin
Weaver's 51-yard run. R-MC tied it at 14 with 4:12 left
on Paul Dillard’s 23-yard pass to Billy Beatty.

After the W&L defense stopped Remon Smith for
no gain on fourth down at the W&L 47, the offense took
over with 2:02 left on the clock. Thornton, who threw
for 174 yards on the day, went to the air. In R-MC
territory, he hit Randy Brown, who made a diving catch
at the one-yard line for a 33-yard gain.

Two dives into the line got Weaver nowhere, so on
third down, he went airborne over the left side of the
line for the touchdown with only 32 seconds left.

After a fight broke out and was settled, W&L lined
up, for the extra point. Bill Crabill’s kick never had a
chance. Rob Howard blocked it for the Yellow Jackets,
but nonetheless, W&L still led 20-14 with just 32
seconds left.

Said Fallon, ‘‘I was hoping 32 seconds would be
enough. We had the game won.”’

Then Murphy's law really kicked in. With 25
seconds left, R- MC started on their own 42-yard line.
Dillard hit Lance Hering with a strike of 35 yards, to the
W&L 23. After an illegal
procedure penalty stopped the clock, Dillard hit Smith for
a gain of seven to the 21 with 12 seconds left.

Dillard then dropped back for one last pass attempt.
‘The pass was tipped by one of our players. Then one
of their players deflected it, and another one of our
players deflected it. It was finally caught by a receiver
who came from across the field who ended up lying in
the end zone with one second left,’’ said Fallon.

That receiver was Hering. He then did what his
counterpart Crabill couldn't do. He kicked the extra
point, and R-MC snatched victory from the jaws of
defeat with a 21-20 win.

‘‘We were hoping 32 seconds would be enough.
We outplayed them, but they stole it from us at the very
end,’’ said Fallon.

The rivalry intensified as the drama, and the missed
extra points continued the following season back in
Ashland. Smith and W&L’s Chris Coffland traded
five-yard touchdown runs in the final three minutes of
the first quarter to keep the game tied going into the

WE DELIVER!

 

 

delivered to

Dm.

 

In addition.
fing the PAi

ation.

 

Please do not send your
pledges to pick up
The Phi will be

the

fraternity houses every
Thursday evening after 5

you can now
in the Co-op

Tnank you ior you cooper-

a
4

 

 

 

 

ee

 

 

Bob Martin gets a block from Keith Boyd (86) on his way to a 70-yard catch and run during the 1988
game against Randolph-Macon. The game ended in a 10-10 tle. File photo.

second quarter. Smith’s touchdown would be a preview
of coming attractions. He would score twice more on the
day, running at will.

W&L made an attempt to break the game wide open
in the second quarter. Phillip Sampson threw two
touchdown passes in the final 2:21, one to John Roe
from three yards out and one to Hugh Finklestein from
47 yards out with 26 seconds left in the half. Carter
Quayle converted both PAT’s to make it a 21-7 game at
the half.

R-MC started to come back in the third quarter.
Quarterback Rick Kline hit Scott Lincoln from 31 yards
out to make it a 21-14 game midway through the third
quarter. W&L answered the score on Sampson's third
touchdown pass of the day, the second to Finklestein,
from nine yards out. But Quayle missed the extra point.

Smith then took over for the Yellow Jackets. After
the kickoff, R-MC climbed aboard Smith’s shoulder pads
and rode him for 11 plays and 76 yards in 3:51 for a
touchdown that made the score 27-21 W&L at the end of
the third quarter.

After getting the ball back, Smith went back to
work. He capped a 10-play, 73-yard drive with an
eight-yard run with 3:45 left on the clock. Mark Palm-
gren’s kick was good, and R-MC led 28-27.

This time, though, W&L had more than one second
left. But a freshman kickoff returner didn’t need more
than one second. Carl Gilbert settled under the kick at
the 18-yard-line, took it up the gut and then broke out to
the sideline. Eighty-two yards later, the Generals led

2
&

To put the Generals ahead by a full touchdown,
Fallon elected to go for two points, and Sampson came
— with a pass to Roe, giving the Generals a 35-28
lead.

Said Fallon, ‘‘When we recruited Carl, he didn’t
have much size, but he did have speed. His coach told
me that if we gave him the chance, that he would bring
back a kickoff or a punt for a touchdown, and dammed if
it didn’t win us a ball game.’’

But with 3:28 left, R-MC still had Smith, and plenty
of time to pull out another miracle. Said Fallon, ‘‘We
kicked off, and Smith just started running. He had a
couple of good runs, but he realized time was running
out. So on one run, he broke through the line and saw
that he could get out of bounds, but on his way out, he
pulls a hamstring. You never like to see a player get
hurt, and we were glad it wasn’t a serious injury, but we
sure were glad that he wouldn’t be around for the end of
our game.”’

Smith left the game, and R-MC lost the ball on
downs, and the Generals came away with a 35-28 win.
On the afternoon, Smith was all but unstoppable,
running for 298 yards on 47 carries.

Said Fallon, ‘‘I hate to even start thinking about
luck at the end of a game, and it started to cross my
mind when they got the ball back that we might not be
lucky enough to stop them, but we were able to pull it

" Although the missed extra point is one of the most
dreaded things in football, it has made for an exciting
rivalry between W&L and R-MC.

QQQQMG"”7"="F"_ [1 SS, gg 040 yo gy} Ooi 4 O™"l”|_"’

Name:

PARENTS
ALUMNI

Stay informed of what’s going on
at Washington and Lee

Subscribe to

The Ring-tum Phi

W&L’s only student newspaper
P.O. Box 899
Lexington, Va.

24450

ee a eee

Enclosed is my check for $25

Please bill me when my issues

start arriving

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

> | ER:

 

|
| Address:
:
i

DA AW

sith ociehiititniaaiiaaiins lite eaia utp aanae nama esasanel

WU oh""—F Fw Rx Ww iW

; aan io

QQ] G WW
 

 

 

W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, September 27, 1990

 

 

Outdoorsmen together indoors

Environmental issues draw diverse freshmen together

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

Unlike most freshmen who find
themselves thrown into a hodge-podge
mix of people on their halls, 32
freshmen knew exactly what type of
neighbors they were going to have
when they moved in this year.

Two dorm halls were set aside
over the summer for incoming fresh-
men who expressed interest in
“environmental issues and outing
activities,” according to Associate
Dean of Students Ken Ruscio.

Sixteen male and sixteen female
freshmen who responded positively to
a letter sent out over the summer by
Ruscio to all incoming freshmen were
placed on the halls. All the women
respondents were placed on_ the
second floor of Baker Dorm, and,
because of space limitations, all but
four male respondents were placed on
the first floor of Graham-Lees Dorm.

Dorm Counselors Jodi Herring
and Bill Murray, both members of

W&L’s Outing Club, were asked by
Ruscio to lead these halls.

Ruscio said that he used environ-
mental issues for the first experiment
in placing freshmen in halls by inter-
est because these issues and the ac-
tivities ‘‘cut across majors and other
activities.”’

‘‘The freshmen on these halls are
all very different people, but they
have this one common interest,’’ he
said.

Leland Yee, a freshman on Mur-
ray’s hall agreed, saying,‘*‘People are
all quite different here, but we’re all
interested in the environment.”’

Ruscio said he expected that most
of the freshmen would eventually join
the Outing Club, but that doing so
was not a requirement for rooming
on these halls.

“It’s not technically an Outing
Club hall,’ he said, ’’but they’ll
probably mostly end up in it.”’

Murray and Herring, along with
other members of the Outing Club,
organized a hike up House Mountain
on the Saturday after classes began.

According to Betsy Kliner, a sopho-
more who went along on the hike,
the group picked up garbage along
the path during the moming hike.

With help from residents of these
halls, the Outing Club has expanded
their recycling program begun last
spring. The club placed trash cans
for recycling aluminum on all fresh-
men halls and in fraternity houses.

“It’s actually working, the recy-
cling cans are full of aluminum and
the garbage cans are full of gar-
bage,’’ said Blair Simmons, a senior
dorm counselor.

Simmons also said some freshmen
have been asking if the program will
be expanded next year to create halls
for other subjects and interests. A
few freshmen asked if they could
have a ‘‘Pro-life’’ hall.

“‘One even suggested a broccoli-
haters hall,’’ she said.

According to the Outing Club’s
Faculty advisor, Kirk Follo of the
German department, the hall place-
ments are ‘‘still just an experiment.”’

Ruscio agreed, saying, ‘‘It’s an

 

 

a

 

 

 

Dean Ken Ruscio

experiment for a year. Maybe we'll
expand it to other areas, maybe not,
but I have no other subjects in mind
right now.”’

Concert guild begins season

 

« By Ashley Harper
Entertainment Editor

 

Washington and Lee University’s
Concert Guild began its season with
the Virginia Tech resident string
quartet Tuesday night at 8 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.

“One of the reasons I suggested
the Concert Guild hire the Audubon
Quartet,’’ said Professor Timothy
Gaylard, advisor of the W&L Concert
Guild, ‘‘is that there is a connection
with W&L and the quartet.

‘The idea of having a resident
quartet at Virginia Tech was one that
the president of the university had.
At the time, their president was John

sneer

D. Wilson,”’ he said.

The concert included a twentieth
century piece by Benjamin Britten
which combines the different sounds
of the strings and oboe, an eighteenth
century quartet by Beethoven, and a
nineteenth century autobiographical
romantic work by Smetana.

The W&L Concert Guild is a
group of 13 to 14 students who
decide which performers will visit the
campus during the concert series.

Lauren Rowland, a Concert Guild
member, said the Guild members are
involved in the music department.

“‘The members of the Concert
Guild are active in the music en-
sembles as well as in the musicology
or theory courses,”’ said Rowland.

ea ot dy

The Guild members help the musi-
cians with their performances, host
receptions, and arrange for master
classes or interaction between the
professional and the music student.

‘*The members represent the stu-
dents on campus who are interested
in music and in classical music,”’ said
Gaylard. ‘‘The Guild tries to offer a
balanced season with chamber, or-
chestral, vocal and contemporary
classical music.”’

Gaylard and his wife will have a
dual recital next Tuesday in Lee
Chapel, said Gaylard. Gaylard will
perform Becthoven’s Pathetique
Sonata and Mozart’s Fantasy in C
minor, Gaylard will also accompany
his wife’s vocal performance of six

 

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 16 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY

 

 

Mh
ouse of
ae fA.

 

0 Raeford Grade

a

‘A
PRE
eR

LOW PRICES!

eG
SSK
SKN
SSS

—
ACS

i

+S

xX
AN \
s.

AN
S

WS

aS

 

 

 

 

   

Washington State Red Or Golden

Delicious

 

 

 

 

Elizabethan poems set to music by
the contemporary composer Dominick
Argento, and four songs and two arias
by Puccini.

The Concert Guild series includes
The Mozartean Players, who perform
with and will discuss the original
instruments of Mozart’s time. Later,
the contemporary ensemble Aequalis
will give an inside look into ‘‘the
business’’ of professional musicians.

Florida State University Professor
of Violin Eliot Chapo will conduct a
master class with the violin students.
The Netherlands Wind Ensemble will
conclude the series with a week long
residency to teach and perform with
the music students at W&L.

 

F
8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Jean de Florette (Franca, 1987), directed by
Claud Berri. Classroom "A," L@wis Hall. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETICS: VOLLEYBALL: Gatholic University
Tournament; MEN'S TENNIS: Emory.
| SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29
Yom Kippur.
1:30 p.m. FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon College. Wilson
Field.
8 p.m FILM SQGIETY: Jean de Florette (France, 1937). Classroom
"A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETICS: CROSS COUNTRY: Norfolk State,
Roanoke College; TENNIS: Emory.
Sui 30
AWAY ATHLETICS: SOCCER (M&W): Emory ; WOMEN'S
TENNIS: Emory.
June 1991 degree applications due.
4 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Planning for
Graduate School. Room 109, University Center.
7:30 p.m. TELFORD LECTURE: “Futures of Socialism,” Marina

    

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

 

Chetverikova, staff researcher, U.S.S.R. Institute for U.S.
and Canada Studies in Moscow. Northen Auditorium,
University Library. Public invited.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2

LECTURE: "On Being a Foreign Correspondent in Moscow,”
John-Thor Dahlberg '75, Moscow correspondent for The
Los Angeles Times. Northen Auditgrium, University Library.
Public invited.

CONCERT: Timothy and Cattyrine Gaylard, Piano and Vocal
Works, Lee Chapel. Public invited.

CONCERT: U.S. Marine Band. Cameron Hall, V.M.1. Public
invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: MEN'S SOCCER: Hampden-Sydney.

WEDNESDAY OBER

8 p.m.

8 p.m.

8 p.m.

4 p.m. PHYSICS/ENGINEERING SEMINAR: "Parallaxes of Faint Stars,'
Philip lanna, University of Virginia. Room 201, Parmly Hall.
Coffee at 3:30. Public invited.

4p.m. CD&P: Interviewing Workshop. Room 109, University Center.

4-8p.m. TWILIGHT RETREAT: "Peacemaking and the Just War Theory,’
Rev. Richard Mooney. St. Patrick's Church. Dinner
provided. Public invited.

4:30 p.n. GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: A poetry reading by
Daniel Hoffman. Northen Auditorium, University Library.
Public invited.

6 p.m. VOLLEYBALL: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon Woman's
College, Southern Seminary. Warner Center.

8 p.m. LECTURE: "Will the Soviet Union Survive Until 1991?"

John-Thor Dahlberg '75, Moscow correspondent. Northen
Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

 

 

 

 

 

 

67
Sq. Ft.

Roll

 

Bounty
Paper Towels

79°

ua Net
Hak Spray

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, October 2, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, October 2, 1990 In Lexington Store Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 

 
 

October
v.90
V0.7

 

is)

,
BEAINGTON, VA. 244%

_ Date rape survey results released --- see page 4

Che Ring-tium Phi

 

‘ VOLUME 90, NO. 7

Todd Smith
‘Fellowship
awarded

W&L senior plans
“work in Moscow

~

-

 

: By Brian Root
, Editor

Washington and Lee senior

, Alisann McGloin received the first-

ever Todd C. Smith Memorial Fel-

lowship in Northen Auditorium Tues-
day night.

, The award, which is named for

Todd Smith, a 1983 graduate of

W&L, will allow McGloin to spend

Spring Term in Moscow while work-

ing on a series of articles for The

Tampa (Fla.) Tribune. Her work will

center on the role of Soviet women

. in the age of perestroika in that

country.

Smith was killed in November of
last year by terrorists in the Huallaga
Valley of Peru while researching a
story on the drug trade in that area.
Earlier in his career, Smith accompa-
nied the Nicaraguan contras for a
month and produced a series of arti-
, cles on their fight against the Sandan-

ista government.

2 At the time of his death, Smith

, Was taking as vacation from his job

at the Tribune to write about the

Peruvian drug trade.

, The award was presented by Rob-
ert P. Smith, Todd’s father and 1954

graduate of W&L.

‘ “It is a moral necessity to put
one foot in front of the other along
the right path, to see what is actually

, out there,’’ Smith said. ‘‘We are

telling Alisann to put her foot out

there, to keep her eye on the horizon.

, You never know what you might find

out there.”’

‘Todd was a fortunate young
/ man,”’ said Dean of the College John
Elrod in his introductory speech. ‘He
was a diligent and dedicated student,
, possessing what I call a restless intel-
ligence.”’

‘‘He was ambitious to tell the big
story, to tell the truth about the

-

>

~

>

oe

*

-

=

-

-

.

~

-

>

 

, By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

The Todd C. Smith Memorial Fellowship was awarded to senior
Alisann McGloin Tuesday night. Smith, W&L ’83, was killed last
year while researching the Peruvian drug trade. File photo.

things’ that mattered,’’ Elrod said.

‘‘T just want to thank everyone
who made this possible,’’ McGloin
said upon accepting the award. ‘'I
just hope I can accomplish some of
what Todd did.’’

While in Moscow, McGloin will
be staying with John-Thor Dahlburg,
W&L ’75, the Moscow correspon-
dent for The Los Angeles Times, who
was also at the award presentation. In

Rush stats released

that evening.

She asked the council if fraternities had already

addition, Lawrence McConnell, W&L
71 and managing editor of The Tam-
pa Tribune, was on hand.

The fellowship was established by
Smith’s family and the Tribune last
year. It is open to any rising W&L
junior or senior who shows interest
in becoming a foreign correspondent.
The fellowship provides a stipend that
covers all travel, food, lodging and
educational expenses.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

March 8 to March 1.
Student

holiday begins.

SAB decision.

me,’’ Duwel said yesterday.

were too extreme.

to schedule for it.’’

Dean of the Law School Randall Bezanson said that
the law calendar is made by faculty two years in ad-
vance, months before the FD date is set.

“If the FD date was set two years in advance ... that
would be a piece of information available’ in academic

scheduling, he said.

Duwel said that Associate Dean of Students Leroy
‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins was concerned about alumni who had

already made plans to attend.

Assistant Director of Athletics Cinda Rankin said that
the Athletic Department is ‘‘very cautious’’ to schedule
around FD, Rankin added that FD a week prior ‘‘may
not even be physically possible’ due to prior commit-

ments of the gymnasium.

FD Vice Chairwoman Susie Wootten reported that up
to 87 athletes have games scheduled March 1 or 2. Only
27 would be tied up the weekend of March 8.

 

rushed

RUSH STATISTICS

- 92 percent of freshmen men

fraternities during Formal

 

The Student Activities Board and the Student Bar
Association debate at Monday night’s Executive Commit-
tee meeting resulted in further postponement of the final
decision of whether or not to move Fancy Dress from

Bar Association President
protested the Student Activities Board decision not to
move FD and called for SAB chairwoman Kathleen
Duwel to resign or be removed by the EC.

Duwel’s actions, said Burns, demonstrated ‘‘blatant
disregard for the 386 law students.
irresponsible and incompetent as a student leader.’’

The EC first proposed two weeks ago that the SAB
move FD from March 8, the day the Law School spring
Duwel told the EC she would consider
the proposal, but she and the EC agreed that it was an

‘Grant Burns having a problem with Fancy Dress or...
SAB should not be turned into a personal matter with

On Wednesday, Sept. 26, the SAB decided not to
change the date due to alumni arrangements based on the
academic calendar, athletic conflicts and poor law school
response to SAB membership applications.

A motion by third-year EC law Rep. Mark Cobb to
move FD to March 1, overriding the SAB decision, failed
Monday night, despite support from the three EC law
representatives and EC Vice President Raymond Welder.
‘I really do emphasize the administration’s fault in all
of this,’’ said Welder, who thought ‘‘calls for resignation

“ED is one of the biggest traditions at this school,”’
he said. ‘‘It’s not a huge sacrifice for the administration

Final Rush tabulations were announced and
Student Activities Board leaders appealed to the
Interfraternity Council for support to stop the pos-
sible Fancy Dress date change at Tuesday night’s
IFC meeting.

Skarda presented the council with facts on the
* number of freshmen involved in Rush and Pledging
, of fraternities.

Figures he presented included:

¢ 92 percent of freshmen males rushed frater-
nities during Formal Rush.

* 88 percent of those who rushed have so far
pledged a house.

* 81 percent of all freshmen males are now
pledged to a fraternity.

IFC Vice-president Mike Skarda said Deferred
Rush begins next week. Any time after Saturday
night, fraternities may give out bids to unpledged
freshmen and upperclassmen and the bidees may
, accept the bids, or tear, anytime after that.

SAB Chairman Katie Duwel told the council
‘that the Law School’s Student Bar Association
wants Fancy Dress Ball moved from March 8 to
*March 1, 1991.

She said the law students want the change
because their spring break begins on March 8 and
many will have already left town before the ball

=

-

-

 

put down deposits on bands for that weekend and,
if so, if they would lose their money if the date
was changed. About half the houses represented
said they had already booked bands.

Duwell told the IFC there will be an open
forum on the proposed date change 7 p.m. Sunday,
Oct. 7 in the Moot Court Room in Lewis Hall.

“If you want to say your peace, this is the
time to do it,’’ she said.

IFC President Goodloe Lewis announced that
the week of Oct. 15 has been designated Alcohol
Awareness Week on campus and that fraternities
should plan activities to support the project.

‘The impression on this campus of fraternities
is of an alcohol horn of plenty,’’ he said.

He noted that will be a speaker in Lee Chapel
one evening during the week and a battle of the
bands in the Student Activities Pavilion on Friday
the 19th. He urged all fraternity members to attend
both events.

‘*Send your pledges to the speaker, support the
battle of the bands, have alcohol-free parties that
week,’’ he suggested,

Assistant Dean of Students for greek affairs
Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins also urged fraternity
members to be responsible during the week.

‘‘Take some sort of responsible attitude about
this Alcohol Awareness Week,’’ he said, ‘‘Don’t
make your pledges be the gophers, get involved.”’

 

Rush.

* 88 percent of those freshmen
who rushed have so far pledged a
house.

- 81 percent of all freshmen males
are now pledged to a fraternity.

(Percentages based on combined
freshman pledge class of 192 males,
released Sept. 25, 1990.)

 

 

Lewis also told the council that residents of
Rockbridge County have been complaining that
fraternity activities at country houses were bother-
ing the neighbors.

‘‘There have been complaints that some people
are shooting all day long, ’’ he said.

He said now that Rush is over, that should not
be a problem any longer, but he urged fraternity
leaders to ‘‘encourage these people to limit their
shooting to one hour a day.”’

Lewis said he was just trying to get fraternities
to keep things under control, not trying to stop
people from partying in the country.

‘*Actually,’’ he said, ‘‘the way the school’s
going, that’s just about all that’s left to do.”’

| Officer charged in shooting

| Correction

; A caption that appeared in last
week’s issue of The Ring-tum Phi
‘] was incorrect. The reaper invented
by Cyrus McCormick was used to
harvest wheat, not corn, as was
originally reported.

Also, a professor was incor-
| rectly identified. Ann Wortham is
a tenure-track professor of
sociology.

The Phi deeply regrets the
. errors.

 

 

 

By Macon Miles
Staff Reporter

A Lexington police officer was
arrested Saturday night and charged
with the murder his wife in their
Lexington home.

Officer Jerry Richard Knick, 33,
was charged with first degree murder
and the use of a firearm in the
commission of a felony. He was
arrested about 10:25 Saturday night
for allegedly shooting his 34-year-old
wife, Lisa Vincent Knick, in the head
in their Lexington house on Battery
Lane.

A preliminary hearing is set for
October 22 in the Rockbridge County
Juvenile and Domestic Relations
Court

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard said in a statement that Knick

was on duty at the time of the
shooting. Officials say Knick called
the police dispatcher after the shoot-
ing and waited outside his home.
Police arrived shortly after 10:30 p.m.
and Knick turned over his 9 mm
service revolver, which had been fired
once,

Lisa Knick, who was found lying
on the living room floor, was flown
by helicopter from Stonewall Jackson
Hospital to Roanoke Memorial Hospi-
tal where she died between 9 and 10
a.m. Sunday morning, police said.
Hospital officials said she was shot
once in her left temple.

The investigation has been turned
over to the Bureau of Criminal Inves-
tigation of the Virginia State Police.
State Police Sgt. Cecil Handy, who is
in charge of the investigation, said
the shooting was the result of a
domestic dispute. In his statement,

Chief Beard said Knick has been put
on administrative leave without pay
until the case is resolved.

Knick was held in the Rockbridge
County Jail over the weekend without
bond. He was released Monday on
$60,000 bond after an a arraignment
hearing.

Culpepper awarded custody of
Knick’s two children from his current
marriage to a relative in Northern
Virginia. The children were asleep in
the house at the time of the shooting,
police said. Knick has two other chil-
dren from a previous marriage.

Officer Knick is a native of
Buena Vista and joined the Lexington
police force in 1982. He headed the
Lexington Police | Department’s
investigation of the 1988 hit-and-run
death of W&L freshman Mary Ashley
Scarborough by Charles Blakley
Comer,

OCTOBER 4, 1990

SAB, SBA dispute
Fancy Dress date

 

Grant Burns

Sept. 27 issue.
Duwel has been

IFC.

 

Skarda asks EC
to punish Phi

Interfraternity Council
Skarda told the Executive Committee Monday night
that he expects EC disciplinary action against The
Ring-tum Phi for an article, editorial and cartoon in the

The Phi last week reported remarks from two
freshmen that implicated Skarda and IFC President
Goodloe Lewis in violations of IFC rush rules.

“The Phi staff appears to have little regard for
student body process,’’ said Skarda. He said that the
Phi should have reported the freshmen’s claims to the

Skarda also said that the Phi’'s editorial falsely
claimed that he ‘‘threatened to hand in Mr. Mikita,”’
one of the freshmen interviewed by the Phi, ‘‘on a
possible honor offense.’’

Second-year EC law Rep. Giles Perkins advised the
Phi ‘‘to be more careful.”’

‘People I’ve talked to were amazed that the two
freshmen who turned it in were a part of two houses
that received rush violations,’’ said EC President Tom
Hatcher. He said the freshmen’s fraternity affiliations
should have been in the article.

Vice President Michael

— by Rick Peltz

 

 

Duwel said that only four law students applied to be
SAB tnembers at-large, despite a special interview schedule

and publicity drive to encourage law student participa-

tion.

““We don’t know if we'd be able to count on them,”’
said Duwel of the law students.

Moving back FD would require law student participa-
tion in set production while the undergraduates are on

Washington holiday.

EC Secretary Jeffery Kelsey said that the shortage of
law student applications was due to the scheduling of FD

on March 8. If it was moved, he said, more law students

would participate.

EC President Tom Hatcher asked the SAB and SBA
to make a joint investigation into the plausibility of
moving FD and return to the EC at a special hearing next

Wednesday, Oct. 10.

all students.

Also, at the request of the EC, Duwel said there will
be a forum on Monday at 6 p.m. in Lewis Hall open to

Students oppose
BV cogen plant

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

The cogeneration plant hearing in
Buena Vista two weeks ago and the
ongoing fight over possible approval
of the plant’s construction has Buena
Vista residents, and a few Washing-
ton and Lee students, up in arms.

Members. of the Outing Club’s
Environmental section have been
actively opposing the plant, a coal-
burning electrical generator that oppo-
nents say will pollute the valley.

‘tA few of my friends and I have
been going to all the meetings in BV
and doing mailings to senators and
anyone else who could help,’”” W&L
senior Hal Bailey said.

The Buena Vista City Council
voted two years ago to re-zone a
farm to allow Hadson Development
Corporation to build a cogeneration
plant to produce electricity for Vir-
ginia Power.

Bailey said he, along with other
members of the Outing Club, has
been circulating petitions and writing
letters opposing construction of the
plant since last spring.

He said the Buena Vista area has
weather patterns that trap pollution in
the small valley areas of the Blue
Ridge mountains.

He quoted statistics that estimate
40 percent of the year the area ex-
pericnces air movements called ther-
mal conversions. The resulting differ-
ences in air temperatures in the val-
leys are what create morning fog, and
can also stop air pollutants from
being swept away over the Blue
Ridge by the prevailing westerly
winds.

Bailcy said doctors have warned
that if the plant is built, the city can
expect to see increases in the rate of
respiratory ailments, especially among
the elderly and those already afflicted
with allergies and asthma.

At the Sept. 17 hearing before the
Buena Vista City Council and the
City Planning Commission, BV city
manager Clay Goodman read _ his
report that estimates 200 construction

jobs and 27 permanent jobs would be
created by the plant. He said the
plant could generate up to $515,000
annually in taxes, more than 8 per-
cent of the city’s total revenue intake.

Hadson Development Vice-Presi-
dent Robert P. Kennel said construc-
tion of the plant allows Georgia
Bonded Fibers, a paper producer in
Buena Vista, to shut down its ‘‘dirty
old boilers’’ and purchase steam from
Hadson’s new plant.

He said this would allow Georgia
Bonded to expand its operation.
Georgia Bonded has indicated that if

“Buena Vista needs
people. It needs
growth. It doesn’t
need another smoke-
stack.”
— BV resident
Timothy Dugganm

they were able to purchase steam
from the new plant, they would in-
deed expand. Representatives from
the company presented the city coun-
cil with a petition signed by 100
employees calling for the go-ahead to
build the new power plant.

Bailey said Hadson also promised
to contribute to Buena Vista's effort
to construct a flood wall that would
protect the city from the same detes-
tation brought on by floods in 1985
and years before.

‘My concern is that the cogen-
eration plant is the wrong way to go
for Buena Vista’s future,’’ BV resi-
dent Timothy Dugganm said. ‘‘Buena
Vista needs people. It needs growth.
It doesn’t need another smokestack.”’

Mary Shewey, BV city registrar,
argued for the new plant, saying,
‘We're from an industrial city. Our
logo has smokestacks.”’

Bailey said he sees too much stu

dent apathy about the issue.

‘*People don’t know about it,’’ he
said. ‘‘] don’t know if they're just
uneducated or if they just don’t care

I hope it’s the former.’’
 

ee ee ee ee ee eee

ad

LOL OAL ELLE OIE EOI OOOO EEE EE Se ty Ete Meee etme he eae war

eee

5OO.SSCEN EEL LT ee
Ae 2, OO, 2%,

OPINION

eae

The Ring-tum Phi, October 4, 1990

 

Dress date

There doesn’t seem to be an easy way out of it. The
Student Bar Association wants Fancy Dress to be resched-
uled and the Student Activities Board wants nothing of the
kind.

In our opinion, the most sensible course is to leave the
FD scheduling alone, at least for this year. Certainly, there
is plenty of blame to go around. The undergraduates failed
to consult the law school calendar in scheduling FD, but the
law school has shown little interest, until this late date, in
SAB meetings or sign-ups.

Quite simply, there are too many problems involved with
rescheduling Fancy Dress this year, problems delineated by
Katie Duwel in her report to the EC. In the future, the SAB
should, as a matter of simple courtesy, consult closely with
the law school on matters of this importance. This year, that
didn’t happen, and now we’re all paying for it.

If we, the undergraduates, were placed in the law
students’ situation, no doubt we would raise all kinds of hell
about the FD scheduling. Nevertheless, we believe that,
considering the circumstances, it is a small price to pay for
law student to sacrifice the first day of their break to attend
what is without doubt the most unique aspect of Washington
and Lee’s social life.

Relations between the law school and the undergraduate
campus have traditionally been strained because of repeated
failures to communicate on such issues. In the future, we
hope that will not be the case.

Driving away from
the influence

An article in last week’s issue of the Phi reported that
the number of arrests for driving under the influence of
alcohol has dropped significantly in the last few years,
despite the number of high-profile cases that might seem to
indicate otherwise. Washington and Lee is a school steeped
in tradition, not the least of which, and deservedly so, is its
unique social atmosphere.

One of the unfortunate results of that sraciiehons; however,
had been the willingness of some students, just as those in
the rest of society, to drive home while impaired. According
to the Virginia State Police, one out of every 2,000 drunk
drivers gets caught. Almost every tradition has its negative
side, and this is no exception.

We are glad to see that the student body, - as well as
society in ‘general, is getting the hint, even though some
refuse to see it.

Programs such as Live Drive deserve credit for this
increased awareness, but such programs would go unheeded
without the compliance of the student body as a whole, and
it is they who deserve most of the congratulations.

We strongly urge the university and student leaders to
expand the Live Drive program, and hope that more students
can become involved.

To our readers

The editorial board of The Ring-tum Phi would like to
thank all those who contributed responsible responses

conceming last week’s issue. However, the Phi stands by its
stories.

Quote of the Week

Sex is popular. — Professor of Journalism Clark R.
Mollenhoff, noting a definite tendency of those in his
Editorial Writing class to address matters of the flesh.

 

 

Wanted: a Fancy .

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi —

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

 

Another W&L
alum in the
Middle East

I read with interest in the Sept. 6 edition of
The Ring-tum Phi concerning graduates who are
a part of Operation Desert Shield in Saudi
Arabia. In addition to the gentlemen identified in
the article, a member of the Class of 1983,
David P. Ridlon, is also serving our country in
the Middle East.

Sincerely,
Bennett L. Ross '83

Sugarman: :
Phi headline
inaccurate

It is truly sad that the sole newspaper repre-
senting Washington and Lee does not feel bound
by the same tenets of honor that govern the
student body. Your headline is more than mere
sensationalism, it is a lie, pure and simple. Pi
Kappa Phi is not facing ‘‘drug charges,’’ That is
the truth.

We understand that your paper feels the need
to write about something other than the normal
tedium and sports scores and movie reviews.
However, journalistic ethics, if not the Honor
System, should preclude printing slanderous
statements relying on nothing more than unsup-
ported rumors.

As far as this alleged investigation is con-
cerned, we would like to correct you. Pi Kappa
Phi is not under active investigation for anything.
The Dean of Students Office simply contacted
our fraternity’s leadership in order to discuss
rumors that had been circulating around campus.
Dean Howison and Dean Ruscio seemed pleased
with our internal investigation and indicated that
their investigation is only open to the extent that
their office would only react to any new informa-
tion that might arise.

Your paper’s mandate is to print accurate
accounts of the event around campus. Distorting
facts in order to create a provocative story
compromises the integrity of The Ring-tum Phi
and makes dubious. everything -you print.

Sincerely,
F, Skip Sugarman ’91, President
Mason Petit '92, Chaplain

Phi charged
with revenge
as motive

I am writing to express my outrage at the
lead article of the Sept. 27 edition of the Phi,
“IFC heads break rules.’’ The article appears to
be nothing more than a personal attack directed
by certain members of the newspaper staff
against Goodloe Lewis and Mike Skarda. Please
allow me to explain myself.

The Phi staff includes several members of
Pika and Sigma Chi in important positions; Chris
Baradel and Jeff Woodland are members of Pika,
and Brian Root, Andrew Waters and Jason
Kelley are members of Sigma Chi. Both Pika and
Sigma Chi were charged with a significant
number of Rush violations by the IFC; in fact
Pika committed so many Rush violations that it
lost social privileges one weekend. I charge that
the staff members mentioned above used two of
the new pledges in their respective houses to
exact revenge on the IFC. This abuse of their of
their staff positions to take revenge upon two
campus leaders such as Lewis and Skarda is
entirely unprofessional.

 

 

     

 

LETTERS

How on earth can Trevor Norris find fault
with Lewis for allegedly
giving him a beer after he accepted his offer? Is
that not entrapment? And what of Mr. Mikita,
who is ‘immediately turaed off’’ by dirty rush?
How does he defend his decision to pledge Pika,
a house that ied the way in finding new ways to
break Rush rules this year?

To the Phi staff, I suggest you use your
newspaper as a rag to cicai up some of the mud
which you so carelessly sling about.

Sincerely,
Trent Merchant ’92

Hancock

-responds to

speculation

In response to ths ietter to ine editor in the
Sept. 20 issue of The King--n Phi, I would like
to say that I find it interesting that people with
no firsthand knowledge of the circumstances
surrounding my accident seem to feel that they
have the ability to correctly apportion the blame
foi the situation and my injuries. Perhaps, if they
had access to the facts as I do, their opinions
might be different, or, at the very least, they
might allow my viewpoint without disparaging
my intelligence.

Sincerely,
Elizabeth Hancock, °93

McCormick
error criticized

While the errors in the Phi are generally of
a trivial and sometimes amusing nature, the
inaccuracies in the last issue far surpassed any
previous blunders. How I yearn for the days
when journalists had at least a rudimentary grasp
of history! I am referring specifically to the
caption which cites Cyrus McCormick as the
inventor of a reaper which somehow made cotton
a viable cash crop thus making him a perpetuator
of Southern slavery. It is preposterous that the
Phi staff would not know the difference between
a grain reaper and a cotton gin. Almost twenty
years before the end of the War, Cyrus McCor-
mick moved to Chicago to produce his new
reaper. Actually, McCormick’s invention led to
the demise of slavery, as it freed many Mid-
western boys from the task of feeding the
Yankees, and therefore allowed them to fight on
the Union lines. It is indeed a shame that the
Phi, in its pathetic attempt at wholesale distortion
of history, missed such an opportunity to remind
us all of the generous gift of over $300,000 that
he, University trustee and benefactor, and his

family made to our school. Sorry to say, it looks
as if the editors were asleep at the presses.

Sincerely,
John Ebner '91

lies to

crticis m

Dean Kenneth Ruscio’s letter in last week's
Phi concerning the Spectator’'s ‘‘Dorm Nazi”’
General Opinion unfortunately does more to
obscure the issue than to clarify it. The point of
the article is not that any current or past dorm
counselors are disciples of Adolf Hitler or that
the five counselors’ action last year violated the
fourth amendment or even that (if we reason as
Dean Ruscio would have us) inconvenient laws
ought not to be obeyed. It is simply that, last
year, a few dorm counselors committed an

egregious breach of their authority by
indiscriminately searching rooms for alcohol and

   

appropriately using the Honor Code to help
enforce dormitory rules. And, judging from Dean
Ruscio’s letter, he is in basic agreement with
this. \

That said, however, Dean Ruscio is not
finished ‘‘clarifying’’ things for us yet. His
digression on liberal judges is interesting, but it
has nothing to do with the dorm counselor raid.
It is a tremendous leap of logic (nearly akin to
saying that the ‘‘cotton reaper’ promoted slavery,
in the South) to assume that the Spectator's
concern over last year’s event has anything at all
to do with the ACLU’s concer for the so called
Miranda rights of criminals.

If we were to take Dean Ruscio at face value;
we might expect him to call for student funding
for the Spectator on the grounds that it now
offers diversity of opinion. Of course, Dean
Ruscio does not believe that the Spectator is
‘liberal’? any more than anyone else believes
that he is ‘‘glad’’ to occupy some common}
ground with it. It would seem that the Dean, who
deplores the use of hyperbole in headlines, is just
as guilty of using rhetoric as are the college:
students he criticizes, albeit with less cause.

Sincerely, '
Paul Lagarde ’91 '

Student
defends

Skarda

I have written The Ring-tum Phi on many
occasions, often taking stances on controversial |
issues, even on occasion eliciting response from |
members of the student body. Despite how much
others may have disagreed with my opinions, few |
have ever-- to my knowledge-- questioned the
ethics of my writing a signed article and submitt- |
ing it to your publication. And yet I should not |
refer to The Ring-tum Phi as your publication, for
it is not your publication, but ours-- the student
body’s. Not only do student funds support,
indeed outright maintain, the Publications Board,
the University has traditionally entrusted the Phi
with the responsibility of being the students’
publication.

It is in this esprit as the students’ own publi-
cation, that I find your editorial last week attack-
ing the character and integrity of a member of
that student body you are entrusted to serve, not
merely deeply disturbing, but grossly unethical
and unprofessional. When I also consider that
your assault on him, based on outrageous allega-
tions and suppositions, might have led members
of the student body to believe that Mr. Skarda is |
a weak drunkard, too lacking in personal strength |
to stand on his own merit, and so cowardly as to
cling to the White Book for protection from
public accusation, I become nothing short of
enraged.

As someone who has known Skarda for
nearly as long as I have attended W&L, I-- and
those around me-- firmly attest that the con-
clusions concerning his character are unfortunate,
unfounded and untrue.

The business of a student publication, funded
by the students and accountable to them, is not
to single out members of the student body and
make their character the sole subject of the
paper’s editorial. If you feel so strongly about
name calling and bloodletting, then take your
opinions to a My View and sign your name to
them. Then, with your name alongside the target
of your attack, you may ‘‘act equally bravely and
honorable by letting each member of our com-
munity make up their minds about the charges
against’ you both.

Sincerely,
J, Cameron Humphries '93

P.S. I strongly urge you to exhibit appropriate
professionalism and integrity by utilizing the
paper’s editorial to make a complete and full
apology to Mr. Skarda. Although few words
now could fully restore his damaged reputation,
you consciences might rest easier in knowing
you've done your best to restore a man’s image
that became tarnished solely at the hand of your
own negligence.

 

 
‘

OPINION
Racism is alive in Gaines Hall

 

MY VIEW
By James Elliot

 

‘‘Negroes must die,’’ ‘‘Negroes
suck,’’ ‘‘Negroes bum in hell’’ —
these phrases among others were
etched into the Gaines Hall elevator
this weekend and every person at this
university should be aware of this -
- and ashamed of it.

Every individual should be aware
of the maligned and perverted sayings
in the Gaines elevator because they
live right next to the person that
wrote the sayings; they greet that

person with a friendly ‘‘Hello’’ or
‘*Hey how are ya’ ’’ each time they
pass that person on the Colonnade -
- and that person has a big problem.

That person believes himself or
herself to be enough superior to pass
judgement on a race of human
beings.

That person harbors the abject
meanness and raw cruelty to etch his
or her vitriolic words on the door
knowing the anguish this action will
cause — and the cowardice to leave
his/her sickening, deplorable message
unsigned.

Where is honor and integrity
here?

The Ring-tum Phi, October 4, 1990

Not only does this person not
belong at Washington and Lee, this
person does not belong in the human
race — for the ignorance which
causes a person to harshly generalize
about a race of human beings and the
unmitigated meanness which accom-
panies such a feeling and action is
not human — it is bestial.

I do not suspect that the world I
live in will ever be freed of such
malice.

Nor do I expect to be able with
this letter to touch the wayward con-
science of the author of the sayings
in the Gaines elevator.

But I can express my disgust and

 

the sadness which accompanies such
disgust, I can tell every
person at this school of the rage I
felt in Gaines elevator — the anger
felt because black students were
going to walk into this elevator and
be faced with ignorant bigotry — the
anger I felt because of the bitterness
and anguish these words would cause.

It is my hope that by exposing
such hatred to a community in which
honor and integrity are integral, I can
draw heated condemnation of the
base acts perpetrated by those who
lack any measure of honor or in-

tegrity.

Honor Code and campus parking

 

MY VIEW

By T. Christopher Locke

 

Since the Phi has been calling for submissions
lately, here’s mine, concerning a problem we are
all familiar with. One day not long ago, I had
dropped my Chinese teacher, Ms. Liang, off at her
office and parked her car for her, for we were late
after dropping someone off at the airport. I was
asked to move the car by a member of W&L Sec-
urity, on the grounds that it was I parking the car
and ‘‘the faculty doesn’t like people parking their
(the faculty’s) cars up here.’’ I replied that should
be faculty’s problem. The car I was driving was
indeed Ms. Liang’s, had an ‘‘A’’ sticker, and was
being parked for the reasons I stated. If Mr. Bane
did not believe my story, he should have had me

written up on an honor violation. Otherwise, I
didn’t see the problem. He then proceeded to ask
me for my and my mother’s names.

‘*What does that have to do with anything?’’ I
asked. He apparently had assumed that it was my
mother’s car, and that my mother worked on cam-
pus to get the A sticker, or something like that. In
other words, he assumed I was lying.

I ended up parking the car of not only a mem-
ber of the faculty but a guest of this University
from a foreign country, out in the lot by Liberty
Hall, to avoid having the car towed away. As a
result, she shouldn’t find it and couldn’t use it for
a period of time after that.
the perks for being in W&L Security is being able
to park behind Evans, you know, where the sign
says ‘‘No Parking, violators will be towed’’, or
just out in the middle of the street, while one
enjoys a leisurely breakfast inside.)

(By the way, one of

thought up.

Is this a desirable consequence of having this
kind of ‘Security? ”’
against itself, it works against the University.
When I say ‘‘University;’ I mean the students and
teachers, not the Administration under whose
shadow of self-importance the University lies. One
of my Professors actually described the situation as
“the tail wagging the dog’’ for parking is just
another sizable part of this larger problem, which
not only conflicts with common sense, but with the
Honor Code as well.

I realize that the Honor Code is often violated,
sometimes under the guise of ‘‘fraternity pranks’’
and I have not the power to affect that. But when
my own integrity is called into question in a
situation where that is uncalled for, the Honor
Code comes across as no more than some silly
concept we in our ivory tower of academic naivete

Not only does it work

A multitude of My View topics

 

MY VIEW
By Brant Martin

 

Why do we always bring up the
fact that Tom Wolfe is an alumnus of
W&L? He is an incredible writer and
deserves credit for this, but he does
not seem to credit W&L as his own.
On his book jackets, it mentions only
the fact that he went to Yale. He has
not made an appearance in Lee
knows how long, not does he ever
mention W&L in interviews. Is he

ashamed of us? Perhaps he has seen

too many of us aspiring to be the
Sherman McCoys of the world and

has therefore disinherited his alma
mater. But it seems to me that Yale
doesn’t exactly cater to the under-
privileged classes, and that a cham-
pion of the poor wouldn’t need to
wave his Eli intellectual banner. If he
is going to be a snob he should at
least admit it... Why is student apathy
so high at W&L? Well, perhaps if
we could find some new issues to
debate, some interest could be
sparked. Race relations are getting
better (at least within the university
community), sexism seems to be. in
decline, and even the Speaking tradi-
tion is coming back into vogue. We
still have a long way to go, but each
(and every) side of these issues has

been more than fairly represented.
Beating dead horses makes for good
Congressional debates, but boring Phi
editorials... As much flack as the
administration gets (and usually de-
serves), for issues like the CRC, the
SAC and other controversial alphabet
committees that it empowers, it deser-
ves our congratulations and respect in
the way it has handled the car tax
issue. Hurrah to President Wilson for
standing up for the right thing and
recognizing the value of common
sense. However, if he believes the
construction companies are going to
have the refurbished fraternity houses
ready be January, it’s obvious he
hasn’t seen them yet... While you

may Or may not agree with his point,
it seems strange that a distinguished
intellectual from Dartmouth College
would take such a juvenile potshot at
W&L and The Washington and Lee
Spectator in the postscript of his
letter. If he is so righteous and jus-
tified, there is no need for childish
schoolyard insults. As mere W&L
students, we may not be moral para-
digms like the editors of the
Dartmouth Review, but I’m _ glad
we're above that type of third-grade
barb. Oooooooooh, burned us... I
don’t know. if this is long enougi. or
not, but at’ least now the editors of
The Ring-tum Phi can’t say somebody
didn’t try.

A dictionary for W&L students

 

MY VIEW
By Kari May

 

This article is in response to the
bitchy demands of the newspaper to
receive opinion articles; bitchy in this
sense meaning complaining and nagg-
ing. But let me assure you that my
intent is not to insult anybody but
rather to amuse. Calling a friend a
bitch is a compliment! Which bitch
are you? The following is a diction-
ary of terms:

ARTSY — One who regards
himself a snob about the arts.

By Rick Peltz

Anne Schroer-Lamont, associate
dean of students — Yes, I think
it’s nice if the law students can
participate with the undergradu-
ates. We need more opportunities
where both campuses can have
fun together.”’

 

BITCH, SON OF A — Included
here so that guys do not feel left out.
Realize that one term cannot apply to
all men, but place any one of these
adjectives on this list in front of this
term and... there you go!

BITCHY — A bitch who con-
stantly complains (bitches). Also, an
extreme bitch.

CHEAP — One who will not
order out pizza because she is on the
D-Hall plan and does not want to
pass up a free meal. She must save
to pay for four years of college and
so she watches every penny.

CONSERVATIVE — 70 percent
of the people on this campus.
DICTIONARY -— People like me

Amy Aussiker, 91, San Antonio,

TX — ‘‘No. We only sold 36
tickets to the Law School last
year anyway. If theyeally want
to go, they'll spend an extra night
in Lexington and leave for their
break on Saturday.”’

who sit around creating dictionaries
or other such lists. People who are
compulsive about things like this.

LAZY — People too lazy to go
up that extra flight of stairs to visit a
friend, who are too tired to move
from one location, who are too lazy
to go one step out of their way.

LIBERAL — The other 30 per-
cent.

JOURNALISTIC — Just thrown
in to describe The Ring-tum Phi's
nagging about opinion articles.

NICE — Roommate who lets you
in when you cannot find your key,
one whom always looks out for
others.

NOSEY — One who feels it is

her duty to know everything about
everybody.

RICH — Students who are here
without financial aid (this one rhymes
nicely).

SPORTY -— Those jocks who go
racing by you, constantly on their
way to and from practice.

STUPID — Slow and _simple-
minded people.

WASTEFUL — Those who use
things they don’t really need, such as
extra pencil lead doing those prob-
lems you can never figure out any-
way.

And so now you have a beginning
guide to bitchy terms. Use it wisely,
and add to it as you see fit.

 

TALKBACK

Joan Schaper, 93, Neenah, WI
— Do they go? Are they a
part of it?’’

 

Shannon Smith, °93, Greens-
boro, NC — _ ‘‘No, I don’t.
They don’t put as much effort
into uniting the two campuses as
the undergrads do.”’

 

 

 

An Invitation

The International Club is holding
weekly meetings every Tuesday at
7 p.m. at the International House,
at 8 Lee Avenue. New members
are always welcome. For more
information, contact Rick Peltz at
464-5518.

Blood Drive

The Red Cross will be sponsoring
a Blood Drive on Tuesday, Oct. 9
fom 11 am. to 5 pm. in
Doremus Gym. All students are
asked to please come by and
donate blood. For more informa-
tion contact Craig Burke at 464-
$575.

Big Hike

The Outing Club will take a
hiking trip to the Elk River Tour-
ing Center in West Virginia on
Sat., Oct 6. All skill levels are
invited. Sign up in advance at
Baker 109 or call John Buchanan
at 464-7369 for more information.

A.E.D. Meeting

Alpha Epsilon Delta will have a
meeting on Tuesday, Oct. 9 at

5 p.m. in Howe, room 311.
Speakers will include MCV’s
Associate Dean and Director of
Admissions.

Save Money

The United Way of Lexington is
offering "Taste of the Town"
coupon booklets with discounts at
17 area restaurants. The booklet
has a value of $30, but is sold
for $10. The proceeds go to the
United Way and the booklet can
be bought in the GHQ, the Co-
op and the Bookstore.

Lost and Found

A square-faced Hamilton watch
with the initials "JCF" on back
has been lost. If found, leave in
Carol Caulkin’s office in the
University Center. Also, a black
leather triangular-shaped key chain
with keys to a Honda has been
found, as has a gold charm
bracelet with five charms. Both
can be picked up in Caulkin’s
office.

GENERAL NOTES

 

Talkback

Anyone interested in being editor
of the Talkback column in the
Ring-Tum Phi needs to contact
Pat Lopes at 464-3738.

Outing Help

The Outing Club invites bikers of
to a trip to Elk River Touring
Center, West Virginia on Sat.,
Oct. 6. Sign up in advance at
Baker 109 and call John Buchan-
on at 463-7369 for details.

The Outing Club offers weekly
kayaking practice, canoeing in-
struction and bike rides (moun-
tain and road rides). The Club’s
equipment room (Baker 109) is
open for equipment check-out and
return Mon.-Fri., 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.
and Wed. 2 pm. to 5 p.m.
Check the Bulletin boards on the
Colonnade and Baker 109 for
more information.

Frosh Elections

The Executive Committee reminds
freshmen to vote in class elections
on Monday. Run-offs will be the
following Tuesday.

Sail Club

Students interested in beginning a
sailing or windsurfing club at
W&L should call Ted Elliot at
464-3893.

Exchange

Any rising junior who is interest-
ed in the Oxford, England Student
Exchange Program for the 1991-
92 school year should see Profes-
sor Jarrett in Room 3 of New-
comb Hall.

Blood Drive

The Red Cross will be sponsoring
a Blood Drive Tues., Oct. 9 from
11 am. to 5 p.m. in Doremus
Gym. Stop-by and donate blood.

Get It Out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes! Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside the Ring-Tum
Phi office at room 208 in the
University Center.

 

Photos by Chris Leiphart

Laura Fenn, ’93L, Delton, MA
‘*Yes, I think there are two
issues. One that it’s an activity

for the entire university ... and
because of the money issue. Part
of the SAB’s money comes from
the Law School.”’

 

Do you think Fancy Dress should be changed
to accommodate the Law School’s schedule?

 

Dave Buschman, ’93L, Balti-
more, MD — ‘‘Yes, but I'll go
anyway, ‘cause I love FD.... I'd
just want more of the law stu-
dents to go.”’

 

 
 

 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 4, 1990

= 4

ctiaracemiseman

Survey counts sexual assaults at W&L

 

By Alisann McGloin
Staff Reporter

 

Results of a survey conducted at
Washington and Lee last spring re-
vealed that one out of seven women
in the class of 93 who responded to
the survey had been either sexually
assaulted or raped by an acquaintance
from W&L.

Seventy-six percent of the fresh-
men women responded while the
response rate for the other three clas-
ses was significantly lower, ranging
from 18 to 24 percent depending on

the class.

The high freshmen response rate
was attributed to the help of dormito-
ry counselors who distributed and
collected surveys.

Freshman dormitories, the sight of
12 incidents, and fraternity houses,
the sight of 11 incidents were cited
most frequently as the location of the
rapes or sexual assaults.

Also revealed in the survey was
that alcohol use by one or both par-
ties was involved in the majority of
the incidents, with a large portion of
them having occured at the beginning
of the academic year in September

and October. A large number of
victims had not sought counseling, or
confided in friends, family of profes-
sionals.

With a showing of less than 25
percent for upperclass women, results
may or may not be representative of
all women at W&L, according to
Associate Dean of Students Anne
Schroer-Lamont.

‘The freshmen class had the
highest level of participation, and
thus provides the most statistically
valid data from the survey,’’ said
Dean of Students David Howison,
‘But the information obtained from

 

 

 

VMI to cut

By Ashley Harper
Entertainment Editor

 

 

Virginia Military Institute set a budget
September 18 that cuts salary increases, barrack
renovations and supply and travel expenses in
an effort to help Virginia Gov. Douglas Wilder
reduce state spending.

“If necessary, in the 1991-92 school year,
hourly wage people will be laid off to save
$80,000,’ said VMI Director of Information
Tom Joynes.

VMI is funded by both state tax dollars and
tuition fees. The state provides VMI with 40
percent of its operating budget. VMI’s state
money has been cut by 10 percent and its
budget must be reduced over the next two years
by $2 million. The other 60 percent of VMI’s
funds come from tuition and fees.

Joynes said, ‘‘Every possible area is
considered in deciding the cuts to make.
However, the sports and the extra curricular
activities will not be affected since they are
funded privately, and not by the state.’’

Although the July 1 - June 30 budget year
is already in effect, the cuts will take place
immediately.

The VMI barrack renovation, which was to
be funded by state lottery money, is now on
hold indefinitely. This may hamper efforts to
make the VMI a coeducational institute, since
new dorms for women would have to be built
before they can attend the school

Joynes said,‘‘The renovation will not be
under way for the next two years or until the
money is made available by the state.”’

eer

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

ae PPD LDL”

HERE’S WHAT’S NEW IN LEXINGTON
oaner OF LEX
& Bbq %

Wicke

LOD IVI POLI OL PPP LPO LPL’

appagalvo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

PI IN DOP! PIV OPP PVP LP PPP

Jewelry, Pottery, Lamps

the upperclass and law students has
been helpful in identifying areas of
concern.”’

Sexual assault, as defined by the
Virginia Code, means the touching of
intimate parts or clothing covering the
intimate parts...by the use of threat,
force or intimidation or due to mental
incapacity or physical helplessness of
the victim or forcing the victim to
touch the intimate parts of the ac-
cused offender.

Rape, as assigned by the Virginia
Code, means sexual intercourse with-
out consent by use of threat, force or
intimidation, or due to physical help-

lessness or mental incapacity of the
victim.

A summary of the results showed
that 23 women in the class of ‘93
reported 34 incidents of sexual as-
sault or rape over their lifetime with
7 women raped and 8 sexually as-
saulted at W&L.

Thirteen women in the class of
‘92 reported 23 incidents of sexual
assault or rape, 11 women in the
class of ‘91 reported 16 incidents, 8
women in last year’s graduating class
reported 13 incidents, and 12 law
women reported 27 incidents.

‘‘We plan to use the surveys in

the broader context of. educational
programs,’’ said Schroer-Lamont, who
coordinated the survey.‘‘We already
have in place a variety of programs
to address the problems of sexual
abuse.”’

Follow-up surveys to the 1990
survey will be completed to assess
the effectiveness of the university’s
educational initiatives, Howison said.
He said W&L’s program has been
followed by other universities.

"The university is committed to
do all it can to ensure a safe and and
supportive community for all its
students,’’ he added.

 

 

expenses

Nine Virginia state universities will raise
their tuition because of the state cuts. However,
VMI will find alternatives to raising their
tuition.

‘*A hiring freeze and reductions in funds are
already in effect,’’ VMI Superintendent Major
General John W. Knapp told The News Gazette.

The ‘‘reduction in funds’’ results in the
following cuts, as reported in The News
Gazette:

The VMI faculty was to receive a two per-
cent salary increase that all state faculty mem-

 

bers were to receive December 1. However,
cutting these salary increases will save
$100,000.

Any positions that are now vacant or will
become vacant will not be filled. This hiring
freeze will save VMI almost $140,000

Reducing equipment spending will save
$242,000. Travel and supply cuts will save
$191,000, and the faculty attrition will save
$80,000.

This year’s unexpected increase in VMI
enrollment shows $300,000 in non-general funds
that had not been budgeted.

The state will also cut aid to Virginia
students. This act will also affect Washington
and Lee University by reducing the Virginia
Tuition Assistance Grant recipients.

Wilder must reduce the state budget by $1.4
billion over the next two years in accordance
with a constitutional mandate.

The areas to be cut were chosen in order of

Homecoming band

 

 

 

the state’s priorities, which include academics,
and the basic maintenance of the facilities, VMI
Business Director Col. Hart Slater told The
News-Gazette.

 

The Smithereens will be this year’s Homecoming band, the SAB has announced. The band will perform
Friday, Oct. 12, in the Pavilion. Tickets will be $7 in advance and $10 at the door. The Smithereens are
(I to r): Jim Babjak, Mike Mesaros, Pat DiNizio and Dennis Diken. Press release photo.

 

 

 

LP LP VL PRL

Standard 10% Discount

(703)463- -5988 With Student I.D.

 

Right

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

  
  
    
 
 
  

~"rt.'5, Box 379 |
(Lexington, VA 24450

703-463-3478

 

 

r, Clothing

~ George’s
Hairstylist

 

 

 

maa

Rugs, Cookware
Candlesticks,

; 463-3975
Antiques, Glassware, We carry Nexxus, Redken & Paul Mitchell
Gifts Etc., Etc., Etc. Open Evenings

A Ae Place

6 E. Nelson Street

 

 

WILLSON-
WALKER

HOUSE pa

Restaurant
Reservations are recommended

 
  
  

  

30.N. Main St., Lexington

 

463-3020

  
  
 
  
   
    
    

 

 

   
     
    
  

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

  

OP) 203 N. Main St.

%

Addressers Wanted
Immediately!

No experience necessary. Excellent pay!
Work at Home. Call Toll-Free:
1-800-395-3283

WWMM AH

SN

PRE TRAN AIO ita a a ; o

463-9455 (@@

——QKXIBWNNNII IA H| |Nd|Ayqyonqdsqn\yoydswnoqnqd§QqQyq}}H HO.

    
 

AMM QW

136 Varner Lane
Directly behind Leggett’s

Mon.-Thurs. till 7:00 p.m.

 
  
     
   
        
 

  

  

If you haven’t been to
ROCKBRIDGE MUSIC
lately, come in and see what’s new

NEW
Fender Guitars
Fender Amps
Gibson Guitars
Epiphone Guitars
Mandolins, Banjos
Zildjian Cymbals
Martin Guitars

Also
Peavey P.A. Systems
Peavey Amps
Fiddles
Takamine
Ovatron
Strings, Books
Accessories

   

LEE

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

   

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

1-800-768-LEHI

 

 

 

We give lessons...We do repairs
LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
205 N. MAIN 463-5455
11-5 Mon.-Thur. 11-7 Fri.
Let us book a band for your next party

11-3 Sat.

MR. CLEAN CAR

207 N. Main Street
Lexington, Va. 24450

464-3087

Complete Car Care
Detailed Inside and Out

$40.00-$45.00

Monday-Friday open at noon
Saturday open at 8:00 a.m.

 

 

 

 

Our fali collection is fantastic

Please join us for a special preview Saturday, October 6
We're offering a ten percent discount on all clothing items
on this day only
Coffee and pastry at 10 am

Caravans

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-3500
Open Monday thru Saturday 10 AM - 7 PM/Sunday Noon - 6 PM

 

 

 
NEWS

By Nikki Magaziner
‘Staff Reporter

’

__. The International House makes
life easier for the thirty-three foreign
Students who attend Washington and
Lee this year, providing a ‘‘hang
‘ut’’ and companionship with other
students in the same situation.

Most of these students learned of
W&L as many of us did — through
the mail. Although there is an inter-
national recruiting program based in
the admissions office, catalogs are
Sent to foreign universities and word
is passed through embassies to find
interested students.

* Yearly exchange programs are

conducted with universities such as
Oxford in England, Chung Chi Col-
lege of Hong Kong and Rikkyo Uni-
versity in Japan. The final result of
these efforts are a select few students
who attend W&L for one to four
years.

Once the applications are in,
University Registrar has the job of
evaluating transcripts by Americar
educational standards. He then be-
comes the liaison for the accepted
foreign students, completing much
immigration paperwork and providing
any needed counseling.

The adjustment from country to
country can be a difficult one. Na-
tive-language newspapers and tele-

The Ring-tum Phi, October 4, 1990

Foreign students find comfort away from home

 

It’s a very good,
competent place to
Study. The people
and especially pro-
fessors are friendly.
— Akino Tsuchiya

 

vision broadcasts are provided to
make the students feel closer to
home. A pre-orientation is arranged
for the international students, as well
as Big Brother and Big Sister pro-
gram run by the East Asian Depart-
ment.

The W&L atmosphere is con-

ducive to acclimation for strangers to
the United States.

“It’s a very good, competent
place to study. The people and espe-
cially professors are friendly,’’ Japa-
nese exchange’ student Akino
Tsuchiya said. She said the size of
the campus and easy communication
with professors compelled her to
come here.

Keiko Kawai, also of Japan, was
assigned to W&L for a one year stay,
and said she is enjoying the small
school. One of the major problems
she shares with many who know

English as a second language is the
possibility of becoming completely
lost in her classes.

 

BRIEFS

Superdance will have a general meeting for old and

In Japan students are taught to
read and write English with no atten-
tion devoted to speaking, so Kawai
taught herself to speak by way of
American radio. She often records her
lectures and replays them for total
comprehension, but also finds that it
takes little effort to get extra guid-
ance from professors.

Although Hong Kong’s Joyce Lai

Ting said she finds classes at W&L
demanding, she finds the small clas-
ses and the possibility of direct con-
tact with teachers appealing. In Hong
Kong classes are much larger and
there are no special facilities such as
the language lab.

There are currently three Soviet
students at W&L. Oksana Kozhina
found out she was coming to W&L
only a short time before she left the
USSR.

In order to become an exchange
student, Soviets must pass an English
test and prepare a scientific paper on
a specialized topic. High school is
much more concentrated in the Soviet
Union, as Kozhina had to decide on
the direction of her studies earlier
than the typical American student.
Soviet exchange students have to file
a report to the State Department if
they choose to venture more than 25
miles from campus.

Funfest begins
M.D. drive

The Superdance Committee has organized Funfest
from 5-7 p.m. tonight to gain awareness for Superdance
and to begin raising money for Muscular Dystrophy.

Funfest is in Evans Dining Hall. Students can throw
darts, toss softballs and bob for apples. The cost is only
fifty cents a game. Students also have the opportunity to
dunk their favorite dorm counselors and W&L staff
members at a dunking booth.

Each winter, the committee sponsors Superdance, a
weekend of dancing and great bands, which raises money
to fight Muscular Dystrophy.

Co-chairmen Matt Wherry and Kennon Walthall said
that last year Superdance grossed over $30,000, and they
are looking to improve on that figure this year. Both said
there would be an effort to educate students about
Muscular Dystrophy this year. In the past they have
concentrated more on making money than on the cause
itself,

This year Superdance will be February 8 and 9.
Friday night local bands will compete in ‘‘Battle of the

new members next Thursday. Anyone interested is
encouraged to attend. The meeting will familiarize
students with Superdance and Muscular Dystrophy. In
addition, committees will be formed and the year’s
calender will be discussed.

Laser printers
on campus

As of Oct. 1, W&L students can print their work out
on Hewlett Packard Laser Jet printers. The printers are
located in the computer rooms of the University Library
and the Law Library.

Laser printing will cost ten cents a page and student
identification cards may be used to charge the printing,
according to the University’s Assistant Treasurer John

ny.
Hopefully the printers, with their high quality
characters, can provide an enhancement to a student’s
thesis or term paper,’’ said Cuny.
“In determining the cost, it was initially thought the
charge should be more than ten cents,’’ said Cuny. ‘‘I

Committee plans
student center

Associate Dean of Students Leroy ‘‘Buddy’”’ Atkins
and Associate Professor of Engineering Robert Akins
appointed four faculty and administration members and
three students to an advisory committee as planning
continues for Washington and Lee’s new student center.

Faculty and administration members Michael Pleva,
Frank Parsons, M. Susan Palmer and Robert de Maria
accepted their appointments as did students William
Jones, Dale Wyatt and Hoe Chin Kim.

‘‘The new center is for the whole University com-
munity. We appointed people to the committee that we
thought could best represent the students,’’ said Atkins.

According to Akins, the committee members will
review plans for the center, provide student opinions and
prepare a document to be sent to the Board of Trustees.

Bookstore Manager Tidge Roller, who will work in
the student center once it is completed, says she is
excited by the formation of the committee.

‘The members of the committee can give a lot of

 

+ Bands’’ and a name band will play Saturday.

cannot imagine there being a better deal in town.’’

valueable input. Really the committee is the only way to
go,’’ Roller said.

 

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual or

student organization needed to promote

Spring Break trip. Earn money, free

trips and valuable work experience.

‘ CALL NOW!! Inter-Campus Program:
1-800-327-6013.

‘ FOR RENT
‘ House in Country
‘ 463-5383

_a
‘ WIE Autumn Flowers
, wrapped

‘ Half Price

, cash
and
carry

| Saturdays
, 3-5:30 PM
| 9 Teleflora’

florist tu The Homestead

Ten East Nelson
463-9841

 
  
 

   

  
  

Package Price $205.85

Reguler Price $245.85

  
 

‘+ AM/FM Stereo
Headset Radio

STEREO-MATE® By Realistic

    
 

Lightweight for fun
on-the-run

Now Only

 

 

 

 

é Sey aes

Mountain Copy Graphics

* "195 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(703) 463-1712 FAX (703) 463-6918

OBJECTIVE:

To create the most professional resumés

in town for you.

QUALIFICATIONS:

¢ Professional, quality resumés with many

type faces to choose from.
¢ Resumé packages.

¢ Cover letters and envelopes.

¢ Resumés saved on a disk; changes are

easy.
¢ Next day, friendly service.
* Close to campus.

¢ Across the street from the Career

Development and Placement Office.
* Across the street from the post office.

¢ New Saturday hours: 9 am - 12 noon.

References Available Upon Request

  

 

 

 

for tailgate party.

Enjoy digital stereo anywhere with a port-
able CD Player. Listen with headphones,
or connect to a pair of portable stereo
amplified speakers, for great sound.

Save
$40

Great for Joggers! -
Headband FM _ Professional *
Stereo Receiver —

Pedometer

\

a
1495

  

  
 
   
    

  

Se

a 1495

12-138 Garery exve

  

@42-901 7/4 40-1267, #33-2003

Portable Stereo
Cassette Player

on

Sound entertainment for people on the
go! Stylish player with FM stereo LED
and separate left/right volume controls

 
 
   

   
 
  
 

 

95 Belt clip, #14-1072 Baneries, neadpnones exis
2 195 Rag: 0.98 Add « pair of low cost ultralight 1595
stereo “earbuds.” Rest in ears,

"eg. 39.95 revs ar as tae Pana aoe uae PM wolahe at 08 ox. @ 29877

Reg. 39. arge display shows steps taken With and 99/100 seconds. With battery, neck

vattery #61 cord. #63-5010 G

+ Just slip ‘em on, tune ‘em in and turn it LOY 67.67" FREE DRAWIN

up! FM-AFC for drift-free reception Register for the above pack

» Foam-padded headband and earcups
12-125 Gatteres extra

 

age. A$ 50 value

 

 

11 S. Randolph Street
464-4050

Dreams So Real
Gloryline
CD on sale $11.95

 

 

 

 

: Recycle

  

  

A good man practices it everyday.
Honor takes on a special meaning
when you take on the responsi-
bility of becoming a lawyer in the
United States Marine Corps. Your
first trial will be to prove you have
the qualities to be a Marine Corps
Officer~ an honar indeed. Once
youve proven that, youll get plenty
of experience putting those unique
qualities to use in a court of faw.

If thissounds like the place where
youd like to sharpen your legal
skills, well get to the point. «8
Call 1-800-MARINES,

However, it’s not our prac

ou
eam cen (el cant Ral
eT ea ET hes

The Few. The Proud. The Marines.
 

SPORTS

Polo drowns Richmond 15-9

 

By John Neumann
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee water
polo team used an explosive second
quarter to defeat arch-rival Richmond,
15-9, last Friday night at Cy Twomb-
ly pool improving their record to 8-
L

Junior Alan Herrick netted five
goals pacing the Generals, but it was
the overall team effort that propelled
head coach Page Remillard’s team by
the Spiders.

Although the last three meetings
between these two teams have: ended
in one goal differences, twice going
to overtime, the Generals eased to the
finish in this one with a six goal
cushion. Remillard thanked all the
fans that attended and said, ‘‘The last
few games with Richmond have been
decided by one goal and then this
one by six. I like to think that five
of those goals went to the crowd. It
really made a difference.”’

In Friday’s match, the Generals
used a 5-0 second quarter outburst
that opened up a 10-4 W&L halftime
lead. Although the Spiders made up
some ground in the third quarter,
erasing the deficit to four, 12-8, the
Generals rebounded in the fourth
quarter, outscoring Richmond 3-1 in
the final period for the 15-9 victory.

Herrick, normally a defensive
player, stepped up offensively for

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

Prior to the beginning of the
1990 cross country season, junior
co-captain Charles Edwards was
predicted to be one of the top
five runners in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

Now, three weeks into the
season, Edwards is providing hints
that he could be sitting in the
number one spot after the ODAC
Championships on November 3.

During September the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s cross coun-
try team (4-1, 3-0 in the ODAC)
competed in three meets. Edwards
finished first in all three.

This past Saturday against
Norfolk State and Roanoke, Ed-
wards completed the 8000-meter
(five miles) coursein 28:55. On
September 22, in a home meei

Remillard after the Generals ex-
perienced foul trouble and proved to
be the W&L leading scorer. Soph-
omore goalie P.J. Waicus made 12
saves in the game, including a penal-
ty shot, and allowed only one goal in
the shallow end of the pool while the
Generals scored eight during that
period.

Will Davis played a very consis-
tent game and registered a hat trick,
and sophomore Scott Strader scored
three times in the second quarter.
Sophomore Chris Hagge also added
two goals. Said Remillard, ‘I’m
very, very pleased with how he’s
playing. We're asking how far we
can take this guy. He’s ready to
enter a new area. He’s really playing
well.”’

Remillard said that the Generals
are playing better each week and
commented on the strength of the
team. After senior co-captain Tomas
Perez fouled out in the third quarter,
the team continued to play well.

For this upcoming weekend, when
the Generals take on the Spiders in
Richmond, W&L will need to cut
down on the number of fouls and
ejections. Friday night, the Generals
were down a man nine times. But the
W&L defense, led by Waicus kept
the Spiders from scoring more than
twice.

with Mary Washington and Wash-
ington College, Edwards clocked
in at 27:52. And a week earlier
against Bridgewater and Eastern
Mennonite, he crossed the finish
line after 26:27.

For his achievements, Edwards
has been named The Ring-tum
Phi’s  Athlete-of-the-Month _ for
September.

Edwards said he has been
consistently running more in
preparation for this season.

“Since the middle of July I’ve
been putting in 30-mile weeks,”’
he said. ‘‘The team has also had
a much more rigorous training
program. Last year we ran about
55 miles a week. Now we're
running at least 60 and have had
a 75-mile week.’’

Edwards, last year’s top runner
for W&L and the team’s recipient
of the Captains and Coaches
trophy, explained that he does not

The Ring-tum Phi, October 4, 1990

 

 

 

 

Sophomore goalie P.J. Waicus looks to outlet the ball against
pressure after making one of his 12 saves against Richmond

Friday night. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

Edwards named Athlete-of-the-Month

rely on a strong kick near the
finish to break away from other
runners.

“I like to go out with the
forerunners, stick with them and
try to overtake them midway
through the race,’’ Edwards said.

In addition to cross country,
Edwards also runs for the W&L
track team. This past spring he
placed third in the ODAC in the
5,000 meter run and came in
second in that.event in 1989.

Edwards has also proven he
can run long-distance races. In the
only marathon he has run, Ed-
wards finished first in the 24-
and-under age group in the Bir-
mingham Marathon last Novem-

Edwards said he does not how
long his streak will last.

‘But I have a remote chance
to ODACs,”’ he said. ‘‘That is
definitely a neat goal.”’

RTE ARE

Women’s soccer
upsets R-MC 2-1

Cardamone wins game with 1:30 left

 

By MacGregor Tisdale
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team moved their record to 5-
3 this past week with a big win over
defending Old Dominion Athletic
Conference champion Randolph-
Macon.

On Sunday, the Generals suffered
a 3-1 loss to Emory. W&L was as
close as 2-1 before Emory scored the
game clinching goal in the second
half. Freshman midfielder Corinda
Hankins scored the lone goal for the
Generals.

“We played well,’’ said head
coach Janine Hathorm. ‘‘We learned a
lot about ourselves, mostly about our
competitive limits. Emory is a tough
team.’”

On Tuesday, W&L got their first
win ever over Randolph-Macon, 2-1
at Liberty Hall Field. R-MC’s lone
goal was scored in- the first half.

Both W&L goals were recorded ih
the second half for the Generals.
tied
things at 1-1, and sophomore Andrea
Cardamone won it with 1:30 left

Freshman Karen Stutzmann

Both were unassisted.

“It was a great win for us,’’ said
junior Elise Bryant. ‘‘We put everyth-

ing we had into this game.”’

“This was a major victory for us
in many, many ways,’’ said Hathorn\
“Our ethics on the field improved,
Everyone had big games, and this is
what it took to beat a team as good

as Randolph-Macon.”

The Generals outshot Randolph-
Freshman goal;
keeper Kate Stimeling collected nine

Macon 27 to 15.

saves.
The Generals will face Wheeling
this Saturday at Liberty Hall Field:

The Generals are looking to avenge 4
5-0 loss at the hands of Wheeling
from last year. Hathorn said that they
have a game on their hands. ‘‘We are
she said. ‘

”

looking to keep it close,

 

iia
From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee
men’s soccer team ended a six
game winless streak with a 2-0
win over Old Dominion Athletic
Conference rival Hampden-Sydney
on Tuesday.

In its only other game this
week, W&L lost to Emory 2-0 on
Sunday in Atlanta, Ga. The Gen-
erals’ record is now 3-4-2 (1-0-1
in the ODAC).

Both of the Generals’ goals
against the Tigers came within 16
seconds of the second half. With
just over ten minutes to play,
sophomore midfielder Mike
Mitchem volleyed the ball into
the goal from the right side.

Seconds later, freshman for-

ward Tim McCarthy headed the
ball down the left side to another
freshman, midfielder Dan Rhodes.
Rhodes gathered the ball and
scored on a shot to the right side
of the goal from 12 yards away.

This past weekend, the men’s
and women’s cross country teams
bounced back from last week’s
defeats to Mary Washington by |
posting victories over Norfolk
State, a Division II school.

Highlighting the victories for
both squads were individual first
place finishes by junior Charles
Edwards, his third win in a row,
and sophomore Susie Wooten.

The men captured the top two
and five of the top seven spots in
routing NSU 21-56. He edged out
teammate Bo Hannah at the finish

ISPORTS NOTEBOOK]

line, but both runners’ times were
Officially 28:55.

The women’s team came back
from the loss to Mary Washing-
ton to defeat a strong Norfolk
State team 25-35. Wooten earned
her first collegiate win with a
time of 22:15. Seniors Shawn
Wert (22:56), Pat Lopes (23:01),
and Cecily Tynan (23:16) finished
third, fourth, and fifth respective-
ly.

The Washington and Lee
Athletic Promotions Committee
announces Faculty-Student Day
for Saturday’s women’s soccer
game against Wheeling College.

Anyone present can get free
cider. There will also be a half-
time faculty contest. The game is
on Liberty Hall Field and starts at
1 p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AS IF

 

 

 

TIAA-CREF.

ecause it does. Smart investors

know that your future depends on

how well your retirement system
performs. TIAA-CREF has been the
premier retirement system for people
in education and research for over 70
years. We have enabled over 200,000
people like you to enjoy a comfortable
retirement. And over 1,000,000 more
are now planning for the future with

SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY,
GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR
RETIREMENT SAVINGS.

Security—so the resources are there
when it is time to retire. Growth—so
you'll have enough income for the
kind of retirement you want. And
diversity—to help protect you against
market volatility and to let you benefit
from several types of investments.

THAT’S EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET
WITH TIAA-CREF,

TIAA offers you the safety of a
traditional annuity that guarantees
your principal plus a specified rate of
interest, and provides for additional

 

HE

 

 

 

9 WHY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AA-CREF
ENDE

growth through dividends. CREF’s
variable annuity offers opportunities
for growth through four different
investment accounts, each managed
with the long-term perspective essen-

tial to sound retirement planning:
The CREF Stock Account

The CREF Money Market Account
The CREF Bond Market Account*
The CREF Social Choice Account*

CALL 1-800-842-2776
TO FIND OUT MORE

Our experienced retirement counselors
will be happy to answer your questions
and tell you more about retirement
annuities from TIAA-CREF.

B SMART MONEY AT
WASHINGTON AND LEE

IS GOING WITHT
: FUTURE DE

 

cRSITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

ON IT.

 

 

 

Experience. Performance. Strength.
Your future is protected by the largest
private retirement system in the world.

We have done so well, for so many, for

 

so long, that we currently manage
some $85 billion in assets.

Ensuring the future i
for those who shape it.

* The CREF Bond Market and Social Choice Accounts may not be available under all institutional retirement plans, but are
available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuity plans

 

 

For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call | 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a
prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ONES OTE Keon mcernieancrlenicy

seneeremneerteet na faew ene amet eis wr

Moo ancel st

get a Macintosh.

Tim Moses
Computer Science
Vanderbilt ‘Jniversity

   
  
  
        
   
       
 
 
 
 
 

“Macintosh practically eliminates the need to keep

manuals next to my computer, because—regardless
of which program I'm using—I can open, close, save, and

print files in exactly the same way. And you can't say
that about any other computer.

“Today lots of other computers are attempting to look and
work like a Macintosh, but it's just not possible. They're
too fundamentally different to begin with. This

may sound a little strange, but comparing a

Macintosh to other computers is like com-

“x. paring apples to oranges. You can

     

squash the orange into shape and
paint it to look like an apple, but
underneath the makeup, it’s
still an orange.
“It’s funny—I work at the
Vanderbilt computer store and
I've seen lots of people switch
from other computers to
Macintosh, but I've never
seen anybody with a
Macintosh switch to
another computer.”

For more info contact
the Computer Center
Tucker Hall, Room 215A

a

Why do people love Macintosh"?
Ask them.

© 1990 Appie Computer, Inc. Appie, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, inc

 

 

 
SPORTS

R-MC runs b

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

It has been a rough two weeks for
the Washington and Lee football
team.

After losing to Centre 24-13 in
Danville, Ky., the Generals returned
home to take on defending Old Dom-
inion Athletic Conference champion
Randolph-Macon.

The Generals started slow, spott-
ing the Yellow Jackets a 14-0 lead,
before coming on to tie the game at
14-14, but the R-MC ground attack
proved too much, and the Yellow
Jackets left Lexington with a 27-14
win.
With Centre, the W&L defense
faced the third-leading rusher in
NCAA Division III in Tim McDaniel.
The chore of stopping running backs
did not get any easier with R-MC.
The Yellow Jackets used alternating
tailbacks, one an ODAC Player-of-
the-Week and the other the younger
cousin of Washington Redskins back
Kelvin Bryant.

On R-MC’s first possession, it
was the younger Bryant, Kerrell, who
shocked the W&L defense. Bryant
went 72 yards for a touchdown on
R-MC’s second play from scrimmage,
looking very much like Kelvin, to
give the Yellow Jackets a 7-0 lead.

The Generals nearly tied the game

on the second play of the second
quarter on a long pass play. On third
down and nine from midfield, junior
quarterback George Sakin scrambled
and lofted a pass toward the goal
line, but senior split end Chris Acebal
came up just short in a diving at-
tempt to catch the ball at the goal
line, and the Generals were forced to
punt.

R-MC extended the lead to 14-0
late in the half, driving 80 yards in
12 plays with the last nine yards
coming on a scoring pass from John

Smith to Eric Lewis.

In the second half, the Generals
came to life, sparked by the defense.
First it was junior cornerback Fred
Renneker. He picked off a pass at the
W&L three-yard line to stop a R-
MC drive.

Then, after a W&L turnover gave
R-MC the ball on their own 36,
junior defensive end John McCallum
sacked Scott Kirby and forced a
fumble, and senior safety Brad Miller
fell on the ball at the R-MC 32 for
W&L.

On third down and 12 from the
34, Sakin again scrambled away from
pressure and found junior slot back
Jeff Kreis open at the corner of the
end zone. Kreis caught the ball and
back-pedaled into the end zone for a
touchdown to make the score 14-7,

After a Yellow Jacket punt, W&L
couldn’t muster anything offensively

The Ring-tum Phi, October 4, 1990

y W&L 27-14 |

and had to punt the ball back. Soph-
omore Bob Ehret’s punt pinned R-
MC inside their own 20-yard line,
and the W&L defense did the rest.

On second down, Kirby again
tried to pick on Renneker. And again
Renneker picked off the pass, return-
ing this one 31 yards to the R-MC
three-yard line, setting up the W&L
offense.

After three plays netted one-yard,
on fourth down the Generals decided
to go for the touchdown. Senior
Mason Pope, who ran for 100 yards
on the afternoon, followed the blocks
of Tyler Suiters, Thomas May and
Kirk B. Sohonage into the end zone
to tie the game at 14.

But the Yellow Jackets came back.
On the ensuing possession, R-MC
drove 70 yards in 10 plays, capped
by former ODAC Player-of-the-Week
Dexter Hurt’s five-yard touchdown
run to make the score 21-14.

The Generals had one last chance
after Bryant fumbled the ball and
Miller recovered. W&L drove to the
R-MC 21-yard line before facing a
fourth down. Sakin tried to hook up
with All-American split end Craig
Irons on a timing pattern in the end
zone, but the Yellow Jackets had it
defended and Irons couldn’t get to
the ball.

The Generals, 1-3, 0-2, will look
to end a two-game skid this week at
Maryville College.

Generals spike ODAC foes SBC, R-MWC

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

The Washington and Lee volley-
ball team faced Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College at home on Wed-
nesday night and the only difficulty
they had was packing the house.

In front of a sparse crowd, the
Generals dismantled a very tame Wil-
deat team 15-12, 15-5, 15-6.

The Generals are currently 8-9, 2-
0 in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference. Last Thursday they defeated
Sweet Briar in three games, 15-4, 15-
5, 15-9, before leaving for the Cat-
holic Tournament where they finished
fifth in a competitive field of seven
teams.

Against Sweet Briar the Generals

played consistently and up to poten-
tial, something head coach Susan
Dittman has been looking for
throughout the pre-season. Freshman
Tara Burns made her first start and
responded under pressure with eight
kills and a .350 attack percentage.
Junior Mena McGowin added 19 kills
and 10 digs while senior setter Lisa
Jay passed out 29 assists.

After hoping to finish in the top
two at Catholic, the Generals were
somewhat disappointed with a fifth
place finish, however such tourna-
ments serve greater purposes. ° --

W&L escaped unscathed with
wins over Iona, 15-8, 15-6, and
Marymount, 15-11, 15-7. Jay was
named to the All-Tournament squad
with 93 assists.

Going into their second ODAC

 

 

AGO
feats eg

match of the season, the Generals
hoped to return to their form against
Sweet Briar, moving the ball around
effectively to middle and weakside
attacks.

Behind 13 service aces, the Gen-
erals rolled over Randolph-Macon in
three games. Jay received unusual
assist assistance from juniors Rashmi
Sachan and McGowin, and soph-
omore Leslie Hess. Hess amassed
two solo blocks and .307 attack per-
centage.

The only disappointment was” a
lack of fan support. Following road
games to Emory and Henry, Ferrum,
and Lynchburg, the Generals return
home for their two biggest obstacles
on the road to ODAC championship,
Eastern Mennonite and Bridgewater.

 

 

COLOR PIN CARN
Every Saturday Night at 6PM

_ Over 50 ways to win money.
You do not need to be a League bowler to bowl!

‘

 

AURNINVANL

 

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

  

Junior Jeff Kreis tip toes down the sideline into the ena zon

  

e for a touchdown

  
 

 

 

after hauling in’

quarterback George Sakin’s pass in Saturday’s 27-14 loss to Randolph-Macon. Staff photo by

Chris Leiphart.

Make strides
to beat cancer.

Sunday, October 7, 1990

 

 

WHEN: sunday, October 7, rain or shine

« 12:30 pm-Registration

1:30 pm - Starting time

WHERE: Register and begin the race at Harris
Teeter, Nelson Street, Lexington

FOR MORE INFORMATION: ox

to volunteer to work the event: Contact your local
American Cancer Society office at

463-3533

 

 

bt KS MAKING
us STRIDES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
    
  

Quick ~ Inexpensive ~_Easy Parking

for all student printing needs

214 South Main Street + (703) 463-9232

LEXINGTON’S ORIGINAL 8¢ COPY
$ 5 OFF ANY SERVICE

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant

Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon
130 S. Main St.

 
 
   

 

 

 

463-7969

Quality Quick Print, Ink.

~ HOMECOMING invitations, flyers, programs, posters... ~

 

WITH THIS AD}

 
   

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

-—

 

Beads * Sequins * Pompons ¢ Bandannas ¢ T-Shirts ® Incense
Balloons ¢ Clay ¢ Flags © Games ¢ Rockets ¢ Paint ¢Models
Stamps ¢ Trains ¢ Feathers ® Stencils ® Velcro Clothespins
Eyes ¢ Ribbons ¢ Styrofoam ¢ Adhesives ¢ Glitter *Chenille

 

Monday - Saturday 10 a.m. -5 p.m.
31S, Main St., Lexington 463-3355

 

‘esi

  

 

)

a =
Kp eee Pee eee eee eee POLL COLOR EOO OPAMP PAA LLL:

4 STUDENTS |
MAKE THE GRADE IN STYLE

   

  
   
   
 
  
 
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

UNIVERSITY
SPORTWEAR
ay

 

 

  

 

 

 

  

W&L Imprinted
Sportswear Plus:

Oakley Sunglasses,
New Era Baseball Caps
(Sized W&L Caps Due Shortly.)

     
 
 
    
 
 

TRADE IN SPECIAL:
trade in a used (smelly,
old) T-shirt and receive’
$1.00 off your purchase of
anew 100% cotton T-shirt.

 
       
   
 

OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
15 W. WASHINGTON ST.
(next to Lloyds)
464-3000
We Invite Your
Custom Orders

 
   
     
 
    

PPP PPO ZOO OOOO LL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pOegpont Lee
Fanny Packs - $10<50 $8.95 “hens
Back Packs - $22-30 $19.95
Leather Bottom Packs-$35-50$31.50 Mens $25-00 $21.45
"Lifetime Warranty“ Juniors $3450 $26.95
Missies 34-30 $26.95
%4) xe,
CH) Bugle Boy Pants & Shorts ....
Shorts - $2400 $19.95 Duck boots ........... Jean and
Plain Pants - $25-00 $20.95 Print Jumpers .......... Cotton
Pleated Pants - $28-00 $23.45 and Wool Sweaters ............
Shirts - Aslowas $20.95 Turtlenecks......... and more.

 

 

 

 

J=RZ==

GEE EMALT TOLAST
T-shirts - $600 $5.00
Sweat Tops - $12-00 $10.50
Sweat Pants - $12-00 $10.50

 

 

 

‘EASTLAND

Boots & Shoes
$36-50-54.00
$29 .95-44.95
$43-70-6400
$37.15-52.95

Ladies

Men

 

 

  

iV a

. “yA
Ket ~<

 

2522 BEECH AVE. BUENA VISTA 261-3860

CLC CCEO O22 OO PPP M CA DOP O MOPAR PCB COCO CBAC LEA aaa a 0! (0 Gh a™ col lige) cat? pt al a

COO OO PDO wwwwBwa www Bea eA ez ZL 2 Ee ==

5

 

9

CLL LLLP APA AA OE,
The Ring-tum Phi, October 4, 1990

 

Four Past Midnight shows maturity

Stephen King’s latest novel is a step above his other works

 

By Chris Swann
Staff Reporter

 

Stephen King has shown his on-
going maturity as a writer with his
new book Four Past Midnight.

Consisting of four novellas, Four
Past Midnight offers King’s usual
blend of mysterious events, hair-rais-
ing suspense and naked terror. Yet
the book contains moments when the
imagery and writing seem a step
above King’s other works. His
characters are fuller and more
developed, as are their relationships
with each other. His imagery has
become richer and more varied rather
than his usual grotesque and horrific
comparisons, although the horrific is
indeed found in this book.

The book is wonderful for people
who don’t feel they have the time to
read a whole novel. The longest
novella is 246 pages. The shortest is
153 pages. Each of the novellas have
an introduction and prefatory notes by
the author.

The writing flows fairly well,
although there are moments of descri-
ption that extend for half a page or
so. The book is terse for a writer
who has self-described ‘‘diarrhea of
the word processor,’’ and most of
those passages are not harmful to the
text or the story as a whole.

Four Past Midnight contains four
concepts worthy of attention, and
King gives them that attention. He
plants images in the story that he
picks up later with startling and
sometimes humorous results, for
example a perfume image in The
Langoliers and the effect it might
have on you. King deals with
humans as more than mere vehicles
or subjects for his terrifying themes.
The relationships between Sam
Peebles, Naomi and Dirty Dave in
The Library Policeman are tender and
teal. Craig Toomy, the overstressed
businessman in The Langoliers, is a
frightening portrayal of real human
anguish and suffering released in a
dangerous and lethal way. Pop Mer-
rill in The Sun Dog is a magnificently
shady character, old and musty yet
strong, straddling the line between
selfishness and evil.

 

The first story, The Langoliers, is
the longest and the best of the four.
A red-eye flight from LA to Boston
gets slightly off-schedule and lands in
a strangely empty world. Something
is waiting for the eleven survivors,
some of King’s most creative charac-
ters yet, who are thrust into a strug-
gle with life-or-death odds, or worse.

Secret Window, Secret Garden
shows less of the supernatural and
more of the dark side found in every
man. A disillusioned author retreats
to his lakeside cabin after a divorce
to find peace and rediscover his
writing talent. What he finds instead
is John Shooter, a rather menacing
character cloaked in evil and accusa-
tion.

In The Library Policeman, King
plunges back into supernatural horror
with a story that twists a playful
childhood story (‘‘Bring your library
books back on time, children, or I'll
send the Library Policeman after
you.’’) into a tale of chilling fear. A
small-town businessman becomes
involved with a strange librarian, a
librarian who has been dead for
decades. And a horrific incarnation
of the Library Policeman wants Sam
Peeves S0Ul...

The Sun Dog, perhaps _ the
strangest story of the four, takes
place in fictitious Castle Rock,

Maine, King’s longtime setting for
books such as Cujo and The Dead
Zone. It concerns Polaroid photo-
graphs, a particular interest, or per-
haps obsession, of the author’s, and
a rather peculiar canine, which begins
to terrify a shifty junk-store dealer.
The Sun Dog is the prologue to an
upcoming King novel, Needful
Things, which will be the last of the
Castle Rock stories.

Since the 1974 publication of
Carrie, King’s first novel, he has
written over thirty novels and screen-
plays, including The Shining, It, The
Dark Tower series and Pet Sematary.
Having been accused of being a
“pop" author and a_ sensationalist,
King has written his share of bad
novels. His imagination and thematic
ideas, however, have grown and
flourished, culminating with his apo-
calyptical work The Stand, in which
Good and Evil battle it out once and

ae oy

for all in a world devoid of 99.7
percent of its population. Such a
concept would be a difficult one for
an author to pull off realistically, yet
King delivers as he does with his
other good works, combining concep!
and writing in a pleasing and effec-
tive manner, as he does in Four Past
Midnight.

King is not, and will not be, a
greatly recognized writer of literature.
He says in the preface to The Sun
Dog that he doesn’t write in the same

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 1 6 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY
LOW PRICES!

 

  
 
 
   
  

  

Grade
‘ ‘A’ ’

 

Lb.

Holly Farms
Family Pack )

69°

 

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

league as William Faulkner or J.R.R.
Tolkien. It would be a shame, how-
ever, to pass up these four stories of
horror and suspense that show some
writing genius, nuggets of gold in a
silver mine.

Whatever else he may. be, King is
the master of taking his readers down
shadowy paths and into cobwebby
closets, showing us skeletons better
left alone that will keep you up all
night, either in interest for his stories,
or in fear.

 

All Day

 

   

WEEKLY CALENDAR

FILM SOCIETY: Manon of the Spring (France, 1987),

8 p.m.
directed by Claud Berri. Classroom "A,"Lewis Hall.
Public invited.

8 p.m. GALLERY RECEPTION/DEMONSTRATION: Painting and
Calligraphy by I-Hsiung Ju. duPont Gallery. Public
invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: VOLLEYBALL: Emory & Henry.

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 6

LSAT Exam

8:30 a.m. MEN'S TENNIS: W&L Fall Classic. Varsity Courts.

1 p.m. WOMEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Wheeling. Liberty Hall
Field.

7 p.m. POLITICS FILMFEST: An Enemy of the People. Room
221, Commerce School.

8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Manon of the Spring (France, 1987).
Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: FOOTBALL: Maryville; MEN'S
SOCCER: Eastern Mennonite; MEN'S CROSS
COUNTRY: Catholic University, Lynchburg College;
WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY: Lynchburg College,
Mary Baldwin; WOMEN'S TENNIS: Catholic University.
SUNDAY, OCTOBER 7
1 p.m. Registration for "Making Strides," a walk-a-thon for the

American Cancer Society. Harris Teeter parking lot.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 8

Columbus Day

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Practice
Interviews (advance sign-up). Room 108, University
Center.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9

 

11 a.m.-5 p.m.° BLOODMOBILE: Doremus Gymnasium.

12 Noon W&L EMPLOYEES CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP: Brown
Bag Lunch. Room 114, University Center.

7-11p.m. CHESS CLUB: Room 113, University Center. Public
invited. (For information, call 463-2650.)

8 p.m. CONCERT GUILD: Mozartean Players. Lee Chapel.

AWAY ATHLETICS: VOLLEYBALL: Roanoke College,

Ferrum.

All Day CD&P: Practice Interviews (advance sign-up). Room 108,
University Center.

9:30 a.m. Demonstration of original instruments by Mozartean
players. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

4p.m. MEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Lynchburg. Liberty Hall
Field.

4:30 p.m ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: "A Reading from Recent Work,"
Cathryn Hankla, W&L visiting assistantprofessor of
English. Room 21, Payne Hall. Reception to follow in
Room 26. Public invited.

7:30 p.m. LECTURE: "The Newborn as a Recipient and Donor for

Organ Transplantation,” Dr. Billy F. Andrews, chief of
Staff, Kosair Children's Hospital and chief of pediatrics,
University of Louisville. Northen Auditorium, University
Library. Public invited.

*

 

 

 

 

Carton

  

64 Oz.

HT Regular
Orange Juice

39

Tylenol Extra
Strength Gelcaps

we

   

Buy One Get
One Free Pkg.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1/ Gal.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, October 9, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, October 9, 1990 In Lexington Store Only.

2 Liter Bottle

 

 

We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

'
ITO
+ 378,759
R55
V- FO
A
« i )), 6
' c Za

 

special Homecoming Supplement

She Ring-tum Phi

 

" VOLUME 90, NO. 8

'

‘

 

By Andrew Waters
‘Associate Editor

f

 

The Fancy Dress schedule will not
Change despite objections by Law
students, whose spring break will
begin Fancy Dress weekend, Student
‘Activities Board Chairwoman Katie
Duwel announced last night during a
special meeting of the Executive
Committee.

““We felt that the benefits of
‘moving the date of the ball were
putweighed by the logistics and feasi-
bility of changing it,’’ Duwel said in
‘a prepared statement.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Duwel said a series of meetings
and a forum last Monday with Law
students was helpful to understand
their objection to a March 8 FD.
‘*However,”’ she said, ‘‘the SAB felt
that when considering the best
interests of the entire university, our
only fair alternative was to leave the
university’s calendar in place.’’

Duwel cited the iack of sufficient
manpower pledged by law students
this year to help set up for FD and
what the SAB considered an undue
burden that would be placed on un-
dergraduates during Washington
holiday if the date were changed to
March 1.

 

 

Won’t hurt a bit

 

| photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

Charles “Murph” Murray, the head of Washington and Lee
Security, grins and bears at as he gives blood at Tuesday’s
Red Cross blood drive, held in Doremus Gymnasium. The Chi
Psi fraternity sponsored the blood drive and helped the Red
Cross volunteers all afternoon attending to the donors. Staff

 

 

At the forum, which was held in
the Law School, Student Bar Associa-
tion President J. Grant Burns pres-
ented a petition signed by 57 Law
students who pledged to work 10
hours a week in preparation for the
ball.

Burns said the decision not to
change the date was made fairly, but
he disagreed with the wisdom of
making what he called the same
mistake two years in a row. FD last
year was held during the Law School
vacation and the SAB voted last
spring to keep the date the same this
year.

“‘The decision last year was one

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

of the most stupid decisions I’ve
come across in my lifetime,’’ Burns
said. ‘I don’t know what the EC was
thinking when they approved it.’’

Duwel acknowledged the error
made in scheduling the dance for the
same date this year and in failing to
consult the SBA before approving the
plan.

“The combination of the two
served to be pretty much a wrong
decision,’’ she said. ‘‘In hindsight we
could have consulted a few more
people maybe.”’

At the forum, several law students
accused the SAB Executive Board of
bias in the decision-making process

for this year.

‘Why is the burden of proof on
us to convince you to change the
date?’’ one law student asked Duwel.

“T have not made up my mind
either way,’’ Duwel said. ‘‘That’s
why we're here, to see what you
think about this and what can be
done.”’

Duwel announced last night the
SAB will offer the law school two
alternatives as compensation for the
mistake:

First, to offer the SBA the oppor-
tunity to purchase a block of FD
tickets — no fewer than S0 and no
more than 180 — and to sell them to

OCTOBER 11, 1990

FD date to stay the same, SAB says

law students at 20 percent less than
the regular price.

Second, Duwel said, the SAB will
provide law school students with an
“intimate cocktail party’’ before or
after the Ball.

The SBA also recommended that
the EC establish a special calendar
committee to ‘examine major con-
flicts with student body events and
holidays.”’

Burns agreed with the idea to
establish the new committee and to
consider the conciliatory measures.

EC president Tom Hatcher said
the EC will look into formalizing the
scheduling committee.

U.S. News ranks W&L 15th

 

By Cathy Lopiccolo
Assignment Editor

 

Washington and Lee is ranked
15th in a list of the top 25 liberal
arts colleges, according to the Oct. 15
issue of U.S. News and World Report.

W&L placed 18th in the same
survey last year. William Cocke in
the W&L News Office said the uni-
versity has also been named the "Best
Buy" among liberal-arts colleges for
the second year in a row in the mag-
azine’s 199] Best Colleges Book,
which will be released Monday.

The rankings are part of an annual
survey of 1,374 national four-year
schools which are separated into 14
categories based on location, size,
selectivity, types of degrees offered
and dollar amount of campus re-
search. The top two categories are
national universities and national
liberal-arts colleges.

Institutions within each category
are ranked through the use of statisti-
cal data~on selectvity, faculty and
financial resources, and graduation
rates. Schools’ academic reputations
are measured through questionaires
sent out to 4,131 university presi-
dents, deans and admissions directors.
A record 60.1 percent of the ques-
tionaires were filled out this year.

Amherst College placed first
among national liberal-arts colleges
with a perfect score of 100. W&L,
the only liberal-arts college in Vir-
ginia to appear on the list, received a
score of 86.2. Harvard University
topped the list of national universities
for the first time, while the Univer-
sity of Virgina placed 18th with a
score of 89.3.

According to W & L President
John D, Wilson, the U.S. News rank-
ings are more valid now than they
have been in the past.

“Tt started out very subjectively.

 

THE TOP 25 NATIONAL LIBERAL ARTS COLLEGES

 

 

 

 

 

#13

24

. Amherst College, MA

. Swarthmore College, PA
. Williams College, MA

. Bowdoin College, ME

. Wellesley College, MA

. Pomona College, CA

. Wesleyan University, CT
. Middlebury Collge, VT

. Smith College, MA

. Davidson College, NC

. Carleton College, MN

. Vassar College, NY

. Claremont McKenna, CA

OONONHSLWN—

 

 

14.
15.
16.
1,
18.
19.
19.

Oberlin College, OH
Washington and Lee, VA
Grinnell College, IN

Mt. Holyoke College, MA
Colby College, ME
Hamilton College, NY
Bates College, ME

4 ;
ol
° lt 7
°19 e]
°22 03
+10 3
\
3h :
£73091
“14 025
16
15

Graphic: Jason Kelley

21. Haverford College, PA

22. Colgate University, NY

23. Bryn Mawr College, PA

24. Occidental College, CA

25. Barnard College, NY

Source: US News and ‘World Report

 

 

Now they look at application and
acceptance data and retention rates
and financial resources. I think you
can give more creedence to the rank-
ings now than a few years ago,”’
Wilson said.

Wilson said he was ‘‘gratified to
note that enough people esteem us
around the nation’’ for the university
to achieve its ranking.

Julia M. Kozack, associate direc-

awareness

tor of admissions said the publicity
from surveys like the one published
by U.S. News benefits a university,
but the effect on the number of ap-
plications for admission is impossible
to determine.

“There’s no basis to say that if
you get in one of those surveys,
applications for admission will in-
crease. But logic tells you that once
you're in a survey, more people hear

about you and interest peaks,’’ Ko-
zack said. ‘‘I think it reinforces what
people have already heard about a
school.”’

While Wilson agrees that the U.S.
News ranking will increase W&L’s
visibility, he does not want too much
emphasis placed on survey results.

“‘T think if we had a grain of salt
around somewhere we should take
that too,’’ Wilson said.

 

Week to push alcohol

‘By Nikki Magaziner
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee will join universities nationwide
(Oct. 15 to 21 in its fourth year of observing National
Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week.

‘ The week, the theme of which is ‘‘Absolut
Awareness,’’ was originated to inform college students of
‘drinking habits and their effects,

+ Four major events are planned for the week. The first,
at 7 p.m. Monday, Oct. 15 in Lee Chapel, is a lecture
‘by Will Keim, who will discuss what he calls the
influence of Greek organizations on drinking attitudes.
‘The emphasis will be based on character development and
yesponsible management of social behavior.

At 7 p.m. Tuesday, a ‘Special Program for Women
Who Drink and for Men Who Drink With Women”? will

be presented in Northen Auditorium.

W&L professor Gwynn Campbell and Barbara
Sprinkle, the director of the Lexington Treatment Center
will lead a discussion physiological aspects of why
alcohol affects women differently than men.

Lost in the Supermarket will provide the background
music for a controlled drinking experiment Wednesday
night from 9 to 12 in the GHQ. The blood-alcohol levels
of student and faculty participants will be monitored by
Alco-sensor equipment supplied by Lexington police.

In the experiment, some students wil! be eating and
drinking; others only drinking, and the rate of inebriation
will be compared.

On Friday, a battle of student bands will be held at
The Student Activities Pavilion from 9 to 12 p.m. Soft
drinks and food will be provided free of charge.

These events, along with video displays, flyers and
other information to be distributed are sponsored by the

Dean of Students Office.

Most of the work is being done by students on the
Health Education Committee, under the student chair of
Alcohcl Awareness Weck, Mary Ansteine.

The Interfraternity Council, Contact, and Panhellenic
Council are also assisting in the week’s activities.

According to Associate Dean of Students Anne
Schroer-Lamont, ‘‘This week is to get us rolling for
academic year.”’

According to Schroer-Lamont, the impression the ad-
ministration seem to be receiving from the freshman class
is that more are trying to be careful when it comes to
alcohol.

The most important aspect of alcohol-awareness week
is the recognition of the care needed when dealing with
alcohol, she said.

“If they are going to drink, they should drink
responsibly.”’

 

Correction

The law school Outing Club
was incorrectly identified in last
week’s article on the Executive
Committee.

The law school Outing Club
}and the undergraduate Outing
Club are separate organizations
and the law school club does not
receive funding directly from the
EC.

The Phi regrets the confusion.

 

 

 

Budget passes EC’s first vote
Tentative budget exceeds $185,000

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

Complete list of allocations on page 4

The Executive Committee approved a
tentative list of budget allocations last night,
granting $185,250 to student organizations.

The Student Activities Board received a
tentative allocation of $48,450. The EC
directed a single cut at the Lenfest Center
opening for students, in which the adminis-
tration requested the SAB take part.

EC law reps. Mark Cobb, Giles Perkins
and Daniel Munroe, and EC Secretary Jef-
fery Kelsey opposed the SAB allotment,
desiring a cut directed at the SAB Fancy
Dress budget if the date would not be
changed to accommodate the Law School
calendar.

The Student Bar Association received
over $36,000 of its more than $40,000 re-
quest. The EC recommended cuts of $2,400
from honorariums and $2,000 from social
funds, the latter of which spurred debate.

Sophomore EC Rep. Kirk Ogden ob-
served that many undergraduates pay social
dues to fraternities in addition to the student
activities fee which contributes to SAB
social activities.

“The Law School is an extremely iso-
lated, unique situation in this littl town
with nothing to do,’’ said second-year law
Rep. Perkins two weeks ago. He concluded
that the Law School required social funding,
especially given that law students do not
have the fraternity opportunities of under-
graduate life.

The law representatives also noted that
law students pay dues of $51 each to the
SBA in addition to their student activities

fees.

The student body constitution mandates
that the EC pass the final budget a second
lime in at least one week by a two-thirds
majority.

Freshmen returned to the polls today to
elect class officers in run-offs. Ashby Hack-
ney and Ames Hutton competed for the EC
seat. Bill Chappell and Jeff Mikita ran for
president, while Blair Lee Hixson and Doug
Kaufman faced off for vice president. The
class president and vice president also repre-
sent the class on the Student Conduct Com-
mittee,

In other business, EC president Tom
Hatcher said posters would be posted an-
nouncing positions available on the student
Faculty, Athletic, Financial Aid, Admissions
and Health committees. Hatcher said a list
will be posted outside the EC office in the
University Center for interested students to

sign. Sophomores, juniors and seniors can
apply by writing a letter to the EC.

 

 

 

Prof. has
heart attack

 

From staff reports

 

Washington and Lee Professor of German B.S.
Stephenson is in intensive care at Stonewall Jackson
Hospital after suffering what is described as a ‘mild
heart attack’’ Tuesday.

According to a hospital spokesman, Stephenson was
listed in ‘‘Fair’’ condition Wednesday.

‘‘He seems to have had a mild heart attack,’’ said
Prof. Kirk Follo. ‘‘We aren’t sure yet how long he’s
going to be out of the classroom,”’

According to the Office of the Dean of the College,
Stephenson may be out ‘‘from four to six weeks,
although that’s only a preliminary guess,”’

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPINION

News value and
news judgement

In the last few weeks, there has been a great deal of
discussion in the Washington and Lee community about the
news judgement of The Ring-tum Phi staff, especially since
our Sept. 27 issue which lead with stories on fraternity Rush
violations. We have heard both derogatory and
complimentary remarks from readers. Expressing their
thoughts is their prerogative, and we carefully consider the
opinions we read and hear.

We would like, however, to clear up some of the
misconceptions surrounding the reasoning behind our actions.

First of all, we ran the story and editorial concerning the
allegations enveloping the top two members of the
Interfraternity Council because the charges had legitimate
news value. The men involved were not just any two
students being accused of breaking Rush rules, they were
the leaders of the IFC. It is noteworthy, to say the least, that
the two people empowered most to enforce the regulations
governing Rush were charged with blatantly ignoring those
tules.

Second, to ascribe the articles to prejudice on the part of
the fraternity members of the Phi seriously underestimates
our values as journalists as well as the contributions and
influence of two members of the paper’s Editorial Board,
who are women and independent. They have no reason to
sponsor any sort of vendetta against certain fraternity
members, nor would they condone any sort of vengeful
investigation.

Third, we purposefully left out the fraternity affiliations

of the IFC leaders because the story was, and is, not about _

particular fraternities. Our intention was not to cast
aspersions on any fraternity as a whole, but merely to
illuminate accusations of failures on the part of those
individuals who were assigned the responsibility to oversee
the Rush process.

This brings us to what we feel is the most unfortunate
part of this entire controversy. We can certainly understand
that people might question our motivations in running the
stories, but we are dismaved that more people are not
focusing on the implications that these accusations have
toward the whole of our community.

The IFC effectively represents the interests of 60 percent
of undergraduates. Fraternities have been at W&L for more
than a century, and enjoy a well-deserved place at the center
of our social life. As such, they also enjoy tremendous
influence over almost every W&L student. In fact, it may be
said that fraternities are surpassed only by the Honor Code
in their influence over the lives of brothers and pledges.

Maybe: itis. time to start admitting what really goes on
here at W&Y, admitting that although we proudly proclaim
that we are a bastion of honor and integrity, during Rush
many seem to think they need not abide by those precepts.

We hope the day never comes when our community has
to make that confession.

We ask instead that people begin to examine the attitudes
and the practices standing behind Rush; such that our
community is willing to accept, overlook and pardon the
transgressions with which the IFC officers have been
charged. Is this the fault only of those IFC officers who
stand accused? Of course not. The fault lies with everyone
who regards this as standard operating procedure.

Quote of the week

Would you say this photograph is a work of art?

Yes, the photograph is a subtle contrast between light and
shadow.

— An exchange from the obscenity trial of a Cinncinnati
museum curator, who exhibited photographs by Robert

Mapplethorpe. The photo in question showed a man holding
a bullwhip in his rectum.

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and

The Ring-tum Phi, October 11, 1990

 

 

 

MY VIEW
By Kari May

 

What were you doing Tuesday,
Oct. 2, 1990 at 7 p.m.? My mom
was in the shower. My roommate
was studying in the library. One of
my friends was taking a physics test.
I was at a club meeting. Before the
club meeting, we watched Germany
officially unify.

A moment to remember, like
some remember the Challenger disas-

Sbar on

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

 

 

On a recent Sunday in the dim
and contradictory past I spent an
entire afternoon skipping rocks across
a wide passage of the Maury River.
After depleting the river’s supply of
flat, skipping rocks, I tumed to round
rocks and began throwing them a
troop of young boy scouts searching
for important merit badges on the
other side of the river. When I ran
out of round missile rocks, | jumped
into a rapid flowing section of the
river and spent a few hours swim-
ming upstream. For a change of pace,
I stopped chuming my arms and
began floating down the river like a
log. After floating downstream for
three or four miles, I noticed that the
sky was dark. I exited the river and
rushed home in an effort to avoid the
monsters lurking in the night. At
home I sat down to watch an animal
television program featuring cheetahs
fighting over a zebra carcass.

To be or not to be a
virgin before | die
nobly avenging my
father?

At this point I must point out that
what you have read so far is entirely
irrelevant and exists only to prevent
my editor (who never reads past the
first paragraph) from discovering that
the real subject of this article is hu-
man sexuality. I have decided to

 

 

Rankin
thanks
volunteers

I want to thank take this opportunity to point
out one of the many community services Wash-
ington and Lee students and organizations perform

for the citizens of Lexington.

Last Friday evening more than 250 people

WANTED: ATTRACTIVE FEMALE,

No EXPERIENCE NECESSARY,

INTELLIGENCE OPTIONAL. 36°2Q4"* 34,

Hou SE Moruer.

  

aN

\

ter, and our parents remember Ken-
nedy’s assassination. To us now, it
seems almost insignificant. Secluded
on a college campus, many do not
know what is happening in the world.
What has Bush done now? Are we at
war with Iraq? Whom should I vote
for in my home state? When did
Germany unify? We vaguely realize
that these things are out there, but it
seems like a totally different world,
one that does not concern us.

The unification of Germany begins
a new era of history. A country di-
vided for 45 years now stands toget-

human sexual activities -

write about sex in the. tradition of
Freud who realized that all human
thoughts, energy and activities relate
to it. A girl who cuts up a banana,
for example, might appear to be
cutting up a banana, but in actuality
is expressing her secret desire to
castrate her father and marry her
mother. Even my seemingly innocent
first paragraph is based on sex. The
round rocks are breast symbols. My
floating like a log is a phallic sym-
bol. The river is a womb symbol.
The boy scouts looking for merit
badges is an orgasm symbol. The
monster lurking in the woods is a
pregnancy symbol. And the skipping
of the rock is a skipping of the rocks
symbol.

The human race is obsessed with
sex. They love thinking about it. they
love seeing it in the movies. They
love watching barnyard animals do it.
And most importantly, they love
reading about it. Do you think people
read romance novels to broaden their
minds?

HEATHCLIFF: ‘‘Oh Catherine,
my manhood is throbbing ardently for
you and especially your pendulous
double-D sized breasts.”’

CATHERINE: (Revealing her
pendulous double-D sized breasts) Oh
Heathcliff, I’ve waited so long to
hear those very words. Now, show
me your throbbing manhood.”’

Even works of literature dealing
with major philosophical questions
always throw in 4 little sex to keep
the reader from falling asleep.

HAMLET: ‘‘To be or not to be
a virgin before I die nobly, avenging
my father? Oh my Ophelia, that is

HoMECOMING QUEEN? |

Gil

3

Y SS N

By, SSN
Vis

her; the wall that stood for 28 years
crumbled rapidly. We never dreamed,
or we dreamed but never believed,
that we would live to see the day
that East and West Germany become
one again. But here we are, the Cold
War is over; the world is changing
all around us. We are a constant;
constant in a sense that we will live
beyond these changes. We can look
back at the moment that such and
such event happened, and we can
share that moment with those who
were not there. Our children will
never know East and West Germany.

the question. Let me pluck thy sweet
flower ‘tonight. I beg you, it is my
only wish before death.’
OPHELIA: Hamlet, you said the
same thing last week, and yet you
have not died avenging your father.
However, I will grant your wish
anyway.
(The lovers proceed to have sex)
OPHELIA: Oh, Hamlet....

When it comes to sex, college
students are original. Sometimes it’s
hard to believe that they’re the same
people who spend their evenings lay-
ing on their couches watching MTV.

At Washington and
Lee...students have
sex on tables in con-
ference rooms

At Washington and Lee, where the
library is open ali night, student have
sex on tables in conference rooms. A
friend of mine went hiking in the
nude with a girl and had sex with her
on the edge of a cliff. Another friend
had sex with a girl while he was
operating a motor vehicle. As a mat-
ter of fact, I am having sex with a
girl right now. My 12-pound portable
computer is resting on her forehead.
I hope readers are enjoying this chap-
ter as much as I am. I hope they find
it so satisfying that they thrust the
newspaper down on the table and
read it again and again and again and
again (Oh, Hamlet) until they finally
erupt into a violent fit of uncontrollll-
lablllllelaughterrrrr.

The major problem with sex is

 

 

 

LETTERS

Thanks is also extended to Coach John Tucker
and members of his cross country team, Keith
Rinn, Frank Martien, Justin Peterson and Jim
Gilreath for lending technical assistance.

Sincerely,
Cinda Rankin

Waddell Twilight Classic Race Chairman

Consider the
source of

do than make critical assumptions about other
people’s activities, as well as their general charac-
ter. I have seen friends of mine hurt by people
who do not understand the things they talk about,
and I find it frustrating that a misdirected wave of
public opinion can have such a drastic effect on an
innocent person trying to get on with his life. A | s
little gossip goes a long way around here, and we
should all consider our sources. ‘

Sincerely,

\~

Ges LA
oN\\WN
OA:
Remember these days of change |

NWN A
VAX

Sally Albright '93
Hollins College Exchange

Me

\

   

~~

“

tpn

 

4h |
YAYVANZ| |
Gi 7\
Y,
Vi

‘\.

N

 

For them, it will always be one na- ,
tion.

So try to remember what you '
were doing at this important moment ,
in history. Write it down and share it
with future generations who cannc,,'
experience this wonder firsthand: ‘,
Share it with your children so that ;
they may learn about the world you '
grew up in. Reflect on what you ,
were doing, and let this lead to a
reflection on what was happening in '
Germany. You can isolate one mo-°,
ment in time, and connect yourself to
the life of an entire nation. :

!
what Freud or Jung or I call Post-
Coital Letdown (PCL). A temporary |
depression that sometimes afflicts ,
humans immediately following coitus.
For some unknown reason, PCL tends ’
to be primarily a male problem. This ,
is why men always want to play
basketball with their buddies after *
having sex. As a rule, females are’,
more prone to Post-Coital Euphoria
(PCE). This is why women always
want to sit around cuddling after sex.

A man in the depths of a PCL at-
tack, who is not playing basketball,
will begin the dangerous activity of ;
contemplating human sexuality from
a rational point of view. He might,
for example, begin to think about .
kissing. If he’s a writer, he might
even detach his 12-pound portable
computer from the girl’s forehead and
begin to write about it. :

KISSING: The random exchange. ;
of saliva between two humans in-
vented sometime in the late 19th ‘
century by someone who was incred-
ibly bored and perverted. From a’
viral point of view, kissing is danger")
ous. Also, it is mot aesthetically
pleasing, which is why people who *
kiss in public are looked down upon. |
When people kiss while not under the *
influence of powerful hormones, they )
think of one of three things...
1. What am I doing? ry
2. Who is this person?
3. This is disgusting. 4

The only good thing about PCL is |
that it wears off quickly and before |
long the hormone-crazed writer, with \
twelve pound portable computer in |
hand, is at the local bar searching for "
a throat he can shove his tongue into. |

}

-

 

Do the right
FD thing

If the law students are officially going to be
on break, then the undergraduates should treat them
as guests to their party (Fancy Dress). By guests,
I mean non-paying outsiders. Go ahead, do the

participated in the Waddell Twilight Classic (one
mile family run/walk) which W&L supported with
monetary assistance and personnel.

A special thanks goes to Goodloe Lewis and
the Interfraternity Council for providing the race
registration and race T-shirts for needy children.

Thanks to members of the Kappa Kappa Gam-
ma Sorority, Jean Stroman, Muriel Foster, Clair
Dudley, Emily McClintock, Lesee Whitaker, Sum-

Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

information

I would like to commend Liz Hancock for
having the fortitude to speak out against the
rumors concerning the circumstances of her
accident. I agree with her observation that many

The Ring-tum Phi people with no first hand knowledge of a situation

Post Office Box 899

a a ee

 

aad Virgini ner Timberlake, Devon McAllister, Ann Redford, appoint themselves experts on the matter, and right thing.
eT Kelly Bass, Caroline Clark and Spain Brumby, who relish in passing along this ‘‘expertise.”” As a
worked the race registration table, ‘T-shirt tables newcomer to this campus I have noticed that many Sincerely,

 

 

1 and at the finish line. people around here seem to have nothing better to S.D. Buchanan '85, '93L
OPINION

| City hires
new Official

The city of Lexington has hired a new city
manager.

T. Jon Ellestad, currently the deputy city
manager in Fairfax, Virginia, will begin his
duties here on Nov. 5.

Ellestad has an M.A. degree in Urban Affairs
from the University of Delaware and, besides
Fairfax, has worked in Blacksburg, Virginia and
Newark, Delaware. He is a native of Madison,
Wisconsin and is married with five children.

7 Ellestad was chosen from a field of over 140
applicants.

| Area libraries
| go high-tech

‘ The Virginia Library Services and
: Construction Fund has donated money to the
+}: University Libraryand the W&L Law Library, 4s
‘ well as to four other Rockbridge area libraries, to
‘|: improve the area’s Inter-Library Loan System.
The W&L libraries now have fax machines
that can send and receive photocopies of

|. periodicals articles. Southem Seminary, the
|’ George C. Marshall Foundation, Dabney
Lancaster Community College and the

*| Rockbridge Regional Library also received fax
machines courtesy of the L.S.C.A.

 

BRIEFS

The machine will allow the University library
to receive copies of periodicals from other
libraries in the U.S, through electronic mail. The
service permits W&L students to borrow articles
from other libraries faster than when othr
libraries had to mail a Xerox copy of the
material.

W&L Head Librarian Barbara Brown said that
some students may even receive articles the same
day they request them as opposed to wailing
three to five days for a photocopy to arrive in
the mail. Other libraries nationwide will be able

to borrow materials in the same manner, she
said.

Writer to
give reading

Writer Marianne Gingher will give a reading
at W&L, Tuesday, Oct. 16, at 4:30 p,m, in
Northen Auditorium. The reading is open to the
public and is sponsored by the Glasgow
Endowment Program.

Gingher’s most recent work is a collection of
short stories entitled Teen Angel and Other
Stories of Young Love. The Atlanta Constitution
described the book as ‘‘a wonderful collection of
short stories with vivid, haunting characters...of
adolescents caught up in a painful, methodical
struggle of emotional growth.’’

The author of the novel Bobby Rex's Greatest
Hit and numerous short stories, Gingher is
currently a part-time lecturer at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. A North Carolina
native, she received her B.A. in art and English
from Salem College and her M.F.A. from the
University of North Carolina.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 11, 1990

 

Visiting
journalists
give lectures

Jonn Dahlberg and Edwin Yoder presented
a lecture entitled "The News and Newspeople:
Contrasts Among Nations" last Thursday night in
Lee Chapel. Dahlberg, who graduated from W
& L in 1975, is a Moscow correspondent for the
Los Angeles Times and Yoder is a pulitzer-prize
winning syndicated columnist. The two focused
on the impacts of cultural factors on the media.
The speakers related the differences between the
Soviet and American medias and explained how
these differences were culturally related.

Choral groups
to perform

Washington and Lee University’s choral
groups will present a concert tuesday, Oct. 16, in
Lee Chapel at 8 p.m. The concert is open to the
public, free of charge.

Performing will be the 49-member men’s Glee
Club, the 40-voice University Chorus, the
Women’s Chorus, and W&L’s popular small
vocal groups, JubiLee and Souther Comfort.

 

 

 

MY VIEW
By Jonathan Karl

 

Free speech is under attack on college cam-
uses, and even its traditionally staunchest de-
fenders have joined in the assault.

* Student journalists and free speech advocates
are concerned about a proliferation of college
speech codes so widespread that, according to Time
{magazine, ‘‘Nowhere is the First Amendment more
imperiled than on college campuses.’’ As is often
the case with censorship, these codes have been
adopted with the best intentions: Campus racism is
on the rise and something has to be done about it.
So token measures are taken which exacerbate
facial tensions and ignore the First Amendment.

« Speech codes drafted in response to this impor-
tant issue are dividing the American Civil Liber-
ties Union, which has always tended toward an
«‘absolute’’ position on free speech. While the
Wisconsin and Michigan ACLU affiliates have
‘sued their respective state universities over the
godes, the northern and southern California af-
filiates adopted a resolution in July favoring
‘narrowly drawn policies which prohibit harassing
«speech.

John Powell, the national legal dirzctor of the
“ACLU, asserts: ‘‘My concern is less with the
strength of the First Amendment than with the
wave of radial harassment that has swept the coun-
‘try. The campus is not under the threat of being si-
Jenced.”’

Defending their resolution, the California affil-
jates cite the legal need to balance the First
Amendment against ‘‘conduct that interferes with
the Fourteenth Amendment right of students to an
equal education.’’ They argue that the resolution
only advocates a ban on speech in classroom
debates and public discourse is something students

   

  

| Interviews and photos
by Amanda Hughen

-

 

must encitre or challenge with speech of their
own.”’

Free speech proponents such as writer Nat
Hentoff are not buying. Pointing out that cases
brought under the civil codes will be heard by
untrained college judicial panels, not civil liber-
tarians or ACLU attorneys, Mr. Hentoff decries the
inevitably vague nature of speech codes. ‘‘Most
colleges whose ‘due process’ hearing I’ve covered
are unshakably fond of the British Star Chamber
model of the 17th century,’’ he remarks sarcastical-
ly. ‘‘Just the places to deal with these broad and
vague restrictions on speech.”’

Rules which limit speech are only as good as
those who enforce them. Eleanor Holmes Norton,
President Carter’s chair of the federal Equal Em-
ployment Opportunity Commission, explained this
bitter reality: ‘‘It is technically impossible to write
an anti-speech code that cannot be twisted against
speech nobody means to bar. It has been tried and
tried and tried.’’

Indeed, speech codes have been defended by
voices far less moderate than those of the ACLU’s
California affiliates. At Stanford University, law
professors provided the philosophical rationale for
a new student conduct policy that one student
sponsor candidly admitted ‘‘is not entirely in line
with the First Amendment.’’ ABA Journal, the

publication of the American Bar Association,

quotes Stanford Law Professor Mari Matsuda, who
argues that traditional views of free speech act as
a self-serving cover for continued domination buy
majority elites.

In Orwellian fashion, advocates of the code
argue that speech limitations would actually in-
crease free speech and ‘‘vigoroys debate.’’ Dis-
criminatory speech, they reason, is ineant to silence
the victim.

Such arguments are not only clearly cpposed to
First Amendment principles, they also threaten to
undercut the achievement of equal rights. Civil

‘Free speech on college campuses

rights activists have always relied on speech as
their principle weapon. In the long run, any com-
promise of principles of free speech works to the
detriment of minorities.

In addition to infringing on free speech, these
codes may actually fuel racism. As the recent
incident with the music group 2 Live Crew dramat-
ically demonstrates, attempts to censor offensive
views makes martyrs out of the censored. Did the
censoring of the album ‘‘As Nasty as They Wanna
Be’’ silence the misogynist lyrics of 2 Live Crew?
Definitely not. It showered the band in publicity,
thereby pro_elling them to the top of the charts.

Alan Keyes, a former assistant secretary of
state, points out.that the codes themselves arise out
of a racist and ‘condescending reasoning. In a
debate with the professor who wrote the code
adopted by Stanford University this spring, Mr.
Keyes argued against the ‘‘patronizing paternalistic
assumptions’’ upon which the code is founded. He

‘ expressed surprise that ‘‘someone would actually

think that I will sit in a chair and be told that
white folks have the moral character to shrug off
insults and I do not.”

Racism is a problem which must be addressed
with more than misguided measures like limiting
offensive speech. Not only are such measures open
to abuse, they also drive racism underground where
it thrives.

An academic environment characterized by an
unfettered pursuit of truth and knowledge should be
the ideal forum to expose and defeat the ignorance
that fuels racism.

The ACLU’s John Powell forcefully argues, _

“The primary problem is that we haven;t begun to
seriously discuss racial issues.’’ He is absolutely
right. But the speech-restricting policies he seems
to advocate will only have a chilling effect on the
needed discussion.

Distributed by the Collegiate Network

 

TALKBACK

 

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Manage Hoops

The basketball team needs a
manager. The team is looking for
someone who wants a piece of
the action and is ready to spend
every afternoon and Saturday
morning with the players. For an
application and interview, stop-by
the assistant basketball coach’s
office in Warner Center before
Oct. 18.

Write Playboy

Wrote some good fiction lately?
Enter Playboy’s 1991 College
Fiction Contest. You'll be playing
in the big league, sharing the
magazine with Updike and Brad-
bury and you may even win a
few bucks along the way. Playboy
gave $3,000 to last year’s first
place student winner. Check Play-
boy’s October issue or the
W&L’s English Department for
more information.

Outing Club

The Environmental Section will
meet Tues., Oct. 16, 5:30 p.m.,
University Center, room 113. On
the agenda: recycling, Adopt-a-
Highway program and House
Mountain Clean-up Day (Oct. 20).
Fly-casting practice for all skill
levels are Thursdays, 4 p.m. at
the Liberty Hall ruins. The club
also offers kayaking and canoeing
instruction as well as mountain
bike and road rides. For details,
see the Outing Club bulletin
boards on the Colonnade and at
Baker 109. The club opens their
equipment room to students,
Baker 109, Mon.-Fri, 1-4 and
Wed., 2-5.

Summer Work

Get a real job next summer with
help from the Career Development
and Piacement Office. The place-
ment folks will be offering a
special workshop, ‘‘Applying for
Internships and Summer Jobs,"’
Wed., Oct. 17, 4 p.m. in the
University Center 109.

Sail Club

Students interested in beginning a
sailing or windsurfing club at
W&L should call Ted Elliot at
464-3893,

State Affairs

The U.S. State Department is
offering first-hand experience with
the world to rising juniors, seniors
and graduates. Summer internships
are open in bureaus representing
regions all over the world and
covering a variety of international
affairs. Applications are due Nov.
1. Go to the Career Development
and Placement Office for more
information.

Econ Talk

Learn about ‘‘Freedom,
Democracy and Efficiency in
Eastern Europe: Are There Les-
sons for the United States?’’ with
Thomas A. Gray, Director of the
Office of Economic Research and
Chief Economist for the U.S.
Small Business Administration.
He’ll speak Tues., Oct. 16, 7:30
p.m. in C-School 327. He is
sponsored by the C-School’s
Visiting Executive Program.

Pub Board

Hey all you Publications Board
people...We will meet Mon., Oct.
15, 9 p.m. at the Phi office. Call
Pat, 464-3738 with questions.

Exchange

Any rising junior who is interest-
ed in the Oxford, England Student
Exchange Program for the 1991-
92 school year should see Profes-
sor Jarrett in Room 3 of New-
comb Hall.

An Invitation

The International Club is holding
weekly meetings every Tuesday at
7 p.m. at the International House,
at 8 Lee Avenue. New members
are always welcome. For more
information, contact Rick Peltz at
464-5518.

Get It Out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes! Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside the Ring-Tum
Phi office at room 208 in the
University Center.

 

queen shoud possess?

 

Annie Salsbury, ’93, Baltimore,

 

Chris Berdy, ’91, Jacksonville,
MD — ‘She should have a nice FL “All the qualities "es- VA — ‘‘Road cheese.’’
} car.” teemed by Dean  Schroer-
Lamont.”

John Simonton, ’92, Richmond,

Will Thomas, ’92, Tallahassee,
FL — ‘Big cyes.”’

 

Lyle Smith, ’93, Charleston,
WV — “I think it should be
based strictly on looks. They
shouldn't even have to talk.’’

  

_ What qualities do you think a Homecoming

 

Virginia Reeves, °93, Fresno,
CA — ‘Someone who is well-
rounded and involved in different
aspects of the school communi-

iy"

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 11, 1990

 

1990-91

Top Ten Allocations

. Student Activities Board
. Student Bar Association
. Calyx

. Contact

. The Ring-tum Phi

. Mock Convention Working Reserve
Ariel

. Film Society

. Political Review

. Live Drive

Other Organizations

“YAN AWN

—_
Ooo

TOTAL
Reserve Funds
1. Student Body Reserve
2. Student Body Working Reserve
3. Executive Committee Honor Reserve
4. Mock Convention Reserve
5. Executive Committee Working Reserve

TOTAL RESERVES

meet the full request.

 

EC BUDGET ALLOCATIONS

* $5,443.61 were transferred from the Publications Board to the Calyx to

Data compiled by Rick Peltz, graphic by Jason Kelley

Request Allocation
$53,090.00 $48,450.00
$40,839.47 $36,439.47
$24,175.00 $17,731.39*
$21,000.00 $18,000.00
$15,600.00 $13,220.00
$11,300.00 $ 8,800.00
$ 3,231.88 $ 2,531.88
$ 2,700.00 $ 2,300.00
$ 2,000.00 $ 2,000.00
$ 1,500.00 $ 1,500.00
$30,277.26
$181,250.00
$10,000.00
$ 5,567.51
$ 4,000.00
$ 4,000.00
$ 2,000.00
$25,567.51

 

 

Furniture Dealers

: | JOIN THE EXCITEMENT!
t | - AUDITION -

FOR THE PREMIERE THEATRE PERFORMANCE
bo IN THE 7 +

LENFEST CENTER

FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

of

7e

THORNTON WILDER'S

“THE SKIN OF OUR TEETH"

October 26 & 27 at3 & 7 pm
Northen Auditorium - University Library

There are 20 parts ranging from leads to walk-ons.
Years from now you can say, “I was there at the start!"

i Scripts may be checked out at the old Troubadour Box Office }

Corner of Henry & Main Streets

(Skin of Our Teeth will open January 18, 1991)

 

 

What Our Students
Do The Night Before

 

On the day of the LSAT, you want to be well rested,
prepared and confident.

Stanley H. Kaplan Prep™ for the LSAT will give you
the preparation you will need to score your best: live
instruction, practice testing, a home study pack, proven test-
taking strategies, our Test Your Best™ guarantee and loads
of confidence

Call us today. We make the LSAT easy to take.

BSTANLEY H. KAPLAN
Take Kaplan Or Take Your Chances
New LSAT Prep Course for Dec. 1 Test
Mondays and Wednesdays, 6-10 p.m.
Beginning Oct. 24, Ending Nov. 28
Enroll by Oct. 19 by calling 1-800-388-EXAM
Deposit of $100 required
Details at Career Development & Placement Office
University Center

Prep and Test Your Best are trademarks of Stanley H. Kaplan Educational Center Ltd

 

... like these 1990 Washing-
ton and Lee graduates who
have joined Arthur Andersen
offices:
Atlanta

B. Dallas Hagewood
Washington, D.C.

David Bloodsworth

Robert Rimmer

The Arthur Andersen World-
wide Organization provides
professional services in
audit, tax consulting, and
information systems con-
sulting to clients through
more than 243
locations in 54
countries.

with large

 

 

 

 

4

Senator John Warner,’49,
is first Contact speaker

 

From the W&L News Office

U.S. Sen. John W. Warner (R-
Va.) will speak at Washington and
Lee on Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.

Warner’s visit to W&L is spon-
sored by Contact, a program financed
and administered by students which
brings noted speakers to campus.

Warmer was elected to the U.S.
Senate in 1978 and reelected to a
second term in 1984. He is the rank-

ing Republican on the Armed Ser-
vices Committee and a member of
the Select Committee on Intelligence.
He also serves as a member of the
Committee on Environment and Pub-
lic Works and the Special Committee
on Aging.

Warner graduated from W&L in
1949 with a degree in basic engincer-
ing. He then entered the University of
Virginia’s Law School. In September
1950, he volunteered for a tour of
duty in the U.S. Marine Corps, serv-
ing in Korea as a first lieutenant and
communications officer with the first

Marine Air Wing. He was released
from active duty in May 1952. He
returned to law school and was
awarded a law degree by the Univer-
sity of Virginia in 1953.
His experience in the area of
defense issues has included service
from 1969 to 1973 as Department of
Defense representative to the Law of
the Sea talks in Geneva. He latér
served as Undersecretary of the Nav,y
from 1969 to 1972, and as Sccretary
of the Navy from 1972 to 1974. >
Warner was a member of W&L’s
Board of Trustees from 1968 to 1979.

Counselors join CD&P staff:

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Two new personnel joined the
staff of the Career Development and
Placement Office this summer, Dean
Rick Heatley, the department’s direc-
tor, said.

Beverly T. Lorig, wife of Psychol-
ogy professor Tyler Lorig, is the new
assistant director. She will primarily
focus on career counseling and intern-
ship placement. Lorig holds a Masters
of Education from the University of
Georgia.

Ruth E. Lewis is the other new
assistant director of career develop-
ment. She will be in charge of coor-

W&L Students, we welcome you to our so for your next hair cut.
We have three experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop
22 S. Main St.,

  
   

Lexington, VA

PGI IVI

The Beauty Bar

159 S. MAIN ST.
463-2886
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

HAIR CUTTING
TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS
BY APPOINTMENT

multinational organizations
in industries such as bank-
ing, manufacturing and
government, as well as
medium and small-sized
companies in these and
many other industries.
There are great oppor-
tunities waiting for you in
Washington, D.C., and all of
our U.S. offices. We will be
on campus October 16,
1990, to interview Decem-
ber and May accounting
graduates interested in our
Audit and Tax Practices.
Please contact your place-
ment office for fur-

ARTHUR ther details.
We work AN DERSEN

ARTHUR ANDERSEN & CO,, S.C.

Stay ahead.

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER

 

  
    
    
       
       
  
 
    
     

 

dinating campus recruitment and
training students for job searches.
Lewis holds a M.A. from Shelter
Rock College.

The CD&P Office is open week-
days from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. The
office is also open Saturdays from 10
am. to 2 p.m. for use of the re-
sources. Career counseling will not be
offered during these times. The new
hours are offered to increase accessi-
bility for those people without free
time during the week. The change
comes as a response to a student
survey last year.

Dean Heatly said that contrary to
popular belief, the CD&P Office is
not reserved for senior use. He

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

LEE

703-463-3478

Welcome

We have at our
new location

flowers, balloons,

gifts and more... ©

WE WIRE ANYWHERE

J Releflora”

he

forint tu The Homencad

Ten East Nelson
463-9841

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L Imprinted
Sportswear Plus:
Oakley Sunglasses,

New Era Baseball Caps
(Sized W&L Caps Due Shortly.)

TRADE IN SPECIAL:
trade in a used (smelly,
old) T-shirt and receive
$1.00 off your purchase of
anew 100% cotton T-shirt.

OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
15 W. WASHINGTON ST.
(next to Lloyds)
464-3000
We Invite Your
Custom Orders

 

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

    
    
   
   
       
     

strongly discourages waiting until the
senior year to take advantage of the
office’s resources.

“Waiting until your senior year is
not good,’’ said Heatley. ‘‘It forces
people to hurry through the caree’
development process.’’

The undergraduate years are cru-
cial for developing and exploring
possible career choices, he said. The
senior year must be spent focusing
directly on placement. ‘

All students are welco:ne to stop
by the Career Development and
Placement Office on the first floor of
the University Center, or call 463-
8595 to find out more about thé

diverse opportunities the department
offers.

  
    

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

  

1-800-768-LEHI

  

. FORRENT
House in Country
463-5383

  

INSURANCE

Nationwide is on your side

   
  
   
  

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN

Agent
203 South Main Street

Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

  
   

 

 

Rolling Stone. ’
Premiere.
National Review.
Town & Country.
Elle.
Connoiseur.
Architectural Digest.
Metropolitan Home.
Omni.
Discover.
Smithsonian.
The Atlantic.
Lear's.
Glamour.
Vogue.
Cosmopolitan.
New York.
Gourmet.
Sports Illustrated.
porting News.
Spy

Books and magazines
from around the world.

POSTMARKS
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 7 am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

 
NEWS _

The Ring-tum Phi, October 11, 1990

NAACP blasts student housing permits

 

By Gregory Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

The debate over housing in the
Lexington area flared up again at last
week’s city council meeting when a
local representative of the National
Association for the Advancement of
Colored People said Washington and
Lee students are squeezing low-in-
come minority families out of the
market.

Rev. J.B. Harris of the local chap-
ter of the NAACP blasted the council
as it prepared to approve three appli-
cations for large-capacity houses.

Harris said that by giving condi-
tional-use permits to houses and
thereby allowing more than four
unrelated people to live in a house
together, the council was putting such
houses out of the reach of local resi-

dents.

He said that owners of such
houses cater to student tenants and
raise rents out of the price range of
residents who need someplace to live.

“This says to me that you are
suddenly endorsing housing discrimi-
nation,’’ Harris told the council. He
said a ‘‘potential housing investiga-
tion’’or a lawsuit against the city
would both be possibilities ‘‘if cur-
rent trends persist.”’

Harris offered a number of pro-
posals he said would ease the situa-
tion. He said W&L should rent ex-
cess dorm rooms to local residents
and develop any vacant university-
owned land for student apartments.

Harris also suggested that the city
place a moratorium on permits for
large-capacity housing and encourage
realtors to give local residents the

first chance at rental property.

Lexington mayor H.E.‘*Buddy”
Derrick said the city is not ignorant
of the situation.

‘We are not unmindful of what
gives rise to the comments being
made here,’’ he said. ‘‘We have not
considered any houses [for a cond-
tional use permit] that have not typi-
cally been in this market.’’

The requirement specifying that a
permit must be obtained for houses
with more than four unrelated persons
living together went into effect this
June. A conditional use permit is
good for five years, after which the
owner must go through the complete
application process again.

A permit can be revoked if occu-
pants of the house are convicted of
violations of the city’s noise, health,
or sanitation ordinances.

 

City to hire tax assessor
for W&L students’ cars

determine how feasible it is [to try and collect the car
tax] and the only way to know is to find out.’’

 

By Gregory Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

City officials, however, said they were not sure

Lexington will hire someone to begin collecting tax
on student cars, but city officials say they do not know
yet whether the new employee will hit the streets to
try and track down Washington and Lee students’ cars.

At a meeting last Thursday night, city council
appropriated $5000 to hire a person to identify and
assist with the collection of the tax. The new employee
will work part-time for six months.

The council had originally planned to use $25,000
for a one year full-time position, but those plans were
eclipsed by recent statewide budget cuts.

whether or not the new employee will roam the city
Streets trying to identify cars belonging to W&L
students, as rumors have suggested.

According to interim city manager David Woody,
“It will be a temporary position in the commissioner
of revenue’s office...It will depend on how the
commissioner wants to handle it.’’

When asked in September whether or not the city
had hired someone to hunt down the cars, Woody said
the idea had ‘‘not been pursued,’’ but that it would be
“‘one way to try and catch some’”’ student cars, since
the university has refused to turn over the list of

 

 

Dunk the Dean

 

Dean of Students David How-
ison sits in the dunk tank at
last week’s Funfest. Funfest
kicked off the annual cam-
paign to fight muscular dys-
trophy. | Superdance, the
main money-raising event at
W&L in the fight against MD,
will be held In February.
Staff photo by Chris Leip-
hart.

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

130 S. Main St.

 

 

oppa o
Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing -
~-and Accessories

Lexington, VA 34060 VA 24450

7
ee 23 N. Main St.

For Men
BD Baggies
Ruff Hewn
Duckheads
Dirty Bucks
Corbin Suits

     
     
 

Woolrich

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

 

The Back Room

at

EL CAFE

116 N. Main St.

Good Food, Good Friends
Live Music Weekly
9:00 - 1:00 p.m.

Break away from your
ordinary night out!

Call 464-TACO for info.

Wild, Wonderful Ties

463-7969

(703)463-5988

THE COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

Councilwoman Louise Moore said,

‘*We have to

student cars to the city.

 

Students help to fight cancer

 

By Kim Boots
Staff Reporter

On Sunday, 120 people partici-
pated in the ‘Making Strides for
Cancer’ move-along-athon and raised
$750 for cancer treatment and re-
search in Rockbridge County.

Electra Martin, student coordinator
of the event, said the goal of $1000
was not reached but that she was
pleased with the number of people
whe got involved. The number of

participants this year doubled that of
last year, which was the first year the
event took place in Lexington.

Walkers, runners and bikers trav-
eled the five-mile course through
Lexington, beginning and ending at
Harris Teeter. The course circled the
Virginia Military Institute and Wash-
ington and Lee campuses.

Lexington resident Hannah Her-
ward raised the most money, $207,
and was awarded with a two-night
trip to the Massanutten Resort near
Harrisonburg. Other large contribu-

tors received prizes donated by loca'
businesses and door prizes were given
to random participants. W&L students
comprised the majority of partic-
ipants.

Preparations are underway for next
year’s ‘‘Making Strides for Cancer.”’
Elizabeth Dettmar, one of the orga-
nizers of the event, said, ‘‘It was a
lot of fun and we’re looking for vote
more people next year.’

The walk was associated with the
American Cancer Society, but all of
the funds will be put to use locally.

       
   
  
     
   
   
     
       
    
  

 
  
     
     
   
 
 
       
 
    
  

Happy Homecoming W&L!

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal

A large selection of Gift Items

WM. L. HESS, Jr. 121 S. Main St.
Owner Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-2833

 
    
    

Heleetist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

FRESHMAN THINGS TO DO:

(J Get a haircut

L) Do Laundry

() Buy Mom’s Birthday Present

() Get a new shirt for Homecoming
CJ Look for a Halloween Costume
C) Pick-up munchies

SAVE MONEY BY
SHOPPING IN LEXINGTON!

It’s all in the bag!

Those bags you got on the first day are
packed with savings until October 31, And
it’s all just a walk away!

 

Shakes

FAMOUS MAKER CLASSICS
only at

111 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

 

Have a safe Homecoming.

. Jills a Lady

 

 

Welcome Back W&L

We have a full line of clothes
for the well dressed Co-ed
Robert Scott Sweaters - David Brook Sportswear
Skyr Turtlenecks
(long sleeves & sleeveless)
Colors Galor

    

 
 
 
 

 
 

126 S. Main St.

 

463-5434

 

 

Save s*100

Stop by and visit your ArtCarved representative during this special
event. Check out our awesome collection of styles. ArtCarved
will customize a college ring just for you with thousands of
special options. Don’t delay—see your ArtCarved representative
before this promotion ends.

 

 

ARTARVED

Special Payment Plans Available se 7 =

© 1990 ArtCarved

 

  

 

 

     
   
       

Rees cece Sea Seeee See

For Women
Lanz
Skyr
Ruff Hewn For Women

 

 

 

 

All Suits & Sport Coats - 20% Off

Alumni Special

Tanner

Breckin Ridge

Lots of Split Skirts
Jayson Younger Sweaters

 

 

 

 

 

 

We have served W&L since 1926

SE

 
   
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS

Stutzmann
hat trick
leads W&L

By MacGregor Tisdale
Staff Reporter

 

 

Freshmen are breathing new life
into the Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team.

Early in the season, when the
offense struggled, it was freshman
goalie Kate Stimeling who kept the
Generals above water until the of-
fense could come through.

Now, the offense is shining, and
it is a freshman who is doing the
dirty work. Karen Stutzmann scored
three times to lead the Generals to a
3-2 victory over Wheeling Jesuit Col-
lege at Liberty Hall Field on Satur-
day.

Stutzmann scored all three of the
Generals goals marking the first hat
trick ever in W&L women’s soccer
history.

‘Karen is becoming a leader in
her own right,’’ said head coach Jan-
ine Hathorn. ‘‘As a freshman, she is
very poised in game situations and
knows what to do with the ball.”’

What she is doing is putting the
ball in the back of the opponents’
nets. She has four goals in the last
two games and seven on the young
season.

Stutzmann, from Port Washington,
N.Y., is quick to point out that she is
not doing it all by herself. ‘‘The
whole team contributed to the three
goals. We played well as a team,”’
she said.

Stutzmann gave W&L a 1-0 lead
off a feed from junior Ashley Gray.
Wheeling tied it at 1-J at the half.
Wheeling scored first in the second
half to take a brief 2-1 lead before
Stutzmann turned up the offensive
heat. She scored two goals in a six

   

 
 
  

  
  

 

audcdiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O CwD

KEF NEC
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

+ TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics Perfumes
Charge Accounts © Free Delivery

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Freshman Karen Stutzmann plays the ball in Saturday’s 3-2 win
over Wheeling. Stutzmann scored all three goals for W&L. W&L

photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

minute span putting the Generals up
for good with twenty minutes to play.

‘Overall, the game was really
exiting,’’ said Hathorn. ‘‘The team is
just working hard to put it all to-
gether. We need to stay focused on
one game at a time and not get to
proud of ourselves.”’

With the win, the Generals move
their record to 5-3 on the season, 4-
1 at Liberty Hall Field.

463-3106

 

UP TO

 

Stop by and visit your ArtCarved representative during this special event.
Check out our awesome collection of styles. ArtCarved will customize a college ring just for
you with thousands of special options. Don’t delay—see your ArtCarved
representative before this promotion ends.

Special Payment Plans Available a se z= =

Le

OWI FRONT

 

 

GoW&L!
Beat Hampden-Sydney this weekend and after the game
stop by and see us for all your grocery and party needs.
Charge accounts still available, so if you don’t have one

this year, stop by this weekend and open one up. Have a
great homecoming weekend.

Serving The W&L Community
For Over 35 Years

    

E

COLLEGE JEWELRY

Hathorn said the team is close to
being where they want to be at this
point in the season.

‘*A team has gelled when they
can step on the field and know their
limits,’’ said Hathorn.

The Generals entertained Hollins
today in a big Old Dominion Athletic
Conference game and will host Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College Satur-
day at 11:30 a.m.

167 S. Main St.

    

D

1990 ArtCarved

 

 

R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church

Sunday Services: 8:30 & 10:30 a.m.
5:00 p.m.

Dinner & Bible Study: 5:45 p.m.

107 Lee Avenue

    

  
       
   
 
    
 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 11, 1990

ODAC success for soccer

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

A wet playing surface, a dismal
record against -ynchburg and even a
seven-year-old Lexington boy inter-
rupting play by coming onto the field
to pick up the ball, did not deter the

Washington and Lee men’s soccer'

team from defeating the Hornets, 2-
0, yesterday at Liberty Hall Field.

After a demanding nonconference
schedule, which produced no wins in
five games, the Generals are finding
comfort and success in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference.

Yesterday’s win was W&L’s third
in a row, as the Generals improved
their record to 5-4-2 (3-0-1 in the
ODAC). Extending back to last sea-
son, W&L is unbeaten in its last nine
conference games.

In its other ODAC game this

week, W&L beat Eastern Mennonite,
2-0, on Saturday in Harrisonburg, Va.

W&L had not beaten Lynchburg
since 1986 and had beaten them only
once in head coach Rolf Piranian’s
15-year career.

Yesterday, however, the Generals
dominated offensively, as they di-
rected 18 shots at the Hornets’ net,
ricocheting one off each post and
another off of the crossbar.

The two that settled into the net
were scored by junior midfielder
David DeFalco and freshman forward
Tim McCarthy.

With 14:32 remaining in the first
half, DeFalco scored from close range
on a pass from sophomore forward
Reid Murphy. With just over 15
minutes gone in the second half,
Hornet goaltender Vernon Croft mis-
handled sophomore midfielder Mike
Mitchem’s corner kick and the ball
rolled into the net.

‘I'm pleased with the way we
played,’’ Piranian said. ‘‘But there

were moments when we let up and ,

I'm convinced that could kill us. We
have got to keep our intensity up.’’
Against Eastern Mennonite on

AstroTurf, two free kicks set up both '

of W&L’s goals. The Generals scored
within the first four minutes when
Murphy, who was running across the

goal mouth, flicked the ball into the :

net with his head. Ten minutes later,
a corner kick dropped in front of
sophomore sweeper Greg Williams,
who sent the ball from 12 yards
away into the left side of the goal.

‘We're a lot better soccer team
than we were. But we haven't had a
90-minute effort yet and that’s what
it will take to keep winning,’
Piranian said.

On Saturday at 1:30 p.m, W&L
will host Virginia Wesleyan (10-0-2),
the ODAC’s top team.

Harriers keep running well

 

By John Kleckley
Staff Reporter

 

Both the Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s cross country
teams gave strong showings in their
respective meets at Lynchburg Col-
lege this past weekend.

The women remained unbeaten in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conferen-
ce as they downed Lynchburg and
Mary Baldwin 25-40-73, upping their
overall record to 7-1.

Seniors Shawn Wert and Cecily
Tynan finished third and fourth res-
pectively to lead a pack of five W&L
runners that finished within two min-
utes of each other.

     
       
 
     
   
  
  
 
 
    
  
     
       
 
  

Stamford
Reid Campbell

“Our top five has become ex-
tremely consistent,’’ said head coach
Jim Phemister. ‘‘We’re looking for-
ward to the state meet to see how we
stack up against the competition at
the midpoint in the season.”’

The men’s team posted two vic-
tories and a loss in a four-team meet
that was scored as four dual’ meets.
W&L scored wins over Hampden-
Sydney 15-49 and Catholic 25-30,
while losing a tough race to Lynch-
burg 21-37.

Said head coach John Tucker,
‘‘We ran our best race all year
against Lynchburg.’’

Tucker pointed out that the steep-
ness of Lynchburg’s course added to
an already tough race, and he was

   

pleased that runners were still able to *

cut considerable amounts of time off
of races on comparable courses.

Leading the W&L charge was .
sophomore Bo Hannah, who was fifth

overall followed by juniors Charles
Edwards and David Martin and:soph-
omore Keith Wren. Edwards was
hampered by an injury. Earlier, while

scouting the course, he fell and badly _

bruised his knee.

This saturday both teams will
compete in the Virginia State Div-
ision II] championships which. The
meet will serve as a tune-up for the
ODAC championships coming up
three weeks from now.

SALE

at the

University

Bookstore

Starts Thursday, Oct. 11
‘Ends Saturday, Oct. 13
T-Shirts, etc., etc., etc., books

   

We are delighted to announce that the following
members of the class of 1990 have joined KPMG

Peat Marwick.

    
  
   

   
 
 

   

 

  

 

KPMG Pest Marwic

For more information about a career at KPMG
Peat Marwick, please contact:

Name of Contact: Randy Gatzke
Title of Contact: Primary Recruiter
KPMG Peat Marwick

213 South Jefferson Street
Roanoke, Virginia 24011
(703)982-0505

or your placement office

Washington
David Olson

  
 
   
  
   
  

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 11, 1990

Woes continue for W&L football

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

The 1990 Washington and Lee
football season has been one that has
raised some serious questions.

The main question concerns the

, quarterback position. Both Phillip
Sampson and Chris Smythe graduated

‘from the 1989 team, leaving a void at
the position this season.

‘Junior George Sakin, who came
into camp as the incumbent, won the
Starting job, outplaying converted
comerback Fred Renneker and soph-
omore Darren Johnson in preseason.

When the season started, Sakin

_ led the team to a near upset of Old
Dominion Athletic Conference power-

‘house Emory & Henry and a 10-0

, win over Methodist. Since then,
though, the Generals have struggled,

« dropping three straight games.

The most recent loss came last

* Saturday, 21-7 to Maryville College.

, And while the offense had struggled
coming into the game, it was special

« teams play that killed the Generals.

After stalling on their first drive,

* W&L was forced to punt. Maryville’s

_ Thomas Stephens fielded the kick at

Volleyball

 

* By Chris Simon
‘ Staff Reporter

‘

 

Despite winning two of three Old
* Dominion Athletic Conference match-
, es this week, the Washington and Lee
women’s volleyball team is still look-
‘ing for the consistancy that captures
, a conference title.
W&L defeated Roanoke Tuesday
‘night in a thrilling five-game

his 32-yard line, cut to the sideline
and raced 56 yards to the W&L 12.
Two plays later, the Scots took a 7-
0 lead when Kelly Moore scored
from seven yards out.

W&L tied the game at the end of
the first quarter, using a big play
from the defense to spark the drive.

On a third and 16, Moore was
intercepted by sophomore Donald
Dempsey. Dempsey returned the

On the ensuing kickoff, Renneker
fumbled the ball as he was brought
down and the Scots recovered at the
W&L 25-yard line. Two plays later,
Moore hit split end David King with
a 22-yard touchdown pass, giving the
Scots a 21-7 lead at halftime.

The second half saw W&L head
coach Gary Fallon make a move to
try to spark the offense. He inserted
Renneker at quarterback.

 

interception 21 yards to the Maryville
41 behind a block from junior Scott
Williamson.

The Generals then went to the
running game. Senior workhorse
Mason Pope capped a nine-play, 41-
yard drive with a four-yard touch-
down run to tie the game at 7-7 after
one quarter.

But the drive would be W&L’s
only sustained drive of the day. On
the rest of the afternoon, W&L would
get only two first downs for a total
of seven on the day.

Maryville took control in the
second quarter behind special teams
play. Stephens returned a punt 19
yards to the W&L 19, setting up
Keith Washington’s 12-yard touch-
down run to give the Scots a 14-7
lead.

On Renneker’s first possession, he
showed signs that he could move the
team poor field position. Renneker
scampered for 16 yards, but a penalty
brought that back, and Renneker’s
first pass was broken up and thc
Generals had to punt.

The second half was played to a
scoreless tie, due greatly to the play
of Maryville punter Scott Porter and
the W&L defense. The W&L defense
allowed the Scots only 85 yards of
offense in the second half.

Porter kept the W&L pinned deep
in its own territory. In the second
half, the W&L offense started drives
from its own 10-yard line, 12-yard
line, one-yard line, five-yard line, 15-
yard line and 20-yard line.

On the afternoon, W&L was held
to 175 yards of total offense, with 52

 

 

 

Trey Cox
..team high 13 tackles

coming on the last play of the game,
a pass from Renneker to junior Jeff
Kreis. Senior split end Craig Irons
did not catch a pass for the first time
in 20 games.

Said Fallon, ‘‘I didn’t think we
were particularly sharp in any area. |
hope we can rebound with a good
effort against Hampden-Sydney. We
need to play with more emotion and
enthusiasm.”’

The Generals (1-4, 0-2) will enter-
tain H-SC Saturday afternoon on
oo Kickoff is set for 2

defeats Roanoke, Salem

3-1. The win was a big rebound from
an earlier conference loss to Emory
and Henry, 7-15, 12-15, 7-15, last
Friday.

“We don’t have a weak player
our opponent can pick on,’’ said head
coach Susan Dittman.

In a conference match against
Salem last week, Dittman rotated
twelve players into the lineup as the
Generals rolled on to a 15-6, 15-4
victory. In a close loss to non-con-

Against Emory and Henry the
Generals nearly rallied to a win in
ihe second game before the Yellow
Jackets stung quickly with late points
to clinch a victory. After falling in
game two, W&L could not muster a
comeback.

‘It was one of those games,”’
said Dittman. ‘‘After we lost the
pivotal second game, mentally, we
weren’t ready to win three in a
row.”

One highlight, however, was the

play of junior co-captain Mena
McGowin who recorded 15 kills, 9
digs, and no errors.

"Mena’s playing was outstanding,”
said Dittman. "She had that look.
When Mena gets THE LOOK, Mena
wins the game."

Next week the Generals face
Eastern Mennonite and Bridgewater.

"We've never taken a game from
either Eastern Mennonite or Bridge-
water," said Dittman.

UR gets by W&L 9-7

 

By John Neumann
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team saw its eight-game winning
streak snapped last Friday night at
the hands of arch-rival Richmond, 9-
ue

Head coach Page Remillard’s team
struggled but still found itself only
one goal down until Richmond scored

injury bug hit. Sophomore goalie
P.J. Waicus suffered an eye injury in
Monday’s practice and will be unable
to play for the rest of the year.
Finding a substitute for Waicus will
present a big challenge for Remillard.

The Generals will look at some
options this week to determine who
will be in the net. Although Remil-
lard obviously never wanted such a
scenario, he said it does present an
exciting problem for him and his

   

 

, 15-5, 14-16, 6- 15, 15-5, 15-10, ference Ferrum on Tuesday, eleven
creasing their record in the OpAC ; players saw action.
Right
ane Ou,

« | Standard 10% Discount
. | With Student I.D.

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.

Lexington, Va. 24450 |

 

LEXINGTON,

 

 

Rowers For AU Occasions

Good Luck Generals!

Specials
Football Mum Corsages
and Red Roses

THE FLOWER CENTER

223 SOUTH MAIN STREET
sIRGINIA 24450

 

 

 
   

    
 

 

   
   

es

ae 2 fy

 

  
    

Perdue Grade ‘‘A”’

Fryer Breast

 

Lb.

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER | 6 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY
LOW PRICES!

Perdue Fryer
Leg Quarters

 

 

   

 

 

     
    

 

 

 

 

(703) 463-4521

team to solve.

This weekend, the Generals travel
up to Providence, R.I. for the North
Varsity Invitational. The tournament
will feature the east coast’s eight best
teams. They include Brown, Navy,
Iona, University of Massachusetts,
harvard, Slippery Rock, Richmond,
and W&L.

The Generals will face Navy in
their opener. Remillard said that a
win this weekend would be a sig-
nificant accomplishment and would
show the tenacity and determination
of the team spirit.

to ice the game in the final 30
seconds. Remillard said that every-
body was off their game and with the
emphasis on team play, it made for a
very difficult evening.

The game was delayed for an
hour because the officials arrived late,
but Remillard stressed the real reason
for the loss was a failure to execute.
The seven-goal performance was
W&L’s lowest output of the season.

W&L practiced on Saturday after
the game to regain some of the lost
rhythm and had a good practice.

The good feeling after Saturday’s
practice was dampened when the

SPORTS NOTEBOO

p.m. on Liberty Hall Field.

On Tuesday night, a raffle to
give away 10 gallons of ice cream
will be held during the women’s
volleyball game against Eastern
Mennonite. The ice cream is being
donated by Jerry Darrell and the
W&L Food Service. Tickets will
be given away in the dining hall.

 

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

The Athletics Promotion Com-
mittee announced its raffles and
giveaways for next week’s athletic
events.

At Saturday’s football game,
there will be a halftime raffle to
give away merchandise from the

W&L Bookstore, the University The W&L women’s tennis
Store and Frank’s Pizza. The game team plays two big matches this
starts at 2 p.m. weekend.

On Tuesday, free M&Ms will
be given out to the first 100 fans
in attendance at the men’s soccer
game against Randolph-Macon at 4

The Style House
Welcomes

W&L Alumni

Enjoy Your Stay!
Operators: Irma, Ann, Maxine, Mary
_ 1225. Main St. 463-5954

The Generals, coming off a 6-
3 win over Catholic, host Meth-
odist on Friday and Swarthmore on
Saturday.

 

 

 

     
     
      

   

 

      
  
 

  
 
 

Crest
Twin Pack

2

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

Ice a Nn var

 

 

 

 

SS) nevew'y\

 

  

16 Oz Non-Returnable
eo Poe

 

 

 

We Reser ve

Prices Good Through Tuesday, October 16, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, October 16, 1990 In Lexinaton Stor
The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Accept Federal Food Stamps

Oniy
WéLIFE
New ways to break your diet

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Those interested in Lexington
dining have reason to rejoice. Two
new options, a Shoney’s and an Ital-
ian Restaurant, are set to join Lex
cuisine in the near future.

According to Robert DeMaria,
President of the Lexington/Rockbridge
Chamber of Commerce, Shoney’s
corporate office has recently finalized
a deal to buy a plot of land on Route
11 next to the Golden Corral, north
of Lexington. The company plans to
begin construction soon for a sched-
uled grand opening in the spring.

DeMaria mentioned that this is
not the first time Shoney’s has at-
tempted to locate itself in the Rock-
bridge area. Six or seven years ago,

the Board of Supervisors shot down
a plan to build a restaurant on the
then undeveloped area east of Lexi-

ngton. ‘‘Now the city needs more
restaurants, a better variety,’’ said
deMaria. The Board has already

approved the new development.

Unlike other Shoney’s, this new
restaurant will not be a_ local
franchise. It will be owned and
operated by Shoney’s Corp., employ-
ing 70 to 90 people. DeMaria
believes that the restaurant will bring
more people into the area north of
Lexington. Rather than hurting the
Golden Corral, Shoney’s should, in
deMaria’s view, be able to hold its
own and help its neighbor.

Il Palazzo, the Italian Restaurant,
will be located in the building next
door to the Willson Walker House on
Main Street. Ugo Benincasa, Lexi-

The Ring-tum Phi, October 11, 1990

ngton resident and father of W&L
junior Armando Benincasa, owns the
building and plans to open his new
venture in early December.

With 25 years experience, Benin-
casa is not a stranger to the rest-
aurant business. His brother, Frank,
is the owner of Frank’s Pizza. Ugo
had been a partner in that business at
its inception, but now he wishes to
try to tempt Lexington palates in his
own way.

‘‘We’re looking forward to open-
ing up in Lexington, there is a
definite market,’’ said Benincasa.
‘There are no other restaurants like
it here.”’

The restaurant will serve dishes
from both northern and southern
Italy. He hopes that this will give
place a unique flavor. Besides the
main dishes, the menu will include

sandwiches, pizza, calzone,
Italian seafood, wines, and other
beverages. SBenincasa and his wife,
Gena, will do the cooking for the
restaurant. Prices will be kept moder-
ate, ranging from around $3-4 for a
sandwich to $9-13 for a complete
dinners.

salads,

DeMaria believes that much of the
recent growth in Lexington cuisine is
due to crowd drawing ventures such
as the Horse Center. ‘‘Shoney’s, in

particular, is a manifestation of the
Horse Center’s  impact,’’ said
DeMaria. ‘‘I’m not sure that it is the

same with /! Palazzo. However,
knowing the Benincasa family and
their history of good food at good
prices, I’m confident that their res-
taurant will be a wonderful addition
to the Lexington Business district.’’

Traditionalists play Mozart

 

By Fraser Bowen
Staff Reporter

 

The Mozartean Players, a classical
music ensemble, performed Tuesday
night in Lee Chapel for an almost
full house.

The performance, presented by the
Washington and Lee Concert Guild,
began at 8 p.m. and lasted until just
before 10 p.m. It was the first perfor-
mance of the Mozartean Players ever
at Washington and Lee.

The group played the Trio in B-
flat by Mozart; Trio in C by Haydn;
and Beethoven’s Trio in E-flat.

The group was siarted in 1970
and has made an international reputa-

tion for itself since that time. They
have made concert tours through
Europe and America, including per-
formances at major festivals, chamber
music series and university, college,
and museum performances. The group
is based in New York and plays
regularly at Camegie Hall, Lincoln
Center and the Metropolitan Museum
of Art.

The individual performers who
make up the group are all highly
acclaimed as solo musicians. Pianist
Steven Lubin has been acclaimed in
the United States and Europe.

The violinist, Stephanie Chase, is
one of her generation’s most
acclaimed violinists. She won a
bronze medal at the 1982 Tchaikov-

HERE’S WHAT’S NEW IN LEXINGTON

centr OF LEXNg

& asm ae %
mk
SS

tw t

AS a Place

Wicker, Clothing
Jewelry, Pottery, Lamps
Rugs, Cookware
Candlesticks,

Antiques, Glassware,
Gifts Etc., Etc., Etc. ©

6 E. Nelson Street

Mr. Clean Car

207 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA
464-3087

 

Complete Car Care

Detailed Inside & Out
$40-

$45

 

M-F Open at noon
Saturday open at 8:00 a.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rack of year-round and summer suits

102 W. Washington St.

atecetecees

eteletetererereres Ss Seeie Ss

Aluin Bennis
Welcome W&L Alumni

Sero shirts, Woolrich, IZOD and Deans sweaters,
Woolrich outerwear, dress corduroys,
khakis, Bass, Walkover, Clark & Topsider shoes.
After-Six Formal Wear - Fancy cummerbund and tie
sets. Rugby shirts - W&L belts, ties and T-shirts.

Ceramic gifts for sale

Reduced 20%

463-5382

terC ard

sky Competition in Moscow and has
won world-wide attention in her
appearances with orchestras.

Myron Lutzke, the cellist, is one
of the founding members of the
Mozartean Players. He is one of the
nation’s foremost cellists and has solo
toured world-wide with a number of
musical groups.

The group specializes in playing
the work of classical composers on
original 18th century instruments.
They played two of their three pieces
on such instruments Tuesday night.
This means that, in terms of the
instruments, their performance was
just as it might have been heard by
the composers of the pieces themsel-
ves.

FREER KKK KEKE HK RE

JOBS
NOW!

* 25 mature people
needed to take orders
for Jaycee’s “Shopping
Spree” program.

- No experience necessary

- Hourly pay plus benefits
- Day and evening shifts
available.

- Jobs start TODAY!

* People needed to
make light deliveries
for Jaycees “Shopping
Spree” program.

- Must have neat ap-
pearance and economy car

- Excellent pay

- Day and evening shifts
available

For either position apply to:
Ms. Roberts
Suite 304
Super 8 Motel
Route 11, Lexington
464-5600

es TTT TLL Teer eee

i cl lial oll oie alt ole lh lie fe oie tn oe eee

Duckhead

Student Charge

 

The original instruments have a
slightly different sound than their
modern counterparts, largely due to
the use of gut strings for the violin
and cello. The piano played by Lubin
was a copy of one built in 1790. It
has fewer keys than the modem piano
and is made entirely out of wood.
The sound that it makes is gentle,
and has been called expressive.

The violin that Chase played was
made in the middle of the 18th cen-
tury and Lutzke’s cello was built
around 1800. The sound of these
instruments is more mellow than the
modern violin and cello so they
balance better with one another, al-
lowing the inner workings of the
music to be appreciated.

 

 

Welcome

Alumni!

 

 

 

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12

12 Noon

12:10 p.m.

3:30 p.m.
6:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

10:30 a.m.

11:30 a.m.

12 Noon
1 p.m.
1:30 p.m.

2p.m.
4:30 p.m.

4:30 p.m.

7 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

4p.m.

4:30 p.m.

6 p.m.

7 p.m.

Homecoming Weekend.

MEMORIAL SERVICE: Honoring the 120th anniversary of the

death of Robert E. Lee. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

TUCKER LECTURE: "In Defense of Legal Education,”
Thomas D. Morgan, George Washington University
National Law Center. Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall. Public
invited.

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Methodist. Varsity Courts.

ALUMNI RECEPTION: Honoring Five Star Generals and
Homecoming Queen Court. Alumni House.

S.A.B. CONCERT: The Smithereens. Student Activities
Pavilion. Tickets available at the door ($10).

Homecoming Weekend.

GRE Exam.

CONCERT: W&L Choral Ensembles. Lee Chapel. Public
invited.

WOMEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon
Woman's College. Liberty Hall Field.

ALUMNI LUNCHEON: Upper Athletic Field.

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Swarthmore. Varsity Courts

MEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Virginia Wesleyan College.
Liberty Hall Field.

FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney. Wilson Field.

ALUMNI RECEPTION: Alumni House.

AWAY ATHLETICS: WATER POLO: EWPA Invitational,
Providence, R.I. (through Oct. 14).

National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Deadline for
Resume Drop II (Nov. companies). CD&P Office.

ALCOHOL AWARENESS KEYNOTE SPEAKER: Will Keim,
award-winning teacher, advisor, and lecturer, will speak
on "The Importance of Drinking Responsibly.” Lee
Chapel. Public invited.

SOCIOLOGY LECTURE: "Poland in the 90s: Fears and
Hopes," Krzysztof Jasiewicz, Polish Academy of
Sciences Institute of Philosophy and Sociology. Northen
Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

MEN'S SOCCER: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon. Liberty Hall |

Field.

GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: A reading by
Marianne Gingher, prose and short story writer. Northen
Auditorim, University Library. Public invited.

VOLLEYBALL: Generals vs. Eastern Mennonite. Warner
Center.

ALCOHOL AWARENESS PROGRAM: "Special Issues for
Women Who Drink,” Gwyn Campbell, W&L department o
romance languages, and Barbara Sprinkle, Lexington
Treatment Center. To be followed by video presentation,
“A Risk Worth Taking.” Northen Auditorium, University
Library.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

OMoonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

»

 
Ho

, . « > .

> . > + * > *

*

ecoming

a supplement to

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

Ben)

&

   

Smithereens will
play W&L Friday

 

From News Releases

 

Despite rumors that the pro-
gressive. rock band The
Smithereens would cancel its
performance at the Pavilion Friday
night, the band will play to W&L
crowd with doors opening at 8
p-m. and music beginning by 9
p-m.

According to Student
Activities Board Chairwoman
Katie Duwell, the band’s lead
singer, Pat DiNizio underwent an
emergency appendectomy last
Tuesday, which led the band to
cancel several concerts, including
performances at James Madison
University, and the University of
Virginia.

Duwell confirmed that the band
will definitely come and its mem-
bers were resting up before the
performance, ‘‘so they’ll have a
lot of energy for the concert.’’

The band’s most recent album,
Smithereens 11, has climbed the
charts by continuing the group’s
tradition of rock and pop which
the New Trouser Press calls ‘‘-
impossibly winsome memorable
and rapturous without sacrificing
any rock ’n’ roll energy or guts.”’
The album includes everything
from the group’s hard-rocking
first single, ‘‘A Girl Like You,”
to the ballad ‘‘Kiss Your Tears
Away,” to the fuzzed-out ‘*Blues
Before and After.’’

‘‘We wanted to try to get a
more in-your-face guitar sound,
and we wanted everything crisper

sounding, louder and more
present,’ said bassist Mike
Mesaros. ‘‘We’ve always been
fairly heavy and raunchy live, and
we wanted to capture a little more
of that on record.”’

The Smithereens were bom
many years ago in Carteret, New
Jersey, where Mesaros, guitarist
Jim Babjak and drummer Dennis
Diken were elementary school
friends. Pat DiNizio, from nearby
Scotch Plains, New Jersey, met
the other three through a clas-
sified ad in a local music paper.

‘Dennis, Jim and I were more
like Kinks freaks,’’ said Mesaros.
“Pat was more like Black Sab-
bath. But we had a lot in com-
mon: the Who, Beatles, Buddy
Holly. The same roots, but with
branches going in different direc-
tions -- which makes for a strong
combination.”

The Smithereens were signed
to Enigma Records in October,
1985, one week after mailing. out
demo cassettes with only their
name and phone number included.
Their album, Especially for You,
made Billboard’s year-end Top
100 list and yielded several radio
favorites.

With their timeless, efferves-
cent pop and radio-friend sound
of six strings crunching, The
Smithereens offer a delightful
recipe no true dedicated follower
of rock could possibly turn down.

Tickets for The Smithereens
concert will be on sale tomorrow
for $7, and $10 at the door.

“1990

Special weekend planned

 

By Melinda Conkling
and Pamela Kelley

 

In addition to the traditional
football game, Washington and
Lee University has scheduled a
variety of activities for Homecom-
ing weekend, including alumni
receptions, concerts, lectures, an
alumni career symposium, a panel
discussion on global economics,
and athletic contests.

According to Assistant Alumni
Relations Director Rob Mish the
university’s aim this year was to
provide Homecoming activities
that would appeal to both alumni
and students. Mish said he re-
gards Homecoming as a fall
W&L reunion for all alumni.

‘‘The things that make Wash-

ington and Lee special for those
who have been out 60 years are
very similar to the things that
make it special to those who have
been out only six years,’’ he said.

Two reunion groups will offi-
cially gather on campus _ this
weekend. The Five Star Generals,
alumni who graduated from W&L
50 or more years ago, will be
honored at a dinner in Evans
Dining Hall Friday evening.
About 65 Five-Star Generals are
expected to return.

Members of the four most
recently graduated classes will
gather for a Cluster Reunion, a
program that was initiated two
years ago to give the younger
alumni an opportunity to gather
on campus prior to their five-
year spring reunions.

Friday’s activities will begin at
12 noon with a memorial service
in Lee Chapel honoring the 120th
anniversary of General Lee’s
death. At 12:10 p.m. Thomas
Morgan Oppenheim, Law Profes-
sor at the George Washington
University, will deliver the an-
nual John Randolph Tucker Lec-
ture in the Moot Courtroom of
Lewis Hall. His topic will be ‘In
Defense of Legal Education.”’

A panel discussion will be
held in duPont Hall at 2 p.m. on
“The New Global Economies:
How will America Compete?.’’
Panel members include W&L
Politics Professor Craig Mc
Caughrin, Economics Professor
Bruce Herrick. who will comment
QO Please see HOMECOMING
page 6

Ceremony to honor Lee

 

By Pamela Kelley
Supplement Editor

 

A memorial service honoring
General Robert E. Lee will be
held at noon Friday, October 12
in Lee Chapel. The ceremony will
mark the death of Gen. Lee, who
served as president of, then,
Washington College from 1865 to
1870.

Beginning at 9:30 a.m., the
time of Lee’s death in 1870, the
bells in the Chapel will toll 19
times, the equivalent of a 19-gun
salute. At noon, the Liberty Hall
Volunteers, a group of W&L
students and employees interested
in Civil War re-enactment will
march from Washington Hall on
the W&L campus to Lee Chapel
for the memorial service.

The featured speaker at the
memorial service will be George
E. Goodwin °39, a 1948 Pulitzer
Prize winner and senior consultant
for Manning, Selvage, and Lee,
Inc.,of Atlanta. The topic of
Goodwin's speech will be ‘‘The
Legacies of Robert E. Lee.”’

Goodwin says rather than
focus on Lee’s death or life, he
plans to focus on the ideals and
traditions Lee instilled in the
Army of Northern Virginia, the
Confederate States of America,
and W&L.

Robert Peniston, director of

Lee Chapel and Joan Brooks,
vice-president of the Virginia
Chapter of the United Daughters
of the Confederacy, will also
speak

The service will also include
readings from The Blue and the
Gray and Douglas Southall
Freem:an’s RE. Lee and will
conclude with Gen. Lee’s favorite
hymn ‘‘How Firm a Foundation’’
and ‘‘Shenandoah’’ performed by
W&L singing groups JubiLee and
Soutii:rn Comfort.

W&L Assistant Director of
Alumni Relations Rob Mish said
the university hopes the service
will add impetus to the
Homecoming weekend for return-
ing alumni. Mish said this year’s
memorial service is doubly special
because it marks the first time the
anniversary of Lee’s death and
Homecoming weckend have coin-

 

George E. Goodwin, ’39

Alumni House file photo.
cided.

The service is sponsored by
the Liberty Hall Volunteers and
the W&L Alumni Association and
is open to the public.

 

What’s

 

PFOT, SAHUAQION, cicccscesce
Homecoming Traditions....3
Five-star Generals............3
Homecoming Game.......... 7

Inside

 

 
2

The Ring-tum Phi Homecoming Supplement, October 11, 1990

~~

 

Shillington to miss Homecoming

 

By Alisann McGloin
Staff Reporter

 

This Saturday a 27 year-old
homecoming tradition will be put
on hold awaiting the recovery of
chemistry professor Keith Shil-
lington.

Shillington who has _ been
crowning the homecoming queens
since the events inception, will be
unable to participate in this Satur-
day’s events. Shillington suffered
from a stroke last January and
has been at home recovering since
the start of this school-year.

“EVoTyoné 18 sorry
(Shillington) won’t be able to be
with us," assistant director of
Alumni Relations, Rob Mish, said.
Mish emphasized though that they
were not in fact looking for a
replacement for Shillington but
mercly a substitute until he is
able to return.

Shillington, who said a few
weeks ago that he just wanted to
be well to partake in homecoming
activities was very emotional on
the subject of this year’s events.
He said that he was very sorry he
would not be able to partake us
usual this year.

According to Mish, this year’s
queen will be crowned by Tom
Hatcher, President of the Execu-
tive Committee of the student
body.

Mish said, "We have decided
to put it back into the hands of
the students. It seemed a very
logical way to follow it." And
Hatcher has agreed to take the
place of Shillington, at least for
this year.

Not only has Shillington been

Friday, October 12

1] a.m. - 5 p.m.

 

 

Prof. Shillington
first announces...

crowning homecoming queens
since before most W&L students
were born, but he can also make
the legitimate claim to be the first
ever to assume the role. When
asked about his role in the ac-
tivities last year, Shillington said,
"As far as I know, I started at the
beginning. When they started
having a homecoming queen, they

asked me that year to crown her."

Since Shillington was the first
professor to crown the queen, he
did not have any guidelines or
traditions to follow. He was
forced. to literally invent the uni-
que halftime event.Shillington felt
that it was his acting abilities that
made him the man for the part.

"One of the reasons why I
was asked [to create the event]
was because I was in the theatre.
I had played Malvolio in ’Twelfth
Night," Shillington said.

And what did Shillington
create? Shillington set the stage
for his famous (or infamous)
homecoming kiss which accom-
panies the crowning of the queen.

Stacy Patmore, the 1988-89
homecoming queen, with regard
to her reaction to the Shillington
kiss said, "I was a little nervous
about it, but the kiss wasn’t that
bad."

Last year Shillington, himself,
said on the subject of the
homecoming kiss, that "what I do
the kids adore." He added
modestly, students also “adore
coca-cola." Yet the traditional
kiss always seems to bring the
biggest roar from the stands.

One could always tell by the

" crowd’s reaction that Shillington

had arrived. He is recognizable
by the golf cart by which he
zooms onto Wilson field and the
unusual tie that he will without
fail be sporting. Shillington
explained the ties last year as as
simply part of the “clown role” he
said he played in the homecoming
tradition.

When asked about the changes
in homecoming traditions over the
years, Shillington agreed that

7:30 p.m.

Five-Star Generals’ Reunion Banquet, Evans Dining Hall.

9 p.m.

homecoming is another facet of
our campus that has maintained
its timelessness.

Of course there have been a
few changes in the traditional
homecoming ceremonies with the
Washington & Lee women who
now also compete for the crown.
Shillingotn was present at the
historic occasion when Catherine
Christian was the first Washington
& Lee student crowned queen.
Another addition to the traditional
homecoming representatives came
last year when Washington &
Lee’s three sororities nominated
their own representatives for the
competition.

Last year Professor Shillington,
who is scheduled to retire at hte
end of this academic year, spoke
wistfully of a future beyond
retirement. He did not know
what his role in future homecom-

 

..and then kisses
the Homecoming Queen

ings would be. According to the
Alumni Relations office, his spot
is still open, ready for his return
regardless of his retirement status.

Committee set
to name Queen

 

From staff reports

 

The woman who is crowned
Homecoming Queen will first
have to survive the interview
process, which will be held Fri-
day.

The panel which chooses the
Queen, made up this year of
Chairman Scott Dittman, Yvonne
Atkins, Prof. Phillip Cline and
Claire Sanders, will ask each of
the 23 candidates questions that
they themselves choose, according
to the Alumni Office.

W&L 1990 Homecoming Schedule

The questions typically involve
subjects such as each candidate’s
major, interests, and school and
community service activities, said
the Alumni Office. However, each
year the committee is free to ask
whatever question it feels are
necessary.

Last year’s chairman, Prof.
Clark Mollenhoff, said the com-
mittee does not have bias towards
representatives from W&L.

“We're open to any young
lady who impresses us,’’ he said.
‘All we do is pick the best from
what we have to work with.’’

 

 

Five-Star Generals and Homecoming registration, Alumni House.

12 noon

Memorial Service for General Robert E. Lee in Lee Chapel. Key Speaker:
George E. Goodwin, Washington and Lee Class of 1939. Posting of the colors
by the Liberty Hall Volunteers.

12:10 p.m.

The John Randolph Tucker Lecture. Thomas D. Morgan Oppenheim, Law
Professor, George Washington University, ‘‘In Defense of Legal Education,”’
Lewis Hall.

12:30 p.m.

Luncheon for Five-Star Generals, Alumni Board of Directors, ACAP Panel
participants and their spouses, Lewis Hall.

2 p.m.

Homecoming panel discussion, ‘‘The New Global Economies: How will
America Compete?’’, Panel members: Bruce Herricks, Prof. of Economics,
Craig McCaughrin, Prof. of Politics, Richard Stuart, °37, retired foreign
service officer; Moderator: Mimi Elrod, Assistant Director of Special
Programs; duPont Hall.

Followed by reception, painting and calligraphy of I-Hsiung Ju, Prof. of Art,
Emeriivs, duPont Gallery.

3:30 p.m.

Alumni Career Assistance Program panel discussion, ‘‘Transition into the
World of Work,’’ conversation between recent graduates and current students,
Moderator: N. Rick Heatley, Director of Career Services, Lee Capel.

6:30 p.m.

rst 9 for all alumni honoring the Five-Star Generals an«t the 1990
Homecoming queen court, Alumni House.

. ‘

Student Activities Board Concert featuring The Smithereens, Student Activities
Pavillion.

Saturday, October 13

9:30 a.m.

Coffee, front of Lee Chapel, Five-star Generals and other alumni.

10:30 a.m.

Concert, W&L Choral Ensembles, JubiLee, Southem Comfort, Gordon Spice,
Director, Lee Chapel.

11 a.m.

Cluster Reunion Program, tours, Fraternity Renaissance Program, Lenfest
Center for the Performing Arts, meet at Lee Chapel.

11:30 a.m.

W&L Women’s Soccer vs. Randolph-Macon Woman's College, athletic fields.
Noon-2 p.m.

Alumni Luncheon, Oktoberfest, entertainment by Jim Caldwell Band, athletic
fields.

1 p.m.

W&L Women’s Tennis vs. Swathmore, tennis courts.

1:30 p.m.

W&L Men’s Soccer vs. Virginia Wesleyan, athletic fields.

2 p.m.

W&L Football vs. Hampden-Sydney, halftime crowning of Homecoming
queen, Wilson Field.

4:30 p.m.

Alumni reception, Alumni House.

 

ee ee ee ee ee ee

 

 

 
a

-

" The Ring-tum Phi Homecoming Supplement, October 11, 1990

 

Traditions of W&L Homecomings

 

By R.J.Thomas
W&L Class of 90

1925. The first Homecoming.
On Saturday, November 7th,
1925, thousands of people filled
Wilson Field, bleachers erected on
both sides and both ends of the
field, and all standing space to
watch the Generals under a steady
drizzling rain beat UVa 12-0.
Although the Homecoming crowd
no longer fills the stands and
traditions changed, W&L still
holds the spirit of that first
homecoming.

The Alumni Magazine for
October 1925 announced the
‘First Official Annual Homecom-
ing Day.’’ Tickets were $2 and
the seats were reserved. Alumni
were invited to attend a meeting
of the Alumni Association, Inc.
where they would be addressed
by GH. Denny, a former W&L
president who had gone on to
become president of the Univer-
sity of Alabama (which was
sharply criticized elsewhere in the
same issue of the magazine for
stealing the W&L Swing and
calling it the Alabama Swing).
Alumni were also invited to
attend classes that morning. ‘‘That
morning’? was Saturday. Things
have changed.

Accommodations were made
for 10,000 people. Fraternity
house managers’ names were
listed in the Alumni Magazine so
alumni could contact them if they
wanted to stay in their fraternity

   

iz
j

Students participating in
1960 Homecoming pep rally.
Calyx photo.

houses. The railroads offered spe-
cial rates from all over the state
to Lexington. Game tickets were
on sale in Roanoke, Lynchburg
and Staunton.

The night before the game a
pep rally was held and a thousand
people attended. There were
cheers, speeches and a bonfire.

Local merchants were asked to
keep their stores closed during the
afternoon so that everyone in
town could attend the game. It
must have seemed like everyone
in the state was there to watch
the General beat UVa. A dance
was held on Saturday night. The
First Official Annual Homecoming
Day was such a success that they
decided to keep doing it.

Many of the traditions which
grew up over the years are now
gone: fraternity decorations, fresh-
man parades, the 13 Club, pep
rallies, the ‘‘Opening Dance.”’

For years at Homecoming the
Alumni Association would award
a prize to the fraternity with the
best decorations. Fraternities
would decorate their front lawns-
-those that had front lawns-- cther
would cece ate their houses. They

would make banners and floats to
carry and ride during the Fresh-
man Torchlight Parade.

On Friday night, the night
before the big game, the fresh-
men, wearing pajamas, and other
students would gather in the gym
for a pep rally. W&L’s cheer-
leaders would lead the students in
cheers and speeches would be
given by the coaches and players.
In 1955, RJ. Reynolds Tobacco
Company gave 1,000 megaphones
to the students for the pep rally.

The freshmen would then,
pajama clad, carry torches through
town. The most frequent path was
down Washington Street, left on
Jefferson, right through Red

Square, and then up Main Street
to Nelson. The students would
then take a right on Nelson and
break in to the State Theater for

 

W&L had male cheerleaders
back in ‘60. Calyx photo.

a free movie.

The parade must have been a
sight. At a time when the world
was not so serious, when stu-
dents weren’t spending their col-
lege careers building resumes. In
1955 the Phi ran a picture of the
parade. In the picture was group
of students wearing pajamas, one

 

of them bearing a placard reading,
“‘Shove It Up a Turkey--Gobble,
Gobble.”’

13 days before Homecoming,
the 13 Club would begin its in-
itiation period for 13 new pledges
from 13 different fraternities who
each had paid an initiation fee of
$13.13. At some point during
these 13 days the statue of Cyrus
McCormick, the one standing
guard on front campus, the one
most visitors think is Lee, was
tarred and feathered, and the base
covered with number 13s.

What a fine time it must have
been.

Saturday of Homecoming
would usually begin with a foot-
ball game, just as it does now,
but without the liquid pleasure
some of recent years. In the 1955
Homecoming issue of the Phi the
EC stated that its policy against
drinking in public would be strict-
ly enforced at that year’s game.

On Saturday night a dance,
called ‘‘Openings’’ would be held
in a lavishly decorated Doremus
Gymnasium. At the dance, the
Homecoming queen would be
crowned. The queen. We still
have that, and until last year, Dr.
Shillington still kissed them. How
long has he been doing that? It
seems as if it started back in the
early 60s, but he’s not sure and
no one else is cither.

But for all those rich tradi-
tions only two remain, the game
and the queen. Where did it all

QO Please see TRADITIONS
page 6

 

 

Draw your own conclusions
on this early '80s Homecom-
ing nominee. Publications
photo.

Five-Star Generals reflect on Lee’s college

 

By Kim Boots
Staff Reporter

 

Sixty-five Five-Star Generals
will return to Lexington this
weekend to visit the place where
they spent their college years
more than half a century ago.

Five-Star Generals are
Washington and Lee alumni who
graduated 50 or more years ago,
who may reunite each year during
Homecoming weekend. Each year
these special alumni are honored
through several activities, includ-
ing a banquet and recognition
during half-time of the Homecom-
ing football game.

According to Assistant Alumni
Relations Director Rob Mish,
there are about 1600 living Five-
Star Generals or alumni who
graduated from W&L 50 years or
more ago. Mish says Five-Star
Generals offer unique viewpoints
on university life and concems
because they have dealt with
social and political issues which
are radically different from those
W&L students face today.
However many vestiges of the
university, as it existed in the first
quarter of this century, like the
Honor Code and the Collonade,
have endured.

Dr. Craig Houston: Patterson,

 

Craig Patterson
.in his 1919
Calyx photo

who lives in Harrisonburg, Vir-
ginia, graduated in 1919, before
WA&L even had Homecoming, and
is one of the oldest returning
alumni. The university awarded
with an honorary Doctorate of
Divinity degree in 1936.

Like so many students who
have multiple familial ties to the
university, Patterson is a third-
generation W&L man and his
son, Robert G. Patterson,
graduated from Washington and

T4eé in 1950 Pattercan has

attended many W&L_ reunions
since he was graduated, including
some that were not his own, like
the 50-year reunion of the first
class to graduate under Robert E.
Lee’s Presidency in 1916.

While Patterson was a W&L
student between 1915 and 1919,
Washington and Lee students
faced the grim prospect of being
drafted for an overseas war. He
recalled some of the college’s
extracurricular activities.

After World War 1 began,
‘‘Washington and Lee students
decided to learn something about
drilling and shooting’’ he said, so
students organized three
companies and VMI officers came
over for two or three sessions a
weck to instruct them in march-
ing, drilling and saluting.

‘‘We had the draft, and most
of us didn’t have any good ex-
cuse and I realized that my num-
ber was coming up and so I
volunteered and joined the Marine
Corps,’’ said Patterson. In the
spring of 1918, while a junior, he
left for China where he flew B-
wing fighters in World War I.
Patterson returned six months
later and graduated from
Washington and Lee on schedule
in the spring of 1919. The

().Please see ALUMNI page & j. .

 

WE&L Swing

Come cheer for Washington and Lee,

We’re going to win another victory;

The White and Blue we will ever wave in triumph,
For the University. RAH! RAH! RAH!

Fight to the finish we are with you,

Break thru the line on every play;

Rush the ball on down the field and we will win
this game today.

When Washington and Lee’s men fall in line,
We’re going to win again anther time;

For W&L I yell, yell, yell

And for the University; I yell like hell

And we will fight! fight! fight! for every yard;
Circle the ends and hit that line right hard!
And we will roll those Wahoos on the sod!

Yes by God! RAH! RAH! RAH!

College Friendships

Our college friendships must sever and fade as
does the dying day.

Our closest bonds must all be broken as through
this world we wend our way.

But yet whatever be life’s fortune, though friends
be few..

We’ll love thee still,

 

 

 
4

- «

The Ring-tum Phi Homecoming Supplement, October 11, 1990

7 *. 2 + . . od + - .

~

.

 

Who
will be

Queen?!

Each of the 23 women nominated
for Washington and Lee’s 1990
Homecoming’ Court were asked to
respond to the following question:

Why do you think you
would be a good rep-
resentative of W&L as

its Homecoming Queen?

Answers compiled by Josh Manning

Kappa Alpha ‘heta
Morgan Warner, W&L 92
Escort: Robert Fuller
Comment: ‘‘As a student of Wash-
ington and Lee, I’d be a good Home
coming queen because I love the
school, and I’d be more than honored
to represent it in any way possible.”’

 

 

Pi Kappa Alpha
Mary Hampson, W&L ’91
Escort: Richard Perry
Comment: ‘‘I’m not convinced that I
would make a better Homecoming
queen than anyone else on the

court.”’

 

   

 

 

Alpha Phi Omega
Loretia Vandenberg, W&L 791
Escort: James Prather
Comment: ‘‘I think I represent a
stronger person. I have definite ideas
and goals concerning the way things
should be, and I am not willing to

compromise.”’

   

 

 

 

 

Kappa Kappa Gamma
Jean Streman, W&L ’91
Escort: Stephen White
Comment: ‘‘!’m just very excited
about Homecoming and hope that the
Generals win!’’

    

Ye
vi Kappa Phi
Amy Roberson, W&L ’93
Escort: J. Chris Kennedy
Comment: ‘‘I love Washington and
Lee, and I enjoy trying to be
involved with the school in as many
ways as I can. I would feel very
honored to be able to represent the

school.”’

   

 

 

 

Beta Theta Pi
Lisa McHenry, W&L 792
Escort: Robert Rambo
Comment: ‘‘I have a great deal of
respect for W&L, and I’m proud to

be a student here.

   

   

Chi Omega

Dale Wyatt, W&L 792
Escort: Brandon Canaday
Comment: ‘‘I am very involved on
campus and I would be honored to
represent Chi Omega as well as
Washington and Lee as our Home-

coming Queen.”’

 

 

Kappa Sigma
Jiffy Motley, Hollins ’93
Escort: Pait Skipper
Comment: ‘‘Although I do not go to
Washington and Lee, I feel that I
possess the qualities and traditions the
school exemplifies. I would be proud
to represent W&L as a candidate for
Homecoming queen.”’

ve
Reese Magenge

Sigma Aipha Epsilon
Merrill Watson, W&L ’91
Escort: Thompson Lykes

Comment: ‘‘I have great admiration
for two principles associated with
W&L: honesty and the Honor Code,
I strive to incorporate these into ev-
eryday life - whether academic or
personal.”’

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lambda Chi Alpha
Amy Aussiker, W&L 791
Escort: Shannon Smith
Comment: ‘‘I feel I would be a good
representative because I’m actively in-
volved in many campus organizations.
I feel I’m respected by both students
and the faculty and have been able to
maintain a respectable GPA.”’

   

Sigma Chi
Anne Ridenhour, Hollins °93
Escort: Beau Fowler
Comment: ‘‘Although I don’t attend
W&L, I feel a loyalty towards the
school, It represents much more than
just a great social opportunity. My
experiences at W&L will always be a

fond memory,’’
Chi Psi

Cecily Tynan, W&L ’91

Escort: Mark Lotruglio
Comment: ‘‘In the four years that
I’ve attended W&L, I’ve been very
active in various aspects of campus
life. I’m honored and flattered that
‘hi Psi chose me to represent them.”’

Delta Gamma
Mignon Crockard, W&L ’91
Escort: Walter Jones
Mignon did not wish to comment
upon her nomination.

 

 

 

 

}

 

Phi Delta Theta
Lee Phillips, Hollins ’93
Escort: Thomas Otis
Comment: ‘‘Girl’s schools have tradi-
tionally been an integral part of
W&L’s social life. I’m glad to see
the W&L girls have become widely
accepted and appreciated, but I would
like to see this tradition continue.’’

 

Sigma Nu
Tricia Pheil, Sweet Briar *92

(on exchange at W&L)

Escort: Chris Leipiiert
Comment: ‘‘As an exchange student
from Sweet Briar, I would be hon-
ored to represent the ongoing tradi-
tional ties between our two scho-
ols.’’

 

 

 

vin. a

 

Phi Gamma Delta
Simone Schonenberger, W&L ’91
Escort: Rick Hughs
Comment: ‘‘Studying a year abroad
in Germany has allowed me to appre-
ciate the unique opportunities that
W&L offers.”

 

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Claire deVignier, Randolph-Macon’92

Escort: Pete Castiglione
Comment: ‘‘I firmly believe in an
academically demanding Liberal Arts
education. I would be honored to
represent W&L because I think W&L
represents just that.”’

 

Delta Tau Delta
J. Christine Will, W&L ’94
Escort: John Neslage
Comment: ‘‘I think that any W&L
candidate would be a good choice for
Homecoming queen.”’

 

Phi Kappa Psi
Camelct Lindauer, Sweet Briar ’93
Escort: John Neumann
Comment: ‘‘W&L has been an im-
portant part of iny life since I came
to Sweet Briar. I’ve really enjoyed
the time j’ve spent here, and I feel a
special attachment to this school.’’

 

International Club

Oksana Kozhina, Moscow State U.

(on exchange at W&L)

Escort: Gregory Ward
Comment: ‘‘I think that I’d be a
good Homecoming queen for W&L
because my selection would represent
the new era of understanding between
the US and the Soviet Union.’’

 

 

Kappa Alpha
Patty Doran, Sweet Briar ’93
Escort: Ryland Scott
Comment: ‘‘Representing W&L and
KA fraternity is a great honor be-
cause I value their traditions. I hope
to represent them well.’’

 

 

 

Phi Kappa Sigma

Kimberly Kinnard, Randolph-Macon ’93

Escort: Andy Guida

Commeni: ‘‘I’d be honored to

represent W&L and Randolph-Macon
and the traditional relationship bet-
ween our schools.”’

 

Minority Students Association
Alisha Johnson, W&L 793
Escort: Damon Sanders
Comment: ‘‘My endeavor to succeed
in my courses and my involvement in
religious activities, athletics, writing,
and personal hobbies/interests, allow
me to represent W&L on different
levels and from diverse perspectives.’’
ae
¢ . ‘i 4 *

~ "The Ring-tum Phi Homecoming Supplement, October 11, 1990

Cluster Reunion
unites classes

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

 

In addition to the Five-Star
Generals’ Reunion, which has
been the focus of the Alumni
Office during previous Homecom-
ing weekends, the Cluster
Reunion Program for graduates
from the past four years will also
be emphasized this year, accord-
ing to W&L Alumni Staff As-
sociate Joel Smith.

The Cluster Reunion Program
has been incorporated in hopes of
building a strong alumni network
for recent graduates. Before the
Cluster Reunion Program was
established the first formal
reunion for graduates was five
years after Commencement, al-
though the Five-Star Generals’
Reunion has honored alumni who
graduated fifty years previously or
more.

Nancy Hickam, a 1990
graduate, said the Cluster program
is a great idea that provides in-
centive to recent graduates who
already wish to visit the campus.
‘Homecoming is an occasion
when many younger grads would
like to come back to W&L.
They are more apt to visit than
are the older alumni who visit

during Alumni Weekend
May,”’ said Hickam.

The Alumni Office relied on
graduates who had been members
of Kathekon, a W&L  student-
alumni relations organization, in
preparing this year’s cluster
reunion. ‘‘The members of
Kathekon who we contacted were
extremcly valuable in helping us
put together the cluster reunion.
In fact, the tour of the fraternities
we are offering this year grew out
of a graduate’s suggestion,’’ said
Smith.

The Alumni Office hopes that
the work put into the cluster
reunion program will help bridge
the gap between older and
younger alumni. ‘‘I think the
Cluster Reunion will work well,”’
commented 1990 graduate Wesley
Goings. ‘‘People are going to
come if they possibly can.’’

Smith, who graduated from
WA&L last year, says ties with his
classmates have become more
important to him as he has gotten
older and he hopes recent
graduates will recognize the in-
creasing importance of class unity
and attend the Cluster Reunions.‘

Although reunions are tradi-
tionally held in the spring, Smith
said ‘‘this is a big time for the
alumni.”’

in

‘

.

+ oe

a

HOMECOMING

from page 1

 

on the basic economies of various
countries. Richard K. Stuart, a
1937 W&L graduate who spent
time as a foreign service member
in the Pacific, will also speak.

The Alumni Career Assistance
Program has coordinated a panel
discussion on ‘‘The Transition
into the World of Work,’’ a con-
versation between recent graduates
and current students.

At 6:30 p.m. Friday a recep-
tion for all alumni, honoring the

‘1990 W&L Homecoming court,

will be held at the W&L Alumni
House, followed by a dinner

_ honoring the Five Star Generals.

At 9 p.m. Friday night The
Smithereens, a New Jersey pro-
gressive rock band, will perform
the annual Homecoming concert,
sponsored by the Student Activi-
ties Board, at the Student Activi-
ties Pavilion.

Saturday morning’s schedule
includes a coffee break at 9:30
a.m. at Lee Chapel for all alumni.
The first concert of the year by
the university choral ensembles,
including the all-female JubiLee
and all-male Southern Comfort, is
scheduled to follow at 10:30 a.m.
in Lee Chapel.

At 11 am. alumni will meet
in front of Lee Chapel for tours
of the Fraternity Renaissance
Program and the Lenfest Center
for the Performing Arts as part of

 

ALUMNI

from page 3

 

university granted him three credit
hours for service. Among others,
Winson Barker of Wise, Virginia
and Dr. Winter Royston of Lexi-
ngton will be present. Barker,
who was graduated from W&L in
1927, retired from teaching in
1968. Royston, who was gradu-
ated in 1928, is a W&L Professor
Emiritus of Mathematics.

The three alumni consider the
admission of women into W&L in

1984 as one of the most monu- .

mental changes in its traditions
since their graduation. However
they seemed to agree that co-
education has been a success at
W&L “I think it’s a grand
thing,’’ said Barker.

Patierson pointed out an ad-
vantage to the presence of women
on campus: ‘‘At two o’clock on
Friday afternoon when the dismis-
sal bell rang for classes, practical-
ly a third of the student body
would take off to Hollins and the
other girls’ schools. Just think
how much gas it’s saved having
the women there.’ However,
unlike today, not many students
had cars in 1919.

W&L has also undergone
physical changes. In the 1920's,
students visited their deans and
the W&L president in Newcomb
Hall, which houses classrooms
today. The area which is now
home to the Law School used to
be ‘‘just an abandoned gully,’’
according to Patterson. Barker

’

 

 

'
}
2

The Collonnade in 1922, identical to 1990.

does not oppose the newer, more
modern buildings such as the
library, which may seem a con-
trast to the predominantly neo-
classic architecture of most of the
campus. He says the school has
‘been improving with the new
buildings and the new studies’’
and is still ‘‘improving and is one
of the finest schools in the

country.”’

All three alumni, who also
returned to W&L last year for
Homecoming, think certain aspects
of the school have remained solid
through the years, such as the
Speaking Tradition or the Honor
System, the presence and legacy
of former W&L President General
Robert E, Lee, and Lee Chapel.

the Cluster Reunion Program.

A 12. noon Oktoberfest
luncheon is scheduled for stu-
dents, faculty and alumni on the
upper athletic field, where the Jim
Caldwell Band will provide jazz,
swing, Dixieland, and old-time
tunes.

The band is comprised of
about 20 members from Lynch-
burg to Roanoke to Lexington and
has been playing at area functions
for over 20 years. According to
band leader Jim Caldwell, ‘‘we
don’t fool with that rock-and-roll
stuff.”’

2 p.m. is kick-off time for the
Homecoming game, in which the
Generals will take on long-time
rival, the Hampden-Sydney Tigers,
on Wilson Field. The 1990 Wash-
ington and Lee Homecoming
Queen will be announced during

“Ye wilt

/Ye'dare not Seek unwe)]
i Yetan nop dd, te deedh
' Those heroes of: the Faal

\ half-time. ;

A post-game alumni reception

will be held at the Alumni House
at 4:30.

There will be two other al-
home athletic events on Saturday.
The women’s tennis team will
compete against Swarthmore at 1
p.m. on the Varsity Courts and
the men’s soccer team will op-
pose Virginia Wesleyan at 1:30
p.m. at Liberty Hall Field.

Mish said, although all ac-
tivities are significant, there are a
few that shouldn’t be missed, like
the Lee Memorial Service, the
Oktoberfest Luncheon, the ACAP
lecture, which all are planned for
students and alumni. ‘‘The best
events tend to be the ones that

involve W&L students, past and
present, that combination is al-

ways a winner,’ he saic.

 
  
 
       

‘

\

 

 

TRADITION

from page 3

 

go? Did they just quit? Was some
ban placed on 13s or pajamas?
No. Perhaps they were killed by
a war. They mostly died out in
the late 60s, when thoughts of
Vietnam were running through the
heads of every young man.

The last mention in the Phi of
a house winning a decorations
award was Lambda Chi in 1969,
and a writer in that same issue
wrote, ‘‘It seems that for the most
part, an alumnus returning to
campus is a lonely experience.”’

By 1970, the only mention
made in the Phi of Homecoming
was that it existed and there
would be a concert Friday night
and the game Saturday followed
by a grain party in Red Square.
One of the classes listed for a
reunion in 1970 was the Class of
1925. In 1971 Homecoming was
nothing but a small picture in the
Phi after the fact, in the lower
left hand corner of the front page,
of Shillington kissing the Queen.

But W&L was never a big
school. The teeming thousands
that once filled Wilson Field are
back to a scale more in line with
a small college at the base of the
Blue Ridge. Mountains. But. there

are some things here that will
never change.

On that first Homecoming
Day, back in 1925, former W&L
President G.H.Denny _ praised
W&L with words that still hold
true. ‘‘Take away from many a
college its endowment and what
is left?’’ asked Denny, ‘‘But strip
the Washington and Lee Campus
of every building and every dol-
lar, and there are left some things
more precious than silver and
gold.’’ That hasn’t changed.

The following poem from the
1925 alumni magazine, the first
annual year of Homecoming, is as
effective now as it was more than
half a century ago:

By the banks of old North
River, winding lazy round the hill,

To the Dear old college cam-
pus, my thoughts are turning still,

For the college bells are call-
ing, and I know they say to me,

Come you back, you old
alumnus, back to Washington and
Lee.

EDITOR’S NOTE: This article
was reprinted from the 1989

Ring-tum Phi Homecoming sup-
plement.

 
 

~ > - ¢ é& = « +

=

“The Ring-tum Phi Homecoming Supplement, October 11, 1990

*e
« #94 +
“evs

 

Generals hope for Homecoming win over Tigers

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

It’s that Homecoming time of
year again, and everyone is mak-
ing plans, trying to arrange the
weekend to incorporate the most
sun into a three-day time span.

The Student Activities Board
has already planned your Friday
for you. The Smithereens will
kick off the weekend Friday night
in the Pavilion.

But what are you doing after
the concert? M:ght I suggest a
relaxing afternon courtesy of the
Washington and Lee Athletic De-
p«rtment?

While you are recovering from
Friday night’s festivities, why not
spend a day in the sun (knock on
wood) enjoying W&L athletics?

Start by visiting Liberty Hall
Field to take a look at last year’s
and this year’s best in Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference soc-
cer. The women’s soccer team
kicks off action at 11:30 am.
with a conference game against
Randolph-Macon Woman's Col-
lege. The Generals are off to one
of their best starts ever and will
look to continue to roll against R
-MWC.

The team is led by a pair of
freshman. Karen Stutzmann leads
the team in scoring with seven
goals on the season, including the
school’s first ever three-goal per-
formance. She got her hat trick in
a 3-2 win over Wheeling last
week.

Kate Stimeling has been stingy
in goal all season for the Gener-
als. She allows just 1.11 goals per
contest and has 62 saves on the
season.

At 1:30 p.m., also on Liberty
Hall Field, the defending ODAC
Champion men’s soccer team
plays host to Virginia Wesleyan
in a game that has conference
title ramifications riding in the
balance. The game is sure to be
tight. Last year, the Generals beat
VWC 1-0 on Liberty Hall Field
to capture the ODAC Tournament
when Patrick Brown assisted Scott
Levitt late in the second half.

The Generals struggled to start
1990 but are still unbeaten in
conference play and have not lost
in 10 games at home, going 9-0-
1. Sophomore Reid Murphy lead
the team with six goals. Freshman
Dan Rhodes has four goals and
sophomore Mike Mitchem has
two goals and four assists.

After you’ve had your fill of
soccer, head over to Wilson Field
for the gridiron tilt between the
Generals and arch-rival Hampden-
Sydney at 2 p.m. The Generals
have struggled offensively but
boast one of the top defenses in
the ODAC.

W&L is 18-15-2 in Homecom-
ing games since 1955 and 6-6
under head coach Gary Fallon.
But Homecoming against H-SC
has been a different story. The
Generals and Tigers have met six
times on Homecoming, and the
best the Generals have managed

is a tie. The last W&L win over
H-SC on Wilson Field came in
1980, 17-13.

In 1988, W&L almost pulled
of an upset on Homecoming
against the Tigers. W&L led 7-0
on a Mason Pope four-yard touch-
down run and led 10-3 in the
second half. But the Tigers tied
the game at 10-10 on the last
play of the half on a hail mary
pass from Dan Laramore to Ste-
ven Waskey, covering 51 yards
on the last play of the half.

In the second half, the teams
traded field goals before H-SC
took control. Punter Tom Skeen
was sacked in the end zone for a
safety when the snap went over
his head. H-SC extended the lead
to 22-13 on a Chris Underwood
18-yard touchdown run.

But the Generals didn’t quit.
Tony Onorato brought the crowd
to its feet and the Generals back
in the game. He intercepted a
fumble and rambled 82 yards for
a touchdown to make the score
22-20, but the onside kick attempt
failed and the Tigers ran out the
clock for the win.

Last season, the Generals
made a Homecoming crowd hap-
py with a 26-10 win over Mary-
ville. Brad Miller broke open a
13-3 game with a 42-yard inter-
ception retum for a touchdown,
and Phillip Sampson broke the
school-record for career touch-
down passes when he connected
with Craig Irons for a 28-yard
score. Earlier in the game, Samp-

Greeks plan for Homecoming ’90

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s Greek
organizations have planned a vari-
ety of events around Saturday’s
Homecoming football game.

Below is a list of fraternity
and sorority activities for before
and after the game.

Beta Theta Pi & Phi Delta
Theta: Band party featuring Other
People at Poplar Hill.

Chi Omega: Tailgate party.

Chi Psi: Cocktail party, and
later a formal dinner, followed by
a‘‘Casino Night’’ party.

Delta Gamma colony: Tail-
gate party.

Delta Tau Delta: Cocktail
party, and later a formal dinner,
as well as an evening party at
Rose Hill.

Kappa Alpha: Tailgate party
and afternoon band party with
Down, Boy, Down. Evening band
party with Timmy Kay in 3-D.

Kappa Alpha Theta: Tailgate
party.

Kappa Kappa Gamma: No
activities planned at press time.

Kappa Sigma: Tailgate party
and later an evening band party
with The Mighty Majors at Zoll-
man’s.

Lambda Chi Alpha: Tailgate
party and ‘a ‘coat-and-tie cocktail

party. Later, an evening band
party with Dunwoody Muthers.

Ii Gamma Delta: Pre-game
reception and later a cocktail par-
ty. Also, an evening band party
with The Grandeurs Band and
Show.

Phi Kappa Psi: Tailgate party
and cocktail party, with an even-
ing band party featuring Phase
later.

Phi Kappa Sigma & Sigma
Alpha Epsilon: Afternoon band
party featuring The Mighty Majors
at Munster. Evening band party
with The Megaphonics at
Schewel’s Warehouse.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Buffet ban-
quet in The Dell with Pi Kappa
Alpha’s from Hampden-Sydney.

Evening band party with The
Stegmonds in the Dell with Pi
Kappa Alpha’s from Hampden-
Sydney.

Pi Kappa Phi: Band party
with Channel One.

Sigma Chi: Cocktail party.
Evening band party with Club-
house Angels.

Sigma Nu: Cocktail party at
Down Under. Evening band party
with The Jolly Llamas at Down
Under.

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Pre-game
cocktail party, with a cook-out
later. Evening band party with
Tweed Sneakers.

Several Greek activities are for
members and their guests only.

 

A reminder...

Live Drive will be running a

 

 

sober shuttle service to the Pavil-
ion for the concert Friday night.
Vans will be running routes
which include fraternity houses,
the freshmen dorms, and Gaines
Hall. Vans will be in operation
from 10 p.m. - 2 a.m.. The Live
Drive phone number is 463-8947.
Have a safe and enjoyable Home-
coming Weekend, Don’t Drink
and Drive.

 

 

 

are on the Field.

A

 

Hopefully the Generals will beas
tough in tne Stands as they

    

 

 

 

This cartoon appeared in the Phi several years ago.

son and Irons had connected on
an 80-yard pass play.

This season, the Generals have
struggled, but they are looking to
start afresh with a win over
Hampden-Sydney. Said senior tri-

captain Irons, ‘‘We’re looking at

these last five games as a new

season. We’re looking to start

over with a big win in front of a

packed house on Homecoming.”’
Good luck Generals!

 

 

 

Men behind the scenes

Ever wonder who makes Homecoming happen? Above
are (left to right) Assistant Alumni Relations

Director Rob Mish, '76, Alumni Relations Director

Jim Farrar,’74, and Alumni Staff Associate Joel

Smith, 90. Together with the rest of the alumni

office staff, and other university and alumni
organizations these three ‘“‘men behind the scenes”
have coordinated this weekend's diverse Homecoming
activities. Photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 
Washington and Lee University
Student Activity Board
Presents

   

      

 

 

 

 

 

i.
iY
bee de tS
ae peice 1 i
pes

: dasa et as LAD + IER aan na oo ee ‘ ; : ae
a Nie ae RES: 3 : Poe Be
ae ee

HOMECOMING CONCERT

New Pavilion, 8:00 p.m. Friday, October 12, 1990
$7.00 advance - $10.00 at the door

 

 

 

  

     
»

'

é

‘

Controlled
‘drinking in
the GHQ

By Fraser Bowen
Staff Reporter

~

-

K554
v-GO
up. a

iv

\
Cr é

é t

NTE VA 244"
OCT 22 1990

I 4

' Generals dominate Sydney 21-7 --- see page 6.

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 9

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Eighteen Washington and Lee students
drank beer last night at a party with a band.
What’s so different about that? The answer
is that they were part of a controlled drink-
ing experiment last night in the Gencral

Headquarters restaurant.

Each participant was to drink beer and
have his blood alcohol content (B.A.C.)

measured after each one. They were to

15 minutes between each beer. Each partici-
pant was encouraged to stop drinking when

he thought he had had enough.

Roger Sullivan, who was in charge of
the experiment, said ‘‘we called fraternities
and sororities to get some names of pcople

to participate.”’

The participants were divided into three

groups to show the effects on each.

One group was not to eat dinner or

wait

snacks before the experiment, a second was

. to eat dinner and no snacks, and the third
and have

was to eat dinner beforehand
snacks during the evening.

All of the participants had a good time.
Some, like seniors Steve Erwin and Alan

Pierce, even had contests to determine

would be more sober at the end of the

evening.

‘They chose me for my expertise,’
Pierce, who was in the group that
dinner but no snacks. ‘‘I should have
in the snack group.”’

Both the participants and onlookers

entertained by ‘‘Lost in the Supermarkct.”’

The results of the experiment

generally as one might. expect. Most of

those who had food in their stomachs gener-

ally fared better than those who did not.
There were some minor problems, how-

ever.

EC discovers $16,000 surplus

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee last
night realized that last year’s surplus
of more than $16,000 has not been
allocated in the 1990-91 student orga-
nization budgets.

The EC voted final approval last
night for the allocation of $185,250
in student activities fees. That total,
however, does not include the 1989-
90 surplus, which totals with interest
$16,216, EC Vice President Raymond
Welder said.

Welder said a student body re-
serve of almost $30,000 in 1988-89
led him to believe it was customary

’

who

‘‘Everything’s fine. I have a little gas,
though,”’ said Erwin.

Sergeant A.M. Miller of the Lexington
Police Department was present to administer
the breathalyzer tests on the participants. He
said several of the tests may have been
more inaccurate than usual because of the
limitations of the ‘‘Alka-Senser’’ devices.

“The ideal way to conduct this experi-
ment would be to have each person have
their own alkalyzer,"’ Miller said. ‘‘That
way, when the person was drinking,’ the

said
had
been

were

were

 

Sergeant A.M. Miller of the Lexington Police Department measures
the blood alcohol content of W&L senior Stephanie McNulty during
last night’s Controlled Drinking Experiment, held in the General
Headquarters. McNulty was one of about 18 student volunteers
who paricipated in the experiment, which was sponsored by the
Health Education Committee. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

machine would be resting.”’

Miller said that when so many people
use the devices, they can become saturated
with alcohol and give inaccurate results.

The experiment, which lasted from 9:45

p.m. until about 12:30 a.m., which was
conducted as part of Alcohol Awareness
Week, was sponsored by the SAB, the
interfraternity Council, and the Health Edu-
cation Committee, which has planned each
of the events this week. ~

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

KA given
of probat

 

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

 

The Student Affairs Committee met Oct. 5
to determine the fate of W&L’s Kappa Alpha
chapter without one member of that chapter
being present.

SAC reviewed the case after it had passed
through the hands of both the KA Housing
Corporation and the Inter-Fraternity Council,
and decided to put the KA house on ‘‘critical
probation’’ for the remainder of the academic
year.

KA President Niko Lorenzatos said that he
was not pleased with the way SAC handled the
case, :

“TI think in cases where SAC reviews
incidents of this nature, the house accused
should be present,’’ Lorenzatos said. ‘‘That’s
ridiculous.”’

The house was punished for damage done
to ic on Tear Night, the night freshmen accept
their bids to join the fraternity. Associate Dean
of Students for Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’
Atkins said that it looked like they were
celebrating by punching holes, ‘‘lots of holes,”’
in the walls and ceiling of the fraternity house.

According to Dean of Students David
Howison, both the KA Housing Corporation and
the IFC took strong action. Howison said that
the Housing Corporation levied a series of fines
on the house, place them on an extended
conduct probation, and required them to get a
resident manager, or ‘‘house mother,’’ by
January, 1991.

IFC approved of the KA _ Housing
Corporation’s action, and added a six-week term
of social probation.

SAC then reviewed this case. Howison
said that KA’s presence at the meeting wasn’t
necessary because SAC was ‘‘dealing with facts
that had already been determined, meaning the
action taken “by ‘the Housing Corporation and

OCTOBER 18, 1990

year
on

Howison said SAC’s role was simply to
determine the fraternity’s status on campus.
He said that options included expulsion,
suspension, or critical probation. SAC unani-
mously voted to place KA on critical probation
for the rest of the academic year.

Howison explained that the terms of
probation are still to be worked out, but that it
essentially means that SAC will suspend
W&L’s KA chapter for a minimum of five
years if they commit another serious violation
of The Standards for Behavior for Fraternities.

In a letter to Lorenzatos, SAC explained
the consequences of the suspension.

‘If suspended, KA would vacate the
fraternity house and would not be permitted to
participate, directly or indirectly, in any aspect
of university life. Furthermore, the fraternity
would have no right to appeal for re-
colonization at W&L until the five-year period
of suspension had passed.’

Lorenzatos called the decision unfair. He
said that SAC was ‘‘acting in the best interest
of the fraternities as a whole. Things like this
incident should not be allowed to happen. It’s
just the way they came to this decision that is
flawed.”’

Howison said that if the fraterrnity violates
the terms of critical probation, there will be a
hearing where the KA chapter and Housing
Corporation will be allowed to present their
case to the SAC.

‘‘All of us on the committee want KA to
succeed. They have an extraordinary history
at W&L. We want to work together to be
successful,’ said Howison.

Lorenzatos said that he attempted to meet
with SAC last Friday to discuss the issue of
KA’s lack of representation in the decision-
making process, but not enough members came
to provide quarum. He is now in the midst of
composing a formal letter of complaint against
the decision. :

 

to hold over the previous year’s
surplus in reserve. This year’s EC
based its allocations on matriculation
figures without the surplus in mind.

EC President Tom Hatcher said
the EC would consider how to handle
the surplus at Monday’s meeting. He
re-emphasized, though, that all orga-
nizations are welcome to return to the
EC to request additional funding.

At Monday’s meeting, the EC
received a memo from Dean of Stu-
dents David L. Howison to the Wash-
ington and Lee community outlining
the make-up and procedures of the
Confidential Review Committee.

“‘One of my major goals when it
comes to the CRC is to increase the
awareness of the student body,”’

Howison said yesterday, explaining
the purpose of his memo.

‘‘There is a great deal of confu-
sion about the CRC,’’ Welder said
last night. ‘‘Many believe that its
matters could be handled by the’’
Student Conduct Committee ‘‘and the
American legal system.’’

Howison said the goal of the
CRC process would be ‘to have
complaints resolved at the first level
to the satisfaction of all involved.
Only if there cannot be resolution at
that level would the CRC act on the
case. |

Hatcher said he and Howison are
considering an open forum where
students can ask questions of CRC
members and discuss the issue.

Freshman EC Rep. Ashby Hack-
ney joined the EC Monday night to
make the first full 1990-91 EC meet-
ing. Hackney defeated challenger
Ames Hutton for the position, 138-
132. Freshmen elected Bill Chappell
and Blair Lee Hixson to the class
presidency and vice presidency, re-
spectively, in last Thursday’s run-offs.

The EC is currently accepting
letters of interest for students wishing
to serve on the Athletic, Faculty
Executive, Library Advisory and
Student Health committees, as well as
freshmen and law students wishing to
serve on the Cold Check Committee.
Interviews begin Monday at 5 p.m.
Students may sign up for times out-
side the EC office.

Hill to charge Greeks up to $400

 

By Pamela Kelly
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee will soon charge the
approximately 80 percent of its students who are
fraternity or sorority members a Greek Member

Fee of between $100 and $400 a year.

The fee stems from terms of the university's
Fraternity Renaissance Program, which calls for
about $11 million in renovations on the houses of

 

 

 

 

Dean David Howison

..SAC to change role

universily.

most of W&L’s 16 fraternities in exchange for the
ownership to the houses and Greek compliance
with new fraternity standards imposed by the

Fraternities moving into university-renovated
houses must pay a yearly, univeristy-imposed $400
a member, or $40 a month, based on a ten month
school year. Renovated fraternities will also pay an
annual lease fee and room rental fee, based on
university dormitory rates, to the univeristy.

All other Greeks, including the three established

sororities on campus, fraternities with houses in the
process of being renovated and fraternities not
seeking renovation, will be charged $100 a year

per member. This semester the fee will be $55 a

member.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Nu, Pi Kappa
Alpha, Beta Theta Pi and Phi Kappa Sigma are all
scheduled to move into the first set of university
renovated housed in January. They will be charged

_] Please see GREEK page 3

 

 

Queen me

Jean Stroman,
escorted by Stephen
White, surveys an
applauding crowd at
Wilson Field on
Saturday after
accepting the
honorary cup and
crown as 1990
Homecoming Queen.
She was the Kappa
Kappa Gamma
representative. Chi
Psi representative
Cecily Tynan was
named first runner-
up and Pi Kappa
Alpha representative
Mary Hampson was
named second
runner-up. Staff
photo by Amanda
Hughen.

 

 

 

 

SAC to drop role as appellate body

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

The Student Affairs Committee
will become more a_ policy-making
board and less an appellate body if
members and the faculty approve a
plan to change the SAC's responsi-
bilities.

Dean of Students David Howison
said SAC wants to concentrate on the
broader issues facing students rather
than spend its time ruling on appeals
from various judicial boards.

“It wants to get out of its schizo-
phrenic role of having to deal with
both appeals and policy-making,”’
Howison said.

SAC, made up of five students,
three faculty members and two ad
ministrators, has had the
overturn the rulings of various judi
cial boards on campus such as the
Interfraternity Council and the Stu
dent Conduct Committee

power lo

It has also made recommendations
on policy changes to the faculty, such
as a proposal two years ago to move
Fraternity Rush to winter term.

SAC has drawn up an outline that
redefines its powers and responsibili-
ties. After a series of student forums,
the committee will vote on the final
version of the proposed policy
changes, Howison said. If approved,
the plans will be presented to the
faculty for final approval, possibly as
early as November.

If the new rules go into effect,
each student regulating body would
make up their own appellate process,
which would most likely include
administration officials

Howison said, however, the ad
ministrators will not have the power
to overturn student board decisions. If
the administrators think the board has
made a wrong decision, they will
only be able to ask the board to re
its decision

‘If I disagree with an SCC rul

View

ing, I can recommend review. But if
they say they’re not going to change
their ruling, I have to live with that,”’
Howison said. ‘‘We want to give
more autonomy to the — student
groups.”’

According to IFC President Good-
loe Lewis, the IFC plans to have
Associate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins han-
dle its appeals.

Howison said appeals from the
Student Conduct Committee would
most likely come to him.

‘“*But,’’ Howison said, ‘‘these are
the sort of things that students should
decide for themselves. They can
regulate their own actions.’’

Howison said the SAC thought
there were too many rules and reg-
ulations being enforced by the boar-
ds.

He said each student judicial
group should simplify its regulations
and base its rules on greater trust in
the integrity of the students.

“‘T would encourage the councils
to simplify their rules and regula-
tions,’’ he said.

Howison said SAC has long been
considering such changes, but when
the committee had to spend its entire
first meeting of the year hearing
Rush violation appeals, they decided
to act.

According to the proposal, SAC
would have four functions under the
new rules.

The new SAC would enforce the
university's new Standards for Frater-
nities, review all Student Conduct
Committee recommendations for sus
pension or expulsion of a student,
serve as a university forum for dis-
cussion and debate of important stu
dent issues, and recommend non
curricular policy changes to the facul
ty.

The new Standards for Fraternities
regulate how fraternity members can
use their houses, They include reg
ulations on sanitary standards, lease

conditions and house employees.

Howison said if SAC found out
that a fraternity had broken the Stan-
dards, SAC would have only three
options under the new rules: expel
the chapter from campus, suspend it
for five years, or place it on ‘‘critical
probation’ for a year.

He explained that a chapter on
“critical probation’’ must follow the
Standards exactly or it will be sus-
pended from campus.

Under the proposed rules, SAC
would review but not overtum SCC
student suspensions or expulsions.

The other two functions of SAC
under the proposed changes, serving
as a student-issues forum and recom-
mending changes to the faculty, are
what the committee feels it is best
suited for, Howison said.

‘‘Frankly,’’ he said, ‘‘there are
just too many rules. We should have
fewer rules. We've got to get a sys-
tem that is based on honor and
trust

 
 

OPINION

Opportunism
at Dartmouth

Dartmouth College, or at least various members of that
school’s community, are waging what amounts to little more
than a smear campaign against The Dartmouth Review.

You have probably heard what has happened to the
Review, but here is the condensed version, just in case. In
an issue that appeared on Yom Kippur, one of the holiest
days in the Jewish faith, the Review somehow managed to
print a quote from Adolf Hitler, which maintained that the
extermination of the Jews is God’s own work. Ugly stuff,
that.

As a reasonable person might have imagined,
condemnations rained down on the Review from almost
every segment of society. The magazine’s editor and several
staffers resigned in the face of enormous pressure.

However, the strongest criticism has come from the
Dartmouth administration, led by university President James
Freedman, who spoke at this year’s Washington and Lee
senior convocation in September. Freedman, who has been
locked in a blood feud with the Review for years, has
evidently seen this as an opportunity to gain the upper hand
over the conservative magazine.

Review staffers have claimed that the quote is a work of
sabotage from an unknown person. However reluctant one
might be about this explanation, it is equally clear that the
Review deserves at least some of the benefit of the doubt.
Despite this, Freedman has seen fit to unleash a barrage
against the Review, without as much as speaking to any one
staff member, according to the Wall Street Journal.

Dartmouth’s attempts to muzzle the Review, as well as
many of its staff, are well-documented. Dartmouth’s seeming
unwillingness to get to the bottom of the matter sounds
disturbingly like the administration is making the most of
what it sees as a rare opportunity.

The Review, however, can hardly be called completely
innocent in this battle of wills. Even the Journal has seen
fit to refer to some of the Review’s work ‘‘sophomoric.”’

Regardless of the quality of some of its work, the Review
deserves a chance to find out exactly what happened.
Equally important is that we are given a chance to appraise
the Review by how it responds to these most trying times.

That is, if Dartmouth will allow that to happen.

Sports the way
they ought to be

About a hour north on Interstate 64 from here is the
Number 1 Football Team in America, the University of
Virginia Cavaliers.

Although the relative merits of this lofty ranking are none
of our concern, we wish to commend UVa’s success at the
difficult task of combining big-time athletics and big-time
academics. That’s something that cannot be said for many
of the schools currently pursuing UVa. It’s refreshing to
watch a football game on TV, where the players’ listed
majors are ‘‘Business Administration.’’ rather than
‘Recreation Management.’’ Where the athletes are more
concemed with passing their midterms than their next urine
test. Where the players are more concerned with being
academically capable rather than criminally culpable.

The challenge for UVa and schools like it is equally
difficult, however. For many, the temptation to continue
athletic superiority can lead to bending the rules in
admissions. We hope that UVa will not be so ruthless and
opportunistic.

We wish the Wahoos all the luck in the world for the
rest of the season, because we fear they’re going to need it.
Business majors are nice, but accounting won’t beat
Oklahoma or Miami, or whomever they should meet in a
New Year’s Day Bowl Game.

Besides, if they should win it all, there’s going to be one
impressive party in Charlottesville in January.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1990

 

pips ed

WE ia

my) ie
\ wo
ie

a7;
eM LH

wee

AA

 

A necessary measure:

Congress moves to strengthen FHA requirements

 

MY VIEW
By Chris Baradel

 

You may not have noticed it, with
all the controversy surrounding the
budget deficit, but Congress showed
an uncommon amount of political
will recently by proposing a measure
that could forestall the bankruptcy of
a major government agency.

Congressional committees crafted
a bill that should allow the troubled
Federal Housing Administration’s
mortgage insurance fund to remain
financially solvent. That's not so
unusual. What is praiseworthy about
their effort (which congressional
leaders say should result in definite
passage of the bill) is that they
withstood fierce pressure from
lobbying groups in order to do what
is best for an overwhelming majority
of Americans.

The legislature and
Department of Housing and Urban
Development had _ been trying
desperately to come up with an

the

agreement that would shore up the
FHA.

The problem was, a battle royal
sprung forth among HUD Secretary
Jack Kemp, Senate conferees and
House conferees, all of whom had

Congress showed an
uncommon amount
of political will
recently by
proposing a measure
that could forestall
the bankruptcy of a
major government
agency.

 

their own ideas about how to best
balance the needs of home buyers
with the responsibility of the
government to keep the FHA fund
solvent.

borrowers and adding an additional
premium on FHA loans. This, he felt,
was the only way to stem the recent
tide of defaults and guarantee the
solvency of the FHA home mortgage
insurance fund.

However, the mortgage industry
and consumer groups joined in a
highly unusual alliance to pressure
Congress to come up with an
alternate plan. The coalition’s rational
was that insufficient numbers of low-
and middle-income home buyers
would be able to get FHA loans
under the Kemp proposal.

Two congressmen, Bruce Vento
and Thomas Ridge, came up with a
much milder plan to help the FHA.
Their plan called for reducing up-
front. costs for borrowers, while
slightly increasing their monthly
premiums. Kemp flatly stated that
this plan would not do nearly enough
to save the FHA, which had lost $4.2
billion in 1988.

The compromise bill combines the
best parts of both plans. It assesses
borrowers a small annual premium,
but allows them to finance over half

of the up-front closing costs.
Basically, it means that FHA loan
recipients will pay about 25% more
up-front closing costs than they do
now.

These additional closing costs will
not prohibit a staggering number of
home-buyers from affording FHA
loans; what it will do is limit
recipients to. those who are serious
about trying to pay for a new house.
The new plan will increase the stake
people have in their FHA loans, and
as Kemp noted, people with a greater
stake in their investment are less
likely to default on their loans.

Large numbers of people
defaulting on their FHA !oans is the
biggest single reason why the fund is
threatened with insolvency. Although
consumer groups call the new bill a
‘*bitter pill to swallow,’’ we must
commend our legislators for standing
up to the consumer groups prejudiced °
rhetoric.

Any taxpayer could tell you that
footing the bill for a possible multi-
billion dollar FHA bailout would be
a much more noxious pill to swallow.

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

Cadaver signs
are nuisances

Attention editors,
ladies and gentlemen:
I am a janitor at W&L, not a custodian (a

custodian washes his/her hands after cleaning the .

commodes).

I would like to address the secret and secre-
tive Cadaver Society. Just how do you address a
secret society? I don’t know. It’s a secret. Never-
theless, perhaps this letter will have as much
dubious impact as your tacky signs.

At best, they are a minor hindrance — at
worst, campus litter.

The point is lost on us. You sneak around in
the wee hours to pul up signs that, in many
cases, only the janitors see. Boorishly clever,
boys.

For reasons that I’m sure only you can
fathom, I (like you) must remain —

Secretly anonymous.

Football coach
thanks fans

Athletic Supporters,

On behalf of the football team and coaching
staff I'd like to send out my greatest appreciation
to those members of the student body and faculty
who have chosen, for the first time in my five
years here, to stay at the football games through
their entirety. Your cheers and support have been
excellent,

Like you, we were unhappy with the results
of the first two home games. as you can see, we
did not get discouragea and thumped a pretty

 

LETTERS

good Hampden-Sydney team last week. Although
your support has been excellent, we ask that you
refrain from using profanity or throwing things at
out opponents, their fans or cheerleaders. The
best fans are those that cheer for their team, not
against their opponent.

Again, I thank you and encourage everyone to
attend the last three home games, as well as
attending all other W&L sports contests.

Generali Yours,
Coach Russell Crosby

P.S. — Thanks to FIJI and Phi Delta Theta for
their inventive and encouraging cheers.

Undergrads
already treat
law students

Mr. S.D. Buchanan wrote last week that the
undergraduates should treat the law students to
Fancy Dress because the law school is officially
on break. Perhaps Mr. Buchanan doesn’t realize
it, but the undergraduates already treat the law
students to a helluva lot more than the equivalent
of a $40 Fancy Dress ticket. This year the
Executive Committee has announced that it plans
to allot the Student Bar Association $35,000 of
the $36,575 that law students contributed to the
Student Activities Fund. That strikes me as
insane!

Each W&L student pays $95 a year in stu-
dent activities fees for the funding of campus-
wide services and organizations. The Student Bar
Association is receiving all but $1,575 that the
law students added to the fund; they are using
the allotment fore their own organizations and
programs which solely serve the law school.

ee

The undergraduates are fully financing the
Student Activities Board, Contact and the W&L
Publications Board among other entities of which
both campuses can take advantage. Meanwhile,
the law school is enjoying roughly a $20,000 a
year social budget. I’m sorry Mr. Buchanan, but
the undergraduates have already provided you
with the likeness of a $40 FD ticket, and more.

Sincerely,
Mike Skarda, ’91

Display lacks
taste and
effectiveness

To the directors of Alcohol Awareness Weck:

As a person who has lost a friend in an
alcohol-related accident, I find the repulsive
window display in the Co-op truly offensive. |
wholeheartedly agree with the principle behind
such alcohol awareness messages, but find this
one lacking not only in taste, but in effectiveness
as well. Surely there is a more appropriate way
to convey the seriousness of the consequences of
drunk driving than to centerpiece the flip phrase
‘Don't get smashed’’ with a bloodied, smashed
windshield.

I think the only response you could have
hoped to stimulate is an occasional ‘‘oh, gross’’
from a student who catches sight of it as he is
about to bite into a Chicken Filet.

I am convinced there is a way to get people’s
attention while dealing with the sensitivity of this
issue to provoke thought and positive response,
if this is a trial-and-error process, consider this to
have been your error. Please try harder next time,

Sincerely,
Courtney B. Hall, '92

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1990
aaa

 

Teacher/artists
give exhibition

“Drawing in Virginia: An _ Invitational
Exhibition by Artists Who Teach’’ will be shown
in Washington and Lee’s duPont gallery from
Oct.22 through Nov. 9.

Circulated by the Virginia Museum's
Traveling Exhibition and Media Services
department and organized by Second Street
Gallery in Charlottesville, the exhibit presents the
accomplishments of 15 artists who are teaches in
Virginia colleges and universities.

An opening reception and lecture will be held
Monday, Oct. 22, at 8 p.m. in duPont Hall. Jesse
Dominguez, assistant professor at Hampton
University, will present a lecture titles ‘‘Drawing
on Influences.’’ Using slides, he will give a
historical overview of the artists and their
influences. The reception and lecture will be
open to the public.

duPont Gallery hours are 9 am. to 5 p.m.
Monday through Friday. During Parent’s
Weekend, the gallery will be open from 9 a.m.
to 3 p.m. Admission is free.

Curator set to

BRIEFS

The title of her lecture is ‘‘The Coming of
Age of American Art: 1865-1900.’ Weinberg
will discuss the cosmopolitan subjects and
activities of the principal artists of that time;
John Singer Sargent, William Merritt Chase,
Thomas Elkins, Augustus saint-gaudens and Mary
Cassatt.

Weinberg’s visit is sponsored by the Phi Bet
Kappa Visiting Scholars Program. Under the
program, 13 scholars will visit about 100
institutions.

Warner
postpones
lecture

United States Senator John Warner (R-VA),
W&L °49, abruptly postponed his speech
originally scheduled for yesterday evening. He
said that he would be unable to leave
Washington.

According to Contact Committee Chairman
Charles Kranich, Warner telephoned Tuesday
evening to apologize. Due to the ongoing budget
negotiations on Capital Hill, the Senator felt that
it would be improper to leave the city, until an

 

 

 

until winter term. Warner is running for re-
election next month.

Although Contact has been co-sponsoring
Alcohol Awareness week, Wamer’s speech was
to be their first solo project of the year.
Upcoming speakers include noted literary humor-
ist Hunter S$. Thompson on Nov. 7 and
constitutional scholar M. E. Bradford on Nov. 13.

Latin/jazz
concert

The Rockbridge Cocert Theater Series will
open its season on Oct. 29, with a concert by
Tito Puente and his Latin Jazz All-Stars. The
concert will feature music which has been called
‘‘the marriage of Latin music and jazz."’

The concert will take place at VMI’s Jackson
Memorial Hall, beginning at 8 p.m.

Tickets for the event will be sold at the door.
For ticket information, call 464-4857.

Thursday,
Auditorium.

Nove 1, at 8 pan.

 

‘| deliver lecture

H. Barbara Weinberg, curator of American
paintings and sculpture at the Metropolitan
+ | Museum of Art, will deliver a lecture at W&L

out of here.’’

in duPont

agreement had been reached.
“‘The Senate has been in session day and
night,’’ Warner said. ‘‘I can’t wait to get the hell

According to Kranich, Contact will attempt to
reschedule Senator Warner’s speech for later this
year. Kranich said that due to the timing
involved, Warner will not be able to speak until

after the upcoming elections, and probably not

These briefs were compiled by Phi staff reporter
Joshua Manning and the W&L News Office.

 

 

 

, By Jennifer Gibson
Staff Reporter

’ If the only good thing you can re-
member about WREL’s programming
‘is the commercials, you may be
, pleasently surprised upon tuning in to
96.7 FM.
What was once home to ‘‘ele-
+ Vator music’’ has now turned to clas-
sic rock, according to Mitch Neu-
rock, a second year law student at
, Washington and Lee who has his
own show wecknights from 6-10 p.m.
Those who tune in Monday
. through Friday evenings, as well as
from 10 p.m.-5 a.m., when a pre-
‘ recorded program by Neurock is
, aired, are likely to hear tunes by Led
Zepplin, Fleetwood Mac, The Doors,
* Living Colour and INXS.
j “IT try to play more of the new
stuff,’’ said Neurock.
This especially holds true for
y: Thursday and Friday, when ‘‘people
are starting to cut loose,’’ he ex-
‘plained, ‘‘and you want the music to
. Teflect that.’’
Neurock’s program also features a
* request hour from 9-10 p.m. when he
, can be reached at 463-7773.
The limits on program selection
, are broad, according to WREL’s
youngest regular disc jockey. ‘‘Rap is
’

‘

‘

‘

Kirk Sohonage, ’91, The Isle of
Fiji — ‘‘Secing as how Dean
Atkins put the Fij on probation
just about every week, I don’t get
a chance to be too aware.’’

 

Law student
doubles as DJ

out, and there’s pretty much no coun-

”

This change in music selection

’ reflects the station’s movement to

attract more sponsors and lisieners,
according to Neurock.

“‘WREL is coming out of the
closet,’’ he joked. ‘‘It wants to be a
part of the community and acknow-
ledge student influence.’’

In addition, 96.7 FM is increas-
ing its power to 25 kilowatts, enabl-
ing it to reach other colleges in
Staunton and Waynesboro.

Attempts by the station to achieve
more visibilty have led to a col-
laboration with the local United Way
chapter in their annual fund raising
drive, according to Neurock.

The afternoon of "riday, Oct. 19,
marks the ascention of Neureck to
the roof of a Lexington building
(possibly El Cafe) in order to broad-
cast his show live. He will remain
there until the contribution goal is
met.

‘Realistically, I hope to be done
in under 24 hours,’’ he said.

He also hopes that the $177,000
goal will be subsidized to a large
extent by fraternities and sororities
matching each others donations.

But money isn’t the only contri-
bution Neurock is looking for. ‘‘Hot
coffee will be welcomed, also.’’

| Interviews and photos
by Chris Leiphart

' How aware are you of your own alcohol
| consumption and that of your friends?

 

Hunter Catlett, °91, Richmond,
VA — ‘I'm only aware of it
when I throw-up.”’

 

Greek

from page 1

 

a pro-rated $225 a member.

Members of the newly formed
Delta Gamma colony will not be
charged until it becomes a full-
fledged chapter. The sororities’
money will accumulate in a fund to
pay for sorority facilities at a later
lime,

According to W&L Treasurer
Lawrence Broomall, Jr. the Member
Fee is a non-negotiable attempt by
the university to recover some of the
costs of what he called system-wide
corrections from all greeks.

‘‘That has nothing to do with

whether they’re applying to the
university for financing of their
physical renovation. There is a

standard fee charged to all members
of Greek organizations as a greck
system wide fee and the university
will use the proceeds of that to help
with its costs for the physical
renovation.”

‘The Renaissance involves more
than the physical renovation of the
buildings. It involves compliance with
social, as well as physical fraternity
standards. The renovations are one
larger part of the program,’’ he said.

According to Broomall the
university considers all Greeks
Renaissance program participants
because all must conform to the new
university standards. He cited a
document labelled ‘‘Standards for

Fraternities’ in which the university
outlined conditions to be upheld by

all fraternities.

Conditions included interior and
extcrior physical standards, the hiring
of resident non-student managers, and
the utilization of the university billing
and collection program.

Broomall said fraternity compli-
ance with the guidelines is‘‘not a
matter of choice.’’ If the university
demands are not met by fraternities,
their charters could be revoked.

Mary Greeks have  expressei
concems over the impending fee.
Panhellenic President Nancy Mitchell
said there must have been a lack of
communication because she wasn’t
farailiar with the fee until three
wecks ago. Broomall said the concept
has been around almost two years,
but most Greeks probably found out
only recently.

Mitchell said she heard worries
that some Greeks can’t afford the fee,
or it may deter freshmen form rush-
ing. Broomall and Atkins think the
fees won’t have much impact on
individuals and some houses, like
those in the Renaissance program
who will no longer pay mortgages,
land rent, or property taxes, may end
up paying less than in previous years.

Other gripes included the lack of
sorority representation on the Student
Affairs Committee. Some Grecks also
think independents should be charged
because they attend many fraternity
functions.

 

TALKBACK

 

 

 

 

Stephanie McNulty, 91, Harrisonburg, VA and Stephanie Fitzgerald, 91,
Titusville, FL — ‘‘All too aware Thursday morming."’

 

IGENERAL NOTES

Lost and found

1. Mustard-colored designs found
in University Center.
2. Women’s fine wire tortise-
shell frame perscription glasses.
3. Set of keys which includes
Honda car key with black leather
triangular tag.

You may claim these in Room
104 of the University Center.
4. Wrist watch found in stadium
after Homecoming game, which
may be claimed in the Security
Office.

Winter sports

Anyone interested in playing
ice hockey for W&L please con-
tact Louis Kaye at 464-5477 as
soon as possible.

Get a job

Cruise Lines International
offers employment information
and job listings on over 30 cruise
ships. If interested, send name
and address to: Cruise Lines
International, P.O. Box 16416
Rocky River, Ohio, 44116

Go outside

The Outing Club will be
working to maintain House Moun-
tain trail on Saturday, Oct. 20.
The club will also be organizing
half-day hikes on the next two
weekends. For details, see the
Outing Club bulletin boards on
the Colonnade and at Baker 109.

Hear a speech

The Foreign Affairs Club will
hold a meeting Tuesday, Oct. 23,
at 7:30 p.m..in Newcomb Hall.
Prof. Cecil will speak about Ger-
man unification, and we will
discuss future club plans. New
members are welcome.

Write Playboy

Wrote some good fiction lately?
Enter Playboy’s 1991 College
Fiction Contest. You’ll be playing
in the big league, sharing the
magazine with Updike and Brad-
bury and you may even win a
few bucks along the way. Playboy
gave $3,000 to last year’s first
place student winner. Check Play-
boy’s October issue or the
W&L’s English Department for
more information.

Get another job

The Career Development and
Placement Office presents,
‘‘Career Opportunities in
Investment and Commercial
Banking,’’ by Valerie Pierson
(W&L 1989), Associate, J.P.
Morgan & Co., Inc. It will be
held Friday, Oct. 19, from 3-4
p-m.

Get money

W&L students who intend to
apply for financial assistance for
W&L-sponsored spring programs
abroad should notify the Financial
Aid Office as soon as possible.

Start writing

The Ariel is accepting student
submissions of stories, poems,
plays, paintings, drawings and
critical essays) DO NOT
PROCRASTINATE. Due date is
Nov. 9

Guest speaker

The History Department is
pleased that Prof. James Axtell of
the College of William and Mary
will be this year’s Society of
Cincinnati Guest Speaker. He will
speak in Northen Auditorium at 8
p.m. on Thurday, Oct. 25.

Pay respect

There will be a retirement
ceremony for Sergeant Major
Nelson L. Twyman on Nov. 23.
The ceremony will begin at 5

p.m. in the Military Science
building. For details, please
contact the Military Science

department at. 463-8480.

See a movie

The W&L Film Society will
present El amor brujo on both
Friday and Saturday nights at
8:05 p.m.

Get It Out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes! Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside the Ring-Tum
Phi office at room 208 in the
University Center.

 

Richard Feuring, ’91, Wantagh,
NY — ‘‘As aware as I'll ever
be.””

 
   

 

Barbara Jane League, ’93, Jack-
sonville, FL — ‘‘From driving
Live Drive I've learned that it can
make some people really rude."’

SPP ee lee ev« tts

 

 
 

 

NEWS

W&L foresees
housing change

 

By Gregory Patterson
Staff Reporter

In the midst of debate about
Washington and Lee students occupy-
ing too many residences in the low-
income areas of Lexington, college
officials say the number of students
living in the community may be
declining and are working to reduce
it even more.

Frank Parsons, university coor-
dinator of facility planning, says he
thinks the number of students living
in the Diamond Hill section of town
is decreasing.

‘‘Last year, there were several
student addresses that were clearly in
[that] area,’’ said Parsons, who is in
charge of keeping student address
records.

A June 17 New York Times article
concerning the housing situation in
Lexington quoted the number of
students living in the low-income area
as 137. The article estimated the total
number of residents in the necigh-
borhood to be about 500.

Parsons said there were at least
five on the list of student addresses
last year ‘‘clearly’’ in the low-
income neighborhood that ‘‘did not
turn up this year.’’

Parsons said that while there may
be a few undiscovered new students
in that area, he believes there are less
students in the neighborhood than last
year.

Dean of Students David Howison
agreed with Parsons. He said the
student housing situation in the city
should improve in the next few years
for a number of reasons.

One of Howison’s priorities is to
increase the level of occupancy in
university's upperclass housing facil-
ities, Gaines Hall and Woods Creek
Apartments. He said he would like to
see them at 95 percent capacity and
is working on how to achieve that
goal.

Howison also said that two other
factors should help to decrease the
number of students housed in the
community. First, Fraternity Renais-
sance is increasing the number of
people able to live in fraternity
houses. Howison said it is the univer-
sity’s ‘‘expectation that houses will
be filled to capacity.”’

In addition, Howison said the
university’s decision to limit the size
of each academic class to just under
400 will reduce the total number of
students at W&L, significantly reduc-
ing the need for student housing in
the community.

JMU station applies
for antenna in Lex

 

By Tracey Thornblade
Staff Reporter

WMRA-FM in Harrisonburg has
filed an application with the Federal
Communication Commission to install
an antenna in Lexington.

Brenda Hanke of WMRA-FM said
if the appplication is approved, the
public radio station could begin
broadcast in Lexington within two
years.

The antenna, to be placed on top
of Nichols Engineering Building at

_ Virginia Military Institute, would cost
- $25,000. The station has already
» committed some money to the pro-
+ ject. The station will raise the balance
' through fundraising and loans.

The expansion operation began
last year after Hanke joined WMRA.
Hanke said she knew there were
listeners in Lexington. However, since
the city is located in a mountainous
area, reception is not clear. The new
antenna will allow all Lexington
residents and some Rockbridge Coun-
ty listeners to pick up a clearer sig-
nal.

WMRA is a _ professionally-run
station operated by James Madison
University. Its programming includes
syndicated news programs, classical
and bluegrass music and special pro-
gramming.

Robert deMaria, W&L journalism
professor, said that the new station
would not affect WLUR’s program-
ming.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1990

:

 

 

 

Homecoming win

Quarterback Fred Renneker and other members of the
Washington and Lee football team celebrate one of the many
high points in Saturday's 21-7 Homecoming victory over

 

 

Hampden-Sydney College. It was the Generals’ first victory | «
over Hampden-Sydney since 1980. For more details on the 4
game, please see page 6. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Lenfest completion

 

date moved again |

By Chris Bray
Staff Reporter

The Lenfest Center, Washington
and Lee’s new center for the per-
forming arts, is once again experienc-
ing delays, according to the univer-
sity’s Coordinator of Capital Planning
Frank Parsons.

Although the official opening date
has not changed, Parsous says Lenfest
will not be finished until December.

‘At a job conference held last
weck, the Bass Construction Com-
pany indicated work would continue
into December,”’ said Parsons. ‘‘The
goal of completion for Lenfest is now
Christmas break.’’

However, the building should be
ready for occupancy before December
and the target date for the Drama
Department taking over Lenfest re-
mains Nov. 1, said Parsons.

The major cause of delay in the
past was said to have been con-

struction of the gatchouse, but Par-
sons says work remains to be com-
pleted throughout the structure.

Parsons explained delays occurring
closer to completion are the most
difficult to overcome.

“In a major building project,
things will come up to effect the
schedule,’’ he said. ‘‘When problems
arise in the final stages of construc-
tion, there is little time to absorb
delays.”’

Although the $9.8 million dollar

project was originally scheduled to
open in April, 1990, Parsons feels the #
finished product will be worth the 4
wait.

“When Lenfest is finished it’s *
going to be magnificent,’’ said Par-
sons. “‘It’s first rate construction.
The Bass Company is doing an ex- ¢
cellent job.’’

The first production in Lenfest,
Skin of Our Teeth by Thornton Wil- *

der, is scheduled to open Jan. 18, y
1990,

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC. —

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

 

Beads ® Sequins * Pompons ® Bandannas ® T-Shirts ¢ Incense
Balloons ¢ Clay ¢ Flags © Games ® Rockets ® Paint *Models
Stamps ® Trains ¢ Feathers ¢ Stencils * Velcro *Clothespins
Eyes @ Ribbons ® Styrofoam ¢ Adhesives ¢ Glitter *Chenille

 

Monday - Saturday

31S. Main St., Lexington

10 a.m. - 5 p.m.

 

 

463-3355

FRESHMEN:

Use your coupons
before they expire -

October 31!

 

 

 

 

FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM ‘

Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization.

 

Plus a chance at $5000 more!

 

This program works!
No investment needed.

Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50 '

 

 

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

@)) 203 N. Main St.

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

Right >

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St. |
Lexington, Va. 24450

on

 

If you haven’t been to
ROCKBRIDGE MUSIC
lately, come in and see what’s new

NEW
Fender Guitars
Fender Amps
Gibson Guitars

Epiphone Guitars
Mandolins, Banjos
Zildjian Cymbals
Martin Guitars

We give lessons...We do repairs
LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
205 N. MAIN 463-5455
11-7 Fri.
Let us book a band for your next party

11-5 Mon.-Thur.

 

 

Also
Peavey P.A. Systems
Peavey Amps
Fiddles
Takamine
Ovatron
Strings, Books
Accessories

11-3 Sat.

| ( sEponcWo”
Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

<PPVPVLPV POL PVP APVAPVAPO PAPO PAP OPV LP AP APMP

     
    
     

 
     

Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

(703)463-5988

  
   

Rt. 5, Box 379 ©
Lexington, VA 24450

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE i ,

Lee Hi Truck Stop

Lee Hi Trucking

Lee Hi Truck Parts 4
Lee Hi Wrecker Service

Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3478

 

 

We Buy Used CDs

1-800-768-LEHI A

at Redken ® Paul Mitchel ¢ Sebasti, 2 » *
tN a ean. a ( (d) eg :
A  George’s” : °
Hairstylist : -o owe e
36 Varner Lane * € |

463-3975 . .

* e

* @

 

 

 

    
  
 
    
 

= comcnee - EO

WILLSON-

WALKER

HOUSE

|
Restaurant |

Reservations are recommended

30 .N. Main St., Lexington

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MOUNTAIN COPY-GRAPEICS |
RESUMES

FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE, WE NOW ACCEPT
VISA/MASTER CARD

NEW SATURDAY HOURS!

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA « ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

PHONE : 463 - 1712

9:00 AM TO NOON

FAX # : 463- 6918

 

 

463-3020

 

 

 

 

 

     
 

—

VAARRRUUEVUUUUUUVEAA
 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1990

 

 

 

 

Speaker warns against
dangers of alcoholism

 

By Nikki Magazine
Staff Reporter

Dr. Will Keim addressed members of the Wash-
ington and Lee community and officially began Na-
tional Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week on Monday
in Lee Chapel.

His speech, focusing on ‘‘The Development of
Character,’ covered topics of interest to the many stu-
dents, faculty and fraternity pledges present.

‘People should say what they mean, do what they
say and when they don’t, admit it,’’ pleaded Dr. Keim
in reference to the many problems alcohol causes and
the frequent self-denial among college students.

Because this is the first generation of college
students whose degrees will not guarantee jobs, Dr.
Keim maintains that there is no time in college life to
drink away weekends.

Stating statistics, such as two-thirds of sexually
abused women are raped by men they knew who were
under the influence of alcohol, 64 percent of homicides
and 41 percent of assaults are alcohol related and
alcohol is the number one killer of men and women
between the ages of 18 and 24, Keim emphasized that
much control is needed when dealing with the drug.

With five drinks or more at one time classified as

“binge drinking’’ by the Mayo Clinic, and with many
students at W&L drinking more than that in a typical
weekend night, people must learn to ‘‘drink respon-
sibly or abstain.”’

A Greek-affiliated man himself, Dr. Keim pointed
out that ‘‘people at parties and in classes are human
beings, not objects to be used.’ Excessive alcohol
often leads to unwanted or forced sex, which has
devastating consequences such as pregnancy or AIDS.

According to Dr. Keim, ‘‘Three ways to be
sexually responsible are to use a condom, use a
condom and use a condom, and if you are sober,
you’ll remember to put it on and make a responsible
decision.”’

Although movies and television seem to harmlessly
affiliate alcohol with basically everything from sports
to sex, Keim proclaimed that the stakes are too high to
abuse alcohol and sex in real life.

Students at W&L made a solemn pledge not to lie,
cheat or steal, and Dr. Keim applicd these vows by
asking students to not lie to themselves about what
they are doing, to not cheat themselves out of the best
years of their lives and to not steal opportunities from
themselves by excessively using alcohol.

Dr. Keim concluded his effective oratory by wish-
ing that every W&L student leave this campus with a
diploma and self-esteem.

 

 

  

 

 

aia oly

  

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 16 DIFFERENT MARKETS

 
   
 
    

 

More Than 73% Lea
_—

—

UNBELIEVABLY
LOW PRICES!

 

 

 

 

 
      

 

 

 

Volunteers build for poor

Habitat for Humanity helps Lexington needy

 

By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

 

If you have walked down Massie
Street recently, you have probably
seen a ‘‘Help Wanted’’ sign in front
of lot 306, the construction site for a
new house being constructed by the
Rockbridge Area Habitat for Hu-
manity Organization under board
president Jim Williams.

Habitat for Humanity is an inter-
national organization of volunteers
who devote their time and energy to
less fortunate people of their com-
munity by raising funds through
donations to purchase vacant lots and
build homes to be sold at affordable
prices to families of low income.

The Rockbridge chapter was or-
ganized in January of 1989, and local
architect Lee Merrill is responsible
for designing the home, the organiza-

tion’s first project in the Lexington
and Buena Vista area.

Dorothy Cecil, who works on the
Family Selection committee, says that
the families who apply for homes are
carefully screened through interviews
and investigations of financial back-
grounds. ‘‘They must be able to pay
twenty-five percent of their income,
but we also have a ceiling limit to
ensure that the house is going to
someone who really needs it,’’ Cecil
explained.

Some familiar W&L faces, both
professors and students, as well as
VMI cadets and Southern Seminary
students, are involved in both the
organization and manual labor of the
project.

Proffessor and Mrs. Westbrook
Barrett work on the Site and Selec-
tion Committee. Co-fotnders of an
earlier area project, the Rockbridge
Presbyterian Home for ‘children,

which is now the Seven Hills Bed
and Breakfast, they enjoy involvement
in community service.

‘Lexington is a highly committed
community,’ Mrs. Barrett com-
mented, ‘‘and we love student invol-
vement. We are grateful for all the
help they are willing to contribute.’’

Both Pi Kappa Alpha and Chi Psi
Fraternities have been involved on the
work site, as well as Warren Ham-
monds and the Baptist Student Union.

W&L students Andrew Tucker
and Ben Weinstein are trying to stir
interest to develop a collegiate chap-
ter. ‘‘Many colleges are already run-
ning their own chapters. I would love
to see Washington and Lee on that
list,’’ stated Tucker.

If anyone is interested in joining
such an organization or getting more
information, call Andrew Tucker at
464-5549 or Ben Weinstein at 464-
5586.

Spectator editor works
on national college paper

 

By Alisann McGloin
Staff Reporter

Editor-in-Chief of The Wash-
ington and Lee Spectator Paul La-
garde has been named to the staff of
a new national, conservative publica-
tion for college students.

While Lagarde was working last
summer for Policy Review Magazine,
a quarterly put out by the The Heri-
tage Foundation, a ‘‘think-tank’’ in
Washington, D.C., he was asked by
the student editor-in-chief of Cam-
pus: America’s Student Newspaper to
join the staff as a student editor.

According to the publishers, Ca-
mpus: America’s Student Newspaper
is the only national, student-edited,
student-written publication for college
students. It is published four times
during the academic year by the

Intercollegiate Studies Institute.

Each issue of Campus includes
articles on political and philosophical
issues, all written by academics,
professors and students. So far two
issues have been published.

The magazine features a problem
of particular urgency at America’s
colleges and universities. According
to the magazine’s publishers, ‘‘The
goal of Campus is to focus public
awareness on the denial of the right
of free speech to those who do not
follow the academic party line on
curriculum reform, classroom politici-
zation and declining educational stan-
dards.”’

Lagarde is responsible for writing,
editing and assigning articles. La-
garde said he will be contacted by
the editor-in-chief or the student
senior editors with a story ‘assign-
ment. He is then responsible for
either writing it himself or supervis-

ing the assignment and defining the
angle of the issue in which the mag-
azine is interested.

Largarde said he is expected to
‘‘assign it, direct the person, edit and
turn it in.”’

Lagarde has already written an
article on fraternities and how they
are being attacked on campuses a-
round the country.

Not only was the Lagarde recog-
nized by the Intercollegiate Studies
Institute, but the independent maga-
zine of which he is editor-in-chief,
The Washington and Lee Spectator,
was also nationally recognized.

According to the editors of Na-
tional Review Magazine, ‘‘Campus
conservative newspapers are bloom-
ing like tulips in Holland, the latest
being The Washington and Lee Spec-
tator, and, at Holy Cross, The Fen-
wick Review. Both are witty and
vigorous.”

 

 

 

 

Campbell’s
Tomato Soup

10.75
Oz.
Can

 

 

Drixoral

a

 

 

Tablets

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

2 Liter Bottle

Coca-Cola,
Sprite

89"

  

   

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, October 23, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective

We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold IT

1y. October 16, 1990 In Lexinaton Store Only
) Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 

    
SPORTS
Generals’ defense tames Tigers 21-7

 

By Jay Piotkin
Sport: Editor

 

Scr the Washington and Lee foot-
ball team, it’s funny how well the
wrong play works against Hampden-
Sydney.

In 1979, Steve Corbeille broke a
cardinal rule of W&L football by
fielding a punt inside his own 10-
yard line. Corbeille escaped near
death only by returning the punt 94
yards for a touchdown, and the Gen-
erals shut out H-SC 20-0.

Last Saturday, it was another
wrong play that gave the Generals the
go-ahead touchdown in the 21-7
Homecoming win over the Tigers,
W&L’s first-ever Homecoming win
over H-SC.

On the second play of the fourth
quarter, junior quarterback Fred Ren-
neker, making his first start at quar-
terback, came into the huddle and
called ‘‘slot right, boot right.’’ The
only problem was that the play
wasn’t in the play-book.

But the Generals ran the play to
perfection. Junior slot back Jeff Kreis
lined up on the right, ran a pattern
and then stopped to block. He held
his block for a second and then
floated into the end zone.

Renneker rolled right, as he had
called, and waited for Kreis to break.
When he did, Renneker lofted a
perfect pass over two defenders into

the waiting hands of Kreis for a 13-
yard touchdown. Senior Carter
Quayle’s extra point made it 14-7,
and the Generals were on their way
to an upset win.

‘There was a little bit of confu-
sion,’ said Renneker. ‘‘I didn’t really
understand what [head] Coach [Gary
Fallon] had called, so Jeff and I kind
of improvised. He knew what he
was supposed to do, and I knew the
right action, and the play just devel-
oped,”’

W&L came back from a 7-0
halftime deficit, and may have won
the game on the opening kickoff of
the second half, even though it didn’t
count. Kreis returned the kick 86
yards for a touchdown, but the Gen-
erals were called offside on the play,
nullifying the score.

“But we didn’t Ict that get us
down,”’ said Fallon. ‘‘It was a tre-
mendous play and one that gave us a
great deal of momentum. We kept ii
and used the play to our advantage.”’

The Generals iced the game after
the defense collected the fifth of its
six tumovers on the day. After a
WA&L punt, the Tigers took over on
their own 47-yard line. Quarterback
Dwayne Bowyer rolled right to pass,
but threw the ball right to senior
safety Brad Miller, who came down
with the ball on the W&L 34.

Miller’s interception came with
8:10 left in the game. W&L held the
ball for the next 7:01, running 16

The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1990

straight times, with the bulk of the |

running done by senior tailback Ma-
son Pope and sophomore fullback
Mark Goglia.

On the sixteenth play of the drive,
from the H-SC six-yard line, Fallon
varied from the usual, looking to use

‘Renneker’s athletic ability.

Out of the ‘‘power’’ set, three
tight ends and 6-6, 260 pound defen-
sive lineman Thomas May in the
backfield to block for Pope, Renneker
faked the handoff and walked into the
end zone around the left end for the
final score, his second of the day to
make the score 21-7.

Pope finished the day with 119
yards on 30 carries while Goglia
carried 12 times for 56 yards, both
career highs. Said Fallon, ‘‘In our
system, the fullback is more of a
glorified guard. But with the muddy
field, we thought we could get some
yardage with the fullback, and we
did.”’

The defense, led by senior free
safety Clark Wight, caused five turn-
overs in the second half, six on the
day, and forced Bowyer, the ODAC’s
leading passer coming into the game,
into five interceptions.

Said Fallon, ‘‘It was a case where
we got everyone playing well. The
offensive line was blocking. The
defense was getting the offense the
ball. The special teams played well.
This was as complete a win as we’ve
had in a while. The kids worked hard

W&L upsets Lynchburg 2-0

 

By MacGregor Tisdale
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team capped off a successful
week with their first ever win over
Lynchburg College Wednesday 2-0.

The Generals sailed through an
easy week as they outscored their two
opponents 9-0.

On Homecoming weekend, W&L
shut out Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College 7-0. The two wins moved
the Generals record to 9-3; 5-2 in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

Freshman midfielder Corinda
Hankins recorded W&L’s second hat
trick in three games scoring three of

Please recycle

this newspaper

 

the Generals seven goals on Saturday.
Hankins has five goals this season.

Freshman goalie Kate Stimeling
recorded her sixth and seventh shut-
outs respectively. Over a course of
12 games, she has only given up ten
goals.

Stimeling’s most recent shutout
came in dramatic fashion against
Lynchburg. With six minutes left in
the game, Stimeling stopped a shot
from point-blank range, pinning the
ball against the crossbar before flip-
ping it over the bar, out of harm’s
way.

W&L led 1-0 at the half on soph-
omore Susan Moseley’s third goal of
the season. The Generals then turned
to their scoring machine to ice the

game after Stimeling’s save.

Freshman Karen Stutzmann iced
the game with her ninth goal of the
season at the 89:07 mark, giving the
Generals their first ever win over the
Hornets. Stimeling finished wiih 13
saves.

‘‘Stimeling is a positive asset to
this team,’’ said head coach Janine
Hathom. ‘‘She credits the defense in
front of her for the attention she gets.
She is a tough young lady who is
unselfish, team oriented, and a leader.
Kate also plays battered most of the
time which is testimony for her posi-
tive team spirit.’

W&L clinched third place in the
ODAC and earned the right to host a
first-round ODAC tournament game.

“SHOE FRERS

SHOE FIXERS

EH

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

464-6666

RD) EE ES) A ED) EE EE) RD (>

 

 

FRESHMEN:

Remember to use
your goodie bag Coupons!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The intensity of a big win is still on head coach Gary Fallon’s face as he talks to the team after the

21-7 win over Hampden-Sydney. The win snapped a three game losing skid. W&L photo by W. Patrick
Hinely.

and they deserved it.’’

H-SC scored on its first possession
of the game on a Bowyer one-yard
sneak, but could muster nothing more

   

 

From W&L Sports Information

The

men’s and women’s cross country
teams tumed in a pair of consis-
tent performances, and the women
continued prove that they are in
the lead for the Old Dominion
Athietic Conference title.

The

the Virginia State Division II and

times.

 

On their second possession, the

on the afternoon despite penetrating Tigers reached the seven yard line
the W&L 20-yard line three other

before Bowyer was intercepted by
Q) Please see ROUT page 7

 

the top spot.

Washington and Lee

women finished third at

Ill Championships while the men

came in fourth. The women’s top
runner was Susie Wooton with a
time of 22:06. Charles Edwards
led the men with a time of 27:16.

“Not only are our top five
running well,’’ said women’s head

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

coach Jim Phemister, ‘‘but no one
runner has been able to dominate
Also, our 6-7-8
runners are able to fill in when
one of the first five is out.’’

‘*We went into this race with
little or no pressure, and we per-
formed well as a team,’’ said
men’s head coach John Tucker.
‘‘We are still pointing to making
up more ground as we move
toward ODACs.”’

The W&L Athletics Promotion
Committee announced its upcom-
ing events.

At Saturday’s football game a.m.
against Sewanee,
will again hold a halftime raffle

for prizes donated from the W&L
Bookstore, The University Store,
and Frank’s Pizza. There will also
be a six-on-six tug of war contest
with a $50 prize going to the
winners, There will also be a
raffle to give away more ice
cream courtesy of the W&L Food
Services.

At the cross country meet
against Hampden-Sydney and
Eastern Mennonite on Oct. 27, the
committee will be giving out free
donuts, cider and coffee to anyone
at the race. The race starts at 11

the committee

 

OSSSSSO3

 

ad

 

 

HERES WHY
THE SMART MONEY AT

 

 

 

The Office of Career Planning & Placement WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
‘The University of Vata a IS GOING WITH TIAA- CREF
era AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDED ON IT

growth through dividends. CREF’s
variable annuity offers opportunities
for growth through four different
investment accounts, each managed
with the long-term perspective essen-
tial to sound retirement planning:

 

 

 

 

FOR RENT
House in Country
463-5383

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SEVENTH ANNUAL
MINORITY CAREER DAY

on
Tuesday, Nov. 6, 1990
at the
OMNI HOTEL

 

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual
or student organization needed to
promote Spring Break trip. Earn
money, free trips and valuable
work experience. CALL NOW!
Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800-
327-6013.

ecause it does. Smart investors

know that your future depends on

how well your retirement system
performs. TIAA-CREF has been the
premier retirement system for people
in education and research for over 70

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

years. We have enabled over 200,000 The CREF Stock Account
in historic downtown Charlottesville, Virginia people like you to enjoy acomfortable — The CREF Money Market Account
You may register oe a — your College Place- retirement. And over 1,000,000 more The CREF Bond pom
ment or Career Development Office. are now planning for the future with Marke :
TIAA-CREF The CREF Social Choice Account
UNIVERSITY SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY, CALL 1800-842-2716
SPORTWEAR GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR TO FIND OUT MORE
ps JOIN THE EXCITEMENT! RETIREMENT SAVINGS, Our experienced retirement counselors

 

 

will be happy to answer your questions
and tell you more about retirement

AUDITION

 

Security—so the resources are there
when it is time to retire. Growth—so

FOR THE PREMIERE THEATRE PERFORMANCE you'll have enough income for the annuities from TIAA-CREF.
IN THE kind of retirement you want. And :
diversity—to help protect you against Experience. Performance. —
LENFEST CENTER market volatility and to let you benefit + Your future is protected by the largest

W&L Imprinted

private retirement system in the world.
Sportswear Plus:

al f investments.
a We have done so well, for so many, for

FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS

| THAT’S EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET so long, that we currently manage
“ WITH TIAA-CREF. some $85 billion in assets.
Oakley Sunglasses, THORNTON WILDER'S |
, ; TIAA offers you the safety of a
New E ‘ ne
ew - — Caps “THE SKIN OF OUR TEETH traditional annuity that guarantees
ana ay asa? your principal plus a specified rate of yr Bi
Come Check Out Our October a pm interest, and provides for additional = tate os in a
New Shipment Of Sweats Northen Auditorium - University Library r who shape it.

* The CREF Bond Market and Social Choice Accounts may not be available under all institutional retirement plans, but are

available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuity plans.
There are 20 parts ranging from leads to walk-ons.

Years from now you can say, "I was there at the start!"

 

For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call 1 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a
prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.

OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
15 W. WASHINGTON ST.
(next to Lloyds)
464-3000
We Invite Your
Custom Orders

 

 

 

 

 

Scripts may be checked out at the old Troubadour Box Offic
Corner of Henry & Main Streets

 

(Skin of Our Teeth will open January 18, 1991)

 

 

 

 

oe ~
SPORTS

Generals drop two by 2-1

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

For 105 minutes on Homecoming
- Saturday, the Washington and Lee
. defense contained the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference’s top offensive
threat.
: In the next minute, however, Mike
McFarland slipped free and his un-
. assisted goal gave the Virginia Wes]-
eyan men’s soccer team a 2-1 over-
* time victory at Liberty Hall Field.
The Generals had a 1-0 lead
" before the division-leading Blue Mar-
« lins (11-0-2) evened the score with
1:20 to play in regulation.
“It was a real let down to come
~ 80 close,’’ said head coach Rolf
Piranian.
r In their final regular-season
ODAC game, the Generals lost to
‘ Randolph-Macon, 2-1 in overtime, on
Tuesday.
Against Virginia Wesleyan, W&L
r Scored its goal with just under three
minutes remaining in the second half.
' Sophomore forward Reid Murphy
. crossed the ball from the right side to
the front of the goal where classmate
+ Mike Mitchem headed it into the net.
W&L’s slim lead lasted for only
‘90 seconds as a suddenly motivated
, Virginia Wesleyan team applied pres-

A

.

sure with ten men. Their offensive
surge resulted in two comer kicks,
the second of which Jon Haskins
headed past junior goaltender Lee
Corbin to knot the score at 1-1.

Before Saturday’s game, the of-
fensive abilities of McFarland, the
1989 ODAC Player-of-the-Year, had
produced 11 goals and four assists.
Yet, shadowed by freshman defender
Jud Allen and the Generals’ back-
field, McFarland never posed a ser-
ious threat in regulation, even though
he had six shots.

But with 14:43 gone in overtime,
McFarland separated himself from the
W&L defense and sent a shot from
the left side that nicked the inside of
the left post before entering the goal.

With the win, VWC clinched first
place in the ODAC’s regular-season
standings.

“We played an excellent game
against Virginia Wesleyan,’’ said
Piranian. ‘‘We showed we could play
with anyone.’’

On Tuesday at Liberty Hall Field,
Randolph-Macon (6-9-2, 4-2 in the
ODAC) broke an 18-year winless
streak against W&L.

A goal in the first 45 seconds and
another 15 minutes into the overtime
period put the Yellow Jackets in
second place in the ODAC.

At 44:14 of the first half, Ran-

Volleyball nipped

 

_ By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

‘ Washington and Lee women’s
, Volleyball team fell — kicking and
screaming — to Eastern Mennonite on

+ Monday evening in five games 14-
16, 15-9, 10-15, 15-10, 15-6.

: The Generals, who have never
won a game from Old Dominion
Athletic Conference rival EMC,

" hounded the regionally ranked team

» for five games before slipping away
to physical and mental exhaustion.

“‘We lost the fifth game because

» of the intensity of the match,’’ said
head coach Susan Dittman. ‘‘They

"had a deep bench. We were just

, worn out.’’

The Generals came out in the first

“ game and fell behind quickly 14-4,

, and looking ready to fold quickly

under the pressure of the Royals. But

behind twelve straight service points

 

by senior co-captain Lisa Jay, the
Generals steamrolled their way to a
16-14 win in game one.

Jay didn’t limit herself to serving,
though. She also handed out 46 as-
sists in the five games. Sophomore
Leslie Hess drove home Jay’s passes
with a .346 attack percentage. Junior
Mena McGowin recorded 20 kills and
29 digs while Junior Marci Brown
added 15 and 20 respectively.

W&L made a change in_ their
normal rotational pattern because of
something they saw in the films. The
film showed that EMC likes to dink
the ball over to throw off blockers.

After watching the film, the Gen-
erals changed from a rotational de-
fense to an elementary, middle-back
up, closing the holes that Eastern
Mennonite was used to hitting. The
Generals’ ability to adjust their game
plan to counter EMC’s showed matu-
rity and growing confidence according
to Dittman.

The Ring-tum Phi,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mike Mitchem
..cores lone goal against VWC

dolph-Macon forward Josh Davis
directed a shot past sophomore goal-
keeper Mike Steinbrook. With 29:29
left in the half, freshman forward
Dan Rhodes scored his fifth goal of
the season off an assist from Mitch-
em to even the score.

In overtime, the Yellow Jackets’
Joshua Savadore snuck past the Gen-
erals’ defense and scored the winning
goal on a shot into the center of the
net.

The Generals, now 5-6-2 (3-2-1 in
the ODAC), will play at Mary Wash-
ington on Saturday before hosting its
first-round game of the ODAC Tour-
nament on Tuesday.

by EMC

“This team is beginning to be-
come able to adjust,’’ said Dittman.
“We're able to pick on our oppo-
nent’s weak points.”’

After the victory in Game 1, the
Generals split two games with East-
ern Mennonite. Up 2-1, and leading
in the fourth, W&L coughed, sput-
tered, and died. But despite the
disappointing loss, Dittman was im-
pressed with the play of her team.

‘‘We’re an improving tcam,’’ said
Dittman. ‘‘To lose in five [games]
to Eastern Mennonite is a major
step.”’

Earlier in the week, W&L won a
tough five-game match from ODAC
rival Lynchburg, led by 20 kills from
McGowin. W&L rallied from 2-1
down to win 11-15, 15-1, 5-15, 15-
1, 155,

The Generals, 11-12 and 4-2 in
the ODAC, face conference leader.
Bridgewater and Christopher Newport
at home tonight. :

~

    

October 18, 1990

ROUT

from page 6

 

Wight in the end zone to halt the
drive.

On the third possession, H-SC
drove to the W&L 13 before stalling
and attempting a field goal. David
Brickhill’s kick never had a chance
as May blocked it and sophomore
linebacker Lyle Smith, making his
first start, fell on the ball.

In the second half, after :‘en-
neker’s scoring pass to Kreis, the
Tigers threatened to draw even, but
the heroics of Wight kept the Gener-
als out of danger. Bowyer hit Jay
Hicks with an out nattern, and as
Hicks streaked dowr the sideline,
Wight caught him from behind and
tripped him at the 10-yard line, sav-
ing a touchdown.

Two plays later, Wight stevped in
front of H-SC tight end John Jewell
and intercepted his second pass 1 ‘ue
day, at the five-yard line to end the
Tigers threat.

Wight said the interceptions were
the reward of hard work during the
week. ‘‘I looked at a lot of film
during the week with Coach [defen-
sive coordinator Chuck] O’Connell
and took more repetitions than usual
in practice. We saw some things on
film and I was able to apply them
during the game. It was just the
result of hard work.”’

After being on the field for over

 

*

 

Junior John McCallum closes in for the sack of H-SC quarterback
Dwayne Bowyer. McCallum and the defense forced six turnovers
on the day. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

20 minutes in the first half, the de-
fense clamped down and allowed the
Tigers only 20 second half plays
while the W&L offense was on the
field for over 22 minutes.

Lyle Smith led the team with 13
tackles. Junior Trey Cox made 12
tackles and recovered a fumble. May
registered 10 tackles, a blocked kick
and deflected a pass that was picked

off. Wight, the game’s defensive

MVP, made eight tackles, two of »

which saved touchdowns and had two
interceptions.

The Generals, 2-4, play host to
Sewanee Saturday at 1:30 p.m. on
Wilson Field. The Tigers are 4-2 and
sport a defense allows only 6.3 points
per game.

Polo falls twice in fourth quarter

 

By John Neumann
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team travelled to Providence,
R.I. last weekend and endured three
tough losses at the North Varsity
Invitational.

The Generals, 8-5 on the season,
opened up with national power Navy
and lost 16-5 before facing Iona in
their second match.

Said head coach Page Remillard,
‘We put together our first game of
four real good quarters.’’ But they
were not enough, as a shot at the end
of regulation hit the cross bar and
bounced away. The Gencrals could
not score in overtime and fell 11-10.

W&L squared off against Rich-
mond in their final game. Like their
previous mecting, the Generals suf-

 

 

Coelurosaurs

155-135 Million years ago

a

aa \aSaS=

The Macintosh Classic

With Apple's introduction of three new

Macintosh* computers, meeting the challenges of college

life just got a whole lot easier. Because now, everybody
can afford a Macintosh.

The

 

Macintosh Classic”
model, yet it comes with everything you need—including

 

is our most affordable

a hard disk drive. The RWAeMG@sNRe combines color

capabilities with affordability, And the

Macintosh si f§

 

perfect for students who need a computer with extra
power and expandability.

No matter which Macintosh you choose, you'll
have a computer that lightens your work load without

fered one dry spell against their arch-

fe Edit input Notebook Mi Groph Prefs

 

 

 

susie calcu ____ Glass Atom
@, 16-4) [sin(t) + 1} + Vos, 19(6.4) [~ sin(t) + 1)

| Examples

gel

The Macintosh LC

 

in [ Simpii
| @ upon Simplity transform

| pe

| {| =

| pe?
yy

0 -¥(1.0)-sy(0,0+8?Y

SUR Laplace Tre

   

4y|= 108)

giving you another tough subject to learn. Every Macintosh
computer is easy to set up and even easier to master, And
when you've learned one program, you're well on your
way to learning them all. That's because thousands of
available programs all work in the same, consistent manner.
You can even share information with someone who uses a
different type of computer—thanks to Apple's versatile
SuperDrive? which reads from and writes to Macintosh,
MS-DOS, O$/2, and Apple*II floppy disks.

See the new Macintosh computers for yourself,
and find out how surviving college just got a whole lot

easier,

1990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer

MS-DOS

8 a registered trademark of Mi " S a ra

ademarks of Apple Cc

ational Business Machines Corporation

   

rivals and the Spiders came away
with the victory.

Remillard said the Generals played
great defense the first two quarters
and after halftime came up with a
great third quarter. But the fourth
quarter was the pivotal quarter and
Richmond capitalized on the Gener-
al’s lapse and won 12-9.

Remillard said his team played
well throughout the tournament, but
just weren’t able to come away with
a win. Remillard stressed that the
team cannot be satisfied with playing
well and losing and must continue to
progress and improve and win those
games.

Sophomore Andrew Pearson filled
in for injured goalie P.J. Waicus, who
is lost for the year with an eye inju-
ry, and did so admirably. Said Rem-
illard, **We'couldn’t have asked for
any more from Andrew Pearson.”’
Sophomore Scott Strader and

      

    

     

senior co-captain Tomas Perez each
netted five goals on the weekend.
Junior Stu Towns also played well
coming off the bench.

Remillard said that for the Gener-
als to succeed, the bench needs to be
an important contributor. ‘‘If we
make it,’’ he said, ‘‘it will be the
bench that makes it for us.’’

This weekend, the Generals travel
to Hampden-Sydney for the Southern
Conference Tournament with several
implications pending the outcome.

The winner of the tournament will be ’

in the driver’s seat for the Easterns,
but making Easterns will be a tough
enough task for W&L.

Remillard sees the tournament as
a must-win event for W&L if the

team hopes to qualify for Easterns. °

W&L will face the likes of Rich-
mond, Dayton and Arkansas-Little
Rock. Eachwill posé a stern test for
WSL

   
   
   
      
   

Resources |

   

q h Oil
4 Natural Gas
X Coal
© Uranium
A Hydro-Hlectric ;

 

The Macintosh Ilsi

For further information visit
Tucker Hall Room 215A
and ask for Mac McCloud
or call 463-8844

4

eS The power to be your best”

mputer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark license

Y¢ereers ss

SC ee ey ae

o'«
LIF

The Ring-tum Phi, October 18, 1990

 

Lloyd’s fights gang image

Owner hopes to draw student crowd again

 

By Chris Swann
Staff Reporter

 

Lloyd’s of Lexington, a former
student hangout, has been empty of
W&L patrons this year. Lloyd’s
blames fraternity renaissance, but
some students say they are frightened
to go there because of local gangs.

The fast-food restaurant, located
one block away from campus on
Washington Street, traditionally drew
a large crowd of W&L students on
the weekends. "Going to Lloyd’s"
was often heard in years past at
fraternity parties after bands shut
down and kegs ran dry.

This fall, according to Lloyd’s,
fewer students go to eat or play
video games than in past years. Stu-
dents say they are afraid of being
harassed, or attacked by local delin-
quents.

We’re afraid to go to
Lloyd’s because of
the gangs.

-- Katy Bailey
and Karen Halsell

“We're atraid to go to Lloyd's
because of the gangs," W&L juniors
Katy Bailey and Karen Halsell said.

"Freshman year we used to go all
the time," Bailey said. "We went a
couple of times all last year. This
year we haven’t gone at all.”

Workers at Lloyd’s, however, say
that gangs should not be an issue.

"I don’t see that being a prob-
lem,” Robert Rorrer, a Lloyd’s em-
ployee, said. Rorrer, a Lexington
resident who worked for Lloyd's
from 1984-86 and has been working
there this year since August, was
surprised to hear that students were
scared to come to Lloyd's. He largely
blamed the loss of Red Square resi-
dents for the lack of student business.

Rorrer said he did not believe that
any local gangs existed anymore. He
referred specifically to L-Posse, a
group of locals that Lexington police
and students blame for most acts of
violence in the area.

"I was talking with one local

 

 

 

senior in high school," Rorrer said,
"and he was saying there’s no gang
around here anymore.”

Rorrer said L-Posse consisted of
a few local black teenagers with
flattop haircuts who wore LA Raiders
caps.

They’re just a bunch
of fourteen-year-olds.
What are they going
to do to you?

— Lloyd Smith

“They’re just a bunch of fourteen-
year-olds,” owner Lloyd Smith said.
“What are they gonna do to you?"

Officer G.B. Coleman of the
Lexington Police Department said that
L-Posse is not an organized gang. It
is small, Coleman said, and the really
bad ones are the four or five leaders.

Rorrer, who attended Washington
and Lee during the 1983-84 academic
year, acknowledged that there had
always been and always would be
friction between students and Lexing-
ton residents. A local black youth had
harassed a W&L student and his
Homecoming date this past Saturday,
Rorrer said, because the W&L stu-
dent had accidentally elbowed the
youth’s girlfriend.

Rorrer said the youth taunted the
student, then hit him. Rorrer called
the police, who drove by soon after,
and the youth left. The W&L student
stayed in his booth the whole time
and stayed afterwards to finish his
meal, Rorrer said.

When he wanted to leave with his
date, however, the youth and several
others were sitting across the street
from Lloyd's. Rorrer said Lloyd’s
again called the police, and later
Rorrer observed the student and his
date walking unmolested down Wash-
ington Street.

"If I see anything like trouble, I’m
going to call the cops immediately,"
Rorrer said.

Last year, two specific incidents
of violence involving students and
locals became stories frequently heard
on The Hill. Colin Fleming and Rob-
ert Josey, both sophomores, said they
were attacked inside of Lloyd’s by a

 

 

ca <

EON

 

FAST

 

Lge g

AST

Rene

black male in September of last year.

According to Josey, the man ac-
cused the two of hitting his girlfriend,
and began hitting them. Josey said he
and Fleming did not hit the man’s
girlfriend. The police were called, but
no arrests were made and no charges
were filed.

John R. “Rand” Holstead, brother
of W&L student Scott Holstead, class
of '92, and Richard B. "Bland" War-
ren, class of °90, said they were
attacked and beaten by Thomas M.
Sloan III, 18, of Lexington.

The incident occurred on Decem-
ber 2, 1989, outside of Lloyd’s. Ac-
cording to Officer Coleman, the re-
porting officer, the fight started after
Sloan threw a rolled-up magazine at
Holstead’s passing car. Holstead and
Warren stopped and got out of the
car, Coleman said, and the fight
Started.

Sloan was arrested that night for
assault and malicious wounding, on
Holstead, a felony, and assault and
battery on Warren, a misdemeanor.
Holstead was treated for cuts on his
lip and forehead at Stonewall Jackson
Hospital, according to a police report,
and then released.

Holstead, a native of Houston,
Texas, did not follow up on prosecu-
tion of Sloan because of the distance
between his home and Lexington, as
well as for the safety of his brother
Scott, Coleman and Scott Holstead
said.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard said he was disappointed to
hear of the failure to prosecute. The
only way to punish people who com-
mit such acts, he said, is to get those
people in court.

"If you can identify, prosecute,”
Beard said.

If | see anything like
trouble, I’m going to
call the cops immed-
jately.

— Robert Rorrer

Officer Coleman said that the
police could not act without the coop-
eration of the victims.

"The first guy may just get a
black eye, but the next time the next

The
Fast
Lane

 

 

 

guy might not get as lucky," he said.
"As long as they keep getting away
with it, they’ll keep doing it."

Carol Damewood, a junior dorm
counselor, said a group of freshmen
girls on her hall went to Lloyd's this
fall. Damewood said the girls told her
they felt very uncomfortable as a
group of black youths were loitering
outside the restaurant. Damewood did
not blame the restaurant, however.

"It’s not a reflection of the busi-
ness itself," Damewood said, referring
to the loitering youths.

Rorrer was indignant when he
heard of this story.

"That kind of stuff is gonna stop,"
he said. He said, when he can, he
tells loiterers outside the restaurant to
leave. A "No Loitering" sign has
been put up inside of Lloyd’s as
well.

Rorrer also said that he had heard
that only two workers had handled
the weekend shifts last spring. Two
workers can not operate the restaurant
and the crowds it used to serve.
Customers may have gone to other
fast-food restaurants for service.

Rorrer said that when he worked
in 1984-86, there were three-hour-
long periods on Friday and Saturday
nights when he couldn’t see the
booths across from the counter be-
cause of the crowds of student cus-
tomers. Two people could not handle
that kind of crowd, he said.

Lloyd’s has plenty of workers
now, he added, but no one to serve.
He admitted that the loss of Red
Square fraternities was a big blow to
business.

“We can’t last ‘til February,"
Lloyd Smith said, referring to the
projected date of fraternity renais-
sance completion.

When I was leaving Lloyd’s after
speaking with workers, a_ skinny
black youth who couldn’t have been
older than sixteen walked in and went
Straight to the gameroom. He wore
no cap, but had a flattop haircut. He
looked harmless and carried no ma-
chine guns or other weapons, as far
as I could tell. A local former em-
ployee of Lloyd’s, whom I'd talked
to.

"That’s one of the El Posse," he
said.

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19

Board of Trustees Meeting.

8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: E/ Amor Brujo (Spain, 1986), directed by
Carlos Saura. Classroom “A,” Lewis Hall.
9 p.m. ALCOHOL AWARENESS PROGRAM: "Sobriety

Experiment.” Battle of the Bands, All-Campus Party.
Student Activities Pavilion.
AWAY ATHLETICS: WOMEN'S SOCCER: UMBC. ‘

SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20

1 p.m. WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Davidson. Varsity Courts

1:30 p.m. FOOTBALL: Generals vs. University of the South. Witson |
Field.

8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: E/ Amor Brujo (Spain, 1986). Classroom ‘
"A," Lewis Hall.

AWAY ATHLETICS: WATER POLO: Southern

Conference Tournament; WOMEN'S SOCCER:
Messiah; MEN'S SOCCER: Mary Washington; CROSS
COUNTRY (M&W): Bridgewater, Emory & Henry.

MON T 22

Noon Freshman mid-term grades due.

5 p.m. LECTURE: "Conservation Consciousness in America,” |,
Roger DiSilvestro, National Audubon Society. Room
305, Parmly Hall. Refreshments at 4:30. Public invited.)

8 p.m. GALLERY RECEPTION/LECTURE: "Drawing on

Influences," Jesse Dominguez, Hampton University.
duPont Hall. Public invited. '
AWAY ATHLETICS: VOLLEYBALL: Mary Baldwin.

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 23 '

5 p.m. ARMY ROTC: Retirement Ceremony of SGM Nelson L.
Twyman, senior NCO, W&L ROTC Dept. Lee Chapel
Plaza. Public invited. (In case of rain, ceremony will be |,
held in Military Science Bldg.)

INFORMATION SESSION: Foreign Study and
Intercollegiate Exchange Programs, 1991. Room 114,
University Center. .

AWAY ATHLETICS: SOCCER (M&W): ODAC Tournament

7pm.

-

TWILIGHT RETREAT: "Addictions and Codependency,"
Rev. Greg Dodge. St. Patrick's Church. Dinner

4-8p.m.

provided. Public invited. '

4p.m.
Interviewing Workshop. Room 109, University
Center.

CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Preston W. Brown '91. Room
401, Howe Hall. Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402.
Public invited.

SOCIETY OF THE CINCINNATI LECTURE: "The
Columbian Mosaic in Colonial America," James L.
Axtell, William and Mary. Northen Auditorium, Univ
Library. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: VOLLEYBALL: Shenandoah
College, St. Mary's.

5 p.m.

8 p.m.

 

 

 

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant

130 S. Main St.

 

 

auciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

 

oe OF 6

Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
alin B&O OPTONICA
= = KEF Cwo
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
HERE’S WHAT’S NEW IN LEXINGTON KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
Wicker, Clothing : BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
Jewelry, Pottery, Lamps : INSTORE SERVICE CENTER

 

A: heat Place

 

+ WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

Rugs, Cookware

Candlesticks,
Antiques, Glassware,
Gifts Etc., Etc., Etc. —

6 E. Nelson Street

 

 

 

 

 

 

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: ‘

 

COLOR PIN CARNIVAL

Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money.
You do not need to b be a @ Feague bowler to bowl!

 

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

©Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2AM

US HWY - 11 North

 

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

SPEED READING COURSE
NOVEMBER 5-16, LEXINGTON

Would you like to improve your reading comprehen-
sion and speed? Dr. Verle McBride, a former Professor
of Education and now director of the ‘‘Panoramic
Reading Program’’ will be instructing a speed reading
workshop to improve comprehension and increase speed.

Each participant should expect to at least increase his
or her reading rate from 3 to 10 times, with as good or
better comprehension. Ages 9 through adult. Varying
abilities and disabilities, including dyslexia and attention
deficiency disorder are encouraged to attend. Classes
will be held November 5-16 for 10 evening sessions,
7:00-8:30 p.m. Class size is limited to 18, early enroll-
ment is advised. Please call 463-1095 (8:00 a.m.-8:00

p.m.) for further i .) for further information.

 

WANTED!

TWO
ADVENTUROUS
STUDENTS

TO EXPLORE

HONG KONG
Only English Required

The experience of a lifetime with a year’s
worth of W&L credits!
Join W&L’s exchange program with Chung Chi College of the
Chinese University of Hong Kong. A full program of courses in
English to fit any major. All credits the equivalent of W&L
credits. Begin in September, 1991, For details, see Professor Hill
(The Red House), or Professor Jeans (Newcomb Hall).

 

   

 
  

   
 
 
  

 

  
 

Sponsored by
The East Asian Studies Program

Applications must be submitted not later than Monday after

Parents’ Weekend.

 

 

 

 

 
  
    

  
 

 
 

 

Rolling Stone.
Premiere
National Review.
Town & Country.
Elle.
Connoiseur.
Architectural Digest.
Metropolitan Home.
Omni.
Discover.
Smithsonian.
The Atlantic
Lear's.
Glamour
Vogue.
Cosmopolitan
New York.
Gourmet.
Sports Illustrated

porting News

Spy

Books and magazines
from around the world

POSTMARKS
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 7 am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

 

-
AVC),

’ =o
Bm A
C nnd

R5:

4

~ Wi

 

,

\. 244450

“, Generals win again over Sewanee --- séé page 5

Che KRing-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 10

IFC still
debating
keg rule

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

 

 

Debate continues on the Inter-
fraternity Council’s proposal to ban
, Kegs from fraternity houses.

Two weeks ago, the Alumni Frat-
ermnity Council recommended that the
IFC make a no-keg rule part of its
constitutional by-laws.

IFC President Goodloe Lewis said
at Tuesday night’s meeting that, as it
stands now, every fraternity has either
a national or a house corporation
policy that does not allow kegs or
other communal sources of alcohol in
the house. However, he said that the
existing no-keg rules are not getting
proper enforcement by the IFC.

According to Lewis, if the rule is
passed, a fraternity caught with a keg
in its house is likely to receive social
probation, a fine, or both.

Lewis said that fraternities can
conceivably have kegs now through
means like ‘‘pooling’’ money from
each member to collectively buy a
keg.

“I’m trying to get kegs out of
fraternity houses no matter how they
were bought,’’ Lewis said, ‘‘and
trying to keep kegs out of fraternity-
sponsored events.’’

Sigma Chi President Charles Ed-
wards said that he felt adopting a no-
keg rule would make little real dif-
ference, except that having kegs
would now be an IFC violation in
addition to other penalties already
enforced by house corporations.

Lewis said that the new rule
would not stop ‘‘a few guys from
buying a keg and inviting a few
friends over,’’ but said that if a party
is announced at a chapter meeting, it
would then be considered a chapter
function and would violate the rule.

Discussion of the no-keg policy
was again tabled, and voting will
begin next week.

“This rule is long overdue by the
IFC,’’ Lewis said. ‘‘It should have
been done two years ago. We can’t
keep putting it off.”’

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

at attention.

 

Congratulations, sir

 

 

 

Lt. Col. Joel Snow congratulates Sgt. Major Nelson L. Twyman (left) at his retirement
ceremony Tuesday. Twyman, a Vietnam veteran and W&L military science professor, leaves
the U.S. Army after 26 years of service. Cadet Company Commander Andrew Manson stands

 

 

Spring term
safe for now

 

By Tracey Thornblade
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee is planning
no immediate change in the spring
term calendar, according to Spring
Term Evaluation Committee Chairman
H. Thomas Williams.

The committee will make recom-
mendations on possible calendar
changes after it reviews the results
from an evaluation it will start in the
next few weeks, Williams said.

Williams, a W&L physics profes-
sor, said the committee will soon dis-
tribute a questionnaire to students and
faculty to aid in its assessment of
spring term.

In addition to the student and
faculty surveys, the committee will
evaluate spring term course offerings,
and the number of students who opt
to study abroad or to participate in
off-campus internships during spring
term.

The committee also hopes to
study reports from other schools, such
as Davidson, Rhodes and Bates, that

have recently discussed changing or
that have changed their calendars.

Williams said the committee,
which was formed this fall, is
studying the strengths and weaknesses
of spring term, rather than discussing
changes in W&L’s calendar. The
committee will report its findings in
February, 1991.

According to Williams, if the
committee finds its study shows that
spring term is positive, the calendar
will remain intact. If the report finds
that spring term is not being utilized
to its full potential, the committee
will suggest moderate changes, such
as implementing new courses and
modifying existing courses. Finally,
if the report finds that spring term is
no longer viable, the committee will
suggest that W&L change its calen-
dar.

Williams added that even if the
committee does find the current aca-
demic calendar unsatisfactory, it will
be at least two years before changes
could be implemented. The Board of
Trustees would first have to approve
the change, and all departments

 

Professor H. Thomas Williams

Evaluation Committee Chairman

would need to restructure their curric-
ula to fit a longer term.

This is not the first tme a com-
mittee has studied spring term’s ef-
fectiveness, In 1973, three years after
W&L implemented spring term, a
committee was also appointed to
determine its success.

Williams said he believes the
university must evaluate spring term
periodically to see if it continues to
respond to the university’s needs.

Housing

By Gregory Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

 

Community leaders say they don’t

‘want students to move out of their

neighborhoods, but would like them
to be better neighbors.

Rev. J.B. Harris, president of the
Rockbridge Area chapter of the
National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People says

it seems ‘‘students have been
somewhat unleashed on the
community.”’

Harris, a resident of the Diamond
Hill section of Lexington, says ‘‘basi-
cally students have been reasonable’’
but sometimes ‘‘they tend to forget
there are other people in the neigh-
borhood.”’

Harris said problems in the city
include loud parties, parking on the
wrong side of the street, and throw-
ing trash on other people’s property.
At a recent meeting, Harris told the
Lexington City Council he had seen
a student urinating in someone’s yard.

Harris is also concerned about the
number of students moving into the
low-income section of town. In order
to counter that situation, Harris has
proposed W&L rent vacant dorm

Alcohol survey results released

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

A survey of Washington and Lee freshmen
showed a large percentage of them have at least
one relative in the family with an alcohol problem,
which puts them in jeopardy of developing a
similar problem, Associate Dean of Students Anne

C. Schroer-Lamont said.

Results of the survey on drug and alcohol use,
taken by Washington and Lee freshmen in January
of 1990, were released last week in conjunction

with Alcohol Awareness Week.

The Office of Student Affairs decided to re-
release the survey in order to heighten awareness
of the drug and alcohol situation on the W&L
campus. ‘‘This survey is valuable in that it gives
us some information about the drug and alcohol
habits on our campus,’’ Schroer-Lamont said.

Of the women surveyed, 47 percent said they

had at least one relative who was an alcoholic, and
37 percent of the men admitted the same.

‘I was surprised by the population of students
whose families have drinking problems,’’ Schroer-
Lamont said. ‘‘This is particularly frightening
because we now know that if a person has a
family member who is an alcoholic, that person
has a predisposition to alcohol problems.’’

A large number of students also admitted
forgetting what they had done the night before
after consuming alcohol. This is a characteristic
that indicates a person is heading for trouble with
alcohol, according to Schroer-Lamont.

Also of concern to Schroer-Lamont were the
percentage of students, male and female, who en-
gaged in sex that they regretted while under the
influence of alcohol and the increased tolerance
levels of students since they had arrived at W&L.

After observing drug and alcohol surveys from
other southeastern universities, Dean of Students
David Howison said alcohol and drug use at W&L

is similar to patterns at other comparable small,
liberal arts schools. Last year’s surveys also show
a improvement over previous surveys taken at
W&L. Howison is
decreases in the number of student arrests and in
the number of students sent to the hospital due to
alcohol consumption show a greater sensitivity to
extreme drinking.

The university administration views the survey
as a starting point for increased education about
drugs and alcohol and plans to conduct follow-up
surveys to chart improvement.

Dean Schroer-Lamont strongly encourages all
W&L organizations to become involved in the
campaign to educate the student body. ‘‘The mon-
ey the organizations provide us with is great, but
we really need increased participation. | want to
see the student body address policies and educa-
tion more directly.
the drug and alcohol problem can it truly start to
be solved,’’

cautiously optimistic that

Only when students recognize

OCTOBER 25, 1990

Students
leery about

‘Greek

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

 

Fraternity and sorority members
have criticized Washington and Lee’s
impending ‘‘Greek Member Fee,’’
which will require all members to
pay between $100 and $400 a year.

The fee stems from the uni-
versity’s Fraternity Renaissance Pro-
gram. Under the program, the univer-
sity will spend about $11 million
renovating most of W&L’s 16 frater-
nity to the houses and compliance
with new standards imposed by the
administration.

Some Greeks said they were con-
fused because they did not know
about the fee until two or three
weeks ago.

Panhellenic Council President
Nancy Mitchell said there must have
been a lack of communication be-
tween the council and the administra-
tion because she wasn’t familiar with
the fee until a Panhellenic meeting
three weeks ago. Sorority money will
accumulate in a fund to pay for the
renovation of the old university the-
ater, which will house sorority offices
and meeting space.

Chris Baradel, a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha, said he found out last
Monday about the fee. ‘‘I wasn’t
really paying attention. I just noticed
the bottom line: we’ve got to pay X
amount of money.”’

Sigma Nu Chapter President Hunt-
er Catlett said he was also unaware
of the fee, although he added, ‘‘I just
send my bills home.’’

Interfraternity Council President
and Fraternity Renaissance Steering
Committee member Goodloe Lewis
remembered hearing last year about
financial implications from the Re-
naissance in a forum with Tom Touc-
hton, chairman of the Board of Trust-
ees’ campus life committee. But no

Fee’

financial specifics were mentioned, he
said.

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Buddy Atkins, who
advises the IFC and Panhellenic
Council said he reminded council
members last year of the impending
fees. According to Kappa Sigma’s
Treasurer Charles Kranich, some
fraternity officers may have known
last year but graduated without telling
fraternities any specifics.

W&L Treasurer Lawrence Broom-
all said the Renaissance and its re-
quirements were discussed in many
forums with fraternity members, al-
though some of the financial terms
might have been vague.

“If I had it to do over I'd be
sure we communicated it better.’’
Broomall conceded that sororities
were incorporated into the overall
program about a year ago, so ‘‘its
conceivable they wouldn’t know as
much as some fraternities.”’

Last week Broomall said the fee
was not a matter of choice. ‘‘All
Greeks are participating in the Re-
naissance,’’ he said, because all must
comply with the university’s new
fraternity standards. Broomall also
said the fee has nothing to do with
whether fraternities apply to the uni-
versity for financing of their physical
renovation.

Currently all fraternities except
Chi Psi and Phi Gamma Delta plan
to participate in the program.

Chi Psi Treasurer Joe Milcoff,
however, said the fee was a total
shock, Chi Psi members are financing
the $150,000 in renovations necessary
for their house to comply with uni-
versity standards, he said, but all
under the impression they would have
no financial obligation to the univer-
sity.

Milcoff cited a press release is-
sued by the W&L News Office on

QO Please see GREEK page 4

solutions sought

space to local residents who cannot
find other housing due to the student
influx.

“*The net effect is that when two,
three or four hundred students live in
the city, they are taking up houses
that could be used for people who
live in the community.

‘There has to be an alternative.
People in the community have to
have somewhere to go.”’

As part of his proposal Harris
believes the city should contribute
$100 per month towards utility ser-
vice for the residents who would live
in the dorms.

When asked if he thinks the city
is partially responsible for the hous-
ing situation, Harris responded,
‘“‘Let’s answer that question with
another question ~ who was it that
passed the ordinance [allowing more
than four unrelated persons to live
together with a permit]?’’

Dean of Students David Howison
recently met with Harris to discuss
matters concerning the university and
the city and said they shared ‘‘com-
mon concerns.”’

Howison said when ‘‘students live
in the community, they become a part
of the neighborhood. It’s important to
respect that truth.’’

Meanwhile, Rockbridge County
officials say they have similar con-
cerns about students living in the
county.

H.E. Neal, member of the Rock-
bridge County Board of Supervisors,
said students living in the county
need to ‘‘extend a good neighbor
policy.”’

He said his concerns include loud
parties and student cars parked on the
side of the road where they are a
danger to motorists.

‘Disturbing the peace and having
a police officer come to the property
is not what a student wants,’’ said
Neal.

Neal said, ‘‘If this is viewed as
being hypercritical at the college, it’s
not. People at the college have a lot
of fine things.

‘‘Students are good for this area...
It would be stupid to bash students,’’
said Neal. ‘‘Likewise, the students
have to realize they live in a commu-
nity.”’

Neal recommended, ‘‘When there
are parties, make sure they are not
going to disturb neighbors.’’ He said
there generally needs to be more
courtesy on behalf of all students.

‘It only takes a few idiots to
screw it up for everyone else.’’

 

 

From the W&L News Office

 

A. Stevens Miles, Jr., of Louis-
ville, Ky., was elected rector of
Washington and Lee’s Board of
Trustees at their annual fall meet-
ing Friday.

Miles succeeds James M. Bal-
lengee, a leading Philadelphia
business executive, who has served
as rector since 1981.

Miles received his B.A. in
economics from W&L in 1951.
He is also a graduate of the Stoni-
er Graduate School of Banking at
Rutgers University.

Miles began his banking career
as a management trainee with the
First National Bank of Louisville
in 1954. He served as executive

 

New rector named

vice president from 1969 to 1972,
when he was named president of
the chief operating office, and
director. He is currently chairman
of the First Kentucky National
Corporation and president of Na-
tional City Corporation, Cleveland,
the parent company.

Miles currently serves as chair-
man of the board of trustees of the
Louisville Museum of History and
Science, vice president of the
board of Kentucky Derby Museum,
and chairman of the Louisville &
Jefferson Co, Waterfront Develop-
ment Corporation.

He has also served as a mem-
ber of the board of trustees of the
University of Kentucky and of the
board of overscers of the Universi-
ty of Louisville,

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, October 25, 1990

-OPINION
| Spring term’s
reevaluation

The administration has formed a committee whose sole
purpose is to ‘‘reevaluate’’ the effectiveness and necessity of
spring term in the academic calendar. Translation: the Hill
is considering eliminating what is possibly the most unique
of many unique features of Washington and Lee.

Spring term was begun 20 years ago as a noble
experiment in a new kind of learning. Because students were
required to take only three credits during spring term, they
could take challenging, in-depth classes that require more
than attendance at lectures. In addition, the new term
allowed the school to add several new programs, such as
internships, study abroad, etc.

If W&L were to revert to a semester schedule, we fear
most, if not all, of these special programs and opportunities
would be lost. The only losers in this eventuality would be
students.

Professors complain that students take spring term too

lightly, and are unwilling to study. Also, they say, many iy a ateect ZB Athy
4 A (, ; fL 4
id W

YY,

   

 

 
 
   

  

departments cannot offer the kinds of specialized classes that
spring term was supposed to encourage. So, let’s just call
the whole thing off.

That, in our opinion, would be a mistake. We live in an
age where education is being standardized at almost all
levels. What keeps Washington and Lee ahead of the game
is our ability to remain unique, different than the cookie-

  

 

  

      
  

 

 

  

 

 
  

cutter universities where each student is known primarily by LS eT], T>
his Social Security number. Spring term offers W&L : AGH, of,
students rare opportunities. For example, the journalism , «, a! “2
department offers a wide range of internships at newspapers ! (Chk 70 Fe /

around the area. The politics department offers the ye sar ey

Washington D.C. intemship. Students can study in Spain, \Y ‘ “G/N fy A J/ fi ip LYS YY
France, or any of several other countries. i ae

Is that not what a liberal arts education is all about? A
chance to learn what real life is like, be it at the Richmond
Times-Dispatch or in Paris, is invaluable to any student.

It would be foolish to say that every W&L student took
advantage of these opportunities. The solution to springtime
apathy is not to change the schedule, however. As one
professor has said, the easiest way to get students to pay
attention is to give out a few lousv grades. Hit them where
they live, as it were.

Spring term has become an important part of W&L.
Those who take advantage of the opportunities it offers can
find themselves in the catbird seat when it comes time to
find a job or a graduate school.

In the last issue of The Washington and Lee Alumni
Magazine, a letter to the editor decried what he called the
“changing of the school from a specialty purveyor of
education to one of supermarket status.’’ In our opinion, to
eliminate spring term would be a large step in that direction.

af + LP ad er asy as 7
~' © awe ae?

To our readers

We would like to thank everyone who has contributed to
the Opinion section of the Phi this year. The Opinion page
is, as always, open to any submissions from the community
conceming issues of local or national interest, as long as
they conform to rules of libel or obscenity.

Quote of the week

That thing is not a piece of art. It looks like Froot Loops.
— Washington and Lee senior Richard Spence, observing
that a suprematist painting in the National Gallery of Art
bears a remarkable resemblance to breakfast cereal.

  
 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

Editors

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Anne Dysart
John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

Phi article
contains racial
stereotypes

I was greatly disturbed when I read the
*‘Lloyd’s fights gang image’’ article last week.
It is an understatement to say that it was a
horrendous job of reporting. It was filled with
numerous racial _ stereotypes, misquotes,
speculations, etc.

Why was the word ‘‘black’’ mentioned five
times? , Is;this-qbjective*reporting?’ One does not

have tbe <a journalisin-major -fo know. hata *

reporter must be unbiased. ‘Nevertheless, this
reporter repeatedly mentioned race, where it had
no relevance.

Would anyone like to define ‘‘gang’’ for me?
The reporter used this term five times. Yet, he
never once defined the term. One can only
conclude from this article that his definition of
gang referred to a group of black Lexington
residents hanging out together. Kate Bailey and
Karen Halsell said they were afraid to go to
Lloyd’s because of the ‘‘gangs.’’ Can they
elaborate? I go to Lloyd’s every weekend, but
somehow I[ seem to miss the gangs each time.
If these ‘‘gangs’’ existed, I would be scared too.
A ‘‘gang’’ is a terror to everyone-- white and
black. Does the reporter ever base his usage of
the term ‘‘gang’’ on facts-- not speculation or
fear of students?

Robert Rorrer, the Lloyd’s employee who was
cited extensively, was misquoted a number of
times. He, as well as the rest of the Lexington
residents, know that L-Posse is a myth. He also
told me that many of his statements were taken
out of context, and of one of the statements he
did not even say. Do not take my word for it,
ask him for yourself.

We have one of the best journalism schools
in the nation. I hope this article was not a
reflection of it. This article only gave student
perspectives-- not black  Lexingtonian
perspectives. I guess they are all supposed to be
gang members. The two violent incidents
involving students and locals gave entirely
student perspectives. What about the other side?
I guess they are all supposed to be gang
members. Why were the black Lexingtonians not
asked their opinion on these ‘‘gangs’’? I guess
they are all supposed to be gang members. I
just hope our journalism department produces
reporters that base their articles on unbiased,
solid evidence-- not speculation.

Sincerely,
Ted Smith ’92

KA ruling is a
miscarriage of
justice

The administration has committed a grievous
injustice against the brothers of the Kappa Alpha
fraternity. Before we expound upon _ this
miscarriage of justice, it must initially be said
that, being independents who have had little
contact with KA, we hold no biased opinion for
or against the fraternity.

We readily admit the fact that we are not as
wise in the arena of college administration as the
average upperclassman or any one of W&L’s
legion of deans, for we are especially confused
when it comes to the operations of the various
committees and subcommittees which apparently
were created to fill very similar bureaucratic
vacuums, if not totally identical ones.

Nevertheless, we find it difficult to fathom
that the administration blatantly disregarded KA’s
apparently reasonable right to be present at their

 

LETTER

own condemnation. Charles Manson, Ted Bundy,
and Marion Barry were present at their trials.
Even if one were as guilty as one of
aforementioned triumvirate, it would seem
illogical for pronunciation of guilt to occur in
absentia. It seems roughly akin to that travesty
of antiquity, taxation without representation.
Another point that needs to be made is that
the SAC apparently neglected to conduct their
own investigation, instead relying on the verdict
of the two organizations that dealt with the
situation prior to them. Imagine the uproar of
popular outrage if testimony from one trial were
to be admitted as the only source of information
in another hearing conducted by a completely
different organization. This practice is

 
  

Alumni Weekend. His latest letter, too, has
brought absolutely no response.

The second letter you received on Oct. 12
was from me. I stated the obvious, that if a
given fraternity is not being renovated under the
Fraternity Renaissance Program, it should not be
held responsible for costs incurred by the
renovation of other fraternity houses. I stated that
I cannot justify billing my brothers for the
rebuilding of ‘‘Red Square.’’ Likewise, they
cannot understand why they are being billed for
renovations to other fraternities. Additionally, no
member was informed of this ‘‘Greek Fee’’ prior
to Oct. 4, 1990. I closed my letter by requesting
*‘some sort of communication on this issue.”’

Mr. Broomall, / am still waiting for this

abominable for it implies the agsumptiop.that.tbe ,communication. os, «

agcuged is guilty. until/preven inocent,.a concept

which is affathema ‘to” fly reagomiable ‘Syteitiof ”

justice. But, it seems to us that W&L does not

seem to possess a reasonable system of justice.

We also question the necessity of the punitive
measures levied against KA by the SAC. It
would seem that they should be whistled for a
fifteen yard penalty for ‘‘piling on’’. The Kappa
Alpha Housing Committee dealt with the problem
as they saw fit, as did the IFC. Perhaps Dean
Howison is feeling impotent in his new position
and is attempting to satisfy his egocentric
cravings by having the SAC run pell-mell
through the fraternal ranks.

For those erudite readers who noticed that we
failed to mention the heinous transgression
perpetrated by KA, it is the most absurd element '
of this whole sordid affair: their only sin was
the damaging of their own property.

Sincerely,
Karl Bucus and Eric Young '94

Chi Psi
refuses to pay
“Greek tax”

To Mr. Lawrence Broomall, W&L Treasurer:

As Treasurer of the Alpha Omicron Delta of
Chi Psi, I received a letter from you, dated Oct.
4, regarding a $100 per member per year ‘‘Greek
Fee.’’ In this letter, you informed me to add this
to the Winter 1991 billing, due Oct. 22. You
closed the letter with the following: ‘‘Please let
me know if you have any questions or concerns
about this procedure or the new fee..I will be
happy to meet with you o your chapter if
necessary.”’

On Oct. 12, you received two letters from
Chi Psi officers. Andrew J. Dewing, our Alumni
House Corporation President, sent a 14-page
letter to you, expressing our displeasure at being
shocked by this ‘‘Greek Fee.’’ It included
university press releases and documentation
representing the ‘‘voluntary’’ nature of the
program. As a regular at meetings regarding the
Fraternity Renaissance Program over the last
three years, Mr. Dewing never heard mention of
this fee, other than the $400 fee which would be
paid by those houses participating in the
program. In his letter to you, Mr. Dewing states,
‘‘Again, I will offer to meet with you George
Ray, Frank Parsons, Buddy Atkins, or any other
appropriate individual to discuss these topics."’
Why does Mr. Dewing use ‘‘again’’ to begin this

offer? Recent history provides the answer. Over
the past two years, our Alumni Presidents have
been requesting meetings and communication
with little or no response. In Dec. 1988, at the
very beginning of the Renaissance Program, then-
President Henry Dewing requested a meeting
with you. Since that time, you have never
responded with an offer to meet with any
representatives of the Alumni Corporation. On
Jan. 30, Andrew Dewing sent a letter to you
pertaining to lease agreements. He did not
receive a response until May 10, the day before

“ The*sirfiple fact i$-that this ‘‘Greek Fee’’ for
ndn-RenaisSance participants was not mentioned
before late September, 1990. Dr. George Ray,
our faculty advisor, and a member of the
Fraternity Renaissance Steering Committee,
recalled no discussion of this fee prior to this
fall, during the week of Sept. 17.

Mr. Broomall, you made it known in the Phi
that the ‘‘Greek Fee’’ was part of the ‘Standards
of Fraternities,’ and non-compliance with the
standards would result in the loss of charter. This
“Greek Fee’’ has never been included in the
standards, and your thinly-veiled threat of loss of
charter is nothing less than attempted extortion.

It is the UNANIMOUS position of both the
Brotherhood and the Alumni Corporation of
Alpha Omicron Delta of Chi Psi that this fee will
not be paid. There is as much justification for
making members of Chi Psi pay this fee as there
is charging it to independents. Why stop this
communization at the Greek system? Perhaps
every member of the W&L community should
pay this fee. Then, we could add student from
the various women’s colleges in the area. They
too have received benefits from fraternities.
Somehow, though, I do not think they would
agree to pay this fee. Neither should we.

Sincerely,
Joseph P. Milcoff, ’92
Treasurer, AOD of Chi Psi

Greek tax an
extra financial
burden

I thought that I would be able to make it
through my four years here at W&L without
having to write a letter to the Phi, but with last
week’s article, ‘‘Hill to charge Greeks up to
$400’’, that’s not possible. I am writing to voice
my displeasure in the university’s attempt to
impose a $100 ‘‘head tax’’ on those fraternities
who are not participating in the Renaissance
Program. Mr. Broomall states that it ‘‘has
nothing to do with whether they’re applying to
the university for financing of their physical
renovation.’’ This is simply not the case, it is
absurd for those fraternities who are taking the
burden of their renovations on themselves to pay
an extra ‘‘greek fee’’ to help pay the renovations
of other houses. At least the sororities’ money
will accumulate to pay for the later construction
of their own houses. If there are any fraternities
not seeking financing for renovations then it is
not a ‘‘system-wide correction’’ and should not
be financed as such. Mr. Broomall also attempts
to say that the refusal to pay such a fee would
warrant having their charters revoked, however
my fraternity will not pay a fee that we had no
say in and does not benefit us in the least, and
in fact by placing extra financial burden on us
hinders our attempt to comply with the
‘Standards for Fraternities.”’

Sincerely,
Andrew Manson
President Chi Psi Fraternity

 

=+ tht bE ss enti LAP

 
OPINION

Race relations around campus:
The psychology of the white W&L student

 

MY VIEW

By James Rambeau

 

Because of the events that have
transpired during the past six weeks,
I am compelled to express my
sentiments regarding race relations,
both on campus and in the Lexington
community. The Ring-tum Phi has
on several occasions perpetuated
negative images of black people,
particularly those living in the
Lexington area.

In the article entitled ‘‘Lloyd’s
fights gang image’’ in last week’s
Phi, I was particularly disappointed in
the group of freshman girls who ‘‘felt
very uncomfortable as a group of
black youths loitered outside Lloyd’s
Restaurant.’’ I can not speak for the
fears of those girls, but as a black
American I am forced to speak on
the image surrounding black people.

Blacks are portrayed negatively in
American _ society. For every
occasion that General Colin Powell
appears on the nightly news, there is
another occasion where blacks are
viewed in poverty, as gang members,
and violent savages who possess no
regard for the sanctity of life.
Unfortunately, last week’s Phi only
heightened the fear of any W&L
student going to Lloyd’s again.

My first problem with the article
concerns the unfair labelling of those
teenagers as delinquents. How may
the Phi characterize those teenagers
as delinquents when both Lloyd
Smith and the Lexington Police
Department dismissed those teenagers
as youths playing video games?

Moreover, the Phi article
described members of the L-Posse as
those blacks having flattop haircuts
and wearing L.A. Raiders caps.
What is the point? Are we to
assume that blacks not fitting this
description are slightly less prone to
violence? Personally, I own an L.A.

Raiders cap and am indeed a fan of
that team. Should I too be classified
as a member of the L-Posse? What
are the further implications of those
youths wearing flattop haircuts?
Should I suggest to Wendell or
Poindexter (local barbers) that they

should cease to cut hair in such a
fashion because of the negative
images associated with the flattop
haircut?

Underlying this, there is 4
perception that any time blacks gather
in groups of three or more, they are
considered a bunch of gang members
who seek to spread havoc throughout
the town. That is the case in the Phi
article and it serves as a larger
reflection of how society views
blacks in general.

Equally as important, the Phi
seems to further agitate the race issue
by referring to two __ incidents
occurring in September 1989 and
December 1989. Why the reference
to the past? Because attendance at
Lloyd’s is down this academic year,
why does the Phi refer to specific
incidents occurring ten months ago,
in particular last fall term?

There is a perception
that any time blacks
gather in groups of
three or more, they
are considered a
bunch of gang
members who seek
to spread havoc
throughout the town.

In the article, it is rather obvious
that Mr. Smith and the Lexington
Police Department are extending
commendable efforts to combat the
very serious and dangerous problem
of loitering. I sure wouldn’t want to
see a bunch of black youths
‘*hanging out’’ either.

With that in mind, I am forced to
remember those gangs of white
teenagers who ‘‘hung out’’ at
Amold’s in the television series
‘‘Happy Days.’’ Sure enough, they
were a bunch of rough riders who sat
in their booths discussing how they
were going to attack someone
returning from a fraternity party.

Obviously, conflicts exist in
college towns. The conflicts arise
not only from a position of race but
class as well. Consider those youths

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 25, 1990

reside in a town where there are few
opportunities for advancement. They
may graduate from high school with
a diploma to work at the bus factory
in Buena Vista, perform menial-
salaried jobs in town particularly on
one of the college campuses, or
venture forty miles to the west in
Covington to work at Westvaco (a
pulp mill). Not a lot of room for
self-explanation.

 

It is distressing to
realize that W&L
students refuse to
frequent a business
where black youths
“loiter.” It is
segregation in
reverse.

In contrast, there are a bunch of
college students between the ages of
17 and 26 of whom the majority are
from upper-middle-class backgrounds,
These college students expand their
educational horizons so that the world
may offer them limitless opportunities
upon graduation. Because these
college students live in Lexington for
only four to seven years, they are
viewed as rich intruders. Because of
their comfortable backgrounds, these
college students are viewed living the
dream that the local youths and their
parents so fervently desire but lack
adequate resources to do so.

I suppose you are still wondering
why the W&L admissions department
works so strenuously to attract
minority students with strong
academic reputations.

In addition, the majority of black
Students are from middle-class
background and are viewed in that
light by some locals. Because of
those factors (both environmental and
financial), conflicts will arise between
locals and college students. There
are other people residing in Lexington
besides college students.

The article in last week’s Phi
should have focused on class conflict
and the psychology of the white
W&L student. It is distressing to

 

realize that W&L students refuse to
frequent a business where black youth
“‘loiter.’’ It is segregation in reverse.
In the words of Mr. Lloyd Smith,
“They’re just a bunch of fourteen
year-olds. What are they going to do
to you?”’

The fraternity renaissance issue
should have been further explored
especially its implications on Mr.
Smith’s business. As the construction
crews renovate fraternity houses in
Red Square, there should be an
expected decline in clientele because
of students not living in those houses
and the lack of parties in Red Square
that normally attracts students to
Lloyd’s.

The Minority Students Association
has worked diligently in coordinating
its efforts with the community to
alleviate some of the problems in
Lexington, particularly those of race
and class. Some MSA members
serve as big brothers and big sisters
to those threatening youths in the Phi
article. In addition, a few more
MSA members also tutor some of
those youth in their academic studies.
The MSA sponsors activities for their
younger siblings such as the annual
Christmas Gift Party and Easter
Basket Party. You will see their
parents attend our Martin Luther King
Celebration held at First Baptist
Church in January.

I implore you to talk with both
MSA members and the parents of the
youth at the aforementioned events.
In fact, several of their relatives are
employees at W&L.

I believe it should be noted that
several MSA members are white and
that our activities have been attended
by white locals on a consistent basis.
I fervently believe that no matter how
diligently Mr. Lloyd Smith tries to
combat the negative ‘‘gang’’ image
of his restaurant, that image will
persist due to the white student’s
image of black people.

Mr. Smith, the problem rests not
in your restaurant and its frequent
customers who play video games
(instead of listening to the jukebox
like the gang at Amold’s), but it rests
within the psychology of the white
W&L student and his/her perceptions
of black people.

Private schools and free speech

 

 

MY VIEW
By Niv Goldberg

 

I like to speak. Anyone who knows me knows
that I like to shoot my mouth off at just about any
topic that comes up in conversation. Anyone that
knows me also usually disagrees with me about
most things. But that’s okay, because I have the
right to say what I please, and they have a right to
disagree with me.

Living in the United States, people are pro-
tected by the Constitution and the amendments
thereto. Some people however, believe that free
speech is threatened on campuses around the
nation. Not only threatened, but actually violated
by certain procedural actions taken by universities.
This all refers to speech of ‘‘offensive’’ nature in
regard to race, sex, and a number of other at-
tributes people possess.

The question being brought up is, does the
university have a right to reprimand people based

 

Interviews and photos
by Amanda Hughen

on what they say? The answer is ‘‘sometimes,’’
and the distinction of ‘‘when’’ is clear.

The logic goes as such: the Constitution works
as a basis for the government, and when it
provides specific rights for the individual citizen,
it provides those rights in opposition to government
power over said citizen. This means that public
institution, including public universities, cannot
discriminate along the lines of speech.

I would argue therefore, for example, that the
University of Virginia could not act against an
offending speaker except for a private request to
not spout such offensive material again. The
university could not, based upon the speaker’s
offensiveness in speech, discriminate against the
speaker in official policy.

A private institution, however, is a different
matter. A private entity has the right to refuse to
listen to anything it does not want to hear. The
entity does not have to house the offending
speaker, or provide the speaker with any private-
ly-sponsored services.

Take, for example, pubs, which often have

people thrown off their premises for being insulting
and threatening. The private university, as a private
entity, has the same right. This is not to say that
throwing someone off campus is the correct thing
to do, but it is a right reserved by private entities
in the United States, of which private universities
are a group.

Imagine being in your home, with someone you
have recently met, when this person begins acting
in a manner you do not approve of, and insults
everything you hold dear. You have every right to
throw this person out of your home.

The campus (assuming it is privately-held land)
is the home of the private university, and that
university has the right to throw out those who
offend it. Again, this is not to say that the above
is the correct action. Very often, listening to this
type of offensive material leads to healthy debate,
peaceful resolution, and ignominy for the offensive
instigator.

However, the right of the private university to
expel, or otherwise punish, offending members of
its community exists, and must be recognized,

 

TALKBACK

 

GENERAL NOTES

Hockey

Anyone interested in joining the
W & L Ice Hockey club should
contact Louis Kaye, 464-5477.

Booksale

The mostly annual University
booksale will run from Thursday,
Nov. 1 until Nov. 8 in the Uni-
versity Library lobby.

Reminder

The Library would like to remind
students to bring either a Univer-
sity card or their own change to
the library to make copies. If
you must get change at the li-
brary, please get only the amount
you need.

Sea Study

Students interested in the Semes-
ter-at-Sea program are invited to
meet with a member of the pro-
gram’s staff on Tuesday, Oct. 30
at 1 pm in Baker room 106.

Coming Events

The Outing Club will sponsor a
hike to Devil’s Marble Yard on
Saturday, Oct. 27 at 11 am. The
Environmental Section will meet
on Tuesday, Oct 30 at 5:30 pm in
the University Center room 113.
Regular mountain-bike and road
rides continue with the Biking
Section, and canoeing and kayak-
ing continues with the Paddling
section. For details and more
information, see the Outing Club
bulletin board on the Colonnade
and at Baker room 109.

Career Fairs

Seniors interested in attending one
of the job fairs in San Francisco,
Los Angeles, or Philadelphia in
January, 1991 must go by the
Career Development ant Place-
ment Office before the deadline
of October 29, 1990.

Mail Call

Those students interested in orga-
nizing a Christmas letter and card
writing campaign for the service-
men overseas should send a stamp
(no envelope needed) to ‘Mail
Call’’ Box 817, Christmas, FL
32709 for more information

Goblin’ Guides

The IFC is sponsoring a Trick-
Or-Treat Escort service for the W
& L and Lexington community.
Those wanting a safe escort for
their children should bring them
to Fairfax Lounge in the Universi-
ty Center on Oct. 31 starting at
5:00 pm. Groups will leave
every half hour.

Internships

Internship opportunities are avail-
able with the Virginia Governor’s
Office of Economic Development
and with the Department of
World Trade. All majors are
eligible to participate. Interested
students please contact Professor
Connelly in the Commerce
School, Room 108.

Politics Movie

The Politics department will spon-
sor a showing of the movie The
Song of Burnadette (1943, US).
The movie probes the role of the
supreme being in human politics.
It will start at 7 pm on Friday
and Saturday, Oct. 26 and 27 in
room 221 of the Commerce
School. The public is invited.

Haunted House

Lambda Chi Alpha will hold a
Haunted House from 7-9 p.m.
Halloween Night for local chil-
dren. Admission is $.50, and
donations will also be welcome.

All proceeds will go to the United
Way. |

Write Playboy

Wrote some good fiction lately?
Enter Playboy’s 1991 College
Fiction Contest. You'll be playing
in the big league, sharing the
magazine with Updike and Brad-
bury and you may even win a
few bucks along the way. Playboy
gave $3,000 to last year’s first
place student winner. Check Play-
boy’s October issue or the
W&L’s English Department for
more information.

Get It Out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes! Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside the Ring-Tum
Phi office at room 208 in the
University Center.

 

What would scare you the most
on Halloween?

 

 

Geoff Nagle, ’91, Gulf Breeze,
FL — ‘‘If my date turned out to
be hung like a sperm whale.”

 

Jennifer Donaldson, °92, Wil-
liamsburg, VA — ‘‘Getting shot
in the butt with a B.B. gun.’’

 

 

Russell Crosby, ’91, Jacksonville, FL and Craig Hatfield, ’91, Fallston,

yee ~ ‘Picking up a cute little ghost and have it turn out to be Buddy
ins,’’

 

 

Troy Hill, ’93, Atlanta, GA —
‘Dressing up like a haystack and
getting lit.”’

 

Talley Wooley, °93, Lookout
Mountain, TN — ‘‘Waiting all
night in the Pumpkin Patch and
the Great Pumpkin never show-
ing up.”’

 

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 25, 1990

4

 

EC places
in student

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

 

The Executive Committee issued
a final budget allocation list Monday
night which added last year’s $16,000
surplus to the $5,500 Student Body
Working Reserve.

EC members last week realized
that the 1989-90 surplus of $16,216
had not been allocated with the
$185,250 in anticipated 1990-91 stu-
dent activities fees. EC Vice Presi-
dent Raymond Welder handed out
copies last night of allocation lists for
the last two years, showing that hold-
ing the surplus in reserve is custom-
ary.

The EC renewed its invitation to
“student organizations to appear
before the EC and request for any
future financial needs at any time.”’

Michael Patrick, 1991 Freshman
Orientation Committee chairman,

Fraternities to

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

 

 

In an attempt to improve its im-
age in the community, the Interfra-
ternity Council will sponsor a com-
munity service project on Halloween
night.

IFC is requiring each fraternity to
send at least two members to serve
as trick-or-treat escorts for Lexington
community children Wednesday night.
The Greek escorts will operate out of
Fairfax Lounge, where parents can
wait while their children are escorted
trick-or-treating through town.

surplus
reserve

reported to the EC the results of a
survey in which 151 of the 386
freshmen rated the Honor System
orientation on a four point scale.

Five respondents rated the meeting
as “Poot,” 15 ts ‘Fir: 36. as
‘‘Good,’’ and 93 as ‘‘Excellent.’’ The
primary criticisms of the Honor Sys-
tem orientation were, on the negative
side, that it was not stressed enough,
and, on the positive, it explained an
important part of student life.

The EC appointed student repre-
sentatives to university committees
Monday night. Lee Garlove, Freder-
ick Renneker and Tim Downes will
sit on the Athletic Committee; Chris
Dreibilbis, Todd Ammermann and
Cathryn Lopiccolo on Library Advi-
sory; Charles Daniel, Katherine
Kreutziger and Matt Jackson on Stu-
dent Health; and Electra Martin on
the Faculty Executive Committee.
Rick Sumner will serve the Cold
Check Committee.

trick-or-treat

IFC member John Flippen said
that the first escort group will leave

at 5 p.m. and new groups will depart
in thirty-minute intervals.

According to Flippen, trick-or-
treating routes will run out Lee Ave-
nue and in the neighborhood behind
Sigma Phi Epsilon and Phi Gamma
Delta. He asked Lee Avenue frater-
nity houses to have candy and decor-
ations ready.

IFC President Goodloe Lewis
supported the program. ‘‘Community
relations are very important, especial-
ly this year, because fraternities have
such a bad reputation in the com-
munity,’’ said Lewis.

HERE’S WHAT’S NEW IN LEXINGTON

‘oad LN.
"Sane

S08

 

A Special Place

Wicker, Clothing
Jewelry, Pottery, Lamps
Rugs, Cookware
Candlesticks,

Antiques, Glassware,
Gifts Etc., Etc., Etc. ©

6 E. Nelson Street

 

 

FAST- FUNDRAISING PROGRAM wo |

 

 

$ 0
Just
ONE
WEEK.

Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization.

Plus a chance at $5000 more!

This program works!
No investment needed.

Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50

 

 

R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church

Sunday Service: 8:30 & 10:30 a.m.
5:00 p.m.
Dinner & Bible Study: 5:45 p.m.

107 Lee Avenue

 

 
    
   

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

Prescriptions © Cosmetics Perfumes
Charge Accounts © Free Delivery

 

VMI coed trial
set for April

The first trial determining the
future of coeducation at Virginia
Military Institute will begin April
4 at the U.S. District Court for
Western Virginia in Roanoke.

District Court Judge Jackson
Kiser set the date at a hearing
Tuesday. He also heard arguments
on several procedural motions but
did not issue any rulings.

The Virginia attorney general’s
office has dropped its law suit
against the U.S. Justice Depart-

 

BRIEFS

ment in defense of VMI’s all
male admission policy, although
Attorney General Mary Sue Ter-
ry said she will continue to de-
fend VMI.

Gossman delays
bad check trial

Motions were heard yesterday
in the case of former Washington
and Lee student William
Gossman, who is charged with
writing a bad check for more than
$17,000.

Gossman dismissed his attor-
ney Laurence Mann and was
granted a continuance at the hear-
ing.

Gossman purchased a BMW
from Lexington Motors last spring
for $17,410.70. He had left Lexi-
ngton by the time a conplaint had
been filed. He was arrested in
Charlotte, NC, on April 21.

Knick case gets
a court date

A preliminary hearing for
Lexington police officer Jerry

Knick has been re-scheduled for
Nov. 19.

Knick is accused of first
degree murder in connection with
the Sept. 29 shooting of his wife
Lisa Vincent Knick.

Knick has been free on bond
since Oct. 1 and placed on ad-
ministrative leave without pay
until the case is resolved.

As an officer, he worked on
the Blake Comer case.

These reports were compiled by
Pat Lopes and Alesha Priebe.

 

 

 

GREEK

from page 1

 

October 28, 1988, which states that
the university’s financing program is
not mandatory. Any fraternity can
finance its own renovation as long as
it adheres to the university’s ‘‘Stan-
dards for Fraternities.’’

The university’s published ‘‘Stan-
dards for Fraternities’’ do not men-
tion a Greek Member Fee to be paid
by all Greek members who do not re-
ceive renovated houses, nor does it
mention sororities or the Panhellenic
System.

Milcoff also said Chi Psi members
have attempted to correspond about
the fee with Broomall, but as of yet
have received no official word. Mil-
coff cited this as a reason why the
chapter voted unanimously not to pay

 

 

 

audciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT

- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

| Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

MUCUUUOUV

LIPS.
PAINT.

 

 

 

 

 

    

FANGS,

Halloween Delights.
Disguises.
Cards and Candy.

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 AM - 7 PM

WMUCUUUUUM

 

 

 

the fee, and because he said they ‘‘do
not feel responsible for the upkeep of
other fraternities.’’

“I do not agree with the ‘share
the wealth,’ philosophy. This is not a
communist country,’’ Milcott said.

Two weeks ago the presidents of
W&L’s three sororities and Delta
Gamma colony met with Atkins to
discuss the tax.

Kimberly Booth, Kappa Alpha
Theta President said some Greeks
worry the fee will cause too much of
a hardship for members who are on
financial aid programs or who pay
their Greek dues themselves. Booth
cited financial burden as one reason
Greeks deactivate. Booth also won-
dered if the added yearly fee will

Get an extra
hour of sleep
Saturday night...

Turn your
clock back
cone hour.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L Imprinted
Sportswear Plus:

Oakley Sunglasses,
New Era Baseball Caps
Are In.

Come Check Out Our
New Shipment Of Sweats

OPEN 7 DAYS A WEEK
15 W. WASHINGTON ST.
(next to Lloyds)
464-3000
We Invite Your
Custom Orders

deter freshmen from going Greek.
Broomall and Atkins both said
they don’t think the fee will be a
problem. Because the fee is university
imposed, they said, some type of
financial aid or special arrangement
might be worked out. Atkins said
next year the fee will be listed in the
W&L catalogue along with tuition,
board and other activity fees.
Broomall and Atkins said the fees
will not have much impact on indi-
viduals. Some houses — such as those
in the renovation program who will
no longer pay mortgages, land rent or
property taxes — might end up pay-
ing less than in previous years.
Mitchell said other complaints
centered around sororities being as-

sessed the fee without representation
on the Student Affairs Committee.
Fraternities are represented on the co-
mmittee, but the SAC voted not to
allow sororities membership last year.
Atkins encouraged a sorority seat on
the committee last year and hopes
this year sororities will be allowed
membership.

Like other university expenses, the
Member Fee may increase ‘‘if costs
go up,’ Broomall said. The fee was
originally set at $500 until he re-
structured it to $400, he said.

The Alumni Fraternity Council,
composed of W&L alumni fraternity
and sorority representatives, will keep
check on the university’s manage-
ment of the Greek revenue.

AUDITIONS POSTPONED

"THE SKIN OF OUR TEETH"

NOVEMBER 8 & 9, 3 & 7 PM
EXPERIMENTAL THEATRE, LENFEST CENTER

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE fi

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3478

1-800-748-LEHI

 

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

 

 

The Office of Career Planning & Placement

The University of Virginia
cordially invites you to attend the

SEVENTH ANNUAL

at

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones

703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

STUDENTS/FACULTY:

ARIEL NEEDS YOU!

We are now putting together the fall issue of Ariel,
the W&L Student literary magazine, and need your:

-Poems

-Short Stories

-Photography
-Art (Paintings, drawings, etc.)
-Non-Fiction writing

 

 

OMNI HOTEL
in historic downtown Charlottesville, Virginia

You may register for this event through your College Place-
ment or Career Development Office.

3 on Will Be Awarded For
La Tuesday, Nov. 6, 1990 The Best Submissions
¢ Oppa Y at the Of The Year!

, 8

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
, and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450 (703)463-5988

PPO PVP IVLPVLPVLD LP VPP AP APL MPV POMP AP AP APG

Please turn in your submissions to Carol Caulkins in the Uni-
versity Center by 4 p.m. on November 9.

 

 

pogo teste ene te
SPORTS
W&L wins by shutout

 

ose
By MacGregor Tisdale
Staff Reporter

 

; The Washington and Lee women’s

soccer team advanced to the semifi-
« nals of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tournament, defeating
* Hollins College 1-0 on Tuesday at
Liberty Hall Field.

Freshman goalkeeper Kate Stime-
ling earned her eighth shutout of the
season, tying a W&L record. Stime-
ling recorded her easiest shutout of
the season. The W&L defense held
Hollins to one shot. Stimeling did not
have to make a save.

Freshman midfielder Corinda
Hankins scored the only goal of the
game with 33:41 left to play in the
game. She scored from 25 yards out,
unassisted. It was her sixth goal of
the year.

Last weekend, W&L suffered two
tough regular season loses an im-
pressive win over Lynchburg. The
first loss was to Division II Universi-
ty of Maryland Baltimore County 3-

   

From W&L Sports Information

 

The Washington and Lee
volleyball team stumbled last
week, losing to Bridgewater be-
fore topping Christopher Newport
and Hollins.

W&L slipped to fifth in the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence with a three-game loss to
Bridgewater before rebounding
with a non-conference win over
Christopher Newport.

The Generals clinched a spot

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 25, 1990

 

 

Freshmen Karen Stutzmann (16) and Corinda Hankins (8) celebrate
after a goal. Hankins’ goa! against Hollins put W&L in the ODAC
tournament semifinals. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

0 and the second to regional power
Messiah 1-0 in overtime. The Gener-
als ended their regular season with a
9-5 record.

in the ODAC tournament with the
wins over Hollins, 15-7, 15-5, 15-
1k

W&L will host Mary Baldwin
in the final ODAC regular season
match tonight in the Warner Cen-
ter. The Generals are 13-13 on
the year.

The W&L water polo team
split four games last weekend in
the Southern Conference Invita-
tional. W&L topped Dayton and
Lynchburg but fell to Richmond
and Arkansas-Little Rock.

W&L, the third seed and host of
the tournament, advances to play
Randolph-Macon in the semifinals at
Liberty Hall field on Friday.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

Sophomore Scott Strader led
the team with 12 goals on the
weekend.

This weekend, the Generals,
10-7, will host the W&L Fall
Classic. Johns Hopkins, Lynch-
burg and Navy will field teams in
Cy Twombly Pool.

The W&L Athletics Promotion
committee will be giving away
free cider at Saturday’s cross
country meet against Hampden-
Sydney and Eastern Mennonite.
The meet starts at 11 a.m. on the
Law School Field.

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

 

 

 

$5

ila ist ows aay Parks

Quality Quick Print, Ink.

“4 all student printing needs
~ Résumés, Invitations, Flyers, Programs, Posters, Fax, ... ~

214 South Main Street « (703) 463-9232

LEXINGTON’S ONLY 8¢ COPY!!

OFF ANY SERVICE
WITH THIS AD

 

 

 

   

  

  
     
     

  

130 S. Main St.

  
 

FOR RENT.
“Housein Country’
463-5383

For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

  
   
 
 
 
   
 

For the second straight week, the
Washington and Lee defense helped
the offense overcome a slow start as

the Generals rallied to top the
Sewanee Tigers 17-0.
With the shut-out, the W&L

defense has not been scored on in
over seven quarters and has forced 10
turnovers over that span.

Saturday against Sewanee, the
offense again was shut out in the first
half, but the defense kept the
Sewanee offense off the board.

To start the second half, the
Generals took control of the game.
On second down from the W&L 49,
junior quarterback Fred Renneker
carried on an option for 36 yards to
the Sewance 14-yard line, setting up
a 27-yard field goal from senior
Carter Quayle to give the Generals a
3-0 lead.

The defense then took over,
causing a Sewanee turnover to get the
offense the ball again. On second

Hooker, W&L

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

 

Recently, games ending in over-
time with the score 2-1 have meant
defeat for the Washington and Lee
men’s soccer team.

But on Tuesday at Liberty Hall
Field, it was the Generals’ turn to
capture a 2-1 overtime victory as they
defeated Hampden-Sydney in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference tourna-
ment quarterfinals.

W&L opened the scoring in the

Furniture Dealers

  
 

    
   

ba a 742

463-7969

Generals blank Sewanee

down from the W&L 31, the Tigers
tried a reverse.

Junior defensive end Scott
Williamson hit David Merrell 12
yards behind the line of scrimmage
and forced a fumble. Sophomore
defensive tackle Thomas May for the
Generals.

Renneker quickly hit senior
tailback Mason Pope for a gain of 21
to get the drive going, and later kept
the drive alive with a  six-yard
completion to Pope on fourth down
and three. A third completion to Pope
put the ball on the Sewanee five-
yard line.

After a time out, Renneker looked
for and found junior tight end Brian
Hodges wide open in the end zone
for a touchdown and a 10-0 W&L
lead.

W&L put the game on ice in the
fourth quarter with a big defensive
play and a trick offensive play of its
own. On third down for Sewanee,
junior defensive end John McCallum
sacked Scott Thompson, forcing a
punt.

A holding penalty forced the

tame H-SC in

first half when sophomore Mike
Mitchem received a pass from class-
mate Greg Williams 30 yards from
the goal. Mitchem unleashed a drive
that fuund the back of the net, beat-
ing the H-SC goalie to the upper left
comer,

The Tigers tied the game early in
the second half on a goal by Peter
Northway, and that’s the way things
stood after regulation had been com-
pleted.

W&L won it late in the first
overtime period. Junior midfielder
David Hooker scored the winner from

o

eERSes

Generals into a second and long -
situation, and head coach Gary Fallon
reached into his bag of tricks. He -
came up with a ‘‘hook and ladder”’ -

play.

‘Craig Irons did a six yard stop a

pattern and then pitched the ball to
Wade Robinett,”’ said Fallon.
was a big play and it pumped
everyone up.”’

“Tr 2%

The play gained 21 yards to the "~

Sewanee 40-yard line. Four plays
later, Pope put the game on ice when
he scored from 15 yards out, making
the final score 17-0.

Pope rushed for 87 yards and 3

caught passes for 54 yards was
named Old Dominion
Conference Offensive Player of the
Week. Williamson was named ODAC

Defensive Player of the Week. He —

recorded 12 tackles and a sack.

The Generals, 3-4, will take their
modest two-game winning streak to
ODAC _ rival
Saturday to take on the 1-6 Eagles.

overtime 2-1

Athletic —

Bridgewater this -

the top of the penalty box in the:

100th minute of play.

The Generals, seeded fourth and
the defending ODAC Tournament
Champions, will travel to play Vir-

ginia Wesleyan, the tournament’s top_

seed, in Friday’s semifinals in Vir-

ginia Beach. The final is set for ~

Saturday.
‘“*We’ve shown we can play with
them,’”’ head coach Rolf Piranian

said. ‘‘If we play within our cap-.

abilities, I think we can pull off an _

upset.”’

W&L Students, v we 2 welcome you ato our so for your next hair cut.
We have three experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop
22S. Main St. , Lexington, VA

   

<>) 0D DOSED OGD 0 GED 0am 0am rene tae ig

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair

We can heel you and save your sole while you wait. 2 $

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

| ERD) AER () ARR ) AA () <A ¢) ERR ( ) <BR (em ¢ ) RES <> AR) EER (

 

 

 

 

Resume deadline:

Investment Banking
Opportunities at
First Boston

First Boston, a special bracket investment banking firm,
headquartered i in New York, will be recruiting for its financial
analyst program. Positions are available in the Investment
Banking Department. Seniors of all majors are cordially
invited to submit a resume with a cover letter.

For further information and inquiries, please feel free to

contact:
Fred J. Turpin Rowan G.P Taylor
Mergers and Acquisitions Merchant Banking
(212) 909.2204 (212) 909-4806

 

Park Avenue Plaza
New York, N.Y. 10055

Thursday, November 15, 1990

Submit your resume and cover letter to:
The Career Development Office

 

 

 

 

 

464-6666

Fast

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

US HWY - 11 North

464-

Red Pin Bowling © College Specials |

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

 

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

BOWL (2695)

we

Se oe were 2

vareter de!
FeMPP SS.

"#33 THe es

ate

See ne

es

tists?

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin|_

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM
WéLIFE
The Purple Prince is back!

Prince’s funk/rock style unifies songs on his lastest album

 

By Carli Flippen
Staff Reporter

 

Prince’s new album, Graffiti
Bridge, while continuing the stylistic
experiments of post albums, is one of
his most exciting records since Purple
Rain.

The double-album length record
covers territory from radio ready hits,
such as ‘‘Thieves in the Temple,’ to
an odd burlesque of the blues entitled
‘The Question of U.’’ The diversity
of sound is enhanced by Prince’s use
of several guest singers, including
George Clinton, Mavis Staples, and
Tevin Campbell. The reformed Time
tumn-up to perform four heavy-funk
numbers penned for by Prince. Prince
unifies the album’s myriad styles by
treating all the songs with the distinc-
tive funk/rock sound which has
marked his recordings since 1999.

Graffiti Bridge opens with five
songs, each covering distinctly dif-
ferent styles, each excellently written
and would be the high point of most
other albums. The first, ‘‘I Can’t
Stop This Feeling I’ve got,’’ is an up
tempo rocker, complete with fuzz
guitar and driving rhythm. This
would not be a surprising choice for
the second single.

The second song, ‘‘New Power
Generations,’’ is a funky rocker
which recalls scme of the better
songs on his 1988 release, Lovesexy.
The Time then step in to pound-out
the heavy-funk of ‘‘Release It.’’ The
growling bass and heavy groove
make ‘‘Release It’’ as infectious a
dance song as Prince has written,
rivaling songs like ‘‘Housequake’’
from Sign 'O the Times.

The fourth song is ‘‘The Question
of U.’’ The song is based on a lum-
bering traditional blues structure. Yet,

The Ring-tum Phi, October 25, 1990

the over heavy bass and drums plus
weird arranging and instrumentation,
such as a harpsichord solo, create the
feeling that Prince is parodying the
blues. At the same time, his haunting
melody makes the song oddly beauti-
ful.

‘Elephants and Flowers’’ is the
fifth song on the record. It recalls
some of the paisley psychedelic ex-
periments of Prince’s Around the
World in a Day. However, the bass-
drum groove never let it stay too far
from the roots of Prince’s funk
sound.

The rest of the album progresses
in a similar manner sampling various
styles, yet always keeping an eye on

the funk/rock sound that made Prince
famous. Twelve-year-old Tevin
Campbell belts out ‘‘Round and

Round”’ as if he has been doing this
as long as veteran gospel singer
Mavis Staples, who lends her talents

to the song ‘‘Melody Cool.”’

One week point on the record is
the song ‘‘We Can Funk’’ with Geo-
rge Clinton. The song never really
catches fire like a song written by
those two masters of funk should. It
is neither a great song or fantastically
performed.

Another point Prince has occa-
sionally been criticized for, is his
lyrics. On Graffiti Bridge, Prince
alternates between advocating some
kind of narcissistic behavior, seeking
salvation, and suggesting that in some
way the two go together.

Graffiti Bridge brings Prince back
from the completely commercial
venture of his Batman record to the
creative experimentation he’s been
known for lately. At the same time,
he has released his most exciting
album in a long time.

Chess moves on W&L

Community me

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Chess, the age-old strategy game,
has finally made its way onto the
Washington and Lee campus. Earlier
this month, W&L’s fledgling Chess
Club began meeting every Tuesday
evening.

The club was the vision of Lex-
ington resident Alan Brownstein, who
serves as de facto advisor for the
group. Brownstein, a longtime chess
player, says the club is absolutely
necessary for a school such as W&L.

“IT would really like to see a
Chess Club at W&L that would meet
regularly without my having to be
there,’’ Brownstein said. ‘‘This is
something that Lexington has never

had.

Brownstein’s long-range goals
include having the club’s responsibili-
ty vested in student officers. ‘‘There
are so many college activities geared
towards  chess,’’ explained
Brownstein. For example, he pointed
out that the United States college
chess team championships is held
somewhere on the east coast every
year. In addition, many other area
schools have competitive student
teams. Teams from the University of
Virginia, JMU, and Virginia Tech
would be more than willing to ar-
range competitions with W&L.

Brownstein is a nationally rated
player on the expert level. His skill
level is estimated at about 2100
(2200 being the threshold of mas-
tery). Brownstein is joined by two

mber starts club to analyze

other chess players from the Lexing-
ton community: Mitchell Davis and
Lowell Cooper. Cooper is a Professor
of Music at Southern Seminary Junior
College in Buena Vista.

Besides playing chess, the club
spends part of its time analyzing the
game. During last Tuesday’s meeting,
the’ group replayed last week’s World
Championship match (game three of
twenty-four) between current champi-
on Garry Kasparov and challenger
Anatoly Karpov. Karpov, the former
champion, and Kasparov are generally,
considered the two best living chess
masters.

The match, which ended in a
draw, was quite unusual, Brownstein
said. Karpov took what seemed to be

chess moves

an early lead. The club debated about
why Kasparov put himself into such
a vulnerable situation. In the end,
they decided that even world champi-
ons can make a mistake. The club
then resolved itself into rotating part-
ners for several rounds of speed
chess. While speed chess was the
variety of choice last Tuesday, the
club is open to any variation of the
game.

The Chess Club meets at 7:00 pm
Tuesdays in the University Center’s
basement offices. : While club
meetings last as late as 11:00, players
are free to come and go as they
please. For more information, feel
free to call Alan Brownstein at 463-
2650. New chess players are always
welcome, he said.

 

 

Watch out for trick-or-treaters. Drive safely Wednesday.

 

 

    

3:30 p.m.

7 p.m.

All Day

liam.

7 p.m.

WEEKLY CALENDAR

SOCCER (M&W): ODAC Championships. T.B.A.

BIOLOGY/MATH COLLOQUIUM: "Rhythmic Behavior of the
Pancreas: Insights from Theoretical Models,” John Rinzel,
National Institutes of Health. Room 305, Parmly Hall.
Refreshments at 3 p.m.

POLITICS FILMFEST: The Song of Bernadette. Room 221,
Commerce School.

WATER POLO: W&L "Fall Classic.” Twombly Pool;

SOCCER (M&W): ODAC Championships. T.B.A.

MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney,
Eastern Mennonite.

WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY: Generals vs. Eastern
Mennonite.

POLITICS FILMFEST: The Song of Bernadette. Room 221,
Commerce School.

AWAY ATHLETICS: FOOTBALL: Bridgewater.

SUNDAY, OCTOBER 28

All Day

8 p.m.

4p.m.

7-11 p.m.

8 p.m.

All Day

7:30 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

8p.m.

Daylight Savings Time ends.
WATER POLO: W&L "Fall Classic." Twombly Pool.

ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: Tito Puente,
Latin Jazz Allstars. Jackson Memorial Hall, V.M.1.
AWAY ATHLETICS: MEN'S SOCCER: V.M.I.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Test
Interpretation. Room 108, University Center.

CHESS CLUB: Basement Gameroom, University Center.
Public invited. Call 463-2650 for information.

CONCERT: University Wind Ensemble. Lee Chapel. Public
invited.

CD&P: Practice Interviews (advance sign-up). Room 108,
University Center.

LECTURE: "Strategic Planning at John Deere Company,”
David G. Noble, vice president and general manager, John
Deere Co. Room 327, Commerce School. Public invited.

CLASS OF '62 FELLOWSHIP LECTURE: "Signs and
Symbols...Our Days are Numbered,” Ronald Lane Reese,
Wé&L professor of physics and astronomy. Northen
Auditorium, University Library. Reception to follow. Public
invited. :

PHI BETA KAPPA VISITING LECTURE: "The Coming of Age
of American Art, 1865 - 1900," H. Barbara Weinberg,
curator, Metropolitan Museum of Art. duPont Auditorium.
Public invited.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5

Registration for Winter Teim 1991 begins.

 

  

att

 

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER | 6 DIFFERENT MARKETS

 

 

Eye Of

UNBELIEVABLY
LOW PRICES!

Round Roast

 

Whole

Na 0 G
2 US.D.A.
Lb. Choice

Holly Farms Grad

=, h
N
'

4 fae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

16 Oz. 2

 

Fun Size Snickers,
Or Milky Way

69

Or Three
Musketeers

 

Colgate Tube
Toothpaste

  

6.4- 7 Oz.

 

 

 

    

Ice Cream vca

 

 

 

 

 

6 Pack- 16 Oz. NRB

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, October 30, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, October 30, 1990 In Lexington Store Only. —
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 
 

s
’
‘

¢

4
Ld
‘

*

i ne

'

“ W&L Parents’ Weekend schedule —- see

Che Ring-tum Phi —-

page 4

NOV 5 199

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 11

 

 

 

Peer Soderberg
.. Charged with shotgun blast

Smoke
Gaines

 

By Pat Lopes
Editor

 

fills

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 1, 1990

Student faces felony gun charge

 

_ arena He
By Fraser Bowen
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee junior Peer A.
Soderberg was arrested and charged with a
felony in connection with firing a shotgun
during a brawl between members of two
fraternities early Saturday morning.

At around 2 a.m. Saturday, Soderberg, who
is the vice-president of Sigma Phi Epsilon,
allegedly fired his 12-gauge shotgun into the
ceiling and walls of the SPE house in an
attempt to break up a fight between brothers of

’ his fraternity and those of Phi Gamma Delta.

As a result of the incident, both SPE and
FIJI were placed on social probation and
conduct probation by the Interfraternity Council
at its meeting Tuesday night.

The fight stemmed from a chain of events
that had started several hours before, the exact
details of which are not yet clear.

The conflict began Friday evening as the
SPEs prepared their house for their annual
‘Caveman Party,’’ which included a mock cave
entrance to their house. SPE President John
Flippen said one of the house’s pledges wrote
offensive graffiti concerning the FIJI house.
When officers of SPE learned of the graffiti
they immediately had it removed and
apologized to the FIJI’s, according to Flippen.

‘‘The impression I got was that neither side
was too receptive to the apologies,”’ said IFC
member Eric Mutz.

The next incident occurred at around 10
p.m. when a group of about 20 Fiji’s went over
to the SPE house. Soderberg, who was in
charge of the party because Flippen was out of

town, met the group on the front porch. Words
were exchanged between the two groups, but
eventually tempers cooled off again.

In the early moming, the two groups
squared off again inside the SPE house. The
party was over by this time, but several SPE
brothers, including Soderberg were still inside.

During the fight, Soderberg supposedly
broke free and ran upstairs to his bedroom to
get his shotgun. By this time, both the
Lexington police and W&L security officers
were on the scene.

Lexington Police Sergeant A.M. Miller, who
arrested Soderberg, was in the house at the time
the shots were fired. He said he drew his own
weapon but did not fire.

Police said Soderberg was charged with
‘‘maliciously discharging a firearm within a
building,’ which is a felony.

 

 

Although the IFC has already taken action
against both fraternities, the imposed
punishment will be reviewed and possibly
amended by the Student Affairs Committee
Friday. In addition, the Student Conduct
Committee will investigate Soderberg’s actions.

IFC President Goodloe Lewis said the
council was also concerned the possession of a
firearm in a fraternity house. Both the
university and the IFC have banned possession
of any firearm in fraternity houses.

Mutz said both houses have been placed on
social probation until Nov. 26. SPE will be on
conduct probation until the end of this academic
year and FIJI will be on conduct probation until
next Oct. 30. Also, the IFC requested that FIJI
review the status of the house’s officers.

If a fraternity breaks the conduct probation,
it may face suspension of its charter.

Keg rule gets

hall

 

After two months of false fire alarms, it was the real
thing early Saturday morning for residents of Gaines Hall.

Washington and Lee security guards tripped the fire
alarm about 4:30 a.m. when a smoldering blanket in suite
262 filled the second floor hall in the southern part of
Gaines Hall with smoke. Smoke was also clouding the
adjoining hall in the eastern part of the building and the
third floor halls directly above, Head Resident Assistant

James Rambeau said.

As Lexington Fire Department volunteers doused the
blanket, several residents went door-to-door on the smoky
second and third floors alerting other residents, who were
either sleeping or ignoring the alarms.

Four false fire alarms occurred Friday night. In the
past two months there have been numerous others after
the alarm system tripped unnecessarily. The alarms,
however, did not ring automatically on Saturday. Build-
ings and Grounds Superintendent Jim Arthur said enough
smoke had not gathered in the halls to trip the alarm
system, which he said is in proper working order.

Nonetheless, Ken Ruscio, assistant Dean of Students
for Freshmen and Resident Life, is looking into the
* incident. ‘‘Whenever things like this happen it causes us
to examine things to determine if our procedures and the
system are operating as they should,’’ he said.

The fire was probably caused by the heat of a lamp,
Rambeau said. Junior Paul Mazyck had fallen asleep
with a bedside lamp on. In the course of the night,
Mazyck’s blanket twisted around the lamp’s extension
cord. Eventually, the warm lamp began burning the blan-
ket, Rambeau said, No injuries were reported.

Before Saturday’s fire, Ruscio said he was checking
a possible over-sensitivity of the system, which might
have been the cause of false alarms plaguing both Gaines

and the freshmen dormitories.

The system operates by monitoring particle movements
in the air. False alarms are triggered when motion causes
significant particle movement, Arthur said.

Virginia fire code prohibits W&L to reduce the
system’s sensitivity, Ruscio said, but he said he is trying
to determine the flexibility of the code.

 

Trick or treat?

 

 

Tricia Pheil, a junior exchange student from Sweet Briar
College, hands out Halloween candy from her Gaines Hall
suite last night as Harlan Beckley, a W&L religion professor,
follows the action. Lexington youngsters donning colorful
Halloween garb lined city streets beginning yesterday after-
noon for the annual festival. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Student naps

in local’

 

‘By Macon Miles
‘Staff Reporter

A W&L student was arrested
‘early Sunday morning and charged
‘with breaking and entering after forc-
‘ing his way into a basement apart-
‘ment of a Lexington resident at 211
Barkley Lane while he was intoxi-
cated, police said.

Freshman Garrick O’Neal Stewart
broke a window in the door in order
to get into the apartment of Lexi-
ngton resident Ann Kelly, according
to police.

Kelly, who is the assistant man-
ager of the bookstore at Southern
Seminary, was not in her apartment
at the time. Her 8-year-old daughter
was with Kelly’s mother in the house
above the apartment.

Kelly said she had been at a
Parents’ Weekend function at South-
ern Sem. before she arrived at her
apartment with her escort about 1:15
a.m.

She said that she noticed the gate
to the back yard was unlatched and
the window was broken. When she
entered the apartment she saw
Stewart asleep on her bed.

‘I didn’t know if my mom and
daughter, who were upstairs, were
dead or wounded. A lot goes through
your mind,’’ said Kelly.

She immediately phoned the Po-
lice from her kitchen and then went
to a neighbor who phoned Kelly’s
mother, who had been asleep during
the incident.

s bed

The police arrived a few minutes
later, according to Kelly. The police
arrested Stewart at approximately
1:20 am. According to Sgt. Sutton,
Stewart was intoxicated at the time.

‘*He was incoherent,’’ said Offi-
cer T.H. Pedersen.

Sutton later added that Stewart
didn’t know where he was when he
was arrested,

‘When I spoke with him that
night, he was saying that the Fijis let
him in, and that there was a party
here,’’ said Sutton.

Phi Gamma Delta President Bill
Yorio said he knew nothing of the
incident and that there was not a
party at Fiji that night.

Neither Stewart nor Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison would comment
about the incident.

Kelly said she feels sorry for
Stewart. ‘‘Obviously he has a
problem. I feel like this person needs
help.”’

According to Kelly’s mother,
Stewart had tried to break into her
house and had torn the screen on the
back door before going into Kelly's
apartment downstairs.

“T don’t blame W&L for what
happened. I just think that the young
man was very drunk and needed to
be somewhere else, probably his
room,’’ Kelly said.

Three weeks earlier Stewart was
arrested for being drunk in’ public
while trying to enter a Lexington
church. According to police, Stewart
had claimed to have been locked out
of a fraternity.

 

Gerard Doyon

Weekend packed for parents

 

By Jennifer Gibson
Staff Reporter

The 615 students expecting family
members and friends for Parents’
Weekend can plan the three days
from a schedule of events including
open houses, concerts, sporting com-
petitions and luncheons.

Upon arrival parents are encour-
aged to register in Fairfax Lounge,
where they may pick-up maps and a
final program, Assistant Director of
Development Chris Deighan said.

Department open houses, a careers
seminar, faculty appointments and a
mathematics seminar will lead up to
refreshments for freshmen and their
parents at Lee House on Friday, Nov.
2 from 4 to 5:30 p.m.

“This provides an opportunity for
those attending to meet the President
and Mrs. Lee," said Christie Davis,
Coordinator of Special Events.

Friday evening is marked by two

nod from IFC

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

A new rule banning kegs at frater-
nity parties will go on the books if a
proposed Interfraternity Council by-
law passes a second round of voting
next Tuesday.

The new rule that would ban all
beer kegs at registered fraternity
parties was approved by the council
Tuesday night. The proposal must be
approved again before it goes into
effect.

The council passed the by-law
after it rejected two other rule pro-
posals that members criticized as
being too restrictive. One proposal
called for a ban on kegs and other
communal sources of alcohol at all
fraternity functions. The other would
have banned kegs from being present
in chapter houses at any time.

The agreement on the new rule
was reached after members questioned
the definition of a fraternity function
as outlined in the first proposal.
Members said they felt there was no
reason to ban kegs at functions where
only brothers were present and in-
sisted that the ban apply only to
registered parties.

‘‘What if a few guys want to get
a keg to sit and watch football in the
afternoon?’’ one member asked.
“They should be able to do that.
We're just tying our own noose with
this rule.’’

IFC President Goodloe Lewis,
who was obviously disappointed by
the modification of the original pro-
posal, said after the meeting that he

thought individual fraternity house
corporations would push the Alumni
Fraternity Council to impose a total
ban on kegs since the IFC could not
make the rule itself.

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
said the ban on communal sources of
alcohol was partly intended to lessen
fraternities’ liability by technically not
allowing the fraternity to serve its
alcohol to underage drinkers.

“It’s hard for me to sit here
working for the university and tell
you it’s okay to break the law be-
cause its not okay,’’ he said. ‘‘But if
you’re going to allow it to be broken,
it should happen in a way that it puts
your house at the least risk.’’

In reaction to an incident last
weekend at the Sigma Phi Epsilon
house in which a brother shot his
shotgun at the ceiling during a party
(see related story), Lewis warned
fraternity members that firearms are
not allowed in fraternity houses.

He said storing guns in houses is
a violation of the university’s Stan-
dards for Fraternities.

‘Actually it’s a suspendable
offense since it’s a violation of the
standards,’’ he said.

Lewis also warned that there must
be a sober house officer at all parties
to keep things under control.

“If you think the party is getting
out of hand, just call the police and
they’ll come and kick everyone out
of the house for you,’’ Lewis said.
‘Chief Beard has told me they won't
hassle you about it, and if they do,
come tell me and I'll talk to him
again.”’

Art professor Doyon dies

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Dr. Gerard M. Doyon, professor
emeritus of art history, died Saturday
of complications due to abdominal
cancer. He was 67.

Born in Manchester, N.H., Dr.
Doyon served in the U.S. Army
during World War II. In addition to
other wartime commendations, he was
awarded the Bronze Star for valor in

musical performances, beginning with
the Choral Ensemble Concert at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

In addition, the Student Activities
Board and Independent Union will
present a show by "Wanda and the
White Boys" in the GHQ at 8:30
p.m. with appetizers and a cash bar.

On Saturday, Nov. 3, students and
parents can wake up to a free con-
tinental breakfast and information
session at 8:30 a.m. in the Lewis
Hall faculty lounge.

Later that morning, seminar panels
on student and academic life will be
held, as well as a model law class.

President Wilson will address
parents at 11:30 a.m. in Lee Chapel,
followed by a luncheon on the front
lawn, The cost for lunch is $5 or 5
points for adults and $3 for children.

The football game against
Guilford will begin at 1:30 p.m.

Other athletic events include an
all-day Southern Conference Water
Polo Championships and a rugby

combat.

After the war, Dr. Doyon earned
a bachelor of fine arts degree from
the Manchester Institute of the Arts
in 1949, and a bachelor’s degree in
philosophy from St. Anselm’s College
in 1951. While studying on a
fellowship in Paris, he received
degrees in art history from the Ecole
des Beaux-Arts and Ecole du Musée
in 1952. Back in the states, Dr.
Doyon earned a master’s degree in
art history (1956), and, finally, a

doctorate in French art from Boston
University in 1964.

Dr. Doyon taught at St. Anselm’s
and Florida State University before
joining the W&L faculty in 1968 as
head of the art division, department
of fine arts. He was elevated to full
professor of art history in 1971, the
position in which he served until his
retirement last May.

Dr. Doyon wrote and lectured

Q Please see DOYON page 4

 

Parents listen to Dean John Elrod deliver a speech last year.

game versus Christopher-Newport at
11:30 a.m.

The GHQ will be serve a special
dinner from 5:30 to 8:30 p.m. Satur-
day with entertainment provided by
pianist Art Wheeler, the musical host
for Virginia’s 1990 Film Festival.

The University-Rockbridge Sym
phony Orchestra will perform at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Once again, Washington St. will
be closed from the University Center
to the gymnasium on Friday from 11

a.m. until midnight and Saturday
from 9 am. to 9 p.m. in order to
facilitate parking.

In efforts to minimize _ the
shortage, the University has requested
that students carpool, walk or bike to

classes Friday.
AA A a ETE NT OL te

 

 

OPINION

ee

Students do good
community work

There’s a new book on the market, provocatively titled
Fraternity Gang Rape. In fact, you can find it in the “‘New
Book’’ section of the University Library. On the dust cover,
it claims to expose the ‘‘daily life in the fraternity.’” Among
the daily routine, it would seem, are pornography, ritualistic
dances, and gang rape. Makes you wonder where they get
time to go to class.

Greek organizations are, for better or for worse, on the
run these days. Fraternities and those who belong to them
are increasingly being seen as larger-than-life monsters,
whose only desire is to haze your son and rape your
daughter. In our opinion, that is less than accurate.

Those who view Washington and Lee students as nothing
more than drunken nuisances, frolicking in an undergraduate
den-of-iniquity, must have been quite taken aback last night
to see several fraternity members escorting tiny trick-or-
treaters through the streets of Lexington to collect their
candy.

The escort program was initiated by the Interfraternity
Council, in an attempt to provide a useful service for the
community and win a few friends for what is undoubtedly
the most-heavily criticized student group--fraternity members.
Last night’s endeavor, however, was just the latest
community service effort on the part of W&L students.

Notwithstanding the view of many area residents that
members of our university are lazy, callous and self-
centered, W&L students are involved in a number of
community service ventures. With many of their efforts
largely unpublicized, we would like to take this opportunity
to commend those involved in projects such as Big Brother,
Habitat for Humanity, Adopt-a-Highway and Rockbridge
Area Recreation Organization.

And surprise, surprise, all who subscribe to the short-
sighted view that fraternities are merely houses of the
unholy, fraternities are in the vanguard in a number of these
projects. Sororities also do much more than their share of
organizing and executing community service projects.

We hope that the IFC continues the policy of being
active in the area of community service, because that
organization can be instrumental in spuring some of those
fraternities that have been lax in the area of community
service to greater efforts.

It is our belief that by maintaining an active and
honorable presence in the community, that the Washington
and Lee Greek system can do nothing but create goodwill
between the school and the citizens of Lexington. These
good relations will benefit the image of every W&L student
in the eyes of the community, and might just come in handy
in solving many of the disputes that arise regarding student
interests and rights versus the interests and rights of the
people of Lexington.

To our readers

We must be forced to ask that members of our
community no longer submit anonymous or unsigned letters
to the editor. While we have allowed a few unsigned letters
to appear in print so far this year, we must insist from here
on that no more such letters will be printed.

By no means do we wish to discourage contributions to
the paper, for we are here to provide a public forum for all
sorts of student opinion, but we wish to stress that all letters
must be signed, so that we can verify the veracity of the
letter. If the author requests it, we will consider withholding
that person’s name. Of course, all letters must conform to
obscenity regulations and must obey all current libel laws.

Quote of the Week

With such self-improvement we will not have to have some
magazine tell us how good an university we are. We will
know it ourself.

— The Vanderbilt University student newspaper, providing
the world with a case in point of exactly why they were not
ranked among the top 25 national universities by U.S. News
& World Report.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1,

1990

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

Kappa Alpha
replies to
Critical
Probation

Members of the Student Affairs Committee:

On October 11, 1990, I received a letter from
Dean Howison’s office stating that the Alpha
Chapter of the Kappa Alpha Order had been
placed on Critical Probation for the 1990-91
academic year for violating the Washington and
Lee University Standards for Fraternities.
acknowledge the fact that the behavior of the
chapter on the evening of September 21 was
unacceptable by ordinary standards, and in viola-
tion of the rules that govern fraternities. I am,
however, concerned over a) the lack of focus and
excessive burden of Critical Probation, and b) the
lack of confidentiality and due process in the
proceedings of the Student Affairs Committee.

The following is a summary of the events of
September 21. At approximately 11:30 p.m., the
police notified me that the party was ‘‘out of
control’’ and needed to be shut down within five
minutes. While some members were. out. of
control; and while the organization bears a.
collective responsibility for their actions, Robert
Foresman, a member Alpha Chapter House
Corporation who was present at the request of
the police, saw control restored by the chapter
officers within the allotted time frame. The
police and the House Corporation are in agree-
ment that the chapter officers acted effectively,
and that there were no kegs on the premises. No
written violation or summons was issued, That
night, Robert notified other members of the
Corporation. Henry Foresman and Bill Bean met
with Dean Atkins later in the week, and, as I
understand it, received the impression that if the
Corporation took proper disciplinary action, no
further action would be warranted. My meeting
with Mr. Atkins that week, and a subsequent
conversation with the President of the IFC, led
me to the same conclusion.

The meeting of the House Corporation took
place on Saturday, September 29, prior to any
action by the University or the IFC. The Board
of Directors, of which Jason Gordon, KA’s

treasurer, and I are both voting members, dis-
cussed what course of action should be taken.
We voted unanimously to place the chapter on
conduct probation for the academic year. Other
provisions, to which we all agreed, included
requiring Alpha to employ a House Mother in
January, at an estimated cost of $20,000 payable
by the chapter next semester. The fact that it
was our unanimous decision illustrates a col-
laborative effort between the chapter and the
Corporation. It also demonstrates the officers’
commitment to reform. In effect, the Corporation
did not ‘‘punish’’ the chapter. Rather, the
chapter realized the need for a change in its
collective behavior, and made an effort to do so
in conjunction with the Board. At no time since
the incident has KA failed to acknowledge the
severity of its infraction or its unacceptable
behavior. On the following evening, there was
a band party at the House which concluded
without incident.

Dean Atkins, Dean Howison, and IFC Presi-
dent Goodloe Lewis reviewed the conduct proba-
tion, never giving any indication that the terms
were anything but sufficient. Mr. Howison
expressed satisfaction that KA had taken care of
the matter on its own, and Mr. Lewis expressed
confidence in the chapter officers’ ability to
adhere to the conditions.

In spite of his silence, Mr. Atkins referred the
matter to the IFC. From that point, IFC pro-
ceeded according to its constitution, and placed
the chapter on six weeks of social probation,
subject to review. I was present at the Judicial
Board's hearing, and answered questions regard-
ing the incident. I understand the correlation
between the loss of social privileges and abuses
in a social situation. The terms of the probation
were precise and instructive, and fashioned with
the improvement of KA in mind.

Following a procedure that seems to be in
transition, SAC reviewed the IFC’s decision, and
imposed a harsher penalty. While SAC may be
empowered to increase a penalty levied by the
IFC, it seems arbitrary for it to do so without
first-hand information from the accused. In the
process of unanimously voting to place KA on
Critical Probation, SAC never contacted the
chapter leadership. Please understand the mes-
sage this sends to the chapter. If SAC simply

 

LETTERS

wished to concur with the Corporation’s resolu-
tion, which is the impression I received from Mr.

Atkins and Mr. Hewison, then Critical Probation
hardly seems necessary.

Mr. Howison stated that ‘‘a further violation
of the Standards for Fraternities or other serious

incidents of misconduct’’ would result in a
suspension of the chapter for a minimum of five
years. Violations of the Standards can include
such infractions as noise or litter violations. In
addition, ‘‘other serious incidents of misconduct’’
can include any number of criminal activities by
an individual, for which Mr. Howison would hold
KA accountable for according to his statement.
Both deans have told me that incidents of this
nature would not warrant suspension, but KA has
received nothing but an informal, verbal assur-
ance. Given my recent conversations with the
deans, I am reluctant to leave the present terms
unspecified. If SAC is prepared to increase an
existing punishment, then it must also be pre-
pared to make the punishment fit the crime.

I mentioned earlier that I received Dean
Howison’s letter on October 11. By that time, I
had already heard about SAC’s decision. On the
evening of October 5, I stumbled into a conver-
sation between a KA, a student member of SAC,
and members of another fraternity, who were
discussing the fact that KA had been placed on
Critical Probation. After receiving official notice,
I met with Mr. Howison, who acknowledged that
the details of SAC mee!
confidential. _ He assured me that an effort would
be made to maintain privacy’ in the’ future, with-
out any indication of personal liability on that
score. Shortly after the meeting, however, I
received a phone call from a journalism student
who wished to interview me about Critical
Probation, and KA’s involvement. She explained
that Dean Howison suggested the topic to her
earlier in the week. It seems to me that ordi-
nary standards would prevent an administrator
from discussing sanctions levied against a chapter
prior to official notification. This action displays
punishment as the priority rather than instruction.

I understand that the Fraternity Renaissance
requires a change in the attitude and behavior of
fraternity members. The implementation of
Critical Probation may set the necessary prece-
dent. However, it is difficult to believe that

interest in Kappa Alpha played as much ofa role
in SAC’s action as did the desire to set a stan-
dard for other fraternities. While KAs are
prepared to make serious efforts to live up to the
high standards we set for our members-- stan-
dards that seem even more important during this
Renaissance-- I find it difficult to respond posi-
tively, when the factors against the chapter are
made to seem so vague and destructive.

I would, therefore, ask the Student Affairs
Committee to reexamine its policy of increasing
penalties imposed by the IFC without further
participation of the accused, and would encourage
it to seek a clearer link between punishments and
the specific behavior of the Committee wishes
to see amended. I would also ask SAC to
address the practice of its members of broadcast-
ing Committee decisions prior to the official
notification of the accused.

Sincerely,

Niko Lorentzatos
President, Alpha Chapter
Kappa Alpha Order

Phi article
promotes
race-baiting

I would like to comment on a recent article
in the Phi that was particularly disturbing. It
appears as if certain individuals are attempting to
create an unhealthy hysteria on campus and in
the Lexington community.

The issue that needs to be addressed is the
Lloyd’s article on ‘‘gang’’ activities. Leaving
aside the questionable reproduction of factual
statements, the author states that a Black youth
with a high-top fade came into Lloyd’s. He
proceeded toward the back to play a video-game
and wasn’t armed or anything. Lo and behold, he_
was a member of the infamous ‘‘L-posse’’ The |
lesson is that he looked harmless enough, but he
was a member of a ‘‘gang.’’ Is the implication
that one should fear Blacks with high-top fades?
I hope that this is as ridiculous to you as it is to
me. One is an alarmingly small step away from ‘
advocating fear of Blacks whether they have
high-top fades or not.

When a local youth was asked about this ‘‘L-

S$ are intended to be =”

posse’’ he claimed that there was no such thing
(in alignment with police and Lloyd’s employee
sentiments). The author placed this fictitious ‘‘L-
posse’’ in the article anyway. However, the
article does not cite one incident that the so-
called ‘‘L-posse’’ committed, yet they are one of
the focuses of the article.

To the young women that are scared to eat at
Lloyd’s because Blacks loiter outside -- see a
psychiatrist! I think that the problem in large part

is with you. I can often be found around more
than one other Black student, yet I pose no
danger to you. I resented your stereotyping of
Black people. It was uncalled for, unproductive
and repulsive. It has even come to my attention
that the young ‘‘ladies’’ were kidding. The whole
thing was some sort of perverted joke. It would
have been fitting if the statements were made
anonymously because then you would have been
like the unknown comic, ...and he’s not funny
either.

All of these articles about ‘‘mischievous’’
Blacks attacking ‘‘angelic’’ W&L students is also
disturbing in light of a particular UNREPORTED
incident last year. A Black W&L student was
attending a party at a fraternity that will remain
unnamed. He was accosted by a White W&L
student for wearing a W&L food service hat.
Other people had on acts, but he gravitated to
this particular student. As you would expect, a
verbal confrontation ensued between the two.

One of the very drunk White’ student’s frater-
nity brothers; who is*also White; stepped into
fight for him since he had a better chance of
winning. The new combatant physically assaulted
the Black W&L student...for wearing a hat!
Looks racially motivated to me. Was it racially
motivated? If such were the case, I guess the Phi
missed one. Why did not the concerned students
of W&L at that party report this incident? Was
it because he was Black, soit did not concern
them? I’m starting to wonder.

Generalizing comments about Blacks (no
matter what their hairstyle) is a personal affront.
If civility is still an element of W&L tradition, it
definitely needs a revival. Articles like the
feature on Lloyd’s promote race-baiting, not
civility. Is this the face W&L community would
like to show to a portion of its student body?

Sincerely,
Damon L. Sanders, ’91

Unnecessary
adjectives in
Phi story

I must admit, the first time I read the Lloyd’s
article last week, I didn’t catch the unnecessary
adjective. But when someone else pointed it out
to me, I read a little more carefully.

I don’t doubt Chris Swann’s fact that the man
who attacked Mr. Fleming and Mr. Josey was
‘*black,’’ but I’m not sure I understand the
significance of his race in this attack.

If the Phi wants to get ‘‘colorful,’’ how does
this sound?

‘*A white male, Colin Fleming, and another
caucasian, Robert Josey, both sophomores, said
they were attacked inside of Lloyd’s by a black
male in September of last year.’’

Sounds ridiculous to me. What I hope to
illustrate is that racial distinction in this sentence,
and in several places in the Lloyd’s story, is not
necessary.

Sincerely,
‘*A somewhat off-white’’ Christopher Bray

Praise for the
women’s
soccer team

Coach Hathorn and the women’s soccer team:
Hold your neads high — we are so very
proud of each one of you. Your toughness and
class throughout the season, and especially in the
championship game,were inspiring and joyous to
watch. Thanks for giving this school such cause
for celebrating together. Next season when we
have our voices back, we'll be there rooting for
you, and have all the confidence in the world
that you will win the ODAC title if not more.

- The students of W&L

 

 

 
rey

onl
’ =

vr

praise

i

sare me

‘

—
4

4

pm ae Be Tee tm Ror ee Matern in mee

Ree rn tee rere ee ens Ti i lle —

Ane

OPINION

 

The. Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

Sbar tells all about polo team

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

In a gutless effort to pacify outraged female
readers, who found my last article concerning
issues of the flesh ‘‘repulsive,’’ ‘‘disgusting,’’
‘‘demented,'’ and ‘‘about as funny as a sexually
transmitted disease,’’ I have decided to write a
family-oriented column on the subject of naked
lesbian mud-wrestling. Of course, I’m only joking.
My real intent is to write a relatively smut-free
article about water polo, an ancient sport invented
by Adam and Eve shortly after the fall of man.
Being a member of Washington and Lee’s water
polo team, I must warn readers that this article is
biased and self-serving.

To begin with, water polo is extremely stren-
uous. It takes endurance, strength, speed and a low
intelligence level to swim furiously up and down
a pool chasing after a yellow ball, while opposing
players kick you in the face, punch you in the
stomach and hold you under water until you tum
blue and pass out from a lack of oxygen. To
prepare for the rigors of the season, the W&L
water polo team holds an end-of-summer training
session in which they rise every morning at the
crack of dawn and spend the day participating in
the coach’s sadistic conditioning drills. Occasional-
ly, a naive freshman makes the mistake of over
sleeping during pre-season training. Luckily for the
freshman, he has caring teammates who take the
time to run over to his dorm room and hurdle onto
his bed. It’s a great treat waking up underneath a
pile of guys who haven’t brushed their teeth,
shaved, showered or changed their clothes in
weeks. Just like it would be swell to wake up in

Africa underneath a pile of elephant dung.

The next water polo point of interest concerns
apparel. In the interest of reducing drag and at the
expense of style and human dignity, water polo
players wear competitive bathing suits that are
skimpy and obscene. The only difference between
underwear and a competitive bathing suit is that
underwear is reasonably comfortable. However,
most players are so accustomed to wearing these
suits that they become de-sensitized to the in-
evitable indecency. Some players actually desire to
wear even more revealing suits. Early in the
season, a rebellious faction of the team, lead by
talented goalie P.J. Waicus, suggested that we wear
leopard-skin butt-thongs in order to increase game
attendance. This lead to a team controversy that
local historians are currently calling the Butt-
thong Schism. The issue was finally settled in a
violent inter-squad game of Jungle Ball, which is
essentially water polo without rules and other
safety precautions. Luckily, the butt-thong faction
was narrowly defeated. For the time being, the
team is reconciled. However, P.J., who is suffering
from an eye injury, has vowed to rally butt-thong
supporters like field player Scott Strader and return
with a vengeance.

The problem with water polo is that the game
makes very little sense to people living outside of
California, where the game hold religious sig-
nificance. Fans generally don’t understand the game
and consequently spend most of their time trying
to figure out when they should perform vital fan
duties such as yelling obscenities at the referees.
Of course, veteran polo fans like Severn Duvall,
who is a mild-mannered English professor by day,
can instinctively sense when it is appropriate to
yell obscenities at the referees. Perhaps the veteran
polo fans acquired these skills by watching Coach

Page ‘‘jugular vein’’ Remillard, who emits thick
jets of vaporized rage when referees make bad
decisions. Coach Remillard is prone to get angry at
referees often because he can detect the slightest
technical error. Of course, this is to be expected
from a man who spent ten years of his life in a
Trappist Monastery memorizing water polo rule
books. Because I have to go to practice tomorrow,
I think that now is a good time to get off the
subject of Coach Remillard and onto other topics.

While other students are engaged in week-end
debauchery, the W&L polo team is busy traveling
to remote locations across North America for
tournaments. In order to avoid boredom on these
long road trips, players begin behaving like hyper-
active elementary school students on a field trip to
an amusement park. Two week-ends ago, for
example, Alan Herrick spent about 45 minutes in
a hotel hallway trying to write on my arm with a
yellow high-lighting pen. A lot of tournaments are
held at the Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD. It’s
fun playing there because the team gets to eat in
the Navy Dining Hall, which is roughly the size of
Iowa. It’s just too bad the food tastes like horse
dung.

Another problem with Navy is that my team-
mate, Jim ‘‘the duck’’ Dunleavy, lost my magical
blue towel in the athletic dormitory. The team ,
which is very superstitious, hasn’t been the same
without my blue towel and we are desperate to get
it back. If anyone reading this has any leads or
tips concerning the blue towel, please call Jim
immediately at (703) 464-3762 (if you are out of
state, feel free to call collect). In the meantime, I
suggest you entertain yourselves by attending this
week-end’s home tournament. If you want to find
out game times, or just need someone to talk to,
call Jim at the number listed above.

W&L Greek tax is unjustific

 

only this month, when the treasurers

Chapter of Delta Tau Delta in

Greek life’ were right on target. The

MY VIEW

' By Richard J. Peltz,

' Patrick B. McCabe,

‘ Richard E. Hill Jr. and
* Robert H. Wilson

To W&L Greeks and their Parents:
A serious matter has come to
» our attention, that of the’*Greek tax’’
which has made the news of late in
‘ The Ring-tum Phi. We have decided
» to withdraw our support of this
| billing -- $100 per year for each
member of a house not being
+ renovated, such as ours this year; and
$400 per year for each member of a
house renovated, such as ours next

 

{ -yeary should....we . propeedy with,

-Renaissance.,.-- pending further
justification for,this charge from the
university.

University Treasurer Lawrence
* Broomall has explained that the
‘ Greek tax is to aid the university in
the financing of the Fratemity

" Renaissance program. Renaissance

+ funding is not, however, sufficient

| justification for the tax, for a number

*\ of reasons.

. First and foremost, the Greek tax
is contrary to the university's

‘| obligations under the Standards for
1. Fraternities. Article I Section D

| subsection 1a of the Standards states
‘| that “The University / Shall provide:
+! / Financial support to individual

' fraternity chapters through: a.
‘| Programs to generate revenue for
i renovation, repair and maintenance.”’
i The Standards do not even imply that

4 such revenue would be obtained by a
i direct charge to students.
" Second, the university notified

fraternity treasurers of the Greek tax

   

were reminded to include the tax in
their billings. It is the university’s
responsibility to make rising costs
known to students and bill-payers,
usually , which the university
failed to do. Students learned of the
billing only a matter of weeks ago,
primarily from The Ring-tum Phi and
house treasurers, not from __ the
university. Most parents will learn of
the new charge a matter of weeks
before it is due. What if the
university gave so little notice to
parents about a five percent increase
in tuition? Would that be acceptable?
Mr. Broomall said _that
knowledge of the tax was lost
somewhere between the
Administration, and students and
“I’m sorry I made the

“mistake in, assuming that leaders are _

Mr... Broomall.
Whether fault lies with student
leaders or not, it is not the
responsibility of students to keep
other students aware of university
billings.

Mr. Broomall, as university
treasurer, did apologize for the error.
One might assume that parents or
students who ‘‘forget’’ to pay the tax
can ‘‘apologize’’ likewise without
penalty.

Third, the university has placed
no end in sight for this Greek tax.
While renovations have a target date
for completion, there is no indication
from the university that the tax will
be tabled when renovations are
finished. Quite the contrary, in fact.
Mr. Broomall told The Ring-tum Phi
last week that the tax may increase
with costs. If renovation costs
increase when renovations are over,
then something is not right. Will the
tax not decrease when costs decrease?
Fourth, by our calculations, Phi

Jeaders,’’ said

particular has sufficient equity in the
house to claim Renaissance is
pretty fair trade between Delt and the
university. To assess a tax indicates
that Delt is not providing its fair
share of the Renaissance cosis in
turning over its title. To charge Deli
an assessment beyond its title is
essentially charging Delt for
renovations to other houses which are
costing more than the equity they are
contributing. Mr. Broomall and the
administration don’t have a problem
with this. Mr. Broomall said that the
administration knew well beforehand
that there would be ‘‘inequilies’’ in
the system. Yet throughout
Renaissance negotiations with the
university, Delt has repeatedly been
told that the ultimate goal of the
program is to bring all houses toa
level ‘of equality. It seems the
university is mot above using
hypocritical means to achieve noble
ends.

Fifth, because of our
advantageous financial position, the
acquiescence of our Brothers in going
ahead with the program was largely
in a spirit of cooperation between our
house and the university community,
not a reluctance to tackle the
renovations ourselves, a plan which is
financially feasible. Now it seems
that the university has taken our
participation for granted and plans to
take advantage of houses such as
ours, which are entering Renaissance
with generous postures.

Sixth, the feelings of Mr.
Broomall and Associate Dean of
Students Leroy Atkins in last week’s
Ring-tum Phi indicate an ignorance of
the financial standing of Greeks.
Kappa Alpha Theta President
Kimberly Booth’s fears of heavy
financial burdens negatively affecting

primary motivation we have observed
for Delt ‘‘deactivation’’ has been
financial reasons. Further, many men
have failed to pledge solely for
financial reasons. Now the university
is going to make it even harder for
students to participate in the Greek
experience, a. socially and
academically beneficial part of life at
W&L.

For Mr. Broomall and Dean
Atkins to suggest that $400 or even
$100 per year will not have much
impact on individuals is typical of the
ignorant attitude that ‘‘everybody at
W&L has more money than they
know what to do with.’’ The
Financial Aid Office could surely
provide statistics to the contrary.

Chi Psi Treasurer Joe Milcoff
was very right last week when he
said ‘*This’ is not © a’ “communist
country.”” Yet the university
continues to regard all fraternities as
a single institution which generates a
single sum of revenue and requires a
single sum in costs. Yes, we get
along fairly well. No, we are not all
the same. We do not simply divide
up the freshmen men into even
numbered groups when they come to
campus in the fall; rather, we
compete for quality men who we
want to be our Brothers. The very
fact that we compete should be a
sign to the university that we are
different, independent entities that
must be dealt with, each in a
different context. Specifically, each
house has different strengths to offer
the Renaissance program, and each
has different liabilities. You cannot
throw all strengths and liabilities into
one big pot and dish it out in even
helpings. It just doesn’t work that

Please see Tax page 5

 

 

 

  

Help wanted
Interested in being an advertising
salesman for The Ring-tum Phi?
We currently need two or three
more salesmen. For more informa-
il] 463-8581.

tion, please

Go skiing
The Ski Club will hold a brief
organizational meeting for anyone
interested tonight at 7 in Room 7
in Newcomb Hall.

Foreign affairs
The Foreign Affairs Club will
hold a meeting tonight at 7:30, in
Newcomb Hall. We will be dis-
cussing our trip to the Princeton
model U.N. in Febuary and other
upcoming events. New members
are welcome.

Politics

The Political Review is interested
in articles and papers written by
students and faculty for the
fall/winter issue. Deadline is Nov.
15. Please bring all submissions
to Carol Caulkins in Room 104
of the University Center. All
submissions should include your
name, year, and telephone num-
ber. If there are any problems or
questions, please contact Ingrid
Schroeder or Megan Koch.

Good luck

Those wishing to apply for a
summer internship with The

. Washington Post should send a

request for an application to:
Summer News Program, News
Department, The Washington Post,
1150 15th Street, N.W., Washing-
ton D.C. 20071. Applicants must
have an interest in journalism,
writing ability and typing skills.
Previous experience al a commer-
cial and/or college newspaper is
preferred.

More politics

Pi Sigma Alpha, the national
political fraternity, is looking for
new members. If you have taken
10 or more credits in politics, and
have a 3.0 or better in those
courses, your are qualified to join
Pi Sigma Alpha. This year, the
fraternity will host several speak-
ers, have a debate, and will lead
a voter registration drive. If inter-
ested in becoming a member,
contact Prof. Handelman or John
McManus.

Nice eyes

Come out and vote for the hottest
eyes on campus! Delta Gamma is
sponsoring their First Annual
Beautiful Eyes Contest next week
in front of the Co-op, and the
eyes that earn the most money
win. All proceeds will go to the
Delta Gamma Foundation to bene-
fit Sight Conservation and Aid to
the Blind. For more information,

please contact Cathy Lopice
464-4553. rT

IGENERAL NOTES

  

Art reception
“Red Letter Days: British Sport-
ing Art of the 18th and 19th
Centuries’’ will be on display at
the Anne Gary Pannell Art Gal-
lery at Sweet Briar College. On
Nov. 9, there will be a preview
reception at the gallery.

Fight M.D.

Contribute to the fight against
Muscular Dystrophy. Sign up in
the D-Hall tonight to give up
your dinner on Nov. 8. All pro-
ceeds will go to: the Superdance
fund.

Orientation

The Mock Convention Steering
Committee will hold two oricnta-
tion sessions for students inicrest-
ed in participating in the 1992
Mock Democratic Convention.
They will be held at 7 and 9 p.m.
on Nov. 8 in Room 203 of Reid
Hall.

Card game

We’re looking for one or two
other people who understand the
card game pinochle and would be
interested in getting a game to-
gether. For information, please
call Josh at 463-2397, or Colin at
463-9286.

IU/SAB party

The Independent Union, in con-
junction with the Student Activi-
ties Board and the Student Tele-
phone Union, will hold a wine
and cheese reception at 8:30 p.m.
tomorrow night in the Fairfax
Lounge. Afterwards, there will be
a concert in the Pit. All students
and their parents are invited.

Booksale

The mostly annual University
booksale will run from Thursday,
Nov. 1 until Nov. 8 in the Uni-
versity Library lobby.

Hockey
Anyone interested in joining the
W & L Ice Hockey club should
contact Louis Kaye, 464-5477.

FD theme

What do you want the Fancy
Dress theme to be? The SAB
wants your ideas for a theme.
Turn in written ideas at Carol
Caulkins office in the University
Center by Tuesday, Nov. 6

Get It Out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes! Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside the Ring-Tum
Phi office at room 208 in the
University Center.

 

 

~ - - - - «

~

~ .

    

Interviews and photos
by Amanda Hughen

 

 

TALKBACK

 

 

 

 

 

Ween)
wiatneny o pithie i err

Militias ies
SOC Re RRR A

 

 

 

Travis Shaw, °91, Virginia
Beach, VA — ‘‘Can you charge it
home?”’

 

Lisa Dowling, °93, Baltimore,
MD — “‘I think it is ridiculous,
we shouldn’t have to pay it and
I can’t afford it.’’

getting slapped with

Joe Milcoff, 92, Pittsburg, PA -
- “In reality, we (Chi Psi) are

taxation and will see no benefil
from the money we pay.’

 

Holly Buffington, 92, Birming-

' ham, AL — ‘‘If they are going to
: be taxing the entire Greek system,
they need to tax girls’ schools,

independents and cadets, too.

  

What do you think about the Greek tax?

 

 

 

 

 

Pete Klingelhofer, ’91,
Baltimore, MD - ‘‘What are you
talking about?

Catharine Caldwell, ’91, Birmin-
gham, AL = ‘‘I just hope Buddy
and the Housing Corporation have
a good February Break.”’

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

NEWS
EC reps

attend

honor seminar

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

Junior Executive Committee
Reps. Clayton Kennington and Carol-
ine Wight represented the Washington
and Lee Honor System at a five-day
honor conference at the U. S. Military
Academy last week.

About 60 representatives from
some 20 schools attended, according
to Kennington and Wight, most of
them from military academies, includ-
ing Virginia Military Institute. The
group was divided first into thirds
where each delegation presented their
honor system to the group and an-
swered questions.

‘*They were impressed that we
were totally student-administered,”’
said Wight, ‘‘and they were very
impressed that the single sanction
worked.”’

 

 

 

Caroline Wight

Wight said that final say in most
of the academies’ honor systems is in
the school administration rather than

a student organization. Moreover,
gradations in sanctions are common,
such as giving greater tolerance to
freshmen over seniors, or someone
who confesses over someone who is
turned in.

Wight also said many systems
have ‘‘toleration clauses,’’ such as ‘‘a
student will not lie, cheat or steal, or

Enclosed is

Name:

 

tolerate a student lying, cheating or
stealing.”

“Some systems, such as Rice,
apply only to academic violations,”’
said Kennington. ‘‘They say nothing
about daily life or acting honorably.”

The large groups were broken
down into groups of six for the re
mainder of the conference. They
were charged with creating the ‘‘ideal
honor system,’’ said Kennington and
Wight, ‘‘that could be implemented in
any school.”’

Kennington said his small group
decided that implementing an honor
system at a school previously without
one would require a multi-sanction
system to start. Otherwise, **nobody
would turn anyone in,’’ said Ken-
nington.

‘*A vote down the line,”’ he said,
would change the system to single
sanction.

Kennington and Wight received a
number of suggestions to improve the
W&L Honor System, including a
mock-closed trial, honor committees
to orient small groups of students to
the honor system, and a test on the
system that new students must pass.

‘“‘That was the main thing that
struck me,’’ said Wight, ‘‘that we
need more education.’’

The University of Virginia, Duke
University and Princeton University
were among other civilian schools at
the conference, according to Kenning-
ton and Wight.

In other business, Sophomore EC
Rep. Kirk Ogden expressed concern
about theft from dormitories by stu-
dents at area women’s schools.

EC President Tom Hatcher remin-
ded W&L students ‘‘that while they
should feel safe, to be careful,’’ espe-
cially on weekends when students visit
from other schools.

Hatcher also announced that the
EC will review the 1989-90 proposals
of the Constitutional Revisions Com-
mittee on Nov. 12.

I MAS WW. QQ GQ SSS Sen

ms pepe aor wegen

PAR
ALUMNI

stay informed of what’s going on
at Washington and ‘Lee

Subscribe to

   

ata or

The Ring-tum Phi

W&L’s only student newspaper
P.O. Box 899
Lexington, Va.

24450

ee en ee ee

my check for $25

Please bill me when my issues

start arriving

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990
TRS Sai NOR ee aera

4

 

 

 

Friday, November 2
8:00 a.m. Classes Begin. Parents are welcome to join their
students in their classrooms.
9:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. Registration University Center
Fairfax Lounge
9:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. *Open Houses Academic Departments
and University Offices
2:00 p.m. Careers Seminar: Northen - University
“Where Our Graduates Go” Library
2:00-4:30 p.m. ** Appointments with Individual
faculty, administration Offices
4:00-5:30 p.m. Open House for Freshmen Lee House
and their parents
8:00 p.m. Concert: Choral Ensembles Lee Chapel
9:30 p.m. Live entertainment sponsored General
by the Student Activities Board = Headquarters
Saturday, November 3
All Day Water Polo: Twombly Pool
Souther Conf. Championships
8:00 a.m.-10:00 p.m. *Open Houses Academic Departments
and University Offices
8:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m. Registration University Center
Fairfax Lounge
8:30 am. Continental Breakfast Lewis Hall
with the School of Law Faculty Lounge
faculty, administration

Busy weekend planned for parents;

9:00 a.m. -11:00 a.m. **Appointments with faculty, Individual
administration Offices
9:00 -10:00 a.m. Seminar Panels: TBA
1) Student Life
2) Academic Life
9:15 a.m. School of Law Lewis Hall,
Information Panel Moot Coun Room
10:00 a.m. Model first-year law class Lewis Hall
Moot Court Room
10:15-11:15a.m. Seminar Panels: 2nd Session TBA
1) Student Life
2) Academic Life
11:30 a.m. Report to Parents Lee Chapel
President John D. Wilson
12:15 -1:15 p.m. Luncheon Front Lawn
1:30 p.m. Football: W&L vs. Guilford Wilson Field
8:00 p.m. Concert: University -Rockbridge Lee Chapel
Symphony Orchestra
Sunday, November 4
3:00 p.m. Concert: American Boychoir Lee Chapel

* The Open House Schedule will be available at registration.
** Students must arrange each 15-minute appointment.

Please mark your calendar for next year’s Parents’ Weekend. The dates are

November 1-2, 1991.

 

 

 

DOYON

from page 1

extensively in his specialty, 19th
century French art. He was the author
of a three-volume paperback series
Art by the Masters, published in
1967. He also lectured yearly at the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.

While at Washington and Lee, Dr.
Doyon was an artist as well as a
teacher. He hosted several art
exhibitions in the duPont Art Gallery.
For many years, Dr. Doyon drew for
the News-Gazette as its -editorial
cartoonist. In addition, he was a
strong supporter the Fine Arts in
Rockbridge (FAIR) summer program
for children.

Demir ay nme

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Address:

 

 

ee

 

Cee. | ak |

= ee ccc ccinticstiheseennseclncslailcnlaia aia iii ada ils

He L™™hBEAEXT Wy ©  » nndndndd»]§’§ MM WV

In 1984, Dr. Doyon was awarded
the Jefferson Davis Medal for
Research in the History of the South
for tracing the history of the statue of
Robert E. Lee in Lee Chapel.

Dr. Doyon will, perhaps, be
missed most due to his charm and
antics in the classroom.

“I really enjoyed my work for
him because he was one of those
people who loved both teaching and
the students,’’ said Christie Davis,
89. Davis work studied with Dr.
Doyon during her junior year. ‘‘I was
composed until I saw his wife at the
funeral,’’ which ws held yesterday,

Davis continued. ‘‘They were the
most adorable couple.’’

“Gerard was very fond of
dressing up,’’ recalled Professor
Albert Gordon of fine arts. He said
students as well as faculty will
probably remember his love for the
Fancy Dress ball. ‘‘He and his wife
would always dress according to the
theme. They always had a great time,
and went out of their way to help
others enjoy themselves. He was a
fun colleague.’’

Dr. Doyon’s retirement last year
was completely voluntary. According
to Gordon, ‘‘He retired fully looking

 

 

forward to a wonderful retirement. I
think he had no idea of his problem.
Retiring was simply in the regular
course of events. This, I believe, is
the greatest tragedy.”’

Dr. Doyon is survived by his
wife, Marie-Therese of Lexington;
two daughters, Suzette Bernard of
Pensacola, Florida, and Denise Jared
of San Jose, California; and a son,
Leon Gerard Doyon.

The family has established the
Doyon Art Scholarship Fund which
will make it possible for artistically
talented children of modest means to
attend the FAIR summer program.

 

 

 

 

 

 

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

US HWY - 11 North

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

 

464-BOWL (2695)
7

>

~~

NEWS

 

1.U. searches for
‘stronger identity’

 

By Chris Bray
Staff Reporter

 

The Independent Union is search-
ang for a new, stronger identity on
the Washington and Lee campus, ac-
jcording to I.U. president Erica
iIngersoll.
| The organization’s immediate goal
tis to let independents know it exists,
ishe said.
| **We want W&L independents to
‘know we're around and what we
{have to offer,’’ said Ingersoll.
| According to Ingersoll, the I.U. is
\an organization for males and females
jof any year, who want to enjoy social
{functions yet avoid the structure and
commitment of Greek life. The LU.
‘also provides a means for indepen-
dents to pursue intramural sports and
jother interests,

} “If an independent comes to us
iwith an idea for an event or an activ-
lity, we encourage them to run with
jit,’’ said Ingersoll. ‘‘The IU. has
‘money to support most independent
‘interests.’
| The IU. has planned a wine and
{cheese reception for Parents’ Week-
jend and hopes to provide indepen-
{dents with social outlets during other
‘big W&L weekends, such as Fancy
Dress, according to Ingersoll.
Ingersoll said the I.U. is anticipat-

ing a role in the proposed new stu-
dent center. Associate Dean of Stu-
dents for Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Bud-
dy’’ Atkins, a member of the center
Planning Committee, independents
will take an important part in the
planning of the facility.

“In terms of planning, what the
student center will do for indepen-
dents is more important than what it
will offer the Greek organizations,
which in most cases already have
meeting places,’’ said Atkins.

The Planning Committee, which is
scheduled to begin meeting Nov. 1,
will seek input from the Inter-
fraternity and Panhellenic Councils as
well as the I.U., said Atkins.

“The facility will be for all mem-
bers of the W&L community,’’ said
Atkins. ‘‘The Planning Committee
will make sure everyone gets their
say.”’

Ingersoll said she looks forward to
the independents’ role in the plan-
ning.

“The Student Center could pro-
vide a much needed meeting place
for independents,”’ said Ingersoll.

Those who wish to learn more
about the Independent Union may
sign an interest sheet posted outside
Carol Caulkins office in the Universi-
ty Center or may call Erica Ingersoll
or Richard Spence.

 

Tax

from page 3

 

way.
We entreat all W&L Greeks to
consider carefully this Greek tax.
We encourage houses not receiving
university renovations, and sororities,
who do not even have houses yet, to
follow Chi Psi’s lead; this tax
certainly does not apply to you.

To houses that are accepting
university renovations, consider
carefully what you’re putting into the
Renaissance program and what you're
getting back. You might find that
multiplying $400 by the number of

by an indeterminate number of years,
alters the leaning of your figures.
And to Mr. Broomall, who says
he’ll revoke the charter of a house
that doesn’t comply: To our
knowledge, the University has not
granted a single charter to any
fraternity. Likewise, it is not
empowered to take them away. If you
end recognition of a chapter, its
nationals will very likely consider
revoking the charter, but any national
fraternity will want a reason why
recognition was terminated before it
takes any action. An unjustified

brothers. in. the house,.then. multiplied..,...Greek.tax won’t cut it as an answer.

Corgin Suits/Sport Coats

Ruff Hewn

Boston Trader
Sero/Gitman Shirts
B.D. Baggies

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

Prof. recovering
from heart attack

Washington and Lee Professor of German
B.S. Stephenson is recovering at home from a
mild heart attack and will resume teaching winter
term.
“His spirits are good, and he’s anxious to
get back into the classroom as soon as he can,”’
Dean of the College John Elrod said.

Stephenson was taken to Stonewall Jackson
Hospital on Oct. 9 and remained there eight
days, the first two in intensive care.

The university has hired Lore M. Amlinger,
who has taught German at the University of Vir-
ginia and Virginia Military Institute, to handle

 

Stephenson’s course load, said Associate Dean of
the College Laurent Boetsch.

Meredith to speak
at Contact lecture

Contact will present James Meredith as its
first speaker of the year. Meredith, the first black
person to enter the University of Mississippi,
will speak Wednesday in Lee Chapel at 8 p.m.

Meredith entered the U. of M. in 1962 amid
protests from much of the nation, including
Mississippi Gov. Ross Barnett. Meredith's en-
trance was seen as a critical point in the civil
rights movement.

Meredith currently works for controversial,
conservative Sen. Jesse Helms.

D.U.I. case
heard in court

A Washington and Lee student who drove his
car off the road injuring a fellow student pled
guilty in court Wednesday to charges of driving
under the influence of alcohol and failure to
wear a seatbelt.

Sophomore Brandon Green was fined $200
for the incident by District Court Judge Joseph
E. Hess.

Green drove his car off the road after a
country party in September. Passenger Elizabeth
Hancock was rushed to a Roanoke hospital by
helicopter. She was released several days later
and retumed to classes.

 

 

New I.D. card system is on the way

 

By Andrew Tucker
Staff Reporter

The University Card project is in full swing
and students will soon be able to use their cards to
make purchases at the Bookstore, the Co-op, the
Dining Hail and the GHQ.

The Business Office has recently expanded in
order to meet the operational needs of the
University Card system.

John Cuny, an assistant to the Treasurer, said
that he hopes students will be using their cards at

the new locations as early as December third.
Cuny also said that the ultimate objective of the
new system is to allow students the freedom of
only carrying their ID Cards when they are on
campus. The system is even capable of replacing
room keys with the student ID’s.

Cuny warns that these are long term goals and
that it will be several years before students enjoy
these freedoms.

The cards rely on two magnetic stripes for
operation. Scanners, similar to the ones currently
in operation in the copy machines, read the stripe
and deduct an amount from the cards account.

The Treasurer’s Office hopes that vendors will
pay to have these readers installed in their mach-
ines so that students will be able to buy Cokes and
one day wash their clothes with their University
Cards.

According to Cuny, the University has already
spent close to $100,000 on the new program.

The University is interested in the system
because of its flexibility and the luxuries it will
give to students. Students will be able to charge
their accounts home to their parents. In fact, Cuny
warned that ‘‘the biggest problem I see is the
capability of the students to abuse it.’’

Ariel changes format for next issue

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

 

Ariel, the Washington and Lee literary
magazine, has changed the process by which it
chooses student and faculty submissions in an
attempt to provide an unbiased opportunity for all
hopeful writers, according to Editor Joei Dyes.

Dyes said that last year’s Ariel had no real
guidelines for choosing submissions, and as a result
many talented writers were turned away.

“The only people represented in Ariel last year
were upperclassmen. This may have been a simple
coincidence, but it looked bad. Ariel is not the
New Yorker. It would be great if the magazine is
competitive, but it is a student. publication and all

he os Fs «

To

All

 

classes should be represented,’’ said Dyes.

Members of the Ariel staff have been divided
into several sub-staffs which include literary, art,
public relations, and layout. The literary and art
staffs who will decide on submissions have one
representative from each class and one from the
Law School.

After the Nov. 9 deadline, the members of
these two staffs will meet. At this meeting, literary
efforts will be divided into six stacks, and art
submissions will be divided into three stacks.
Each member will be given a stack to rate on a
scale of 1 to 5. The members will then rotate
their stacks until each member has read all
submissions. The scores will then be tallied.

““T hope by instituting this new system there
will be a level of input from all classes that will

limit bias. We want students to know their
submissions will be judged fairly,’’ said Dyes.

Another change for Ariel is the move from 20
pages to 40. Several people have expressed
skepticism over whether the magazine can fill 40
pages, but Dyes remains optimistic.

‘Some members of the Executive Committee
were reluctant to support the extra 20 pages, but
compared to other literary magazines, Ariel is
simply a pamphlet,’’ said Dyes.

People on this committee will push for a
greater number of submissions through flyers and
letters to the faculty.

Dyes also plans to award a $300 prize at the
end of the year to the best work.

“‘W&L stresses being the best of the best,”’
said Dyes. ‘‘Ariel should be no exception.”’

Brecken Ridge
Ruff Hewn Ladies
Lanz

Pendleton

Jayson Younger

Parents
Thank You For Your Support

In appreciation - we are offering

of
ALL SPORT COATS, BLAZERS AND SUITS

20% Off

LADIES SKIRTS
20% Off

The College Town Shop

111 West Nelson Street

 
NEWS

Convention
in planning
stages

By Kimberly Boots
Staff Reporter

 

 

In March of 1992, all the raucous
politicking and general chaos of a
national nominating convention will
descend not upon San Francisco or
Atlanta, but upon Lexington.

Mock Convention is a W&L
tradition which a student experiences
only once during his undergraduate
education and an event which attracts
national attention. Its purpose is to
accurately predict the presidential
nominee for the party which is cur-
rently out of office.

The 1992 Mock Democratic Con-
vention is already in the planning
stages. The Executive Committee
appointed the Mock Convention
Steering Committee last spring and
the committee is now preparing for
other students to get involved.

‘Eighty percent of the student
body will be involved in some facet’’
of the convention, said John Donald-
son, Administrative Chairman of the
1992 Mock Convention.

On Nov. 8 there will be two
orientation sessions for all interested
students, at 7 p.m. and again at 9
p-m., in room 203 of Reid Hall.
These sessions will include an over-
view of Mock Convention history
illustrated by a recently produced
videotape of past conventions.

Currently, the committee’s objec-
tives are to raise money, to fill the
various available positions and to
plan for the Spring Kickoff Week-
end, which will take place in late
April or early May of 1991. Con-
vention positions include approximate-
ly 15 Committee Chairmen, 55 State
Chairmen, delegates to each of the
states and people to work in areas
such as public relations, facilities,
accommodations and memorabilia.

The 1992 Mock Democratic Con-
vention has an 84-year-tradition of
authenticity to uphold. The first
Mock Convention, held in 1908 as a
class project, began the tradition of
accuracy when the students correctly
nominated William Jennings Bryan

;
)
y
P|

-

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

Demos want new district :

 

 

Students gather at the 1988 Mock Convention. File photo.

for the Democratic presidential candi-
date.

In keeping with that first victory,
14 predictions of 19 conventions have
been correct. Since 1948, the con-
vention has chosen incorrectly only
once out of ten times and has been
right in selecting Dwight D. Eisen-
hower, Adlai Stevenson, John F.
Kennedy, Barry Goldwater, Richard
Nixon, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan,
Walter Mondale and Michael Du-
kakis.

Over the years since the first
Mock Convention, the size and char-
acter of the event have changed.
Conventions were first held in Lee
Chapel, then in Doremus Gymnasium,
and now in W&L’s Warmer Center.

The first convention in 1908 was
a measure of students’ preference for
the presidential candidate. Today,
personal opinions are set aside and
the emphasis is put on mirroring the
actual states’ preferences.

As the convention has grown in
prestige, it has attracted distinguished
speakers. In 1960, Harry S. Truman
was the keynote speaker. Richard
Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Barry Gold-
water have spoken at Mock Conven-
tions. Many Mock Convention
speakers are also present at the actual
party conventions. Presidential candi-
date hopeful Jesse Jackson spoke at
the Spring Kickoff of the 1988 Mock
Convention. Atlanta Mayor Andrew
Young and Arkansas Governor Bill
Clinton spoke at the convention in
1988.

The national media has flocked to
Lexington for recent conventions,
including Time, Newsweek and The
Washington Post.

The regimented adherence to the
structure of the real nominating con-
ventions has been credited for the
Mock Convention’s record of suc-
cesses.

‘‘The idea is to try to emulate a
real convention as much as possible,”’
said Donaldson.

Mock Convention will be held in
March, before many of the state
primaries have been held. The state
delegates are apportioned according to
the number of voters in each state
from the party being emulated.
Those delegates do extensive research
to determine how their state will
vote. They often make last-minute
phone calls to party officials before
roll call begins at the Mock Conven-
tion.

Donaldson said that the research
for this convention will be facilitated
by sources of information which have
recently been made available, such as
a hotline which sums up political
events and trends daily.

The Spring Kickoff Weekend will
mark the beginning of the convention
year. A nationally recognized speak-
er will be present. Until then, and
after then, state delegates and chair-
men will be busily researching the
politics of their respective states in
the same manner which has made the
W&L Mock Convention such a suc-
cess in the past.

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

Democrats want to re-draw Vir-
ginia House of Delegate district lines
in Rockbridge County and Republi-
cans are crying ‘‘gerrymander.”’

The newly formed Committee for
Redistricting, made up of local Dem-
ocratic party members, asked Lexing-
ton City Council to endorse a plan
that would unite Rockbridge, Bath
and Allegheny Counties into a single
voting district.

“The fact is we’ve been divided.
With this plan we would be able to
speak as a solid county,’’ said
George Warren, vice-chairman of the
Lexington Democratic Committee,

Local Republican groups vehe-
mently oppose the plan.

“Tt appears (the Democrats) can-
not defeat (Republican) Delegate
Vance Wilkins fairly through an
election, so they want to defeat him
through an unfair gerrymander,’’ said
Lexington-Rockbridge Republican
Committee Chairman, and Washing-
ton and Lee Administration Professor,

Roger Dean.

Rockbridge County was split into
two districts by the Democrat-con-
trolled State Assembly after the 1980
census. Wilkins represents the south-
em half of Rockbridge County,
Lynchburg and a part of Bedford
County.

Northern Rockbridge County,
Lexington, Amherst and a portion of
Augusta County are represented by
independent Lacey Putney.

The House of Delegates will re-
draw districts next year after 1990
census results are in. Each new dis-
trict must contain approximately
61,000 people so Rockbridge County
must combine with other areas to
meet the quota.

Edward Henneman, chairman of
the Rockbridge County Democratic
Committee, said Rockbridge County
should be united with Bath and Alle-
gheny Counties because the three are
all mainly agricultural areas and have
the same types of people in them.

“‘We’re more related to these
counties than Bedford and Amherst
because we’re on the same side of
the Blue Ridge,’’ Henneman said. ‘‘If

you look at the shopping patterns and
the roads...you can see there is more

contact between Lexington and Clif- +
ton Forge than with Amherst.’’

Dean disagrees.

‘*The fact is, the Democrats want ,
to unite us with Covington and Clif-
ton Forge, two industrial cities that ‘
are Democratic strongholds,’’ said ,
Dean. ‘‘Lexington has nothing in
common with these cities. We have +
no industry; all our contact is with
Amherst and Lynchburg. :

“‘The Democrats couldn’t defeat ,
Wilkins after they carved up the
county in 1981. Now thay’re trying ‘
to gerrymander it back again to try to
defeat him,’’ Dean said.

Henneman said he thought the ,
chances of the Democrats’ proposal
being adopted by the House of Dele. +
gates were good.

‘‘Keep in mind, the re-districting '
will be done by the House of Dele- ,
gates, which is controlled by the
Democrats,’ he said. ‘‘I would hope *
this plan would produce a Democratic
delegate from our area, but it doesn’t ‘
gaurantee it.”’ ‘

.

'

Voters go to polls Tuesday

to defraud campaign contributors in connection with *

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

Virginia voters will go to the polls on Tuesday to
choose both a Senator and a Congressman.

Republican John W. Warner is seeking re-election to
the Senate, while Democrat James R. ‘“‘Jim’’ Olin is
running for re-election to the House of Representatives.

Both are facing only minimal opposition from inde-
pendent candidates aligned with controversial political

activist Lyndon LaRouche.

A 1949 Washington and Lee graduate, Warner has
been serving in the Senate since 1978, and has been
Virginia’s senior senator for eight years. Warner is the
ranking Republican on the Armed Services Committee and
a member of the Aging, Intelligence, Environment and

Public Works Committees.

The Senator postponed a Contact appearance at W&L
last month due to Congress’ problems passing a national
budget. He is scheduled to speak on campus during winter

term.

Wamer is being challenged by independent Nancy B.
Spannaus. She is a member of the executive committee of
the National Caucus of Labor Committees. Her husband
is currently in prison, having been convicted of conspiracy

 

 

LaRouche.

Congressman Olin is running for his fifth term as the '

representative of the 6th district of Virginia. Olin, a Dem- »

challenge comes fr
Berg.

Virginia voters

ocrat, does not face Republican opposition. His only

om Independent Gerald E. ‘‘Laser’ ‘
‘

Berg was a member of LaRouche’s presidential
campaign staff in 1988, and is now distributor of the New ’
Federalist newspaper. ‘

will also be asked to decide on four ‘

proposed state constitutional amendments.

The first would

be used to promote
The third woul

authorize lower tax rates on personal +

property belonging to persons over 65 years of age or to

those people permanently disabled with fixed incomes.
The second would allow proceeds from property »

forfeited to the Commonwealth due to drug violations to

'
law enforcement.

d authorize localities to issue bonds ¢

against tax revenues for transportation improvements
without county voter approval.

‘4

The last proposed amendment would allow the state

voter approval.

to issue transportation improvement bonds also without

Voters must register before election day as Virginia ,
state law prohibits same-day registration.

FASTFUNDRAISING PROGRAM...

§ 0
Just ; ‘ yore om prada
ONE .
WEEK.

Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization.

GOING TO DALLAS

Need company to drive to Dallas. Leave Nov. 14th and
come back the 24th. 463-3236

Randal te te te te en es

rn CHORE EIXERC 7.

DA’ wonderul Welcome’to Lexington from...

| R.L. Hess & Bro.

>
7
(
¢
¢
¢
4
(
(4
4
¢

 

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal

 

PECL ELE PE CEE CEE EE EEL ERE EE EEE EECCA

fee.

ris

LPP OC RI LITRES

SL PSEE LEE PERM E ES

PPS OP TOOTS

POPE ETL OO

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

Plus a chance at $5000 more!

This program works!
No investment needed.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

A large selection of Gift Items

WM. L. HESS, Jr.

 

121 S. Main St.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NAF. ® and ™ trademarks of Century 21 Real Estate Corpor
Equal Housing Opportunity @

 

 

ation

Owner Lexington, VA 24450
i 3 West Nelson St., Lexington 464-6666 Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50 (703) 463-2833
SE END) ES AMAR > RAD ) ARR 5 ERR) CNR) RD (ait ce <5 ees ( n
: BAKERY = }
aoe Bieta - Te
’ > =r PRM eee CENTURY 21" professionals ;
és nationwide help more peo-
_ Ask a ails ple find the perfect ole. t
° e = a : “4 than any other real estate
Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers Country “Ritchen T™ i youte tady buy » howe, ;
Robby Jones AN OLD FASHIONED BAKERY call a member of the team ‘
103/463-2022 EAT IN OR TAKE OUT that leads. ,
‘ 8 North Main St.
Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St. Lexington, VA 24450 703-463-5691 eu ‘
With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450 ' aammyy 4 &
I uegudududubedea nek FOGO REAL ESTATE .
8 Lexington
463-1801 4
sieeniienbeoeii stdin
Put your trust .
e in Number One.
DEAVERS A I LEY Op p a dQ © 1989 Century 21 Real Estate Corporation as trustee for the e

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

EACH OFFICE IS INDEPENDENTLY OWNED AND OPERATED,

 

 

 

§
4
rT P Typed *
ig i ia § and Accessories
FAX , 23 N. Main St. t
Lexington, VA 24450 (703)463-5988

©) 203 N. Main St.

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

 

Beads * Sequins * Pompons ¢ Bandannas ® T-Shirts ¢ Incense
Balloons ¢ Clay ¢ Flags ¢ Games ® Rockets ¢ Paint *Models
Stamps ¢ Trains ¢ Feathers ¢ Stencils * Velcro *Clothespins
Eyes ® Ribbons ® Styrofoam ¢ Adhesives ® Glitter ¢Chenille

 

Monday - Saturday
31S. Main St., Lexington

10 a.m. -5 p.m.
463-3355

 

 

 

 

 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

LEE i

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales

Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3478 1-800-768-LEHI

If you haven’t been to
ROCKBRIDGE MUSIC

lately, come in and see what’s new

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

 

 

General Headquarters
(GHQ) !

PHONE : 463 - 1712

 

 

 

MOUNTAIN COPY-GRAPEICS
RESUMES

FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE, WE NOW ACCEPT
VISA/MASTER CARD

NEW SATURDAY HOURS!
125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA ¢ ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

9:00 AM TO NOON

FAX # : 463- 6918

 

 

 

 

 

 

NEW
Fender Guitars
Fender Amps
Gibson Guitars

Epiphone Guitars
Mandolins, Banjos
Zildjian Cymbals
Martin Guitars

Also
Peavey P.A. Systems
Peavey Amps
Fiddles
Takamine
Ovatron
Strings, Books
Accessories

We give lessons...We do repairs
LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
205 N. MAIN 463-5455

11-5 Mon.-Thur.

11-7 Fri.

11-3 Sat.

Let us book a band for your next party

 

 

Sat. Evening Noy. 3rd
5:30 p.m. - 8:30 p.m.

Bring Your Parents

Declining Balance Is

 

Coming Soon

ww Ta

Will Be Open ‘

 

 

 

 
 

NEWS

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

 

Students to be given
spring term surveys

By Tracey Thornblade
_ Staff Reporter

 

Faculty advisors will distribute
spring term evaluation surveys to
students during registration next
week.

Spring Term Study Committee
members Kevin Green, professor of
accounting, and Roger Jeans, profes-
sor of history, said the committee
will use the survey results as part of

‘s? its four-part evaluation of spring

at

esa ——. ‘
1%

CFI LMI LMR RRR BDSM ES

term.
In addition to the student survey,
the committee will also evaluate a
faculty survey, data obtained from the
Registrar’s Office and information

obtained from other schools. It will

submit its final report to Dean of the

College John Elrod in February of
next year.

Green said the survey is structured
to avoid ‘‘opinion shopping’’ and will
concentrate instead on concrete data,
such as special academic opportunities
in which students participate during
the six-week term.

Jeans added that the committee
hopes to isolate those features of
spring term that are different from
the fall and winter terms and then
determine if students and faculty
utilize those features to their full
potential.

Beth Talkington, a student com-
mittee member, said this is the first
time the university has surveyed
students concerning spring term. She
said it is important for students to
complete the survey seriously or else

the committee will assume that they
do not care about. the issue.

Green said the committee will
consider student input more heavily if
a large number of surveys are re-
tumed. Nevertheless, he said the
survey results will comprise a large
part of the committee’s final report.

The committee will have to recon-
cile any large discrepancies between
student and faculty survey results, if
any exist, before submitting its report.
Its recommendation to Elrod will be
consistent with the evidence it com-
piles.

Committee Chairman H. Thomas
Williams said the committee has not
yet decided if it will release the
student survey results before submit-
ting its final report.

Rockbridge rape hotline

 

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

 

A rape crisis hotline has been
established by the Rockbridge Area
Coalition Against Sexual Assault to
help local residents in cases of sexual
abuse.

“On one hand, we wanted to
provide support services for assault
victims,’’ said W&L Professor of Art
Pamela Simpson, a member of the
administrative committee for the
newly-formed RACASA. ‘‘On the
other hand, we want to provide edu-
cational programming for the com-
munity because we think it is impor-
tant that old attitudes about rape and
sexual assault be changed.’’

To achieve these goals RACASA,
a satellite service of Staunton’s
People Against Rape, established a
rape hotline in June. By dialing 463-
RAPE, victims can _ speak to
RACASA volunteers who refer them
to the sheriff, hospital or to profes-
sional counselors. at People Against

Rape.
RACASA volunteers can also
serve as companions to victims as
they go through legal and medical
processes,

The hotline operates 24 hours a
day, and has an answering service
when calls cannot be directly an-
swered by volunteers. Simpson said
that they will soon have a beeper
service as well.

The problem, Simpson said, is
that the state requires 30 hours of
training in order to run a hotline to
provide support services. Though 14
RACASA members, including some
W&L Law and undergraduate stu-
dents, are currently in training, they
are unable to run the hotline as offi-
cial crisis counselors until mid-No-
vember.

Simpson explained that volunteers
now handle calls by reading a type of
script, first asking if the caller is in
immediate danger. Simpson said the
first step is to assess the situation.

She said that not every caller is
raped five minutes before. they. call. A

-alds victims of assault

victim could have been assaulted
months or years before, but for some
reason the crisis has arisen again.

According to figures, one rape
occurs in this country every six min-
utes. Twenty-two women were raped
last year in Rockbridge County alone.
And the number of actual rapes is
usually 10 percent higher than the
number of reported rapes.

According to Simpson, control is
a very important part of rape. Control
has been removed from victims vio-
lently. She said counselors must give
them back their control, in terms of
letting them make decisions from the
start.

: The hotline has had three calls in
its four months of operation. Simpson
said she is not discouraged because
“it’s going to take a while before
people know we're there.”’

: If anyone is interested in becom-
ing involved with RACASA, they can
call the hotline or Simpson and re-

quest a volunteer appl ication form:
ons oe Hes

ey

Bo
pee pee

 

 

 

ol \ oy CS

 

Tough loss

 

Senior All-American wide receiver Craig Irons kneels on the sideline after a heartbreaking loss
to Bridgewater College 28-7. The loss snapped a two-game winning streak for the Generals and
brought their record to 3-5. The Generals take on Guilford at home this Saturday. Staff photo

by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Welcome Parents

Aluin-Bennis stn The Leading
Men’s Clothing Store In Lexington

 

 

 

All Suits and Sport Coats 20%

 

 

 

SERO - Cotton Dress Shirts

IZOD, WOOLRICH, DEANS - Sweaters
Chamois Shirts

Long Sleeve Sport Shirts
Woolrich Outerwear
W&L Ties

Shoes by Bass, Topsier, Clark’s, Walkover
Herman Survivors
Corduroy Pants

Free Gift Wrapping

Aluin-Geunis

Since 1963

STUDENT
CHARGE ACCOUNTS

Cashmere Topcoats

Red Wing Boots

Wool Slacks

Duckhead Khaki’s

W&L Belts

After Six Tuxedos

Formal Shirts

Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts

MASTER CARD

 

 

 

 
SPORTS
soccer falls just

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

 

By MacGregor Tisdale
Staff Reporter

 

In as dramatic an afternoon as
Liberty Hall Field has ever seen, the
Washington and Lee women’s soccer
team fell just a penalty kick short of
winning the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship.

On Saturday, third-seeded W&L
lost to top-seeded Roanoke, 2-1. The
game lasted nearly four hours with
three overtime periods and 12 penalty
kicks before the outcome was de-
cided.

Freshman midfielder Angie Car-
rington scored W&L’s lone goal in
the second half off a feed from class-
mate Corinda Hankins.

‘In Saturday’s game, we came
out of the woodwork and came of
age,"’ said head coach Janine Hath-
om. ‘‘We should have won that
game, no doubt, because we were the
better team on the field.

‘Their keeper won the game for
them, she made the key saves. Roa-
noke, for the most part, wasn’t even
close to the goal on their penalty
shots. Kate Stimeling did an in-
credible job in goal during the shoot-
out.’

‘‘We dominated the whole game
from the second half on,’’ goalkeeper

Kate Stimeling said. ‘‘I think we
deserved to win the game.”’

Freshman midfielder Karen Stutz-
mann agreed that the Generals dom-
inated play. ‘‘Our team put heart and
soul into it,’ she said. ‘‘We wanted
it like you wouldn't believe.”’

The Generals downed Randolph-
Macon for the second time this sea-
son, 4-1, in the semifinals. W&L
became the first team ever to prevent
the Yellow Jackets from reaching the
ODAC championship game.

Stutzmann scored one of the final
semifinal goal to give her a school
record tenth goal for the season.
Sophomore midfielder Ginny Dallam
and Hankins recorded unassisted
goals and sophomore Susan Moseley
scored off a Stutzmann assist.

Stimeling was just minutes away
from her record-breaking ninth shut-
out before R-MC scored on a penalty
kick in the final five minutes.

‘‘We just took it to them and
once we scored, there was no looking
back,’’ said Hathorn.

‘“‘The teams play in the tourna-
ment was one of the most inspiration-
al things I have been associated
with,’’ continued Hathorn. ‘‘The girls
represented the University and them-
selves in a magnificent kind of way
and should be proud of themselves.
This was seen through team play.”

    

= <3

et
r

Sophomore Susan Moseley winds up to shoot against Randolph-
Macon in the ODAC tournament semi-finals. Moseley’s shot found

Said junior midfielder Morgan
Warner, ‘‘We played great and had a
real strong showing. I think it was a
great team effort. We played with

 

 

*

%

Setting it up

 

 

 

 

 

| Sophomore Fran Ascher sets the ball in a match earlier this season in the Warner Center.
Ascher and the rest of her W&L teammates will look to set up an ODAC title this weekend.
\W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

intensity and enthusiasm.”’

The Generals ended the season
with a record of 11-6, 5-2 in the
ODAC. Playing at Liberty Hall Field,

Generals end season with

short in ODAC finals

b es at
: ton

 

the net, and the Generals beat R-MC 4-1 to move into the final

against Roanoke College. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

W&L was 8-2. Their was no question
that hosting the tournament was a big
advantage for W&L.

‘Our fans and supporters were

watching us and it meant a great
deal. Home field advantage was a
key for us in the ODAC tour-
nament,”’ said Hathorn.

another win over Keydets

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team ended its season in fa-
miliar fashion against a familiar op-
ponent.

For the ninth year in row, W&L
beat neighboring Virginia Military
Institute, 2-1, on Tuesday.

In the second half, VMI mounted
a brief rally, sparked by the support
of close to 1,000 noisy cadets who
lined the field dressed in_ battle
gray.

The Keydets made the score 2-1
on a header off a crossing pass.
Fortunately for the Generals, VMI
missed several opportunities to even
the score, and they escaped with a
narrow win.

Sophomore Mike McFarland, the
ODAC’s top scorer, again lifted the
Blue Marlins over the Generals by
recording two assists and scoring a
goal. McFarland scored the winning
goal at W&L on Homecoming Satur-
day in Virginia Wesleyan’s 2-1 over-
time win.

‘‘Saturday’s game had a disap-
pointing result,’’ Piranian said. ‘‘It
was the low point of the season,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

@ Nationwide is on your side

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN
Agent
203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

Welcome
Wé&L
Parents

We have at our
new location
flowers, balloons,
gifts and more..

WE WIRE ANYWHERE

Teleflora’
fe She

ae
weflerson
os forte tv The Homestead
Ten East Nelson
463-9841

 

 

 
 
    
 
      

See a a SR SR

i --Pat says--
j Aloha Mom i
i (

and Dad!

25 a GREE GR ER

FOR RENT

House in Country
463-5383

 

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual or
student organization needed to promote
Spring Break trip. Earn money, free
trips and valuable work experience.
CALL NOW!! Inter-Campus Program:
1-800-327-6013.

 

 

audiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
- ALL. COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

+ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- GAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
+ IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

+ WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

+ TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall

 

 

 

2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

David Hooker

Playing at VMI, just a few hun-
dred yards from the W&L campus,
the Generals seized a 2-0 lead by
halftime.

The first goal came when sopho-
more sweeper Greg Williams deliv-
ered a free kick from the left side
toward the right post. As the Keydet
defense watched the ball, sophomore
forward Reid Murphy hit a running
head shot into the net. The Generals
scored again when sophomore mid-
fielder Chase Davis scored from 18
yards out after he dribbled through
several VMI defenders at the top of
the penalty box.

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

 

fen

463-3106

 

 

Support “Two
For Turkey.”

Give $2 to support needy area famil-
ies on Thanksgiving. Look for dona-
tion table during Parents’ Weekend.

QWHTE FRONT) oo suns.

Sisteensisheatmsasioenineiineneedt
_
a

Welcome Parents!

Come by and open up a charge account for your student
this weekend. We carry a complete line of groceries and
fresh meats. We even offer carry-out deli. Student ac-
counts opened today will be good throughout this school
year. Have a great weekend!

Serving The W&L Community
For Over 35 Years

463-7969

Greg Williams

‘‘We played pretty well in the
first half,’’ said head coach Rolf
Piranian. ‘‘But we got rattled in the
second half when the corps came out.
We played with a lack of stability
and toughness, and we hung on just
well enough to survive.’’ :

Yet, in another sense, the ending
for the Generals was a bit different
from last season.

W&L, last year’s champions of
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence, was eliminated from this year’s
tournament by top-seeded Virginia
Wesleyan, 3-0, in Saturday’s semifi-
nals.

Reid Murphy

which was preceded b;’ one of our
better efforts.”’

That effort was W&L’s 2-1 over-
time win against Hampden-Sydney in
the ODAC quaterfinals, which gave
Piranian his 100th career coaching
victory.

The Generals, finishing the 1990
season at 7-8-2 (3-2-1 in the ODAC),
had four players named to the all-
conference team. Williams and Mur-
phy were picked for the first team,
while junior midfielder David Hooker
and sophomore midfielder Mike Mit-
chem were second-team selections.

 

PRIMITIVE
LEXINGTON PRINT
AND NOTE CARDS

 

depicts
historic

Stonewall

6x44",
envelopes.

 

This contemporary primitive print
by Virginia artist Page Huff Dillon
eighteen

buildings,
Virginia Military Institute, Wash-
ington and Lee University, and the
Jackson

color. Large print 28’’x24'4’" in-

cluding margins.
package of

 
 
 
 

of Lexington’s
including the

House. Full

Note cards,

ten with

 

 

16 WEST
LEXINGTON,

WASHINGTON: STREET
VIRGINIA

24450

 
 

+ By Jay Plotkin

 

Sports Editor

In recent history, whenever
Bridgewater and Washington and Lee
have teed the football up on a Satur-
day afternoon in October, things have
gone down to the wire.

In 1988, the Generals rallied in
the fourth quarter and scored with :32
left to pull out a 14-10 win on Jop-
son Field in Bridgewater. In 1989,
W&L again rallied in the fourth
quarter only to fall a two-point con-
version short of victory in Lexington.

So naturally, it would follow that
the 1990 match-up should provide
more of the same---another close
game decided in the final minute.

But the Bridgewater Eagles had
other plans. They came into the game
1-6 looking to tum their season
around with a win over W&L, which
had come into the game winners of
their last two.

The Eagles set the tone early.
After W&L stopped Bridgewater on
its first possession and forced a punt,
the Eagles’ defense went to work.

Steve Grabeel’s punt rolled out of
bounds at the W&L nine-yard line,
and two plays later, on third down
and six, All-Old Dominion Athletic
Conference defensive lineman Mike

SPORTS
Bridgewater

   

Senior Mason Pope finds the running tough again

The Ring-tum Phi, November 1, 1990

runnin

st Bridgewater. B

 

ridgewater proved to be too much

 

\for Pope and the Generals, prevailing 28-7. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Fitzmeyer sacked junior quarterback
Fred Renneker at the W&L two-yard
line.

Sophomore Bob Ehret’s punt from
the back of the end zone went out of
bounds at the W&L 20-yard line,
and three plays later, Mike Whittle

put the Eagles in front 7-0 with a 14-
yard scoring run.

After the touchdown, both defen-
ses kicked in, keeping the game at 7-
O until late in the first half. With
close to seven minutes remaining,
Bridgewater faced a third down and

 

Sophomore Scott Strader looks to pass the ball in a game against Richmond earlier this season.
Strader will lead W&L against Richmond again Saturday afternoon at 5 p.m. W&L photo by W. Patrick
Hinely.

 

Se

 

 

 

 

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 1 6 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY

 

LOW PRICES!

 

ae

ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

10 from its own 30-yard line.

Instead of passing the ball, the
Eagles ran an option play. Ronnie
Howard took the pitch, made a cut
and was knocked down 20-yards later
at midfield with an Eagles’ first
down.

rere

g too much for \v

“That was a big play,”’
W&L head coach Gary Fallor
we don’t let them get the first dc
on that play, we get the ball b
with good field position. Maybe v
score and maybe we don’t, bul we 5
into the locker room only down |
seven and not 14.”’

With a first down at midfield, B
ran the ball 11 straight times, con
verting a fourth-down and one alon;
the way, to the W&L four-yard lin
Quarterback Matt Puryear finished t
drive with a four-yard touchdown run
on a fake up the middle and a bo
leg around the left end with 36 sec
onds left in the half.

Said Fallon, ‘‘We’re down 14-0 at
this point, but we’re not out of
game. We just needed to come out in
the second half and make a big play
happen for us.”’

Instead of W&L making a big
play, it was Bridgewater. On the
fourth play of the second half, Mike
Redmon put W&L in a 21-0 hole
with a 57-yard touchdown run down
the middle of the field.

‘We just got out-coached on that
play,’ said Fallon. ‘‘We expected
them to do one thing, so we called a
defense to stop that. But they did
something else, and our players
weren’t in position to stop it.”’

W&L narrowed the gap at the

Lie

=

 

i h quarter after
d the lone Bridge-
day. Freshman
lia recovered a
d, giving the Gen-
iheld

ly hit senior split
gain of seven.
Pope then
10, 11 and seven
plays to get the
yard line, where
homore tight end

1 touchdown.
me at the 11:21
h quarter, leaving
time to mount a
revious years, but

igh.

alr

son

r the Generals defense stopped
ced a punt with
sack looked like it
much in the works. But
punt rolled out of bounds
he W&L two-yard line, and on
Renneker was inter-

ending the W&L threat.
scored once more for
margin of victory,
ng W&L's two game win streak.
On the day, the Eagles ran for 380
yards on 70 Both Redmon
and Howard went over the 100 yard

| Please see FOOTBALL page 11

1
> ne ny]
en nla
next play,

en

 

carries.

Polo wins two in Classic

 

By John Neumann
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee water
polo team hosted the W&L Fall
Classic last weekend, and the Gen-
erals delighted the faithful at Cy
Twombly Pool with a strong show-
ing.
W&L won twice before losing to
a Navy club that is ranked in the
East, 12-9. The Generals earned
victories over Lynchburg, 14-9, and
Johns Hopkins, 16-9, improving their
record to 12-8. The Generals also
defeated the Navy ‘‘B’’ squad in an
exhibition match.

“T feel we’re getting our second
wind and the setback of not having
our starting goalie is behind us,’’ said
head coach Page Remillard.

Remillard also said the team has

found the level of play that they had
at mid-season, when the Generals
were on an eight-game win streak.

That the Generals hung tough to
Navy’s ‘‘A’’ team before losing and
beating the Navy ‘‘B’’ team are
indications of how well the team is
playing, said Remillard.

The Generals may have found a
solution to the goalie problem they
sustained when sophomore P.J. Wai
cus sustained a season- ending eye
injury.

Sophomore Andrew Pearson con
tinued to play goalie in the deep end
of the pool, but Remillard used junior
Scott Bronstein in the shallow end
This allowed Pearson to concentrate
on playing in the deep end while
Bronstein handled things in the shal
low end.

Remillard said he has no plans of

changing that situation for this week

earl 2, terface th
oie ee

 

 

Tartar
Control

Gel Or Reg.

 

 

 

 

 

    
       

ie
+e
oa

eT wat” EB, .
»:
Or}

Gal. 3.29

 
  

vf >

 

 

roe

“ =a
PSF ere; “

Psex es L2sec saree

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, No

6 Pack - 16 Oz. NRB

Se

 

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesd: N mi

We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities

None Sold To Deal

rest Pump
Toothpaste

}

 

 
 
   

: Ne

vembe!

end’s Southern Conference champion-
ships, held in Cy Twombly Pool.

The W&L season will reach its
most important point this Saturday
when the Generals face the Richmond
Spiders for the seventh time this
season.

[he two top teams that emerge
from the Southern Water Polo Con-
ference Championships usually
receive spots in the Eastern Cham-
pionships. Therefore, in this semi-
final match-up, the loser will not
participate in post-season play.

The other semi-final will pit At-
kansas-Little Rock versus. Dayton.
The championship match will be
played on Sunday morning at 11:00

am. followed by the consolation
match at 1:00 p.m
The match-ups for this weekend

_| Please see POLO page 11

a

9

 

 

 

 

 

——ng

 

sical Ro saree
 

SPORTS

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

Even though the Washington
and. Lee women’s soccer team
was narrowly edged out of first
place in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference tournament, the
Generals finished the 1990 season
with quite a few firsts.

By the end of October, W&L
had its first winning season, its
highest win total, its highest fin-
ish in the ODAC and its first
appearance in the ODAC title
game.

And the list goes on.

This month the Generals be-
came the first team ever to pre-
vent Randolph-Macon from reach-
ing the ODAC championship
game, they recorded their first hat
tricks and they had a player set a
record for goals in a season.

For their achievements, the
Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team has been named The
Ring-tum Phi’s Athletes-of-the-
Month for October.

Before the season began, head
coach Janine Hathorn said the
team had set a number of goals:
finish first or second in the
ODAC, outscore their opponents,
have a .500 record and beat Ran-
dolph-Macon.

“We played with our hearts
and we accomplished every goal
we set,’’ said freshman goaltender
Kate Stimeling. ‘‘It was just a
great season.’”

On Saturday, top-seeded Roa-
noke beat third-seeded W&L in
an ODAC championship game
decided after 12 penalty kicks,
which only says that Roanoke
was just a bit more successful in
making shots from 12 yards
away.

“The only difference between
us and Roanoke was that we
weren’t awarded a plaque,’ said
freshman midfielder Karen Stutz-
mann.

This season, W&L scored
twice as many goals as_ they
allowed, outscoring their op-

 

Generals shine in October

Women’s soccer team named Athletes-of-the-Month

 

The Ring-tum Phi,November 1, 1990

10

 

The Generals also beat Ran-
dolph-Macon twice in October,
and they finished the year with a
record of 11-6 (5-2 in the
ODAC).

Just three years ago, W&L
was 2-8-3 and last year the record
was 6-9-3. Why the sudden tum-
around? What made the difference
this year?

‘We learned how to believe
in ourselves and we became con-
fident that we could win,"’ said
Hathorn. ‘‘There were only two
occasions when we couldn’t pull
ourselves together this season (a
1-0 loss to Virginia Wesleyan and
1-0 overtime loss to Messiah),
and that’s incredible.”’

For the Generals, a mixture of
talent, depth and desire provided
the formula for success,

**We added skill in the places
we needed it and we also raised
our skill level a great deal,”’ said
Hathorn.

The arrival of a strong fresh-
man class, along with 19 letter
winners from last year’s team
gave the Generals depth at nearly
every position.

“To see the program building
during the past three seasons has
been great. But this year we had
talent to go along with our
desire,’’ said junior midfielder
Morgan Warner. ‘‘We had more
depth this year than ever, and that
made all the difference in the
world.’’

With only three seniors on the
team this year, W&L will retum
its entire defense and the heart of
its offensive attack next season.

‘‘We have a wonderful out-
look,’’ said Hathorn. ‘‘The chal-

 

lenge is not to have the typical

Freshman Karen Stutzmann is about to score a goal in Friday’s 4-

1 win over Randolph-Macon. Stutzmann was one of many stars on |

ponents, 32-16. Offensively, two
freshman scored 17 of the Gen-
erals goals. Stutzmann scored a
school-record ten goals and the
team’s first hat trick, while Corin-
da Hankins had seven goals and
the Generals’ second hat trick.
Yet, that only tells half of the

‘the women’s soccer team. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

story. At the other end of the
field, the W&L defense, anchored
by juniors Ashley Hurt and Nancy
Mitchell and Stimeling (who had
eight shutouts and made 138
saves), allowed only 0.89 goals

per game.

sophomoric season that could
follow a season such as this
one.”’

Stimeling made a loftier pre-
diction.

“Next year will be the year.
Definitely. No second place.”’

But next year is next year. For
now, the W&L women’s soccer
team can revel in the success of
the present.

 

Volleyball set to spike
ODAC tourney foes |

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
volleyball team finished their regular
season Tuesday night with an easy
win over St. Mary’s.

A non-conference loss to Shenan-
doah earlier in the evening did not
tamish a 6-3 Old Dominion Athletic
Conference record, good enough for
a third place conference finish and an
opportune ing in this weekend’s
ODAC tournament.

The Generals finished in a third-
place tie with Roanoke and Emory
and Henry. The seeding was chosen
through a lottery done by conference
call with the athletic directors of
schools involved.

The lottery placed W&L with
Sweet Briar and Easter Mennonite in
the first round this Friday night at
Harrisonburg. W&L needs only one
win to advance to the championship
semifinals. W&L defeated Sweet
Briar in three straight games earlier
this year.

“*We were really happy with our
seed,’ said senior co-captain Lisa
Jay.

The Generals spent their last week
before the tournament working on
serving and returning serve. Getting
the ball to their setter Jay, who was

Generals set

named to the All-ODAC team last
year, will be a critical factor to their
tournament success. Jay leads the
team with 424 assists.

Junior co-captain Mena McGowin
and sophomore Leslie Hess will pro-
vide the solid hitting up front while
junior Marcy Brown can concentrat¢
on the weakside attack.

Defensively, head coach Susan
Dittman stressed blocking fundamen-
tals, a facet of the Generals’ game
which improved this week against St.
Mary’s and Shenandoah. The block-
ing must peak during the tournament,
she said.

With plenty of rest and no in-
juries, Dittman expects her team to
reach the title game. The Generals
are hoping to avenge ODAC seasori
losses to Eastern Mennonite and
Emory and Henry, while tourmey
favorite Bridgewater remains the team
to beat.

For seniors Jay and Connie Papa-
zickos, original members of a squad
that has risen to championship caliber
in four short years, this weekend is
the chance to bring a championship
banner home to the Warmer Center. '

‘We're looking to end the
with a win,’’ said McGowin. ‘‘We
feel real confident that we can win
the tournament, it’s just a matter of
going out and doing it.’

'

to explode |

in cross country meet

 

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams
head into this weekend’s Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference champion-
ships in fine form after strong perfor-
mances at home this past Saturday.

The W&L women defeated Eas-
tern Mennonite for the second time
this year. The Generals had three
Tunners in the top five spots to win
27-30. Sophomore Susie Wootton
won her second straight race, finish-
ing in 23:11.

“It was a real nailbiter on Satur-

day,’’ said head coach Jim Phemister;
“We'll have to run well to win
ODACs, but we’ve shown we can ”
that.””

The Generals, 5-0 in the ODAC
(8-1 overall), will go into Saturday's
ODAC championships as the favorita

Said junior Jodi Herring, ‘‘We’re
going into the championships with 4
positive attitude. We’ve got some
people injured, but everybody is
working hard and we're ready to »
fast.”’

On the men’s side, junior Charles
Edwards led a trio of top finishers as

the Generals topped Hampden-Sydney

 

 

Q) Please see ODAC page 11

 

 

  
     
    
 

 
   
   
   
   

  

The Beauty Bar AUDITIONS POSTPONED

159 S. MAIN ST. Welcome Parents
463-2886 You Deserve to be in Paradise! “THE SKIN OF OUR TEETH"

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

Jewelry ¢ Books * Tapes
Crystals ¢ Calenda’ tuffed An
HAIR CUTTING  Culie<Caime tae NOVEMBER 8 & 9, 3 & 7 PM
TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS
BY APPOINTMENT 16North Main St./Lexington, VA EXPERIMENTAL THEATRE, LENFEST CENTER
703-464-1800

 

_—

 

. ¢ Redken & Paul Mitchel ¢ Seba. sti

nex eer.
r. George’ sf

( Hairstylist

 
 

 

       
    
       

36 Varner Lane j
463-3975 R.E. Lee Memorial Church !
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5 (Episcopal)
Welcomes W&L Parents & Students

Sunday, Nov. 4 (All Saint’s Sunday) q

Holy Eucharist, 8:30 a.m. |

10:30 a.m.; Holy Eucharist, Rite II,
with special music sung by the American Boychoir

STUDENTS/FACULTYS® 9h ccc
L

ARIEL NEEDS YOU!

 

The Lexington Connection

The staff of TLC-TRAVEL welcomes the parents of the
W&L. students for a great weekend together.

If you require information about travel, our professional
agents will be glad to assist you free of charge.

 

We are now putting together the fall issue of Ariel,
the W&L Student literary magazine, and need your:

    
 
  

 

    
 
     
   
 
    
   
   
 
 

 

-Poems
-Short Stories FREE SERVICES FREE BENEFITS
‘Photography Complete Info and ¢ Prompt Courteous and
Art (Paintings, drawings, etc.) Resoveations For: Professional Service
-Non-Fiction writing @ Airlines © $100,000.00 Flight Insurance |
© Amtrak & Eurail ¢ ALL Major Credit Cards
* Hotels Accepted \
© Cars ° Ticket Delivery /
@ Cruises * Billings to Companies &
¢ Tours Schools ‘

 

 

 

 

 

  

$300 In Cash Prizes
Will Be Awarded For

The Best Submissions

Of The Year!

Starry, S Starry Holiday Nights _

Classic black velvet studded with illuminating jewels

Convenient 2-Hour Free Parking with
Easy Access to our Back Door Entrance

HOURS:
Mon.-Fri. 9 a.m.-5:30 p.m.

16 W. Washington Street Saturday 9:30 a.m.-12:30 p.m.

Please turn in your submissions to Carol Caulkins in the Uni-
Lexington, Va. 24450

versity Center by 4 p.m. on November 9.

aravans

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-3500
Open Monday thru Saturday 10 AM - 7 PM/Sunday Noon - 6 PM

    
 

 

 

703-463-2197

 

 

 

 
*

SPORTS

POLO

* from page 8

 

were. determined two weeks ago at
the seeding tournament. The Gen-
erals are seeded third and Richmond
earned the second seed. The Gen-
erals lost that weekend to both Rich-
mond and top-seeded UA-LR. Day-

ton is seeded fourth. The Generals’
tangle with Richmond Saturday even-
ing at 5:00 p.m. will be the rubber
match for the two teams this season.
Each has won thrice, one each in
Overtime, and each team has scored
66 goals in the six meetings.
Remillard said that the Generals
have made a few changes in their
game plan and the team is adjusting
and playing well right now.The Gen-

‘ erals will try to take advantage of the

+
‘
'
“"
4
r
va
un
vo
2vit
oF
»
Og!
ois
‘

 

ODAC

from page 10

 

17-54. Sophomore Bo Hannah and
junior Lee Parker finished second and
third for W&L.

 

   

 

 

Lee Parker

“Twelve of our 14 runners ran
personal records,’’ said head coach
John Tucker. ‘‘We are coming along

nicely as we get ready for the ODAC
championships. Next week should be

 

_ interesting.’’

The men finished the year with
their best record since 1986, and they

‘ will head to Lynchburg for the

ODAC meet as the only team with a
chance to unseat Lynchburg as the
ODAC champion.

Said senior co-captain Kennon
Walthall, ‘‘It’s like the calm before
the storm. We’re getting psyched up
for Saturday to go off and unleash
ourselves on the course. All eight
guys need to run the race of their life
if we are going to win.”’

  

   
 
 

fact that they have faced Richmond
so often by making changes to disad-
vantage the Spiders.

The last time the two teams met
in Twombly Pool, W&L ran away
with a six-goal win, but Remillard is
expecting nothing of the sort on
Saturday.

Both Remillard and the players
said that fan support is critical and
hope that fans will bring their parents
to the game, which they say will
probably last a little over one hour,
before heading out to dinner.

‘‘We can’t emphasize enough the
home field advantage,’’ Remillard
said. ‘‘We plan on playing at 11:00
on Sunday.”’

The Ring-tum Phi,

FOOTBALL

from page 8

November 1, 1990

 

mark.

‘‘We had our defenders where
they were supposed to be,’’ said
Fallon. ‘‘They just couldn’t get away
from the Bridgewater blockers.’’

W&L’s defense was again led by
its linebackers. Sophomore Lyle
Smith was in on 18 tackles, while

junior Trey Cox chipped in 15.

The Generals, 3-5, will take on
Guilford this Saturday on Wilson
Field. Guilford, which is not eligible
for the ODAC title this year, has

defeated everyone in the ODAC
except W&L.

“Guilford is a good football team
that’s beaten everyone in our
league,’’ said Fallon. ‘‘They have an
outstanding quarterback and good
receivers, We will have to prepare
well and get the loss out of our
minds,”’

”

Kickoff for the Parents’ Weekend
clash is set for 1:30 p.m.

 

Not so fast

Leiphart.

 

 

Senior Clark Wight (20) pulls down a Bridgewater running back from behind as sophomore
Donald Dempsey (42) closes in. Bridgewater topped W&L 28-7 last Saturday. Staff photo by Chris

 

 

Ve, Y? ak
ae

 

er
Soccer reams teams and

fans with stupid system

SS EALERTS SCRE EL
By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

Call me crazy, but didn’t the finish to last Saturday's Old Dominion
Athletic Conference women’s soccer game strike you as being anti-
climactic?

Roanoke, ranked 19th in the nation led 1-0 until freshman Angie
Carrington tied the game for Washington and Lee. Things stayed tied
after 90 minutes of regulation play. Things were still tied after two 15-
minute overtime periods. And things were still tied after two 15-minute
sudden death overtime periods.

A fairly tight match, wouldn’t you say? Let them play it out, you say?
Soccer says nope, though. It’s not just the ODAC. It’s not the NCAA.
It’s FIFA, the governing body of international soccer.

If you remember anything about the World Cup, you remember that the
World Cup is the most watched sporting event in the world. So you
might think that FIFA could come up with a decent way to break ties.

Here’s how things work now. A regulation game is 90 minutes long.
In case of a tie, teams play two 15-minute overtime periods. If the game
is still tied after the two periods, then teams play two 15-minute sudden
death periods. (Obviously, if a team scores in the first sudden death.
period, the game ends.)

Throughout the World Cup, questions were raised about replacing the
shoot-out. A shoot-out consists five penalty kicks by each team. The team
who converts the most 12-yard kicks is awarded the tie-breaking goal and
the win. Obviously, after 150 hard-fought minutes of soccer, to decide the
game on penalty kicks is anti-climactic. The shoot-out is also not
indicative of the ability of the teams.

Said W&L head women’s soccer coach Jan Hathorn, ‘‘The shoot-out
has always been a problem because it is not a true indication of the
game — it is an indication of the goalies. Not to take anything away
from goalies, but the shoot-out is an aberration of the game and its is
unfair.’’

Hathom is a member of the NCAA Division III South Regional
Advisory Committee. She said that, under the current system, it is
possible for teams with strong goalies to coast through the overtime
periods to get to the shoot-out.

To do that is to make a mockery of soccer. One alternative is to
simply do away with the shoot-out and play until there is a winner, as
they do in other sports.

From a fans point of view, seeing the game won on penalty kicks
didn’t provide a true winner.

Said senior Craig Hatfield, who played goalie at Fallston High in
Maryland, ‘‘The game needs to be won on the field, not in the goalie
box. It doesn’t prove who is the better team to win on penalty kicks.
That’s a one-dimensional part of the game.”’

Hathom suggested that in place of the shoot-out, let the teams play it
out, but shorten the overtime periods from 15 minutes to seven and a
half. ‘‘That keeps the pressure on the players and decides the game on
the field, where it should be decided,’’ she said.

Hatfield said the game should have been called a tie after the overtime
periods and the teams should have played again a day later.

“‘Why not just play it over?’’ he said. ‘‘The teams would be rested.
Shoot-outs weren’t used in the regular season, why should they be used
in the playoffs. Just play again the day after. I think the girls would have
wanted it that way.’’

Hathorn has a point. It is unreasonable to ask players to play for four
hours — if that’s how long it takes. Cut the length of the overtimes in
half and play until someone scores. Everybody will be happy.

After all, a true winner will be decided that way — not just the players,
but the game itself.

 

 

    
       
   
 
 
  

 

 

‘
6.
&. : i
; gi
4 ry
iY : 2
W i
Hi gz 15 - Day Notice (¢. cisemeniesee
La) ) a
a) : *
i: (SK rnenerloneenn
Lye f
: te CTR aarti
: ower” |
‘ « yons
Trying to stretch dollars when you're MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple II floppy disks, which means
computer shopping doesn’t mean you're willing eae you can share information with someone who uses a
a to make sacrifices. different type of computer.

=

Vere ere erreur ee

That's why you should consider the new,
affordable Macintosh® Classic® computer.

It has everything you need— including a monitor, keyboard, mouse,

2 megabytes of RAM, and a 40-megabyte hard disk. Just plug everything in and
the Macintosh Classic is ready to run, because the system software is alreacly
installed’ And, thanks to the Macintosh computer's legendary ease of use, you'll
be up and running in no time.

Like every Macintosh, the Classic can run thousands of available applications
that all work in the same, consistent way-—so once you've learned one program,
you're well on your way to learning them all. And this is one cheap roommate
that doesn’t have trouble sharing. The Apple® SuperDrive" —standard
equipment with every Macintosh—reads from and writes to Macintosh,

Apple introduces the Macintosh Classic.

 

See the Macintosh Classic for yourself. It'll change your mind
about cheap roommates.

Roacnea noni nyc a
Tucker Hall Room 215A.

and ask for Mac McCloud
MOI eneee!

©

 

  
 

 
 
 
 

      

* Macintosh Classic computers purchased before January 1991 include system software on floppy disks; software is not installed
990 Apple ¢ ¥, Ine. Apple, the Apple logo. ar mtosh are registered trademarks of Ap ve ary
power to be y are trademarks of Appie © c. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple c nc MS | | - ws
} ‘ rt m \e
reg! ark of Microsoft Corporation $ a registered trademark of International Business Machines | : pr ywer tO DE VOU! | eS

 
 

 

W&LIFE

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi,November 1, 1990

12

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

  

 
  
 

      
        

 

   

   

 

 

   

 

    
 
 
    
   
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

  
    
       
  
 
         
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

 

 

   
     

 

Es
lime to clean your room | WEEKLY CALENDAR
I've smelled rotting carcass before and this is fathers acquire these vital lecture skills, but they
THE SB AR SIDE much worse. I wonder if the Lexington Volunteer all have it. The most popular fatherly topic is the
B S Fire Department would mind coming over to wash _ infamous *tyou don’t know how easy you have Parents’ Weekend.
y Jon bar = my room with one of those high-powered fire —_jt’’ lecture, reflectively given by any father whe |] ay Day University Library Book Sale. Main Lobby (through Nov. 7).
— : we yor : hears his son or daughter complaining abou |} Noon Brown bag lunch with Barbara Weinberg for interested stude:
_ Once again it’s Parents’ Weekend. A time of I wish I had time to clean out my room before something frivolous like the fact that the family W&L Alumni House.
Joyous reunions, university festivities and SS SS Unfortunately, I will be franti- does not have cable television. 4p.m. MATH COLLOQUIUM: "Cross Stitching, Graph Theory, and a
as students endeavor to convince their parents that Cally occupied looking for bank statements and Here’s my Dad's version of this lecture recited Least Path Problem,” Barbara Flajnik, Wittenberg Universi
they have been studying diligently, sleeping regu- withdrawal sheets in an effort to balance my verbatim because I have heard it on so many Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 3:30 in Room 2.
larly, eating right, attending class and wearing checkbook, thereby avoiding the wrath of my occasions I could not help memorizing it. Lecture Public invited : :
clean clothes. In other words, students try to create mother. She seems to have grown weary of my no. 17 (You don’t know how easy you have it): 5 5
; ; : Sirtpaees : a ; ie : ‘ : .m. Y SEMINAR: \ : . Fert
the general impression that they are living like kamikaze worry when it bounces dismal antics You think you have it tough. When | was a kid I — . ee a 4 ober idle colby on
orc human eee not some nocturnal and ae informed me that if I don’t balance had to walk eight miles through snow barefoot 402 Public eal d ' ;
beast who survives on frozen yogurt, nachos and = my ¢ book this year she will donate my vital every morning just to get to school. My family was as , :
beer, changes his sheets twice a semester and lives organs to science. so poor that we didn't even have a stove. The only 8 p.m. Te ae ee W&L Choral Ensembles.
in a house that was recently declared unfit and You know, every year I discuss Parent’s time we could have grilled cheese sandwiches was a ret a aed i i
unsafe for human habitation. Weekend from the student’s perspective and depict in summer when the sun was hot enough to melt AWA HLETICS: VOLLEYBALL: ODAC Tournament.
Looking at my room, I can see that getting my parents, who are genuinely nice people, un- the cheese onto the bread. And the only reasons we
ready for Parent’s Weekend is not going to be an __ fairly. Maybe it’s time I presented the other side had the cheese was because Dad worked nights as .
easy task. My carpet (which I cannot see) is of the issue. How do you think your parent’s feel? a spittoon cleaner at the grocery store and they Parents' Weekend. : i
covered with dirty, mildewed clothing, old beer They cared for you in your infancy, tolerated you used to give him the moldy cheese free. Course, we || All Day WATER POLO: Southern Conference Championships.
cans, greasy pizza boxes, black banana peels and in high school and worked all those years so that didn’t mind the mold on the cheese because by the Twombly Pool. :
dead crickets. An unidentified strain of bacteria is they could send you to college and when they time we chomped through the bacteria on the 1:30 p.m. | FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Guilford College. Wilson Field.
growing on one of the walls and the ceiling is visit on Parent’s Weckend all you want to do is bread we hardly noticed it. Everyday after school 8 p.m. PARENTS' WEEKEND CONCERT: University-Rockbridge
completely covered with thick spider webs. My drop them off early at their hotel so you don’t and on the weekends me and my brothers worked Symphony Orchestra with Florentino Dias, guest conductor
desk is lined with cups filled with fermenting miss out on any parties. Talk about ingratitude! in the coal minds. To this day I still cough coal Lee Chapel. Public invited.
liquids and fungus. My room looks bad but what How do you think my parents feel after spending dust. Our house didn't have hot water or plumbin, AWAY ATHLETICS: CROSS COUNTRY (M&W): ODAC
: : " pe P 8
I’m really worried about is the stench. I don’t ll that time and effort raising a child only to and Mom was always sick. Championships.
know what it is or where it’s coming from but have him go off to college to write smart alecky I can’t wait until I have kids to lecture. I'll tell
something in my room smells terrible. Perhaps humor columns about the family. them how tough it was for me working my way
some rodent indigenous to Virginia snuck into my Actually, most students do know how their through college as a chimney sweeper. In the |All Day WATER POLO: Southern Conference Championships.
room and died and what I’m smelling now is a parents feel. For years they’ve been hearing meantime I think I will get back to balancing my Twombly Pool.
rotting carcass. fatherly lectures that began shortly after the cutting checkbook. I hope you have an enjoyable Parent’s |/3 p.m. CONCERT GUILD: American Boychoir. Lee Chapel. Public '
On second thought, it must be something else. of the umbilical cord. I’m not really sure when Weekend. invited. ‘
3
Choir and conductor to perform snag |
Registration for Winter Term 1991 begins. ‘
e hy p 3 W k 4:30 p.m. FACULTY MEETING: Northen Auditorium, University Library.
in Lee Chapel Parents’ Weekend ovrusen
The choir is composed of stu- of music at Saint Bartholomew's from Rio de Janeiro Federal Universi- 1 p.m. EAST ASIAN STUDIES LECTURE: "World View of New —
From the W&L News Office dents from the American Boychoir Church in New York. He has con- ty and a graduate degree in conduct- Religions in Japan,” Paul Groner, professorof Buddhist
School, North America’s only nonsec- ducted opera and major works for jing from Washington University Studies, University of Virginia. Northen Auditorium,
The American Boychoir will par- ‘tian boarding choir school, located chorus and orchestra, made several Pieces to be performed in Satur- University Library. Public invited. : sa
ticipate in a Sesquicentennial celebra- in Princeton, N.J. Sixty-five boys, recordings, is the editor of two books day’s concert are Symphony No. 4 ||1-5p.m. © CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Blue Ridge
P esqu: ; os ee Ri
tion in Lee Chapel and guest conduc- aged nine to 14, from 21 states and and four collections of liturgical (Italian) by Felix Mendelssohn, Sym- Pre-Law. University Center.
tor Florentino Dias will lead the from Canada, attend the school for a music, and has published more than phony No. 25, K. 183 by Mozart, Last date to register for Dec. 8 GRE exam. CD&P Office.
University-Rockbridge | Symphony full scholastic program including in- 50 articles in various professional and Preludio from  Bachianas ||4:30p.m. LECTURE: "Vaclav Havel: The Moral Conscience of
Orchestra in their first performance of depth music training. _ journals. Brasileiras No. 4 by Brazilian com- International Politics?” James W. Sire, author, senior editor,
the season this Saturday. The Boychoir has sung with major Litton has presented seminars and poser Heitor Villa-Lobos. InterVarsity Press. Northen Auditorium, University Library.
The aftemoon program will in- orchestras under the direction of workshops at colleges and universities The University-Rockbridge Sym- Public invited.
clude Renaissance motets, and con- Maestros Toscanini, Ormandy, throughout the U.S. and in Europe, phony Orchestra is composed of ||7-11p.m. CHESS CLUB: Basement Gameroom. Public invited.
temporary pieces. Other selections to Bemstein, Mehta, Munch, Leinsdorf, Africa, and Asia. He is a graduate of Washington and Lee students and ||7:30p.m. | CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP LECTURE: “Why Should Anyone
be performed are Japanese, Korean, Previn, Wolff, Williams, Levine, and Westminster Choir College with a local area musicians and is sponsored Believe Anthing At All?” James W. Sire. Lee Chapel. Public
and American folk songs, and a com- DeCormier. The choir has made over bachelor’s and master’s degree in by W&L and Fine Arts in invited.
missioned piece, ‘‘Angels Are Every- 40 recordings and has appeared on music, and has done additional study Rockbridge. F.A.I.R. is sponsored in
where,"’ by Daniel Pinkham. The national television and performed in at Canterbury Cathedral in England. part by the Virginia Commission for
program will conclude with a ‘‘Med- concert halls across the country. Dias is founder and music direc- the Arts. 5 p.m. BIOLOGY LECTURE: "Does Water Stress in Plants Cause
ley of Favorite Songs” by Stephen __ The choir is conducted by James tor of the Orquestra Filharmonica de For more information, or assis- Insect Outbreaks?” Edward F. Conner, University of Virginia
Foster and ‘‘Stars and Stripes Forev- Litton, one of American's best known Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. He holds a tance for the handicapped, call Room 305, Parmly Hall. Refreshments at 4:30.’
er” by John Phillip Sousa. choral conductors. He is also director degree in clarinet and conducting F.A.LR. at (703) 463-1881.
D0) DD 0D 0D 0D) DD) 0D) DO) OED 0 ’ ; A ° e >
rtists in Cahdots
2 —, }) HERE’S WHAT’S NEW IN LEXINGTON Artists in —anoot
one ar LEX Vg Wicker, Clothing oe Handcrafted ver and
NF NF. ° Jewelry, Pottery, Lamps ant, ty oe
Q\\ v Dx Dx % Rugs, Cookware eat ei patina
cS ! = Candlesticks, as | nape,
Antiques, Glassware, ta
~y : ‘ ' renee 2 —_ {
i! Gifts Etc., Etc., Etc. vi fi ee
A Special Place 6 E. Nelson Street Open ioam-64-m. Montes.
4 N Visa & Master Card accepted
. ’ . . . .
Lexington's First Condominium Community
Come See Where
(some of)
Your Money Goes!
We’re Open 10-4
This Saturday
W&L Bookstore
WE'RE BAAACK!! || ,, Dissppointea
FOR SALE * By Selection & Price
CLEAtNG@ TON
One and Two Bedrooms
Reserve Your Condominium Today _
For Next Year UNIVERSITY
ali a SPORTWEAR
Only A Limited Number Available ame
On A First Come Basis
Directions: West on Nelson Street (Route 60), left on Borden Road, one block on right. NO VE; MBE. R SIGN— UP cere ee has -
Three blocks from Washington and Lee. best selection of . imprinte
SPECIAL T-shirts, sweatshirts, em-
broidered fitted baseball caps
JOIN FOR 1 YEAR and much more.
>
#4 G FIRST MONTH FREE *** |
'R ACK! W E R | We Are Opening
4 6 4 4 FIT Student Accounts!
a , wesee : ‘ = COUPON—PRESENT THIS AD FOR '
107 EAST WASHINGTON STREET ¢ P.O. BOX 723 © LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
4-463-7319 16 E. NELSON ST. FREE WORKOUT 15 W. Washington St.
703-4653: LEXINGTON VA. UMIT 1 PER PERSON 000 THRU 11/30/80 (Next to Lloyd's)
464-3000
\. : SINR ESE EEE

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

A >) 0) ED) AD ND) DD) ED 0) ED ED 0D) DD 0D) AD 0D 0) ND 0) AD) AD () ND) ED 0) ED () AD) ED () AD () ED () ED () ED () SD () RED () EDL) REED

 
- F ®

= é

“Women's cross country wins ODAC --- see page 5

Ghe Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 12

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

Strike up the band

 

 

 

Members of the Washington and Lee pep band, called Snafu, entertain the crowd at the football
game against Guilford during Parents’ Weekend. Saturday’s performance was the band’s first for
W&L football spectators. Staff Photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Who’s Who names 41 from W&L

 

From the W&L News Office

* ing in all SO states, the District of Columbia and
,, several foreign nations. Outstanding students have
' been honored in the annual directory since it was

 

The 1991 edition of Who's Who Among Stu-
dents in American Universities and Colleges will
include the names of 41 students from Washing-
, ton and Lee’ Who~-have~been ‘selected as natiorial

outstanding campus leaders.

Campus nominating committees and editors of
the annual directory have included the names of
these students based on their academic achieve-
ment, service to the community, leadership in
extracurricular activities and potential for continued

success.

They join an elite group of students selected

from more than 1,400 institutions of

first published in 1934.

Of the 41 W&L students included in the 1991

‘kegs from
fraternities

Atkins warns of

‘insurance liability

 

" By Jason Kelley

Senior Copy Editor

 

Kegs are now taboo at registered
fraternity parties held in chapter
houses at Washington and Lee.

Final approval of the new Inter-

: fraternity Council by-law that bans

kegs came after Tuesday night’s

‘second round of voting on the issue.

The rule had already received precur-
sory approval at last week’s meeting

‘and there was no further debate on

the issue Tuesday night.
‘This rule is effective immediate-

“\y,’’ IFC President Goodloe Lewis
» said.

«=

-

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
reminded the council that whenever
the fraternity serves alcohol to under-
age drinkers, the chapter is not cover-
ed by its liability insurance.

**You do not have any liability
insurance in any case where you
knowingly break the law,’’ Atkins
said.

He said even if chapter members
pool funds instead of using house
money for the alcohol, insurance still
does not cover any liability for the
chapter.

‘Don’t just think your president,
vice-president and treasurer can be
sued,’’ Atkins said. ‘‘Every single
member from the seniors down to the
pledges can be brought to court if
someone sues.

‘It will be a lawyer’s field day.
The bare minimum would be that
you'd each have to pay for your own
iegal fees,’’ he continued.

‘It could be the most expensive
glass of keg beer they ever drank.”’

W&L School of Law.

W&L are:

higher learn-

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

The Minority Student Association
was one of three organizations to
return to the Executive Committee
Monday night requesting additional
funds.

MSA President James Rambeau
presented MSA’s third budget request
for $1,043.75, in addition to the
$1,368.75 already granted the group.
The additional amount is derived
from activities the EC recommended
cut after MSA’s second request.

MSA withdrew and revised its
first 1990-91 request of $8,400 in late
September after EC President Tom
Hatcher called it ‘‘out of line’’ with
previous years’ requests.

The $1,368 the EC granted MSA
after its second request came after
cuts directed at a Martin Luther King
Day reception and a community
luncheon for Black History Month.

volume, 33 are seniors in the university’s under-
graduate divisions, while eight are students in the

Students named to Who's Who this year from

SENIORS: Robby Joe Aliff of Oak Hill, W.Va.;
‘Michael ~ Patrick ~Badgery of Reston; Va.; "Sarah
Cromwell Bolte of Leoti, Kan.; Patricia Schenck
Carr of Greensboro, N.C.; L. Carol Dannelly of
Leesburg, Fla.; Lindsay Bruford De Haven of
Sewickley, Pa; Duke Ashley Dillard of Hixson,
Tenn.; Willard L. Dumas III of New Orleans, La.;
Grace Kathleen Duwel of Lexington, Va.; Joei
Llyne Dyes of Peoria, Ill.; David Joseph Farace of
Reistertown, Md.; John Albert Fialcowitz ot Gar-
den City, N.Y.; Stephen Andrew Gaffney of
Atlanta, Ga.; Timothy James Halloran of Jonesboro,
Ga.; Mary R. Seeger Hampson of Charleston, S.C.;
Wallace Thompson Hatcher of Bowling Green, Ky.;
Michael Wilson Holton of Indianapolis, In.; Brooke
Rachelle Jarabek of Stone Mountain, Ga.

Also named were Bernadette Marie Kempton of
Linville, Va.; Paul Villere LaGarde of New Orle-

ans, La.; John McDonald Laney of Haddonfield,

N.J.; Goodloe Tankersley Lewis of Oxford, Miss.;

Patricia Lopes of Kailua, Hi.; John Edward Neslage

ville, Tex.

The EC also cut $200 in late Septem-
ber for a plaque dedicating the Black
Library in Chavis House, stating that
money granted by President John
Wilson to MSA should have pur-
chased the plaque in the last acad-
emic year.

Wilson granted in excess of
$15,000 to the EC in fall 1989 when
a 1988-89 Student Activities Board
debt was discovered to be at least
that much. With that grant came the
stipulation that MSA use part of its
regular allotment to purchase the
plaque, according to Hatcher. Ram-
beau said Monday night that the
stipulation was not communicated to
MSA, which expected funding for
that above their regular EC allotment.

‘We just don’t know,’’ said
Hatcher of the 1989-90 EC, if the
stipulation was communicated to
MSA. _ Hatcher told Rambeau that
cutting the plaque from this year’s
budget was a punitive measure the
EC will reconsider next Monday.

Il of Houston, Tex.; Richard Straus Perry of Aiken,
8.@;3 "James E. Rambeau Jr.. of Miami; Flai;Biae
Elizabeth Simmons of Fairfax Station, Va.; Tammi
Renee Simpson of Nashville, Tenn.; Bryant Jona-
than Spann of Atlanta, Ga.; Richard Merrill Spence
of Houston, Tex.; Thomas Martin Spurgeon of
Harrisburg, Pa.; Fredrick Skip Sugarman of Mid-
lothian, Va.; and Raymond J. Welder III of Bee-

LAW STUDENTS: Edward Grantland Burns of
Taylors, S.C.; Ronald D. Ciotti of Lexington, Va.;
Gunay Evinch of Lexingon, ¥ ‘.; Charlotte Vaughan
Gibson of Midlothian, Va.; Otto W. Konrad of
Lexington, Va.; Wood Walter Lay of Lexington,
Va.; Mary Katherine Martin of Richmond, Va.; and
Claud V. Worrell II of Bethesda, Md.

IFC bans EC hears new bud

Rambeau, who the EC told to
work with the Contact Committee to
co-sponsor a Black History Month
speaker, also asked the EC to ‘‘rec-
ommend that Contact look for speak-
ers not according to their political
ideology.’” He said that Contact
speaker James Meredith's conserva-
tive political leaning may have been
a factor in Contact’s decision to
invite Meredith. .

Contact Chairman Charles Kran-
ich said Tuesday that the primary
consideration for a speaker is ‘‘what
people on the committee feel will be
of greatest interest to the student
body.’’ He said hosting Meredith
“has nothing to do with ideology.’’

Hatcher said he would pass along
Rambeau’s message. He added that
it would facilitate MSA-Contact
Black History Month negotiations if
MSA would propose a number of
potential speakers to Contact.

Calyx editors Brooke Jarabek and
Suzanne Sneed brought the 10 to 15

NOVEMBER 8, 1990

City puts
hold on
housing

Council action limits housing
options, angers students

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

A public hearing last Thursday
regarding a proposed one-year
moratorium on large-capacity housing
turned into a face-off between W&L
students and area residents.

But despite opposition from stu-
dents who attended the meeting,
Lexington city council unanimously
passed the motion.

Landlords must get conditional
use permits from the city to have
more than four unrelated people live
in the same house. The moratorium
freezes for one year applications for
these permits. Applications that were
submitted to the city before Thursday
night will still be considered.

Lexington Mayor H.E. Derrick
said at the opening of the hearing the
moratorium would give the city ‘‘an
Opportunity to take a good, hard look
at where the city is going.’’

Derrick also said the permit pro-
cess, which took effect in June, has
“highlighted in the public’s mind the
movement of students into Lexing-
ton,’’ resulting in the increased atten-
tion to the situation.

Dorothy Cecil, president of the
Roekbridge Area Neighborhood. Leag-
ue, said residents in Lexington should
be assured safety, health and quict,
and that there have been complaints
about W&L students ‘‘in each area.’’

Cecil urged the council not only
to pass the moratorium, but also to
act to phase out any large-capacity
houses now in existence.

Rev. J.B. Harris, president of the
Rockbridge Area chapter of the
National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People,
acknowledged that while some
students might be good neighbors,

get requests

year-old Calyx computer with them
Monday night to explain their request
of $2,000 for a new computer.

Jarabek and Sneed explained that
the Calyx computer has no hard disk
Storage, and the data must be
repeatedly saved on numerous floppy
disks, a time-consuming process for
50 staff members near deadline.

Jarabek estimated that a new
computer could also save Calyx some
$1,200 annually in word processing
and corrections.

Club Soccer returned to the EC
with a $379 request in addition to
their $410 allocation. The EC also
heard first- time requests from Vol-
leyball and Hockey for $1,614.50 and
$420, respectively.

The EC decided at the advice of
EC Vice President Raymond Welder
to wait until next Monday at 5 p.m.
for budget allocations. Welder said
he will have an updated general
ledger summary for student organiza-
tions at that time.

“‘the residents will be here to support
the community after the students are
gone.”’

A letter sent to council by Donald
and Patricia M. Thomas of Mornings-
ide Drive also supported passage of
the moratorium.

‘*We have noted with concern the
increase in student housing in Lexing-
ton, especially in the Massie St.-Dia-
mond Hill area,’’ the letter read.
‘Each new student housing unit
makes it increasingly difficult for
local residents to find affordable
housing and furthers the process of
disruption and the eventual destruc-
tion of this community.”’

The letter also told council ‘‘the
time has come to take the interest of
all citizens and neighborhoods into
consideration.’’

Opposition to the moratorium was
raised by W&L students.

Gabrey Croft, a W&L junior
living on Jefferson Street, said the
moratorium was an example of ‘‘dis-
crimination against students.’’

“It’s ridiculous. Where are we
supposed to live?’’ Croft asked.
‘‘While we’re here, we’re residents,
too.’’

Senior Richard Weinstein, also a
student-resident, said the moratorium
was ‘‘a step in the wrong direction.’’

“Instead of having © six students
each in two houses, you’re going to
have four students each in three
houses. ... All you’re going to do is
force’ residents out, Weinstein said.

After the public hearing, the coun-
cil convened the regular council mee-
ting. Instead of placing consideration
of the moratorium on the agenda for
the next meeting, it allowed the plan-
ning commission to meet in the hall-
way. When the commission came
back, it recommended approval of the
moratorium and the council voted
unanimously to pass it.

 

 

 

 

 

James Rambeau
.. resubmits MSA budget

Incumbents fare well in midterm election

Warner crushes LaRouche candidate; W&L grad falls to Gephardt

 

By Brian Root
Editor

 

Despite dire predictions of ‘‘voter backlash’
against both Congressmen and state governors,
this year’s midterm elections proved to be one
in which, again, most incumbents remained
unscathed. In the Tuesday elections, two
Washington and Lee graduates met two
different fates.

In the House of Representatives, 96 percent
of incumbents seeking reelection won. In the
Senate, 31 of the 32 incumbents won.

One of the 31 is Virginia Senator John
Warner, W&L '49, who won overwhelming
reelection. Another W&L graduate, Malcomb
Holekamp, lost in his bid to unseat House
Majority former _ presidential

Leader and

candidate Richard Gephardt (D-Mo.)

Prior to the election, Democrats had hoped
that voter disgust with the federal budget would
propel them to an overwhelming majority in
both houses in Congress. However, they were
only able to pick up an additional nine seats in
the House. The tally of Democrats versus
Republicans in the House is now 267-167-1,
The ‘‘1’’ is Bernard Sanders, a socialist, who
capitalized on the issue of increased taxes to
beat out incumbent Pete Smith, a Republican, in
Vermont.

The Democrats also picked up another seat
in the Senate, bringing their majority to 56-44.

Among the most controversial races was the
Senate contest In North Carolina between Sen.
Jesse Helms and former Charlotte mayor
Harvey Gantt. Although polls taken only four
days ago showed Gantt leading by up to six

percentage points, Helms won, 54 percent to 46
percent.

In addition to the Congressional races, 36
governorships went to the voters Tuesday.
These races merited particular interest this year
because of the coming battle over reapportion
ment. Each state, when the results of each
census is released, will gain or lose seats in the
House and must redefine its Congressional
districts according to population. In this highly
political process, the party that controls the
governor's mansion hold the upper hand.

This process is particularly important in the
‘Sunbelt’ states, which have larger populations
and therefore, more seats in the House.

In Texas, State Treasurer Ann Richards won
the gubernatorial over millionaire
businessman Clayton Williams, who managed to
lose a double-digit lead over Richards in a

race

month. CNN called Williams’ collapse ‘‘a
textbook example of blowing a lead.’’

In Florida, another state which will have a
much larger Congressional delegation, former
Sen. Lawton Chiles, a Democrat, defeated
incumbent Bob Martinez.

The G.O.P. won an important victory in
California, where Sen. Pete Wilson beat former
San Francisco mayor Diane Feinstein for the
governorship.

This year’s voter tumout is, according to
CNN, the lowest in 50 years. Nationwide, about
35 percent of those eligible to vote actually
made i* to the polls Tuesday, although turnout
swayed gy, *atly from state to state. In North
Carolina, be, the high-profile race
between Helms « 4 Gantt, 55 percent of eligi
ble voters turned ow. ~@veral precincts reported
voters having to wait mi

use of

than an hour to cast
ballots. In California

campaigns mired in negative
only 31 percent of eligible voters

iheir ‘nd Texas, two

erlisements,
-d out
 

 

OPINION

eS
City v. students:

nobody will win

For the last several weeks, we have covered the ongoing
saga of the Lexington housing situation. For the last several
months, we have covered Lexington’s attempts to tax student-
owned cars. As one might expect, we have begun to notice a
pattem here. Those who govern as well as those who inhabit
the city of Lexington have begun to legislate on the basis of
their anti-student bias.

The latest incamation of this sentiment concerns local
residents’ worries about student housing. As far as we can
determine, residents are worried about two things. First, that
what they call the ever-increasing number of students living
in houses in the city prevents the development of low-income
housing. Second, that students who do live in these high-
occupancy houses are lousy neighbors.

According to Rev. J.B. Harris, the president of the local
chapter of the NAACP, the solution for both of these problems
is simple: limit the number of students living in the city.

In our opinion, the facts do not even begin to support any
of these assessments.

According to the latest housing surveys, fewer students now
live in off-campus city housing than in previous years. If local
residents wish to locate any possible villians in this scenario,
we suggest the landlords. The discrepancy between rents
charged for students and locals is notorious. However, to
suggest that Lexington should engage in rent control is even
more Outrageous.

Since we’re on the subject of outrageous, let’s examine the
notion that locals might live in empty dorm space, which was
first proposed by Rev. Harris. If he thinks students make lousy
neighbors on McCorkle Street, wait until he sees them in
Graham-Lees.

Are students bad neighbors? The answer often is yes. There
have been many instances where students have been insensitive
to locals. However, if locals are that concerned with
these violations of both their trust and the law, why don’t they
follow through with their complaints and prosecute these
‘‘violators?’’ There are very few actual convictions of students
on litter or noise charges in these houses, yet an astounding
number of complaints.

The number of houses addressed by this conflict is almost
absurdly small. Local residents seem intent on venting all their
frustrations on a relatively small number of students. As

Lexington Mayor H.E. ‘‘Buddy’’ Derrick himself said, all of
the houses have been used for students for years. Clearly, if
there is a new lack of low-income housing, these houses aren’t
the cause.

Another argument advanced by local residents is that ‘‘we’ll
be here long after the students are gone,’’ thus somehow
ensuring them the right of first refusal in high-occupancy
houses. Not only is this little more than a case of playground
“*I was here first’’ logic, but it also suffers from a terminal
case of being wrong. Residents will indeed be here after this
current crop of students has gone, but we feel certain that
Washington and Lee will remain in Lexington for quite some
time. We also wish to point out that students, and their parents,
pour a vast amount of money into the local economy. Without
this influx of money, the local economy would suffer from a
rather significant slump.

Under no circumstances do we denegrate the issue of low-
income housing, for it is a pressing issue both here and across
the nation. However, we also believe that city goverment has
and is doing an admirable job in that area without harassing
students. Last year, Lexington applied for and was given a
large block grant, and intends to do so again this year. City
council is doing its job. However, the solution does not lie
with further burdening those few students whose only sin is to
want to live in a house in Lexington.

Quote of the week

That game was about as much fun to watch as pissing on an
electrocuted fence.

— Washington and Lee Sports Information Director and
known malapropist Mike Stachura, assessing the entertainment
quality of the Generals’ loss to Bridgewater two weeks ago.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Student defends Phi reporter

 

MY VIEW
By Trent Merchant

 

In the October 18 edition of The
Ring-tum Phi, Chris Swann reported
on a supposed gang presence at
Lloyd's ‘‘restaurant.’’ In his attempt
to report the facts, Mr. Swann de-
scribed a group of young men as
‘‘delinquents’’ and as a ‘‘gang’’ of
‘*blacks.’’ Since then, his article has
been blasted as ‘‘race-baiting’’ and it
has been implied that Mr. Swann is
involved in ‘‘attempting to create an
unhealthy hysteria on campus and in
the Lexington community.”’

While I agree that Mr. Swann
should have been more careful and
thorough in his description of the
local youths outside Lloyd’s, I do not
doubt his good intentions one bit, and
i insist that personal attacks upon his
integrity by students such as Ted

Smith, James Rambeau and Damon
Sanders cease at once. Mr. Swann
was only trying to report the news to
the best of his ability and does not
deserve to have his character called
into question. I guess now that I’ve
stepped up onto the soapbox I have
no choice but to continue...

In a MY VIEW entry in the Octo-
ber 25 edition of The Phi, James
Rambeau states, ‘‘The Ring-Tum Phi
has on several occasions perpetuated
negative images of black people,
particularly those in the Lexington
area.”” WHOA NELLIE! It is en-
tirely wrong to blame the student
newspaper for the negative image of
blacks in the Lexington area. That
blame rests squarely on the shoulders
of several young local males, who are
black. I’m sure to be labeled a racist
by some for using that ‘‘adjective,”’
but I am simply stating the facts.
Some will continue to fool them-
selves and divert attention from the

real issue at stake here by screaming
“‘racism.’’ If you are that ignorant, I
don’t care — call me racist; I know
that I am not.

These are the facts: There are
young men in Lexington harassing,
assaulting and robbing students, and
all of these aforementioned young
men are black. Throughout the school
year there have been attacks on W&L
students by local young black men.
Early in the year a group of local
young blacks, male and female, en-
tered a fraternity house and assaulted
two females from area women’s col-
leges as well as several members of
the fraternity. At approximately 4:30
A.M. on the morning of November 5,
a young black male was chased from
the Kappa Sigma house after a mem-
ber of the fraternity awoke to find
this young man in his room, hovering
over his stereo, and holding a butcher
knife. It was soon discovered that this
‘‘delinquent’’ had made off with the

house stereo system.

So who is responsible for perpetu-:

ating the negative image of blacks in

the area? Should we blame the press.
or should we blame a group of local:

young black men who embarrass their
race as well as their community? |
hope the answer to that question is
obvious. I also hope that as a college
community we can try to pull togeth-
er, regardless of race. We as a stu-
dent body are being pushed around
by several local hoodlums.

It appalls me that some students ©
try to rationalize the action of these .

criminals by pointing out how stu-
dents have so many more opportuni-

ties than locals. This is true, we are .

very fortunate. But even if I walk

down Main Street waving $100 bills ~
in the air, it doesn’t give anyone the ,
right to beat me up. Let’s stop at-

tacking each other and focus our

”

concerted efforts on bringing these |

bullies to justice.

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee, The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

FIJI says fight
was provoked

I would like to point out a slight oversight
in reporting in last week’s front page article on
the Phi Gamma Delta-Sigma Phi Epsilon conflict.

Left out of the timeline of events was a fight
between Phi Gamma Delta member Kirk
Sohonage and acting Sigma Phi Epsilon presi-
dent Peer Soderberg, Jon Soderberg, and an
unidentified law student. It was this fight, and
what we maintain was the provocative nature of
this fight, that was the exact cause of the late
night melee. Without this fight occurring, nothing
would have come of the provocative words or
first visit.

This information was readily available from
any member of Phi Gamma Delta, including
myself, and the members of the IFC Judicial
Board to whom this information was reported.
The WLUR story, reported by Amy Beall,
contained this information.

Without reportage of this key event’s role in
the unfortunate circumstances which followed,
those individual members of Phi Gamma Delta
who participated in the late night fight appear to
have acted without cause. Thank you for an
otherwise excellent and evenhanded story.

Sincerely,
Bill Yorio,
President, Phi Gamma Delta

EDITOR'S NOTE: In its original form, our story
did contain that information. It was not printed
because we were unable to authoritatively confirm
those facts.

NOW decries
graffiti, invites
discussion

When the Rockbridge Valley Chapter of the
National Organization of Women last met, the
topics of discussion ranged from women’s career
opportunities to the challenges facing the modern
stay-at-home mom. We also discussed violence
against women, teen pregnancy, the feminization

. of poverty, and the growing wave of tolerance

and insensitivity that is appearing on college
campuses.

We were confronted with the latter head-on
that evening because someone — either a W&L
student, group of students, or someone trying to
look like a W&L student — had plastered the
R.E. Lee Church Parish Hall with anti-NOW
posters. ‘‘N.O.W. is Lesbian Socialism,” W&L
hates N.O.W. Go Away,”’ and ‘‘Die Molly
Yard’’ were some of its slogans.

We can only hope that the offender is a
freshman who has not yet learned that a great
university like W&L is a free marketplace of

 

LETTERS

ideas; that mature, intelligent people can dis-
agree, debate and discuss issues and not resort
to childish displays of hate graffiti.

Somebody is clearly fearful, hateful and frus-
trated and is having trouble dealing with their
feelings in a constructive manner. We are amazed
to think that we could be perceived as that
threatening. Most of us are teachers in the local
schools or colleges or stay-at-home mothers or
professional women. There are even a few W&L
students who occasionally join us. What binds us
together is that we care about the future of our
students and children and believe that equality of
opportunity should not be limited by gender or
anything else.

All NOW meetings are open to the public.
We welcome members of the W&L community
to join our discussions. Our last meeting would
have been enlivened if our anonymous poster
artist had had the courage to attend. The person
may even have learned a little about what the
National Organization of Women does in our
community and what we feel we have gained as
members.

We meet on the last Tuesday of every month
in the R.E. Lee Church Parish Hall at 7:30 p.m.
and we welcome all who would like to join us.

Sincerely,
Pam Patton
Pam Simpson

Ariel clears up
confusion

I would like to correct some of the incorrect
statements made in the Arie/ article that appeared
in last week’s Phi.

First, the article states that ‘‘last year’s Ariel
had no real guidelines for choosing submis-
sions.’’ In truth, we did have very strict
guidelines for reading works. I would split up
the stories and poems we had into three groups:
one for me, and one each for my associate
editors, John Sbar and Sarah Clark. Before I
handed the piles out, I removed the author’s
names from the material. We each read the three
piles within a two week period. While reading,
we separated the submissions into two categories:
those works we felt could be printed and those
that were not ready yet for print. We never
disagreed on whether or not something was
printable. Next, when each of us had read the
material, we met and discussed which of the
printable stories and poems should make it into
the upcoming issue. If there was a disagreement,
I made the final decision.

This system may not be perfect, but I think
it worked well. In fact, four of the seven winners
at the English awards ceremony were in the
spring issue of Ariel: Michael Dixon, Alice
Harrell, Alison Bell, and Scott Howe.

Secondly, the article states that ‘‘the only
people represented in Ariel last year were up-
perclassmen.’’ Once again, this statement is
completely wrong. In the spring issue, we ran 12

stories and poems. Of those twelve, seven were
by underclassmen. Four poems by sophomores
Susan Watkins, Seamane Flanagan, Jennifer
Donaldson, and Chris Swann were included.
Three freshman also had works printed: Scott
Howe, Ralph Emerson Duncan, and Natalie
McCaughrin.

A final fault I found in the article was the
statement that Ariel is not the New Yorker. If we
take the New Yorker as a symbol of the paragon
of literary magazines as I believe it is intended
to be in the statement, we most definitely wanted
to make Ariel like it. Jon, Sarah, and I believed
that we should make Ariel the best that we gould
make it. We stressed quality writing over me-
diocrity and class representation. We believed we
owed as much to the students and faculty who
read Ariel, the administrators who display Ariel
on their coffee tables for guests, and the execu-
tive committee, who gave us so much money.

Sincerely,
John Foster
Ariel Editor 1989-90

Woolly Worm
Festival

The results of the 1990 Woolly Worm Fes-

tival are in. Great, .you say, but what is a woolly .

worm anyway? And what is the festival for? A
woolly worm is a black and orange striped
caterpillar who will one day tum into a tiger
moth. The woolly worms predict the weather for
the winter by the pattern of their stripes. Black
indicates cold weather, orange mild, and various
shades of those colors represent conditions be-
tween the extremes.

Every year in Banner Elk, North Carolina
- a town twenty minutes from my home in
Boone, which is not very close to anything at
all — they hold a woolly worm festival to deter-
mine which worm will be the official predictor
for the coming year. To determine the winner,
the worms race up strings in heats of nineteen
worms each. Then the winners of each heat have
a run-off (of sorts: after all, how fast can a
woolly worm run?) to get the champion.

This year, 722 woolly worms participated in
the Festival. The winner, Willie, belongs to a
man from South Carolina. And now, the moment
everybody has been waiting for: Winter Predic-
tion 1990, as told by Willie himself. Using body
language, of course.

Beginning on December 21, the first four
weeks of winter will be colder than usual, fol-
lowed by four weeks of normal weather, a week
of above normal weather, and ending with
another four weeks of cold. So there you have it.
And don’t we feel better now? I just felt a great
need to educate all you city folks, non-hicks,
uninformed, or whatever your reason for not
knowing what a woolly worm is. Keep Willie in
mind as you make your winter plans!

Sincerely,
Kari May

ee.

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

 

 

Down, set...

Telford and

host scholars

Religion Dept.

 

Staff Reporter

for a conference
Capitalism.’’

Chapel at 8 p.m.

Programse

 

 

The Generals’ center. Frank.Sudell, quarterback Fred Renneker, and
tailback Mason Pope line up against the Guilford defense last
Saturday. The Generals defeated the Quakers 28-2
record to 4-5. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

2, to bring their

 

 

 

' From Staff Reports

 

The federal judge presiding over
the U.S. government’s attempt to

» force Virginia Military Institute to
_-admit women refused to allow Vir-

|

4

?

ginia Governor L. Douglas Wilder to
remove himself from the court battle
Monday.

In a previous hearing before U.S.
District Judge Jackson Kiser, held on
-Oct. 23, Wilder’s lawyers had argued

' ‘that the governor ‘‘had not created or
; ‘perpetuated VMI’s admissions poli-

Interviews and photos

cy,’’ and should therefore be dropped
from a lawsuit filed by the United
States Justice Department.

The lawsuit, which was filed
March 1, alleges that VMI, which is
state-supported, violates both the
Constitution and the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 by refusing to admit women
into the cadet corps.

“The United States is requesting
more than a simple judgement order-
ing desegregation,’’ said Kiser. ‘‘A
remedial plan may be needed, and
VMI may have to deal with new

    

by Amanda Hughen

 

 

 

"SL,
‘I do consider myself as
a politically aware person, but
unfortunately I am also a procras-
tinator, and as a result my request
for an absentee ballot was rejec-
ted,’

John Neslage, Houston,

TX =

 

 

 

Christina Robinson, ’91, Bartles-
ville, OK — ‘‘Well, I voted in the

’

Beautiful Eyes election.’

problems
cadets.”’

Kiser said that he considered the
roles taken by former Virginia gover-
nors in eliminating segregation in
other state colleges in formulating his
ruling.

associited with female

Kiser said Wilder has ‘‘great
persuasive powers as the only official
with responsibility over education
elected by all the citizens of Virgin-
ia."

‘‘The United States contends that
it may need to compel the governor

 

By Joshua Manning

This weekend, the Washington and Lee Religion
Department will host three internationally known scholars

titled ‘‘Justice and the Future of

Beginning on Sunday afternoon, social philosophers
Hugo Assmann, Michael Novak and Max Stackhouse will
present their widely divergent views on the justice of
democratic capitalism. The program will culminate
Monday with a panel discussion between the three in Lee

The lectures are sponsored by the Robert Lee Telford
Lecture Fund with additional support from the Religion
Department’s Philip F. Howerton Fund for Special

Religion Department head Harlan Beckley has been
planning the conference since the spring of 1989. Beckley
worked with a committee of inter-departmental faculty
members to choose a topic and a list of desired lecturers.

“One of the reasons we wanted to address this topic
was because it has not, to my knowledge, been addressed
before on this campus,’’ Beckley said.

“Given recent events in Eastern Europe,’”’ he said,
“this topic becomes all the more timely now that
capitalist systems must respond to the collapse of
traditional socialism. It has been widely discussed of late
by theologians, moral philosophers and social scientists.’’

Assmann, Novak and Stackhouse are all acknowledged
leaders in their fields, according to Beckley. In addition,
they hold different positions on the subject of political
economy from the ethical and theological perspective.

A native Brazilian, Assman currently teaches at the
Universidade Metodista de Piracicaba in Brazil. As a
founding member of the Ecumenical Association of Third
World Theologians, Assman is a representative of Latin
American liberation theology. He represents a radical
critique of the justice of capitalism. Assman’s lecture will
be delivered in Lee Chapel on Sunday at 4 p.m.

Novak, a sociologist, is a noted defender of democratic
capitalism. He presently holds the George Frederick Jewett
Chair on Religion and Public Policy at the American
Enterprise Institute in Washington, D.C. He also serves as
director of social and political studies at the Institute.
Novak will speak at 8 p.m. on Sunday.

Aa a United Church of Christ clergyman, Stackhouse
draws on an ecumenical tradition in American theology
and “ethics” fo ‘addréss “the ‘Morality’ of political and
economic issues. He is currently the Herbert Gezork
Professor of Christian Social Ethics at the Andover
Newton Theological School in Massachusetts. Stackhouse
will speak Monday afternoon at 4 p.m.

Judge rules Wilder must stay in case

to use these powers in order to im-
plement gender desegregation at
VMI,”’ he said.

In the same ruling, Kiser also
allowed the VMI fund-raising associa-
tion and an alumni foundation to
enter the lawsuit, which is scheduled
to go to court April 4.

In their arguments, the associations
argued that they provide the school
with 15 percent of its operating bud-
get. If coeducation were mandated,
they contended, donations would fall
off, necessitating their participation.

 

 

 

Hal Bailey, 91, Memphis TN -
- ‘‘I am just sorry I am not a
member of the District because |
would have thrown all my support
behind Mr. Barry.’’

TALKBACK

 

D and D

Anyone interested in organizing a
Dungeons and Dragons tourna-
ment please contact Eric Mutz at
464-5550. Especially looking for
an experienced Dungeon Master
to oversee the game. All game
materials will be provided.

Get a job

A workshop in ‘‘Off-Campus Job
Search’’ will be held on Monday,
Nov. 12, from 4-5 p.m. in Uni-
versity Center 109 by the Career
Development and Placement Of-
fice. This presentation is especial-
ly for students who will be seek-
ing jobs not currently sought by
recruiters in their on-campus re-
cruitment process.

Get a job 2

All students who want to partici-
pate in ‘‘career Connections: New
York City’’ at Chemical Bank in
New York on Monday, Nov. 19
must register in the CD&P office
within the next week. It is open
to both seniors and underclass-
men

Get a job 3

Seniors willing to submit resumes
for the month of December need
to drop their resumes in the
CD&P office by 4:30 on Nov. 12.

Get a job 4

All sophomores are invited to a
presentation called ‘‘Self-Assess-
ment for Sophomores’’ which will
be held on Tuesday, Nov. 13,
from 4-5 p.m. in Room 109 of
the University Center.

Scholarships

Twenty-five scholarships are cur-
rently available for students ma-
joring in engineering or science
disciplines. Administered by Oak
Ridge Associated Universities,
they are designed for students
interested in careers in environ-
mental restoration or waste man-
agement. For more information,
‘rite Peggy Gibson, Environmen-
tal Restoration/Waste Management
Scholarship Program, Oak Ridge
Associated Universities, Science/-

117, Oak Ridge, TN, 37831.

English jobs
There will be a session for En-
glish majors currently in the job
market, with emphasis in the
areas of public relations, banking,
and secondary school teaching
(public and private). It will be
held Wednesday, Nov. 14, in
Payne 21 at 7 p.m. On Thursday,
Nov.15, there will be a special
session concerning private school
teaching in Payne 26.

Scholars

Any freshmen and sophomores
interested in being considered for
the university Scholars Program
should notify in writing Prof.
John Evans, Director of the Uni-
versity Scholares Program, as
soon as possible.

 

Engineering ..Division,..P.O., Box. .

GENERAL NOTES

Invade Russia

An information session for those
interested in the university's spr-
ing-term study program in the
Soviet Union will be held Nov.
14 in Newcomb Hall 9. Students
desiring further information before
the meeting should contact Prof.
Richard Bidlack.

Outing Club

The Outing Club will lead a hike
on Saturday, Nov. 10, at 11 a.m.
to explore two large waterfalls in
the South River drainage. For
more information, call Tom Vin-
son at 463-6594. The next meet-
ing of the Environmental Section
will be Tuesday, Nov. 13 at 5:30
in University Center 113. Dont
forget the Outing Club’s regular
kayaking instruction, mountain
bike and road rides, and equip-
ment room hours. For details, see
the Outing Club bulletin board on
the Collonade or at Baker 109.

The winner is...

The winners of the Delta Gamma
Mr. and Ms. Beautiful Eyes
Contest will be announced at
halftime of the Generals’ football
game Saturday. Come to the game
and find out who has the most
gorgeous eyes on campus! Win-
ners will be provided prizes by
DG and Pappagallo.

Card game

We’re looking for one or two
other people who understand the
card game pinochle and would be
interested in getting a game to-
gether. For information, please
call Josh at 463-2397, or Colin at
463-9286.

Orientation

The Mock Convention Steering
Committee will hold two orienta-
tion sessions for students interest-
ed in participating in the 1992
Mock Democratic Convention.
They will be held at 7 and 9 p.m.
on Nov. 8 in Room 203 of Reid
Hall.

Good flick

The next presentation by the
W&L Film Society will be The
Wannsee Conference. It will be
shown on Nov. 9 and 10 in Lew-
is Hall, Classroom A. There is no
admission charge. The film is in
German, with English subtitles.

Camuto Book

Professor Christopher Camuto will
sign his book, A Fly Fisherman's
Blueridge, Tues. Nov. 13 in the
bookstore. The trades praise
Camuto looks beyond flyfishing
to discussions of nature on a
broader scale.

Loans

The Emergency Loan Committee
has loans available for students.
Contact Jeffrey Rogers, 464-5430.

 

 

 

 

  

Do you consider yourself politically aware?

 

 

Kate

Hanley, ’91, Fairhope,
AL — ‘‘Let’s put it this way, I
buy a paper every day, but usual-
ly only make it as far as the
crossword puzzle. I did vote,
though.’’

Greg Evans, ’92, Florence, AL -
- “There was an election on
Tuesday?’’

 

Anonymous, ’?, Oak Park, IL -
- ‘‘I am still waiting for Lyndon
LaRouche to get out of jail.’’

 

 

 
 

NEWS

Kappa Sigma
stereo stolen

The Kappa Sigma fraternity
house stereo system is missing
after a break-in early Monday
morning.

An amplifier, tape deck and
receiver worth about $1,250 were
stolen, in addition to a jacket
worth $175, according to police.

Kappa Sigma members told
police that at about 4 a.m. a man
carrying a butcher knife woke
brothers sleeping on the second
floor. When the brothers ap-
proached the man, he dropped the
knife he was carrying and fled
down the stairs and out of the
house.

The man was about 18 years
old and wearing a long khaki-
colored jacket. He was last seen
running toward Nelson Street.

W&L lecture
to be published

Noted constitutional scholar
Melvin E. Bradford will lecture
at Washington and Lee Tuesday.

Bradford’s lecture is sponsored
by the Contact Committee.

Bradford, a noted scholar in
the United States and Europe, will
discuss the First Amendment.
Specifically, he will focus on the
amendment as viewed by the
founding fathers.

The lecture at W&L is
scheduled for later publication.

Bradford is currently a profes-
sor of English and American
Studies at the University of Dal-
las. He has written and
contributed to numerous books
dealing with constitutional issues.
His most recent book is titled The

 

| BRIEFS

Reactionary Imperative.

Bradford’s speech is open to
the public and will be held at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Upcoming Contact speakers
include literary humorist Hunter
S. Thompson on Dec. 4 and
Virginia Senator John Warmer,
W&L '49.

Dean to speak
about women

Dean Anne Schroer-Lamont
will speak on ‘‘Gifted Women
and Career Choices’’ in the R.E.
Lee. Church Parish Hall on Nov.
27.

Schroer-Lamont has __ spent
eight years researching how gifted
young women make career de-
cisions and balance them with
decisions about personal relation-
ships. Her findings show that
there are significant differences
between how men and women
make their choices.

The meeting will be at 7:30
p.m. and is open to the public. It
is sponsored by the Rockbridge
Valley Chapter of the National
Organization for Women.

Tech fraternity
caught hazing

A Virginia Tech fraternity has
been convicted on six hazing
charges, including forcing a
pledge to drink alcohol.

Lambda Chi Alpha was con-
victed on five counts of psych-
ological hazing, which school
officials define as yelling at
pledges, other acts of verbal in-
timidation or transporting pledges

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990
SSeS

against their will.

After deliberating for several
hours, a judicial review board
Suspended the fraternity’s social
and academic privileges until
March and placed the chapter on
probation until Sept., 1991. Lamb-
da Chi, which has 70 members,
had no prior record of violations.

Last year, Tech approved
banishing another fraternity, Delta
Kappa Epsilon, from campus for
five years after it was found
guilty of hazing violations during
a trip to an Ohio college.

The charges against Lambda
Chi were filed by one pledge last
week, although other witesses
testified during a hearing Friday.

Bottle thrown at
student window

A bottle was thrown from the
street into a Washington and Lee
student’s upstairs apartment at 25
West Washington St. early Sun-
day morning.

The bottle hit the wall op-
posite the window and shattered,
police said.

Senior Stacy Patmore told
police a friend opened an apart-
ment window after hearing an
argument in the street. A man
standing in the street first threw
garbage at the window and then
the bottle.

The man drove away after
throwing the bottle.

These news briefs were compiled
by Phi staff members Pat Lopes,
Josh Manning, Andrew Waters
and Alesha Priebe.

 

 

 

Just hangin’ out

W&L students and their parents enjoy lunch on the university lawn Saturday of Parents’
Weekend. Almost 2000 parents visited campus last weekend, among them 100 alumni fathers.
The lunch was just one of several activities planned for parents. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

 

 

  

TPMT O OCG

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 16 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY
LOW PRICES!

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Law students compete
in Moot Court contest

 

By Cathy Lopiccolo
Staff Reporter

 

Associate Supreme Court Justice
Bryon White will serve on the panel
of judges for the final round of
Washington and Lee’s Davis Moot
Court Competition, to be held next
Thursday at 4 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

The competition began with 56
second- and third-year law students,
according to Davis Administrator
Claude Worrell. Today, the field was
narrowed to four finalists who will
compete before the final panel of
judges. 5

‘In the Davis program, competi-
tors write a brief on a problem they
are assigned and then prepare an oral
argument on the brief,’’ Worrell said.

Each of the four finalists will be
allowed to present a fifteen-minute
argument, during which the judge

may ask questions. Worrell said this
case does not include a client or a
jury, because it is an appeals case
dealing more with legal issues than
with factual evidence.

This year the finalists will be
judged by Justice White, Judge David
Ebel from the Tenth Circut Court of
Appeals and Judge Rhesa Barksdale
from the Fifth Circut Court of Ap-
peals.

This year’s fictitious case involves
a dispute between the Augustus O.
Howard Feed Company, et al, in the
state of ‘‘Lewis Hall’’ and the Bayou
Feed Company in Louisiana. The first
part of the problem addresses two
separate actions by a Federal District
Court under Civil Rule of Procedure
11, and 28 United States Code, sec-
tion 1927.

According to Worrell, the first
issue involves sanctions against an
attorney for misconduct and against
his client, Augustus O. Howard. In a
case where the parties are form two

separate states, the Federal District .

Court may apply state substantive
law, which provides different proce-

dures to punish attorneys and parties .

in a case.

The court then sanctioned the
client further, citing its inherent pow-
ers as basis for its sanction.

‘‘The second issue concerns the
inherent power of the court,’’ Worrell
said. ‘‘State courts do not have the
power to sanction attorneys or parties.
They cannot award sanctions under
their own auspices. The federal court
in this case had sanctioned the parties
but not the attorney.”

The petitioners in the case will
argue that the court should not have
applied Rule 11 or section 1927 and
should not have used its inherent
power, according to Worrell. The
respondents will maintain the court
was right to sanction both parties.

Worrell said the whole case is
really an argument over the conflict
between federal and state procedure.

 

Pillsbury
Flour

 

 

 

Contac Severe
Cold Formula

 

 

 

 

Old Fashioned

tt
f:

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

Coca-Cola,
Sprite

99"

2 Liter

 

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, November 13, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, November 13, 1990 In Lexington Store Only _
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 
SPORTS

Cross country runs
to first ODAC title

Her absence presented a chal-
lenge to the runners on the lower end
who were asked to pick up the slack.
Freshman Kari May along with Herr-
ing showed the greatest improve-
ments and were instrumental in the
team’s success, said Phemister.

The men’s team was not quite as
successful as the women. They
finished second to Lynchburg College
24-33 despite running what head
coach John Tucker called their best

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

   

R

 

By John Kleckley
’ Staff Reporter

This past weekend at the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Cham-
pionships, the Washington and Lee
women’s cross country team won

/ their first ever conference title with a
' balanced team effort.

The Generals nipped three-time
defending champion Eastern Men-
nonite College 36-38.

 

 

 

 
 
   
    

Sophomore Susie Wootton (22:36)
and senior Cecily Tynan (22:44)
finished one and two for the Generals
and fifth and sixth overall to lead
W&L’s balanced finish; both runners
were named all-ODAC.

 

 

 

 

race of the season.

Throughout the race the two
teams battled head to head, and in
the end they had captured the top
eight spots between them, but it was
the performance of Lynchburg’s dis-

 

 

 

 

 

Cecily Tynan

Five other runners finished in the

top 18 for the Generals, and though

only three of them counted in the

scoring, the others were able to dis-

place the final EMC runner and
clinch the win for W&L.

Head coach Jim Phemister, who
was named ODAC Coach-of-the-Y ear,
was understandably pleased with his
team’s performance.

‘We needed a 100 percent effort
from everyone and everyone produced
it. It was a total team effort,’’ said
Phemister. ‘‘We didn’t have the fast-
est runners, but we had the deepest
team. Our displacers, our sixth and
seventh place runners [juniors] Bran-
non Aden and Jodi Herring, won it
for us.”’

Phemister pointed to one specific
incident that made his team come
together. Senior Pat Lopes, who had
been consistently finishing in the top
five, got pneumonia and was unable
to'run at the end of the season.

.

  
 

per sa aha th Gln Uh ohh ah tad emi. Mil daar mah ae sk se ou Jel i 1’

ri Ti, Wiis ie fhisa te stan ca

4
id
e
e
e
3
#
§
f
i
4
rt
sl
,

Trying to stretch dollars when you're
computer shopping doesn’t mean you're willing
to make sacrifices.

That's why you should consider the new,
affordable Macintosh® Classic® computer.

It has everything you need— including a monitor, keyboard, mouse,
2 megabytes of RAM, and a 40-megabyte hard disk, Just plug everything in and
the Macintosh Classic is ready to run, because the system software is already
installed? And, thanks to the Macintosh computer's legendary ease of use, you'll
be up and running in no time.

Like every Macintosh, the Classic can run thousands of available applications
that all work in the same, consistent way—so once you've learned one program,
you're well on your way to learning them all. And this is one cheap roommate
that doesn’t have trouble sharing. The Apple® SuperDrive"—standard
equipment with every Macintosh—reads from and writes to Macintosh,

Charles Edwards
placers that proved to be W&L’s
undoing.

Sophomore Bo Hannah (27:17),
senior David Martin (27:30), and
junior Charles Edwards (27:48) were
the top finishers for W&L. Each
eamed all-ODAC honors. Other top
runners included sophomore Keith
Rinn, junior Lee Parker, and senior
Kennon Walthall.

Despite finishing second, Tucker

was more than happy with his team’s
performance.

“Our men ran their best race of
the year when it counted,’’ he said.
‘“When we needed perfection, all we
got was excellence. Our men gained
the respect of everyone present —
competitors and spectators alike.’’

The season is not over for both
teams just yet. Both teams will par-
ticipate in the regional championships
at Emory University in Atlanta, Ga.
The top teams and finishers will

advance to the NCAA Champion-
ships.

Me

1347

* Macintosh Classic computers purchased before January 1991 include system software on floppy disks; softwar @ i
©1990 Appie Computer, inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, inc. SuperDrive and The
power to be your best” are trademarks of Apple Computer, inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, inc. MS-DOS
is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. OS/2 is a registered trademark of international Business Machines Corporation

ig

Senior Craig Irons turns upfield after making a catch in Saturday’s
football game against Guilford. Irons led the Generals with six
catches on the afternoon, his best game since the season-opener

Generals

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee football
team has a knack for bouncing back
after disappointing losses. After losing
to Maryville 21-7 four weeks ago, the
Generals responded with a two-game
winning streak.

Last week, Bridgewater ended that
streak with a 28-7 romp, setting the
stage for W&L’s game with Guilford,
who will join the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference next year. Guil-
ford was trying to stake a claim to
an ODAC title, having beaten every
team in the ODAC this season —
except W&L.

Guilford came into the game: with

mo
tay
‘Ril s

ue WOPES

       
  
     
      
  
 

_

L ony

*
8 ee 7

16.9%
3. ae

 

BY D mI Oel ee the Macintosh Classic.

not installed

dethrone

a high-powered offense that had twice
put up 41 points against ODAC foes
this year, and the Quakers thought
Saturday would be no_ different.
They would score a lot and finish
their romp through the ODAC.

But it was.

W&L installed a defense designed
to contain Quaker quarterback Calvin
Hunter. The defense, the ‘‘61 TNT,”’’
did its job and the offense enjoyed its
best game of the season as the Gen-
erals upset the Quakers 28-22 on
Parents’ Weekend.

“The defense was designed to
shut down their inside game,’’ said
junior linebacker Trey Cox. ‘‘We
took out one linebacker and put in
another down lineman. That had their
five lineman blocking our five. It was

against Emory and Henry, when he caught seven. Irons’ catches
set up three W&L touchdowns against Guilford in the 28-22 upset
win. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

mythical champs

a great game plan. They had to leave
either an end or a linebacker un-
blocked, and whoever they left un-
blocked made the play.’’

The defense set the stage early,
forcing Guilford to punt after only
three plays on the opening possession
of the game. W&L took over on the
Guilford 41 and went right to work.

Junior quarterback Fred Renneker
hit senior tailback Mason Pope on a
screen pass, and Pope rambled down
the sideline for 25 yards to the Guil-
ford 16. Five plays later, Pope bur-
rowed into the end zone from four
yare’s out, and the Generals led 7-0
alter senior Carter Quayle’s extra
point was good.

After Guilford tied the score,

Reunole Pepe ‘and _ompey went

back to work. On third down and 12,
Renneker looked for senior split end
Craig Irons on the sideline. Irons
leapt, caught the ball and came down
with both feet in bounds before being
knocked out of bounds with a first
down.

Three plays later, again on third
down, Renneker looked for Irons —
this time over the middle. Irons was
hit by three defenders but still came
down with the ball and another W&L
first down.

‘Craig had a heck of a day,”
said Renneker. ‘‘He caught the ball
in traffic and took some big hits —
but he held on as usual.’’

After a 15-yard strike from Ren-

AR

 

MS-DOS, 0/2, and Apple II floppy disks, which means

you can share information with someone who uses a

different type of computer.
See the Macintosh Classic for yourself It’ll change your mind

about cheap roommates.

For further information visit
Tucker Hall Room 215A

NGS am ECORY QQ ete!

 

or call 463-8844
6

The power to be your best"

 

 

 

Q Please see GENERALS page 6

amo

rete. EMAAR LEAL MT ANAL NAS S ee ee

OPFOR”
SPORTS

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

 

 

 

Rae

Junior quarterback Fred Renneker eyes the end zone in the fourth throws a block. Reniueker scored the touchdown and the Generals
quarter of Saturday’s game against Guilford as Thomas May scored the win, 28-22. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

GENERALS

from page 5

 

neker to junior Jeff Kreis put the ball
on the Guilford five-yard line, Pope
finished the drive with a one-yard
scoring run, making the score 14-7
after one quarter. The 14 points e-
qualled W&L’s season total in the
first quarter.

The first half ended 14-7, but the
W&L defense asserted itself. With six
minutes left in the half, sophomore
Kevin Gorman and senior Brad Miller
hit Hunter as he was about to throw
a pass and knocked him out of the
game.

Hunter would return, but he would
not be his usual self. The W&L
defense, which has not allowed a
quarterback to complete 50 percent of
his passes, held Hunter to 14 of 30
with three interceptions.

W&L extended its lead to 21-7 in
the third quarter. Pope got things
rolling from the W&L 16 with a 12-
yard run off the right side. Soph-
omore Wade Robinett then blasted his
way for nine yards on successive
carries.

Renneker then took to the air,
connecting with Pope, who made a
one-handed grab and carried the ball
for a gain of 12 to the Guilford 43.
After three running plays took the
ball to the 30, Renneker went back to
the air.

He found a wide-open Irons for a
gain of 16 to the Quaker 14. Two
plays later, Renneker zipped a pass
over the middle through double cov-
erage to a crossing Kreis in the end
zone for the score.

Guilford drew within 21-14 at the
end of the third quarter, but the Gen-
erals quickly extended the lead back
to 14. Renneker moved the team to

 
 
    
    
 
  
 

 
 

FOR RENT

House in Country
463-5383

Help wanted

Interested in being an advertising

salesman for The Ring-tum Phi?
We currently need two or three
more salesmen. For more informa-
tion, please call 463-8581.

 

For’ your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

 
   
 

 

 

 

auciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
_ 4780 Ogden Road ‘Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

the Guilford 42 with two more circus
catches by Irons. Two carries by
Pope and one by Kreis got the ball to
the 23-yard line.

Robinett then ran off the right
side for 18 yards, getting blocks from
juniors Jim Henry and Rob Thomas,
to the five-yard line. On the next
play, Renneker faked a hand-off to
Pope, slipped down and won a foot
race to the corner of the end zone for
the score.

Greg Despres appeared to be open,
but at the last minute junior Scott
Williamson dove and intercepted the
pass one-handed in the end zone for
a touchback.

On W&L’s next possession, on
fourth down the Generals sent Bob
Ehret in to punt. But the snap sailed
over his head and rolled to the W&L
two-yard line. Ehret wisely picked the
ball up and ran into the end zone,
taking the safety and giving the Gen-

 

 

 

 

Scott Williamson

From that point on, the defense

took over. The Generals forced a
tumover on the next Guilford posses-
sion. After sophomore Thomas May
knocked down one pass, senior Brad
Miller almost intercepted the next
pass.

He couldn't hold it, but junior
linebacker Trey Cox could, and the
Generals had intercepted Hunter for
the first time.

After Guilford got the ball back,
Hunter drove his team to the W&L
13 before he looked to the end zone.

Furniture Dealers

  

463-2742

  

3 West en St., Lexington
eae (> 0 )

 

 
    
    

' SHOE FIXERS
§ Instant Shoe Repair i
i We can heel you and save your sole while you wait. S

 

FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRA

Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization.

 

Plus a chance at $5000 more!

 

This program works!
No investment needed.

Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50

 

 

 

Mason Pope

erals a free kick.

Guilford fielded Ehret’s free kick
and promptly marched to the W&L
six, where the defense came through
again. Williamson, the ODAC defen-
sive player of the week, blitzed and
hit Hunter, causing a fumble. Soph-
omore Phil Spears fell on the ball,
and the Generals hung on for a 28-
22 upset win.

On the afternoon, Renneker com-
pleted 13 of 20 passes for 165 yards
and also rushed 10 times for 45
yards. Pope finished with 99 yards

rushing, while Irons had six catches
for 81 yards.

The defense forced five Guilford
turnovers. Cox led the way with 13
tackles and an interception. William-
son added nine tackles, a sack, a
forced fumble and an interception and
senior Clark Wight added eight tack-
les, deflected two passes and inter-
cepted another.

Quayle set a school record for
extra points in a career with his four
against Guilford. He now has 65
extra points in his career.

This Saturday, the Generals will
look to even their record at 5-5 on
the season against Georgetown. Game
time is 1:30 on Wilson Field.

BOX SCORE

Guilford 1:0 +2 =O
Washington and Lee 14 0 7

W&L-Pope 4 run (Quayle kick)
Guilford-Thompson 1 run (Clodfeiter kick)
W&L-Pope 1 run (Quayle kick)

W&L-Kreis 14 pass from Renneker (Quayle kick)
Guilford-Thompson 1 run (Clodfelter kick)
W&L-Renneker 5 run (Quayle kick)
Guilford-Safety--Ehret tackled in end zone
Guilford-Guarino 4 pass from Hunter (kick field)

Individual Rushing
Guilford-Guarino 9 carries-53 yards, Hunter 11-
52, Thompson 14-35, Privette 1-1, Radford 3-(-
10). W&L-Pope 32-99, Renneker 10-45, Robinett
4-19, Kreis 4-19, Goglia 4-5.

Individual Passing
Guilford-Hunter 14 completions-30 attempts-3
interceptions-216 yards, Radford 1-1-0-50. W&L-
Renneker 13-20-0-165.

Individual Receiving
Guilford-Despres 6 catches-113 yards, Thompson
3-85, Hester 3-36, Johnson 1-20, Womack 1-8,
Guarino 1-4. W&L-Irons 6-81, Pope 4-39, Kreis 2-
28, Hodges 1-9, Suiters 1-8.

 

130 S. Main St.

   
   
 

464-6666 !
Se ) ED) SD DC DO

 

on
Lexington Bike Shop’
Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

 

To Celebrate
A Fly Fisherman’s Blue Ridge

 

 

by Christopher Camuto
(instructor of writing at W&L)

The W&L University Bookstore

invites you to
A Booksigning Party

November 13th - 3:00 p.m.
In the Bookstore

 

 
  
  
     

463-7969

W&L nipped by RC,
comes in fourth

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

One point can make all the dif-
ference in the world. Just ask the
Washington and Lee women’s vol-
leyball team.

In the third-place game in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference tour-
nament, the Generals had Roanoke on
the ropes. They were one point, just
one knockout punch away from their
best season finish ever. They couldn’t
connect.

Roanoke escaped, battered and
bruised, from a 14-7 deficit in the
third and final game to beat the
Generals 16-14 and snatch third place
from W&L.

“One point and we go out with
our best record and our best finish in
the ODAC ever,’’ said head coach
Susan Dittman. ‘‘As it was, we fin-
ished with a losing record overall and
fourth in the [tournament].’’

The Generals, who finished fourth
last year, beat Sweet Briar 15-12, 15-
10, 15-8 in the first round. Sopho-
more Leslie Hess tallied 13 kills and
22 digs while junior co-captain Mena
McGowin added 14 kills.

The win, which clinched a slot in
the semifinals, allowed W&L to con-
centrate their efforts on Eastern Men-
nonite, a team the Generals had a
two games to one lead on earlier this
season before falling.

Unfortunately for W&L, Eastern
Mennonite was hot, dominating early
and often to finish with a 15-6, 15-
2, 15-7 victory. Senior co-captain
Lisa Jay, who handed out 28 assists
against Sweet Briar, recorded only 8
against the Royals.

The Generals faced a quick strik-
ing offense which blew through
blocking attempts and thwarted a
successful passing scheme, two as-

pects of the game Dittman had hoped
to hone in the weeks before the tour-
nament. :

‘‘We had no blocks,’’ said Dit-
tman. “Their offensive was in-
credible.”’

In the semifinals, the Generals
hoped to retaliate against Bridgewater,

who defeated W&L in Lexington :

earlier in the season.

The Generals hung tough early, :
dropping the first game by only 15- ;

10. But Bridgewater shifted into a's
higher gear, taking the next two.
games 15-7 and 15-2 to drop W&L »

into the consolation game.

The semifinal loss, coupled with °

the loss to Roanoke dropped the :
Generals to a fourth place finish, one * °
down from their regular season three- '

way tie for third.

The Generals had spent the week &

before the tourney resting some in- }

juries and developing the intensity

and concentration necessary to carry
them to the championship game.

In the tournament, injuries to
junior Marcy Brown and McGowin
didn’t help the Generals’ cause.
Those injuries, coupled with the
tough loss to Roanoke were difficult
burdens to bear for a team in pursuit
of greatness.

‘‘We were hoping for more,” said
Dittman. .“‘It’s better to shoot high
and fail than not to shoot at all.’’

Jay finished the tournament with
69 assists, bringing her season total
to 519. That’s 100 more than she
dished out all last year when she was
named to the All-ODAC team. Al-
though the senior setter hoped for a
higher finish, the loss didn’t taint
an outstanding career.

“IT had a great time here,’’ she
anid, “7 couldn’ t have asked for any-
thing more.’

Polo rips Dayton to finish
third in Southern tourney

 

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee water
polo team finished out its season last
weekend in the Southern Champion-
ships.

The Generals reached the semi-

his three goals were not enough as
Richmond prevailed 12-9.

W&L reached the semifinals with
a 12-3 win over Mary Washington.
Senior Jon Sbar led the way with
five goals.

W&L sent a capacity crowd at

 

 

Jon Sbar

final round before falling to arch-
rival Richmond. The win was Rich-
mond’s fourth against W&L this
season. The Generals have beaten
Richmond three times.

Junior Will Davis led the Gen-
erals’ attack against the Spiders, but

 

 

 

 

Will Davis

Twombly Pool home with a win in
the consolation round. Davis led the
way with four goals as the Generals
dropped Dayton 12-6.

The Generals finished the season
14-9,

W&L Students, we 0 weloeane ¥ you oe our so » for your next hair cut.
We have three experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

at S. Main St.

 

 

CLASSES

 

 

FORMING

NOW!

HI AND LOW IMPACT AEROBICS=4:15 & 5:30 (CHILD CARE AVAILABLE)

WATCH FOR NEW CLASSES

FEATURES MEMBERSHIPS HOURS
*SCORE™AEROBICS FLOOR $35. /MONTH MON,-FRi.: 10 TO 8
ae CYCLES PRE-PAY DISCOUNT SAT.: 9 TO 5
—_—-> OR YEARLY SUN: 1 TO 5
FREE ior ania
LOCKERROOM SERVICES anniv DISCOUNT
INVITATIONAL CLASSES

16 E. NELSON ST. (ABOVE HUNTER/HUNTRESS)

464—1-FIT

 

 

ann, VA

 

Don’t Be
Disappointed
By Selection & Price

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY.

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

University Sportswear has the
best selection of W&L imprinted

T-shirts, sweatshirts, em-
broidered fitted baseball caps
and much more.

We Are Opening
Student Accounts!

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

 

oe eee eee eee ew ew

a A it A A

-
SPORTS

Same

.

 

, Senior Craig Hatfield pulls down a rebound against Roanoke
College last year. Hatfield led the ODAC in rebounding and will
' again be a force for the W&L team. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

¢

(~~: SSRIS Ge
By Jay Plotkin
‘ Sports Editor

 

On the surface, it looks like the
1990-91 Washington and Lee basket-
; ball team is the same team it was
last year or the year before.
Although many of the names are
) the same--five starters and 11 letter-
men return from last year’s team —
‘ this is a different team from last
year’s 15-12 squad. s
Not different in names or faces,
- but different in the way it will ap-
proach things this year. Defense will
* definitely come first in 1990-91 ac-
' cording to W&L’s head man, Verne
‘ Canfield.
“We will play a ten-man rotation
‘ this year, with the emphasis on de-
, fense,’’ he said. ‘‘If a player doesn’t
play defense — then he won’t play.
‘Last year we were too offensive
oriented. We tried to outscore people,
“our defense slipped and we were
» ineffective. Our defense will not slip
this year.’’
Last year’s team scored 77.5
) points a game last year while. giving
up 75. The 75 points per game al-
' lowed came about because the Gen-
_ erals sat back and let the offense
come to them. Canfield said that will
’ not be the case in this, his 27th sea-
, son at the helm in Lexington.
_ “We are trying to avoid a passive
i defense where we sit back and let the
, Offense dictate to us,’’ he said. ‘‘We

will attack people with our defense.”’

Senior co-captain Mike Holton
was second on the team in steals last
year with 26. He said the team will
indeed pick up the tempo defensively.

“Defense has been the big em-
phasis from day one,’’ he said,
“We've been working on picking up
full court and trapping a lot. Last
year we sat back and basically let the
offense do what it wanted. We will
definitely pick up our defensive tem-
po this year.”’

Offensively, W&L will look to
score quickly off turnovers created

from the defensive pressure, but when

it can’t, the Generals have a host of
people who can put the ball in the
basket.

Leading the way inside is two-
time NABC All-American Chris
Jacobs. Jacobs, a 6-6 senior, averaged
18.3 points per game last year and
has led the team in scoring 32 times
over the past two years.

Jacobs is joined down low by two
more seniors. Co-captain Craig Hat-
field is the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference rebounding champion
from a year ago. The 6-4 forward
pulled down 7.5 boards a game to go
along with his 10.6 scoring average.
He also connected on 58 percent of
his shots last year. Hatfield led the
team in steals last year with 28.

Joining Hatfield and Jacobs is 6-
5 forward Ed Hart. Hart missed 14

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ¢Perfumes
Charge Accounts ® Free Delivery

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

but returned late to score 70 points
in the last five games.

To bolster the inside experience is
more of the same in the backcourt.
Seniors Holton and Jim Casey are
back to run the show for W&L.

Holton averaged 12 points a game
while leading the team in three point
shooting and assists. Casey brings
with him a scoring average of 10.2 to
go along with 61 assists.

But the Generals are not just five
deep. Canfield plans to use a 10-man
rotation. That means he’s still got
talent on the bench.

Pat Gallavan, another senior, re-
turns and brings with him a renewed
outside touch. Gallavan struggled at
the beginning of last season but fin-
ished strong, leading the team in
scoring twice last year. Gallavan is
the team’s three-point specialist. He
set a school-record with six three
pointers in one game last year.

Juniors Mark Melton and Courtney
Penn are defensive specialists. Penn
led the team in rebounding this pre-
season and is the team’s best one-
on-one defender. Melton may be the
most versatile player on the team.

“We have used Mark at four
positions on offense and defense,”’
said Canfield. ‘‘Now we're letting
him play defensive point guard. He
gives us depth at every position.

“Mark is playing with a lot of
confidence right now. He will have
some games where he will come
close to carrying the team by him-
Seu

Also retuming are twin towers
John Witherington and Franklin Prid-
gen. Both give the Generals big
bodies to use in the low post.

“John is starting to develop the
offensive skills we knew he had,”
said Canfield. ‘‘Franklin is probably
playing closer to his potential than
anyone else on the team. I won't
hesitate to spot-substitute him for any
of our big players. He has a great

team, different team

work ethic, and it’s paying off.’’

But that’s not all. Sophomore
guards Bryan Brading and Bryan
Watkins will both see valuable time
this year.

“Bryan Brading is really pressing
Jim [Casey] for the starting point
guard spot,’’ said Canfield. ‘‘I would
say Bryan has run number one point
guard close to one-third of the time.
The only thing holding him back is
experience and the confidence that
comes with experience.’’

Sophomore Keith Faulkner didn’t
play much last year, but he caught
Canfield’s eye this preseason and will
definitely see time.

“Keith is the one player who has

moved up the most this year,’’ said
Canfield. ‘‘He has played well in
spurts and has what I call defensive
anticipation. That will get him some
playing time this year.’’

Canfield says the offense will
concentrate on balance, with the
emphasis on the inside. The team hit
13 of 26 three pointers in a scrim-
mage last week against Shenandoah,
but struggled inside.

“It was a positive scrimmage in
that we found out where we are and
what we need to do,’’ said Canfield,
““We found out what we need to do,
now we just need to connect the
dots.’’

“Practice has gone well,’’ said
Holton. ‘‘Coach always stresses con-
centration and intensity. In past years,
we've only been able to get one of
the two down. But now we’re getting
them both at the same time, and
we're starting to put things together.”’

Said Canfield, ‘‘We’ve had some
good practices. Practices have been
tough and the’ competition within
practice has been intense. We’ll be
ready to play when the season

starts.’’

  
 

 

Junior John Witherington gets a lay-up against Roanoke last year.
Witherington will play a big part in W&L's low post offense this
games last year with a stress fracture, Year. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

A Quaker sandwich

Sophomore Kevin Gorman (60) and senior Brad Miller hit
Guilford quarterback Calvin Hunter at the same time. As a
result of the hit, Hunter had to leave the game. Staff photo by
Chris Leiphart.

 

 

 

qe

 

 

 

 

Bows.
Paper.
' Gift cards.
Ribbon

Shipping boxes.
UPS,

PO
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 7 am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

 

 

Listen to
Generals’
football

on WLUR...

play-by-play by
Jay Plotkin,

color by

Hunter Catlett
and Greg Kiehl,
All-Conference
nose guard.

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

Right >

* George's
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri, 8-5

Cue,

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022
Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St.
‘With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450
ae e Redken ® Paul Mitchel « Seba ae 2
Net mes

)

   

 
   
   
     

 

~<a | AO

    
  

HOUSE

Restaurant

30.N. Main St., Lexington

 

 

WILLSON-

EI

Reservations are recommended

      

 

 

 

 

 

Practice what
you preach

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

 

How many times do I have to hear a major college football coach say
that — if given the opportunity to go for the win or the tie — he'll go
for the win before he actually does?

Once in a while, coaches will actually go for the win instead of the tie.
But, sadly enough for college football fans around, those incidents are
overshadowed by those~coaches who feel the need toplay for the tie
rather than the win.

That Mississippi State lost to Auburn two weeks ago is poetic justice.
Mississippi State scores a touchdown to cut Auburn’s lead to 17-16 with
less than one minute left, and elects to play for the tie and loses. WHY?

Why on earth would a team like lowly Mississippi State, given a
golden opportunity to upset a top five team (at the time), elect to play
for the tie? What is there to gain from a tie except that it’s not a loss?
Justice was served as Auburn blocked the kick to preserve the win.

Not that I’m supporting Pat Dye, because he did the same thing in the
1988 Sugar Bowl against Syracuse. Trailing by three with time for one
last play, Dye elects to kick a field goal to tie a bowl game. Why would
a team practice for six weeks to play one game, and then go for the tie?

Most recently, the ‘‘I really don’t want to win’’ bug bit Virginia coach
George Welsh, and it probably cost him a shot at the national title. With
over two minutes left, after his team failed to score a touchdown with
four plays from inside the Georgia Tech one-yard line, Welsh elected to
kick a tying field goal with the ball at the five-yard line instead of taking
a shot at the win. In the face of 47,000 fans and a national television
audience, Welsh shunned a shot a glory for a chance at a tie.

I think there is more glory in losing than tying — if you lose going for
the win. Nebraska lost a national championship in 1983 because it went
for two points and the win against Miami. Florida State lost to Miami
because they went for two and the win and came up empty. Earlier this
year, Michigan lost a controversial game to Michigan State when they
went for two and lost.

Our coach says it best, and he’s not a major college coach. It’s just
un-American to practice all week and then play for the tie. If you say
you'll go for the win — act like a shoe and just do it.

 

 

 

11S.Ra

        
  
    
 

Lexington, VA 24450

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE i]

Lee'Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales

70?.463-3478 Lee Hi Restaurant 1-800-768-LEHI

COWL MUSIC. 3

ae 3

464-4050

 

ee

ndolph Street

All new CDs priced
at least $1 under list price

MasterCard & Visa accepted
Student checks with ID

PVPVPVLIVIV PY POP PV IVIV AP VAPVIVLIVVA.

appagoWwo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main St.

(703)463-5988

PPV! AP\LPVLPV PVP PVP LP PV LPO LPO LP OPO OVOP OPO

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Several Washington and Lee students
done, they will have one less thin
according to the list. File photo.

go tubing down the Maury River. Once that’s
g that they must do before they graduate,

New requirements
for graduation

 

By Eleanore Robinson, Fraser Bowen and
staff reports

 

During this week of registration, everyone’s
scrambling to find classes that fulfill general
education requirements.

The faculty says we need to have all those
classes for a complete W&L education, but
there’s a lot more seniors have to do in this
unique little haven before they graduate.

«Tube down the Maury River.

*Go to a General’s football game and watch the
whole game.

*Eat a big breakfast at Lee-hi truck stop at 2
a.m. and a shake at Lloyd’s after hours.

«Get though some of the underground tunnels
beneath W&L (take a flashlight and a friend).
*Try to catch a Cadaver Society member so we
all can find out who in the world runs around
the Hill taping skull posters to trees.

*Go to the apartment parties in September at
Hollins College.

*Get a Blow Job at the Palms on your 21st
birthday and a hurricane glass from Spanky’s.
«Watch an open Honor Trial (but not be the
subject of one).

*Take a class from Mr. Sidney Coulling in the
English Department and Professor Jefferson
Davis Futch in the History Department.

*See a drama department production, especially
since they'll soon be in the Lenfest Performing

Arts Center.

*Go to a Roanoke basketball game and see the
fraternity pledges.

*Buy a W&L belt and a gray W&L sweatshirt.
eWatch a Virginia Military Institute parade,
every Friday at 4 p.m.

*Go to Foxfield.

*Go Kroger-ing after midnight.

eWatch Texans try to throw snowballs in front
of the Co-op.

Catch a glimpse of President Wilson outside of
Lee Chapel.

*See General Lee’s actual tomb and the muse-
um beneath Lee Chapel.

*Run the Chessie Trail.

*Get a parking ticket ripped to pieces by Baner.
*Ride in the dryers at Lloyd’s.

*Go to Natural Bridge: the wax museum, the
bridge and the zoo.

«See a movie at the drive-in during the spring.
*See the sunset from the top of big House
Mountain.

*See the sunrise at least once from the Com-
merce School computer room, Liberty Hall and
the Wilson Field press box.

*Fool around on the Colonnade.

*Bicycle through Lexington.

¢Watch the shotgun start of Fraternity Rush.
*Hear them call your name at graduation.
EDITOR'S NOTE: Commerce School majors
working enthusiastically on their cases on
Wednesday night contributed to this story.

af
~ Fast

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 8, 1990

Burr warms
W&L campus

By Carli Flippen
Staff Reporter

 

 

Unearthing information about William ‘‘Burr’’ Datz,

head of the Catholic Campus Ministry, proved both | 8 p.m.

challenging and simple at the same time.
When first assigned this story I thought, ‘‘No problem,

I know who Burr is and a little bit about him. He’s a | 8p.m.

well known face on campus. Finding out about him
should be pretty painless.’’

Unfortunately when I began asking around about him,
I found most people were unable to tell me more than
sketchy details I already knew. Head of Catholic Campus
Ministry. Plays in a bluegrass band, Wildgrass. University

alumnus. Hardly enough to get started. 7 p.m.

Finally, I realized the only way to get to the article

would be to call Burr, ask him about the little I knew, | 8P-m.

and hope he would fill in the rest.

After speaking with him for only a few minutes, Burr
proved a very open and candid person to speak with and
get to know. Burr very willingly told all when asked
about his nickname.

He picked it up when he was attending Catholic high

school. His older brother decided to take him on a double | 4 p.m.

date, to teach him the ropes. They took their dates to a

drive-in movie. When his brother ‘‘went horizontal’’ with | 8 p.m.

his date, Burr was left to his own devices with his date.
Following the movie star’s lead, he tried brushing his
date’s hair over her shoulder. But the November tempera-
ture had chilled his hands and when he brushed her neck
she said, ‘‘Burr, your hands are cold.’’

This alone bought him some ribbing; however,

basketball practice a few days later solidified his name for | 4 p.m.

good. The coach was discussing the a game plan. In

assigning Burr to cover one opponent all day, the coach | 4 p.m.

told him, ‘‘Datzy, you have to be a burr in his jock.”’
Burr said that the two references in such close proximi-

ty were more than most of the seniors could take and the | g p.m,

name stuck.

After high school, Datz went on to study at
Washington and Lee. He was a Spanish major, student
director of intramural sports, golf and basketball team
member, an administrative assistant for the basketball
team after an injury, and a member of the Delta Tau
Delta fraternity.

After graduating with the class of ‘75, he went on to
teach at a Catholic grammar school for a few years before
returning to the W&L campus. Upon returning, he worked
first in food service before moving over to security.

Burr is now an employee of the Catholic Diocese of
Richmond. He is in charge of Catholic Campus Ministry

|

for W&L, VMI, Southern Seminary Junior College, and 8 p.m.

to the W&L Law School. He said the purpose of the
ministry is to form a community to pass the faith and
educate for peace.

 

 

3&7p.m.

3:30 p.m.

7 p.m.

1:30 p.m.

12 Noon

1 p.m.

3 p.m.

4 p.m.

WEEKLY CALENDAR

NOVEMBER §

 

 

Legal Ethics Institute (through Nov. 11).

Registration for Winter Term 1991 ends.

Theatre Auditions for The Skin of Our Teeth. Experimental
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

MATH COLLOQUIUM: "Shortest Networks, Minimal Surfaces,
and Undergraduate Research," Frank Morgan, Institute for
Advanced Study, Princeton. Room 6, Robinson Hall.
Refreshments at 3 p.m. in Room 2. Public invited.

POLITICS FILMFEST: Soylent Green. Room 221, Commerce
School.

FILM SOCIETY: The Wannsee Conference (Germany, 1987),
directed by Heinz Schirk. Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public
invited.

LEGAL ETHICS LECTURE: "Contemporary Challenges to
Legal Ethics," Robert F. Drinan, Georgetown University
Law Center. Classroom "E," Lewis Hall. Public invited.

FOOTBALL: Generals vs. Georgetown University. Wilson
Field.

POLITICS FILMFEST: Soylent Green. Room 221, Commerce
School.

FILM SOCIETY: The Wannsee Conference (Germany, 1987).
Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: WATER POLO: Eastern Championships,
Annapolis.

CONFERENCE: "Justice and the Future of Capitalism.” Lee
Chapel. Public invited.

Conference Lecture by Hugo Assmann, Universidade
Metodista de Piracicaba.

Conference Lecture by Michael Novak, American Enterprise
Institute, Washington, D.C.

AWAY ATHLETICS: WRESTLING: V.M.I. Keydet Invitational
(10 ot

CONFERENCE: "Justice and the Future of Capitalism.” Lee
Chapel. Public invited.

Conference Lecture by Max Stackhouse, Andover Newton
Theological School.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Off-Campus
Job Search. Room 109, University Center. Deadline for
Resume Drop Ill (Dec. companies). CD&P Office.

Conference Panel Discussion. Assmann, Novak, and
Stackhouse.

W&L Employees Christian Fellowship Brown Bag Lunch.
Room 114, University Center.

EAST ASIAN STUDIES LECTURE: "Mahikari: A Spiritual
Movement in Japan and the United States," Gates
Brelsford, W&L '73. Northen Auditorium, University Libran

BOOK SIGNING: Christopher Camuto, W&L department of
English, will sign copies of his book, "A Fly Fisherman's
Blue Ridge." W&L Bookstore. Public invited.

CD&P: Self-Assessment for Sophomores. Room 109,
University Center.

CONTACT LECTURE: "On the First Amendment," Melvin E.
Bradford, University of Dallas, and author of The
Reactionary Imperative. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

 

 

CORK

 

2 PIN CAIRRINIAL

bl Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money. |
You do not need to be a League bowler fe volt”

 

 

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game

Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

©Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night

11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM-
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM-
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

   
     

Departure Time
Friday, Nov. 16

8:00 A.M.
1:00 P.M.
4:30 P.M.

 

2 AM

  

  
 
 
  

   

1AM

NEED A RIDE
TO THE
ROANOKE AIRPORT?

Catch The
Kathekon Thanksgiving
Holiday Shuttle

$20 Round Trip

Depart University Center

* No $40+ car parking charge
= * Cheaper than airport limo or taxi
Return Reservation form and
advance payment to Joel Smith, Alumni Office
Deadline Tuesday, Nov. 13

 

     
   
  
 

 

 

Return Times
Sunday, Nov. 25
2:30 P.M.

5:30 P.M.

10:30 P.M.
Depart Roanoke Airport

  
 

Check which shuttle time is preferred:

   

 

 

 

   

Phone #.

Name
Friday, Nov. 16:

Address 8:00 a.m. 2:30 p.m.
jaca ae Sa Se

SCOT. ccm 1000 Dh

 

      

LO PDA OO OF Ox

    

IO OO PIS PPP LAPD
PRESS DSSS SSS FEE

 

 

~ e

 
“

218.155
R552

v. QO
Nn0,|>

iE UNIVERS a

Wl A oe

Lt Os

=
@ if
XINGTON, Va

Lloyd's closes after 10 years in Lexington --- see page 6

inc

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 13

to $13

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Renaissance
costs soar

million

Inflation partly blamed for
$3 million increase in costs

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s Fraternity
Renovation program will cost $3 mil-
lion more than originally projected.

W&L Treasurer Lawrence Broom-
all said inflation and new items in-
corporated into the program led the
university to increase its initial $10
million estimation to $13 million.

Broomall said the university as a
whole is not ‘‘in the red,’’ but mon-
ey will be tight for the next year.
According to Broomall, the univer-
sity has already financed the projec-
tions for renovations by restructuring
its budget, drawing from two main fi-
nancial pools: two bequests to the
university’s endowment totalling over

Every fraternity must
take some shred of
responsibility for the
whole [of the Renais-
sance].

— John Wilson

$6 million designated for renovations
by the Board of Trustees, and almost
$6 million originally set aside for
improvements to existing university
structures and equipment now trans-
ferred to renovations.

The improvements will instead be
financed by a loan, Broomall said. A
loan was taken out for the campus
improvements rather than the fraterni-
ty renaissance because of complica-
tions with federal regulations. Broom-
all said the university hopes to recov-
er half of renaissance costs through
lease fees for renovated houses, room
rent and the newly imposed Greek
member fee. W&L President John D.
Wilson hopes the remainder of the
costs will be financed by a ‘‘capitol
campaign’ targeting alumni.

Police
probe SPE,
Fiji incident

By Kimberly Boots
Staff Reporter

 

 

 

 

Authorities continue to investigate
the incidents between members of
Sigma Phi Epsilon and Phi Gamma
Delta during the early hours of Nov.
3, including a shot-out window on
the first floor of the SPE house.

After an evening of conflict be-
tween the two fraternities, Peer A.
Soderberg, the vice-president of SPE,
allegedly fired a shotgun into the
ceiling and walls of the SPE house.
Apparently at some point during that
morning, a bullet was also fired into
the SPE house, breaking a window
and piercing the opposite wall in a
room that was locked and unoccupied
all night. SPE president John Flippen
said the broken window was discov-
ered the following morning.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard said the window is located on
the west side of the SPE house,
facing the Fiji house. Beard said the
path of the projectile showed that it
came from the direction of the Fiji
house but that police ‘‘haven’t con-
firmed that the Fijis were responsible
for it.’

Charles ‘‘Murph’’ Murray, head
of W&L security, said he and the
police searched for the bullet, but
could not recover it. Use of a metal
detector failed to indicate the pres-
ence of a bullet in the wall.

Members of both fraternities are
being questioned, Beard said. ‘‘We’re
just waiting for somebody to say
something, make a slip and say som-
ething,’’ Murray said.

Soderburg was charged with
maliciously discharging a firearm, a
felony. His trial date is set for Jan.
15, 1991.

Meanwhile, Broomall told soror-
ity members in an annual Panhel-
lenic Membership meeting Tuesday
evening they would not be charged
the university's Greek Member Fee
until September. Citing ‘‘poor com-
munication’ as the primary reason
for the delay, Broomall told Greek
women that Wilson decided to post-
pone collecting the fee after the met

with W&L sorority leaders Friday.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy
‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins said he hopes that
although sorority members will not be
required to pay this year, they will
voluntarily pay the fee to build equity
in order to match that represented by
the fraternity houses.

Although Greek women will not
be required to pay the fee until next
year, every fraternity is still required
to pay. ‘‘Every fraternity must take
some shred of responsibility for the
whole,’’ Wilson said including the
Chi Psi fraternity. Chi Psi is the only
fraternity financing renovations on
its own and refusing to pay the fee.

Broomall met with Chi Psi mem-
bers and parents two weeks ago.

Most Chi Psi parents said they
would support their sons if they
continued to refuse to pay the fee,
saying that the fraternity would gain
little by complying with it. Wilson
said he hopes to. meet. with. Chi Psi’s
House Corporation Chairman Andy
Dewing and Alumni Advisor George
Ray to discuss a compromise.

In response to concerns raised by
sorority members that they are being
charged the fee without representation
on several university committées,
Howison said he feels sororities will
eventually have a representative on
the SAC and in the meanwhile the
Panhellenic president will sit on the
committee as a non-voting member.
Also, President Wilson has offered
the PHC president a position on the
Fraternity Renaissance Committee.

 

Walter Scott

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

 

James Meredith attempts to enter the University of Mississippi in October,
1962, with the help of United States Marshals. Photo from Time Magazine.

Making contact:

Meredith blasts affimative action

 

By Gregory Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

The first black man to attend the
University of Mississippi told a Lee Chapel
audience last Wednesday night that affir-
mative action must be abolished in order
for blacks to succeed.

James Meredith, who enrolled at Mis-
sissippi in 1962 and who is the only black
person on the staff of Republican North
Carolina Senator Jesse Helms, spoke on
‘*Education and the Racial Question.’

He told the crowd that affirmative ac-
tion was a curse to competitive blacks, who
were then seen as ‘‘tainted because no
matter what the reason...they were in the
school or what their qualifications were,
they were suspect because of some special
program and that is a horrible thing.”’

Meredith went on to say the family has
been pushed out of the education process
as a result of the ‘‘takeover of the
educational machinery by the union move-
ments...I just don’t think a union can run a
school.”’

‘The only way that a large number of
black males between the ages of 10 and 16
can be taught is with the disciplinary as-
sistance of middle-aged black women. This

category of the black race has been pushed
out of the education system leading to the
situation we have today.”’

One of the first questions from the
audience asked why Meredith criticized the
federal government’s role in education
when it was the government that allowed
him to attend the University of Mississippi.
Meredith said it was not the government
that gave them the right to attend the
university, it was his citizenship.

Finally, Meredith was asked about his
ties to Sen. Helms, who has been accused
of using racist tactics in his most recent
campaign. _

Meredith said that Helms has consistent-
ly supported legislation to rebuild the
American family, which Meredith said is
an important step in making blacks suc-
cessful.

‘*For 27 years, I have tried to dispel the
image that I was a liberal, that I believed
in civil rights, that I believed in the non-
violence thing, but to no avail. But I
reasoned that if I became associated with
Sen. Jesse Helms, everybody would
immediately know that I was not a liberal.’’

Meredith also said that in the year he
has worked for Helms, he has not
encountered racism of any kind in the
organization.

NOVEMBER 15, 1990

Arrests
made for
burglaries

By Ashley Harper
Staff Reporter

 

 

Police have arrested three men in connection with
what Lexington police Chief Bruce M. Beard called an 8-
day ‘‘crime spree,’’ which affected both Washington and
Lee students and local residents.

‘‘We had quite a little crime spree going on here,"’
said Beard.

According to police, those arrested are responsible for
the thefts from the Sigma Phi Epsilon, Kappa Sigma and
Pi Kappa Phi fraternity houses, as well as from a law
student’s residence,

Lexington Police Officer Gary B. Coleman conducted
the investigations and recovered $13,000 in merchandise.
Some investigations are still in process, and more items
are expected to be recovered, Coleman said.

“‘November 10, it was brought to my attention about
who could possibly be responsible for the burglaries,’’
Coleman said.

Saturday the Chesterfield County Police Department
arrested Staunton resident Floyd E. Richardson in the J.C.
Penny’s store at the Cloverleaf Mall for forgery and for
using the stolen credit card belonging to W&L student
Chris O’Brien, Coleman said.

‘An informant gave me the location of the car,’’ said
Coleman. ‘‘There is no honor among thieves, so once we
’ arrested one, he gave information for favors.’’

One suspect is still at large, and three others including
a juvenile have been apprehended. Richardson, 19, was
arrested for breaking and entering and grand larceny.

‘William T. Carter III, 28, was the wheel man in
charge of the thefts,’’ said Coleman.

“I'd like to commend Officer Coleman on a fine job
in solving this crime wave,’’ said Beard. ‘‘He’s put a lot
of hours into it and I do appreciate that.’’

The ‘‘crime wave’’ began Oct. 29, when someone
entered the Pi Phi fraternity house. A computer, printer
and wallet were stolen before students woke up and ran
the men off. The printer was recovered, said police.

According to police, a man, armed with a butcher
knief, entered the Kappa Sig house. A student woke up,
saw the man. The student yelled, and startled the man,
who dropped the butcher knife and ran. An amplifier, tape
deck, receiver, a London Fog coat and a sports jacket
were stolen. The coat was recovered, according to
Coleman.

More burglaries occurred the night of Friday Nov. 9.
The first occurred at SPE, where a VCR, stereo receiver,
O’Brien’s car keys and his car were stolen. The car was
recovered, according to police.

That same night W&L law student Mitcl: Neurock’s
house was broken into. A computer and $3,000 of jewelry
were stolen. The computer and $1,500 of jewelry were
recovered, according to police.

‘The number of student robberies were down this

 

year until this crime wave,’’ Beard said.

 

 

e

EC considers amendments

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

A proposed change to the student
body constitution that would open
more Executive Committee delibera-
tions to the public was debated along
with other proposed changes at Mon-
day night’s EC meeting.

Constitutional Revisions Commit-
tee representative Walter Scott an-
swered questions from the EC Mon-
day night about five proposals to
amend the student body constitution,
including a clarification of executive
session which drew the most criti-
cism.

The proposal would allow the EC
to hold closed-door, executive ses-
sions only for honor investigations

interviews, disciplinary hearings, and
discipline in honor-related matters as
outlined in White Book Section O.

The measure forbids closed-door
or executive sessions for budget hear-
ings and deliberations, and committee
appointment deliberations.

This year’s EC has followed those
procedures except during committee
appointment deliberations, which have
been closed.

EC President Tom Hatcher,
third-year EC law Rep. Mark Cobb
and junior EC Rep. Caroline Wight
supported closed committee appoint-
ment deliberations so that the EC can
discuss statements by interviewees
intended as confidential.

‘‘We do take personal charac-
teristics into account,’’ said Hatcher,
“such as how people work with

of grade point average being a con-
sideration for some appointments.

EC Vice President Raymond Wel-
der, senior EC Reps. Willard Dumas
and John Fialcowitz, and sophomore
EC Rep. Kirk Ogden all advocated
that appointment proceedings be open,
including the interviews.

The 1990-91 EC last spring voted
to close its committee appointment
deliberations but agreed to post mem-
bers’ voting records.

Scott last spring called that vote
‘“‘against the constitution,’’ which
currently states that the EC may enter
executive session only for honor
matters.

Monday night, Wight did not
oppose a public voting record for
closed deliberations.

Scott said confidential statements

concerned EC members before open-
ing the door for public deliberation.
He added that the necessity for that
would probably be rare.

Other proposed amendments con-
cerned succession of Big Three elect,
special elections to fill vacant offices,
adjustments to allow earlier elections,
and the fiscal role of the Publications
Board as an ‘‘umbrella’’ organization.

The EC instructed Scott to reas-
semble the revisions committee to
consider the EC’s concerns about the
draft proposals and return to the EC
by early January with final proposals.

Constitutional procedure requires
a two-thirds vote of the EC or 50
student signatures to send an amend-
ment to referendum. Two-thirds of
the student body, with at least half
voting, must okay it in order for the

..committee chairman and

trials,

committee appointment  others.’’

Wight added the example

Phase One behind schedule

 

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

At first glance, the construction in Red
Square might bring to mind the aftermath of
a tornado,

Almost everyone doubts that the houses
currently under construction in Phase One of
Washington and Lee’s Fraternity  re-
naissance will be finished by their target
date in two months.

Everyone, that is, except Capital Plan-
ning Coordinator Frank Parsons. Although
Parsons acknowledged he was ‘‘concerned
that the contractor of Red Square will not
have the houses done by the pre-determined
date of mid-December,’’ he said that the
contractor has reassured him that four of the
six houses will be completed.

Parsons said that completed houses,
probably Phi Delta Theta, Pi Kappa Alpha,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Sigma Nu, should
be ready for students during W&L’s Christ-

mas break. He said that the two houses
running behind schedule, Beta Theta Pi and
Phi Kappa Sigma, will not be ready for the
transition until February break.

Associate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs said that the transition into Phi Kapp
might not occur until as late as Spring.

Atkins said the postponements will not
leave fraternity members out in the cold. He
said that they all have one-year leases on
their current residences and will only be
looking to sublet current accommodations,
so it is immaterial if they begin their search
in January or March.

‘We're just trying to work it out in a
nice, orderly way without trying to inconve-
nience everyone else,’’ Atkins said.

According to Parsons, the lags in Phase
One will not disrupt plans for Phase Two
construction to begin on five other houses.

‘Phase Two is minimally affected by
Phase One Red Square houses,’’ Parsons
said, ‘‘Our expectation is to begin [Phase
Two] as soon as possible.’’

Construction on all five Phase Two
houses had been originally slated to begin in
January. Parsons laid out a new, tentative
schedule for Phase Two construction:

* Renovation of the old Zeta Beta Tau
house for Kappa Sigma beginning in early
January.

* Renovation of Lambda Chi beginning
in mid-January.

* Renovation of Pi Kappa Phi and Phi
Kappa Psi beginning later in the winter.

eRenovation of Sigma Chi beginning in
early Spring.

Parsons said that Phase Two is different
from Phase One because the houses are
more widely distributed across campus.
Because of that, he said, Phase Two con-
struction can be staggered. Parsons said
there would be no change in the overall
calendar of the Renaissance.

‘There is no change in the schedule,’’
he said. ‘‘September of 1992 is the date we
expect fraternity houses to be in full compli-
ance.”’

by interviewees could be reiterated by

new rules to go into effect.

REMINDERS

 

— Washington and Lee Security reminds all students
and faculty going out of town for break to please
secure your room/apartments/houses, and keep all
valuables locked up.

According to security, students often leave such
items as bicycles unlocked during breaks, and they are
taken while students are away.

‘*Whenever we find bikes or things like that outside
[during breaks], we put them in our office,’’ said
Thomas Bane. ‘‘But a lot of stuff still gets taken. We
have an honor system here, but people should know it
doesn’t always apply to locals who want to come over
here and steal things.’’

— On a somewhat happier note, the Phi staff wishes
everyone a happy and safe Thanksgiving.

 

 

 
OPINION

Leuven,
ee ae

a
‘Poe de®
"eeaee

 

 

 Sateine SRE NRT ORE wate

Things to be
thankful for

Students at W&L are often considered to be ingrates. That’s
not true — it’s just that we don’t express that thankfulness
that often. With that in mind, we would like to provide our
readers with a few ideas for what to say they are thankful
for when the family gathers around the big turkey and says
its blessing.

Seniors, be thankful that — you don’t have to live under
that contemptible no-keg rule for more than a few months;
you’re graduating before the demise of the well-rounded
W&L student becomes a reality; and you were admitted to
our school before it became harder to get in here than it is
to avoid the Greek Tax.

Juniors, be thankful that — you still have a year and a
half to play around before you have to get a job; you’ll be
around for Mock Convention next spring; and you probably
didn’t have to live in a fraternity house with a house
mother.

Sophomores, be thankful that — you’re not an aimless
freshman; you’re not a pledge; you don’t have to park in the
freshman parking lot; and people will for the most part
spare you from annoying questions such as Do you like
college and Does your roommate worship the devil.

Freshman, be thankful that — you have (at least) four
Spring Terms and four Fancy Dresses to look forward to;
the school’s academic reputation is getting better and better,
and by the time you graduate it will be through the roof;
coeducation is working superbly and the male/female ratio
is evening out; your hair hasn’t started to fall out yet; and
no one outside of your parents cares what your resume
looks like or what your G.P.A. is.

Most of all, we should all be thankful that we don’t have
to go back to VMI in two weeks.

Lloyd’s lost

It’s the end of an era. Just as Nevada lost one of its
landmark business establishments, the Mustang Ranch,
recently, Lexington has seen the demise of a part of its
tradition and heritage: Lloyd’s is no more.

Despite the image problems our favorite late-night diner
has had recently, the atmosphere was as healthy as the food
was Offensive. Pity the poor incoming freshman for next
year, who will miss the opportunity to test their stomachs
against Lloyd’s hearty fare — words can never illustrate for
them the experiences they will have missed.

Whether Lloyd’s was evicted from its building (or left on
its own volition, depending whom you listen to) the owner’s
plea for student help to bring the restaurant back should be
heeded. Certainly, this is one issue that can bring together
people on campus regardless of their political ideology,
Greek affiliation, grade point average or social preference.
If we cannot unite behind Lloyd’s, then perhaps we are truly
as apathetic as the community around us believes.

W&L, and the city of Lexington as a whole, needs
Lloyd’s, for the area loses a tremendous amount of color
with the collapse of the city’s only 24-hour culinary palace.
Let’s get together, and bring Lloyd’s back. Or perhaps not.

Quote of the Week

I'm not saying she has to be dumb. She just has to be cute
and know how to throw a dinner party.

- A Washington and Lee junior explaining to his friend
the proper qualifications of a wife.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 15, 1990

 

 

 

ne ; - -_ — Pe

 

 

Remember needy during holidays:

We have an obligation to help ease their discomfort .

 

MY VIEW
By Robert Wilson

Isn’t this place great! W&L is

 

such a wonderful school. We live in’

a great environment chock full of
friendly students, awesome professors,
a beautiful campus and great opportu-
nities. I mean, what could be better?
Well guys, a lot could be better. This
wonderful environment in which we
live here is not the real world. This
microcosm of society shelters us from
the trying elements of the real world.
This characteristic of our W&L
world is conducive to apathy. There
are many people outside of our envi-
ronment here who do not have what
we have. There are people who have
no cars, no nice clothes, no educa-
tion, no job and not even a home.
You may not see them, but they are

there. They are on the streets of Lex-
ington. They are in the parking lot at
Walmart. They are living behind your
fraternity houses and next door to
your apartments. have you seen their
faces? Have you heard what they
have to say? iN ‘

What do-you think when you seé
a family of six packed into a run-
down compact station wagon? Have
you looked carefully at the holes in
their coats? Do you care? Do you
wonder where they live and what
they eat? I don’t think any of us
have ever lost sleep due to the hun-
ger pangs from missing dinner. We
are not aware of the pain they experi-
ence in their lives. I think its time
we should become aware.

I know what you're thinking
about now....‘‘He’s just another radi-
cal who’s jumped up on his soap
box, preaching about this and that.
Everybody has a cause, whether its

the poor, the hungry, AIDS, apart-
heid, whatever.’’ I mean really, why
should you pay attention to me?
Haven't I mostly told you things you
already know? Everyone’s seen the
commercials and read the pamphlets.

vverXou) saw, LIVE, AID on national TV,
_ Where . they. told the stories of the

homeless. Well, think about this....

We are all human. We have hu-
man dispositions and we have human
emotions. So do they. They live and
breathe and feel as we do. We have
the same passions and longings. We
want to live. The people of which I
speak are all part of this brotherhood
we call humanity.

Thus, we, as members of this
society, have an obligation to try to
understand the plight of their lives
and help alleviate the pain with
which they live day to day. Percy
Bysshe Shelley, one of the Romantic
poets, once wrote on human sympa-

thy in the preface to his poem
Alastor:

They who, deluded by no generous
error, instigated by no sacred thirst of
doubtful knowledge,...loving nothing
on this earth, and cherishing no hopes,
beyond, yet keep aloof from sympa-

‘thies with their kind, rejoicing neither

in human joy or mourning with hu-
man. grief; these, and such as they,
have their apportioned curse. They:
languish because none feel with them
their common nature. They are moral-
ly dead. They are neither friends, nor‘
lovers, nor fathers, nor citizens of the.
world, nor benefactors of their coun-
try.
We all have probleme in our lives
and we all have pain. But the best
way to beat this pain is to face it;
together. Our lives, need not be lived
alone; we can face it together and’
win. Think about them at your next
meal and do something to help.

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

Editors

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition, This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

Hdl so Gat eer Te
1 RRS aka ce hg
POE TO ee
Lexington,
24450

 

 

Let SCC
decide —
FIJI/SPE facts

After reading the editorial of November 8,
proclaiming an alleged justification for FUJI’s
involvement in a recent conflict with Sigma Phi
Epsilon, I was dismayed by the misleading nature
of Yorio’s comments. As another law student
who attended Sig Ep’s party that night (and the
roommate of the ‘‘unidentified law student’ that
Yorio claims was involved in the ‘‘initial con-
flict,’’) I feel several observations must be made
to clarify the events of that night.

First and foremost, these are allegations.
Webster defines allegations as ‘‘assertions with-
out proof.’’ I would suggest to readers of The
Ring-tum Phi that they consider Webster's in-
sight. The facts of the initial conflict will prove
exactly the opposite of what Yorio would like,
that FIJI’s actions were entirely unjustified and

will result in disciplinary actions against mem-
bers of Phi Gamma Delta. I find it hard to
believe that he can justify the beating adminis-
tered to an outnumbered Soderberg by a pack of
FIIs, some of whom were carrying wooden
‘‘two-by-fours.’" Traditionally, such felonious
behavior has been labelled assault and battery.
Although I originally hesitated to even ad-
dress Yorio’s comments because their motivation
is so transparent, in defense of the truth, I feel
I must point out a few relevant facts. Yorio's
comments were an attempt to justify Phi Gam’s
actions. In fact, what he has succeeded in doing
is to confirm his undeniable lack of credibility
and his refusal to accept responsibility for Phi
Gam’'s actions. Instead of waiting for the SCC
hearings to make his case, FUI’s president has
desperately tried to sway the Washington and Lee
community with skewed facts.
For example, Yorio has subtly suggested that
“the initial conflict involved Sohonage against
three others. This was not the case. The conflict
to which Yorio refers involved two individuals

 

LETTERS

against two other individuals, with the ‘‘unidenti-
fied law student’’ intervening to prevent a fight.
Further, the conflict was not the first of two but
the second of three. The first incident involved
the over 30 FIJI brothers belligerently appearing
on Sig Ep’s steps, ready to fight over a supposed
anti-FIJI insult painted on the wall of Sig Ep's
cave during the Caveman Party. It was this
incident which began the unfortunate events
which occurred later that night. I could offer
further facts contradicting Yorio’s comments, but
there is no need.

The editorial tried to paint a picture of FUI
innocence. What Yorio has done in fact is re-
sorted to a cheap ploy to misinform readers of
The Ring-tum Phi in hope that this will somehow
excuse his fraternity’s actions. Why didn’t Yorio
allow FIJI’s guilt or innocence to be decided at
the SCC meeting? Because he is scared of what
the facts will show. His comments purport to
clarify matters, but they do not. The facts of this
unfortunate incident between Sigma Phi Epsilon
and FIJI will not be decided at the FIJI house,
but at the SCC meeting.

Sincerely,
Greg Garbacz, Law °93

Late-night fire
drills irritate

On the evening of Thursday, November 8, |
thought I might retire early to my luxurious suite
in Gilliam Dormitory. A most heinous cold had
been bothering me throughout the week, and I
was determined to get in some quality rack time
so that I could make it through the week without
coughing up a lung.

So there I was, asleep in bed, visions of road
cheese dancing in my head, when there was a
knock at my door. My roommate answered it,
and the ensuing commotion succeeded in waking
me up fully. It was a dorm counselor who told,
nay commanded, us to get some clothes on
because a fire drill was currently in progress.

After muttering several obscenities under by
breath, I managed to slip on my favorite bathrobe

and a pair of high-top sneakers. I gazed at my
watch on the way out — 12:15 am.! I asked

myself what kind of insensitive boob would call
a fire drill after midnight when we had classes
the next day.

During the next few minutes, I freezed my
doo-dads off in the chilly night air. I wondered
why these fire drills were performed at reason-
able hours when most people are awake.

The next morning, I woke up feeling like my
head was clogged with Lime Jell-O. My mind
failed to convince my body that my 8 o'clock
computer class was a necessary thing. Somehow;
through an unexplained miracle, I managed to
make it to all my other classes.

Of this person who schedules these drills, I
ask two simple things, neither of which is entire-
ly unreasonable:

1. No more late-night fire drills.

2. A public apology to myself and any others
who were awakened by this extremely unortho-
dox maneuver.

Sincerely,
Thomas F. Hespos, Jr.

Apology to
Lloyd's
employee

I want to apologize to Robert Rorrer, the
Lloyd’s employee I interviewed for my article,
‘‘Lloyd’s fights gang image.’’ I quoted him as
describing a group known as the L-Posse as ‘‘a
few local black teenagers with flattop haircuts
who wore L.A. Raiders caps.’’ Another employee,
who wished to remain anonymous, actually told
me this. Rorrer, who was standing nearby at the
time, merely nodded. I sincerely apologize to Mr.
Rorrer. Although I am sorry people were of-
fended by the article, I make no apologies for
the article and fully stand behind what I wrote.

Sincerely,
Chris Swann '92

 

 

 
i

oe8 4

NEWS

-FD plans
take shape

SAB searches for theme, bands

 

By Tom Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

Preparation for the 84th annual
Fancy Dress Ball accelerated this
week with the selection of a theme,
consideration of several band pos-
sibilities, and selection of the Fancy
Dress Steering Committee.

On Tuesday night, the Steering
Committee and the SAB voted on the
theme of the March 8th Ball. Ac-
cording to SAB President Katie Duw-
el, some ‘'14 or 15 random sugges-
tions’’ were originally considered,
with 6 or 7 surviving last week’s
elimination process.

The choice will not be revealed
until Thursday, February 28, but FD
Chairman John Flippen stated that
they ‘‘are hoping to get back to a
more general theme, one reflecting a

time period or area of the world.”’ It
will be ‘‘large, spectacular, and
simple,’’ he added.

Duwel said that senior David
Blank is currently ‘‘in the process of
booking the bands.’’ She mentioned
the Neville Brothers, Bodeans, Buck-
wheat Zydeco, and Three Dog Night
as examples of bands being con-
sidered. The Black Crowes remain a
slim possibility, but Duwel empha-
sized that ‘‘getting them would take
a lot of negotiation.”’

‘We might also have a surprise,”’
she said, ‘‘[someone] off the beaten
track.’’

The 34-member Steering Com-
mittee, which was announced by the
SAB last Friday, includes the follow-
ing 13 Sub-Committee Chairmen:
John Donaldson, '92; Greg Evans,
92; Alicia Hay, ’91; Pamela Kelley,
92; Rob Little, 92; Macon Miles,

The Ring-tum Phi, November 15, 1990
“ae

 

Students at a recent Fancy Dress wait to get into Doremus Gym.
SAB has begun to choose this year’s theme and bands. File photo.

92; Lewis Perkins, °93; Schuyler
Rideout, 91; Chip Ridge, 93; Laura
Rutherford, ’92; Roger Sullivan, '92;
Elizabeth Vallotton, ’92; and Talley
Wooley, '93.

Duwel said the set-up for this FD
would be organized more hierarchical-
ly than in previous years.

“In the past, you’d have about
100 SAB members showing up for
two hours and doing whatever the FD

 

No action
yet in Pi
Phi case

No action has been taken by
the administration in the investi-
gation of Pi Kappa Phi for al-
legedly giving drugs to freshmen
during Rush, although Dean of
Students David Howison insists
the investigation is still open.

‘‘There has been no new
information whatsoever, but the
case is still open,’’ said Howison.

Howison said that neither the
Student Activitiés Committee, the,
Student Conduct’ Committee nor
the Confidential Review Commit-
tee has taken any action against
the house or against any of its
members.

When asked why he or one of
the other deans had not pursued
the case, Howison said, ‘‘The
case is still open. I have nothing
further.’’

Howison said when the char-
ges first surfaced, he and Asso-
ciate Dean of Students Ken Rus-
cio turned the matter over to Pi
Phi President Skip Sugarman, who
questioned each member of the
house about whether anyone had
given drugs to freshmen.

Sugarman said that each mem-
ber of his house, on their honor,
had told him that they had neither
given nor offered drugs to any

freshmen.

“T felt that his action was at
the time appropriate and I still
do,’’ Howison said, ‘‘I think Skip
Sugarman acted in a responsible
manner.”’

Interfraternity Council Presi-
dent Goodloe Lewis said the IFC
has not pursued the case.

‘*That was over the third week
of Rush,’’ Lewis said.

Store fears
IFC keg ban

The owner of Kelly’s Corner
said Monday that the proposed
IFC rule to ban kegs at fraternity
parties will damage his business.

“Tt will affect us quite a bit
and hurt our business a great
deal,’’ Miles Nye said.

Nye and his wife Sandy have
owned Kelly’s Comer, a con-
venience store located two and a
half miles west of Lexington, for
seven years. A large part of their
business has been supplying kegs
to Washington and Lee frater-
nities. Kelly’s Comer goes
through 1500 to 1800 kegs a
year, although not all are sold to
fraternities, Nye said.

The IFC keg rule will make
fraternities buy packaged beer, if
they buy beer at all, Nye said.
The only competition Kelly’s
Comer has had to sell kegs is
East Lex, another convenience
store in Lexington. Several gro-
cery stores sell packaged beer, so

NEWS BRIEFS

Kelly’s corner will now have to
compete with them.

‘‘Dealing packaged beer, we’re
forced to compete with others like
Kroger and Harris Teeter,’’ Nye
said.

Because Kelly’s Corner is
located out of town and cannot
afford to sell packaged beer as
cheaply as major grocery stores,
Nye thinks he could lose a great

deal of business.
Nye believes that the IFC rule

will do more harm than good.
Fraternities will buy grain alcohol
and hard liquor instead of paying
more money for packaged beer,
he said.

‘I think it’s very foolish,’’ he
said. ‘‘I think keg beer is the
safest way to consume alcohol. A
keg stays in one place.’”

Nicest eyes
on campus

Senior Bill Meadows and
sophomore Betsy Kleiner were
named the winners of the First
Annual Delta Gamma Mr. and
Miss Beautiful Eyes Contest dur-
ing halftime of last week’s Gen-
erals’ football game.

Briefs compiled by Senior Copy
Editor Jason Kelley, Assignment
Editor Cathy Lopiccolo and Staff
Reporter John Foster.

 

 

   

   

Helen O’Shea, ’91, Washington,
D.C. = ‘Getting away from all
my school work for the week.”

 

Interviews and photos
by Amanda Hughen

What do you have to be thankful

Chairman said to do,’’ Duwel said.

In contrast, much of the actual
decorating this year will be done by
ordinary students working under the
supervision of the Steering Commit-
tee. She explained that they hope to
have between 100 and 150 interested
Students sign-up in January. Those
working at least 25 hours will receive
a free ticket and t-shirt.

 

Turning
Japanese

The Japanese government is now
accepting applications for the
1991 Japan Exchange and Teach-
ing Program. Application dcad-
line is Dec. 20, 1990. For further
information, contact: Embassy of
Japan, 2520 Massachusetts Ave.,
N.W. Washington D.C. 20008.
Telephone: 202-939-6772.

Party on

The Daytona/Orlando Transit
Service offers shuttle transporta-
tion to your hotel during spring

break. For information, please call
1-800-223-1965.

Show up

Underclassman photos for The
Calyx will be taken in the Uni-
versity Center, Dec. 3-5, from 10
am. to 1 p.m., and from 1:30
p.m. to 4 p.m. Freshmen, and
others who have not yet paid,
there will be a $12 fee.

 

GENERAL NOTES

Hear a speech

Dr. Jerry Ward will make two
presentations at VMI, as part of
the English Society of VMI
lecture series. Ward who holds
the Lawrence Durgin professor-

ship in literature at Toulagoo
College.

Just teach it

Teach for America, a national
teacher corporation, recruits stu-
dents from colleges and universi-
ty. After an 8-week summer
institute, they will be placed in
tural and urban public schools
that have teaching shortages.
Applications can be found in the
Career Development and Place-
ment Office, and must be post:
marked by January 4, 1991.

Culture shock

Susan Thomas, a local artist, will
display her watercolor art on the
balcony level of Lejeune Hall at
VMI from Nov. 14 through Dec.
14. Her works specialize in
realistic still lifes anc landscapes.

 

 

Howison: Critical Pro is
not as bad as you think

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

Critical probation is not as bad as
most fraternity members think it is,
according to Dean of Students David
Howison.

Howison told the Interfraternity
Council Tuesday night that critical
probation is the Student Affairs Com-
mittee’s way of telling a fraternity it
is having difficulty.

“It saying let’s work together to
fix the problems because the next
time (a house breaks the rules) it
could be suspended,’’ said Howison.

Associate Dean of Students for

Dorm fire alarms

 

By Chris Bray
Staff Reporter

 

Many Washington and Lee stu-
dents had to do the unexpected last
week — respond to a dormitory fire
alarm.

Last week, residents of the fresh-
man dorms (Thursday night) and
Gaines Hall (Tuesday evening) evacu-
ated the buildings as part of a fire
drill exercise,

According to Dean of Students
David Howison, under a new univer-
sity policy, all residence halls will
have one fire drill per term.

‘‘When I arrived here, I found
there was no systematic response to
the fire alarm system,’’ said Howison.

 

TALKBACK

Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
said under critical probation, minor
infractions of IFC rules would not be
considered grounds for suspension of
a chapter.

“‘T don’t see critical probation as
expecting you to have an incident-
free year,’’ said Atkins.

Howison said fraternity misdoings
are first investigated by the IFC, and
if circumstances warrant, SAC may
also review certain cases,

He said that if fraternity leaders
discipline their own members proper-
ly, SAC would most likely not put a
house on critical probation for an
infraction committed by only a few
members.

“The alarms go off inadvertently and
the students have learned to ignore
them.”’

Howison says the fire drills have
been instituted to help locate prob-
lems in the system as well as remind
students of evacuation procedures.

The fire drill in the freshman
dorms uncovered one fault in the
system. Dean of Residence Life Ken
Ruscio said the Thursday night drill
revealed that the system in Gilliam
was malfunctioning. The alarm did
not sound when pulled by security.

Director of University Tecinical
Services Thomas Tinsley says the
problem was resolved by Friday
afternoon, after campus electricians
located and fixed the glitch in the
system.

for this Thanksgiving?

 

Officer R.D. Clark, #0027, Lexi-
ngton, VA = ‘‘My family.’’

 

“If a leader of a house takes
strong action I would not recommend
critical probation,’’ Howison said.

Atkins said that fraternity leaders
should remind their members that any
action by an individual reflects on the
whole house. He said he has had
reports of some fraternity members
causing problems at some girls
schools in the past few weeks.

‘In some cases, their actions are
subhuman,”’ said Atkins.

‘When you go down to Hollins
or up to Staunton and do these
things, it isn’t just making you look
like a horse’s behind, it makes your
whole house look that way.’

checked

Washington and Lee’s Superinten-
dent of Buildings and Grounds James
Arthur says he was unaware of the
Gilliam mishap. Arthur added that it
is B&G’s policy to check the campus
alarm systems on a semi-anr.:ial basis.

According to Dean Ruscio, the
Dean of Students office is planning
to make a comprehensive assessment
of fire safety procedures in the dor-
mitories,

Ruscio says students will be con-
sulted in the evaluation of fire safety.
He says the evaluation would cover
fire alarm and evacuation procedures,
an understanding of the alarm system,
and policies for misuse of the system.

Ruscio plans on a system assess-
ment for sometime in the near future.

 

 

 

Tim Costello, ’91, Garden City, NJ, Matt Molloy, 91, Ridgewood, NJ,
- ‘‘The New York Giants are 9 and 0.”’

Tom Spurgeon, ’91, Muncie, IN
— ‘‘My hair is growing back.”’

 

Franklin Pridgin, ’92, Atlanta,
GA — “‘I still have hair,’’

 

 

ae Rn Se I
SPORTS
Generals defeat Hoyas in season finale

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

For the Washington and Lee foot-
ball team, the season could not have
ended any better.

The Generals finished the 1990
season with a 21-6 win over Geor-
getown last Saturday to even the
season record at 5-5. The win was
W&L’s fourth in five games after a
1-4 start and sent the seniors out as
winners.

The W&L offense sputtered early,
but the defense kept a high-powered
Georgetown passing attack in check,
intercepting quarterback Craig De-
Gruchy twice, once from freshman
Tom Mandia and once from soph-
omore Donald Dempsey, in a score-
less first half.

“Our offense was sputtering a bit
in the first half,’’ said W&L head
coach Gary Fallon, ‘‘and any time
that happens you really hope the
defense is doing its job, and it was.”’

In the third quarter, the W&L
defense again stood tall. After Geor-
getown had driven into W&L ter-
ritory, DeGruchy dropped back to
pass and was dropped by sophomore
Lyle Smith on a blitz. Mandia broke
up a pass on the next play, forcing a
punt.

The W&L offense took over at its
own 33-yard line, and after two runn-
ing plays netted three yards, junior
quarterback Fred Renneker went to
the air.

He found his man twice — senior
All-American split end Craig Irons
for gains of ten, moving the ball to
the Georgetown 44. Senior tailback
Mason Pope then ran six yards to the
38, setting up the first big play of the
day for the Generals.

On third down from the 38, out

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual or
student organization needed to promote
Spring Break trip. Earn money, free

trips and valuable work experience.
CALL NOW!! Inter-Campus Program:
1-800-327-6013.

 

auciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

+ ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

+ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
+ IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

+ TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 15, 1990

 

Junior Jeff Kreis runs toward the end zone for W&L’s second
touchdown against Georgetown on Saturday. The Generals beat

of a spread formation with two re-
ceivers to either side, Fallon caught
the Hoyas off-guard. Sophomore
fullback Mark Goglia, the single
setback on the play, took the handoff
on the draw play and sprinted 32-
yards to the Georgetown six-yard

 

 

If you’re in town:

Check out

Generals’ basketball

in the Warner Center

Friday night--8 p.m.

and Saturday--4 p.m.

The W&L Tip-off Classic

 

 

 

 

 

Don’t Be
Disappointed
By Selection & Price

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY.

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

University Sportswear has the
best selection of W&L im-
printed T-shirts, sweatshirts,
embroidered fitted baseball caps
and much more. Come see our
new W&L flannel boxers!

Student Accounts Available

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

K & W OFFICE EQUIPMENT

SALES & SERVICE FOR

Copiers ¢ Cash Registers ¢ Typewriters
Computers ¢ Calculators ¢ Facsimile
Scales ¢ Banking Equipment

<=> Furniture ¢ Office Supplies
‘ Resume Service
M-F 8-5/Sat. 9-12 11 East Nelson St.
463-1620 Lexington

 

 

40>

   

 

 

 

~ George’s &
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

Kens Barbie postcards |
ING
Tiaesgav

FAST FUNDRAISING PROGRAM

line.

Two plays later, Pope got the
Generals on the board with his ninth
touchdown of the year and senior
Carter Quayle’s extra point made it
7-0.

Georgetown tied the game on the

 

the Hoyas, 21-6. The win, the fourth in the last five games, gave
W&L a final record of 5-5. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

first play of the fourth quartser on a
12-yard pass from DeGruchy to
David Casares, but Anthony DeGuz-
man missed the extra point.

With the score 7-6, DeGuzman’s
kickoff was short, and freshman Eric
Peifer returned it to the W&L 41,

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

+

3 West Nelson St., Lexington
RE RE

A <)>

PAP VAPOVAP VP OLPOLP VL.

> > OS OO)  ) .) D ) Re aE 0) Ree 0) eu

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

RES LIE LEI IG I SIP.

appagawvo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

463-7969

ak

464-6666

a4

LIV LPVAPVLP VAP! POV MPVAPPOL

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450 (703)463-5988
ALI UL I I ms Pm me SILVA PVA IVL ONL OLD EVLA?

 
   
 
    

If you haven’t been to
ROCKBRIDGE MUSIC

lately, come in and see what’s new

  

 

  
 
      
      

With This Ad
FREE Rockbridge Music T-Shirt with the
purchase of any Gibson, Fender, Martin,
Ovation or Takamine Guitar.

 
 

 

  
        
        
       
     
   
  

11-5 Mon.-Thur.

 
    
  

  

es
xe

 

  

 

 

We give lessons...We do repairs
LAYAWAY AVAILABLE
205 N. MAIN 463-5455
11-7 Fri.
Let us book a band for your next party

 

 

$ IN
JUST
ONE
WEEK

Earn up to $1000 in one week for your campus organization

Plus a chance at $5000 more!

This program works!
No investment needed

Call 1-800-932-0528 Ext. 50

 

 

11-3 Sat.

  

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

   
 
  
   

703-463-3478

where junior Jeff Kreis broke the
game open.

On first down, Fallon called ‘‘Z-
Sweep.’’ The play calls for Kreis to

Start in a slot on the wide side of the
field. As the ball is snapped, Kreis

  
  
 

   

quired.

SPRING BREAK CAMPUS SALES
NEEDED. Free trip (Bahamas, Bermuda, Cancun, Jamaica, Rio),
plus commission on sales, make your own hours, no money re-

Horizon Unlimited Travel: (804)358-0172.

STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA
Information on semester, summer, J-term, Graduate, and Internship
programs. All programs run under $6,000.

Call Curtin University at 1-800-878-3696

“

4

runs through the backfield to take the
handoff to the short side as everyone
else goes to the wide side. The play
worked to perfection. Kreis took the
handoff and got to the corner. Junior
guard Jim Henry blocked the only
Hoyas who had a chance, and Kreis
sprinted down the W&L sideline 59
yards for the touchdown and a 14-6
lead.

‘They had a free safety blitz
called on the play,’’ said Kreis!
‘‘Both guards pull on the play, and
[senior] Rob Roberton got caught up
in the backfield, but Jim Henry gor
out there and kept the defensive end ~
from getting out there. That was the
block that sprung the play.”

WA&L added a touchdown later, 4
one-yard run by Renneker set up by
a 20-yard punt return by Williamsori
and a diving catch at the three-yard
line by Irons. The defense sealed the
21-6 win with senior safety Brag
Miller’s tenth career interception.

Goglia led the W&L ground attack
with 91 yards on 14 carries, both
career highs. Pope finished his career
with 75 yards on 28 carries.

The defense held Georgetown to
just 13 of 38 passing with four inter-
ceptions, two by Mandia. No team
completed S50 percent of its passes
against W&L’s defense.

‘‘That’s definitely the way I
wanted to go out,’’ said senior center
Frank Sudell. ‘‘There have been good,
times and bad times, and it was great
to end on a good time. ,

4

“Over the course of four years,
you tend to get attached to a group’
of seniors,’’ said Fallon. ‘‘I couldn’ t,
have been happier for them to go out *
the way they did ~ as winners.”’

REPRESENTATIVE

      
   
 
  
 

  

 
    

 

 

 

(Episcopal)

Sunday Services: 8:30 & 10:30 a.m.
5:00 p.m.

Dinner and Bible Study: 5:45 p.m.

 

 

107 Lee Avenue

 

LEE i]

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

1-800-768-LEHI

 

vu |
* QUICK COPIES * FLYERS
* PAPERS * BANNERS « INVITATIONS
OPEN SATURDAY MORNINGS

@® PHONE: 463-1712 -
125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA + ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

FAX #: 463-6918 ===

 

   
   

2 BR Cottage on Maury River
10 min. from campus. Available
immediately through May. $50
off Ist month rent. Call Mead
463-7168.

 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
   

  
 

FOR RENT

House in Country
463-5383

   
  

 

\v

TIOOO SE
T1000 XE
T1200 XE
T1600

T3100 SX

ses
es

 

eg

‘Tis the Season for TOSHIBA

All Battery Powered Laptops

NOW IN STOCK!

LOWEST PRICES EVER

WITH

EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNTS!

Call about your EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNT today!

DSR, Inc

1-800-326-0037

ay
!

    

 

 

Pie
SPORTS

W&L wrestlers
ready to start

 

,From W&L Sports Information

 

In 1989-90, Washington and Lee
wrestling coach Gary Franke had
‘trouble putting together a complete
foster,

He managed to do so with the
help of nine freshmen.

This year, Franke feels much
‘better about his team, mainly because
_those nine freshmen are sophomores
with a year of experience under their
rbelts.

Franke also has 93 percent of his
‘team scoring back from last year, led
iby his top three wrestlers in pins,
takedowns, reversals, escapes and
‘team scoring.

“It’s a good situation to have
“such a solid group coming back,”’
; Franke said. ‘‘We have some young
talent that really improved over the
‘course of last year. Now, it will be
, interesting to see how they come
along this year.’’

What makes Franke even happier
, about that solid young nucleus com-
"ing back is his group of veterans re-
, turning to guide them along. Two
former freshman wrestlers of the year
‘are back for another year, and the
, twosome should be Franke’s star
performers during the 1990-91 season.

The first is senior co-captain

, Larry Pilkey. Pilkey led the Generals
in five different statistical categories
y last year, most notably wins. Pilkey,
the Generals’ mainstay at 126
' pounds, brought home second place
, in the Virginia College Champion-

ships last year.
ra

j

The other is 167-pounder Peer
Soderberg. The junior co-captain, a
two-year letterman and the 1989
W&L freshman grappler of the year,
was second only to Pilkey in wins,
team points, takedowns and escapes
last year, and he had the best winn-
ing percentage on the team in dual
meets, winning four of his five bouts.

“Pilkey and Soderberg are two of
our more proven performers,’’ Franke
says. ‘‘They also should provide
some of the key leadership that this
young team will need.”’

Franke can also find some leader-
ship in senior Bill Avery, who has
struggled with injury throughout his
career but should be a key contributor
in the middle of the lineup. Avery
went 8-8 his sophomore year and is
a two-year letterwinner.

Ryland Scott, who figures to be
W&L’s top choice at 158 pounds,
registered four pins last year and was
named freshman wrestler of the year
last year. Rich Paini, back for a sec-
ond season at 118 pounds, led the
team in pins with five last year.

“T’m excited about the oppor-
tunities and challenges this season has
to offer,’’ Franke says. ‘‘I think
things are looking good, and I can’t
wait to get started.’’

Things got started for the
Generals last weekend at the VMI
Invitationals. Both Pilkey and Soder-
berg took fourth place in their respec-
tive classes, each finishing 2-2. The
Generals will next be in aciton at the
Lebanon Valley Classic Nov. 30 and
Dec.1.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 15, 1990

 

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

Golf

The W&L golf team has been
picked seventh in the nation by
the Golf Coaches Association of
America’s current Division III
golf rankings.

The Generals return all of the
top six golfers from last year’s
team. W&L, the defending ODAC
champions, finished seventh in the
nation and had a final record of
38-6.

All-ODAC

The 1990 All-Old Dominion
Athletic Conference women’s
soccer and football teams were
announced, and W&L was well
represented on the first team.

Junior Nancy Mitchell was
named to the first team for the
second straight season. Joining her
was freshman Karen Stutzmann,
who led the team with 10 goals.
Junior Ashley Hurt was also
named All-ODAC. She made the
second team.

Three W&L football players
were also named first team All-
ODAC. Senior center Frank Sud-
ell, split end Craig Irons and
safety Brad Miller were all named
first team.

W&L was well represented on
the second team as well. Senior
offensive linemen’ Rob Roberton

and Rob Christensen, senior tail-
back Mason Pope, and senior
kicker Carter Quayle all made the
second team on offense. Soph-
omore defensive linemen Phillip
Spears and Thomas May, junior
linebacker Trey Cox and soph-
omore punter Bob Ehret all made
the second team on defense.

Women’s
soccer

Junior Nancy Mitchell was
named to the NCAA Division II
All-South women’s soccer team,
the school announced Wednesday.

Mitchell was one of the keys
to the best season in the short
history of W&L women’s soccer.
Mitchell led the W&L defense
that set school records for fewest
goals allowed in a season (16)
and most shutouts in a season (8).

 

 

 

 

 

Men’s
tennis

The W&L men’s tennis team,
which finished last year ranked
13th in the nation, has been pick-
ed 12th in the preseason Intercol-
legiate Tennis Coaches Associa-
tion NCAA Division III poll.

W&L, the six-time defending
ODAC champions, are led by
senior Bill Meadows, who was
ranked 47th in the preseason
rankings.

Free
ticket

Fans of W&L basketball will
have the opportunity to win a free
airline ticket to anywhere in the
continental United States at half-
time of games during the 1990-
91 season.

At halftime, fans will be chos-
en randomly to participate in the
Travel Unlimited/USAir Halftime
Shootout. Winners walk away
with a free airline pass to any-
where in the continental United
States.

From Staff Reports

 

 

 

een a

A ad

a ae

ee.

Standard 10% Discount
‘With Student I.D.

Right z

SP

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

OP) 203 N. Main st.

 

 

 

 

HE

 

 

S WHY

 

 

 

f
k

 

 

 

 

 

‘| ASIF THE

 

 

 

performs. TIAA-CREF

years. We have enabled over 200,000 The CREF Stock Account

people like you to enjoy a comfortable © The CREF Money Market Account

retirement. And over 1,000,000 more The CREF Bond Market Account*
are now planning for the future with : :

| TIAA-CREF The CREF Social Choice Account*

|| SMART MONEY LOOKS FOR SECURITY, CALL 1-800-842-2796

b GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR TO FIND OUT MORE

, RETIREMENT SAVINGS. Our experienced retirement counselors

b when it is time to retire.

ecause it does. Smart investors
know that your future depends on
how well your retirement system

premier retirement system for people
in education and research for over 70

Security—so the resources are there

i you'll have enough income for the

/ kind of retirement you want. And

‘ diversity—to help protect you against
, market volatility and to let you benefit
from several types of investments.

 

 

 

 

 

FUTURE DE

 

 

 

has been the

Growth—so

SMART MONEY AT
|| WASHINGTON AND LEB
IS Siete

growth through dividends. CREF’s
variable annuity offers opportunities
for growth through four different
investment accounts, each managed
with the long-term perspective essen-
tial to sound retirement planning:

+ UNIVE

will be happy to answer your questions
and tell you more about retirement
annuities from TIAA-CREF.

Experience. Performance. Strength.
Your future is protected by the largest
private retirement system in the world.
We have done so well, for so many, for

 

ITY
ON IT.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

463-9455 (@@

Runners
finish
season

Edwards, Hannah
selected for
all-region team

 

From Staff Reports

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
cross country team had its best finish
ever at the Division III South/South-
east Regionals, while the men’s team
recorded its best showing since 1986.

The women finished seventh and
ended the season at 8-1 (5-0 in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference).

By finishing sixth at regionals, the
men completed the year with one of
its best performances of the season.

Junior Charles Edwards and soph-
omore Bo Hannah both finished in
the top 14 spots and were named to
the all-regional team.

Edwards finished 11th with a time
of 27:12 and Hannah was 14th with
a time of 27:27.

The men finished the season at 8-
2 (6-1 in the ODAC).

“T think our men have gained
confidence in their ability to compete
with the best, not only in our con-
ference but in the region as well,’’
said head coach John Tucker. ‘‘We
have nearly all of our top runners
coming back next year, so next sea-
son promises to be very exciting.’’

Taking over the track next will be
the W&L men and womens’ track
teams. Both have already started
training for the indoor and outdoor
track seasons.

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

 

Beads ¢ Sequins * Pompons ® Bandannas ® T-Shirts ¢ Incense
Balloons ¢ Clay * Flags * Games ® Rockets ® Paint ¢Models
Stamps ¢ Trains ¢ Feathers ¢ Stencils * Velcro «Clothespins
Eyes @ Ribbons ¢ Styrofoam © Adhesives ¢ Glitter Chenille

 

 

~ =e

eae gs

\
E

ME”. %

Monday - Saturday
_ 31S. Main St., Lexington

+

The

10 a.m. - 5 p.m.
463-3355

 

FAST / Fact

 

a

Lge >

por

=

 

 

“pen adie dat Night z at 6 PM =

Over 50 ways to win money. © Q 11
You do not i need to o be a p eadue powlet to bowl! |

 

 

 

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials
$1.50 per Game

Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM

Saturday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

 

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

THAT'S EXACTLY WHAT YOU GET so long, that we currently manage
WITH TIAA-CREF, some $85 billion in assets. Rock-N-Bowl Bowling
_ || TIAA offers you the safety of a Every Friday Night Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
i traditional annuity that guarantees ‘
your principal plus a specified rate of 11 PM- 2 AM Win FREE games

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

 

interest, and provides for additional

* The CREF Bond Market and Social Choice Accounts may not be available under all institutional retirement plans, but are
f available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuity plans.

 

i For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call 1 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a
prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.

 

 

 

 

 

 

US HWY - 17 North

©1990 TIAA-CREF

464-BOWL (2695)
W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, November 15, 1990

 

After 10 years, Lloyd’s closes

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

This weekend marked the end of
one of Lexington’s most curious
establishments. Lloyd’s of Lexington
stopped serving its ‘‘fine fast food.”’

Lloyd’s, as it is more popularly
known, has been open around the
clock since 1980. At its height, the
well known fast-food restaurant and
arcade was packed with people at all
hours. It was a popular hangout for
Washington and Lee students, locals
and cadets.

More recently, however, Lloyd’s
had fallen upon hard times. When
owner Lloyd Smith became ill seven
months ago, business dropped off. It
also suffered due to Fraternity
Renaissance which relocated a large
portion of the restaurant’s clientele.

Allegations of violence this year
severely damaged Lloyd’s reputation
among W&L istudents. Alisann
McGloin, who lives above Lloyd’s,
said, ‘‘It was just so loud up here,
we had to call the police several
times. With the fights and all, I don’t
consider it a loss.”’

Kathy Creek, Smith’s sister, had
been running the restaurant for seve-
ral months. Her main goal was rebui-

What to

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

 

Staying in Lexington for Thanks-
giving break sounds boring to you?
No way.

Washington and Lee basketball
starts it 1990-91 season, Virginia
Military Institute basketball begins as
well, and if nothing else, the library
is open most every day next week.

Friday evening as most students
are hitting the road, W&L’s hoopsters
will be hitting the court. W&L will
host Redlands, Moravian and Bethany
colleges in this year’s tip-off tourna-
ment. Redlands and Moravian face
each other at 6 p.m. and the Gener-
als will play their season opener
against Bethany at 8 p.m.

Saturday afternoon at 2, the losers
of Friday night’s games will play in

CLOSED THANKSGIVING DAY!
ee eee eS

 

 

Lloyd’s of Lexington is closing down after ten years of service to the Lexington community. The
24-hour fast food restaurant was a popular weekend spot for many W&L students. File photo.

iding Lloyd’s reputation.

Several years ago, Smith put up a
temporary wall in the back of the
establishment. Last month, Creek was
planning renovations to build an
extension into the back parking lot
when the older wall collapsed.

Lexington City officials gave
either Creek or the landlord, Theo-
dore Macheras, 12 days to remedy
the situation. When Creek’s search
for a construction company exceeded
the limit, Macheras said he hired a

company to do the work. He then
billed Creek for the work, as per
Macheras’s understanding of the
rental agreement.

According to Creek, she received
an eviction notice along with the bill.
Macheras, however, denied having
ordered an eviction notice.

‘‘T certainly did not evict them,”’
said Macheras. ‘‘I’m willing to talk,
if [Creek] was short the money, we
could have worked out a settlement.
She has not even spoken to me.”’

Although the eviction notice Creek
claims to have received gave her until
the end of the month, she packed up
on Monday. By Monday evening,
only a letter to its patrons remained.

While the letter asked for help
fighting the alleged eviction, Creek
couldn’t stop the feeling that this was
the end.

‘‘T am just a single mother with
three children trying to keep Lloyd’s
business open. I really feel the city is
losing something worthwhile.”’

do in town over break

the consolation game. At 4, Friday’s
winners will meet to decide the tour-
nament championship.

On Monday, the Generals travel to
Marymount, and on next Saturday,
they'll play at Wesleyan.

VMI hits the road, too, and will
play at Virginia Tech next Saturday.

So we got entertainment, what
about food? Sorry, you’re on your
own.

The Evans Dining Hall, the Co-
op and General’s Headquarters will
all close Friday after lunch.

The dining hall will reopen for
dinner on Sunday, Nov. 25, and the
Co-op and GHQ will resume their
regular schedules the next day.

It’s okay, though, that there won’t
be any food served on campus, be-
cause you can’t take food into the
library anyway.

While not open 24 hours-a-day as

  
 

ae ot

usual, the University Library will be
open much of break.

Library hours during Thanksgiving
break are as follows:

Friday: Close at 6 p.m.

Saturday: Open 9 a.m. - 4 p.m.

Sunday: Closed

Monday - Wednesday: Open 8:30

a.m. - 4:30 p.m.

Thursday and Friday: Closed

Saturday: Open 9 a.m. - 4 p.m.

Sunday: Open at noon and resume

24 hour schedule.

If the library is just too much
excitement for you, you can always
go relax and watch a movie.

The movies playing through next
week at the State Theatre are:

Child’s Play II - a horror flick
about a doll that comes to life and
goes on a murderous rampage.

Memphis Belle - about a WWII
bomber crew trying to complete its

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 16 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY
LOW PRICES!

HT Premium

 

  

Turkey

a

6S

ss 22 Lbs. Avg., Premium
Grade “A”, Self- ‘Basting In Broth

 

 

Goldax

 

      
 

Natural Bridge,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fresh, Crisp

California

elery

 

 

 

final bombing mission.

Ghost - about a murdered man
who comes back as a ghost to protect
his fiancee from his murderer.

If you are here for break and you
still can’t keep yourself busy, take a
walk out by the river, visit the Stone-
wall Jackson house downtown, go see
the VMI museum or walk through
Stonewall Jackson cemetery. Visit
invite one of your
professors out to dinner with you, or
climb House Mountain.

During the busy rush of classes,
students often don’t get the time to
take advantage of the many histori-
cal, cultural and scenic things to see
and do in and around town.

A quiet week in Lexington might
afford that opportunity for those
staying here.

Maybe those sticking around for
break the lucky ones.

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR|

 

 

Thanksgiving holiday begins.

CD&P: Last date to register for Dec. 1 LSAT. CD&P Office.
MEN'S SWIMMING: W&L Dual Meet Challenge. Twombly Pool.
BASKETBALL: W&L Tip-Off Tournament. Warner Center.

All Day
6&8p.m.

i

All Day
2&4p.m.
8 p.m.

MEN'S SWIMMING: W&L Dual Meet Challenge. Twombly Posi.

BASKETBALL: W&L Tip-Off Tournament. Warner Center.

FAIR CONCERT: Rockbridge Chorus. Jackson Memorial Hall,
V.M.I.

All Day MEN'S SWIMMING: W&L Dual Meet Challenge. Twombly Posi.
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 19
AWAY ATHLETICS: BASKETBALL: Marymount.

Thanksgiving Day.

BER
AWAY ATHLETICS: BASKETBALL: Wesleyan.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26

Classes Resume.

7:30 p.m. | BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Hampden-Sydney. Warner
Center.

LECTURE: "Channel Management in the Health Care Industry,
Casey Nolan, partner, Ernst & Young. Room 327,

Commerce School. Public invited.

7:30 p.m.

4 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Test
Interpretation. Room 108, University Center.

LECTURE/DEMONSTRATION: "Self-Defense," Lisa Sliwa,
self-defense expert. Lee Chapel. Reception to follow.
Public invited.

7:30 p.m.

R

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Off- -Campus |
Job Search. Room 109, University Center.

CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Loretta L. Vandenberg '91. Room 491
Howe Hall. Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public
invited. ;

CONCERT: Applied Recital by W&L music students. Lee
Chapel. Public invited.

HOWERTON LECTURE: "Bible Wars, the Saga Continues: ‘
Schleiermacher and the Rise of Modern Biblical Studies,”
James O. Duke, Pacific School of Religion, Berkeley.
Room 7, Newcomb Hall. Public invited. Y

TELFORD LECTURE: "Economic Futures of Socialism," Rohe
Paul Wolff, University of Massachusetts, Amherst. Room
327, Commerce School. Public invited. {

4p.m.

5 p.m.

8 p.m.

q

8p.m.

8 p.m.

 

 

 

—

SBM :

Smithfield Semi-
Boneless Whole Ham |

162

13-16
Lbs. Avg.

  

Half Ham
Lb....1.79  :

  

 

 

 

 

 

LET THE HARRIS TEETER DELI
DO YOUR THANKSGIVING

HAM DINNER TURKEY DINNER.

e 5-7 Lb. Eckrich Boneless Ham

¢ 2 Lbs. Sweet Potato Souffle

e 14 Oz. Cranberry-Apple Salad

¢ 2 Doz. Parkerhouse Party Rolls

These Dinners Do Not Come Pre-
Heated, They Are Heat & Serve Items

COOKING!

10-12 Lb. * Cooked Turkey
2 Lbs. Cornbread Stuffing

2 Ibs. Giblet Gravy

1 Lb. Cranberry Sauce

1 Pie: (Pumpkin, Dutch Apple,
Sweet Potato, Lattice Apple
Or Mincemeat)

* Pre-Cooked Weight

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
   

16 EO, Nee
&=

= IV = Maspain Dew

rd,
psi Cola,

SS oemaeers ent Re BF

 

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, November 27, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, November 27, 1990 In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.
~

~

~

~

Arch,
£278. 155
R552.
Vv. W
nd, ty

Wilder says

VMI should go coed --- see page 3

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 14

Goodbye,
Sandwiches;
it's pasta time

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

 

The changing palate of Lexington shifted again last
week as one restaurant closed and another celebrated its
grand opening.

Sycamore Farms food store and restaurant closed its
Lexington location during Thanksgiving break. The
Randolph Street shop had been a popular eatery since its
opening three years ago.

According to proprietor Bruce Becker, ‘‘Sycamore
Farms formally shifted its base of operations to their
Blacksburg location last week.”’

“‘We did this with a great deal of reluctance,’’ Becker
said. ‘‘We had a nice small business up here, but
Blacksburg is a much larger city. Down there, there is
a student population of over 26,000. We only have
resources enough for one city.’’

Becker also pointed out that the ‘‘summer doldrums”’
hit Lexington much harder than Blacksburg. Between
8,000 and 10,000 students study at Blacksburg’s Virginia
Tech during the summer months.

The Blacksburg store opened in January 1990 and has
steadily picked up momentum, according to Becker. The
decision to completely relocate was finally made three
weeks ago. Becker felt that the change would be easier
if it was unannounced.

“IT want to make it perfectly clear that we have
always appreciated our association with the Washington

‘ and Lee student body over the past years. This is why

the move was taken with such reluctance,’’ Becker said.

Also over break, Lexington’s new restaurant of ‘‘fine
Italian cuisine’ opened its doors to the public. (Review
on page 8.)

According to owner Ugo Benincasa, last Monday’s
grand opening was a great success. ‘‘Il Palazzo has
received a very warm reception here in Lexington,’’ said
Benincasa.

The restaurant is usually full during the dinner rush.
For that reason, Benincasa recommended that patrons
make reservations.

Benincasa feels that his inexpensive Italian specialties

, such as New York style pizza, calzone, stuffed pizza, and

a

a

submarine sandwiches will
Washington and Lee students.

Il Palazzo also serves a complete dinner menu. Dinner
specialties include a wide variety of seafood dishes. The
seafood platters, a personal favorite of Benincasa, have
been the biggest sellers so far.

Il Palazzo is located at 24 N. Main Street, next door
to the Willson-Walker House.

be very popular with

‘Gonzo’ journalist
to speak Tuesday

 

since 1977,

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

Ref in the stands

Senior Russell Crosby makes a technical foul call in Tuesday
night’s basketball game against Hampden-Sydney. Crosby
helped the officials nail H-SC’s Orson Williams with a technical
foul in the first half. The Tigers won 68-67. See story, Page 6.

 

 

 

 

Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

 

 

NOVEMBER 29, 1990

‘Lean on Me’
subject to
give lecture

Joe Clark to

speak during

Black History Month

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

The Contact Committee will con-
tract this week with former New
Jersey high school principal Joe Clark
to visit Washington and Lee on Feb.
11 as a Black History Month speaker,
Contact Chairman Charles Kranich
announced Monday night at the Ex-
ecutive Committee meeting.

Clark, whose story was chroni-
cled by the movie ‘‘Lean on Me,”’ is
known as the principal who ‘‘got
tough’’ with the students of Eastside
High School in Paterson, N.J.

The EC granted an additional
$4,500 Contact requested Monday for
Clark’s $6,500 fee and expenses.

Kranich said that although that
price is higher than that is usually
paid for most Contact guests,‘‘his
reputation as such a dynamic speak-
er’’ made the cost worthwhile in the
opinion of the Committee.

Kranich said Minority Student
Association President James Rambeau
and Vice President Damon Sanders
chose Clark from a number of pos-
sible speakers for Black History
Month. MSA will cosponsor Clark’s
appearance, but Contact will cover all
expenses, as the EC had previously
recommended.

Kranich said that Clark’s speech,
‘From Disgrace to Amazing Grace,’’
will probably discuss Clark’s views
on education, especially in inner
Cities.

When Clark was appointed the
principal of Eastside High School in
New Jersey in 1982, it was a haven
for illegal drugs, graffiti, and violent
crime, according to a Time magazine
article that featured Clark on Feb. 1,

1988.

In his first six years, his con-
troversial means of discipline helped
clean up Eastside. Under Clark the
school expelled over 500 students
who Clark called ‘‘leeches and para-
sites,’’ according to Time. A base-
ball bat and a bullhom became sym-
bols of Clark’s enforcement of school
policy.

Despite disputes with the school
board, a threat of dismissal, and the
tumover of more than 100 faculty,
Clark was commended by President
Ronald Reagan and U.S. Secretary of
Education William Bennett, reported
Time. The television show ‘‘60
Minutes’’ sought Clark’s story and
Warner Bros. Inc. purchased it for
the movie version.

Jet magazine reported in July
1989 that Clark was suspended from
Eastside after ‘‘scantily clad dancers
.. appeared at the school while the
administrator was out of town.’
Clark announced then that he would
leave his job for a lecture tour.

Kranich said that the promotional
material on Clark included ‘‘a stack’’
of ‘‘very positive’ written recom-
mendations from other schools.
‘Most big names only come with a
few (recommendations),’’ he said.

EC Vice President Raymond Wel-
der motioned to make the allocation
Monday night, saying that Clark
“‘should pack Lee Chapel.’’

Third-year EC law Rep. Mark
Cobb voted against the allocation
with senior EC Rep. John Fialcowitz.

Kranich said Contact normally
signs big name speakers when they
are available through special offers.

‘I’m distressed when a speaker
comes ... at full price, and no ‘co-
ntacts’ are being used,’’ said Cobb.

‘Forgotten father’ honored

Mollenhoff attends

By Jennifer Gibson
Staff Reporter

 

Best-selling author, political col-
umnist, and self-proclaimed
‘‘gonzo’’ journalist Hunter §. Thom-
pson is scheduled to speak in Lee
Chapel on Tuesday at 8 p.m. in an
appearance sponsored by Contact.

Thompson, who has been noted
for his stream-of-consciousness writ-
ing style, entered the world of jour-
nalism in 1959 with a one-year stay
at Time magazine as Caribbean cor-
respondent. Later, his work was
featured in the New York Herald

Tribune, the National Observer, The

Nation and Ramparts.
In addition, Thompson _ served
as the national affairs editor for

Rolling Stone from 1970 to 1981

oe

and has contributed to High Times
as a global affairs correspondent

Performances to go on in |

Also known as an originator of
the ‘‘gonzo’’ style of New Jour-
nalism, Thompson describes it as
“the art of imposing a novelistic
form on journalistic content.”’

Thompson’s literary career also
includes a number of books, beginn-
ing with ‘‘Hell’s Angels’’ (1966),
an inside look at America’s most
notorious motorcycle gang. His sec-
ond book, ‘‘Fear and Loathing in
Las Vegas’’ (1972), was an account
of a district attorneys’ convention.
Other works to his credit include
“The Great Shark Hunt’’ (1977),
“The Curse of Lona’’ (1981), and
‘‘Songs of the Doomed’’ (1990).

Thompson has also served as an
inspiration for the movie ‘‘Where
the Buffalo Roam’’ and may be
observed as the model for Uncle
Duke in Gary Trudeau’s comic

 

John Vincent
Atanasoff

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee Professor of
Journalism Clark R. Mollenhoff
attended an awards ceremony at the
White House on Tuesday, Nov. 13,
to honor Dr. John Vincent Atanasoff
with a Presidential Medal of
Technology for his invention of the
first electronic computer.

The publication of Mollenhoff’s
“‘Atanasoff: Forgotten Father of the
Computer’’ brought to the public’s
attention the fact that Atanasoff, a
professor at Iowa State University,
not John Mauchly, was the rightful
creator of the first computer.

Mauchly visited Atanasoff at Iowa
State in 1941, at which time he saw
the electronic digital computer that

 

 

strip, ‘‘Doonsebury.”’

 

Atanasoff and a graduate student,

ceremony to hail computer inventor

Clifford E. Berry, had constructed
two years earlier. This computer was
notable for its use of a base-two
binary format, the possibility of input
and output, a system that held
modifiable data and a memory. After
his visit, Mauchly returned home and
began planning the construction of
ENIAC, a computer based on the
Atanasoff-Berry model.

Mauchly enlisted the aid of
electronics expert Presper Eckert and
built ENIAC between 1943 and 1946.
The two men then sold the ENIAC
rights to the Sperry Rand Corp.

For years Mauchly and Eckert
were thought to be the inventors of
the first computer. But in 1973 a
U.S. District Court ruled that the
concepts behind ENIAC had been
derived from the Atanasoff-Berry
computer,

Mollenhoff wrote an article on

Atanasoff for The (Des Moines)
Sunday Register in January 1974.
Unable to describe the whole
complex string of events effectively
in a newspaper article, Mollenhoff
wrote ‘‘Atanasoff: Forgotten Father of
the Computer’’ in 1988.

Despite the Court ruling and the
publication of Mollenhoff’s book,
Atanasoff failed to receive public
recognition. Only through the efforts
of Mollenhoff, Iowa State officials
and Towa legislators have
encyclopedias and museums finally
acknowledged Atanasoff as _ the
inventor of the first computer.

Mollenhoff said he was thrilled by
the presentation. ‘‘It was totally and
thoroughly gratifying to see Dr.
Atanasoff accept his medal. I feel this
is a full victory for Atanasoff and for
those who have attempted to give
him the recognition he deserves.’’

 

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

The Lenfest Center should be mostly
completed by the target date of Dec. 15, but

the new preforming arts center’s grand

opening is being delayed until May, ac-
cording to the theatre department.
Washington and Lee Professor of Fine

' Arts Albert Gordon said the department will

move into the center in mid-December. The
first public performance will be held Jan.
19, when famed choral director Robert Shaw
of Atlanta will conduct the university or-
chestra and chorus.

Gordon said the opening is being de-
layed until May because the department
wants to be sure they are familiar with all
the new equipment before the opening.

close,’’ he said. ‘‘The opening is sort of a
thank you to all the people who gave mon-
ey. We want to be sure everything is work-
ing all right before they come.’’

Construction Superintendent Bill Wise-
man said the center’s gatehouse will take
longer to finish than the rest of the center.

“I’m hoping everything inside will be
done this year,’ Wiseman said. ‘‘The gate-
house should be done about a month later.’’

Wiseman said when the first concert is
held, though, the interior might still have
some work to be done on it.

‘There might be a couple of areas that
won't be 100 percent,’’ he said. ‘‘We’ll just
be putting in some carpet and a little bit of
trim here and a dab of paint there.”’

Gordon said once the center opens in
January, it will be in day-to-day use by the

unfinished Lenfest Center

“It’s just that we're cutting it kind of

department. He said performances are sched
uled at the center almost every week from
the time they move in until the grand open-
ing in May.

The department is now auditioning for
Thornton Wilder’s ‘‘Skin of our Teeth’’ to
be presented Feb. 8-13. Other plays sched-
uled for the spring are ‘‘On the Verge’’ and
“Evita.”

Previous delays had already pushed the
opening date back from Aug. 31 to Oct. 23
and then to Dec. 15. Early delays were
attributed to inclement weather in the winter
of 1989-90,

Construction of the $9.8 million project
began in the summer of 1988 after the
school recieved a $3 million donation ear
marked for the fine arts center from Mr. and
Mrs. Gerry Lenfest of Huntington Valley,
Penn. Lenfest is a 1954 graduate of W&L

 

 

 

Work continues on the Lenfest Center. Staff photo by Amanda Hughen.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OPINION

ee

Makin’ our list,
checkin’ it twice

Dear Santa,

We figure you’re pretty busy this time of year, so we
thought we’d save you the trouble of compiling a Christmas
list for W&L. We were nice enough to do it for you. The
following is what we expect to see under the following
people’s Christmas trees. We make no claim to whether
they’ve been naughty or nice, but we think they deserve the
following.

To Cyrus McCormick — a cotton reaper or gin or husker,
or whatever it was he invented.

To Dean Atkins — a tie.

To each drama major — his or her own floor in Lenfest
(Oops, they already got that).

To the EC — a new meeting room in Elkton, VA.

To Law School students — their very own FD.

To Carol Calkins — a keg party in our office.

To the SAB — The Black Crowes for FD.

To Charles Edwards — an excellent, excellent Christmas.

To the dorms — fire alarms that work.

To R.D. ‘‘Lethal Weapon III’’ Clark — a car with four
wheels.

To ‘‘L-Posse’’ — a new hangout.

To The Palms — more customers.

To El Cafe — some customers.

To VMI — the joys of coeducation

To Chi Psi and the rest of the Greek Tax refugees — lots
and lots of money

To the Fraternity Renaissance — lots and lots of money

To would-be Homecoming Queens from other schools —
transfer applications.

To Brian — 1 degree, this year please.

To Pat — to get lei-ed over Christmas.

To Alesha — the table sign-up sheet.

To Andy — lots and lots of wax.

To Cathy — a last name we can spell.

To Jason — state-of-the-art graphics.

To Chris — a river of consciousness for his page next term.

To Ashley and Jay — pages that someone reads.

To the rest of our staff — competent editors.

To y’all — Happy Holidays.

Quotes of the week

When you lose a game like that, you just want to go home
and beat your wife and kids. Did you see my wife jumping up
and down at the end of the game? That's because she knew
she wasn’t going to get beaten. Go ahead, print that. [Tick]
off the women’s groups.

— NBA star Charles Barkley, explaining to sportswriters
why it’s imperative that no team lose to the New Jersey
Nets. We feel certain that his comments had the desired
effect on women’s groups.

We're human. We doo-doo in the toilets and do everything
normal people do.

— New Kid on the Block Jonathan Knight, explaining that,
despite the group’s breathtaking talent in both songwriting
and dance, the members are really just normal guys.

At least (he) dressed up like a woman, so that made it look
normal.

— Cathy Lopiccolo, relieved at the costume change of one
of the participants in Kappa Alpha Theta’ ‘‘Gongshow’’
fundraiser.

My goals tonight were to put out a good issue of the Phi, get
a Christmas date, and write my paper. So far I'm 0 for 3.
— A very distressed Brian Root late, very late, last night.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 29, 1990

 

 

 

>

Gea - Be
UG gs ty Nay

\

“I _

A
nN

1
soo SEVEN )

ae ~ PNM TAC ww 7
~~ \ Ay ~ y , att o hh, Nl

eT ee teeing
wip Ary: i

\

a s

a
sal ais

ae

MOTT
willl ) it dap ha

 

- ing - legislation,

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

Editors

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

Pennies
from
Heaven

MY VIEW
By Chris Baradel

 

 

Congress recently passed a sweep-
ing housing reform bill, the first such
bill in 16 years. However, the hous-

$27.5 billion for the next fiscal year,
was almost killed because of the
matter of the design of a few coins.

The Senate tacked on a provision
requiring the federal mint to redesign
the backs of all pennies, nickels,
dimes, quarters and half dollars. The
added provision so enraged several
House members that they were will-
ing to cut out the coin language from
the bill, which would have left it
open to more amendments in the Sen-
ate, and would likely have killed the
bill.

It was only after House Banking
Chairman Henry Gonzales told the
sponsor of the coin design provision,
Senator Alan Cranston of California,
that the coin provision would result
in the bill’s being killed that Cran-
ston stopped his intense lobbying
efforts in the House on behalf of the
coin redesign.

With so many Americans in need
of quality, affordable housing, it is
frightening that this much-needed
housing bill was almost sabotaged
because of the intractablity of Senator
Cranston regarding the needless rede-
signing of coins.

which authorizes -

 

a _ ood ro bt.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

i

ri

What we read determines our fate:
National identity is based on the classics of our culture

 

MY VIEW
By James Atlas

 

In the spring of 1987, Professor
Allan Bloom, a member of the Com-
mittee on Social Thought at the Uni-

_ versity of Chicago and the author of

a well-regarded translation of Rous-
seau’s Emile, among other scholarly
works, published a book about higher
education in America. Issued in a
first printing of five thousand by
Simon & Schuster, The Closing of
the American Mind sold over a mil-
lion copies. Its author, to his utter
amazement, found himself an
American celebrity, interviewed by
Oprah Winfrey, profiled in Time, his
photograph on the cover of The New
York Times Magazine. For once, the
life of the mind was a public issue.

What was it about this difficult,
demanding book that made it such a
best-seller? Surely it couldn’t have
been entitled ‘‘The Nietzscheanization
of the Left or Vice Versa’’ and
‘From Socrates’ Apology to Heideg-
ger’s Rektoratsrede.’’ Bloom’s real
subject was revealed in his incendiary
subtitle: How Higher Education Has
Failed Democracy and Impoverished
America’s colleges and universities
were in trouble, Bloom declared;
students could no longer expect to
come away from their four years on
campus with even a rudimentary
grasp of their own culture and civil-
ization. ‘‘Every educational system
has a moral goal that it tries to attain
and that informs its curriculum,’’
wrote Bloom. Ours, it so happened,
was bankrupt. The permissiveness
ushered in by the 1960s had des-
troyed the old Great Books idea:

. (male) supremacy.

namely, that to be educated was to
have some acquaintance with the
classics of Western civilization.
Those classics were now ideologically
suspect; the tradition they represented
was an instrument of oppression.
Indeed, the whole idea of tradition
was elitist, a literary form of white
To study the
great works was to suffer the domin-
ation of a colonial power.

This kind of thinking had practi-
cal consequences. By the late 1980s,
the curriculum — the courses that
universities offer —- was a campus
free-for-all. ‘‘America has no-fault
automobile accidents, no-fault divor-
ces, and it is moving with the aid of
modern philosophy toward no-fault
choices,’ Bloom noted with charac-
teristic acerbity. Course requirements
were largely a thing of the past. At
a vast majority of American colleges
and universities, a student could
graduate without having taken a sin-
gle course in Western Civilization.
The idea that there existed a hierar-
chy of knowledge, a cultural tradition
made up of those works that had
survived the harsh discriminations of
the time — in Matthew Amold’s fa-
mous phrase ‘‘the best that has been
thought and said’ — was obsolete.
All over the country, colleges and
universities were busy renovating
their humanities departments, tossing
out traditional survey courses and
replacing them with new, more
‘relevant’ offerings. At Stanford,
the core list of classics was reduced
to make room for works by ‘‘women,
minorities, and persons of color.’’ At
Berkeley, freshmen and sophomores
would have to pass a one-semester
course focusing on at least three out
of five ethnic groups: Afro-Amer-
icans, Latinos, Asian-Americans,

Native Americans
Americans.

In itself, the debate over the cur-
riculum has turned out to be a good
thing. The canon, or core of great
books, is not immutable; in some
ways, the history of literature is the
history of taste. And minorities have
been slighted in the curriculum as
much as in other departments of
American life. It could be argued
that the study of one’s own literature
does promote ethnic self-pride. At
the very least, we ought to follow the
advice of Gerald Graff, a professor of
English at Northwestern and a visible
commentator on the book wars, who
urges: Teach the Debate. Examine

To be American is to
be assimilated, to
define ourselves by
what is common in
our heritage — the
shared tradition of
our language, our
literature, our ideas
about the social
covenant that
constitutes
democracy.

the processes by which books find
their way into the classroom - what
makes them representative of their
culture? How are the criteria of
literary ‘‘greatness’’ ultimately deter-
mined? ke

What has been lost in this debate
is a fundamental premise of our
culture: that to be American is to be
assimilated, to define ourselves by

and European-

 

 

what is common in our heritage —
the shared tradition of our language,
our literature, our ideas about the
social covenant that constitutes
democracy. ‘‘As our land becomes
more diverse,’’ warns Donald Kagan,
the Dean of Yale College, ‘‘the
danger of separation, segregation by
ethnic group, mutual suspicion and
hostility increases.” A core
curriculum presupposes agreement: if
not about what the Great Books are, '
at the very least that there are Great ,
Books. The university today is like
the nature-theater of Oklahoma in
Franz Kafka’s novel America, where
‘everyone is welcome, everyone can
be an artist.’ To distinguish among
cultures is to be guilty of ‘‘cultural
relativism’’ — to establish hierarchies
of value. And that’s anti-American.

But is it? The books we read
and teach reflect the way this country
defines itself as a collective enter-
prise. To read English and American
literature, the classics of our Western
culture, is to discover the sources of
a national identity. And that identity
makes itself felt in a global way:
our foreign policy is an expression of
our self-image. ‘‘Just as in politics
the responsibility for the fate of free-
dom in the world has developed upon
our universities, and the two are
related as they have never been
before,’’ writes Bloom on the last
page of his humanities. What we
read, he’s saying — if we read — will
determine America’s fate. That's
why college catalogues should be
required reading for anyone concerned
about America’s future. They say a
lot about us. In the end, we are
what we read,

Distributed by the Collegiate News
Network
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, November 29, 1990

 

‘Wilder, Terry change positions

- Officials now say they support coeducation for VMI

 

» By Jason Kelley

Senior Copy Editor

 

Virginia Gov. L. Douglas Wilder
broke his silence last week and spoke
out in favor of the federal govern-
ment’s suit to force Virginia Military
Institute to admit women, and Attor-
ney General Mary Sue Terry an-
nounced Tuesday that she will ask to

» be excused as defense attorney in the

case.
Wilder, in what many believe to

» be a move motivated by aspirations

to national office, said he favors
admitting women to the school and
would not hesitate to sign such legis-

, lation if passed by the General

Assembly.

“I believe that no person should
be denied admittance to a school
supported by state funds solely be-
cause of his or her race or gender,”’

; Wilder said in Richmond last Tues-

)

day. :

Terry said she can no longer
defend VMI because her strategy was
shot down by Wilder’s announcement.

“T will work in concert with the
governor,’ she said. ‘‘It is my job to
help the governor achieve his aims.’’

Until last week, Wilder had re-
mained silent on the issue since U.S.
Attorney General Dick Thornburgh
sued VMI last February after the
schocl’s Board of Visitors refused to
change its male-only admissions
policy.

Wilder made his comments after
U.S. District Judge Jackson L. Kiser
ruled earlier this month in Roanoke
that Wilder would not be excused as
a codefendant in the suit against
VMI.

Officials at VMI remain optimistic
about the outcome of the case and
believe Wilder’s statement will not
affect the ruling.

“‘While we respect the Governor’s
personal view, he has said on numer-
ous occasions that it is for the Board
of Visitors of the Virginia Military
Institute to set the admissions policy
of the school,’’ said VMI Board of
Visitors President Joseph M. Spivey
il.

Former U.S. Attorney General

| Griffin Bell said he also believes,

}

«

Wilder’s statement» will: ngt harm:
yay

VMI’s case.

“It won’t hurt. Wilder is not a
judge. The last governor, Gov. (Ger-
ald) Baliles, said the same thing.”’

VMI Alumni Foundation Director
Paul Maini said most alumni do not
want the school to admit women.

“Our alumni are very concerned.
I think they’re disappointed by the
governor’s decision,’ he said. ‘‘If
there’s a universal feeling, I think
they just don’t want it to change.’’

Maini said the school fears a loss
of alumni support if it admits women.

‘There are some alumni who will
review their contributions,’’ he said.
‘‘The school they knew will change
in such a drastic way that they'll stop
their giving.’’

Maini said, though, if the courts
decide VMI must admit women, the
school will make every effort to see
that the integration is ‘‘done right’’.

“T taught at the Naval Academy
and the women there are still treated
like second-class citizens,.’’ Maini
said. ‘‘We don’t want that here.’’

He also said the press has misrep-
resented what the school is fighting
for. He said they are trying to pre-
serve their unique educational pur-
pose, not discriminate against women.

“In some ways we feel discrimi-
nated against in having someone try
to force us change our style of edu-
cation,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s not that we’re
against women. The press immediate-
ly makes it a women’s issue and it
becomes emotional.”

Past VMI Commandant William
Buchanan said, ‘‘We feel there’s still
a place in this country for single sex
education for those who choose it.’’

Maini said the area women’s
schools fear that if VMI is forced to
admit women, the state may have to
stop granting the women’s colleges
tax-exemptions and student loans
because they practice sex-discrimina-
tion in their admissions policies.

“Can you imagine Sweet Briar
having to pay property tax on it’s
physical plant or having to pay tax
on tuition?’’ he asked. ‘‘No way
could they afford it.’’

VMI admissions’ office secretary
Donna Broomall said she has re-
ceived a few calls from women re-
questing :appligations. She said the;
school dogs: not send. out polaleey a

 

 

. i}
i
wen

        
 

  

'

util

a h wth

Ui

  
 

"

 

i}

 

 

VMI cadets parade in front of the Barracks on the school’s
campus. VMI is currently the subject of nationwide controversy
over its all-male admissions policy. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

information to women.

‘“We just take down their name
and address for if and when we start
to admit them,’’ Broomall said.

Wilder dismissed the idea that his
move was prompted by plans to run
for national office in the future. How-
ever, political analysts believe that
Wilder spoke out against the school’s
policy because he feared he might
alienate his out-of-state supporters if
he said nothing.

Terry originally hinted that she
might ask to be excused from the
case on the same day as Wildet’s
’ statement. Terry, ‘who many believe

will run for governor in 1992, has
also been accused of changing her
stance for political reasons.

“‘T was amazed at Doug’s cyni-
cism — and Mary Sue managed to
top him before lunch,’’ said Republi-
can party official Steve Hamer.

Cadets at VMI say they’re disap-
pointed with Wilder’s stand, but that
they will remain loyal to their com-
mander-in-chief.

“We will follow his orders, but
we'd like to have him on our side,”
said Regimental Cmdr. Fredrick Leh-
man, the top-raking cadet at VMI.

“I don’t see any_ cadets rioting at
YME"

Two trustees named to Board

From the W&L News Office

 

Two new members of the Wash-
ington and Lee University Board of
Trustees were elected at the Board’s
recent fall meeting in Lexington.

The new members are William E.
Brock of Washington, D.C. and John
H. Mullin TI of Brookneal, Va.

A native of Lookout Mountain,
Tenn., Brock received his B.S. from
W&L in 1953. In 1962, he became
the first Republican in more than 40
years to be elected to Congress from
Tennessee’s Third District. After four
terms in the House of Representa-
tives, Brock was elected to the U.S.

  

 

 

Interviews and photos
by Amanda Hughen

Senate in 1970.

In 1977, the Republican Party
elected Brock as its National Chair-
man, a position he held through Pres-
ident Reagan’s inauguration.

Brock served in Reagan’s cabinet
as the United States Trade Represen-
tative from 1981 to 1985. In that
capacity, he served as the President’s
chief trade policy advisor and interna-
tional trade negotiator. In 1985 he
was named Secretary of Labor, a
position he held until November,
1987,

Brock is currently the founder and
senior partner of the Brock Group, a
Washington consulting firm specializ-
ing in international trade, investment,

      

human resource and labor-manage-
ment issues.

He is a member of President
Bush’s Advisory Committee on Ed-
ucation, serves as senior counselor
and trustee of the Center for Strategic
and International Studies, and is
president of the National Academy
Foundation. Brock is also chairman
of the National Endowment for Dem-
ocracy, the Kirkpatrick Forum, the
International Advisory Committee of
the University of South Carolina,
where he also serves as a Dis-
tinguished Visiting Professor, and a
member of the United States National
Committee for Pacific Economic
Cooperation.

Mullin, a native of Atlanta, Ga.,
received his B.A. in history from
W&L in 1963 and his M.B.A. from
Wharton College in 1969. From 1963
to 1967 he served in the U.S. Navy,
achieving the rank of lieutenant. From
1969 to 1989 he worked at the in-
vestment bank of Dillon, Read &
Co., Inc. in New York, eventually
becoming managing director. Current-
ly, Mullin is chairman of Ridgeway
Farm, Inc, a wholesale shade and
ornamental tree nursery, located in
Brookneal, Va.

Mullin is on the boards of Chrys-
tal Brands, Inc., Dillon, Read & Co.,
Inc., Adolph Coors Co., The Liberty
Corp. and the Ryland Group, Inc

 

TALKBACK

 

Flicks

The W&L Film Society will
present The Story of Women,
directed by Claud Chabrol, in
classsroom ‘A’ of Lewis Hall.
The film will be shown Nov. 30
and Dec. 1. Admission is free.

Write something

The Political Review is still ac-
cepting articles and papers written
by students and faculty. Please
bring all submissions to Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center. If you have any questions,
please contact either Megan Koch
or Ingrid Schroeder.

Trade down

Registration is now underway for
Holiday intersession Courses at
Virginia Commonwealth Universi-
ty. Classes will run daily from 9
a.m. to 2 p.m., Dec. 27-29 and
January 2-5, 7-9. For more infor-
mation, call Chris Allerton at
804-367-1400.

Gimme shelter

Applications for Gaines Hall and
Woods Creek apartments are now
available in Payne Hall #4. As-
signments will be made in Janu-
ary on a first-come first-serve
basis. Call Dean Ruscio for de-
tails at 463-8405,

Calyx

Yearbook pictures for underclass-
men will be Monday through
Wednesday, Dec. 3-5, in the
University Center from 10-1 p.m.
and from 1:30-4 p.m. For any
sophomores and juniors that have
not paid, there will be a $12 fee.

Calyx2

Last chance sign-ups for on cam-
pus senior pictures will be held
Jan. 8 and 9. Times will be post-
ed. Also, those who are signed
up, don’t forget to meet the pho-
tographer in the Fairfax Lounge.
There will be a $10 fee for miss-
ed appointments. Taking your
own pictures? turnthem into. the
box outside Carol Calkins’ office
by Feb. 1.

Calyx3

We're looking for senior quotes
to go in the senior section of the
Calyx. Please turn in your signed
quote to the box outside Carol
Calkins’ office by Feb. 1.

So Co

Southem Comfort will perform
Monday, Dec. 3, at 8 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. This is the last time we
will perform there. The perform-
ance will be exclusively Comfort
and will be the last performance
of the semester and holiday sea-
son.

 

GENERAL NOTES

mu ct EUS ae em ascent

 

Tee off

The Shenandoah Region of the
American Lung Association is
offering a Golf Privilege Card for
$15, and is good for one free
round of golf at three area cours-
es. The card, once purchased, is
good from Jan.1 through Dec. 31,
1991. For more information, call
703-434-LUNG.

Money

Graduate fellowships are available
for entering and first-year
graduate students majoring in
science disciplines and interested
in pursuing resear¢h careers in
areas pertaining to global change.
The application dealine is March
1. For more information, call
Billie Stooksbury at 615-576-
0037.

Good deed

First American Bank, Crestar
Bank, and Dominion Bank are
offering ‘‘American Express Gift
Cheques’’ from Nov. 23 through
Dec. 31. They are like universal
gift certificates except they can be
cashed and are refundable. For
each cheque sold, the U.S. Marine
Corps will donate one stuffed
animal to the Toys for Tots
program.

Culture shock

Susan Thomas, a local artist, will
display her watercolor art on the
balcony level of Lejeune Hall at
VMI from Nov. 14 through Dec.
14. Her works specialize in
realistic still lifes and landscapes.

Turning
Japanese

The Japanese government is now
accepting applications for the
1991 Japan Exchange and Teach-
ing Program. Application dead-
line is Dec. 20, 1990. For further
information, contact: Embassy of
Japan, 2520 Massachusetts Ave.,

N.W. Washington D.C. 20008.
Telephone: 202-939-6772,

Just teach it

Teach for America, a national
teacher corporation, recruits stu-
dents from colleges and universi-
ty. After an 8-week summer
institute, they will be placed in
rural and urban public schools
that have teaching shortages.
Applications can be found in the
Career Development and Place-
ment Office, and must be post-
marked by January 4, 1991.

Party on

The Daytona/Orlando Transit
Service offers shuttle transporta-
tion to your hotel’ during spring
break. For information, please call
1-800-223-1965.

 

If you could be any kind of fruit,
what kind would you be?

 

 

Severna
Park, MD -- ‘‘I would like to be
a banana because I would like to
be peeled.”’

Dax Cummings, ’91,

 

srooke Tinley, ’91, Baltimore,
MD -- ‘‘I would be a kiwi be-
cause it is green.’

 

 

Caldwell Hart, ’91, Philadelphia,
PA -- ‘I would like to bé a fruit
salad because I am always mixed
up and confused.”’

 

 

Hal Bailey, 91, Memphis, TN -
-“‘T would like to be coconut
because when you break them
open they smell like ladies lying
in the sun.”

 

 

 

Genia Foster, 94, Mobile, AL -
-‘I would be a pear because I
would never have to worry about
falling over.’’

Joe Pringle, ’93, Chapel Hill,
NC “Il would be a fig, for

personal reasons.’’

 

 
NEWS

 

SCC rules on
Soderberg

The Student Conduct Commit-

tee on Nov. 13 held a hearing for
Peer Soderberg’s firing of a
shotgun in the early hours of
Nov. 3 in the Sigma Phi Epsilon
house during a conflict with
members of Phi Gamma Delta.

The SCC ruled that Soderberg
must do 60 hours of community
service by the end of this ac-
ademic year and write a letter of
apology for the incident to The
Ring-tum Phi. Soderberg will
also be on probation for as long
as he attends W&L.

‘‘T think due to the extenuat-
ing circumstances ... which were
being assaulted in my own house
and having little other recourse to
fall back on ... it [the SCC penal-
ty] was fair,’’ Soderberg said.

The SCC will deliberate
further on the events of that
evening, including the conflict
between Soderberg and Kirk
Sohonage, a member of Fiji, on
Sunday and Monday. Both
Soderberg and Sohonage will be
defendants.

On January 15, Soderberg will
go on trial for the felony of
malicious discharge of a firearm.

Sigma Nu wins
‘Gong Show’

Almost 200 people showed up
for Kappa Alpha Theta’s ‘‘Gong
Show’’ Fundraiser at El Cafe
restaurant Wednesday night.

More than a dozen acts were
featured in the parody of the
1970’s game show, and more than
$700 was raised to benefit the
Rockbridge Area Recreation Or-
ganization and the sorority’s phil-
anthropy, Court Appointed Special
Advocates, which aids orphans
and other juvenile wards of the
court.

Coming in first was an act
by a group of Sigma Nu pledges
who lip-synched ‘‘Groove is in
the Heart’’ by H-Delite. Second
place went to Pi Kappa Alpha
pledges who lip-synched to ‘‘Ice
Ice Baby’’ by rapper Vanilla Ice.

Other acts included the Rap-
pin’ Retirees and a special ap-
pearance by the unknown comic.

The Ring-tum Phi, November 29, 1990

NEWS BRIEFS

Bidlack plans
trip to USSR

Dr. Richard Bidlack of the Histo-
ry department is planning to take
twenty W&L students to the
Soviet Union for supervised study
during spring term.

The program consists of a
week of intensive on-campus
study at W&L followed by four
weeks of travel in the Soviet
Union. Students will then return
to W&L for the final week of
spring term and have the entire
summer to write their research
paper. Students will choose a
changing aspect of Soviet society
to study and research.

The complete travel itinerary
is not yet determined but Bidlack
plans to visit Moscow, Leningrad,
the Baltic region and the Cauca-
sus Mountains. In each city,
students will visit historic sights
and museums, attend evening

cultural performances and interact _

with Soviet students their own
age.

Bidlack led a similar tour of
the U.S.S.R. in 1989.
He is excited because the trip is

offered at a time when the Soviet
Union is changing more dramati-
cally than any other period in its
history. The tour will enter two
regions — the Baltic and Caucasus
areas — with strong separatist
movements.

The .course is limited to
twenty students. The cost of the
program will likely range between
$3,000 and $3,500. Any students
interested should call Dr. Bidlack
at 463-8912 or stop by his office
in Newcomb 36-B. The deadline
for applications is mid January.

Freshmen help
local families

The children of six Rock-

bridge County area families will
have a special Christmas this year
thanks to Washington and Lee’s
freshman, class.

The freshmen, dorm counsel-
ors and the Rockbridge Area
Department of Social Services
have started the Holiday Adopt-
a-Family Project. Freshman will
donate both practical gifts and
toys to fourteen needy children of

A

six families.

“The freshman are probably
going to contribute money and go
to Wall-Mart and other places to
buy food and clothes," Dorm
Counselor Brooke Jarabek said.

The freshman class has been
divided into six sections by dorm.
Each of the four floors of Gra-
ham-Lees will adopt a family.
Gilliam dormitory and Baker and
Davis dorms will sponsor the two
other families.

A dorm counselor and one
freshman from each hall in the
section will collect money and
gifts, buy any necessary items and
wrap the presents. All gifts must
be wrapped by Friday, Dec. 7.

Jarabek emphasized that most
of the gifts will be practical. The
children will receive some toys,
but the freshman will buy mainly
canned goods, diapers, clothes and
blankets.

Lisa Coffey of the Rockbridge
Area Department .of Social
Services helped the dorm counsel-
ors and freshman pick families
that really needed help.

‘‘She made sure she got very
needy families, families that this
(project) would make or break
their Christmas,”’ Jarabek said.

Service to be
held in Chapel

Washington and Lee’s annual
Christmas Candlelight service will
be held at 7:30 p.m. Thursday,
Dec. 6, in Lee Chapel. The public
is invited to attend.

The traditional service of
lessons and carols is an ancient
form of service that tells the story
of sacred history from the Cre-
ation of Man to the INcarnation.

Participants in the service will
be Washington and Lee students
and faculty. Music will be per-
formed by members of the Uni-
versity Chorus, directed by Gor-
don P. Spice. Timothy Gaylard
will be the organist.

The service is sponsored by
the University Federation, a non-
denominational organization of
religious and community volunteer
service at Washington and Lee.
Collections from the offering at
the candlelight service will be
devoted to the support of the
annual Winter Children’s Clothing
Fund, a project for needy children
in the Rockbridge County area.

 

 

 

 

 

 

.AELSESLESEELEEDS EEE esses eeeees ARE RERLEEERESEAERRERRRRRS EEG EY LE ELE LE LE EL LE LEE SELLS LILIA IAAT AOD .

%% S&S PLESEESSSSAVELLA SEE mo

   

 
  

 

Students, we welcome you to our shop for
hair cut. We have three experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St., Lexington, VA

 

    
     

SHOE FIXERS

SHOE FIXERS

\ Instant Shoe Repair

We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

4 3 West Nelson St., Lexington 464-6666
> > 0D 0) ED) ED 0D (1D 0D) ED 0) ED 0S O

STUDY ABROAD IN AUSTRALIA

Information on semester, summer, J-term, Graduate, and Internship

programs. All programs run under $6000.
Call Curtin University at 1-800-878-3696

 

 

 

 

 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant

Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon
130 S. Main St.

eX
cam QVHITE FRONT)

167 S. Main St.

LEE fil

Lee Hi Lruck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

463-7969

_ SSS
a

Happy Holidays!

- Think of us when planning your holiday party this weekend.
We carry a complete line of domestic and imported beverages.
Check out our deli for meats and cheeses. Don’t forget, it’s never
too late to open up a charge account this year.

Have a happy holiday season, and thanks for shopping with
us

a¥ «fo Serving The W&L Community
For Over 35 Years

Seasons Greeting from...

R.L. Hess & Bro.

703-463-3478 1-800-768-LEHI

 

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal
A large selection of Gift Items

 

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-2833 |

WM. L. HESS, Jr. >
Owner

 

 

     

Win A Free Bike From Pepsi! !

   
       
 
 
    
     
     
   
   
 
   

FOO ice

WILLSON- Annual

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Mm te =
(EN e ~
WALKER) € 5 Moonlight Madness |=
HOUSE mit ip tia ||" m=
Restaurant| Fy Phd & At The Bookstore <
Wednesday Afternoon Tea

Gizmos, gadgets, and stocking stuffers for under $1.00. 3: rg 5:00 p.m S Monday, December 3 &

R te gifts. Chri ds. Gift tags, bo: d bags. Old-world ' ‘ ee om . ‘
nex a ina saan Cheitinas taal. aD oe a. Includes: Homemade Scones RA 7 :00 to 10:00 p em. m=
Day books. Calendars. Complete wrapping and UPS shipping service. Fruit Bread 2 : ' 3

fe ff g

POSEMARKS poate sesduialias Ry 20% g almost everythin - =
~
& PLEASURES Two Selections of Tea _ : Drawings at 10:00 p.m. S
117 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-4096 ell satel SE ae = You need not be present to win - =

Open daily 10 AM - 8 PM/Sundays Noon - 6 PM

«|

but you gotta be there to get bargains!

 

 

 

 

 

 

           
   
    
    
 
 
    
 

(Sweatshirts and books make great Christmas presents)

 

 

AVOID THE FOR RENT
CHRISTMAS RUSH . House in Country . . Win-A:Free Bike From Pepsi!
Great ideas for Christmas presents 463-5383

 

for parents,
friends, etc.

brothers, _ sisters,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ERRY LEXINGTO
UNIVERSITY M N

SPORTWEAR

 

  

 

 

Still need to Christmas Shop,

But your running short of time with exams?

 

Walk into Merry Lexington

for small town convenience and hospitality.

University Sportwear has the
best selection of W&L im-
printed T-shirts, sweatshirts,
embroidered fitted baseball caps
and much more. Come see our
new W&L flannel boxers!

Quietly seductive, wonderfully soft
Pure white cotton nightshirts and gowns from India

Caravans

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-3500
Open Monday thru Saturday 10 AM - 7 PM/Sunday Noon - 6 PM

 
 

*Free Gift Wrapping
*Open Houses Everyday
*Unique gifts from
Lexington

Student Accounts Available

   
 
  

   
  
  

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

  

DOWNTOWN
LEXINGTON

 

 

 

 

oe re ee — ncn “ =
NEWS
130 sign

 

sorority Rush

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

More than 130 Washington and
Lee women have signed up to partici-
pate in Sorority Winter Rush this
year.

Rush, which begins January 11,
will mark the third year for sororities
at W&L. It will also be the first
Formal Rush for Delta Gamma,
W&L’s fourth sorority, joining Kappa
Alpha Theta, Kappa Kappa Gamma
and Chi Omega.

An information session for rushees
will be held January 10.

Although Winter Rush is intended
primarily to recruit freshmen, As-
sociate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
estimated that 20 upperclassmen fe-
males have signed up to go through
Rush.

Last month sorority members held
a ‘‘Meet the Greeks’’ mixer for

freshmen and unaffiliated upperclass

 
 
     
    
  
 
    
       
 
  

   
   
  
 

Free Spring Break Trips
To students or student organizations
promoting our Spring Break
packages. Good pay and fun. Call
CMI 1-800-423-5264.

  
   
       
 

FOR RENT:

for brochure.

houses. Country location within city
limits. Inexpensive natural gas heat.
City water. Semester lease. 463-1557,

up for ‘Top Gun’ POW

visits in Jan.

Charlie Plumb, former naval
flight officer and POW in Viet-
nam, will give a speech titled
“Overcoming Adversity’’ in Lee
Chapel on Wednesday, Jan. 8, at
8 p.m. The speech is sponsored
by Contact, a program sponsored
and financed by students which
brings noted speakers to campus.
The speech is free and open to
the public.

Plumb received his commis-
sion from the United States Naval
Academy in 1964 where he grad-
uated with a B.S. degree. He
went to flight training in Florida,
Mississippi, Texas, and eventually

women.

Atkins said that more women will
participate in Rush than last year, and
if numbers continue to rise, the Pan-
hellenic Council may consider allow-
ing another sorority to colonize at
W&L in the next few years.

“If there is parity in the size of
the existing chapters and the percent-
age of women who join is higher,
then bringing in a fourth chapter will
not have accomplished anything in
terms of lowering the over-all size of
the chapters,’’ Atkins said. ‘‘All it
will have done is stabilize the num-
bers at a higher figure than what to San Diego where he was
women want, in which case then we | trained to pilot the F4-B Phantom,
need to look at bringing an additional the Navy’s newest supersonic
chapter on.’’ interceptor. There he also helped

Atkins said other sororities might | start the Navy’s ‘‘Top Gun’’
be deterred from coming to W&L if school. He left for Vietnam in
DG is not successful in its first for- November of 1966 as a flight
mal Rush. officer aboard the USS Kitty

DG’s approximately 12 pledges Hawk.
will conduct the Rush with the help On May 19, 1967, Plumb was

of active members form nearby chap- shot down south of Hanoi while
ters.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 29, 1990

 

WHO’S ON THE HILL

on a fighter cover mission. He
was captured immediately and
taken to the Hanoi prison com-
plex where he spent the next five
years and nine months in captivi-
ty.

: Plumb was repatriated on Feb.
28, 1973. Since then he has spo-
ken to more than 3000 audiences,
including _ religious, _ business,
civic, and _ student groups.
Through humorous anecdotes of
POW life, Plumb demonstrates
how positive attitudes and self-
esteem can overcome great odds
in a prison camp or in everyday
life.

Bible scholar
to talk tonight

‘Bible Wars, the Saga Contin-
ues: Schleiermacher and the Rise
of Modern Biblical Studies’ will
be the topic of a lecture in Room
7 of Newcomb Hall on Thursday,
Nov. 29, at 8 p.m. by James O.
Duke.

Duke is a professor of church
history at the Pacific School of
Religion in Berkeley, Calif. He is

 

an ordained minister in the Chris-
tian Church (Disciples of Christ)
and has written extensively on
Friedrich Schleiermacher, the
19th-century theologian who is
called ‘‘the father of modem
Protestant theology.’’ Duke has
also translated several of Schleier-
macher’s writings, including the
“‘Lucke letters.’ His many publi-
cations include the book ‘‘Horace
Bushnell: On the Vitality of Bibli-
cal Language.’’

Prior to joining the faculty at
the Pacific School of Religion,
Duke taught church at the Brite
Divinity School of Texas Chris-
tian University in Fort Worth.

In addition to his public lec-
ture, Duke will conduct a seminar
on his paper, ‘‘Romancing the
Infinite: Nature as God’s Body in
the Art and Age of Caspar David
Friedrich’’ on Friday, Nov. 30, at
3 p.m. Anyone interested in at-
tending the seminar may call
Harlan Beckley, professor of
religion at W&L, at 463-8784 to
obtain a copy of Duke’s paper.

Duke’s visit is sponsored by
the Philip Fullerton Howerton
Fund for Special Programs in the
Department of Religion.

Socialism in
the C-School

Robert Paul Wolff, noted
philosopher at the University of
Massachusetts-Amherst, will speak
in Room 327 of the Commerce
School on Thursday, Nov. 29, at
8 p.m. on ‘The Economic Fu-
tures of Socialism.’’

The lecture is the second
presentation in this year’s Telford
Lecture Series on the Future of
Social Democracy. Wolff will
remain on campus until Friday to
speak with classes.

Wolff’s writings (18 books, 44
articles and reviews) span the
thought of David Hume, Immanu-
el Kant, Karl Marx, Herbert Mar-
cuse, Robert Nozick, John Rawls,
David Ricardo, Adam Smith, and
Piero Sraffa.

He is the executive director of
Harvard/Radcliffe Alumni Against
Apartheid and organized Universi-
ty Scholarships for South African
Students, Inc. Wolff’s visit to
W&L inaugurates his latest study
on socialism’s future.

 

 

 
    
  
 

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

Nationwide is on your side

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN
Agent

203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA

Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ®Perfumes

Charge Accounts © Free Delivery

   

 

1 or 2-bedroom

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

CARLIE Vis

 

ue

Agood man practices it everyday.
Honor takes ona spedal meaning
when you take on the responsi
bility of becoming a lawyer in the
United States Marine Corps. Your
first trial will be to prove you have
the qualities to bc a Marine Corps
Officer. an honar indeed. Once
youve proven that youll Vag he 87
of experience puiting those unique
qualities to use in a coull le e1Uy

If thissounds like the place where
youd fike to sharpen yout legal
skills, well get to the point
Call 1-800 MARINES
However, it’s NOL OUT prac

ean COR Lom ts Ld
aT endLe Mar The)

The Few. The Proud. The Marines.

 

See the officer selection team at the University Center on December 4th from 11:00
a.m. to 1:00 p.m. For information call 1-800-542-5851.

 

 

 

 

 

The Beauty Bar

159 S. MAIN ST.
463-2886
LEXINGTON,

VIRGINIA

HAIR CUTTING
TINTS - STYLINGS - PERMANENTS
BY APPOINTMENT

§
Ongrornoranonds

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

@)) 203 N. Main St.

 

 

 

463-9455 (@@

 

 

ve Saturday Night. at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money. __.
You do. not need to bea League bowler to bowl!

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin
Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 
SPORTS
Generals fall

 

 

 

 

Senior Pat Gallavan bombs away in Tuesday’s game against
Hampden-Sydney. Gallavan tied the game late with a three pointer,
- but the Tigers prevailed 68-67. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

OA NER NRTA EE ENT EID APES E AD EEO ST
By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

.

Two years ago, the Washington
and Lee basketball team went through
home schedule with an un-

blemished 14-0 mark.

This season, the Generals have
: struggled to an 0-3 mark at home
‘ early, but oddly enough, the most
‘ recent home loss left as pleasant a
‘ taste as a loss can in the mouth of
‘ head coach Verne Canfield.

‘We couldn’t have asked for

its

 

anything else against a good team,”’
he said. ‘‘We had a shot to win at
the end. You can’t ask for much
more than that.’’

The ‘oss came to arch-rival
Hampden-Sydney in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference opener for
both schools, and for the Generals,
the 68-67 loss was as heartbreaking
as a loss can be.

W&L rallied from 66-58 down in
the final 2:17 to tie the game at 66
with 1:07 left on a long three point
goal from senior Pat Gallavan.

The Generals sandwiched senior

aaa

London Broil

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 29, 1990

in thriller to H-SC, 68-67

Ed Hart's steal and spectacular dunk
between three point goals from senior
Jim Casey and Gallavan.

After a time-out, H-SC’s Bat
Barber was fouled as he drove to the
basket with 41 seconds left and con-
verted both shots to give the Tigers
a 68-66 lead.

W&L had a shot to tie when, on
an inbound piay with 19 seconds left,
Casey found Hart for a lay-up. Orson
Williams prevented Hart from making
the shot but fouled him in the pro-
cess. Hart hit the first but missed the
second free throw, and W&L fouled
Russell Turner on the rebound with
17 seconds left.

Turner badly missed the front end
of the one-and-one, and Gallavan
controlled the rebound for the Gener-
als. The ball went to senior Chris
Jacobs, but his foul line jumper
wouldn’t fall. W&L was given new
life when the rebound was thrown out
of bounds by a H-SC player with
four seconds left.

After a time-out, the Generals had

j a chance to win, but Gallavan’s 18

foot jumper rimmed out, and the
Tigers escaped from Lexington with
a 68-67 win.

“We had our chances,’’ said
senior co-captain Mike Holton. ‘‘We
followed our game plan for the most
part and had just a few breakdowns
at either end. We had no doubt that
we could win the game at the end,
but the shots just didn’t fall.’’

Jacobs led the way with 20
points, while Hart chipped in with 17
points, seven rebounds and five
steals.

“Ed played a beautiful game at
both ends of the floor,’’ said Can-
field. ‘‘Chris regained his scoring
touch. [Junior] Courtney Penn bor-
dered on playing a dominant role
inside defensively.”’

W&L had won two games in a
row after dropping both games in the
W&L Tip-Off Tournament by three
points. Hart led the Generals in the
tourney with 34 points and 19 re-
bounds.

The Generals got a career high 33
points from Hart in an 84-71 win at
Marymount. Holton chipped in 16
points and seven assists while Jacobs
had 11 rebounds. W&L held Mary-
mount to just 34 percent shooting for
the game and forced 25 turnovers.

 

PRICE COMPARISONS CONDUCTED BY INDEPENDENT AUDITORS IN OVER 16 DIFFERENT MARKETS

UNBELIEVABLY
LOW PRICES!

US.DA. Choice

 
  
   

 

Average

 

 

 

 

 

The Generals also hit seven of nine
three point goals.

W&L evened their record at 2-2
with a 74-64 win at Wesleyan. Casey
broke the game open late with a five
Straight points to extend a 55-51 lead
to 60-51 and the Generals put the
game away at the foul line.

Jacobs led the way with 20 points
and 13 rebounds. Casey and Hart
each added 12. Senior co-captain
Craig Hatfield made his first start of
SOLE LEE AE EEE LEE EIN EINE BEEBE

Ed played a beautiful
game at both ends
of the floor. Chris re-
gained his shooting
touch. Courtney
Penn bordered on
playing a dominant
role inside
defensively.

— Verne Canfield

the season after missing the Tip-Off
Tournament with a sprained ankle. He
chipped in seven points and nine
rebounds.

“The first two games left me
puzzled,’’ said Canfield. ‘‘I saw
some of the things we were doing
last year, and that bothered me. We
were hurrying, and we are not effec-
tive when we hurry.

“‘We played well on the road in
both games. We played well in the
setting I though we could succeed in.
We controlled the tempo and played
within ourselves. I think we’re just
one little thing away from putting it
all together.’’

“They were two great games
because we played the way we need
to,’’ said Holton. ‘It was completely
Opposite the tournament. We were in
control in both games.”

Hart has been the leader through
the first five games. The ODAC
Player of the Week last week is

eT

ae
om

 

 

 

 

 

averaging 19.2 points. Jacobs is the
leading rebounder, pulling down 8.8
boards a contest.

The Generals will look to even
their record at 3-3 and 1-1 in ODAC
play Saturday when the travel to
Lynchburg. The Generals are 2-0 in

the road blue. Leiphart.

Senior Ed Hart scores on a fast break in the second half against
Hampden-Sydney. Hart led a late W&L rally that fell just short, 68-
67 in the ODAC opener for both teams. Staff photo by Chris

 

Comtrex Tablets,
Caplets Or Liqui-Gel

a

Duncan Hines
Cake Mix

 

 

 

 

 

  

CIER CLUB.

  

 

G)GLA

cd « .

 

 
  
 

 

IceCream vc: «

 

 

 

 
 

 

16 Oz. Non-Returnable

, oca-Cola,

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

Prices Good Through Tuesday, December 4, 1990

Prices In This Ad Effective In Lexington Store Only, ae
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

   

 
‘SPORTS _

The Ring-tum Phi,

November 29, 1990

 

_W&L swimmers

 

From W&L Sports Information

They say it’s much harder staying
at the top than it is getting there. Ask
the Oakland A’s. They know. Ask
Donald Trump. He knows. Ask
Washington and Lee swimming coach
Page Remillard. He really knows, and
he’s finding out about it right now.

Remillard begins his 12th season
at the helm of the W&L aquatics
program this year, and he’s faced
with the challenge of trying to stay
on top.

The Generals’ men’s teams have
had seven consecutive winning sea-
sons and six Top 20 national finishes
in the last decade. The women’s
teams have won three straight Old
Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionships and have sent three swim-
mers to the NCAA Championships in
the last two years.

Now comes the hard part. Main-
taining that level of success. Remil-
lard has some proven talent on his
roster, but he knows that talent will
be tested severely as the competition
gets tougher. On the women’s side,
the Generals receive no favors as
defending champs.

‘The conference is catching up
and they’re doing it rapidly,’’ Remil-
lard says. ‘‘This will be a more dif-
ficult year to win the conference than
it has since we began competing for
the ODAC title. In fact, it might even
be an upset if we do win it all.”’

Although the men will not be
defending a conference title, they do
have their past success to uphold.
W&L’s eight wins last year were the
most since 1987, and W&L’s All-
America production of four last year
was consistent with previous year’s
numbers. Maintaining that sort of
performance will be no easy chore.

In winning their third ODAC title
in as many as years (the first time
that had been in league history), the
women’s team placed eight swimmers
on the all-conference team. Six of
those swimmers are back, and all of
them have designs on repeating that
sort of performance — and maybe
even going beyond.

Leading the way is 1990 All-
American Claire Dudley, who returns
for her sophomore year after estab-
lishing four new school records last
year, including the 100 and 200

set for success

 

 

Senior Sharon Coleman in action last year
straight ODAC title and a trip to Atlanta an

breaststroke and the 200 and 400
individual medley.

Dudley’s classmate Stephanie
Sauers had nearly as good a year as
Dudley and just fell short of Dudley
in the race for ODAC Swimmer of
the Year. Sauers set new marks in
the 50 and 100 freestyle.

To go with those youngsters,
Remillard has a solid corps of vet-
eran standouts led by 1989 All-Amer-
ican Sharon Coleman. Coleman barely
missed the national cut times last
year, but she, like many of her team-
mates, has her sights on greater
things this winter.

Seniors Carol Dannelly and Kris-
ten Wagner give the Generals some
proven talent in the distance freestyle
events, while Keiko Harada, another
senior, will continue to be the Gen-
erals’ all-purpose swimmer, shoring
up the lineup wherever it needs to be.

Remillard also could get some big
things from junior Jodi Herring,
who showed her strength in both the

distance and sprint freestyle events.

 

 

 

 

‘We have a lot of women plann-
ing to go to Atlanta in March (for
the national championships),’’ Remil-
lard says. ‘‘That should help us con-
tinue to contend for the ODAC title,
too. I think our freshmen will be
strong, too. They’ll fill any gaps we
might have.”’

Remillard concedes there will be
plenty of gaps to be filled on the
men’s side, but he’s taking a positive
approach to the 1990-91 campaign.

He’s got All-American Chip Nord-
hoff back for another run at nationals.
Nordhoff, a junior, was the pleasant
surprise of last year, finishing out the
regular season with a strong perfor-
mance at the Atlantic States cham-
pionships and then placing in the top
15 at nationals in both the 200 back-
stroke and the 200 freestyle.

Jim Dunlevy, winner of the team’s
most improved swimmer award as a
sophomore and the team’s spirit
award as a junior, also returns for a
final chance to make all of his hard
work pay off.

. Coleman will look to help the Generals to their fourth
d the NCAA Championships. File photo.

Junior Doug Brown, owner of
W&L’s fastest times in all the dis-
tance freestyle events also should
have a chance at some impressi-”
individual honors.

“I think we've got some people
who are real threats to get to the
finals at nationals,’ the W&L coach
says. ‘‘The team’s success is always
important to us, but we may be in a
situation this year where individual
achievements overshadow the success
of the team.”’

So, there will be success in 1990-
91 for Washington and Lee swim-
ming. Be sure of that. And really
that’s not much of a change from
where the program usually is. The
Generals should have enough fire-
power to keep them around the top,
which we all know jis a tough thing
to do when you're expected to do it.

The women open their season
Saturday with a meet at Sweet Briar.

 

 

 

Craig Irons

 

From W&L Sports Information

Two Washington and Lee
seniors have been named to the
GTE/College Sports Information
Directors Association District III
regional Academic All-America
teams.

Lisa Jay, a captain of the
volleyball team for two seasons,
and Craig Irons, the second-lead-
ing receiver in school football
history represent W&L on_ the
Academic All-Region team.

To be nominated for the
GTE/CoSIDA Academic  All-
America squad a_ student-athlete
must first be a starter or sig-
nificant reserve with at least a 3.20
grade point average.

Jay led the volleyball team

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

This weekend, the Washington
and Lee wrestling team will face
their only action before breaking
for exams and the holidays, and it
will be a stern test.

The 21st annual Flying Dutch-
men Invitational at Lebanon Val-
ley College in Pennsylvania brings
together some of the best wrestling
programs in the East.

 

 

lrons, Jay placed on All-
American Academic ballot

Generals set to wrestle in
Lebanon Valley Invitational

 

 

 

 

 

Lisa Jay

with 519 assists in 1990, giving
her 1,400 for her career. She was
also W&L’s first ever first-team
All-Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference selection. Jay is a Busi-
ness Administration major with a
3.717 GPA.

Irons finished 1990 second in
the ODAC in receptions and was
a first-team All-ODAC pick for the
second straight season. Irons set
school records for receptions (75)
and receiving yards (1,010) in a
season in 1989. Irons is an English
major with a 3.246 GPA.

Both Jay and Irons will be
placed on the national ballot for
the college division Academic All-
America team, which includes
NCAA Division II and III schools
and NAIA schools.

W&L, which finished 15th last
year, will be one of 20 teams
competing. The Generals’ best
finish was 10th in 1988.

‘We're looking forward to
getting into our first competition
after the Thanksgiving break,”’ said
head coach Gary Franke. ‘‘It’s a
very good Division III test. We'll
find out how we compare to some
of the best Division III programs
around.”’

 

 

 

 

 

 

.

“REMEMBER!

~ROCKBRIDGE MUSIC
Wishes W&L a Merry Christmas

 

Reserve Your Place

P Alnin-Dennis
In The Sun >

offers the following items for your Christmas giving.

 

 

Na KOs tg er St y a or ie

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Fender Strats For Spring Break Sa beds — ‘aac
Reg. $750.00 - Special $550.00 Before You Leave For eShoes (Bass, Walkover, tAfier Six formal ear
1 . ; opsider, Wallabees Woolrich rag SOCKS
Gibson Les Paul The Holid bi Chamois and flannel shirts <flasberahed catamion
7 ays : fi
Reg. $750.00 - Special $550.00 1) Bahamas g —— don —
5 We gi . aH 2) Jamaica £
i. e give lessons...We do repairs se. : § ; f ,
ia LAYAWAY AVAILABLE ee 3) Mexico é This week’s special
i 205N. Main 463-5455 | Call TLC TRAVEL Today ee na
11-5 Mon.-Thur. 11-7 Fri. 11-3 Sat.

Gift Certificates - Free gift wrapping zg
: 102 W. Washington Since 1963 463-5383:

 

 

 

 

¢ ; q -
en... ee on: 16 West wasn fOd-2 197 VA 24450

Se

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
     
     
 
   
   
   
     

 
   

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

    
      

 

 

   
   
   
  

 

 

 

    

  

‘| Long standing i
/| class - just . .
ae audiotronics
‘ — vp HOLIDAY GIFTS We Sell the Best Seats in the House
timeless fashion FR IN
‘ : DENON SONY
Shoes OM LEX GTON ADCOM ALPINE -
‘ : . B&O OPTONICA
h Beem d Our exclusive gold-plated ne Redken ® Paul Mitchel ® Sop, KEF wD
Accessories : nus alee an (Ly BOSTON DAHLQUIST
j Christmas ornament a ee, KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
! Historic Lexington Cooks George S - Au coupons Pre-ESTED
i S ® ~ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
Cooknoaks Hairstylist ere sees
: Lexington T-shirts pee ee + TRADE ING ACOEPTED
463.3075 (800) 468-6667
Ga Cc f Ogden & Starkey Road:
} Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5 easeeien Terma Mall :
wet a 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke
' ee Xmas wrapping
j and UPS
, op gol 16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET oe oe
4 po o (703) 463-1832 cant ea Ly ar Se im
23 N. Main St. Pat Ss % >
oh 4) > a

ew “a
Deck the Halls with TOSHIBA !

All Battery Powered Laprops NOW IN STOCK...featuring

oo TOT) Chey ee

STOREWIDE SAVINGS
20% - 75% OFF

Gifts « Jewelry * Outerwear ¢ Boots
Saddlery ¢ Hunting & Fishing Equipment

WE GIFTWRAP & SHIP | ae
Sale Ends Dec. 24th!

  

  

    
    

TI200XE - $1979 I!

@ I2MHz 80C286 Processor @ Bluc-on-whire sidelir LCD screen
@ 20MB Hard Disk @ AvioResume

@ IMB RAM, expandable 10 5MB_@ Bulli-in 1.44MB 3.9" FDD
@ 8.1 lbs, 2" thick

 

       
    
 
     
  
    

4 ,
18 East Nelson Street, Lexington, 463-1800 2
Mon.-Thurs, 11-5, Fri. 11-5:30, ys
Sat. 1-4

LOWEST PRICES EVER
WITH

EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNTS!

Call about yours today!

       

Open Sunday, Dec. 9-22, 1
1-800-842-HUNT

   

i

DSR, Inc 1-800-326-0037

    
W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, November 29, 1990

 

 

 

By Ashley Harper
Entertainment Editor

AG
XXX XN

 

Monday December 8, Southern Comfort will
record their repertoire in Lee Chapel.

“We are very excited to put this recording
together,’ said Southern Comfort Student
Leader Rob Aliff. ‘‘This is the second year this
group has been together since no one grad-
uated last year. We think this is the year to do
something like this.’’

The members of this year’s Southern Com-
fort have never recorded an album before, said
Aliff. The last recording Southern Comfort did
was in the early 1980s entitled Southern Com-
fort on the Rocks.

‘‘We are concentrating a lot more on the
music this year. The actual members are
arranging the music,’’ said Aliff. ‘‘We have a
lot of a cappella pieces because we feel we
have the voices to do so,”’

The concert will also include new songs
along with pieces from the past brought back
into their repertoire. Half the songs are a
cappella pieces, a few are accompanied with
guitar and the rest are accompanied with piano,
Aliff said.

Some songs arranged this year are Is She
Really Going Out With Him? arranged by
Southern Comfort member Bryant Spann, the

Mama mia! Manicotti on

 

‘Tis the season

Lee Chapel’s doors are all decked out for the
holidays. W&L photo by Patrick Hinely.

 

 

 

 

 

Southern Comfort
for the holidays

Eagles’ Seven Bridges Road arranged by
sophomore Julie Edgar, and Southern Comfort
pianist J.R. Smith has arranged Helplessly
Hoping by Crosby, Stills and Nash for the
guitar.

“We are also going to sing a couple
Christmas songs to get everyone in the mood
for the Holidays,”’ said Aliff.

Next semester’s tour schedule is not final-
ized, however, Southem Comfort will be
preforming at the Greenbriar resort over Winter
Break. Recently the group sang in Philadelphia
for a fund raiser benefitting Chestnut Hill Col-
lege. Southern Comfort tours frequently at the
area women’s colleges. Last February, Southern
Comfort and JubiLee, the Women’s a cappella
group, toured seven cities in ten days.

“On our tour with JubiLee last February,
we sang for different alumnae chapters,’’ said
Aliff. ‘‘We have already sung for a lot of
alumnae events this year.”’

The members of Southern Comfort are very
diverse. They come from all over the country,
and represent different fraternity groups on
campus as well. Out of the 13 members, seven
fraternities and independents are represented.

“Souther Comfort is a special group
because of its diversity of members,’’ said
Aliff. ‘‘The members of Southern Comfort like
to sing, to have a good time, and they like to
travel.’’

Main St.

/ casual atmosphere (no tie required). cold Here’s a tip: try a canoli for
By Chris Swann The service at Il Palazzo was a *New York style pizza and stuffed desert. I] Palazzo’s canoli is a small
Staff Reporter little slow, but that’s to be expected pizza pies pastry wrapped around a cream

 

Canoli and scungilli lovers,
rejoice! Lexington has a new Italian
restaurant that replaces the need to
drive to Staunton or Roanoke for
authentic pasta dishes: Il Palazzo.

I Palazzo opened over Thanksgiv-
ing break and has enjoyed a steady
stream of local residents and W&L
customers. Marble booths, murals,

and lighting create an elegant but

of a newly-opened restaurant as
everyone begins to figure out where
everything is for the first time. Seat-
ing was a little disorganized as well;
again, that’s because the restaurant is
brand new. In a month Il Palazzo
will be running smoothly, hopefully
drawing a large clientele.

Il Palazzo offers a variety of
authentic Italian food including:

esubmarine sandwiches, hot or

ecalzones (sort of a pizza folded

in half, like a pita pouch)

pasta dishes

*soups and salads.

After 4 PM, customers can eat a
good selection of meat and pasta
dishes or seafood entrees, including
spaghetti with veal cutlet parmesan
and a fisherman’s platter with clams,
muscles, shrimp, scallops, and
calamari cooked with marinara sauce.

cheese and chocolate chips filling,
and the whole thing is covered in
powdered sugar. Italian cheesecake,
amaretto cheesecake, and French silk
pie round out the dessert menu.

Il Palazzo is located on 24 North
Main Street between Lisa’s Country
Cottage and Vita Realty. Reserva-
tions are not needed. Try _ the
wonderful Italian cuisine, especially
the Scampi Palazzo.

   

       
   

     
   
   

IL PALAZZO
24 North Main St.

Help Wanted
Waiters, Waitresses, Bartenders. Inquire in person

       

 

ene
ga 22222212

ee ee eee a ae Reliant nate talented

 
 
      
       

 

   
 

 

SANTA may be a
tien guy, but you
don't want f
LOOK LIKE HIM!

—
fLeExXINGTON|

 
  
 
    
      

  
 

 

 

  

Home Empty
Handed

We have your partridge in a pear tree
and much, much more...

    
   
     
          

   

he 3 Teleflora’

¢ eran

* florist to The Homestead 3

Ten East Nelson
Lexington, Va. 24450 wae
ene

(703) 463-9841

The Phi staff wishes
you a hap

11 S. Randolph Street

Home of the
- $12.95 CD

MasterCard & Visa accepted

  
 

 

    

8p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Story of Women (France, 1989), directed by
Claud Chabrol. Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETICS: WRESTLING: Lebanon Valley Tournament
(through Dec. 1).
LSAT Exam.
1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: Met Marathon. WLUR-FM (91.5).
8 p.m. FILM SOCIETY: Story of Women (France, 1989), directed by
Claud Chabrol. Classroom "A," Lewis Hall. Public invited.
AWAY ATHLETICS: BASKETBALL: Lynchburg; SWIMMING (W)
Sweet Briar.
4:30 p.m. FACULTY MEETING. Northen Auditorium, University Library.
7:30 p.m. BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Emory University. Warner Center.
7:30 p.m. LECTURE: "Vietnam Today," Professor and Mrs. Lyn F. Wheele!
Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.
8 p.m. CONCERT: Popular selections by Southern Comfort. Lee
Chapel. Public invited.
8 p.m. CONTACT LECTURE: Hunter S. Thompson, author and
journalist. Lee Chapel. Public invited.
7:30 p.m. BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Bridgewater. Warner Center.
7:30 p.m. W&L CHRISTMAS CANDLELIGHT SERVICE: Traditional Service
of Lessons and Carols. Lee Chapel. Public invited.
Undergraduate and Law classes end.
8 p.m. Handel's Messiah “Sing-Along.” Lexington Presbyterian Church.
Public invited.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 8
Undergraduate examinations begin; Law School reading days
begin.
GRE Exam.
1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: La Traviata (Verdi). WLUR-FM (91.5).
8 p.m. ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: Tom Chapin.
Lee Chapel.
12Noon WA&L Employees Christian Fellowship Brown Bag Lunch. Room
114, University Center.
Hanukkah.
Law School examinations begin.
Undergraduate examinations end.
4:30 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Deadline for
Resume Drop IV (January companies). CD&P Office.
8 p.m. W&L University Women's Group Christmas Party. Evans Dining
Hall.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

U HERE” E'S WHAT’S NEW IN LEXINGTON

oe ” . Wicker, Clothing
” SOM NG Jewelry, Pottery, Lamps
Rugs, Cookware
Candlesticks,
Antiques, Glassware,
Gifts Etc., Etc., Etc.
A Sails Place 6 E. Nelson Street

 

   
 
 

 

 

i

a
ar
Ss wl

v -
no. j=

4

.
t¢

WEL hoops to face Roanoke tonight --- preview pg. 7

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 15

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Getting there

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 10, 1991

Rhodes picks
WéL senior
for Oxford

Pat Lopes first W&L woman
to receive prestigious honor

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

 

Although progress has been made on the renovation of the
Phi Kappa Sigma house, Phase One of the Fraternity Re-
naissance Is still not completed. The university hopes to
finish all the Phase One houses by February break and

-

os

 

By John Foster
Staff Reporter

 

Unfinished construction on four fraternity
houses in Phase I of the Fraternity Renaissance
Program has pushed back the start of Phase II.

“Because of delays in the construction
process, we have delayed moving into Phi Delta
Theta, Pi Kappa Alpha, [Phi Kappa Sigma and
Beta Theta Pi],’’ said Coordinator of Capital
Planning Frank Parsons Wednesday.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Sigma Nu are the

only Phase I projects on schedule, he said.
Members have moved in although construction on
the basements has not been finished.
i The university’s goal is to have Phi Delt and
PiKA finished-by. February. break, Parsons said.
Phi Kapp and Beta will be completed later in the
| Spring, he said.

Because Bass Construction Company, the
contractors for Phase I, could not stay on

«<

 

 

schedule, the university fired the company.

*‘Generally speaking, there is a downturn in
the construction business,’’ Parsons said. ‘‘Many
quality constructors are looking for work.’’

The university hopes to take advantage of
market conditions to hire new contractors at
lower prices for Phase II. It will receive bids
from companies on Jan. 15 for construction on
the new Kappa Sigma house (the old Zeta Beta
Tau) and on Jan. 16 for Lambda Chi Alpha.

If the prices are right work on the houses
will begin in mid-February, Parsons said.

If the bidding process goes well, the
university will negotiate with contractors in
February to begin construction on Phi Kappa Psi
and Pi Kappa Phi, Parsons said.

Sigma Chi and Delta Tau Delta, two other
houses scheduled. for Phase If; are. currently
under study. The university is working with each
fraternity’s building committee.

Because Sigma Chi is on a small plot, it
would be difficult to bring the house up to

begin Phase Two as soon as possible.

|Phase One plan renovated

SAE, Sigma Nu move in; delays force others to wait

standards without spending too much money.

The university will consider building Sigma
Chi a new house in the Davidson Park area,
Parsons said.

Delta Tau Delta is a relatively zzew and well-
built house, Parsons said. ‘‘Delt is the smallest
renovation expenditure we will be encountering,’
he said.

Sigma Phi Epsilon, which has applied to take
part in the renovation, has hired an independent
architectural firm to redesign their house.

Because of Sig Ep’s location and the
necessary renovations the university will have to
get a conditional use permit from the city.

The university will study building Sig Ep a
house in Davidson Park with Sigma Chi.

If Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi Epsilon move,
both. the two fraternities and the sororities. might
share Davidson Park.

If sororities are not located in Davidson Park,
they may be placed somewhere else, Parsons
said.

 

 

Washington and Lee senior Patri-
cia Lopes is a long way from home,
but this autumn, the Kailua, Hawaii,
native will take a larger geographical
step to do graduate work.

Lopes is
headed _ = for
Oxford, En-
gland as a
Rhodes Scholar,
an honor that
was announced
on December 8,
the first day of
fall -term
exams.

Lopes __is
W&L’s 14th
Rhodes Scholar
nad the
school’s _ first
since 1983. She is also the first
W&L woman to receive the honor.
W&L President John D. Wilson, a
Michigan State University alumnus,
was awarded the scholarship in 1953.

The Rhodes Scholarship was initi-
ated in 1903 by the estate of British
philanthropist Cecil Rhodes, an Ox-
ford graduate.

Lopes is among 32 students in the
nation awarded the. prestigious schol-
arships for two years’ study at the
University of Oxford, the oldest uni-
versity in the English-speaking world.
She plans to study for a second un-
dergraduate degree combining poli-

Pat
Lopes

 

tics, philosophy and economics.

“This is an extraordinary event
and a great achievement for Pat,”’
said William Connelly, an associate
professor of politics and one of
Lopes’ academic advisors.

“‘She is remarkably talented and
extremely balanced,’’ he said. ‘‘A lot
of people are good students or good
athletes or leaders in extracurricular
activities, but few are good in all. Pat
has unlimited energy, despite her
low-key manner and she is ambitious;
but her ambition is to do good and
help others.”’

In late September, Assistant Dean
of Students Kenneth Ruscio
suggested to Lopes that she apply for
the scholarship. Lopes said no, but
Ruscio kept encouraging her until she
decided to do it.

“‘T just wanted her to realize how
strong her candidacy would be,”’
Ruscio said. ‘‘She’s competent in so
many different areas with many ac-
complishments in each one. I thought
she’d have a great shot at the schol-
arship.”’

Lopes sent her application to the
scholarship committee in Hawaii in
October. After learning that she had
been chosen for an interview, she
flew to Hawaii on November 30.

Two days after her Hawaii inter-
view, Lopes moved on to the regional
interview in Los Angeles, where 15
students from seven western states
competed for four scholarships.
During the announcement ceremonies,

Q) Please see RHODES page 5

‘City moves Sororities rush to prepare for Friday

 

-ahead with
car tax

;

, By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

 

'

; The city of Lexington has begun

compiling a list of student vehicles so
‘ it can begin billing students for per-
, sonal property tax.

City Commissioner of Revenue
‘Courtney Baker said her office is
, making a list of cars owned by W&L

students who live within the city
‘ limits. Baker said she hopes to begin
, sending out bills to owners within a
month.
‘Baker has received from VMI a
list of cars registered by cadets with
"the school. W&L officials have thus
‘far refused to give a similar list to
the city saying such a move would
' violate federal laws protecting private
, Student records.

In order to track down cars owned
‘ by university students, Baker said she
, has a number of sources. One will be

city police officer Roger Clark, who
‘ will record license plate numbers of
*, cars that seem to belong to students
who live in the city.
‘Other methods include using re-
, cords from the state Department of
Motor Vehicles for students who have
‘registered their cars in Virginia and
,_ checking newly-required permits for
large capacity houses which must
‘ contain information about cars owned
by occupants.

Baker's office has hired a part-

+time employee to “help with the
paperwork" involved with collecting
‘the tax.
, The tax is being assessed on
student vehicles because Virginia state
‘law says personal property tax is to
, be paid wherever a car is kept for the
majority of the year.
‘It's something new for every-
body,’’ she said. ‘*We're going to
“have to look at it on a case-by-case
, basis.’’

The tax does not apply to students

‘who pay property tax on their cars in

their home state. Also, the city can-
"not enforce the tax for students who
,live outside of city limits, though
Baker says those students should be
‘paying tax to Rockbridge County.

’

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

More than 140 Washington and Lee women
will participate in Winter Rush for sororities,
which begins Friday with Open Houses.

Rush marks the third year of sororities at
W&L for its three established chapters, Kappa
Alpha Theta, Kappa Kappa Gamma and Chi
Omega, and will be the first formal Rush for
the newly colonized Delta Gamma sorority.

Rush involves four sets of Rush parties; an
Open House,a Skit Night, Sisterhood Night and

SE 2.918
ee KA 2.916

mu CA 2.840
SAE 2.834
CE AQ 2.830
mu ALL MEN 2.826
a EX 2.797
ME XY 2.768
Mu IK 2.757
MN ATA 2.727
ME AXA 2.713

mum KE 2.707
ME KY 2.680

ME BOI 2.660

 

Preference parties. It will conclude Jan. 17 with
the extension of bids. Rushees are primarily
from the freshman class, with 10 upperclassmen
participating. According to Panhellenic Council
President Nancy Mitchell, this Rush will be
similar to last year’s with few exceptions.
According to Mitchell, the number of bids
each sorority may extend, or their quota, will
be determined earlier this year than last year.
Last year, quotas were set after the last Rush
date. This year, the quota for each sorority will
be set by the number of women still rushing
after the third Rush parties divided by four.
Also, rushees will only be allowed to attend

three Preference parties, so they must eliminate
one sorority if invited to a Preference party by
all four.

‘Basically, the attention will be focused
earlier in both cases,’’ Mitchell said.

Mitchell also said the number of participants
in Rush may indicate a need for more sororities
in the future because the expected 30 pledges
per sorority is ‘‘still too much’’ for the three
established houses.

Currently, each
members apiece.

Associate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins has said new

sorority has over 70

sororities will not be considered until DG
becomes proportional to the other three.

The DG colony currently has 11 pledges
who will be assisted in their Rush by DG
members from University of Virginia and
Duke University.

Mitchell reminded that there is a Rush week
‘“‘no-contact rule’’ beginning Friday which
prohibits communication between rushees and
sorority members until Bid Day.

Freshmen are also discouraged from going
out to parties this weekend, she said.

“Tt has to be that way to insure a fair
Rush,’’ she said.

 

 

aa. wen aoe oe
FALL GRADES

Sororities on top again

XQ 3,229
KK 3.222

Mu ALL STUDENTS 2.916

 

Top Five
Upperclass Houses
1. TIKA
2. KZ
3. KA
4

Top Five
Pledge Classes
1. IN
. ATA
. KZ
LOE
KA

we wr

 

 

 

 

 

Law would force
VMI coeducation

Proposal would preempt court case

 

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

 

Virginia State Senator Emilie
Miller has drafted a bill which, if
passed by the General Assembly next
month, will force VMI to admit wo-
men; and Commonwealth Attorney
Mary Sue Terry has left the case.

The bill Miller plans to submit
does not mention VMI explicitly, but
says that ‘‘every public institution of
higher education must accept qualified
students regardless of race, sex, reli-
gion, political association, or national
origin.”’

Miller said that she will submit
the bill before the January 22 dead-
line. The bill will then be reviewed
by the education health committee
and will be presented to the General
Assembly for vote on February 4,

According to Miller, if the Gener-
al Assembly passes the bill, VMI can
still fight the decision in court, but
will be forced to change their admis-
sions policy to admit girls until the
decision is reversed.

If the law is indeed passed, she
said, the school will be forced to
renovate its facilities to accomodate
women cadets, even though the law-
suit may not have been decided.

Miller said that it is impossible to
predict how much support the bill
will receive.

‘“‘Nobody’s talking,’’ said Miller.
‘‘Legislators want to avoid the is-

sue,

This is the second such bill intro-
duced by Miller. The first was intro-
duced in January of last year. Soon
thereafter, the U.S. Justice Depart-
ment announced that it considered
VMI’s admissions policy to be un-
constitutional.

Despite considerable publicity, the
bill was killed in committee on Feb.
14,

Virginia Attorney General Mayy
Sue Terry wants to avoid the issue as
well.

Last month, Terry was relieved of
all duties in the defense of Virginia
Military Institute’s all-male admis-
sions policy by U.S. District Court
Judge Jackson Kiser. Terry said that,
because Virginia Governor L. Doug-
las Wilder had endorsed coeduca-
tion at VMI, her office could not
continue to represent the school.

Robert H. Patterson Jr., a VMI

alumnus and senior partner in the
Richmond-based law firm of Mc-
Guire, Woods, Battle and Boothe will
now head the team of lawyers repre-
senting VMI, the Alumni Associ-
ation, and the VMI Foundation.

Terry has also convinced some
high-powered lawyers to work for
free to defend VMI’s position.

Governor Doug Wilder will be
represented seperately by Benjamin
Civiletti of Baltimore, who refused
Terry’s offer to also represent the
Commonwealth.

Some believe that the Virginia

 

Trials and tribulations

* March 7: U.S Justice Depart-
ment files suit in federal court in
Roanoke against VMI admissions
policy.

* May 23: Gov. Wilder announ-
ces to VMI’s class of 1990 that
he will let the courts decide the
coeducation issue.

* October 24: Judge Jackson
Kiser sets April 4-8 as trial dates,

* November 7: Kiser permits VMI
Foundation and Alumni Associa-
tion as additional defendants in
trial.

* November 20: Wilder announces
that he is in favor of coeducation.

* November 28: Atty. Gen. Mary
Sue Terry decides to withdraw as
VMI’s chief defender.

* December 12: Kiser releases
Terry from VMI's defense.

 

 

 

Attorney General's departure from the
case will be detrimental.

Without the high-ranking official
on their side, VMI’s case may very
well be weakened.

According to VMI Public Infor-
mation Officer Tom Joynes, Terry’s
resignation will not affect the case.

Joynes said if Terry had been un-
able to name a replacement, the suit
would have been thrown out.

“But we’re happy with the re-
placement,’’ said Joins, ‘‘so it doesn’t
bother us.’’
 

- OPINION

ee

Examining what's
really important

With the failure of the last-minute negotiations in
Geneva yesterday, our country now, more than ever, faces
war in the Persian Gulf.

It’s not necessary for us to remind you all of what that
entails, not only for those who are serving in Saudi
Arabia but also for those who remain at home. Unlike
previous American military excursions in recent years, a
war to force Iraq from Kuwait would last months (if not
longer) and cost possibly thousands of American lives.

No longer are those serving in the Gulf merely a
nameless, faceless horde. During Christmas Break, I found
out that one of my best friends from high school had
been deployed to Saudi Arabia.

He’s a member of the 82nd Army Airbome Division,
and he’s currently training other soldiers how to use the
M-16 rifle. It is with much regret that I note that I fear
he will soon put that expertise to a different use.

Nevertheless, there’s a silver lining to every cloud. In
this case, the Persian Gulf crisis allows us to consider
what’s really important. Previously, we have been allowed
to consider our own futures at the expense of almost
everything else. Maybe the impending war will force us to
consider the general direction our country has taken,
instead of focusing on our own concerns.

The crisis of misaligned priorities is by no means
confined to Lexington. As George Will wrote, “‘we often
seem more concerned with the future of a species of trout
than we are with that of a poor, black woman who’s
pregnant.”’

Perhaps we need this kind of crisis to force us to
consider what’s really important. Perhaps we as a country
need periodic reminders that there is a real world, with
real problems, outside our hometown.

Meanwhile, while we are concerned with these more
mundane matters, there are nearly half a million men and
women waiting to fight a war for us. The staff of The
Ring-tum Phi wishes them all a speedy and safe return.

— BMR

Care enough to
send the best

The W&L Alumni Office is encouraging students to
send care packages to the American forces in the Gulf.
We would like to add our voice to that cause.

Please take the time to use the addresses included
elsewhere in this edition and send a letter or package
“‘over there.”’

By the latest count, there are at least 15 W&L alumni
stationed in or around Saudi Arabia, and they’d love to
hear from you.

Quote of the week

I’ve seen people in New York step over other human
beings lying in their own piss to spit on someone else for
wearing a chinchilla fur coat. Noboby likes to see those
animals in those traps. The traps should be saved for
social activists.

— Comedian Dennis Miller, in his special for HBO titled
‘Black and White,’’ gently explaining his disdain for
some environmentalists.

The Ring-tum Phi, January 10, 1991

 

 

ReEMovE THE TROOPs Y

NO MORE VIETNAMS!
WE ARE. BEING MISLED!
THE PEOPLE ARE BEING fj PULATED

 

OK

 

 

 

 

| SEND IN THE PRESS.

MY STATEMENT IS READY.

 

 

Back our troops in Saudi Arabia

 

MY VIEW
By C. Edward Klank III

“What you call hell, Rambo calls home.”

Let me briefly introduce myself. My name is C.
Edward Klank, a 1989 graduate of this university.
Many of the seniors and perhaps some of the
juniors will remember some of the insightful
contributions I made to this publication. I'm a
Marine Corps lieutenant currently deployed to
Saudi Arabia. I’m supposed to have been stationed
in Hawaii for an extended 3-year vacation, but the
current hoopla threw a wrench in my plans. I spent
a grand total of nine days on Oahu before flying
over to this desert paradise. My car is probably
rusting in Pearl Harbor, and I honestly have no
idea where my clothes, television, and other per-
sonal items are in Hawaii, if indeed they made it
there. It will be a hectic search once I get back.

Today marks the end of our third month in
Southwest Asia. By the time this letter gets print-
ed, we will have spent four months in country and
the January 15 United Nations deadline for Iraq to
withdraw from Kuwait will be right around the
comer. My stay here hasn’t been particularly
exciting, although I do have some interesting
stories to tell. However, my purpose is not to
relate any ‘‘sea stories,’’ but instead to discuss
some disturbing news from the homefront.

I quote some clown from Harvard: ‘‘Well,
maybe the goverment didn’t learn anything from
Vietnam, but we (the students) heve. We don’t
need to reinvent the wheel.’’ The reply of a
Berkeley student when asked if they are protesting
to relive the nostalgic, liberal-infested days of the
late 1960’s: ‘‘We don’t want to be hippies or
anything, we’re just concerned with what’s going
on. We want to see all of the soldiers (and Mar-

 

Coach thanks
Wé&L fans

ines) come home soon and safely.’’

are aware of how important their support is to the

I must admit the news of student insurgency at TOOps in Saudi Arabia, why don’t the students at
tnese bastions of liberalism doesn’t surprise me, Teputable institutions of higher education? Everyone
but it does irritate the heck out of me. Although here wants to go home — after the job is done and
the remark of the Harvard student doesn’t rate a the aggressor is eliminated. please don’t take the
response, I’ll make a brief exception. in the words ‘‘¢liminated’’ literally, at least not yet, anyway. —

of Dan Ackroyd, ‘‘You screeching, squealing

rapacious swamp sow.’’ What idiot would even

The apple of many of these student’s eyes, Sen,
Ted Kennedy [D (for Dunce) of Massachusetts],

to compare the current Middle East crisis with the Suggests that we give the sanctions a year to take
Vietnam War? (That’s a rhetorical question). The effect before considering more persuasive measures.,
political, diplomatic and military dimensions of the Y&-

current crisis in no way resemble Vietnam.

 

The young Marines listen to
the news everyday and they
don’t need to hear about
discontent at home.

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi

 

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Founded September 18, 1897

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

On behalf of the players, the staff, myself and
all others connected with our football program, |
would like to say thanks for your support this
past season. Also a special thanks to David
Wilmington and his band, Snafu, for their per-
formance at our Guilford game. Our players were
really inspired by your cheering and presence.
Hope to see you again next season.

Respectively,
Gary R. Fallon
Head Football Coach

Appreciate W&L
while you’re here

I recently had occasion to be on the campus
at W&L to speak to a group of English majors.
The following day I remained in town to do
some research in the University Library. Al-
though I had often been on campus since my
graduation, this was the first time I had been
there during classes since beginning graduate
school at William and Mary.

It was fashionable when I was a student, as
I am sure it is now, to say that the speaking
tradition at W&L is dead. Yet I was struck when
on campus by how many people spoke to me.
Most of the people whom I passed spoke or at
least smiled and nodded. One forgets until one
goes elsewhere, where friendliness is not cus-
tomary, how pleasant our speaking tradition is.
The speaking tradition certainly doesn’t seem
dead, though students must work always to keep
it alive. Thanks to all who are friendly and keep
encouraging others to do the same!

In a similar vein, I suppose it is still the
custom to think that the Honor System is in
failing health. Once again experience at William
and Mary tells me otherwise. At least at W&L
people talk about the Honor System. so that Hon-
or is frequently on people's minds. My fellow
students laugh at me and another W&L graduate
in my program because we pledge our papers,
and distrust of students is the order of the day at
this school which had the first honor system.
Keep on talking and arguing about the Honor

 

I could give a dissertation on the pros and cons
of American involvement in the region, but I'll
simply say the pros outweigh the cons. I admire
the Berkeley student’s aspiration not to be a hippie
and simply remain a generic invalid. I also respect
his concern for the many thousands of young
Marines here. However, if he’s genuinely con-
cerned he would not be trying to undermine morale
by protesting.

 

Personally, if | happen to
come across any of these
dissidents when | get home,
! will destroy them.

The young Marines listen to the news every
day and they don’t need to hear about discontent
at home. If elementary and middle school students

LETTERS

System — that’s what makes it work.

Finally, let me say how much one appreci-
ates all of the things taken for granted at W&L
when one goes elsewhere. I didn’t realize how
spoiled W&L students are by the library until |
started using William and Mary’s on a regular
basis. Nor did I realize how much the Co-op, the
book store, and the GHQ added to the sense of
community of W&L when I was there. In short,
the longer I am away from Lexington, the fonder
and prouder I grow of our University.

 

 

Sincerely,
Christopher R. Carter '87

Dean Howison’s
“Top Ten list”

The following are the ten most notable impres-
sions of my first term at Washington and Lee.

1) W&L vs. Emory and Henry.

My first W&L athletic event nearly broke my
heart. Even though the football team lost on the
last play of the game, the intensity of the com-
petition, the quality of the play and the spirit of
the athletes was so extraordinary that the final
score was almost irrelevant. Division III sport at
its best.

2) Lee; the Last Years.

I read Charles Flood’s book last summer
while sitting on a porch in a hollow looking out
over the Colonnade. I was so impressed that
when I spoke to the freshmen during Orientation
in Lee Chapel, I recommended that they get the
book and read it before they completed their first
year at W&L. A few weeks later, as I was
walking home after work, I noticed two students
sitting on the grass in front of Lee Chapel. I
went over to say hello, and to my delight, I
discovered that they were reading the Lee book.
Once in a while, students actually listen to a
dean.

3) The Turkey Trot.

On a cool, cloudy afternoon in October, |
joined about 180 runners at the annual W&L
Turkey trot. The hilly 5K course through the
woods was muddy and water-logged. I finished

19th and our 40-and-over team, led by race
winner John Tucker, won the unofficial team
title. It’s hard to explain how running to near

I believe the good senator is trying to unseat
Jane Fonda as the military’s least favorite person.
Lucky for Mr. Kennedy that Hanoi Jane will
probably never lose that distinction.

Protests without adequate justification are public
displays of idiocy. I remember a rebuttal to my
first letter published in the Phi: ‘‘If ignorance is
bliss, C.E.K. III is a happy guy.’’ Well, I'll go.
ahead and use the remark since it wasn't apropos
the first time. If ignorance is bliss, college stu-,
dents protesting the American involvement in the
Middle East are some merry folks. These students |
aren’t helping alleviate the problem, they are the,
problem. Personally, if I happen to come across
any of these dissidents when I get home, I will '
destroy them. Perhaps these radicals ought to listen
to some of the younger Americans who flood the

mail with care packages and letters expressing their '
appreciation and admiration of the American troops ,

in the Gulf. I’ll quote the mother of a third grader
in Royal Oak, Michigan who wrote to me after I
returned a letter to her patriotic son, who sacrificed
his time to write to ‘‘ANY SERVICE MEMBER”:
“‘Thanks to you and all the Marines who are
sacrificing your time to do your duty. That is
rare. I want you to know you're app-eciated.”’
In conclusion...

{

)

‘

\

“Abstinence from alcohol is a virtue I admire, |

in others.”’

exhaustion up a steep, muddy hill can be fun,
but it is.
4) Lexington weather.

Before coming to W&L, I lived for 21 years
in northem New York, a few miles from the
Canadian border. The weather there was bad. The
weather in Lexington is good. Trust me.

5) Critical Probation.

For better or for worse, I may be forever
identified with Critical Probation.
6) W&L’s faculty.

Over 80 percent of last year’s seniors indi-
cated that out-of-class availability and support of
the W&L faculty was a hallmark of their college
experience. I’ve been fortunate to be affiliated
with some fine colleges, but I’ve never seen such
positive regard for faculty. It is well-deserved.
7) Auxiliary Office

Several times during the Fall Term I left my
comfortable office in Payne Hall, took a sign that
read Dean Howison’s Auxiliary Office, and set
up a table outside the Co-op. The reactions were
mixed. One student was very direct — ‘‘Who are
you and what are you doing here?’’ Others
offered constructive criticism. A few said nice
things to me. I'll be back.

8) Fancy Dress.

I have never experienced Fancy Dress. Many
people have told me what to expect. Some have
offered condolences in advance. I have bought a
tuxedo, so I am prepared. For what, I’m not
sure.

9) Student leaders.

A 1990 national survey of college seniors
indicated that three times more W&L students
were satisfied with their student government and
their voice in influencing college policies than
students at comparable liberal arts colleges. The
student leaders I have worked with this term
have been outstanding. They have demonstrated
a strong committment to the principles of self-
government and individual responsibility, Based
on my contact with them, I understand why a
significant number of W&L students believe, with
good reason, that they have more control over
their lives than students at other colleges.

10) Washington Hall Steps.

One of the steps on the Colonnade in front
of Washington Hall is made up of three weath-
ered, well-worn stones. Each day when I walk
to work, I make a conscientious effort to step on

the stone with the deepest indentation. In this
way, | join countless others who have made their
marks at Washington and Lee.

 

 
- OPINION

Sbar tackles the war on drugs

 

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

 

Being a responsible citizen and
strong supporter of the ‘“‘just say no
to drugs’’ movement, I think that is
time that I informed the Youth of
America about the inherent hazards of
drugs in a Pulitzer Prize-caliber ex-
position. The major problem with my
plans that the Youth of America
don’t read my column. In fact, the
only people who read my column are
already heavily into drugs. Another
problem with my plan for an anti-
drug exposition is that I’m currently
so stoned out of my mind from
smoking marijuana that I doubt I'll
be able to make it past the first
paragraph. Of course, I’m only
joking.

The truth is that I just took a hit
of LSD and I’m waiting for my
computer to decide if it is a fire-
breathing dragon or a talking bowl of
rice. That’s another joke. The real
reason I can’t write an anti-drug
column is that I’ve eaten so much
opium today that I’m content just
hanging out in the living room pre-

tending that I’m a coffee table.

The real truth is that I don’t use
illegal drugs. I have enough problems
functioning in modern society without
them (today, for example, I spent
over two hours looking for my car
keys). I realize that there are many
people out there in magic mushroom
reader land like my parents who think
that I’m a crazed drug addict, so
maybe I should reiterate that I don’t
use illegal drugs.

Okay, I admit that 1 sometimes
inhale deeply in the vicinity of gaso-
line fumes, modeling glue or paint
thinner, and that I’ve been known to
take an extra table spoon of codeine
cough syrup now and then, but
what’s wrong with that? And sure,
sometimes I drill holes in my teeth
so my dentist will give me laughing
gas when he fills them up. But be-
lieve me, it’s nothing I can’t handle.
I’m no drug addict. I can stop if I
need to. I just wish I could convince
my doctor to get me some more
valium.

Honestly, readers, if we want to
get our school children off drugs,
what we first need to do is figure out
if they’re on drugs. Next, we need to
think up some catchy slogans to

The Ring-tum Phi, January 10, 1991

discourage them from using drugs.
When I attended public high school
in drug-riddled Tampa, Florida, there
was a big crack cocaine scare. To
prevent a crack epidemic, the alert
principal put up clever posters every-
where, featuring witty phrases like
Crack can make your heart attack and
Crack can make your lungs black.

Unfortunately, the principal’s anti-
drug campaign was undermined when
my friends and I hung up a huge
banner during a pep rally skit that
said Crack can make your lips smack.
Later, we threw rotten fruit into the
crowd, but that’s getting a little bit
off the subject. In retrospect, I
decided it was wrong for us to make
fun of the principal’s serious anti-
drug campaign, because we were
punished with three days of work
detail. I always dreaded work detail
because it entailed rising at dawn to
spend an entire Saturday picking up
trash on the school campus, but that’s
also getting off the subject (it’s tough
to stay on the subject when I’m not
exactly sure what it is).

Getting back to the subject of
drugs in high school, my advice to
students is that they go with someth-
ing relaxing like quaaludes and stay

away from anything psychedelic
because its tough to concentrate when
your trigonometry teacher grows
another head every time she does a
problem on the chalkboard. Of
course, that was another joke. If we
really want our young people to stop
Japan from thrashing us so badly in
math, science, and even English, we
must keep drugs out of our high
schools. We also must recruit teach-
ers who make good role models,
teachers unlike the history teacher at
my high school who tried to mail a
package of cocaine from South Amer-
ica to his house in Tampa (on my
honor, I didn’t make that up).

How can we expect our students
to compete with the Japanese when
their teachers aren’t even clever
enough to figure out a way to smug-
gle drugs into the country? What this
country really needs is teachers who
grow their own drugs.

Unfortunately, I’m too tired to
continue writing (Damn it! Where did
I put those amphetamines?). But be-
fore I go, I want to tell anyone who
is still reading this article that they
obviously have a serious drug prob-
lem and I recommend that they seek
professional help immediately.

Don’t blame rape on the victim

 

MY VIEW
By Pam Patton

 

I had mixed feelings as I listened to Lisa Sliwa, an
expert in self-defense from New York City’s
Guardian Angels, speak at Lee Chapel. On one
hand, I think it’s always helpful to try to educate
a community about crime, and about rape and
violence against women in particular. But I had
some serious misgivings about the message she
sent.

Her dramatization of a fraternity-party gang
rape featured Bambi, a tipsy Southern belle whose
IQ was no higher than her bra size. Batting her
eyelashes at the big strong men offering her one
beer after another, Sliwa’s Bambi does not know
that she is the whitetail surrounded by hunters; that
they are proceeding according to a game plan
they’ve plotted out in advance. She doesn’t know
the rules of this game. She’s in enemy territory.
She gets dizzy, and is taken upstairs. There, she

to no avail. Finally, trapped alone with the guy,
she needs to get herself out of a potentially dan-
gerous situation.

Sliwa then acted the part of a woman who is
attacked by a stranger, and began the self-defense
demonstration. It wasn’t much we haven’t heard
before. Fingers or thumbs to the eyes, nose, throat,
groin. Stomp on his foot. Rake his face with your
keys, a pen, a comb.

It’s good stuff to know, just in case you may
want to use it some day. It also leaves you with a
good feeling — it’s empowering to believe that
with a little know-how and a few well-placed
chops, a 110 pound woman can neutralize a 200
pound rapist.

 

Before a woman can fight
off a rape, she has to know
that she has the right to.

 

‘‘gets it.’’ This happens, says Sliwa, all the time.
Everywhere.

That may be true. But this demeaning, stereo-
typical portrait serves only to falsely reassure us
women in the audience, to make us feel superior to
Bambi, the unfortunate rape victim. After all, we
think, we're intelligent people. We’d never get
ourselves into such a situation. But the fact is that
rape can happen to all women — not only to the
Bambi’s out there. Rape can happen to us. Ms.
Magazine recently reported that 1 out of 4 college
women will be sexually assaulted on campus,
usually in a dorm or frat house, by fellow students
80% of the time.

Sliwa touched, but briefly, on the fact that, the
next morning, Bambi may very likely question her
own behavior, and wonder if indeed she had been
raped at all or whether she had somehow ‘‘asked
for it.’’ She may think herself at fault for being
stupid, for getting drunk. What Sliwa didn’t add
was that Bambi will need a great deal of support,
and possibly some counselling, to help her to
realize that she was not responsible for the actions
of the ‘‘hunters.”’

Another scenario Sliwa presented: a woman on
a date. She’s pretty smart, very aware. She senses
that she’s in trouble. She tells her gropey escort
that she has her period. It doesn’t tum him off.
She tries to call a friend to come and pick her up,

   

Interviews by Pamela Kelley

But, her scenario assumes a single, unarmed
assailant. And she didn’t mention that, in real life,
you cannot predict how you will react. Sometimes,
a sudden violent attack can be paralyzing. You
may be terrified, in shock. You can’t move. You
can hardly breathe. You become a victim. You
know you should have gouged out his eyes, but
you didn’t. You failed.

Please, give yourself th» permission to not fight
back. We’re not all tough and invulnerable like
Lisa Sliwa. We have fears and weaknesses. We
make mistakes. We sometimes show poor judge-
ment. But we must keep reminding ourselves that
crime is the fault of the criminal, not of the victim
who somehow doesn’t prevent it from happening.

A self-defense demonstration may be helpful for
the kind of street crime a woman may face in the
big city. But on a campus like Washington & Lee,
the real problem is date rape. And it’s difficult,
emotionally as well as physically, for a woman to
fight off her boyfriend. Sliwa didn’t address the
emotional side of the issue at all.

After all, most girls are raised to be pleasing.
We are taught to smile, to be nice. As girls be-
come teenagers, we learn how important it is to fit

in with a peer group, and, especially, how to ireat
teenage boys.

So Bambi is upstairs at a frat party, about to be
raped. How can we expect her to gouge out Bifi’s
eyes, when she’s very likely afraid to even scream
for fear of causing a scene? All of her friends are
downstairs. She doesn’t want them to see her in
the condition she’s in. What would they think?
What if they get angry at her? What if Biff is her
boyfriend, the man she has pledged herself to?
What if she feels that it’s her duty to make him

happy?

If she used Sliwa’s techniques, she’d very
likely be branded for the rest of her four years on
campus as the girl who cried rape, the one who
ruined the party. She’s the one who scratched up
Biff’s handsome face. Poor Biff. How many of her
friends would stand by her?

Before a woman can fight off a rape, she has
to knew that she has the right to. She has to know
that she’s worth fighting for. That she can make
the choice whether and when to engage in sexual
activity. That protecting her body and her self-
esteem are more important than causing a social
faux pas.

All in all,.Sliwa puts too-heavy of: a burden on
the victim. She mocks women who try to fight
back by meekly beating on men’s strong chests. |
don’t feel we should ridicule a victim for not
defending herself ‘‘well enough.’’ Let’s keep the
responsibility for ending crime where it belongs -
- on the behavior of the criminals.

To this end, Sliwa did say — and if this is the
only thing the audience came away with that night,
she’ll have done a lot of good: ‘‘No means No.
Yes means Yes.’’ She added to the men, that, if
the woman is not in a condition to make that
decision, ‘Don’t make it for her.’’

I’m a member of the Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault, a newly-formed service
that is working to provide crisis intervention and
ongoing support to victims of sexual assault. We
are also available to present community education
programs. For more information, please call our
hot-line at 463-RAPE.

 

 

TALKBACK

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Jazz it up

Snafu, a jazz band made up of
people from W&L, is now avail-
able for fraternity parties, wed-
dings and the like. The band
plays all types of jazz from tradi-
tional to contemporary. Call Dave
at 463-6580 ur Tom at 463-5056.

See Russia

The Russian Studies Program will
show the film Brothers
Karamazov at 7:30 p.m., Thur.,
Jan 17 in C-School 327. This is
the orginal version, completed in
1968 but first released in 1980
reportedly because of a conflict
between the director and Soviet
officials.

Take a photo |

Seniors, got an appointment with
the Calyx photographer? Don’t
forget to meet him in Fairfax
Lounge at the time you requested.
A schedule of all appointments is
posted in the Co-op. Seniors
taking their own photos must tum
prints in to the Calyx office by
Feb. 1.

Take a photo Il

Underclassmen who want to take
yearbook photos, your last chance
will be on Jan.22 from 10 a.m.-
1 p.m. or 1:30 - 4 p.m.

Guard lives

Say you want to spend the sum-
mer at the shore? The National
Park Service is looking for lif-
eguards to work on beaches from
Maine to the Virgin Islands. Low
cost summer housing is available
at most of the work sites. For
more information call 1-800-678-
7946.

Join up

The U.S. Armny is offering a
three-year enlistment program
to help graduates repay
their student loans as well as gain
experience. For more informa-
tion about the loan repayment
enlistment option, call the local
Army recruiter listed in the yel-
low pages under recruiting.

Make the meet

All Publications Board members,
don’t forget Mondays meeting, 7
p-m. in the Phi office.

Go international

The International Club’s Winter
Term Kick-off will be start at 9
p.m., Friday, Jan. 11 at the Inter-
national House. Club meetings are
every Tuesday at 7 p.m.

Go to DC

W&L Washington Term Program
Spring Term internships are avail-
able in the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate. The
program is open to all students of
any major. Applications are due
Fri., Jan. 18. See Prof. Connelly,
C School 108 for more informa-
tion.

Party on

The Daytona/Orlando Transit
Service offers shuttle transporta-
tion to your hotel during spring
break. For information, please call
1-800-223-1965.

Money

Graduate fellowships are available
for entering and first-year
graduate students majoring in
science disciplines and interested
in pursuing research careers in
areas pertaining to global change.
The application dealine is March
1. For more information, call
Billie Stooksbury at 615-576-
0037.

Get out

Join the Outing Club for the fol-
lowing events: a hike up Little
House Mountain on Jan. 12;
mountain bike rides at Goshen on
Jan. 19 and near the Blue Ridge

Parkway on Jan. 26; and a meet-
ing of the Environmental Section
on Jan. 15, 5:30 p.m. in Uni-
versity Center 109. The equip-
ment room in Baker 109 is open
Mon.-Fri., 1-4 p.m. Cycling shop
hours are Thursdays, 7-8 p.m. For
more details see the Outing Club
bulletin board on the Colonnade
or outside Baker 109.

Get it out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes! Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office at room 208 in the
University Center.

 

Photos by Pat Lopes

What was your New Year’s resolution?

 

Krista Vollack, 91, Newark, NJ
— ‘To spend more time in the
Palms.”’

 

Heather Mangrum, ’92,
Hartsdale, NY — ‘‘To start read-
ing my books before the end of
the term.”’

Shawn Copeland, °90, Admis-
sions Counselor — ‘‘To brush
and floss after every meal.”’

Cullins Carriker, ’92, Charlotte,
NC — ‘I don’t have any I can
put in the paper.”’

 

Bill Chappell, and Ashby Hackney, ’94, Richmond, VA — ‘‘To curk
our glue sniffing habit.”’

 

 
 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 10, 1991
an

 

 

Ex-POW Charlie Plumb tells his audience in Lee Chapel how to overcome adversity. He has
spoken to several audiences about his imprisonment in Vietnam. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Ex-POW visits campus

 

From W&L News Office

Charlie Plumb, former naval
flight officer and POW in Viet-
nam, gave a speech titled ‘‘Over-
coming Adversity’’ in Washington
and Lee University’s Lee Chapel
last night.

Plumb received his commission
from the United States Naval Aca-
demy in 1964 where he graduated
with a B.S, degree. He went to
flight training in Florida, Missis-
sippi, Texas and eventually to San
Diego where he was trained to
pilot the F4-B Phantom, the

 

Navy’s newest supersonic intercep-
tor. There he also helped start the
Navy’s ‘‘Top Gun’’ school. He
left for Vietnam in November
1966 as a flight officer aboard the
USS Kitty Hawk.

On May 19, 1967, Plumb was
shot down south of Hanoi while
on a fighter cover mission. He was
captured immediately and taken to
the Hanoi prison complex where
he spent the next five years and
nine months in captivity. During
his imprisonment, Plumb distin-
guished himself among his fellow
prisoners as a professional in

underground communication. In
1970, he was appointed chaplain
of his prison unit and served in
that capacity for two years.

Plumb was repatriated on Feb.
28, 1973. Since then he has spo-
ken to more than 3000 audiences,
including religious, business, civic
and student groups. Through hu-
morous anecdotes of POW life,
Plumb demonstrates how positive
attitudes and self-esteem can over-
come great odds in a prison camp
or in everyday life.

The speech was sponsored by
Contact.

 

 

 

TOMER OULa

SWITCH TO OUR

 

 

LOW PRICES IN ‘9!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Liquor tax takes effect

 

By Kick Peltz
Staf! Reporter

A federal tax increase pushed the
prices on beer, wine and distilled
spirits up Jan. 1, but the change will
have little impact on sales in Lexing-
ton, report merchants and students.

The tax increase is levied directly
on the manufacturers. Whether or not
the increase is passed on to the con-
sumers depends on manufacturers,
distributors and retailers.

Miles Nye, owner of Kelly’s
Comer, called the increased beer
costs ‘‘outrageous.’’ He said that tax
rate increases only account for about
five of the $8 to $12 rise in keg
prices, and brewery markups explain
the difference,

‘They’re doing this hoping it will
be ‘simoke-screened’ by the federal
taxes,’’ Nye said of the markups.

The price on a keg of Busch beer
has zone from $34 to $42 at Kelly’s
Comer. Harris Teeter Assistant Man-
ager Larry Tomlin said that beer

Casino N

 

By Brian Root
Editor

At the first blackjack table, one
student looked over to another and
said, ‘‘I think you should stick with
that, it's 21."’

“‘Damn good thing,’’ said the
other. ‘These are my last two
chips.’’

Such was the case Tuesday night
in the General Headquarters, where
the Washington and Lee Superdance
Committee held its annual Casino
Night, an event designed to raise
money for the Jerry Lewis Muscular
Dystrophy charity.

The event, which netted
over $1,100 for the charity, allowed
W&L to students to gamble at such
games as blackjack, roulette, craps
and poker.

“For the $5 cover charge, you get

there has increased about 50 cents per
six pack.

An Anheuser-Busch spokesman
said Tuesday that in addition to the
higher tax rate, a ‘‘price increase is
needed to address increased costs that
we are experiencing for raw materi-
als, for labor, for fuel and for other
necessary goods and services."’

The Palms Manager Cindy Camp-
bell said that The Palms will not pass
the increase in liquor costs to its
customers,

‘‘We’re not increasing our prices
right now,’’ said Campbell, ‘‘As long
as we Can... we're going to absorb
the cost.’’

Costs have risen at all Virginia
Alcoholic Beverage Control stores
and local grocery and convenience
stores,

Prices in the biggest selling items
at ABC stores increased slightly,
according to Bureau of ABC Informa-
tion Officer William Gee. He said
750 milliliters of Bowman’s Virginia
Vodka went from $4.90 to $5.10 and
Seagram’s Extra Dry Gin rose from

$7.10 to $7.50. :

Some increases are less consistent,
According to the Jan. 1. Roanoke
Times & World News, Jack Daniel’s
black label increased $1.50 while the
green label increased $3.

Nye, Tomlin, Gee and local ABC
employee A. C. Manspile all agreed
that price increases have had little
effect on sales, and they don’t expect
any change.

‘‘We did not notice any stocking
up’’ at ABC stores prior to Jan. 1,
said Gee, other than the usual holi-
day rush.

Nye said he felt that consumers
would grow accustomed to the new

prices, especially because beer prices
are often already higher in other parts
of the country.

Samuel Rock, Kappa Sigma social
chairman, and Joshua MacFarland,
Phi Kappa Psi social committee mem-
ber, expressed the views of most
fraternity members: that price
increases are too small to affect con-
sumption.

ight raises $1,100

$10,000 in fake money, and two
beverage tickets,’’ said Superdance
Committee Co-Chairman Kennan
Walthall. ‘‘Then, at the end of the
night, we have an auction where
students bid for prizes with whatever
they win.”’

The prizes, which Walthall said
were donated by local businesses,
ranged from gift certificates to The
Palms to two Fancy Dress tickets,
valued at about $40 apiece.

The auction, which was held at
midnight, featured furious attempts by
students to pool their winnings, to
buy the more expensive prizes, such
as six tickets to the Superdance
weekend, which features a concert by
Drivin’ and Cryin’.

The last prize, seven free pizzas
from Frank’s was bought by a group
of students, headed by senior Laura
Lee Kinney, for over $400,000.

According to Walthall, one of the
reasons the event was much more
successful than in previous years
was because of scheduling

‘*We used to hold this thing right
before Thanksgiving Break,’’ he said.
‘The problems was, everyone was
trying to get last-minute work done
before they left, so they didn’t have
time.”’

Last year’s Casino Night netted
$534, according to Superdance Co-
Chairman Matt Wherry.

“Right now [about 9:30] there are
more people here than there were all
last year,’’ Walthall said.

By 10:15, there were so many
people in the GHQ, that many were
forced to wait for spots to open up at
several tables.

“I'd like to play one of these
games, but right now they’re all
full,’’ said senior Tim Halloran.

 

64 Oz.

Indian Summer
Apple Juice

   

5¢ Off
Label

Gal.

 

 

Clorox
Bleach

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

2 Liter Bottle

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, January 15, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, January 15, 1991 In Lexington Store Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities, None Sold To Dealers, We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.
NEWS

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

The new Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts will open on sched-
ule later this month despite its unfin-
ished appearance. Noted American
musician Robert Shaw will be guest
conductor for ‘he premier concert on
Saturday, January 19.

‘‘There is still work to be done
all over the building,’’ said Washing-
ton and Lee’s Capita! Planning Direc-
tor Frank Parsons. While the center
may not be in perfect condition, most
major construction is complete. The
main auditorium is nearly finished,
and, according to Parsons, there
should be nothing standing in the
way of next Saturday’s concert.

Dr. Albert Gordon, theater depart-
ment chairman, moved his division’s
offices across the street in mid-De-
cember. All theater classes, along
with many choral and instrumental
rehearsals, are currently being held in
the Lenfest Center.

“It’s exhilarating,’’ commented
Gordon. ‘‘You overlook the [con-
struction] problems because the whole
experience is just so exciting.We have
all risen above the frustration.”’

Parsons was reluctant to place a
specific date as to when the Lenfest
Center would be completed. ‘*We’ve
had a great deal of help from the
contractor in trying to keep to the
schedule, Parsons explained. ‘‘That,
of course, does not forgive thetn for
being late, but it is a very complex
building.’’ Parsons also mentioned
that the problem was compounded by

Council to open
communication

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

A committee has been formed by
the city of Lexington, W&L and VMI
in order to establish formal commu-
nication channels between the schools
and the city.

The Lexington Community Coun-
cil will consist of the dean of stu-
dents from W&L, the commandant of
VMI, a student from each school, a
member of the city’s downtown dev-
elopment advisory group, two citi-
zens, a member of the local clergy,
the mayor and the city manager.

According to City Manager Jon T.
Ellestad, the council’s first meeting
will be on Jan. 23 with W&L Dean
of Students David Howison serving
as the first chairman.

Among the issues Ellestad sees
the new council addressing is “all the
negativism" surrounding city- -school
relations. He believes the council will
try to publicize joint projects between
the city and the schools.

Ellestad also said he hopes to get
input from the committee regarding
student housing in the city, a con-

 

 

 

 

Dean Howlson

troversial topic that led to a year-
long moratorium on large-capacity
housing applications.

One goal in creating the council,
according to Ellestad, was to keep it
relatively small, but that it may bring
in advisors from time to time to help
address specific topics.

Ellestad said he hopes the coun-
cil will be able to solve problems
before they get too big. "There’s
always room to talk about anything."

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 10, 1991

Lenfest to be complete in May

the theater classes now being held in
the building.

Along with the theater department
classes and offices, the center, once
completed, will feature a split level
gatehouse, the Kamen art collection,
a 422 seat main auditorium (with the
capability of an additional 50 seats),
a state-of-the-art theatrical stage, and
a bridge connecting it to the main
campus across the street.

The work continuing on the center
will be completed in full by the
building’s dedication ceremonies set
for May, according to Parsons.

Robert Shaw served as music
director of the Atlanta Symphony
Orchestra for 21 years. During that
time, he garnered widespread acclaim
through national and _ international
tours. His concert next weekend will
feature a joint effort by all of Wash-

ington and Lee’s choral groups (a
total of 109 students) along with the
University-Rockbridge | Symphony
Orchestra. The program will also
highlight pianist Timothy Gaylard, an
associate professor of music at W&L,
and soprano soloist Amy Cochrane,
the music department’s voice adjunct.

The concert’ will feature
Beethoven’s ‘Egmont Overture,” the
third movement of Rachmaninov’s
Piano Concerto #2, the third move-
ment of Bemstein’s ‘‘Chichester
Psalms,’’ and Poulenc’s ‘‘Gloria.”’

Seats for next Saturday’s concert
have been completely booked by reser-
vation, but tickets are still available
for an open rehearsal to be held on
Friday, January 18 at 7:30 pm. Reser-
vations for the rehearsal can be made
by calling the Lenfest Center Box
Office at 463-8000.

 

Rhodes

from page 1

 

Rhodes recipients were called out
alphabetically. When Lopes heard the
name of Goodwin Liu, a winner from
Stanford University, she quickly tried
to determine if Lopes followed Liu
or if she had not been picked.

‘‘T was so nervous and I couldn’t
figure out how to spell Liu,’’ Lopes
said. ‘‘I was so shocked to hear my
name that I didn’t hear the next two
names.”’

In the next four days, Lopes cele-
brated by returning home, writing a
paper and taking a quiz and three
final exams that her professors had
faxed to her.

In her essay for the scholarship,
Lopes wrote that she wanted to pur-
sue a career in journalism.

“I wrote that I wanted to do
something that would directly affect
people and help them understand
what’s going on around them,’’ she
said.

Lopes is a candidate for a bache-
lor of arts degree in politics and
journalism and has been a leader in
numerous campus activities.

Lopes is a consistent member of
the honor roll, the dean’s list and the
scholar-athlete honor roll. She was

 

SOL OR PIN

Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money.

elected to Phi Eta Sigma, the fresh-
man honor society, and Omicron
Delta Kappa, the national leadership
fraternity founded at W&L in 1914.

She is also a co-editor of The
Ring-tum Phi student newspaper and
chairs the student publications board.
A four-year letter winner with the
women’s cross country team, Lopes
recieved the 1990 Women’s Cross
Country Award for overall contribu-
tions to the team. She has also served
as a dorm counselor and a resident
assistant since 1988.

This past summer, Lopes was an
intern reporter for the Honolulu Star-
Bulletin: Last spring she was a legis-
lative intern in the Washington, D.C.
office of Senator Daniel Inouye of
Hawaii. She has also worked as a
workshop instructor for educational
television for the Hawaii Department
of Education.

While Lopes knows that many
Rhodes Scholars go on to build pow-
erful, high-profile careers, she said
she is set on returning home after her
stay at Oxford.

“Truthfully, what is in my heart
is to return to Hawaii and work as a
reporter.”

 

 

From W&L News Office

 

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Alumni Office and the University
Bookstore have put together a care
package for W&L alumni currently
on active duty in the Persian Gulf.

According to alumni staff as-
sociate Joel Smith, the original idea
was to send over some hats with the
W&L logo on them. ‘‘Then we
thought why not send a more sub-
stantial care package to our alumni,
with some news of what's going on

at W&L, and the project snowballed
from there.”’

Included in the package is the
most recent issue of the alumni
magazine, a golf cap and a W&L
water bottle — complete with Gator-
ade.

An initial mailing has been made
to nine alumni — two serving in the
Marines and seven in the Army, with
class years ranging from 1983 to
1989. Smith reports that the alumni
office hopes to keep sending care
packages in the future as addresses
become available.

Since sending the care
packages, Smith has added a few
names to his list of W&L alumni
serving with the armed forces in the
Persian Gulf. Following is a list of
names and addresses. Smith encour-
ages students to write the alumni.

Class of 1991

Lance Corporal M.E. Davis (en
route)
U.S. Marine Corps

Class of 1990

Lane Lastinger (en route)
U.S. Marine Corps

Class of 1989

2nd Lt. James M. Johnson, U.S.
Army

258-04-5799

190th MP Company/716 MP
Bn/89th MP Bde.

APO New York 09616

 

Care packages mailed
to alums in the Gulf

2nd Lt. Clifford L. U.S.
Army

402-15-4174

HHC 4/325 Air 1

APO New York 09656

Deal,

2nd Lt. C. Edward Klank, U.S.
Marine Corps

409-45-6529

H&S Company (5-4)

3rd Battalion, 3 BM, 3rd Marine
Regiment

First MPB

FPO San Francisco, CA 96608-
5551

Class of 1988

ist Lt. Jon D. Missert, U.S. Army
B-Company 3-73 AR, 82nd Air-
borne Division

APO, New York 09656

Ist Lt. Darrin Denny, U.S. Marine
Corps

484-96-2511

B Company 1/G FTO

FPO San Francisco, CA 96602-
9008

Class of 1986

Ist Lt. Arthur Kandarin, U.S.
Army
038-42-0031

HHC 4/325 Air 1
APO New York 09656

Lt. Alfred A. Puryear, U.S. Army
224-15-5267

G Troop 2-3 ACR

APO New York 09209

Class of 1984

Capt. James T. Seidule, U.S. Army
228-74-9393

A-Troop 1-17 Cavalry

82nd Airborne Division

APO New York

Class of 1983

Capt. David Ridlon, U.S. Army
043-40-3234

H.Q. Soccent

Attn: J-2

APO New York 09616

 

 

You ue not f need to D be a heague b Honor,

Agood man practices it everyday.
Honor takes on a special meaning
when you take on the responsi-
bility of becoming a lawyer in the
United States Marine Corps. Your
first trial will be to prove you have
the qualities to be a Marine Corps
Officer—an honor indeed. Once
you ve proven that, youll get plenty
of experience putting those unique
qualities to use in a court of law.

If this sounds like the place where
youd like to sharpen your legal
skills, we'll get to the point. .

Call 1-800-MARINES.
However, it’s not our prac- 43 iS

tice to take just Vi ew

anyone.

WTI ANIMA LL

 

 

 

® Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl Bowling
Every Friday Night Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
11 PM- 2 AM Win FREE games

For more information call

US HWY - 11 North 1-800-542-5851

464-BOWL (2695)

 
 

SPORTS

- Changes lead Generals to tourney win

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

Coming off a 30-day break for
exams, Washington and Lee head
basketball coach Verne Canfield
decided to make some changes with
his team.

The Generals had struggled to a
3-5 start, so Canfield decided that a
lineup change was in order.

For the 22nd Annual Washington
and Lee Invitational, Canfield
changed his starting lineup, which
had been composed of five seniors.

He moved guard Jim Casey and
forward Craig Hatfield to the bench.
In their place, Canfield inserted 6-
foot-3 sophomore Keith Faulkner at
small forward and the only freshman
on the roster, Paul Baker at shooting
guard.

The changes paid off immediately,
as the Generals won the Invitational
before dropping a 71-69 heart-breaker
to Old Dominion Athletic Conference
rival Bridgewater Tuesday.

‘The lineup changes worked, and
that’s a credit to everyone involved,”’
said Canfield. ‘‘It needed to be done,
and it tumed out to be the healthy
thing to do.”’

‘The way I look at it, something
had to change,’’ said Hatfield. ‘‘If it
was me, that’s just the way it is.
Now I’m coming off the bench trying
to do the same things I did when I
started.””

By moving Casey and Hatfield to
the bench, Canfield increased the
experience and depth of his team at
the same time. In the three games,
W&L got 97 points off the bench.

Against Bridgewater, W&L started
slowly and fell behind 43-36 at the
half. Only the outside shooting of

Hart joins 1

Casey kept W&L in the game. Casey
hit five of six three pointers to keep
the Generals close.

In the second half, W&L tied the
game with 14:21 left by going on an
8-1 run to even things at 51. Sparked
by senior forward Ed Hart, who
scored his 1,000th career point on a
free throw with 17:37 left in the
second half, the Generals then took a
58-55 lead.

The lead didn’t last long, though,
as costly turnovers led to four quick
points by Bridgewater’s Neil Burke
~ sparked the Eagles to a 63-60

‘‘We turned the ball over too
much and committed too many dumb
fouls,’’ said Canfield, ‘‘but we were
still in the game with a chance to
win at the end.’’

W&L fought back to tie the game
at 69-69 with 2:33 left on two free
throws by junior Courtney Penn. The
game stayed tied until the final min-
ute. W&L had a chance to go ahead

but turned the ball over with 37
seconds left.

The Eagles ran the clock down to
nine seconds before calling time out.
When play resumed, BC freshman
Chad Edwards broke free in the lane
and was fouled before he could score
with four seconds left. After a W&L
time out, Edwards calmly hit both
free throws, giving the Eagles a 71-
69 win, ending W&L’s three game
winning streak.

“I am not discouraged by the
loss,”” said Canfield. ‘*I’m disappoint-
ed for our players. We’re on the right
track offensively and defensively. Our
confidence factor needs to be worked
on.”’

Casey led W&L with a career-
high 21 points on a school record

,000-point

club in two-point loss

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

It is a special occasion when a
basketball player scores 1,000 points
in his career.

‘To score 1,000 points is not an
easy achievement,’’ said W&L head
coach Verne. Canfield. ‘‘It-is. a. big
moment and a well deserved moment
of recognition.”’

Tuesday night’s Old Dominion
Athletic Conference game between
Washington & Lee and Bridgewater
saw that plateau eclipsed twice, and
tonight’s ODAC game between W&L
and Roanoke could see the plateau
topped again.

On Tuesday in Bridgewater, with
40 seconds left in the first half
Bridgewater junior forward Todd
Rush stepped to the free throw line
and hit the first of two free throws
for the 1,000th point of his career.

Early in the second half, W&L

HOUSE

Restaurant

WILLSON-I|
WALKER

senior Ed Hart stepped to the same
free throw line and hit two free
throws to give him 1,000 points in
his career. Hart will be honored be-
fore tonight’s game with Roanoke.

Hart becomes the eighteenth play-
er in W&L history to reach the 1,-
000-point mark. Hart now has 1,004
points in his career.

“‘Ivs a nice accomplishment,
said Hart. ‘‘But it’s kind. of overshad-
owed by the loss. I’m trying to keep
things in the right perspective. Indi-
vidual honors don’t mean much when
the team isn’t doing well.’’

Tonight, with 11 points, senior
guard Mike Holton can become the
nineteenth member of W&L’s 1,000-
point club.

‘*By the second half of [tonight’s
game], we could have three 1,000
point scorers on the floor at the same
time,’’ said Canfield. ‘‘Even though
we may be going through a tough
time right now, these players have
had a lot of good times as well.’’

”

 

 

 

 

30 N. Main St., Lexington

 
 

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

SHOE FIXERS |
i Instant Shoe Repair
= Wecan heel you and save your sole while you wait.

Reservations are recommended

Prescriptions © Cosmetics Perfumes
Charge Accounts © Free Delivery

appa

4

Oo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main St.

Lexington, VA 24450
PLP VAP AP VAP LDP

(703)463-5988

PVLPVLP PVP PLP PVM VAP AP OAD AP AP

  

 

   

    
 
     
   
  
    
  
   
  
  
      
   
  
  
  
 

 
  
  
 
   
     
 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 10, 1991

seven three point goals. In his last
five games, Casey is 24 of 36 from
three point range and is averaging
over 14 points a game.

“Coach [Canfield] wanted us to
look for the quick shot in transition
and re-establish the three pointer as
part of the offense,’’ said Casey. ‘‘As
long as I was playing shooting guard,
I kind of took it upon myself to get
us going with the three pointer.’’

“It is obvious Jim has created a
nice role for himself,’’ said Canfield.
“*He’s got the hot hand right now,
and we've got to look to help Jim
get his shots.’’

Hart added 12 points and nine
rebounds. He becomes the 18th
1,000-point scorer in school history.

In the Invitational, the Generals
never trailed in winning their ninth
title in 10 years. W&L sprinted out
to double-figure leads in both games
only to see the lead whittled to one
point in the waning moments.

In Friday’s semifinal, a 76-75 win
over Swarthmore, the Generals jum-
ped out to a 42-26 halftime lead
sparked by Faulkner’s rebounding and
Casey’s outside shooting.

Faulkner grabbed five of his team-
high eight rebounds and handed out
three assists in the first half. Casey
warmed to his sixth-man’s role quick-
ly, hitting on all four of his three
point shots.

The Generals held on for the win
behind 18 second half points on nine
of 10 shooting from Hatfield, who
finished with 19 on the night.

In Saturday’s championship game
against Hartwick, the Generals again
jumped out to a halftime lead. Baker
scored the first six points of the
game on three pointers, and the se-
niors led a balanced attack. Chris
Jacobs and Casey led the way with

  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

703-463-3478

 

 

 

 

 

LEE di

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

v

 

Senior Jim Casey brings the ball up against Hampden-Sydney earlier this year. Casey switched froin
point guard to shooting guard and has made 24 of his last 36 three point shots. Staff photo by Chris
Leipahrt.

10 points each, while Hart and Mike
Holton chipped in nine and seven
points respectively.

In the second half, W&L got
back-to-back three pointers from
Holton and Baker to get a 57-41 lead

early in the second half. The lead
grew to 64-45 with 14:35 left when
tournament MVP Tom Spain brought
Hartwick back.

Hartwick cut the lead to 80-77
with 4:40 to play. Spain scored 19

second-half points to lead the charge.

But the Generals survived the run
and hit six of eight free throws down
the stretch in winning 94-92.

Hart led W&L with 22 points, 13
in the second half, and 12 rebounds.
Jacobs added 18 on eight of 14
shooting, Holton 15 and Casey 13 off
the bench. W&L dominated Hartwick
on the boards, outrebounding the
Warriors 40-23. Hart and Jacobs
made the all-tournament team.

‘We did a lot of good things,”’
said Hart. ‘‘We had a good inside-
outside balance. But at the same
time, we were too inconsistent. We
had good spurts and then we got
complacent.’’

W&L, 5-6, 1-3 on the season, will
attempt to reach the .500 mark again
tonight against Roanoke in the Warn-
er Center at 7:30. The Generals also
play host to Virginia Wesleyan Satur-
day afternoon at 3:00.

Charleston swims by WL

 

By Randall Ellis
Staff Reporter

 

In their first dual meet of 1991
the men and women’s swim teams
both came up short in a meet at the
College of Charleston.

The men lost 96-69 while the
women were edged out 92-84.

Despite the losses, head coach
Page Remillard said he was pleased
with his teams’ performances.

“Tt is still early in the dual meet
season,”” he said. ‘‘Although we had
some strong performances, we used
this meet to gain a prospective of
were we stand. Now that we have
that we can begin to plan how each
swimmer should be performing.’’

In the men’s meet, brothers Doug
and Larry Brown each tumed in a
first place finish. Doug, a junior, won
the 500-yard freestyle with a time of
4:58.25, while Larry, a freshman,
took the 200-yard backstroke with a
time of 2:22.23.

Freshman Matt Appel achieved a
personal best in the 200-yard fly with

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

1-800-768-LEHI

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

University Sportwear ius the
best selection of W&L im-
printed T-Shirts, sweatshirts,
embroidered fitted baseball
caps and much more. Come
see our new W&L Flannel
Boxers!

Student Accounts Available

15 W. Washington St.

(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

 
  
  
  
  
     
  
   

 

 
 

Welcome
Back
Wé&L

We have at our
new location
flowers, balloons,
gifts and more...

WE WIRE ANYWHERE

J Teleflora’

Ten East Nelson
463-9841

a winning time of 3:01.08. D. Brown

       
      
     
     
     
       

was joined by sophomore Andrew
Pearson and seniors Jim Dunlevy and
Tomas Perez to take first in the 400-
yard freestyle relay.

On the women’s side, junior Jodi
Herring won the 500-yard free with a
time of 5:44.56, senior Sharon Cole-
man had a winning time of 2:25.45
in the 200-yard backstroke, while
sophomore Claire Dudley clocked a
2:36.88 to win the 200-yard breast-
stroke.

Herring also teamed up with se-
nior Kristen Wagner, sophomore
Christine Gorman and junior Louise
Adamson to win the 400-yard free-
style relay.

Remillard said he feels that his
teams’ weaknesses are their small
numbers, but the strong attitudes and
dedication of the team members
should make up for this.

‘‘The Washington and Lee swim-
ming program is at a tuming point,”
he said. ‘‘Having graduated a good
number of strong swimmers in the
last few years our focus for the 90s
is to rebuild and get as much out of
each swimmer as possible. If all goes
the right way, this will be our weak-

wr

est year of the decade,”’ ‘
The women’s chance of defending
their Old Dominion Athletic Confér-

ence Championship depends on the
other ODAC teams, Remillard said.
A

“If the other teams in the conf¢r-
ence have a problem or two we stand
a chance of winning the champion-
ship again, but if we are going {o
lose the championship this will be the
year in which it happens. It could
prove to be a dog fight,’’ he added.

Remillard said he feels that the

goals of the individual swimmer are

what is important. He does not plan

to alter his line-ups in order to outwit

other teams, but devise lines accord-
ing to individuals goals.

‘‘We will swim fast to attain our
goals and how that fits in to our
record is of no concern. What I want
from the team is lifetime personal
best from each swimmer.”’

On Saturday both the men (0-'])
and the women (1-1) will travel to
UNC-Charlotte for a dual meet.

4

4

Lexington E Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

463-7969

 

Sports .

 

 

 
 
    
  
 

16 E. Nelson St.

AEROBIC
DEATH

Do You Suffer With...

is Your Aerobics Class

Try Our Primo
Aerobics Studio
** Shock Absorbant Floor! **

Gi estan

 
 

   

Foot Pain? A
Shin Splints?
Joint Pain?

  
 

@1 x Only?
Too Crowded? ~
in A Gym?

  

Aerobics

    
    
    
  

    

464-1FIT

    
  
   
    
   
  
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 10, 1991

7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

* The Unknown Fans build a human pyramid in last year’s game
with Roanoke. The Unknown Fans led cheers and provided

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

It is now the first Thursday of
« Winter Term, and that means it is
time for the first big social event of
' the new year.
9 Tonight at 7:30 in the Warner
Center, the Washington and Lee
) basketball team will take the floor
against Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference rival Roanoke College. And

 

Happening offers

when the ball goes up, it is almost
guaranteed that the biggest crowd of
the season will be on hand.

But while everyone in Lexington
is treating the game like the Final
Four, Verne Canfield and the Gener-
als look at it as just one more game
on a 27-game schedule. But the team
will admit, it’s nice to get that kind
of support.

‘This is just another game,’’ said
senior co-captain Craig Hatfield. ‘‘It’s
not the beginning or the end of our

entertainment during timeouts. Last year, the Fans saw the
Generals beat the Maroons by nine. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

more than hoops

season. But the crowd will get us
more cmotional and .intense.’’

‘While it’s just another game,”’
said senior forward Ed Hart, ‘‘it’s
also a big game. As a team, we can’t
get caught up in the hype and fan-
fare. We have to have our concentra-
tion.”’

To tum to the game itself for a
moment. W&L comes in at 5-6, 1-3
in the ODAC. Roanoke comes in 6-
3, 0-1.

For W&L, this group of seniors

has never lost to Roanoke in Lexing-
ton, and to make it four out of four,
the Generals will need to hit the
boards and rebound. Roanoke brings
five players who are taller than 6-
foot-5.

‘*This could be the toughest team
we've played to this point,’’ said
Canficld. ‘‘They have more depth
than I’ve ever seen in a Roanoke
team, and it’s young depth. They are
getting great balance, and they have

ROANOKE vs. W&L

A CLOSER LOOK

The Teams:
Roanoke College Maroons 6-3, 0-1
Head coach: Page Moir

€
Derek Otten

609 -- 600 117 65
Joe McDowell 44.2 50.0 79.4 11.0 7.7
Robert Lineburg 39.4 16.7 92.3 10.7 3.2
Ron Pendleton 31.0 26.1 71.9 8.1 a7
ary G
Team Statistics 44.55 33.0 668 780 44.0

Side notes: Roanoke has a 7.3 rebounds per game edge over its
opponents. McDowell, a 6-2 transfer from the Naval Academy, has had
knee problems and has missed three games this year. Head coach Page
Moir is the son of former Virginia Tech coach Charlie Moir. The
Maroons have lost 5 of the last 7 games with W&L.

Washington and Lee Generals 5-6, 1-3
Head coach: Verne Canfield

e

Ed Hart 8 O0- 126 143- 86
Chris Jacopa—-- 39.9 OT C150. S67
Jim Casey Zi S18 119 122: 13
Mikes Holion= 421 390 821 115 27
Team Statistics 44.6 43.2 649 77.4 373

Side notes: Casey and Hatfield come off the bench. Casey scored a
career-high 21 points last time out, including a school-record 7 three
pointers. Casey has made 14 three pointers in the last three games.
Holton is tied for the ODAC lead in assists at 5.0 per game. W&L has
been without junior forward Mark Melton (knee) since returning from
break. Melton dressed but did not play against Bridgewater.

 

 

 

right now.”’

Roanoke’s size has allowed them
a seven-rebound advantage over their
opponents this season.

‘Obviously, rebounding will be a
key,’’ said Hart. ‘*We need to con-
centrate on that, especially since we
got outrebounded against Bridge-
water.”’

Back to the crowd.

For the past two seasons, more
than 2,000 people have jammed the
Warner Center to root the Generals
on against the Maroons.

Most notably among the group
have been the group of 30 or so
students known as the Unknown
Fans. While their identity may be

very visible.

“The Unknown Fans are a
healthy tradition,’’ said Canfield.
“We just ask that they keep every-
thing they do in good taste and in
good spirit and stay off the floor.

“This is more than just a game,
it’s a happening that is good for the
student body and the faculty,’’ said
Canfield. ‘‘It’s great to see everyone
out and enjoying themselves at an
athletic event."’

‘We need a big ODAC win and
tonight is as big a conference. game
as we've played,’’ said Hatfield. ‘‘To
get a big win at home in front of a
big crowd would put us back on the
Tight track.’’

+ _——
. Aluin Opunis Toman
—_ We Sell the Best Seats in the House
; : DENON SONY
Winter Clearance Sale ADCOM ALPINE
. B&O OPTONICA
‘ ; KEF cwo
: Suits & Sportcoats 20-50% Off Dress Pants 20-50% Off oN CNALaLeT
Outerwear 30% Off Sweaters 30% Off
; Group of Sport Shirts Price Flannel & Chamois Shirts 25% Off  SWeAeIpIEeD a
, Top Coats 30% Off One Rack of Ties Price ie

i Welcome
| t

" 7 With Student I.D.

  

Group of Shoes Price

Other Reductions

Since 1963
Student Charge

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones

703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

Standard 10% Discount

aa

Corduroy Pants Price
Scarves, Turtlenecks, Glove, PJ’s 25% Off

 
   

 

 

O

   
 

——?

yaaa

!

    
 

 

 
     
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

SS

He

Geucm@® FINE ITALIAN CUISINE
24 North Main Street

‘ Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the confidence that we don’t have

 

 

       
      
     
   
          
   
   
   
  
 

 

- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER
- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 
 
 

MasterCard

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee — z a” :
George’s
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6: Fri. 8-5

 

  

d)

  

 
    
      
  
  

Applications
For Dormitory
Counselors and

Resident Assistants
Are Being Accepted
Until January 17, 1991

Information &
Application Forms
Are Available in
Dean Ruscio’s Office
Payne #4,

 

  
 
       
   
  
 

  
      
   

unknown, the will make themselves

   

115 S. Main St., Lexington

463-2742

GRADUATE PROGRAM IN PHYSIOLOGY

University of North Carolina
At Chapel Hill

neurophysilogy
molecular e

cardiovascular and renal physiology

cellular physiology
molecular biology and biotechnology

The Department of Physiology offers an outstanding program for qualified applicants
interested in doctoral study and research. All admitted students receive assistantships
valued at $12,000/year. For more information, contact

David Millhorn, Director of Graduate Studies
Department of Physiology, CB #7545
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Chapel Hill, North Carolina 27514
Telephone: 919-966-1204

 

Washington & Lee University
Una Vox Editor Position Description

Eligibility: Any Washington and Lee Student

Position Title: Editor of Una Vox

Department: Office of Minority and International Affairs
Reports to: Coordinator of Minority Affairs, Terry Grant
Earnings: A stipend is provided

Major Function:

The Student Editor is principally responsible for the bi-annual pub-
lication of Una Vox, the Multi-Cultural Newsletter of Washington
and Lee University.

Responsibilities:

Recruits reporters and works with Univeristy photographer in mak-
ing photograph assignments; creates, up-
dates, the guidelines for staff; and supervises the staff in their per-

formance of duties. The Editor is responsible to the Coordinator of
Minority Affairs.

Experience Necessary:

This position requires editorial knowledge gained through formal
course work, extra curricular activities, or interships.

Interested person please submit a letter of application to the of-

fice of Minority and International Affairs by Monday, January
21, 1991.

 
W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, January 10, 1991

 

W&L student back in grade school

Spanish-speaking sophomore shares skill with small students

 

By Ashley Harper
Staff Reporter

 

A Washington and Lee sopho-
more has gone back to elementary
school.

Andrew Roper is sharing his per-
sonal experiences and knowledge of
Spanish speaking countries to teach
Fairfield Elementary School third and
fourth graders.

“This is the right age to intro-
duce a foreign language because their
interest will spark, and they will
continue it in junior high and high
school,’’ said Roper.

Roper said the course aim is to
familiarize the students with . Span-
ish and the Latin American cultures.

Each class period is split into
different sections. The students leam
about culture, help each other review
previous material and then leam new
information.

‘‘We start them out with the
basics such as ‘What is your name?”’,
and ‘How are you,” said Roper.
‘Then we teach them what they want
to learn.”’

Roper has taught the elementary
school children movie titles and mu-
sic lyrics. He has also taught them
how to say Teenage Mutant Ninja

 

More Far Se Career. «

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. The Authoritative Calvin & Hobbes, by Bill Watterson.
(Andrews & McMeel, $12.95.) More Calin & Hobbes cartoons. _

2. Wiener Dog Art, by Gary Larson. (Andrews & McMeel, $7.95.)

3. Dawn, by V.C. Andrews. (Pocket, $5.95.) Young girl is thrust
into an evil web of unspoken sins.

4. All Really Need to Know | Learned in Kindergarten, by Robert
_Fulghum. (Ivy, $5.95.) Uncommon thoughts on common things. _

5. Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, by Steven R. Covey.
(Fireside, $9.95.) Guide to personal fulfillment.

 

6. The “Late Night with David Letterman” Book of Top Ten
Lists, by David Letterman, et al. (Pocket, $8.95)

 

7. All [Need to Know | Leamed from my Cat, by Suzy Becker.
(Workman, $5.95.) Illustrated precepts of a wise feline.

 

"8. The Joy Luck Club, by Amy Tan. (Ivy, $5.95.) Destinies of
Chinese immigrant women and their Chinese-

9. A Brief History of Time, by Stephen W. Hawking.
(Bantam, $9.95.) Theory on the origins of the cosmos.

American daughters.

 

10. The Dark Half, by Stephen King. (NAL/Signet, $5.95.)
After being destroyed by his writer, his pseudonym runs amok.

Compied by The Chroncie of Higher Educaton bom etormaton supsied by cotege sires twoughout fe county Decemeer 15, 1980 c

New & Recommended

A personal selection of Mimi Riggs, Student Supply Stores, NC State Univ, Raleigh, NC

The Emperor's New Mind, by Roger Penrose. (Penguin, $12.95.)
Penrose explains his view that there are facets of human thinking that
never can be emulated by a machine.

 

Mystery, by Peter Straub. (Signet, $5.59.)

Compelling mystery set on a tiny Caribbean island.

Foucault’s Pendulum, by Umberto Eco. (Ballantine, $6.95.)
Obscure bits of knowledge are fed into a computer with incredible

 

ASSOCIATION OF AMERICAN PUBLISHERS/MATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE STORES

 

 

Turtles and cowabunga.

‘*Visual aids are great so we use
globes to find the country we are
talking about,’’ said Roper. ‘‘We
also play games in Spanish. Keep it
fun and they do great!”’

Roper has taken four courses in
Latin American history while at
W&L. He spent his high school sum-
mers in Central America and also
travelled there during last Thanksgiv-
ing break.

While in high school, Roper be-
came involved in a high school fac-
tion of the Peace Corps which trav-
elled to Central America. Roper spent
summer 1986 in Costa Rica, summers

Dreams So Real |
reaches Gloryline

 

By Andrew Keller
Staff Reporter

 

With the increasing popularity of
Athens and Atlanta based bands like
Drivin’ and Cryin’ and the Black
Crowes, it was shrewd of Dreams So
Real to release their second album,
Gloryline, as a successful follow-up
to Rough Night in Jericho.

Although there were no changes
in the membership of this trio, the
band did change from producer Bill
Drescher to Joe Hardy. While the
Drescher album is alright, its sound
tends to lean toward the washy pling
pling feel of older REM. This style
coupled with songs as unimaginative
and chugging as the Smithereens
created a very average debut record.

Hardy however took Dreams So
Real back to the roots U2 didn’t
know they had by recording in Mem-
phis. Hopefully it was this move
from L.A. and not the manipulations
of a hit-record hungry producer that
inspired the John Cougar rhythms and
melodies that appear on this album.

Unfortunately though, __ their
change in songwriting seems to stem
from the varying degrees in which
they borrow other peoples music.

 

 

 

Positions available at
The Ring-tum Pht:

Business Manager - Apply NOW.

Submit letter of interest
to Phi office ASAP.

Talkback Reporter - Apply NOW.

Position presently open.
Call the Phi office or
talk to a staff member.

Editor - Applications will be

accepted beginning in March.
Watch for details.

All majors welcome.
Looks great on a resume!

 

 

 

 

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR

ERIDAY JANUARY IL 1

 

Drop/Add ends at 4:30.

8pm FILM SOCIETY: Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown (Spain, 1988), directed by Pedro Almodovar.

1987 and 1989 in Mexico, and sum- Classroom “A,” Lewis Hall. Public invited
mer 1988 in Paraguay. '
During Thanksgiving break, Rop- ,
SATURDAY, JANUARY 12

er and members of a Dr. Parker
history class travelled to Costa Rica
to present papers at the border rela-
tions academic convention.

‘‘We were the only undergradu-
ates at the convention, ’’said Roper. | sursp

Roper presented his paper to the
convention in Spanish on the topic of
border relations between Guatemala
and Mexico during the Mexican Rev-

I p.m
2 p.m
8 p.m

OPERA BROADCAST: Rigoletto (Verdi). WLUR-FM (91.5).

BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Virginia Wesleyan, Warner Center. a

FILM SOCIETY: Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown (Spain, 1988), directed by Pedro
Almodovar. Classroom “A,” Lewis Hall. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: WRESTLING: Davidson Triangular; SWIMMING (M&W): U.N.C. Charlotte.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Cover Letter/Resume Workshop. Room 109, University Center.
AWAY ATHLETICS: BASKETBALL: Eastern Mennonite.

4p.m

olution years 1910-1915. After the = [4i};)~ CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Resume Critique. CD&P Office. ,
three-day conference, the group trav-
elled extensively through Central ,
America. THURSDAY JANUARY 7 s
4p.m CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Interview Workshop. Room 109, University Center. A
Sp.m CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: N. Rick Heatley, associate dean of students and director of career services at

WAL. Room 401, Howe Hall. Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402. Public invited.
RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: Brothers Karamazov. Room 327, Commerce School. \
BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Emory & Henry, Warner Center.

7:30 p.m
7:30 p.m,

FRIDAY, JANUARY 18
12:15 p.m. FOUNDERS’ DAY/ODK CONVOCATION. Address to be given by W&L President John D. Wilson.

Lee Chapel. (Adjusted class schedule.) K
7:00 p.m. — LECTURE: 2nd Annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr, Memorial Lecture on Justice and Non-violent Social

Change. Robert Michael Franklin Jr., Candler School of Theology, Emory University. Lee Chapel. Public invited
OPEN REHEARSAL: University-Rockbridge Symphony Orchestra, University Choruses, and pianist Timothy

Gaylard, conducted by Robert Shaw. Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts. Public invited.

For reservations, call 463-8000. \

7:30 p.m.

While many of the songs sound only
eerily familiar, others are blatant rip-

8 p.m GALLERY LECTURE/RECEPTION: Masako Miyata and Steve Zapton. duPont Gallery. Public invited.
offs. The first part of Faith for exam- {8 p.m. S.A.B. CONCERT: Stanley Jordan, guitarist, Doremus Gymnasium. Tickets available at the door. ‘
ple is an unashamed steal of the
Allman Brothers classic, Can’t You :
See. However the Pretenders,  |sarurpay. JANUARY 19 (
Hendrix, and Zeppelin influence may a
amount to no more than coincidence. |i0am.to _LENFEST CENTER OPEN HOUSE: Open House and Tours of W&L's new Lenfest Center for the \

I p.m. Performing Arts. Public invited.

z On this disc, Dre ; So Real AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: BASKETBALL: Randolph-Macon; WRESTLING: York Invitational; SWIMMING] ‘
includes a cover song written by Pete (M&W): Georgetown: INDOOR TRACK (M&W): Va. Tech. Invitational.

Ham for the late great Badfinger. Its 4
familiar melody helps the listener
appreciate the bands unique sound, | cunpay, JANUARY 20
unhindered by the intimidation of 2:30 p.m ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: The Joseph Holmes Chicago Dance Theatre.
completely new music. eee

However, while they are illuminat-
ing their creative growth in sound,
they are simultaneously conceding a
certain lack of songwriting originality. | MOSPAYIANUARY21 '

- ? Martin Luther King Jr. Day. é
Technically speaking, the members CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Deadline for Resume Drop V (Feb. companies.)
are not virtuosos. All the songs are

4:30 p.m
CD&P Office.

8 p.m, MARTIN LUTHER KING PROGRAM: First Baptist Church, 103 N. Main St. Students will speak on “What
good but fairly straightforward. The “The Dream’ Means to Me.” Music provided, Reception to follow in Church Hall. Public invited,
lyrics, however, are the most ambi-
tious part of the songs.
For the most part, they contain ies \
poignant, meaningful messages. The 8 p.m. CONCERT GUILD: Aequalis Ensemble. Lenfest Center.

AWAY ATHLETICS: BASKETBALL: Hampden-Sydney. )

words are composed mainly of reli-
gious imagery and analogies to the
slipping of time. This writing style
is an effective vehicle for expressing
the band’s concern for the future, a
theme that permeates this album.

9:30a.m. | MUSIC SEMINAR: “The Business of Music,” Aequalis Ensemble. Lenfest Center. Public invited.

 

 

 

  
       
     
    

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 err one”
OWN FRONT) jmadjmemfigure
463-3106 167 S. Main St. thatout!
Welcome Back Students

1991 Is Here!

Don’t forget to stop by and open up a student charge account this
year! We'll be glad to send bills home to Mom & Dad!! Stop by today!
Serving The W&L Community

For Over 35 Years

  
   
  

    
     
    
   
   

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

Nationwide is or your side

 
 
 
 

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN

  
     
 
    
 

oH Doreen, es ; Sig FERED uf we B87? ani aug PE AR ‘
NIGHT ; OWL , MUSIC: 203 South Main Street
MNT ee ee ee ‘ mabe be Jae Lexington, VA

- Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

 

11 S. Randolph Street
464-4050

 

We Buy & Sell Used CDs

 

 

TIME’ |

Rolling Stone.
Premiere. \
National Review.
Town & Country.
Elle.
Connoiseur.
Architectural Digest. \
Metropolitan Home.
Omni.
Discover.
Smithsonian.
The Atlantic.
Lear's.
ner
logue.
Cosmopolitan.
New York.
Gourmet.
—= Illustrated.
porting News.
Spy.

Dt

a mar

r
Te. ee A

POSTMARKS

See the Officer Selection Team & PLEASURES

between 11 AM and 1 PM
at the University Center
on January 14, 1991
or call for an appointment at
1-800-542-5851.

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 a.m.- 6 p.m.
Sunday Noon - 6 p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

¢

“The liberation of Kuwait has begun”

Che King-tum Phi -

JAN 18 199]

 

" VOLUME 90, NO. 16

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

W&L student

Fr

 

' By Greg Patterson and John Foster
Of The Ring-tum Phi staff

A Washington and Lee sophomore

» Was arrested last week at the Sigma
Phi Epsilon house on charges of

* smuggling and possession of drugs.

; Ulysses

Shiu-ting Hui
* was arrested
Thursday _ by
federal agents
+ after accepting
a package
containing
» about one

ounce of
‘ hashish that he

sent himself
from his home
+ in Hong Kong. Ulysses Hul

After Hui was arrested, he gave
the agents permission to search his
+ room, where they found approximate-
ly three ounces of marijuana.

The package of hashish was sent
, to Lexington by Hui while he was

home over Christmas break. Although
’ Hui lives in Hong Kong, he is a U.S.

citizen.
Customs agent David Borden said
‘ officials in Alaska discovered the
hashish during a routine search as
Hui’s package entered the country.
) According to John Flippen, former
president of SPE, a Treasury agent
’ came to the house Thursday disguised
« as a Federal Express delivery man.

After Hui signed for the package, the
’ agent identified himself and placed
Hui under arrest.

Hui spent Thursday night in the
Rockbridge County jail in Lexington.
1 He was arraigned before a U.S.
magistrate in Harrisonburg on Friday
and spent the weekend in the
, Rockingham County jail.

Hui was released on Monday on
* $150,000 property bond after a
hearing in U.S. District Court in

 

 

 

 

 

arrested on
drug charges

. Sophomore suspected
‘of possession,

smuggling

Charlottesville. Hui’s parents flew to
the U.S. to post his bond, according
to Flippen.

Hui’s preliminary hearing is
scheduled for Jan. 28. Meanwhile, he
is under the supervision of federal
probation officers, according to Rob-
ert Harper of the probation office,
and must ‘‘be on good behavior.’

Borden said Hui could still face
state drug charges. ‘‘It would not be
double jeopardy for the state to press
charges. That is for the state attorney
to decide,”’ said Borden.

Borden said the marijuana found
in Hui’s room filled ‘‘three-quarters
of a Ziploc bag’’ and might be
enough to support an intent to
distribute charge.

In a letter of apology to members
of SPE, Hui said the maximum
possible sentence he could face is
five years in prison.

Despite his arrest, Hui has not
withdrawn from W&L. According to
Flippen, Hui is still attending classes
and is living outside of Lexington.
He was expelled from SPE Thursday
night after his arrest.

"At this point, he continues to be
enrolled at W&L," said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison. "I have talked
to his mother about his status."

Hui’s case will go before the
Student Conduct Committee, Howison
said. The SCC will have to-determine
if Hui planned to distribute the drugs.

"Obviously, if there was the intent
to distribute drugs, the consequences
could be worse than simple posses-
sion,” Howison said.

Hui’s arrest could also have an
effect on SPE, which has been on
critical probation since October. The
presence of illegal drugs in the house
breaks probation rules and could
jeopardize the chapter’s existence at
W&L.

Seven SPE’s opt for early alumni
Status after reorganization. Page 4.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

W&L students Sharon Widemayer, Scott Howe and Ann Walsh light
a candle as part of the “peace vigil” they organized outside the
University Library Tuesday night. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Peaceful protest

War overshadows student ‘peace vigil’

 

 

By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

As the United Nations deadline for Iraq to
withdraw from Kuwait drew closer, a group
of about 15 Washington and Lee students
conducted a ‘‘peace vigil’’~ outside the
University Library, a protest against a war
that would begin in less than 24 hours.

The peace vigil was organized by senior
Sharon Widemayer with the help of senior
Anne Walsh and sophomore Scott Howe. The
three provided, with their own money, candles
and trays of sand to set the candles in for
students from 8 p.m. to 12 a.m.

‘T just had this idea to do this because I
believe no matter what your political views
are, everyone wants peace,’’ said Widemayer.

Widemayer said about 200 people lit
candles, including five faculty members, a
W&L security guard, students who made the

trip to the library just to light a candle and
many students just walking by.

“‘There was a group who came with
American flags I guess to counter-protest me,
but after they asked me what I was doing
this for and I talked to them, they lit candles,
too,’’ Widemayer said.

Walsh said she heard only one person
speak-up who was opposed to the vigil.

‘‘He was walking by and said ‘support
our troops, don’t protest,’ ’’ said Walsh. ‘‘I
told him support our (young people’s) lives.’’

Widemayer said she thought of holding
the vigil after she found out someone from
her hometown had been killed when a boat
transporting troops from ship to shore in the
Persian Gulf overturned.

‘Realistically, I think there will be war,’’
Widemayer predicted.

‘IT know President Bush will never know
we lit candles, but I just hope somehow war
will be avoided.”’

 

 

JANUARY 17, 1991

Students
to organize
city boycott

New state law would
prohibit taxing student: cars

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

A student boycott of Lexington city businesses in
protest to the tax on student vehicles was endorsed unan-
imously by student leaders this week and is scheduled to
begin Monday.

Meanwhile the Virginia state senate yesterday pas-
sed a house bill 28-11 ‘‘that requires personal property
taxes on college students’ vehicles to be paid in their
hometowns rather than the community where they attend
school,’’ according to the Associated Press.

The Executive Committee, Student Bar Association,
Interfratemnity Council and Student Conduct Committee
unanimously endorsed the boycott resolution, scheduled
tentatively to last one week.

The Panhellenic Council did not vote because of the
ongoing sorority rush, but PHC President Nancy Mitchell
said the group informally supported the boycott.

IFC Vice President Michael Skarda, co-author of the
resolution with Charles Kranich and EC Vice President
Raymond Welder, said last night that the boycott will
begin as planned unless Virginia Governor Douglas Wil-
der endorses the bill and it is recognized by Lexington
Mayor H. E. ‘‘Buddy’’ Derrick.

Wilder’s Press Secretary, Laura Dillard, said the
govemor ‘‘has not had an opportunity to see the bill’’
and ‘‘won’t comment’’ until he does. She said the
govemor has seven days to act on the bill.

EC President Tom Hatcher said the boycott will be
‘‘open-ended’’ in case one week is insufficient.

Lexington last week announced its intention to begin
collecting the tax this month, a measure Derrick said is
required by state law.

The tax, 4.25 percent the value of the vehicle
according to Derrick, must be paid on all vehicles
garaged in Lexington for the majority of the year,
regardless of the owner’s residency status.

Students who pay a personal property tax in their
hometown are not required to pay that amount again.

‘The university, through its utility taxes and
grants,’’ said Skarda, ‘‘more than pays for the services
the city provides,’’

The resolution, which contains data from a study
Skarda said was commissioned by the university trea-
surer but has not been released, states, ‘‘using the most
conservative multipliers, that the University generates at
least $18.5 million annually for the city’s economy.
Student expenditures account for 55.6% of this figure.’’

Though university property is by sete law tax
exempt, the resolution says that W&L ‘‘compensates the
city through various grants - moneys the University is
not legally bound to pay.”’

QO) Please see BOYCOTT page 4

EC to study new White Book wording

SCC chairman says broader definitions could cause jurisdictional problems

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

Certain cases of student misconduct
might be handled by the Executive Committee
instead of other school judicial boards if
proposals made by The White Book Revisions
Committee are approved.

The WBRC favors changing White
Book wording that says students ‘‘will not
lie, cheat or steal’’ by adding ‘‘or act dishon-
orably.”’

Another proposal, on which the WBRC
was undecided, would change notation from
‘‘dismissed’’ to ‘‘withdrawn’’ on transcripts
of students found guilty in open hearings.

By changing the wording, WBRC Chair-
man Claude Worrell, ‘91L, said the commit-
tee is ‘‘making explicit something already
implicit in the honor code.’’ He cited a White

 

Book clause stating that the Honor System
‘‘applies to any conduct considered dishonor-
able by the student generation involved.”’

EC Vice President Raymond Welder
agreed with Worrell that the EC can investi-
gate conduct or any other matter, but warned
that ‘‘a great deal of damage can be done by
an overzealous executive committee.’’

Welder said the EC might be forced to
decide an honor accusation over a ‘‘drunk in
public’’ or find itself ‘‘running around catch-
ing drug dealers.’’

Student Conduct Committee Chairman
Thomas Spurgeon said he foresees possible
conflicts in jurisdiction between the SCC, the
Confidential Review Committee and the EC.

‘The problem of what is dishonorable
behavior will be going to each committee,”’
Spurgeon said. ‘‘It will cause confusion over
where a case goes and who decides.”’

EC President Tom Hatcher said the EC,

CRC and SCC have worked together before.

‘‘When something is turned in not under
our investigative authority or better served in
another committee, we will make the switch,’’
he said. ‘‘I think the elected representatives
can make the judgment.’’

Hatcher also advocated changing the
revision to say, ‘‘lie, cheat, steal or in other
way act dishonorably,’’ to clarify that lying,
cheating and stealing are themselves dishonor-
able acts.

Students dispute the WBRC proposal,
some questioning the EC’s ability to define
dishonorable conduct.

‘‘What’s dishonorable to you is not
necessarily dishonorable to someone else,”’
junior Bo Russell said.

Roschelle Mack, a senior, said she
favors the proposed change. ‘‘You can be
deceptive and not lie, cheat or steal,’’ she
said, ‘‘Maybe it will make people think twice

'

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

 

President Bush announced last night that
Operation Desert Storm and the ‘Liberation
of Kuwait’’ have begun, and still there has
been no indication from any high-ranking
officials that a reinstatement of the draft is
being considered.

‘My understanding is that a draft is not
even contemplated at this time for the situa-
tion in the Middle East,’’ said Lieut. Col.
Joel J. Snow of the Washington and Lee
ROTC department. ‘‘There would have to be
a true national emergency for the civilian
leadership to even consider a draft.’’

A spokesman for Selective Service head-
quarters in Washington, D.C., Larry Walt-

 

 

Members of the Sigma Chi Fraternity intently follow the developments in the

Middle East. Staff photo by Brian Root.

man, said the same thing.
‘There is no indication by the president
or by Congress that a draft would be used,”’

about what they do, like date rape.”’

On the proposal to note ‘‘withdrawn’’
on the transcripts of students found guilty in
open hearings, Worrell said the WBRC was
**split down the middle.’’ The board decided
to defer the question to student opinion.

Currently, the ‘‘withdrawn’’ notation
appears on the transcript of a student found
guilty in closed hearing, but ‘‘dismissed’’ is
noted after a guilty verdict in open hearing.

Rep. Willard Dumas, EC senior and
1989-90 president, said the W&L Honor
System has come under fire from other scho-
ols for being ‘‘punitive’’ after a student found
guilty in open hearing leaves W&L.

Worrell explained that ‘‘dismissed’’ on
a transcript makes it difficult for a student to
gain entrance to another school. He said it
may take a law student ‘‘three or four years’’
to get into another law school.

Hatcher said that if a student leaves

Waltman said.

In 1971, college students became eligible
for the draft.

‘A draft at this time would be more fair
and equitable than during the Vietnam era,”’
Snow said.

Currently, according to Snow, about 15
million young men are eligible for the draft.

‘About 97 percent of those who should
have registered have, and that’s a very high
percentage,’’ he said.

Men who have their 20th birthday during
the year of the draft would be the first to
be drafted, Waltman said. If more men are
needed the following year, men turning 20
that year would again be the first chosen.

If more men are needed in the same
year, those tuming 21 would be drafted.
This process would continue up to the age
of 25. Waltman did not indicate how 18
and 19-year-olds fit into this scheme.

‘Twenty is considered the best age’’ for

W&L ‘‘with ‘dismissed’ on his transcript, I
have no doubt in my mind that he has com-
mitted an honor violation... . There should be
some punishment.’’

Hatcher and WBRC member Hill Good-
speed believe that equal penalties encourage
appeals from students found guilty in closed
hearings who ‘‘know they are guilty.”’

Worrell and Welder said the traumatic
experience of an open hearing discourages
appeals. ‘‘All of a sudden, you're airing your
own dirty laundry in public,’’ Worell said.

A public forum to discuss the proposed
revisions will be held tomorrow from 2 to 4
p.m. in the EC room in the University Cen-
ter. Representatives from the WBRC and EC
will be present. The EC will discuss the pro-
posed revisions at its next regular meeting,
Monday at 5 p.m. in the EC room.

White Book revisions summary: Page 3

Draft low priority, officials say

the draft ‘‘in the U.S., although other Euro-
pean countries draft younger men, and Iraq
will draft anyone,’’ Waltman said.

Waltman said that if a decision for a
draft is made, the draft would take place in
the following manner:

The Selective Service System would
conuuct a lottery on national television in
Washington, D.C., to establish a priority of
call dates throughout the year.

One container would hold cards num
bered 1 through 366. Another would contain
all the dates in the draft year.

If a card chosen from the first drum has
the number one and the card chosen from
the second drum has the date August 4, the
first round of call-ups would be those men
who turn 20 on that date.

Similarly, if one card has the number 30
and the second has the date May 8, the 30th
round of call-ups would be those tuming
twenty on May 8.
 

OPINION
Boycott talks

Lexington Mayor Buddy Derrick’s insistence on taxing cars
owned by Washington and Lee students is unreasonable. However,
the week-long boycott of city businesses planned by W&L
students is just as unreasonable. Frankly, spending time and
energy waging an economic war in Lexington, Virginia is nothing
short of ridiculous.

Students who say that the numbers show undeniably that W&L
has paid more than its fair share of local expenses are correct.
Indeed, the revenue generated by the student car tax will be
minimal because the majority of W&L students pay some sort of
property tax at home and will, according to Virginia law, be
exempt from a Lexington tax. Furthermore, the money Mayor
Derrick will spend trying to collect the tax will further cut into
his revenues as W&L President John Wilson has refused to
relinquish a list of W&L student car registrations. In brief, the
mayor’s decision to collect the car tax is fundamentally flawed.

However, the boycott proposal is flawed as well. Assuming
organizers can convince almost every student to participate, the
boycott is indeed conceptually sound. The economic welfare of
local businesses is certainly tied to the welfare of the city budget
in terms of the city’s tax base, and re-election odds for city
officials. But students must realize that the boycott is a temporary
solution to a perennial issue. The current administration will one
day be replaced by newcomers who will once again try to tax
cars. It seems the energy spent on the boycott would be better
spent on a more permanent solution. One such solution would be
a program to teach students to prove with paperwork that property
taxes on their cars are paid at home.

Choosing a more permanent solution would not signal the the
students defeat. It would signal that W&L students are reasonable
people willing to find creative solutions to difficult problems. Of
course the cancellation of a boycott should be compensated with
flexibility on the part of Mayor Derrick. The mayor should make
it easier for students to prove that they pay almost identical types
of taxes that may be simply termed differently in their home
towns.

Both students and the mayor should give each other a chance.
To do anything else would be a rather drastic and unreasonable
step. All that will be left here after an economic war is a broken
community. We have much more to concern ourselves with today.

Lip-synching
morality

In an ordinary week, we would have included a story about
the upcoming Lip-synch contest, to be held for the benefit of the
Washington and Lee Superdance. As you have probably noticed,
this has not been an ordinary week and several other stories have
necessarily taken precedence.

Nevertheless, there is an important detail about this year’s
contest that must be brought to the public’s attention. This year,
each entry must have their costumes approved by the judges
before the contest. In a memo delivered to us last week, Jerry
Darrell mentions that the now-famous FIJI Love Natives would
have been disqualified under the current rules.

Our message, to both Mr. Darrell and those who agree with
him, is a simple one Lighten up!

One of the unalienable rights in our democracy is the right to
make a complete fool of yourself in public if the need arises. Of
course, the sight of the Natives romping around a stage on
national TV dressed in G-Strings may not be your idea of positive
P.R. for the school, but we hardly think Mr. Darrell is in a
position to protect either the school or the students from what
might be termed unseemly behavior.

 

— PL

Quote of the week

“That picture sucks. Ruscio looks like a caged monkey. Do
you want me to touch him up with a pen?”’

— Phi Editorial Cartoonist Jeff Woodland, complaining
about the quality of the mugshot of Dean Ruscio that
appears on Page 3.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

 

 

Gj

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

Ce FEM DW

T'M STILL HIDING UNDER MYDESK,

PETER AND DouN ARE STILL
BY THE WINDOW,

AND HERE’s JOUN MADDEN With
Hig LATEST ANALYSIS OF EVENTS...

Why we

gee
should not

Pot

 

AMAL)

Pe aay

RSMO

a

 

VA

get militarily

involved in the Middle East crisis

 

MY VIEW
By Scott Howe

 

This is my first ‘‘My View’’ for the Phi. I
have intended to write others, and I am sure that

many students have had similar intentions, I, hope.,

that this response to Mr. Klank’s ‘‘My View’’ in
thé January 10 edition of the Phi speaks for at
least a few of my peers who remain silent out of
a sense of futility.

Mr. Klank asks, ‘*What idiot would even try to
compare the current Middle East crisis with the
Vietnam War?’’ I have found one similarity which
is both simple and powerful: the willful sacrifice of
human life. As I write this, I do not know whether
the crisis will escalate to an armed conflict, but it
appears unavoidable that it will.

In any case, we have placed thousands of lives
in jeopardy. Granted they are soldiers, men and

women who have dedicated their lives to protect

the interests of the United
human beings.

I respect their brave dedication. I also can
understand Mr. Klank’s zealous morale. It must

States, but they are

“require such morale to be a soldier, to kill and to

If armed men invaded a home in this country,
killed those in their way, stole what they wanted
and then announced the house was now theirs -
- no-one would hesitate about what must be
done. And that is why we cannot hesitate about
what must be done halfway around the world: in
Kuwait.

There is much in the modern world that is
subject to doubts or questions — washed in
shades of gray. But not the brutal oppression of
Saddam Hussein against a peaceful, sovereign
nation and its people. It’s black and white. The
facts are clear., The choice unambiguous.

Right vs. wrong.

The terror Saddam Hussein has imposed upon
Kuwait violates every principle of human decen-
cy. Listen to what Amnesty International has
documented. ‘‘Widespread abuses of human
rights have been perpetrated by Iraqi for-
ces...arbitrary arrest and detention without trial of
thousands...widespread torture..imposition of the
death penalty and the extrajudicial execution of
hundreds of unarmed civilians, including
children.”’

Including children, There’s no horror that
could make this a more obvious conflict of good
vs. evil. The man who used chemical warfare on
his own people — once again including children -
- now oversees public hangings of dissenters.
And daily his troops commit atrocities against
Kuwaiti citizens.

This brutality has reverberated throughout the
entire world. If we do not follow the dictates of
our inner moral compass and stand up for
human life, then his lawlessness will threaten
the peace and democracy of the emerging New
World Order we now see: this long dreamed-
of vision we’ve all worked toward for so long.

A year after the joyous dawn of freedom’s
light in Eastern Europe, a dark evil has des-
cended in another part of the world. But we have

 

 

the chance — and _we have the obligation — to

die. It is a service that I could not perform in the
present situation.

I realize that it is impractical to envision the
United Nations’ force pulling out tomorrow and
Iraq’s troops voluntarily leaving Kuwait as well,
therefore, I will not argue for such a resolution. I
will, however, argue against the principles that I
feel have led our nation and its allies worldwide to

‘the brink of war, with Iraq. sd

 

We have allowed bloodshed
to replace diplomacy. We
have placed ourselves in a
situation where force is our
only option.

Our nation has become the world’s police
officer, a very selective and often violent enforcer
of justice. Thousands of violations of human rights
occur daily in our world, yet our nation’s leaders
seem sensitive only to those which directly affect
our nation’s economy.

Consider for a moment the idea of an
American-led coalition of U.N. troops occupying
South Africa to establish a legitimate people’s

LETTER

 

 

stop ruthless aggression.

I] have been in war. IT have known the terror
of combat. And | tell you this with all my heart:
I don’t want there to be war ever again. I am
determined to do absolutely everything possible
in the search for a peaceful resolution to this
crisis — but only if the peace is genuine, if it
rests on principle, not appeasement.

But while we search for that answer, in the
Gulf young men and women are putting their
own lives on hold in order to stand for peace in
our world and for the essential value of human
life itself. Many are younger than my own
children. Your age, most of them. Doing tough
duty for something they believe in.

—

 

! am determined to do ab-
solutely everything possible
in the search for a peaceful
resolution to this crisis—
but only if the peace is
genuine, if it rests on
principle, not appeasement.

Let me tell you about one of the soldiers over
there, S.F.C. Terry Hatfield, a young man from
Georgia. He sent me a Christmas card. And this
is what he wrote,

‘Mr. President, I just wanted you to know
my soldiers and I are ready to do whatever
mission you decide. Freedom as we know and
enjoy has been taken away from another country
and must be restored. Although we are separated
from family, friends, loved ones, we will do what
must be done...We stand ready and waiting. God
Bless you and the U.S.A.”’

Terry understands the moral obligation that
has compelled our extraordinary multi-national
coalition to make this stand in the Gulf. To look

 

aeaANY |

government. The thought is absurd, I agree.

However, the idea of using military force to ‘
free Kuwait is even more absurd. Our leaders have
lacked the foresight to develop an effective foreign
policy in the Middle East. For almost a decade we ‘
watched Iran and Iraq rage one of the bloodiest
wars of our time.

I ask: where was our coalition of nations which
now occupy Saudi Arabia when that war was

taking place? Did we naively hope that Iran and
Iraq would each annihilate the other? Is peace in
all the world, between all nations, not a worthy
priority?

We have allowed bloodshed to replace
diplomacy. We have placed ourselves in a situation
where force is our only option. For too long, we
have refused to recognize the true depth of the
tension in the Middle East. We simply wanted our
oil, and now we must kill and die for it. Any life
is too sacred for that.

I realize that I have offered no solutions to
lessen the current threat of war. What I have
written is simply my view. I hope that those who
align themselves with the perspective of Mr. Klank
will grant my perspective the same tolerance with
which I accept his.

Peace should never be a partisan issue.

President Bush explains policy:
Writes an open letter to all college students

this international terrorist straight in the eye and
say: no concessions. To proclaim for now and
for the future: no compromises. To bear witness
by our presence to the fact that aggression will
not be rewarded.

Terry waits thousands of miles from the
White House, yet we share the same thoughts.
We desperately want peace. But we know that to
reward aggression would be to end the promise
of our New World Order. To reward aggression
would be to condone the. acts of those who
would desecrate the promise of human life itself.

And we will do none of this. There are
times in life when we confront values wortn
fighting for. This is one such time.

Each day that passes means another day for
Iraq's forces to dig deeper into their stolen land.
Another day Saddam Hussein can work toward
building his nuclear arsenal and perfecting his
chemical and biological weapons capability.
Another day of atrocities for Amnesty Interna-
tional to document. Another day of international
outlaws, instead of international law.

I ask you to think about the economic devas-
tation that Saddam Hussein would continue to
wreak on the world’s emerging democracies if
he were in control of one-fifth of the world’s oil
reserves. And to reflect on the terrible threat that
a Saddam Hussein armed with weapons of mass
destruction already poses to human life and to
the future of all nations.

Together, as an America united against these
horrors, we can, with our coalition partners,
assure that this aggression is stopped and the
principles on which this nation and the rest of
the civilized world are founded are preserved.

And so let us remember and support Terry
Hatfield, all our fine servicemen and women, as
they stand ready on the frontier of freedom,
willing to do their duty and do it well. They
deserve our complete and enthusiastic support -
~ and lasting gratitude.

i a

 

 
 

 

 

 

=

«

 

'. NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

First Sorority Rush violation

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

Sorority Rush ended last night
with the first violation in the two-

year history of sororities at
Washington and Lee.
According to the Panhellenic

Council Judicial Committee the viola-
tion occurred when a Kappa Kappa
Gamma sorority member broke a
contact rule by having lunch with a
sophomore rushee in the Co-op.
Two Chi Omega sorority members

who witnessed the infraction reported
it to the Panhellenic Council.

As a result, Kappa members must
formally apologize to the other sorori-
ties and explain the necessity for a
better understanding of Rush rules in
the future.

There will be no repercussions for
the rushee.

Mitchell said the infraction was a
minor one which occurred because
the Kappa member and the rushee
either ‘forgot’ or ‘‘misunderstood’’
the Rush rules and that both were

very apologetic.

 

Philosophy

Enforcement

hearing, rather than a majority

vote rather than two-thirds

 

Partial summary of proposed
White Book revisions

* Page 1: addition to ‘‘lie, cheat, or steal’’ of ‘‘or act dishonorably”’
« Page 1: clarification that one cannot ‘‘act dishonorably by mistake....””

+ Paragraph 4: investigative team will consist of an EC member, a student
body member, and a member of the Honor Advocate Pool, rather than
two EC members and a student body member

Procedure for an Executive Committee Hearing

+ Section I.A.: procedures for the investigators’ presentation to the EC
* Section I.B.: investigating member of the EC is ‘‘disqualified as a
sitting member of the Executive Committee’’ for that case

* Section L.C.: two-thirds of the EC must vote to proceed to closed

* Section II.A.: charges against the accused must be served 72, rather
than 48, hours in advance of the closed hearing

+ Section IL.D.: advisors of the accused ‘‘may request a written summary
of any witnesses’ expected testimony, or may request a meeting with the
witness...,"’ both subject to constraints including EC president’s approval
* Section IL.L.: the ‘‘University will provide counseling (a psychiatrist,
psychologist, peer group, etc.)’’ at the request of the accused

+ Section IILK.: guilt in a closed hearing requires three-fourths the EC

Procedure for a Student Body (Open) Hearing

* Section IV.F.: The jury receives written as well as oral instructions and
may ask questions of the Sergeants-at-Arms

* Section IV.F.: 10 jurors rather than eight must find guilty for conviction
* Section IV.L: on the transcript of a student found guilty in open hearing
will appear the notation ‘‘Withdrawn,’’ rather than ‘‘Dismissed’’

 

 

Ruscio
moving to
C-School

By Pat Lopes
Staff Reporter

 

 

Assistant Dean of Students Ken-
neth P. Ruscio will be moving out of
Payne Hall and into the Commerce
School next fall.

Commerce School Dean Larry C.
Peppers has appointed Ruscio Associ-
ate Dean of the Commerce School.
Ruscio has been the assistant dean of
freshmen and resident life since the
fall semester of 1987.

Dean of Students David Howison
will conduct the search to find some-
one to replace Ruscio by September.

The position of C-School associate
dean is a new one. Ruscio said
Peppers came up with the idea of an
office which would combine both
academic work and counseling.

‘‘For me, this will be the best of
both worlds,’’ Ruscio said.

    

By Randy Ellis

Shannon Smith, ’93, Houston,
TX = ‘‘I think that it is absolute-
ly justified in order to protect our,
as well as those of our allies,

interest in that region.

 

 

A

Dean Ken Ruscio

 

 

 

On the academic side, he will
build the public policy program in
addition to a number of other proj-
ects. As part of his plans for public
policy, Ruscio said he will create and
teach several new public policy cour-

S.

He also hopes to develop pro-
grams to help C-School majors pre-
pare for graduate study, find intern-
ships and organize forums to discuss
various issues.

Mitchell also said she hopes the
infraction will have a constructive
rather than negative effect on Rush.

“This was nothing, there are still
friendly feelings on both sides,’’ she
said.

Chi Omega Rush Chairman
Elizabeth Vallotan said similarly
‘*I’'m glad everything worked out OK
and there were never any harsh feel-
ings from either sorority.”’

Kappa’s President Linsly Hunt did
not wish to comment other than
‘‘The Panhellenic council handled it
really well.’’

Kappa Alpha Theta President
Kimberly Booth said, ‘‘Hopefully we
can turn what may seem to be nega-
tive into a positive learning
experience. The key factor here
should not be who turned who in for
what, but really that we chapters are
still young and still learning and we
will sometimes be forced to learn
from mistakes.”’

A pledge quota has been set at 34
rushees per sorority. Bids will be
extended this afternoon and formal
pledging will take place this evening
for most sororities.

SCC decides fate

of seven

From Staff Reports

 

 

The Student Conduct Committee
Tuesday night disciplined seven
Washington and Lee students for
minor conduct offenses which oc-
curred during last fall’s fight between
members of the Phi Gamma Delta
and Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternities.

All seven students received W&L
social probation, prohibiting them
from attending any school-wide social
events. Some of the students also
must perform a number of community
service hours. According to FIJI
President Bill Yorio, the sentences
are likely to be appealed at
tomorrow’s regular Student Affairs
Committee meeting.

Yorio also said it is up to the
students themselves to decide if and
when their names will be released to
the public. The lengths of both proba-
tion and community service sentences
were not released.

FlJl’s

Initially, eight students were
charged with conduct offenses, but
during the course of the four-hour
hearing, the SCC dropped charges
against one of the students.

The vice chairman of the SCC,
Richard Burke, chaired the meeting.
The chairman of the SCC, Thomas
Spurgeon, is a member of FIJI and
wanted to avoid any conflict of inter-
est.
The hearing was the third in a
series regarding the incidents that
occurred during the confrontation
between members of FIJI and SPE in
the late evening and early moming
of October 26 and 27. The first hear-
ing involved the altercation between
SPE Vice President Peer Soderberg
and FIJI Kirk Sohonage. The second
hearing regarded the firing of a shot-
gun inside the SPE house by Soder-
berg as he attempted to end the inci-
dent.

Yorio said, ‘I really wish the
whole thing could be dropped.’’

Non-violence is topic
for King speaker

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

Robert Michael Franklin Jr. will
speak on justice and non-violent
social change tomorrow at 7:30 p.m.
in Lee Chapel as part of a week-
long commemoration of Martin Luth-
er King Jr.’s birthday.

Franklin wrote Liberating Visions,
which celebrates the work of Booker
T. Washington, W.E.B. duBois, Mil-
colm X, and King.

“W&L is extremely fortunate to
have Franklin speak at this time,’’
said Professor of Religion Harlan
Beckley. ‘‘I was pleasantly surprised
that he was available.”’

The format for celebrating King’s
birthday was altered last year to
encompass a whole week due to the
increasing difficulty of finding spea-
kers available on Jan.15, King’s birth-
day.

 

The idea for a lecture on non-
violent social change resulted from a
suggestion by Chip Brown of the
Lexington area campus ministries.

Brown believed that Lexington resi-
dents were interested in commemorat-
ing King’s birthday and that a prog-
ram with W&L would interest stu-
dents and residents alike.

‘‘We felt that a lecture was the
best way of informing people of
King’s ideas and beliefs. The lecture
series always seems to attract a large
crowd,”’ Minority Student Association
President James Rambeau said.

With the current situation in the
Persian Gulf, Rambeau said that he
believes the subject of peace holds
even more importance.

‘‘T hope that people who attend the
lecture will evaluate what they can do
to improve relations not just on cam-
pus, but around the world,’’ Rambeau
said.

 

TALKBACK

    

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Spring Term
Spring Term internships are avail-
able in the U.S. House of Repre-
sentatives and Senate. The pro-
gram is open to all majors. Appli-
cants must have completed Poltics
101, 102 or 111 for consideration.
Applications are dur Friday, Janu-
ary 18. Please see Prof. Connelly
for more details.

Support me

Support group for students with
friends or relatives serving in
Operation Desert Shield. The next
meeting will be held Wednesday,
Jan. 23 at 5:39 p.m. at the Rock-
bridge Mental Health Clinic. For
information, call 463-3141.

Lost bikes

Four student-owned bicycles have
been found by W&L Security.
They are currently being kept in
ihe security office, and may be
claimed there.

Lecture

Richard Skolnik, Division Chief
of the India Dept. of the World
Bank will give a lecture titled
“The World Bank and Human
Resource Development,’’ Tuesday,
Jan. 22 in C-School Room 327.
Mr. Skolnik appears as part of the
C-School’s Executive-in-Residence
Program.

Film 1

The Russian Studies Progran will
sponsor one showing of The
Brothers Karamazov at 7:30 to-
night in Room 327 of the C-
School. The public is invited.
This is the first entry in the Win-
ter Term Russian Film Series.

Film 2

The Politics Department will
sponsor two showings of the film
2001: A Space Odyssey. Both
showings will be held in Room

203 of Reid Hall. The public is —

invited. This is the first’ showing
in the Winter Term Politics Film-
fest.

Club soccer

Jamie Bruce has been elected
president of Club Soccer, and
anyone interested in playing
spring soccer, please call him at
464-5571.

Nice skirt

Anyone interested in forming a
men’s field hockey team, please
call John Thorsen or Eric Mutz at
464-5393 or 464-5550.

Another lecture
Gregory Locraft, Senior Vice
President of Hecht’s Inc., will
speak on retailing in the C-School
on Jan. 23, in Room 327, at 7:30
p.m. Interested students can also
learn about about the Hecht’s

summer internship program at that
time.

Write more

The Washington and Lee Poltical
Review is accepting more papers
and articles written by faculty and
studentd for publication. Please
bring all submissions to Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center. For more information,
please contact Megan Koch or
Ingrid Schroeder.

Outing Club

On Jan. 19, the Outing Club will
lead a hike in the nearby moun-
tains. Also on the 19th, there will
also be a mountain bike-ride at
Goshen and another on the 26th.
The next meeting of the Environ-
mental section will be held on
Jan. 29, at 5:30 p.m., in the uni-
versity Center. For details of all
Outing Cluc activities, please see
the bulletin boards on the Collon-
ade and at Baker 109.

Mad librarian

Attention students with overdue
library books from Fall Term:
Bills will be mailed monday, Jan.
28. Books should be returned or
renewed now to avoid a $5 ser-
vice charge per book.

Good thought

Postmarks and Pleasures is having
free Valentines Day cards printed
on recycled paper to be sent to
Saudi Arabia. Call Susan at Post-
marks and Pleasures for more
details.

_ College Bowl
“Washington and Lee has been
invited to participate in the first
annual Vanderbilt University
Academic Invitational. The round-
robin event will take place on
Feb. 15-16, and will involve one
team from each invited school.
For more information, please
contact Carol Calkins.

Get it out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes. Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office in Room 208 of the
University Center.

 

in the Persian Gulf?

 

 

Richard Crow, ’92, Fortworth,
TX — ‘‘I hope we don’t go to -
war, but at the same time I feel
we should protect the Kuwatis.
The whole world does seem to be

 

 

lence.

standing behind Bush on_ this

”

issue.

— Nina Baze, ’92, Baltimore, MD
‘‘No one who holds the fate
of so many in his hands should
ever commit to the use of vio-

Photos by John Laney

What do you think of the decision to use force

 

 

 

Fred Schwab, Professor of Geol-
ogy — ‘I have mixed feelings. I
am not an admirer of Hussein,
but at the same time I’m not an
admirer of war. I hope that we
are going in the right direction.”’

 

 

 

Bill Murray, ’92, Houston, TX
- ‘IT hope that Bush knows what
he is doing.’’

 

 

 
—_
‘

4

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

 

 

 

SPE chapter cleans house |

 

~~ Pa RAI

 

1,000 points

 

 

 

 

Senior point guard Mike Holton accepts a plaque to signify scoring his 1,000th point in his Washington
and Lee career. Holton, who has also been named to the Academic All-American team, is the third
member of the Generals basketball team to reach the 1,000-point plateau, along with Chris Jacobs and
Ed Hart. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Head counselors chosen

Weisgerber, Deegear to lead dorm staffs next year

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Next year’s head dorm counselor
and resident assistant were announced
yesterday by Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Kenneth Ruscio.

Bobby Weisgerber was selected as
head dorm counselor and James Dee-

gear was selected as head"RA ‘by: a’

committee including ‘the entire Dean
of Students staff, the two current
heads, and the four assistant heads.
Weisgerber is a junior from Pit-
tsburgh, Pennsylvania. He is an
economics and German major. This
year is his first as dorm counselor.
Ruscio feels that Weisgerber truly
“‘cares about the well-being of fresh-
men, and about the work of his fel-

   
     
   
     
    
   

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

703-463-3478

 

LEE fil

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

low counselors.”’

“It’s interesting watching the
freshmen come in and grow into
individuals,’’ said Weisgerber upon
his appointment.‘‘I like knowing that
I will have something to do with it.’’

The head dorm counselors coor-
dinates all 28 counselors throughout
the freshman dorms. He acts as a
liaison between the administration and

“the .freshmen:: He--also;-sits on the

Student Affairs Committee. Be-
sides these official duties, the head
dorm counselor is on call 24 hours a
day for extensive personal counseling,
according to current head, Mary
Hampson.

Deegear, also a junior, is a philos-
ophy major from San Antonio, Texas.
His new position will put him in
charge of managing the affairs of

       
       
     
   

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

1-800-768-LEHI

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
Pama ane <I

   

 

| and Accessories

AP VAP ABABA APE AP VAP hd hil SAG Pa

(703)463-5988

Right r

Ny: Ucy

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

 

 

 

Gaines Residence Hall.

An active member of the Indepen-
dent Union, Deegear would like to
correlate special events between Gain-
es and the IU, especially during the
traditionally big fraternity weekends.

Ruscio, the dean of residence life,
stressed that the selection process was
not highly competitive. ‘‘These are
among the most) difficult decisions we

have,.to make, but they are. the most:.

important,’ he said. }

According to current head
James Rambeau, the committee inter-
viewed all of the applicants on Tues-
day. As soon as the interviews were
complete, the group deliberated until
Weisgerber and Deegear were chosen.

Weisgerber and Deegear will
officially take over the positions next
September.

  

 

RA,

Six members placed on ‘early alumni status’

 

By John Foster and Jason Kelley
Of The Ring-tum Phi staff

Six members of Sigma Phi Epsilon have been placed
on early alumni status after chapter officers and a
representative from the national fraternity questioned
members on what they called their commitment to the

chapter.

New SPE President Brad Peterson, elected Monday,
Jan. 7, conducted what he called ‘‘a process similar to a
national purge’’ along with the other new officers on
Friday, the day after SPE member Ulysses Shiu-ting Hui
was arrested at the house and charged with smuggling and

possession of illegal narcotics.

Peterson said that after the interviews, but before the
officers had voted on individual member's standing in the
fraternity, six members volunteered to resign from the

house.

‘The [six] members were antagonistic to the goals of

the house,’’ Peterson said.

Peterson stressed that none of the members deactivated
in connection with the Hui case or because of drug use.

“‘The members who deactivated

problem,’’ he said. ‘‘The drug problem was a very, very

isolated incident.’’

VMI lobbies against bill

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

Supporters of Virginia Military
Institute’s all-male admissions policy
have begun lobbying the state Gener-
al Assembly to leave the school’s
151-year old tradition intact.

According to The Washington
Post, several hundred VMI backers
were in Richmond Tuesday to per-
suade legislators not to interefere with
the single-sex tradition of the school
while the issue is still before a feder-
al court.

The Post quoted VMI alumnus
Stephen C. Fogleman as saying, ‘‘Let

Former SPE president John Flippen said that the

chapter had been experiencing internal difficulties, and ‘

when the already-scheduled visit by the national officer ,

coincided with Hui’s arrest, the events served as a

campus.

According to Flippen, f x
drafted a letter to SAC recommending that SPE’s charter |

not be suspended or revoked. He said the IFC felt the
action taken by the chapter after Hui was arrested was

catalyst for the reorganization. 2 |

SPE has already been placed on critical probation ,
because of a fight between members of the house and
members of Phi Gamma Delta last October.

Because illegal drugs were found in
violation of it’s critical probation, the Student Affairs
Committee will review the case.

SAC has the option to recommend a five-year
suspension or an outright expulsion of the chapter from ‘

the SPE house, in

the Interfraternity Council has.

“swift and sure’’ and suspending SPE’s charter would be ,

a mistake.

Peterson said he hopes the university will not judge +

members.
were not a drug

the whole fraternity on the action of only one of its

“This is not a bad house, a bad bunch of guys,’’,
Peterson said. ‘‘We had some small problems. We dealt

with them. We are not a drug house.”’ ¢

the courts decide the constitutional
issue.””

The U.S. Justice Department has
taken the school to court over the
policy, claiming that the all-male
admissions policy does not afford
women equal opportunity.

Governor L. Douglas Wilder
seemed to shift his position on the
issue Tuesday when he told a press
conference he had no opinion on the
issue. Wilder said in December he
opposed VMI’s no-women policy.

The lobbying effort came in antic-
ipation of legislation by state Sen.
Emilie F. Miller (D-Fairfax) to force
VMI to admit women. Miller pro-
posed a similar bill last session, but

it was stopped in the Senate’s Educa- ,
tion and Health committee by chair-
man Elmon T. Gray, a graduate of |
VMI, and a staunch proponent of the
admissions policy.

Miller recently admitted that she 4
does not expect the bill to be passed
this year, either. According to Miller,
many members of the legislature ,
would perfer to let the courts decide
the issue, and not become entangled
in the controversy. \

Critics of the policy also gathered
at the Capitol in support of Miller’s *
measure.

One sign read, ‘‘If women can go
to Saudi Arabia, they can go to»;
VMI.”’

 

BOYCOTT

from page 1

University Coordinator of Capital
planning Frank Parsons said that
W&L, upon assuming ownership of
the fraternities in the renaissance
program, also plans to give the city a
grant comparable to the taxes it
would receive if the renovated
fraternity. houses remained in private
hands... ' ott

Derrick said the city has no
choice under state law but to enforce
the tax.

“Students are citizens of the
community while they are here,’’ he
said.

‘‘We’ve got to try to collect all
the taxes due to us. We cannot ex-
clude one segment of the communi-

ty.

  
 
      
 

 

   
  
 

 
 

 
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
  
  

   

   
   
 

 
 
  

vs e Redken © raul iviitciici

George’
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

5 visits for $25
10 visits for $39
20 visits for $70
or $6 per visit

First visit free with package
As always, we have new bulbs!

. Sebastian ( Lig
y)

S

   
 

Derrick added that if students
wished to protest the law, they should
do so in the state capital, not in
Lexington.

Skarda hopes that the boycott will
cause businesses to put pressure on
city council to order the commission-
er of revenue not to collect the tax.

Businesses, in the meafitime, he”

said, will feel the loss of student
dollars.

The manager of The Palms, Cindy
Campbell, said that she feels
‘‘shafted’’ by the student effort.

‘We really do work hard for the
students,’’ said Campbell.

She said The Palms has absorbed
the recent increase in the federal
liquor tax rather than pass it on to

f
§

customers.

Carolyn Tolley, owner of Univer-'
sity Florist and Greenery with her,
husband and W&L alumnus George,
said that although the boycott will’
hurt business, she supports the effort.

Lexington officials ‘‘need to learn
to appreciate that this is a college:
town,”’ she said.

Without students, as in the sum-
mer, ‘‘Lexington dries up.”’ e

Parsons said that although he
understands student concerns, he"
believes there are ‘‘other avenues’’ to+
exhaust before boycott.

Skarda and Kranich said that they ‘
will begin today to publicize aids tot
students as to which area businesses
are inside the city limits. ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Applications For

 

 

 

 
    
      
   
     
 
    
 
 
   

 

 
 

   

 

 

 

   
    

 

 

student Telephone Union
Student Power Union

  

 

 

 

Chairman, Vice Chairman
secretary-Treasurer
for 1991-92
are available

 
  
   
  

  
 
 

"SHOE FIXERS .
hair cut. We have three experienced Barbers. menias thew Rial audiotronics The Ring-tum Phi l
Ideal Barber Shop We can heel you and save your sole while you wait. DENON SONY wishes all
22 S. Main St., Lexington, VA 3 West Nelson St., Lexington 464-6666 ADCOM ALPINE the men and women |
an = ) B&O OPTONICA :
KEF cwD of Operation
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
CRAFTS PLUS, INC. car Sige ||| Desert Storm
a spee
DEAVERS ALLEY GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES - AL. COMPONENTS Pr TESTED P y
CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT and safe return |
RALLY ’ROUND THE FLAG! oe
Crafts Plus has a large stock of flags ranging from 4 x 6 inches to TRADE-INS ACCEPTED SPRING BREAK 1991
Term : apers Typed 4 x 6 feet. Included are United States, Commonwealth of 800) 468-6667 Individual or student organization |*
on Virginia, and four flags of the Confederacy. ( ) . needed to promote Spring Break },
FAs Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads ee ge free trips ss
a Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5 Overlooking Tanglewood Mall NOW! EnterCeaa ty .F
©) 203 N. Main St. 463-9455 LC CC phpag virus cube gga — 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke | ee - Conpes Programs: |

 

Open Monday - Saturday é |
Robby Jones Rt. 11 North, College Square Shopping Center mee :
cate aie 463.1782 oe Caulkins’ office |
Standard 10% Dis t j
‘hii mei vn tan Manicures and solar nailtips ue Friday, Feb, |

 
 

 

 

‘NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

2

 

 

 

First Lenfest
_ performance
' Saturday

 

By Carli Flippen
Staff Reporter

; Robert Shaw will take the podium
Saturday evening to direct the 107
* members of the combined Washington
, and Lee University choruses and
University-Rockbridge Symphony
, Orchestra. Saturday night’s concert

 

FRIDAY’S CLASS SCHEDULE

Convocation 12:15 p.m. - 1:45 p.m.

A 8:00 a.m. - 8:45 a.m.
B 8:50 a.m. - 9:35 a.m.
C 9:40 a.m. - 10:25 a.m.

D 10:30 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.
E 11:20 a.m. - 12:05 p.m.

1:50 a.m. - 2:35 p.m.
2:40 a.m. - 3:25 a.m.
3:30 p.m. - 4:15 p.m.
4:20 p.m. - 5:05 p.m.

F
G
H
I
J 5:10 p.m. - 5:55 p.m.

 

 

is the opening performance at the
ve Center for the Performing
Shaw, the Atlanta S phony
+ Orchestra’s music director for 21
years, will conduct Beethoven’s
"Egmont Overture," the 3rd move-
+ Ment of Rachmaninov’s 2nd Piano

Concerto, the 3rd movement of Bern-
+  stein’s "Chichester Psalms," and

 

By Marcy Brown
Staff Reporter

and

 

Poulenc’s "Gloria."

“‘He’s the most exciting conductor
+ _ I’ve worked under,’’ said Dr. Gordon

Spice, W&L Glee Club and Univer-
‘ sity Chorus’s music director and
music department head. ‘‘Robert
Shaw has a magical way of com-
,  Municating the essence of the
music,’’ Spice said.

Shaw began his career in New
+ York where he prepared choruses for
conductors such as Arturo Toscanini
and Bruno Walter. He formed the
+ Robert Shaw Chorale and Orchestra
in 1949, He spent the next 17 years
touring with that group.

E. Lee

be the

national

Washington and Lee will com-
memorate the birthday of Robert

annual Founder’s Day celebration
at 12:15 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
President John D. Wilson will

event, which was established by
the Board of Trustees on Oct. 15,
1870, three days after Robert E.
Lee’s death.

Omicron Delta Kappa,

W&L in 1914, will induct 24 stu-
dents and two honorary initiates

tomorrow at the 120th

speaker at the

-~

honor fraternity founded at

emeritus and conductor laureate of
the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra,
Larry C. Peppers, Dean of the
W&L = School
Economics and Politics.

Shaw’s distinguished career has
included a 21-year tenure as music
director of the Atlanta Symphony
Orchestra, the music directorship
of the San Diego Symphony
Orchestra, a position as associate
conductor
Orchestra, and 17 years directing
the Robert Shaw Chorale and
Orchestra, which he formed in

of the

Shaw is a frequent teacher and
lecturer in leading U.S. colleges
and universities, and has received

ODK set to tap 26 Friday

Peppers, dean of the Commerce
School since 1986, has published
two books and contributed articles
and research to many different
periodicals.

He has served as a consultant
for Northwestem Bell, Union
Pacific Railroad, and American
Telephone and Telegraph.

Peppers came to W&L from
Creighton University in Omaha,

Neb. He began teaching in the
department of economics and
finance in Creighton College of
Business Administration in 1976,
and assumed the chairmanship of
his department in 1981.

He was named Teacher of the
Year at the College of Business in

of Commerce,

Cleveland

‘ After serving as music director at | during the Founder's Day degrees and citation from 40 1978.
the San Diego Symphony, Shaw | Convocation. schools. Peppers received his B.A.
* worked as associate conductor of the ODK initiates are selected by a He has also received 12 Gram- degree in economics and
, Cleveland Orchestra, under George | university committee of society ies and several top recording mathematics in 1966 from Grinnell
Szell. Shaw became the music direc- | members for their leadership in prizes from other countries, the College, and his PhD. in
‘tor of the Atlanta Symphony in 1967. | scholastic, athletic, social, religious first Guggenheim Fellowship ever economics from Vanderbilt

Saturday night, the pianist for the
Rachmaninov will be Dr. Timothy
»  Gayland, associate professor of music

initiates

at W&L. Amy Cochrane will be the | initiation.
* soprano soloist for the ‘‘Gloria.”’ The two honorary initiates are
+  Cochraneis an adjunct faculty member | Robert Shaw, music director 4nd the arts,’’

 

and vocal teacher at W&L.

and literary pursuits. Names of the

publicly released at the time of

are traditionally first

awarded to a conductor, and the
Gold Baton Award
American Symphony Orchestra
League, America’s highest honor
for ‘‘distinguished service to music

University in 1970.

He taught briefly at Know
College and Eastern Michigan
University before joining the
Union Pacific Railroad in 1973 as
manager of economic forecasting.

of the

 

 

Tough times
for restaurants

El Cafe owner blames Renaissance

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

Despite 1990 census figures that
indicate Lexington’s population has
remained stagnant, rapid restaurant
and commercial development has
gone unchecked, leaving some busi-
nesses searching for clientele.

“‘Most of that growth came an-
ticipating the [Virginia] Horse Center
going gangbuster and the completion
of I-64,”’ said Wade Leslie, owner of
Lexington’s El Cafe and the Palms.
“In ten years, you won’t recognize
the area.”’

Citing Lexington and Rockbridge
County’s growing popularity with
W&L and VMI alumni as a place to
retire, Leslie claims Lexington has
the potential to support business and
the influx of new restaurants. Never-
theless, it is still the limited and
seasonal student market that makes or
breaks a Lexington restaurant.

‘In Lexington, if you don’t have
the student business, then you don’t
have business at all,’’ said Leslie.

Targeting student customers was
Leslie’s goal when he opened his
second restaurant on June 6. To date,
however, tourists and construction
workers have accounted for most of
El Cafe’s business. Such a trend will
not sustain a local business for long.

‘“‘We had a real good summer,’
said Leslie. ‘‘Tourists carried us
through.”’

As summer came to a close, El
Cafe began to struggle. Fraternity
Renaissance has taken, according to
Leslie, the wind out of El Cafe’s
sails.

“‘Mud, dirt, jackhammers, pound-
ing, bad parking, and whatever goes
along with construction has killed
us,’’ said Leslie.

Leslie hopes an end to Ren-

aissance, and the return of students to
the Red Square area will bring in-
creased student business to his ¢s-
tablishment.

In November, Lloyds of Lexington
owner Lloyd Smith blamed Red
Square construction for the loss of
student business and the subsequent
closing of his Washington Street
restaurant.

In addition to the problems posed
by construction, Leslie also explained
the difficulties of running a Mexican
restaurant in Southwest Virginia.

‘‘We don’t even know if Mexican
will make it,’’ said Leslie. ‘‘Ethnic
food cuts down [an already limited]
market.”

Before opening El Cafe, Leslie
conducted extensive research on Mex-
ican food preparation. He also
brought a Latin American food spec-

ialist to Lexington for six months to
instruct El Cafe’s staff on cooking

and serving techniques.

In an attempt to bring student
business to El Cafe, Leslie added
local band performances to the rest-
aurant’s repetoire.

El Cafe has faced stiff competition
from the newly opened Italian res-
taurant, I] Pilazzo, on Main Street. I]
Pilazzo’s owner, Ugo Benincasa,
claims student and faculty patronage
at his restaurant has remained strong.

Despite the expected opening of
yet another Washington Street cafe, to
replace Lloyd’s, and a Hardees and
Shoneys on Route 11, Leslie remains
confident that a market exists for
Lexington’s growing restaurant scene.

“I don’t think that, due to factors
involved, we've found our niche,’’
said Leslie. ‘‘We've got talented
people that work for us. We may
change our menu three or four times.
It’s still evolving. I have no idea
what’s going to happen."’

Law school offers lectures on videotape

 

By Tom Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

' yee

é Thanks to a new service provided by the
law library’s media center, Washington and
* Lee law students now have a unique study
j aid, the audio or video tape.
A centralized recording system, which has
: been in use since October, allows students
‘ and professors to simply call the media center
and request that a specific class be taped.
The recording is made from the master

 

   

CLASSICAL: Only classical recordings distinguished by having received a consensus of

POPULAR/ROCK (BEFORE 1975): New re-releases of albums out of print for

more than 20 years! Hundreds of new 45’s and mint albums from the 60's!

COME IN WITH THIS AD AND RECEIVE $2 OFF ON A COMPACT DISC!

(Limit, 1 per customer. Offer ends January 31)

STEREO EQUIPMENT

COMMERCIAL SOUND IN
Coming Soon

Rockbridge Music

If your New Year’s resolution was, “I’m going to learn
how to play guitar this year,” let us help you! Current-
ly stocking Fender, Martin, Ovation, Gibson and more.
Lessons available all at Rockbridge Music.

205 N. Main St.

vallery

favorable reviews from over 20 music and stereo publications, along with the Grammy and

Specializing in:
*
International award winners.
. International Music is included as well.
« SOUNDTRACKS: Classic American and European
Present.
PLUS

NEW AGE: Selections are from both favorable reviews and extensive audition, Some

NOT SURE ABOUT BUYING A CD? THE SONIC GALLERY PLAYS IT FOR YOU!
SPECIAL ORDER SERVICE

PROFESSIONAL HOME AND

The Best Stereo Components (New and Used)

THE SONIC GALLERY SELLS GOOSEBUMPS!

Old Main Street Building, Lexington 464-1100
Weekdays: Noon to 6PM Saturdays: 10AM to 5PM. Closed Sundays. ix

controls in the media center and than placed

on reserve in the law library, where students
“can review it at any time. | ae

Tom Williams, “78, and Arthur Perry of
the media center are in charge of producing

the tapes.

Williams said tapes are made for about
half of the classes held each day. He added
that students primarily use the tapes to review

lectures.

“There is no indication at all that students
are using these tapes as substitutes for class,"’

said Williams.

“Classroom participation is

4

too big a part of law school for this type of
activity.”’

Each’ proféssor retains complete control
over the tapeing’ of ‘his classes.’ i

*‘Some will ask that certain classes not be
recorded. Some prefer that none of their
classes be taped, and some give us approval
to tape all their classes. It all depends on the
professor and his personal beliefs and teach-
ing style,’’ Perry said.

Most professors, according to Williams,
permit it unconditionally. He added that the
tapes remain on reserve for only as long as

the professor allows, but that the majority
leave them out the entire semester.

The installation of the present system was

**‘done over the course of a year, and was all
done in-house. We preferred to do it this
way because we did the job precisely to our
own satisfaction, and saved a lot of money
in the process,’’ Williams said.

He estimated that the $10,000 project
would have cost as much as $75,000 if the
university had contracted with an outside
company to do the work.

Classes were first recorded about 10 years

said.

 

  

 
     
   
   

 

 
  

+

 

ing

film music from the 40's to the

REPAIRS

STALLATION

 

 

 

R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church

Sunday Services: 8:30 & 10:30 a.m.
§:00 p.m.
Dinner and Bible Study: 5:45 p.m.

107 Lee Avenue

Washington & Lee University

Una Vox Editor Position Description

Eligibility: Any Washington and Lee Student

Position Title: Editor of Una Vox

Department: Office of Minority and International Affairs
Reports to: Coordinator of Minority Affairs, Terry Grant
Earnings: A stipend is provided

Major Function:

The Student Editor is principally responsible for the bi-annual pub-
lication of Una Vox, the Multi-Cultural Newsletter of Washington
and Lee University.

Responsibilities:
Recruits reporters and works with Univeristy photographer in mak-
photograph
dates, the guidelines for staff; and supervises the staff in their per-
formance of duties. The Editor is responsible to the Coordinator of
Minority Affairs.

assignments; creates,

up-

Experience Necessary:
This position requires editorial knowledge gained through formal
course work, extra curricular activities, or interships.

Interested person please submit a letter of application to the of-
fice of Minority and International Affairs by Monday, January
21, 1991.

  

 

 

130 S. Main St.

mT

| Desperately Seeking
| Pictures of You
and Anyone Else.

through the year,

Please print your

number and event on the back of the z

photograph.

Lexington Bike Shop
Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

Turn them into the
Calyx Office

= The yearbook has an immediate 5
deadline for photographs from:
=Parent’s Weekend, Homecoming, §
=Men’s and Women’s Rush, Hallo- §
= ween, Fraternity Renaissance, and
= Christmas Weekend,

But we accept all candids ™

ago when Professor J. Timothy Phillipps
sought to allow students to hear the lectures
they missed while interviewing with out-of-
town law firms. ;

According to Phillipps, the tapes were
soom being used by other students for review
purposes, and the practice simply spread to
the point that the present system was needed.

‘Washington and Lee has always gone
out of its way to help its students,’ Williams

‘The ease of use of this service makes it
an ideal tool for any law student."’

  

 
  
  
  

  

463-7969

 
 

neue HELL eee i

    
     
      
  
 

 

 

   
 

   

  
 
 

  

name, telephone &

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

SPORTS

Watkins, Jacobs spark big ODAC wins |

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee basket-
ball teams continues to rebound from
a slow start.

The Generals won three big
games last week to move their record
above .500 for the first time this
season after a 2-5 start. W&L beat
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
rivals Roanoke, Virginia Wesleyan
and Eastern Mennonite to move their
record to 8-6, 4-3 on the season. The
Generals have won six of their last
seven contests.

‘We're definitely going in the
right direction,’’ said head coach
Verne Canfield. ‘‘I’ve said all along
that if we play with aggressiveness
and intensity, we can play with any-
one on our schedule.”’

The Generals used a combination
of depth, balance and, rebounding to
win the three games, all by margins
of more than 10 points.

Last Thursday, before nearly 1500
fans in the Warner Center, the Gen-
erals put five players in double fig-
ures to beat arch-rival Roanoke 93-
80 in a game that saw 22 lead chan-
ges and eight ties.

W&L led at the half 42-39 behind
eight points each from seniors Chris
Jacobs, Ed Hart and Mike Holton.
The first half saw 18 lead changes
and seven ties.

Jacobs got W&L off on the right
foot in the second half with a dunk
after a steal by sophomore Keith
Faulkner. Roanoke came back to lead
50-49 on a basket by Robert Line-
burg with 17:23 left, but the Generals
went ahead for good on a three
pointer by Faulkner and a_ basket
from Hart at the 14:20 mark.

W&L broke open a 56-55 game
with a seven-two run sparked by
Holton, who became the 19th player
in school history and third on the
current team to score over 1,000
career points. Holton hit two straight
three pointers after two straight steals
and then fed Hart with a no-look
pass to give the Generals a 64-57
lead.

W&L then hit their final 15 free
throws to ice the 93-80 win. Jacobs
led the way with 20 points and eight
rebounds. Holton added 19 points and
five assists, Hart scored 12 and senior
Jim Casey 11.

Sophomore guard Bryan Watkins
was the fifth General to score in

double figures. In his first start, Wat-
kins scored 12 points and had a
season high five steals.

‘‘Bryan has handled himself very
well,’’ said Canfield. ‘‘He has played
well and I’m pleased with what he
has contributed. He gives us speed
and quickness and some scoring
punch.”’

The story was much the same on
Saturday, when the Generals enter-
tained then-ODAC leader VWC. The
Marlins came into the game 8-4, 5-
0 but were out-manned by W&L.

The game was tied at 45-45 at
halftime, and the teams traded baskets
until the senior Craig Hatfield scored
his first points of the game with
16:06 left to give W&L a 55-54 lead.

Hatfield scored again after an
offensive rebound, and Casey hit a
three pointer to give the Generals a
60-55 lead. VWC cut the lead to 66-
64 with 9:47.

From that point on, the W&L
defense took over. W&L held VWC
without a field goal for over 6:00
while outscoring the Marlins 13-6 to
open up a 79-68 lead. Casey had five
points and Hatfield had four during
the run.

The Generals hit 10 of 11 free
throws down the stretch and put the
game away on a Jacobs dunk with
1:52 left and went on to win 94-81.

Jacobs again led five Generals in
double figures with a season-high 21
points. Casey came off the bench to
add 18 points, Watkins added a car-
eer-high 15 points and Hart added 12.
Hatfield added 10 points and 10
rebounds in only 12 minutes.

‘Craig has taken the change in
his role very well,’’ said Canfield.
‘*He continues to get rebounds and
timely stick-backs.”’

On Tuesday, the Generals travelled
to Harrisonburg, Va., to take on
Eastern Mennonite, and in a change
of pattern in the series, W&L handled
the Royals 83-63. W&L had lost two
of the last three games it had played
at EMC.

Hart and Jacobs proved too tough
for the Royals inside. The 6-foot-6
seniors combined for 16 points in the
first eight minutes of the second half
as the Generals used a 23-8 mn to
break open a 34-28 game at the half.

Hart led the way with 24 points
and 10 rebounds while Jacobs added
20 points. W&L played all 15 players
on the roster and no player played
more than 31 minutes (Holton).

“It’s nice to be able to play all

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

15 players and see guys like [soph-
omore] Darren Johnson and [junior]
Franklin Pridgen diving after balls
with a 20-point lead,’’ said Canfield.

The Generals will continue their
trek through the ODAC with three
big games this week. Tonight, the
Generals play host to the No. 3-ran-
ked team in Division III, Emory and
Henry. Saturday, the Generals travel
to Ashland, Va. to take on 11th-ran-
ked Randolph-Macon and play at
Hampden-Sydney next week.

“TI don’t see any reason why we
won’t win tonight,’’ said Holton.
‘'They play good defense and [Leon]

Hill is one of the best players in the
nation,’’ said Holton. ‘‘But I don’t
see any reason why we can’t win.”

“We could make up for our poor
play early in the season with some
big wins,’’ said Hatfield. ‘‘We are
very capable of beating anyone in the
conference right now. We’re playing
well and we’re psyched up to have a
good showing tonight.’

The Generals will take the floor
tonight without the services of Wat-
kins. The 6-2 sophomore, averaging
11.7 points as a starter, suffered a
scratched eye against Eastern Men-
nonite. He may be ready for action
on Saturday.

Tip-off tonight is at 7:30 in the
Warner Center. Saturday’s game with
Randolph-Macon starts at 3 p.m.
WLUR-FM will have all the action.

Roanoke (80)--Gentry 4-10 0-0 9, Pendleton 7-16
3-3 20, Otten 5-10 5-8 15, Murphy 3-4 0-0 6,
Lineburg 6-11 0-0 12, Spickard 2-3 0-0 6, Jones 1-
3 0-0 2, Scott 0-1 0-0 0, Thomton 2-4 0-0 5,
Swartz 2-3 1-1 5, Totals 32-65 9-12 80.

Washington and Lee (93)--Holton 5-9 6-7 19,
Watkins 5-10 0-0 12, Jacobs 8-18 4-4 20, Hart 6-
12 0-0 12, Faulkner 1-6 2-2 5, Gallavan 1-2 0-0 3,
Hatfield 3-6 2-2 8, Casey 2-5 6-6 11, Witherington
1-3 1-1 3, Penn 0-1 0-2 0. Totals 32-72 21-24 93.

Halftime: W&L. 42-39. Three point shots: RC 7-
22 (Pendleton 3, Spickard 2, Gentry, Thomton),
WA&L 8-20 (Holton 3, Watkins, 2, Gallavan, Casey,
Faulkner). Rebounds: RC 34 (Murphy 10), W&L
42 (Jacobs 8). Assists: RC 15 (Pendleton 7), W&L
12 (Holton 5). Steals: RC 5 (Pendleton 2), W&L
13 (Watkins 5). A-1,467.

Virginia Wesleyan (81)--Weddle 4-14 0-1 9,
Andrews 4-9 2-2 10, Williams 5-8 2-2 12, Chalk
5-9 9-9 19, Spruill 5-14 0-0 10, Thomton 5-8 0-
0 14, Jackson 1-2 0-0 2, English 0-4 5-6 5. Totals
29-68 18-20 81.

Wasington and Lee (94)--Holton 3-7 2-3 9,
Watkins 5-10 3-4 15, Jacobs 7-14 7-7 21, Hart 6
7 2-2 14, Faulkner 0-0 2-2 2, Casey 5-7 5-6 18,
Hatfield 4-7 2-2 10, Witherington 2-5 1-1 5,
Melton 0-1 0-1 0, Gallavan 0-1 0-0 0. Totals 32-
59 24-28 94.

Halftime: 45-45. Three point shots: VWC 5-18
(Thomton 4, Weddle), W&L 6-14 (Casey 3,
Watkins 2, Holton). Rebounds: VWC 33 (Andrews
8), W&L 39 (Hatfield 10). Assists: VWC 11
(Weddle, Andrews 3), W&L 14 (Holton 4). A-394.

sl

f
a

 

 

 

Political

Calkins’

Got any papers from
last term that you'd like
to see published?

submit them to The
Washington and Lee

Review.

Please put all
submissions in Carol

office.

 

 

&
re

 

Senior center Chris Jacobs shoots over a Roanoke player in the first half of last Thursday's game,
in the Warner Center. Jacobs scored 20 points to lead the Generals to a 93-80 win. Staff photo by

Chris Leiphart.

een een en MN, Er ey

Shred Center.

pp
tiger
Z »~
4 ae
ie : ji
YL
a | j \

x a

   

Enjoy winter's newest challenge, Snowboard Skiing at
Massanutten. Hone your skills as you 7? from peak to base.

Show your skills on our challenging hal Pes

Snowboard skiing is permitted on all open slopes and
trails, including our two new slopes from the top of the moun-
tain. Lessons and limited rentals are also available.

College Twilight skiing rates ($12) apply on Monday and
Friday. With your valid college ID and this ad, lift tickets to
snowboard ski are just $10.

Come ski what's new at Massanutten.

&} MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

 

|
—

Don’t Be
Disappointed
By Selection & Price

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

University Sportwear has the
best selection of W&L im-
printed T-Shirts, sweatshirts,
embroidered fitted baseball
caps and much more. Come
see our new W&L Flannel
Boxers!

STUDENT
ACCOUNTS
AVAILABLE

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

 

 

 

Resolutions Won't do it....

 

 

ws ACTION Will! .

Do it, and do it well, at the

CCR waren) ’

Current Aerobics '
Schedule:

Mon.-Fri., 4:15 & 5:30 p.m.
SS Mon. & Wed., 7 p.m.

Call Megan Koch for more information.

 

Weight

The Phi is still looking for a new Training

Business Manager. If interested

in improving your resume, please submit a Mon. & Fri., 3 p.m.

ae MWF, 12:10-12:50 BLITZ  '

cover letter to Ann Dysart. Sat.,9:304p.m. fe
Sun., 1 p.m.

16E.Nelson St. 464-1FIT } '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

SPORTS

UNC-Charlotte
defeats W&L

 

 

Wrestlers beat
Yellow Jackets

 

By Randall Ellis
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee swim
teams lost their second straight pair
of dual meets at the University of
North Carolina-Charlotte on Saturday.
The men’s team was defeated 125-
76 while the women fell 96-75.

Head coach Page Remillard said
he was pleased with his teams’ per-
formances despite the losses.

“‘Looking back at the times we
established at the College of Charles-
ton and comparing them to this
weeks performances, I am thrilled.
We are able to see definite progress
already,’’ he said.

On the men’s side, junior Doug
Brown led the way by winning the
500-yard freestyle with a time of
5.00.66 and the 1000-yard freestyle
in 10:24.78. Sophomore Andrew
Pearson took first place in the 50-
yard freestyle with a time of 22.45,
while senior Tomas Perez won the
200-yard breaststroke in 2:25.65.

For the women, sophomore Steph-
anie Sauers won the 100-yard frees-
tyle in 59.11. Junior Jodi Herring

 

 

 

 

Jodi Herring

captured first place in the 500-yard
freestyle with a time of 5:41.51.
Freshman Ellen Dean won the 200-
yard backstroke in 2:42.16 and soph-
omore Claire Dudley won the 200-
yard breaststroke in 2:34.56.

The ability of the swimmers to

achieve significant time drops while
still swimming a large number of
yards in practice is a good sign,
Remillard said.

“If we can drop our times while
we are swimming long yardage in
practice, we should see even larger

 

 

 

 

Claire Dudley

drops in our times later in the sea-
son when we cut back on the inten-
sity of our workouts. It bodes well
for later this season,’’ he said.

Although a few swimmers have
stayed with the same events this
season, Remillard has played with his
line-ups somewhat this year. He said
that he felt such an approach has
exposed some strengths that he may
never have recognized had he stuck
to a more conservative approach.

A larger staff, including a full-
time intern, has also enhanced the
program. Not only has _ work-out
preparation increased, allowing for
practices geared more toward individ-
ual needs, but Remillard has been
able to spend more time work on
recruiting for next year.

‘‘We are just a few people short
of being a really good team. We lack
the depth. I’ve got my eye on a
number of recruits for next year,
though, that could really add to the
teams’ he added.

The men (0-2) and women (1-2)
will travel to Washington, D.C., this

weekend to swim against George-
town.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Eyes on the basket

Sophomore Keith Faulkner goes over and around a Roanoke
College defender in last Thursday's game at the Warner Center.
The Generals defeated the Maroons, 93-80. Staff photo by Chris
Leiphart.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

en Saturday Night at t6 PM

Over 90 ways to win moneys

 

 

Junior Larry Pilkey, who finished with two victories at the
Davidson Trianguiar, has the upper hand in a match last season.

W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

SAARI FR EES EBS 5 ARS) ASR (OR is CPE
By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

Georgia Tech’s wrestling program
decided at the last minute to join
Washington and Lee, Furman and
host Davidson College last weekend
at the Davidson Triangular.

And for the Generals, Georgia
Tech’s addition meant a win under
their belt in the opening of the 1991
portion of the season.

‘Tt was better to make it a quad
{four teams] than a triangular,’’ said
head coach Gary Franke. ‘‘That way
everyone has an equal amount of
rest,

After falling to perennial power-
house Furman 40-6, and later to an
improved Davidson squad, 26-11,
W&L tumed matters around with a
bruising 33-19 win over the Yellow
Jackets.

Co-captains Larry Pilkey and Peer
Soderberg turned in impressive per-
formances at 126- and 177-pounds
respectively, finishing the tournament
with two victories each.

Soderberg and Pilkey lead the
team with six and five wins respec-
tively on the season. Pilkey is second
on the team with seven takedowns.

Entering the triangular, the Gen-
erals had gone seven weeks since
their final preseason tournament, the
Lebanon Valley Invitational, where

the finished 17th in an 18-team field.
With such a long delay, Franke
looked to get his team back to com-
petitive conditioning levels.

“Conditioning didn’t hurt,’’ said
Franke. ‘‘The skill level of our op-
ponents was [just] higher than ours.’’

At the Lebanon Valley Tourna-
ment, the Generals had suffered from
weak defensive leg strategies, or the
wrestler’s ability to escape from his
opponent’s leg holds.

‘There were areas technically
where we weren't performing with
our feet,’’ said Franke prior to the

Davidson Triangular.

Conditioning and leg work proved
little match for Davidson and Furman
skill, however. Davidson, a squad
W&L defeated last year, showed vast
improvement and a talented freshman
class.

“‘We beat the national champs in
football, but the other two teams just
were a little stronger than us,’’ said
Franke. ‘‘T thought we wrestled well.
We just got out-skilled in the mat-
ches we lost, but we reversed that
against Georgia Tech.”’

This weekend, the Generals travel
to York, Pa. to participate in the
York Invitational.

‘‘We’re looking forward to the

York tournament,’ said Franke. ‘‘It
should be a nice tournament for us.”’

rl ld

CL ee ae

Honor takes on a special meanin
when.you:take on the Boy dol :

bility of becoming a lawyer in th
United. States Marine Corps.¥o i
mae Mime oh ee iB yelp tel il. |,
the qualities to be a Marine Cofps’ ay
-Officer—an honor indeed. Once

you've proven that, youll get plenty

of experience putting those unique
qualities to use in.a court of taw.

If this soundslike the place whére

elke). com Com gle/g elmo) tg Use[elE

skills, we'll get to the point, .<So

Call 1-800-MARINES.

However, it’s not our prac-

deheainay, | ET g 1173
anyone,

The Few. The Proud. The Marines.

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game $1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

For more information call
1-800-542-5851

US HWY - 11 North 464-BOWL (2695)

 
WéLIFE

‘A man who’s a part of his music’

An interview with Grammy nominee and j

 

 

: 12:15 p.m. FOUNDERS' DAY/ODK CONVOCATION. Address to be given
4 laughs) because the thing I’m think- by W&L President John D. Wilson. Lee Chapel. (Adjusted
By Chris Bray ing about now is more of an orches- class schedule.)
Staff Reporter tral thing I couldn’t possibly approxi- 7 p.m. LECTURE: 2nd Annual Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial
mate with my voice. Lecture on Justice and Non-violent Social Change. Robert
Who's Stanley Jordan? I’ve heard I have a passion for music. I've ee es ee een
that question a lot this week. Here's tae Se Or 8 0g tae. 50 'h 7:30 pm. OPEN REHEARSAL: Univordep-Pockiorides Symphony
what I would have answered before when im 7 playing ee Orchestra, University Choruses, and pianist Timothy
last Sunday: thinking about it. So when I pick up Gaylard, conducted by Robert Shaw. Lenfest Center for the
Stanley Jordan is a_ guitarist. . guitar Soe i roa vie Performing Arts. Public invited. For reservations, call
’ i i m gonna play next ur ¢ 463-8000.
= ~ eh pes escape Pe ‘oe it up. 8 p.m. GALLERY LECTURE/RECEPTION: Masako Miyata and Steve
R&B stilt diiaian’ wnedis odies i Zapton. duPont Gallery. Public invited.
lead 3 Hi ical infl : R-tP: How has luck and hard work 8 p.m. S.A.B. CONCERT: Stanley Jordan, guitarist. Doremus
a ee affected where you are today? Gymnasium. Tickets available at the door.
are many.

Jordan has come a long way with
his guitar. Only seven years ago, he
was a street musician in New York
City. He didn’t pound the pavement
for long. His album Magic Touch, a
1985 release, was #1 on the Bill-

board jazz chart for 51 weeks. On it and if I didn’t try to use it in a 1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: Boris Godunov (Mussorgsky).

Sunday, he was nominated for a a Oe ee AWAY ATHLETIC EVENTS: BASKETBALL: Randolph-Macon;

Grammy award for work on his latest positive contribution to the world. WRESTLING: York Invitational: SWIMMING (M&W):

album Cornucopia. That's what I feel we all have a Georgetown; INDOOR TRACK (M&W): Va. Tech. Invitational.
But it would be unfair to judge : : : responsibility o do...

Jordan by album sales and award Stanley Jordan will perform in Doremus Gym at 8 p.m. tomorrow night I feel like I still could have done

recognitions alone. He has revolu- a lot more. I’m always looking for 2:30 p.m. ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: The Joseph

tionized the way the guitar is played, it’s great music. People look at jazz great because it’s such a high level more ways to make my music Teally Holmes Chicago Dance Theatre. Lenfest Center, W&L.

mastering the ‘‘tapping’’ technique of i” different ways, some people might of expression. I could see spending mean something to people, not just to

guitar playing. Sometimes he plays SY you have a duty to learn this my whole life studying jazz, and to be something to put on as back- Sania Littior King dh, ay,

two guitars, but who needs two gui- because it’s a great American heri- come to higher levels of eloquence as ground music. I Want something that 4:30 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Deadline for

tars when you can make one sound [4ge. — an artist because the music has that people could listen to, and that would Resume Drop V (Feb. companies). CD&P Office.

like three. I just say it’s great music...I feel to offer. make a change in their life, so even 8 p.m. MARTIN LUTHER KING PROGRAM: First Baptist Church, 103
I knew Stanley Jordan had accom- Very fortunate that I was brought up In the meantime, what I notice is after they tum off the record or go N. Main St. Students will speak on "What ‘The Dream’ Means

plished exceptional things with his listening to people like Wes that the rock area has developed in home from the show, hopefully they to Me.” Music provided. Reception to follow in Church Hall.

instrument. I own two of his albums, Montgomery, Duke Ellington, Charlie certain ways. There are some artists still hold something in their heart Public invited.

I’ve checked him out in concert, and Parker, Diz, John Coltrane...and I’m out right now who are doing things where the music really made them .

I've listened to and loved his music. glad to be able to pass on in my that I feel are on a high musical change. ’ aa as 7:30 p.m LECTURE: "The World Bank and Human Resource

But it wasn’t until I talked with him little way some of the inspirations level. For example Steve Vai is on a I think that ae a om mephont tes Department,” Richard Skolnik, division chief, India

this past Sunday that I realized this that I’ve got from listening to them. high musical level, I like to listen to _ level, when you listen to some of the Department, World Bank. Room 327, Commerce School.

incredible musician was so much a I love to be in unlikely situations, his new record. great artists in all genres — it could Public invited,

part of his work. Here’s what he Where the artist might be different It’s interesting for me to see that be Mozart, it could be John Coltrane, 8 p.m. W&L CONCERT GUILD: Aequalis Ensemble. Lenfest Center.

had to say:

Editors note: The following are ex-
cerpts from the reporters interview
with Stanley Jordan. The interview
may be heard in its entirety Thurs-
day, Jan. 17 at 10 p.m. on WLUR,
91.5 FM.

R-tP: What’s it like to play at
W&L and be an ambassador of
jazz to a campus that doesn’t expe-
rience much jazz?

Jordan:It’s wonderful for me. I’m
glad I have the opportunity to bring
this music to people, because I feel

  

than what the audience expects, and
the audience might be there prepared
to hear something new. I just re-
member all the times when I was
turned on to something new, and all
of those times really changed my life.

R-tP: How do you feel about rock
& roll?

Jordan:When I first picked up the
guitar I aspired to be a rock & roll
guitar player. And today it’s not like
I don’t aspire to that, it’s just that I
began to feel too comfortable with
rock and roll.

I felt like it wasn’t challenging
enough for me and I felt jazz was

The Ring-tum Phi, January 17, 1991

because it makes me feel like this.

might be a good time for me to start
going back and do more rock things
myself. I feel like it’s evolved to a
point where I’m getting interested in
it again.

R-tP: Do you ever take a break
from your guitar or your music?

Jordan: Well, not completely. I’m
always thinking about music.  Al-
ways. Even right now I have music
in my head. And if I don’t have an
instrument in my hands, I’m still
thinking about pure sound. Most of
the time (interrupts himself). . . no,

I’m not going to sing any thing (he

azz guitarist Sta

nley Jordan

Jordan: It’s a combination of both. I
definitely feel blessed by my Creator.
I feel like I have a talent, that I have
something to offer, which of course
would come to nothing if I didn’t use

or Stevie Ray Vaughn — music at
that very high level is inspiring and
it changes you. It makes you want
to be a better person and to live a
better life, and to bring out your own
potential. My ultimate goal is some-
day my music might do that to some-
body else.

So who is Stanley Jordan? A
man who’s very much a part of his
music. If you want to see for your-
self, the Warner Center is the place
to be Friday night. Jordan will per-
form there at 8 p.m. Tickets are
available for $4 in front of the co-
op this week and for $6 at the door.

 

10 a.m. -1 p.m.LENFEST CENTER OPEN HOUSE: Open House and Tours of

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

 

Robert E. Lee's Birthday.
GMAT Exam.

W&L's new Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts. Public
invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: BASKETBALL: Hampden-Sydney.

 

 

 

 

MMMM.

  

oh ‘

* QUICK COPIES + FLYERS

* PAPERS * BANNERS ¢ INVITATIONS

OPEN SATURDAY MORNINGS
@B PHONE: 463-1712 -

FAX #: 463 - 6918

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA » ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

 

 

 

 

 

Maximum Strength

Corn Sinutab Tablets

ae

@Giacier cLus!

Kelloge’s
es

a Ee (231

 

SWITCH TO OUR
LOW PRICES IN ‘91

Perdue Or Holly Farms
Cut-up Fryers

  

 

 

 

 

 

  

2 ee eye

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Washington State Red Or Golden

| Delicious
wpples

  

 

  

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, January 22, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, January 22, 1991 In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
378.75S
RS5 2

Vv. oro
nv.17

Hoops hits tough stretch --- page 6

he King-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 17

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

6 . : : ’
White power in America!
Using a megaphone and shaking his fist, Ku Klux Klan Grand Dragon for Virginia Larry S. Moore oe
to speak over the shouts of protesters at a rally in Blacksburg Sunday. Please see story on page 4. Sta

 

 

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 24, 1994.

Comer faced with
$15 million lawsuit

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

 

The father of Mary Ashley
Scarborough, a W&L freshman who
was killed in a hit and run accident
two years ago, is suing former W&L
student Charles Blakely Comer, the
driver of the car that killed her, for
more than $15 million.

D.E. Scarborough, a_ Raleigh,
N.C., doctor, filed a civil lawsuit in
U.S. District Court in Roanoke on
Friday against Comer, who plead
guilty in August to involuntary man-
slaughter and hit and run in the death
of the 19-year-old Scarborough on
March 16, 1989.

Scarborough, the administrator of
his daughter’s estate, is asking for $5
million in compensatory damages and
$10 million in punitive damages. He
is also asking for the $10,000 in
reward money that he originally
offered as a reward for the identity of
the driver.

“It’s not unusual for people to
file suits like this. They often have a

therapeutic function for — the
plaintiffs,’’ said Judith A. McMor-
row, associate professor of law at
Washington and Lee. ‘‘But the dollar
amounts don’t have much meaning.
The value of life has no market
equivalent.’

Comer, who now attends the
University of Georgia, said he had no
comment about the lawsuit when
questioned yesterday. Comer referred
questions to his father in Greenville,
S.C., who said the defense was being
handled through ‘‘the insurance
company.”’

Comer was released from Rock-
bridge Regional Jail in late Sep-
tember, after serving three of the
required six months of his five-year
sentence,

In the lawsuit, Scarborough char-
ges that Comer was driving under the
influence of alcohol. That, plus his
decision to leave the scene of the
accident, demonstrated ‘‘negligence so
gross, wanton and culpable as to
show a reckless disregard for human
life, including Ms. Scarborough,”’ the
lawsuit continues.

In a statement Comer read at his
trial, he acknowledged that he had
been under the influence of alcohol
when his car struck Scarborough.

‘The beneficiaries have suffered
sorrow, mental anguish, loss of the
decedent’s solace, society compan-
ionship, comfort, guidance, kindly
offices and advice, services, protec-
tion, care and assistance,’’ the suit
says.

“These are all areas that are very
difficult to value in terms of mon-
ey,’’ McMorrow added.

‘*About 90 percent of all personal
injury cases settle out of court,’’ she
said. ‘‘It’s very difficult to say when:
this case will be completed.”

The Scarboroughs lost another
daughter in a 1987 automobile acci-
dent in Wake County, N.C. She was
the passenger in a vehicle that went
off a winding road and hit a tree.
Their son, John, is a sophomore at
Georgetown University.

Staff member Matt Smith contributed
to this report.

City boycott postponed

City’s right to collect property tax questioned

 

By Greg Patterson and Rick Peltz
Staff Reporters

 

Student leaders met with city
officials this week and indefinitely
postponed a boycott. protesting city
plans to collect personal property. tax
on student vehicles.

Meanwhile the Virginia House of
Delegates sent back to the Senate a
bill that would cast doubt on Lexing-
ton’s right to collect the tax from

college students.

Organizers Charles Kranich and
Michael Skarda, with Executive Com-
mittee approval, postponed the boy-
cott scheduled to begin Monday.

Lexington Chamber of Commerce
officials persuaded Kranich, Skarda

Kirk Ogden agreed with chamber and
city officials to study the tax issue
for two weeks, then meet again to
continue discussion.

Skarda said Tuesday’s meeting
was marked by conflicts among the
students present.

and EC officers ‘Friday to postpone---~~»—‘There--was..a little bit of’

the boycott in exchange for a meet-
ing with city officials.

In a closed meeting Tuesday,
Kranich, Skarda, EC President Tom
Hatcher and Sophomore EC Rep.

DG colony folds as Winter Rush ends

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

Delta Gamma Women’s Fraterni-
ty announced last Thursday it will
not colonize at Washington and Lee,
after its second attempt at attracting
W&L women to a fourth sorority
failed.

‘*The numbers just weren’t there.
It’s very surprising. I thought we had
a gocd Rush,’’ said DG colony presi-
dent Mignon Crockard.

Crockard said national sorority
representatives decided to fold the
colony after reviewing preference
cards submitted by rushees.

‘“‘W&L wants and needs another
sorority, but it is just not ready,’’ she
said.

DG Executive Director Maggie
Watkins said DG is strong nationally

FD cancellation still

and sought a strong group with ‘‘cer-
tain standards and a good collegiate
number of members’’ at W&L. She
said the number of interested women
was ‘‘not sufficient.’’

‘‘We’re regretful. I do think there
is a loss in it for W&L,’’ said Wat-
kins.

Chapter pledge quotas were set at
34 — the number of women still
participating in Rush after the third
evening of Rush divided by four.

More than 30 women who signed
up for Rush either dropped out on
their own, or did not receive bids.

Kappa Alpha Theta, Kappa Kappa
Gamma, and Chi Omega filled their
quotas,

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy ’’ At-
kins told W&L’s Panhellenic Council
Tuesday it should make future exten-
sion decisions very gradually and ‘‘be

careful about rushing to fix things.

‘*‘We must learn from that experi-
ence and create a more favorable
climate for colonization,’ Atkins
said.

He said the goal size for sororities
at W&L is 70 members, and without
another sorority, future pledge classes
could be too large.

That ‘‘could be a problem unless
we find a way to have a successful
colonization,’’ Atkins said.

Atkins added that DG’s attempt to
colonize after an unsuccessful Open
House last year was ‘‘risky and not a
norm.”’

‘The sorority, recognizing the
risks, had been up-front with its
concerns and reservations on Rush,’’
he said.

Atkins also said DG representa-
tives were very cordial when things
did not work out.

“They were not happy about not
succeeding here,’’ Atkins said, ‘‘but
they felt worse about leaving the
interest group behind.”’

Eleven members of the interest
group pledged DG in the fall and
conducted last week’s Rush with help
from DG members from the Universi-
ty of Virginia and Duke University.

According to Watkins, those elev-
en pledges have been given the op-
portunity to become initiated members
of the sorority, or they may de-pledge
DG and participate in Rush next year.

Crockard said she plans to be
initiated at an Alabama DG chapter
in several weeks, and that other pled-
ges are considering initiating at near-
by chapters like Roanoke College or
Virginia Tech.

DG delayed colonization last Janu-
ary after a disappointing turnout at an
open house held after Winter Rush

for the other three sororities was
over, according to DG Colonization
Coordinator Kitty Beatty.

Later that year, DG formally ac-
cepted W&L’s invitation to colonize
after a DG interest group persuaded
national officers to attempt coloni-
zation.

In September, DG held an open
house for interest group members and
unaffiliated upperclass women. At
that time, Colonization Coordinator
Karel Lambell said ‘‘numbers are not
an issue. There’s no set number
we're looking for here.’’

Crockard said she hopes DG will
try colonizing at W&L sometime in
the future, although they’ve ‘‘had a
lot of obstacles to overcome.”’

She said, though, she remains
optimistic.

‘‘We’ll all still be here, wearing
our DG things.’’

division, Skarda said.
He said Hatcher was ‘‘much more
willing to make concessions’’ than he

() Please see BOYCOTT, page 5

 

Mignon Crockard

..former DG colony president

 

White Book board makes changes

possible, officials say

 

By Tom Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

War in the Persian Gulf could threaten
Washington and Lee’s 84th Fancy Dress Ball,
according to FD Chairman John Flippen and
Student Activities Board President Katie Duwel.

Flippen and Duwel said preparations
continue for the Ball, but they are mindful of
its possible conflict with the Gulf war.

‘‘As of right now, it doesn’t look like
people would be offended,’’ Duwel said.

Flippen cautioned, however, that ‘‘if the war
continues or worsens,’’ canceling the ball ‘‘is
something we will have to consider.”’

He said he spoke with Vice-Chairwoman
Susan Wooton Sunday night, ‘‘and we agreed
to continue’’ preparations ‘‘for the time being
— and keep one eye on CNN,”’

Fancy Dress was suspended from 1944
through 1946 because of World War II.

If hostilities continue, W&L President John
D. Wilson and Associate Dean of Students and
SAB sponsor Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins would
make the decision in consultation with the SAB
and the FD Steering Committee, Flippen said.

Atkins said it’s ‘‘a question I haven’t even
thought about yet.’’ He said it would be
discussed at the next SAB meeting. Wilson is

out of town this week and could not be reached
for comment.

Duwel said canceling FD would cost the
SAB ‘‘maybe a couple hundred dollars here and
there.’’

Despite the shadow of war, all FD bands
have been booked, Duwel said. The Kings of
Swing and Buckwheat Zydeco, a New Orleans’
Creole band, will perform Friday, March 8.
The Nelville Brothers had been selected for
Thursday night, but they canceled because of a
conflicting European tour. Another band has
been booked, but Duwel said it will not be
announced until just before Washington holiday.
She added that the SAB will sponsor The
Megaphonics in the Pit that Wednesday night.

This year’s theme will be announced Feb.
28, and tickeis and memorabilia will go on sale
March 4, Duwel said. She said more money is
being spent designing the t-shirt and other
memorabilia, but prices will remain about the
same as last year.

‘Students will be getting overall quality for
about the same amount of money,’’ Duwel said.

Flippen said Gary R.-Humiston, Technical
Director for the University Theatre, is serving
as a decorations consultant to the Steering
Committee. Humiston is helping the Sub
Committee Chairmen plan and _ construct
decorations.

 

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee passed
numerous minor revisions to the White
Book Monday but avoided the most
controversial proposals.

Approved revisions will, if affirmed
by vote again next week, allow three
days for a defendant to prepare for a
closed trial and three days to appeal to
an open trial,

The Honor System previously man-
dated two days for each process.

White Book Revisions Committee
Chairman Claude Worrell called these
two of ‘‘the most significant’’ changes
the EC passed.

The EC did not, however, debate or
vote on the most disputed proposals such
as adding ‘‘or acting dishonorably’’ to
the familiar ‘‘lying, cheating, or steal-
ing;’’ or changing ‘‘dismissed’’ to ‘‘w-
ithdrawn’’ on the transcript of a student
found guilty in open hearing.

“The feeling of the Executive
Committee was that we've got time on
this,’’ said EC President Tom Hatcher,
“so we jumped on the basics."’

Hatcher said he would welcome
further discussion and hopes the WBRC

will continue to work on new proposals
for the controversial issues.

Worrell said the WBRC will review
the as yet undebated proposals at
Monday’s 5 p.m. EC meeting, but he
doubted the EC will consider passing any
of the remaining measures.

‘‘We’re not really going to get any-
where,’’ said Worrell, because no EC
member will change their stance on the
controversial issues.

“I think the EC has forgotten in part
why they were elected and why’’ they
formed the WBRC, he said. ‘‘Yes, the
system is working, but the system could
be better.”’

Senior EC Rep. and 1989-90 EC
President Willard Dumas said that he
called for the formation of the WBRC
last year after open hearings revealed that
‘students had misconceived perceptions
about the Honor System.”’

Dumas said it was ‘‘good’’ for
WBRC members ‘‘to air their concems
and for the Executive Committee to hear
those concerns and see if they were val-
as

The WBRC is not, however, a cross-
section of the student body, he said. ‘‘A
lot’’ of WBRC members are ‘‘people in-
volved with honor proceedings that
believe they had a negative experience.’

Worrell said that he believes EC
members ‘‘are amenable to discussion if
students are concerned,’’ urging such
students to contact their EC represen-
tatives and attend Monday's meeting.

These are some of the WBRC
proposals not yet debated by the EC:

Philosophy

¢ Page 1: clarification that one cannot
‘fact dishonorably by mistake....’’
Enforcement

¢ Paragraph 4: investigative team will
consist of an EC member, a student
body member, and a member of the
Honor Advocate Pool, rather than two
EC members and a student body
member

Procedure for a Closed Hearing

* Section I.B.: investigating member
of the EC is ‘‘disqualified as a sitting
member of the Executive Committee’
for that case

* Section I.C.: two-thirds of the EC
must vote to proceed to closed
hearing, rather than a majority

¢ Section III.K.: guilt in a closed
hearing requires three-fourths the EC
vote rather than two-thirds
Procedure for an Open Hearing

* Section IV.F.: 10 jurors rather than
eight must find guilty for conviction

 

 
 

OPINION

In defense of
offensive speech

On Sunday the Ku Klux Klan held a march through the

nearby city of Blacksburg. Undoubtedly, there are many peo-

, ple on this campus who avidly disagree with the principles
under which the Klan is run. And there are probably those
who whole-heartedly agree. Regardless of one’s personal
opinion on this issue, there is another issue which needs to
be addressed — the First Amendment right of free speech
which protects even groups like the KKK.

The right to free speech cannot be extended only to those
groups whose ideas are palatable to the majority. As
Supreme Court Justice Brennan wrote in his majority
opinion in the flag-burning case Texas v. Johnson, ‘‘If there
is a bedrock principle underlying the First Amendment, it is
that the government may not prohibit the expression of an
idea simply because society finds the idea itself offensive or
disagreeable.’” The First Amendment provides blanket
protection for the expression of ideas for all Americans.

It is only through public debate and the conflict of ideas,
some of which society finds noxious and repulsive, that
people can truly form conclusions as to which viewpoints
are most valid. For democracy to work at full efficiency,
opinions from all sides of an issue must be heard. Supreme
Court Justice Brandeis wrote, ‘‘Freedom to think and speak
leads to political truth and all other kinds of truth.”’ It is
through freedom of speech that women and minorities have
been able to overcome deep-seated prejudices and
discrimination to acquire rights and privileges traditionally
reserved for white males. Future advances will also depend
on the availability of ideas and free flow of public debate.

The most effective way to combat prejudice and
ignorance is not to punish their advocates, but rather to
engage them in debate and show them the fallacy of their
positions. For our system of democracy to run smoothly, it
is infinitely preferable to coax those who hold repugnant
views to enlightenment through the sweet sounds of rhetoric
and elocution than to crush them beneath the weight of
censorship.

Once suppression of ideas, no matter how loathsome or
repugnant the ideas may seem, takes hold, people are forced
to express themselves behind closed doors without the
benefit of intelligent rebuttal. What evolves from this is an
oppressive society similar to Hitler’s Germany, Mao’s China
or Stalin’s Russia. To take pride in America is to respect
the rights we are granted. Foremost among these rights is
free expression for everyone.

The KKK upholds principles of hatred, hostility, bigotry,
discrimination and violence. Martin Luther King, with his
brilliant oratory, advocated just the opposite — brotherhood,
fellowship, equality and non-violence. Hopefully, one day
the KKK’s, forum will be outmoded and King’s ideals will
‘be realized, But suppression is not the means to achieving
this goal. Rather, we should allow the Klan to keep voicing
their opinions. Every time a member of the KKK speaks, we
are reminded of what true ignorance is.

Quote of the week

I'd like somebody to mention that day, that Martin Luther
King, Jr., tried to give his life serving others. I'd like for
Somebody to say that day that Martin Luther King, Jr.,
‘tried to love somebody. I want you to say that day, that I
tried to be right on the war question. | want you to be
able to say that day, that I did try to feed the hungry. And
I want you to be able to say that day, that I did try, in my
life, to clothe those who were naked. I want you to say, on
‘that day, that I did try, in my life, to visit those who were
in prison. | want you to say that I tried to love and serve
humanity.

— Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., on Feb. 4, 1968 telling
the congregation of Ebenezer Baptist Church in Atlanta,
Georgia, how he hoped to be remembered after his death.
He was assassinated in Memphis, Tennessee on April 4 of
that year.

 

 

 

enn
f i lj

i
Nits

=

Ma 7.

hy

.
a

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

   
   

    

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

  

 

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

et Chris Baradel
ee erica sae eee es Jason Kelley
ee eee Ashley Harper
ee ee Jay Plotkin
Pn I re er John Laney
I ee rea i Chris Leiphart
ms GOO gv ee vb Ros Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

   
 

Business Manager

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

  
       

     

 

Alcohol-Related
Arrests Are
Declining

Assessing student conduct in a college
community is a complex task. The results of
student disciplinary cases, anecdotal incidents,
empirical observations by residence hall staff, and
statistical reports all contribute to an overall
picture of student conduct. That picture is often
cloudy. Occasionally, a single traumatic incident
can create the impression of a wide-spread
conduct problem, that may not exist. In other
situations, a persistent problém may continue
without wide knowledge by the campus
community. Specific disciplinary issues may be
dominant one year and virtually non-existent the
next.

One quantifiable measure of student conduct
at Washington and Lee is the student arrest
record in the City of Lexington. In this area, the
most recent figures for Washington and Lee
students arrested in Lexington for alcohol-related
incidents indicate a positive tread.

In the Fall Term 1988, 65 Washington and
Lee students were arrested in Lexington for
possession of alcoholic beverages/drinking in
public. The total for the Fall Term 1989 was 53.
This past Fall Term 1990, the number dropped to
24, a significant 63% reduction. In the area of
DUI, the number of Washington and Lee students
arrested dropped from 13 in the Fall Term 1988
to 8 this past Fall Term, although 8 DUI arrests
are still 8 too many.

My purpose in conveying this information is
that I believe an awareness of disciplinary issues
is an important factor in promoting responsible
behavior in our community. I hope we can all
work together to live up to the high standards
inherent in the heritage and mission of
Washington and Lee,

Sincerely,
David Howison
Dean of Students

Co-op Credit Is
Not Indefinite

I am writing to inform members of the
University community about a problem we are
having in the snack bar. Over the years we have

had a policy in the Snack Bar that if any
University ‘‘forgot’’ their

member of our

money, we have allowed them to make a

purchase so long as they returned, no later than

the next day, with payment. This liberal policy,

which is based on the honor system, has gotten
out of hand. Every day members of our staff

observe students taking food; candy, ice cream,
and beverages and walking away without making
any effort to pay. In the past, students used to
at least used to inform the cashier that they had
forgotten their money and asked if they could
come back and pay. I have the impression now
that students genuinely believe they do not need
money when they come into the Snack Bar.
Because of our unique honor system, they believe
they can come, take what they want, not tell
anyone and come back and pay at some time
convenient to them. This is not the policy.

The policy is as follows: Any person wishing
to make a purchase in the Snack Bar must do so
with his/her University Card or cash. If a
situation does arise when a member of the
University community finds that upon arriving at
the Snack Bar, they have forgotten their wallet,
they may get in the cashier line, and leave their

name with the cashier and the dollar amount of

the purchase. That person should then come back
and pay within 24 hours. I stress that this must
be the exception and not the rule.

Donald Burch, Manager
Snack Bar

 

LETTERS

Amnesty Boss
Chides Bush

Last week, The Ring-Tum Phi printed a letter
from President Bush concerning America’s role
in the Gulf which made reference to an Amnesty
International report. What follows is an
abbreviated response from John G. Healy,
executive director of Amnesty International
U.S.A.

Amnesty published its report on the Iraqi
Government’s gross human rights violations for
one purpose: to advance the protection of human
rights. By publicizing such abuses, the movement.
generates public pressure and _ international
protest. However, the United States public should
not tolerate selective indignation by its own
government.

Iraqi soldiers’ behavior in Kuwait does not

constitute a sudden shift to the brutal side. Iraqi
civilians have suffered such cruel treatment by
government personnel for more than a decade, as
detailed in numerous Amnesty Intemational
reports. There was no presidential indignation, for
example, in 1989, when Amnesty released its
findings about the torture of Iraqi children. And
just a few weeks before the invasion of Kuwait,
the Bush Administration refused to conclude that
Iraq had engaged in a consistent pattem of gross
human rights violations.

Tomorrow’s tensions in the region may well
be mapped by the human rights records of our
long-term ‘‘friends,’’ such as the Saudi Arabian
Government, and new-found ‘‘friends.’’ such as
the Syrian Government. We’ve heard little from
the United States Government in recent years
about the appalling tactics of repression used in
Saudi Arabia and Syria. Torture and detention
without charge or trial are common in these
countries.

Relentless and ruthless abuses by the Iranian
government continue. More than 5,000 Iranians
have been executed during the last three years.
Incommunicado detention and torture are routine
in Morocco, and that country’s government
persists in responding to ‘‘disappearances’’ with
secrecy and silence. Our government fails to act
with determination against the torture suffered by
tens of thousands of prisoners held in Turkish
jails.

The Egyptian Government has subjected many .

thousands of political prisoners to detention
without charge or trial. The torture of these
prisoners is reportedly common. In the Israeli
Occupied Territories, thousand of Palestinians
have been detained without charge or trial.
Furthermore, Israeli troops, often engaging in
excessive use of force, have killed hundreds of
Palestinian civilians.

Amnesty International takes no position on
the territorial disputes now raging in the Persian
Gulf. But we do support international coalition
building to prevent all egregious human rights
violators from conducting business as usual. If
President Bush is sincere about ‘‘desperately
want[ing] peace,’’ and if he wishes to remove
ambiguity from his invocation of ‘‘moral
obligation,’’ then let him be consistent in his
concern for human rights.

Sincerely,
Geof Smith, Amnesty International Chapter
President

Just-War Theory

Says Don't Kill
Soldiers in Gulf

Given the large number of professed

Christians here at Washington and Lee, it would

be reasonable that the community consider the

justness of every element of this war in the
Persian Gulf. Allow me to point out that during
the development of the Just-War Theory, the
Church never abandoned its

recognition —

intellectually at least — of the absolute principle
that the deliberate taking of innocent human life
is always objectively immoral, no matter what
the circumstances. I contend that the bombing of
Iraqi troops (not missile sites or military
equipment) is a violation of this principle. In my
opinion, the Iraqi soldier who does not pose an
immediate threat to human life should be
regarded as ‘‘innocent.’’ (For those who might
object that a soldier is automatically denied such
a status because of his affiliation with the
military, I ask you to consider that he may have
had no choice in the matter and may even prove
himself to be a pacifist should he be asked to
engage in combat.) Operating under a Just-War
ethic, one should never set out to kill human
beings, although this may be a regrettable
consequence. of using force commensurate with
the threat at hand.

What amazes me most are the so-called Bible
Christians, who seem to feel that as long as the
war can be justified in a broad sense, then any
action to further the aims of the Good Side is
acceptable. Their friend Jesus was no utilitarian.
And a note to those Protestants who feel that
their expression of the Faith is a purification and
a retum to the original, undeveloped form of
Christianity may also be in order: in the first
centuries almost all Christians were strict
pacifists, and in most local churches a soldier
would not be allowed to join the community
unless he promised never to kill another human
being. The first notable theological changes in
this attitude towards participation in the military
by Christians, and hence the origins of the
constantly evolving Just-War Theory, began as
late as the fourth century with the teachings of
St. Ambrose and St. Augustine.

Sincerely,
Daniel M.. Bettendorf, ‘91

A Plea for War to
End Quickly

First of all, I would like to express my
gratitude to all the students who helped with
January 15th’s candle-lighting for peace.
Additionally, I’d like to thank everyone who
stopped to light candles. Your response showed
me that I was not alone in my concern about
what is happening in the Middle East, and I hope
the candles provided something for all those who
saw thém to think about. ;

Sadly, President Bush provided something
much more compelling to think about the next
day. However, I hope we do not overlook the
seriousness of the situation in our initial euphoria
over American successes. I cannot say anything
positive about Saddam Hussein; he is quite
obviously a menace to native Iraqis as well as
the international community. Nor do I ‘wish to
withdraw my support for the Allied troops. I
admire the ability of those men and women to
courageously perform their difficult job, and I
pray that they may be able to return to their
families as safely and as quickly as possible.

Instead, I only wish to again point out the
gravity of the situation, and indeed any situation
that involves such a potential for the loss of
human life. I hope that my fellow students, as
the up-and-coming generation, may be able to
pause and reflect upon how precious human life
is. I hope that it is something that we all take to
heart, because I know it has surely made me
think. And I hope that in the future we learn to
use human resources in creative initiatives to
insure peace instead of risk the loss of life on a
distant battlefield.

In conclusion, I'd like to point out that peace
should not be a dividing issue, for I believe we
are all hoping it will come as soon and as
bloodlessly as possible, no matter what our
political outlook. My prayers are with President
Bush and other world leaders that they may
come to a quick solution to this crisis, and to
those in the Middle East, that they may all be
safe.

Sincerely,
Sharon Widmayer, ‘91

 

1 WA SED tA MAR EE TIE IE SS 6 0 0

 
NEWS

Lips and chips to

The Ring-tum Phi, January 24, 1991

 

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

The Students Against Multiple
Sclerosis Rock Alike Contest will
join with the Student Activities Board
Bingo tomorrow in the Student
Pavilion.

Several changes mark the lip-
synch competition’s fifth year here,
the most obvious being the move to
the Pavilion and the tie-in with bin-
go.

Both changes were made in hopes
of improving student turnout, accord-
ing to Rock Ajike Faculty Advisor
Gerald Darrell. Both events were held
on the same night last year, he said.

Students were tured away from
the General Headquarters last year
due to lack of space, Darrell said.

 

Lawrence Broomall

. University Treasurer

Saddam

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

 

 

To continue in my efforts at
giving the American public up to the
second updates on major international
developments, I want every one to
know that I have recently volunteered
to participate in a ‘‘study using an
experimental Antifungal Lotion for
JOCK ITCH.”’ The job doesn’t pay
much but I figured it would look
great on a resume. Anyone who is
interested in volunteering for the
study should contact W&L student
Scott Miller (464-5440) for more
information. Keep in mind that
participants ‘‘must be at least 18
years old and have moderate jock itch
with some redness.”’

Now that we’ve gotten that dis-
gusting little joke out of our systems,
we can focus on a real international
development such as the one involv-
ing our government’s recent decision
‘to invade Iraq and kick some ass,”’
to quote President Bush. In a state-
ment that Bush delivered on his re-
cent rap album, he added that:

I am the president of this greatland,
And I'm gonna crush Saddam and his

   

by J.R. Smith

Emphasis will also be placed on
fighting multiple sclerosis. Darrell
said he wants the contest to be fun,
but the underlying purpose should not
be forgotten.

Darrell has been criticized for
imposing stricter rules on costumes,
but he insists the crackdown is not
due to his personal tastes.

Several judges from last year’s
contest expressed concern over the
brief costumes of the Fiji Love Na-
tives. Though the Love Natives did
go on to win the W&L competition
and the National Rock Alike Contest,
Darrell said judges pondered over
whether to subtract points for attire.

"Costumes will not be forbidden
just because I don’t like them," said
Darrell. "The judges have a new set
of criteria, and they will make the
final decisions.”

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee began charg-
ing Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Sigma
Nu fraternities the controversial Greek
Membership Fee of $400 annually as
they moved back into their newly
renovated houses this month.

All other fraternities will begin

| paying a reduced annual fee of $100

beginning in September, according to
University Treasurer Lawrence Broo-

1 mall. That number will be raised to

$400 as their houses are completed.
Fraternities not undergoing uni-
versity-sponsored renovations will
continue to pay $100 each year.
Capital generated from this Greek
Fee will be used to underwrite ap-
proximately half the costs of the
Fraternity Renaissance program over
a 30-year period, said Broomall. This

fill Pavillion

  

‘The Love Natives In Florida where they won last year's National
Rock Alike Contest wearing leopard-skin briefs. File photo.

\First Greek Fees billed home

corresponds to the 30-year leases that
the university now guarantees each
individual fraternity.

‘Part of the problem [with the
fee] earlier was in the area of com-
munication,’ Broomall said. ‘‘Now
everyone knows this is coming in
September and they will be prepared
for it.”

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy Atkins indicated
that the Greek Fee should not have a
noticeable affect on what fraternity
members had been paying before the
Renaissance began ‘‘unless the frater-
nity had been subsidizing its social
functions with money that should
have been used for operating, the
house’’ since general house fees "will
decrease.

The university will collect the fee
monthly through its own billing sys-
tem. As part of the Fraternity Renais-
sance package, each fraternity uses

— that son of an

puny band;

Iraq couldn't win a war against the
gangs of LA.,

For invading Kuwait, Uncle Sam is
the piper they're gonna have to pay;
I got stealth bombers and some
nuclear ammo, :

Saddam is'so scared that he's laying
real low.

It’s a shame that Bush can’t come
right out and express his true feel-
ings, but I guess that’s one of the
disadvantages of being the President
of the United States. I'd wager (your
valuable possessions) that Bush would
quit his job and become an irrespon-
sible college humor writer if he could
keep the Presidential limo and all the
free liquor.

Getting back to the subject of
War in the Persian Gulf or the
Caspian Sea or the Gulf of Mexico
or wherever, I wish everyone in the
world could get along peacefully.
Aren’t we all vulnerable to the same
emotions? Don’t we all feel joy, pain,
love and boredom when CNN keeps
showing the same war news over and
over and over? So why don’t we just
get up and switch the channel over
to Oprah for a typical show about
‘Gay Fathers’ or ‘‘Women who eat
their young?’’

Interviews and photos

 

 

Brent Vincent, ’94, Paletine, IL

“I think it sucks. It leaves a lot

for next year.”

 

 

Because we're too damn lazy to
get up and change the station or to
buy batteries for the remote control,
that’s why. Besides, even if we did
switch to Oprah, we couldn’t get
away from the war because her show
would probably be about ‘‘Spouses of

people who might go to Canada if

there’s a draft.’’

‘In spite of the fact that the
television and newspapers are brimm-
ing with news of the war (as well as
weird verbs like ‘brimming’), I’ll bet
that there are thousands of Americans
who don’t even know that the nation
is at war. Of course, most of these
people also live in buffalo herds, so
let’s not be to hard on them.

Since I am arbitrarily jumping
from topic to topic in this article, I
guess that this would be as good a
time as amy to address the fact that
I am a pacifist. Since I am the type
of person who spends most of his
free time writing on a computer, my
passive nature should come as no
surprise. But please don’t get the
wrong idea. I don’t mean to imply
that I would go to peace marches to
throw rocks at pro-war demonstrators.
I’m just saying that I don’t believe in
violence when it involves me per-
sonally.

the university as an agent to collect
money from its members.

According to Broomall, the Greek
Fee will appear on the member’s
statements as only part of the fratern-
ity’s monthly fees.

Starting in September, sorority
members will also pay a fee of $100
annually. This money, however, will
not be used to fund the Fraternity
Renaissance program. Instead, it will
be put into a separate fund that will
be used to help provide them with
houses of their own sometime in the
future. Once the sororities move into
these houses, members will pay the
$400 fee.

Although former Panhellenic Pres-
ident Nancy Mitchell does not believe
that the sorority members are pleased
with the prospect of paying the fee,
‘they understand that it is going
towards their houses. It’s just some-
thing that you have to pay.’’

itch

For example, I wouldn’t even kill
Saddam ‘‘If this doesn’t work out,
I'll write for the National Enquirer’’
Hussein if I had the chance.
However, I sincerely hope that when
the Marines find him they tie him up
to two Patriot missiles and launch
them in different directions. If that

» doesn’t teach him a lesson I hope

that they hang him upside down by
his toenails, pull out his wisdom teeth
without using novocaine, and force
him to memorize the Constitution
(including the preamble) and every
English essay that I’ve written since
junior high school.

In closing, I’d just like to em-
phasizethat I feel privileged that you
want me to participate in your JOCK
ITCH study. Wait a second, this isn’t
a letter of acceptance for my new
job. It’s the second to last paragraph
of an article I wish I could submit in
someone else’s name.

In closing, I’d just like to em-
phasize that this whole Middle East
fiasco is like a really bad case of
jock itch that won’t go away. But the
jock itch is better because we don’t
have to read about it in the
newspaper. It would take some really
sick person to discuss jock itch in an
article.

 

TALKBACK

Study Abroad

If you are interested in studying
for a semester or a year in Paris
or Montpellier, come to Baker
106 on Monday, Jan. 28 at 3 p.m.
A representative of the program
VIA Paris will be present to talk
to you.

Home Wanted

A two bedroom apartment in
town that will be available in the
fall of 1991. If you know of any
possibilities, please call 464-
3913.

Better Grades

Campus Crusade for Christ will
sponsor a video presentation and
seminar entitled ‘‘How toGet Bet-
ter Grades and Have More Fun’’
by Harvard MBA Steve Douglas
on Monday, Jan. 28 at 7 p.m.,
and Tuesday, Jan. 29 at 10 p.m.

College Bowl
W&L has been invited to par-
ticipate in the first annual Vander-
bilt University Academic Invita-
tional. The round-robin event
will take place Feb. 15-16 and
will involve one team from each
invited school. For more infor-

mation, contact Tim Gallagher at
463-5586.

On the Move

Students who need information on
transferring phone service to and
from fraternities, dorms, or resi-
dences should come by the STU
office, University Center 205, and
fill out a transferral prior to con-
tacting Centel.

Geology Lecture
AAPG Lecturer Dr. David Law-
rence will lecture on ‘‘Stratigraph-
ic Modeling of Sedimentary
Basins’ on Feb. 8 at 3 p.m. in
Howe 206. Lawrence is a re-
search geologist with Shell
Development Co. of Houston. He
has a BA from Lawrence Univer-
sity and an MS and PhD from
Yale. '

Big Three

Petitions for Big Three elections
for Executive Committee presi-
dent, vice president and secretary
will be available outside Carol
Calkins’ office beginning Monday,
Jan. 28. Petitions are due at a
mandatory meeting in the EC
room on Monday, Feb. 4 at 5
p.m., and elections will be on
Monday, Feb. 11.

Support Group

A Support Group for women who
have been victims of sexual as-
sault, acquaintance rape, incest or
stranger rape may call the Health
Center at 463-8401 for time and
place of weekly meeting. The
group meets Monday afternoons.

 

GENERAL NOTES

Classical DJs

WLUR’s Classical Music Depart-
ment is looking for a DJ to fill
its 9:30-11:30 am. Wednesday
shift. No experience, only an
interest in classical music, is
required. Call Josh at 463-2397
or leave a message with Mrs. Cox
at 463-8432.

Say Cheese
The Calyx is accepting candids.
Pictures of you and your friends
would be great in the ‘91 year-
book so please turn them in to
The Calyx office. There is an
envelope on the door.

Senior Pix
Senior pictures and quotes are due
by Feb. 1. Tum them into the
box outside Carol Calkins’ office.
If you are scheduled to have the
photographer take your picture,
check the schedule in the Co-op
for your time. Call Brooke Jara-
bek at 463-6832 to make any
changes.

Women’s Squash
Anyone interested in forming a
women’s club squash team should
contact Coach Lyles at 463-8683,
Amy Packard at 464-4581, or
Ann Barton at 464-3977 for infor-
mation.

Lost Treasure
One triangle-shaped silver earring
with turquoise stripes. If found,
please call 464-3913.

Health Education

Health Education Committee is
meeting every Thursday at 3 p.m.
in the Arlington Women’s Center.

Outing Club

The Cycling section of the Outing
Club will take a mountain-bike
trip near the Blue Ridge Parkway
on Sat., Jan. 26. All skill levels
welcome. The next meeting of
the Environmental section will be
Tuesday, Jan. 29 at 5:30 p.m. in
the University Center 109. Attor-
ney Larry Mann will speak about
the future of House Mountain.
Remember that equipment room
hours are Monday and Friday, 1-
4 p.m. in Baker 109.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will meet
at 8 p.m. (note time chanye) on
Monday, Jan. 28.

Get it out

If you need to get a message to
the student body, put it in the
General Notes. Leave a brief,
typed note in the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office in Room 208 of the
University Center.

 

 

 

What do you think of the speed of the

Fraterni

ty Renaissance Program’?

Paul Bordelon, ’94, Austin, TX - Steve Davenport, ’94, Washington, DC; and David McWhorter, °93,
‘I think it is only superceded by Springfield, VA - ‘‘Not only is progress ‘speedy,’ but now we need to pay

Center.”’

of people wondering about housing the prompt completion of the Lenfest for it.’’

 

 

 

Jason Hendricks, ’92, Houston, TX David Fenstermacher, ’91, Augusta,

‘*Let them take their time.

I'd GA =

“*T can’t complain because

rather have a fraternity house than the my house is finished.”

dormitories they're building.”’

 

 

,
FIISAAAIL BGAN AALNM LATA AAD PABA AMLNBBAPDRA BA ALLA LEADER ESF wv.

Pega CC OT STOLE S OOO aa M IS IX

¢

 
ial riences eimai easanspesenarr ana seam recmaamn anemia cuties emt ie ie iI LO AT Tie das
KERMA AAR ATOR S DEE ASOD DAD DDIAS ERDAS ENED ELLE ELLE LLE LEE LLL ELLE

CELE P PFI LHS IPP HPRI*

The Ring-tum Phi, January 24, 1991

Klan marches on Blacksburg

 

 

 

A Ku Klux Klan member is searched with a metal detector before marching through Blacksburg.
The 30 marchers faced vocal protesters during the march. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

‘

 

eM od

SWITCH TO OUR
LOW PRICES IN ‘91

ey Pai oe Pp
Perdue Grade ——

tng
Pm

 

 

 

 

Ge ase

e Organically Grown
Without Pesticides.

¢ Enhanced Natural
Flavor.

¢ Organically
_.Ba anced.

~ ay rea
ann,

 

 

J)
H
i

A
a

 

 

Police outnumber marchers, protesters

 

By Brian Root
Editor

“What do we want?’ ‘‘White
power in America!’

“‘When do we want it?’’ ‘Right
now!’

‘Who are we?"’ ‘‘KKK!’’

That was the message that the Ku
Klux Klan wanted to get across as
they marched through downtown
Blacksburg Sunday afternoon. The
chant was repeated by the approxi-
mately 30 Klan members who walked
down Blacksburg’s Main Street.

The Klan members weren’t the
only ones who were yelling, how-
ever. ‘‘I can’t believe that the Holy
Spirit would incite you to such ha-
tred and violence,’’ shouted one
Virginia Tech student who stood
about 10 yards from the marchers.

Klan Grand Dragon for Virginia
Larry S. Moore said one of the rea-
sons for the march was to protest the
establishment of Martin Luther King’s
birthday as a national holiday, which
was observed Monday.

‘‘Some of the good people in this
community don’t like the King holi-
day and some of the things going on
at the university, these alliances of
gays and lesbians and the black stu-
dent party,’’ Moore said prior to the
march.

When the Klan originally
announced its intention to march in
Blacksburg in December, several
Virginia Tech student leaders said
they were afraid that there would be
a violent confrontation between some
students and the Klan members.

With that in mind, the Blacksburg
Police Department, with help from
the Montgomery County Sheriff’s
Office and the Virginia State Police,
dispatched about 250 officers for
crowd control.

Although the Blacksburg police
said there was no reported violence,
one man was arrested for carrying a
stun gun in his pocket, and another
was arrested for throwing an egg at

the marchers.

Blacksburg Police Chief Don
Carey said the turnout for the march
was ‘‘amazingly small.’’ Both Virgin-
ia Tech and Blacksburg officials had
urged people to boycott the march.

‘Our black students seem to have
really stayed away,’’ a Tech official
told The Roanoke Times. ‘I’m proud
of them.”’

Because of the planned boycott,
there were no organized plans to
protest.

““Everything’s kind of indepen-
dent. But it’s really important for
people to get out here and show
these jerks how we feel about them,”’
said one woman, who was handing
out placards with the inscription

‘*End Racism.”’

 

! can’t believe this
kind of crap is going
on when there’s a
war happening.

— KKK protester

 

“I can’t believe this kind of crap
is going on when there’s a war hap-
pening,’’ said another protester.

‘‘When I go to bed at night, I
pray that everyone over there comes
home safely. I don’t care whether
he’s black or white, and neither
should they,’’ he said, gesturing to-
ward the marchers.

Before the march could even
begin, however, each Klan member
was subjected to a thorough search,
which included the use of metal
detectors so sensitive that even pocket
change registered.

After each member cleared the
police search, Moore led the group in
a prayer and then gave a short an-
nouncement.

‘‘We’re not here to harass any-
one,’ he said. ‘‘If someone curses
you, just look the other way. We’re
just gonna have a nice, peaceful walk
like we always do.’’

As the Klan made their way
through the streets, protesters shouted
repeated insults. Some of the Klan
members carried cameras to photo-
graph some of the protesters.

A few spectators were there to
support the marchers. One group of
five men waved to the Klan mem-
bers and gave the thumbs-up signal.

Both the Blacksburg and the State’
Police also carried cameras, and ,
carefully videotaped the entire demon-
stration. ‘

According to Carey, the Blacks-
burg police studied videotapes of *
previous demonstrations as part of ,
their preparation for Sunday.

After the march concluded, the *
Klan members gathered in a small
park, where Moore planned to give a”
speech. As he began to speak, his,
words were drowned out by the in-
creasingly vocal crowd. '

When Moore picked up his mega- ,
phone to speak, the crowd erupted
into a chant of ‘‘Go home.’’ Each
time he was interrupted, Moore be-
came visibly angry and shook his fist ,
at different groups of protesters. 4

As the yelling grew louder, the
ring of police officers around the '
Klan members grew larger.

“‘T haven’t seen any big problems
yet,”’ said Officer N.D. Croy of the’
Montgomery County Sheriff's Office. ,
‘‘But you never know.”’

While Moore was speaking, about *
20 state troopers dressed in full riot
gear and carrying automatic weapons :
sat in cars less than 100 yards away. ;

Following the demonstration, the
police escorted the marchers back to '
their cars. As the Klan members ,
began to leave, one was hit by a
crumpled piece of paper from the ‘
crowd, which stood only a few feet ,
away.

The Klan member attempted to?
go into the crowd, but was restrained ‘
by several police officers.

The police followed the three ,
vans out of town, to ensure that the
demonstrators were allowed to leave ‘
safely.

4

 

16 - 25 Count
Jumbo Shrimp

 

 

 

Deli Fried
Chicken

—

 

 

 

Old Fashioned

Borden
Ice Cream

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, January 29, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, January 29, 1991 In Lexington Store Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 

net
NEWS

aE

The Ring-tum Phi, January 24, 1991

War unlikely for cadets

 

By Marcy Brown
Staff Reporter

It is highly unlikely that any
cadets from Virginia Military In-
Stitute would be called upon before
graduation to join in the fighting
against Iraq, according to VMI Pub-
lic Information Director, Thomas A.
Joynes.

“It takes a national mobilization
and a formal declaration of war bef-
ore anyone can be called up early or
be drafted, and that’s just really un-
likely in this kind of war,’’ said
Joynes. ‘‘Now, if this were a world
war type conflict, this might be an
issue.”’

Joynes explained that the cadets’
only formal military connection is
through ROTC programs like the

BOYCOTT

from page 1

 

 

 

and Kranich.

“I’m going into this open-minded
and pretty sympathetic’’ to the city,
Hatcher said. ‘‘They need money and
they are looking for legal ways to get
1

Lexington Mayor H.E. ‘‘Buddy”’
Derrick said parties emerged ‘‘a lot
closer together than we were going
into the meeting.”’

In the state legislature last week,
the Senate amended and passed a
House bill that included a provision
to end confusion over where proper-
ty tax on student cars should be
collected.

Reports last week that the bill had
gone to the governor for approval
were incorrect. Instead, the amended
measure went back to the House
Monday, was defeated 46 to 48, and
returned to the Senate.

The bill went to a joint confer-
ence committee Wednesday. If the
committee produces a compromise
measure, it must pass both houses in
order to go to the governor for ap-
proval.

The legislation, if passed, ‘‘may
not change the situation,’’ said Ran-
dall Bezanson, dean of the Law
School.

Bezanson said the bill, as written,

might even cause further confusion  *M4 alcohol-related problems. 7:30 p.m. in the Moot Courtroom of |Gymnasium. The Friday evening concert featured New Age jazz, as well as classic favorites like “Stairway
because it might conflict with another _ He has written several articles on Lewis Hall. The lecture is open to bo Heaven.” Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.
section of the state code. sports and academia for national the public.

 
     
   
   
   
   

       
       
     
     
   

Mary McGill Adickes

ones at Washington and Lee which
are designed to train commissioned
officers.

‘The Army, the Navy, and the
Air Force would all want students to
finish school and get their commis-
sions,’’ said Joynes. ‘‘They didn’t
take anyone early in World War II
when we were really in desperate
straits, and that’s what we’re going
by now.”

Joynes said there are at least 125
alumni of VMI taking part in Opera-
tion Desert Storm, and probably
many more they don’t know about
yet.

No current cadets have dropped
out to join the fighting, and all are
being encouraged to continue their
studies.

Cadet Paul Meadows, ‘93, said

that Brig. Gen. John Knapp, superin-
tendent of VMI, addressed cadets the
night the United States began air
raids on Baghdad.

‘He basically voiced his support
for the troops and encouraged us to
support the war effort too,”’ said
Meadows. ‘‘He also told us the best
thing for us to do right now is to
stay in school and not get gung-ho
and head off to fight.’’

Meadows said most cadets realize
they need to stay for now, but their
minds are definitely on those who
are engaged in the struggle against
the forces of Iraqi president Saddam
Hussein.

Meadows also said the cadets are
anxious to see what will happen
once ground forces join the air for-
ces in the fighting.

Ex-NFL player Hill
to warn against drugs

 

From the W&L News Office

 

Calvin Hill, former running back
for the Dallas Cowboys, will be the
keynote speaker for Washington and
Lee University’s Drug Awareness
Week. Hill will present a public
lecture titled ‘‘The Game Plan for
Success’ Monday, Jan. 28, at 8 p.m.
in Lee Chapel.

Hill’s visit to the W&L campus is
sponsored by the dean of students’
office, the National Collegiate Ath-
letic Association, and Contact.

In November 1987, Hill was
appointed vice president/administrati-
ve personnel of the Baltimore Ori-
oles. He initially joined the Orioles
July 1987 when he was appointed to
the board of directors.

He is also a consultant with Fleet
Financial Services of Providence, R.I.,
the Cleveland Browns Football Club,
and Alexander and Associates, Inc., a
Washington, D.C., corporate consult-
ing firm.

As a consultant with the Browns,
Hill has helped form a group of
players to control and eliminate drug-

Zeta Tau Chapter

of

Kappa Kappa Gamma

wishes to congratulate the
following 1991 pledges:

    
     

Eve Hollis McDonald

publications and lectures around the
country on the topics of drug and
alcohol problems and the relationship
of sports and academia.

Hill graduated from Yale Univer-
sity in 1969, the same year he was
selected in the first round of the NFL
College Draft by the Dallas Cowboys.

Concurrent with his professional
athletic career, Hill has served as
special assistant to Sen. John Glenn
(D-Ohio), special assistant to the
director of the Peace Corps, and
public relations representative and
national goodwill ambassador for the
Dr. Pepper Co.

He has also worked for Dallas
Bank & Trust, Jarvis Christian Col-
lege, and Bethlehem Steel, Co., and
is active in civic, community and
academic affairs.

Other events scheduled by the
W&L health education committee for
Drug Awareness Week include a stu-
dent leadership workshop and a lec-
ture by Tom Castleton of St. John’s
Hospital in Richmond.

Castleton will address the topic of
‘*Attorneys Assisting Attorneys with
Addiction’’ on Tuesday, Jan. 29, at

 

 

 

|

Two are better than one

1991 Grammy-nominee Stanley Jordan taps two guitars, mesmerizing a crowd filling the Doremus|

 

 

 

. - api an dies x
ce Pte Hy lee er Withee :

(ee “ge The
me Fast
Peat Lane

COIL OR PIN CARNE

Every Saturday Night at 6PM

Over 50 ways to win money. | :
You do not need to bea League bowie to bowl!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       
   
       
 

Lillis Barnett Allison Pauline Nora Mita

Carrie Ann Anderson Mary James Nabers : ; :
Claudia Ruth Bowen Georgia Marguerite Nielson ® Red Pin Bowlin g © Colle ge Specials
Robin Elaine Bryant Maryanna Dean Phipps $1.50 per Game $1.50 per Game
Angie Lauren Carrington Amy Elizabeth Rash Monday 9 PM-1 AM eT : PM- : oo
Laura Elizabeth Clark Clarissa Jane Reese Sunday Noon- 6 PM Saturday Noon-
Kimberly Sanford Dickinson Valerie Michele Shannon

Laura Kathleen Eastland Lollie Cullen Sheehan

Eugenia Greer Foster Helen Kendall Sibley

Meghan Whitney Hall Leigh Warren Strickler : s = ‘
Kimberly Marie Hardie Eliza LaBoiteaux Tobias @ Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin
Blair Lee Hixson Laura Elizabeth Vawter Rock-N-Bowl Bowling

Abigail Lynn Kane Laura Elizabeth Voekel Every Friday Night Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Alison Martha Krentel Christina Lamont Wheeler 11 PM- 2 AM Win FREE games
Dana Ann Lawrence Aspen Elizabeth Yawers

Anne Whitney Matthews Rachel Ann Zloczover

   

464-BOWL (2695)

US HWY - 11 North

 
SPORTS
W&L on three-game skid

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

After topping the .500 mark for
the first time this season with a three
game winning streak, the Washington
and Lee basketball team hit its tough-
est stretch of the season.

W&L_ dropped three _ straight
games, all in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference and all against teams
ranked in the Division III South
Region. The losses left the Generals
8-9, 4-6 on the season.

Last Thursday, the Generals put
their three game winning streak on
the line against the third-ranked team
in Division III, Emory & Henry.

E&H jumped out to an early lead
behind 14 first-half points from 1990
ODAC Player of the Year Leon Hill,
but the Generals rallied and cut an 11
point lead down to just 46-41 at the
half by scoring four points in the
final second.

Senior center Chris Jacobs (20
points) hit two free throws, and after
the Wasps turned the ball over, senior
forward Ed Hart (22 points) hit a
baseline jumper at the buzzer.

The Generals continued to cut into
the lead when senior guard Mike
Holton hit a three pointer to start the
second half to cut the lead to 46-44.
The Wasps responded by pushing the
lead back out to five points on a
three pointer by Hill.

W&L then tumed to senior guard
Pat Gallavan for a spark. Gallavan,
making his third start of the year,
scored five straight points, and when
Jacobs made a lay-up on the break,
the Generals had tied the game at 59.

After E&H jumped back out to a
71-67 lead, Gallavan (season-high 15
points) hit two straight three pointers
to give the Generals their first lead
since 15-12 in the first half. When
Hart scored off a feed from Holton,
the lead was 79-73 and E&H called
time out.

After the timeout, Derek Elmore
(18 points) hit two. straight three
pointers to spark a 10-4 run to tie the
game at 83. Hart put the Generals
back on top, but Ross Kirtley gave
E&H the lead for good with a three
pointer at 86-85 and the Wasps held
on for a 94-88 win.

 

Individual or student organization
needed to promote Spring Break trip,
Earn money, free trips and valuable’
work experience. CALL NOW!!

Inter-Campus Programs: 1-800-327-
6013.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

=
aucdiotronics
We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY

ADCOM ALPINE

B&O OPTONICA
| KEF CwDd
! BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

+ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

+ WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

an
ern

 

Don’t Be
Disappointed
By Selection & Price

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

University Sportwear has the
best selection of W&L im-
printed T-Shirts, sweatshirts,
embroidered fitted baseball
caps and much more. Come
see our new W&L Flannel

Boxers!

STUDENT
ACCOUNTS
AVAILABLE

W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

 

“Emory and Henry was ranked
No. 3 in the nation, and we were up
on them,”’ said senior guard Jim
Casey. ‘‘We feel we should have
beaten them.”’

The six point loss was W&L’s
fourth loss in the ODAC by six
points or less. The Generals have lost
six games by six points or less this
season.

“Our first four losses came by a
combined nine points,’’ said Casey.
*““We were playing so-so and losing
close games. If we had played really
well could have won those games.”’

After playing E&H, the Generals
continued their trek through the Divi-
sion III top 10 by playing tenth-ran-
ked Randolph-Macon.

WA&L started strong, getting a 14-
13 lead, but the Yellow Jackets took
control with an 18-2 run sparked by
Jeff Skop (17 points) and Troy Smith
(19 points) hitting foul line jump
shots. The Generals closed the gap to
35-24 at the half despite shooting
only 28 percent from the floor.

‘“‘Our shooting has dropped back
down to where it was at the begin-
ning of the season,’’ said Holton.
‘‘We’re missing some shots inside
that we probably should be making.’’

Holton (19 points) and Hart (16
points) rallied the Generals to within
nine at 42-33 early in the second
half, but the Yellow Jackets got two
three pointers from Jeff Taylor (19
points) to break the game open and
key the Yellow Jackets to an 85-67
win.

‘We just hit a stretch in the first
half where we couldn’t hit anything
from the floor,’’ said Holton. ‘‘Then
we played terrible defense where
nobody could stay with their own
man. We just couldn’t stop anyone.’’

The Generals finished the week
Tuesday night with a game against
Hampden-Sydney, the  sixth-ranked
team in the South Region (E&H and
R-MC aie ranked first and second in
the South Region).

The Tigers opened up a 42-30
halftime lead behind the shooting of
Steve Musilli, making his first start
of the year. Musilli equalled his
career high of 10 in the half. Holton
kept the Generals in the game with
10 points of his own.

* For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., Lexington

STEREO EQ

HUNDREDS OF MINT ALBUMS/45’s
FROM THE 60’s!

(When they’ re gone, they're gone!)

Specializing in Classical, Soundtrack, New Age
and Pre-1975 Pop/Rock Compact Discs

PRE-OWNED STEREO EQUIPMENT
ADCOM GFA 555 200 watt/channel power amp - $495
ADCOM GFP 565 Preamplifier - $625
AR ES-1 Turntable ($725 New $435, Mint)

The Sonic Gallery

Old Main Street Building, Lexington
Monday-Friday, Noon to 6PM, Saturday 10AM to 5PM
464-1100

PR

 

 

Ski Massanutten after 12:30 p.m. on Monday and Friday and
you'll receive some money-saving financial assistance. Show
us your valid college ID —full or part time —and purchase your
lift ticket for just $12 and rent your equipment for $10.

Bring us this ad and we'll aid you even more with an
additional $2 off your lift ticket.

So find some friends, tear out this ad and come to
Massanutten on Monday or Friday. You'll enjoy the best twi-
light skiing value in the area when you ski our two new slopes
and ride our new ‘‘Quad”’ chairlift for just $10.

El MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

Valid 1991 Ski Season only. May not be used with other discounts. Not available on holiday

The Ring-tum Phi, January 24, 1991

To start the second half, head
coach Verne Canfield went with the
line-up of the two captains, Holton
and senior forward Craig Hatfield
(five points) along with junior for-
ward Courtney Penn and sophomores
Keith Faulkner (six points) and Bryan
Watkins (10 points) looking to spark
his team.

“‘Coach [Canfield] was trying to
shake things up,’’ said Casey. ‘‘We
didn’t execute, and Coach will keep
shaking things up until he finds a
group who executes the way he
wants.”’

The five responded by scoring the
first seven points of the half, forcing
the Tigers to call time out leading
42-37. After the time out, Musilli
went back to work, scoring 16 second
half points on the way to a career-
high 26 points as the Tigers jumped
out to a 60-45 lead.

Hart and Penn kept the Generals
close. Hart scored 12 of his team-
high 16 points in the second half and

Penn added eight second-half points.

But the Tigers’ held the Generals to
just nine second-half rebounds and
put the game away 89-72.

‘‘We just played horribly,’ said
Casey. ‘‘We didn’t execute at either
end of the floor at all.’’

Holton says the shake-ups should
continue.

““Coach has made it pretty clear
that if you aren’t playing well, you’ll
sit. He’s going to look for people
who are playing well,’’ he said.

The Generals will look to get
things back on the right track against
Lynchburg in a rare Friday night
home game. After hosting Lynchburg,
the Generals hit the road again, trav-
elling to face Emory & Henry, now
the second-ranked team in Division
Il.

“‘Hopefully we'll be able to find
six or seven guys each game who
will play feally well,’’ said Holton.
“If we do that, we should be able to
win some games.”’

 

Pat Gallavan in action earlier this year. Gallavan scored 15 points
In a 94-88 loss to Emory & Henry. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Furniture Dealers

463-2742

we

L

 

Courtney Penn In action last year. Penn scored eight points In the ,
89-72 loss to Hampden-Sydney. File photo.

‘

No diving costs swimmers.
in losses at Georgetown

 

By Randall Ellis
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee swim
teams lost their third straight set of
dual meets this past weekend, each
falling to Georgetown. The men were
defeated 119-84, while the women
lost 119-93.

Once again, the Generals lack of
depth and the absence of diving
contributed heavily to their downfall.
By failing to enter the diving portion
of the meets, each team automatically
gave up between nine and 32 points.

Aside from this, head coach Page
Remillard said he thought his teams
swam great.

“It’s hard to keep on saying we
lost, but we are happy anyway,’’ he
said. ‘‘The simple fact is that
Georgetown has a larger squad and is
a Division I team. We know we are
going to take our lumps this year and
this has allowed us to concentrate on
how we want to be swimming at this
stage of the season rather than. how
we want to be swimming in order to
win particular meets.’’

This meet’s events were measured
in meters rather than yards, so a
straight comparison to previous times
is impossible. Remillard said he felt

that with a rough time conversion and
by judging the performances of the
individuals’ swims that times are
consistently falling.

‘I’m pleased with where we are
at this point. We swam the distance
events very well. I think physiologi-
cally we’re where we want to be. We
are looking to see some big time
drops from those who swim the
stroke events (backstroke, breaststroke
and butterfly) in the coming meets,’’
he said.

This weekend’s meet could prove
to be such an occasion as W&L hosts
George Washington University.
Remillard said he was not certain
how W&L would fair.

‘“‘We know little about George
Washington teams,’’ he said. ‘‘They

‘have gone through some changes

recently and are adjusting to a new
coach this year. In addition, the flu
outbreak on campus is going to hurt
us. We have a few swimmers out and
can’t count on them to perform up to
par this weekend. At times like this
our small size can really leave us
vulnerable.’’

The meet, scheduled for 2 p.m.
Saturday in Cy Twombly Pool, will
be the first home meet for both the
men’s (0-3) and women’s (1-3)
teams.

 

 

The Xi Lambda Chapter

of

Chi Omega

would like to congratulate
the 1991 pledge class:

Molly Apter
Mary Auro
Heather Aussiker
Gayle Baynham
Amy Brown
Stefanie Brown
Jeanette Burgess
Cory Chung
Stacey Colfry
Lolita Crabbe
Ellen Dean
Mandy Doss
Heather Edwards
Michelle Forbes
Julie Guerin
Corrinda Hankins
Jamie Hardman

Allison Hyko

Jill Jacques

Shannon Jones
Mandy Keegan
Marjorie King
Allison Lewis
Felicia Middleton
Becca Reed
Bethany Smith
Sarah Smith

Kathleen Sparks

Mai Spurlock
Linda Stratton
Kate Townley
Julie Townsend
Aimee Wood
Susie Wootton

 

 

 
SPORTS

Athletes score big in class, too

 

From W&L Sports Information

i Fifty-six Washington and Lee
University athletes have been named
W&L’s Scholar-Athlete Honor Roll
for the 1990 Fall Tern, Athletic Di-
rector Mike Walsh announced Mon-
day.
* To be named to the Scholar-Ath-
lete Honor Roll, a student must be a
tember of a varsity team and earn a
%.5 grade point average for the cur-
rent term. During the 1989-90 aca-
emic year, a total of 75 students
were named to W&L’s Scholar Ath-

lete Honor Roll.

The list of honorees included
recent Rhodes Scholar recipient Pat
lopes, a four-year letterwinner in
women’s cross country.; senior bas-
ketball co-captain Mike Holton, who
is a two-time Academic All-Ameri-
can; senior men’s tennis co-captain
Bill Meadows, who captured the 1990
NCAA Division III men’s doubles
national championship with partner
John Morris; and junior women’s
soccer standout Nancy Mitchell, an
All-ODAC and All-South Atlantic
region honoree.

The highest individual team grade

Soderberg leads W&L

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

+

 

‘ Junior Peer Soderberg pinned his
opponent to win the consolation final
apd two other Washington and Lee
wrestlers placed, leading the Generals
t6 a seventh-place finish at the York
Invitational.

’ Soderberg, who pinned Frank
PRommet of William and Mary Col-
lege two minutes and 34 seconds into
his consolation final round match,
finished 3-1, third overall in his 177-
pound weight class. Soderberg ex-
t¢nded his season record to 9-7.

, “Unfortunately, the only guy |
lost to will be back this weekend,”’

said Soderberg, looking ahead to this
weekend’s Washington and Lee Invi-
tational.

Senior co-captain Larry Pilkey and
sophomore Rich Paini also wrestled
well enough to secure slots in the
consolation finals at 126 and 118
pounds, respectively.

Pilkey, who won twice, once with
a technical fall, finished the invita-
tional with nine takedowns, increasing
his team-leading total to 16 on the
season.

Paini recorded two victories, a
pin, and four reversals. Paini’s eight
reversals on the season leads the
squad.

According to head coach Gary
Franke, however, the overall perform-

The Ring-tum Phi, January 24, 1991

point average for the fall term be-
longed to the women’s soccer team,
which had a combined team grade
point average of 3.2999. Nine mem-
bers of the women’s soccer team
were named to the Scholar-Athlete
Honor Roll.

The highest men’s team average
was the men’s cross country team,
which had a combined team grade
point average of 3.147. Five members
of the men’s cross country team were
selected to the Scholar-Athlete Honor
Roll.

The Scholar-Athlete Honor Roll
was established by the athletic depart-

to seventh-p

ance of his team was disappointing.

‘*T thought that some people were
capable of placing, but didn’t wrestle
up to their potentiai,’’ said Franke.
‘We're not opening up enough. We
need to be a little more aggressive.”’

Franke insists the team’s condi-
tioning level is not a problem. In
preparation for the Generals’ upcom-
ing Invitational, Franke plans to em-
phasize the technical aspects of the
sport.

This weekend W&L will host
seven squads, including Furman,
Davidson, and Messiah, teams the
Generals have already wrestled. Sod-
erberg hopes to avenge his only loss
this past weekend to Messiah’s Bob
Weaver.

W&L, VMI honor troops with

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

While pressure is being put on the
National Football League and the
National Collegiate Athletic Associa-
tion to postpone games until after the
Persian Gulf war settles down, offi-
cials at the Virginia Military Institute
and Washington and Lee say the
games will go on as scheduled.

‘“‘We are very sympathetic about
what is going on in the Persian
Gulf,’ said W&L Athletic Director
Mike Walsh. ‘‘We will take time to
yemember what is happening by ob-

Now you're seeing things from

old a piece of tape
up to your eyes, dim the lights
and try to fill out your taxes.

serving a moment of silence before
each game.”’

Davis Babb, the acting AD at
VMI, agreed with Walsh.

‘‘We do observe and will continue
to observe a moment of silence to
remember the troops fighting in the
Persian Gulf,’’ he said.

While the NCAA, NFL and Na-
tional Hockey League have .all been
pressured to consider stopping all
games until the crisis in the Gulf
settles down, Babb said that he had
not heard anyone at VMI wanting to
stop games.

‘‘We have not heard anything at
VMI, either from cadets or alumni,

For this woman it’s poor eyesight,
for someone else it might be arthritis
o maybe they just can’t cope. The
fact is, last year 4 million Americans
got the help they needed from

IRS Volunteer Assistance Programs.

about stopping contests,’ he said. ‘‘I
think that if there was a movement
to stop contests, I would have heard
about it. But I have heard nothing,
and we will not stop any contests.”’

Teams, both college and profes-
sional, also are showing their support
for the troops by wearing American
Flag patches on their uniforms.

Babb said that while VMI teams .

wear nothing on their uniforms at
present, VMI is considering doing
something to honor the troops.

‘*We are considering doing some-
thing along with the moment of si-
lence to honor those involved in the
war,’ Babb said. ‘‘We may put

      

ment in 1986 to honor those W&L
athletes who are selected to the Univ-
ersity's academic Honor Roll for
earning a 3.5 grade point average for
a team.

That academic and athletic success
at W&L_ has_ produced four
GTE/CoSIDA Academic All-Ameri-
cans in the last two years. W&L also
set a record by placing six student-

athletes on the Virginia Sports Infor-
mation Directors Academic All-State
team in 1990.

ace finish

 

 

 

 

Peer Soderberg

“Traditionally, we have wrestled
well at the Invitational,’’ said Soder-
berg. ‘It’s one of our only home
matches.’’

silence

something on our uniforms and we
may not. We are still considering
options.”’

Walsh is content that the moment
of silence is the proper way to re-
member the troops in the Persian
Gulf. He doesn’t feel that the uniform
is the best way to support the troops
in the gulf.

“The uniform is not the way to
be constantly reminded of what is
going on,’’ he said. ‘‘We fully sup-
port what is going on and will show
that support through a moment of
silence before each game.”’

 

7

War puts sports in
proper perspective

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

 

The Persian Gulf War is the top priority of the world at this time, and
the sports world is no exception. When Operation Desert Storm began,
the games still went on, but the minds of those involved were in the
Gulf.

One college basketball game between North Carolina and North
Carolina State, scheduled for Jan. 16, was postponed and later resched-
uled. North Carolina forward Pete Chilcutt has a brother serving in the
Persian Gulf.

In Annapolis, Md., the Naval Academy was playing the University of
Richmond. When Navy students at the game found out about the attack,
they left immediately.

Navy coach Pete Herrmann found out about the attack just before tip-
off, but did not tell his team until halftime. Former Navy captain Cliff
Rees is presently deployed in the Persian Gulf.

Richmond won the game on two free throws with no time on the
clock, but the moment of triumph was overshadowed by the develop-
ments in the Gulf.

Terry Connolly, the Richmond player who hit the winning shots, said
that he was happy Richmond won, but he couldn’t get excited about the
win because of what was going on overseas.

Jay Schroeder, the quarterback of the Los Angeles Raiders, has a broth-
er who is in the Persian Gulf in the Air Force. Schroeder and some of
his teammates wore the decal of the Air Force squadron in which his
brother serves.

After the North Carolina-N.C. State game was postponed, the
Atlantic Coast Conference announced that all games would go on as
scheduled.

The National Football League announced that the playoffs would
continue and the Super Bowl, scheduled for Jan. 27 in Tampa, Fl., would
be played as scheduled. As a precautionary measure, the NFL and Tampa
Police are increasing security in and around Tampa Stadium.

In the NFL Conference Championship games and the NHL All-Star
game, played on the weekend of Jan. 18-19, fans and teams showed that,
while enjoying themselves at the sporting events, they remembered the
troops in the Gulf.

As the ‘‘Star Spangled Banner’’ was played before the NHL All-Star
game, fans in Chicago Stadium waved American Flags and cheered for
the soldiers in the Gulf. At the NFC Championship game in San
Francisco, the New York Giants wore yellow bands on their arms to re-
member the troops in the Gulf.

Fans at the NHL All Star game held banners that read ‘‘Gls--the Real
All-Stars’ and other supportive messages to the troops in the Gulf. Fans
at the football games chanted ‘‘U.S.A., U.S.A.’’ after the National
Anthem was played.

We cannot devote our attention to the situation in the Gulf all the time.
We need a break at times, and the sports world provides an outlet from
the tense situation in the Persian Gulf. It is obvious that people have not
forgotten what is going on in the Persian Gulf and the games can still
go on.

 

 

     
   
    
     
        
     

Cyndi Allen

       
 
      

Tara Burns

The Zeta lota Chapter

of
Kappa Alpha Theta

Congratulates its

1991 Pledge Class

Kristen Moore
Molly Baber
Wendy Neel
Betsy Berkheimer
Melissa Phillips
Dana Booth

Holly Proctor

  

Elizabeth Storey
Alison Cowand
Mary Tankard
Sarah Drain

Krista Taurens
Kirsten Ergenbright
Jerilyn Farren
Heidi Traulsen
Missy Fullmer

her point of view. If you have the desire to help
and a basic aptitude for math, you
could become a part of the IRS
Volunteer Assistance Programs.
The programs are year-round
and open to any organization,
company or individual that would like
to give something back to their
community. The training is free and
the rewards are enriching.
So volunteer and call 1 800 424-1040.
Beginning October |, 1990, please
call 1 800 829-1040.

Volunteer and help make someone's
taxes less taxing.

s*
A Public Service of 4 : — yi)
This Publication & ;
Couch ‘Service

Jennifer Ray
Sarah Butler
Monica Robinson
Jen Ciocca
Jennifer Roscoe
Andrea Cobrin
Heather Schader
Rachel Cook

Alegra O’Hare
Lisee Goodykoontz
Michelle Hobbs
Kimberly Werst
Susan Komonystky
Katie Ydel

Maura McMahon
Diedre Zarganis

aft

a alles

          
        
     
   
    
      

 
    

The kite is right...

 
 

W&LIFE

Two guitars, two voices, nomads,

indians and saints: Indigo is back

By Andrew Kelller
Staff Reporter

 

As artistry and integrity are in-
creasingly sacrificed to the gods of
technology and _ entertainment,
musicians that actually play instru-
ments and sing their own songs are
becoming a rarity.

However, some stand tall against
the temptations of ignoble fame and
put out honest work. One such group
is the Indigo Girls, yes the same
group that lost a grammy to the
multi-talented Milli Vanilli.

As simple as it sounds, the Indigo
Girls are two voices and two guitars.
While the lack of variety in in-
strumentation leads to songs that
sound similar, each listening heighte-
ns one’s sense of discrimination and
catalyzes deeper appreciation for
their work.

On their most recent album
nomads * indians * saints, the girls
used a number of guest musicians in
an attempt to spice up their one
dimensional sound: Kenny Aronoff
(John Cougar/Drums), the Ellen
James Society, Sara Lee (Bass), a
sting quartet, and Peter Buck
(REM/Dulcimer). While _ this may
seem like a lot of added instruments,
the heart of their songs always com-
es back to their strumming, picking,
and harmonizing. In reality, the guest
musicians seem to add more in terms
of community spirit then in complex
orchestration. Simply put, the Indigo
Girls just like to have friends play
on their album, and this gives the
record a natural quality that com-
puter and synthesizer-ridden record-
ing don’t have.

Only one song, 7] 2 3, suffers
from excess. This song is quite bad
and doesn’t deserve a place in this
otherwise strong work. This black
spot is easily attributed to A. Ray
who is responsible for most of this
album’s faults. While their first LP
Indigo Girls presented a duet with
each member sharing an equal bur-
den of talent, E. Saliers clearly car-
ries the load on this one. While
every one of Saliers five contribu-
tions to this album are incredibly
good, only two of Ray’s six can
compare to her partners in terms of
lyrics, chords, melody and harmony.

Keeper of My Heart is Ray’s re-
hashing of her own gem Blood and
Fire from their first Lp. Pushing the
Needle too Far has Ray making a
statement on drugs that is so self-
serving lyrically that one can’t bear
to wait through the verses to get to
the few redeeming lines of harmony.

The two Ray contributions of
value are Welcome Me and World
Falls. Of course Welcome Me

Ray’s developing talent, simply be-
cause it has been around since at
least the last album which it most
likely didn’t make. It can be seen
performed live on their videotape,
Indigo Girls Live at the Uptown
Lounge, recorded during the tour in
support of their last release. It seems
World Falls is her best offering. The
lyrics are strong with allusions toward
Wordsworth’s Intimations of Immor-
tality, and the music is equally good.
It is by far one of the album's best.

Saliers, on the other hand, has cle-
arly come into her own with a super-
ior knack for clever, meaningful
lyrics, catchy original chord changes,
and beautiful melodies and harmonies.

The album's opener, Hammer and
a Nail, combines inspiring lyrics with
motivating music. One line reads,
‘‘Now I know a refuge never grows/
From a chin in a hand in a thought-
ful pose/ Gotta tend the earth if you
want a rose,’’ Imagery in these lines
invokes the reaction that the song
encourages, which is a call for people
to make their dreams and visions
come true, rather than to sit on their
butt.

Southland in the Springtime is a
bit of nostalgia which bears a certain’
country flavoring. Once again Saliers’
lyrical imagery makes a good song
great. It is ironic that Saliers wrote
this beautiful song about the South,
for in it she admits she’s originally
from the other half of America.
**When God made me born a yankee/
He was teasin.’’ Of course, she does
mention Texas favorably in the song
and I think we all know it’s better to
be a yankee than a Texan.

Watershed is the album’s best
song, and it was undoubtedly written
by Saliers. Its verses alternate ma-
turely between single note melody
and two voice harmony for a nice
effect. Its carpe diem theme is a ac-
cented by the drums that come in
with the chorus to accompany the
soaring harmonies.

As the lyrics are initially somber
admitting to man’s inability to ever
fly as the crow flies, they reflect the
call to action theme from Hammer
and a Nail that encourages us to do
something with our life, ‘‘When
you’re learning to face the path at
your pace every choice is worth your
while.’’ The music's dynamics serve
as a musical interpretation to the
lyrics they accompany and the life
they describe.

You and Me of the 10,000 Wars is
another Saliers contribution. It ties
with Southland in the Springtime as
the album’s prettiest song. It show-
cases Saliers whispery feminine voice
as she takes the listener on a psy-
chological journey through her own,

shouldn’t really count as a sign of and probably the listener’s mind. Its

i. appagaWo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

PP VPVPVP OV PVLPV PVPS PVP! PV PVP LO PVP OVOP

 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

(703)463-5988

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE di!

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking

Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3478

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

1-800-768-LEHI

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

HOUSE

Restaurant

+ TOS icmts

WILLSON-
WALKER

 

30 N. Main St., Lexington

 

Reservations are recommended

463-3020

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 24, 1991

A ae. cee
Peet peek

 

 

 

i | TUESDAY, JANUARY 29 '

+ | 7:30 p.m.

 

 

MU UEC RRO MOPED Sessa

The Indigo Girl’s latest release, nomads * indians * saints, is the
duo’s third LP, following Indigo Girls and Strange Fire.

a song about the contrasts we
promote in our lives, seeming
paradoxes that create some of the
personal tensions we all experience.

The first line is a good analogy
that indicates on a small scale the

The album’s last selection Girl
With the Weight of the World in her
Hands, has a mysterious musical
sound created by strange harmonies
and a string quartet that creates an
eerie atmosphere. The odd musical

larger meaning of the song, ‘‘You
and me of the 10,000 wars/ Dividing
life into factions of pleasures and
chores/ A bed to be made and a bed

landscape serves as a set for the
Indigo Girl’s most ambitious lyrics.
Interpretations are endless, and some

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR

  

‘

F

7 p.m. POLITICS FILMFEST: 2001: A Space Odyssey. Room 203;'
Reid Hall. '

7:30 p.m. BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Lynchburg College. Warner
Center. :

8-12p.m. 5TH ANNUAL MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS BENEFIT: Rock-Alike

Contest and Bingo Night. Sponsored by SAMS (Students
Against Multiple Sclerosis) and SAB (Student Activities ‘
Board). Student Activities Pavilion. Public invited. Tickets
available at the door. (Sign-up for act in W&L Snack Bar or
W&L Law School from Jan. 15 - 25). ,

SATURDAY, JANUARY 26

‘

 

9:30 a.m. | WRESTLING: WAL Invitational. Warner Center. ;
1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: Un Ballo in Maschera (Verdi). WLUR;FN
2 p.m. SWIMMING (M&W): Generals vs. George Washington. Twombi
Pool. ,
7 p.m. POLITICS FILMFEST: 2001: A Space Odyssey. Room 203,,
Reid Hall.
4
MONDAY, JANUARY 28
Drug Awareness Week. ‘
4 p.m. CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Test
Interpretation. Room 109, University Center.
8 p.m. DRUG AWARENESS LECTURE: "The Game Plan for Success

Calvin Hill, former player for the Dallas Cowboys and
currently vice president/administrative personnel of the ‘
Baltimore Orioles. Lee Chapel. Public invited. ‘

4 p.m. DRUG AND ALCOHOL AWARENESS PROGRAM: Leadership)
Workshop. Northen Auditorium.

DRUG AND ALCOHOL AWARENESS PROGRAM: "Attorneys
Assisting Attorneys with Addiction," Tom Castleton, St. '
John's Hospital, Richmond. Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall.
Public invited. .

HOWERTON LECTURE: "Insanity, Suffering, and Calling,”
Russell Davis, Union Theological Seminary. Room 102,
duPont Hall. Public invited. :

EXECUTIVE-IN-RESIDENCE LECTURE: "Inside Look at the
Work of the Ford Foundation,” John W. English, vice
president and chief investment officer for Ford Foundation
of N.Y. Room 327, Commerce School. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: BASKETBALL: Emory & Henry.

'
ENGLISH COLLOQUIUM: "Robert Browning, Matthew Arnold,
and the Fourth Gospel: The Word Made Flesh or the Wold
Made Fresh?" Sidney M.B. Coulling, professor of English al
W&L. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited
CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: r
Internship/Summer Workshop. Room 109, Univ. Center»
TWILIGHT RETREAT: "Do the Right Thing: Moral Decisions,”
St. Patrick's Church, 221 W. Nelson St. Dinner provided:
Public invited. Call 463-3533 for more information. ‘
CHEMISTRY SEMINAR: Michael J. Sebesta '92. Room 401,
Howe Hall. Refreshments at 4:30 in Room 402.
RUSSIAN FILM SERIES: Incident at Map Grid 36-80. Northem
Auditorium, University Library. .
RECITAL: Composition Recital by W&L music students. Lenfes
Center. Public invited. '

4p.m.

4-8p.m.

5 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

8p.m.

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

may represent a change in Indigo
philosophy. However, this one should
be left up to the individual.

All in all, there’s really only one
unbearable song on the album in
contrast to seven great ones. It is
definitely worth the money. If anyth-
ing, one should support these real
musicians and consider burning the

to lie in.’’ It’s lyrics get more com-
plicated as the song builds to a
melodic frenzy climaxing with
Saliers’s and Ray’s most expressive
singing to date. The song then slow-
ly relaxes and ends as simple lyrical-
ly and musically as it began. This
represents the type of cycle of events
that leads to the tension of which the purchases that lead to that tragic
song speaks. night at the Grammies.

2S A Na SS OU SEE eT MER NT URE ET RE RED SEES a I EI awe OE ee aR

Green Valley Restaurant

hf E Rt. 11 North 463-2840

Free Home Fries

  

with this coupon

Non-combinable with any other coupon

en ee

e Redken ® Paul Mitchel « Sebasii,
en

  

Notes

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

 

  

   

       
  

 

Prescriptions ® Cosmetics Perfumes
Charge Accounts © Free Delivery

  

Shear Timing

Hair Salon
For Men & Women

17 S. Randolph St.

Stop by or call for an appointment.

464-1145

 

Suntana Wolf Tanning Bed

Use your Colonnade Card

   
  

or
Ge SEE ee eres Seem mm aces mee A: es ee ee NaH RE OE Ma ee in See
t Bring this coupon
i and get $1.00 off your a
: next hair cut. '

  

Ces ce Gs A A es ee
Valid through March 8 (Fancy Dress Weekend)

 

f
3
:
with any breakfast !
i
i
it
a

    
   
    

 
   

Four 3-bedroom apartments for rent - walking distance
to W&L - for more information call: Harry Swisher,

463-7690 after 6 p.m.

 

 

 

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant

Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St. 463-7969,

 

a

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair y

We can heel you and save your sole while you wait. ,

3 West Nelson St., Lexington 464-6666
i

oe
> ©

 

Student Telephone Union
Student Power Union
Application Procedures -
1991-92

Please submit a resume (or reasonable
substitute) of relevant campus/job activities
along with a cover letter indicating interests

with regard to the union.
Positions available include:
CHAIRMAN
VICE-CHAIRMAN
SEC’Y/TREAS.

Applications should be returned
(sealed) to either
UC, ROOM 205
or
Carol Calkins

DUE FEB. 1, 1991

 
a

“"Roundball beats Emory and Henry --- see page 4

2

—s Che Ring-tum Phi

 

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 18

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 31, 1991

EC defeats proposed
White Book change

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

Debate over White Book revisions con-
tinued this week as the Executive Committee
defeated a controversial change in the Honor
System’s Philosophy section.

The White Book Revisions Committee
proposed numerous revisions Jan. 14, includ-
ing the addition of ‘‘or act dishonorably’’
to the familiar ‘‘lie, cheat, or steal’’ phrase
of the Philosophy section.

Sophomore EC Rep. Kirk Ogden mo-
tioned Monday that rather than adopt the
WBRC proposal, the EC delete the “‘lie,
cheat, or steal’’ reference.

The phrase ‘‘lying, cheating, and steal-
ing’’ would remain in the Enforcement
section.

Ogden’s proposal failed despite votes in
favor from EC President Tom Hatcher,
third-year law Rep. Mark Cobb, senior Rep.
John Fialcowitz, and Ogden. Senior Rep.
Willard Dumas and junior Rep. Caroline
Wight were absent during the vote.

The WBRC called its original proposal

“*a clarification’’
White Book.

WBRC member Bradley Turner said the
current text ‘‘leads people to the mistaken
interpretation that the Honor System means
three things.”’

The White Book currently states that
“lying, cheating and stealing are clear
examples of breaches of the Honor Sys-
tem,’’ which ‘‘applies to any conduct con-
sidered dishonorable by the student genera-
tion involved.”’

Critics of the WBRC proposal charge
that the addition could change how the
Honor System functions, possibly causing
jurisdictional conflicts between the EC and
conduct review committees.

EC Vice President Raymond Welder said
the EC might be forced to decide an honor
accusation over a ‘‘drunk in public’’ or find
itself ‘‘running around catching drug deal-
ers.’’

Cobb said, ‘‘If someone turns someone
in for doing drugs,’’ the EC should consider
the case.

Second-year law Rep. Giles Perkins said
however that ‘‘in reality’? the EC has ‘‘op-

of text already in the

‘Gonzo’ journalist

scheduled to appear

 

From the W&L News office

‘essentially the ‘art’

 

Author, columnist and ‘‘gonzo”’

8 p.m.

journalist
Dr. Hunter S. Thompson will give the next
Contact lecture in Lee Chapel next Monday at

content.’’

Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1972).

(or compulsion) of J
imposing a novelistic form on journalistic

Thompson's first book, an inside look at
America’s most notorious motorcycle gang,
titled Hell's Angels (1966), was followed by

erated under the premise that lying, cheating
and stealing is what we deal with.’’

An explicit expansion of honor violations
beyond the three examples would cause the
EC ‘‘to lose our potency and become the
police counsel we’re so afraid to be,’’ Per-
kins said.

Hatcher said after the vote that if the EC
wants to limit honor violations to the three
White Book ‘‘examples,’’ the committee
should consider removal of text that defines
violations more broadly.

First-year law Rep. Daniel Munroe open-
ed debate on another WBRC proposal to
change the notation from ‘‘dismissed’’ to
“‘withdrawn’’ on the transcript of a student
found guilty in open hearing.

‘‘Withdrawn’’ currently appears on the
transcript of a student found guilty in closed
hearing. Only a guilty verdict after appeal
yields the ‘‘dismissed’’ notation.

The EC tabled that issue until next
week’s meeting.

The EC will meet Monday in the Moot
Courtroom at 7 p.m. to allow the 1991-92
Big Three candidates to meet in the EC
room at 5 p.m.

 

That book, which Thompson has called his
‘‘personal favorite,’ was called by The New
York Times ‘‘the best book of the dope
decade,’’ and details the exploits of him and his
attomey”as they attempt to cover a road racé
and a national district attorneys’ convention.

Since then he has written a number of other
books, including The Great Shark Hunt (1977),
and The Curse of Lona (1981).

His latest book, Songs of the Doomed, was
published last year.

W&L Phi Beta
Kappa inducts 43

Kappa chapter:

Dr. Harrison J. Pemberton,
professor of philosophy at W&L,
and Dr. Norman Austin, professor

Thompson was originally scheduled to speak
in December, but canceled because he was ill.

Thompson began his career in 1959 with a
" one-year stint as Caribbean correspondent with
Time magazine. He has since written for the
New York Herald Tribune, the National
Observer, The Nation and Ramparts. From 1970

_ Play that funky music

*

 

; Sigma Nu’s John Layman, Heath Dixon and Tom Tagle perform
in Friday night’s lip Synch Contest, held in the Student Activi-

’ ties Pavilion. The trio, called HD Lyte and the Rythmic White : : ‘
Boys, took first prize. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart. leita ‘ae en eee ee

, Thompson is an originator of the ‘‘gonzo’’
style of journalism, which he says is

W&L to get new student magazines

represent a leftist ideology,’’ Jackson said.

Despite this setback, the magazine is not dead,
according to Jackson. ‘‘We still have a lot of
options. Dean Ruscio has said he knows of
several alumni who would contribute. We're also
looking for student donations and ads in town.”’

Jackson, ‘94, said the magazine, formerly
named The Progressive, aims to ‘‘stimulate thought
and discussion and represent a variety of views.
We're trying to span the distance between the ex-

 

Hunter S. Thompson
....Gonzo’ journalist

 

 

 

 

 

Kevin Sweeney, '92, publisher of Common
Ground, said his new magazine aims to bring
together students of different Christian faiths and
‘‘provide a forum for sharing Christian insight.”’

‘‘We want to challenge Christian views on just
about anything, and then use Scripture to back
them up,’’ Sweeney said.

The magazine, which should be out before
Spring Term,. will be funded primarily through
donations, according to Sweeney. ‘‘A few alum-

: “ Tom Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee should soon have two
more independent student publications.

An as of yet unnamed student opinion mag-
azine whose editors hope to provide an ideological
balance to The Spectator, and a Christian student
magazine, Common Ground, should both be avail-

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

able by spring term.
The new _ opinion

+ according to Editor Matt Jackson.

The Publications Board denied the magazine’s

request for funding Tuesday night.

+ ‘*We got the impression they thought we would

SCC chair charged
with second DUI

 

By Pat Lopes
‘Editor

Student Conduct Committee Chair-
man and Senior Class President Tho-
*mas M. Spurgeon was arrested two
weeks ago on drunk driving charges
‘for the second time here in less than
‘a, year, prompting the Executive
Committee to consider removing him
from both of his leadership positions.

EC President Tom Hatcher said
the committee met with Spurgeon last
‘Thursday to discuss his arrests. The
+EC decided to postpone action until
they receive results from a blood
“alcohol test Spurgeon took at the time
of his arrest.

The results are expected within
‘the next two weeks, Hatcher said.

The SCC is composed of all
undergraduate class presidents and
‘vice presidents and all law school
class presidents, as well as junior EC
‘Rep. Caroline Wight, according to
,this year’s Student Handbook.

The handbook says the committee

»

“investigates and acts upon com
,Plaints of alleged student misconduct
“which are not violations of the Honor
ySystem.’’ Offenses handled by the
SCC range from violations of resi
‘dence hall regulations to personal

magazine
independently funded — though not by choice

tremes of opinion.’’
will be

Jackson said.

end of February.

assault.

Hatcher says the fundamental
problem with Spurgeon’s SCC mem-
bership lies in the nature of the cases
SCC handles.

‘The problem is a large majority
of the offenses the SCC deals with
are alcohol related,’’ Hatcher said.

“My concen is the SCC
reputation would be jeopardized if it
was chaired by somebody with two
DUIs in less than a year.

“The potential to be perceived as
being a hypocritical group is great.
I just think the accused would have a
very hard time accepting punish-
ment,’’ Hatcher said

Spurgeon, however, says his re-
maining on the SCC is not hypocriti-
cal,

Spurgeon said he sees the SCC as
a disciplinary BOdy while he views
the EC as a moral authority, and
thinks Hatcher misunderstands funda-
mental differences between the two
bodies,

“On the SCC, we never judge
from a position of higher moral au-

thority,’’ he said. ‘‘It's so different
with the SCC. We don’t deal with
people’s alcohol problem. We deal
with what they do wrong.”’

Spurgeon says he is still capable
and deserves to remain SCC chairman.

‘*We’re trying to come up with a neutral name;
one that doesn’t denote liberal or conservative,’’

Jackson said the magazine has a 17-member
staff which plans to publish its first issue by the

ni, people in the community, and [members of the]
W&L administration have already made contribu-
tions.” Sweeney said the magazine might also sell
advertisements.

Sweeny said they ‘‘always need writers and
artists’’ to help with the magazine. Anyone inter-
ested should contact Sweeney at P.O. Box 50.

‘“T wouldn’t stay on if I didn’t
have the confidence of the SCC,’’ he
said. Spurgeon said the entire SCC
supports him with the exception of
EC Rep. Wight.

‘I’m still the best person for the
job,’’ Spurgeon said.

The EC appoints the SCC chair-
man and accordingly has the power
to remove him, Hatcher said. Spurg-
eon has served as class president and
accordingly SCC member for the past
three years.

He was inducted into Omicron
Delta Kappa leadership honor society
Jan. 18 and was named to Who's
Who Among American College and
University Students this year.

Spurgeon was arrested on Jan. 19
at 1:10 am. After watching the car
Spurgeon was driving head north on
South Main Street, police tailed him
to the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity
house.

At the house, police administered
a breath test to Spurgeon and charged
him with drunk driving, driving reck-
lessly and driving with a revoked
driver’s license.

Spurgeon was first arrested for
drunken driving in Lexington on
March 4 of last year. He was found
guilty of the charge, fined $240 and
his driver’s license was revoked. The

 

 

Tom Spurgeon

court allowed him to retain his li-
cense after he agreed to attend the
Virginia Alcohol Safety Action Pro-
gram.

Spurgeon is set to appear in Gen-
eral District Court on Feb. 26.

Depending on the blood test re-
sults, the EC has three options in
reacting to Spurgeon’s arrests. The
EC could do nothing, request Spur-
geon’s resignation as chairman but
allow him to remain as a member
and class president, or request his
resignation from the SCC as well as
the presidency, Hatcher said.

The EC can remove Spurgeon
from office if he refuses to resign,
Hatcher said. He is unsure who
would replace Spurgeon.

 

Washington and Lee’s chapter
of Phi Beta Kappa honor society
elected 43 students to its ranks
Monday.

The students will be honored at
induction ceremonies to be held on
March 14,

Thirty-three were elected from
the senior class:

Alison Kay Bell, David Sanders
Bennett, Daniel Minor Redd
Bettendorf, John Thornton
Buchanan, Lee Owens Butterfield,
Allan Neil Crawford III.

Laura’ Washington Dodge,
Grace Kathleen Duwel, John
Augustine Ebner, John Paul Foster,
Gary Hugh Green II, Ann Marie
Gregory, Michael Wilson Holton,

John Brent Hudspeth, Melissa
Anne Jay, Katherine Lynn
Kreutziger.

Paul Villere Lagarde, Patricia
Lopes, Laura Marie Lyman, Amy
Noel Miles, Kaylyn Jo Murdoch,
George Christopher Nomikos,
Paige Parsons Powell.

Carolyn Ruth Rendleman,Amy
Caroline Sapp, Susan Lynn Sarver,
Ingrid Maria Schroeder, Robert
Andrews Shelton, Cecily Joan
Tynan.

Lovell Margaret West, Elise
McKey Whitaker, Sharon Alesia
Witting, and Emily Janelle
Zarecor,

Eight inductees will be juniors:

Susan Elise Bryant, Rachael
Mary Easton, Jay Christopher
Fertile, Alice Ashley Hurt, Ingrid
MarieChenoweth, Thomas Daniel
Knight, Margaret Grant McKernan,
and Marjolane Merryweather.

Two people will be inducted
from the class of 1990:

Mary Jeannette Kelley and
Mary Katherine Campbell
Seymour. In addition, two people
will be granted honorary
membership in W&L’s Phi Beta

of classics at the University of
Arizona.

Students are elected to Phi Beta
Kappa through elections held
among the members on the W&L
faculty and staff, according to J.
Brown Goehring, professor of
chemistry and secretary of the
chapter. Law students elected to
Phi Beta Kappa while
undergraduates are also invited to
participate.

The  chapter’s executive
committee examines the records of
each class’ top-ranked students.
From this study, the committee
puts together a list of who might
be eligible for induction. These
results are brought before the
voting members.

“Everyone in the chapter has
their own — guidelines,’’ said
Goehring. ‘‘While I can pretty
much tell who will be considered,
I can not be explicit on who will
be elected.’’

In general, Goehring
recommends a high grade point
average. While election to the
chapter as a senior would probably
require a GPA of around 3.6,
consideration as a junior demands
a GPA in the summa cum laude
range.

The chapter also judges the
quality of the student’s academic
record.

‘There must be a sense of
comprehensiveness in academic
effort and a strong evidence of
scholarship in the liberal arts and

sciences,’’ said Goehring.

‘We desire to promote
education designed towards
liberating one’s mind and

understanding.”’

Phi Beta Kappa forbids its
chapters from exceeding 15 percent
of the student body. W&L’s
chapter rarely surpasses 10 percent.

 

 
 

 

O i f N : O N The Ring-tum Phi, January 31, 1991 2
—_—_—_—_— |

The Pub Board
makes progress

As is indicated in a letter to the editor elsewhere on
this page, the Washington and Lee Publications Board this
past Monday night denied funding to The Progressive (or
whatever the editors choose to name it), a publication
established by two enterprising W&L freshmen. In that
letter, freshman Alex Ruskell makes clear his
interpretation of events. We intend to use this space to
offer ours.

It is the stated policy of the Pub Board to fund campus
publications that advocate no particular political ideology.
While reasonable minds may differ on the wisdom of that
policy, that remains the parameter by which the magazine
must be judged. In the opinion of the majority of the

 

S$&&£ FRESH AEM RUSH. Pledge ) Fresh men, plete

SEE FRESHAEN,
See Fraternities haze.

Free debate about the war needed |

gathering, it frustrated me to watch our campus,

=g/®
70

 

 

 

   
     

members of the Pub Board, the new publication failed to lO ’

meet that’ test. HAZING ,
The Pub Board neither approves nor disapproves of the _—————

magazine’s political leanings. Our decision was not based == =

on such criteria. We would like to point out to Mr. wae ae ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ruskell that the Pub Board denied funding to The
Spectator for similar reasons, and that publication has
managed quite well, thank you.

As for Mr. Ruskell’s opinion about what he considers
to be the environment of intolerance at W&L as

 

 

same as - I believe the present war could have

evidenced by the Pub Board’s action, we can offer only
our disagreement.

There is without doubt an audience for such a
magazine, an audience which is currently unrepresented in
the Washington and Lee community. However, it is not
permissible, under the current regulations, for the student
body to fund such a periodical.

In his letter, Mr. Ruskell seems to attempt to establish
a link between the members of the Pub Board (which
apparently includes an ‘‘EC stooge,’’ otherwise known as
Representative Giles Perkins) and the Spectator.

Although we are not able to speak for the other
members of the Pub Board, it should by now be clear that
we at The Ring-tum Phi occasionally do not see eye-to-
eye with the Spectator, and are also not in the business of

MY VIEW
By Andrew Roper

 

I am puzzled, confused, no...perhaps disillu-
sioned with people today. I stay awake late at

night watching news of war only to be greeted the
following morning with a pop-quiz in one of my
classes. Does war no longer equate with death?

The night of the 15th, students prepared for the

worst. Only a small handful took the time to
remind our campus that war was not the only
option. This group organized a small candlelight
gathering. A reminder to all of us that peace could
be a comerstone in the new world.

Yet some students debased posters advertising

seemingly blind, remain oblivious to the issue until
the deadline had expired. In an attempt to provoke
thought, two friends and myself distributed peace
fliers and banners around the school about a week
before break. We hoped to raise questions like: Is
Bush exhausting all diplomatic means? Can eco-
nomic sanctions work? Should we give peace a

 

| invoke every student’s in-
tellectual abilities to ponder
this current world crisis.
Form opinions on your own,
not from information based
solely on one source.

 

been avoided. I feel that incoherent foreign policy
in the region, lackadaisical diplomatic relations and
one man’s inability to solve complicated issues
Placed this nation into an unnecessary war.
These thoughts might not be accepted by
everyone on this campus. That is the price we pay
or the value we receive from living in a democra-
cy. I feel at most I must be able to rely on one
thing. I invoke every student’s intellectual abilities
to ponder this current world crisis. Form opinions
on your own, not from information based solely on
one source. Just because George Bush says Hussein
is insane does not mean he actually is. No more

so than you would believe Saddam’s counter
claims that Bush is in fact the madman. People,
please let us show the nation that Washington and
Lee students are active. Let the Phi and other

the gathering. They scratched out ‘‘peace’’ and in- sources be fountains of public debate on this issue.

 

 

 

judging the so-called political correctness of others.

We wish the editors of The Progressive much luck in
their current endeavor. It has been recently proven that it
is indeed possible to run a publication that is independent
of student body funds. The Pub Board has no choice but
to ask this new magazine, under its original format, to
follow the same path.

Help wanted

The Ring-tum Phi is still, Jooking .for, a:,Business
Manager, who would serve during the. end,-of, this). school
year and next year. The position is open to anyone
interested, regardless of major. It also looks very good on
a resume, which should be of interest to practically
everyone.

Quote of the week

Let me put it this way. There are five or six of us over
here, with bats. If there’s anything in the paper next week
about Tom Spurgeon’s little mishap, we're going to come
break your f------ neck.

— An unidentified caller, to Editor Brian Root, offering
some constructive advice concerning possible editorial
decisions for this issue.

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant
Copy Editor

Jeff Woodland
Joshua Manning
Courtney Hall

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
weck’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

jected ‘‘war.’’ The new signs read ‘‘Light a candle
for war.’ Is the humor of some students so mun-
dane as to revolt against the very belief that
provides comfort to most in society?

While most students participated in this somber

Phi coverage
lacked..balance ...

L.ivant tdjtorminiénd your staff for last week's

excellent: editorial, ‘In deferise of offensive!

speech.’’ As you so eloquently wrote, it is
crucial for our democracy to allow for free
speech and public dialogue on issues that our
nation continually needs to address.

However, I believe it is equally impertant for
the media and the press to responsibly cover
news and facilitate a balanced discussion on
public issues. Last week’s Phi neglected to
provide equal coverage of this malingering
national issue of racism.

Why did the Phi decide to cover a rally in
Blacksburg, and neglect to cover a Dr. King
Memorial Lecture on Justice and Non-violent
Social Change in Lee Chapel on Friday, January
18th, sponsored by several W&L student
organizations? Why did the Phi include two
photos from that rally and omit coverage of local
college students explaining whet Dr. King’s
dream means to them in a service held at the
First Baptist Church last Monday, January 21st?

Why did the Phi provide a story of an orga-
nization upholding principles of ‘‘hatred, hostility,
bigotry, discrimination and violence’’ (your own
words), and not balance it with local news of
hope, struggles, dreams, love and non-violence?
Why?

Sincerely,
William C. ‘*Burr’’ Datz °75

Habitat for
Humanity serves
the community

On behalf of HABITAT FOR HUMANITY
and my wife and I (Mabel and Westbrook
Barritt), we want to thank those students who
helped in the construction of the house on
Massie Street. Students from several organiza-
tions, fraternities, church groups and from VMI
undertook some of the more arduous tasks such
as moving earth, placement of insulation and
painting the exterior. They all showed a desire
to work for others and to serve the community,
A letter we received from a W&L student, who
wishes to remain anonymous, shows better than
we can the concern and love that many young
people have for others and for the community:

TO: Habitat for Humanity, Lexington, Virgin-
1a.

Earlier this year I learned of your program
from a fraternity brother of mine. Every Satur-
day, he told us, students could go over and help
construct a house that would eventually be
occupied by a family that was lacking the re-
sources to build their own home. I also recently
understand that most of the work is complete and
that the family has moved in. From my brothers
that went and helped with the construction, I
heard only good comments. Most said that
although the work was hard, it felt good to give
something back to the Lexington community.
Similarly, I feel that all Washington and Lee
students should, one way or another, give some-
thing back to the community, for certainly many
years after graduation we will not just remember
W&L, the university, but also Lexington, the city
in which we lived. Your program not only serves

 

chance? Unfortunately, all of the signs were to be
either taken down by Buildings and Grounds or, on
several occasions, destroyed by students before
most had a chance to see them.

I do not expect every student to believe the

LETTERS

the needy of Lexington, but also provides an
excellent avenue through which students can help
the community. I hope the enclosed donation will
help to k

 

Ai oe

Atkins reminds

frats not to haze

This seems an appropriate time to remind you
and the W&L community at large that Washing-
ton and Lee University is unequivocally opposed
to hazing in any shape or form. Hazing is ex-
pressly forbidden by University policy, by IFC
by-laws and by all sixteen national fraternities
fepresented on our campus. It is also a violation
of Virginia law. Hazing endangers individuals
and destroys the bonds of trust that must exist
in a strong fraternity chapter, a good fraternity
system and a healthy collegiate community.
Hazing activities which threaten the health or
safety of our students are grounds for the imme-
diate expulsion of a fraternity chapter and indi-
viduals from Washington and Lee University.

Fraternity presidents and pledge educators
must see that no elements of hazing enter into
their chapters’ pledge programs. Pledges must
also accept an obligation not to endanger them-
selves or the future of their chapters by submit-
ting to hazing. Any member of the community
who witnesses or suspects hazing should report
the incident or suspicion to Dean Atkins. A
thorough, fair investigation will be conducted.
There will be no reprisals or retaliation permitted
against anyone who reports such an incident.

The invidious effects of hazing demand that
it not be tolerated in our community. The W&L
Greek system, which is potentially the nation’s
best, must demand a responsible pledge-education
program, free of hazing.

Sincerely,
Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins

W&L won't allow
different opinions

Last Monday night a proposal for a new
publication that would stress free thought on
campus was denied funding by the Publications
Board. Its goal was to provide a forum where the
Right, the Left, and the Apolitical could express
their views, sharing the same pages to promote
intelligent thought on the issues presented. Of
course, the publication never had a chance.

The Publications Board decided not to fund
the publication on the basis that it would be a
politically liberal forum and they cannot
fund a politically ideological paper. The proposal
for the new publication stressed over and over
again that politics were not its concerns (although
the Pub. Board seems to think everything degen-
erates into politics at the end, such as articles

about the environment and religion). Maybe it

was the presence of an EC stooge with a copy of
the Spectator clutched to his heart and who
couldn’t wait to scream ‘‘Leftist’’ at every
opportunity. Maybe it was a hope that articles
already in progress would be given to the Politi-
cal Review so it would have something to print.
Or maybe it was because ‘‘free-thinking’’ seems
to denote ‘‘liberal’’ (or ‘‘pinko-commie bastard’’)
rather than ‘‘intellectual."’

When students apply at this institution they're
told that they have the power to do anything they

Let us speak our minds and listen to others.

In the weeks to come, more peace rallies will .
be held on this campus. I invite pro-policy rallies
coin

to counter us. Let us share both sides of the
and surely we will be richer.

want if they believe in it enough. Obviously,
Admissions is lying, or at least clouding the
truth. Why let people in with views other than

) to keep your organization serving the needs, . the right-wing, pseudg-political,..Duckhead clad

-foajoniy. if they-re-not wanted here. This univer-
“Bity: Will ‘never be ‘any, higher on, the U.S, News,
“quality scale if attitudes don’t change. One of its
biggest downfalls on that ranking is the number
of people who transfer out of here, mainly
because they realize that their ideas are not
wanted or even tolerated. Just because they are
not the dogmatic, narrow-minded people that are
the status quo, they are ostracized.

People like to yell ‘‘Tradition!’’ or ‘‘Conser-
vative!’’ whenever someone tries 19 change
things. They're told to ‘‘Shut up and Sit down!”’
by those in power. If things don’t change, this
university is going to choke itself to death in its
own unwillingness to see the other side of the
issue. To see other cultural identities. To respect
people’s individuality. Fifteen is as high as it’s
ever going to get and the best students are going
to look elsewhere after realizing that their voices
don’t count. The Publications Board has stated
this loud and clear.

vo

Sincerely,
Alex Ruskell °94 ’

Thanks SAB for
Jordan concert

Thanks and appreciation are due to everyone
with the Student Activities Board who had a
hand in producing the recent Stanley Jordan
concert. It was a wonderful finale for Founders’
Day.

It was especially nice for it to happen right
here on the main campus rather than out there in
the woods. The sound that resonates off a wood-
en floor beats what bounces off a concrete slab
any time.

Old Doremus sounded as good as I’ve heard
since the Allman Brothers played there 20 years
ago, during my own undergraduate days. Folks
who have been around here longer than myself
tell me that Dave Brubeck, Duke Ellington, and
Louis Jordan (no relation) sounded pretty good
in there, too.

So, again, thank you, SAB, for bringing jazz
back to W&L, and doing it in a way that contin-
ues a fine musical tradition. I hope the interval
until the next time won't be so long.

Sincerely,
W. Patrick Hinely '73

Headline missed
the main point

The headline composed by your staff to
introduce the letter from Daniel Bettendorf in last
week’s issue probably succeeded in provoking
readers, but it missed the mark if it intended to
suggest what the letter was about. I confess to
knowing little about Just-War Theory, but surely
that theory admits the Possibility of such a war
and hence the killing of enemy soldiers under
certain circumstances, Exactly what those circum-

stances should be seems to me to be Mr.
Bettendorf’s point.

Sincerely,
Robert S. Johnson

 

 

,

q

 

A

 
 

-”

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, January 31, 1991

Seven professors to retire

 

By Marcy Brown
Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee will lose
Seven professors to retirement at the
end of this academic year.

C. Westbrook Barritt, Prof. of
Romance Languages; Jay D. Cook,
Prof. of Accounting; and Clark R.
Mollenhoff, Prof. of Journalism and
Mass Communications reach Wash-
ington and Lee’s mandatory retire-
ment age of 70 this year.

Milton Colvin, Prof. of Politics;
Sidney Coulling, Prof. of English;
Henry Sharp, Prof. of Mathematics;
and Buford Stephenson, Prof. of
German have chosen to step: down
before their seventieth birthdays.

“I thought the time had come for

Rates rise
4 cents
for stamps

By Cathy Lopiccolo
Assignment Editor

 

Writing home will cost four more
cents starting this Sunday.

The U.S. Postal Service approved
the 29-cent rate for first-class letters
Jan. 22, and post offices began
selling the new stamps last week.

The stamps, which were printed
before the increase was approved,
bear a red tulip and the letter F
instead of a denomination. In
addition, offices are offering four-
cent makeup stamps to be used with
existing 25-cent stamps.

Federal Postmaster Anthony M.
Frank expressed concern that the new
rate will be inconvenient for
customers and may not be high
enough to cover the Postal Service’s
costs. Frank said the service may
have to request.even higher rates, but
did not predict when.

The Postal Service had originally
requested a 30-cent rate, but the
independent Postal Rate Commission
said that rate placed too heavy a
burden on individuals instead of bulk
mailers, In its recommendations, the
Postal Rate Commission included

large increases in: bulk’ mait rates. «°°

‘Although the’ ‘Postat “Service’s

the recommended increases, the board
requested more details on how the
commission arrived at its rate
proposals.

‘*With all the financial pressures
we are facing, we cannot afford to
gamble on whether the rate
commission has correctly estimated
volume and revenue,’’ Frank said. ‘‘If
they erred — and we believe they
have — the recommended rates may
well prove to be ‘penny wise and
pound foolish.’ ”’

      

by J.R. Smith

Interviews and photos

me to be replaced by a younger
person,”’ said Coulling, a W&L alum-
nus who has taught here since 1956.

All of the departments with retir-
ing professors have either hired facul-
ty members in the last few years in
anticipation of the loss, or are in the
process of interviewing and hiring
new instructors.

Some departments may also shift
teaching assignments to accommodate
for the changes.

‘‘Most of retirement is a down-
side,"’ said Prof. Hampden H. Smith,
chairman of the department of Jour-
nalism and Mass Communications.
‘*However, it does give you the op-
portunity to reevaluate your courses
and reassign them if you need to.”

All of the retiring professors,
except Barritt and Stephenson — who

declined to comment on his retire-
ment plans — said they will devote
more time to hobbies, traveling and
volunteer work, while continuing
projects in their academic field.

Barritt, who graduated from Was- |

hington and Lee in 1943, said he
doesn’t intend to do anything remote-
ly academic once he retires. He said
he plans to enjoy his favorite hobby,
carpentry, and will continue to donate

his time and carpentry skills to build- jj
ing houses with Habitat for Humani- |

ty, a local charity.
‘I’ve enjoyed my years here, and
I will miss the students and my clas-

ses because they kind of keep me |
young,’’ said Cook, another W&L |

alumnus who was graded in 1943.
‘But I think I'll enjoy the change.
I’m sure going to try, anyway.”

 

Clark R. Mollenhoff

Student Center Committee
seeks input from students

 

By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

 

A committee of faculty and stu-
dents is currently planning a large
student center to provide a focal point
for campus life.

Students will have a chance to
voice their opinions about the pro-
posed center in a questionnaire en-
closed in today’s Phi.

Still in its earliest stages, this
planning remains tentative, and the
committee would like both faculty
and students to know the options for
the building.

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ At-
kins, Engineering Professor Robert
Akins and two members of the plan-
ning committee traveled through the
midwest last summer to visit other
colleges’ student centers.

‘*‘We want this student center to
be a combination of the best ones we
visited,’’ said Atkins.

So far, the planned center would
include a snack bar similar to the Co-
op, and entertainment area, an ex-
panded bookstore, a post-office and
UPS package center, a convenience
store, several recreation rooms, stu-
dent organization offices, meeting

rooms, a music store, lounges, offices
for the Dean of Students and his
staff, and a large special events room.

This special events room would
hold 400 people for dancing, 350 for
dining, and 500 to 600 for lectures
and concerts.

The Co-op and bookstore would
be renovated to become part of the
Commerce School.

“The center of the campus will
shift, but that is just what we are
looking for,’’ said Prof. Robert
deMaria. ‘‘We are trying to unify the
W&L student body -_ under-
graduates, law students and profes-
sors.’’

Princeton eating club
forced to admit women

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

 

A Supreme Court refusal last
week that forced an all-male eating
club at Princeton University to admit
women will” have little effect, on

¢’s ‘fraternities at Washington and Lee.
Board of Governors approved most of ~ ‘ Several national fratemities’ felt’.

the court’s refusal to hear arguments
in Tiger Inn v. Frank posed a threat
to their existence.

The New Jersey Supreme Court
had ruled earlier that Tiger Inn, a
social organization and a dining hall,
must admit women this spring when
it chooses new members. The
Supreme Court stated that this
decision did not interfere with the
club’s constitutional right of freedom
of association.

Associate Dean of Students for

 

Elizabeth Currall, ’93, Gaithers-

burg, MD
fraternities.’’

- ‘They're not in

 

John Neslage, ’91, Houston, TX
- ‘It’s simple — pity.’

 Bezanson said, .

Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
and Dean of the School of Law
Randall Bezanson said they believe
the ruling will have no _ legal
implications for fraternities at W&L.

Since the Tiger Inn case involves

a New Jersey statute, it will have a.

direct affect -

eH
\ **Mosg ; aided have ..,:.anti-
discrimination laws and will decide
this issue on their own, The New
Jersey ruling sets no precedent in
other states,’’ he said.

Similarly, Atkins said there is no
correlation between the Tiger Inn
case and fraternities at W&L.

Though the Supreme Court’s
decision not to hear the case is
legally insignificant, Bezanson said it
does raise some interesting questions.

One such question involves state
and federal anti-discrimination statutes

any WARE Ose

that contain exceptions for private
organizations. The definition of
private differs from state to state and
could have some bearing on future
rulings.

The New Jersey Supreme Court
_ ruled that Tiger Inn was not a private

only, in that Stdte/ * Organization due~to~its close ties to
5 Princeton University. This might |
university-affiliated ,

imply; that
organizations may be less likely to
claim privacy.

Bezanson also said that the ruling
shows that claims of protected private
association based on gender are less
persuasive than claims based on other
factors such as religious beliefs.

“The claim of a fraternity or
sorority to exclude men or women
based on associational privacy may
be relatively weak unless coupled
with another claim such as living
arrangements,’ Bezanson said.

 

TALKBACK

 

 

David Gordon, ’92, Chicago, IL

— ‘‘Because they’re a minority
here and they feel that they have
to overachieve and prove that
W&L men are no better than they
are. Plus they're more sober."’

 

Sascha Burns, 93, Shepherds-
town, WV = ‘‘They’re smarter."’

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Pictures Due

Senior pictures for the Calyx are
due Friday, February 1 -- that’s
tomorrow. Put them in the box
in front of Carol Calkins’ office,
University Center. If you want a
professional photographer to
take the picture, call Brooke at
463-6832 to schedule a time.

Oxford Summer

The Virginia Program at Ox-
ford is accepting applications for
a six-week summer course on
Tudor-Stuart History and Litera-
ture. For more information con-
tact Pamela Simpson, in the Art
Department, 463-8861. Applica-
tion deadline is March 1.

Painting Jobs

University Painters will hold an
information session on summer
jobs Monday, February 4 at 12
p.m. in University Center room
109. Additional information is
available in the CD&P offices,
please sign up.

Russian Movie

The Russian Studies Program
will sponsor the film Incident at
Map Grid 36-80, Russian with
English subtitles, tonight at 7:30
p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

1984

The Politics Department will
sponsor the film Nineteen
Eighty-four on February 8 and
9 at 7 p.m. in Reid 203.

West Bank?

W&L will host Furman Univer-
sity in an audience style debate
entitled "Should there be a Pal-
‘estinian: ‘state On the West Ba-

nk?” Monday ‘February’ 4 ‘at 7

p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

Join Kathekon

Kathekon is accepting applica-
tions for membership. See Carol
Calkins in the University Center
beginning February 7.

Classical DJs

WLUR's Classical Music Depart-
ment is looking for a DJ to fill
its 9:30-11:30 am. Wednesday
shift. No experience, only an
interest in classical music, is
required. Call Josh at 463-2397
or leave a message with Mrs. Cox
at 463-8432.

Senior Pix
Senior pictures and quotes are due
by Feb. 1. Tum them into the
box outside Carol Calkins’ office.
If you are scheduled to have the
photographer take your picture,
check the schedule in the Co-op
for your time. Call Brooke Jara-
bek at 463-6832 to make any
changes.

Hike Out

The Outing Club will lead a
hike on Saturday, February 2 to
Apple Orchard Falls. Sign up in
advance at Baker 109 and meet
there at 10 a.m. 6 p.m. return
time.

Work For FD

The Fancy Dress Committee
will be accepting 50 contract st-
udent workers. They will be
paid in FD tickets and souveni-
rs. Sign up outside Carol Calk-
ins’ office starting February 6.
Questions? Call John Flippen or
Susie Wooten, 463-8585.

Why Not Run?

Petitions for the ‘‘Big Three’’

offices are now available at
Carol Calkins’ office in the Uni-
versity Center. The completed
petitions need 150 signatures
and are due at a mandatory
meeting Monday, February 4 at
5 p.m. in the EC room. Elec-
tions will be on February 11.

Big 3 Forum
There will be a forum for the
“Big Three’’ candidates - Presi-
dent, Vice President, and Secret-
ary of the EC - on Wednesday,
February 6 at 4 p.m. in Lee

Chapel. All students are encour-
aged to attend.

 

 

Allen Flickinger, ’94, Ligonier,
PA — ‘‘We'll come back. It’s
just a phase.’’

 

Why do women have higher GPAs than men?

 

Heather Aussiker, 94, Houston,
TX = ‘‘We don’t have as many
distractions.”’

 

 

 
 

SPORTS
Hatfield

 

Senior Craig Hatfield scores against Roanoke earlier this year.
Hatfield led W&L to an 88-77 upset of No. 8 Emory and Henry with
. 19 points and 13 rebounds. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

F ~

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

RALLY ’ROUND THE FLAG!
Crafts Plus has a large stock of flags ranging from 4 x 6 inches to
4 x 6 feet. Included are United States, Commonwealth of
Virginia, and four flags of the Confederacy.

 

Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5

4 without

The Ring-tum Phi, January 31, 1991

By Jay Plotkin

| Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee basket-

“| ball team scored a major upset Tues-
“{day night by beating Emory and
| Henry 88-77 behind 19 points and 13

rebounds from senior forward Craig

1 Hatfield.

The key Old Dominion Athletic
Conference win ended a four-game
losing streak for W&L, who played
two starters on the road
against the eighth-ranked team in the
nation.

‘We had quite a scenario to deal

 

 

with,’’ said head coach Verne Can-
field. ‘‘We had two starters out and
we were going to play on the floor
of the eighth-ranked team in the
nation who had just lost for the first
time.”’
The

Generals played without

i sophomore guard Bryan Watkins, who

is out for the year with a broken
right wrist. Senior center Chris Jacobs

 

came off the bench, but sprained his
ankle six minutes into the game and
is out for seven to ten days.

But, Canfield said, the team did
what it needed to do to compensate
for the injuries.

‘We had some kids come off the
bench and play tremendous games
and one player who was just put
back in the starting lineup who
played what may have been his best
game at W&L,’’ said Canfield.

Hatfield, despite picking up his
fourth foul early in the second half,
scored 10 of his 19 points and grab-
bed five of his 13 rebounds in the
second half.

W&L scored the first four points
of the half to tie the score at 44 and
surged out to a 63-58 lead. But E&H
went on a 7-0 run, capped by Cary
Perkins’ three pointer, to take a 65-
63 lead with 7:27 left.

From there, the Generals took
control of the game. W&L closed the
game with a 25-12 run to earn the
88-77 win over the Wasps, who were

previously ranked second in Division
Il.

W&L held E&H to just 23 per-
cent shooting in the second half and
allowed only eight field goals after
the Wasps hit on 61 percent of their
shots in the first half. After attempt-
ing only two free throws in the first
half, W&L converted 20 of 27 shots
from the line to ice the game.

“Once we got the lead above
three points in the second half, they
{E&H] kind of panicked,’’ said Hat-
field. ‘‘They started fouling, and then
we knew we had the win.”’

Hatfield’s 19 points and 13 re-
bounds were both season highs. Hat-
field got help from some familiar
faces. Senior forward Ed Hart scored
15 points despite fouling out in only
17 minutes and senior guard Mike
Holton scored 10 of his 13 points in
the second half.

W&L also got big games from
two new faces. Junior John With-
erington made his first start of the
year and scored a career-high 14

, Generals top No. 8 E&H 88-77

points, eight in the second half. Clas-
smate Courtney Penn was a defensive '
stalwart, grabbing eight of his career- _

high nine rebounds in the second half
and blocking two shots while scoring
six points.

With the win, W&L improves to '
9-10, 5-7 on the season. The Gen- ,

erals will take on a Virginia Wes-

leyan team Saturday that has lost five °

of six games. W&L will not play a
home game until Feb. 6 against Ran-
dolph-Macon, currently the seventh-
ranked team in Division III.

Washington & Lee (88)--Holton 3-8 5-6 13, Casey
2-12 1-2 6, Witherington 5-6 4-5 14, Hart 7-10 1-
1 15, Hatfield 6-12 7-8 19, Penn 24 2-4 6,
Brading 0-0 0-0 0, Melton 1-2 1-2 3, Gallavan 2
4 1-1 6, Jacobs 1-6 0-0 2, Faulkner 1-1 0-0 2,
Pridgen 1-3 0-0 2. Totals 31-68 22-29 88.

Emory & Henry (77)--Allen 1-3 2-2 4, Elmore 2-
5 0-0 4, Witcher 3-4 1-1 7, Kirtley 3-14 5-7 11,
Hill 8-15 11-14 27, Gibson 0-2 0-0 0, Perkins 4
9 3-5 13, Moore 1-2 0-0 2, Butcher 0-1 0-0 0,
Jones 0-1 2-2 2, Graham 3-7 1-5 7. Totals 25-63
25-36 77.

Halftime: E&H 44-40. Three point goals: W&L (4-
6) Holton 2, Gallavan, Casey; E&H (2-11) Perkins
2. Rebounds: W&L 46 (Hatfield 13), E&H 39
(Kirtley 8).

 

 

 

 

 

 

Breathe

Junior Doug Brown takes a
breath on his way to a win
in the 1000-yard freestyle
last weekend against George
Washington. W&L photo by
W. Patrick Hinely.

 

 

 

 

7.

31S. Main St., Lexington 463-3355

“%,

 
 
 

Center Cut Boneless
Pork Chops

   

SAFER ORE CHE EIOHE PRIS PPBLRRERR ETL CAAAVATTR ERA Perec ee

eas

 

SWITCHTO OUR
LOW PRICESIN ‘91

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jan. 30 to
Feb. 8

location

 

463-3119

at our new

146 S. Main St., Lexington

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, February 5, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, February 5, 1991 In Lexington Store Only. ——
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities, None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 

 

 

 
a amma eee A TT Oe

 

 

SPORTS

Indoor track starts
season on right foot

The Ring-tum Phi, January 31, 1991

 

 

By George Sakin
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee indoor
track and field teams had strong
showings in their first competition of
the year at last weekend’s Lynchburg
Invitational.

“I’m very encouraged and have to
tone down my excitement,’’ said
women’s head coach John Tucker
about his team’s performance.

Senior captain Sarah Bolte paced
the team with a victory in the high
Jump. Sophomore Kelli Klick set a
school record in finishing third in the
shot put. W&L outpointed the four
other women’s teams competing at
the meet.

According to Tucker, the team has
a lot of freshmen and first-year mem-
bers who will form the nucleus of the
team. This team is one of Tucker’s
largest and he has been able to enter
runners in every event. Because of
the size of the team, Tucker has high

| €xpectations.

“I’m very hopeful and expect to
see a national qualifying team,’’ he

i .
' said,

Bolte echoed her coach’s thoughts.
‘‘We have a strong team this year
with a lot of depth,’’ she said. ‘*Look

: for us to be on top in the Old Do-

| minion Athletic Conference.”’

The women will be in action this
weekend at the Virginia Tech
Woman’s Invitational in Blacksburg.

The men’s team plans to surprise
a lot of people behind the perform-
ances of tri-captains David Johnston,
David Martin and Jeff Baucum.

“The captains have looked real

head coach Norris Aldridge. ‘‘They’re
good leaders and have set a good
example for the rest of the team.’’

Aldridge says that although this
team is inexperienced, there is talent
there to develop. In the sprint events,
the Generals will look to replace Wes
Boyd and Scott Williams. In the
hurdles, junior David Phillips has
shown promise, and freshman Tom
Mandia will run both sprints and
hurdles,

The distance events will be one of
the team’s stronger points this year.
Aldridge said Martin, a junior, and
Baucum, a senior, as well as junior
Lee Parker, and sophomores Keith
Rinn and Bo Hannah to earn points.
Martin set a new school record of
4:16.1 in the indoor mile last week-
end,

In the field events, W&L will
look to their veterans for big per-
formances. Senior Craig Irons had a
personal best of 6-4 in the high jump
in Lynchburg. Junior Jim Henry won
the shot put with a personal best toss
of 45-1/2 feet and should be one of
the top performers in the ODAC.
Johnston did well in the pole vault,
and Aldridge thinks he will finish
near the top of the conference. John-
ston may also help out in the sprints.

‘‘We work hard in the indoor
season as part as our training for
outdoor,’ said Johnston. ‘‘We’ll
surprise a lot of people in the confer-
ence.””

The men will be in action Satur-
day at the VMI Relays.

good in the early season,’’ said men’s
"nee

SHOE FIXERS

3 West Nelson St., Lexington
EE) SE  R  -

       
    
  
 

 

 

m
©

 

Rt. 5, Box 379
Lexington, VA 24450

 

W&L Students, we welcome you to shop for your next
hair cut. We have three experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop

22 S. Main St., Lex

=

i Instant Shoe Repair
=< Wecan heel you and save your sole while you wait.

464-6666
ee

ingto

 

* QUICK COPIES « FLYERS
* PAPERS * BANNERS « INVITATIONS
OPEN SATURDAY MORNINGS

(@® PHONE: 463-1712 -

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA + ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

a

FAX #: 463 - 6918

BOBBY BERKSTRESSER

LEE ii

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service

Lee Hi Wrecker Sales
Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3478

 

 

 

 

 

 

1-800-768-LEHI

COLYS) lo-say

IS Love You

JSimply send roses,

the, sia or an

COClY dozen.

florist to The Homestead
Ten East Nelson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841

 

 

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

 

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

Senior Craig Irons, a split end
on the Washington and Lee foot-
ball team, was named an alternate
for an NCAA Post Graduate
Scholarship.

The W&L men’s tennis team
was ranked 12th in the latest
Division III Intercollegiate Tennis
Coaches Association pre-season
poll. Senior Bill Meadows, last
year’s NCAA Division III doubles
champion, was ranked 47th in the
nation. The women’s tennis team
was ranked 16th in the Division
III pre-season poll.

 

 

The W&L golf team, which
finished seventh in Division II
last year, was ranked 12th in the
latest Division III coaches poll.

The W&L Athletic Department
is now offering a sports hotline.
To get up-to-the-minute results of
W&L games, call 463-8998 any-

time.

The W&L men’s lacrosse
team is looking for people inter-
ested in managing the team this
spring. Anyone interested should
call head coach Jim Stagnitta at
463-8678.

 

 

Pilkey, Soderberg lead
Generals in Invitational

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

Two Washington and Lee wres-
tlers finished second in their weight
classes to lead W&L to a sixth-place
finish in last weekend’s W&L Invita-
tional.

Senior co-captain Larry Pilkey
advanced to the finals in the 126-
pound class before losing to Furman’s
Duke Labasi. The second-place finish
was Pilkey’s best of the season.

Junior co-captain Peer Soderberg
recorded two wins in his 177-pound
weight class before falling in over-
time in the finals.

Bob Weaver of Messiah beat
Soderberg 4-2 in overtime in the
finals. It was Weaver’s second win
over Soderberg this year.

Senior Bill Avery turned in his
best performance of the year, finish-
ing fourth in the 150-pound class.
Avery won twice to reach the conso-
lation finals.

Despite the success of W&L’s top
performers, Franke said he was disap-
pointed that several more of his wres-
tlers didn’t place.

W&L will travel to participate in
the Mid-South Tournament this week-
end. An injury to sophomore Rich
Paini (118-pounds) has head coach
Gary Franke worried that his team
won't have a lot of time to improve
before the tournament.

‘*We’ll face some tough competi-
tion in this week’s tournament,”’ said
Franke. ‘‘It should be the strongest
one we've had this year.’

 

ae

 

Right Po

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones

703/463-2022
Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St.
‘| With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

   
  
      
   
   

asst Redken _— ace * Sebastian
~George’s
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5 A

      
 

(Lig )

 

 

   

STEREO EQUIPMENT
STEREO EQUIPMENT REPAIRS

THE BEST COMPACT DISCS
Specializing in: CLASSICAL, NEW AGE, POPULAR/ROCK
BEFORE 1975, SOUNDTRACKS!

Special Orders Welcomed
Hundreds of Mint 60’s Albums and 45’s!
(When they’re gone, they’re gone!)

ONE WEEK SPECIAL ONLY
IMPROVE YOUR STEREO FM RECEPTION DRAMATICALLY!
TERK Pi Small Powered Indoor FM Antenna - List, $79.95, Now $69.95
Pre-owned: ADCOM 555 200 Watt/Channel Power Amplifier - $485
ADCOM 565 Preamplifier - $595, AR ES-1 Audiophile Turntable - $435

Che
Sonic Gallery

Fine Stereo Components and Recordings
for the Discriminating Listener
464-1100
Old Main Street Building, 29 N. Main St., Lexington
Weekdays: Noon to 6PM. Saturdays 10AM to 5PM

Raphine

1 81/64

Exit 54

Raphine, Virginia 24472
Phone: (708) 377-2604

Are cold temperatures, high heating bills, taxes, snowed in kids, or
the Gulf Crisis beginning to get you down. Escape from it all at the

Quality Inn, Raphine.

WINTER WEEKEND GETAWAY
Every Friday and Saturday

Included in the Winter Weekend Getaway price:

*One night in a luxury king size suite

*Dinner in the Reaper Room: Your choice of entree from our regular menu,

coffee, tea, or soft drink, dessert

*Your choice of Champagne on arrival or Continental Breakfast served in

your room by our friendly staff

*Other amenities include: Unlimited use of our spacious hot tub, free admis-
sion to Friday night entertainment, recent release movies available for rental.

All this for just $24.95 per person based on double occupancy

Advance reservation required

Offer expires 2/28/91

Price does not include tax or gratuity

 

 

Struggle goes on
for W&L swimmers

 

By Randall Ellis
Staff Reporter

 

Frustration and relief are how
head coach Page Remillard summed
up his feelings over Washington and
Lee’s losses to George Washington
this past weekend.

Both the men’s and women’s
teams dropped their fourth straight
meet, the men losing 104-76 and the
women 105-85. =

‘‘We had a lot of good swims
and some personal best from our
swimmers but we kept up coming up
short place-wise,”’ said Remillard.

For the men, junior Doug Brown
won the 1000-yard freestyle with a
time of 10:23.81. Senior Jim Dun-
levy took home first in the 500-
freestyle with a time of 5:01.26 and
classmate Tomas Perez captured the
200-yard breaststroke in 2:26.16.

For the women, super sophomores
led the way. Stephanie Sauers won
the 100-yard freestyle with a time of
1:00.05 and Claire Dudley captured
first in the 200-yard breaststroke,
clocking in at 2:34.09.

Remillard said the lack of his
teams providing a comparable level
of competition has been a problem
this year. Although the women’s team
competes in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference, the men’s team does
not have a league in which they can
compete.

‘“‘There are only two other Di-
vision III men’s team in the sur-
rounding area. Thus the men are
consistently swimming against much

   
  

 
    
 

  
     
   
 
 

Hack Squat/Leg Press
Calf Machine

#16 E, Nelson St.

  
 

 

   

 

We havea FULL weight room
at the Lexington Fitness Center

Big
On All
Merchandise

 

Stephanie Sauers

larger teams,”’ said Remillard.

On the women’s side tough, the
ODAC has been able to provide the
necessary competition with rivals like
Hollins and Sweet Briar. The women
will next swim against Hollins.

‘This meet will be a can’t loose
situation. The girls really want the
win and they will be going after it,”’
said Remillard.

The teams have the coming week-
end off as far as competition goes
and this will allow them to get in
some intense training.

‘This break in the action will be
welcome,’’ said Remillard. ‘‘Once we
start competing again we will be into
the Division III and championship
part of our schedule, so we should
Start to be more competitive.’’

The women (1-4) will travel to
Hollins for their meet on February 8
and the men (0-4) will wait till Febr-
uary 9 when both teams swim against
Mary Washington.

Soe

  

 

(exiwar on)
Hin

edenentetetetatetetcetes

 
 
 

  
  

HHe rr ee ae

23 N. Main St.
Lexington

presses Se ie ae Ae Sea eT Se NR Ph RR OS RE se ~

 

Enjoy winter's newest challenge, Snowboard Skiing at

Massanutten. Hone your skills as you ri
Show your skills on our challenging hall pipe.

Snowboard skiing is permitted on al open slopes and
trails, including our two new slopes from the top of the moun
tain. Lessons and limited rentals are also available.

College Twilight skiing rates ($12) apply on Monday and
Friday. With your valid college ID and this ad, lift tickets to
snowboard ski are just $10.

Come ski what's new at Massanutten.

MASSANUTTE

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

 

) from peak to base.

 

 

 

 

|
i
W&LIFE

Misery, ‘'m your biggest fan!’

 

By Stephanie McHaney
Staff Reporter

 

Master of the horror story, Ste-
phen King has done it again.

Misery is by far the best film
version of a King novel. Cujo, Carrie
and Christine, on the other hand, are
all examples of a producer mutilating
a relatively good horror story. How
can one forget the rabid clown chas-
ing fifth graders through the sewer
system in the made-for-television ver-
sion of [T?

Until now, film producers seemed
unable to capture the unnerving fear
King stimulates in his novels. Final-
ly, however, a producer has done jus-
lice to one of King’s stories. No

psychologically stable person should
leave the theatre relaxed after he sees
Misery.

The novel’s protagonist, romance
novelist Paul Sheldon ,(James Caan)
is desperately trying to end his suc-
cessful Misery Chastain series. When
Sheldon finishes his new book in
which Misery dies, he heads home
from his Colorado hideaway. Luckily
for Sheldon, Nurse Annie Wilkes
(Kathy Bates) rescues Sheldon from
a near fatal car accident after his car
goes off the road in a blizzard.
Wilkes takes Sheldon to her Green
Acres from Hell, made complete with
a pig named after Sheldon’s Misery
character. While nursing Sheldon
back to health, Wilkes reads
Sheldon’s newly released Misery

The Ring-tum Phi, January 31, 1991
nae

novel...and so the terror begins.

Misery literally keeps the viewer
on the edge of his seat. Fortunately
for those with weak hearts, Reiner
made the most of the black humor in
King’s novel. Thus, the viewer expe-
riences a few warped, but funny
moments.

Misery stands apart from typical
horror flicks for several reasons.
First, there isn’t a single scene with
a teenager spurting blood from a
major artery. Reiner does not subject
the viewers to the infamous and
grotesque hobbling  scene...sound
effects are sufficient. Reiner leaves
that to the viewers imagination. The
most outstanding characteristic of this
movie is the simplicity of the sets. A
majority of the film takes place in

Sheldon’s room in Wilkes’ home.
Reiner kept the props simple, which
serves to enhance the simplicity of
Nurse Wilkes’ deranged thought pro-
cesses,

Kathy Bates’ performance of the
deranged Annie Wilkes makes Misery
a truly incredible movie. It’s likely
that the viewer’s overactive imagina-
tion will frighten him more than any
action on the screen.

Rob Reiner managed to produced
a spine-tingling movie based on char-
acter development rather than on
repeated massacres. The majority of
the movie simply consists of conver-
sation between Wilkes and Sheldon.

Misery, I'm your "number one
fan!!"

Keydet General’s new Sports Bar
offers W&L the whole ten yards

 

By George Sakin
Staff Reporter

 

Students and sports fans have
found a different environment and
alternate social life due to the open-
ing of Lexington’s newest establish-
ment, The Sports Bar.

‘‘T’m a sports enthusiast, I like
those types of bars. It provides an
atmosphere everyone is comfortable
in,’ said Pat Gallavan, a senior from
Lake Forest, Ill.

The Sports Bar celebrated its
grand opening at the Best Western’s

Keydet General last Tuesday night.
The bar offered drink specials and
free food for the occasion.

The idea for a sports bar in Lex-
ington was proposed by a profession-
al management company which has
worked with other franchise hotels
and independent restaurants.

‘‘We had success in other areas
with a sports bar,’’ said Tim Back,
manager of the bar, ‘‘You can find a
general mix of people who like the
idea, 21-year-olds to 50-year-olds.”’

Several students seem to agree
with the bar’s style. Decorated with
posters, pennants, and equipment

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

205 N. Main, Lexington

 

Rockbridge
Music

We buy, sell and trade
musical merchandise.

463-7969

   

 

463-5455

 

 

  

 
       
    

trom your favorite sports teams, the
objects serve to promote conversation
and a warm atmosphere.

“I think it is good and it reminds
me of bars I go to at home,’’ said
Tucker Walsh, a senior from Bronx
ville, N.Y:

“It’s the first real bar in Lexing-
ton,’’ added Gallavan.

As the new establishment in the
area, the Sports Bar is looking to use
advantages to build a clientele.

“Our location outside the city
limits is an disadvantage to students
due to an increase in DUI s, agree
most students that come in g

   
 

Ballroom Dance
Instruction

et Fox Trot, Waltz,
and Swing for F.D.

have a designated driver,’’ said Back,

‘‘the guy from the Palm’s said he
liked our place but our prices were
killing him.”’

The advantages seem to be work-
ing for now. Promotions have in-
cluded such things as a Super Bowl
party and drink specials. Plans call
for an outside deck to be built for
use in warmer months.

With the reasonable prices and a
comfortable atmosphere, students will
continue to patronize the Sports Bar,
even if they don’t appreciate the
style.

 

$5.00 per person

 

  
  
 

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual
or student organization needed to
promote Spring Break trip. Earn
money, free trips and valuable work
experience. CALL NOW! Inter-
Campus Programs:.1-800-327-6013...

 

 

  
  

 

COLOR PIN CA

Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money. — :
You do not need t to be a | Penge bowle to bowl

 

 

 

 

US HWY - 11 North

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials
$1.50 per Game

Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM

Saturday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

   

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2AM

  

464-BOWL (2695)

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

  

6 and 7 pm Monday, Feb. 4th
East Lounge next to Evans Dining Hall

BWeTeUUUEA

   
          
     
  
  
  
       
     
    

    
        
  

Call
463-8581
for
advertising
Ararrrrvres

 

 

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR|

   

ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: Harvi Griffin.
Chandler Hall, Southern Seminary.

8 p.m.

GRE Exam.

OPERA BROADCAST: Don Giovanni (Mozart). WLUR-FM
(91.5).

AWAY ATHLETICS: BASKETBALL: Virginia Wesleyan;
WRESTLING: Gallaudet Invitational; INDOOR TRACK (M):
V.M.I. Relays; INDOOR TRACK (W): Va. Tech. Invitational.

1 p.m.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: D.C. and
Atlanta Connection Orientation. Room 109, University
Center.

FACULTY MEETING: Northen Auditorium.

DEBATE: "Should There Be a Palestinian State on the West
Bank?" Audience-style exhibition debate, W&L vs. Furman
University. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public
invited.

CONTACT LECTURE: Hunter S. Thompson, author, columnist,
and New Journalism figure. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: BASKETBALL: Averett.

4p.m.

4:30 p.m.
7 p.m.

8 p.m.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT: Interview
Workshop. Room 109, University Center.

VISITING SCIENTIST/ENGINEER LECTURE: "Design and
Analysis of Critical Engine Fasteners,” William A. McNeill,
SPS Technologies. Room 201, Parmly Hall. Public invited.

VISITING SCIENTIST/ENGINEER LECTURE: "Simultaneous
Engineering,” William A. McNeill. Room 327, Commerce
School. Public invited.

4p.m.

4p.m.

8 p.m.

BASKETBALL: Generals vs. Randolph-Macon. Warner Center.

LECTURE: "The Computer Model of the Mind,” William Lycan,
U.N.C. Chapel Hill. Room 221, Commerce School. Public
invited.

7:30 p.m.
8 p.m.

 

 

      
     
    

 

  

2

121 W. Nelson Street
464-3500
Open daily 10 AM- 6 PM
Sunday Noon - 6 PM

 

Caravans

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

Four 3-bedroom apartments for rent - walking distance
to W&L - for more information call: Harry Swisher,
463-7690 after 6 p.m.

Can’t Make It Till The End
Of The Semester?

Female law student is looking for a female roommate until May for a
cute, two bedroom house in Metro-Lex, Great location, huge yard,
tons of fun. Rent is negotiable.

Call 464-5370

Ask for Adri or leave a message.

House For Rent
In Country

4 bedrooms

2 bathrooms

Daytime: 463-2432
Evenings: 348-5213

 

 

 

 

auciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
; WEF CwD
! BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

+ ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

+ BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

+ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
+ IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

Lyric
Loft Apartments

Spacious new
2-bedroom units
for Fall of 1991

 

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

 

Rollerblades
Are In!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

University Sportwear sus the
best selection of W&L im-
printed T-Shirts, sweatshirts,
‘embroidered fitted baseball
caps and much more. Come
see our new W&L Flannel

Boxers!

STUDENT
ACCOUNTS
AVAILABLE

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

 

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mail
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

For information
Call: 463-7563

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Large Farm House
In Country

10 miles west (10 minutes)
Recently Remodeled.

5 Bedrooms
Lots of Outdoors
Available June 1st

463-6575 Office
463-2868 Home

CERRO eR OS ne ye

 

 
1

deli
VOLUME 90, NO. 19

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

 

‘ One bright spot

 

 

U

. W&L reserve forward Franklin Pridgen scores over two

defenders from Randolph-Macon College Wednesday night In
’ the Warner Center. W&L lost to R-MC 90-58. Please see the
, Story on Page 5. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

Broken house
windows result
in punishment

By John Foster
Staff Reporter

 

 

President of the University John
Wilson suspended two Washington
and Lee sophomores and one junior
for breaking windows in the newly-
renovated Sigma Alpha Epsilon house
and the Phi Kappa Psi house.

Keith Camp and Kevin Gorman,
sophomore members of Phi Psi, and
Chris Sullivan, an SAE junior, were
suspended for the rest of the winter
term last Friday after each met with
Wilson.

‘Renaissance really started when
we occupied the SAE house,’’ Wilson
said. ‘‘Three weeks later I’m
confronted with evidence of people
who couldn’t care less.’’

The window breaking incident
happened two Saturdays ago, Gorman
said. Camp and Sullivan did not want
to comment on the event. Gorman
said he was at a small upstairs party
at Phi Psi when a member of SAE
smashed a window with a bottle.
Gorman said he and Camp decided
to retaliate.

“IT threw a bottle through the
house mother’s window and, I don’t
know, Keith [Camp] threw a bottle
through another window,’’ Gorman
said.

Wilson said he did not hear about
the broken windows until the next
Wednesday, four days after the event.

“‘T was shocked that windows had
been broken in the SAE house,”’
Wilson said.

Wilson contacted the presidents of
Phi Psi and SAE and asked them

Prof. Parke W&L alumnus

‘hospitalized
‘in Roanoke

By Alesha Priebe
Associate Editor

 

 

Associate Professor of History J.
_ David Parker was admitted to Roa-
poke Memorial Hospital for neuro-
logical tests Wednesday morning.
+ Robert McAhren, head of the
History Department, said Parker woke
up unable to walk yesterday.
‘ According to McAhren, Parker’s
wife called the Lexington Life Saving
Crew Wednesday at about 8 a.m.
which then transported him to Stone-
wall Jackson Hospital in Lexington.

The staff at Stonewall Jackson

then sent Parker to Roanoke, which
McAhren said is not uncommon in
neurological cases.
( Parker had been experiencing
severe headaches, numbness in his
limbs and slurring of his speech in
ihe last few days.

McAhren said the symptoms seem
to indicate a stroke, although officials
at Roanoke Memorial said last night
they did not yet know the cause of
Parker’s illness and were still con-
flucting tests.

McAhren added that Parker will
temain in the hospital until Friday
and possibly through the weekend.

Parker specializes in teaching
“Latin American history. Last term, he

« accompanied several W&L students to
Costa Rica, where they made presen-
gations to an international covention,

dies in

 

 

The W&L community has had its
first loss to the Persian Gulf War.

David R. ‘‘Chip’’ Herr, Jr., class
of 1984, died Monday when the UH-
1 Huey helicopter he was flying
crashed in eastern Saudi Arabia. The
crash was not combat-related and
might have been due to mechanical
failure, military authorities said.

Herr, a geology major and an
independent from Fort Worth, Texas,
flew helicopters as a Marine Corps
captain.

“I am sad, but very proud,’’ his
mother told the Fort Worth Star-
Telegram on Monday. ‘‘After the
Marines [who brought news of their
son’s death] left the house, my hus-
band and I walked around the block,
and decided there is not one moment
that we would change of his growing
up.

‘He did everything the way we
would have wanted him to. We had
twenty-eight wonderful, wonderful
years, and frankly, if he had to die I
would have rather he died with the
Marines because he loved them so
much,”’

Herr’s parents, David and Connie
Herr, said it was at Washington and
Lee that their son first became inter-
ested in the Marines.

Gulf

His mother thinks he was
approached by a recruiter during his
freshman year. His sister, Sally,
added that he may have been thinking
about classmates who joined the
corps from Fort Worth Country Day
School.

Before his freshman year at W&L
was finished, Herr decided to join a
training program that allowed him to
concentrate on his school work during
the academic years and train during
the summers without making a com-
mitment.

At W&L, as well as in his home-
town, people who knew him readily
recall his sense of humor. Geology
Professor Samuel J. Kozak recalls
how Herr could roll with the punches
and throw a couple in himself, too.
Herr also played indoor soccer, lead-
ing the team as captain.

During his senior year, Herr de-
cided to join the Marines. While his
family and friends were initially
surprised, the decision reflected his
personal nature.

“Chip was very self-contained,”’
his mother told the Star-Telegram.
‘‘He was a person who didn’t go
with the crowd if he didn’t think it
was right. He had his own set of
values, and they were very strong.

‘In his world, there was a right
and wrong way of doing things, and
the right was the way to do it.”’

Herr’s mother said he felt fortu-

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Wilson suspends students

Re Meet the Big Three candidates --- page 7

53 Ff

February 7, 1991

 

By Andrew Waters
Associate Editor

 

W&L students criticize Wilson at forum

mother, who occupied the room into which a bottle
was thrown, and the $12 million Fraternity Renaissance

Program.

 

fraternity houses.

lasted about 1 1/2 hours.

said.

 

About 400 students crowded into Lee Chapel last
night to hear University President John Wilson explain
why he superseded student government authority and
suspended three students for breaking windows at two

Keith Camp and Kevin Gorman, Phi Kappa Psi
sophomores, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon Chris Sullivan
were suspended for the remainder of the term for
breaking windows at the newly-renovated SAE house.

Phi Kappa Psi President Mike Skarda, who initially
refused to identify Camp and Gorman, invited Wilson
to address the student body in a public forum that

While many students complained about the severity
of the punishment and what they considered excessive
use of the president’s authority that could lead to an
erosion of student autonomy, Wilson insisted that the
“crude and dangerous’’ act warranted suspension.

This is the second time in eight years Wilson has
bypassed student government to discipline students, he

“‘T think it’s wrong that we weren’t informed of the
incident’ until Sunday, said Student Conduct Com-
mittee Chairman Tom Spurgeon. ‘‘I think it’s a really
broad and improper use of that power.’’

Wilson told the sometimes restless crowd that the
incident presented a threat to both SAE’s house

Despite his intervention in the matter, he said he
remains committed to student autonomy.

“I hope you will recognize that you are being
addressed by someone who has great confidence in
student government,’’ he said.

Self-government ‘‘can’t be a shield. It’s got to
function, but it didn’t function very well,’’ Wilson
said. ‘I had to intervene and I did.’’

‘‘How can you say’’ student government
working when it wasn’t given a chance?’’ asked Matt
Smith, a Phi Psi junior.

Wilson repeatedly maintained he believed that the
fraternities’ handling of the matter was inadequate, the
SCC was helpless without the identity of the students
and the IFC had no jurisdiction.

“I see that as evidence that it didn’t work,’’ he

said.

Several questions posed to the president elicited
applause from the audience, most of which appeared to
oppose the suspensions:

Why try to make a statement with Camp, Corman
and Sullivan? Why not tell the student body before
hand what’s going to happen?

Why has a student who fired a shotgun into a
fraternity house not been suspended?

Why not bring them back and try it again?

+e

wasn’t

Q) Please see FORUM page 4

 

 

who broke the windows and how
the guilty students were being pun-
ished. Both presidents said that they
had promised the students involved
that their names would not be
revealed.

Mike Skarda, president of Phi Psi,
said the two members of Phi Psi
would have to pay for the windows
and write an apology to the house
mother.

‘‘T handled things as they always
have been handled in the past,”’
Skarda said.

 

David Herr

..Persian Gulf casualty

nate to have the opportunity to be
commissioned a second lieutenant
before General Robert E. Lee’s tomb
in Lee Chapel.

“He always treasured being com-
missioned in Lee Chapel,’’ she said.
“‘That was very special to him.’’

Connie Herr said she and her
family were caught by surprise with
the heavy coverage of her son’s death
in newspapers, on TV and the radio.
The coverage is understandable, how-
ever, because his is the first in the
area, she said.

“I think people are realizing the
war is touching everyone.”’

Andrew Gaffney, SAE’s president,
said the student involved from his
fraternity was given a similar penalty.

Wilson told both presidents that
the guilty students should tur them-
selves in to the Student Conduct
Committee. By last Friday, six days
after the event, none of the students
had done so, Wilson said.

Because no action had been taken
by student government almost a week
after the incident, Wilson said he
decided to act.

‘Students were in a vacuum,”’

Wilson said. ‘‘The SCC didn’t know,
the IFC had no jurisdiction, and the
houses only fined them. I think there
was an absence of student govern-
ment in this case and I filled the
vacuum.”’

Wilson said he met with each
student individually that Friday and
informed them that they would be
suspended for the remainder of winter
term and would be reinstated in the
spring.

QO Please see WINDOWS page 4

Pro-troops rally
set for Saturday

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Virginians for Victory expect
2,500 people on hand for their sup-
port rally in the Warner Center this
Saturday at 2 p.m., according to Co-
chairman Marc Short.

The organization has invited dele-
gations from nearly 30 other colleges
from across the state. Short said that
large groups of students are expected
from the Virginia Military Institute,
James Madison University, and the
University of Virginia.

“Our goal is to spark this idea
nationwide,’’ said Short. ‘‘Students
should learn to show their support
with pride.’’

The keynote speaker at the ‘‘Sat-
urday Rally’’ will be Admiral Jerem-
iah Denton, former United States
Senator from Alabama and 7-year
POW in Vietnam. Denton, the first
POW taken by the Viet-Cong, leaked
the cruel tactics of his captors to the
U.S. by blinking the word ‘‘torture’’
in Morse code during a hostage inter-
view.

Short said Denton will probably
discuss the effect student rallies had
on the morale of troops stationed in
Vietnam.

Several other guest speakers are
also scheduled to appear: Con-
gressman Robert K. Dornan (R-CA)
from the House Armed Services

Dance the night away to benefit MDA

‘Drivin’ and Cryin’, battle of the bands head annual Superdance lineup

 

‘By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

‘Washington and Lee students are putting on
their dancing shoes as they prepare to battle
muscular dystrophy at the annual MDA
‘Superdance this weekend.

Atlanta-based rock band Drivin’ n’ Cryin’
will highlight Saturday night’s activities after
‘performances by the winner of Friday's local
Battle of the Bands, and The Phase.

Drivin’ and Cryin’ is currently touring in
support of their newest album, ‘‘Fly Me
Courageous.’’ This is the band’s fourth release.

he others are titled ‘‘Scarred but Smarter,’’
(‘Whisper Tames the Lion,’’ and ‘‘Mystery
Road,’’ which was released two years ago.
‘

t

‘*We like to work for our crowds,’’ said
band member Buren Fowler in a telephone
interview. Fowler said the band prefers to play
in smaller arenas, to more vocal crowds.

Both night’s activities will begin at 7
in the Student Pavilion.

This weekend marks the 13th year of
W&L's connection with the Muscular
Dystrophy Association (MDA). Thirteen years
ago, the Roanoke chapter of MDA asked W&L
to raise money for the fight against muscular
dystrophy.

Dance marathons were popular at the time,
so organizers decided to hold an all-weekend,
30-hour Superdance in Evans Dining Hall.

That first Superdance far exceeded the
$5,000 goal, and W&L’s association with MDA
was firmly established.

The Superdance format

has undergone

numerous changes in subsequent years. As
marathons began to fade in the early 80's, the
W&L Superdance was shortened to 15 hours.

Superdance Faculty Advisor Fontanne Bostic
has been involved with the program since its
inception at W&L. She found the new format
to be less than ideal.

‘‘It was extremely hard to motivate people
to come in on Saturday morning and dance for
15 hours when the live band wasn’t there until
that night,’’ she said.

As a result Bostic decided on the current
format of dancing seven hours Friday night and
seven hours Saturday night.

Superdance aids in the fight against
muscular dystrophy, a debilitating disease that
weakens the muscles and makes it difficult to
perform such basic tasks as eating
exercising.

and

There are several different types of mus-
cular dystrophy that strike people of all ages.

Bostic said she hopes to raise $30,000 this
year for MDA.

Eighty to ninety percent of the money raised
at Superdance will go directly to MDA, which
will use it for patient services and medical
research, she said.

Bostic said W&L’s Superdance has a
reputation for raising enormous amounts of
money for MDA.

**In 1986 only one other school raised more
money than W&L, the considerably larger
Syracuse University,’’ she said.

**T hope we can keep it up,’’ she said.

Staff reporter Andrew Keller contributed to
this story.

Committee, Dr. Ali Al-Tarrah repres-
enting the Kuwaiti embassy in Washi-
ngton, and T. Kenneth Cribb, Jr.,
W&L '70, a former advisor to Presi-
dent Reagan and currently President
of the Inter-Collegiate Studies In-
stitute. Cribb will speak about W&L
during the Vietnam era.

Virginians for Victory was found-
ed in Charlottesville two weeks ago
by Short and Co-Chairman Kate
Obenshain, a senior at UVa.

Impressed by a recent rally at
UVa, the group decided to arrange a
statewide gathering.

While Short said his supporters
here at W&L felt that Charlottesville
might be a better location for the
Saturday Rally, Obenshain felt that
another demonstration, coming so
soon on the heals of the previous
rally, would withdraw from the uni-
queness of the event.

The organization is supported by
the Young America’s Foundation, a
Virginia-based educational firm that
gives out scholarships every year.
According to Short, the foundation
was very receptive to the plans ar-
ranged by Virginians for Victory.
They provided funds necessary for
publicizing the rally.

According to group officials,
Virginians for Victory has no specific
plans for the future.

“‘Hopefully this will be a short
war,’’ said Short. ‘‘Then there will
be no need for another rally.”’

 

 

 

 

Fontaine Bostic

...Superdance faculty advisor
 

 

 

 

 

OPINION

a ieee
A call to students

for responsibility

A controversy is raging here at Washington and Lee, and
President Wilson is doing all he can to avoid being consumed. He
has been almost unanimously cast by the students in the role of
villain. Three young men are removed from our community, only
temporarily we hope, and their schoolmates are making them
martyrs.

But let’s examine the situation a little more closely. Yes, Pres.
Wilson acted imprudently in by-passing the Student Conduct
Committee when he suspended the men for the winter term. True,
he could have been more sensitive to student concerns and our
long tradition of self-government. But he did not act without
justification.

To his credit, Wilson gave the system a chance to work. When
he first heard of the bottle-throwing incident, he called meetings
with the presidents of the two fraternities involved, to see how
that first and most basic level of ‘‘student government’’ was
handling the situation. They were, in the words of one house
president, dealing with the problems ‘‘as they have always been
handled in the past.’’ Great.

That’s punishment along the old lines of ‘‘you break it, you
buy it.’’ In the old days, that attitude was tolerated, however, the
millions of dollars being invested in Fraternity Renaissance are
indeed ushering in a new era. Pres. Wilson is now forcing
Students to learn lessons of responsibility and respect that they
should have learned long ago.

Students feel Pres. Wilson may have been stepping way
beyond his jurisdiction in suspending our three schoolmates. What
Students seem not to realize is that in all these years of window
breaking and other acts of destruction, they have been stepping
beyond the boundaries of civilized behavior and plain decency.

In this case, the students pushed further beyond the civilized
norms than usual. According to Pres. Wilson’s speech last night,
one student admitted to throwing his bottle unprovoked through
the living-room window of another fraternity. The other two
students retaliated by tossing bottles back, one of which came
blasting through the window of a fraternity house mother’s living
room. According to Pres. Wilson, in Virginia, such an action can
be termed ‘‘battery,’’ a low-grade felony. At Washington and Lee,
it is at the very least ‘‘ungentlemanly.’’

After hearing the ‘‘punishment,’’ Wilson asked the fraternity
presidents to tell the guilty parties to turn themselves into the
SCC. For whatever reason, these three men did not appear before
the SCC. While we do not completely agree with the punishment
handed out to the individuals in this case, we agree with Pres.

Wilson that student government had failed everyone in this
instance.

The fact is, the student government failed. Student government
should have acted promptly to resolve the matter with due
apologies and punishments for all. Student government should
have made it unnecessary for Pres. Wilson to step in.

The attitude on this campus is such that breaking windows for
no reason and acting with utter disrespect for private property and
personal safety is acceptable behavior. It’s gone on unchecked for
years so any word to the contrary seems sacrilege to us.

That is sorry commentary about a university that prides itself
on upholding the traditional ideals of gentlemanly behavior. It is
ridiculous that a student government system allowed such
flagrantly boorish behavior to be punished by no more than a pat
on the hand. An angered and disappointed Pres. Wilson
recognized this and justifiably intervened.

The particular method by which he sought to rectify the
situation has been criticized, and rightly so. He himself admits
that certain decisions might have been made in haste and out of
anger. We in no way condone the seemingly drastic measures
imposed on the three students. But we do recognize the necessity
for Pres. Wilson to have acted to rectify a problem he saw in this
case with the student government.

— CB

— PL — AW

Quote of the week

Being angry that Hunter Thompson showed up drunk is like hiring
Jean-Paul Sartre to come to W&L and then being upset because
he spoke in French.

— Journalism Professor Brian Richardson, expressing surprise that
some members of the W&L community were unhappy about

— apparent mental and physical condition Monday
night.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

sm

la

TUT LLL Aa Ze

pei

 

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Ashley Harper

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Courtney Hall

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

President Wilson
deserves respect

Let me start by saying that I did not neces-
sarily support President Wilson’s decisions
concerning the suspension of three students. What
I do condemn is the behavior, and general atti-
tude of disrespect during the Forum on Wednes-
day night. First, by treating President Wilson like
a fool, (which he does not deserve whether he is
right on this issue or not), the student body left
him with no graceful solution except to cling to
his initial decisions. If he were to compromise
after the rough treatment he received, he would
then be considered a fool and wimp.

Secondly, even assuming he was wrong in
his actions, do the students have the right to jeer
at him, and cut him off in the middle of his
answers? I say no. Not only do we owe him
respect as the President of this University, but
one must consider the question from a second
angle. When one is tried by the Student Affairs
Committee, or the Executive counsel, are they
treated like fools, or with a lack of respect, even
if the committee knows that the person being
tried is guiltys: a a

I know that these student organizations always
act with respect to students on trial. Do we not,
the student body at large, owe the same respect
for our President when he volunteers his time to
create such a forum? Now to my main point. We
can criticize his actions, maybe justly, but our
suggestions will fall on deaf ears if the proper
basic respect is not shown.

Sincerely,
Frank Martien 92

Let SCC handle
student conduct

It has come to our attention that a member of
the junior class and two members of the
sophmore class were recently suspended for one
term without refund by President Wilson for a
cae of student misconduct. We as officers of the
junior class and members of the Student Conduct
Committee feel that President Wilson has shown
complete disregard for our system of student
government. Perhaps he is not aware of the fact
that, as the student handbook points out, ‘‘the
SCC was created by the university faculty to
excercise its inherent power to control student

government.’’ The by-laws of the SCC go on to
state that, ‘“The SCC shall have primary, first-
instance responsibility for deciding misconduct
cases and imposing penalties...’’

We have devoted a substantial amount of our
time this year to the SCC and we feel that all
cases have been decided fairly. However, Presi-
dent Wilson’s actions indicate that he percieves
us as- incapable of handling such cases. We
believe very strongly in the tradition of student
government here at Washington and Lee and are
concerned that President Wilson's blatant disre-
spect for our current system might affect other
traditions at our school.

Sincerely,
Read Folline, Junior Class President
Chris Haley, Junior Class Vice-President

Wilson ignored
student govt.

I am writing to protest President Wilson’s
expulsion of the three students involved in the
bottle-throwing incident of several weekends ago.
Just as we should not condone those individual’s
conduct, we should not passively accept the
president’s actions. When compared with the
sentencing, or lack thereof, or more serious
offenses, this decision demonstrates an alarming
amount of inconsistency, Even more disturbing-
ly, the president has exhibited a troubling disre-
gard for the students that we elected to deal with
such matters.

Sincerely,
Allan Chisholm 91

Punishment didn’t
fit the crimes

As we all know, our university is currently
undergoing a complex Fraternity Renaissance
program. Millions have and will be spent. This
fact signifies the administration’s support of
Greek life here at Washington and Lee. It is
certainly justifiable that the Hill expects to

nAUTA

©

Lhe eal Py

 

“Ty,

 

 

LETTERS

augment its role in Fraternity life in return for
such a valuable commitment. This increased
involvement is especially valid when it involves
a desire to maintain the healthy architectural state
of the newly renovated houses. It is only justifi-
able then that they should no longer tolerate the
extensive abuse of the houses that has existed in
recent years. Nor should we the students condone

such actions amongst ourselves.
A week or so ago a few windows were

broken during a harmless conflict between mem-
bers of two neighboring fraternities. One of the

houses involved, Phi Kappa Psi, has not yet’

undergone renovation. The other, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, was the first to complete the restoration
process. With the advent of such events the
administration realized the importance of
demonstrating its virgin capabilities. Rightly so,
without stern and quick punishments for those
involved they would lose any just authority
gained. The three fraternity members involved
were suspended from school for the remainder of
the term.

I question the given punishments for two
reasons. First of all, I feel the administration has
overstepped its bounds. Although I understand

* their increased involvement coricerning the’ up-

keep of the refurbished houses, I resent the fact
that they have stomped on the numerous student-
run organizations whose job it is to provide
disciplinary actions in such matters. It seems as
if the authority of the house leadership, the
Interfraternity Council and the Student Conduct
Committee have all been destroyed. Now, hypo-
thetically speaking, let’s suppose the Hill is
somehow given consent to command such situa-
tions. This brings me to my second point. In my
opinion, any governing body should only expect
its rulings to be supported and obeyed when the
punishments fit the crimes. Breaking a window
does not warrant expulsion. I, for one, have lost
much of the respect I had for the parties in-
volved in this unreasonable punishment.

My attempts here are not to undermine the
Hill. I believe the current University officials are
doing what they see fit. Unfortunately they are
grossly mistaken. I urge them, especially Presi-
dent John D. Wilson, to rethink their most recent
actions. Hopefully, the transition of the houses
from old to new will be one that all of us can
live with.

Sincerely,
Jean-Paul Boulee '93

W&L discipline is
incomprehensible

The disciplinary process at W&L has reached
a new level of inconsistency and incomprehensi-
bility with President Wilson’s suspension of three
Washington and Lee students on Friday, February
1, 1991. Accordingly, the student body should

know that the following actions will neither cause
them to be suspended from school nor hurt their
good standing with the university:

1. Shooting a 12-gauge shotgun in a frater-
nity house.

2. Mailing drugs from Hong Kong to Lexing-
ton while living in a fraternity house.

3. Killing a fellow student while driving
under the influence and then remaining silent
about your involvement for the next six months.

4. Receiving a DUI from one of Lexington’s
finest while you are chairman of the Student
Conduct Committee,

5. Threatening the female editor of The Ring-
tum Phi with physical harm which, besides being
disgusting and ungentlemanly, is a felony.

However, if a student should happen to throw
a bottle and break a window at the fraternity
house next door, he will be immediately sus-
pended for the rest of the semester and urged by
President Wilson to discover the fine art of
bagging groceries.

Sincerely,
Larkin Fowler '91
Robert Shelton '91

Spectator wrong
on diversity issue

Having just gotten the opportunity to peruse
the latest issue of the Spectator, | happened to
read an article by Mike Skarda entitled ‘‘The
Community We Once Had.’’ Seeing as the
magazine itself has no forum for responding to
articles appearing within the magazine — I guess
they don’t like to be challenged — it appears this
letter is the only way of challenging the rhetoric

present in the aforementioned article.

Mr. Skarda states that many of the students at
Washington and Lee are being admitted just
because of their diversity. Considering the last
entering class had the highest average SAT
scores in the history of the school, certainly
higher than when Mr. Skarda was admitted, there
is absolutely no basis in fact for this self-serving
and utterly false statement. I had always thought
it was good journalistic practice to back up wild
theories with some actual basis. !

The next part of the article goes on to state
that the diversity that is becoming more prevalent
at W&L ‘‘hinders campus traditions that call for
commonality among student livelihoods.” I have
no idea what traditions those might be, but the
statement itself is ludicrous. What Mr. Skarda is
seeking is a school completely full of what I’m
sure he is: rich, conservative, Southern preppies
who live to drink beer at fraternity houses. A
question for him: Why does that type of student
deserve to attend the school more than anyone
else?

The ‘‘article’’ also referred ad nauseam to
traditions at this school and how they should be
upheld. Sure, traditions are nice and the Honor,
System is certainly an integral part of the school.
The traditions can also be carried too far, as in
the article in question. As long as we’re being so
traditional, why not carry it a step farther? The
school should stop admitting women again and
that dress code thing sure sounds like fun to me.
And hell, who needs these modern conveniences
like computers and that ghastly arts building, the
Lenfest Center? If people want tradition, the
school should do it all the way.

After reading Mr. Skarda’s article, it became:
all the more obvious to me why so many fresh-,
men I’ve talked to, including myself, are consid-
ering transferring. If the people in the school all’
have this same idea that if everyone is not,
exactly alike, they shouldn’t be here, they may
get exactly that. }
Sincerely,

Eddie Smallwood '94

Ogden clarifies
proposed revisions

I am writing this as a clarification and expla-"
nation to last week’s article concerning a pro-
posed White Book revision. The article correctly
stated that I suggested the deletion of the phrase“
“lie, cheat, or steal’’ from the introductory;
philosophy section (p.1). That change, however,
was merely for syntax and to avoid redundancy’
in the White Book, and the article misses the gist,
of the proposal.

The main point of the proposal was to move!
the phrase, ‘‘The system applies to any conduct,
considered dishonorable by the student generation
involved,’ from the introductory section on!

enforcement.{p.2) to the .philosephy section (p.1), | .

where I thought it properly belonged. The phrase,
‘lying, cheating, and stealing are clear examples?
of breaches of the Honor System,’’ would remain
in the enforcement section as it now stands. It
was my opinion that this move would serve as#
the clarification that the White Book Revisions
Committee sought without adding a word to the
White Book’s concept of honor. ‘

Unfortunately, several members of the E.C. i
felt that the proposal, despite the fact that it
added nothing to the phrasing of the White *
Book, would expand the realm of the Honor ,
System beyond manageability.

I firmly believe in the Honor System as based
on the conception of honor of the ‘‘student
generation involved.’’ A limitation of that system
to the three big ‘‘evils’’ undercuts the idea of
honor and reduces the system to a set of three
rules with a very severe sanction. The Honor
System becomes a Code of Convenience. | am
not suggesting any expansion of the Honor
System to deal with every minor infraction of the °
rules, That is ridiculous. But I do feel that the
Honor System, as our heritage from Lee and
previous student generations, should be rooted in ‘
an honor that is broader than lying, cheating and
stealing.

If we are unwilling to accept a broader
concept of honor, then let’s stop lying to our-
selves. Continuing with the phrase, ‘‘conduct ,
considered dishonorable by the student generation
involved,’’ is hypocritical, and the phrase should
be removed. It is however, in my opinion, pre-
cisely that phrase that gives the Honor System |
life and makes it ours.

Sincerely,
W. Kirk Ogden, Jr. '93
Sophomore EC Rep. '

~

~~

 

 

 

 

eg

 

 

 

ep @& *©®on & cf

= 4&7

-_ _

ei.

aM
“NEWS |

 

 

 

 

:
'

demux Meee LO

 

 

 

+

‘Car tax issue

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

Student and city leaders Tuesday
failed to agree on whether or by what
dpethod students should be charged
personal property tax on cars.

* Student leaders say the failure to
formulate a compromise leaves two
‘possibilities open — making a

‘formal proposal to Lexington City
Council or reinstating the postponed

Boycott of city businesses.
« Tuesday’s meeting, the second
informal discussion between students

‘nd city officials on the car tax issue,

included student leaders, the mayor,
members of the City Council, and a
tepresentative of the Lexington
Chamber of Commerce.

Council
to study
colony
withdrawl

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

 

'

Washington and Lee’s Panhel-
lenic Council will be investigating the
cause of Delta Gamma _ sorority’s
Second failed attempt at colonization
here.

Panhellic Publicity and Extension
Chairman Sonja Tillberg will be
heading what she called ‘‘an evalua-
tion of why DG’s colonization at-
sempt was unsuccessful.’’

The evaluation will begin some
lime next week. Tillberg was unsure
how it would be conducted.

Last week Panhellenic President

Dale Wyatt said women who did not
pledge a sorority will be asked to fill
out a Rush survey. ‘‘We also need to
know what the DG nationals are
feeling. There are several problems to
deal with.’’
» Wyatt said she doesn’t feel Pan-
hellenic did anything wrong. She also
said last week the Panhellenic Coun-
cil must consider other sororities
before next year’s Sorority Winter
Rush in January, and ‘‘it’s going to
be very hard.’’

Tillberg said although the Panhel-
fenic Council regrets DG’s failure
here, it is committed to the idea of
inviting other groups onto campus.
‘She said, ‘‘We must realize whatever
happened with DG can’t happen
again.

* “We have proven for the last two
Rushes there is an _ interest in
sororities.”’

‘ With the addition of 34-member
pledge classes, W&L sororities will
each have more than 100 members.
Tillberg said ideal sorority chapter
gize was estimated at 75 members.

‘‘We need to evaluate where we
Stand now and why, as well as what
pur needs are,’’ she said.

While the Panhellenic Council is
tesearching the DG failure, some
minority students are hoping tradi
tionally minority Greek organizations
‘nay be invited to colonize at W&L.

by J.R. Smith

 

 

 

Rich Scherer, ’93, Tampa, FL
— ‘‘I think his actions were a
4 little extreme considering what
else has happened on campus this
yeal

 

aS

The first meeting two weeks ago
caused the cancellation of the
scheduled boycott.

According to sophomore EC Rep.
Kirk Ogden, who attended the
meeting, city officials offered to
‘‘pro-rate’’ the tax and only bill 75
percent of the assessed tax value of
the car since students are only in
Lexington three-fourths of the year.
In return, the city would ask W&L to
cooperate with the city and provide a
list of student cars.

‘The opposition to that from the
student leaders was very high,’’ said
Ogden.

Michael IFC

Skarda, vice

president and co-author of the boycott
resolution, said the student delegation
asked the city to establish a fee that
the students could pay in lieu of the

 

Sonya Tillberg
...Extension Chair

Minority sorority advocates have
been in contact with deans and mem-
bers of the W&L administration for
almost a year concerning the matter,
although no plans or promises to
bring on such organizations have
been made.

Some minority women are par-
ticularly interested in the historically
black sorority Delta Sigma Theta.

In a recent letter junior Karen
Pope denied that the issue of
minority sororities is a ‘‘black versus
white issue.’’ Rather, she said it is
something to fill a void minority
sorority advocates feel is present on
the W&L campus.

Pope discussed one reason why
some blacks do not want to be in-
tegrated with the already established
Greek system at W&L.

‘‘The black females who are inter-
ested in Delta Sigma Theta are being
asked why we will not give up a part
of our tradition and compromise
ourselves by becoming part of the
already established system and accept
their heritage and tradition.’’

Pope added in her letter that just
as blacks are free to choose Kappa
Alpha Theta, Kappa Kappa Gamma,
or Chi Omega, whites would be free
to choose Delta Sigma Theta.

Tillberg said the issue has not
been formally addressed to the Pan-
hellenic Council.

Interviews and photos

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

car tax.

Skarda said city officials were not
willing to consider any proposal that
did not include the city getting a list
of student cars registered with the
university.

Mayor H.E. Derrick said the
student proposal was ‘‘legally and
practically not a viable option.”’

Derrick has written a letter to The
Ring-tum Phi explaining the city’s
position and hopes ‘‘students will
receive it in the spirit in which I sent
it — a spirit of goodwill and an effort
to communicate to the students.’’

Both Ogden and EC President
Tom Hatcher said they plan to seek
more student opinion on the topic and
will try to formulate a proposal to

take to the City Council’s March 7
meeting.

 

t

still unresolved

Skarda, however thinks students
“need to be a little more active than
that’’ and says ‘‘it’s time to boycott.

“Tt’s time to take our Fancy
Dress business to Roanoke. Buena
Vista has places where you can get
tuxedo rentals,’’ said Skarda.

Skarda said he is willing to do
the work to organize a boycott, but
that he would want the support of the
student body and the approval of the
EC first.

Hatcher is not sure it is time to
resort to the boycott tactic.

“IT would not want to boycott
without an awful lot of input from an
awful lot of people,’’ said Hatcher.
**My gut feeling is that it would hurt
people that really don’t have much
say’’ in whether or not the city
collects the tax.

‘Lean on Me’
subject to speak

 

From W&L News Office

 

Former Eastside, N.J., high school
principal and educator Joe Clark will
speak in Washington and Lee
University’s Lee Chapel, Monday,
Feb. 11 at 8 p.m. The speech,
sponsored by Contact and the
Minority Student Association, is free
and open to the public. Contact is a
student sponsored and financed
organization that brings noted
speakers to the W&L campus.

Clark made headlines in 1982 by
instituting drastic reforms in his first
year at Eastside High. A former
Army drill instructor, Clark met the
lines of students at the door with a
bullhorn in one hand and a Louisville
slugger in the other. He later chained
doors to keep out drug dealers,
forbade hats and other gang clothing,
and gave tardy students latrine duty.
On a single day, he threw out 300
students for fighting, vandalism, drug
possession, profanity, and abusing
teachers.

After only two years of Clark’s
leadership, the formerly raucus

Eastside High was declared a model
school by the governor of New
Jersey and he was named one of the
nation’s 10 ‘‘Principals of
Leadership.’’ He was subsequently
the subject of a Time magazine cover
story and a ‘‘60 Minutes’ profile,
and made appearance on ‘‘Nightline’’
and ‘‘Donahue.’’ His achievements
were the subject of a Warner
Brothers film, Lean on Me, starring
two-tme Oscar nominee Morgan
Freeman as Clark. ‘‘Tough leaders
have an important place in the
nation’s schools. Sometimes you need
Mr. Chips, sometimes you need Dirty
Harry,’’ said William Bennett, Ronald
Reagan’s Secretary of Education, of
Clark.

Through his recent book, Laying
Down the Law, and through his
speeches, Clark shares his beliefs,
Strategies, and success stories with
teachers, school boards, parents,
businesspeople, and students around
the country. His message, told in
tough terms, is one of pride in self.
He believes that ‘‘every day, pride in
self must be reinforced. Every day
the value of academics must be
demonstrated.”’

Hicks elected
IFC president

 

By Kimberly Boots
Staff Reporter

 

The Interfraternity Council elected
new officers Tuesday night who
will officially take office April 23,
the first week of spring term.

Greg Hicks, Pi Kappa Phi, will
preside over the IFC. He ran unop-
posed. Others elected are: Rob Ram-
bo, Beta Theta Pi, vice president;
Nick Phillips, Kappa Alpha, secretary;
Tom Snedeker, Phi Kappa Sigma,
treasurer; Hill Goodspeed, Phi Kappa
Psi, senior justice; Jim Eddings, Phi
Delta Theta and Sam Rock, Kappa

Sigma, junior justices. None of the
current officers ran for reelection.

Many of the candidates stressed
their support of continued Fall Rush
and said the IFC should not allow the
administration to ‘‘overstep its boun-
daries,’’ as Rambo pointed out it has
done in the past.

Phillips said that he wants to
‘‘make sure the IFC remains an im-
portant power at W&L,”’ a sentiment
which other candidates echoed,

The new officers will attend the
Southeastem IFC Conference in At-
lanta during the first weekend of
Washington holiday. They will meet
with IFC officers from universities in
the Southeast.

 

TALKBACK

 

 

GENERAL NOTES 2

Watch a flick Classical DJs

The W&L Film Society will show
Drugstore Cowboy (U.S., 1989)
on Fri., Feb. 8 and Sat., Feb. 9 at
8 p.m. in Lewis Hall’s Classroom
A. The show follows in the tradi-
tion of great American outlaw-
road pictures.

Study law

A Marine Corps representative
will talk about law opportunities
in the corps on Wed., March 6 at
4 p.m. in the University Center.
See the Career Development and
Placement Office for details.

Get a job

Meet W&L alumni in Atlanta on
Feb. 19 and in D.C. on Feb. 21
with Career Connections. Pre-
tegistration at the Career Develop-
ment and Placement Office is
required. ro = WC. pre;
registration is especially impor-
tant because of security.

Explore the sea

A trip to the Everglades National
Park and the National Seashore is
planned for the Washington
Holiday. For info, call Tim Clark,
464-3780.

Get outdoors

The Outing Club will hike the
Appalachian Trail on Sat., Feb. 9
from 10 am. - 6 p.m. Meet at
Baker 109. See the club’s bul-
letin board for details.

Fly-casting practice for all skill
levels are Thursdays, 4 p.m. at
the Liberty Hall ruins. The club
also offers kayaking and canoeing
instruction as well as mountain
bike and road rides.

Save the land

The next environmental section
meeting is on Tues., Feb. 12 at
5:30 p.m. at University Center
Li.

Get It Out

Need to let people know what

you're up to? Leave a note in the
General Notes envelope outside
The Ring-tum Phi office.

WLUR’s Classical Music Depart-
ment is looking for a DJ to fill
its 9:30-11:30 am. Wednesday
shift. No experience, only an
interest in classical music, is
required. Call Josh at 463-2397
or leave a message with Mrs. Cox
at 463-8432.

Join Kathekon

Kathekon is accepting applica-
tions for membership. See Carol
Calkins in the University Center
beginning February 7.

Oxford Summer

The Virginia Program at Ox-
ford is accepting applications for
a six-week summer course on
Tudor-Stuart History and Litera-
ture. For more information con-
tact Pamela Simpson, in the Art
Department, 463-8861. Applica-
tion deadline is March 1.

Battle bands

William and Mary’s Class of ’92
is sponsoring their Second Annual
Battle of the Bands to take place
in April with more than $2,000
worth of prizes going to the vic-
tors. The deadline for entry is at
the end of this month. For details
contact Melissa Cales, College
Station Box 2467, College of
William and Mary, Williamsburg,
VA, 23186.

Reporters

Interested in writing for The Ring-
tum Phi? We're looking for
responsible news reporters and
writers with a creative bent to
work on our features page. Call
Cathy 464-4553.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will meet
Feb. 11, 8 p.m. in The Ring-tum
Phi office.

Reporters

Interested in writing for The Ring-
tum Phi? We're looking for
responsible news reporters and
writers with a creative bent to
work on our features page. Call
Cathy 464-4553.

 

 

What do you think of Pres. Wilson’s
decision to suspend three students?

 

 

Jennifer Gladwell, ’93,
Pittsburgh, PA = ‘‘Aren’t there
better reasons to suspend
students?”’

 

 

 

Craig Hatfield, °91, Falston,
MD — ‘‘All I know is that he
comes to basketball games so he
is alright in my book.”’

 

 

 

Giles Perkins, ’92, Lufkin, TX
— ‘His actions were an insult to
student government. And I hope
that he can give us a better ex-
planation of why his behavior is
justified.’’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Clayton Kennington, ’92, Dallas,

TX — ‘‘It's unfortunate that he
has over stepped the defined
channels in student government
and made a decision on_ his

own.’”’

Mason Pettit, 92, New York,
NY — ‘‘It’s kind of weak.’’

 

 

 
 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

Trustees Fear and loathing in Warner Center

to plan
campaign

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee's Board of
Trustees will meet this weekend to
discuss the first steps of a major
endowment campaign by 1992.

“The Board will take a very
careful look at the beginning steps of
our fundraising campaign,’’ said
Secretary of the Board of Trustees
Ferris Hotchkiss. ‘‘This campaign is
essentially to increase W&L’s endow-
ment to subsidize scholarships and
faculty salaries.”’

According to Hotchkiss, Washing-
ton and Lee completed its last en-
dowment campaign in 1981. The
eleven-year progiam raised money for
physical improvements on campus,
and resulted in the construction of the
Warner Center, the Law School, and
ihe University Library.

Currently, the University’s endow-
ment hovers around $150 million.
Endowment size is an important
factor when comparing colleges and
universities throughout the nation.

“‘The unusual place we find our-
selves is with W&L’s endowment
size far less than other schools with
comparable reputations,’’ said Hotch-
kiss.

Hotchkiss explained that the Trus-
tees will analyze both the amount the
school needs and how much it can
get. The Secretary estimated that the
Board would seek approximately $100
million.

In other business, the Trustees
will induct one new member into the
existing Board, and secure nomina-
tions for two other vacancies. John
Mullin will be sworn in this weekend
and the two remaining positions will
be filled at the Board’s Spring meet-
ing.

Included in this session will be
the 1991-1992 preliminary budget
discussions. The Trustees will deter-
mine adjustments in tuition, room
rates, and Dining Hall charges.

 

 

 

By Brian Root
Editor

 

Chivas Regal can really mess you up.

In journalism, one is taught to lead every news
story with the ‘‘most important item.”’

In this case, accuracy demands that Chivas
Regal, and its effects on the human mind, take a
prominent place in any account of Hunter S.
Thompson’s Contact lecture Monday night in
the Warner Center.

‘The feedback I’ve gotten has been very
mixed,’’ said Contact Chairman Charles Kranich.
“‘T think it went well. It was among the most

successful lectures we've had in terms of atten
dence.”’
Thompson, who has_ enjoyed considerable

success as both a writer and lecturer for more than
two decades, addressed a number of subjects, rang-
ing from the Persian Gulf war to his recent legal
troubles, in his two-hour speech.

By the time Thompson arrived for his speech,
the available seats had long since filled, and peo
ple were sitting in the upper level of the gym.

The overflow crowd had a considerable amount
of time to get comfortable, as Thompson did not
arrive until 8:45. Posters advertising the speech
said Thompson would begin to speak ‘‘around 8.”’

The first of his many topics was the Persian
Gulf war. Periodically, he would refill his glass
from a bottle of Chivas Regal under the podium.

“I’m not sure I understand why we’re over
there,’’ he said. ‘‘Public perception of this thing

would change if there were a draft. Is anybody
here for the draft?

“T have the whole war on tape at home,’’ he
said. ‘‘I took George at his word when he said the
war wasn’t going to last long, so I plan to watch
it when I get home.”’

Thompson questioned the wisdom of becoming
militarily involved in the Middle East. ‘‘There are
easier ways to go through life than to get bogged
down in a Muslim war,’’ he said. ‘‘The emir of
Kuwait is one of the worst swine in the world.’’

Thompson said he doesn’t want to cover the
war.

‘I have no intention of spending the next six
months in a tent in Saudi Arabia, without beer,"’
he said.

Thompson also discussed what he considers to
be the overly-zealous attitude of the U.S. Secret
Service.

“‘The Secret Service and I have learned to get
along,’’ he said. ‘‘I was told that if I went to
Washington [to cover the Iran-Contra hearings], my
life would become a series of unfortunate acci-
dents.”’

Thompson said his writing style, which often
includes exaggeration, is misunderstood.

‘A lot of people don’t get it when I say that
George Bush was seen in the streets of Washington
sucking the life out of a dying cat.’’

Thompson was asked if the Democratic Party
would be able to field any viable Presidential
candidates in 1992.

“‘Gary Hart was the closest thing we had to a
President-in-waiting,’’ he said. ‘‘He was 16 points

ahead until the day he tripped over his [male
reproductive organ] and lost.’’

In response to another question, Thompson said
the war on Drugs was a ‘“‘total failure,’’ and that
he favors the legalization of marijuana.

**To get genuinely, crazily stoned is a pleasure,
but of course I don’t advocate it to you,’’ he said.

‘We've pretty well suspended our constitu-
tional rights to fight a losing battle,’’ he said.

Thompson ended his speech by recounting his
recent legal battles and announcing that he is part
of a ‘‘Fourth Amendment Committee.’’ Last year,
Thompson escaped several felony indictments be-
cause police had illegally searched his home.

‘“‘There is no excuse to make us give up your
rights,’’ he said. ‘‘Freedom is all you're willing to
fight for.’’

‘‘This kind of thing happens all the time,’’ he
said. ‘‘But most people can’t afford to fight it.
Now, we've made it possible to beat them in court.
You can beat city hall, and it’s fun.”’

Kranich said Thompson was ‘‘the most unusual
speaker we've had to deal with.’’

Thompson, while waiting for Kranich to take
him to his hotel, took Kranich’s car for a ride
around Lexington. :

**When [Contact Co-Chair] John Stump and I
came out of the University Center, both he and my
car were gone. We jumped into Stump’s car and
took off after him,’’ Kranich said.

According to Kranich, Thompson phoned him
at 1 a.m. with instructions to bring him some food.

“‘T had to drive out to Lee-Hi and buy him a
bunch of hamburgers,’’ said Kranich.

 

WINDOWS

from page 1

 

Wilson said he thought suspension
was warranted because the Fraternity
Renaissance Program had been placed
in jeopardy. It is hard to ask alumni
for money to support the program
when students damage the newly-
renovated houses, Wilson said.

‘‘T was worried about the viability
of the Renaissance program, including
the hiring of house mothers,’’ he
said.

Gorman said he told Wilson he
thought the penalty was too harsh
when they met.

‘*(Wilson) said I was a hoodlum
and I was bringing the Bronx to
W&L,’’ Gorman said. Gorman said
Wilson told him ‘‘maybe when
you’re bagging groceries back home

eM old

SWITCH TO OUR

you'll understand what you did.”’

Wilson did not remember calling
any of the students hoodlums and
said they were definitely not
hoodlums. He said he did make the
Bronx remark, but he meant the three
students had brought an atmosphere
of fear to W&L by breaking a house
mother’s window. Wilson said the
grocery remark might have been his
angry response to one of the students
asking what they should do for the
next eight weeks. Wilson said he did
not mean to insult the students.

Most administrators and faculty
supported Wilson’s decision to
suspend the students.

Dean of Students David Howison
said he recommended suspending the

 

LOW PRICES IN ‘91

Holly Farms Or Perdue
ole Fryer

wa Grade
‘4 “A”

ee

(4
?
he

6 O th
AEE) hie
mes : ‘ Gf

i
\)
;

if

is

students to Wilson.

‘“‘Given the circumstances of this
incident, the throwing of a bottle
through the window of a house moth-
er during the first stages of the Re-
naissance, (there was) a threat to the
(Washington and Lee) community,”’
Howison said.

At Monday’s faculty meeting
Professor of Religion Harlan Beckley
“made a motion to support the

president in his action of suspending’

three students which was seconded
and approved by voice vote by a
large majority,’ according to the
minutes of the meeting taken by
University Registrar and Secretary of
the Faculty D. Scott Dittman.
Professor of English Sidney

Coulling said he and most other
faculty members were behind the
president.

‘I support the president and the
overwhelming majority of the faculty
support him,’’ Coulling said.

Wilson emphasized that he did not
want to take student government out
of the students’ hands.

“Student government, to work,
must find discipline and will-power to
punish students,’’ Wilson said. ‘‘Stu-
dent government wasn’t working in
this case.”’

Howison said there should be no
problem with the three students re-
turning to school for spring term.

‘‘T’ve encouraged them to do so,”’
Howison said.

 

FORUM

from page 1 '

Dean of Students David Howison,'
who accompanied Wilson to the,
stage, said the purpose of the suspen-
sion was not primarily to set an ex#
ample but was appropriate ‘‘given the
circumstances.

“This really has to do with chan,
ge,’ Howison said, echoing Wilson’s
reference to a ‘‘new era’’ brought
about by the Fraternity Renovation. ,

Wilson said the case of Peer Sod-
erberg, a Sigma Phi Epsilon junior
who was placed on probation for,
firing a shotgun into his fraternity
house, was handled promptly bys
student government and was not
analogous to the recent incident.

Wilson admitted he ‘‘may have,
made some mistakes in my handling
of this matter,’’ but said he would
not respond to questions about the
reversal of the decision. ;

Most applause was in support
student criticism, often bordering on
ridicule, of Wilson’s action. But
junior Frank Martien received ap-,
plause for his criticism of students’
sometimes harsh and curt questions.
“I don’t think we’re showing’’ Wil-
son ‘‘the respect he deserves as presi-'
dent,’’ he said. ,

Senior Mason Pope at one point
said he would have trouble recom’
mending W&L to prospective stu-,
dents when he has ‘‘Mom and Dad
on the Hill telling me I can’t break‘
anything in my own home. We don’t,
have any say in what we do.”’

Though the comment drew re-
served applause, EC President and
moderator Tom Hatcher broke in for
the only time during the forum. ,

“I think we’re missing the poi-
nt,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s a new day. We're’
going to have to play a different,
game. We’re going to have to go to
the SCC and we’ll have to go to
Mom and Dad because it’s Mom and
Dad that let us renovate the houses.”’

Wilson pointed out that the eight-'
week suspension was the minimum,
length of time he could have imposed
and that the students have the right to!
request admission for spring term.

‘‘T haven’t the slightest doubt that
they are good and decent young men
and that they will return here in eight
weeks to vindicate themselves many
times over.’’ 4

 

. Hanover Cut
Green Beans

IF

 

 

 

Coca-Cola, |
Sprite |

 

 

 

   

 

Valentine Specials For,
Your Sweethea

|

 

——

bg
Kt
i BUTTERFLY

[et a
MAPA varied
--*

Wie LMF ADE,

 
 

  

\
i

  
  

|

RIDGE
, ‘

 
   

 

 

  

   
   

Available 4) ;
a nis ice
Fl erv
Dozen Sires oniy Butterfly e

White Zinfandel

 

 

 

 

  

49

Available Only

   

750 ML

 

Hershey's

s ed & Silver
Kisses 14 Oz.

 

 

 

 

 

Boxed Roses
Prices Good Through Tuesday, February 12, 1991

«} 2/14/91. Sell Wine And Beer
Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, February 12, 1991 In Lexington Store Only,

Floral Prices
Valentine Garden
2 39 Bouquet ......... ca. 4.99
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fal
 

 

 

 

*

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

Yellow Jackets sting Generals 90-58

 

F

By Jay Plotkin
‘Sports Editor

‘

 

, ‘No one played well. We didn’t
do anything right,’’ said Washington
tand Lee head coach Verne Canfield
alter Randolph-Macon routed W&L
90-58 Wednesday night in and Old
Dominion Athletic Conference game
in the Warner Center.

* “But you have to give Randolph-
Macon credit. They stuck it to us,”’
Canfield said.

“  W&L led 2-0 on a basket by
senior guard Jim Casey, but from
then on, it was all R-MC. David
Kagey scored 15 points as R-MC
jumped out to a 25-10 lead.

" R-MC led by as many as 21
points, 44-23 with 51 seconds left, in
the first half as Kagey scored 17 of
his 21 points in the first 20 minutes.
, W&L cut the lead to 44-29 on
consecutive three pointers by senior
Pat Gallavan, but R-MC then jumped
out to an 81-47 lead with 5:00 left
‘on a dunk by Pat Holland, who fin-
shed with a game-high 24 points.

W&L shot just 33.8 percent for
the game, their second lowest per-
centage of the season. W&L shot just
32.9 percent when the two teams met
in Ashland, Va. earlier this season.

R-MC shot 50.9 percent for the
‘game and converted 30 of 40 free
throws. W&L went to the free throw
line just five times, making four.

Gallavan and senior Craig Hatfield
led W&L with 10 points each. The
32-point loss was the worst home
Joss since 1975, when Virginia beat
\W&L 101-57.

‘“‘We simply got whipped,”’ said
Canfield. ‘‘They totally kicked our
butts, and we had no excuses.”’
"The loss was W&L’s second

Ne“ Smith Machine
Hack Squat/Leg Press
Calf Machine

9,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.0.0.¢ 0 0.0.0, 0.0.0.0-0.0-0°0.0.0-0.0.0_0-0_0-0.0-0.0/0 0-0-1
eeececesestetetetsbeteecereseratnteretecaseratereretererererers
oretreteoteetere a "e's ea a*ee'a era ete ere eres cre ee ete ete eee ee

enone cesesesecesesesereeseresecererecetetetatete’

We have a FULL weight room
at the Lexington Fitness Center

straight. On Monday, W&L erased a
12-point halftime deficit before falling
86-83 in overtime to Averett.

W&L trailed 40-28 at halftime,
but came back to lead 57-56 on a
three pointer by senior Mike Holton.
Averett led 74-72 in the final minute,
but Holton hit a jumper and was
fouled with 15 seconds left. His free
throw gave W&L a 75-74 lead.

Averett’s James Braxton tied the
game by making one of two foul
shots with seven seconds left, and a
shot to win the game by Casey
wouldn’t fall, and the teams went to
overtime,

Now we play a team
that took Macon to
the buzzer before
losing. Good teams
take a loss like the
one we had and
learn from it.

— Verne Canfield

Averett jumped out to a five-point
lead in overtime, but W&L tied the
game at 80 on basket by Hatfield and
a three pointer by Holton, his sixth
of the game, but Averett went back
out to an 86-83 lead when Kevin
Sims converted one of two free
throws with six seconds left.

W&L had one shot to tie, but a
three-pointer by Casey rattled out as

time expired. Holton led W&L with
a season-high 23 points, and Hatfield
continued to play well, scoring 17
points before fouling out in overtime.
Senior forward Ed Hart scored 14
points, Casey finished with 13 points,
and junior center John Witherington

 

 

nsec eseseseserecesecesecesececes

    

oS

 

ud
"ere"
"eae"

 

erezereres

mores,

Po

SESSESS

 
 
  
    

tetera

 

Today's Need For

   

    

 

    
      

 

 

 

 

 

 

j Tomorrow's Growth
(703) 463-1620

‘ 11 E. Nelson Street
4 Lexington, VA 24450
{ge SSR OU Gene GATE UN ae GS Ge EP ee ee ee I Ce RS RE RA Ee Ee
i
\
Stud
1 en ¢
4

ee “ ee +6

 

Ski Massanutten after 12:30 p.m. on Monday and Friday and
you'll receive some money-saving financial assistance. Show
us your valid college ID —full or part time — and purchase your
lift ticket for just $12 and rent your equipment for $10,

Bring us this ad and we'll aid you even more with an
additional $2 off your lift ticket.

So find some friends, tear out this ad and come to
Massanutten on Monday or Friday. You'll enjoy the best twi-
light skiing value in the area when you ski our two new slopes
and ride our new ‘‘Quad" chairlift for just $10.

AY MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

Valid 1991 Ski Season only. May not be used with other discounts. Not available on holidays

Ww

set es ek A Ol

added 10.

W&L started the week with a win
Saturday over Virginia Wesleyan in
Va. Beach. W&L led 40-27 at half-
time and scored the first seven points
of the second half while forcing the
Marlins into tumovers on their first
seven possessions to put the game
away.

Hatfield, the ODAC Player of the
Week, scored 19 points for the
second straight game (1/29 vs. Emory
and Henry), and Hart added 16 points
as the Generals beat the Marlins for
the second time this season, 81-51.

W&L forced VWC into 23 tur-
novers while committing only seven.
Every W&L player either scored or
grabbed a rebound in the 30-point
win, the largest for W&L since 1988-
89.

After the loss to R-MC, the No.
10 team in Division I, W&L (10-
12, 6-8) will have to regroup and
take on a Roanoke team that is 3-9
in ODAC play, but took R-MC to the
final seven seconds before losing.

“Now we have to get ready to
play a team Saturday that
Macon to the buzzer before losing,’’
said Canfield. ‘‘Good teams take a
loss like the one we had Wednesday
and learn from it.’’

W&L will play Roanoke in Salem
at 7:30 on Saturday night. The Gen-
erals will finish the regular season
next week with home games against
Eastern Mennonite and Guilford.

Wins this weekend would give the
Generals a fourth place finish in the
ODAC. A fourth place finish would
give W&L a home game in the first
round of the ODAC Tournament, to
be played Feb. 19.

All games will be carried live on
WLUR-FM (91.5) starting at 7 p.m.

  

 
  
  
    

  

 

    
  
 

Patel ry |
Lyric
OF Le Z ‘
ner Oe hey 0
a Aa No, 10-50 % Off Earn up to $1000 in one Loft Apartments
ALA 9 week for your campus
™ Selected Items organization.
: Framed prints, clothing, Plus a chance at
A Special Place belts, sweaters, jew- ——_ more! S ;
This program works! pacious new
6 E. Nelson St. elry, rugs, pottery, etc., N MS — — A :
Phone # 464-4080 etc., etc. 0 investment needed. 2-bedroom units
VIITT SEET Eee Ter ~ ai for Fall of 1991
tian (y, For information

$5

 

Che
Ring-tum Phi

 

 

 

 

auciotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CWD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mail
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

took -

         
       
   
     
     
   
   
    

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

Prey be ga pia
Quality Quick Print, Ink.

for all student printing needs

~ Résumés, Invitations, Flyers,
Programs, Posters, Fax, ... ~

214 South Main Street * (703) 463-9232

LEXINGTON’S ©
NLY 8¢ COPY

 

 

 

sii

Junior Franklin Pridgen works inside against Randolph-Macon’s Pat Holland for two of his career-

high six points In Wednesday's game against the Yellow Jackets. Pridgen and the Generals lost to
R-MC 90-58. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

tym ei i

 

 

 

 

 

 

Call: 463-7563

 

 

 

 

 

 

Rollerblades
Are In!

 

 

 

Love in letters.
Caresses in cards.
Saying amore
isn’t very hard.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

Over 75 cards and
sentiments to express
your affections

' ' j i has th
on Valentine's Day. snwereny mparruder Sat f6

best selection of W&L im-
printed T-Shirts, sweatshirts,
‘embroidered fitted baseball
caps and much more. Come
see our new W&L Flannel
Boxers!

STUDENT
ACCOUNTS
AVAILABLE

$10 Balloon Bouquets.
(Free downtown and campus delivery)

   
  
  
  
   
    

OFF ANY
SERVICE WITH
THIS AD

POSEMARKS
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 6am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

15 W. Washington St
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

S

 

 

 

 

 

    
  
  
  
  

Valentine’s Day
at

The College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson St.
Stop In and See:

- Batik Valentine Boxer Shorts
- Valentine Ties

Don't Forget Your Best Friends
or Loved Ones
Rent For Fancy Dress Early

Pye he.
 

 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS

Same old
faces lead
wrestlers

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

The beat goes on for the Wash-
ington and Lee wrestling team, as the
two top performers placed again at
the Mid-South Invitational.

Junior Peer Soderberg won sec-
ond place with two wins in his 177-
pound weight class as W&L finished
ninth this past weekend in the ten
team toumiament.

Soderberg, who has accounted for
more than 36 of the 89 team points
this season, improved his record to
13-8.

‘‘Peer had a good tournament and
an exciting match in the finals, said
head coach Gary Franke. ‘‘To place
in that tournament you really have to
wrestle well.’’

Senior Larry Pilkey also finished
the tournament with two wins, which
included ten takedowns and six es-
capes. With a 10-10 record, Pilkey
leads the team with 32 takedowns.

The tournament, perhaps the
toughest for the Generals this season,
featured a skeleton of W&L’s squad.
Only five wrestlers were healthy
enough to compete.

Among the missing were soph-
omores Rich Paini and Doug Lamb,
at 118 and 134 pounds, respectively.
Lamb will miss the remainder of the
season with a shoulder injury.

The Generals will host the Vir-
ginia Intercollegiate Championships
this weekend at the Warner Center.
Following the VIC tournament, where
W&L will meet Gallaudet, Longwood

*. and the Apprentice School, Soderberg

and Pilkey will head to the Eastern
Regionals.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Perfect form

Senior Pat Gallavan makes a three pointer at the halftime buzzer in Wednesday's game against
Randolph-Macon. Gallavan led the team with 10 points, but the Yellow Jackets beat the Generals
90-58. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

 

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

The Washington and Lee
indoor track teams got strong
performances in meets where suc-
cess from Division II participants
was limited.

For the men, junior David
Martin became the first W&L
runner to win an event in the VMI
Winter Relays in the 21-year
career of W&L head coach Norris
Aldridge. In winning the mile,
Martin was the only Division III
athlete to win an event at the
meet.

The women also competed
against Division I opponents at the
Virginia Tech Women’s In-
vitational.

Head coach John Tucker was
pleased with his 1600-meter relay
team and also highlighted the
performances of freshman Wendy
Neel in the 60-meter dash, soph-
omore Nicole Casteel in the 3000
meters and sophomore Rita Poin-
dexter in the 200 meters.

‘‘We’re gaining valuable ex-
perience against some of the best
right now,’’ said Tucker. ‘‘It will
pay off tremendously when we run
schools Division III.’’

 

This weekend, both the men’s
and women’s teams will be in
action at the Virginia Tech All-
Comers Meet.

The Washington and Lee
Athletics Promotion Committee is
sponsoring several events next
week at home athletic events.

At the swim meet between
W&L and Mary Washington on
Saturday, the seniors on both the
men’s and women’s teams will be
honored on Senior Day. There will
also be giveaways, including hats
and t-shirts.

On Tuesday, during the W&L-
Eastern Mennonite basketball
game, the Rockbridge Area Rec-
reation Association will be hon-
ored and youths in the RARO
basketball league will play during
halftime.

On Thursday, six seniors on
the W&L basketball team will be
honored before the game in Sen-
ior Night. The ceremony starts at
7:20 before the 7:30 tip-off a-
gainst Guilford. Fans are en-
couraged to arrive early for the
ceremony.

 

 

 

 

 

R.E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church

ane Right 7

Sp

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

 

 

 

 

Sunday Services: 8:30 & 10:30 a.m. Robby Jones
5:00 p.m. : 703/463-2022

Dinner and Bible Study: 5:45 p.m. Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson st.
107 Lee Avenue With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

 

 

Every Saturday Night at6PM =
Over 50 ways to win money. |
You do not need to be a League bowler to bor 1

NIVANL

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

 

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

(2)

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

SPOTS AVAILABLE.

464-BOWL (2695)

 

68 Volkswagon
70,000 original miles $1500
Call Leon Holland
at 463-9141 before 4:00 p.m. or
463-3315 after 4:00 p.m.

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual
or student organization needed to
promote Spring Break trip. Earn
money, free trips and valuable work
experience. CALL NOW! Inter-
Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013.

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

‘@ Nationwide is on your side

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN
Agent
203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ePerfumes

Charge Accounts

e Free Delivery

 

 

ATTENTION

ALL SOPHOMORES AND JUNIORS:

KATHEKON

IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR
MEMBERSHIP!

The term "KATHEKON"comes from the Greek ‘phrase "To Kathekon" which, loosely
translated, means that we “have an obligation to serve and to be mindful of our duty; and
obligation to do that which is meet and proper."

It is a word that seems to represent General Lee's sense of duty.

Founded in 1984, KATHEKON is a creation of the Alumni Office and the Alumni
Board of Directors and has a twofold purpose:
(1) to recognize undergraduates as alumni-in-residence and therefore familiarize
and involve them with the Alumni Association and its work on behaif of the University, and
to work as a Civic leadership group on campus, using its energy and influence
to affect the W&L community positively and constructively.

From its inception Kathekon has been involved in numerous campus events of a
public relations nature. KATHEKON, among other things, assists at Homecoming and
Spring Alumni Weekends, hosts the Freshman Orientation Barbeque and a New Faculty
Cocktail Party each Fall, and writes personal letters of congratulations to all students
admitted under the early decision program.

APPLICATIONS WILL BE AVAILABLE FEBRUARY 7 AT CAROL CALKIN'S
OFFICE IN THE UNIVERSITY CENTER. THERE ARE A LIMITED NUMBER OF

For more information, contact any KATHEKON member and look for the
KATHEKON article in the Aing-tum Phi.

 
ELECTION ’91

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

f

ae

Kennington, Perkins seek presidency

Clayton Kennington, °92, and
Giles Perkins, ’92L will face off for
1991-92 Executive Committee presi-
dent in Monday’s Big Three election.

Joshua MacFarland, °93, Kirk
Ogden, '93, and Hamilton ‘‘Bo’’
Russell, "92, will compete for the EC
vice presidency.

Caroline Wight, '92, faces no
‘opponents for EC secretary.

, Election boxes will be open from
8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday. Run-offs
‘will be on Thursday.

Presidential candidates answered
before the Wednesday forum the
following questions. All candidates
responded to the first question.
"1, What should be the main role
pf the EC?

2. How strong is the W&L Honor
System today?

3. What do you think of the Con-
fidential Review Committee?

; 4. How has the EC so far handled
the White Book Revisions Commit-
tee’s proposals?

 

Clayton Kennington

‘{1,] The Executive Committee must fairly implement
the Honor System, not be the police force. When you
have a problem you can easily feel like you’re more than
welcome to come and talk to any member and not create
an us vs. them relationship.

‘(2.] The Honor System is working. It’s fairly
evident that the system is strong now. Students support
it as well as faculty. There doesn’t seem to be that us
vs. them attitude like there was last year. It’s more that
the Executive Committee is just there to enforce the
Honor System. We're not looking for people, and we’re
not trying to get people.

‘‘(3.] The main change is that we need more educa-
tion, because I don’t think a lot of people even know
what the CRC stands for. Educating would also get rid
of the fear. Maybe as a result more people would tum
in more things. They would know the Confidential
Review Committee is a very confidential committee, and
there’s no reason not to turn something in.

‘[4.] It’s been a healthy experience for us to find our
faults, but it’s been a learning experience on both sides.
It was good that the Executive Committee evaluated the
Honor System. The committee discussed each individual
proposal, and they’re in the backs of our minds now,

where as before they might not have been.”’ Giles Perkins

 

 

‘‘{1.] The traditional role of the EC is always associ
ated with the Honor System. Enforcement of that code
is essential to the school. However, we are elected repre
sentatives of the school. As the school is going through
changes, and the administration is assuming new roles
which may or may not be appropriate, the EC’s most
important task is going to be to represent the student
body’s opinions of the issues on campus. «I mean
representing to the administration, to the board, and to the
alumni at large.

**(2.] The Honor System is strong here, but it’s chang
ing as the typical W&L student changes. It’s very
important that we instill to every entering class that the
Honor System is a lot of what W&L is about. The
Honor System is as strong as the people that are running
the EC.

“[3.] I would like to see the student representatives to
CRC elected. As it stands, while it may work effectively,
there’s very little student trust in the CRC, because the
students don’t have a role in defining who’s on it.

“[4.] The EC has handled the proposals well. We
didn’t agree on everything among ourselves, but the fact
that we engaged in discussion about the issues is probably
the best thing that could come from the White Book
proposals. The few changes we made were good. By
failing to make major changes we went a long way

— Rick Peltz ..candidate for EC president ..candidate for EC president toward preserving the Honor System.’’

Wight

‘The main role of the Executive
Committee is preserving and main-
taining the Honor System. Also the
fact that power is in the students’
hands. From going to the West Point
Honor Conference and talking to
other schools about their honor sys-
tems, they profess to have power in
the students’ hands. We actually do,
and that’s incredible. We are elected,
and decisions are made on behalf of
students by students.

 

MacFarland

‘‘The main role of the EC, aside
from the Honor System, of course, in
protecting the White Book, is to
reflect the interests of the students.
The EC can be less of an arm for the
administration and more out there to
protect the students. A good example
of that is with the car tax. The EC
has fully supported the boycott. Also
with the recent incident of three stu-
dents suspended by President Wilson
for breaking windows at fraternities.

Russell

‘‘The Executive Committee almost
frightens students, especially last year.
The Executive Committee was almost
like a Big Brother committee, and the
students were intimidated by it. The
Executive Committee ought to be
there to protect the values of the
school and the students. It ought to
give them the confidence in the EC
as completely trustworthy until prov-
en otherwise. It should be there to
insure that students’ rights are not

Ogden

“The EC should uphold the White
Book and the honor code. That’s
one of the most important things.
Also, what is often overlooked in
campaigns like this is the role of EC
as effective student government. It
should represent, articulate and fight
for the students’ interests. I was the
only underclassman to participate in .
discussing car taxes with the mayor,
the city council and the commissioner
of revenue. There should be a bal-

     

Kirk Ogden

4 Josh That shows his disdain for the stu- ance between defending, maintaining Bo Russell violated.’’ Caroline Wight ‘‘The honor is most important, but
© MacFarland = dent government. That kind of thing : and protecting the honor code, and a ; ..secretary the budget has to be done too.”’
¢ ...VP candidate has to go to a student conduct com- ...VP candidate government that articulates the stu- «VP candidate candidate

mittee.’’

   

 

dents’ interests. 4

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

Furniture Dealers
For your extra pieces of furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington 463-2742

     
    
        
     

    

 

Drivin’ m’ Cryin 130 S. Main St. _.463-7969
New Albums
: $12.95 CD
: $8.95 Tape

ue ‘ Lee Hi Restaurant located at the Lee Hi Truck Stop
‘ 200-500 Summer Camp Positions Available

Staff Referral Services provides a network of camps,
now hiring, from the “Keys” to Wisconsin-Minn. One

application reaches all camps. Applications at the,
‘f| Student Employment Office. ~

Our regular price!

Mon.-Thurs. 11-8; Fri. 11-7; Sat. 11-5

Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

Breakfast Served Anytime

sue seer ne 4

Marlene’s Hairstylist

‘ 25 N. Main St.
463-6003

 

 

 

 

SHOE FIXERS

SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

3 West Nelson St., Lexington 464-6666 4
() >) EE

of eS ae EE ?

10 Tanning Beds
For $40

Oa ©

ae

WILLSON-
WALKER
HOUSE pm,

 

Marlene, Kelly, and Crystal invite you by for your
Fancy Dress and Spring Break cut or style.

 

Mon.-Fri. 9-5; Saturdays 9-2

ADMISSIONS
COUNSELOR

The W&L Admissions Office is now accepting
applications for an anticipated Admissions
Counselor position. All interested graduating
seniors should submit a cover letter and resume

Restaurant

 

 

Reservations are recommended

30. N. Main St., Lexington

 

 

 

no later than Monday, February 25, 1991 to:

appagoWo’

 

Julia M. Kozak
Associate Director of Admissions

Big Sale Office of Admissions

Merchandise

 

 

 

help you

Ss >

 

23 N. Main St.
court the Lexington La rge Farm House
ogysl0-Say STEREO EQUIPMENT In Country
| TS Love Yo uh STEREO EQUIPMENT REPAIRS
THE BEST COMPACT DISCS

Specializing in: CLASSICAL, NEW AGE, POPULAR/ROCK
BEFORE 1975, SOUNDTRACKS!

Special Orders Welcomed
Hundreds of Mint 60’s Albums and 45’s!
(When they’re gone, they’re gone!)

ONE WEEK SPECIAL ONLY
IMPROVE YOUR STEREO FM RECEPTION DRAMATICALLY!
TERK Pi Small Powered Indoor FM Antenna - List, $79.95, Now $69.95
Pre-owned: ADCOM 555 200 Watt/Channel Power Amplifier - $485
ADCOM 565 Preamplifier - $595, AR ES-1 Audiophile Turntable - $435

‘Che
Sonic CGallery

Fine Stereo ae and Recordings
for the Discriminating Listener
464-1100
Old Main Street Building, 29 N. Main St., Lexington
Weekdays: Noon to 6PM, Saturdays 10AM to 5PM

Simply send roses,
three, six or an
even dozen.

10 miles west (10 minutes)
Recently Remodeled.

am.

 

 

 

5 Bedrooms
Lots of Outdoors
Available June Ist

 Rieflor’

the
i fferson .

>

florist to The Homestead
Ten East Nelson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841

463-6575 Office
463-2868 Home

 

 

 

 

 

i a

 
 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 7, 1991

a mu mm —

ome One. Come All.
A RALLY TO SUPPORT |

OUR TROOPS

SPONSORED BY VIRGINIANS
FOR VICTORY

Saturday, Feb. 9

2:00 PM
- Warner Center

Washington and Lee University

  

 

  

Keynote Address: Congressman

Admiral Jeremiah Denton, Robert K. Dornan

7 Yr. POW & Former House Armed Services
U.S. Senator Committee

Dr. Ali Al-Turrah T. Kenneth Cribb, Jr.

Former Reagan

Senior Domestic Public
Advisor

Cultural Councillor For
The Embassy of Kuwait

Sandra Charles,

Advisor, National —_——_———.Co-Chairmen

* = Marc Short, Kate Obenshain,
Security Council Washington &Lee University of Virginia

 

‘
’
‘
‘
}
‘
é

 
 

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 21

WASHINGTON AND

LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

By Pat Lopes
Editor

 

February 28, 1991

Spurgeon
resigns as
SCC chair

Class president charged with
second DUI, stays on board

Hatcher refused to comment about
specifics of the debate on Dumas’

 

motion except to say, ‘‘It was live-
ly.

 

nage HS

Ase

Face to Face

 

 

 

W&L’s Jeff O’Brien faces off against a University of Virginia player during the Lacrosse season
opener yesterday. The Generals lost 19-5 to the third ranked Division | Cavaliers.

 

 

Phase Il finish delayed 5 months

 

By John Foster
Staff Reporter

 

The university has delayed the completion of
the Fraternity Renaissance Program's Phase II by
five months.

‘*We are more convinced than ever that the
premature occupancy of a house under renovation
poses inconveniences to the residents and unac-
ceptable impediments to the overall success of this
program,"’ said Associate Dean of Students Leroy
‘“Buddy’’ Atkins in a Feb. 7 letter to fraternity
members and their parents.

Kappa Sigma, Lambda Chi Alpha and Phi
Kappa Psi, originally scheduled to be finished in
August, will be ready Jan. 3, 1992. Pi Kappa
Phi and Sigma Chi will be completed by Sept. 5,

1992. vie af

Atkins said the university has revised the
renovation schedule to give the construction
company at least an extra 30 days to finish
construction work. The extra time will insure’ that
all furniture is moved in and the houses are
cleaned after construction.

‘Those guys [members of Sigma Alpha Epsilon
and Sigma Nu] didn’t get the full impact’ of
seeing a spotless house, Atkins said,

Phase I of the Renaissance Program is only
slightly behind schedule, Atkins said. Phi Delta
Theta moved in Monday.

Pi Kappa Alpha will be finished on April 13.
The university will not force any PiKA s to occupy
the house for spring term unless at least 10
members want to move in, Atkins said.

Beta Theta Pi and Phi Kappa Sigma could be

completed by April but it is unlikely, Atkins said.
These two houses will be finished by the end of
the summer at the latest.

Delta Tau Delta, Kappa Alpha and Sigma Phi
Epsilon could be finished with Pi Phi and Sigma

Chi in September 1992. Plans for Delt have not.

been completed and KA and SPE have not had
their renovation applications approved.

Because even these revised plans are subject to
change, Atkins urged fraternity members to choose
campus housing if they need housing for less than
an academic year. University housing leases can be
terminated if fraternity members have to move into
their houses earlier than planned, Atkins said.

“Our first concern remains and will always
remain the protection of our students from
academic difficulty and financial burden,’’ Atkins
said.

Washington and Lee senior Tom
Spurgeon on Monday resigned his
position as chairman of the Student
Conduct Committee, one day before
he was found guilty of his second
drunken driving offense in Lexington.

Judge Jo- ;
seph E. Hess
fined Spurgeon Fy
$200, sentenced F
him to two
days in jail and
suspended his
driver’s license
four months.

After the
four months he
will be able to Spurgeon
drive with a restricted license if he
attends the Virginia Alcohol Safety
Action Program.

Charges made at the time of his
arrest on Jan. 19 for reckless driving
and driving with a suspended license
were dismissed.

Spurgeon said he personally re-
signed before the Executive Commit-
tee in a closed session after the EC’s
regular Monday meeting. The com-
mittee voted to unanimously accept
his resignation, according to EC
President Tom Hatcher.

That vote allowed Spurgeon to
continue to serve as a member of the
SCC and president of the senior
class.

A motion by senior EC Rep.
Willard Dumas to remove Surgeon
from the SCC entirely as well as
from his office as class president
failed 6-7, Hatcher said.

Hatcher, Dumas, junior EC Rep.
Caroline Wight, sophomore EC Rep.
Kirk Ogden, third-year law Rep.
Mark Cobb and first-year law Rep.
Daniel Munroe voted to remove Spur-

  

Hatcher said individual students
and EC members can talk about
discussions that led to the closed
vote, but he refused to allow specif-
ics of the debate to be printed.

“There were some harsh feeling
expressed,’ Hatcher said. ‘‘The ill
will that might have been felt doesn’t
need to be public knowledge. The
vote has been taken, the motion
failed and it’s time to move
forward.”’

Spurgeon added that specific SCC
case information, which the student
constitution says is to be held confi-
dential, was discussed during the
debate. The cases were used as exam-
ples of the types of cases the SCC
may face in the future.

Spurgeon said he has made
personal decision to limit his duties
on the SCC. For the rest of the yrur,
he said he will not vote or comment
on cases brought to the committee.

“T just don’t want anybody think-
ing there’s going to be a problem. I
don’t want to be an issue,’’ he saic.

Spurgeon said he will primarily
work on proposed reforms, which
have become urgent since President
Wilson’s decision earlier this month
to overreach what Wilson called inef-
fective student government by sus-
pending three fraternity members for
breaking windows in the recently
renovated Sigma Alpha Epsilon
house.

He will also advise the committee
on procedural matters and help com-
plete paperwork.

Sophomore Richard Burke will
serve as temporary chairman until the
EC selects a permanent replacement
for Spurgeon at their meeting next
Monday. Hatcher said the EC will
consider all class officers currently

EC motions sent to polls

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee will
send six student body constitution
revisions to the polls March 18,
including one to allow appointment
deliberations behind closed doors.

The Constitutional Revisions Com-
mittee proposed the EC be allowed to
enter executive session for only honor
matters, appointment interviéws and
disciplinary hearings.

The EC passed that proposal
Monday with an amendment allow-
ing executive session for appointment
deliberations as well, though, accord-
ing to EC President Tom Hatcher,
members’ voting records would be
made public.

The EC proposals approved un-
amended include:

« Succession if a Big Three officer
leaves prior to taking office and there
is not enough time for a special
election.

* The EC representative on the Pub-
lications Board to hold no vote.

The EC did not endorse proposals
to:

« Forbid EC restriction of Pub Board
expenditures, allowing an EC vote

 

 

Clarification

A story that appeared in Feb.
14's Ring-tum Phi was mislead-
ing. W&L sophomore Ulysses Hui
mailed a package of marijuana to
junior George Benson without
Benson’s consent.

Benson has been cleared by
customs officials of any involve-
ment in the charges brought
against Hui.

The Phi regrets any confusion
the story may have caused.

 

 

only for record of approval or disap-
proval.

+ Mandate earlier EC and class elec-
tions,

EC Vice President Raymond Wel-
der endorsed open appointment delib-
erations last spring, but the EC-elect
decided to close the door. Welder
now admits, he changed his mind.

‘*Having the closed door last year,
some things were said about people’s
abilities that had to be said,’’ Welder
said. ‘‘It would be best if they were
not exposed to the entire campus.”

Welder said he was specifically
persuaded by an argument referring to
the undisputed proposal of executive
session for disciplinary action.

Sophomore EC Rep. Joshua Mac-
Farland said, ‘‘If you go into closed
session for firing, you should go in
for hiring.’

Walter Scott, head of the revisions
committee since Chairman John
Falk’s graduation, called the issue ‘‘a
Catch 22.

‘We'd like to see the EC more
open,’’ Scott said, ‘‘but we don’t
want to scare off people or hurt
anybody’s reputation’ with open
deliberations.

Third-year law Rep. Mark Cobb
was the sole opponent of the amen-

ded proposal, but did not object to its
spirit. He said he opposed the pro-
posal because it was passed too quic-
kly, before the wording was clear.

Scott said there will be a forum
to discuss the proposals at 5 p.m. on
March 12, tentatively set for Lee
Chapel.

Polls for the proposed revisions
will open with undergraduate clec-
tions and will remain open for three
days. A proposal requires two-thirds
support to pass, with at least half the
student body voting.

‘Bo’ Russell wins
vote for EC veep

Hamilton ‘‘Bo'’ Russell defeated
Joshua MacFarland for 1991-92 EC
vice president 575-289 in the Feb. 14
run-off.

Russell, in campaigning, advocated
an EC less ‘‘like a Big Brother
committee.’’ He said the EC should
‘‘protect the values of the school and
the students’’ and prove _ itself
‘completely trustworthy.’’

Russell opposed any changes to
the White Book Philosophy in the
recent revisions hearings.

geon.

serving on the SCC.

 

 

Taxed about cars

Students reluctant to pay bills received for car tax

basis that the bill and accompanying letter did not
include any kind of description of the car or a license
plate number, just a statement of the assessed value of
the car and the tax owed. :

Conkling,
from Chestertown, Md.,
said the car on which
the tax was assessed is
not even in Lexington
anymore, She said she
brought back a newer
Honda after Christmas
break and her brother, a

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

W&L students have begun receiving car tax bills,
but don’t seem willing to pay them.

Meanwhile, student leaders are continuing to
investigate ways to dissuade the city from trying to
collect the tax.

Some students returning from Washington Holiday
have found tax bills in their waiting mail. | Others
say their parents received bills during and just before
break.

Senior Melinda Conkling said her father received a sophomore, brought
bill for $348, the tax assessed on her 1987 Honda back a new Jeep.
Accord. Freshman Steve

‘‘He was furious because [the car] was only here
for four months,’’ Conkling said. Virginia law states
that in order for a municipality to tax a vehicle, the
vehicle must be principally garaged or kept in that
municipality for a majority of the year.

Conkling said her father called city officials and
told them the bill amounted to ‘‘taxation without
representation’’ because students are not residents of
the city and do not vote in elections here.

She said officials told her father that students use
roads and police service nine months of the year, so
they should help pay for it.

Conkling said her father then wrote a letter to cily
officials stating his intention not to pay the tax on the

Bender said his father
received a bill for $142
on his Suzuki Samauri. Bender says he told his father
not to pay it yet.

‘‘T want to wait and see whether other people are
going to pay it,’’ he said.

Meanwhile, Executive Committee president Tom
Hatcher said he has come up with four possible options
to try and persuade the city not to collect the tax. P

The first is to conduct a cost-effectiveness study to
determine what kind of money the city would makc.
Such a study would have to determine how many

  
   

ia

who is

 

Conkling

1) Please see TAX page 4

 

 

Recruitment policy angers Law students

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee Monday
condemned a Law School faculty policy that
prevents employers who legally discriminate
against homosexuals from using the Law
School’s placement facilities.

The Law School discrimination policy
excludes employers that discriminate on basis of
‘*sex, age, race, religion, national origin, hand-
icap or disability’’ from using the career place-
ment facilities.

The law faculty in closed-door session on
Feb, 11 amended that policy, adding ‘‘sexual
orientation, or any other legally impermissible
or irrelevant ground’’ as criteria opposed by the
school.

The EC Monday unanimously passed a
resolution, written by third-year law EC Rep.
Mark Cobb, that condemns the policy and asks
for reconsideration.

The EC resolution says the faculty policy
would bar from recruiting at the Law School
the ‘‘Armed Forces and certain intelligence
agencies’’ that ‘‘comply with all federal and
Virginia laws involving discrimination.”’

Senior EC Reps. John Fialcowitz and
Willard Dumas Tuesday withdrew their support
for the EC resolution. Both said they needed
more time to investigate the issue.

Michael Carlson, ’92L, led an effort to
circulate a petition at the Law School calling
for the faculty to reconsider their proposal. He
told the EC Monday that the petition was
signed by about 60 percent of the law students
when he stopped collecting signatures.

EC President-elect and second-year law Rep.
Giles Perkins said the law faculty should not
decide ‘‘who I can interview with and who |
can’t.

‘Discrimination is horrible, but the only
way we can define it is how the law defines
it,’ he said. ‘To step out of that becomes
vague.”’

The law faculty adopted the policy in
response to a regulation passed by the
Association of American Law Schools, with
which W&L is accredited.

The AALS regulation calls on member
schools to observe AALS bylaws by denying
use of their placement facilities to organizations
that discriminate on a number ol
identical to those of the amended W&L policy.

Law School Dean Randall Bezanson said
accreditation with the AALS was one issue in

grounds,

law faculty debate on the policy. He said the
faculty also discussed:
+ Sexual preference relative to ability as a

lawyer.

* Other Law School policies, such as
admissions, which do not consider sexual
preference.

+ Impact on employers.
* The school’s right to impose restrictions on
which employers can use placement facilities.
Bezanson, who chairs law faculty meetings,
would not identify professors for or against the
policy change. Law Prof. Timothy Philipps,
however, put his dissent on record.
In a memo to faculty, Philipps said the
policy ‘‘has caused more divisiveness and hard
feelings here than any issue in recent memory,’’
OPINION

 

|
i
j
{
j
{

 

 

 

Best minds

The voices and thoughts of seven students at
Vanderbilt University reached out from Nashville,
Tennessee to Washington, D.C. and then throughout the
nation in a recent Washington Post article focusing on
their lives and their thoughts during this time of war.
However admirable this may sound, the young men will
undoubtedly find it difficult to face readers they may
know. In their comments on serving in the armed
forces, it was shockingly clear that despite all the
wonderful opportunities these men had for the best of
educations and lifestyles, they had not grasped the most
basic lessons of responsibility and fairness.

Perhaps most disturbing and severely specific, yet
reflective of the tone of much of the thinking relayed
in the story, was the attitude of one student toward the
draft. He told the Post ‘‘This might sound selfish, but I
think it would be a shame to put America’s best young
minds on the front line. If we have to go, we have to
go, but I think it would be a shame.’’ He was right. He
does sound selfish. Selfish, irresponsible, arrogant and
uninformed.

There is no basis for his supposition that his mind or
those of his classmates are the best. Perhaps they are
best in terms of opportunities offered or in terms of
wealth they live with. But certainly the minds and lives
of their counterparts from the other side of the railroad
tracks are equal to theirs. Such a basic concept, but one
they missed despite their ‘‘privileged’’ upbringing.

What is important for the readers of the Post to note
is that the thoughts of these men are not representative
of all students at Vanderbilt or those across the nation.
Readers must realize that only seven young men at a
school sought by the privileged were interviewed. There
are a number of college students who could have much
more thoughtfully and maturely responded to the
reporter’s questions, opposed to or in favor of the war.
It is regretful that the reporter turned to ‘‘America’s
best young minds’’ at Vanderbilt.

Paper changes

In this issue of The Ring-tum Phi, we bring to our
readers several changes. First, and most importantly,
Andrew Waters has replaced Brian Root as one of the
editors-in-chief. Working as associate editor for almost
a year and as a senior majoring in journalism, Andrew
is well prepared for his new job. Brian could not return
to school after the Washington Holiday for health
reasons.

A more minor but probably more immediately
noticeable change involves our headline style. The
heads are now darker and bolder. We hope you find
them easier to read and we welcome your comments.

Finally, we have twice this semester suspended the
W&Life features pages because of unusual
circumstances, more recent of which is our 20-page
Fancy Dress supplement in this week’s issue. This is
not the start of a trend. W&Life will continue to appear
faithfully each week.

Quote of the Week

“We started collecting hazardous duty pay, $110.00 a
month in Saudi. Wow, I’m rolling in the big bucks. Just
kidding, the actual reward I hope to get is bringing
everyone in my platoon home in one piece with sound
minds,”

— W&L Alumni John Legters ’89, now a second
lieutenant in the U.S. Marine Corp in a letter to a
student here mailed from his camp in Saudi Arabia. Or
by now possibly Kuwait or Baghdad, Iraq.

   
   
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
   
   

Uy

WE
Wy
EEG i

7
Ya

ee

Lf
Cae id

tif
yp

4

oe

    

OPM
toy,
OY AE

ra. iG

y V4

a
a
“heb

GLUT t jp vg
ChikimMtHa

 

 

 

 

    

 

  

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

 

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

Editors

Associate Editor
Astignment Editor =. Ss. cs 4 i ee a
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor

Entertainment Editor
Borie BSOtSr 3 et sh at st
Associate Sports Editor
Prole BU ok i et tt
Editorial Cartoonist Jeff Woodland
Peta ANE, ee a es ae Joshua Manning
Cosy Galil. 6 Se bay Se el Se | es Courtney Hall

Patricia Lopes, Andrew Waters
Alesha Priebe
Cathy Lopiccolo
Chris Baradel
Jason Kelley
Pam Kelley
Jay Plotkin
John Laney
Chris Leiphart

ee Se

Pieri ttt tet ee tt tb eats

Buenens ViaMk 2 i t  t i st
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Anne Dysart
John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

  
   

x

N

Give me b

MY VIEW
By Jon Sbar

  

 

 

You are in the grip of the devil. I am in the
grip of the devil. We’re all in the grip of the devil.
Yes, friends, Satan has been inside of us ever since
Adam and Eve ate forbidden fruit in the Garden
of Eden. Yes, friends, they plucked that fruit right
off that holy tree in disobedience to the Lord Our
Father and ever since we have been sinful creatures
of Satan. Until one day the good Lord took pity on
us and sent down his son, the Lord Jesus Christ,
friends, to take away our sin and....

Oh, pardon me, readers. You see, I’ve been
doing some freelance work writing Sunday morning
radio sermons and it’s tough getting back in the
habit of irresponsible journalism. I apologize for
my long absence from the editorial page, but I felt
a little guilty writing about naked housewives and
related subjects when the country is involved in a
major armed conflict in the Middle East. I have
also been hampered by a nagging case of halitosis.

The main reason I’ve decided to end my hiatus
from the editorial page is that since I quit writing,
people have started accepting me socially and I
find that intolerable. I’ve also been itching to say
something about the ridiculous rise in the price of
beer. Due to new federal taxes, it is now cheaper
to buy diamond jewelry than a case of Budweiser.

Obviously, the federal government has forgotten

what happened when King George III (or was it '

King Richard the Lion Heart) tried to raise beer
taxes in the American colonies. The colonial beer-
drinkers became patriot rebels and decided to

Clarification on
Christian West

Although I share Ms. Taylor’s distaste for
the style and tone of the Spectator [My View:
Christian West Is Not Perfect, Feb. 14], I am
afraid that I must point out that a number of
her ‘‘facts’’ condemning the shortcomings of
the Christian West are misleading. I shall
attempt to do this in a parallel form.

CLARIFICATION: St. Augustine of Hippo
was not a hypocrite, at least not because of
Ms. Taylor’s evidence. Yes, Augustine did
father an illegitimate child, and, yes, he did
extol the virtues of ‘‘foregoing the pleasures of
the flesh;’’ however, Augustine’s unfortunate
offspring appeared before his famed conversion
to Christianity, while his praise of chastity
came, of course, thereafter.

CLARIFICATION: I do not profess to
know how Ms. Taylor uses the phrase ‘‘c-
ondemned as heretics,’’ but surely she is
incorrect in making her list. Thomas Aquinas
may have been disliked by contemporary
popes — but he was never condemned as a
heretic by the Church. He died a Dominican
friar and was given a proper Christian burial,
never to be excommunicated and certainly
never burned at the stake.

CLARIFICATION: ‘‘Suspicious’’ men were
also executed in Salem, not just women.

CLARIFICATION: To my _ knowledge
Catholics were not exterminated under Hitler
for being Catholic. In fact, his staunchest
supporter were the Bavarians, known for their
ultra-orthodox Catholicism. Those admirable
Catholics, both religious and lay, who died
under Hitler’s persecution, did so because they
had the moral fortitude to stand up for what
their religion taught them, and I expect that
just as many Protestants were ‘‘exterminated’’
for the same reason.

CLARIFICATION: Yes, there are many
more rapes in our country than in Saudi
Arabia. But we should remember that it was
only a few years back when a princess in that
country and her lover were beheaded for the
crime of fornication. That scems to me to be
a high price to pay for respect that women
surely deserve.

1 do not wish to argue against Ms. Taylor
that the West is perfect in any sense of that
word. I do not, however, believe that this
argument is defended in many circles (Perhaps
it is in the Spectator; | don’t bother reading it
anymore). I might mention that I did not read
Mr. Humphries’ articles on Multiculturalism;
nevertheless, I do have a recommendation for
Ms. Taylor and others who would appreciate
an intelligent discussion touching on some of
the inherent dangers in certain approaches to

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 28, 1991

TOP OF THE NEWS TePAY, Bolo ASkeED SUE WHO wourd
RATHER GO WITH ED, BUT HE ASkeD MARTHA WHO
STILL CAN'T FIT INTO HER FANCY DRESS MIKE STILL
DOESN T HAVE A DATE, ERICA FINALLY ANsweRED BILL,
WH ASKED HER TWo WEEKS
AGO. JOHN HAS YET TO
REAH A DECISION, FRED

ASKEO LisA WHO SAID...

protest the beer tax by dressing up like Indians and
dumping something into the Boston Harbor. The
beer-drinking patriots congregated on the Boston
Harbor docks as planned, but no one could decide
what should be thrown in the water.

Ben Franklin’s girlfriend suggested that they
throw their beer into the harbor and the patriots
replied by pushing her into the water. The day was
finally saved when Patrick Henry rode onto the
dock with an idea and a saddle bag full of Liberty
Beer 12-packs.

"I’ve got an idea," he said. "Why don’t we
drink the beer and throw tea into the harbor. Give
me beer or give me death."

All of the patriots cheered except for Thomas
Jefferson who had paid the security deposit on the
dock and wanted Patrick’s horse to get off it.

So the patriots got drunk and dumped the tea
into the harbor. You don’t really believe that the
patriots dumped tea into the harbor to protest tea
taxes, do you? That’s just a vicious rumor
propogated by American high school teachers.

When the British government reacted to the
Boston Harbor protest by banning the consumption
of alcohol during political demonstrations, the beer-
drinking patriots raised an army and declared war.
And the rest is history. Consequently, if it weren’t
for beer, America would probably still be a British
colony.

The framers of the Constitution intended to put
something in the First Amendment. about beer:
("Congress shall make no aw respecting. an
establishment of religion ... or abridging the right
to petition for redress fo grievances or the right to
drink beer at reasonable prices.") Unfortunately,
the framers stopped in the middle of the First

LETTERS

Multiculturalism, namely ‘‘Free Speech and the
Academy’’ by the former Massachusetts guber-
natorial candidate and President of Boston
University, John Silber (The Intercollegiate
Review: A Journal of Scholarship and Opinion,
Vol. 26, No.1).

 

Sincerely,
Daniel M. Bettendorf, ’91

Wilson’s motives
absolutely sound

I am writing in response to the Phi’s exten-
sive coverage of the bottle throwing/window
breaking incident which culminated in Presi-
dent Wilson’s decision to suspend three stu-
dents for the remainder of the winter term.

While an undergraduate in the carly 70s, I
served two terms as president of Phi Kap. My
experiences in the fraternity system were
among the most important I had at W&L.
After graduation in 1974, I worked for two
years and came back to law school. I ate all
of my meals at Phi Kap and remained in very
close contact with many undergraduates.
During my third year of law school, | served
as president of the student body and | was
honored to receive the Gilliam Award in 1979.
As a member of the Alumni board and the Phi
Kap house corporation board, I am on campus
at least twice each year.

Most important for the purposes of this
letter, | yield to no one in my love for and
support of the fraternity system at Washington
and Lee. I enjoyed fraternity life as much as
anyone during my years in Lexington, so your
readers need not fear that this letter is coming
from a milk and cookies type.

I respectfully suggest that current students
are overlooking very important and broader
issues if they characterize this case as an iso-
lated or ‘‘routine’’ incident of window break-
age. Literally speaking, that’s all it was, but
the vehement criticism President Wilson is
receiving ignores that unique nature and timing
of this particular event and the climate in
which President Wilson’s decision was made.

John Wilson has been criticized strongly by
some for giving fraternities at Washington and
Lee their last, great chance to flourish under
the renaissance plan. Many other schools
across the country have given up on their
fraternities in one fashion or another, yielding
to pressure over destruction of property, exces-
sive drinking and other examples of miscon-
duct which have taken place on those cam-
puses and on ours, Bucking that national trend,
President Wilson has essentially placed a
$15,000,000 bet on the current generation of
fraternity members. He is willing to go the

extra, very costly mile to save fraternities.

difficult to see how President Wilson would
react angrily to misconduct which threatens
serious injuries and which is unquestionably
prohibited under the renaissance standards, yet
which neither the chapters involved, the IFC
nor the SCC chose to handle. From the articles
in the February 7 Phi, it appears that the
response of the fraternities was, in effect: ‘‘We
made them put the windows back in and we’re
not going to tell you who was involved.’’

I do not fault President Wilson one iota for
being furious with that sort of arrogant
response, which suggested that there was no
need for any real punishment. Who among you
would remain silent if you thought a $15
million investment in which you were a key
partner was in jeopardy in its early stages?

President Wilson acted a bit hastily, Also
implicit in many student comments is the
notion that he acted without warning to the
appropriate student entities. However, I can
imagine accusations of “‘meddling’’ in student
affairs had he suggested to any of the respon-
sible bodies that the administration expected
them to deal with this incident quickly and
forcefully.

one of our most honored traditions. However,
we must remember that this authority is dele
gated to the students by the Board of Trustees,
faculty and administration. It has worked for
sO many years because students have honored
that trust and there have been few instances
when the administration has felt it had no
choice but to intervene.

the IFC had moved quickly to punish these
three men very forcefully (perhaps short of a
full term suspension), so that this incident
would not have occurred, Had they done so, I
am sure President Wilson would not have
acted as he did. However, if this entire matter
serves as a loud wake-up call to student lead-
ers to ‘‘use it or lose it’’ by doing whatever is
necessary to preserve the spirit and letter of
the renaissance program, then it will have been
an unfortunate but invaluable lesson. If not,
this generation of students may well witness
the demise of fraternities and, right or wrong,
be blamed for it.

nities and for W&L’s other great traditions, |
hope that the former will occur. Meanwhile, let
us not be too quick to criticize President
Wilson by failing to understand that his mo-
tives were absolutely sound.

Sincerely,
Waller T. Dudley, ’74, ’79L

  

 
 
 

 

Amendment after learning that it was “nickel draft

beer" night at the bar across the street. When they
reconvened the next moming, the framers were too
hung-over to think about beer and decided to re-
write the preamble instead.

If you’re still not convinced that heavy beer
taxes are unacceptable, consider the facts in a
recent Associated Press article. According to an
anthropologist at the University of Pennsylvania,
beer is the "cornerstone" of civilization because
“ancient man turned from hunting to farming to
raise grain for beer." One of the earliest known
clay tablets, which dates back to 1800 B.C. is a
Sumerian beer recipe in the form of a hymn. And
"py 2000 B.C. the Sumerians had 55 words
describing different varieties of beer."

If the government needs to raise money, they
should tax wine coolers because the only people
who drink them are girls in high school and wine
cooler-consuming teenie-boppers don’t have
constitutional rights.

My point is that the beer drinkers of the
country must unite and protest this unconstitutional
and immoral tax of mankind’s most sacred
beverage. If beer prices don’t go down soon,
someone should organize a demonstration at the
Boston Harbor docks. We could all meet there and
dump carbonated water in the ocean.

In the meantime, readers sould send me a 25-
200 word essay describing what they love most
about. beer: (800:.McCorkle: Dr., Lexington, VA

essays Now. My editor will buy the author of the
best essay a 12-pack of expensive imported beer.
I will accept essays from anyone, including C-
School professors and adminsitrators.

Have gone out on this limb, it is not

Wake up and smell the coffee, gentlemen.

Perhaps it is fair comment to say that

Student government run solely by student is

I wish that the houses involved, the SCC or

As one alum who cares deeply for frater-

 

)

‘

-24450). This is ‘no joke, readers. Send me those |

 

 

 

 
 

 

NEWS

 

The Ring-tum Phi,

February 28, 1991

 

W&L cancels programs
planned for spring term

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee administra-
tors canceled European spring term
programs in response to the Persian
Gulf War and the subsequent danger
to Americans traveling abroad.

Associate Dean Laurant Boetsch
said the University has been moni-
toring State Department Western
European travel advisories, as well as
the withdrawal of other programs
currently traveling in foreign coun-
tries. Boetsch said a Syracuse Univer-
sity group has already returned from
Florence, Italy.

“This decision was made only
after careful consideration of all the
facts available to us,’’ said Boetsch
in a letter to students and faculty.

*‘{It] is based primarily on the likely
increased threat to Americans travel-
ing to, within, or from European
countries which are a part of the
coalition forces in the Mideast.’’

Included among the canceled
programs were trips to Spain, Germa-
ny, England and Leningrad, U.S.S.R.

The last time the University can-
celed spring term programs was in
1986, after United States bombers
attacked Libya ten days before spring
term.
Boetsch said University officials
wanted to make their final decision
before spring term registration so
faculty and students could make
alternate academic plans.

‘‘We already ask [students and
faculty] to take on enormous risks,”’
said Boetsch. ‘‘This was just too
much to ask.”’

 

Laurent Boetsch

..Associate Dean of the College

 

LAW

from page 1

 

For that reason, said Philipps, he proposed the faculty
amend the policy to specify that the school ‘‘opposes

unlawful discrimination.”’

Among other advantages, Philipps said his compromise
makes ‘‘an honest attempt’’ to comply with AALS by-
laws but allows lawfully discriminating employers back on

campus.

Though Carlson said the policy could keep the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and Central Intelligence Agency
from recruiting at the Law School, spokesmen for both

organizations disagreed.

FBI Personnel Staffing Specialist Gwen Hubbard and
CIA Spokesman Ceferino Epps both said that the AALS
policy does not affect their agencies, as they do not

discriminate.

Epps said the CIA has determined heterosexuals ‘‘may
be vulnerable to outside pressures just as homosexuals.”
He added that national origin is lawfully taken into
account as a security issue only for non-U.S. citizens.

Amy Recruiting Officer
implementation of AALS policy has kept the Army’s

Allison Polchek _ said

Judge Advocate General Recruiting Office off 60 to 65

law campuses nationwide, but students from those schools
still apply individually.
Polchek said the military lawfully discriminates on

grounds of age, handicap and sexual preference for active

or internships.

duty officers, but not for the Civilian Attorney Program

The reason for discrimination in the active JAG,

according to Polchek, is that JAG officers must be able

to do the same job as any officer, including combat duty.
Military regulations state that homosexuals are not
permitted in combat.

Carlson said accreditation is probably not at risk if the

session Monday.

AALS policy is not adopted, because too many other
AALS member-schools do not obey or have the policy.
The law faculty will meet in regular closed-door

Kathekon
has open
selection

From the W&L News Office

 

 

For the first time, Kathekon,
Washington and Lee’s student-alum-
ni service group, is accepting appli-
cations for membership from rising
juniors and seniors.

According to Kathekon President
Bob Fuller, in previous years new
members were selected by students
already involved in Kathekon, so
there was no way for students to
express interest in and apply for
membership.

“We are at a point in our evolu-
tion where we feel like we need to
open up the application process to
involve upperclass students from the
entire university community and be
truly representative of the student
body,’’ Fuller said.

Kathekon, founded in 1984, cur-
rently has 22 members and is a cre-
ation of the Alumni Office and the
Alumni Board of Directors.

Fuller said Kathekon’s purpose
is to recognize undergraduates and
law students as alumni-in-residence
and therefore involve them with the
Alumni Association and its work on
behalf of the university.

Kathekon’s activities include
serving as hosts and hostesses for
the Freshman Orientation Barbecue,
helping with Board of Trustees
meetings, and meeting with the
Alumni Board of Directors.

Applications and an interview
sign-up sheet are available outside
Carol Calkins’ office in the Univer-
sity Center. The final day to apply
is March 7.

Beating the Lexington tax bandit

 

MY VIEW
By John Stump

 

Before leaving Lexington for
Washington holiday, I decided to give
dear old dad a call. Of course I
wanted to talk to him, but there was
also the important issue of funds. As
usual, I was running low. Much to
my chagrin however, earlier that day
someone else from Lexington had
come tugging at the purse strings:
none other than the Lexington
Commissioner of the Revenue. Dad
informed me that he had just received
a letter requesting the first of two
installments towards the dreaded car
tax. Apparently, R.D. Clark, the new
meter-maid/ dog catcher/bicycle safety
inspector had not handed out enough
tickets this year to give the aspiring
New York of south west Virginia
enough revenue to keep the city
council’s pockets full.

We both know the car tax scam is
a back alley below the belt cheap
shot at W&L students and their
parents, but getting into a discussion
on the high cost of living in
Lexington and the hair brained

by J.R. Smith

 

schemes of the locals to suck every
possible penny out of W&L wasn’t
going to help my case. I tried to
change the subject, but to no avail. I
cringed to hear the contents of the
letter; they wanted their first
payment, one hundred © and _ thirty
bucks. "I say we don’t pay it!" I
said. "Of course we’re not going to
pay it son, we already pay personal
property tax in Northern Virginia!" he
said, somewhat troubled that I would
even consider something so asinine. “
But dad, don’t they have a legal right
to the tax, it says something here
about..." I was stopped dead in my
tracks. "  Hogwash!" came __ the
response. "Your car is principally
garaged in Fairfax county, that’s
where we pay tax on it, that’s where
its listed on the insurance, and we
don’t need to confuse matters by
getting into a big Car Tax hoo-hah
with the city of Lexington!" Dad
went on to explain that anyone whose
car is not principally garaged in
Lexington is not subject to the car
tax.

Now, just what does "principally
garaged" mean? Well, I don’t really
know, and today when I asked the
Commissioner of the Revenue, she

Interviews and photos

confessed that she didn’t know either.
After some calculation, we
determined that my car is not
principally garaged in Lexington, I
signed a statement to that effect, and
she agreed to leave me alone. The
tax bandits had been beaten, and they
knew it.

As everyone else will soon be
getting a similar bill, and presumably
will be no more excited than I was
about paying it, let me offer the
following suggestions so that we can
all beat the car tax bandits together.
First, if you live outside the city
limits, you’re exempt from Lexington
city tax, so go down to city hall and
sign your statement of exemption.
Second, for those who live inside the

_city limits, as I do, you need to do a

few calculations. The commissioner
and I agreed that six months is a
nice round figure for "principally
garaged". Well, lets see... We have
three months of summer vacation,
about a month of Christmas break, 10
days for Washington holiday, 10 days
for spring break, 10 days for
Thanksgiving, and many of us go
away for weekends, and often leave
our cars at home, or parked outside
of the city for extended periods of

time. Surely, even if it means
swapping cars with mom or simply
parking outside of the city limits, we
can all find a way to keep our cars
from falling under the rough
“principally garaged" guidelines laid
out here. Third, don’t be intimidated
by thugish threats implying that
anyone who has signed a one year
lease in Lexington has to pay the tax
because they therefore must also keep
their car in Lexington. This is a
colossal non-sequitur, but not atypical
of bureaucratic tom foolery in and
about Lexington. So why worry
about a boycott of city businesses?
Why send your car home? Why deal
with the hassles of meddling petty
bureaucrats? Head on down to City
Hall and sign your statement of
exemption, let the burden of proof be
on the city. If you sign the statement
saying that your car is not principally
garaged in Lexington, they will have
to prove that it is in order to get
their tax, and we are all energetic and
creative enough to keep our cars out
of Lexington long enough to qualify
for the exemption. So let’s all beat
the tax bandits together, and wait
patiently for their next intrusive

revenue raising scam.

 

TALKBACK

Hookers
Watch the rugby club in action at
the VMI playing field Saturday at
1 p.m.

Proofs

Seniors need to check their proofs
of photos taken earlier and choose
one for The Calyx. Go to the
Calyx office in the University
Center 7-9 p.m., Thurs., Feb. 28
or Sun.-Tues., March 3-5.
Undergraduates have until March
2 to go to Andre Studios on Main
Street past the White Front
Market to check their proofs.
Pictures will be chosen for you if
you can’t get to the studio. Hours
are Mon.-Fri., 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. and
Saturdays, 9-12 p.m.

Intern

James Madison University spon-
sors an internship program placing
students all over the world. Call
Judy Cohen, 703-568-6979 for
more information.

Report

Learn how to get newspaper
internships and full-time jobs.
Register for a newspaper job
clinic run by real people in the
industry right now. Contact Prof.
Hampden Smith, 463-8432 for
more information. Deadline for
registratin is March 11.

Run and Ride

The American Lung Association
of Virginia will hold its third
annual Biathlung April 20 at
Thousand Trails in Campbell
County. You or a team runs 10K
and bikes 48K. Call 804-846-
1829 for more information.

Finds

Carol Calkins, Room 104 in the
U. Center has 10 sets of keys, a
gold charm bracelet, a gold heart
locket with the initials GAC and
info about more than 10 watches
turned into the Security Office in
Graham-Lees.

DG Alums

Any Delta Gamma alumnae cur-
rently at the law school who
would like to form an Alumnae
Association with undergrad alums,
call Cathy at 464-4553.

Get It Out

Need to let people know what
you're up to? Leave a note in the
General Notes envelope outside
The Ring-tum Phi office.

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

Lead the Class

Petitions for class president, vice
president, Executive Committee
Tepresentative from 1991-92 will
be available Mon., March 4 at
Carol Calkins office in the
University Center. Each class has
one president, one v.p. and two
EC reps with the exception of the
seniors, who have 3 v.p.s. Due
Mon., March 11, 5 p.m. in the
EC chambers.

CIA Director

Admiral Stansfield Turner, former
Director of Central Intelligence
under the Carter Administration
and Class of 1963 Fellow for
Winter Term, will speak on social
democracy Tues., March 5, 7:30
p.m., C-School 327. For more
information, call Prof. Craig
McCaughrin, 463-8624.

Oxford

Go to Britain with the Virginia
Program at Oxford. Apply for six
week summer course on Tuder-
Stuart history and literature at St.
Anne’s College. Deadline March
1. Contact Art Prof. Pam
Simpson, 463-8861.

Big Two

Applications for Mock Convention
State chairmen will be distributed
at an orientation meeting tonight,
6:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
If you miss the meet, go to Carol
Calkins in the University Center.
Interview sign-up sheets will also
be posted outside her office.

MC Speakers

The Steering Committee of the
Mock Convention is now begin-
ning to solicit speakers for the
MC’s Kickoff weekend this May
as well as for the convention this
March. They are asking the stu-
dent body for their insight and
assistance. Contact the MC offices
at 463-8579 with suggestions.

Cartoonist

The Ring-tum Phi is looking for a
new cartoonist to take over during
Spring Term. Call Pat at 464-
3738.

Reporters

Anyone interested in reporting for
The Ring-tum Phi call Cathy at
464-4553.

 

Should the U.S. continue the war

   

 

 

 

despite Saddam’s announced withdrawal?

 

 
         

 

ihe =
Z
rs Fi
ha ©

|

' i %

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Jason Dunn, 794, Greenwood,

Hunter Catlett, °91, Richmond, Pat Smith, 94, Middletown, NJ Brooke Jarabek, ’91, Atlanta, Thomas Gottsegen, ’91, New Terri McFarland, 91, Memphis,

VA — ‘No, it would just give — ‘‘Without eliminating Saddam, GA = ‘‘No.”’ Orleans, LA) — ‘Would you TN = ‘‘He’s slime and you can’t AR — ‘No, I think we should
him a chance to regroup and we the U.S. is not assured any vic- trust a guy that looked that sil- trust him.’’ continue the war until we have
would have to deal with him tory in the long run.’’ ly?” his head on a platter.’’

oh

again later."’

 

 

 

 
NEWS

ACLU chapter
organizes here

By Sarah Drain
Staff Reporter

 

A chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union has
been formed at Washington and Lee.

To become a ‘‘card carrying ACLU member’’ at
W&L, a $5 annual due is required to the national ACLU.
Freshman Andrew Schneider, founder of W&L’s chapter,
is currently organizing political speakers and events.

On March 18, W&L alumnus Bruce Kramer, who is
the director of the Tennessee ACLU, will be speak on
campus. The speech will be open to all students.

Schneider said he also hopes to have a symbolic open
mike forum to remind people of the importance of the
right to freedom of speech. In addition, Schneider plans
to publicize the bicentennial of the Bill of Rights by
organizing a celebration, including speakers and
discussions.

According to Schneider, the response has been
‘‘surprisingly terrific.” More than eighty people, most-

ly freshmen, have paid the $5 required due.
The next ACLU meeting will be March 5 at 6:30 p.m.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 28, 1991

 

 

in Fairfax Lounge.

The Publications Board

is currently accepting applications for
editors-in-chief
and business managers

of

The Ring-tum Phi and

The Calyx

and editors-in-chief of
The Political Review,

 

Dick’s Island

Hollins College alumnae
Caroline Cromelin '79 and Gin-
ger Donelson '76 assume 11
different characters in a look
at life on Dick's Island, off the
coast of Georgia. A zany com-
edy, the storyline revolves
around the death of a wealthy

man and the division of his
fortune.

 

Cromelin and Donelson, who
have made several appear-
ances on TV’s The Guiding
Light and Saturday Night Live,
wrote the play. Dick’s Island
will be playing at the Lenfest
Performing Arts Center March
5-7 at 8 p.m. Call the box of-
fice at 463-8000 for tickets,
which are free to W&L
students, staff and faculty.

 

 

 

 

 

   

VARNER & PO

115 S. Main St., Lexington

Furniture Dealers
For your extra pieces of furniture

 

463-2742

 

ADMISSIONS
COUNSELOR

applications © for

The W&L Admissions Office is now accepting
an anticipated Admissions

 

TAX

from page 1

students already pay personal property
tax on cars in their home state and
are thus exempt from the tax here.

Hatcher also said he wants to
discuss with President John Wilson
the voluntary donations the university
makes to the city every year to see if
they could be used as a bargaining
chip.

Other possibilities include asking
for legislative help from any W&L
alumni that might serve in the state
legislature and conducting a letter
writing campaign to merchants to ask
them to intercede with City Council
on behalf of the students. ©

Hatcher said such a letter might
be drafted and approved by the EC
‘tin recognition of the fact that we
are trying to help them out by
avoiding a boycott and ask them to

Large Farm House )
In Country

10 miles west (10 minutes) ?
Recently Remodeled.

5 Bedrooms

exert some influence with the (ity
Council.”’

Hatcher has recruited first year |

law student Pete Silvain to ,do
research on the legality of the tax.
Silvain, who recently received a
bill for ‘‘over $400’’ on his Nissan,
said he will try to write a formal
brief on the question. He says there
are a number of angles he wishes to
explore. .
“One angle is to look at due

process — whether the city gave |
students adequate notice and «an ©

opportunity to be  heard,”’ said
Silvain. ?

Silvain said he will try to ‘‘reagon
with’’ city officials and offer them a
"good rational option. If they don’t
accept it, we'll have to look at other
options.”’

 

 

 

 

Counselor position. All interested graduating
seniors should submit a cover letter and resume
no later than Monday, March 8, 1991 to:

Ariel, and
The Journal of Science.

Please submit a cover letter and resume
to Carol Calkins in the University Center
by Wednesday, March 13.

For more information
call Pat Lopes, 464-3738.

Lots of Outdoors
Available June Ist
Julia M. Kozak

Associate Director of Admissions
Office of Admissions

463-6575 Office
463-2868 Home

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L Dinner Special
After 4 p.m. With Student I.D.

 

Big Mac Sandwich
or
Quarter Pounder w/Cheese
or
6 Piece Chicken McNuggets
Order of Fries,

and
Large Soft Drink.

$2.39

 

 

 

 

 

Going to McDonald’s® is almost as
much a part of school as going to class.
You’ve made us the place to meet, to
talk, to have a good time, to celebrate
your victories and help forget defeats.

You’ve made McDonald’s more than

just another place to eat. And that’s why,

at McDonald’s,
we Say...

FOOO FOLKS & FUN |

Offer Good:

After 4 p.m. February 21st
Thru May 15th with Student I.D.
Limit one meal per person per visit:
Lexington McDonald’s Only

McDonald's
Anns D}

 

 
SPORTS

 

enerals

=... a

 

;ophomore John Hunter moves against Virginia. Hunter scored his
irst career goal in the game. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 28, 1991

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

Things aren’t always as bad as
they seem.

Witness Washington and Lee’s
19-5 loss to Virginia in the 1991
season opener in men’s lacrosse Wed-
nesday.

Virginia is ranked No. 3 in Divi-
sion I, and according to W&L head
coach Jim Stagnitta, they may be
even better than that.

“They are the best team I’ve seen
since the Pennsylvania team I played
on lost to Syracuse in the Final Four
in 1984,’’ he said. ‘‘What do you do
against a team like that? We won't
see anything else like that the rest of
the year.”’

Virginia jumped out to a 7-0 lead
with seven different players scoring
goals before W&L got on the board.
Senior Todd Garliss scored on an
extra-man situation, and senior Clark
Wight scored off a feed from senior
Mike Moseman 31 seconds later,
closing the gap to 7-2 with 8:25 left
in the first half.

Rich Florin scored for the Cava-
liers with just six seconds left in the
half to break some W&L momentum
and start the Cavaliers on a run that
would put the game away. Virginia

scored nine unanswered goals to take
a 16-2 lead before junior Jeff Roberts
could get W&L back in the scoring
column in the fourth quarter.

‘The goal they got at the end of
the first half was the one that really
killed us,’’ said Stagnitta.

Sophomore John Hunter scored
off a feed from classmate David
Schiminger and Wight scored seven
seconds from the end to make the
final score 19-5, and all in all, Stag-
nitta was pleased.

““We played well,’’ he said. ‘‘I
was disappointed in some aspects of
the game. We’re just one pass away
right now. We didn’t finish well
when we had opportunities, but we
had some guys play really well.

“John Hunter and Clark Wight
ran by whoever was guarding them
whenever they wanted to. [Senior]
Tom Costello was solid in goal, and
{junior} Jeff O’Brien and [senior]
Mike Pardo played well defensively.”’

Costello made 13 saves on the
day, but saw 55 shots. Virginia’s
defense held W&L without a goal for
the first 21 minutes of the game, and
then for 28 minutes until Roberts’
goal in the fourth quarter. W&L got
off only 15 shots, but still, Stagnitta
is not concerned.

‘‘We ran up and down the field,
hit them and played with them at

think big despite loss

times,’’ he said, ‘‘and they are a
good, good team.’’

The Division I opponent gets the
Generals ready for the Division III
portion of the schedule, which begins
Mar. 6 against Randolph-Macon at 3
p-m. on Wilson Field, and Stagnitta
can’t wait.

“I wish we were playing again
Saturday,’’ he said. ‘‘I have a feeling
that our guys are going to take the
field against Randolph-Macon and
dominate. I’m looking forward to the
Division III portion of the schedule.
We're better right now than we were
last year at this time. We will be a
good team.”’

W&L will be able to be more
aggressive in games against Division
III opponents.

“‘We can go after teams on the D-
III level,’’ Stagnitta said, ‘‘and we
will. We had to play differently to
stay in the game with Virginia, but
against D-III opponents, we can at-
tack them.’’

Stagnitta sees his team as being a
Top 10 team. W&L is ranked 13th in
the first Division III Poll.

“We'll be able to play in the top
10,’’ he said. ‘‘Maybe not the top
five, but we'll be in the top seven or
eight. We are ready for anything
Division III has to offer.’’

Women’s indoor track wins mythical ODAC title

 

By John Laney
Associate Sports Editor

 

Led by freshman Wendy Neel, the
Washington and Lee women’s indoor
track team won their second straight
unofficial Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship on Saturday
at Wake Fieldhouse in Lynchburg,
while the men’s team finished second
to Lynchburg.

‘‘We performed tremendously
well,’’ said women’s coach John
Tucker. ‘‘We were cleary the domin-
ate team.”’

W&L scored 195 points. Second-
place Lynchburg had 56.

Neel, the high scorer for the wo-
men, accounted for 22.5 of W&L’s
points by setting a school record in

the 60-yard dash, winning the long

   
 
 
 

 

jump and running the first leg of the
Generals’ first-place 440-yard relay
team.

‘She had an excellent day,’’
Tucker said. ‘‘But everyone who
competed for us scored points.”’

Neel was followed by classmate
Kristen Moore, who placed second in
the one-mile run, second in the 800-
yard run and was on W&L’s first-
place two-mile relay team.

Junior Shawn King won the 440-
yard run and ran on the first-place
one-mile and 440-yard relay teams.

“She may have been our high-
point scorer if she had not been
disqualified in the finals of the 60-
yard dash,’’ Tucker said. ‘‘It was a
very questionable call. She didn’t
jump out of the blocks, she was jus!
shifting her weight on her hands.”’

Also scoring points for the Gener:

SWITCH TO OUR
LOW PRICESIN ‘91

 

 

 

Holly Farms -

Pick O

als were sophomore Lyray Van Clief
and freshman Stefanie Brown. Van
Clief finished second in the 440-yard
tun and third in the 60-yard dash,
while Brown was second in the 60-
yard hurdles and second in the 440-
yard run. Both Van Clief and Brown
were on the 440-yard relay team.

Senior Catherine Caldwell won the
880-yard dash, senior Sarah Bolte
won the high jump with a leap of
five feet, one inch, and sophomore
Kelli Klick set a school record in the
shot put.

For the men, coach Norris Al-
dridge said the team ran well.

““We had a real good effort from
our team,’’ he said. ‘‘We performed
as well as we could have. We just
ran into a Lynchburg team that was
really good.”’

Lynchburg's 204 points gave the

 

— xo

Dick Of tte

ain ae
& ae
2 Wat

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hormets their second consecutive
ODAC indoor title. W&L, with 90
points, edged out Bridgewater by
three points for second place.

Junior Jim Henry won the shot
put with a heave of 46 feet, 1 1/2
inches, while senior David Johnston
won the pole vault by clearing 12’6".

Freshman Scott Covey finished
second in the 60-yard hurdles and
junior Bo Hannah placed third in the
one-mile and two-mile runs.

Senior Craig Irons finished third
in the long jump in the first time he
has ever competed in that event.

The next meet for the men and
the women will be outdoors at
Bridgewater on March 15.

  

 

 

 

 

Sarah Bolte

..wins ODAC high jump

Brown, W&L
steal show
in ASC meet

 

By Randall Ellis
Staff Reporter

 

In a final blaze of glory, the
Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams finished their
season with a handful of victories.

Not only did both teams win their
last dual meets at Radford, 124-61
for the men and 114-90 for the
women, led by sophomore Claire
Dudley went on to capture their
fourth consecutive Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Championship as
well the Atlantic States Championship
at the combined ODAC/ASC meet
last weekend.

The lady Generals won 19 of the
20 events giving them a 117-point
margin of victory for the ODAC title
and a 159-point margin in the ASC
title, They are the first team to win
four consecutive ODAC team titles in
the league’s history.

While leading her team to victory
Dudley was named the Atlantic States
Swimmer of the Year. She also estab-
lished a new school record with her
victory in the 200-yard individual
medley and also won the 100- and
200-yard breaststroke races.

The men placed second at the
meet, but junior Doug Brown cap-
tured the spotlight by being named
the ASC Swimmer of the Meet, qual-
ifying for the Division III nationals in
the 1650-yard freestyle. Brown also
won the 500-yard freestyle and placed
second in the 200-yard freestyle.

Head coach Page Remillard said
that he was thrilled with the perform-
ance of his swimmers.

“This is exactly what we were
looking for. It is really a nice way to
end the season. We went up against
some tough teams at the beginning
of our schedule but as the season
progressed our meets became more
and more competitive,’ he said.

“Doug also swam a really great
race in the 1650. He did not have the
times going into the meet to indicate
that he had national potential. He
really took some people by surprise.’’

Brown and Dudley were not alone
in their successes. Sophomore

Please see Swimmers page 6

via)

 

11.5 Oz.

Fo Special
eer Cee

139

 

 

White Rain
Hair Spray

7 &
8.75
Oz.
Bonus

 

 

 

 

 

B) GLACIER CLUE

 

 

 

mGlacier Club
Ice Cream

129

 

 

1 Gal.

 

 

5
3

 

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, March 5, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, February 19, 1991 In Lexington Store Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.
SPORTS

Generals look to improve in 1991

 

From W&L Sports Information

Washington and Lee head baseball
coach Jeff Stickley says his team
needs to improve in three areas this
year to have a better season and
compete in the Old Dominion Athlet-
ic Conference: hitting, fielding and
pitching.

“‘l expect we might be a little bit
better,’’ says W&L’s fifth-year leader.
‘‘Most of the young guys got a lot of
experience last year. Of course, I
don’t know whether it was good
experience or bad experience, but it
was experience,”’

Stickley’s tongue-in-cheek analysis
is a little more revealing than a first
glance might indicate. Eight of his
top ten hitters from last year are
expected to return for this season. A
full stock of infielders and outfielders
are back, and a proven catcher re-
turns behind the plate.

And to top it all off, Steve
Momorella, the ace of the pitching
staff, is back for his third season.

Eleven lettermen return to the
roster in 1991, and Stickley has a
host of proven players to build his
team around. Seniors Tim Wheeler
and T.J. Daly are both clutch per-
formers who can help the Generals
with the bat and the glove. And
Daly, who started all 20 games, was
second on the team in starts as a
pitcher with five.

Other veterans like Brian Harper
in the outfield, J.T. Swartz at third
base, and Chris Kavanagh at catcher

give Stickley solid experience at
every area of the field.

Heightening Stickley’s concern is
the Generals’ dearth of pitching.
You've heard of ‘‘Spahn and Sain
and two days of rain?’’ Well, W&L’s
refrain isn’t even that cheery. It’s
more like ‘‘Momorella, and well,
uhhh....’’

True, Momorella is about as good
as they come. The junior was a first-
team All-ODAC selection despite his
2-5 record and his 63 strikeouts and
nine starts nearly doubled any other
W&L pitcher’s numbers last year.
Daly and junior Toby McCoy are the
only other returning hurlers.

The Generals look to be steady
everywhere else on the field. Kav-
anagh will be starting his second full-
time season behind the plate, and
Stickley says the senior who led the
team in hits should be ready for his
best year yet. In the infield, Swartz
and Daly will alternate between first
base, third base and designated hitter,
while sophomores Jon Hesse and
Mike Steinbrook should shore up the
middle infield.

Stickley likes his outfield, and it
all should start with centerfielder
Brian Harper, who in addition to his
error-free play last season is W&L’s
top base-stealing threat. Joining Harp-
er in the outfield are familiar faces

like Fred Renneker, Tim Wheeler and defensively,’’ Stickley said. ‘‘It’s a

Ron Katz, all of whom are potential
designated hitters, too.
“T think if we can find a third-

baseman, we'll be a pretty good team

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

463-7969

rs SHOE FILES

SHOE FIXERS

a> « ) <a (>)

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your s

cle while you wait.
464-6666

LS) SS SD) RD () RD () A () <D ( ) ED () <D () REED () REED () ED ()

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual
or student organization needed to
4 promote Spring Break trip. Earn
money, free trips and valuable work
experience. CALL NOW! Inter-
Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 28, 1991

 

 

Junior ace Steve Momorella focuses in on a batter last year.
Momorelia will lead W&L’s pitching staff again. File photo.

pretty good outfield, and I think Kav
will help us even more than he did
last year.

““We will need to get some help

from all of our players if we’re going
to win games,’’ Stickley said. ‘‘I
think we can do that. If we can take
advantage of our opportunities when
they come up, we’ll be all right.’’

LEE HI RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

Route 11 North

Open 24 Hours

BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME

 

 

One Bedroom Apartment For Rent
On Maury River. Students Only $220/month
Available now. Also, two others available in Fall.
Call: 463-9588

-——

at

aN ns

 

ges

hi xX Z
— ee

., The

 

 

CORO

IN CARNIVAL

Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money. _—__
You do not need to bea Peague bowler t to bowl!

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon-

6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin
Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

1 100-yard butterfly.

Swimmers

from page 5

| Stephanie Sauers won the 50- and

100-yard freestyle and the 100-yard
backstroke. Her times in the 50-free
and 100-back established new school
records.

Junior Jodi Herring won the 200-
, 500-, and 1650-yard freestyles. An-
other school record was set by senior
Sharon Coleman with her win in the
Coleman also
won the 200-yard fly.

Dudley and Brown will continue
to train for the next month in prepa-
ration for the National Meet in Atlan-
ta on March 21-23.

 

From Staff Reports

The 1990-91 basketball season
came to a close for Washington
and Lee in the first round of the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence tournament on Feb. 19.

Virginia Wesleyan, the fifth
seed, avenged two regular season
losses to W&L with an 82-71 win
over the fourth-seeded Generals in
Lexington. Steve Weddle led five
Blue Marlins in double figures
with 17 points as the Marlins
ended W&L’s season at 12-14.
Seniors Ed Hart and Craig Hat-
field led the Generals with 21 and

 

 

Pe
Basketball loses in ODAC tourney .
to Virginia Wesleyan, finishes 12- .

 

 

 

Doug Brown

17 points, respectively.

Hart was named second team +
All-ODAC for the season. Hart
led W&L with 15.0 points per *
game and was second on the team ,
in rebounding at 7.0 per game.
He shot 53.2 percent from the +
field and led W&L in total re-
bounds, blocks and steals.

Senior Mike Holton received a ,
post-season honor when he was
selected to the GTE/CoSIDA ‘*
District III Academic All-District ,
team. Holton’s name will be
placed on the national ballot. +
Holton averaged 11.9 points and
4.3 assists on the season.

’

 

 

 

 

Wm. L. Hess, Jr.
Owner

 

 

Happy & Fun-Filled FD from...

R.L.Hess&Bro. |

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal ,
A large selection of Gift Items

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-2833 |

 

 

 

 

ee ee

    
 

Ski Massanutten after 12:30 p.m. on Monday and Friday and
you'll receive some money-saving financial assistance. Show
us your valid college ID —full or part time —and purchase your
lift ticket for just $12 and rent your equipment for $10.

Bring us this ad and we'll aid you even more with an
additional $2 off your lift ticket.
So find some friends, tear out this ad and come to
Massanutten on Monday or Friday. You'll enjoy the best twi-
light skiing value in the area when you ski our two new slopes
and ride our new “Quad” chairlift for j just $10.

BY MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

Student Aid.

maT | 18 | 25 |

PC CLARK

 

Valid 1991 Ski Season only. May not be used with other discounts. Not available on holidays.

ra
n
—
=
Lg
o
a
&
bo |
oe kk Ge Re Vk Ay A A AMAA AS MRR RE, MR AR A: RE! SE AE) NE RN RE A: ATG AE: RRR AGAR) SA A a A RE

 

 

Baseball on |
WLUR-91.5

Friday
2:45 p.m.
W&L vs.
W.Va.Tech

 

 

Loneliness.
Send a card today.

POSEMARKS
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 6 am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

 

Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee

* Counselors for Summer Scholars July 7 - Aug. 2, 1991

Summer Scholars is a four-week program for 100 rising high school
seniors. Each counselor serves as resident advisor in Graham-Lees dormitory

for 10 students.

* Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 12 - August 5

The Office of Special Programs employs 5 W&L students to serve as
hosts/hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni

Colleges, Elderhostel,

and adult conferences. Duties include facilities

management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation.

Application deadline, March 7, 1991

For further information, please contact Office of Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

 
 

Ore Rane-cum Dr

or Dress Supplement

 
 
   

at whi he

 

aie (time.

2 fete v4 43: z
Ae eae a

 

 

84TH ANNUAL FANCY DRESS BALL
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 
 

By Pamela Kelley
Supplement Editor

 

inally the — long-
awaited = announce-
ment of this year’s
( Fancy Dress theme:
“‘A Royal Festival at
King pte s Court.’’

By the time the expected 2500
guests enter the transformed
Warmer Center next Friday night,
more than 200 people will have
contributed to its organization.
Close to 3000 man-hours and
approximately $74,000 will have
been expended to recreate the

 

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

Welcome all to
Arthur’s Camelot

splendor and fabled aura of King
Arthur’s Camelot.

At the Ball you may wander
into an Enchanted Forest, encoun-
ter a fiery dragon, or catch a
glimpse of Merlin the sorcerer in
his magic room and maybe even
see Arthur himself at his castle.

Following in the footsteps of
last year’s theme, ‘‘Gatsby’s
Great Gala,’’ this year’s theme
combines Washington and Lee’s
largest gala event of the year with
those of another time period. As
well, the Ball could exemplify a
joining of the noble ideals shared
by W&L, as examplified in our
Honor Code, and the gallant
attitude and chivalric code ob-

served by the inhabitants of Cam-
elot and the members of The
Round Table.

Included in this supplement
are explanations of various as-
pects of the Arthurian legend and
medieval life. Take some time in
reading its contents. Perhaps you
will glean from these articles a
greater appreciation for our hon-
ored event, which has been called
“the South’s outstanding colle-
giate social event,’ and the spirit
in which it is being celebrated,
and perhaps you may gain an
understanding of a culture so far
away, yet so similar in principles.

 

 

The Legend of King Arthur

 

By Jennifer Zambone
Staff Reporter

 

nce upon a time, on
the Island of the
} Might which we
1 know as Britain, the

E High King Uther
Pendragon fell in love with the
beautiful Igraine, wife of Gorlois,
duke of Cornwall, and mother of
three daughters: Morguase, Elaine
and Morgan (At this time, the
daughters are but children, but
later they are pivotal so please try
to remember their names).

Uther told Igraine of his love,
and she, having the proper in-
stincts of a woman of the time,
promptly told her husband of
Uther’s desires. Her husband,
acting as most husbands would if
their wives were tractable enough,
promptly packed Igraine off to
Tintagel, a castle noted for its
fortifications, while he went to
the Castle of Terrabil to prepare
for the inevitable confrontation.

One does not become High
King through passive behavior.
Uther wanted Igraine even more
now that she was forbidden fruit.
Therefore, he laid siege to Ter-
rabil; but this was not enough.
Uther, desparate to fulfill his
physical desires, enlisted the aid
of Merlin, a man of much wis-
dom. Merlin advised the King
who then acted upon his advice.

Disguised as Gorlois, Uther
safely entered Tintagel and had
his pleasure with Igraine. Some
say that Igraine was not deceived
by appearances, and yet because
of this the lady was eager. So the
two sported, while Gorlois having
been killed an hour prior to the
liaison lay in a field outside of
Terrabil.

 

When the period of mourning
was over, Uther made Igraine his
queen. Two of Igraine’s daugh-
ters, were married off and the
remaining one, Morgan, was put
into a convent. The queen, how-
ever, had other concerns than her
maturing children, for she was
with child, a child conceived
during the night at Tintagel.

On a stormy night in Decem-
ber, Igraine gave birth to a son
who was promptly removed from
the castle and given to a poor
man who stood outside the gates
in accordance with the instructions
of the King. The poor man was
Merlin. He took the child, who
was to be christened Arthur, to a
knight called Ector. Thus, it was
that Arthur matured in Sir Ector’s
household along with Sir Ector’s
real son and Arthur’s foster broth-
er Kay (Some of you may be
wondering about this strange
arrangement.

 

Mines hdensclf ?

unaware of his
true identity,
proved his right
to rule when he
pulled the
sword from the
stone.

 

“(Malory tells us that it comes
about through a deal made be-
tween Uther and Merlin which
basically said that if Merlin could
get Uther into Tintagel, Uther

would give Merlin the offspring
of that night of pleasure. The
truth of the matter is probably the
fact that Arthur is technically a
bastard, and bastardy, while com-
mon, was still not a pleasant state
of existence. A bastard had no
rights to his father’s wealth or
property.

(Furthermore, the fact that
‘Igraine and Uther had been fool-
ing around the time of Gorlois’
death would be something that
Uther, for one, would have liked
to keep under wraps. No matter
how strong one is there is always
the possibility that someone else
is stronger and the first rule is to
never let this person find the
chink in one’s armor.)

Uther, however, could not last
forever, and when he died, he
named his only son, Arthur, as
his heir to the throne. This was
not a popular decision even when
Arthur, himself unaware of his
true identity, proved it and his
right to rule when he pulled the
sword from the stone. (Please
note this sword is not Excalibur,
I repeat, not Excalibur. Excalibur
comes later.)

Many of the kings, resentful
of Arthur’s claim, demonstrated
that they had a problem with
Arthur’s succession by waging
war against Arthur. (War, as you
can probably tell by now was
waged at the drop of a hat for
any ‘‘valid reason.’’) Arthur,
counseled by Merlin, enlisted the
help of two brothers who had the
reputation of remarkable prowess
on the battlefield, King Ban of
Benwick and King Bors of Gaul.

With the help of these two
men, Arthur was able to defeat
his enemies and to establish his

Q Please see Legend page 17

 

 

    

od Coritani
Votaduns
o

CAMBRIA
‘ \

 

Votadin,

  

   
  
  
 

ee was

OF AAMANY

Brigants

LOGRIS

Dubuni

  

 

 

 
 

 

By Jennifer Zambone
Staff Reporter

 

 

ho was King Arthur
really? No one
knows for certain if
King Arthur actual-
ly existed. Some
say Arthur is mere-
ly a fictional character, while
others claim Arthur is the human
embodiment of a Celtic god.
Most, however, believe that some-
where in the mists of time there
was a figure which gave rise to
the origin of the man we refer to
as King Arthur. This belief is
based, not on solid unshakable
fact, but on _ circumstantial
evidence and the conviction that
a man who possesses such a
detailed history and a world-wide
reputation must have some factual
origins.

One of the earliest allusions to
the figure of Arthur is found in a
series of poems wherein Arthur is
mentioned as a man of great
prowess. Later poems refer to
Arthur as a great warrior and
mention that he was accompanied
by a band of warriors.

By the time the oral traditions of

bardic lore such as the Welsh
Triads and the Mabinogion were
recorded, Arthur had become
firmly established in British lore
as a powerful warrior-prince with
a mighty group of followers.

Although such documentation
of Arthur’s existence could be

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

The search for the real Arthur

dismissed as legend, it is harder
to dismiss the two Welsh his-
torians who mention Arthur in
their separate accounts.In the His-
toria Brittonum, written by Nen-
nius, Arthur is called ‘‘Dux Bel-
lorum,’’the leader of wars, and he
is also listed as the victor in 12
major battles, including the battle
of Mount Badon a struggle which
provides a crucial link between
recorded history and legend. For
in Arthurian lore, Arthur decisive-
ly prevented further Saxon
intrusion into Western Britain by
crushing the Saxon armies at the
battle of Mount Badon. The An-
nales Cambriea also refer to
Badon and, as an added bonus
mention Camlann, Arthur’s last
battle.

   

   

 
  
   

l

Pz om ro)
yay Reames)

Spurred on by such referen-
ces, several researchers have
attempted to further corroborate
them with physical evidence.
Noted Arthurian scholar Leslie
Alcock conducted an archaeologi-
cal dig during the 1960s at Cad-
bury Hill, the legendary sight of
Camelot. On the hill, Alcock
found a fort which had been

SS

 

 

 

 

ax
Hits
Best

ahs
pss}

mmairn :
" a nye
Rg wd
sce Gnd Done

 

A medieval depiction of

 

have conquered.

King Arthur standing upon
crowns representing the

nations he is supposed to

 

heavily refortified in the fifth
century. This observation led Al-
cock and his colleague Geoffrey
Ashe to believe the fort must
have been a camp for a major
British military figure, for it was
situated too far from the part of
Britain occupied by Saxons at that
time to be considered a place of
refuge for oppressed Celts.

In the early 1970s, the use of
Welsh literature as a basis for
proving Arthur’s existence was
scathingly denounced by some
theorists, and scholars were forced
to find other sources to support
their theories, and in the 1980s
authors such as Nikolai Tolstoy in
his book The Quest for Merlin
and Geoffrey Ashe in his work
The Discovery of King Arthur,
utilized a ‘‘new’’ source upon
which to base their explanations,
Geoffrey of Monmouth’s The
History of the Kings of Britain.

Apparently Geoffrey was more
accurate with his facts than for
which he was originally given
credit. By studying Geoffrey’s
work, Ashe has determined that
the Arthur Geoffrey described was
an actual figure known as
Riothamus. Ashe claims
Riothamus was really a_ title
meaning ‘‘most kingly,’’ and thus
this man must have had another
name besides his title. Why not
Arthur?

Lending further support to this
theory are Welsh family
genealogies which indicate a
sudden surge in the popularity of
this name at the end of the sixth
century. Such favor would suggest
the name was held in_ great
regard, perhaps because it was the
name of a national hero. As
well, the incidence recorded in
which the historical figure of
Riothamus is featured correspond
with events given by Geoffrey
that occur in the life of Arthur.

Riothamus is the only British
king ever mentioned who led a
group of British warriors into
Gaul, as Arthur did. Riothamus
was reportedly betrayed by a
deputy ruler who entered into a
pact with the barbarians. Arthur
was betrayed by his son Mordred
in a similar manner. Ashe asserts
that the time frames in which
Arthur and Riothamus existed
coincide, but this idea may have
been disregarded because of a 28-
year time-error margin created by
varying beliefs concerning the
beginning of the anno Domini
period.

Thus the true existence of
King Arthur may or may not have
historical backing. No one as yet
has satisfactorily answered that
question. Some theorists have
even questioned if the physical
reality of a King Arthur figure is
necessary to the potency of the
Arthurian legends.

Arthurian novelist T.H. White

said searching for the historical

beauty found in the legends. Yet
the more acquainted one becomes
with Arthurian legend, the more
one believes in Arthur as a realis-
tic figure, not because the legends

are as tangible.proof of his exis-
tence, but because, like Arthur
and Riothamus, there is no reason
why truth and legend should not
be one in the same.

 

 

Pamela Kelley
Editor

Jennifer Zambone
Associate Editor

Jason Kelley
Design

John Miller
Advertisements

Special thanks to
Professor Craun and
the Publications Office

 

 

4 ¢ Knights of the Roundtable
5 ¢ 20 Questions for the FD Chair
6 * Courtly Love
7 ¢ Arthur’s Family Tree
8 © Wed. and Thurs. Entertainment
9 ¢ Fancy Dress Ball Entertainment
10 ¢ The History of Fancy Dress
12 ¢ Past Themes
13 ¢ Fraternity Events
14 ¢ Student Perspectives of FD

  
 

 
 

By Jennifer Zambone
Staff Reporter

 

ccording to Malory,
the Table Round was
j given to King
J Leodegrance’ of
Camelerd by Uther
Pendragon. Thus, one imagines
that King Leodgrance found it
particularly fitting to give the
Round Table, as it is more com-
monly called, to Uther’s son, the
newly crowned King Arthur, as
his daughter Guenevere’s dowry.
Even though Uther may have
started the Round Table, it was
Arthur who made the Round
Table as we conceive it to be.
Arthur’s formula for the Round
Table was simple: take the best
one hundred and fifty knights in
the kingdom and have them
swear allegiance to one, a pro-
cess which theoretically gives
one total control over their ac-
tions. Next, instill in them ideas
of moral rectitude, then tum
them loose.

In theory, these knights sho-
uld ride about the countryside
practicing what they have learned
conceming what is meet and
proper 1o do. Thus one has, in
one fell swoop, both established
a sort of police force to preserve
order in the kingdom and man-
aged to prevent the 150 best
fighters in the kingdom from
running amuck in peacetime.

Suprisingly, Arthur’s concept
of the Table Round was a stun-
ning success, if only for a while.
It became known far and wide as
the most noble, honorable and
best fighting force around. It

le,

 

BORN Af BRED, INC.

   

 

 

 

Virginia’s
finest
gourmet foods
and
gift items.

 

 

 

16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

All the king’s men...

was quite simply the organization
to join and knights came from
far and wide to do precisely that.

The institution of the Round
Table brought these men togeth-
er. The knights, however, did
not become mere carbon copies
of each other, but rather main-
tained their own distinct person-
alties which in of themselves
helped to increase the illustrious
reputation of the Table Round
even more.

Three knights who through
individual prowess and a joint
effort greatly contributed to the
formidible reputation of the
Round Table in a spiritual rather
than a secular manner were cal-
led the Grail knights.

One of the Grail knights
was Launcelot’s first cousin,
King Bors of Gaul’s son, Sir
Bors de Ganis. Sir Bors is an

interesting character. His only
sinful transgression was to have

sex once with the daughter of
King Brandegoris. He is also a
plain spoken man and is the only
knight in the entire Le Morte
d’ Arthur who tells off Guenevere.
In fact, he does it more than
once.

It would appear that these
virtues, as well as his astounding
humility, allow him to be one of
the three knights who achieve the
Holy Grail. For Bors, it is not
an easy task. Constantly facing
variously disguised trials, Bors
manages to get though each one

either by obstinate perseverance of

will or thought or by dumb luck.

Out of the three Grail knig-
hts, Sir Bors is the easiest with
whom one can identify. He is
the flawed Grail knight who pos-

Hungry Hour Buffet
M-F 4:30-7:00

sesses a faith based in thought.

If Sir Bors has a thought
based faith, Sir Percival de Gales
is a man who holds a simple,
innocent, child-like faith, and it is
through this type of faith that he
achieves the Grail.

The son of King Pellinor
and the brother of Sir Lamorak,
Percival never doubts that things
will turn out for the best. He
does not know that everything
will be hunky dory. He just be-
lieves that that is the way things
will be and when the going gets
rough all one has to his pray and
the world will be put aright. He
is the most endearing of the Grail
knights.

The least endearing and the
one with whom one tends to
identify the least is the pure knig-
ht, Sir Galahad. It is his very
purity which alienates him from
the mainstream of humanity. Sir
Galahad possess an unshakable,
spiritual faith, While Percival
only believes that things will tum
out for the best, Galahad knows
that they will.

The bastard son of the great
du Lac, he rides serenely confi-
dent through life untouched by
doubt, fear or ignorance and
therefore untouched by the hu-
man state of being. He lacks
compassion for his fellow hu-
mans because he can not under-
stand their foibles. The sole
reason for his existence is the
achievement of the Grail, and
when he achieves it, he dies.
There is nothing else to hold him
on earth.

While the Grail knights con-
tributed to the reputation of the
Round Table by stressing a spiri-

  
   
 

tual theme, other knights were
bolstering the secular prestige of
Camelot.

The best known of these fig-
ures is undoubtedly Sir Launcelot
du Lac. The son of King Ban of
Benwick, King Arthur’s ally at
the Battle of Bedegraine,
Launcelot leaves home at a ten-
der age to fulfill the prophecy
made by Merlin that he will be
"the man of most worship of the
age."

For Launcelot, Camelot is
just the place to achicve this
status and achieve it he does. In
time, because of his extraordinary
prowess, his unfailing . chivalry,
and the respect allotted to him by
his peers, Launcelot does indeed
become the most valiant knight,
and King Arthur’s best friend as

 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
   
   

Located at Best Western Rt. 60
463-7797

well.

Launcelot, however, is not
without flaws. In the process of
achieving his status, he falls in
love with Queen Guenevere and
she with him. This illicit love js
the major contributing factor to
the downfall of the Round Table
as well as the reason why
Launcelot can not achieve the one
quest he truly wants, the Holy
Grail.

If Launcelot is the preux
chevalier of Camelot, the figure
that opposes him is Sir Mordred,
From the second of conception,
Mordred has strikes against him.
It is bad enough that he is a
bastard, but the bastard of an
incestuous relationship between

OPlease see Knights page 19

7 y . R
UN SS

  

 

 

See eeseereseveced

 
 

Sa. Why do you think
Cr this year’s theme
NG
(C

 
 
 

) translates well for
Fancy Dress?

=) A: The theme of the
Arthurian Legends fits W&L’s
Fancy Dress especially well be-
cause of the formal, honorable
and majestic images that come to
mind when most students think of
King Arthur and the Knights of
the Round Table. The idea of a
‘festival’? at his court was added
because the big galas in midieval
times were called just that.
Together, the elements of both
create a perfect image of what
Fancy Dress is all about.

Q: What’s your favorite part of
this year’s ball?

A: My favorite part of this
year’s ball will be all the
‘*extras’’ we have planned, such
as the champion breed horses that
will be at the entrance (if it
doesn’t rain), poised as if their
knightly masters have gone inside
the court, and the harpist from the
Roanoke Symphony who will be
playing in the hallway entrance of
the Warner Center, there will also
be a juggler who'll be performing
in the balcony.

Q: How much money is being
Explain the budget,

A: We plan to spend about
$74,000 on this year’s ball,
however. Fancy Dress is a self-

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

Pepererttie Or pou ate

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN

agora

200 South Made Brest
Lexington, VA

Phone: 483-7719 Ree: 663-4061

 

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

More than 20 questions
for the FD Chairman

supporting event. I don’t think
most students realize their activity
fees don’t pay for F.D., but in-
stead FD pays for itself with
proceeds from ticket and
memorabilia sales.

Q: Is there anything different or
remarkable about this year’s
Fancy Dress?

A: One of the biggest differences
in this year’s ball will be the
magnitude of the decorations. We
have put scenes in all corners of
the big gym on 2 and 3 foot
platforms, thus raising them up so
that they may be seen even when
the room is full of people.
Moreover, the decorations will be
larger than life, for example, the
castle in the gym is 17 feet tall.

 

“Other Deas con-
sidered included
the circus, Mardi
Gras...Monopoly,
and Czarist

Russia.”
RRS APPR

Q: How many people do you
expect to attend the the ball this
year?

A: We expect about 2300 people
to attend this year’s ball.

Q: What about the controversy

  
   
  

created because the Fancy Dress
oan
4
A Special Place
GE. Nelson St.

Phone # 46-4-4080

date coincides with the Law
School’s Spring Break?

A: I think that it is unfortunate
that moving the ball was an un-
feasible alternative for the Student
Activities Board, but I feel that
better relations and communica-
tions were established between the
SAB and the Student’ Bar
Association as a result of the
ordeal. I am certain the mistake
will not be repeated, as we have
already planned next year’s date
in conjunction with the SBA and
the 1992 Mock Convention.

Q: Why is the theme kept
secret?

A: The theme is kept secret be-
cause it adds to the excitement
around Fancy Dress. I think if it
were released as soon as it was
decided upon, people would grow
weary of hearing about it, and the
ball would lose some of its allure.

Q: Do you think Fancy Dress
should be a costume ball?

A: I think the return to a costume
ball would be a great idea for
FD, It used to be that the stu-
dents. were measured: for their
costumes, and when they went to
pick them up, they discovered the
theme. That would be terrific, but
it is extremely difficult to find a
costume rental place to do that
now. Pushing FD as a costume
ball, though, ought to be someth-
ing considered for-the.85th ball.

Come see our new

selection of Boston Trader and
Na tica Women’s Clothing.
Sweaters & Casual Wear.

Clothing, jewelry, belts, frames, wicker,
gifts, rugs, candles, lamps, antiques, etc...

srs

 

 

F.D. Chairman John Flippen

Q: How was this year’s theme
selected?

A: The theme was selected from
a list of over 20 themes suggested
by SAB members at large. After
it was narrowed down by the
SAB (some were not really feas-
ible), the members at large and
the FD Steering Committee voted
again, yielding the top three
choices. Immediately before
Thanksgiving break, the top three
possibilities were voted on, and
King Arthur got the most votes.
The exact wording of the theme
was decided on over Christmas
when I did a lot of research into
medieval celebrations.

Q: What other themes were
considered?

A: Other themes considered in-
cluded The Circus, Mardi Gras in
Mobile, Alabama, the Pirates of
the Caribbean, Monopoly, Czarist

Russia. SAB Vice-Chairman Will
Jones’ person favorite was Elvis

at Graceland. Oddly enough, that
idea only got one vote.

Q: How are the decorations
selected and organized?

A: The decorations were chosen
after Thanksgiving when the FD
Steering Committee and its sub-
chairmen sat down and
brainstormed on what they related
to King Arthur. The creation of
the sections to be decorated in the
Warmer Center were refined with
the help of Gary Humiston, a
director of the new theatre, who
has been a consultant for this FD.
Susie Wootton and I organized

the purchase of all the supplies
for the decorations.

QO Please see
Questions page 16

Rockbridge Music

For the best in acoustic and electric in-
struments, amps, and accessories at dis-

counted prices.

463-5455

 

Albin- Dennis

Celebrates

Fancy Dress 199]

-Special Rates for Tuxedo Rentals
-100% Worsted Wool Tuxedo For Sale

With

205 N. Main St.

-Exciting New Cummerbund/Tie Patterns
-Large Selection of Flasks

-Tux Shirts, Bow Ties, Cuff Link Sets, & Suspenders

Spring Merchandise Arriving Daily!

Since 1963

 

Student Charge
a

Ring-tum

~ oa + - *

The

= - ae - -

Phi Fancy Dress Supplement,

~ - * a 7 - 7 - -

February 28, 1991

The tradition of courtly love

 

By Albert Zambone
Special Contributor

omantic love is an
idea, and an industry,
which is a product of
the Middle Ages. The
idea of marrying someone whom
you liked was rare in the Classi-
cal world. Marriage was primari-
ly a matter of family politics.

No one really knows for cer-
tain from whence the ideology of
love originated, though many
scholars theorize that courtly love
began in Islamic Spain.

From thence, the courtly love
tradition spread northward through
Catalonia to Provence in southern
France. There’ Provencal
troubadours, following the form of
the Islamic love song, wrote their
own songs of romance. Although
the origin of courtly love remains

 

a matter under debate, the fact is &

that courtly love really got off the
ground as an ideology in late 12th
century France, in the ‘‘courts of
love’’ of noblewomen such as
Queen Eleanor of Aquitaine;
Marie, Countess of Champagne;
Isabel, Countess of Flandes; and
Ermengarde, Viscountess of Nar-
bonne. Of these, the most influen-
tial court of love was that of
Marie of Champagne.

There are a number of sources
which give us a new view into

Marie’s court, all of which alone yy

are classic works of the Middle
Ages, and taken together are an
amazingly creative body of work.
One of the most fundamental of
these is The Art of Courtly Love
by Andreas Capellanus, literally,
Andrew the Chaplain. It is a

treatise written in scholarly Latin
with a heavy pedantic touch. If
you were to look it up on the
shelf, it would be near the
volume of laws of Phillip Augus-
tus, the great French king of the
late 12th century. In a sense, that
is highly indicative, for although
the content of the two works is
very different, the purpose is the
same.

What Andreas attempts to do
is establish all sorts of laws
regarding the art and practice of
courtly love. For example, observ-
ing that blind men cannot fall in
love since they are immune to the
physical attractions of the
opposite sex, he might formulate
maxims such as ‘‘love goes
through the eyes.’’ He also in-
cludes a number of  ‘‘case
studies,’’ imaginary situations in
which members of different social
classes conduct flirtations accord-

 

was
probably a
clean-shaven,
black-haired,
hard-bitten
Roman calvary

officer.

CLP SORTS
x

Sara

        

     

Sy SEAR OT IGT ORG
ing to the precepts of courtly
love, mentioning previous prece-
dents in the art of love
established by courts of love like
Eleanor of Aquitaine’s or Marie
of Champagne’s.

 

 

 

PHONE: 463-1712 -

 

* QUICK COPIES * FLYERS
* PAPERS « BANNERS ¢ INVITATIONS
OPEN SATURDAY MORNINGS Sze

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA » ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

FAX #: 463 - 6918

 

 

It doesn’t take much wit to
see that what Andreas is doing to
a large extent is parodying the
legal system of the day. Not
parodying it in the sense of
mocking it, but copying the
ponderous formalities of Norman
law (by which we are plagued
even today, another example of a
lasting ideology of the Middle
Ages) and applying them to love.
The Countess Marie and her
noble counterparts did with the
actual machinery of Medieval
French justice, translating it from
decisions on property disputes to
romantic disputes.

The process of these courts of
love is captured in another great
work which sprang from Marie’s
and other courts, the works of the
troubadours. Many of their songs
contain stories of lovers’ quarrels
which are eventually resolved
before a court of love.

All very interesting, you say,
but what has this got to do with
King Arthur’s court? Well, in a
way, everything and nothing. You
see, the historical Arthur was
probably a clean-shaven, black-
haired, hard-bitten Roman cavalry
officer and count who lived some-
time in the sixth century; nothing
really like that luxuriantly bearded
and bejeweled fellow who stares
at you from the FD posters.
However that fellow on_ the
posters is very much how the
French nobles of the 12th century
thought Arthur was like. He was
their ideal king. Remember that
Arthur lived six hundred years
before the 12th century, as remote
from them as they are from us,
give or take a hundred ycars.

So put yourself in the position
of a 12th-century adherent to the

Fabrics ¢Wall Coverings *Draperies
Bedspreads *Swags & Benjamin Moore Paints

[= [oto rg rrmene jee yf
I. de

=

ideal of courtly love. You look
around and see that not many
people are following the laws of
courtly love. What is needed, you
think, is a model for the courts of
the 12th century to follow, a
model from the days when

knights were brave, ladies were
beautiful, and monsters particular-
ly ugly. As it happened, there
was a mode! at hand, available in
the so-called Matter of Britain
which had filtered across

the

 
 
    
  

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE INTERIORS

 

 

 
     
 

117 S. Main St.

RESTAURANT

Authentic Chinese Cuisine

r @ Extensive Dinner Menu
Beer © Wir : © Exotic Cocktails

Luncheon

Sunday Buffet 11:30 A.M. - 3:00 P.M.

11:30 AM-10 PM

Catering Available

Complete Carry-Out Men

463-3330

E. Nelson Street Lexi
(Behind McDonald's

 

463-4200
Merrie Gayle Davidson

 

 

    

English Channel. Chretien de
Troyes used this material in the
Arthurian romances which he
wrote for his patron, Maric of
Champagne. It was through his
stories, designed to show the
courtiers of the day the ways ol
courtly love, that the legend of
Arthur the King took written
form. Through him, courtly love
and King Arthur’s court are in-
timately and permanently con-
nected.

Live Drive

will run
on
Thursday
and
Saturday

 

 

Aspen Photo

Proofs from Fancy Dress will be
on display in the lobby of
University Center by March 17
Be sure to order your
candids there

 

 
 

 

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

 

The lineage of a king

 

By Jennifer Zambone
Staff Reporter

 

ne of the most dif-
ficult things in Ar-
thurian literature is
endeavoring to keep
the characters straight
and trying to determine who is
related to whom. For example, of
the approximately 150 knights of
the Round Table, many are inter-
related, and may also share the

same name. Many Arthurian
writers, recognizing that the
genealogies are  bewilderingly

complex, have decided to stick
only to the basics.

Thus, depending upon what
one reads, Mordred, for example,
was born to either one of King
Arthur’s half-sisters, Morguase or
Morgan le Fay, or a certain Anna,
who is best identified as a kinder,
gentler version of Morguase. The
only two set rules are that Arthur
is the son of Igraine and Uther,
and that Launcelot du Lac is the
offspring of King Ban of Ben-
wick. Everything else is subject to
change.

Despite the problems, one
should have at least some idea of
the genealogy involved. Thus, a
handy dandy chart and a verbal
explanation have been provided.
The chart and the explanation are
based primarily upon Malory.
The only deviations from Malory
are in the cases of Gawain,
Mordred, and Uther’s brothers,
and these deviations are based on
popular legend.

The genealogy tends to be so
complicated for two reasons. One,
many people have the same name.
Two, the amount of bed-hopping
that occurs is incredible; bastards
are extremely common and it is
hard to keep track of whom
shacked up with whom.

Uther traces his line and suc-
cession back to Magnus Maximus,
a Roman emperor who married
the heiress to Britain. Uther has
two brothers Constantine and
Aurelius Ambrosius. Constantine
pops out of the scene early when
he is murdered by a cousin,
Vortigern, in a power struggle.

Aurelius and Uther escape to
Brittany and come back later to
kill Vortigern, but that is another
story. Suffice it to say that
Aurelius Ambrosius ascends to
the throne. Eventually he dies and
Uther becomes King.

Enter Gorlois and his lovely
wife Igraine. Uther falls for her,
starts a war with her husband,
and conceives Arthur upon her.
Gorlois meanwhile has kicked the
bucket, and Uther then marries
Igraine.

The years pass, Arthur ap-

 

pears on the scene to succeed the ' turns out that Morguase is the

dying Uther. He promptly falls
for a girl named Lionars, has sex
with her, and she bears him a son
Borre, who is not given much
shift in Malory. Next, Morguase,
the stunning wife of King Lot of
Orkney, appears on the scene, her
fours sons in two, to spy on
Arthur. Arthur, finding her ravish-
ingly attractive, desires to slee»
with her. The lady is willing, and
Mordred is the product of this
union.

Mark the sequel, however; it

Prescriptions © Cosmetics ¢Perfumes

Charge Accounts

 

 

S

No Deposit

© Free Delivery

daughter of Igraine and Gorlois,
and thus Arthur’s half-sister,
Voila, incest! Thus, Mordred is
both nephew and son to King
Arthur as well as the half-brother
of Gawain, Gaheris, Agravaine,
and Gareth. From then on, Arthur
apparently abstains from the
physical pleasures, until he weds
Guenevere, who turns out to be
barren. No record of any offspr-
ing of Mordred’s are given in
Malory, although other sources do
say that he had two sons who
were promptly executed after his
own demise.

Gawain, on the other hand,
definitely had offspring, but men-
tioning them would be far too
confusing. After all, when one is
married three times, one is bound
to have quite a few progeny
somewhere. Gaheris and Gareth
marry sisters, Lynet and Lyonesse
respectively. Brother Agravaine
kicks in by marrying a cousin of
the sisters, Laurel.

Back to the previous genera-
tion, Morgain le Fay marries
Urines of North Wales. It is not
what one would term a_ happy
union, but it does produce a son,
Uwain, who is nephew to Arthur
and first cousin to the Orkney
clan of Gawain, Gaheris, Agra-
vaine, Gareth and Mordred. There
are the particulars of the British
Houses.

Across the channel, the brother
King Ban of Benwick and King
Bors of Gaul keep their end up as
far as populating the earth is
concerned. Ban is wed to Elaine
and the little bundles of joy
produced by this blissful union
are Launcelot du Lac and Ector

de Maris, who is not to be con-
fused with Sir Ector, King Ar-
thur’s foster father. Furthermore,
the Elaines one meets down the
road are not to be confused with
a) Launcelot’s mother (whatever
his passions, he did not have an
Oepidal complex); b) each other.

The first Elaine is the
daughter of King Pelles of the
Wastelands. She scduces Laun-
celot by pretending to be
Guenevere. He falls for it.
Galahad is born to Elaine nine
months later. The second Elaine
is the ‘“‘lily maid of Astolat.’’
Launcelot does not have sex with
her, and she dies of unrequited
love. On the other side of the
Ban-Bors duo, Bor and his lady
wife have two sons who are
mentioned, Lionel and_ Bors.
Malory mentions no sons of
Lionel. Bors, however, has an
affair with the daughtcr of the
King of Brandegoris, and they
have a son Helin le Blank.

All of this may seem very
unnecessary to modem cyes. Aficr
all, who really cares? This gencal-
ogy, however, is crucial to the
story of Arthur. One must be
aware of how strong familial ties
are. The relations of the Orkney
clan, nearly always side with the
Orkney clan even in mock battle,
the one exception being Garcth
who favors the Ban family. All
the relatives of Benwick and Gaul
fight on the side of Launcelot &
Co., and in the end, this family
loyalty will outweigh _ their
allegiance to King Arthur and that
for which he stands. The fellow-
ship is broken.

Rarnneelaneas inne faa veane

 

appagaWWo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

*Rent for $48.00 Basic
$52.00 Full Dress

*Buy for $235 - Including Free
Tux Shirt
(And Never Have To Rent Again)

College Town Shope

111 W. Nelson St.

Charge

Visa

(703)463-5988

 
~ ~ - *

"The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

 

Bo Diddley

From News Releases

 

alled ‘‘The Origi-

p nator,’’ Bo Diddley is

one of the pioneers

of rock and roll. His

unique style was a major influ-

ence for many musicians and

performers throughout the late

50s, 60s, 70s, and straight through
the 80s to the 90s.

As a small boy, Elias Bates
McDaniel’s family lived in Chica-
go. While in grammar school, he
got the nickname ‘‘Bo Diddley,’’
which he began using as an ama-
teur boxer. At the age of ten, he
got a guitar as a Christmas pres-
ent and began playing it daily. He
was influenced to play guitar by
John Lee Hooker when he heard
the song ‘‘Boogie Children.’’

In 1951, Bo started playing at
the 708 Club in Chicago. In,
1955, he auditioned for Phil and
Leonard Chess of Chess Records
with a song he wrote called ‘‘Un-

 

cle John.’’ The brothers liked
what they heard so they signed
Bo to an exclusive contract and
decided to record the song. They
felt the title of the song should be
changed, so Bo named it after
himself, ‘‘Bo Diddley.’’ Bo used
maracas in the song to emphasize
the beat and sound that he was
trying to create. It took thirty-
five takes in the recording studio,
but they finally had the sound and
song they wanted. It became his

 

biggest hit in 1955, and estab-
lished his guitar sound.

The past ten years have been
Bo’s most demanding years for
performing live, television, and
radio appearances and touring.
This unique talent has been per-
forming five to seven days a
week all over the world within
the last year, showing an increase
in his popularity with young
people. Bo knows music!

 

 

Megaphonics

 

Megaphonics is a classic rock band based in Charlotte, North
Carolina. The four-member group came together in the mid-
80’s and began playing for college crowds in the North
Carolinas, Virginiaand Georgia with the sounds of Bob
Segar, James Brown, The Doors and more. Catch the Mega-
phonics in Washington and Lee’s General Headquarters
Wednesday, March 6, at 8:00 p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

Jimmy Bishop

Jimmy Bishop and the Turning
Point is an eight-member band
based in Stafford, Virginia.
They grouped in the 1970’s and
have been wowing crowds eve
since with the golden sounds o
Motown and Beach music,
well as today’s favorite hits.
Catch them at Washington an
Lee’s Student Activities Pavillio
when they open for Bo Diddley
Thursday March 7 at 8:00 P.M

 

 

      

[CE C.E. ‘Hardy Jeweler

35 S. Main Street

 

W Tux

 

comee’ 5 ‘Hairstylist
136 Varner Lane
463-3975

Fancy Dress Check List

@ Flowers
44 Dinner reservations
O Hair-woops!

Redken Nexus, Paul Mitchel, Sebastian

 

 

 

 

ROKANG WMD,

University Florist

165 S. Main St.

 

 

Porall L youre
Fancy Dress
HWlowers:

Bouts - Corsages - Roses

(One Block From Dominion Bank)

Lee Hi Truck Stop
Lee Hi Trucking
Lee Hi Truck Parts
Lee Hi Wrecker Service
Lee Hi Restaurant

703-463-3478
463-6080

Bobby Berkstresser

Rt. 5, Box 379
_ Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

 

 
 

gi

 

TOOL 9.6 wrmindse

s 6
en 1)

Anamalanu? 2 ore

IAP mart Qe sf?

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

Kings of Swing

  
  

 

 

Oo matter if the
crowd is young or
old, black or white,
4) zydeco music gets
7 people on their feet.

Taken from the French Creole
word ‘*haricot,’’ loosely
pronounced ‘‘air-eeco,’’ meaning
“‘snap bean,’’ the music pops:
zydeco is foot-stomping dance
music sung in English and Cre-
ole French. The traditional songs
are accompanied by accordian
and frottoir (rubboard) and grew
out of the backwaters of southern
Louisiana.

Zydeco was made popular by
the undisuputed King of Zydeco,
accordianist Clifton Chenier, who
sported a crown of jewels and
sang in French patois. His mark
in musical history has been
adopted and carried on in the
work of 42-year-old Stanley
‘*Buckwheat’’ Dural, known as
Buckwheat Zydeco.

 

Growing up on the music of
James Brown, Aretha Franklin,
and Blood Sweat and Tears, Du-
ral also heard accordian music
day in and day out; his father
was an amateur zydeco player.

Much inspired by Chenier, he
moved on to start his own Zy-
deco band. But Dural’s music
takes a slightly different tum.

“I play music for a different

 

 

 

 

 

generation, bringing together the
younger generation with the older
generation. Now you, Mom and

Dad, can go to hear Buckwheat &

Zydeco and all have fun at the
same time,’’ he exclaims.

Buckwheat Zydeco will per-
form in Doremus Gymnasium
next Friday night at the Fancy
Dress Ball.

 

From News Releases

 

he big band Kings of
Swing has been play-
1 ing the sounds of the
| forties through the
ninties for almost a
decade and still hooks people of
all ages. This band’s exciting
sound is being heard on the cam-
puses of major colleges and uni-
versities, receptions and before the
elite audiences at major social and
special events. Glide along with
the Kings of Swing Friday night
at the Fancy Dress Ball in the
Warner Center.

  
     

 

\ i
C.J.

From News Releases

 

  
 

RA ort of zydeco’s an-
nm swer to Ziggy Mar-
ley or Branford
Marsalis, C.J. Chen-
=~ ier picked up the
mantle of the zydeco heritage
from his father, the late and leg-
endary Clifton Chenier, and
today continues to bring zydeco
to a whole new audience.

Chenier

His father, heralded by most
as the ‘‘King Of Zydeco,’’ was
one of the pioneers of the music
in its early days, and in later
years served as its prime ambas-
sador to the world; meanwhile,
young C.J. was growing up in
his father’s shadow, learning the
music from the inside out.

The band will play in
Doremus Gynmasium Friday night
at W&L’s Fancy Dress Ball.

 

 

 

users PRINTING CENTER

463-8448

Washington and Lee University — 1st Floor Reid Hall

Come to your Printing Center for:

Today’s Need For . FLYERS & POSTERS - Custom RESUMES & letters
Tomorrow's Growth « Copying & printing + Transparencies
¢ Programs * Brochures & booklets
Store Hours: - Newsletters ¢ Scanning

8-5 Mon.-Fri.
9-12 Sat. I

 

20% Off
(703) 463-1620 : Except ja Items

The Printing Center has added a Macintosh IIx, Scanner, LaserWriter ll and
Linotronic SQ to its service. The Macintosh will read MS-DOS disks. We can add
i iscanned images to your posters or flyers. Quality service and great pricing!
Printing Center services are available to all University and non-profit organiza-
ions.

Be cans ene

11 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450 Ph cs ce es es se

 

 
10

The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

 

WD. olf
eo po

dro

 

 

 

 

 

1976 - A Salute to
Hollywood

 

 

Flancy Dress Ball
1950
Washington & Lee Gniversity

 

 

 

1950 - King Arthur’s
Court

¥

8Iist ANNUAL F,

Washingtor

re |

ANCY

n contrast to
the thousands
of dollars
spent on Fan-
Cy — Dress
today, forty-
two _ dollars
left over from
theatre production proceeds fi-
nanced the first Washington and
Lee Fancy Dress Ball, held Feb-
ruary 22, 1907, in the old gymna-
sium. An orchestra knowing all
the latest two-steps came over
from VMI to furnish the syncopa-
tion,

Annie Jo Robertson White, the
college librarian, had directed a
student play in order to raise
money for a campus organization.
Before the event White pledged
only a certain amount of money
to the organization. Yet after the
play she was faced with a dilem-
ma: they had raised forty-four
dollars above the original pledge.
Miss White decided to use the
extra money to put on a small
dance for the students involved in
the fundraiser. White sent out
invitations to the Ball with the
only stipulation that those attend-
ing had to pay approximately two
dollars for their costumes. Those
who could not afford costumes
might work for them.

In the beginning the ‘‘Hill’’
was not as tolerant of Fancy
Dress hangovers and shenanigans.
Although the first Fancy Dress
did last through the night, it was
a Thursday night, and one Ring-
tum Phi article noted that ‘‘the

 

ss

4

7

DRESS BALL

ei ee ee ee Oe

ae a

 

1988 - Reconciliation Ball

University gave no holiday for
such useless affairs as a Fancy
Dress Ball. Students might dance
all night at the biggest ball of the
year with the understanding, how-
ever, that they return to class at 9
a.m. with lessons prepared.”’

The first Fancy Dress Ball
wasn’t as elaborate as later balls
which have featured camels, ele-
phants, train cars, and spotlights.
The forty-two dollars went for
decorations, not a terribly small
sum of money in those days, and
refreshments were provided by
Washington and Lee faculty
wives. The Ring-tum Phi also
noted the costume of choice for
the Fancy Dress Ball of 1907:

‘‘A favorite costume for that
first Fancy Dress Ball was King
Arthur’s armor — the students
coming to the dance clad in steel
mail from their helmeted head to
their steeled legs. But once was
enough. It cramped their style.”’

Although the costumes may
have cramped students’ style the
concept of a Bal Masque did not.
In years to follow the Ball gained
overwhelming approval on_ the
W&L campus and became known
for its extravagant themes and
elaborate costumes and decora-
tions.

The 1920s were considered
one of the hey-days of the' Fancy
Dress Ball, with thousands of
people in attendance. The Ball
was given national coverage,
national radio networks broad-
casted the annual Balls, and
newspapers from New York to
Texarcana reported on it. The
biggest jazz bands and orchestras
of the day played at the Ball and
hundreds of young women are
said to have traveled from cities
like Atlanta and Baltimore just to
attend. By the year 1929 Fancy
Dress had substantially grown in
size. Whereas White had deco-
rated and organized the entire
event initially, its growth led to
professional decorations, although
the format remained unchanged.

‘*Decorations changed
Doremus gymnasium into the
palace of King Shahryar, ruler of
ancient Persia. With an Oriental
theme and classic background, the
ball surpassed by far its famous
predecessors in brilliance and
novelty ’’

W&L’s Fancy Dress

Washington and Lee students
still had a penchant for assuming
the garb of historical figures.
Washington and Lee student T.G.
Gibson transformed himself into
King Shahryar, complete with a
grand throne and a fawning court.
Miss Sophia Dunlap was cast in
the role of Sultana Sheherazade
and ‘‘was brought before the ruler
on a litter borne by four Nubain
slaves.’’ Dunlap, in the guise of
Sheherazade, dazzled the King
with her famous stories of Ali
Baba and ‘The Shipwreck of
Sinbad’ while a_ group of

costumed dancers interpreted hengs

stories.

Ironically one element stays
constant down through the years:
the controversy that perpetually
swirls around those organizing
and running the ball. In the
January 17, 1936 edition of The

 

Ring-tum Phi, Glenn Shively,
president of Fancy Dress Commit-
tee, responded angrily to an earli-
er student letter which bemoaned
the rising prices of costumes.
Shively wrote that two costumers
offered to furnish Fancy Dress
costumes for the price of $2.40
per costume.

“The committee felt justified
Munchkins, wicked witches, and
kindly wizards. Fancy Dress
chairmen assumed the roles of the
Scarecrow, the Cowardly Lion,
and the Tin Woodman. Revelers
walked through the farmhouse of
Dorothy, down the famous yellow
brick road, and into the
throneroom of the great and pow-
erful Oz. Les Elgart and his
orchestra provided the music for
the occasion.

Fancy Dress has always been
a reflection of the changing soci-

 

Je “Wizard of

FORTY-SEVENTH

FANCY DRESS BALL

 

 

 

1956 - Wizard of Oz

 

 

 

1981 - On Broadway
‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

11

 

is rich in its history

 

ety around us. In the early years
the emphasis was placed on his-
torical characters and events. In
the 1940s and 1950s the focus
was on more ‘“‘light-hearted
themes’’ of the rich and famous.
In 1969, indicating the turbulant
events of the decade, Fancy Dress
underwent one of its most dramat-
ic changes.

The 1969 ball boasted ‘‘psy-
chedelic music and a professional
light show.’’ . Gone were the
lavish balls and exotic themes; the
Fancy Dress Committee offered
the languid theme of ‘‘An Inaugu-
ration Ball.’ © Why languid?
Well the inauguration wasn’t in
honor of a former United States
president, or a mythical Egyptian
tyrant, but rather for new Wash-
ington and Lee President Robert
Huntley.

The Saturday night concert

 

 

boasted a separate theme from the
stogy Inauguration: ‘‘Love-In
69.’’ Musical entertainment was
provided by the Kallabash Corpo-
ration and Fever Tree. The Phi
recommended that ‘‘conventional
dress’’ be abandoned and ‘‘appro-
priate dress’’ should be substi-
tuted. Apparently the student
body deemed it necessary to
forsake their tuxedos for tie-dye.

But the greatest blow came in
1971 when Fancy Dress ceased to
exist at Washington and Lee.
The chairman of the Dance Board
informed the E.C, ‘hat there
would not be a ball ‘because of
a greatly reduced budget and past
history of student disinterest.’’ A
heart-broken alumnus wrote that
“for the old grad from General
Lee’s college it is the most shat-
tering break with the past since
the Generals dropped out of big

time football.”’

The March 10, 1971 edition of
The Ring-tum Phi asked the ques-
tion ‘‘Can Fancy Dress Return?’’
The question was thankfully
‘‘yes,’’ but those canny students
heading the Dance Board saw a
new, improved Fancy Dress in the
future: a ball that forsaked the
combination of  ‘‘imagination,
innocence, and snobbishness’’ of

the past events. Was this to be a
“*kinder, gentler’’ Fancy Dress?

‘The cost is the inhibitive
thing,’’ said the Dance Board
chairman. ‘‘] don’t want to spend
more than $2,500 to $3,000 on
the thing.”’

He added that ‘‘my philosophy
is to bring it [F.D.] back, but
perhaps on a different format. I
don’t want...Glenn Miller. They
won’t attract enough people.’’
Like the Kallabash Corporation
would!

His solution: the 1972 Fancy
Dress was a 1950s revival party
with people paying $5 to hear
ShaNaNa. Miss White would
have been horrified. No black
tie? No dance band? No beauti-
ful decorations in the gym?

But Fancy Dress would rise
again. By the mid 1970s Fancy
Dress had returned to its roots as
the finest party in the South.
Fancy Dress 1976 offered the
theme ‘‘A Salute to Hollywood.”’
In perhaps a slightly mocking
tone, the Phi noted that the festi-
val was kicked off Thursday night
in the ‘‘simply yet elegantly deco-
rated Zollman’s Pavilion.’’ There
are many ways to describe
Zollman’s Pavilion, but quiet
sophistication is categorically
ruled out.

Unlike earlier years the main
dance was held in Fairfax lounge,
Evans Dining Hall, and the Cock-
pit. The entrance to Fairfax
lounge bore a ‘‘flashing Holly-
wood-type theater marquee, open
wide to admit the first lucky
couple.”’

One student hoped that ‘‘all
gentlemen attending will display
the proper attire of black tie
(tuxedo or dinner jacket, for the
hopelessly naive), if not, the burly
and altogether unpleasant doorman
may be tempted to violence.’’
Obviously some of the ‘‘Love-
In’’ mentality still lurked around
the edges of the campus.

 

ed

Tie Stectont (tivities Paar
at

Vashineten andioe tniversity

cordially invites vou te take
REASTE CE EDGE EM Qhbtd
seventy -secenal anmunal

Pease PEESSE ATE

fecaten ine
me Fests Benenden coed Dis teint

 

 

 

RRR REC ER OEE SEE,

fniehay spec th secemnl
carl -fietdine student center
tralf past eivtit
that tie
present fn itaticn atdeat

 

|
4

 

1982 Fancy Dress Ball

75th Anniversa ty

 

 

 

1979 - A Taste of the Big Apple

1982 - Diamond Jubilee

Evans Dining Hall was filled
with the sounds of the Fabulous
Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra, while
Room 144 was decorated as an
old theater and offered newsreels,
cartoons, and ‘‘with luck, dim
lights.”’ Even the Executive
Committee got into the act: ‘‘the
fabled E.C. room, scene of many
memorable scenes, will unstuff
itself long enough to permit con-

tinuous showing of _...‘That’s
Entertainment.’’’
World-renowned hypnotist

Edwin L Baron, director of the
Hypnotist Institute of Chicago,
was present to hypnotize volun-
tary subjects into ‘‘gobbling imag-
inary watermelon.’’ Finally, to
thoroughly test the mettle of
Washington and Lee students, a
grain party was sponsored by the
Freshman class during Saturday
afternoon. The party might have
given birth to the headline that
graced the 1976 Fancy Dress
edition of The Ring-tum Phi —
‘Fancy Dress Weekend arrives;
University braces for hangover.”’
One might pen a more poetic
headline, but none more realistic.

Last year’s theme, ‘‘The Great
Gatsby,’’ remained faithful to the
lavish decorations and beautiful
music that would have made Miss
White proud. This year will be no
different. Enjoy the 84th annual
Fancy Dress Ball.

Editors Note: this article was
a partial reprint of one which
was researched by Pamela
Kelley and written by Todd
Peppers last year.

ee

# Oe

 

High Society

 

THE FIFTY-NINTH

FANCY DRESS BALL

 

 

 

1968 - High Society

 

F- ancy Dress Ball

1936

 

Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

1936 - Queen Elizabeth
and Earl of Essex

WASHINGTON ano LEE UNIVERSITY
82no ANNUAL FANCY DRESS BALL, MARCH 3, 1989

Sid Sa eae

1989 - An Evening on the Orient Express

£

 

thee
12

84 years of FD

 

Early FD

From 1907 to 1915, costumes

were traditionally of the Amer-

ican colonial style.

1907 Bal Masque

1908 Fancy Dress

1909 Fancy Dress

1910 Bal Masque
Decorations featured college
and fraternity pennants

1911 Bal Masque
Decorations featured hang-
ing Japanese parasols

1912 Colonial America

1913 Bal Masque

1914 Bal Masque
Decorations featured world
flags and Japanese parasols

1915 Colonial America

1916 Court of Louis XIV

1917 Bal Masque

1918 Europe and Columbia, the
Gem of the Ocean

1919 A Midsummer Night’s
Dream

1920 Bookland
Ball was moved to April be-
cause of an influenza epi-
demic

1921 The Chinese Court of Chu
Chin Chow

1922 The Scottish Highlands

1923 Le Bal des Operas

1924 My Lady of the Fan

1925 Romance of the Dance

1926 Bal Beaux Arts

1927 Carnival of Venice

1928 Bookland

1929 1001 Nights

1930 Spanish Fiesta

1931 Robin Hood

1932 Colonial Ball

HOUSE

Restaurant

cor

ery? ore ont

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

FD’s founder

1933 Ball of the Grandees

1934 Coronation of Emperor
Alexander III

1935 Congress of Vienna

1936 Queen Elizabeth and Earl of
Essex

1937 Italian Renaissance

1938 Charleston, S.C., on the Eve
of Secession

1939 Knights of
Horse Shoe

1940 Kentucky Derby

1941 King Rex and His Court at
Mardi Gras

1942 A Night at the Monte Carlo
Casino in 1861

1943 American Spirit

1944 Fancy Dress suspended due
to World War II

1945 Suspended

1946 Suspended

1947 Carnival at Rio

1948 Hampton Court
Charles II

1949 George Washington’s Birth-
day Ball in Philadelphia

the Golden

under

   

  

Sp

  

ify) Bs gexec
Laney Oress Ball
1950

   

1950 King Arthur’s Court

1951 Carmen

1952 The Works of Shakespeare

1953 The Court of King Louis
XVI

1954 King Rex and His Court at
Mardi Gras

1955 An Odyssey Through Em-
pires

1956 The Wizard of Oz

1957 Mozart’s ‘‘Don Giovanni”’

1958 Gilbert and Sullivan at
Buckingham Palace

1959 Golden Jubilee (SOth Anni-

versary)
1960 The Evolution of Man

 

 

Reservations are recommended

30 .N. Main St., Lexington

 

ENT OM ET poems
nT,

 

1961 Shakespeare in the Court of
King James |

1962 High Society

1963 American Civil War Cen-
tennial

1964 Mardi Gras

1965 Mississippi River Boat

1966 Derby Day Ball

1967 Opening Night

1968 High Society

1969 Inauguration Ball
From 1970 until 1973 there
were only concerts

1970 The Allman Brothers

1971 No Fancy Dress

1972 Sha-Na-Na

1973 Billy Preston

1974 Mardi Gras

1975 In the Mood 1941

1976 Hooray for Hollywood!

1977 Passport to Paris

1978 Glories of Egypt

1979 A Taste of the Big Apple

1980 Monopoly: A Stroll Around
the Board

1981 On Broadway

1982 A Diamond Jubilee
Anniversary)

1983 Waiting for Robert E. Lee,
An Evening Along the Mis-
sissippi River

1984 Lost Cities of Gold

1985 The Mink Dynasty

1986 Carnival, A Night in Rio

1987 The Dark Continent

1988 Reconciliation Ball of 1865

1989 An Evening Excursion on
the Orient Express

1990 Gatsby’s Great Gala

1991 A Royal Festival at King
Arthur’s Court

(75th

CS}
Garzs

Is:

 

v!
7

wy

eS Soret
AE rinse POE em

199)

Have A

 

 

 

 

Annie Jo Robertson White, the
founder of the Fancy Dress Ball.
White, known as ‘‘Miss Annie,”’
served as the school librarian for
27 years. She is revered for her
initiation of a tradition of merry-
making, which first took the form
of a Bal Masque. Below, White
as she appeared at her last Fancy
Dress in 1938.

 

167 S. Main St.

Royal

Fancy Dress Weekend!

Stop by and see us for all your party and food needs! We
have a complete line of imported and domestic cheeses,
meats and beverages. Stop by our meat department for
specially cut steaks or meat items! Order in advance to in-
sure select cuts! Have a great weekend.

Serving The W&L Community
For Over 35 Years

 

 

Fancy Dress
Ticket & Memorabilia
Sales

Monday - Thursday 10 - 4,
Friday 10 - 12
Room 109 University Center

Thursday Concert Tickets: $8 in
advance
Friday FD Tickets: $45 per
couple
T-Shirts, Posters & Cups
available

 

 

 
 

«

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

is . « ~ . - - . ‘ . * - * *

iZ

 

Fraternity Events

By Carli Flippen
Staff Reporter

on at the Sena
and sororities for
Fancy Dress week-
end? Most frater-
nities have
scheduled band parties for the
Saturday night after the Ball,
while sororities are planning
events for the Thursday before
Fancy Dress. Although most Fan-
cy Dress parties will be closed to
the general student body, here’s
what Greeks are up to:

 

Beta Theta Pi

Saturday afternoon: Indecision
with Phi Delt

night: Doug Clark and the Hot
Nuts at the Boiler Room

Chi Psi

Saturday afternoon: Full Stop
night: Bud Greene

Chi Omega
Thursday evening dinner for
sisters and their dates

Delta Tau Delta
Saturday night: The Press

Kappa Alpha

Saturday afternoon: The Con-
vertibles

night: The Truly Dangerous
Swamp Band

Kappa Alpha Theta

Thursday night: Dinner for
sisters and their dates at
Il Palazzo

Kappa Kappa Gamma

Thursday afternoon function
for sisters and their dates at the
Alumni House

Kappa Sigma
Friday afternoon: Wildgrass
Saturday afternoon: Down Boy
Down
night: New Potato Caboose at
Zollman’s with Pi Phi

Lambda Chi Alpha
Saturday night: World Without
Fear

   
   

AN Nl

OUTTA

Phi Delta Theta
Saturday afternoon: /ndecision
with Beta
night: JBM

Phi Gamma Delta

Saturday afternoon lawn party
with Chi Psi

night: The Generics
Phi Kappa Psi

Saturday afternoon: an acoustic
duo with members from STG&L

night: Leggs

Phi Kappa Sigma
Saturday night: Mighty Majors

Pi Kappa Alpha
Saturday afternoon: The Truly
Dangerous Swamp Band at the
Riverhouse
night: The Stegmonds at the
Pavilion
Pi Kappa Phi
Saturday
Stegmonds
night: New Potato Caboose at
Zollman’s with Kappa Sigma

afternoon: The

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Saturday afternoon: Wildgrass
night: Left Exit

Sigma Chi
Saturday

Megaphonics
night: Timmy Kaye in 3-D

afternoon: The

Sigma Nu
Saturday night:
Outerspace

Yams from

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Saturday afternoon: Wildgrass
night: Month of Sundays

 

 

 

Three Sigma Chi brothers relax in a hot tub
during a Fancy Dress weekend of several years
ago. All Washington and Lee Greek organizations
make special plans for members and their dates
over the big weekend. Publications Office photo.

 

 

 

 

In years past, tradition held that the young
womanwho received a bid to Fancy Dress gave
her measurements to her date so he could order
her costume. She would not be told the theme
of FD, and only when she picked up her costume
did she become aware of the theme. Nowadays
‘the theme is revealed a week ahead of time

in the annual Phi Fancy Dress Supplement.

 

 

 

 

  

cudiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

    
   
 
 

DENON SONY

ADCOM ALPINE

B&O OPTONICA |
KEF CWwD

BOSTON DAHLQUIST

NAKAMICHI

  

 

  

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Oqeen Read-Roanoke —

 
      

 

 

 

EST.
1956

Excellent Selection of Fresh Flowers

@ A Daily Special

© Fast, Courteous Service
@ Same day ay

@ We wire flowers anywhere

 

463 4521

We Do Corsages

© Gourmet Fruit Baskets

© Green & Flewering Plants
@ Plant rental’& maintenance
@ Helium belloons

 

Fancy Dress Bonus — $1.00 off

Exp. 3/15/91

463-4321 (Nights & Holidays)

ioge@. 406

ve ps tate PO oe et 4 ee

SHER OME TED 2 OMe ee eee

eae

- corsage

223 South Main « Lexington

old $¢+#@ e852" "ATS
enn
A RO ae NR A OOOO

14

 

 

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

 

 

 

Junior

 

   
 
  
 

__pancy Dress, for
Q what most people
\ remember, is not
just a night, but a
kK. series of sometimes
' painful events that
create great stories beginning with
“‘did you know that you...?’’

I’ve heard many people say
that if FD was canceled because
of the war in the Gulf, it
wouldn’t be the worst thing to
happen. There are plenty of guys
who said they could get drunk
without reaching into their wallets
to rent a tuxedo,

Fancy Dress begins to enter
the mind when you start to think
about possible dates. Of course

this doesn’t bother most people
because they have a tendency to
procrastinate. About a week
before mid-winter break, the
dating game starts. Some guys sit
in front of the Co-op and b.s
while others actually gossip on
who is available and who already
has a date.

When FD week begins on
Monday, most guys will have
their date. At this time, the guys
will get the orders from their
dates on what plans to make for
dinner and what type of tux and
cummerbund to wear. The process
of waiting with checkbook and
pen in hand in a line that is
wrapped around the university
center, The Pit and goes right out
the front door of the University
Center, for your FD parapher-
nalia is always fun.

 

By Chris Smith
Senior

 

   
 

we t was the best of
| (s) times; it was the
® worst of times...”
‘In the game of FD
there are no winners
or losers, only survivors.’’ This
advice was given to me when I
was a wide-eyed pledge back in
1988. I didn’t give it much con-
sideration back then, but after the
story I’m about to tell, you will
recognize its real worth.
Freshman year I avoided all
controversy, having learned a
valuable lesson the preceding
Homecoming. Rule #1: Guys, no
matter how much you want to go,
don’t ask someone the day before
the event especially if you’re
barely conscious at the time. If
you fail to heed this advice, the
girl who shows up might be
VERY different from the beauty
you remember(?) asking the night
before. Remember, you can al-

ways go next year and your
checkbook will be happier if you
stay home. ;

My sophomore year experience
was what all Fancy Dress
Weekends should be modeled on.
At the risk of being obscene,
everything was perfect: the date,
the drinks, the Ball. We awoke
on Sunday and it was the begin-
ning of a wonderful relationship.

However, if sophomore year
was a dream come true, junior
year was living HELL! This
brings me to Rule #2: Guys,
never ask your ex-girlfriend to
FD. Perhaps I suffered so that
others may lear from my mis-
take, at least I hope so. I'll spare
you the gory details, suffice it to
say that letting my date drink two
bottles of wine all by herself at
dinner was probably not such a
good idea. When I arrived to pick
her up for Saturday night’s band
party, I was greeted not by my
date but by a comatose Sleeping
Beauty. Abandoned and upset, I
vowed never to let this happen

The Knights

The Wednesday night before
FD is always the best party of the
year. The women from the girls
schools flock to the fraternities in
search of ‘‘the bid’’ and every
guy knows it. The next morning
most students cancel classes for
the rest of the week.

On Thursday the dates start to
come into town and the guys
without dates begin to make plans
for Georgetown. That night, you
and your date attend the big
concert. You enter the Student
Pavilion to see Murph, Baner and
the Fij security staff at the door.
The concert basically consists of
staggering around and waiting for
the featured band to play the one
hit song that you know, which
usually comes as an encore.

The Friday night ball is the
highlight of the week. This is

where the students, professors and
alumni gather in the remodeled
Warner Center. The night begins

with the attempt to make your tux
fit. It seems that the pants are
always too tight or your bow tie
is too corny. This is confirmed by
your date who tells you during
the 100 pictures her girlfriends
must take.

The dinner you planned for
yourself and your date involves
either a high class meal at an es-
tablishment such as Maple Hall
or the White Star Mill (if you
want to drive to Staunton) or a
lesson in Chinese at Hunan Gar-
den.

Following dinner, members of
fraternities gather for their tradi-
tional cocktail parties and_ hall

QO Please see Sakin page 18

 

By Craig Burke
Sophomore

 

  
 

wx searched frantically
fs) through my drawer,
‘© throwing clothes over
my head as I pro-
gressed. I knew my
cummerbund was in there some-:
where. Jackpot! 1 grabbed the
culprit and threw it around my
waist, waved to my roommate,
and ran out the door.

I was 10 minutes late for my
first FD date and hoping that my
date would be ready.

Since arriving at W&L I had

nv

witnessed the fanfare surrounding
several events like the apartment
parties at Hollins and the races at
Foxfield to name just two. But
nothing compares to the build-up
about Fancy Dress, the biggest
social event in the South and one
of the country’s biggest parties
according to GQ. FD is also
probably the biggest night for al-
cohol sales in Virginia.

True or not, I had been told
all these things and more about
FD, and I awaited the ball with
nothing short of a religious zeal.
I believed FD would be one of
those experiences a person reme-
mbers forever, like seeing the

ARNHEIM IR

Beatles live or hearing John Ken-
nedy speak.

My date and I met our
friends, jumped in our cars and
headed to Roanoke for dinner.
(Don’t do this for FD. Don’t ever
do this.) We arrived at the res-
taurant around 6:00 p.m. It was
very classy, and the food was
excellent. Unfortunately, each
course took an hour. (I like a
nice meal as much as the next
person, but we did have a gala to
attend.) We payed our bill (Boy,
did we pay!) and rolled out of
Roanoke at 10 p.m.

We raced back to W&L in

_, hopes of at least. catching a

glimpse of the gym. As we
approached the outskirts of Lexi-
ngton, I noticed a huge spotlight
moving through the sky. This
was it! FD! My spirits soared as
I braced myself for my first Fan-
cy Dress.

We climbed the steps to the
gym quickly and entered the
world of ‘‘Gatsby’s Great Gala,”’
By that time it was 11:30, and
we didn’t have much time left
before FD would be over, but we
made the most of it.

Looking back I have nothing
but pleasant memories of Fancy
Dress, but you can bet this year |
won’t be dining in Roanoke,

4

Dress memories...

again.

So now it’s my senior year.
I’m 1-1 in the FD game and
determined to leave W&L with a
winning record. With 91 days left
until graduation by Friday, March
8, I anticipate celebrating in style.
I asked early this year, and with
a great date, I’m sure the FD
magic will return.

Some say FD is an overblown
senior prom, others can’t wait for
it to begin. As a senior, this year
will be extra special to me, and I
hope your Fancy Dress experience
is everything you want and more.
If it’s not, well at least you'll
have some good stories to tell
next year. And remember, there’s
also date-swapping...

 

 

 

By Greg Patterson
Freshman

 

here are two things
a freshman guy has
to worry about
when he arrives at
Washington and
Lee in September:
first, getting a W&L belt to go
with his Duck Head pants and
second, getting a date for FD.

While the first problem is
easily solved by a trip to the
bookstore, the second is a little
more difficult (though some
would argue it is easily solved by
a trip to a girls’ school.)

From what I have seen, read,
and heard since I’ve been here, I
have pieced together what I think
is an accurate picture of what this
thing called Fancy Dress is really
like. With that in mind, I would
like to offer, as a service to other
confused freshman guys, a list of
answers to the most-asked ques-
tions about FD:

Q: Exactly how far out of
town am I supposed to go to
take my date to dinner? Is
Buena Vista far enough or
Should I try to get reservations
in, say, Washington?

A: Good question. A helpful
rule of thumb in this case is that
the cost of dinner for two people
should be approximately equal to
the cost of gas used in getting to
the restaurant. This method gives
you a wide range of choices. So
while you could conceivably take
your date to Taco Bell in Staun-
ton, if you are expecting to go
someplace where the waiters
won't spit on you, you will pro-
bably end up at least two states
away.

 

QO Please see Greg page 18

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991 15

 

..and expectations

 

By Sharon Widmayer
Senior

 

ow that I’m a senior,

there are a lot of

things that I could

say about FD, the

most important of
which is that as of the writing of
this article, I have the perfect
dress and no date. I recently
discussed this dilemma with a
friend of mine. He said I could
go with his pet rock. That was
not the correct response. He even
suggested that I attach a string to
the rock and put it on my should-
er like an evening bag. Somehow
I think the rock would clash with
my perfect dress.

It’s not all bad. At least I
haven’t had to worry about my
date stripping down to his boxers
in the middle of Warner Center
or that he gets so drunk at dinner
that his head falls into a plate of
spaghetti. I don’t have to worry
about going to FD with someone
like Paul Lagarde. (Don’t get me
wrong; I have nothing against
Paul. It’s just that two Politics
majors with diametrically oppos-
ing views should not be allowed
in the same room for more than,
oh say, five minutes.)

Actually, I’m thinking of
going dateless. I figure I’ll make
a social statement about how one
does not need to be accompanied
by a member of the opposite sex
to have fun. And if you buy
this, I’ve got some bridges in
Brooklyn that might interest you,
too.

I must say, however, that this
is at least a new dilemma for me.
My first two FDs, I had a date,
but the dress from hell. My
mom called me up freshman year
and told me she had just bought
me two formals-- on sale-- and
wasn’t it wonderful that I
wouldn’t have to go shopping.
No. Not only did she take away
the opportunity for me to go
dress shopping, which for many
females is more fun than attend-
ing the event itself, but my
mother and I have taste in dresses
more diametrically opposed than
mine and Mr. Lagarde’s politics.

I wound up wearing this lilac
thing freshman year, and
discovered that probably the only
color I look worse in is lime
green. Not only that, but I got
my hair butchered over February
break and looked like I should be
wearing the tuxedo. But I had a
date.

Actually, I had a boyfriend, so

The Ladies

 

By Christy Harvey
Sophomore

 

ith midterms and
Washington’s Break
in the past, the
thoughts of the stu-
~— dents at W&L now
turn to more pressing matters at
hand...Fancy Dress. The signs of
its eminent arrival are plenty. The
guys are grumbling about the
enormous sums of money they are
about to be shelling out, while the
female students try to look cute
and act nonchalant while they
sweat bullets waiting for a date.

All the while, girls’ school
girls pass through trying their own
luck. To some not acquainted
with Washington and Lee, it may
seem like like a lot of stress and
excitement over a mere weekend,
but any student will quickly tell
you differently. The true appeal
of Fancy Dress is its time honor-
ed tradition.

It is a weekend of revelry
which has survived the years and
the inevitable changes those years
brought with them.

I believe that the sophomore
year is the best year for Fancy

   

Dress. To the freshmen, this is

yet another new and different
experience, and the feelings of
excitement are tinged with those
of nervousness. The junior has

already traveled this path twice
before, and the glow surrounding
the event has begun to fade
slightly.

The senior has the driving
wish to commit every detail to
memory, only too aware that this
is to be the final Ball.

The sophomore, however,
stands balanced in all of these
extremes. The experience is still
new enough as to be exciting, but
having been through it, vague as
the memories may be, they know
what to expect.

Their college life stretches
before them endlessly, so there is
no urgency to ‘‘make this formal

there are still more to
come, and so enters the weekend
relaxed and .eady for fun.

The difference in how each
person perceives Fancy Dress is
minimal in the end, as everyone,
except for those with hell-dates,
ends up having a good time. And
no matter what your class,
everyone is participating in yet
another building block on which
this tradition stands.

a

     

I had a built-in, stress-free date,
or so I thought until we made the
mistake of going to Lynchburg
for dinner, and getting completely
and totally lost in some part of
Lynchburg with a bunch of dark
alleys and nothing else. Of
course, my date was the typical
male. You know-- absolutely
refused to ask directions. And of
course I was the typical hysterical
female and told him-- well actual-
ly screamed at him-- to either
stop and ask direction or he
might as well take me home.
Little did I know, we were
about three blocks from the res-
taurant at the time. I’d tell you I
had fun after that, but actually, I
don’t remember that much.
Sophomore FD was, well,
from hell. But I had a date. The
same guy from the year before,
and we had decided to go to a
restaurant where we had already
been. This year I had to wear
the other ‘‘on sale’’ dress that my
mother had bought-- a floor
length, off-the-shoulder blue and
white number that looked like the
high school prom revisited. All
my friends were wearing black
strapless sophisticated dresses, and
I was thinking of ways to torture

) Please see Sharon page 19

 

By Kimberly Boots
Freshman

 

  
  

wee wish I may, I wish I
és) might, have this wish,
€) I wish tonight...
Betcha know what I
o wished for! Could it
have something to do with some-
thing with the two initials, F and
D? Naah...

The intense (agonizing!)
wondering over whether or not
one would get a date, and who
would it be, and WHEN WOULD
HE ASK, began months ago,
probably even before the Fancy
Dress Committee was appointed.

Undoubtedly, for some the
stress began before we freshmen
arrived at the beginning of Sep-
tember. Most of us had heard
about Fancy Dress while in the
application process, from a tour
guide or a student. Or even from
a college guide.

I was impressed just because
the guide mentioned Fancy Dress,
and I thought it must be very
important, even though it sounds
more like the name of a junior
high girls’ school dance than the
big, exciting college event it is
reputed to be.

The guide I read said some-
thing about people coming from
miles and miles around for this
huge social event, one of the
most exciting college events
around. It then said-- and I think
this is the exact wording-- ‘‘woe

Q Please see Boots page 19'

 
 
     

 

 

 

 

By Jennifer Fischer

j But what about the magic of
unior

,FD? Isn't that pushing things a
bit too far? When I was a fresh-
man on SAB, spending countless
he Orient Express, hours at the pavilion, I tumed to
1 Gatsby’s Gala, cham- a senior who was working with
| pagne, fireworks, dan- me and said, ‘‘Don’t you lose
eae cing; the night you some of the novelty and thrill of
want to last forever (that is, if FD by working on it and seeing
you have the perfect date, or so everything beforehand?’’ Her
I’ve been told). Images of Fancy reply: Even if you see the finish-
Dress, the quintessential combina-|ing touches made late Friday
tion of fascination, suspense, afternoon, nothing can compare to
romance and excitement. But is it the moment when you walk in the
really these things? After all night of the ball and see every-
everyone knows it’s just a party thing alive for the first time. It
in the gym, of all places. I mean, really is magic.’’ She was so
who could envision ‘‘magic in the right.
air’’ as they sit watching a bas- = Fancy Dress is all of those
ketball game there (no offense, things I mentioned, and more. It
guys)? is the night that Warner Center
When I was a senior in high ceases to exist. It’s like fairy
school, I read about W&L in the tales, Disneyworld, New Year’s
Insider's Guide to American Col- Eye, the Fourth of July and Mardi
leges and Universities. After it Gras all wrapped up in one. It is
explained the importance of the a time (too brief) to forget every
school’s two namesakes, the Hon- care and responsibility, and to
or System, and the high quality of truly experience an unparalleled
academics, it asserted that ‘‘no and uninhibited night of entertain-
description of Washington and ment on a grand scale.
Lee would be complete without; Oh, about that ‘‘perfect’’ date
mention of their annual Fancy | (ihe one-in-a-million). A. perfect

 

Dress Ball...’” I was astounded
and intrigued, a social event being
an important characteristic of a
university! But after my first FD
I understood why: like our Honor
System and our Mock Conven-
tion, Fancy Dress is one more
phenomenon unique to W&L.

aate is not only hard to find, but
hard to define. I don’t think it is
necessary to have one in order to
enjoy the festivities. But if you
don’t think Fancy Dress has all of
these magical qualities, maybe a
perfect date would change that. I
can’t wait to find out...

 

<x“ ee

neta se ete ee at

 
ann
commana
cy Rae me ea en

 

SB aie.

16

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

 

 

Questions

from page 5

Q: There was concern that FD
would be cancelled because of
the Persian Gulf War, can you
respond?

A: I know that when the war
started, many questions were
raised about having a $74,000
party when men and women were
fighting a war. I even considered
the appropriateness of it, but I
have since been told by Faculty
and students alike that the W&L
alumni already in the Gulf would
probably feel better that the tradi-
tion continued. I have placed a
full-page ad in the FD playbill
acknowledging our troops in the
gulf, and I hope to have the
swing band dedicate a song to the
troops. Moreover, it looks like
we can celebrate a victory for our
troops now.

Q: Last year monetary
restraints were placed on FD
planning. Could you explain the
ins and outs of money and ex-
penses?

A: The budget has been the first
priority for everyone on the
Steering Committee. I really
want FD to come under budget
this year. The restraints on our
spending (such as having and
auditor to keep track of the
money, not having uncontrolled
charge *accounts, and having to
file for checks through the busi-

ness office) has made us more
conscious of how much we are
spending. Moreover, this year I
broke down the budget so that
each sub-chairman had his or her
own budgeted amount to spend or.
decorations or whatever they were
in charge of. Ultimaiely, though,
because FD is self-supportive, we
will make money only if ticket

and memorabilia sales are close to
what we projected.

 

PROCLAMATION
<

(Batnes of the Realm > S

 

IN REGARD TO YQUR LADIES
FOR FANCY DRESS—you are hereby
forewarned that the lengths, breadths, and
poundage of all said ladies—Yea, even unto
the provinces of Marye Baldwin, Hollings,
Sweet Briar, R.M.W.C.—the Sem—and
other such—should be recorded previous
to December first. > Any Progress which
you might realize in this respect this week-
end—without adting in too cavalier a fash-
ion—might well prove to be of advantage.

A gag proclamation
given by Zeta Beta
Taw to their dates for
the 1950 Arthur FD.

 

 

Co

Q: What’s your most difficult
duty?

A: My most difficult duty has
been getting everything in line.
That is, coordinating all the
people, places, and things so that
they all fit together and the ball
is executed as it was planned to
be. Everything you see at the
ball, from the fireworks to the
searchlights to the white lights
strung in the trees took time to
hunt down and arrange their use.

Q: Did you have any goals for
this year’s Fancy Dress?

A: I have two goals for this FD:
one is to come under budget, and
the other is a goal I think every
FD chairman has had. That is, to-
have every person that walks into
the ball say it was the best one :
yet. ——

: How many people in all will This 1950’s version of John Flippen and his date led
Be worked wt Pasty Dress? the dances at their King Arthur Fancy Dress Ball.
A: About 200 people have con-
tributed to FD this year, with
over 150 of those sotaals con- Q: What part of a a
structing it. Together, we will are you looking forward to
have put in a total of over 2500 most?
man hours into FD. A: March 9.

 

Q: Who is your date?

A: I feel lucky to have the in-
credible date that I do. I’m going
with Lauren Rowland, a junior
from W&L.

 

 

FIN

 

 

Welcome

ct
‘So

   

7 E ITALIAN CUISINE
24 North Main Street

og Lexington, Virginia

Daily Specials
Served with Tossed Salad
& Garlic Bread

Monday - $6.50 Lasagna
Tuesday - $6.50 Spaghetti
w/meatball or meatsauce
Wednesday - $6.50 Manicotti
Thursday - $6.50 Ravioli
Sunday - $7.25 Clam or Shrimp
wired or white sauce

and spaghetti

Everyday - One of our sandwiches
goes on special

 

 

a Tux?

   
     

University Cleaners

Has a wide selection of
Tuxedos for rent.
No problems!

 

University
Cleaners

 

 

 

Jere ere

 

 

Aa SE EEE

A a EE En

463-3622
 

‘The Ring-tum Phi Fancy Dress Supplement, February 28, 1991

17

 

 

Legend

from page 2

PLOKS
h

Oe

 

kingdom. In the process, however,
he made a grave mistake. The
wife of King Lot of Orkney came
to Camelot to spy for her hus-
band. She was a beautiful woman,
and Arthur fell in love with her.
He propositioned the lady; she
agreed, They made love and that
night the queen of Orkney con-
ceived a child. The queen’s name
was Morguase. We have already
been introduced to her. The child
was called Mordred.

During his early days as king,
Arthur went about the countryside
engaging in adventures. It was
while on one of these adventures
that Arthur received Excalibur
from the Lady of the Lake. It
was also during these early days
that Arthur, fearful of prophecies,
which predicted that his destruc-
tion would be brought about by
the child begotten upon his sister,
decreed that all children bom
around May Day were to be put
into a boat. The boat then was sel

adrift. Eventually, it wrecked
upon rocks, and only one child,
Mordred, was spared.

Even kings -have to settic

 

A week
left
to get

a date!

omen SYR RARE ete asc eR
Poe eee

 

 

Fabrics & Sew Forth

19 West Nelson St. :

Fancy Dress |

ATTENTION |
LADIES’ ;

Need a dress - in al
hurry - come by - weg
made up a few exteal
dresses - sequins andé
irridescent taffeta. andl
for future reference...)
keep us in mind - we ef
have dress makers}
names available. |

Mon.-Sat.
9:30-5:30
463-2643

ELE NE EC EL LC) A A <a RR RD eH. |

1 EEE) DE

down, and Arthur did so. He
married Guenevere, the daughter
of King Leodegrance of Camel-
ard, a woman whom he loved and
who also had the added bonus of
an excellent dowry, the Table
Round. Confined by responsibility
to Camelot, Arthur used the Table
Round as an extension of his
beliefs, ideas and power. It was a
highly successful endeavor. Ar-
thur’s new order of knighthood
attracted knights from all over
and the name of Arthur’s Camclot
became synonymous with honor,
power, generosity and other vir-
tues.

All things must come to an
end, however; and so it was with
Arthur. His best friend, Lancelot
du Lac, fell in love with Arthur’s
wife who loved Lancelot in re-
turn. Arthur, unwilling to lose his
best knight or his wife, ignored
the situation for as long as possi-
ble, until Agravaine of Orkney
and his younger brother Mordred
forced Arthur to pay allention to
the matter.

Thus it was that Lancelot was
found in the Queen’s bed cham-

 

ber while the king was hunting in
the forest. The fall of the Round
Table had begun. Revealed as
traitor to her husband, Guenevere
was tried by Arthur and sentenced
to death by burning. At the stake
itself, she was rescued by her
lover who, in the process, killed
two members of the Orkncy clan,
Gareth and Gahcris. Arthur could
do no more.

Arthur chased Lancelot to
Benwick leaving Mordred, his
son, as regent in Britain. While in
Benwick, he received word that
the prophecy had come to pass;
his son was his bane. Mordred

 

Fast Prescription Service
Free Delivery

Lexington Prescription Center

11 W. Washington St.
463-9166

 

Quick ~ Inexpensive ~ Easy Parking
Quality Quick Print, Ink.

for all student printing needs

~ Résumés, Invitations, Flyers,
Programs, Posters, Fax, ... ~

214 South Main Street + (703) 463-9232

LEXINGTON’S

NLY

 

 

OPY
OFF ANY

SERVICE WITH

THIS AD

tured against Arthur. Claiming
Arthur to be dead, he had tried to
marry Guenevere whom Arthur
had taken back by express com-
mand of the Pope. Arthur rushed
back to Britain and engaged his
son in several battles which cul-
minated at Camlann. Camlann
was a battle which was nearly
averted.

Arthur, in one last attempt to
save his kingdom, called a parley
with Mordred. Neither man
trusted the other, and each warn-
ed his men to be on guard. Ar-
thur and Mordred struck a deal
and were just about to seal the
contract when one of Mordred’s
lieutenants pulled out his sword to
kill a snake that had stung him.

The sight of bare steel was all
the overwrought forces needed to
see; battle commenced. At the end
of the battle, Arthur saw Mord-
red surrounded by corpses leaning
on his sword. Arthur, spear in
hand, charged his son and skew-
ered him through the body. With
his dying strength, Mordred heav-
ed himself farther along Arthur’s
spear, swung his sword, seriously
wounding his father in the head,
and then died.

His blood mingling with that
of his son, Arthur calls Sir Beve-
dere, the last of his knights left
alive, and instructs Bevedere to
take Excalibur and throw it into

the nearby lake. Bevedere sets off
to do so, but doesn’t do so twice
because he covets the beautiful
weapon; finally, at the third time,
he does throw Excalibur back. An
arm rises from the waters and
catches Excalibur three times.
Arthur is then carried away by
weeping queens in a barge to the
Isle of Avalon where his wound
is to be healed.

Some reports say that the
queens were not successful, and
that Arthur died at Avalon that
night. Others say that Arthur still
lives and sleeps on in Avalon or
the Welsh mountain fortress. In a
time of distress, he will arise
from this sleep in order to save
Britain.

This is the Arthur of romance.
For the most part, he is often
overshadowed by his knights or
their deeds, but one must remem-
ber that even though he may not
have fought another knight for a
year, Arthur is always the focal
point. It is he and no one else
who is able to reconcile and hold
together the diverse parts of the
fellowship.

 

Kelly’s Corner

On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington

All Of Your Fancy Dress
and Party Supplies
At The Best Prices.

As Always, We Provide The
Best Service For The W&L Community

Open 7 Days

Miles & Sandy Nye, Proprietors

When it comes to sports,
We Have it all!

2¢

ge

Brine and STX
Lacrosse

gnoe

pike

115 W. Nelson St.

 

 
 

18

 

   

-

eee Gea

 

ROUND TABLE TRIVIA

Number of Knights the Round Table Seats: 150

Top Three Knights (excluding Galahad):
1. Sir Launcelot
2. Sir Tristram

Sir Ector de Maris.

|

use of conjunctions, the speech Sir Ector delivers
| when he beholds the corpse of his brother Sir
Launcelot, as it lies in the chapel at the Joyous
Gard, is one of the most poignant in the language.
|

|

l

f

x 3. Sir Lamorack
Best Orator:

<

Xx

S

Most Dangerous Place to Sit: The Siege Perilous. A seat
at the Round Table which had a nasty habit of |
incinerating those people who sat in it. It

 

 

x : : 7 jise

x was to be occupied exclusively by Sir Galahad. |

ees SS ee eS ee a

kLeceeemeeaw Maan pys «08a e eee e EAR oh
AE LL RTGS

Despite an excessive

 

 

 

‘Che

QSonic QQallery
TYPING

* Resumes * Reports * Papers *

Quality Work Only
464-1100 Noon - 5:30 p.m.

 

 

 

 

the

fferson

florist to The Homestead
Ten East Nelson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841

‘| Elegant Flowers
for Your Lady

of the Court

9 Teleflora’

Fe

 

sakin

from page 14

crawls. There, the dates are com-
pared and the lack of memory
begins. Going from room to
room, you discover what Flaming
Dr. Peppers, Zombies and Jell-O
shots are.

When you arrive at the
Warner Center you cannot believe
that this is the same place you go
to play basketball. The decora-
tions are incredible and you begin
to realize the work that goes into
the whole Fancy Dress produc-
tion.

The dancing and the music
from the bands highlight the

 

 
    
   
   
 

5
SINCE /8O/

Fine Stationery

Crane’s a tradition like
Fancy Dress!

Available at

LLB Yfice Supply
23 West Washington St.

 

 
      
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Zé Rollerblade.

Sales & Rentals

LOVE TsaNoas

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORT WEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENT
ACCOUNTS
AVAILABLE

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

 

 

evening, but if the Jell-O shots
kick in, all you may be left with
is the memory, or none at all.

On Saturday the party con-
tinues at either one of the frater-
nity’s river or country houses. A
band, volleyball and the myster-
ious banned keg all show-up for
an afternoon of food and fun. By
the time the sun is about to set,
you need some sleep.

But that doesn’t happen be-
cause you have another band that
night. In the spirit of FD, the
fraternities get the best band they
can and do their best to have a

Greg

from page 14

 

det
*

party worthy of the social proba-
tion they will receive.

The end of the night marks
the end of Fancy Dress and the
end of a magical weekend that
has been enjoyed by Washington
and Lee students for decades.

As the dates leave and the
party smells linger in the air, the
remaining students reflect on what
they have uniquely experienced.
This year let’s continue the tradi-
tion, noticing the events that make
Fancy Dress the proud Washing-
ton and Lee tradition it is.

e

 

Q: Is it true that the budget
for decorations is more than
$45,000? At my high school
prom, the only decorations we
had were streamers and some
lousy balloons. What gives?

A: Obviously you have not yet
become familiar with the lore and
tradition of Fancy Dress. When
you enter Doremus on the night
of FD, you will find that the gym
has been transformed into a magi-
cal realm of wonder and delight.
Of course by the time many
people have entered the gym, they
are already in a little magical
realm of their own. The 45 plus
grand is mainly used to clean up
after these people.

Q: Why is the FD theme
kept a secret until the week
before? What’s the big deal?

A: Due to the fact that FD is
brought to you by the same
‘people who are in charge of
Fraternity Renaissance and the
Lenfest Center, the theme isn’t
even decided until the week be-
fore. The ‘secret theme’? idea is
just a hoax.

Q: Is the cost of FD covered

by my financial aid? If not,
what should I do?

A: Unless you filled out the
university’s Social Activities
Compensation application back in
the fall (also known as the No-
One-Told-Me-I-Had-To-Buy-
@#$*&#@$-T-Shirts-Too form),
you’re not covered. However, a
little-known fact is that FD is tax-
deductible. Just remember to
make your checks out to “W&L
Fancy Dress Ball and Homeless
Leper Orphan Fundraiser.’’

Q: What should I wear?

A: Contrary to popular belief,
this is not another occasion at
which all the males in the room
will be wearing navy blue blazers
and tan pants, The proper attire
for guys at FD is a tuxedo. Thus
all the males in the room will
still be dressed alike, while fe-
males will be wearing dresses
which, in most cases, had to be
financed through a bank.

Students who are still fairly
clueless and have additional ques-
tions should call the FD Info
Hotline, 1-800-LOTS-O-MONEY.

rrr

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

OD) 203 N. Main st.

 

 

 

Standard 10% Discou
t
With Student I.D. .

 

 

awe Right >,

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

a)

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Sharon

from page 15

 

 

Knights

from page 4

 

 

my mother slowly.

Then there was the fundamen-
tal conflict that my date and |
had about the verb ‘‘to plan’’. In
short, I don’t think he realized it
existed (despite my repeated nagg-
ing to remind him of the fact). |
had to plan everything-- where we
went for dinner, who’s place we
pre-partied at, what we were
going to do on Saturday night. I
even ordered my own corsage.
Thank God he owned a tuxedo
and didn’t have to expend any
effort planning to rent one, or I
might have been in trouble. Big
deal, you say, so I had to call up
a restaurant and make reserva-
tions,

Well, it wouldn’t have been so
bad except that I think the one
thing my date did plan was to
complain about all my plans, right
down to refusing to pay for my
corsage because he didn’t like the
one that I picked out (I had to
get one to match the ‘“‘prom
revisited’ dress, didn't I?) My
most vivid memory of Sophomore
FD is gliding through Gaines Hall
in my floor length gown yelling
“Shut up! You're ruining my
FD’’ I'd like to tell you I had
fun after that, but I wish I didn’t
remember.

Junior year I was in Austria,
so I have no F, D. stories to
report. I did have fun on the
night of the ball, however. I was
at a University Fest (huge party

that makes a frat party look like
aftemoon tea) dancing with one
of the most beautiful men I’ve
ever set eyes on. He sang-- well,
actually yelled in my ear-- Sinead
O’Connor’s ‘‘Nothing Compares
to You’’, which with an Austrian
accent sounds like ‘‘No-zing
Cumpaars to You”’.

The next night I got incredibly
homesick thinking of all my
friends at FD I consoled myself
with the fact that my wonderful
friends sent me an FD care pack-
age with a t-shirt, Phi supple-
ment, cup, and a poster that hung
for the rest of the term on my
closet door. I did go to Salzburg
University’s ball that year, but
that’s a another story, even more
heinous than sophomore year FD.
(But maybe in the future I'll
write an article about my ex-
periences Slam-waltzing.)

So this year I’m determined to
actually have fun at one of these
things, especially since I’ve got a
black velvet dress that my mother
had no part in picking out. After
all, this is my last chance. 1
nearly panicked when the Phi ran
a story about how FD might be
canceled due to the war in the
gulf. The very thought renewed
my dedication to my _ pacifist
sentiments.

So look for me March 8th.
I'll be the one with the evening
bag that looks like a rock.

 

Boots

from page 15

PX,
gree

 

surely written to haunt the ner-
vous minds of freshmen. Every
member of the opposite sex one
meets is appraised for FD date
potential.

Other FD anxieties for the
first-time FD-goer include having
the right dress or tuxedo
(although I doubt that you guys
get as excited about finding an
awesome tux as girls do about
having the perfect dress.)

And then, what about know-
ing how to ballroom dance? I
have to admit, those signs that
went up weeks ago advertising

ballroom dancing lessons really
scared me. But I guess that will
just make FD all the more fun...
and different from any other
dance we have ever attended.

Of course, as we have been
told all along, FD is no ordinary
social event. We’ll just have to
wait another week to find out just
how extraordinary it is. All we
can do until then is anticipate...
and listen to our new Bo Did-
dley tapes to find out just what
that guy on the Nike commer-
cials sings, and wonder what the
theme will be...

SERVI (AK.

LEXINGTON HARDWARE COMPANY

23 SOUTH MAIN ST./LEXINGTON, VA 24450 /463-2242

 

King Arthur and his half-sister
Queen Morguase of Orkncy is an
even worse scenario.

In Le Morte D’ Arthur, Mor-
dred displays a wonderfully dual
personality. In the first half, he
is being everything a good knight
should be, good on the battleficld,
fair in judgement and courteous
of speech. Somewhere, however,
before we meet him again, he
changes radically and becomes a
scheming fiend.

Whatever Mordred’s character
defects are as far as subterfuge
goes, all sources give him credit
for being a man of great person-
al courage. Interestingly enough,

Mordred is one of the characters
whose name has co-existed with
that of Arthur since the Welsh
Triads.

Sir Gawain of Lothian and
Orkney, the son of King Lot and
Queen Morguase, has the reputa-
tion of being one of the most
courteous knights of the Round
Table. He also has the reputa-
tion of being quite the lover and
his sexual exploits whether good,
bad, or uninteresting become the
stuff of legend.

Gawain is indisputably flaw-
ed, but that is what is charming
about him. He is totally human.
He has his up days and his down

days, his moments of triumph
and his moments of defeat, his
times of glory and his times of
shame, and everybody knows it.

Whatever the case, Gawain
takes everything that happens to
him in stride. Galahad eschews
earthly existence; Gawain revels
in it.

Five men and one angel.
Some are loved; some are de-
spised; some are good; some are
not so good. But whatever the
flaws, these ten knights were all
part of Arthur’s great experi-
ment, and all contributed threads
to the tapestry of the life of Ar-
thur.

 

 

 

Shine for your Fancy Dress Knight

 

 

Clothing, jewelry and accessories for every maiden

Caravans

121 West Nelson Street/Lexi
Open daity 10 am - 6

10n/ 464-3500
Noon - 6 pm

 

 

 

 

 
— 2. 2 | + FT =|
= © «© fF 8b bc & 0 8 82 & € & S&S Ft Se £C ee S&S + & € ££ FF FS FF et Ft Pe et Ff et Fe F&F FF © FF FF FF Fe F&F FE £F%;

L

3

 

 

oy

FANCY DRESS
1991

Wednesday, March 6 8 p.m.

CEBSCERSD

¢Megaphonics
General Headquarters

Thursday, March 7 8 p.m.
¢Bo Diddley
eJimmy Bishop and the Turning Point
The Student Activities Pavilion

Friday, March 8 9 p.m. - 1am.

CR SERICEPIICEPSCERIICEBSD

84th Annual Fancy Dress Ball
A Royal Festival at
King Arthur’s Court

Featuring:
*Kings of Swing
°C.J. Chenier and the
Red Hot Lousiana Band

Buckwheat Zydeco
¢Fireworks

Warner Center and Doremus Gymnasium
Black Tie

Ticket and Memorabilia Sales:
Monday through Thursday 10-4, Friday 10-12
Room 109, University Center

 

CEM DICE HD ICC HDI EDIE HA) CEI EMA ICE HDI CIC EHIIC CHIC ERICH)

CORSCERSCEPICEPIDCE
CERI ERICRICRI CC HI ICC HDI CHAI CHIC CHD)
CER SOCESOCENSNCESFSNCESPSNCESPSESNCEPS\CEMBUCERSOCERSICERSS

CEBSCERSD

Thursday Tickets: $8/Advance, $15/Door _‘ Friday Tickets: $45/Couple
T-shirts: 1/$12, 2/$20 Posters: $4 Cups: 2/$1

CERI ICEMAN CH BICC HDC EHD) CHB ICE BICC 990 6 ee 99}

 

 

KL LY
CE*SD
KL LY,

 

5

Py
9 18.185
F5oZ

- Ff

ls cr
AG-22.

 

Che KRing-tum Whi mn

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 22

 

 

Clark Raymond Mollenhoff

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

(W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely)

Prof. Mollenhoff dies at 69

 

By Chris Baradel and Jon Sbar
of The Ring-tum Phi staff

Washington and Lee Journalism Professor Clark
R. Mollenhoff, a Pulitzer Prize winning journalist,
author, syndicated columnist and former presiden-
tial ombudsman, died of cancer Saturday at Stone-
wall Jackson Memorial Hospital. He was 69.

To his colleagues and many of his students, he

} was much more than that.

‘It’s hard to believe he’s gone,’’ said senior
J.R. Smith. ‘‘After being in the Journalism Depart-
ment for four years, the faculty has become almost
family, and with the loss of Professor Mollenhoff,
I feel as if I’ve lost a part of myself.”’

Mollenhoff had that kind. of effect on people.
He was a unique individual, a man possessed of a
rigorous work ethic and unshakable integrity. That
integrity led to his turning down a bribe from
Teamsters leader Jimmy Hoffa, telling the man
who controlled multi-millions of dollars in Team-
sters pension funds, ‘‘You can’t afford my price.’’

He possessed a willingness to go to any length

, to help right an injustice. This characteristic won

‘Former CIA chief
lauds capitalism

‘Time and momentum are on the

him the respect and admiration of his peers and
his students.

‘“‘His unfailing vigor impressed me,’’ said fellow
Journalism Professor John Jennings. ‘‘He was
always willing to put himself out for students and
colleagues and anyone else.’’ Junior Matt Smith
echoed Jennings, saying, ‘‘He never let obstacles
stop him, he just persevered.’’ Indeed, he con-
tinued teaching classes here until a mere two
weeks before he died.

Nationally known as one of the finest investiga-
tive reporters in the history of this country, he
brought a tremendous amount of prestige to Wash-
ington and Lee when he began teaching here in
1976. ‘‘He brought with him a national following,”’
said colleague Ron MacDonald. ‘‘He called nation-
al attention to (Washington and Lee and the
Department of Journalism], and continued to do so
through his books and a variety of speaking
engagements.’

His colleagues praised him for sharing with
them the insights he had gained in 35 years of
active investigative reporting. Jennings called him
‘“‘One of those people from whom his colleagues
learn almost as much as his students do.”’

Mollenhoff had a number of distinctive clas-
sroom idiosyncrasies and physical traits that helped
make him unforgettable. He stood 6’4’’ tall and
weighted in the neighborhood of 240 pounds, with
a rumbling voice to match. Mollenhoff was affec-
tionately known to his students as ‘‘The Boomer”’
(although never to his face), a nickname he had
acquired in Washington from berating bureaucrats
and politicians for corruption and duplicity. Stu-
dents who came to class unprepared on a consistent
basis soon came to empathize with the numerous
politicians that had been on the business end of his
earthy bellow.

One of his golden rules in the classroom was
that only students physically larger than himself
were allowed to wear hats. He liked to point out

.thatin_ fifteen years of teaching, only one student

had met the qualifications.

Mollenhoff believed in the virtues of hard
work. He took pride in the fact that after graduat-
ing from college, he went to law school and played
two sports there, all while working 40 hour weeks
for the Des Moines Register. Keeping in the spirit

Q) Please see BOOMER page 3

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

March 7, 1991

Law students

defend

barred

employers

Faculty holds ground against
discriminators on law campus

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

Law students will continue to
fight a law faculty policy that pre-
vents the U.S. military from recruit-
ing at the Law School.

The law faculty reconsidered but
took no action Monday on a Feb. 11
policy amendment that prevents em-
ployers that legally discriminate agai-
nst homosexuals from using Law
School placement facilities, according
to Law School Dean Randall Bezan-
son.
Mitchel Neurock, ’92L, a U.S. Air
Force officer, said that if other efforts
to circumvent the faculty policy fail,
he will form a Military Law Society.

The group would be student-run
and perform the function of the

placement office for government
recruiters affected by the policy
change.

First, said Neurock, students who
oppose the policy will appeal to
university President John Wilson to
act.

The president of the University of
Virginia has suspended a_ similar
policy passed by the UVa. law facul-
ty ‘‘pending reexamination,’’ said
UVa. Law Prof. George Rutherglen.

Neurock said the next step will be
a letter-writing campaign to the Wa-
shington and Lee Board of Trustees.
He hopes the board will be
supportive of his position to defend
military recruitment of law students,
given its resolution supporting the
military personnel in the Persian
Gulf.

Law Prof. Timothy Philipps last
week circulated among law faculty an
amendment proposal which would
readmit lawful discriminators such as
the military to the Law School place-
ment office.

Philipps said last week that the
issue ‘‘has caused more divisiveness
and hard feelings here than any issue

 

Mock Convention to pick
state chairmen

BRIEFS

Kelsey wins EC law seat

in recent memory,’’ and some
compromise would be necessary to
quell those feelings.

Philipps would not this week
comment on how his amendment
proposal fared with the faculty.

He said there is a ‘‘tacit
agreement’’ among law faculty not to
discuss Monday’s deliberations since
the Feb. 11 policy changes stood up
under reconsideration.

The Associated Press reported a
close faculty vote to defeat Philipps’
amendment, but Bezanson would not
confirm the numbers.

The Association of American Law
Schools, an agency with which W&L
is accredited, has called on its mem-
ber-schools to pass policies like
W&L’s that keep lawful discrimi-
nators out of the placement office.

Bezanson said at least 75 percent
of member-schools have complied,
but no one is certain if not having
the policy will cost accreditation.

Michael Carlson, '92L, an oppo-
nent of the policy, said accreditation
would probably not be at risk if
W&L permitted the military to re-
cruit.

Carlson said too many AALS
member-schools have not adopted the
policy or do not obey it.

More than 225 law students have
signed the petition opposing the
faculty policy, said Neurock. Carlson
stopped collecting signatures soon
after reaching 60 percent.

Neurock said law students are
investigating the case of another
private university that just rescinded
its AALS policy in the face of losing
government research contracts. He
said they will try to determine if such
a threat faces W&L.

The Executive Committee unani-
mously condemned the faculty policy
on Feb. 25, though senior EC Reps.
John Fialcowitz and Willard Dumas
later withdrew their support, saying
they needed to investigate the issue
further.

 

y Kimberly Boots
taff Reporter

 

! World opinion is turning toward
smocracy and free market economies
ecause of ‘man’s natural inclination
» have as much say in how he is
overned as possible,’’ Admiral St-
asfield Turner, former director of the
entral ‘Intelligence Agency, said
‘sterday during a speech in the
"ymmerce School.

Turner’s speech, ‘‘The Future of
ocial Democracy,’’ was sponsored
y the Telford Lecture Series.

Turner graduated from the U.S.
‘aval Academy in 1946 and went on
2 command the U.S. Second Fleet
nd North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
ion Striking Fleet Atlantic and to
serve as Commander in Chief of
YATO’s southem flank. He was

director of the CIA from 1977 to
1981.

Turner spoke about the worldwide
rend toward democracy, expressing
his belief that this trend will con-
tinue.

“Part of the world is tuming in
our direction, first toward democracy,
and second, toward our market of
free enterprise,’’ he said. This trend
stems from ‘‘man’s natural inclination
to have as much say in how he is
governed as possible.

side of democracy ... centrally con-
trolled economies have simply not
worked,”’ he said, citing Japan, South
Korea and Taiwan as examples of
countries which have emulated the
economy of the United States.

He said Leninism and Marxism
have failed in the Soviet Union be-
cause of the lack of incentives and
because there is too much central
control.

‘In my view, the Soviet economy
is bankrupt,’’ Turner said, adding that
a change in the attitude of the Soviet
citizens is necessary for the Soviet
economy to convert to a system
based more on capitalism. He pointed
out that the Soviets embrace equality
above all else, even if the level of
equality is poverty.

As for the role of the United
States in the world economy, Turner
said, ‘‘what we must do is to remain
the model for these people — of de-
mocracy, of free enterprise. We are
what they want to emulate.’’ He said
the U.S. needs to adapt to losing its
role as the largest component of the
world marketplace.

The CIA, he said, should ‘‘shift
attention and resources to the eco-
nomic sphere.’’ It needs ‘‘to do more
to provide economic information to
the government and ‘to businesses
themselves.’’ This information

 

Admiral Turner

will help the country to find ‘‘niches
in the international marketplace.’
Tumer said the U.S. needs to be
“adopting the better side of social-
ism,’’ to create a ‘‘mixture between
socialist concern and free enterprise
initiative.’’ This would include greater
attention to the problems of crime,
poverty, drug addiction, damage to
the ecology and illiteracy. He said
our country must deal with these
problems in order to ‘‘continue to set
a better example to the world.’’
With the decline of the Soviet
threat, Turner predicted that NATO
“‘will atrophy or disappear over
time’ and that new relationships
between nations will form. He feels
that the position of the U.S. in the
new order will be a more distant one.

Wolfe to address Law students

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

lawyers.”’

Wolfe, a ’51 graduate of W&Lwas a pioneer of the

 

Tom Wolfe, best-selling author and W&Lalumnus, will
be the featured speaker at this year’s Law School

commencement.

writing style known as ‘‘The New Journalism,’’ in which

a news story reads like a work of fiction.

He gained widespread popularity with the publication
of his book The Electric Cool-aid Acid Test, an account

of author Ken Kesey’s experimentation with psychedelic

 

According to Dean of the Law School Randall P.
% Bezanson, Wolfe, ’51, was the overwhelming favorite
among third-year law students for the May 19 ceremony.
Bezanson said that despite the fact that Wolfe is not

a lawyer, the author should do a good job,
‘*He is a wonderful speaker,’’ said Bezanson, ‘‘and he
¥ has a great deal to say, not only about the legal system,
but also about social issues that are relevant to law and

drugs during the’70s.

Two of Wolfe's later books, Bonfire of the Vanities
and The Right Stuff, have been made into motion
pictures.

Wolfe’s other books include The Kandy-Colored
Tangerine Flake Streamline Baby, Radical Chic and Mao
Maoing the Flak Catchers, The Pump House Gang, and In
Our Time.

 

The Mock Convention Steering Committee
is looking for 55 people to chair individual state
committees. The state chairpersons are needed to
research their states political atmosphere to determine
how the state will vote in the upcoming presidential
primaries. They will also need to participate in
general fundraising activities. There will be an
orientation meeting this Thursday night in Northen
Auditorium at 6:30.

Committee Co-chairman John Donaldson said
the Steering Committee is planning the Spring kickoff
week this April 22-26. Congressmen, journalists, and
analysts are expected to fill the week’s lecture
schedule and there will also be a band in the GHQ
the night of the 26.

Donaldson said the committee is soliciting
donations from alumni by mail and by phone in an
effort to raise the $45,000 needed to hold the conven-
tion.

The committee has also asked for the help
of the faculty and administration in contacting a list
of potential speakers that ‘‘command a_ national
presence within the Democratic Party.’’

— By Andrew Tucker

Family-owned businesses
best, consultant says

Family-owned companies have to brace
themselves for tough times ahead, but they can still
fight back, the president of a family business consult-
ing firm told Washington and Lee students Monday.

‘‘Consolidation of competition, consolidation
of the trade, insufficient funding and internal family
problems are just a few of the challenges the family-
owned comedy will have to face,’’ said Jeff Mennen,
president and founder of the G.J, Mennen group.

According to Mennen, company mergers and
buyouts that dominated in the '80s are not going to
die away.

‘‘Now you have fewer and stronger players
out there that are looking to pick off smaller and
weaker ones, and family businesses is a target,’’ said
Mennen. Prior to his consulting career, Mennen was
the vice president of the Mennen Company, which is
a major producer of deodorants and aftershaves.

— By Max Gan

Executive Committee Secretary Jeffery
Kelsey won the seat for third-year law EC repre-
sentative with 39 of 54 votes cast on March 4.
Kelsey defeated
Chong Kim _ without
run-off, by 24 votes.
Clinton Shaw
faced John  “‘Jay"’
Sterne today in the run-
off for the second-year
law EC seat. Shaw
won 42 of the 113
votes to Sterne’s 32.
The two defeated
Johnson ‘‘Johnny’’

 

 

Jeffery Kelsey

Sarber, 19 votes; Douglas Kilday, 12; and Joanne
Bocketti, 8.

— By Rick Peltz

Flap in Florida over
‘Big Hair’

FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla — The never-
ending quest for ‘‘big-hair’’ created with the help of
spray has raised a cloud of controversy as middle
school students smuggle in the contraband cosmetic.

Students in Broward County say many of
their classmates smuggle the hairspray into school
despite the fact that it is banned by more that one-
third of the county’s 29 middle schools.

“I spend 30 minutes doing my hair. If you
don’t get to spray it to where it will hold, there’s no
point in doing it in the morming before school,’’
eighth-grader Shelley Kuntzman said of the ban,
which began at Seminole Middle School.

She says she uses a non-aerosol spray,
because she it’s not harmful to the environment. But
it also doesn’t hold as well, so she needs to spray
more often.

Students have lots of threories about the ban.

“If someone lights a cigarette in the bath-
room, plus the hair spray, it kind of like explodes,”’
seventh-grader Anika Omphroy said.

That theory was news to Cecil Austin,
assistant principal at Seminole. Administrators were
more concerned that students might spray their
classmates, either deliberately or by accident, he said.

— From the Associated Press

 
 

 

 

Photo Editor

*. «FO. 08

«= lCOS ee

OPINION

Onward
and Upward

With the death of Professor Clark Mollenhoff on
Saturday, Washington and Lee lost the paradigm of
unwavering dedication to principle. He had a genuinely
sincere disposition that elicited admiration among his friends
and respect among the people he tormented.

None of his students will soon forget his domineering
presence in the classroom. Nor will they forget the stories
he told about his experiences fighting graft, mismanagement
and corruption in virtually every level of government, from
the courthouse in Polk County, Iowa, to the White House in
Washington, D.C. He intimated himself with his students
through his method of teaching. His introductory journalism
students could count on spending two or three nights a week
summarizing war stories about his tireless campaign against
corruption embodied by the likes of Jimmy Hoffa, Bobby
Baker, Babe Bisignano and Luigi Fratto. He recorded these
stories in the textbook he wrote for his classes.

His life consisted of an _ unparalleled list of
accomplishments that most of us can only hope to
approximate: Pulitzer Prize winning journalist, author of 11
books, presidential counsel, authority in his field, versed poet
and devoted family man. He turned down an offer to play
professional football in order to devote his life to cleaning
up the government; indeed, in his hey day as a crusading
investigative reporter he was the nemesis of every corrupt
government official that ever thought of breaching public
trust. His absolute insistence on finding the truth certainly
places him in the same category with the country’s greatest
crusaders against crime, including his personal role model,
Lincoln Steffens.

Mr. Mollenhoff dedicated the last 15 years of his life to
bringing his experiences in Iowa and Washington to W&L.
How appropriate it is that he chose to impart his passion for
honesty on the students of Lee’s College, where honesty is
revered in principle and practice with unparalleled
enthusiasm.

Though we will no longer have the deep guttural voice
bellowing through Reid Hall, the memory of ‘‘the young
reporter’ behind that voice will continue to inspire us.

Fancy fun

In the past months, with news of lives lost and soldiers
injured during fighting in the Persian Gulf, continuing plans
for a pricey weekend of partying brought feelings of guilt.
In light of the circumstances, the cancellation of Fancy
Dress would have been a reasonable decision.

But this week, peace is settling over the desert, easing
our minds, releasing tension, and allowing us to almost
freely turn our minds to the concert, the bands, the
fireworks and the parties. Debates about just how the
Warner Center is going to be transformed into a medieval
castle just are not as trivial as they once seemed.

Whether you are going to the FD ball or just hanging out
with friends, we hope that this weekend is just what you
want it to be.

We do make one request. Be careful out there. Don’t
drink and drive. We know you’ve been warned a couple
times before but that can never be said enough.

Quote of the Week

“‘None of the other guys had any problems with their heads
falling off.’”’

— Senior Copy Editor Jason Kelley, reflecting on an
adolescent injury after which a chiropractor explained how
Kelley’s skull and the vertebrae in his neck were out of
alignment.

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Editors

Associate Editor
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor

Associate Sports Editor

Patricia Lopes, Andrew Waters
Alesha Priebe
Cathy Lopiccolo
Chris Baradel
Jason Kelley
Pam Kelley

Jay Plotkin
John Laney
Chris Leiphart
Jeff Woodland
Joshua Manning
Courtney Hall

Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant
Copy Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 7, 1991

 

 

 

 

 

Wortham refutes magazine’s claims

 

MY VIEW
By Prof. Anne Wortham

 

Some weeks ago I was contacted by the senior
editor of a magazine I had never heard of before
called The New American. He said he was writing
an article on black intellectuals who are critical of
mainstream approaches to civil rights and race rela-
tions policies, some of whom are friends and ac-
quaintances of mine.

When he told me of libertarian intellectuals
who had written for the magazine, I was surprised
that I had not heard of it. (I usually receive invita-
tions to subscribe to every libertarian or con-
servative publication that sprouts up.) But it was
on the basis of this representation by the editor and
his claim that he had interviewed people who
recommended me to him that I gave him the inter-
view. As it turns out, the magazine is a publica-
tion of the John Birch Society, an organization
which I have never regarded with. approval.

I talked to the editor at length about my ideas,
and even sent him some of my writings. But his
article completely misrepresents what I conveyed in
the interview. His most serious breach is his
demagogic and fallacious characterization of my
relationship with my colleagues and students at
Washington and Lee. No doubt this is as distress-
ful for students who have read the article as it is
for me.

I have written a letter of protest to the editor
that I feel obliged to share with the Washington
and Lee community. Below is the relevant excerpt
of the article, followed by the section of my letter
that addresses this matter. I very much regret that
my comments too were twisted in such a way as
to besmirch the University’s good name and totally
misrepresent the quality of life on our campus.

A professor of sociology at Washington and Lee
University and author of The Other Side of Rac-
ism, Wortham refuses to bend to the demands of the
academia thought police wno demana politically
correct thinking. She continues as an outspoken
champion of freedom and individualism. As a re-
sult, leftist students and faculty have carried out a
campaign that has successfully pressured the

Thanks from
Gulf soldier

February 11, 1991
Dear Washington and Lee students and faculty:
On behalf of my fellow servicemembers
currently serving in the Persian Gulf, I want to
thank you for your recent rally of support for our
effort to liberate Kuwait. Your voices of unity
and support crossed many miles to touch the
hearts of those serving aboard warships, at
airbases and in foxholes throughout the region.
Your support and patriotism are an important
element to our eventual success. In the difficult
days ahead we will draw on that support for
encouragement.

Sincerely,

CPT David Ridlon
U.S. Army

Class of '83

Religion debat
goes on...

Dear Mr. Bettendorf:

I respectfully acknowledge your efforts to
clarify and correct te various historical facts |
had cited in ‘‘The Christian West Is Not Perfect

 

University to deny her tenure. This year will be her,
last at Washington and Lee. Ironically, Wortham is
the only black professor at that university. Appar-
ently she is not ‘‘black’’ enough to satisfy her liber-
al white colleagues.

[EDITOR'S NOTE: The following is addressed
to a senior editor of The New American.)

Today one of my students informed me of the
appearance of the profile on me in your article on
‘‘Black Conservatives.’’ The student was surprised
to find me quoted in a John Birch Society publica-
tion, and concerned about your characterization of
the termination of my appointment at Washington
and Lee. I was shocked to learn that New Ameri-
can is a John Birch Society publication, that you
had interviewed me without disclosing your affilia-
tion, and distressed by the student’s report of what

_ he read. I have since read the profile and I am

“ outraged by your misrepresentation of my situation

‘and your slander of my colleagues and the students
at Washington and Lee....

Although I have had to contend with the
pressures of ‘‘political correctness’ all of my adult
life, that has not been the case at Washington and
Lee. Your —_ implication impugns the
University and those of us who are committed to
its mission. There has been no campaign by
students or faculty to pressure the University to
deny me tenure. On the contrary, most of the
students I have taught — including those who had
negative reactions to my courses — disagree with
the decision to deny my reappointment. Some even
wanted to wage a campaign protesting the deci-
sion, but I discouraged them. Indeed, it is the
continued support of students and their acknowl-
edgement of the positive impact of my courses on
their learning that enables me to continue teaching
with enthusiasm even in the face of the Uni-
versity’s rejection. I am heartened by the kind
concem and empathy these young people have
extended to me. I do my work in the certain
knowledge that on the whole they respect me as I
respect them. They don’t deserve your inclusion
of them in the ranks of students at other universi-
ties who are guilty of the educational barbarism
known as ‘‘political correctness.’’ You owe them
an apology.

Your conclusion that I am apparently - not
‘‘black’’ enough to satisfy my ‘‘leftist’’ white col-

(February 14), and I fully understand your point,
although I believe your rater anal love of
perfection handicapped your ability to understand
my point. But, as I said, your letter was well-
received. Whether I was trying to act as Univer-
sity’s Devil’s Advocate or Enlightener of the
Masses, I should have double-checked my facts
before whipping out my column in a fit of
passion, and not relied so heavily on memories
that extend as far back as my junior year in high
school.

I must, however, quibble with your on your
interpretation of Augustine’s life. Perhaps you
have forgotten (perhaps conveniently?) that
Augustine ‘‘experimented’’ with different sects of
Christianity before he established himself as a
paragon of orthodoxy. First he was a pagan, and
dallied in various pagan delights (such as
fornications), then he was a Manichaean (an
extremely rigorous and ascetic brand of heretical
Christianity), then he was a NeoPlatonist, and
then he joined the ranks of ‘‘orthodox’’
Christianity and was soon thereafter ordained
bishop of Hippo. Would you not question Pat
Robertson’s motives if he were to suddenly start
espousing the virtues of, say, Communism? What
if the Pope were to convert to Assyrian
Christianity (and thus start referring to the Virgin
Mary as ‘‘Mother of Christ’’ rather than
‘Mother of God).”’

I must also respond to your crack about Dr.
Silber’s article on multiculturalism, even though
you have since explained it to me. Are you
implying, perhaps, that I am one of those
supporters of ‘‘political correctness’’ who insists
on calling myself a Germano-lrish-penisless-

leagues is entirely your own and it is entirely
wrong; it reflects nothing I said to you. It is true
that I am not ‘‘black’’ enough for a few Washing-
ton and Lee students, but I have no evidence at all
that this is a problem for the faculty. If there are
any ‘‘leftist’’ faculty at W&L, I don’t know whe
they are. In any case, no faculty member has given
me reason to conclude that he or she views my
political philosophy as an intolerable attribute.
Civility, excellence, and honor are the ideals at
Washington and Lee, and people are not punished
for their ideas. There are no ‘‘thought police’ at
Washington and Lee.

Since I have no evidence that my colleagues in
the sociology department recommended against my’
reappointment for political reasons, I would never.
say that they did. And you wrong them by impos-
ing that explanation on their decision. If I told you.
anything it was what I have said to:other inquirers:
that’ my colleagues felt that my teaching (which*
some students thought was ‘‘over our head’’ and;
“‘boring’’) was costing the department in enroll-
ment and potential majors. I said I believed there’
were other factors involved that I have been unable
to ascertain, but I gave you no reason to conclude
that those factors were ideological in nature. How
is it possible that you can reach such a simplistic,
conclusion when I can’t?

You have been grossly unfair to me, to my
colleagues, the students and the University. Wash-
ington and Lee is a fine institution of learning, a.
I am very proud to be associated with it. If yc#
characterization of my experience here were tr
I would be very happy to leave. But the plain |
is that I do not want to leave.

Your statements and conjectures are sin
false, and I hope you will inform your reader:
your error. Please know that I am requesting
this letter be printed in the Washington and
student newspaper so that the University cc
munity will have no doubt about the high regar
have for students, faculty and staff. I hope that
this I can repair the damage caused by j

irresponsible demagoguery.

Sincerely,
Anne Wortham
Assistant Professor of Sociology

person-with-traces-of-English-Scottish-and-Welst.
ancestry -whose-ancestors-came-on-the
Mayflower-and-have-been-in-Virginia-since-the
17th-century-America? I should hope not! Or,
perhaps, do you think that I chose my majo:
(religion, which requires that I study other
cultures) and that I studied abroad last year
because I wanted to find as many ways to
denigrate and despise my own Western heritage
as possible? Get real, Mr. Bettendorf. There is no
one culture or civilization that is inherently better
than any other: that is an opinion I will defend
until my death. The danger of ethnocentrism in
any form is that we lose the opportunity to
enrich our own culture through healthy contact
with other cultures.

Laura C. Taylor

P.S. I hope that anyone other than Mr. Bettendorf
who might be reading this letter has not become
overly concerned about my seemingly arrogant
attitude; but if you have, then I suggest you get
an enema and lighten up! Mr. Bettendorf and I
have been friends ever since we were freshmen,
and he knows full well (I hope) how much I
enjoy giving him a hard time. I want everyone to
take very seriously what I said in the preceding
paragraphs, but I also want you to take it with a
grain of salt. Besides, | am graduating in June,
and thus I will not be around much longer to
pollute your minds.

[EDITOR'S NOTE: Due to limited space, we
would like to end for now this debate con-
cerning the relative value of the Christian
West and multi-culturalism. Thanks for the
letters.]

 

——— ee cme gimme: "emanate, Siemans” cme
The Ring-tum Phi, March 7, 199%
aay

 

 

 

     

 

ae

    
    

Hillel
honors
Judaism

By Tom Eisenhower
Staff Reporter

 

Hillel, a nationally affiliated W&L
Jewish student organization, is mak-
ing its presence felt on campus and
in Lexington.

The or-
ganization,
which has
about 12 mem-
bers, provides
‘ta Jewish iden-
tity on cam-
pus,’’ said
Hillel Trea-
surer Marc
Ackerman. One
of the club’s ...Hillel President
most important services is giving
students a way to celebrate religious

~—-

Doug Brown

 

Constru

 

cting Camelot

Fancy Dress workers prepare to dazzle students, faculty and alumni at “A Royal Festival at King
Arthur's Court.” Decorating for the 84th annual FD Ball began last weekend. The ball, featuring
Kings of Swing, will begin at 8 p.m. tomorrow night in Warner Center. Photo by Hal Waller.

holidays during the school year.
Hillel ‘‘is a chance for Jewish
students to get together once every
five or six weeks for a Sabbath din-
ner or to celebrate’’ religious hol-
idays, said club President Doug Bro-

 

 

Library to install new system

 

By Jennifer Gibson
Staff Reporter

 

How many times have you
waded through the library card cata-
logue, struggled with the call
number system and searched the
shelves, only to find the book you
want has already been checked out?

If this scenario sounds familiar,
don’t be discouraged. By the fall of
1991, the University Library will
install a computerized version of the
card catalogue, according to Head
Librarian Barbara Brown.

The on-line public access cata-
logue will enable users to locate
books, periodicals, and video and
audio cassettes within seconds. Any
student may enter a title, author,

subject. or key, word,, The. terminal.

will then. display, a, selection, which

can be further limited by language or

date, such as all works by Tolstoy in
Russian written before 1850.

‘We're hoping with this system,
students will use the collection more
efficiently,’’ said Brown.

In addition, this new system will
provide automated circulation and
automated acquisitions. These func-
tions do away with signing out books
manually, as well as computerizing
book orders and budget.

Eight terminals are anticipated for
the main floor of the undergraduate
library, according to Brown, with one
additional terminal located on every
floor.

Department library branches in
the journalism, geology, physics and
chemistry buildings, as well as the C-
school, will house one terminal each.

The system may also be accessed
from. the Jaw library, faculty, offices. .

or even student’s homes, if they haye
a personal computer and a modum.

 

ear Sf

.Head, Lib

 

Ane ft jicgt
Brown

rarian

wn. It ‘‘helps people remember the
holidays and their heritage,’’ Brown
added.

Ackerman said this function is
especially valuable during September,
when the “‘high holidays’’ of Rosh
Hashanah, the Jewish New Year and
Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement,
occur.

“These are very family oriented
holidays,’’ Ackerman explained. He
said Hillel gives students a com-
munity in which to celebrate them.

Lexington does not have a syn
agogue, so the club provides rides to
Roanoke or Staunton. Hillel also
holds a service in town in conjunc-
tion with its faculty adviser, W&L
Religion Professor Richard Marks,
Ackerman said.

In addition to providing support
for students, Hillel teaches about 10
to 15 local Jewish children about the
holidays, Brown said.

The club usually puts on some
activity for the children to remind
them of the specific event in Jewish
iis yn history commemorated by the holid-

ay.

 

 

Students act out diplomatic roles

 

By Sarah Drain

members attended, and Trammell said W&L had

Staff Reporter

 

Members of the Foreign Affairs Club at
Washington and Lee have been role-playing power-
ful world governments and attempting to achieve
peaceful resolutions to controversial topics through
debate.

Founded last year by junior Katherine Walther,
the Foreign Affairs Club allows students to study
politics and to further their public speaking skills,
said President Pete Trammel . Since last year, the
Foreign Affairs Club has attended three Model
United Nations conferences.

The club recently returned from Princeton
University over Washington Holiday. Seventeen

 

by J.R. Smith

Interviews and photos |

one of the top five delegations at the conference.

W&L’s delegations representing Germany and
a Special Political Committee won awards for best
delegations. Trammel said that W&L’s other
delegations were also very strong.

Junior Kevin Carl, one of the members of the
German delegation, worked in Germany for the
European Community during the summer and fall
term. By gaining political knowledge about
Germany first-hand, Trammel said Carl was well
prepared during the mock situation.

Trammel said there are 30 to 40 members at
large, many of whom are freshmen. Many of the
members participated in similar mock government
organizations while in high school.

Trammel said the freshmen are the most active
group in the club, and that he has been ‘‘really im-

 

 

pressed’’ by their contributions. Trammel said
current freshmen may occupy officers’ positions
next year.

Trammel said the ‘‘great thing about’ the club
is that there are no membership fees. There are
fees involved with the conferences, such as a $50
delegation fee when the members visited Princeton.
Trammel said students have low lodging expenses
by staying in dormitories.

Trammel said he is also considering hosting
a conference. Rather than have a large conference,
such as Model United Nations, Trammel said he
would like to start out small. Professors Craig Mc-
Caughrin and Milton Colvin are helping Trammel
organize the conference for next year.

Trammel said the group may travel to New
York City next year to participate in one of the
largest model United Nations Conferences.

 

     

 

   

 

 

TALKBACK

 

 

Take Flight

Two free airline tickets for any-
where in the U.S. will be awarded
to the student who proposes the
most creative use of the tickets.
Send a statement explaining how
you would use the tickets to Dean
Howison, Payne Hall. Entries
must be submitted by April 1.

Run

Petitions for class elections are
now available outside Carol Calk-
ins’ office in the University Cen-
ter. Completed petitions, signed
by 50 members of the candidate’s
class, are due at a mandatory
meeting on Monday, March 11, at
5 p.m. in the E.C. Room. Elec-
tions will be held March 18, from
8 a.m. to 4 p.m.

Go Abroad

James Madison University’s Inter-
national Internship Program is
accepting applications until April
1. Internships for September 1991
and January 1992 are available in
11 countries for 110 students. For
information, call Judy Cohen at
703-568-6979.

 

GENERAL NOTES

Report
Learn how to get newspaper
internships and full-time jobs.
Register for a newspaper job
clinic run by real people in the
industry right now. Contact Prof.
Hampden Smith, 463-8432 for
more information. Deadline for
registration is March 11.

Join Quiz Bowl

There will be a meeting Monday,
March 11, in the University Cen-
ter for anyone interested in the
College Bowl Club. Upcoming
meets at Georgia Tech and Duke
will be discussed. Any questions?
Call Tim Gallagher at 464-5586.

Get It Out

Need to let people know what
you're up to? Leave a note in the
General Notes envelope outside
The Ring-tum Phi office.

DG Alums

Any Delta Gamma alumnae cur-
rently at the law school who
would like to form an Alumnae
Association with undergrad alums,
call Cathy at 464-4553.

 

 

 

BOOMER

from page 1

 

of hard work, he gave extensive
three-hour exams, and required his
students to have writing assignments
prepared for each class period.

However, Mollenhoff was able to
retain an understanding of the _pres-
sures and committmentsof the under-
graduate student, and all but the most
flagrant abuses of his good faith in
his students could be forgiven by
what he called ‘‘the milk of human
kindness,’’ which always seemed to
flow from his heart as he calculated
grades.

A classic Mollenhoff pose was
one of him reclining in a chair in his
office, discussing a. problem in gover-
nment over the phone with a U.S.
Senator or other prominent political
figure. He kept scrapbooks filled with
newspaper clippings about issues he
was working on, and despite his size
it appeared at times that he was
going to be buried under the ' avalan-
cheof information.

But no matter how busy he was,
those around him appreciated the way
he would always make time for them.

‘‘When you walked in his of-
fice,’’ said journalism professor Ro-
bert de Maria, ‘‘no matter how busy
he was, he always had a minute for
you.”

Senior Melinda Conkling said,
‘‘Although he was a busy man and
kept up with world affairs, he still
had time to do the little things, like
ask how the girls’ lacrosse team was
doing. He never wanted to lose touch
with the students, even though he

FD theme?

was in touch with everything else.’’

There are many things he taught
his students, but they all centered
around his ‘‘Seven rules of sound
investigative reporting.’’ He stressed
thorough record research and cor-
roboration of facts.

‘*He thought it was his duty to
see that justice was served in all
facets of life,’’ said sophomore Phil
Spears, ‘‘and he felt he had a sincere
obligation to teach us that ideal, as
well as precision and thoroughness in
all endeavors.”’

Mollenhoff’s contribuiions to stu-
dent growth at Washington and Lee
did not stop at the doors of the jour-
nalism building. Many journalism
non-majors who would otherwise
have never even set foot in Reid Hall
enrolled in his classes to see for
themselves what a Mollenhoff class
was like. :

‘‘He made an overwhelming im-
pression on me,’’ said senior David
Johnson, ‘‘You remembe: him more
than the material itself. I remember I
enjoyed the class just because of
him.’’

An Iowa native, Mollenhoff’s love
for his home state continued unabated
even through the time he spent in
Washington, D.C., and in Lexington.
He was buried in lowa today, gone
from the Washington and Lee cam-
pus, but certainly not to be forgot-
ten. Although he is with us no Ion-
ger, anyone who knew him can rest
assured that Clark Mollenhoff is
moving onward, and upward.

 

Hey...now ‘bout that

 

 

 

 

Amy Panella, °93, Baltimore,
MD -— ‘‘I’ve been working on -
the gym and I think it’s going to going.’’
look great.’’

 

Tom Ciyan, ’94, Fairfax, VA

“Tt sucks

‘cause I’m not = ‘‘The what?"’

Chris Bray, 91, Dunwoody, GA

 

 

Caroline Tsuji, °92, Oxnard, CA
= ‘‘After working so hard on it,
everyone else better like it.’’

 

Chip Ridge, ’93, FD Ceiling
Chairman, Louisville, KY = ‘‘It
sucks because John Flippen is
chairman.”’

 

 

 

 

John Flippen, ’92, FD Chair-
man, Florence, AL “lm
really proud of Chip’s ceiling.”’

 

 
SPORTS siieidili
enerals top Macon for first win

4

Golf among ||
nation’s elite «

 

Junior Jeff Roberts makes his move around a Randolph-Macon goals as the Generals beat the Yellow Jackets 11-5 in an Old
defender in Wednesday's lacrosse game. Roberts scored three Dominion Athletic Conference game. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

ss sssaceaedeeldadiehaainiaiaueaeeacuniaaaeise ie ccc
By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

It took a while, but the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s lacrosse team
finally got things going against Ran-
dolph-Macon Wednesday.

The Generals, ranked 13th in
Division III, scored the last seven
goals of the game after giving up a
goal early in the third quarter to win
their first game of the season 11-5.
Senior Clark Wight and junior Jeff
Roberts each had three goals to lead

  

tic, or just friends.

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

TWO GREAT NEW GAMES!
A Enchanted Evening and Getting to Know You Better
Both suitable for couples in any type of relationship, roman-

the attack.

“It looked like we started slow
because we just weren’t putting the
ball in the net,’’ said head coach Jim
Stagnitta. ‘‘We were doing what we
wanted to, but we were stuffed on
our first five opportunities.’’

W&L trailed 3-1 in the second
quarter when Stagnitta called a time
out with 12:10 left.

“*T just had to settle them down a
little bit,’’ the second-year coach said.
“I gave them the green light to be
aggressive on offense, and sometimes
I probably trust their judgment more
than I should, but they reacted well.

  

 

 

Monday - Saturday 10 a.m.-5p.m.
31S. Main Street, Lexing

on 463-3355

 

 

 

   
 
    
     
      

I just told them to settle down and
gave them a set to work out of, and
then let them go.’’

W&L responded with two goals in
25 seconds to tie the game at 3-3.
Wight and sophomore John Hunter
did the damage.

After Macon scored early in the
third quarter to forge ahead for the
last time at 5-4, W&L simply took
over the game. Again, W&L asserted
itself after a timeout.

Wight scored his third goal of the
day to tie the game off a feed from
Hunter 11 seconds after the timeout.
W&L took the lead for good with

 

just over one minute left in the quar-
ter when Roberts scored off a feed
from Wight.

W&L then scored five straight
goals in the fourth quarter, all in a
five minute span. Roberts had two
goals, and seniors Andy Guida and
Todd Garliss and junior Drew Anton
finished the scoring.

Offensively, Stagnitta was pleased
with the performance.

“We got some good goals,’’ he
said. ‘‘Our midfielders, Hunter, Wight
and Garliss, created all kinds of op-
portunities. Roberts decided that he
was just going to run by his man,

BA Se ee ge Sta Se rn ree m
see (ee te ars
x Sees oy .

‘ Tegede See Teka 2 Sit Pi *

11 S. Randolph Street

Now Carries
Rolling Stone Magazine
Mon.-Thurs, 11-8, Fri. 11-7, Sat. 11-5

 

COLOR PIN CARNIVAL

Over 50 waysto win money. __

 

 
 
   
  
 
    

   

  

and Drew Anton made some things
happen. I think he came into his own
today.”’

W&L’s defense was equally tough
as the offense. In the second half,
W&L forced R-MC into failed clears
on nine of 12 chances and picked up
43 ground balls to Macon’s 24.

“Our defense, especially [junior
Robert} Huke and [senior David]
Farace, picked the ball up and got
our offense going,’’ said Stagnitta.
‘(Sophomore Derek] Hutton con-
trolled the faceoffs, and [senior Mike]
Pardo picked up every loose ball. If
the ball is in his area, it’s his. He
works hard, and he has a knack for
picking up loose balls.’’

Senior Tom Costello made 13
saves on the day and didn’t allow a
goal in the final 24 minutes of ac-
tion.

“If Tommy just has to react, he’s
terrific,’’ said Stagnitta. ‘‘He’s got
some great reactions. He stuffed some
one-on-ones, and he also made good
decisions on clears.”’

W&L was successful on 15 of 24
clear attempts.

Next up for the Generals, 1-1, 1-
0 in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, is a Saturday afternoon clash
with Franklin and Marshall, the No.
7 team in Division II, on Wilson
Field. Despite the game falling imme-
diately after the Fancy Dress Ball,
Stagnitta is not worried about his
team being distracted.

‘‘We know we have the No. 7
team in the nation coming in,’’ he
said. ‘‘We know we have worked our
tails off for six weeks. I don’t think
one night is going to stand in the
way of what we want to do.

‘We will be ready to play when
we step on the field on Saturday.”’

The game will start at 2 p.m.

in preseason.

 

From W&L Sports Information «

 

Usually, the sophomore jinx is
something you’d want to avoid, ani
most definitely, it’s something you’d
rather not repeat. .

However, Washington and Leg
golf coach Buck Leslie wouldn't
mind it a bit of his own version of
the ‘‘sophomore’’ jinx stuck around)
for another year, or even two.

Leslie watched last year as @
quartet of sophomores — Clay Thom-
as, Brad Thoburn, Jay McKnight and
Dave Carroll — paced his team to its
best-ever finish at the NCAA Divi-
sion III national championships.

The Generals, winners of the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference, fin-
ished seventh at nationals and Thom”
as and Thoburn were both named,
Division III All-Americans. Leslie’s
hoping those four former sophomores
along with senior co-captain Brian
Kopet will jinx his squad’s fortunes
once again. <

‘We have a very strong nucleug)
of returning lettermen,’’ said Leslidt
who is preparing for his 17th seasong
at the W&L golf helm. ‘‘We hav
proven quality players at the top o}
our lineup. However, we will have te
work very hard and find some quality
depth, if we are going to continue té
contend at the top.’’

The experts have put the Generals
among the elite already. Préseasor
polls had W&L as high as seventh ir
the nation. Leslie likes the attention
but the veteran coach isn’t going to

  
  
   
    
  
   
   
 
    
 

Q) Please see Golf page 5

 

| CRE OGRE cons) RID (

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

> D0 EEE EAD) ND () EP () NED () D-DD (CER

W&L Students, we welcome you to our shop for your
next hair cut. We have three experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop
22 S. Main St., Lexington

 

: SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
= We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

 

464-6666

Affordable

 

 

_ You do not need to be a League bowler to bowl! _

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials
$1.50 per Game $1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl Bowling
Every Friday Night Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
11 PM- 2 AM Win FREE games

US HWY - 11 North 464-BOWL (2695)

 

Elegance

For reservations
call

703-366-2444
ay

|
;
}
i
i:

 

 

»

SPORTS

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee baseball
team used the simple combination of
good pitching and timely hitting to
sweep a season-opening three-game
set from visiting West Virginia Tech
last weekend.

The three wins to start the season
equal W&L’s total in 1989, when the
Generals recorded their first winning
season since 1972.

W&L got a spectacular perform-
ante from its ace in the opener on
Friday and then got a surprise from a
pitcher whose earned run average was
over 10 last season to start Saturday’s
double-header.

On Friday, junior Steve Momorel-
la, a first-team All-Old Dominion
Athletic Conference performer last
year, was simply overpowering. The
right-hander allowed just five hits and
one earned run while striking out 15
in a 5-3 complete game win.

While Momorella’s gem could
have been expected, head coach Jeff
Stickley might never have dreamed
for what happened in the first game
of Saturday’s double-dip.

Junior T.J. Daly took the mound
and hurled a five-hit shutout, leading
the way for a 6-0 win. Daly didn’t
allow a runner past second base in
earning his first career shut-out. Last
year, in five starts, Daly had an un-
flattering ERA of 10.41.

In the second game of the twin-
bill, Daly rested his pitching arm and
warmed up his bat, leading the way
in a 8-4 win with two RBI. Freshman
Kevin Emerson pitched four innings
of one-run relief to earn the win.

W&L hit an astounding .303 for the
series,

3 Bedroom Apartment

Living room, kitchen and bathroom. Located 5
miles from campus. Route 631. Barn and pasture
for horses. Available June Ist. Call 463-4856.

Leadoff man Brian Harper was
eight of 13 in the series and stole
four bases. Junior Fred Renneker hit
only .200, but stole three bases and
scored four runs. Freshman Eric
Peifer backed Daly’s pitching with an
RBI triple and scored three runs on
the weekend. Daly hit .333 and had
four RBI.

While Momorella and Daly turned
in spectacular pitching performances,
their battery-mate, senior Chris Kav-
anagh says the team’s hitting could
still get better.

“*Steve pitched well, and T.J. was
on,’’ said Kavanagh. ‘‘But we still
haven’t come around at the plate.”’

The Generals hit a paltry .235 as
a team last season, and while they
improved on that mark drastically in
the first three games, Kavanagh says
it can still get better.

‘We've improved a lot,’’ said the
Generals’ catcher, ‘‘but we’ve still
got some work to do. I can’t wait to
see what happens when we all start
hitting the way we can. It should be
something.”’

Daly, who doubles as a first base-
man when he is not pitching, credits
the early improvement in hitting to
hard work and some new coaches.

‘‘We worked a good deal in the
fall,’’ he said. ‘‘We’re two or three
weeks ahead of the game right now.
We've also got two new coaches
working with us.”’

Mike Lilly and Jack Baizley
joined Stickley’s staff this year. Baiz-
ley is helping out with the hitting.

“It’s great having a hitting in-
structor,’’ Daly said. ‘‘He’s got us
thinking at the plate, and last year we
were just hoping while we were
batting. We’ve improved a lot, but
we can still get better.’’

Lilly and Baizley have freed

 
   
    
   

nat Tt a dba

  
  

 

Holly Farms -G

  

Mth on
LOW PRICES
EVERY DAY!

Another Reason To Switch To Harris Teeter!

The Ring-tum Phi, March 7, 1991

 

W&L hitting sweeps WV Tech

 

 

Junior T.J. Daly fires a strike in his complete game shutout win
Saturday over West Virginia Tech. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Stickley up to work with the pitchers,
instead of having to concentrate on
everyone, and that has been a help,
Daly said.

Daly also said the team is more
experienced, and that is another rea-
son for the early improvement.

‘‘Some of us have played a full
year now,”’ he said. ‘‘And we’ve all
improved. Now, all the way through

the line up, we’ve got people who
are improved and are more experi-
enced. And we should improve more
as the season goes on.”’

The Generals will look to get
more positive experience today.
Momorella takes the mound looking
for his second win against Division I
Holy Cross on Smith Field.

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

@)) 203 N. Main St.

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

463-9455 @@@

 

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee
men's and women’s tennis teams
opened their Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference seasons with
wins on Wednesday.

The women did not lose a set
and dominated Emory and Henry
9-0. Only one of the 18 sets
played was closer than 6-1.

 

The men faced a bit tougher

 

SPORTS NOTEBOOK ~

of a challenge in Hampden-Syd-
ney. W&L was extended to dou
bles after H-SC took two singles |
matches, but the Generals clinch-
ed a 7-2 win by sweeping all |
three doubles matches.

The W&L women’s lacrosse
team opens its season Friday. The
Generals, who finished last year
with a 6-5 record, will host Frost
burg State on Liberty Hall Field
at 3 p.m.

 

 

Golf

from page 4

 

get carried away.

“The polls are nice, but they
don’t mean a lot to us right now,”’
said Leslie, whose .877 career win-
ning percentage perhaps speaks louder
than any poll ever could. ‘‘The polls
will be more meaningful at the end
of next spring.”’

Polls or no polls, not many can
quibble with the Generals’ store of
talent. In addition to being an All-
American last year, Thomas was All-
ODAC and Golfer of the Year. He
was medalist at the Ferrum Invitation-
al and finished fourth at the State
Intercollegiate Championships.

Joining him on the All-ODAC
team was McKnight, who in his two
ODAC Championships has finished
no lower than second. Thoburn was
hotter than any golfer at the end of
1990, finishing fifth at the ODAC
Championships before earning All-
America honors with an 18th-place
finish at the NCAAs.

Beyond those three, Lesiie has
senior Kopet, a consistent scorer who

had W&L’s low round in tw
matches last year; Carroll, an up
and-down player whose openin;
round was crucial to W&L’s ODA‘
title last year; and Bernie Porter,

sophomore who shot a 74 in th
W&L Fall Classic. Leslie also
ed to freshman Scott Robinson ar

junior Cliff Burrow as players wl

could contribute this season.

The Generals have the usual ste
slate of ODAC round-robin maiche
in addition to a few new stops on th
1991 schedule, including the pres
gious Dick Gordon Invitational
South Carolina. W&L will be poi
ing toward the same success of th
sophomores of 1990, and now a yeai
later, they all could be a year better
too.

‘*We, as a team, have to be sur
that our work ethic is greater than
our expectations,’ Leslie said. ‘We
must practice hard and smart ecac!
day and play each contest as it come
up on the schedule. Then we cai
look at the polls.’’

point

Help Wanted

Life Guards - Lexington Golf & Country Club.
May 25 - Sept. 2. Must be certified. Salary Range:
$4.50-$5.00 per hour. Contact: Mr. Paige 463-4141

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NYA PRS TIS TET R ELE RE EES ES

aes

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, March 12, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, March 12, 1991 In |

We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Fed

 

-
B 4
e
*s
«

*
-

 
W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, March 7, 1991

 

Rules for a perfect FD knight

 

By Jennifer Zambone and
Pamela Kelley of the Phi staff
aa Speier

In the past week, our campus has
been inundated with several types of
stories about The Fancy Dress Ball.
[he printed stories have dealt
primarily with the ball’s theme and
explorations thereof. You have heard
stories via the grapevine which were
interesting, somewhat informative and
which focus around one major issue:
FD weekend is a time of heartbreak
and romance. For this reason, it is
strikingly appropriate that the aura of
chivalry and amour which are key to
the tradition surrounding King Ar-
thur’s Court, somewhat resembles the
tradition of FD.

You are probably wondering how
to make this weekend the perfect one,
or at least a bearable one. You may
find comfort in knowing that the
questions conceming correct behavior
in a potentially romantic encounter
have been pondered for centuries, and
never more so than in the Middle
Ages and the works of Arthurian
Literature of the period. It would
seem doubly fitting if, upon trying to
solve any possible romantic dilemmas
of the weekend, you look toward
figures in Arthurian legend and
medieval courtier Andreas Capellanus’
Rules of Courtly Love to guide your
conduct in affairs of the heart.

Ladies first. Girls, the first rule
of the evening is not to follow the
examples of Queen Guenevere or La
Beale Isoud when planning a poten-
tially romantic encounter. Famous
lovers they may be, but both women
were primarily known for their ex-
traordinary shrewishness. Isoud, who
was constantly paranoid, tried to kill
her faithful handmaiden, and

QO ee ae

)

23 N. Main St.
> Lexington, VA 24450

Guenevere through her constant nagg-
ing and overwhelming jealousy literal-
ly drove Launcelot insane.

Although Capellanus said ‘‘He (or
she) who is not jealous cannot love’’,
these ladies carried their jealousy to
extremes. So before you start to nag
your date about his choice of frater-
nity brothers, the way he looks, acts
or any other such topic, remember
these ladies’ example and curb the
tongue a bil.

Depending upon the situation,
better examples to emulate are
provided by Sir Caradoc’s wife and
Dame Lynette, the Damosel Sauvage.
If your date is ‘‘a knight in shining
armour,’”’ be like Sir Caradoc’s wife
and remain faithful to him for at
least the evening. If your date doesn’t
care or treats you in an inconsiderate
manner, follow Dame Lynette’s lead:
do your own thing, play the field and
maybe you will still derive some
enjoyment from the evening.

The method of acquiring an FD
date is known to be a bit haphazard.
Thus if halfway through the evening,
or from the very beginning, you
begin to question your judgement,
just remember the following:

i. ‘* Boys do not love until they
arrive at the age of maturity.”’

ii. ‘‘Good character alone makes
any man worthy of love.”’

iii. ‘‘A man who is vexed by too
much passion usually does not love.”’

iv. "No one should be deprived of
love without the very best

of reasons."

v..* A man in love is always
apprehensive.”’

Next, gentlemen, your task in
accordance with the tradition of
courtly love, is a difficult one, for
this type of romance centered around
the worship of women and required

ren

Opp agave’

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

(703)463-5968 ¢

DP DIVLS QV OVP LP PV PPP LP PPP OPAPP DOP

 
  
 
    
 
   
   
    
    
    
      
     
 

  
 

March 18, 1991.

resume to Director

will be required.

¥ the

efferson

florist to The Homestead
Ten East Nelson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841

JOB
OPPORTUNITY

Applications from members of the Class of
1991 who wish to be considered for W&L’s
alumni staff associate position for the
1991-92 academic year aredue by Monday,

should submit a letter of application and

James D. Farrar, Jr.
The position is currently held by Joel
Smith ’90 and becomes available on July 1.
A personal interview for each applicant

Graduating seniors

of Alumni Programs
in the Alumni Office.

© Teleflora’

a
a

 

      
    

to live up to the ideals of the lady he
loved. Needless to say, you have
your work cut out for you. Don’t
despair, however, for Arthurian litera-
ture is rife with role models for you
to follow.

If you wish to win your lady’s
love, do not behave like Sir Kay and
carp about everything and anything in
sight. Do not complain about a) the
price of tickets, b) the price of din-
ner, c) the price of flowers, d) anyth-
ing else concerning money. Your
date does not want to hear a price
list; she wants to hear more interest-
ing things murmured in her ear.
Furthermore, heed Capellanus, who
said ‘‘Love is always a stranger in
the home of avarice.”’

The best technique to study until
you know it forward backwards and
even sideways, belongs to Sir
Gawain, pre-Malory Gawain to be
precise.

If ever a man, can light a
woman’s fire, it was this guy.
Although Gawain was married at
least three times and was an active
participant in numerous one night
stands in between, sexual exploits did
not solely gamer him his good
reputation. A popular quote uttered
during the afterglow by many of his
paramours succinctly summed up his
performance: ‘‘Sweet Jesu, what a
man!”’

Gawain’s secret was that he was
a first and foremost a gentleman. He
knew the laws of courtesy and
obeyed them. He would not dream
of scamming on his best friend’s date
nor of deserting his own date and he
would never offend a lady. Witness
his encounter with Dame Ragnell, a
position which some of you might
think parallels your own.

Gawain, through an arrangement

made by his uncle, marries the Lady
Ragnell who was indisputably one of
the ugliest women ever. (I assure you
whatever low opinion you may have
of your date’s looks, she is no where
near Ragnell’s league)

On their wedding night,
however, he kissed her, and she was
transformed into one of the most
beautiful ladies in Camelot His
chivalric behavior allowed her to
sustain her beauty and she is con-
sidered his greatest love.

So boys, behave like Sir Gawain
and your date will have nothing
about which to complain, and if she
ever says anything nasty about the
way you behaved, you can sue her
for slander.

However, like the ladies, there are
a few of Capellanus’ rules that you
should take into consideration.

i. ‘It is not proper to love any
woman whom one would be

ashamed to seek to marry.”

ii. “A true lover considers noth-
ing good except what he thinks will
please his beloved.”

iii. ‘‘"Every act of a lover ends in
the thought of his beloved.’

iv. ‘That which a lover takes
against the will of his

beloved has no relish.’’

v. ‘tA lover can never have
enough of the solaces of his
beloved.”’

Didn't I say that you had the
harder task?

Well, there it is, how everyone
desirous of an amorous time should
conduct themselves, following ex-
amples of some of the best medieval
role models ever. Last, there is one
key point which everyone, regardless
of sex, should know:

‘Love can deny nothing to love.”’
But don’t forget that chastity belt...

 

 

Mon-Fri 9-5 /
130 S. Main St.

 
 

pn otenT nen

oe
PHONE: 463 - 1712

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA *

Sat 9-12 noon
463-7969

 
 

 
   

 

¥v

* FAX * BINDING « FLYERS
* PERSONALIZED INVITATIONS »
* LABELS *» TRANSPARENCIES *

=n

FAX #: 463 - 6918
ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

WEEKLY CALENDAR

Fancy Dress Weekend.

Law School Spring Holiday begins.

WOMEN'S LACROSSE: Generals vs. Frostburg College.

Liberty Hall Field.

MATH COLLOQUIUM: "On the Partial Differential Equation
bu+u4+u® » 0," Joseph A. Cima, U.N.C., Chapel Hill.
Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 3 p.m. in Room 2,
Public invited.

FANCY ORESS BALL: Warner Center.

3 p.m.

3:30 p.m.

9p.m.

1:30 p.m. OPERA BROADCAST: Der Rosenkavalier (R. Strauss).
WLUR-FM (91.5).
MEN'S LACROSSE: Generals vs. Franklin & Marshall. Wilson Field

AWAY ATHLETICS: OUTDOOR TRACK (W): Davidson Invitational

2p.m,

3 p.m.
4:30 p.m,

BASEBALL: Generals vs. Bridgewater College. Smith Field.

GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: A reading by author
Peter Carey. Reception to follow. Northen Auditorium,
University Library. Public invited.

12Noon WA&L Employees Christian Fellowship Brown Bag Lunch.
Room 114, University Center.

COMPUTER SCIENCE COLLOQUIUM: "Local Area

Networks,” Bert Dempsey, University of Virginia. Room 25,
Robinson Hall, Refreshments at 2:30 in Room 2. Public
invited.

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Hollins College. Varsity Courts.

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT; ! siornship
Workshop. Room 109, University Center.

AWAY ATHLETICS: MEN'S TENNIS: James Ma: ison.

LECTURE: “Upper Canadian Electoral History, “337 - 1866,"
Elwood Jones, Trent University, Peterborough, Ontario.
Room 7, Newcomb Hall, Public invited.

3 p.m.

3:30 p.m.
4p.m.

7 p.m,

3 p.m.
8 p.m.

MEN'S LACROSSE: Generals vs. Roanoke College. Wilson Field
CONCERT: Scottish Chamber Orchestra, conducted by
Jukka:-Pekka Sarasate, Lenfest Center.

 

    

os ww

—

 

 

 

Rockbridge Music

For the best in acoustic and electric in-
struments, amps, and accessories at dis-
counted prices.

463-5455 205 N. Main St.

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

 

ait e Redken

     
 
 

  
  
     
    
 

¢ Paul Mitche

 George’s
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

le Sebastian L

 

 

Have a
Happy, Safe
Fancy Dress

Weekend

 

 

Large Farm House
In Country

10 miles west (10 minutes)
Recently Remodeled.

5 Bedrooms
Lots of Outdoors
Available June |st

463-6575 Office
463-2868 Home

MALS AAA TRS SARL

rs

 

Robby Jones

703/463-2022

Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St.
With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

    
    

LEE HI RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

  

Route 11 North

   

Open 24 Hours

 
   
    
    
    
 

 

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual
or student organization needed to
promote Spring Break trip. Earn
money, free trips and valuable work
experience. CALL NOW! Inter-
Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013.

aqudiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

Zi Rollerblade.

 

   
   
  
  
      

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

Sales & Rentals

LOVE sanoas

 

 

 

 

Leaner

 

 

%

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oe
on”
March 8, 9 and 10

Caravans

121 West Nelson Street/464-3500
Open daily 10 AM - 6 PM
Sunday Noon - 6 PM

 
 

STUDENT
ACCOUNTS
AVAILABLE

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd's)
464-3000

 

 

 

 

i
o

*

 

7

 

 

 
*.

~

~

—

~—— Che Ring

G0

VOLUME_Z, NO. 23

Panhel bids
Pi Beta Phi

Atkins: despite DG failure,
W&L needs fourth sorority

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

Less than two months after Delta Gamma sorority’s
second failure to colonize at Washington and Lee,
Panhellenic Council members say they hope to invite Pi
Beta Phi sorority to establish a colony here.

Panhellenic Publicity and Extension Chairman Sonja
Tillberg said the possibility of inviting another chapter to
replace Delta Gamma has existed since DG national
members decided not to colonize here after a disap-
pointing Rush in January. Tillberg said moves to invite
another sorority to establish here had been delayed until
a formal study explaining DG’s failure could be com-
pleted.

Tillberg discussed the reasons behind the failed
colonization attempt with DG representatives and sur-
veyed women who participated in the Rush last month.
Although she did not disclose her findings, she said ‘‘I
think everyone realizes the need for another sorority here.
We need to do something about chapter size at this point.
It’s a question of numbers, period.”

Associate Dean of Students for Greek Affairs Leroy
‘‘Buddy”’ Atkins said sororities currently have about 130
members, with ideal chapter sizes set at 70 members.
According to Atkins, the establishment of another W&L
sorority would alleviate, but not solve the problem of
chapter size.

‘To solve the problem would mean two or three
more sororities,’’ Atkins said.

He said one sorority must first have a successful
colonization before others may be brought on, however.

‘The only thing that concerns me is the timing, we
really need to be sure the sorority succeeds the next time
we do this,’’ he said.

Atkins also mentioned that Pi Beta Phi representatives
might have reservations about coming onto campus after
DG’s recent failure to become established here. He added
however, he has received two letters from other sororities
interested in colonizing here.

Pi Beta Phi has made two presentations to the cam-
pus in the past two years in hopes of colonizing at
W&L. It was considered for one of the first three
sorority colonizations in 1989. Last year, Delta Gamma
was chosen over Pi Beta Phi to become the fourth W&L
sorority, although Pi Beta Phi was promised it would
receive the next colonization invitation.

Before Pi Beta Phi can be asked to colonize at W&L,
the Panhellenic Council must receive approval from the
Student Activities Committee to invite them. Atkins also
said national members of the W&L sororities should be
notified before Pi Beta Phi is invited to colonize here. He
said the whole process should take a week.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Prospective students take a tour around a snowy Washington
and Lee campus yesterday as they listen to a tour ‘guide's :

flattering oratory about t

Chris Leiphart)

he university's virtues. (Staff photo by

 

 

Hatcher, city face off over tax

 

-tum Phi

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 14, 1991

Alumni balk
at gifts to
university

Law recruitment policy
angers military veteran

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

A Law School faculty policy
prohibiting the military from recruit-
ing on the law campus could inhibit
fund raising for Mock Convention
and Washington and Lee.

John S. Mason, W&L ’69 and
U.S. Navy veteran, in a letter to the
Mock Convention Steering Committee
that was passed to the Executive
Committee, said that for him to
donate money after the Law School
policy change would be
‘inappropriate,"’ as part of his in-
come is derived from the military.

Executive Director of Develop-
ment Lex McMillan said his office
has not received Mason’s letter, but
at least two other alumni ‘‘have
expressed concern and dismay’’ at the
policy, he said.

After meeting with University
President John Wilson on Wednesday,
EC President Tom Hatcher said that
Wilson and Law School Dean Ran-
dall Bezanson are preparing a letter
of protest to the Association of
American Law Schools, an agency
with which W&L is accredited

The AALS mandated last August
that its member schools pass a policy
which, among other requirements,
prohibits employers that lawfully
discriminate against homosexuals
from using campus placement facili-
ties.

The law faculty amended its poli-
cy Feb. 11 to conform with the
AALS mandate, thus excluding the
military from recruiting at W&L.

After a student outcry and peti-
tion by more than 225 law students,
the faculty reconsidered its decision
on March 4, but took no action.

‘*There’s the real potential for a
financial backlash’ to the policy in
alumni contributions, Hatcher said.

Mason said his donations to the
school are small and irregular, but
that he took a stand on principle.

‘‘Many of my fellow alumni have
served with distinction in the military
and have valued the experience,’’ said
Mason’s letter. ‘‘It is unfortunate
that the university seeks to deny [that
to] future graduates.’’

McMillan said there is no way to
measure the policy’s economic effect
on the university.

He said that a phone campaign to
solicit contributions to the Annual
Fund in Houston this week has gone
“very well,’’ and he has not heard
of the policy affecting activity there.

Mock Convention Treasurer John
Darden said Monday Mason’s letter
was the only such letter he has
received. He said Mason was con-
tacted as part of a fundraising effort
to reach alumni who gave al least
$100 to the last Mock Convention.

Bezanson, though he would not
comment on Mason’s letter, said one
issue the law faculty considered in its
original debate was W&L’s AALS
accreditation.

Bezanson said he does not know
if non-compliance with AALS policy
would cost accreditation, but he said
such a loss ‘‘would be a substantial
matter.”

Hatcher said the Wilson-Bezanson
letter, though not yet final, will prob-
ably point out that the policy has
caused divisiveness at other Virginia
law schools as well as W&L.

An AALS policy at the Univer-
sity of Virginia law school was sus-
pended by the UVa. president ‘*pend-
ing reexamination,’’ according to
UVa. Law Prof. George Rutherglen.

4 Beard

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

The president of the Executive Committee told
city officials last week that as hard as the city tries
to collect the car tax, W&L students will try
harder not to pay it.

EC President Tom Hatcher Thursday told
members of the Lexington City Council that the
city and students will ‘‘continue to butt heads’’ on
the tax issue because the two groups ‘‘cannot agree
on a compromise.”’

Briefing the council on meetings between
student representatives and selected city officials,
Hatcher said students are not willing to give up
federal privacy rights by letting the university turn
over a list of student cars registered with W&L.
Members of the city government had offered to let
students pay only three-fourths of the annual tax
rate since they are here only nine months out of
the year if the list was provided.

Hatcher also said he did not understand why
the city would not accept the student proposal of
a ‘‘parking fee’’ paid by students with cars. He

said any student payment to the city should be
based on how much parking space student vehicles
take up, ‘‘not on what kind of car | drive.”’

Hatcher told the council there are two
differences of opinion at the heart of the
disagreement:

First, the city views students as Lexington
citizens while students consider themselves
‘‘extended visitors.’’ Hatcher said the result is that
the city is taxing non-wage earners oF students’
parents.

He also said the city considers the tax dispute
a legal question while students feel they ‘‘already
make a significant contribution’ to the local
economy.

“But since the city thinks it is a legal
question,’’ said Hatcher, ‘students are going to use
every legal means available not to pay ie

Hatcher said such methods could include
switching cars during the year or parking them
outside the city limits so that they are not garaged
in the city for more than six months. Virginia state
law says that a car must be ‘‘principally
domiciled’ within a municipality for the majority
of the year in order for the municipality to collect

personal property tax on it.

Hatcher told the council students would be
under the Honor System if they signed a city
exemption form saying their car is not within
Lexington for more than six months.

In response to a question from councilman
Sidney Brown, Hatcher said it would be the city’s
legal responsibility to prove that a student was
lying when they signed the exemption. But he
urged city officials to report any such case to the
EC.

After Hatcher repeatedly mentioned the
university’s $45,000 annual donation to the city,
councilman Timothy Golden asked how that gift
could be construed as coming from students.
Hatcher said the university is the student’s
representative to the city and that the contribution
comes out of student tuition.

Golden responded by asking if the donation
would increase when tuition goes up.

Councilwoman Louise Moore asked Hatcher
why he thought the tax was unfair to students and
not to residents. Hatcher told her that even if
students paid the tax here, they would still be
paying tax at home.

 

‘pleased’
about FD

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

 

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard wasn’t at the Royal Festival at
King Arthur’s Court Friday evening.
He didn’t party with Bo Diddley on
Thursday, or attend any of the frater-
nity functions Saturday afternoon and
evening.

For a man who didn’t join stu-
dents and faculty for Washington and
Lee’s social extravaganza, Fancy
Dress weekend was great.

‘Last year was a good Fancy

Tom Hatcher

Student’s lost card

found the

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

 

When senior Mellissa Weller
misplaced her University Card last
January, she thought little of it.

“T must have left it in the C-
School copier,’’ said Weller. ‘‘I never
thought it was gone. I didn’t even
realize it was missing until several
days later.”’

Weller retrieved the card from the
Commerce School secretary after
someone had tured it in, Case
closed. After all, this is Washington
and Lee.

But when Weller received her
monthly statement during February
Break, it listed a $138 bookstore
charge that Weller was sure she had
not made,

“I purchased all of my books
long before the posted date of Janu-
ary 30,” she said.

When Weller brought this com-
plaint to the Business Office, they
verified that a $138 bookstore charge
had been made on Monday, Jan. 28

hard way

at 12:01 p.m. The records also
showed that the card itself had been
used, not just Weller’s ID number,
said Assistant University Treasurer
John Cuny.

That corresponded to a time when
the card was missing and Weller was
in class.

“When I got a call from the
Business Office saying that we had to
eat about $138, I didn’t really fight
it,”’ said Bookstore Manager Tidge
Roller. ‘‘It is our responsibility to
look at the card.”’

This is the first such problem
with the University Card since the
new system went into effect last
December.

‘‘The card is much better than
before, but there will be problems,”’
said Cuny. ‘‘The important thing is
that we correct them.”

Cuny urges anyone misplacing
their card to report it immediately to
the Business Office. The card is more
than just a point card. It is a copier
card, a bookstore charge card, and
soon a general debit and soda
machine card.

 

Class elections Monday

Polls open 8 to 4 in front of library and in ODK circle

 

 

 

Class of 92

EC Reps. (pick two)

0 Ed Gillespie

O Clayton Kennington
O Nancy Mitchell

(0 Spencer Patton

Class President (pick one)

O Read Folline

Vice President (pick three)

0 Blair Allen

0 Trey Cox

O Chris Haley

O David Phillips

CO Jason Roberston
O William Toles

 

 

Class of ’93

EC Reps. (pick two)

(0 Chuck Honey
Tom Hooper

(0 Josh MacFarland
1 Kirk Ogden

0 Chip Ridge

CO Wade Robinett

Class President (pick one)

C2 Richard Burke
Dan Light
CO Casey Pipes

Vice President (pick one)

 Courtnay Bloodworth
CO Jason Coccia

C Betsy Kleiner

1 Doug Lamb

 

Class of ’94

EC Reps. (pick two)

0 Billy Aiken

O Jud Allen

O Nathan Dunn
0 Ashby Hackney
0 Blair Hixson

O Ames Hutton
Oi James Kull

0 Matt Newton

[ Richard Sherrill

Class President (pick one)

0 Bill Chappell
0 Billy Guice
O Kevin Roddey

Vice President (pick one)

 

 

 

0 John Surface

 

Dress,’’ said Beard. ‘‘This year was
one of the best, if not the best in my
21 years as an officer.’’

Police reported no major offenses
or injuries. ‘I’m real pleased. I’m
tickled pink,’’ said Beard.

According to Beard, Lexington
police this week issued 34 citations
for underage alcohol possession, four
charges of drinking in public, three
citations of drunk in public, and one
noise violation. There were no re-
ported conflicts between students and
local residents and no student arrests
for driving under the influence of
alcohol.

‘“The student body as a whole has
become more aware of the problems
caused by alcohol abuse,” said
Beard.

Beard credits the formation of a
police-student relationship committee
for much of this success. At commit-
tee meetings, department officials
discuss problems with fraternity rep-
resentatives.

Beard believes this communication
has relieved much of the tension
between students and police. He
called Dean of Students David Howi-
son to express his gratitude for the
exceptional student conduct.

‘I'd like to express my apprecia
tion for the cooperation of the student
body for contributing to the success
of the Fancy Dress weekend,’’ he
said.
 

 

 

 

 

 

OPINION

 

SCC on the line

By now, most of us have recovered from Fancy Dress
weekend, just in time for some of us to initiate the pledges
and all of us to make the final push toward finals. Yes,
these are exciting times. But before we dedicate every
surviving brain cell to various end-of-the term activities, we
need to remember a very important and immediate, yet too-
often neglected, responsibility: class elections.

This week, we’ll decide which of our peers will represent
us for the next year as our class officers. Many of us take
this responsibility much too lightly. Contrary to conventional
thought, our main concern when voting should not center
around who will throw the best class party. We should
primarially be concerned with who will will make the best
judgements on the Student Conduct Committee.

Few of us can claim that we never lapse into a
temporarily fit of mischief. This mischief can take many
forms, and occasionally, it poses a serious enough threat to
the well-being of the student body to deserve a meeting with
the SCC for possible disciplinary action. We should do
everything in our power to ensure that the SCC is made up
of representatives who understand the importance of their
position and are willing to make judgements with the utmost
care and thoughtfulness.

Some students might have such confidence in their ability
to stay out of trouble or for other reasons see no personal
consequence of ignoring the SCC that they trivialize the
election of class representatives. A quick reminder of the
threat to student government posed by the three students
who were suspended for breaking windows in the newly-
renovated SAE house should serve to dispel this false
justification for apathy. President Wilson took such drastic
measures because he had lost confidence in the student
government’s ability to discipline the students appropriately.
We need to re-establish the confidence in student
government that has been lost. We can do that by electing
students who are capable and willing to make the changes
needed to get the SCC back on its feet.

Whether President Wilson was justified in his actions is
open to debate, but the perceived lack of effectiveness on
the part of the SCC is real. If we want student autonomy to
remain a strong traditon at W&L, we need to take it more
seriously.

More Greeks

With Washington and Lee’s three sororities bursting at
the seams, the Panhellenic Council has decided to bring a
fourth sorority to campus. The necessity of that decision is
a rather obvious. A more difficult task will be determining
the colonization procedure. Over the past year, it has
become obvious, and painfully so to the women who
pledged Delta Gamma, that following the colonization
instructions of nationals will not work at W&L. Panhel is
indeed facing its first big challenge: how to overcome DG’s
problems and make possible the successful colonization of
a new sorority.

For The Ring-tum Phi, the more immediate problem with
the Pi Beta Phi sorority coming to W&L is one of
semantics. On every other campus in the world, Pi Beta Phi
is called Pi Phi. But that won’t work here; we’ve already
got a Pi Phi thanks to Pi Kappa Phi. Of course, on the same
campuses, Pi Kappa Phi is called Pi Kap. But what about
Phi Kap? Pi Phi, Pi Kap, Phi Kap. Hate to be a freshmen
again.

Quote of the Week

‘There are two things you should never see being made:
Sausage...and the news.’’ — Journalism Professor Ron
MacDonald bringing to light a well-known axiom about the
trouble with live TV coverage of news conferences during
the recent conflict in the Middle East.

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

Patricia Lopes, Andrew Waters
Alesha Priebe
Cathy Lopiccolo
Chris Baradel
Jason Kelley
Pam Kelley

Jay Plotkin
John Laney
Chris Leiphart
Jeff Woodland
Joshua Manning
Courtney Hall

Associate Editor
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Editorial Assistant
Copy Editor

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

\ ACS

\

AOS

Keo

MY VIEW
By Lynne Cheney

AW AM

 

 

So much of what has happened in
the world during the past few years
has demonstrated the long-term
wisdom of being what is called
‘‘politically incorrect.’’ One of the
tenets of that position, I think most
people would agree, is an affirmation
of the importance of Westem
civilization.

Now, of course, the history of the
West is not a narrative of unbroken
progress. We have monumental
failures to our credit; and, indeed,
bringing those failures to light,
holding them up and looking at them
this way and that, is one of our finest
traditions.

The West is not perfect, but we
do have on our record some glorious
accomplishments. In 1989, before
Tiananamen Square, Fang Lizhi,
scientist and dissident, spoke of the
aims of China’ democracy movement.
‘‘What we are calling for is
extremely basic,’’ he said, ‘‘namely,
freedom of speech, press, assembly
and travel. Concepts of human rights
and democracy,’ he went on,
‘‘although the founding principles of
the U.S. government, should not be
viewed as something exclusively
Western. Actually, they are a legacy
to the world.”’

These ideas are no small gift to
have brought to humankind. They are
gifts of such worth that people go
into exile and prison for them. They
are gifts of such great worth that
people die for them, as they did less
than two years ago in Tiananamen
Square, as they did last month in
Vilnius and Riga.

But concepts of human rights and
democracy, though they embody
longings buried deep in every soul,
can be suppressed. As Charles
Krauthammer has observed, the will
to freedom is a constant of human
nature, but so is the will to power.

Law school
out of touch

I am not certain if your publication is the
appropriate forum for an alumnus to express his

WHooPs, IT MEAN...

WE WILLIVOT ASCEPT THOSE
WHO DISCRIMINATE,

‘

ual
y

Yj Wy

YW ft fy /,

Lyf
é Vi,

fi

y)
Wy
Y

yj

 

scholarship

Tyrants have risen up before and they
will again, ruthless despots bent on
substituting their ambitions for the
rule of law. Today brave Americans
in the Persian Gulf, joined by
courageous men and women from
more than two dozen nations, are
engaged in battle with such a despot,
demonstrating to history and the
world that while freedom may not be
inevitable, free societies can organize
themselves to tum back tyranny.

We live in remarkable times,
times that, our grandchildren and
great-grandchildren will ask us about.
Surely they will want to know about
Eastern Europe, about the men and
women who gathered by the hundreds
of thousands in the Lenin Shipyard in
Gdansk, at the Berlin Wall, in
Wenceslas Square; and when we
explain what motivated these people
to come together and defy
dictatorship, we shall have to speak
not only of the horrors of communist
oppression, but also of the promise
offered by freedom, of the alternative
vision offered by countries where
elections and economies are free.

Our grandchildren will ask us
about the Soviet Union, too, and who
can say how the story we tell them
will end? I was in the Soviet Union
three months ago, and it was a place
amazingly changed from the last time
I had been there, seven years before.
St. Basil’s, the onion-domed cathedral
on Red Square, has been consecrated.
Danilov Monastery, in ruins when I
visited before, has been restored.
Masses were being held there every
Sunday — and Saturdays as well.

Another striking change is that it
is now possible to have frank
conversations with Soviet citizens.
When I visited Leningrad and
Moscow several years ago, I seldom
had the sense that anyone was
speaking candidly. But now Soviets
young and old, are willing to talk
about the challenges they face. For
scholars in the Soviet Union the
biggest challenge is depoliticizing -
- or de-ideologizing as they often

say — both the teaching and learning
of history.

Perhaps the most reticent scholarly
group with which I met, at least
initially, were historians at the
Military History Institute in Moscow.
You have to understand that I bring
a little baggage with me to a meeting
like that. No one is unaware of my
spouse’s occupation. So there was
some reticence. And when the subject
of depoliticizing the study of history

came up, the first statement was very...

cautious.

Shouldn’t the goal of
scholars everywhere
be to make art and
inquiry as free as
possible of political
bias and influence?

“We can never completely
remove politics from the study of
history,’’ one colonel said, ‘‘because
we cannot remove ourselves from
politics."’ ‘‘True enough,’’ I agreed,
‘‘but shouldn’t we try to minimize
the effect of politics on our
scholarship?’ There were some
careful nods around the table. ‘‘If we
don’t work to minimize it,’’ I asked,
‘‘don’t we become horses wearing
blinders?”’

This was not a_ particularly
imaginative metaphor, but it had
astonishing cross-cultural resonance. It
changed the tone of the meeting.
Hardly was it translated when it
elicited the most positive response,
not just careful nods, but enthusiastic
stories about projects it was now
possible to pursue before.

One colonel — one scholar, I
should say — was working on the
question of how many people were
killed in the Bolshevik Revolution -
- hardly a politically correct problem
to pursue. Another scholar, the head
of the Institute, is writing a biography
of Trotsky and using Trotsky’s papers
to do so — a project that would have

 

 

LETTERS

views, morals and beliefs which do not fall to
the left of Mother Jones magazine are unwanted,

Sincerely,

intolerable and not in the students’ best interests.

This faculty vote is obvious not only for its
anti-military political overtones, but because it is
bankrupt.
professors are in effect preventing students from
making their own choices, conclusions, and

so intellectually

The law school

 

 

 

Sh : =
litic
been unheard of a few years ago.

There is no neat conclusion to
this story, no nice happy ending. In
fact, one has to wonder, to worry
about the course of events in the
Soviet Union. How long can the
effort to de-ideologize scholarship
continue when President Gorbachev is
seeking to limit freedom of the press?
Sull, what I observed in the Soviet
Union does prompt some important
questions.

Shouldn’t the» goal of scholars
everywhere be. to make art and
inquiry as free as possible of political
bias and influence? Of course, we are
political creatures, but understanding

 

that, shouldn’t we try to raise
ourselves up and acquire a broader
perspective?

If we insist that all literature, all
art, be run through any single
political prism, whether it be Marxist
or capitalist or feminist or European
or Third World, aren’t ‘ve creatures
of diminished vision?

Indeed, if we. insist, as has
become fashionable in some quarters,
that culture and all its creations are
everywhere congruent with political
struggle, isn’t that the most
diminished and diminishing
perspective of all?

There was an inescapable irony
about being in the Soviet Union and
hearing again and again about the
importance of depoliticizing and de-
ideologizing the study of culture
when so often in the United States I
read or hear about the importance of
using the arts and the humanities as
instruments of politics.

I understand that the people
advocating this view believe fervently
that the political agendas they want to
advance are good ones; but, however
well-intentioned, using the arts and
the humanities in this way limits
vision. It is putting on blinders, and
what a tragedy for us to do that as
intellectuals in other parts of the
world are struggling to take them off.

— Printed courtesy of the Collegiate
News Network

John R. Maass, '87
Look to preserve
student autonomy

 

concern about a troubling issue regarding the law
school, word of which has come from Lexington
by way of the Richmond newspapers. However,
should you deem this acceptable to publish, I
would be most pleased.

The issue to which I refer is the absurd
decision on the part of the law school faculty to
ban military recruitment from the law campus, on
the basis that the armed services discriminate
against homosexuals.

Although this policy of the military was
upheld in 1990 by the U.S. Supreme Court, the
would-be justices on the banks of Woods Creek
have decided that the highest court is in error,
and that by showing its moral indignation against
the military, and in support of sodomites, the law
school will somehow be a better place; and that
the law students, so vulnerable to the
representatives of the armed forces of the U.S.,
will be safer.

The faculty vote indicates that opinions,

decisions. The ‘‘debate,’’ if there was one, has
been stifled; the discussion has been smothered.
This, all in the name of being politically correct.

Where, if not in the halls of the academy, can
discussion and the free flow of ideas take place?
Not at Lewis Hall, we now can see, What we do
see is a group of '60s radicals, now tenured,
resentful that their former dogmas have been
proven to be bust, and that by striking out
against the military, they can recapture some lost
momentum from better times.

It is amazing that this decision comes on the
heels of our country;s success in freeing Kuwait
and standing firm in the face of Iraq;s violation
of morality and international law. I always
thought it appropriate while at W&L that the law
school was somewhat separated from the rest of
campus by Woods Creek; the recent ban on
military recruitment there shows just how
separated the law professors are from real life.

This semester some controversial decisions
have brought into question the validity of our
claim to student autonomy here at W&L. Rather
than point fingers and deflect responsibility to
others, we, as the beneficiaries of  self-
governance, must look at our options for
eliminating similar controversies in the future,

Obviously, Monday’s elections are the best
starting point. Simplistically stated, the election
of a class officer can be a popularity contest, or
it can be a decision based on the candidate’s
ability to fairly adjudicate violations of trust or
misconduct.

The choice is ours, unless we believe in the
benefits of student autonomy at Washington and
Lee. In that case, the choice has already been
made for us.

Sincerely,
Tom Hatcher
President of the Executive Committee

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March 14, 1991

 

NEWS

Judge sends VMI case to trial

¢

 

By Joshua Manning
’ Staff Reporter
i

A federal judge refused to issue a

"summary judgement against Virginia
; Military Institute last week in the

case regarding its male-only admis-
‘sions policy.

The case, filed by the United
States Department of Justice last
‘year, claims that the policy violates

the 14th Amendment and the Civil
‘Rights Act of 1964.

; The Justice Department attorneys
had asked U.S. District Judge Jack-
‘son Kiser to forego a trial by issuing
, the summary judgement.

Kiser declined, saying the govern-

‘ment attorneys might be wrong in
, their legal assumption that education-
al diversity ‘‘can never justify a

¢ discriminatory policy.’’

, _Attomeys for VMI have main-
tained that the school broadens the

‘diversity of higher education in
Virginia and that admitting women
would narrow educational choice.

, The Justice Department declined
to comment on Kiser’s decision
‘except to say that they are ‘‘press-
) ing ahead with the trial.’’

_ Despite his ruling, Kiser said VMI
’ ‘still faces a high burden of proof.

 

It must provide an exceedingly per-
suasive justification of the single sex
policy.”

The VMI trial is scheduled to
begin April 4 at United States Dis-
trict Court in Roanoke.

Meanwhile, a bill that would have
forced VMI to admit women died
late last month when the Virginia
General Assembly went into recess.

Senate Bill 821 had been doomed
since it failed to reach the floor by
the Feb. 15 deadline for new bills,
according to VMI’s Information Offi-
cer Tom Joynes.

The bill would have forbidden
state-supported colleges or universi-
ties to discriminate against applicants
on the basis of race, gender, or
religion.

After being introduced by Fairfax
Senator Emilie Miller last year, the
bill was sent to the Senate Health
and Education Committee.

Senator Elmon Gray, chairman of
the committee, is the only VMI
graduate currently serving in the
General Assembly.

Gray, speaking for the committee,
refused to consider the bill on the
grounds that it would interfere with
the Justice Department’s litigation.

The committee approved Gray’s
decision by a 10-4 vote.

Lex police honor
IFC president

 

'By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

i

' The Lexington Police Department
, honored Interfraternity Council Presi-
dent Goodloe Lewis Wednesday for
+his work to improve fraternity-police

relations,
{

, Sgt. Richard Sutton commended
Lewis for his work to create a safer
‘social atmosphere for Washington and
Lee's 16 fraternities.

! ‘Goodloe Lewis has helped us a
lot this year,’’ said Sutton. ‘‘His co-

   

 

 

Goodloe Lewis

Outing club expands

)

 

By Marcy Brown
Staff Reporter

 

W&L’s Outing Club is expanding
its campus recycling program, but is
+ having trouble dealing with the in-
creased workload.

The new program will place col-
! lection points for mixed and computer

paper in all buildings on campus.
! Currently, the club has collection
, points in the freshman dorms, Reid

Hall, the Commerce School, in the
! Snack Bar and between Graham-Lees
and the Bookstore.

Dean of the College John Elrod,

by J.R. Smith

, In

who requested and later approved the
new program, said, ‘‘I thought there
was a real need to recycle the waste
paper this campus produces and I
think the Outing Club has developed
an excellent plan for doing so.’’

According to senior club member
Gray Rand, collection bins have
already been placed in Washington
Hall and the-efforts there have been
succesful so far.

‘*We’re ready to expand to a few
other buildings on the Colonnade in
the next few weeks,’’ said Rand.

Elrod said the program will be
implemented ‘‘piece by piece’’ until
the funds can be found to ‘‘go ahead
full force.’’

Interviews and photos

/ worked with,”

 

 

 

Cadets stand at attention at VMI. (Phi file photo)

All bills not approved on the floor
die when the General Assembly goes
into recess.

VMI refused to comment on the
bill’s demise.

operation and assistance has been
exceptional.”’

Two years ago, the Police Depart-
ment established a committee to work
with the Interfraternity Council. The
committee of two officers and Police
Chief Bruce Beard hosts a forum for
W&L fraternity presidents and the
department to discuss problems with
fraternity functions in Lexington.
Lewis is the first IFC president to be
honored by the department. ~

According to Sutton, Lewis’ IFC
administration has kept drunk driving
under control by encouraging frater-
nities to use Live Drive and desig-
nated sober drivers.

Sutton said Fancy Dress weekend
was relatively quiet due to Lewis’
efforts to educate fraternities about
police policies and plans for the
traditionally wild weekend.

‘‘He’s probably the best we’ve
said Sutton. ‘‘It’s
recognition ‘for a job well done.”’

recycling

Rand said however that the Out-
ing Club is already having difficulty
coping with the increased load.

‘It takes two to three people four
hours a week to collect the stuff and
take it to the recycling center,’’ he
said. ‘‘Most of us just don’t have the
time to do that more than once a
term.”’

Rand said the club would like to
buy a truck and hire some work-
study students to help with the proj-
ect.

‘‘We think recycling is extremely
inportant and we’re doing the best we
can with what we've got,’’ said
Rand. ‘‘When we have more, we'll
do even better.’’

“Our policy is the same as the
Health and Education Committee,’’
said Joynes. ‘‘We will not comment
on any aspect of the Justice Depart-
ment’s litigation.”’

Voice writer
to speak at
Lee Chapel

From the W&L News Office

 

 

Nat Hentoff, staff writer for The
Village Voice, will speak at Washing-
ton and Lee University’s Lee Chapel
Thursday, March 21, at 8 p.m.

Hentoff is recognized as one of
the foremost authorities in the area of
First Amendment defense. His views
on journalistic responsibility and the
tights of humans to think, write and
speak freely are expressed in his
weekly column for the Voice. He also
writes a weekly column on the First
Amendment and the Bill of Rights
for the Washington Post.

Since coming to the Voice in
1958, Hentoff has written about polit-
ical and social problems for The New
York Times, The New Yorker, The
Atlantic, and The New Republic. He
has touched on numerous and varied
topics including racism, sexism, po-
lice spying and educational reforms.

A Boston native, Hentoff received
his B.A. degree from Northeastern
University and did graduate work at
Harvard University. He was a Fulbri-
ght Fellow at the Sorbonne in Paris
in 1950 and was awarded a Guggenh-
cim Fellowship in education. His
early career was devoted to music,
working as a writer, producer and
announcer at WMEX in Boston from
1944-53, and as an associate editor
for Down Beat magazine.

Hentoff has written or co-authored
over two dozen books, including

Does Anybody Give a Damn: Nat
Hentoff on Education, The First Free-
dom: The Tumultuous History of Free
Speech in America, and The Jazz Life.

 

TALKBACK

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Gone!

The SAB is missing the following
items from FD:

« Wall tapestry
valued at $500.

¢ Two large banners: one red and
black with a lightning bolt, one
blue with a silver cross. Each
valued at $150.

¢ Four brass rubbings: large 4’ x
8’ figures of knights and damsels
valued at $250 each.

These are rented items and must
be returned. If you know anyth-
ing about them, call John Flippen
at 464-5566 or 463-8585.

Speaker

(10’2”’x20’)

The Politics department and the
ACLU present Bruce Kramer, ’66,
Director of the Tennessee ACLU,
‘Can a Conservative Find Happi-
ness In the ACLU.’’ The answer
is YES! Monday, March 18 at 12
noon in the Lewis Hall Moot
Courtroom and at 8:00 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium.

Lime Kiln

The Dance/Metropolitan Blues
All-Star Band will perform during
a benefit for Lime Kiln Arts,
Saturday, March 23, 8:30 p.m.
until 1 a.m. at the Student Pavil-
ion. Tickets are $17 for a single
and $30 for a double in advance
($20/$35 at the door). Call 463-
3074 for information.

Montana?

Glacier Park in Montana is seek-
ing 900 college students from
across the country for a summer
job in one of the nation’s most
spectacular national parks. Stu-
dents are needed in all segments
of the hotel and hospitality areas
and are welcome to enjoy the
many outdoor activities available
on the park’s 1.4 million acres.
For details on jobs and salaries,
call (602) 248-2612 or write
Glacier Park, Inc., 1210 Grey-
hound Tower, Phoenix, Ariz.,
85077.

Take Flight

Two free airline tickets for any-
where in the U.S. will be awarded
to the student who proposes the
most creative use of the tickets.
Send a statement explaining how
you would use the tickets to Dean
Howison, Payne Hall. Entries
must be submitted by April 1.

Get It Out

Need to let people know what
you’re up to? Leave a note in the
General Notes envelope outside
The Ring-tum Phi office.

High Noon

The Politics Filmfest will present
High Noon (US, 1952, 84 min.)
Friday and Saturday, March 15
and 16 at 7:00 p.m. in Reid 203.
The movie stars Gary Cooper,
Thomas Mitchell, and Grace Kel-
ly, and is directed by Fred Zinne-
mann. No admission, public is
invited. Coming soon: The Fourth
Protocol.

Get A Job

CD&P will host a Job Search
Workshop on March 20 at 4:00
p.m. in University Center 109.
Seniors, learn the answers to:
Where do I start? and How do I
continue?

Recruit!

Sign, up for interviews for the
ie Student Recruitment

mmittee in the Admissions
Office, March 18-22. Old mem-
bers must re-apply.

Marketing

Victor Galef, '65, former Vice-
President of Marketing for Rorer
Consumer Pharmaceuticals, will
speak on ‘‘Marketing Challenges
of the 1990’s,’’ Monday, March
25 at 8 ~— p.m. in C-School 221.
University community is invited.

Calyx Pix

The Calyx wants candids! We
have deadlines coming up for FD,
fraternities and sororities, and, of
course, underclassmen. We need
them by March 22 in the enve-
lope in the Calyx office door.

Chocolat

The Film Society will present
Chocolat (France, 1988) on Friday
and Saturday March 15 and 16 at
8:05 p.m. in Lewis Hall Class-
room A. Directed by Claire Den-
is, the movie is partly based on
her own childhood experiences in
French Africa. Exploring — the
disturbing realities of colonialism
and racial injustice, the movie
probes the barriers between black
and white. The movie is in Fren-
ch with English subtitles.

Go Abroad

James Madison University’s Inter-
national Internship Program is
accepting applications until April
1. Internships for September 1991
and January 1992 are available in
11 countries for 110 students. For
information, call Judy Cohen at
103-568-6979.

 

 
   

light of the upcoming elections, do

 

 

 

Shawn Copeland, ’90, Lexington,
VA --- ‘Yes, a committee whose
performance and resolve I hope
continues to improve.’

 

 

 

you

oa

  

 

 

Matthew Hansen, ’94, Fremont,
NE --- ‘‘Sure, the Student Chafe
Committee.’’

Melissa Manko, °92, Newtown
Square, PA --- ‘‘I don’t know,
but isn’t that Spurgeon character
involved in it all?’’

 

Scott Miller, 92, Saratoga, NY -
-- “Hey... isn't that the Strictly
Cool Club?”’

 

know what the SCC is?

 

Amy Adamson, ’93, Annapolis,
MD .--- ‘‘You’re kidding, right?”’

 

 

Boogie Avery, 91, Richmond,
VA -+- “The upcoming elec-
tions?’’

 

 
 

 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, March 14, 1991

 

Journalism ethics
topic of seminar

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

 

Robert P. Clark, newspaperman
and former vice president of news for
Harte-Hanks Newspapers, will speak
Friday at Washington and Lee’s 17th
Journalism Ethics Institute.

Clark's public lecture, ‘‘The Foun-
ding Fathers and the Bottom Line,’’
will be held at 8 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Library’s Northen Auditorium.

Professor of Journalism Ronald
MacDonald said Clark has visited
W&L before, and the journalism
professors felt he would be an excel-
lent keynote speaker.

“Somebody in the Joumalism
Department heard Clark speak and
thought his theme was intriguing,”
MacDonald said.

Clark’s career in journalism began
after he graduated from Tufts Uni-
versity and earned a master’s degree
in journalism from the University of
Missouri.

 

¢

   

 

Alisann McGloin

 

From Press Releases

Bishop Walter F. Sullivan of the
Catholic Diocese of Richmond will
be featured in a panel discussion on
‘A Century of Social Teaching’’ in
Lee Chapel Sunday, March 17 at
4:30 p.m.

This program will begin the local
celebration of the 100th anniversary
of the release of Rerum Novarum (On
the Condition of Labor) written by
Pope Leo XIII, the first of many

   

 

He reported and edited for The
Courier-Journal and The Louisville
Times in Louisville, KY for 30 years.
The two papers won three Pulitzer
Prizes during Clark’s tenure as man-
aging editor and executive editor.

Clark left Louisville to become
editor of The Florida Times-Union
and Jacksonville Journal and re-
mained with these papers for about 4

years.
He then joined Harte-Hanks
Newspapers, and in 1985 Clark

served as president of the American
Society of Newspaper Editors. Clark
has also been a member of the Asso-
ciation for Education in Journalism
and Mass Communication, the Inter-
national Press Institute, and the Soci-
ety for Professional Journalists.

The Journalism Ethics Institute is
part of W&L’s overall program in
Applied Ethics, Society and the Pro-
fessions.

Each year the program brings
several scholars who speak on ethics
and the professional world in a vari-

Students to sit on church panel

Marc Ackerman

papal encyclicals concerned with
social justice, human dignity and the
options for the poor and vulnerable.

A panel of students will engage in
dialogue with Bishop Sullivan after
he presents his analysis of the docu-
ment and its implications for our
modern era.

The students include senior Marc
Ackerman, treasurer of the Hillel
Society; Charles Grant, a third year
law student and president of the
Black Law Students Association;
senior Paul Lagarde, member of the

adding voice or other sounds.
Like every Macintosh

computer, the LC is easy to

set up and easy to master.

And it runs thousands of

available applications that

all work in the same,

consistent way—so once

© 1990 Apple Computer, inc

Appie, th
MS-DOS isa

 

Prof. MacDonald

ety of fields.

The Journalism Ethics Institute
will consist of 6 seminar sessions,
MacDonald said. Each session will
deal with a specific case that applies
to journalistic ethics. Sessions will be

generated by students and guests, he
said,

Paul Lagarde

Intercollegiate Studies Institute and
senior editor of The Spectator; senior
Alisann McGloin, recipient of the
Todd Smith Memorial Award in
Journalism; and senior Geof Smith,
president of the local chapter of
Amnesty International.

The panel will be moderated by
William Datz, a 1975 graduate of
W&L and Catholic Campus Minister
at Southem Sem, VMI and W&L.
Following the panel discussion, ques-
tions will be invited from the audi-
ence.

PND) D en blecerelt@en

 

System allows
self-diagnosis;
speeds recovery

TTT aA TR Ate A WROD maT a cion
By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

Students suffering from colds no
longer have to wait for an appoint-
ment with the doctor to receive over-
the-counter medications from the
Student Health Center.

A new ‘‘cold center’? allows
student self-diagnosis of minor ill-
nesses and advises the patient of
either medication or necessary ap-
pointments with a physician.

When a student visits the cold
center, he fills out a cold symptoms
checklist, choosing his symptoms
from a list of possible ones including
chills, headache, sneezing, sore throat,
cough and others.

The next step is a throat self-
exam to determine if the throat is red
or has white patches. Finally, he
takes and records his temperature.

After examining each of these
factors, the student consults a bulletin
board in the room to choose the best
self-care measures. This board might
recommend over-the-counter medica-
tions such as acetaminophen, cough
syrup, decongestant or throat loz-
enges. It also might refer the patient
to a doctor for a more thorough
checkup.

The nurse on duty will give out
the proper medications and schedule
the necessary appointments.

“This should cut down on the
waiting period for students with sim-
ple colds,’’ said W&L Health Edu-
cator Jan Kaufman. ‘‘Especially for
those who get sick over the weekend.
It should also make the doctors’ jobs
a little easier.’’

Although the cold center missed
the annual cold and flu season this
year, students can anticipate easier
and quicker relief from colds to
come.

*

you've learned one program, you're well on your way
to learning them all. The Macintosh LC even lets you
share information with someone who uses a different
type of computer—thanks to the versatile Apple’
SuperDrive® which can read from and write to
Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple II floppy disks.
Take a look at the Macintosh LC and see what it

 

ON THE HILL

School bands
play Tuesday

The Washington and Lee
University Wind Ensemble and the
Virginia Military Institute

Regimental Band will join together
in a concert Tues., March 26, at 8
p.m. in the Lenfest Center.

The concert is open to the
public and will be free of charge.

For the first time ever, the two
groups will combine to form an
ensemble of over 65 wind and
percussion players. Conducting
duties for the concert will be
shared by Barry H. Kolman,
assistant professor of music at
W&L, and Capt. John Brodie,
director of the VMI band.

Tuesday’s concert will feature
a performance of Richard Strauss’
‘‘Allerseelen’’; a composition by
Ronald Lo Presti, ‘‘Elegy for a
Young American,’’ which was
written in memory of John F.
Kennedy; and several lighter pieces
by Leonard Bernstein and Henry
Fillmore.

The W&L Wind Ensemble was
created three years ago and is
composed of W&L students and
local high school and area
musicians. The VMI Regimental
Band has performed throughout the
U.S. and Europe.

Poetry read in
Chapel Tuesday

The Glasgow Endowment
Program at Washington and Lee
will present a poetry reading by
Conrad Hilberry on Tues., March
26, at 4:30 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium of the University
Library. The reading is open to the
public.

Hilberry is professor of English
literature at DePauw University.
He joined the faculty as DePauw
in 1954 after receiving his Ph.D.
and M.S. from the University of
Wisconsin. He holds a bachelor’s
degree from Oberlin College.

Among his’ books are
Encounter on Burrows Hill (1968),
Man in the Altic (1980),
Housemarks (1980), Moon Seen as
a Slice of Pineapple (1984) and

Sorting the Smoke: New and
Selected Poems (1990).

Hilberry has also contributed
essays and articles to professional
journals, and poetry to periodicals,
including Antioch Review, New’
Yorker, Poetry, Kenyon Review,,
Poetry Northwest and Shenandoah.

The Glasgow Endowment was)
established in 1960 by the late
Arthur G. Glasgow and brings to
W&L = distinguished _ novelists,
poets, dramatists and critics.

Asian politics
lecture Monday '

‘‘Old Leaders, New Problems
in Asia’’ will be the topic of a
lecture at Washington and Lee on
Mon., March 25, by Harold C.
Hinton of George Washington
University. The lecture will be at
8 p.m. in Room 327 of the’
Commerce School and is open to}
the public.

Hinton is professor of political
science and international affairs for,
Sino-Soviet studies at George
Washington University. He chairs’
the East Asia Colloquium at;
George Washington which brings
members of the university
community, including graduate
students, into contact with
distinguished outside speakers and
other participants who are working
in the field.

Hinton’s approach to inter-'
national issues stresses classical
political analysis with a heavy
admixture of historical method.

In addition to teaching, Hinton
does consulting and contract
research for the Department of}
State, Rand Corporation, U.S.
Information Agency and Stanford’
Research Institute. '

Hinton holds B.A., M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees from  Harvard'
University. During his active duty ,
with the U.S. Army (1943-1946),
Hinton served as a_ military’
historian in Okinawa and Korea.
He has traveled extensively and
has lectured at conferences in the
U.S., Asia and Europe, and at
numerous staff colleges. ‘

Hinton’s visit to W&L is.
sponsored by the East Asian
Studies Program and the politics
department at W&L.

 

Now you can afford to dream in color

If you thought that finding a color Macintosh’
system you could afford was just a dream, then the
new, affordable Macintosh LC is a dream come true.

The Macintosh LC is rich in color. Unlike many
computers that can display only 16 colors at once, the
Macintosh LC expands your palette to 256 colors. It
also comes with a microphone and new sound-input
technology that lets you personalize your work by

gives you. Then pinch yourself.

the Macintosh LC.

 

 
 
 

 

 

< femy x<y x>
xXéy X>

 
    
  
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

     
          
 
      
     
 
 
    
  

  

@r

Oo sin(t] = sin{¢] +2t

ne Apple logo, and Macintosh

stnijlitinlegeinss Glass Atom
= Ye, 1)(@.¥) [sin(t) + 1) + ¥pz, 196-4) [- sin(t) + 1)
23

 

@ upon transform [77
a
@ upon transform i

Q Examples

off y+ 4y) =L(@)

d -j+2 2
o->}s Y¥G-LOt+s
gel

 

0 -y(1,0)-s¥(o,n+s"¥
O-6-s.0+s?¥+4Y fi
ee
a

io

It’s better than a dream—it’s a
Macintosh.

4

=

—\—

are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, inc. SuperDrive and “The power to be your best” are trademarks of Apple Computer, inc.
registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. OS/2 is a registered trademark of international Business Machines Corporation

For further )

information visit

Tucker HallRoom215A |

and ask for Mac McCloud
of call 463-8844

The power to be your best”

  

 

ee em = pe

ae

 

 
NEWS

 

Proposed amendments to the stu-
dent body constitution will go to the
polls March 26-28.

There will be a forum on the
proposals in Lee Chapel on March 26
at 5 p.m. Each proposal requires
two-thirds voter approval to pass with
at least half the student body voting.

On Feb. 25 the Executive Commit-
lee approved five Constitutional Revi-
sions Committee proposals, plus a
sixth with changed language, to go to
Student body vote.

The EC changed the Article V
Section Q proposal to include inter-
view deliberations as cause for closed
session.

Passed by EC

SUCCESSION

PURPOSE: Fo ensure proper succes-
sion of President-Elect, Vice Preside-
nt-Elect, or the Secretary-Elect of the
Student Body, and establish the pro-
cedures that should be followed in
the event that one of the above defin-
ed officers-elect leaves the University
prior to taking office.

PROPOSED LANGUAGE: Add to
Article II], Duties of Officers, D.

Succession of Officers, a new section
#3:

"3. In the event that the student
body President-Elect, Vice President-
-Elect, or Secretary-Elect, leave the
University prior to officially taking
office as defined by Article V3, and
both the Undergraduate and Law
Schools’ have at least ten days of
class session remaining, then the
Executive Committee may pursuant
to Article V, Section F and Article
XI, Section C hold a special election
in order to fill the vacated position.
If a “Special Election" as defined
above cannot be held in a reasonable
manner, then Article III, Section D,
Parts 1 and 2 will control the succes-
sion of Student Body Officers-Elect."

QUORUM

PURPOSE: To ensure student repr-
esentation by election in all cases
while guaranteeing the Executive
Committee maintains a working quo-
Tum at all times.

 

Walter Scott
acting revisions
committee chairman

PROPOSED LANGUAGE: Change
Article V, Duties and Powers of the
Executive Committee, Section F., to
read:

"F. It shall have the power to fill
vacancies occurring in Student Body
offices and all positions related to
honor investigations. Elective offices
will be filled by election. A notice
for applications for vacancies shall be
published ten days before the election
- — for in Article III, Section

Change Article II, Duties and
Powers of the Executive Committee,
Section H., to read:

"H. It shall remove any of its me-
mbers for continual non-attendance
and see to the installation of a suc-
cessor as provided for in Section F
of this Article."

Add to Article III, Duties and Pow-
ers of the Executive Committee, a
new Section, to be called Section J.,
reading:

"J. Any quorum requirements that
result from the removal of officers, in
addition to the timing of elections for
such vacancies, shall be filled accord-
ing to the guidelines of Article III,
Section I, Sub-sections 1, 2, and 3.
Temporary appointments may be
made in the event that Sub-section 4
is required.

Prescriptions © Cosmetics *Perfumes
Charge Accounts °® Free Delivery

OPPORTUNITY

Applications from members of the Class of
1991 who wish to be considered for W&L’s
alumni staff associate position for the
1991-92 academic year are due by Monday,

March 18, 1991.

Graduating seniors

should submit a letter of application and
resume to Director of Alumni Programs
James D. Farrar, Jr. in the Alumni Office.
The position is currently held by Joel
Smith ’90 and becomes available on July 1.
A personal interview for each applicant

will be required.

 

Large Farm House
In Country

10 miles west (10 minutes)
Recently Remodeled.

5 Bedrooms
Lots of Outdoors
Available June 1st

463-6575 Office
463-2868 Home

 

 
      
    
     
      
 
   
    
  

   

 
    

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 14, 1991

Proposed revisions go to student vote

Re-name Article III, Sections K
through P.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

PURPOSE: To define Executive
Session and to state when the Execu-
tive Committee has the option to
meet in Executive Session.

PROPOSED LANGUAGE: Change
Article V, Section P to read:

"P. Executive Session is defined as
a private meeting of the Executive
Committee. The door is to be closed
at all times, and newspaper reporters
are not allowed in the room. People
who are not presently serving on the
Executive Committee can be present
only at the expressed invitation of the
Executive Committee."

Add to Article V, a new Section Q:

"Q. The Executive Committee may
decide to enter into Executive Session
only in cases involving Honor Inves-
tigations, Honor Trials, and on a vote
of two-thirds of a present quorum,
Interviews for Committee
appointments and deliberations, Disci-
plinary Hearings involving committee
members and officers, and Cases
involving misconduct as described in
Section O of the White Book."

PUBLICATIONS BOARD

PURPOSE: To enable the Publica-
tions Board more manageability and
flexibility of the funds allocated to
the Board Reserve Fund as well as
to each publication which the Board
oversees so that it may indeed func-
tion as an “umbrella” committee.

PROPOSED LANGUAGE: Add an
Executive Committee member to the
Board which is outlined in Article
VI, Other Student Offices, C. so that
it reads:

C. The Publications Board shall be
composed of all editors and business
managers, and all former editors and
business managers still students. The
following positions shall be filled by
the Publications Board: Editor of The

  

130 S. Main St.

We Have

and

SALE! an

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

Due to popular demand...

Eel nies”

shorts and pants
Get yours before they’re gone!

20% Off
Workout

We're looking for a few good college students and graduates who

can fill the shoes of a Marine Corps officer. That's a pretty tall order.
It means leading other Marines. Being responsible for their

well being. But that's something no civilian job offers you at 26.

If you think you're a rea company man, see your
Marine Corps Officer Selection Officer for details.

Calyx, Business Manager of The
Calyx, Editors of the Ring-tum Phi, a
representative from the Executive
Committee who will hold no vote,

and editors and business managers of
such other publications as are accred-

ited by the Publications Board.

PURPOSE: To bring the Student
Body Constitution up to date with the
Publications Board Constitution which
states that the balance of the Pub
Board Reserve fund shall be main-
tained at a minimum of $4000. At
present, the Constitution still quotes a
minimum of $2500. In addition, the
E.C, and the Board can, on a major-
ity vote by each body, change the
minimum reserve amount and the
dollar amount that must be surpassed,
in any one purchase, to require a
notification to the E.C.

PROPOSED LANGUAGE: Change
Article IX, Section B, paragraph 4 to
read:

A. All net profits of publications
shall revert to the Publications Board
Reserve Fund which shall be at least
$4000. The maximum purchase au-
thority of the Board is $500 for one
purchase. All amounts over $500
must be reported to the E.C. Both the
minimum reserve amount and maxi-
mum purchase amount can be chang-
ed during the September budget pro-
cess by a majority vote of the E.C.
and the Board, in separate seatings.

Rejected by EC

The EC did not pass the following
Constitutional Revisions Committee
proposals. They could be added to
the ballot, however, if a 50-signature
student petition is submitted before
ballots are printed. The petition must
have the proposed language at the
top. Contact Walter Scott or Andrew
Gaffney for more information.

ELECTIONS

PURPOSE: To evaluate election
procedures outlined by the constitu-
tion and, if necessary, change them to
maximize voter participation in the
election of President, Vice President,
and Secretary of the Student Body
and in election of class officers.

 

463-7969

LEXINGTON

 

 

 

 

For more information or interviews, contact
Capt. J.D. Decarli or Sgt. B.S. Hamilton at
1-800-542-5851 or collect at 703-387-1942.

  

PROPOSED LANGUAGE: Change
the wording of Article XI, Elections,
A. 1. to read:

"1. By the fifth Monday after Janu-
ary 1 of each year, a petition with
the signatures of 150 students shall
be required from every candidate for
President, Vice President, and Secre-
tary of the Student Body. The elec-
tion will be held by the sixth Mon-
day, and the run-off election on the
Thursday of that week."

Change the wording of Article XI,
Elections, B. 1. to read:

"2. By the ninth Monday after
January 1 of each year, a petition
with the signatures of 50 students
shall be required from every candi-
date for the Executive Committee and
Class Officer. The election shall be
held by the Monday of the tenth
week and the run-off election on the
Thursday of that week."

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Add to Article V, a new Section Q:

““Q. The Executive Committee may,
on a vote of two-thirds of a present
quorum, decide to enter into Execu-
tive Session only in cases involving
Honor Investigations, Honor Trials,
Interviews for Committee appoint-
ments, Disciplinary Hearings involv-
ing committee members and officers,
and Cases involving misconduct as
described in Section O of the White
Book.”’

Add to Article V, a new Section R:

"R. The Executive Committee
may not enter into Executive Session
in cases involving Budget Hearings,
Budget Deliberations, and Delibera-
tions on Committee Appointments. At
hearings involving these mentioned
cases, the door is to be open and
anyone may attend the meeting. The
time and date of the meeting are to
be posted in public areas at least
forty-eight hours prior to the meeting.
In the event that the Executive Com-
mittee decides to discipline a Com-
mittee-appointed chairman or member,
the Executive Committee, in a regula-
tly scheduled committee meeting,
shall fully describe all facts and

115 S. Main St., Lexington

circumstances surrounding the disposi
tion of the matter."

Add to Article V, a new Section S:

"S. The Executive Committee, shall
two weeks after the final meeting
concerning that particular case post in
public areas a statement that an Exec-
utive Session was held. No other
information should be provided unless
deemed appropriate by the Executive
Committee.”

Passed
by Petition

This amendment regarding the
Publications Board was not passed by
the EC, but has the 50 requisite sig-
natures to make the ballot.

PUBLICATIONS BOARD

PURPOSE: To allow the Publica-
tions Board freedom to manage
money as the Board sees fit. This
freedom would include the power to
buy the necessary equipment to
facilitate a well-functioning publica-
tions group. This freedom would also
include the power to retain, at the
end of the year, all surplus money.

PROPOSED LANGUAGE: Change
Article V, Section G to read:

C. It shall have appellate jurisdic-
tion of or upon the Publications Boa-
td, except in matters of money, and
may following notice and hearing,
and upon two-thirds vote of the entire
Committee at two successive hear-
ings, reverse any order of the Board.
In matter of money, the Board is
required to submit a planned purchase
statement to the E.C. two weeks prior
to delivery, if the total dollar amount
exceeds $500 or the amount agreed
upon in Article IX, Section b, para-
graph 4, which ever is greater. The
vote of the E.C. cannot restrict ex-
penditure, but rather the vote is a
public record of approval or disap-
proval of the Board’s conduct. The
Board can, by a two-thirds vote,
grant surplus funds back to the E.C.
for use by other student organiza-
tions.

: Furniture Dealers
For your extra pieces of furniture

463-2742

 

 

 

 

Dress rehearsal

Shakedown cruise
Walk through

Trial run
Preview
First steps

We're not quite ready for Opening Night, but please
join us this week for good food, good humor . . . and
we hope not too many goof-ups.

We welcome your participation and seek your advice
in our efforts to make Harbs’ your kind of place.

Breakfast/Lunch/Dinner/Pastries/EspressolCappuccino
19 West Washington Street/Lexington!464-1900

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS

enerals bea

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team was ranked 13th in the
first NCAA Division III poll, but the
Generals are proving that people may
have underestimated their talent.

‘We're a pretty decent team,”’
said head coach Jim Stagnitta after
W&L’s 10-6 win over 9th ranked
Roanoke College Wednesday. ‘‘We’re
not an overpowering team by any
means, but we play hard and we’re
getting better every game.’’

 

 

 

 

 

Mike Moseman

W&L’s win was its second
straight over teams ranked in the
Division III top 10. On Saturday,
W&L topped 7th-ranked Franklin and
Marshall 7-5.

“IT thought before the season
started that we're one of the best
eight teams in the nation,’’ said sen-
ior goalie Tom Costello. ‘‘The two
wins really set us up for the ODAC
title and the NCAA tournament. The
wins take a lot of pressure off of us
because the second half of our sched-
ule is not as tough as the first half.”’

Costello may sound cocky, but he
and his teammates are making a
strong case to be included in the
nation’s top eight.

 

   

 

 

Tom Costello

 

In winning the two games, W&L
allowed just 11 goals, two of which
were scored in the final minute of
each game, after both games were
decided.

Against F&M, the offensive attack
was led by senior Mike Moseman,
who had two goals and an assist.
Sophomore Jeff Roberts added two
goals and sophomore Jay West added
a key goal late in the game.

Against Roanoke, W&L got off to
an early 3-0 lead on a goal from
sophomore Derek Hutton and two
from Roberts. Roanoke tied the game
early in the third quarter at 5-5 be-
fore W&L took charge.

Moseman scored twice, and sen-
iors Clark Wight and Todd Garliss
and junior Drew Anton also scored in
a 17-minute stretch that gave W&L
its first regular season win over Roa-
noke since 1984. Roberts, Wight,
Garliss and Moseman each had two
goals to lead W&L’s balanced attack.
Wight and Anton added two assists
each,

 

We’re a pretty good
team. We’re not an
overpowering team
by any means, but
we play hard and
we’re getting better
every game.

— Jim Stagnitta

 

Stagnitta said Moseman’s play has
improved over the season.

‘No one has noticed his play,’’
said Stagnitta. ‘‘He knows when to
settle the offense down. He plays
hard every minute and he is making
excellent decisions. He is also shoot-
ing the ball well.’’

Costello and the defense have
been hot. Costello made 27 saves in
the two games, including six in the
third quarter against F&M and seven

in the fourth quarter against Roankoe.

“Our defense has been in-
credible,’ said Stagnitta. ‘‘[Soph-
omore Josh] Levinson has been un-
believable. [Senior David] Farace has
worked hard and improved his one-
on-one defense, and [junior Robert]
Huke has the talent to be one of the
best defenders in the nation.”’

TEN tw loot a

The Ring-tum Phi, March 14, 1991

teams F&M, RC

 

 

 

Junior defenseman Robert Huke shuts down a Franklin & Marshall
player Saturday on Wilson Field. Huke and the defense stood tall,

Stagnitta was especially pleased
with the defense against Roanoke.

‘“‘Our defensemen, including the
middies [Hutton, junior Jeff O’Brien
and seniors Andy Guida and Mike
Pardo] aren’t letting people get by
them. Huke is shutting down their
best attackman and Farace is getting
ground balls. They were just solid.’’

LOW PRICES

 

U.S.D.A. Choice

Steak

Top Sirloin

RY DAY!

Another Reason To Switch To Harris Teeter!

  

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

And that has made things easier
on Costello, who says he is seeing
the ball better now than he has be-
fore.

‘*T’ve seen the ball well in the last
few games,”’ he said. ‘‘I don’t think
there is something I can point to as
why, but I am.’’

The work the defensemen are

holding the seventh-ranked Diplomats to just five goals on the day
as the Generals prevailed 7-5. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

doing may be a reason.

“The defense is pushing people
out from in front of the goal,’’ said
Costello. ‘‘They are making people
feed the goal from way out, and that
makes my job easier.’’

While the defense has played well,
Stagnitta said the offense could shoot
better,

“We still aren’t shooting the ball
very well,’’ he said. ‘‘We could also
be more patient offensively.’’

W&L (4-1 and 2-0 in the ODAC)
will look for its fourth straight win
on Sunday on the road against Haver-
ford before retuming home to take on
Lynchburg Wednesday at 3 p.m.

 

President’s Choice
Raisin Bran

18.5 Oz. l Extra Raisin

 

 

 

White Rain Hair
Care Products

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

In The Defi Bakery

  

 

 

 

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, March 19, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, March 12, 1991 In Lexington Store Only,
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, March 14, 1991

 

W&L looks for ODAC

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee basevall
team had its four-game winning
streak snapped Monday in a 19-8 loss
to Bridgewater, but despite the loss,
the team still holds high expectations
for itself.

“I was a little disappointed that
we lost,’’ said senior catcher Chris

_ Kavanagh. ‘‘It’s easy to look at that
* game from last year’s point of view

and say, ‘we improved.’ But if we
look at it from this year’s point of
view, we should have won_ the
game.’’

Kavanagh is pointing to W&L’s

' 4-0 start before running into Bridge-

~

water. It is W&L’s best start since
1974,

After sweeping West Virginia
Tech to open the season, W&L upset
Division I Holy Cross 9-6 behind

‘ solid hitting and the ever-steady
' pitching of junior Steve Momorella.

Freshman Eric Peifer got W&L
going offensively with a home run in
the third inning, and the Generals

' built a 4-0 lead.

Momorella, who cruised through
the first five innings, ran into trouble

‘in the sixth, when he lost control of
, his curve ball. He was touched for

six runs on four hits and two walks

‘as 10 men came to the plate. Despite

       

struggling, Momorella wasn’t sur-
prised that head coach Jeff Stickley
left him in the game.

‘“‘We know each other pretty
well,’’ said Momorella, who threw
over 140 pitches on the day. ‘‘I think
he knew that if he let me stay out
there, I could work things out.’’

While Momorella worked things
out on the mound, his teammates
worked things out at the plate. W&L
scored three times in the bottom of
the sixth to take the lead as Peifer
and junior Kavanagh drove in runs.

After Momorella settled down,
W&L got him some insurance in the
bottom of the seventh. Kavanagh
gave W&L the 9-6 margin of victory
with a towering two-run home run to
right field.

W&L’s hitting continued through
the weekend as the Generals put eight
runs on the board against Bridge-
water, who is considered the class of
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference.

Junior T.J. Daly homered to key
W&L’s six-run fourth inning as the
Generals took a 7-5 lead. The Gen-
erals sent 11 batters to the plate in
the inning. After BC took a one-run
lead in the top of the fifth, senior
Tim Wheeler tied the game again
with a leadoff home run.

After the fifth, though, it was all
Eagles. BC sent 13 men to the plate

 

 

 

while scoring eight runs in the sev-
enth inning to put the game away,
19-8,

Junior Brian Harper led the W&L
attack. Harper was 2-for-5 at the
plate with two doubles, a run scored
and five RBI.

Despite the loss, W&L continues
to produce at the plate, something it
didn’t do last season.

“We're hitting pretty well,’’ said
Kavanagh. ‘‘I don’t think there is
anything you can point to as a reason
for the improvement, we’re just hitt-
ing. We’re a pretty good hitting
team.”’

Possibly the most appreciative
recipient of the hitting is Momorella,
who lost five games last year by two
runs or less.

‘‘We’re practicing more and we’re
hitting better,’ he said. ‘‘Good hitt-
ing is contagious. If a few guys start
to hit well, then everyone will hit
well,’’

With the improved hitting, Kav-
anagh sees no reason why W&L
can’t compete for an ODAC title.

“Once we beat Holy Cross, it
sunk in that we were a good team,”’
he said. ‘‘We’re capable of beating
every team in this league, and if the
pitching is there, I see no reason why
we can’t win the league.’’

To win the league, W&L will
need to get a lot of quality innings

co

%

 

 

COLOR PIN CARNIVAL

Every Saturday Night at 6 PM
Over 50 ways to win money. |
«YOU de not need to be a League bowler to bowl

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

Moonlight Red Pin © Red & Green Pin
Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

title

 

   

 

 

 

Chris Kavanagh
..key home run on Thursday
from Momorella, who has thrown
complete games in his first two starts.
Momorella says he will be ready to

pitch come tournament time.

‘‘T like to throw a lot early in the
season,’’ he said. ‘‘It helps build up
my arm strength. Towards the end of
the season, though, if I’ve thrown a
lot, I'll probably take a week off to
rest for the ODAC tournament.’’

But for now, it’s back to the
mound for Momorella. He will start
today in an ODAC game against
Eastem Mennonite. W&L plays a
weekend series at Randolph-Macon
before returning home to play Hamp-
den-Sydney.

 

From W&L Sports Information

Washington and Lee basketball
standout Mike Holton, a three-year
starter and two-year captain, was
named to the GTE/College Sports
Information Directors of America
college division Academic All-Amer-
ica second team.

Holton, a senior from  In-
dianapolis, Ind., becomes the first
W&L athlete to be selected to the
national Academic All-America squad
three times.

A stellar student, Holton currently
carries a 3.86 grade point average
with a major in business administra-
on/accounting. He recently was

 

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

 

 

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

The Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team won its first
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence match of the season with a
7-2 victory over Hampden-Sydney
on Saturday. In their other match
last week, the Generals were
narrowly defeated by Division I
St. John’s, 5-4. Senior Bill Mead-
ows led W&L by winning all
four of his matches last week.
W&L faces Davidson, William
and Mary, and Wheaton this
week.

The women’s tennis team
continued their roll through their
ODAC matches by beating Emory
and Henry, 9-0. W&L did not
lose a set against the Wasps. The
Generals play Hollins, Catholic
and Hope this week. Five of
W&L’s top six players have no
more than one loss and freshman
Mary Nabers is 9-0.

The women’s lacrosse team
lost their opener to Frostburg
State on Friday, 13-6. W&L had
a 4-1 lead before the Bobcats
stormed back for the win. Senior
Shawn Wert led the Generals with
three goals. W&L hosted Bridge-
water today and plays at Guilford

 

on Saturday.

W&L will open its track sea-
son on Friday with three ODAC
schools: Bridgewater, Eastern
Mennonite and Roanoke.

“We're looking forward to
getting started and it should be a
good meet to start out with,’’ said
head coach Norris Aldridge. ‘‘All
three teams are improved, they’re
stronger outdoors than indoors,
too. We've been working hard,
and now we'll start pointing to-
ward ODACs.”’

W&L, which finished seventh
at last year’s NCAA Golf Cham-
pionships, will begin the season at
the Gordin Collegiate Classic in
Surfside Beach, S.C. Twelve
Division III Top 20 teams will be
playing in the Gordin Classic.
W&L has been ranked as high as
seventh in Division III polls this
year.
“It’s hard to tell where we
are at this point,’’ said head
coach Buck Leslie. ‘‘I know we’ll
be facing some tough teams,
some tough courses and some fast
greens. This tournament certainly
could help us, but we have to
remember it’s not our whole
season.”’

 

 

elected to Phi Beta Kappa and last
year, he was named to Omicron Delta
Kappa, the national leadership or-
ganization.

He also was named to Beta Gam-
ma Sigma, the national business
administration honor society, and Phi
Eta Sigma, the freshman honor so-
ciety. He is a Dean’s List and Honor
Roll student.

Holton averaged 11.9 points, 4.3
assists and 2.8 rebounds per game
this season as the Generals’ point
guard. The Generals finished fourth
in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, posting a 12-14 record.

The 6-foot-1 senior went over
1,000 points for his career midway
through the season, and eh finished

Si Holton Academic A-A again

on the all-time scoring list. He is the
only player in W&L basketball his-
tory to record over 1,000 points and
350 assists (371) for his career.

Holton played in all 106 W&L
games in his career, starting 85 of
them, including 74 of the last 80.
Holton owns W&L records for most
three-point field goals in a season
(60), a career (207), and best three-
point shooting percentage (43.0).
Holton is a career 82.1 percent free
throw shooter.

Holton was named to the
GTE/CoSIDA Academic All-America
second team as a sophomore and the
third team as a junior. Holton also is
a two-time Virginia Sports Informa-
tion Directors Academic All-State

with 1,171 points to place him. 14th, Selection.

 

 

La Maison
Affordable Elegance

 

For Reservations:

703-366-2444

 

 

 

teen PLS
 

W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, March 14, 1991

 

Sting’s Soul Cages
lacks energy, soul

 

By Carli Flippen
Staff Reporter

After a three year hiatus, Sting
has released his third solo record,
Soul Cages.

My first reaction to this album
was that I miss Sting’s old band, The
Police. | miss their exciting, up-beat
pop tunes, with their unique blend of
reggae and punk elements. Their
songs like “‘Roxanne,”’ ‘‘Message in
a Bottle,” and ‘Every Breath You
Take,’’ are still popular and regu-
larly by bands at parties.

Sting’s first three solo albums
contained a similar excitement and
energy. He assembled a band of the
top young jazz musicians and re-
leased rhythmically and harmonically
unique tunes, which are danceable
and catchy and have a lot of energy.

However, Sting seems to have lost
the enthusiasm he once had for
making pop music in the three years
he has taken off from recording.
Although the music on this album is
carefully constructed and beautiful, it
is fairly soulless.

Only on the single release “All
This Time" and "Jeremiah Blues (Part
I)" does his band ever really kick
into action and sound as though they
are enjoying playing. The rest of the
album relies on swirling chords,

European folk sounds, and imagina-
live instrumentation such as oboes
and Northumbian Pipes to create the
music.

I don’t mean to say that the
music is bad. It’s beautiful. Most of
it is very similar to his earlier songs
"Russians" and "They Dance Alone."
They are mid-tempo songs that base
their instrumentation on echoing
percussion, keyboards and bass, a4-
ding other instruments for effect.

Most of the songs on Soul Cages
have a_ slow, swirling, haunting
quality. There is even a duet for
guitar and mandolin that sounds very
much like a Russian or Slavic folk
tune, and sounds as if it were lifted
from a Windham Hill sampler.

The lyrics are very introspective
and complex. Many of the songs,
such as “Island of Souls," deal with
Sting’s relationship with his recently
deceased father, who worked in a
shipyard and there is a great deal of
nautical imagery in the songs.

The album Soul Cages, as a
whole, is very beautifully done. The
lyrics are about as introspective and
deep as a commercial artist would
dare get. The songs have a haunting
quality and make effective use of
creative instrumentation. However,
the songs, with only a couple of
exceptions, lack the energy and soul-
fullness of Sting’s earlier works.

New & Recommended

Coliected Stories of Wallace Stegner, by Wallace Stegner
(Penguin, $10 9.) Stegner has Created a remarkable record of the
history and Culture of 20tn Century Amenca and the stones embody

some of the best virtues and values to be found in today’s fiction.

Mary Reilly, by Valerie Marun. (Pocket, $7.95.)
Ihe classic Jekyll/ Hyde melodrama interpreted from a fresh point of

View -

(nat of @ young maid living in the Jekyll househoid.

Burn Marks, by Sara Paretsky. (Dell, $4.50.) High-energy tale of
sleuthing featuring Chicago's own VL. Warshawski.

ASSOCIATION OF AMEHICAN PUBLISHERS) NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE STORES

House For Rent

3 Bedrooms

Washer & Dryer Included

Lawn Care Included. All new appliances

214 Lewis St.
$600/Month
463-2514

LEE Hl RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

Route 11 North

Open 24 Hours

BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME

 

 

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St.

Lexington, Va. 24450

 

i

 

 

 

You can have a summer full of
adventure and personal growth
while improving health for
people of Latin America...

Volunteer!

Application deadline: April a
1991. Incentives available for

early commitment.

Write or call:

 

Mexico, Ecuador, Paraguay,
Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Brazil

Work ¢ Share « Live « Learn

Amigos de las Americas

5618 Star Lane

Houston, Texas 77057
800/231-7796
713/782-5290

ed

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

. Dances with Wolves, by Michael Blake. (Fawcett, $4.95.)
Civil War veteran joins the Sioux way of Ife.

. The Bonfire of the Vanities, by Tom Wolfe. (Bantam, $4.95.)
Lust, greed and the American way of life in the ‘80s.

. All |Need to Know | Learned From my Cat, by Suzy Becker.
(Workman, $5.95.) Advice from a descerning cat

. The Russia House, by John le Carre. (Bantam, $5.95.)
The dangerous world of spies and counterspies.

. The Authoritative Calvin & Hobbes, by Bill Watterson.
(Andrews & McMeel, $12.95.) More Calvin & Hobbes cartoons.

. From Beirut to Jerusalem, by Thomas L. Friedman.
(Anchor, $12.95.) Account of the Arab-Israeli strife.

Misery, by Stephen King. (Signet, $8.95.)
Crazed fan holds author captive.

. Mystery, by Peter Straub. (Signet, $5.95.)
Compelling mystery set on a tiny Caribbean island.

. Alll Really Need to Know | Learned in Kindergarten, by Robert
Fulghum. (Ivy, $5.95.) Uncommon thoughts on common things.

. Foucauit’s Pendulum, by Umberto Eco. (Ballantine, $6.95.)
Esoteric data fed into an computer produce strange results.

 

W&L Chorus notes

University groups will perform Tuesday

 

From the W&L News Office

 

Washington and Lee University’s
choral groups will present their first
concert in the new Lenfest Center for
the Performing Arts Tuesday, March
19, at 8 p.m.

The concert will feature the Men’s
Glee Club, W&L’s oldest choral
ensemble which was founded in 1898,
and the Women’s Chorus, the newest
ensemble which was formed in 1988.
Together they will present a program
of choral selections spanning four
centuries of sacred and secular litera-
ture.

The Women’s Chorus, under the
direction of Courtney Birch, will
open the concert with two folk song
settings by Vaughan Williams. These
will be followed by a selection by
Zoltan Kodaly and concluded by
Felix Mendelssohn’s setting of the
sacred text, ‘‘Laudate Pueri.’’

The Men’s Glee Club, directed by
Gordon Spice, will sing two sacred
works from the Renaissance, ‘‘Cant-
ate Domino’’ by Hans Leo Hassler,
and ‘‘Lobet den Herren’”’ by Gallus
Dressler. An arrangement of Brahms’
‘‘How lovely is thy dwelling place,’’
for male voices will follow. Two
Italian folk songs, ‘‘El Giasso’’ and
“Il Nocchierel,”’ and a_ spiritual,
‘*You’d better run.”’

In a tribute to the late American
composer Aaron Copeland, the Glee
Club will sing ‘‘The Dodger,’’ and
will then be joined by the Women’s
Chorus in performances of ‘‘Simple
Gifts’ and ‘‘At the River.’’ The
combined choruses will end the pro-
gram with the ‘‘Washington and Lee
Hymn”’ and the ‘‘W&L Swing.” The
hymn was recently composed by
Margaret Brouwer, assistant professor
of music, with words by W&L soph-
omore Scott Howe.

3 Bedroom Apartment

Living room, kitchen and bathroom. Located 5
miles from Campus. Route 631. Barn and pasture
for horses. Available June Ist. Call 463-4856,

  

DPV

appagodcor

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

 

 

 
   
       
 

and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

 

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing |

(703)463-5988

 

   
 

 

 

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

FRIDAY, MARCH 15

3 p.m.

3:30 p.m.

7 p.m.
8 p.m.

8 p.m.

liam.

1:30 p.m.
1:30 p.m.

7 p.m.
8 p.m.

8 p.m.

12 Noon

4:30 p.m.

12 Noon

3:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

March 15 to March 22

Journalism Ethics Institute (through March 16).

MEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. William & Mary. Upper Varsity
Courts.

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Hope. Lower Varsity Courts.

POLITICS FILMFEST: High Noon. Room 203, Reid Hall.

FILM SOCIETY: Chocolat (France, 1988). Classroom "A," Lewis
Hall. Public invited.

JOURNALISM ETHICS LECTURE: “The Founding Fathers and
the Bottom Line,” Robert P. Clark, news/editorial consultant.
Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: GOLF: Dick Gordin Collegiate Classic
(through Mar. 17); MEN'S TRACK: Bridgewater; WOMEN'S
TRACK: Bridgewater.

MEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Wheaton. Varsity Courts.
OPERA BROADCAST: Kat'A Kabonova (Janacek). WLUR-FM.
WOMEN'S TENNIS: Hope vs. Catholic University. Varsity Courts.
POLITICS FILMFEST: High Noon. Room 203, Reid Hall.
FILM SOCIETY: Chocolat (France, 1988). Classroom "A," Lewis
Hall. Public invited.
FAIR'S 20TH ANNIVERSARY GALA: Lenfest Center. '
AWAY ATHLETICS: WOMEN'S LACROSSE: Guilford;
BASEBALL: Randolph-Macon.

St. Patrick's Day. '

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Catholic University. Varsity
Courts.

CATHOLIC MINISTRY PANEL DISCUSSION: "A Century of Soci:
Teaching,” featuring Bishop Walter F. Sullivan, Catholic
Diocese of Richmond. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: MEN'S LACROSSE: Haverford; MEN'S
TENNIS: Davidson.

Law School classes resume.
ACLU LECTURE: "Can a Conservative Find Happiness in the i
ACLU? The Answer is ‘Yes,” Bruce Kramer ‘66, general

counsel for ACLU, Tennessee. Moot Courtroom, Lewis Hall.
Public invited.
WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Bridgewater. Varsity Courts.
ACLU LECTURE: "Can a Conservative Find Happiness in the (
ACLU? The Answer is 'Yes," Bruce Kramer '66, general
counsel for ACLU, Tennessee. Northen Auditorium, ;
University Library. Public invited.

 

 

E

 
     

 

2D ES | ARR CO BRE > AAI () RIED: (ENROL «ARERR me «

SHOE FIXERS |

Instant Shoe Repair

>

a

We can heel you and save your sole while you wait. $

aj
O
YU)
=
ve
AD

 

UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS

3 West Nelson St., Lexington
| SD) SS) RR) aE (> RE «) SE

¥

464-6666

OUR ENTIRE STOCK!
LIMITED TIME ONLY!!!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
   

u DSR, INC |
< Call 800-875-0037
*VISA & MASTERCARD Accepted
aqudiotronics ||
FAST FUNDRAISING We Sell the Best Seats in the House
DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE \
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CWwD \
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI ‘
emecammnsiegene ip
Earn up to $1000 in one ~ CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT ‘
week for your campus Priest preebs alin
organization. - TRADE-INS ACCEPTED
Plus a chance at (800) 468-6667
55000 more! Corer of Ogden & Starkey Roads || '
oe ee Overlooking Tanglewood Mall '
This program works! 2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke
No investment needed. , ;
Call 1-800-932-0528 ‘
Ext. SO {

 

 

Grand Re- opening!
Putt-Around-Plus

a SPORT
Ee LOVE Tsanoas
18 hole miniature golf course fy
Adjacent to Fast Lane Bowling Center a
463-9793 2s
In March, Hours: Noon till 10 p.m. es
Saturday & Sunday Bes

  
 

£& Rollerblade.

   
 

 
 
  

  

Sales & Rentals

     
    
   
   
       
 
  

0" 0 se >
roeteanecaneateetind

  
 

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

     
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

Snow in March Sale
Sweatshirts 15% Off

 

30 N. Main St., Lexington

 

 

Reservations are recommended

 

Sweatpants 20% Off

   
 
       

15 W. Washington St.

(Next to Lloyd's)
464-3000
463-3020

 

 

 
~ ~ ~~ y
Ww >
oo

 

4 @VERSTY | GRADY
WA ms POSE
Mm VA. 24450
> 1901

KRing-tum Phi

 

, VOLUME 90, NO. 24

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

March 21, 1991

 

!

_

 

‘By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

The Law School faculty defeated Monday
jby tie vote a policy amendment that would
have allowed the military to use law campus
‘placement facilities, a law professor said.

The law faculty voted 10-10 to amend its
Feb. 11 policy change that prevents emp-
‘loyers that lawfully discriminate against
, homosexuals from using the school’s place-
ment facilities, the professor, who declined
‘to be identified, said.

Law School Dean Randall Bezanson,
chairman of the law faculty meetings, refused
‘to cast a vote to break the tie, and the am-

'

endment failed, the law professor said.

An amendment to law faculty policy
Tequires majority vote to pass. Pursuant to
standard procedure, the chairman votes only
to break a tie.

At least five law professors contacted for
confirmation refused to comment on the
Monday meeting. One law professor said
Bezanson discouraged law faculty from dis-
cussing the meeting.

Bezanson would not comment on the
Monday faculty meeting.

He said the faculty’s Feb. 11 policy
change was ‘‘a judgement in a very respon-
sible and thorough fashion which seems to
have struck understandably raw nerves.

‘That judgement is one that has my

support,’’ he said, ‘‘though I confess also to
deep disappointment at the ways in which the
faculty’s decision has been characterized.’’

Richmond lawyer William R. Cogar, '51
and ’55L, sent a March 7 letter opposing the
law faculty policy to Bezanson and The
Richmond News Leader. The News Leader
printed the letter March 13.

Cogar’s letter asked Bezanson for a list of
current alumni with service affiliations. He
also asked Bezanson for a list of which law
faculty members who voted for the Feb. 11
policy change are ‘‘out of the closet.”’

Bezanson would not comment on the
Cogar letter.

Mitchel Neurock, ’92L, said he spoke to
University President John Wilson last week

about the policy. He called Wilson ‘‘und-
erstanding’’ and ‘‘very attentive.’

Neurock said he and other law students
opposed to the Feb. 11 policy began a let-
ter-writing appeal to the Board of Trustees.

Bezanson said he and Wilson are prepar-
ing a letter to the American Association of
Law Schools, an agency with which Wash-
ington and Lee is accredited.

The AALS passed a measure in August
that called on member-schools to pass policies
like that adopted at W&L.

“‘We are considering communicating to
the AALS our concern about the maelstrom
in which we’ve found ourselves,’’ Bezanson
said.

He said W&L and other private schools

Law policy stands on tie vote

are particularly in an ‘‘intolerable situation.”’
Public schools, he said, do not have to obey
the AALS policy in practice, because they are
legally required to permit military recruiters
to use their placement facilities.

Bezanson also said the Law School Place-
ment Office ‘‘will assist any student who has
an interest in interviewing with the military.”’
He said the office will continue to set ap-
pointments and placement counselling, but
interviews will probably move to the under-
graduate campus.

“I’ve drawn the line this way,’’ Bezanson
said. ‘‘To the extent that the policy would
contain any implication that we should tum
our backs on assisting students in seeking
employment, we will not read it that way.”’

'

 

n

Goal bound

 

 

 

Chris Leiphart.

 

f Senior Todd Garliss moves upfield against a Lynchburg defender Wednesday on Wilson Field.
Garliss, with three goals, helped the 6th ranked Generals run past Lynchburg 14-5. Staff photo by

 

 

‘Neville Brothers to play W&L in May

 

, By Jason Kelley
Senior Copy Editor

 

‘ The Student Activities Board has scheduled the

Neville Brothers to play in the Pavilion May 17,

"however possible EC action may stop the concert.

/ SAB President Katie Duwel said yesterday the

board has finalized the date with the band’s agent

' and is awaiting the arrival of the contract in the

, mail. But Law School EC representatives have

objected to the proposed date because law exams

! will be completed, and most first and second-year
students will already have left for the summer.

Duwel said the SAB tried to arrange an earlier

+ date, but May 17 was the earliest the Neville

Brothers could play.

‘*We tried to be as accommodating as possible,
but the dates just didn’t work out,’’ Duwel said.
“It’s either do it the 17th or not do it at all.’”’

Duwel criticized EC President-elect and second
year law Rep. Giles Perkins for making it ‘‘a
personal crusade.”’

“‘He’s a second-year law student so he won’t
be here for the concert,’’ she said.

The EC will vote Monday night on whether or
not to stop the concert, but Duwel said if the
contract comes before then, the entertainment
director intends to sign and return it to the agent.

Grant Burns, president of the Student Bar
Association, said he felt it was unfortunate that the
only date available was after law exams, but that

the SAB should go ahead with the concert.

‘I’m sure she [Duwel] has taken the law
students into consideration and done the best she
could,’’ Burns said. '

For her part, Duwel said she feels since the
EC appointed her to run SAB,.if the board has
the money to pay for the concert, it should be her
decision whether or not to go ahead with it.

’ Duwel said this is only the latest round in a
continuing struggle between law students and
undergraduates over scheduling of campus events.

‘‘We went through all this before with Fancy
Dress,’’ she said. ‘‘I’m not going to be heid
hostage by 200 students who aren’t going to be
here and not provide entertainment for the other
1,500 who will be here.’’

New sorority
bid endorsed

Hopes of reduced chapter
sizes prompt housing talks

 

By Pamela Kelley
Staff Reporter

 

The Panhellenic Council formal-
ized on Tuesday a proposal discussed
last week to invite Pi Beta Phi Soror-
ity to colonize at Washington and
Lee.

The invitation to the fourth soror-
ity, nationally known as Pi Beta Phi,
is part of an effort by the PHC to
reduce the size of the three sororities
already on campus.

The proposal, which must next be
considered by the Student Affairs
Committee, was submitted by the
Panhellenic Publicity and Extension
Committee. It outlined the ‘‘inability
of Delta Gamma to realize a chap-
ter,”’ the three W&L sororities’ desire
to maintain chapters of around 70
members, and a recommendation that
Pi Phi be extended an invitation to
colonize here immediately.

‘*... Size has handicapped efforts
to organize activities and form a truly
close sisterhood. At the Panhellenic
level, it stands in the way of future
plans concerning housing. We expect
as many or more freshmen women to
go through Rush next year, which
means the problem will only continue
to worsen unless action is taken,’’ the
proposal said.

The proposal indicated it would
immediately organize presentations
from other sororities wishing to colo-
nize here if Pi Phi declines to estab-
lish a colony. The proposal suggests
a lowering of the quota system for
Kappa Alpha Theta, Chi Omega and
Kappa Kappa Gamma sororities to
provide a larger pledge class for the
new sorority, which would rush at the
same time as the other three.

Committee Chairman Sonja Till-
berg said the Panhellenic Council’s
adopted proposal will be sent to the
SAC for approval no later than next
week. Panheilenic President Dale
Wyatt said she expects the SAC will
accept the recommendation to invite
Pi Phi.

“Once we send the letter the ball
is in their court,’’ said Tillberg.

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
said last week the addition of one
more sorority would ‘‘alleviate but
not solve’ the high chapter numbers
in W&L sororities. Atkins estimated
although two or three more chapters
will probably be necessary to solve
the problem of high chapter numbers,
**you can’t just start with six.’’

Atkiris also discussed how’ the
high chapter totals have affected
arrangements for sorority housing,
saying until sororities reach their
ideal chapter sizes, planing will re-
main vague. ‘‘And its hard to say
when they will be down to size.”’

W&L Treasurer Lawrence Broom-
all said last week the sorority housing
issue is ‘‘nebulous at best,’’ although
the university remains committed to
provide accommodations for W&L
sororities as part of the Fraternity
Renaissance plan.

Broomall also said the addition of
several other sororities would not
“‘put a damper’’ on such intentions.
He estimated sororities will not
receive housing for three to five
years.

As a condition of the university-
enforced Greek fee sororities were
told they would be given office space
in the soon-to-be-renovated University

Q Please see PANHEL page 4

‘
‘
i

)
)

»
'

!

j

/

!

f

/

'

Thief gets
120 days in
Wé&L heist

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

A Delaware man was sentenced to
120 days in the Rockbridge County
Jail March 12 after he broke into
Washington and Lee dormitory rooms
and escaped with $1,700 in stereo
equipment and compact discs.

David William Rivera, 34, pled
guilty to one charge of trespass and
three charges of petit larceny. District
Court Judge Joseph Hess sentenced
Rivera to four consecutive 30-day
terms in jail.

Rivera had been charged on two
counts of grand larceny following his
arrest Feb, 22. His penalty was re-
duced in exchange for a guilty plea.

Rivera was arrested after a W&L
student called security to report a
man selling stereo equipment in the
dorms. Head of Security Charles
‘‘Murph’’ Murray found Rivera short-
ly thereafter and held the suspect
until police arrived.

Sergeant Richard Sutton of the
Lexington Police Department said
Rivera targeted student housing dur-
ing Washington Holiday. Sutton
said Rivera hoped to sell stolen mer-
chandise and use the money to travel
to New York or California.

Sutton said further legal action
would be pursued if the six W&L
students whose belongings were
found among the stolen goods decide
to press charges.

Professors chosen to replace retirees

 

By Scott Bronstein
Staff Reporter

 

Two new department heads and
one new professor will begin teach-
ing at the beginning of next year to
replace three retiring professors.

Roger A. Crockett will succeed
Buford F. Stephenson as head of the
German department and John Harrah
will succeed Henry Sharp as head of
the Mathematics department.

The University also hired Pulitzer
Prize-winning editorial writer Edwin
Yoder to replace Jounmalism Profes-
sor Clark Mollenhoff. Yoder will
begin teaching in 1992 after he fin-
ishes writing a book.

Crockett, a graduate of Wake
Forest University, received his Ph.D.
at the University of Illinois, and has
taught for ten years at Texas A&M.
University. He specializes in 19th and
20th-century German literature and
ran a nationally recognized program
at Texas A&M. that featured plays
produced by students entirely in Ger-
man,

Harrah, a Lexington native, grad:
udated from Haverford College with
a B.A. in Mathematics. He received
a Ph.D. in Mathematics from U.C.
Berkley. He taught at Columbia Uni-
versity, University of Maryland and,
most recently, at Michigan University.
In addition to department head, he
will also be the Roupret and Lillian
Radford Professor of Mathematics.

Elizabeth Oliver will replace Jay
Cook in the Accounting department.
She is a graduate of Mary Baldwin

College, and received her Masters
degree in Accounting from the Uni-
versity of Virginia. She is currently
working towards her Ph.D. at Texas
A&M Oliver will be the first female
accounting professor at Washington
and Lee.

A total of five professors will
retire at the end of the year.

Professor Westbrook Barritt has
been in phased retirement, and his
successor, Prof. Jeffrey Barnett is
already teaching classes at W&L. No
replacement has yet been found for
Literature professor Sydney Coulling,
despite two national searches.

According to Commerce School
Dean Larry Peppers, all professors
must retire when they reach age 65.
They may, however, work on a year-
to-year basis with half the class load
up until age 70. This allows the
University to hire new _ professors,
making the transition smoother when
one professor retires, Peppers said.

Peppers said hiring new professors
is a challenging task.

“It is always difficult to find
prople of the quality that are leaving.
We have to replace seasoned and
outstanding teachers, while not letting
our standards drop,’’ Peppers said.

W&L generally conducts a nation-
al search for applicants by sending
representatives to conferences and
conventions, and then inviting those
who seem qualified to submit applica-
tions. The field is narrowed down to
about four applicants, and they are
invited to Lexington for an interview
before the search committee makes a
hiring decision.

 

 

Columnist Yoder joins J-School

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Nationally-syndicated Pulitzer Prize-winning colum-
nist Edwin M. Yoder Jr. will join the Washington and
Lee faculty in January.

Yoder’s appointment as Professor of Journalism and
Mass Communications was announced Tuesday by
Professor Hampden H. Smith, chairman of the
Journalism department, and Dean of the College John
W. Elrod.

‘*This is a very important appointment,’’ said Elrod.
‘‘We’re fortunate to have one Pulitzer Prize winner on
the faculty so closely following another.’’

Yoder’s arrival on campus was originally set to
coincide with the retirement of Professor Clark R.
Mollenhoff, also a Pulitzer Prize winner.

Since University policy requires all faculty members
to retire at age 70, Smith said the Journalism depart-
ment searched for Mollenhoff’s successor for several
years.

Mollenhoff, who died this month, was due to retire
in June.

Smith said the University first became interested in
hiring Yoder while he was a guest lecturer on campus
during November 1989, Conversations began soon
after the highly successful visit.

Yoder was the Journalism department’s first choice
for the position, said Smith.

‘*All of us here in the department are very
excited,’ said Smith. ‘‘I don’t think it is ever possible
to replace Clark [Mollenhoff], but Ed [Yoder] is
uniquely qualified as a professor."’

Yoder, 56, graduated from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill and then studied at Oxford
University in England as a Rhodes Scholar.

  
 

  

wr

SS Se

   

 

~~
ES
iY

Ed Yoder Pat Hinely photo.
He began his journalism career as an editorial
writer for The Charlotte (N.C.) News in 1958. He

became editorial page editor of The Greensboro Daily
News in 1965.

In 1975, Yoder moved to Washington to become an
associate editor and editorial page editor of The Was
hington Star. He held that position until the paper
stopped publishing in 1981.

(1 Please see YODER page 3

 

 
 

ee a a

ee

he ae aT oe

A NS

es

Se

7
i
~

°

oe

»,

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, March 21, 1991

 

we ug et
All quiet on the

law school front

Controversy continues over the Law School’s decision to
adhere to accrediting board requirements that prohibit
organizations engaging in legal discriminatory practices from
recruiting on member campuses. This essentially means that
military organizations are barred from appearing on campus
to hire people on a full-time basis.

The various sides of the issue have been covered at
length here on our pages, and on the pages and editorial
columns of newspapers around the state. Yes, the military
discriminates against homosexuals, and discrimination is
wrong. But the Supreme Court upheld the ban against
homosexuals; and the act of sodomy is illegal in Virginia.
Yes, the Law School would have risked losing its
accreditation by not banning discriminatory organizations, but
many feel the accrediting body has over-stepped its bounds
by meddling in the area of sexual orientation. Furthermore,
a majority of law students want the school to risk its
accreditation, even though it could harm their standing with
potential employers, so that they can retain autonomy in
deciding whom to interview with.

We will not delve into all the issues and all the aspects
of this case, for it has already been thoroughly covered by
several newspapers including our own. We would, however,
be interested in knowing what the faculty who voted this
ban into existence think about the issue. It seems they are
the only ones who haven’t interjected their opinions into the
marketplace of ideas.

The best information we can get tells us that the latest

 

 

law school faculty vote deadlocked at 10-10. The ultimate
validity of this claim unfortunately remains a mystery. The
figure has yet to be officially confirmed. Dean Bezanson,
who has remained decidedly vague since this whole debacle
erupted, held the tie-breaking vote. He chose not to cast that
vote — again, as far as we can tell.

It’s hard to believe that a man of the intelligence and
stature of Dean Bezanson would be having a difficult time
formulating an opinion on this matter. It seems far more
likely that he has made up his mind and has chosen to keep
his decision a big secret; he’s doing a fine job of it.

If only Bezanson would see it in his heart to enlighten
the rest of us, we could stop speculating and contribute
some rational analysis based on confirmed facts to the
discussion. Wouldn’t we all like to see this debate raised to
a higher level?

This is not the first time secrecy has reared it’s ugly head
here at Washington and Lee — merely the latest. Not only
are we denied the reasoning behind the law professors’
decisions, but we don’t even know who supported the ban.
The participants just aren’t talking.

It’s a shame the law school faculty is unwilling to
enhance free debate on this subject. The purpose of this
institution is to educate it’s students, not mystify them.

Aloha Oe

This is it for Chris Baradel, Anne Dysart, Chris Mark,
John Miller, John Laney, Chris Leiphart, Pat Lopes, .
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters and Jeff Woodland. Our
last issue. Our last Wednesday night up here. No words
could express how we feel.

Starting spring term, Jason Kelley and Rick Peltz take
over as editors-in-chief. They’re full of ideas and energy
for the paper. We wish them well.

Quote of the week

““Good morning, Ma’am.”’ .

— Economics Professor John M. Gunn, as he coached the
men in his Econ 102 class on how to greet their future
bosses each morning, noting the dismal failure of all but two
men to pass a recent quiz.

 

 

 

 

       
     

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

  

 

  
       
     
     
       
       
       
     
   
  

BAO se 5) a ees Patricia Lopes, Andrew Waters
Associnin Baler eo a ee ee Alesha Priebe
Assignment Editor Cathy Lopiccolo
Editorial Page Editor Chris Baradel
Senior Copy Editor Jason Kelley

ebveres € ete 6 8 ee tee ee

ttt 0682 et ee ee ete £438

Enitertainmant BANGOR cc ee ee Pam Kelley
Spent Bar ess 0 ss 0 es 2 5s te Jay Plotkin
Asedciate Sports Editor... te tee teens John Laney
Pe ee ee Chris Leiphart

Editorial Cartoonist Jeff Woodland
Editorial Assistant Joshua Manning
ey ss 6 ee eee ee Courtney Hall

Bosineds MIAASEE.. wk. es re aes Anne Dysart
Advertiging MGMBGGT ogc et es tne John Miller
Clean PAM. es Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

     
 
 
 
 
    
     
 

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

 

    

“8

 

 

THE SBAR SIDE
By Jon Sbar

 

It has beady eyes, a bulbous
head, a scaly back, a long forked
tongue, stumpy legs, reptile eyes and
a very bad attitude. It slinks around
on it’s belly and loves to eat. It
sleeps fifteen hours a day. It is a girl
that I recently woke up with in bed
after a night of heavy drinking. Of
course, that was just a tasteless joke.
Actually, It is a three-foot-long Asian
lizard, who has moved into my house
until it’s owner returns from Spring
Break. Demonstrating my ability to
coin clever nicknames, I have been
calling my new roommate ‘‘Lizard.”’

The reason that I mention Lizard
is because he reminds me of a letter
I received from a concerned reader in
Mexico named Joe. Since the letter
was addressed to ‘‘Mr. Manners,”’
my instinct was to throw it in the
trash. Then from deep inside the dim
passages of my memory, I recalled
that in a drug-crazed stupor I once
wrote a column announcing myself as
the new manners columnist and
encouraged people to write me with
their etiquette questions. Joe’s letter
is one of the few that I can print in
this family-oriented newspaper. Most
of the etiquette questions I received
involved disgusting bodily functions.

Dear Mr. Manners: My name is
Joe. I’m from Mexico, and I have a
pet iguana named ‘‘Iguana.’’ The

other day Iguana and I were walking
home from school (it was show and
tell day) when I noticed that my
attractive female neighbor, Betty, who
has large breasts, was swimming
naked in her pool. Thinking that it
would make a good joke and wanting
to move in for a closer look, I snuck
into her back yard and dropped
Iguana in the pool. When Iguana
swam up to her and climbed onto her
back, Betty nearly had heart failure.
I’ve never seen a naked woman swim
so fast. Betty called my Mom to
complain and now me and Iguana are
both on restriction. Do you think I
showed bad manners by dropping
Iguana in Betty’s pool and deserved
to be punished?

Dear Gentle Reader Joe: Before
we get to your question, Mr. Manners
would like to ask a few of his own.
If you live in Mexico, how come
your letter was written in English and
not Spanish? Couldn’t you have
thought of a more original name for
your pet iguana? Aren’t you a little
young to be sneaking up on naked
women? Just how big are Betty’s
breasts? Addressing your situation,
Mr. Manners thinks that your little
prank was inappropriate, devious and
cruel. However, it was hilarious and
therefore justified like all good
pranks. Mr. Manners is sure that
Betty will thank you some day when
she uses the prank on a friend. Even
if she doesn’t, at least you got to see
her naked.

Okay, okay, I confess that I took

a little poetic license with Joe’s letter.
In fact, I took more than poetic
license. There is no Mexican youth
named Joe with a pet iguana named
“‘Iguana’’ and an attractive neighbor
named Betty. Or if there is, he never
wrote me a letter. I realize that my
little letter prank was inappropriate,
devious and cruel. However, it was
hilarious and therefore justified. But
I’m sure Betty will thank...wait a
second, that sounds awfully familiar.
It’s Deja Vu! I feel like I wrote
those very same lines in another life
in another era in another paragraph.
Please pardon that Deja Vu
diversion, readers. It’s time I
answered a real letter I received from
a girl who attends Kenyon College.
{Ed note: For those who tend to
view anything written in this
column with utter and complete
skepticism, rest assured the letter is
real. Mr. Sbar received it in
October, and has been fighting his
natural inertia to answer it ever
since. — C.B.] The girl identified
herself as ‘‘The Wild Runaway.”’
Due to space limitations, | was forced
to condense the letter considerably.
Dear Mr. Manners: I am a
gullible, friendly blonde who gets
drunk quite easily. I have the
tendency to wander after consuming
excessive amounts of cherry wine
coolers, and on various occasions I
have wandered away from my
friends. Because of my wandering
tendencies, my friends are now in the
habit of leaving without me when we

| UT r\4 |
Mr. Manners’ long-awaited return |

 

 

 

the lene! article
page ome,

 

 

 

{

are out at night and they decide to go
home. This is inconvenient because’
my friends frequently leave me,
assuming that I have disappeared
again. Do my friends have a
responsibility to look out for me or
are they entitled not to worry since I
have been rude enough to leave them;
in the past?

Dear Gentle Reader ‘Wild’
Runaway:’’ First of all, could you,
send Mr. Manners your phone
number and revealing photographs of"
yourself in sexy lingerie? Mr.
Manners loves to date gullible,’
friendly blondes who get drunk easily,
on cherry wine coolers. Now, to
address your etiquette question. Since
you have written Mr. Manners such a
nice letter and complimented his’
writing, he has no choice but to rule,
in your favor. Your friends (and Mr.
Manners uses the term loosely)
should never go home without,
finding you (unless you are with Mr.
Manners). They must locate you and‘
escort you safely into your bed, even,
if it means staying out until dawn
and covering every square inch of'
Gambier, Ohio. :

Unfortunately, this column must
now end. I have run out of both)
space and initiative. Don’t forget to
send me those etiquette questions and’
sexy photographs of attractive females:
or pet lizards care of: Mr. Manners
(800 McCorkle Drive, Lexington, VA’
24450). In the meantime, I will keep’
busy waiting for Mrs. Manners to sue
me for using her trademarked name. |

 

Bezanson needs
to take a side
on controversy

The law school faculty recently voted for the
third time on the issue of military recruitment.
The faculty had previously voted twice to deny
the military the right to interview on the law
campus because the military discriminates on the
basis of sexual preference. Congress and the
Supreme Court have already ruled that such
discrimination by the military is legal.

This time the vote concerned a compromise
proposal by Prof. McThenia, the details of which
faculty members were discouraged from
discussing in public. The vote came out 10-10,
but Dean Randall P. Bezanson refused to cast the
deciding vote. What a surprise. The Dean has
never made public his personal view of this
issue, and has now refused to go on record even
when the faculty vote was tied.

Dean Bezanson’s failure to take a stand on
this issue has left the law school in limbo. The
faculty is unable to affirm or recant its prior
pronouncements on the issue of freedom of
recruitment. And the students, meanwhile, are
unsure whether the military ban will ever go into
effect. Apparently the Board of Trustees will be
forced to take up the matter when it meets again
this spring.

It looks as if Dean Bezanson has decided to
take a similar approach to that of Gov. Wilder
on the VMI issue. The Dean’s waffling has left
everyone uneasy about the tone and substance of
events to come. In trying not to offend anyone,
the Dean has in fact offended students and
faculty alike, and has allowed the law school
community to slip into a frustrating and
embarrassing stalemate.

The Dean has unfortunately forgotten (if he
ever learned) a maxim which all military officers
know: "When in charge, take charge.” A strong
Dean does not "stand firmly in two places.” By
exercising proper leadership over the faculty, the
Dean could have prevented this matter from
becoming the source of divisiveness and

 

LETTERS

controversy.

Dean Bezanson could have put a stop to this
nonsense by casting a vote against the
recruitment ban, contingent on the results of a
protest to the AALS. Or he could have
unilaterally overruled the faculty, pending further
review by the Board of Trustees. The Dean could
thus have proven himself to be a Students’
Dean," as his predecessors have been and as his
successors hopefully will be.

By the same token, if the Dean thought our
AALS accreditation was so important, he could
have voted for the policy. His silence on this
issue suggests to me _ that the faculty’s
accreditation concerns are merely a smokescreen
for deeper political motives. By voting for the
faculty policy, the Dean would have at least
demonstrated some backbone, a _ prime
qualification for any leadership position. But in
his attempt to straddle the fence, the Dean has
succeeded only in ripping his pants.

Professors are now expressly discouraged by
the Dean from discussing the vote totals or even
the content of compromise proposals. If the
faculty is so proud of its action in banning
military recruiters, why the secrecy? If banning
the military from campus is a courageous act,
then the faculty should have no need for a “Cone
of Silence." Let them trumpet their reasoning and
opinions in public, for all to see and evaluate.
Let them demonstrate their courage in the open,
instead of behind closed doors, They have
judged; let them now prepare to be judged.

It’s difficult to pin down a faculty member
who voted for the restriction of free recruitment,
but there is certainly no shortage of opponents.
Perhaps our faculty doesn’t feel that a matter
such as job placement is a legitimate student
concern. (The signatures of over 60% of the law
school student body certainly didn’t mean much
to them.) If the faculty is of the opinion that the
students support them, we students are already
proving them wrong.

I think it unfortunate that this whole matter
could not be settled in-house. We have gone
through all possible internal channels, seeking
compromise, but our efforts have been denied by
an obstinate, shortsighted faculty. The faculty’s
refusal to compromise has left us students with
no choice but to take the matter public.

Hopefully W & L alumni will continue to
speak with their wallets and checkbooks as well

as their voices. Hopefully they will see through '

the law faculty’s political posturing and withhold
contributions to the university until this matter is
settled. Hopefully the faculty will come to its
senses and realize that not only are they in the
minority on this issue, but that they will never be
able to make such a ban meaningful so long as
there is determined student resistance.
Freedom of recruitment is no longer an issue
for the law school alone. Our entire university is
getting a black eye in the press; our prestige is
on the line. Our tradition of close student-faculty
relations is in jeopardy. And for what? Meek
capitulation to an outsider’s notions of "proper"
employment for law students. All we students
seek is the right to interview, at the law school,
with whomever we wish, so long as employers
are complying with the law. Nothing more. We
are not asking the faculty to condone illegal
activity. This campus is supposed to be a forum
for the free expression of ideas. The law
faculty's restriction of that freedom for its own
political gain is unacceptable, especially when
this gain comes at the expense of students.
Sincerely,
Mitch Neurock, 2nd Lt., USAF, ’92L

Superdance
thanks extended

We would like to extend our greatest
appreciation to all those who made 1990-91 such
a great year for Superdance. Our thanks go to
the parents, local merchants, student organizations
and the W&L community who donated their
services, money and prizes. We would especially
like to thank the Superdance chairmen and
members who put in the hours to make the
events throughout the year, not only a success,
but fun.

And to the Fontanne, thank you for
everything! We hope future Superdances will
have your guidance.

Good luck next year,
Matt Wherry
Kennon Walthall

 

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, March 21, 1991

 

IFC bans communal alcohol

 

 

By Kim Boots
Staff Reporter

 

The Phi Delta Theta fraternity
has found that the Interfraternity
Council and the Student Conduct
Committee are taking a stricter at-
titude toward damaging newly
renovated fraternity houses, said
Phi Delt President Foster Bow-
man.

Parts of the Phi Delt house
were damaged during the first
Wednesday night party there, Bow-
man said. However, he refused to
give details about the nature of the
damage, who caused it or how
they were punished. He did say
that the fraternity took the
inforreation to the IFC and the

 

Phi Delt president says
IFC, SCC stricter now

SCC, which have dealt with the
incident.

Bowman commented that the
damage to the house ‘‘would not
have even been considered damage
in years past. If we were in the
same situation we were in last
year, it wouldn’t have been an
ordeal.

‘*Fraternities are going to find
that the Hill and student govern-
ment will be doing everything
from a harsher viewpoint.”’

Tom Hatcher, Executive
Committee president and a member
of Phi Delt said, ‘‘We did run into
some problems’ based on
unpreparedness.’’ He added that
as a result of the incident the
house has banned bottle beverages
from house parties.

 

 

 

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

 

The Interfraternity Council clari-
fied its no-keg rule this week, assert-
ing that communal sources of alcohol
are also illegal under its constitution.

The IFC passed a rule banning
kegs last fall. According to IFC
President Goodloe Lewis, fraternity
members have often simply brought
loose cans and bottles of beerto their
housesand put them in garbage cans
of ice as keg substitutes.

The IFC officially decided Tues-
day to prohibit this practice. Lewis
said that the penalty for this offense
will possibly be social probation, but
that each case will be handled at
IFC’s discretion.

Lewis added that the rule might
be subject to change when the new
IFC takes over in three weeks.

In other business, the IFC dis-

cussed Buildings and Grounds’ accu-
sation that earlier this month fraterni-
ty pledges took mattresses that had
been provided by the university for
prospective students. B&G claims
the mattresses were carried from the
dormitories to pledges’ fraternity
houses.

When B&G tried to retrieve the
mattresses after the weekend, they
found that many were missing. Lewis
said that B&G wrote a letter to the
IFC speculating that pledges took
them to their fraternity houses to
sleep on during initiation week.

Lewis denied the accusation. He
said that he thinks people surely
would have noticed anyone walking
down the street with the missing
mattresses.

The mattresses still have not been
located. Anyone with information
concerning these missing mattresses
should contact Buildings and
Grounds.

Record number attend FD City mails

 

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

 

700 pounds of ice and 450 liters
of Coke, but no cups.

Fancy Dress Chairman John
Flippen faced this situation Friday,
March 8, during the Fancy Dress
Ball.

‘‘We realized about 9 o’clock that
we had forgotten to buy cups,”
Flippen said. ‘‘Dabney Collier had
to run out to East Lex and buy 4,000
keg cups.’’

Despite this glitch the 84th Fancy
Dress Ball was a huge success,
Flippen and FD Vice Chairwoman
Susie Wooten said.

Ticket sales raised about $70,000,
just shy of the $75,000 goal, Flippen
said.

Though fewer tickets were sold
than in previous years, a record 3,500
people attended the ‘‘Royal Festival
at King Arthur’s Court,’’ he said.
Flippen attributed this to increased
turnout from faculty, administration,
and staff.

Both  Flippen and Wooten said

they were thrilled with the decora-
tions and the fact that everyone
seemed to be enjoying themselves.

‘‘When I saw the gym on Friday,
everything just seemed to fit,”
Wooten said.

60 contract workers and 50 SAB
members worked in shifts from 10
am. to 10 p.m. for 11 days to
prepare the Warner Center for the
Ball.

‘‘l was impressed with the work-
ers who helped put Fancy Dress
together,’ Flippen said. ‘‘Our 110
workers were people from every class
and every fraternity and sorority, and
they worked together to create Fancy
Dress.”’

Several items were taken from the
Ball, including a banner, a wall tap-
estry, and four brass rubbings. These
decorations were rented from Back-
stage, Inc. in Richmond and are
valued at $2,000.

‘Obviously somebody made a
mistake and thought we made these
decorations,’’ Wooten said. iE
anyone has any information concern-
ing these items, they can call the
SAB office at 463-8585.”’

 

 

 

Katie Duwel

SAB Chairwoman Katie Duwel
said the great success of this year’s
FD was due to the planning done by
Flippen and Wooten.

Flippen said he doesn’t want to be
FD Chairman next year.

‘‘T don’t want to try to top this
FD,’’ he said.

 

YODER

from page 1

 

Yoder won the 1979 Pulitzer Prize in Editorial Writing

for his work with The Star.

Since 1982, Yoder has written a nationally syndicated
column for the Washington Post Writers Group. The
column appears twice a week in 65 newspapers across the
country including The Washington Post and The Richmond

Times-Dispatch.

Yoder has completed two books and is currently
writing a third. The Night of the Old South Ball, published
in 1984, is a collection of essays originally appearing in

the Greensboro paper and The Star.

The Unmaking of a Whig, published last year, is a
collection of autobiographical sketches,

lectures.

Yoder is now working on a book about columnists
Joseph and Stewart Alsop. The book, which Yoder descr-
‘‘a study in journalism,’’ delayed his expected
arrival at W&L until the beginning of next winter term.

Yoder will continue to write his column while teach-

ibes as

by J.R. Smith

in Alexandria.

ment,”’

ing and expects to commute between W&L and his home

Yoder will teach Journalism 101, ‘‘Introduction to the
Mass Media,’’ Journalism 318,
Journalism,’’ Journalism 324, ‘‘Mass Media and Govern-
and Journalism 353, ‘‘Contemporary Issues.’’

‘The Literature of

The department strongly considered Yoder’s expertise

while making these decisions.
“Yoder is uniquely qualified to teach these courses,’
Smith said. ‘‘His broad interests will make them appeal-

ing to students both inside and outside the Journalism

department.”’
essays and

While the Journalism department searches for a part

time lecturer or visiting professor to teach Journalism 101

winter.

suits me well.”’

Interviews and photos

 

Lauren Rowland,
City, MD
because he likes both kinds of
music, country and western."’

92, Ellicott
‘Dick Sessoms,

 

Mike Skarda, ’91, Plano, TX

—  ‘*Buddy. He is the coolest
because he’s the closest to the
ground.”’

in September, Yoder is looking forward to his arrival next

‘I know Washington and Lee well,’’ he said. ‘‘I’ve
visited the school often and it is the sort of place that

late notices
for car tax

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

 

Lexington city officials have
begun to send out delinquent notices
to students who have not paid their
car tax bills.

According to City Treasurer Pat
DeLaney, delinquent notices were
sent out on Tuesday to students
whose bills were due on March 14,
She said she did not know how many
were sent.

DeLaney said that people who
receive the notices will be given an
“appropriate amount of time’’ to pay
the tax plus an additional late charge
before they will be notified of ‘‘the
possibility of court action.”’

DeLaney said that some people
who have already paid might get
delinquent notices since she received
some payments the same day the
notices were sent.

In January, the Executive Commit- :

tee voted to implement a boycott of
city businesses by the student body,
but the boycott was postponed when
city officials agreed to meet with
student representatives to discuss the
tax.

EC President Tom Hatcher has
since said he does not consider the
boycott a viable option because it
‘twould hurt the wrong people.’’

Pete Silvain, '93L, who was re-
cruited by Hatcher to research the
legal angle of the issue says he be-
lieves the best course for students to
take is to sign an exemption with the
city.

Exemption can be obtained by
signing a form in the city treasurer’s
office. A student must prove either
that his car is housed outside
Lexington for more than six months
of the year or that he already pays a
personal property tax on his car at
home.

 

TALK

BACK

 

 

 

W&L Job

The applications deadline for
W&L’s alumni staff associate
position for the 1991-92 academic
year has been extended to Mon-
day April 1. Interested graduating
seniors should submit a letter
along with a resume to James D.
Farrar, Jr., Director of Alumni
Programs in the Alumni office.
The position is currently held by
Joel Smith, '90, and becomes
available on July 1. A personal
interview for each applicant will
be required.

Breathe

The American Lung Association
of Virginia is holding the first
Clean Air Challenge Bike or Hike
on Sunday, May 5 at Massanutten
Resort. The challenge is held in
celebration of the air and the need
to keep it healthy. Participants
must pay a registration fee and
raise pledge donations. Call (703)
434-LUNG or 1-800 345-LUNG
for further information.

Contest

The 16th Annual Rolling Stone
College Journalism Competition is
looking for budding journalists to
submit entries to this prestigious
collegiate writing contest. Winning
entries will receive $2,500 from
Rolling Stone magazine. Entries
must be received by June 1. Seck
further information from the Jour-
nalism department.

ODK Award

Omicron Delta Kappa is seeking
nominations for this year’s Dean
James Leyburn award to recognize
groups or individuals who have
made significant contributions to
the community. Please submit a
nomination statement to Dean
Ruscio by April 26.

Caylx Pix

The Caylx needs your candids!
Photos are needed of fraternity
and sorority functions, FD, and
sophomores, juniors, and seniors
by tomorrow, March 22. General
candids will be accepted through
May. Please leave them in the
envelope on the Calyx office door
or with Carol Calkins in the
University Center.

Congrats

If you would like to take out an
ad to congratulate graduating
friends, fraternity brothers, or
sorority sisters, the Calyx is sell-
ing space. An 1/8 page ad costs
$50 and a 1/4 page ad costs $75
if you order by March 28.

GENERAL NOTES.

Go Recruit

Sign up for interviews for the
1991-92 Student Recruitment
Committee in the Admissions
office by tomorrow afternoon. Old
members must re-apply.

Karate

Anyone interested in starting 4
Karate Club during this spring
term should call Tim Vandeveer
at 464-5692 or Bob Fuller at 463-
7713. Experience not necessary.

Revision Vote

Proposed revisions to the student
body constitution will go to ballot
Tuesday through Thursday. The
voting will be preceded by a
forum on the revisions in Lee
Chapel at 4 p.m. Monday. A
revision requires two-thirds of the
vote to pass, with at least half the
student body voting.

Get Carded

Students with an International
Student Identity Card can save
hundreds of dollars on worldwide
air travel. The card also provides
international recognition of student
status, making cardholders eligible
for student discounts. Join the
group. Information is available at
the University Bookstore.

SAB Info

What’s the SAB up to next? For
information on all SAB sponsored
upcoming events for the W&L
community, check out the new
information board in the Universi-
ty Center near Carol Calkins’
office. Information will be posted
weekly.

Found

A walkman and watch found in
the Gaines Hall weight room may
be claimed at the security office
in Graham-Lees Dorm.

Found (Take 2)

Pentax 35mm camera and film
with a black carrying cas2 found
near the PiKA river house FD
Saturday. Contact Debra Wood at
(804) 296-8030 if you lost it.

Get It Out

Need to let people know what
you’re up to? Leave a note in the
General Notes envelope outside
The Ring-tum Phi office.

 

 

 

 

Courtney Hall, 92, Shreveport,

Orleans, LA

 

 

LA and Elizabeth Fox, 92, New

‘*Murph, without a doubt.”’

    

Who is the coolest administrator?

 

 

 

Sebastian Cross, ’93, Columbia,
MD — ‘‘Dean Ruscio, because
he knows how to party.’’

Joseph Michael, ’°91L, Beaver
Creek, MD — ‘‘Associate Dean
of Law School [Edward] Henne-
man, because of his unfailing
compassion, warmth and _toler-

”

ance.

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi, March 21, 1991

 

 

Bhutto to visit SBC

ON THE HILL

 

Former Pakistani Prime Minister to speak April 11

 

 

 

 

Benazir Bhutto
..Former Prime Minister of Pakistan

 

From Press Releases

Former Prime Minister of Pakistan Benazir Bhutto will
speak at Sweet Briar College’s Babcock Auditorium April
11 at 8 p.m.

Forced out of office by a military-backed constitutional
coup in August 1990, Bhutto is currently the leader of the
Opposition party in Pakistan.

Born in 1953, Bhutto attended Harvard University and
Lady Margaret Hall in Oxford. Bhutto was under house
arrest from 1974 to 1984, and spent two years as leader
in exile of the Pakistan Peoples’ Party with her mother
Nusrat.

Bhutto was elected Prime Minister in 1988, just two
years after returning from exile in the United Kingdom.
During her twenty-month reign, Bhutto restored
constitutional freedoms and initiated measures for
separating the judiciary from the executive branch. Her
government built 8000 public and secondary schools and
brought electricity to 4600 villages.

Bhutto received the Phi Beta Kappa Award from
Radcliffe College in 1989 and an honorary Doctor of
Laws degree from Harvard University. She is the recipient
of the Bruno Kreisky Award for Human Rights, the
Liberal International Woman of the Year Award for 1989,
the Averell Harriman Democracy Award and the United
Nations Development Fund for Women Award in 1990.

Bhutto has written two books, Foreign Policy in
Perspective (1987) and Daughter of The East (1988).

Bhutto’s lecture is free and open to the public.

CRC Talks

The Executive Committee will
sponsor a forum on the Confiden-
tial Review Committee Thursday,
March 28, at 7 p.m. in the Moot
Court Room in Lewis Hall.

CRC Chair Ann Massie, Dr.
Nancy Margand, who is responsi-
ble for initially handling alleged
violations of the University Poli-
cy on Harassment, and student
members of the CRC will be
available to answer questions. One
issue that will be discussed in the
scope of the existing harassment
policy, which includes ethnic,
racial, religious and sexual harass-
ment.

The forum will include an
historical perspective by Dr. Sam-
uel Kozak.

In 1988, the University estab-
lished the CRC, which consists of
four faculty members and three
students appointed by the Dean of
the College with the approval of
the President of the University.

If a student feels he has been
harassed, he should consult Dr.
Margand. If the individuals in-

 

volved cannot reach an agree-
ment, the complainant may refer
the case to the CRC.

All testimony and written
Statements before the CRC are
confidential. Determination of
guilt and sanctions must be sup-
ported by five of the seven CRC
members. Sanctions of suspension
or expulsion may be appealed to
the President’s Advisory Commit-
tee.

— from staff reports

Ethics Lecture

Washington and Lee’s Busi-
ness Ethics Institute is sponsoring
a lecture on “Business and the
Environment: An Essay in Effec-
tive Moral Range” Friday, March
22, at 8 p.m.

Lisa H. Newton, director of
the program in applied ethics at
Fairfield University (Conn.), will
give the address in room 221 of
the Commerce School.

— by Jennifer Gibson

Oxford Bound

Washington and Lee sopho-
more Scott Howe has been sele-
cted to attend University College
as W&L’s Oxford Exchange stu-
dent.

Howe, an English major, was
selected from six undergraduate
students applying for the pro-
gram.

Howe said he plans to study
British literature during his eight-
month stay beginning in October.

“Oxford is a fantastic place
to study British literature,’’ Howe
said. ‘‘It’s like going to France to
study French.”’

Howe said he is especially lo-
oking forward to the one-on-one
tutorials at Oxford. Howe will
meet weekly with a tutor to do
intense writing and discuss re-
search.

Howe said he toured Britain
once several years ago with his
Youth Orchestra.

“I kind of fell in love with
the country and promised myself
that I’d go back somehow.”’

— from staff reports

 

 

 

 

 

Run-off class elections today

 

By Rick Peltz
Staff Reporter

 

Elections for 1991-92 Executive
Committee representatives and class
officers concluded with today’s run-
offs.

Nancy Mitchell took one senior
EC seat with 173 of the 267 senior
votes. Incumbent Clayton Ken-
nington faced Spencer Patton for the
other in today’s run-off.

Read Folline won the senior class
presidency with 138 votes to write-
in candidate Patrick Conner’s 83.
Trey Cox and Chris Haley took two
senior vice presidencies with 112 and
114 votes; David Phillips and Jason
Robertson entered today’s run-offs for

the third with 103 votes each.

Tom Hooper won one junior EC
seat, beating incumbent Kirk Ogden
121-62. Incumbent Josh MacFar-
land, 114 votes Monday, faced Wade
Robinett, 66, in run-off for the other
today.

The junior presidency went to
Richard Burke with 151 votes. Betsy
Kleiner faced Jason Coccia for the
junior vice presidency today.

Four sophomores entered the run-
off for EC: Ames Hutton, Nathan
Dunn, Ashby Hackney, Blair Hixson.
The sophomore presidency went to
Bill Chappell with 119 votes, and the
vice presidency to John Surface with
100 votes.

766 students voted Monday. Run-
off polls were open at press time.

 

Needed:

Send

Publicatio

 

Z& Rollerblade.

Sales & Rentals

‘LONE lsanoaus

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cover
and resume to:

Calyx Business
Manager

letter

ns Board

: c/o Carol Calkins in the
University Center

Due Friday, April 5

 

We made

Bills better
by not changing
a thing.”

™

 

   

A

100%
COTTON

A great pair of basic old style khakis
>le

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

Student
Accounts
Available

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd's)
464-3000

 

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

 

ite simply, Bills are « i
er, and genuine dr

 

|
|
30-42 EVEN +350 |
45-48 ODD SHIPPING |
UNHEMMED |

* FIT & |

459

The manner in which Bills are cut dates back to the 1940's
Because this cut provides both freedom of movernent |
and tremendous comfort, it's no wonder that |
in years past, many of America’s greatest leaders
and greatest livers have tramped across battlefields
athietic fieids, and cornfields in khakis like these.

So when you try Bills on for size, expect a jot

Personal checks, @ FEE (awe) weicome

Please include: size, acct#, exp. date
shipping instructions

Thank you

W. THOMAS COMPANY

READING P& 19601

215 372.9765

PANHEL

from page 1

 

Theater. Atkins indicated two weeks
ago there may be a hold-up on the
renovation. Broomall said, however,
the capital project to improve parts of
the theater has been approved.

‘We do have funding and we
hope the space will be available by
Fall,’’ Atkins said.

Meanwhile, Sigma Phi Epsilon
and Kappa Alpha fraternities officially
joined the university’s renovation
project two weeks ago. Broomall said
the Fraternity Renaissance Steering
Committee is ‘99 percent certain’
Sigma Chi fraternity will be built a
new house in Davidson Park and
‘We're wrestling with the question
of [moving] Sigma Phi Epsilon.’’

According to Atkins it will cost
more to renovate the Sigma Chi and
Sigma Phi Epsilon houses than to
build new ones in accordance with
the Fraternity Renaissance standards.
This, in addition to the university’s
acaten

So anes Ss Ss aes Sees Saneeeees eS .
Grand Re- eee
Putt-Around-Plus

 

 

 

 

Nancy Mitchell
..Elected senior EC Rep

octee Sees

oceesetete

   
    
    

 

  

Beach Volleyball Open Now be
Call For Details i

Adjacent to Fast Lane Bowling Center % :
wed

463-9793 es

In March, Hours: Noon till 10 p.m. ee
Saturday & a ees

peas 8

Sac

 

 

 

 

Special Prices
OUR ENTIRE STOCK!
LIMITED TIME ONLY!!!

UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS

DSR, INC
= Call 800-875-0037
*VISA & MASTERCARD Accepted

 

 

 

 

ys e Redke

     
   
   
      
     
 
   
 
      
       
      
       
 

n@ Paul Mitchel « a .
ea

‘eae

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

R.E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church

Holy Week Activities

 
 

Wed., March 27 - Quiet Day 10-12 a.m.

Maundy Thursday Eucharist - 7:30 p.m.

Mar. 29 - Good Friday Service - 12:00 noon

Mar. 30 - Easter Vigil Eucharist and Baptist - 7:30 p.m.
followed by party in the Parish Hall

Mar. 31 - Easter Day Services: 8:30 & 10:30 a.m.

    

7:15 a.m. - Eucharist will be held
Monday-Thursday of Holy Week

Morning Prayer 8:30 a.m. Monday-Saturday

Noon Eucharist March 27th

 

plan to move Kappa Sigma fraternity
members out of their current house
and into the vacant Zeta Beta Tau
house in Davidson Park, will leave
three dwellings empty.

Atkins said there is no correlation
with the future vacancy of the three
buildings and the present total (three)
of sororities on campus, saying a
sorority probably could not fit its
entire chapter into one of the fraterni-
ty houses’ rooms.

He said the Sigma Chi House
would make a ‘‘great location for the
university without spending that kind
of money to renovate it,’’ citing it as
a possible Dean of Students office.
Kappa Sigma might be used, for
example, as a foreign language house.

Atkins said the university may
confer with architects about the con-
struction of sorority housing next
year.

 

Dean Leroy “Buddy” Atkins

   

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

        
 

130 S. Main St. 463-7969

   

Watch the nation’s
6th ranked men’s lax team
The Generals
vs.
19th ranked Quakers of Guilford
Wednesday, March 27, 3 p.m.
at Wilson Field.

 

   
   
    

 

   

It’s time to remember...

ROSEMARY WHITLOCK

As she reads from her books
MAKIN’ DO, —e AND AFTER TOMORROW

ES

ADIT

SATURDAY, MARGIT 23
22:30 - 8:30 P.M.

ee aed

STORE |

ee Oe

PA OR ORR AS PA RFI

 

2522 BEECH AVE., BUENA VISTA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Breakfast/Lunch/Dinner/Espresso/Cappuccino
19 West Washington Street/Lexington/464-1900 ©

 
~

SPORTS
Costello, Generals ranked 6th in nation

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team got a wake up call
Wednesday from Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference foe Lynchburg, and
the Generals looked upset to be a-
wakened.

The Generals, ranked 6th in the

»* latest Division III poll, gave up two

' year to an unranked team,”
' Stagnitta. ‘‘That loss kept us out of

goals in the first 2:50 before scoring
seven of the next eight goals to take

. a 7-3 halftime lead on the way to a

14-5 win.
Actually, said W&L head coach

- Jim Stagnitta, the wake-up call came
- last year, when the Hornets upset the

Generals 7-6 in overtime.
“‘Lynchburg was our one loss last
said

the NCAA tournament. It gave us a

_ lot of incentive for this year.’’

Stagnitta said the players may
have been a little too excited, and
that led to the early goals.

**We were so pumped up that it
hurt us,’’ he said. ‘‘We were over-
playing too much. It was scary seeing
them get the goals early, but we got
the goals back pretty quickly and that
was good.’’

After LC, ranked 20th in Division
III, took the 2-0 lead, junior Drew
Anton scored twice in 21 seconds to
tie the game at 2-2. Later in the
quarter, junior Jeff Roberts scored
twice in a row, once off an Anton
feed, and the Generals led 4-2 after a
quarter.

W&L scored three times in the
final 2:31 of the second quarter to
take a 7-3 halftime lead. Sophomore
John Hunter scored, and senior Todd
Garliss scored a little less than a
minute later off another feed from

Anton. Sophomore Jay West scored
16 seconds before halftime to provide
the margin.

Lynchburg scored to make it 7-4
early in the third quarter, but from
that point on, W&L took control and
put the Hormets away.

W&L scored seven of the last
eight goals of the game, including
two each from Roberts, Garliss and
Anton. Senior Clark Wight also
scored for the Generals. Senior goalie
Tom Costello and the W&L defense
held Lynchburg scoreless for the final
25:39,

‘For the first time in my two
years here,’’ he said, ‘‘we’re starting
to put teams away. We hadn’t done
that in the past. Now we're playing
complete games and playing them
confidently.’’

Roberts and Anton both had four
goals and two assists, and Garliss
added three goals for the Generals.
Costello was again strong in the goal,

making 13 saves in holding the oppo-
nent under six goals for the fifth
straight time. -

“Drew Anton has become a big
part of our offense,’’ said Stagnitta,
““We needed another threat, and he’s
getting better every game. He’s able
to do some things, and he’s going to
make things tough on opponents and
who they will want to stop offensive-
We

Stagnitta was pleased with the
performance, but he still thinks the
offense needs to convert its opportu-
nities. W&L converted on 14 of 44
shots.

“We rode pretty well and we had
good transition,’’ he said, ‘‘but we
need to finish. We can’t afford to
miss one-on-ones. We need to put the

The Ring-tum Phi, March 21, 1991

Junior Robert Huke (13) and senior Tom Costello form a wall one-on-one defense and Co

a ee oe

O Please see Cos page 7 protecting the Washington and Lee goal. Huke has provided strong

   

a hg

stello has allowed less than six goals

ie tipper ny, ers mn ™

 

 

saree

in five straight games. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

W&L golfers open year with strong showing in tourneys

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee golf
team may be the most unnoticed team
on campus. It might also be the best.

Last year, a sophomore dominated
team finished seventh at the NCAA
Division III championships, and in
1991 the group of juniors picked up
where they left off.

In the prestigious Gordon Colle-
giate Classic in Myrtle Beach, S.C.,
W&L placed seventh in the 12-team
field. The 12 teams were the top 12
finishers in last year’s NCAA tourna-
ment.

“We showed that last year’s
finish wasn’t a fluke and that we
deserve to be among the nation’s
best,’’ said senior captain Brian

Kopet. ‘‘It was a good start to the
season.”’

W&L shot 668 for the. two-day
tournament, 30 strokes behind Meth-
odist, who showed that last year’s
NCAA Championship wasn’t a fluke
in winning the first event of 1991.

Junior Jay McKnight led W&L
with a total of 163, including a 79 on
the second day. McKnight was one of
only 16 of the 60 golfers to break 80
in tough conditions.

“‘The course was long, and it was
cold and windy,’’ said Kopet. ‘‘The
course played really tough, and Jay
played really well.’’

Head coach Buck Leslie said the
tournament had the flavor of an
NCAA championship tournament.

“It definitely had the flavor of
the NCAAs,”’ he said. ‘‘Some teams
had done a lot of work, and some

 

 

 

PHONE: 463-1712 -

 

     
     

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

 

 
  

    
  

 
 
 

sey NGF

NI

* QUICK COPIES + FLYERS
* PAPERS « BANNERS ¢ INVITATIONS

OPEN SATURDAY MORNINGS

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA » ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

SHOEFIXERS 1

i Instant Shoe Repair i
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait. &

W&L Students, we welcome you to our shop for your
next hair cut. We have three experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop
22 S. Main St., Lexington

For Sale: 1974 MGB
In very good condition. Asking $2,000.
Call Dr. Cox at 261-6181 or 980-1967.

FAX #: 463 - 6918

 

464-6666
alte iia aes «a ata y

    
     
   
    
       
    

 

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

hadn’t done as much work. I thought
we put in a pretty solid effort.”’

While the tournament saw good
golf, it also saw excellent treatment
of the players also.

“The tournament itself was a first
class event,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s the best
run tournament I’ve ever been in-
volved-with.”’ : ile

Kopet agreed that the tournament
was more than good golf.

“This is easily the best tourna-
ment we’ve ever played in,’’ he said.
“They treated the players great. The
NCAA wasn’t bad last year, but this
is how you run a tournament.’

After the trip to Myrtle Beach,
W&L returned to Virginia to play in
the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference/Lynchburg Invitational, and
after proving to themselves they

belonged among the nation’s elite, the
Generals proved it to their ODAC
foes.

Kopet led the way with a 79, and

the Generals shot 325 on the day, 14
points better than second-place Roa-
noke. It was W&L’s depth that made
the difference.
*“**We Rad the second through sixth
best scores,’’ said Kopet. ‘‘Everyone
played solid, and the team played
better than a 325 might show. The
wind was rough and it was cold. We
played about as well as we could.”’

Kopet finished second on the day.
He was beaten out by one stroke by
the final golfer to finish.

‘The course was tougher than the
one in Myrtle Beach,’’ he said. ‘‘I
started strong but ran into some trou-
ble. On the back nine, though, I shot

LEE HT RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

Route 11 North

Open 24 Hours

BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME

 

In Country

2 miles North of Lexington on Route 11.
5 bedroom, 3 bathrooms
464-1127

Fancy Dress T-shirts

will be available through

University

 

Sportswear

April Ist

23 N. Main St.

‘ Lexington, VA 24450
DOAPPAP OPE ECOL

      

appagowo
Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

PVP PVLPOVLD PV PV OVO OPP

703)463-5988 2
(703) 5

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
I A xX

©)) 203 N. Main St.

 

463-9455 @@@

37, which was my best nine holes
ever.”’

McKnight and classmates Clay
Thomas and Brad Thoburn rounded
out W&L’s top finishers.

Leslie was pleased with the depth
his team has shown in the early
season.

‘‘We’re solid with our first four,’’
he said. ‘‘Now we’re looking to
develop our fifth and sixth golfers.
It’s still early in the season and we’re
looking to keep improving.’’

W&L finished 19-3 last year and
is off to a 5-0 start this year, but
Leslie refuses to look ahead at a
retum trip to the NCAAs,

“This was a good way to start out
the season in the ODAC,”’ he said.
‘‘Our approach is to take things one

 

 

 

 

 

Brian Kopet

step and a time, and we’ll see what
happens when we get to the end of
the season. We can’t look vast what
we've got to do next.”’

3 Bedroom Apartment

Living room, kitchen and bathroom. Located 5
miles from campus. Route 631. Barn and pasture
for horses. Available June 1st. Call 463-4856.

   

: 1
Cruise Ship Jobs
HIRING Men - Women. Summer/
Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS,
TOUR GUIDES, RECREATION PERSONNEL.
Excellent pay plus FREE travel. Caribbean,
Hawaii, Bahamas, South Pacific, Mexico.
CALL NOW! Call refundable.

* - . 1

WE NEED SELF-MOTIVATED
STUDENTS. EARN UP TO $10/HR.

Market credit cards on campus.
Flexible hours.
Only 10 positions available.

Call Now

 

 

1-800-950-8472 Ext. 20

   

 

 

We Sell the Best Seats in the House
DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CWD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

> TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

=

 

 

 

 

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

 

TWO GREAT NEW GAMES!
A Enchanted Evening and Getting to Know You Better
Both suitable for couples in any type of relationship, roman-

tic, or just friends.

 

 

Monday - Saturday 10 a.m.-5p.m.

318. Main Street, Lexing

on 463-3355

Rockbridge Music

For the best in acoustic and electric in-
struments, amps, and accessories at dis-

counted prices.

463-5455

 

205 N. Main St.
 

“t.

Tal aaa!

*
; >

mm telah ahs MW AOA F A HAP IL IP PIS ISSO DOEDEEEERER DD Oe a ASL Ta ed ST eissaraheiae see yyssiy Atte soho vbhhbhahbalasvesaasaaeeeasaea: |

ee a

*
*

Ca

..

es a)

SPORTS

 

_ CRE ae Ae
By Phil Spears
Staff Reporter

 

In last year’s 5-15 season, the
Washington and Lee baseball team
was hampered by an inept offense
and error-prone defense.

This season the Generals got off
to a perfect 4-0 start in 1991 and
showed signs of overcoming the
problems that plagued the team last
year.

But, despite a vastly improved
offensive attack, the lack of both
pitching depth and, again, a steady
defense have recently emerged as
obstacles that head coach Jeff Stick-
ley’s young team must overcome if
they are to continue their winning
ways.

Last Saturday, in Ashland, Va.,
the Generals were the victims of a
no-hitter, dropping a tough 1-0 loss
in the opening game of a doublehead-
er with Randolph-Macon.

R-MC hurler Matt Bitsko shut
down the Generals’ much-improved
offense in the first game. The Gener-
als were able to put the ball in play,
only striking out a total of three
times. However, Bitsko’s pinpoint
control and variety of off-speed offer-
ings produced a bevy of ground-ball
outs. Of W&L’s 21 outs, 13 came on
ground balls.

Stickley attributed some of
W&L’s ineffective hitting to a lack
of practice time during the week
because of rain and snow. But, he
said, Bitsko deserves all the credit.

‘He kept us off balance the entire
game,’’ said Stickley. ‘‘It was too
bad he [Bitsko] had to spoil a great
performance from Steve [Momo-
rellaj.”’

Momorella, W&L’s best pitcher,
proved Bitsko’s equal through the
first six innings of the seven-inning
contest. The junior allowed only three
hits through the first 6 innings. But
in the seventh, two singles and a
stolen base produced the lone run of
the game, and a R-MC victory.

Any thoughts that the Generals
outstanding jump out of the blocks in
1991 has been a fluke, or that the
offense would again tum anemic,
were quickly eliminated in game two
as the Generals pounded out eight
runs on 13 hits. Junior T.J. Daly

scattered eight hits and six runs for

ne Me Saat

his second complete game victory and
an 8-6 W&L win.

The Generals’ bats came to life
for Daly. In the top of the first,
back-to-back singles from hot-hitting
freshman Eric Peifer and senior Chris
Kavanagh, followed by a double from
senior Ron Katz, put the Generals in
front 2-0.

The Generals were shut down
over the next three innings and trailed

5-2 in the fifth, W&L responded by
scoring 2 runs in each of the last
three innings. Consecutive triples in
the fifth from senior J.T. Swartz and
junior Fred Renneker spearheaded the
charge.

Four singles produced two more
W&L runs in the sixth to tie the
game heading into the seventh at 6-
6. A single by Daly, a sacrifice by
Kavanagh, and a walk to Katz set the
table for sophomore Mike Steinbrook,
and he delivered.

With two on and two out, Stein-
brook connected for a two-run single
to give the Generals the victory. Katz
and Steinbrook both had two hits and
two RBI, and Daly, Peifer and
Swartz each had two hits.

‘‘We were real happy with the
win,”’ said Stickley. ‘‘It was tough to
come back like that after being no-
hit. T.J. [Daly] stayed on course with
his game. We’re playing pretty well
right now. Our guys are a lot more
confident at the plate. We need to
improve our defense because we’ve
got a tough week coming up.”’

On Tuesday, the defending regular
season Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference champion Hampden-Sydney
Tigers came calling on the Generals.

Stickley said his team would have
to make the routine plays Tuesday if
the Generals were going to challenge.
And to his dismay, Stickley proved
prophetic.

The Generals dropped a 9-5 deci-
sion to the Tigers in more ways than
one. W&L fell apart late in the game
after seven strong innings from
Momorella, who was pitching on two
days rest after throwing 100 pitches
against R-MC. W&L led 3-1 heading
into the eighth.

But the Generals couldn’t finish
the job.

“The wheels fell off,’’ said
Swartz, ‘‘and we just beat our-
selves.”’

The Ring-tum Phi, March 21, 1991

W&L finds going tough in ODAC auch water

 

cae sty |

 

Junior T. J. Daly pitches against West Virginia Tech earlier this year. Daly pitched a complete game
in leading W&L a win over Randolph-Macon. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

Several errors behind Momorella
prompted Stickley to make a pitching
change. Three errors, a passed ball,
three walks, two stolen bases, three
hits and eight unearned runs later
W&L got the final out of the inning,
trailing 9-3.

“*T thought it [pulling Momorella|
was the right thing to do. Steve was
way past the pitch count we had set
for him. If we make the routine
plays, we get out of the inning.”’

 

FAST) Fas

Lane

GOO we,

poy

 

 

 

10 OUR PIN CARNIVAL

_ Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money.
3 You do not t need fol be. a a Reagie bowler to bowl!

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

Daly’s two-run home run in the
ninth provided the final margin of 9-
5. Daly and Peifer had three hits each
to lead the W&L attack. Daly also
drove in three runs. After the 4-0
start, W&L has lost three of four and
are now 5-3 and 1-3 in the ODAC
on the season.

Daly’s home run, his second,
pushed the Generals home-run total
for the year to four, one more than
they had all of last season.

Despite the loss, Stickley remained
opumustc,

“In some spots we're playing as
well as we can play,’’ he said. ‘‘We
did good things at the plate against a
real good pitcher [Scott Spears, 1990
first team All-OBAC], and we made
all the plays in the field except for
one inning. But, that’s what happens.
We're getting good efforts, we’ve just
got to be able to put teams away.’’

hits Dudley
at nationals

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

 

For the second straight year, soph-
omore Claire Dudley qualified for the
Division If NCAA Championships in
women’s swimming. But in 1991;
Dudley did not enjoy the same suc;
cess she had a year ago.

Dudley finished 32nd in the 200:-
breaststroke with a time of 2:32.46,
Although Dudley swam a faster race
than she did during the season, hey
time wasn’t fast enough to qualify for
All-America honors. In 1990, Dudley
was an Honorable Mention All-Amer,
ican.

‘‘Things got real quick,’’ she said!
“Even if I had swam like I did in
1990 when I finished 12th, |
wouldn’t have been in the top 20. }
don’t think I swam real well.”’

Dudley said she changed her
preparation pattern from 1990 to
1991. She worked harder with
weights this year as opposed to doing
more sprint work, like she did last
year.

“I didn’t have particularly good
meets either year,’’ she said. ‘‘Last
year I stopped lifting weights early
and swam more breaststroke in prac-
tice. I felt weak, so this year I lifted
all year and didn’t swim as much.’’

After seeing the results of both
styles of preparation, Dudley said she
wants a happy medium.

“IT think if I continue lifting
weights and swim more breaststroke
in practice, more sprint work, it
would help,’’ she said. ,

Dudley also said that academics
kept her less focused on swimming
than she usually is. )

“Academics played a burden,”’
she said. ‘I’m having a tough semes-
ter, and I knew I had a tough week
coming up [after the meet]. That
worried me a little, going away and
knowing I was going to fall behind
academically.’’

Dudley also swam in the 100
breaststroke and 200 individual med-
ley, but did not place in either event

Q) Please see Dudley page 7

 

 

Theatre at Washington and Lee

presents

Or

 

 

For Reservations Call
463-8000
Mon. - Fri.
Noon - 4 p.m.

 

 

The Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts

—e——eeee

\ERGt

GEOGRAPHY

Johnson Theatre

\

THE |

The

of YEARNING |

by
Eric Overmyer

Directed by
4.D. Martinez

March 25-30

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, March 21, 1991

 

Cos

from page 5

 

ball away.’’

But when the offense is struggl-
ing, it’s nice to have a strong defense
to fall back on.

“Our defense has been terrific,’’
said offensive standout Roberts. ‘‘Cos
is having an awesome year. We're
allowing 12-yard shots, and he’s
making the saves.”’

Stagnitta was pleased with the
defense as well.

“‘Cos settled in and was excel-
lent,’’ he said. ‘‘It wasn’t our best
defensive effort, we made some mis-
takes and we fell down, but it was
pretty solid.’’

The effort comes after a 24-2
thrashing of Haverford in Pennsylva-
nia on Sunday. W2&L scored the
first 14 goals of the game and held
Haverford scoreless for almost 37
minutes.

Roberts was the offensive star. He
scored four goals, all in the first 18
minutes of the game. Wight scored
three times and added three assists,
and Garliss, freshman Scott Mackley
and sophomore John Hunter each
scored twice. Sophomore Rhett Han-
cock was the high goal scorer for
W&L, netting five in the fourth quar-
ter.

Stagnitta said it was nice that
everyone got to play, and contribute.

“Everyone contributed,’’ he said.
‘*We scored just as many goals with
the non-starters, and maybe got more
transition goals.’’

Costello made 11 saves without
allowing a goal and only played the
first half.

Against Division III competition,
Costello has registered 64 saves and
allowed only 21 goals, for a 75.3
percent rate. He has allowed just over
four goals a game against Division
III opponents.

“The rap on Cos was that he is
hot and cold,’’ said Stagnitta, ‘‘but
he hasn’t been cold this year.’’

Stagnitta said a lot of the credit in
Costello’s success belongs to W&L
Associate Athletic Director Chuck

O’Connell, who has spent time work-
ing with Costello.

“Chuck has spent a lot of time
working with Cos,’’ said Stagnitta,
‘‘and he has been a big difference.
Cos is stepping to the ball better and
the difference in his play from last
year to this year is like night and
day.”’

 

Junior Drew Anton moves toward the goal. Anton scored four
goals In W&L’s 14-5 win over Lynchburg Wednesday on Wilson
Field. Staff photo by Chris Leiphart.

And Costello wasn’t bad last year,
stopping 62 percent of the shots he
saw.

‘‘He watches me and makes sure
that my basic form is right,’’ said
Costello of O’Connell. ‘‘We work on
stepping to the ball and angles. I
guess it’s worked out well, and I’m
greatly appreciative for his help.”

And Costello has not forgotten his
defense.

“{Senior] Dave Farace is playing
great, and so are [junior Robert]
Huke and [sophomore Josh] Levin-
son,’ said Costello. ‘‘And now
{sophomore Kirk] Olsen is healthy
again, so things can only get better.”’

That may be a scary thought for
W&L opponents, but for the Gener-
als, the play will need to keep im-
proving, and fast. The Generals, now
5-1 over all and 3-0 in the ODAC,
take on Gettysburg this Saturday, the

No. 6 ranked team in Division III.

“We match up well position by
position,’’ said Roberts. ‘‘It’s an
evenly matched game, and we beat
them last year, so we feel like we
can win.”’

Stagnitta said the Generals will
need to control the ball offensively
against Gettysburg.

‘Gettysburg is much like us. They
try to mix up defenses, and they ride
similar to us,’’ he said. ‘‘They are
very patient offensively, and they
match-up well with us. We will need
to control the ball offensively more
than we have been.’’

Costello said the team will be
ready.

‘They’ ve beaten some good teams
this year,’” he said. ‘This is a game
we really want to win, and if we win
it will do great things for us. We'll
be ready.’’

 

 

From W&L Sports Information

 

Washington and Lee’s wom-
en’s tennis team won four more
matches last week by identical 9-
0 scores, extending its unbeaten
streak to 11 for the season.

The Generals beat Hollins,
Hope, Catholic and Bridgewater.
Since spring play began, W&L
has won six matches by 9-0
scores,

All together, W&L has lost
just six matches in dual-match
competition this year. Freshman
Mary Nabers has W&L’s best
record at 12-0, while five other
Generals are 11-1, including se-
nior Kathy Leake, whose only
loss this season was to 11-1
teammate Kelly Martone in tour-
nament play this fall.

W&L played at Lynchburg
today, hosts Old Dominion tomor-
row and travels to Mary Washing-
ton for a match on Sunday.

The women’s lacrosse team
came from behind to defeat Guil-
ford, 10-9, in triple overtime. The
Generals trailed 3-2 at halftime
and spotted the Quakers a 6-2
advantage before rallying to force
the extra time.

W&L was led be senior Me-
linda Conkling and sophomore
Lisa Dowling, each of whom had
three goals in the victory.

Dowling got the game winner
30 seconds into sudden death off
an assist from senior Shawn Wert.
Wert had a goal and two assists

_in the game.

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

 

 

 

Mary Nabers

“That was a really good game
for us in a lot of ways. We sort
of came together all in one
game,’’ said head coach Janine
Hathorn. ‘‘Overall, I’m pleased
with the performance. Everybody
played their roles to the best of
their ability.’’

The Generals played defending
ODAC conference champion
Roanoke today and play at Mary
Washington on Saturday.

W&L’s men’s tennis, the
nation’s 12th-ranked Division III
team, struggled against Division I
competition last week, but showed
plenty of signs of improvement.

Three Generals had three-set
matches in the loss to William
and Mary. W&L’s wins came
against Division III foes Wheaton,
7-2 and Lynchburg, 8-1. Against
Wheaton senior Bill Meadows led

    

the way with a straight-set victory
over nationally ranked Dan Lind-
quist. In their other matches this
week, the Generals lost to James

Madison and Davidson.
This week W&L has matches

with Division I Furman and
Wooster, ranked 15th in Division
Ii.

The women’s track team
thrashed Eastern Mennonite,
Bridgewater and Mary Baldwin in
a meet at Bridgewater last Friday,
while the men placed second to
Bridgewater but easily outdis-
tanced Eastern Mennonite.

The W&L women won eight
of 14 events in the meet. The top
performer for the women was
freshman Wendy Neel, who won
the long jump, 100 meters, 200
meters and ran the leadoff leg in
the winning 4 x 100-meter relay.

The women also got wins
from senior Lisa Jay (discus),
Sandi Dudley (javelin), Sarah
Bolte (high jump) and LaShawn
King (400-meter run).

The men were led by junior
Jim Henry, who won the shot put
with a throw of 44 feet, nine
inches and freshman Scott Covey,
who won the 400-meter run.

‘*Our women were a long way
from full strength because of
nagging injuries, but it was nice
to win,’’ said women’s head
coach John Tucker. ‘‘We still are
a good way off of where we can
be, though.’’

On Saturday, the women and
the men will compete at the Lib-
erty Invitational.

 

 

 

Dudley

from page 6

 

 

“T was a little quicker than I was
during the season, but not much
though,” she said. ‘‘My best swim
was the I-M, which was actually
slower than the one I swam at the
Atlantic States Meet.’’

  

Dudley was named the Atlantic
States Swimmer of the Year. She
won three races at the meet and set a
new school record in the 200 individ-
ual medley. She set four school re-
cords last year.

W&L SPORTS IN The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Doug Brown qualified for
the NCAA meet as well. Brown
swims today in the 500-freestyle. The
meet is being held at Emory Univer-
sity in Atlanta, Ga.

 

Now you can afford to dream in color

 

If you thought that finding a color Macintosh*
system you could afford was just a dream, then the
new, affordable Macintosh LC is a dream come true.

The Macintosh LC is rich in color. Unlike many
computers that can display only 16 colors at once, the
Macintosh LC expands your palette to 256 colors. It
also comes with a microphone and new sound-input
technology that lets you personalize your work by
adding voice or other sounds.

Like every Macintosh
computer, the LC is easy to
set up and easy to master.

And it runs thousands of

you've learned one program, you're well on your way
to learning them all. The Macintosh LC even lets you
share information with someone who uses a different
type of computer—thanks to the versatile Apple”

SuperDrive} which can read from and write to

Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple II floppy disks.
Take a look at the Macintosh LC and see what it
gives you. Then pinch yourself.

It’s better than a dream—it’s a

Apple introduces the Macintosh LC.

 

@ File Edit input Notebook Manipulate Graph Prefs

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Macintosh.

 

 

 

 

available applications that Pees For further
all work in the same, =e ‘ oo
consistent way—so once + heii iat a << information visit

S i Weel Tucker Hall Room 215A

7 0 -yu,.q-sy(o,q+s?Y

 

and ask for Mac McCloud
or call 463-8844

O-6-s.0+s?¥+4Y fi

 

Q sin{t] = sin[t]+ 2¢

é

s
The power to be your best"

 

 

etn

egistered trademarks of Apple Computer, inc. SuperDrive and “The power to be your best” are trademarks of Apple Computer, inc
»soft Corporation OS/2 is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation ay

© 1990 Apple Computer, inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are
MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Micr¢
& LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, March 21, 1991

 

Area singers to join SoCo in GHQ

 

 

Southern Comfort serenading an admirer in a recent concert. (Phi file photo)

 

Theatre readies
for On the Verge

W&L drama professor’ play featured

 

From News Releases

 

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Theatre will present Eric
Overmyer’s ON THE VERGE or The
Geography of Yearning. The play will
run Monday, March 25 through Sat-
urday, March 30 in the Johnson The-
atre of the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts. Each performance
will begin at 8:00 pm.

In ON THE VERGE, Overmyer
takes his audience on a mirthful
safari that leads from darkest Africa
to Terra Incognita, spinning into time
travel. Three ‘‘sister sojourners,”’
each a prototypical Victorian ladv

mmm THO OL

LOW PRICES
EVERY DAY?

Another Reason To Switch To Harris Teeter!

 

 

Pers
tad

%

explorer equipped with dialogue as
pithy as their helmets, thwack their
machetes through the wilderness as
their journey takes them not only to
new and mysterious locales, but into
the future.

The production is directed by
Joseph D. Martinez, Associate Profes-
sor of Drama at Washington and Lee,
and stars junior Denise Brainard,
sophomore Erin Clinton Walsh, soph-
omore Alana Horrigan and junior
Chris Smith.

For ticket reservations or informa-
tion, call the Lenfest Box Office at
463-8000 between noon and 4:00 pm
Monday through Friday.

From Staff Reports

 

The third annual ‘‘Southemn
Comfort Invitational’ will take
place tonight at 8:30pm in the
General Headquarters.

The Invitational, hosted by
Washington and Lee singing
group Southern Comfort will
feature W&L's Jubilee and
singing groups from the Univer-
sity of Virginia and Sweet Briar.

Special guests this year will
include The Beelzebubs, a 13-
member acapella group from
Tufts University.

The event’s organizer and
Southern Comfort member Roger
Sullivan said ‘‘The Invitational is
a great way to show off local
musical groups while showcasing
a ‘big name’ group at the same
time.”’

“It’s always a lot of fun and
we think this year will be bigger
than ever,’’he added.

Each group will perform for
about 20 minutes. Southern Com-
fort will open and close the Invi-
tational.

Admission price is $1.

 

 

 

 

 

SON
THE

VERGE

Or The
GEOGRAPHY
of YEARNING

by
Eric Overmyer

Directed by
4.D. Martinez

March 25-30

 

Johnson Theatre

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

3 p.m.

3 p.m.

6:30 p.m.

7 p.m.
8 p.m.

8 p.m.

Business Ethics Institute (through March 23).

LAW CONFERENCE: "On Being Overly Discrete and Insular:
involuntary Groups and the Anglo-American Judicial Tradition.
Featured speaker: Aviam Soifer, Boston University. Moot
Courtroom, Lewis Hall. For information, call Margaret Williams,
463-8509.

MEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Furman. Varsity Courts.

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Old Dominion University. Varsity
Courts.

ARMY R.O.T.C. AWARDS BANQUET: Evans Dining Hall.

POLITICS FILMFEST: The Fourth Protocol. Northen Auditorium,
University Library.

ROCKBRIDGE CONCERT-THEATRE SERIES: Boys of the
Lough. Lenfest Center.

BUSINESS ETHICS LECTURE: "Business and the Environment:
An Essay in Effective Moral Range,"Lisa H. Newton, director 0
Program in Applied Ethics, Fairfield University. Room 221,
Commerce School. Public invited.

SATURDAY, MARCH 23

1:30 p.m.

2 p.m.
7p.m.

3:30 p.m.
4p.m.

5 p.m.

8p.m.

8 p.m.

8 p.m.

3 p.m.

4:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

8p.m.

OPERA BROADCAST: Le Nozze di Figaro (Mozart). WLUR-FM
(91.5).

MEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Wooster. Varsity Courts.

POLITICS FILMFEST: The Fourth Protocol. Northen Auditorium,
University Library.

Palm Sunday.

WOMEN'S TENNIS: Generals vs. Roanoke. Varsity Courts.

CD&P: Sophomore Decisions Workshop. Room 109, University
Center.

MATH ASSOCIATION PRESENTATION: "Wild Wayne, the
Superbrain, and Boneheads on Parade,” Honors 202
presentation. Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 4:30 ir
Room 2. Public invited.

EAST ASIAN STUDIES LECTURE: "Old Leaders, New Problems
in Asia," Harold Hinton, George Washington University. Room
327, Commerce School. Public invited.

PLAY: "On the Verge,” by Eric Overmyer. Johnson Theatre,
Lenfest Center. For reservations, call Lenfest Box Office,
463-8000.

LECTURE: "Marketing Challenges of the 1990s,” Victor Galef ‘65,
former vice president for marketing, Rorer Consumer
Pharmaceuticals. Room 221, Commerce School. Public
invited.

TRACK (M&W): Newport News Apprentice, Eastern Mennonite.
Wilson Field.

GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: A Poetry Reading by
Conrad Hilberry. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public
invited.

CONCERT: W&L University Wind Ensemble and V.M.I.
Regimental Band. Keller Theatre, Lenfest Center. Public
invited.

PLAY: "On the Verge,” by Eric Overmyer. Johnson Theatre,
Lenfest Center. For reservations, call Lenfest Box Office,
463-8000.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Northern

 

Bath Tissue

 
    

 

Agree Shampoo
Or Conditioner

199

  

15 Oz.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
    
  

oca-Cola,
Sprite

 

 

 

LAAT NE LEE ER
Prices Good Through Tuesday, March 26, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, March 26, 1991 In Lexington Store Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps

 

 

 

 

 
 

i

Dhe Kin

THE UNIVE ip
VASHRS TOM & LE UMM
PTO} VA Oe

AA
pre

  

ar

a

-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. PC

THE POLITICALLY CORRECT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
’ Censored by the EC, IFC, MSA, SAB, SAC, SBA, SCC, STU, President Wilson, Anyone with the title “Dean,” the Spectator, the City of Lexington, and the Order of Elkton-Based Printers

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| They’re not bagging groceries!

Three Washington and Lee students suspended earlier this term for breaking fraternity house
, windows with beer bottles have not returned to the Bronx from whence, according to W&L President
John Wilson, they came. The trio has instead taken what they learned in the C-school and opened

anew business: Chris, Keith and Kevin's Natural River Tubing Trips.

 

 

Law dean
comes out
of closet

By Les Spine
Staff Reporter

 

 

, Randall Bezanson, Dean of the
Washington and Lee School of Law,
bmerged from a utility closet Mon-
day, claiming to have been trapped
there for a week.

¢ “TF just can’t tell you how thrilled
| am to be out in the open,’’ Bezans-
on said. ‘‘I couldn’t stand to drink
‘another bottle of cleaning fluid.’’

Bezanson said he was locked into
the closet March 18, just hours before
the law faculty voted on the policy to
keep discriminating employers, in-
‘cluding the military, from recruiting
m the law school campus.

The policy was upheld on a 10-
110 tie which could have been broken
only by Bezanson.
' ““T don’t know if I would’ve
woted if I’d been there,’’ Bezanson
said. ‘‘Taking a stand can be so
‘difficult, and at least now I have an
jexcuse for remaining spineless."’

Bezanson declined to say why he
twent into the utility closet March 18,
but a source who identified himself
‘as ‘Deep Throat’’ said the dean
soften disappears for hours at a time.

Head of Security Charles ‘‘Murp-

'h’* Murray said his staff might have
jaccidently locked Bezanson in the
closet. Murray said The Ring-tum Phi
‘editors received threatening phone
ycalls March 18, and the security staff
jumped into action.
( “When we get death threats like
that, my staff goes into Defcon 2
immediately,’’ Murray said. ‘‘We
lock up every door on campus, no
;matter who’s in the closet.”’ ;

Murray said the Phi editors are in
/hiding, reportedly in the storeroom at
the Palms, until the caller is caught.

He said the threatening calls had
ibeen traced to the Dean of Students
Office, and he and the police are
‘investigating.

 

 

R.D. “Scooter” Clark

 

April 1, 1991

Gay mag
ranks W&L

in top

By Haight Ashbury
of The Daily Berkleyian

A national gay and lesbian rights
magazine has followed U.S. News and
World Report's lead and _ ranked
Washington and Lee number 4 on its
list of ‘‘our favorite colleges.”’

An article accompanying school
rankings in Out magazine’s March 21
issue said recent action by W&L’s
law school faculty prompted the
magazine’s staff to take a closer look
at the school, which they had pre-
viously ‘‘dismissed as a bastion dis-
criminatory conservatism.”’

W&L was ranked behind San
Francisco State, New York University
(located in Greenwich Village on
Manhattan) and the University of
Iowa. Out Editor Dimitri Glover said
he was pleased when he heard of the
law school faculty’s recent vote to
ban any campus job recruiters who
discriminate on the basis of sexual
preference, including the U.S. mili-
tary.

“I was just tickled by what they
did,’’ Glover said. ‘‘Those faculty
members took a stand and offended
all their students and all their alumni,
but what they did was right for our
brothers and sisters in bondage.’’

Dean of the Law _ School
‘“‘Dancin’’’ Randy Bezanson said he
was overjoyed by the miagazine’s
ranking.

‘*That’s what we were hoping for

 

 

y09

five

all the time,’’ Bezanson said. ‘‘We’ve
finally been recognized by a great

magazine like Out. Those Army
wieners be damned.”’
The Out artice cited W&L’s

“‘steady march toward outright liber-
alism’’ as a main criterion for its
selection.

‘*‘W&L is by no means politically
correct yet,’’ the article said, ‘‘but
it’s getting there. A couple more
years and a couple more deans and
the school will be attracting more
people with alternate lifestyles than
he --- we mean i --- can
accomodate.”’

In response to the ranking, outgo-
ing Dean of Freshmen Ken Ruscio
said he will suggest to his successor
that a special dorm hall be set aside
for freshmen ‘‘who express interest in
different types of relationships.’’

‘*That was why we had an out-
doorsmen hall this year,’’ Ruscio
said.

“*Hopefully in a couple of years
every freshman will be able to live
on a hall with people who are exactly
alike, and they won’t have to learn to
live in a community with people who
have different viewpoints and back-
grounds.”’

In celebration of the ranking,
University Psychologists Dean-Anne-
Schorer-Lamont and Jim Worth are
planning a special afternoon group-
therapy session to help students ‘‘deal
with our recent success.”’

Police to take car parts in lieu of tax

 

By G. Huntington Wellington IV
Staff Reporter & Porsche Owner

 

As a recourse against W&L stu-
dents who refuse to pay their car tax,
Lexington City Council last week
voted to begin removing portions of
the students’ cars instead.

Lexington Mayor H.E. ‘‘ Another
Buddy’’ Derrick announced the plan
at Thursday's council meeting where-
in students who have not paid the
tax, which is 4.25 percent of the
assessed value of the vehicle, will
have 4.25 percent of their car taken
by the city.

‘There is a law which is already
in the Virginia state codes which says
we are allowed to weld off chunks
of people’s cars who~don’t pay their
taxes,’’ said Derrick. ‘‘We’re just
going to begin enforcing it.’’

Responsibility for the new city
policy, dubbed ‘Operation BMW
Storm,’ has been given’ to
Lexington’s powerful Department of
Parking, Bicycle Regulation, Animal
Control and Fashionable Pants, Of-
ficer R.D. Clark.

Clark, who has already begun
zealously collecting car parts, said the
size of the section he takes depends
on the car.

See ya!

Wilson’s wife booted for freshman dorm window wreckage

 

By HLE. “‘the real Buddy” Derrick
Staff Reporter

 

The Board of Trustees ordered
University President John D. Wilson
to suspend his wife Thursday after
she broke two windows in Graham-
Lees Dormitory.

‘We feel there is no other cho-
ice,’’ said University Rector A. Stev-
ens Miles, Jr. ‘‘Wilson himself set
the precedent, and the Board felt a
double standard would be inappropri-
ate.”’

Mrs. Wilson, distraught over Sat-
urday ’s sudden death of Dean of
Students David L. Howison, was
trying to sleep when the noise from
a second floor party became unbear-
able.

‘“T think the whole situation be-
came a little too much for Anne,”’
explained Wilson. ‘‘She grabbed my
entire Mahler compact disc collection
and just heaved it over the fence at
the freshmen.”’

After the compact discs, Mrs.
Wilson followed with a set of antique

 

By Jon Sbar and
Christopher Baradel
Young Reporters

 

Tragedy struck the sleepy Lexi-
ngton community Saturday night in
the form of gang warfare resulting in
the brutal deaths of four gangsters.

This showdown was the culmina
tion of a fortnight of bad blood bet
ween the nefarious ‘‘L-Posse’’
the radical ‘‘W&L-Posse,”’

and
which has

vases sculpted by George Washington
at Valley Forge and valued at about
$30,000.

While the CD collection missed
the windows, all three vases hit the
mark.

According to Security Chief Char-
les F. ‘‘Murph’’ Murray, the first
vase took out the stereo, the second
toppled a keg of beer, and the third
knocked an unidentified student un-
conscious.

The student's attomey, Thomas C.
Spencer, said his client will file char-
ges against Mrs. Wilson and the
University.

The keg destroyed in the melee is
part of a revolutionary new program
instituted by Dean of Freshmen and
Residence Life Kenneth Ruscio.

“If we supply the freshmen with
alcohol at the University’s expense,
they will no longer be forced to
break both school policy and the
law,’’ said Ruscio.

During her six-month suspension,
Mrs. Wilson will not be allowed to
either represent the school or live on
campus.

left a trail of camage and bloodshed
from the streets of Compton to the
mountains of the Shenandoah Valley.

Eyewitnesses said the ‘‘L-Posse’’
was lounging in front of Harb’s Bis-
tro, searching for a man named
Lloyd, when a W&L van cruised by
spraying bullets into the crowd of
gangsters.

According to Lexington Police
Chief Bruce ‘‘I drool on my’’ Beard,
four members of the ‘‘W&L-Posse’’
were arrested in connection with the

“‘When it’s a Datsun or someth-
ing, a side mirror or a hubcap or two
will be 4.25 percent,’’ said Clark.
‘*But when it’s a Bimmer, ya usually
end up taking a whole door.”

In order to carry the car sections,
Clark said he has rented a U-Haul
trailer to pull behind his awe-inspir-
ing RDX 1000 ‘‘Ticketmobile’’ (ba-
tteries not included).

Reactions to the new policy from
student representatives have been
mixed.

Executive Committee president
Tom Hatcher said he will not recon-
sider a boycott of city businesses to
protest the new tactics.

Wilson said the suspension from
campus would not be an incon-
venience as he and his wife rarely
spend much time on campus anyway.

‘Keeping her on campus would
defeat the entire purpose of suspend-
ing her,’’ said Wilson. ‘‘Thank heav-
ens she didn’t break a window here
in Lee House, I might have been
forced to divorce her.”’

While Wilson was unsure about
what his wife would be doing until
September, he did mention she has
received an offer from Baltimore
Orioles Manager Frank Robinson.

‘Hell, anyone, regardless of age
or gender, with an arm that can
heave a set of 20-pound vases 100
feet through a window with pin-point
accuracy is worth a shot on the Ori-
oles pitching rotation,’’ said Robin-
son.

His wife’s pitching career, howev-
er, was the least of Wilson’s worries.

“CD collection was priceless, just
priceless,’’ said Wilson. ‘‘Let me tell
you, she grabbed them out of spite.
She’s one of those Tchaikovsky fre-
aks.”’

drive by shooting. Beard said those
arrested were John D. Wilson, Ann
‘‘Shore’’ Lamont, Leroy C. Atkins,
and Hampden H. ‘‘the Hamster’
Smith.

‘*These hoodlums were packing

some serious heat,’’ said Beard.
“They had flare guns, sawed-off
shotguns, AK-47s, Uzis, bazookas,

Scud missiles, smart bombs and the
CRC handbook. I’m just glad that our
anti-gang specialist, R.D
Clark, spent the summer training with

**Scooter’’

““My feeling is that it would hurt
the wrong people,’’ said Hatcher.
‘For example, trouble with the
town’s businesses could really cripple
Spectator advertising and we couldn't
have that.’’

Hatcher went on to say he is
drafting a letter to the council mem-
bers on behalf of W&L students. The
Ring-tum Phi has obtained a copy of
the letter, which is reprinted (with the
permission of Mock Convention offi-
cials) in its entirety below:

Dear City Council -- Please,
please, please, please, please don't
hurt my truck. Lovingly, Tom (Kentuc-
ky license #56342)

Interfraternity Council vice presi-
dent Mike Skarda, however, is for-
mulating a different plan of action.

In a statement issued to the Ring-
tum Phi, Lexington News-Gazette,
Roanoke News and World Report,
Washington Post, New York Times,
Associated Press, USA Today, Boise
Courier-Journal-Inquirer-Sun, and the
Weekly World News, Skard.. said, ‘‘I
think everyone in the whole town
should be shot and dismembered.”’

In other action, the City Council
last week voted to close all ABC
stores in Lexington and assessed
taxes on student VCRs, toothbrushes,
pillowcases, and Duck Head pants.

 

 

President John D. Wilson indicates the number of times he’s been

on campus this year during a recent meeting with academic
leaders. File Photo.

the LAPD, so he was prepared to
handle the situation.”’

According to Officer Clark, the
two gangs first clashed Saturday night
upon exiling the late showing of New
Jack City. ‘‘The movie has caused
gang violence in Los Angeles, New
York, Chicago, Detroit, Las Vegas,

and now Lex Vegas,’’ said Clark
Police reports said that angry
words were exchanged after the ‘'L
Posse’’ accused Atkins’ favorite fra
ternity of hazing, told ‘‘Shore’’

L-Posse goes down hard at Harb’s Bistro

Lamont that coeducation should be
repealed, referred to Wilson’s Lenfest
Center project as ‘‘a waste of
money,’ and asked Smith ‘‘to try
smiling for a change."’

After the altercation the ‘‘L
Posse’’ retired to Harb’s for a round
of espressos and a poetry reading
vhile the enraged W &L.-Posse
grabbed a university vat {
themselves. The ‘‘W&L-Posse’’ rolled

Piease see LLOYD'S page 5
 

 

 

 

 

OPINION

Got ‘em all

April fools! Needless to say this week’s Phi is a
complete sham, a hoax, a little tomfoolery. We hope
everyone enjoys it — they damn well better since we put
sO much time into it. We haven’t meant to offend anyone,
at least not seriously. So if you have a problem with
anything that has been printed on these pages, suck it up; it
could have been a lot worse.

We would like to state here and now for the record that
the entire staff will be carrying around copies of the U.S.
Supreme Court’s decision in Falwell v. Hustler for the next
week. In its opinion, the court stated that a libel case can
not be won against a publication understood by the majority
of its readers to be a parody. (Some might say that we
could hide under this defense for all Phi issues, but we'll
only claim it this week.)

This issue has become the traditional farewell from the
senior members of the staff as they pass the baton to the
next year’s staff.

At this point, we will cease and desist our rhetoricizing.
We will leave you with a repeat of one of our proudest
moments; the publication of which brought the staff more
laughter than it did the readers. Enjoy the break from our
usual preaching, since it’s probably the only one you'll ever
get.

And here, for your repeated viewing pleasure, our guy
Cy:

 

It’s all his fault.

Cyrus Hall McCormick stands ever-vigilant over the Colonnade. A
native New Yorker, McCormick spent his Spring Breaks in
Lexington, where he invented the wheel. The wheel was later
instrumental in the invention and mass production of automobiles,
thus enabling students from all over the country to converge on
little Lexington to use the all important police and road mainte-
nance services the city so cheerily provides, which, in turn, led the
omnipotent, omnipresent, and omniscient Lexington City Council to
decide that taxation without representation isn’t such a bad ideal
after all.

 

 

 

 

Quote of the Week

Ray is so far right that he’s started circling back to the left.
— Executive Committee President Tom Hatcher on EC

Vice President Ray Welder’s politics.

(This is real.)

The Ring-tum Phi, April 1, 1991

 

 

Watch as...

 

 

 

 

The Dean of Greek Affairs “Buddy” Atkins walks into a hazing incident AND DOES NOTHING!

Ann Schroer-Lamont, sexually repressed and resentful, seeks revenge on men by persuadi
The genius mastermind Kenneth Ruscio plots and schemes to dismantle fraternities and ake W&L a women’s college.

The final words of a dead dean
Howison’s will promises pizza-for-one |

 

MY WILL
By David L. Howison

 

Believe it or not, I was a pre-med
major in college. But, in my junior year
our Comparative Anatomy professor
took our class to visit the Ohio State
University Medical School. The thing
that impressed me most during the med
school visit was the cadaver.

I didn’t like it at all. It had purple-
gray blotched skin, sunken eyes, and a
bloated belly. Its feet were wrinkled
and curiously bent out of shape. It was
then-and-there that I decided medicine
was not for me. I was filled with a new
goal; someday I would become the
Dean of Students at Washington and
Lee.

Now, having achieved my goal, with
no more worlds to conquer, and being
of sound mind and body, I bequeath the
following:

 

 

 

 

 
   
 

 
 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Founded September 18, 1897
Lost March 28, 1991

  

 

A Rhode Cheez, Super-Secret Bold Man

Asseetaie Edit os sc et tie tka Fijcheez Peacenik
Assignment Editor 5c test Ores Jimminy Crickett
Heitorial Pose Editot ccs 6 ve 5 ee ee Clark’s Clone
Senior Copy Golo 5 ee ies Needa Date
Biteribinimtt EGO eee Table Babe

ee ee ee Armchair Athlete
Associate Sports Editor ......-+++eseeese Christopher Reeves
Photo Editor Liephart .....-+2ecsceveveres Snapshot Feelie
Mitoria, Carmona gs st te ees Iva Woody
Hoitorial Assistant «cen 4 ee) ee att Sno-Cone
Ceey Eee gk es ee a

   
 

BUETIOEE AAU gn kc 8 es
ee eee eee Dugong
COOUIAEOR DURRARE 8 ei i i tH et i

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but the Phi is otherwise independent (so there’s nothing you can do).
Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. If we like them, we'll put them in. This newspaper
observes current court definitions of libel and obscenity from afar.

   
 
 
 

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 
       
   

 

Dear Editorial Page Editor,

This is in reference to those appalling "Sbar
Side" articles that appear regularly on your page.
I urge you to stop printing them immediately.

Mr. Sbar has an unhealthy obsession with
perverse sexual behavior, cherry wine coolers,
nudity, disgusting bodily functions, butt thong
swim suits, narcotics, large canines, loud rock-
n-roll music, and halitosis. He is a no good,
cheap thrill, an untalented hack, and an
embarrassment to American journalism.

Besides, Mr. Sbar is one of the worst writers
I’ve ever seen. He certainly does not subscribe
to PC thought. If I had my way he’d be shot at
dawn.

Sincerely,
Hampden H. Smith, Ill
Professor of Journalism

Ed note: I don't print Mr. Sbar's articles because
they're any good. I print them because he is my
drinking buddy.

Dear Editor,

We sincerely regret running out of baby
asparagus spears during lunch on Friday, March
13. We did not anticipate the overwhelming
demand for this tasty vegetable. We will once
again serve baby asparagus spears for brunch on
Saturday, April 1. Rest assured, there will be
plenty for everyone. So, come and get your baby
asparagus spears. We look forward to seeing

 

    

To Mary Hampson: Eight large pep-
peroni pizzas from Dominos left over
from January 16 when the freshmen
from Baker Hall chose to watch Presi-
dent Bush declare war on Iraq rather
than come to my study break.

To Murph: My Nike Air Max running
shoes. He needs them.

 

Having achieved my goal, with no
more worlds to conquer, and
being of sound mind and body, |
bequeath...

--- (The Late) Dean Howison

 

To the late Buddy Atkins: My auxiliary
office sign. You never know, one day
he might recover from his untimely
death last year to become one of
W&L’s ‘‘Coolest Administrators.’’ That
is if he ever comes out of the tunnels.

LETTERS

you.

 

Sincerely,
Jerry Darrell
Food Guru

Ed note: Instead of worrying about asparagus
and Mexican theme dinners why don’t you
provide us with rum, daiquiri mix, and a blender.

Dear Washington and Lee,

Thanks for inviting me to speak at your
school.The free drugs were great. Although those
Contact dorks weren’t exactly the Hells Angels,
I still had a lot of fun.

I apologize if I rambled a little, but I was
having a really bad trip. At times during the
lecture, the crowd looked like a vicious pack of
wild dingo.

Sincerely,
Hunter S. Thompson

P.S.: Look for my upcoming book --- Fear and
Loathing In the Warner Center.

Yo W&L Posse,

I just want you to know that me and the
Lynch Mob are on our way to Lexington for the
payback. There’s gonna be a bloodbath of
administrators in Washington Hall, and when we
finish we'll be in the Palms drinking 8-ball.

   

ing freshman women to cry date rape.

To Ray Welder: My politically correct '
(PC) ‘‘George McGovern for President’ :
button.

Finally, to the W&L archives: The fol- *
lowing note from a freshman who did |
attend the study break at my house: ,

Dear Dean Howison,

Thank you very much for having my
hall and me over for pizza at your '
home. r

It was a great study break, and I \
really appreciate your kindness. I will ,
be sure to tell people that you are a
nice person the next time you make a
decision that students don’t like. \
Sincerely yours, ,
Felicia Middleton

Ed note: Special thanks to Dean Howis-
on for being such a great sport and ,
writing this even though he knew the
Phi was planning to kill him off.

F--- that s--- cuz I ain’t the one, for some
punk mother- _f----- with a PHD and a gun.

   

Sincerely,
Ice Cube

Dear Phi staff,

I would like to protest the lack of adequate
facilities in the Gaines Weight Room. It seems
that every time I go to use the exercise bike, |)
there is already a long line for it. It’s no fair!

Sincerely, ,
D. Cochrane Denby

P.S.: The weights are simply too heavy. I don’t |,
see the need for heavy weights--I just want to
get toned. i"

Dear Editor,

I want to be sexually active, but I am afraid, |
that my partner will find me unsatisfying. I’m
also concerned about sexually transmitted
diseases. What can you advise me to do in order
to remedy my situation?

Sincerely,
The Entire Class of 1994

EdiInfirmary note: There are many ways to give
and receive sexual pleasure other than
intercourse (just ask Panhel). Sexual activities
that don't involve exchanging body fluids can
also be extremely satisfying.

 

 

 
NEWS

 

 

Howison killed by bottle

 

semester of grocery-bagging, have not
or. Pigg yet come forward with the real story,
. eporter but the keen crime-solving minds of
{ the Lexington Police Department have
W&L is still in an uproar over worked day and night to piece the
the death of Dean of Students David crime scene together.
Howison last weekend. After scouring the scene, the
Preliminary coroner’s reports state police located the bottle that appar-
that Howison died as a result of a_ ently delivered Howison’s deathblow.
massive cranial hemmorage due to a According to the police reports, the
Hottle-blow to the head. bottle listed as the murder weapon
» Howison was last seen alive stan- bore fingerprints resembling those of
ding only a short distance from a set one Thomas Spurgeon.
df windows of a newly renovated Spurgeon denies having been any-
fraternity house. where near the scene of the crime on
Most fraternity members, however, Saturday night, but made the follow-
have been cleared of suspicion; many ing statement:
were seen carrying mattresses up “Even if I did possess informa-
Washington Street at the estimated tion concerning Dean Howison’s
hime of death. murder, I strongly feel that it would
Eye-witnesses, wishing to avoid a have no effect on my ability to ef-

School to build
freshman castle

By Cinderella
Fairy Tale Editor

re

 

' Only one week after the Interfraternity Council’s decision to move rush to
January, University Director of Capital Planning Frank Parsons announced that
next year’s freshmen will live in a castle surrounded by a moat.
+ “It’s the only way we can keep upperclass claws off them for four
jonths,”’ Frank ‘*We-don’t-expect-anymore-delays’’ Parsons said.

He said construction on the castle will begin in the ravine between the
library and the gym soon after Lee Chapel is razed to provide a site for the
new student center.

* “The castle will be accessible only by monorail,’’ Parsons said. ‘‘We’ll

shuttle in professors and dining service, so the freshmen should never have

to leave.”’

' Dean of Students David Howison said, ‘‘It will really give the freshmen

t chance to get to know each other and adopt politically correct behavior,
efore we expose them to the untamed campus.”’

Parsons said the architect who designed the Walt Disney World’s Magic

Kingdom Castle and Typhoon Lagoon has been hired to design the new fresh-

man housing.

» “The only input I’ve had in the design at this point,’’ Parsons said, ‘‘is

to insist on at least five gatehouses and rubber-black stairways with hot pink

tailings encased in glass. I think that’s the look of the future.’’

: Parsons said that other than the stairways, the castle will have ‘‘very few”’

Windows, which, in accordance with Rockbridge school board regulations, will

pot open. .

“The administration, excepting President Wilson’s wife, doesn’t think there
should be any windows,’’ Howison said. ‘‘But we've decided to put in a few

plexiglass, brick-resistant portholes so that freshmen don’t forget what the sun

fooks like.”’ ii

, IFC President Goodloe Lewis said he expects the moat to cut down on
rush violations.

’ “Rush violations will cost you an arm and a leg literally now,’’ Lewis
paid, ‘‘since live man-eating reptiles will live in the moat. That'll make it
a lot harder for houses to budget for violations.’’ [Note: Despite Lewis’ sexist
vemark, the reptiles will eat both men and womyn equally. — PC Ed.]

, Former Student Conduct Committee Chairman Tom Spurgeon said that he
respects the university’s progressive trend in housing, but is concerned about
student autonomy.

, ‘Since freshmen will not be allowed to interact with upperclassmen, who
will handle conduct offenses that occur in the castle?’’ he asked. ‘‘The SCC?
EC? CRC? IFC? SAC? SAB? SBA? or perhaps the Spring Term Commit-
tee?”

‘ Howison said there is no question that the Confidential Review Commit-
kee, CRC (not the Constitutional Revisions Committee, also CRC), will handle
castle conduct cases, CCCs.

“The CRC, not the EC, SCC, IFC or SAC, will of course handle CCCs,”’
‘Howison said. ‘‘They will possibly meet in a secret place at an undisclosed
time to talk about confidential matters with the unidentified parties most likely
‘involved.”’

, He said that though the decisions of the CRC will be confidential, the
accused may pay a declassification- processing fee of $400 to leam the
‘verdict.

Parsons said he hopes the accumulated fees will help pay for the freshman
complex.

+ ‘“Otherwise,’’ Parsons said, ‘‘we’ll have to increase the Greek tax again.”

  

‘Interviews and photos
by H.H. Smith

 

 

 

   

The Ring-tum Phi, April 1, 1991

 

fectively perform the duties of SCC
Chairman.”’

While the police continue their
search for concrete evidence to tie the
weapon to the victim, administration
officials have begun a search for
another new dean of students.

President Wilson, overwrought
with grief, said he wished to express
his sincerest sympathy to the family
and suggested they move to the

 

 

Bronx, which is now safer than
crime-ridden Lexington.
Howison will long be rem-

embered as the man who installed
critical probation, brought safety and
order back to the greek system, and
was never afraid to stand up against
the unfair decisions made by
university presidents.

He will be sorely missed.

 

 

 

This is an artist's rendition what the new freshman castle will
probably look like. The castle, designed to maintain “no contact"
prior to fraternity rush, will be equipped with a moat filled with
ferocious reptiles and a monorail system as its only contact to the
outside world.

BACKTALK

 

 

 

 

**Boomer’’ Smith
from me, you corrupt s.o.b.”’

John Smith
comment.”’

— ‘Stay away - ‘Bug off. No

 

J. Ronald Smith — ‘‘I’d be
happy to answer a question. I
get all my W&L news from
TALKBACK.”

J.R. Smith — ‘‘Yeah, man. Is
my picture gonna be in the Phi?”’

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Be a Dean

Applications for a new Dean of
Students to replace our dear
departed Dean David L. Howison
are now being accepted by Mary
Hampson. Minority womyn edu-
cated in the North preferred.

Be A Dean Il

A substitute Law School Dean is
needed to fill-in for Dandy Randy
while he is in the closet. Person-
ality and humor must be surgical-
ly removed. Backbone not neces-

sary.

Expel Buddy

Exorcist needed to expel the
ghost of former Dean of Students
for Greek Affairs Leroy C. ‘‘Bu-
ddy’’ Atkins from the W&L
tunnel and sewer system. Good
night vision a must. Applicants
should contact the ghost of Dean
Howison.

Lost

After a year of searching, the
Spectator has realized its facts
have been stolen. The Spectator
is also in need of ethics, talent
and taste. If found, please call
Ray Welder.

Porn Pix

The Calyx is now accepting
applications for this year’s full-
color yearbook centerfold. Male
students or young professors only
please. Call Brooke Jarabek at
465-STUD by Friday, April 5 to
set up a confidential interview.

For Scott

The Executive Committee will
hold another forum on Constitu-
tional Revisions April 29 at 3
p.m. in Lee Chapel. No one is
expected to attend, except, of
course, Walter Scott.

2 Live Tix

Tickets for 2 Live Crew perform-
ing in Lee Chapel next week
went on sale today outside the
Co-op. Hammers and chisels are
free with two tickets, allowing
you to take home a piece of the
chapel.

 

Tour Tunnels

The Ghostbuster section of the
Outing Club will tour the W&L
tunnels Saturday, April 6. Only
the strong of heart should attend.
Amateur exorcists welcome.

Break Policy

The Army is looking for a few
good lawyers, but needs a place
to interview. Anyone willing to
have a discriminatory employer
set foot in their home should
contact Carol Calkins.

Arithmetik

“A Quantitative Analysis of
Moral Values in Socialist De-
mocracies’’ will be the topic of a
lecture by Professor Craig McCa-
ughrin 3 p.m. Tuesday in room
221 of the Commerce School.
The lecture will provide a mathe-
matical analysis of ethical stan-
dards in Marxist-oriented coun-
tries.

Carol 4 Prez

The Committee to Elect Carol
Calkins President of the Universi-
ty will meet Wednesday, April 3
at 5 p.m. in front of Carol Cal-
kins’ office. She does it all any-
way! For more information, see
Carol Calkins.

Mourn Hobo

A memorial service for Ivan
VanDenBosch, former mayor of
Fairfield, will be held Sunday,
April 7 at noon in Hopkins Green
Park. Say your last goodbyes to
the ‘‘Hallucinatin’ Hobo.’ Eulogy
by Professor Brian Richardson.

Staff Wanted

The Publications Board is now
accepting applications for an all
new Ring-tum Phi staff. The old
staff has apparently been sent to
the pokey for libel. Those inter-
ested must subscribe to PC thou-
ght. Submit to Carol Calkins in
the University Center.

Get It Out

Need to let people know what
you’re up to? Daring enough to
let the Phi handle it? Make
contact with the General Notes
envelope outside The Ring-tum
Phi office.

 

 

Can | ask you a question for TALKBACK?

 

 

J. “J-School’? Smith — ‘‘Aren’t
you that mean guy in the journal-
ism department that used to do
TALKBACK?”’

 

Hampden H. Smith, professor of
journalism, real
**Something
TALKBACK is just not politically
correct.”’

person =
about this

 

 

 

 
 

eer ror ererss

The Ring-tum Phi, April 1, 1991

 

 

 

 

  

 

By Tom Boy
Staff Reporter

 

An ugly fracas erupted in Wash-
ington Hall Wednesday when two
administration officials admitted that
the Fraternity Renaissance Program
and the Greek Tax are not what they
seem.

University Treasurer Lawrence
“Renaissance Has Not and Never Will
Be Overbudget" Broomall fought
back tears in his office as he con-
fessed that the Greek Tax is being
deposited in a secret slush fund

 

On the run!

codenamed "BIB" or "Broomall In
the Bahamas.”
"T’m really sorry...but...but Frank

 

Recently indicted W&L students Ulysses Hul and Peer Soderberg make a break for it. The pair
is reportedly hiding out somewhere in the Congo River basin — so far from civilization that
Federal Express doesn’t deliver there, and there are no buildings to shoot into.

[Parsons] and I just got so mad when
we saw those fraternities having their
little Bahamas Parties and giving
away all those trips to the

 

 

Buddy takes
to tunnels

By Demi Moore
Staff Reporter

 

 

The ghost of former Associate Dean of Students for Greek Affairs, Leroy
Cole ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins III, has reportedly been spotted haunting the
Washington and Lee sewer system.

‘Terrence and I were just walking around in the woods, when Buddy
popped out of a storm drain,’ senior Linda McCormack said. ‘‘He looked
the same, down to his little plaid jacket and bow tie.”’

Atkins drowned in a puddle April 1, 1990, despite several rescue attempts.

Other studenis said they have also encountered Atkins ghost around
campus, especially near the Pit on dollar draft nights. The ghost has
apparently said the same thing to several students.

‘He walked right up to me moaning ‘Forgive me for the Greek fee,’’’
sophomore Mary Nohouse, a Chi Omega, said. ‘‘I told him to go to Hell,
and he kind of cringed.’’

University Psychiatrist James Worth said God might be punishing Atkins
for his sins.

‘*Buddy could be doomed to roam the campus until he’s forgiven for the
Greek fee and the Renaissance program,’’ Worth said.

Atkins’ fate has apparently had an effect on University Treasurer Lawrence
Broomall. At a recent meeting, Broomall! said Renaissance was a mistake and
the Greek fee was sham.

“If I confess now, maybe I can save myself from eternal damnation,”’
Broomall said. ‘‘I just don’t want to end up like Buddy. Anything but that.”’

The brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Atkins’ fraternity, are reportedly
starting a letter-writing campaign to God on Atkins’ behalf.

‘‘Maybe we can persuade Him to let Buddy rest,’’ junior Bob Lee said.
“If Sherman wasn’t forced to be a ghost, I don’t see why God can’t cut
Buddy a little slack.’’

 

 

FIVE DI

 

“Something’s strange, in the neighborhood, that’s for sure,” says
the Rockbridge County Ghostbusters crew. Not even a bag of new
bow ties would entice what is believed to be the ghost of Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins from the W&L tunnels.

 

a

Bahamas...It just isn’t fair," Broomall
whined.

Just then Parsons charged through
Broomall’s door and dragged him out
of the room.

Frank A. "Phase I is Right on
Schedule" Parsons, Coordinator of
Capital Planning, admitted Fraternity
Renaissance is a sham designed spe-
cifically to eliminate several fraterni-
ties and increase University control of
the entire fraternity system.

"They [fraternities] are evil and
this [Renaissance] is the best way we
found to crack down on them,” Par-
sons said as he pounded on his desk.

As Parsons dragged the treasurer
out of the room, Parsons was heard
shouting hysterically at students pass-
ing through Washington Hall.

“This is my school," he screamed,
"and don’t you forget it. Now you
see who the real boss is around

nee at

Sham swallows Geek Tax

here!"

He then dropped Broomall, who
curled up in a fetal position on the
floor and whimpered, "It’s ol
fair...It’s not fair." rc

Parsons sprinted back to his office
and grabbed a 12 gauge shotgun. He
fired two shots into the office of
University President John D, Wilson,
killing his secretary in the process.

Wilson immediately placed Par-
sons on Social Probation. He ex-
plained that the University could not
condone such a_ dangerous
atmosphere. \

"We must send a message thal
such behavior will not be tolerated,”
Wilson said. "The seriousness of his
actions and the threat posed to the
W&L community demanded that, he
be punished. I know Frank now
realizes he can’t go around shooting
people’s noggins off." ‘

Feds bust frats |

Agents site lack of supplies ,

 

By Mighty Mayo
Staff Reporter

 

Federal agents seized three Wash-
ington and Lee fraternity houses
Tuesday afternoon after a campus-
wide search revealed that their other-
wise extensive house drug supplies
were lacking common, over-the-
counter cold medications.

‘‘They seem to have everything
else the guys could want...from mari-
juana to crack and acid, pills, needles
and joints,’’ one federal agent said.
‘‘And their organization of the drugs
and paraphernalia is the best seen.’’

The recent problem though, feder-
al authorities said, is that the guys
are suffering from cold and flu sea-
son, and ‘‘frankly, they just don’t
feel like shooting up.’’ Many brothers
in these three houses have been miss-
ing house meetings due to hacking
coughs that will not allow them to
hold pot smoke in their lungs for
sufficient intervals of time.

“It’s just plain embarrassing,”’
one fraternity brother said. ‘‘I’d rath-
er skip the meeting than look like I
can’t hold my smoke.”’

 

CTION'

‘A Collage of One-Act Plays:

SORRY, WRONG NUMBER by Lucille Fletcher |

April 2 & 4

 

Directed by Emily Ecton

CORAM POPULO! by August Strindberg .

Directed by Alana Horrigan
HITCHING TO ALASKA Written and directed

 

by Douglas Nelson

April 3 & 5

 

'

Federal agents partly blame the
house mothers for such neglect.

‘Until now, we've left the diug
supply responsibility up to the hoyse
mothers, but I can see that this will
no longer be sufficient,’’ a FBI agent
raged. ‘‘More than 30 boys have
already approached me saying that
they can’t snot their usual lines\of
cocaine because their noses are all
stuffed up. It’s just a disgrace.”’ *

The fraternities involved have
been losing money because the sick
brothers are refusing to pay dug
dues, and the house mothers contin-
ue to put the houses into debt by
buying more paraphernalia and sorting
instruments. Rumor has it that some
of the fraternity Renaissance money
might even be involved. Federal
agents will begin a full-scale investi-
gation immediately.

“It’s just too bad that these three
houses had to give a bad wrap for all
fraternities on campus,’’ a recent
initiate of a house not involved said.
‘“‘T mean, some have been keeping
all of their drug supplies fully
stocked, like mine for instance. My
brothers are all healthy and high. ‘It’s
the best way to be, dude.’’

y

 

THE MAN WHO CAME TO DINNER by Kaufman & Hart
Directed by Devon McAllister

SAXAPHONE MUSIC by Bill Bozzone
Directed by Mason Pettit

Lenfest Center

April 2-5

Admission free

Johnson Theatre

8:00 PM

Admission free

 
NEWS

 

By Iva Biguan
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees shocked campus administra-
tors and students on Monday with
their announcement that the venerable
Lee Chapel, home to more than a
century of tradition laden campus
events, would be leveled October of
this year.

The Board, reached during their
bi-monthly meeting in the- Cayman
Islands, announced their intentions to
replace the historic structure under
the current capital improvement pro-
gram.

In a related item, it announced
preliminary contracts with an Orlan-
do, Fla., based contractor had been
drafted for an epic $10 million Stu-
dent Center, to be built on the foun-
dation of the soon-to-be-demolished
chapel.

Campus Life Committee Chairman
Don Muchfun, ‘55, quipped on the
decision, ‘‘look, we’re tired of all
this flack about the Lenfest Center
being smaller than Lee Chapel, so we
felt the best way to solve the prob-
lem was to level the Chapel to make
way for our next big project, the
Non-Fraternity, Non-Student Union,
or NFNSU.”’

Asked about this turnabout in
board policy concerning the new
center and the chapel, University
President John Wilson remarked,
“‘well, we here in Washington Hall
are both deeply saddened at the fate
of the chapel, and greatly excited on
the coming state of the art student
center. I have to say, I feel totally
vindicated by the board’s decision, as
I have been trying to fill the ODK
and Convocation ceremonies for nine
years with stirring Ivy League speak-
ers, and, since no one appreciated my
efforts, now I get to just
heh,heh...take out some walls and
windows, so to speak.”’

University Treasurer Lawrence
Broomall, the always cheery and
politically correct guru of the as-yet
successful Fraternity Renaissance, was
unwilling to elaborate on the decision
with the Phi, except to say ‘‘it’s not
a big deal ... so we’re tearing down
an obsolete church that hasn’t been
used for that purpose in fifty years

 

Lawrence Broomall

anyway.”’

When asked why the University
was so quick to approve the destruc-
tion of a national landmark, Broomall
quipped, ‘‘Well, Darryl Gotrocks
(‘70) and his wife Willemina have

The Ring-tum Phi, April 1, 1991

Axe falls on Lee Chapel

just donated a ton of money to the
school, stipulating that we must at-
tempt to redefine the architectural
heritage of the campus with his grant.
You can’t just look a gift horse in
the mouth, now can you?”’

One university spokesman told the
Phi that he was very excited about
the new center, and the varied func-
tions it would provide the communi-
ty. ‘‘Among many other things, we
are planning for it to accommodate
about 1000 for lunch, dinner, or late
night espresso (with a twist of lime)
study breaks. Thirty bowling lanes
will be in lower level 5, and private
rooms for spontaneous chess and
bridge tournaments will be among the
highlights of the NFNSU. We think
it will solve the problem of no cam-
pus facility for uniting the student
body very nicely ... plus we are plan-
ning to initiate the freshmen into
W&L life through a three week
orientation/sleepover in the new cen-
ter, prior to any upperclass conflict.”

An open forum for student reac-
tion to board decisions will be held
on the ruins of the Chapel sometime
during Thanksgiving Break in the
Fall.

 

By Dixie Land
Staff Reporter

Rappers to bang
in Lee Chapel

 

 

with a bang. No pun intended.”’

 

The controversial rap group 2 Live Crew will be as nasty as they
wanna be next week when they perform in Lee Chapel.

The concert will be the farewell performance before demolition of the
chapel makes way for the new Student Center.

“T thouroughly enjoy the music of 2 Live Crew,’’ W&L President
John Wilson said. ‘‘Their concert will assure us that Lee Chapel goes out

Several members of the administration were angered by the decision
to allow the group to come to W&L.

‘I’m furious they would let those foul-mouthed hooligans perform in
Lee’s final resting place,’’ Dean of Students David Howison said before
his untimely death. ‘‘Let’s get a truly talented performer like Madonna.”’

Wilson and the Board of Trustees decided earlier this week to raze Lee
Chapel to provide a site for the new Student Center.

W&L Security expects a large crowd at the concert. They estimate
3,000 students and area residents will attend.

‘I’m hoping for a large crowd that is prone to violence,’’ Head of
Security Charle ‘‘Smurf’’ Murray said. ‘‘They might get rough and start
the demolition of the chapel early.’’

 

 

ROSA tM

Furniture Dealers _

For your extra pieces of furniture

115 S. Main St., Lexington

 

463-2742

 

 

A Bistro

Breakfast/Lunch/Dinner/Espresso/Cappuccino

& 19 West Washington Street/Lexington/464-1900 ®

~~ SHOE FIXERS—
si

SHOE FIXERS

 

 

 

Kappa Kappa Kappa Alpha

 

 

KA’s Old South rages out of control as Lexington police control
mobs of angry FiJl’s. Staff Photo by Dixie Land.

 

 

 

LLOYD’S

from page 1

 

down Washington Street by Harb’s
and opened fire on the rival gang.

Artfag Eurotool, who was inside
Harb’s reading Kafka at the time of
the shooting, said ‘‘I was adjusting
my beret and cleaning my lensless
glasses when I spied a menacing blue
van careening down the street. I saw
a woman driving the van with a
bottle of Mad Dog wine in one hand.

She was leaning out the window

shouting obscenities at the young
gangsters. A sawed-off man was
shooting a sawed-off shotgun into the
crowd of gang-bangers.’’

Four ‘‘L-Posse’’ members were
killed in the gruesome drive-by shoot-
ing, according to police reports.

; Instant Shoe Repair

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

jew can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

    
  
 

from Lexington.

Zb Rollerblade.

Sales & Rentals

‘LOWE lsantas

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

BIG SALE
Sweatshirts - 15% Off

Sweatpants - 20% Off

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd's)
464-3000

House For Rent
4 bedrooms, 2 baths. Excellent condition. 1% miles

Call Lori Weing Owner/Agent - 463-7285

Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

  

464-6666

ED) >) ED () ED () ED ©) GED () ED () <P () ED () ND () <EEED-()

We made
Bills better
by not changing

a thing.”

™ |

A

   

100%
COTTON

A great pair of basic old style khakis
is almost impossible to find

That's why we make Bills
Quite simply, Bills are cut with roor

a slight taper and genuine r
deep. The
bi

n to move

      

that are really
able khakis
ell made

SIZES So try ‘em out $59
30-42 EVEN
43-35 ODD

UNHEMMED

+350
SHIPPING

*w Fil «®

The manner in which Bills are cut dates back to the 1940's
Because this cut provides both freedom of movement
and tremendous comfort, it's no wonder that
in years past, many of America’s greatest ieaders
and greatest livers have tramped across battiefieids
athietic fields, and cornfieids in khakis like these.

So when you try Bills on for size, expect a jot

Personal checks. a =z AME) weicome

Please inciude: size, acct#¥, exp. date
shipping instructions

 

Thank you

W. THOMAS COMPANY

s29 counts

READING PA. 19601

156 372 976¢

soa

   
     
    
     
   
     
    
     
       
      

One ‘‘L-Posse’’ member, who
wished to remain anonymous,
promised that there would be a

payback. He vowed that ‘‘there will
be blood shed in Washington Hall
before this is over.’

““W&L Posse’ leader Wilson,
behind bars at the Rockbridge County
jail, blamed the killing on an incident
that occurred six weeks ago. ‘‘The
‘L-Posse’ threw a bottle through my
living room window. You don’t think
I’m gonna take that do you? This is
the way I think all bottle throwers
should be treated. Making them pack
groceries for a semester is too easy.
Besides, that drive-by was the most
fun I’ve had since I was a Rhodes

Lamont said, ‘‘I saw this as the

best way to demonstrate the super-
iority of women. Death to the phal-
lus!”’

Atkins said,
definitely not SAE material.
deserved to die.’’

Smith said, ‘‘My only regret is
that some of my reporting students
weren't in that crowd.”

According to General Accounting
Office reports obtained by The Ring-
tum Phi, the ‘‘L-Posse’’ is funded by
a Des Moines, Iowa gang led by
Luiggi Fratto and Babe Bisignano.
The Polk County gang supported the
‘*L-Posse’’ in a vain attempt to strike
back at an investigative reporting
legend, the late Clark R. Mollenhoff,
but once again failed to best the
**Boomer.”’

‘Those boys were
They

 

qe

 

Right z

Sp

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones

703/463-2022
Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St. |
With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

Wl ay

TOSHIBA

   

OUR ENTIRE STOCK! —
LIMITED TIME ONLY!!!

UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS

Mm DSR, INC
eid Call 800-
*VISA & MASTERCARD Accepted

875-0037

 

 

 

 

     
  

Aluin-Oennis

102 W. Washington St.

Spring Is Here!

 

VISA

   
 
  

-Shorts: Duckhead, Woolrich & Berle
-Knit Shirts: IZOD, Crosscreek
-Madras Sport Shirts
-Suits & Sportcoats by Haspel, Oritsky & Bowdon
-Sperry Topsiders
-Ray Ban Sunglasses

 

MasterCard

  
  

 

Student Charge

 

    

TWO HOUSES For Rent:
bedrooms, 463-5383

 

 

located 1 mile out Rt. 60 East.

   

3-4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 1, 1991

Taking his shot at the pros

Bryan Brading decides to enter the NBA draft

 

 

|

 

 

 

 

 

Yikes!

Senior Melinda Conkling uses a scary face to frighten the
| bejeezus out of her opponents on the lacrosse field. Con-
4 kling’s spook tactics have helped her score nine goals this

 

 

 

 

season for the women’s lacrosse team.

 

 

NOTICE
OF ZONING

 

By J. Austin Murphy
Staff Reporter

Sophomore Bryan Brading, the
razzle-dazzle sharpshooter for the
Washington and Lee Generals, yester-
day bid a sudden and unexpected
farewell to his college basketball
career.

In a Warner Center press confer-
ence, Brading announced he was
forfeiting his final two years of eligi-
bility for the fame and fortune of the
National Basketball Association.

“The W&L program has been
good to me, but it’s time to move
on,’’ the five-foot, five-inch dynamo
said in a prepared statement. ‘‘This
wasn’t a very difficult decision. It’s
either pay $12,000 a year to play or
get paid $1.5 million a year to play.’’

Although he is not projected to be
a lottery pick, the Generals’ reserve
guard said he could be among the top
five or six backcourt selections. Com-
ing off the bench, Brading averaged
2.9 points and 1.1 assists during the
1990-91 season. Someone said he
once made a three-point shot.

‘‘The level of play in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference is just
a notch or two below that of the
NBA,”’ said Brading, who led W&L
in forced shots and silly tumovers.
“Pro scouts know I’m good and I
expect to be picked pretty early on
draft day.”’

Brading said the success of two
NBA guards, 5’3" Tyrone Bogues

Think Politically Correct thoughts.

 

VARIANCE

Lee Chapel on Washington and

Lee University property will be

razed to allow construction of a
‘ new student center.

HOUSE

“Construction will begin in April on
ae 9 P Restaurant

“a castle, moat and monorail sys-

WILLSON-
WALKER

 

 

“tem in the W&L ravine next to the
« library. Note that this is an excep-
‘tion to zoning ordinances in that
the new building will include stair-
ways with hot-pink railings visible
to the public.

 

30 N. Main St., Lexington

Reservations are recommended

 

 

 

Presents

Sunday March 31

Giant Easter Basket
Located in Back of Dining Hall

 

gertin® Center Aisle Buffet
Fresh Fruit
Broccoli with Hollandaise
Scrambled Eggs
Home Fries
‘ Sausage Patties
. Glazed Baked Ham

Tossed Salad and Dressings

Side Dining Room
Omelet Bar
Omelets Made to Order by
Your Own Student Chefs
Kinney, Gillespie, & Cardamone
Assorted Donuts
Apple Streudel

Line Two Corner
Make Your Own Sandwich Bar
Bagel and English Muffin Bar

Center Door
Make Your Own Belgian Waffles

   

Beverages

Orange Juice

Apple Juice
Milk, Tea, Coffee

 

Cost: 41/2 points
or
$4.75
20 Meal Plan: NO CHARGE
Children under 6 no charge

 

 

Evan's Dining Hall

EASTER SUNDAY BRUNCH

11:30 a.m. — 1:00 p.m.

  

with Topping Bar, Including Ice Cream

Open to all members of the W&L Community

 

 

 

 

 

and 5°7" Spud Webb, inspired his
decision.

“T can’t dunk like Spud, but
sometimes I can jump up and grab
the net. If I don’t let go, I can pull
myself up and hang on the rim. Then
I feel really dominant,’ he said.

When contacted late yesterday, a
spokesman for the Charlotte Hornets
expressed interest in Brading.

“Actually, I’ve heard how he
handles the ball,’’ the spokesman
said. ‘‘If we get him, we’ll channel
his ballhandling abilities into luggage
handling. Hey, after all, someone's
got to carry the team’s baggage in
airports.”

Fans of Generals’ basketball said
Brading could be a fine pro.

“T think 1 saw Bryan play once
and he reminds me of Georgia Tech’s
Kenny Anderson, my favorite play-
er,’ said senior Tim Halloran. ‘‘l
know very little about the game. Hell,
I can’t even dribble the ball. But he
looked okay during a layup drill in
warmups.”

Junior ‘Trevor Hildebrand said he
is still furious about a referee’s trav-
eling call against Brading in Novem-
ber.

Not everyone, however, is opti-
mistic about Brading’s NBA career.

‘Every time we play one-on-one
I cream the guy,”’ said freshman Matt
Newton. ‘‘We played two days ago
and I beat him 21-1. No way can he
play pro ball. I couldn’t even get
picked for a church-league team last Bryan Brading’s family cheers at his announcement to turn pro.
summer.”’

 

 

 

   
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nee MMA wy
g ni -
Don't Wait Mi Re rectst gla
eeeee@ ve We Sell the Best Seats in the House
There are only 12 weeks until summer {| |} DENON SONY
ne ADCOM ALPINE
Work Out NOW? yi | OPTONICA
Vi BOSTON DAHLQUIST
for Real Results wp KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
Look good in those shorts this year! ve Rept dae ic
ve - CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
For Eaaty RIsers ml Wen sevice oat mranee
—— Arrosics seni (ee aeten My - TRADE-INS ACCEPTED
Mon & Wed 9 A.M. Ms (800) 468-6667
— WEIGHTS = VW Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
F Mon - Fri ny Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
5:30 A.M. - 7:30 A.M. vy fiee caaeiina eee etna
— YoGa - NA ere
Tues & Thurs wv The thought
10:15 A.M. - 11:15 A.M. ve i
4G East NELSON STREET 464-1-FIT¥ po Ice are
VYUVUYVYUUYUYYUU YUU UUU UU UYU YUU UU UYU! watching you.

 

 

 

end

A Shower
Of Spring
Flowers.

er
este

) ay | ee
ve
J Teleflora’ |
a ©
n

See Norist to The Homestead

 

Ten E. Nelson
Lexington, VA
463-9841

 

Available at your local bookstore
MARTIN'S PRESS

 

 

 

 

 

> AA HB

For
Easter Weekend

B D Baggies
Summer Shorts

   
   
  
 

- We All Need 20% Off
= New 7
sad Shorts ee
Best Wishes forA
Happy Easter lie

College Town Shop

703-463-2731
111 West Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

\
ae ia
hee: ‘ 5 ay tal
Sa eA

\ NS

tN .

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 1, 1991

i

 

Canfield goes to the women’s team

 

By E.M. Swift
Staff Reporter

 

Saying he felt he needed a career
change, Washington and Lee men’s
basketball coach Vere Canfield
announced Monday that he was re-
signing.

“I’ve done it all, I just don’t see
myself going any further. I can only
hope the students at W&L can find it
in their hearts to forgive me for
leaving,’’ Canfield said in front of
approximately 200 reporters.

Washington and Lee athletic
director Mike Walsh, who has been
in constant touch with Canfield since
his announcement, said that Canfield
has decided to continue coaching at
Washington and Lee, as coach of the
women’s club basketball team.

‘‘He’s always been a big fan of
the women’s program. One time he
even donated the men’s uniforms and
basketballs when they didn’t have any
in their game against Sweet Briar.

‘And he always cut the men’s
practices short so they could have
enough gym time. Besides, he really
wants to keep coaching. And he’s
really looking forward to giving his
famous locker room pep talks to get
those girls psyched up and ready to

go,’’ Walsh said.

Canfield, in an exclusive phone
interview, said that he is really look-
ing forward to the challenge of
coaching a new sport.

“IT am looking forward to this
new and interesting position. It
should present many challenges. And
the prospect of having these young
women around makes me feel differ-
ent already. I can’t explain how I
feel, but it is somewhat invigorating,
like I’m twenty years younger.’’
Canfield said.

Sophomore Courtney Smith, a
first-team All-American in club bas-
ketball, said that she has mixed emo-
tions about her new coach.

“‘T guess he’s better than nobody,
but I'd rather have the new lacrosse
coach, he’s a lot cuter.’’ Smith said.

Sources close to Canfield said that
he decided to resign after a long
telephone call with Washington and
Lee President John Wilson.

Apparently, a shouting match
erupted when Wilson accused Can-
field of using alumni funds targeted
for the Lenfest Center to buy cars for
recruits, thus delaying completion of
that building. Canfield was cleared by
the NCAA last year in a major inves-
tigation of the W&L sports program.

Reactions to Canfield’s resigna-

Save on your summer rental bill by subletting your
house or apartment to Lime Kiln’s summer theater
company. Contact Robin at 463-7088.

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

463-7969

Prescriptions © Cosmetics Perfumes
Charge Accounts ® Free Delivery

 

 

 

tion in the W&L community ranged
from complete shock to total apathy.

“This is truly the darkest day in
W&L. sports history," said Sports
Information Director Mike Stachura,
who is the current frontrunner to

replace Canfield as head coach.

‘*I’d retire too if my all my good
players were graduating,’’said an
unidentified member of the athletic
department.

 

Jim Stagnitta will not coach the women’s club basketball team.

Sorry, Courtney.

Route 11 North

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
APYLPVLP?

 

 

 

COLOR PIN CARNIVAL
Every Saturday Night at6PM ts

Over 50 ways to win money. |
| You do not need to be a League bowler

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin
Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

 

LEE Ht RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

Open 24 Hours

 

oppagolllor

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

(703)463-5988

C PPV POV PVLPVLP\ PV IV PV OV PV PPV IV POLL

[SPORTS NOTEBOOK |

 

From W&L Sports
Misinformation

 

 

Junior Doug Brown fractured
his skull on Saturday at the Divi-
sion [I] National Swimming
Championships in Atlanta, Geor-

ia.

; Brown smashed into one end
of the pool during the next-to-
the-last lap in the finals of the
1,650-yard freestyle.

‘“‘T was going so fast that I
was unable to slow down and do
a flip turn,’’ Brown said. ‘‘My
head hit the wall and both my
arms flopped over onto the start-
ing block.’’

Random and _ unconfirmed
sources say Brown, wearing his
new football helmet, is back in
the water preparing for next sea-
son.

The men’s lacrosse team was
ranked sixth in Division III.

Juniors Marc Short and Andy
McGuire are set to go to Dallas,
Texas, this weekend for the 1991
conference on Politically Correct
Sportswriting.

Short, the keynote speaker,
will deliver a speech entitled

‘How To Make Preseason Predic-
tions When The Season Is Half
Over,’’ while McGuire will lead a
seminar called ‘‘Accurate Facts
and Correct Name Spelling: Who
Needs Them?’’

This year’s Kappa Alpha

Theta Triathalon will not include
the running and biking segments.
Instead, the combined mileage
from those two parts (18 miles)
will be added on to the half-mile
swim.
‘We want to keep the event
located in one place,’’ said a
Theta, who asked not to be
named. ‘‘Most of us are too lazy
to get up at 9 a.m. on a Sunday
morning and go stand on some
county road to show the runners
and bikers which way to go.”’

The entry fee is $25.00 per
person and all proceeds will go
toward Theta’s Spring Fling.

The Athletic Department has
added another class to its Spring
Term offerings. For $176.00 you
can learn to roller blade for cred-
it. The intensive six-week course
will culminate in a trip to the
Roller Derby Hall of Fame. En-
rollment is not limited, so just
show up at the gym sometime if
you are interested.

 

   
 

 
 

WE NEED SELF-MOTIVATED
STUDENTS. EARN UP TO $10/HR.

Market credit cards on campus.
Flexible hours.
Only 10 positions available.

Call Now
1-800-950-8472 Ext. 20

 

 

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

Nationwide is on your side

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN

Agent

203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA

Phone: 463-7718 Ree: 463-4051

 

 

 

 

 

Happy Easter from...

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal
A large selection of Gift Items

Wm. L. Hess, Jr.
Owner

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703) 463-2833

 

 

 

The Publications Board
now accepting
applications for:

1991-92
Calyx

Business Manager

Give letter and resume to

Carol Calkins by

 

Friday, April 5

 

 

COLCLO LL OC CCP AA DOOM MCCA MMMM PLAC PBZ ZLA

???Questions???

Call Pat Lopes at 464-3738

 

 
Wé&LIFE ai
Faculty named in stud poll

Ring-tum Phi lists W&L’s top ten sexiest staff members

 

By Bambi Stark
Staff Table Hopper

 

In an effort to compete with the offerings of Playgirl and The Spectator,
The Ring-tum Phi recently polled Washington and Lee community women (and
interested men) for Lexington’s Top Ten Sexiest Faculty Members.

The lucky winners (pictured here) have been offered contracts to appear as
pin-up boys for a beef-cake calendar The Ring-tum Phi plans to offer. W&Ls
peer counselors will also get a break soon, because the local studmuffins have
offered to donate their time to help those in need.

Mr. November candidate Charles ‘‘Murph’’ Murray encourages all students
who need to talk, etc. to just call 1-SEXY-LEX-GUY. ‘‘I want to be your
friend,”’ he said.

University Treasurer Lawrence Broomall hopes proceeds from the phone
calls will be used to repay part of the university's debt as a result of the
Fraternity Renaissance program.

In the mean-time, watch for these area faves in the up-and-coming The
Making of The Ring-tum Phi Calendar swimsuit video on Channel Nine. The
show will be hosted by Reid Hall’s own Professor Robert de Maria.

 

3.(Tie) Joel P. Smith, Jr. 3.(Tie) Shawn A. Copeland
W&L Alumni Staff Associate W&L Admissions Counselor
Comment: We'd like to see their alumni ‘*status’’

 

 

 

1. Brian D. Shaw
W&L Director of Communications
Comment: Does that include Body
Language?

5. John R. Handelman
W&L Professor of Politics
Comment: The name says it all...

 

 

 

 

7. Gary R. Fallon
Associate Professor and Coach
Comment: We hear he always
goes for the sack

8. Charles F. “Murph”? Murray
W&L Director of Security
Comment: Need we say more?

TON EMIS OL

   
 
  
  
 
  
 

 

 

 

    

 

9, Leroy ‘‘Buddy”’ Atkins, (deceased)
W&L Associate Dean of Students

Comment: We hear he was really
good with ‘‘Greek Affairs’’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 
        
   
      
  

 

2: James D. Farrar, Jr.
W&L Director of Alumni
Programs
Comment: Damn, he’s married!!!

   

6. Laurent Boetsch, Jr.
W&L Associate Dean of College
Comment: Sexiest Newcomer

10. John J. Keppler
1988 VMI graduate. Mr. January for VMI's 1989 Hard Corps Calen st.
Comment: Drool. He was never a W&L staff member; who the hell cares? 4

  

 

Honorable Mentions:

Timothy R. Gaylard

W&L Associate Professor of Music
Comment: Supposedly, he has magic
fingers

Jim McKeon

Former W&L Assistant Coach who
now teaches at Amherst College
Comment: Why W&L women took
weight training.
Ramon L. Ramos
Assistant Professor
Science

Comment: There is something to be
said for manuevers and basic training
James P. Warren

Associate Professor of English
Comment: We hear he has a

mighty big pen

Happy April
Fools!

Good luck on exams!
Have a safe break!!

of Military

 

 

 

G.E. Soft-White
Light Bulbs

Kleenex Premium

 

40, 60,75
Or 100 Watt

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
 

9

Bow Available
At $1.00 Addt.

Charge

 

 

 

 

16 Oz. N.R. Bottles

 

 

 

‘AS NAR ENR MEI AT TE IIT ENN
Prices Good Through Tuesday, April 2, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, April 2, 1991 In Lexington Store Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps,
| “Your guide to

H

the weekend --- see page 6

Che Ring-tiumn Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 26

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

| McGovern to kick off "92 Convention

 

By Spain Brumby
Staff Reporter

Possible 1992 presidential candidate and
former senator George McGovern will kick off
the 20th W&L Mock Convention Friday with a
speech on Lee Chapel Lawn at 12 p.m.

‘‘McGovern has taken a keen interest in
college students in the past,’’ MC Political
Chairman James Tucker said.

McGovern has said he will run for President
if he can raise $5,000 in each of 20 states by
May and if no other Democrat who shares his
views gets into the race, according to a
Washington Post article.

‘‘He is one of the only people who has
shown interest in the Democratic nomination,”’
MC Speakers Chairman Edward ‘‘Ted’’ Elliot
said. ‘‘He is a dynamic speaker and well
respected among Washington insiders."

MC has been wrong only once since 1948
in choosing the Presidential nominee for the
party out of office.

In 1972, W&L MC delegates chose Sen.
Edward Kennedy over McGovern as_ the
convention’s proposed nominee. McGovern went
on to win the nomination.

McGovern sought the Democratic
nomination again in 1984, but the party chose
Walter Mondale.

McGovern served as a senator from South

Dakota for 18 years. First elected in 1962, he
served on the Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee and the Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry Committee.

Prior to his political career McGovern flew
35 missions in World War II and was decor-
ated with the Distinguished Service Flying
Cross.

McGovern’s speech is part of four days of
events to gather student support and national
recognition for the Mock Convention next
March.

‘*We are hoping for a good student turnout
this spring,’’ MC Public Relations Chairman
Talley Woolley said. ‘Kickoff is a dry run for
the March convention to see what works and

what doesn’t.’’

In conjunction with the’ MC kickoff, the
Student Activities Board will cosponsor a
Friday night performance by MTV personality
Pauly Shore.

SAB executive member John Flippen said,
‘‘We are hoping to have good attendance since
it is for Mock Convention. I saw [Shore] per-
form during February break and he was
hilarious.”’

On Sunday, Down Boy Down and W&L
student bands will perform from 1-6 p.m. in
the Dell between the library and Woods Creek.

‘*We hope this week gives everyone a good
preview of Mock Convention and spurs more
interest and involvement,’’ Tucker said.

 

By Matt Smith

 

other universities.

   

Freshman Rob McGinley works on his spring term tan on the baicony of Graham-Lees Dorm. Phi photo by Leigh Allen.

Committee saves spring term

D.C.,’’ Jarabek said.

 

 

By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

 

Sorority members will not have to
pay the Greek fee for the 1991-92
academic year, according to Presi-
dent John Wilson. Wilson waived the
fee until the fall of 1992-93 un-
der the advice of University Trea-
surer Lawrence Broomall.

‘‘Our commitment to the sororities
to provide other space available for
them, namely the renovation of the
Troubador Theater into offices,
hasn’t’’ been fulfilled, Broomall said.

He said the university decided to
renovate the old theater last spring.
Funding was set aside and a budget
approved on July 1. Broomall an-
nounced in October that the second

April 25, 1991

   

\A

George McGovern

Wilson halts
sorority fee

Each sorority member was to be
required to pay $100 each year until
they have housing, which is still
several years down the road.

But for now, Wilson and Broo-
mall feel that before sororities are
forced to pay the Greek fee, they
should at least get the office space
they have been promised.

Panhellenic President Dale Wyatt
expressed her approval of President
Wilson’s recent decision to waive the
fee.

‘I’m pleased that we don’t have
to pay next year since the construc-
tion on Troubador Theater has not
begun,’’ Wyatt said, ‘‘but I can see it
being feasible to have to pay once
we get some office space or hous-
ing.”’

Dean of Students David Howison

According to Williams, the committee decided
it would not disclose the names of the people
who voted for or against keeping the term.

Students seem to be pleased with the commit-
tee’s decision.

‘It’s a nice break from the traditional 12
week-semester,’’ said senior Tom Lovell. ‘‘It lets
you expand on other activities such as Goshen
[Pass] and Panther Falls.’’

According to senior Rob Christensen, the

floor of the renovated theater would
be designated as sorority offices, but
progress since then has been slow.
Broomall said progress on the
theater will be reevaluated next win-

said the plans are currently being
designed by Buildings and Grounds
Superintendent Jim Arthur and Asso-
ciate Dean of Students Leroy Atkins.

Howison said the second floor of

Staff Reporter

Washington and Lee students can now breathe
' easy — the much coveted spring term has been

saved from extinction at least for the time being. ‘‘Spring term is important because you get to committee’s decision benefits teachers and ter, and Wilson will then decide if the theater located on the comer of
’ A committee, chaired by Physics Professor take seminar classes in which you can get students. ‘‘Teachers don’t want to be stuck in the Greek fee will be enforced for Main and Henry streets will be reno-
\ Thomas Williams voted 7-3 to keep the six- involved in discussions that normal lecture classrooms any more than students do when the the women for the 1992-93 year. vated into offices, and the first floor

week term. In a 60-page report delivered to Dean
* | of the College John Elrod on April 1, the com-
mittee listed reasons for their decisions. In-

classes don’t promote,’’ said senior Brooke
Jarabek.
‘‘There’s more growth and interaction in

weather is nice,’’ said Christensen.
‘Teachers enjoy teaching in a _ relaxed
atmosphere just as the students enjoy taking

Wilson waived the fee once be-
fore in November for the 1990-91

into a large-screen university theater.
‘It is my hope that construction

cluded in the report

 

were results from student
and faculty su-veys as well as feedback from

smaller discussion classes. Also, spring term al-
lows students to go abroad and to Washington,

classes in a relaxed atmosphere,’’ said sophomore
Dave DeMilt.

 

 

 

Andrew Schneider

 

year after meeting with sorority presi-
dents to discuss poor communication
between the administration and the
sorority leaders regarding the fee.

EC funds ACLU open mike

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee Monday
allocated only $30 of $500 requested
by the newly-formed W&L chapter of
the American Civil Liberties Union
after debate over whether the group
was partisan and whether it intended
to limit itself to local issues.

The ACLU chapter originally
made the request at the April 8 EC
meeting. The $500 requested was
budgeted for stationery, printing,
stamps, telephone costs, and speakers’

meals.

At that meeting, the last one
before spring break, ACLU Chapter
President and Founder Andrew
Schneider responded to concerns that
the EC would be supporting the
national ACLU by saying that the 80-
90 members of the chapter had
already paid five dollars each in order
to pay the national dues. He said the
chapter was seeking operational costs
only.

Schneider said he had assured
new chapter members the national
dues would be the only cost they
would have to pay.

EC Vice President Raymond
Welder then raised the issue of
whether the ACLU was a partisan
political organization, a type of group
the EC traditionally does not fund.

‘If the ACLU is not a partisan
group, then tell me why it was an
issue in the 1988 presidential cam-
paign,’’ Welder said.

Patrick McDermott, ACLU
chapter treasurer, said the ACLU was
‘tmade an issue by George Bush. We
did not want it to be an issue.’’

McDermott said, ‘‘Our [chapter]
bylaws, the state bylaws, and the na-
tional bylaws say we’re non-parti-

Ls

san.

The EC tabled the issue until after
the spring break.

At Monday’s meeting, Hatcher
asked the chapter representatives
about a poster put up around campus
by the ACLU chapter conceming
abortion laws in Utah. He questioned
the group’s statement that it would
stick to local issues.

Schneider said the intent of the
posters was not to make an issue of
abortion, but to question the constitu-
tionality of a Utah law which made

Q Please see ACLU page 3

Law policy reversed

, By Tom Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

. Washington and Lee University President

John D. Wilson repealed a ban prohibiting
‘ military recruitment on the Law School cam-
+ pus.

In a March 27 letter to Randall Bezanson,
‘dean of the Law School, Wilson said that “the
, University’s best interest requires us to suspend

the application of [the] placement policy to the
‘military services."

The Law School had been racked with
‘controversy over the law faculty’s February
, decision to prohibit employers who discriminate
against homosexuals, legally or otherwise, from

fusing the Law School’s placement facilities.
The faculty acted in accordance with a man-
"date of the Association of American Law
,Schools, with which the Law School is
accredited. Last year the U.S. Supreme Court
‘upheld the military’s ban on homosexuals.
, Wilson said he exempted the military
because the AALS policy focuses upon the
‘legal discrimination of the military’s Judge
Advocate General Corps.

‘The JAG Corps was the obvious intended
‘target of [the AALS] policy,’’ Wilson said in
his letter. ‘‘No other employer I know of has
‘an explicit = anti-homosexual _ personnel
policy...and [the military] has a record of court
approval of its policies.”

The university is suffering, the Wilson

'

on president's order

letter said, ‘‘because many of its loyal friends
are puzzled and distressed that their university
appears to have placed itself in opposition to a
lawful agency of the government.”’

‘It seemed to me that the AALS was using
its accreditation authority to focus upon what it
took to be a desirable change in the military
services personnel policy,’’ Wilson said. ‘‘This
is a long way from what an accreditation body
ought to be doing.’’

Bezanson said accreditation by the AALS,
one of the nation’s two premier law school
accrediting agencies, is ‘‘quite important.”’

Bezanson said the Law School could lose
AALS accreditation, but it is not likely.

‘‘There’s not a strong likelihood they will
try to enforce the policy through
accreditation...but I think there is a risk,”’
Bezanson said.

He also said W&L might be censured or
publicly reprimanded by the AALS.

These risks are tempered by the refusal of
a significant number of law schools to fully
implement the AALS policy, Bezanson said.

‘I think any action by the AALS is going
to be difficult against the background that
roughly a quarter of the member schools had
[the policy] reversed at the level of the presi
dent,’’ Bezanson said.

Wilson said all of Virginia’s law schools
the University of Virginia, George Mason
University, the College of William and Mary

Q) Please see REVERSAL page 3

 

Winter Term Grades

 

 

 

 

 

maa S153

KK 3.112
ALL WOMEN _ 3.059
KZ 3.042

TIKA 3.020
KA® 2.993

LE 2.948

XP 2.945

ALL STUDENTS 2.923
IN 2.886

KA 2.559

ALL MEN 2.846
OKY 2.834
AXA 2.811

LAE 2.810

BTA 2.193
@A@ 2.777
TIKb 2.762

ee 2.162

@rA 2.756

BOI 2.744
MKE 2.658

 

of the entire building will be under-
way soon,”’ Howison said, ‘‘but the
priority is on the development of the
second floor.’’

PE head
heads to
Wooster

From Wooster Sports Information

 

 

William D. McHenry, director of
physical education at Washington and
Lee University, has been named
director of physical education, ath-
letics and recreation at the College of
Wooster in Ohio.

McHenry will succeed Al Van
Wie, who is retiring July 1 from the
position he has held for 17 years.

The announcement of McHenry’s
appointment was made by R. Stanton
Hales, vice president for academic
affairs at Wooster.

‘We are excited to have Bill
McHenry coming to Wooster,” said
Hales. ‘‘He brings a wealth of ex-
perience in intercollegiate athletics
and physical education as well as a
strong commitment to the ideals of
the NCAA Division III philosophy.’’

‘TI am extremely excited about
coming to Wooster,’’ said McHenry.
“IT have the utmost respect for the
superb job that Al Van Wie has done
over the years and am delighted to
have the chance to continue in that
tradition of excellence. I look forward
to being associated with Wooster and,
through the College, with the North
Coast Athletic Conference.”’

A 1954 graduate of W&L, Mc-
Henry spent the past 20 years here
as director of athletics (1971-89) and
director of physical education (1989-
present).

Professionally, McHenry has been
very active on a national level. He
was the NCAA Football Committee
Chairman from 1983-89 and
chaired the NCAA Committee on
Competitive Safeguards and Medical
Aspects of Sports (1980-85) as well
as the Committee on Committees
(1988-90). In addition, he served on
the NCAA Football Rules Committee
(1976-81), the Classification Commit-
tee (1977-82) and the Lacrosse Rules
Committee (1974-76)

McHenry will begin his duties at
Wooster on July 1
 

OPINION

The readers
have spoken

So you think we’re sensationalist, immature, shallow,
chest-beating, rhetorical, unreliable, prone to pouting,
National Enquirer-esque, boring and ugly. Those were just
some of the words you readers used to describe the Phi in
last month’s Readership Survey.

First, we'd like to thank the readers who took the time
to fill out the survey and return it to us. We have
considered your suggestions, and your time and trouble
will be rewarded.

Three big complaints about the Phi’s content were that
too much time was devoted to covering fraternities, not
enough time was spent on national or world news, and
that many campus organizations and activities were not
being given adequate coverage.

Over 75 percent of W&L men are in fraternities, and
over half of W&L women in sororities. Those numbers
tell us we must continue extensive coverage of Greek life
at the university, so we do not plan to step-down
coverage of this vital aspect of W&L. As for national or
world news, we do not want to, nor could we hope to
compete with national and city dailies. We simply don’t
have the money to set up a, say, London or New Delhi
bureau. And no one on our staff wanted to go to Baghdad
to cover the war. As a W&L newspaper we will cover
W&L news.

We agree with the complaint that we don’t adequately
cover the broad range of activities and organizations on
campus. We, too, have noticed a lack of stories about
W&L’s many cultural and academic activities. While we
want to expand coverage of these events and will try to
do so, our editorial decisions must reflect our readers’
interests and our finite staff and resources. But let us
know what your group is doing and we’ll try to cover
it; if people read the story, we’ll cover it the next time
too.

By far the biggest complaint about the paper was its
circulation (or lack thereof). We’re somewhat heartened to
hear that people actually get upset about not being able to
find a copy of the Phi. At least that means you want to
read it. We have a new circulation manager working hard

on a new distribution system to ensure everyone gets
copies of the paper promptly. Fraternities need not send
anyone to pick up copies of the Phi, as they will be
delivered earlier. Moreover, we remind everyone picking
up their own copies that there should be no need to
remove whole bundles. Take only what you will use, or
we will consider it stealing.

As for faculty and staff, if all other papers go out
smoothly, there’ll be no need for students to take papers

out of faculty. mailboxes, as they sometimes do. We also |

remind the staff. that we are the student newspaper of
W&L and as such we feel our primary responsibility is to
get copies to the students. We’ll try to make sure you
have copies, too, but students must be our first priority
since it is their money that helps finance the Phi.
University offices that require extra copies can arrange
delivery and billing through the circulation manager.

A few other things you wanted from us: more coverage
of all sports, comics or a crossword, in-depth coverage of
the big, ongoing issues on campus, more human interest
stories, EC voting records, restaurant reviews, a crime
report, a monthly issues and ideas forum insert, and
recycled paper. We can’t promise everything, but we will
try our best. We’ve planned some major changes for when
the paper returns in the fall, and we continue to welcome
your suggestions, comments, and criticisms.

Quote of the week

Washington and Lee University... it says here that the male
to female ratio is 20 to 1. Sounds like the perfect place to
major in pre-wed.

--- A line from Fox Television’s ‘‘Beverly Hills
90210’ on April 11 as one of the stars reads from a
popular (and evidently outdated) college guide book.

The Ring-tum Phi, April 25, 1991

 

 

   

HEY, ANYTIME

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Christian view of race

 

MY VIEW
By Ted Smith

A University of Chicago survey showed that
while most whites support racial equality, they
still hold negative stereotypes toward blacks.
62.2 percent of whites polled thought that
blacks were less hard-working than whites. 56.1
percent thought blacks were more violence-
prone than whites. 53.2 percent believed that
blacks were less intelligent. 77.7 percent
believed that blacks were more likely to be on
welfare. 50.6 percent believed that blacks were
less patriotic.

Galatians 3:28 states: ‘‘There is neither Jew
nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there
is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in
Christ Jesus.’’ Despite this, Christians,
historically speaking, have not been able to
cross the barrier of race. Thousands of blacks
were brought to this country on a ship called
Jesus. Many slavemasters whipped their slaves,
while quoting from the Bible. Certain Africans
noted: ‘‘When they (whites) came, they had the
Bible and we had the land. Now we have the
Bible, and they have the land.’’ Christians have
a very poor record historically, and things have
not improved that much today. What is the
most segregated hour of the week? The hour of
Sunday morning worship. Yet, we do not even
deal with this issue, and when we do, we do it
in a sugar-coated fashion. Will anyone give me
a good reason for this? The word of God is
supposed to dig to the very core of a person.
Why can we not, both blacks and whites, deal
with the racism pervading our Christian
institutions? If we can only deal with the
surface of this issue, it must indicate that we

 

only have a surface Christianity, which is not
true to Christ or God’s Word.

These abuses have not been limited to
whites; there have been many black abuses.
One can read accounts of a 19th century black
slave using a vision from God to justify killing
innocent white women and children. One can
also read about a noted bishop in the AME
(African Methodist Episcopal) Church that said,
‘‘God is a Negro.’’ These instances are also not
limited to the 19th century. Recently, a noted
black Christian leader has made some anti-
Jewish remarks. I could name more examples,
but the point is the same — blacks have also
committed racist abominations.

I yearn for both blacks and whites to come
together and explore the racism in our
institutions. If we do, then we will find fault on
the sides of both races (I do not want anyone
to think that as far as racism is concerned that
I’m placing all the blame on whites, because
racism exists on both sides). I challenge us to
face the truth! Too often we refuse to face it
because it makes us feel guilty. If the truth

_makes us feel. guilty, then we need to realize.,

that Jesus Christ’s death onthe cross declared
us ‘‘not guilty.’’ I hope that his death on the
cross is special enough to help us Christians to
face the truth.

For many years, the races have not been
able to communicate truthfully with each other
because of a lack of understanding. To remedy
this situation, we need to collectively engage in
study of each other’s culture. This will allow us
to appreciate each other’s culture, and we can
begin to have cross-cultural dialogues. Upon
understanding one another, we can work
together to examine the racism in our Christian
institutions. Then, and only then, will Christians
represent the unsearchable love of Jesus Christ.

LETTERS

 

EC should not
fund partisan
organizations

MY VIEW
By Charles Kranich

 

 

The recent decision by the Executive Committee to ,
fund the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) sets a
dangerous precedent for all Washington and Lee stu-
dents. While the amount of the allotment was not sig-
nificant, it is irrelevant considering the principles deter- °
mined to advance an ideological agenda through the,
courts.

As William Donohue points out in The Politics of the '
American Civil Liberties Union, the ACLU asserts that ,
the death penalty is unconstitutional, and has challenged
the tax exempt status of religious institutions. The ACLU ‘
also deems laws which outlaw pornography, gambling, ,
and the use of certain drugs unconstitutional. They even
maintain that metal detectors should be removed from '
airports on constitutional grounds. The ACLU, in fact, ,
could be described as a party of leftist lawyers bent on
changing our society, not through the people’s legi-'
slatures, but instead through unelected courts. For public .
relations reasons, the ACLU attempts to present themsel-
ves as non-political in spite of these many other facts.
One tends to doubt that they found their definition of
‘‘partisan’’ in Mr. Webster’s dictionary. ;

Beyond being political, however, the ACLU is con-,
sidered to be on the fringe by the standards of most
Americans. The success George Bush achieved by criti-'
cizing Michael Dukakis as a ‘‘card-carrying member of,
the ACLU”’ is testimony to the unpopular nature of this
organization. Bush made an effective argument that’
Dukakis’ financial endorsement of the ACLU signified,
his approval of that organization’s convictions. And now,
by committing students funds to the ACLU, seven!
members of the EC have forced the collective student,

body to endorse this

 

olitically extreme)

The EC must real- crgaizaion.
; = Hatcher,
Ize that they are Giles a Egy Wil
there to serve the lard Dumas, John
collective interest Fialcowitz, Dan
° ‘ Munroe, Caroline,

of their constit- Wight and Ashby

Hackney voted in’
favor of this ACLU,
funding. It is notable
that all but one of these members will not again be held!
accountable in a student body election. It is truly ironic
that two of these members opposed the funding of The’
‘Washington and Lee Spectator several years ago because,
it was ‘‘political.’’ Although I am a former senior editor
of the Spectator, 1 agreed with the very sound decision,
of a prior Executive Committee not to fund the magazine
on.those grounds, as it was.an appropriate precedent. The!
Spectator has definite opinions about both W&L and the,
world around W&L. Some members of our community
do not agree with the views of the Spectator, that is their’
right. The EC has no right whatsoever to commit money,
from the Student Activities Fund, into which all students
pay, to such an organization. The dramatic about-face by‘
some EC members empowers students with the ability to,
see which of their elected officials would rather practice
political compromise than maintain principle. ‘

More than ever, groups that go to the Executive
Committee act as if it were a wealthy charitable trust
giving out money to any group with whora they sym-)
pathize. The EC must realize that they are there to serve
the collective interest of their constituents. The ACLU
does not! ‘

uents.

 

 

 

Che Ring-tun Phi

 

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Founded September 18, 1897

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley

Cathy Lopiccolo
Courtney Hall

Joshua Manning

Jay Plotkin

Marcy Brown

Craig Burke

Leigh Allen

Tim Molloy

Associate Editor
News Editor

Senior Copy Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor
Entertainment Editor
Assignments Editor
Photo Editor
Cartoonist

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

KA Disputes
Parody Picture

To the Phi staff:

We understand your objective in the April
Fool’s edition of the Phi --- to bring humorous
stories to the reader as a relief from the pres-
sures of the end of the term. But we, the Broth-
ers of Kappa Alpha, and hopefully all of the
readers, believe you fell short of this objective in
your printing a picture of a Ku Klux Klan rally
with the underlying caption, ‘‘Kappa Kappa
Kappa Alpha.’’ We find your equation of our
ideals with the racist sentiments of the Klan both
offensive and degrading. This is a representative
not of KA, but rather of a distorted sense of
humor. It is an unfortunate reflection of the Phi
and an unflattering stereotype of our Order.

KA has put many hours of work and dedica-
tion into philanthropic endeavors this year. Our
projects include: sending members to the Gladys
House (a local house for the homeless) to spend
the night making sure that none of the visitors
are drinking, doing drugs or causing problems
with others staying there; sponsoring a city-wide
basketball tournament to benefit Muscular Dys-
trophy; volunteering as coaches for RARO
(Rockbridge Area Recreational Organization); and
holding a Christmas party for the children of the
less fortunate members of the community who
otherwise may not have had any sort of Christ-
mas at all. Following this party, most of the
Brothers stayed until after dark, playing with the
kids until their parents were ready to take them
home. I believe that every Brother has benefitted
from these activities and was glad to be in-
volved.

As most people know, KAs around the
country hold an annual Old South weekend. KA
was founded here at Washington and Lee while
it was still Washington College and Robert E.
Lee was president. Our Order’s founding fathers
based the ideals of KA on those of Lee, and
named him our Spiritual Founder. These are the
same ideals which make this a unique university.
Old South is a celebration of this Southern
tradition of honor, duty and honesty. Just as Lee
was not an advocate of slavery, Old South is not
a celebration of that aspect of the antebellum
South,

The purpose of this letter is not to exalt our
Chapter of KA, but rather to state our disap-
pointment in the judgement of the Phi staff. We

have been trying very hard to do our part for the
community this year, and we are very unap-
preciative of the fact that our stature and reputa-
tion within that community has been unjustly
jeopardized. It is a shame that an otherwise
entertaining edition had to be marred by such a
mistake. I only hope that the Phi acts more
responsibly in the future.

Sincerely,
Hunter Williams
President, Kappa Alpha

Former Editor
Apologizes

Dear Editors:

I would like to apologize to the members of
Kappa Alpha for printing a photograph and
caption relating their fraternity to the Ku Klux
Klan in the April 1 issue of The Ring-tum Phi. |
certainly made a mistake by allowing a portrayal
casting damaging and unsubstantiated accusations
on the KAs. I am sorry for any anguish the
photo may have caused the KAs as a result of
my poor judgement.

Sincerely,
Pat Lopes
1990-91 Phi Editor

Upset Alum
Cuts Contribution

Dear Editor:

Enclosed please find a letter | recently mailed
to Mr. Brad Watkins (W&L '88 Class Agent). In
it, | explain my reasons for not contributing to the
Annual Fund.

1 would greatly appreciate the publication of
this in your paper.

Thank you.

Dear Brad:

While I appreciate the University’s need and
your invitation to contribute to Washington and
Lee’s Annual Fund, I regret that I won't be
forwarding a check.

What disturbs me, frankly, is the growing
intolerance on the part of the administration, and

many members of the faculty, to views that run
countercurrent to what they deem politically or
socially ‘‘correct.”’

Just recently I heard through the grapevine
that the administration has empowered a faculty-
led Confidential Review Committee to investigate
campus expression which, in the opinion of that
body, is ‘‘hostile’’ or ‘‘offensive.’’ What has
happened to critical thought, diversity of opinion,
and the right of free expression?

I’m enclosing a copy of a recent Time mag-
azine article for you to read and ponder. Can
W&L really afford such a policy?

I’m afraid that the only ‘‘correct’’ policy;
Brad, is that which allows people, whomever
they are, and whatever they believe, to express
themselves as they freely choose. Anything less,
sadly, is a willful disintegration of civil liberty.

I hope, very soon, that I'll feel comfortable ,
writing that check; contributing as much to a
principle as to the institution I hold so very dear.

Yours sincerely,
Sean L. Hickey, '88

Ed. note: The magazine article was published in
Time on April 1, 1991, pages 66-69.

Politics Profs
Protest Poll

Dear Ring-tum Phi:

We in the Politics Department would like to
protest your recent scandalous ‘‘Stud Poll.’’ We
are torn, however, between our outrage at the
politically incorrect sexism of said poll and our
disappointment at Professor Handelman’s fifth
place ranking. In our never ending effort to find
political corruption, even where there is none, we
are concerned that Brian Shaw’s first place
ranking may have something to do with his
position on the Publications Board overseeing the
Phi. We demand a recount.

More disappointed than outraged,
William Connelly

Mark Rush

Jarvis Hall

William Buchanan

Delos Hughes

Robert Strong

Kenneth Ruscio

 

 

 
4

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, April 25, 1991

 

SAC proposes SCC revamp

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

The Student Affairs Committee

' has proposed a number of changes to
, the procedure of the Student Conduct

Committee,

According to EC president and
SAC member Tom Hatcher, the pro-
posals ‘‘facilitate the use of the honor
code in the SCC and get away from
the legalistic aspect of the committee.
We're trying to make it less like
‘Perry Mason.’

“In the past, the legal advocate
for the defense has been able to

, argue the seriousness of the offense

~

«

~

-

and whether or not there were exten-
uating circumstances. The complainant
never had that chance. It’s been pret-
ty one-sided.”’

Law School
drops rank

From Staff Reports

 

 

W&L’s law school, which was
listed last year by U.S. News &
World Report among the nation’s top
25 law schools, did not make the
magazine's list this year. The state’s
only representative in the list was the
University of Virginia law school,
which moved to second from eighth
place.

A spokesman for the magazine
said W&L’s ranking could have been
affected by changes made this year in
the ranking criteria. He said most of
the universities which were listed in
the past but not included this year
have comparatively small enrollments.

Hatcher said the proposals would
allow the advocate who represents the
accused student to help prepare the
opening and closing arguments in a
hearing, but that most of the defense
will be the responsibility of the
student.

Changes in the SCC must be
approved by the faculty. Hatcher said
faculty members will meet with the
SAC about the proposed changes and
will vote on the proposals in a facul-
ty meeting.

Lackluster CRC forum

A discussion forum about the
Confidential Review Committee held
in late March drew little student
attendance and almost no debate.

The forum, billed by Executive
Committee President Tom Hatcher as

“‘educational’’ in purpose, consisted
mostly of an explanation of the CRC
process presented by Dr. Nancy
Margand, Associate Professor of
Psychology, Prof. Ann Massie, As-
sistant Professor of Law, who are
both on the CRC, and Dr. Samuel
Kozak, Professor of Geology, who
chaired the committee which revised
the CRC in 1987.

Dean of Students David Howison
said that 12 cases had been handled
on an informal basis during this
academic year, but none had gone
through the full process leading to a
confidential hearing.

Referendum rescheduled

The referendum on revisions to
the student body constitution that was
scheduled for April 3 will be held on

May 1, said Hatcher.

According to him, the referendum
was not held on the original, publi-
cized date because Voting Regu-
lations Board President Andrew Gaff-
ney forgot about the referendum and
did not set up the polling places.

The proposed changes were rec-
ommended by the Constitutional
Revisions Committee and approved
by the EC or were put on the ballot
because they were backed by a peti-
tion signed by 50 students.

Each proposal requires two-thirds
voter approval to pass with at least
half the student body voting. Some of
the proposals address succession
procedures, executive sessions and
quorum of the EC, as well as the
autonomy and make up of the Public-
ations Board.

Two seniors to join staff

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

The Admissions Office asked seniors Rob Aliff and
Timothy Halloran last week to join the university staff
upon graduation.

Aliff and Halloran will serve as admissions counselors
interviewing prospective students and assisting in next
winter’s freshmen selection process.

The two were chosen from a large pool of applicants.

‘While all were extremely well-qualified, we thought
Tim and Rob would best be able to represent W&L,”’
said Nancy Hickam, ’90, who has “Served as an
admissions counselor this year.

According to Hickam, both new counselors are
extremely outgoing and have a deep love for Washington
and Lee. They are also involved in strong leadership
positions in all different kinds of activities, she said.

‘The job is a very exciting and challenging position,’
Hickam said. ‘‘You work on many different types of
projects and meet all different kinds of people.”’

Throughout the summer, the new counselors will

interview prospective students coming to view the campus.

In the fall, the two will travel cross-country attending
college fairs, visiting high schools, working with alumni,
and conducting interviews.

Beginning in January, Aliff and Halloran will join the
rest of the admissions staff reading and reviewing student
applications. The entire office plays a role in making the
all-important decisions, Hickam said.

In April, the cycle starts over again with more
interviews.

While the position is generally offered for one year,
it can be extended.

Halloran said he was most excited by the chance to
travel.

“‘Such an opportunity right out of college is great,”’
Halloran said. ‘‘I’d like to go into college education or
administration. I think the admissions office will be a
great place to start.’’

Aliff feels he can portray W&L well to incoming
prospective.

‘‘Washington and Lee is a school that sells itself,’’
Aliff said. ‘I’m glad I can give back to the school in a
way best suiting my abilities.’’

ACLU

"from page 1

 

 

é
capital punishment a possible penalty
+ for women who have abortions.
Junior EC Rep. Caroline Wight
‘said the EC should try to support
chapter activity which directly ‘‘en-
hances the W&L community.”’
, After more debate, the EC voted
7-5 to allot $30 to the chapter, the
“cost of publicizing Wednesday’s ‘‘o-
;pen mike’’ debate, called Speak-Out,
about law school recruitment policy.
‘McDermott later said he was
, disappointed that the chapter did not
receive all the money it asked for,
‘but he said he was ‘‘encouraged by
, the fact that we did get something.”’

, “*T think the [EC] members had
some trepidations about our focus and
"wanted to provide enough to get an
»example of our intentions,’ McDer-
mott said. ‘‘The Speak-Out was a
“good example of what we intend to
do.”

j About 35 students and faculty
attended the Speak-Out in the ODK
«circle.

‘The idea of Speak-Out, the
‘open mike, is promoting the ACLU’s
, Position on free speech,’’ Schneider

said.

‘ He said the ACLU will sponsor
another Speak-Out when another
“controversial issue arises,

   
   

Teresa Williams

Ea

4 Kip Schaumloffel, ’92, Cincinna-
ti, OH --- "Bonfires and whiffle
4 ball season."

 

 

Students at the ACLU Speak-
Out In the ODK circle Wednes-
day de ate for and against the
law faculty’s policy regarding
military recruiters, as well as
on the Issue of homosexuals
in the armed forces.

Interviews and photos by

 

REVERSAL

from page 1

 

the University of Richmond, and
W&L= have now refused the AALS
demand to ban military recruiting
from their campuses.

Nonetheless, Bezanson said the
AALS continues to support adamantly
the ban against all employers who
discriminate against homosexuals.

“‘The AALS is [still] insisting that
the policy be implemented without
exception,’’ Bezanson said. ‘‘Indeed,
the AALS is now insisting that ma-
terials relating to the military be re-
moved from placement office librar-
ies.”’

Betsy Levin, executive director of
the AALS, told the Richmond Times-
Dispatch several weeks ago that she
had ‘‘no way of knowing what ef-
fect’’ failure to comply with the
AALS policy would have on any of
the schools.

Levin told the Richmond paper
that the AALS Executive Committee
can censure a school, but it prefers to
work out policy problems with
schools.

“(T]he approach of a membership
Organization is to try to get agree-
ment to policies and then where
schools have trouble with a policy,
the association works with schools to
see how can we correct this,’’ Levin
told the Times-Dispatch.

The chain of events leading to
Wilson’s action began in January
1991 when the full membership of
the AALS approved an edict requir-
ing schools to apply the anti-discrimi-
nation policy without exception, Be-
zanson said.

On Feb, 12 the law faculty in a
closed-door session voted to include
“sexual orientation, or any other
legally impermissible or irrelevant
ground’’ as criteria opposed by its
anti-discrimination policy.

Law students quickly expressed
their opposition to the new policy.
Michael Carlson, ’92L, presented the
Executive Committee with a petition
calling for the law faculty to recon-
sider their amendment. The petition
was signed by about 60 percent of
the law students.

The EC unanimously condemned
the policy on Feb. 25.

Following the law faculty’s first
vote, two proposed amendments
which would exempt the military
from the ban failed, the second on a
10-10 vote in a March 4 closed-door
faculty meeting, a law professor said.
The professor said Bezanson, the
chairman of the law faculty meetings,
refused to cast a vote to break the
te.

 

TALKBACK

A

B
\
D

H

Think Russia

The International Club will pres-
ent an open discussion tonight at
7 pm. in the Fairfax Lounge.
“The Soviet Union Today, and
Prospects for the Future’ will
feature professors and exchange
students. Everyone is invited to
come and participate. Refresh-
ments will be served.

Found

A large amplifier was found, if
yours is missing or suspected
stolen, see ‘‘Murph’’ at the Gra-
ham-Lees security office.

Go Teach

Representatives from the Educa-
tion Department at Mary Baldwin
College will be on campus on
Wednesday, May 1, to discuss the
teacher certification program av-
ailable to Washington and Lee
students through the Consortium
Exchange. Interested students may
stop by Fairfax Lounge between
2 and 4 p.m.

Go Teach More

The R.E. Lee Episcopal Church
has openings for Sunday School
teachers and teaching assistants
for the ’91-'92 academic year.
Requires commitment on Sunday
mornings 9:30 to 11:30 am. if
interested, call Bill Stockwell,
Chairman of the Christian Educa-
tion Committee, at 463-6587.

 

GENERAL NOTES

Adjusted Class
schedule Friday

— 8-8:45 a.m.
— 8:50-9:35 a.m.
— 9:40-10:25 a.m.
— 10:30-11:15 a.m.

E — 11:20 a.m. - 12:05 p.m.
No Classes — 12:10-1:45 p.m.
F — 1:50-2:35 p.m.

G — 2:40-3:25 p.m.

— 3:30-4:15 p.m.
I — 4:20-5:05 p.m.
J — 5:10-5:55 p.m.

Spring Swim

Swimming lessons for all levels
of ability will be taught this spr-
ing term. Two sessions will be
conducted during the month of
May: one from April 29 - May 3
and another from May 6 - May
10. Classes will be offered each
weekday at 4 p.m. and 4:35
p.m. Lessons cost $20. Interested?
Register at the pool for an aquatic
evaluation Saturday, April 27 at
10 am. For more information
call 463-8694,

Christian Camp

The Baptist Student Union and
the Catholic Campus Ministry will
hold an ecumenical Christian
campout/retreat to explore man’s
relation with creation. The trip to
Goshen Pass will depart from St.
Patrick’s at 6: p.m., April 26
and return at9 p.m., April 27.
Cost is $3. Everyone is invited,
call Warren Hammonds (463-
3313) or Burr Datz (463-3533) for
information.

Paint House

The Baptist Student Union is
organizing a ‘‘scrape ‘'n paint
bonanza’’ for Lexington’s home-
less shelter, the Gladys’ house.
This community service project
will take place May 1-4. Volun-
teers are needed. Call Warren
Hammonds for information, 463-
3313 (days) or 463-1136 nights.

 

For the

_In the March 21 issue of The
Ring-tum Phi, the title for columnist
Edwin M. Yoder, Jr. as a new
Washington and Lee professor was
incorrectly given as Professor of
Journalism and Mass Communica-

What are your expectations for

Goetz, Newtown

Mary
Square, PA --- "I expect to have
lots of time on my hands, but
also to get some interesting work

94,

done ... and, of course, parties!"

spring

Doug Kaufman,

term?

94, Baltimore, MD and Reese Winpenny, °94,

Lancaster, PA --- "We hope to find the rest of our hair at FIJI Islands

this Saturday."

aR

 

Bryan Patterson, ’91, Shreve-
port, LA --- "A lot of tanning
hours."

Record

tions. In fact, his title will be Profes-
sor of Journalism and Humanities.

The Phi was given incorrect infor-
mation by the office of the Dean of
the College and regrets any confu-
sion.

Professor David Novack --. "My
hope is that spring fever does not
incapacitate the students in my
Sociology 390 seminar."

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS

aan

The Ring-tum Phi, April 25, 1991

4

 

Generals top WC 10-9

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team won a ‘‘big’’ game,
winning at Washington College 10-9
last Saturday.

‘This may be the biggest win
since I’ve been here,’’ said head
coach Jim Stagnitta. ‘‘We beat a
team on the road that really needed
to win. It’s the first time we've taken
a game that we really needed to
take.’’

WA&L fell behind quickly 2-1 just
under two minutes into the game
before the defense took over. The
Generals held the Shoremen scoreless
for the next 39:23 while taking a 5-
2. lead in the third quarter.

Washington College, ranked ninth
in Division IH, rallied in the fourth
quarter, cutting the lead to 10-9. The
Shoremen had a chance to send the
game into overtime, but senior goalie
Tom Costello stopped Greg Rupert’s
point-blank shot with eight seconds
left to preserve the win, W&L’s first
over WC since 1984.

Costello was solid all afternoon
for the Generals, finishing with 12
saves.

‘*When Tom makes the first save
early, it changes the whole game,”’
said Stagnitta. ‘‘He made some really
big saves."’

Offensively, the Generals followed
the game play, and that pleased Stag-
nitta almost as much as Costello’s
final save.

“I was happy offensively,’’ he
oes

  
   
  
 
  
 
    
   
   
 

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

   
   
   
 

 

~~ SHOE FIXERS _

instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

ner PEER ee EI

11 S. Randolph Street
Now In Stock:

DEADICATED
CD for $14.95, Tape for $8.95

Mon.-Thurs. 11-8, Fri. 11-7, Sat. 11-5

said. ‘‘We worked the ball around
and shot lay-ups. They have the best
goalie in the nation, and they sit back
in a zone and make you shoot from
12-15 yards and let him make the
saves. We just waited until we had a
lay-up, and he never had a chance.”’

W&L converted 10 of 25 shots on
the day. Junior Drew Anton made life
miserable for Dave Slomkowski, a
three-time All-American in goal for
the Shoremen. He led the way with
three goals while playing crease at-
tack. Slomkowski made a career-low
two saves.

Seniors Todd Garliss and Mike
Moseman, along with junior Jeff
Roberts each scored twice, and senior
Clark Wight also scored. Moseman
added three assists.

‘Going in, Coach [Stagnitta] told
us we had to be patient, to work the
ball around the zone,’’ said Mose-
man. ‘‘We tried to get eight to 10
yard shots. We got them, and we
converted them.’’

With the win, the 6th-ranked
Generals control their own destiny to
reach the NCAA Tournament. The
top eight teams in the nation receive
bids to the tournament.

‘‘Now we have our fate in our
hands,’’ said Stagnitta. ‘‘A lot of
people will see this win as a good
win for us. WC is a tough place to
win.”

‘Tt was a big win because we
knew after losing to Gettysburg and
Ohio Wesleyan, we couldn’t lose
another game if we wanted to make
the playoffs,’’ said Moseman. ‘‘That
made this game a marquis match-

464-6666

     
   
   
 

coe

a en lle Ae :

 

  

 

 

Drew Anton

”

up.
Ohio Wesleyan and Gettysburg are
ranked second and third in Division
Ill.

But despite the win, W&L (8-3)
still has three games left on the sch-
edule, all of which they need to win
to make certain of a bid.

‘*‘We got through the Washington
College game, but we still have three
very important games left,’’ said
Moseman.

W&L played at Virginia Wesleyan
on Wednesday and will take on
Hampden-Sydney Saturday before
playing VMI in the Lee-Jackson
Classic on May 4.

Stagnitta won’t let the team rest
on the laurels of its five wins over
ranked teams in Division III.

‘Practice after the Washington
game was great,’’ he said. ‘‘I won’t
let them look past anyone. We know
we've got to go out and play. Every
game is the season.’’

 

Baseball blows late lead in
playoff loss to Bridgewater

 

 

By Phil Spears
Staff Reporter

 

Early in the 1991 baseball
campaign Washington and Lee
head coach Jeff Stickley evaluated
his young team.

‘‘We’re playing pretty good 90
per cent of the time,’’ he said.
“The other 10 per cent just
seems to get us all at once.
We've got to be able to put
teams away.”

A greatly improved offense
and fine pitching from junior
hurlers T.J. Daly and Steve Mo-
morella have allowed W&L to
give just about every opponent a
tough game.

However, lack of depth and
overall consistency in the pitch-
ing, and shaky defense, have
proven costly for the Generals.
W&L has been unable to con-
sistently put teams away all sea-
son, and perhaps the most painful
breakdown occurred in _ yester-
day’s opening-round Old Domi-
nion Athletic Conference tourna-
ment game at Bridgewater.

Leading 12-11 with two outs
and a runner on first in the bot-
tom of the ninth, W&L seemed
on the verge of advancing to the
tournament’s semi-finals. But the
final out came one batter too late
for the Generals. The next-to-last
Eagle hitter in the ninth delivered

 

 

 

 

Chris Kavanagh

a game-tying triple.

Neither team scored in the
extra innings until the bottom of
the eleventh when a bases-loaded
walk sent the winning run home
for Bridgewater.

The painful loss spoiled a
tremendous offensive performance
for the Generals.

The 13-hit, 12-run barrage was
lead by senior Chris Kavanagh,
whose three hits included a two-
run homer and 4 RBI. Daly had
three hits, and Mike Steinbrook
and Brian Harper added two hits
apiece in the loss.

The Generals, 8-11 on the
season, travel to Shenandoah this
Tuesday for their season finale.

 

 

 

130 S. Main St.

   
 
 

nek

If you thought that finding a color Macintosh’
system you could afford was just a dream, then the
new, affordable Macintosh LC is a dream come true.

The Macintosh LC is rich in color. Unlike many

computers that can display o

nly 16 colors at once, the

Macintosh LC expands your palette to 256 colors. It
also comes with a microphone and new sound-input
technology that lets you personalize your work by
adding voice or other sounds.

Like every

Macintosh

computer, the LC is easy to
set up and easy to master.
And it runs thousands of
available applications that
all work in the same,
consistent way—so once

Apple introduces the Macintosh LC.

 

 
 

Lexington Bike Shop
Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant .
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

~ George’s S
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

Spring term
marks start
of tourneys

 

i
By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

Every March, ESPN brings you
what seems like every championship
game of every college basketball
conference in what it calls Champion-
ship Week.

While there will be no television
lights, no prime time exposure and
certainly no Dick Vitale, the spring
athletic teams of Washington and Lee
enter their own Championship Week
with seven teams competing for Old
Dominion Athletic Conference titles
and NCAA Tournament bids.

The The Ring-tum Phi now offers
its preview of this weekend’s ODAC
tournament action. ’

First, it’s off to the links, where
the W&L golf team, ranked eighth
nationally, looks to defend its ODAC
Title of 1990 in Ashland, Va. at
Randolph-Macon. Last year’s ODAC
Golfer of the Year Clay Thomas
again leads the way, averaging 79
shots per round in 1991.

The Generals will need to out-
shoot Hampden-Sydney to repeat as
champions. H-SC has beaten W&I.
twice this year, once by 20 strokes
and most recently by four at the 15-
team Shipbuilders Invitational. W&|

QO) Please see page 5 |

 

Special!

Spring Term
Memberships

463-7969

 

   
 
 
  

46&8
Week
Rates

     
 

   

 

16. Nelson St.

 
  
  
 
 
  

Motivate!

 

 

you've learned one program, you're wellon your way .
to learning them all. The Macintosh LC even lets you |
share information with someone who uses a different

type of computer—thanks to the versatile

Apple® .

SuperDrive} which can read from and write to )
Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple II floppy disks.
Take a look at the Macintosh LC and see what it

gives you. Then pinch yourself.

Macintosh.

File Edit Input Notebook Manipulate Graph Prefs

  

 

 

 
     
      
    
       
     
   
     
   
 

 

 
  

  

Ot=
a

bal
© sin{¢] = sin{t]+

my x<yx>yayx /x

my Xety xy x 4"
RxQ x! x? [Mx §[x
©W Ixiix.. 33

Glass Atom
Or = Ye, 1)@.¥) [sin(t) + 1] + ¥p, 1)[8.4] [- sin(t) + 1)
3

 

TLE Ea

T(x) Togix)
L(x) In(x)

 

sin(x) sinh(x)
cos(x) cosh(x

@ upon transform
@ upon transform

Q Examples
L ay L(8)
ous vy)

2 ~j+2 2
O- 2s?" "yg-1.g+8
gel

  

 

 

0 -y(1,0)-s¥(0,+8"Y
O -6-s.0+s7Y+4Y

eo

©1990 Apple Computer, inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, inc. SuperDrive and "The power to be your best" are trademarks of Apple Computer, inc.
MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation. OS/2 is a registered trademark of international Business Machines Corporation

It's better than a dream—it’s a .

For further
information visit |
Tucker Hall Room 7
215A and ask for
Mac McCloud

or call 463-8844

The power to be your best”

  
  

shot 320 in the invitational, finishing
second. Thomas finished third in the
invitational, shooting a 77.

Thomas, a junior, will get help
from classmates Jay McKnight and
Brad Thoburn, who has shot sub-80
rounds his last three times out. Senior
Brian Kopet rounds out the top four
scorers for the Generals.

W&L takes a 29-2 record into the
two-day championship, which began
today. The Generals will also look to
return to the NCAA Champicnships,
where they finished seventh last year.

The women’s lacrosse team may
be the hottest team on campus right
now. With a 12-3 win at Sweet Briar
on Wednesday, the Generals have
won eight of their last nine games
going into the ODAC Tournament.

The Generals, seeded third, will
host Sweet Briar, and despite the
convincing win on Wednesday, senior
Melinda Conkling is still a little
apprehensive about penciling the
Generals into Saturday’s semifinal.

‘‘We were concerned going into
Wednesday’s game because they
played Guilford close and we went to
triple overtime against Guilford,’’ she
said. ‘‘Despite the win, we're still
apprehensive because it looked like
they didn’t really care because they
knew they would have to play us on
Friday. We don’t know if that was
the real team we'll see on Friday.’’

Real team or not, W&L was im-

appagaXvor

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

SPORTS

pressive on Wednesday. Senior
Shawn Wert scored seven goals and
sophomore Lisa Dowling handed out
six assists in the 12-3 win.

‘Sweet Briar was more competi-
tive than they were last year,’ said
Conkling, who added a goal and an
assist. ‘‘Our attack worked really well
against they’re zone. Shawn could do
no wrong, and Lisa did a great job
feeding everyone. They are both
scoring machines right now.”’

W&L takes the field Friday after-
noon at 4:30 on Liberty Hall Field.

The men’s tennis team is also in
Lexington this weekend, serving as
host for the ODAC Championships.
The Generals are ranked 12th in the
nation and have the No. 4 player in
the nation in senior Bill Meadows
and are looking for their seventh
straight ODAC Title.

Meadows, the defending NCAA
Division III doubles champion, says
W&L’s 5-13 record shouldn’t be
looked at negatively going into the
tournament.

‘‘We haven’t had a lot of wins,
but we have had a lot of close mat-
ches with some really good teams,’’
he said. ‘‘We’ve improved our level
of play, and that’s important. In
Florida last week, we only got one
team win, but everyone played well
and got their games together.’’

Ranked 12th nationally, the Gen-
erals are on the bubble for an NCAA

Peo Game

LPVAP! LP VAIL’

and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
PURPLE?

 

ave

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

 

       
   

DPD PVPVP PV PV PVP UVLIVLP PVP OLIV LO OVP
aa neem anes

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

More Than 80% Lean

(703)463-59

et as perenne

1: AAA a ERE NERA ERT

ok

 

Cue,

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

]

SEL SEATTLE AEE A FE

aie (soy

 

  

‘3

Split b

   

Perdue Grade “A

  
  
   
  

 
  

’
§

Sh.

The Ring-tum Phi, April 25, 1991

Tournament bid. Meadows says the
team needs a convincing win in the
ODAC Tournament to solidify the
bid.

“If we don’t win decisively, it
may count against us,’’ he said. ‘‘If
we sweep the tournament, we'll go to
the NCAAs for sure. The depth of
the ODAC is strong this year, and
we'll definitely be pushed, but if
we're on top of our games, we
should win fairly handily.”’

Meadows and classmate Reid
Manley have been helped in the top
six by the addition of two: freshman
who have played well during the
year. Rob MacNaughton has held the
No. 2 spot all year, and Richard
Yates and Robert Wein have been
mainstays as well. MacNaughton is
ranked 30th nationally.

For Meadows, the notoriety is
something he is proud of, especially
in singles.

‘I’m really pleased with my sin-
gles this year,’’ he said. ‘‘I had been
disappointed in my singles in my
career, but this year things are com-
ing together. I’ve always been over-
shadowed, and now I’ve finally got-
ten a chance to prove that I can play.
Breaks are going my way. I’m cer-
tainly not going to complain.”

Meadows and company would not

    

 

CHAMPIONSHIP WEEK

Rockbridge Music

   

complain with their seventh straight
ODAC title this weekend. Play begins
Friday at 8:30 a.m. and runs all day
Friday and Saturday on the W&L
courts.

The women’s tennis team will
look to regain the ODAC title they
lost to Sweet Briar last year, and
with a 7-2 win over SBC on Tues-
day, the Generals look in good shape
to regain their crown.

W&L is also looking to get their
first ever NCAA Tournament _ bid
with what might be their deepest
team ever. When play begins today,
two ODAC champions from 1990
will not get to defend their titles in
1991.

“T feel like this year we have
more depth than we've had before,”’
said senior Jean Stroman, a two-time
ODAC Player of the Year. ‘‘I feel
very confident about the whole
team’s ability to win.’’

Senior captain Kelly Martone says
the addition of three freshmen to the
top six has helped.

“This is the strongest team I’ve
been on,”’ she said. ‘‘We’ve got three
super freshman, and we’ve beaten
everyone in the conference already.
We will be disappointed if we don’t
win.”’

 

     
   

 

 

SPECIAL! Epiphone PR 200 Acoustic
Guitars, Reg. $250, Sale $150
Other In-Store Specials

 

 

463-5455

 
   

Route 11 North

LOW PRICES
EVERY DAY!

Another Reason To Switch To Harris Teeter!

 

 

 

    
   
 
     

 

Fresh
California
Broccoli

 

 

LEE HI RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME

205 N. Main St.

Open 24 Hours

  
   
         
      

The three freshman should all
make a serious run to capture their
respective flights. Genia Foster goes
into the tournament with just one loss
at No. 2, while Mary Nabers and
Kim Dickinson hold down the fifth
and sixth spots on the ladder.
Stroman, Martone and senior Kathy
Leake round out the top six.

The Generals are ranked third in
the South region, which puts added
pressure on the team to play well to
make the NCAA tournament.

‘The possibility that we'll get a
bid looks good,’’ said Martone. ‘‘The
tournament has added a two extra
wildcards, and that helps us. Winning

ODACs~ doesn’t guarantee us
anything. We'll just have to wait
and see.’’

The Generals, 18-1 on the season,
take the courts today at Sweet Briar.
Play concludes on Saturday.

The track teams are also riding
high going into the ODAC meet. The
men are 3-1 and the women are 6-0
on the season. Both are coming off
strong showings at the Catholic In-
vitational going into Saturday’s meet
at Eastern Mennonite.

The men are led by seniors David
Johnston, Jeff Baucum and Craig
Irons. Johnston won the pole vault at
Catholic, and Irons came in third in
the long jump. Baucum has the
ODAC’s best time in the 800 meter
run with a 1:59.9.

|

 

 

Jean Stroman

Junior Jim Henry and freshmen
Keith Rinn and Scott Covey are also
league leaders. Henry is the ODACs
leader in the shot put with a throw
of 45 feet-seven inches. Rinn tured
in the best 1,500-meters with a time
of 4:09. Covey owns the fastest 400-
meter hurdles, finishing in 57.4.

For the women, seniors Sarah
Bolte and Sandi Dudley lead the way
in the high jump and javelin,
respectively.

The men have not finished lower
than second in the ODAC since 1984.
The women outpointed their ODAC
Opponents last year and will look to
defend their title, which is unofficial
because the ODAC does _ not
track as an

recognize women’s
official sport.

 

 

GIFT SHOPPE

If your gift is from the Attic,
you know you’re special

541 E. Nelson St. (Rt. 60)
Convenient Parking At The Door

  

   
     
    
     
  
  
  
     
   
  
  

 
  
  

 
   
 

 

 

 

 
    

 

 

 

 

 

  

Old Fashioned

Ice Cream

4 sf 5
NY a

en

 

29

1/ Gal.

  

 

 

 

 

  

12 Pack- 16 Oz. N.R.

  

 

Prices Good Through Tuesday, April 30, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, April 30, 1991 In Lexington Store Only,
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities, None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps,

 

 
 

W&LIFE
Totally Pauly

MTV VJ Pauly Shore highlights busy weekend

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 25, 1991

 

 

By Marcy Brown
Entertainment Editor

Washington and Lee students can warm up to
spring term with a busy weekend filled with
politicians, entertainers and athletes.

Friday, April 26

*George McGovern, former senator and
possible °92 presidential candidate, kicks off
Mock Convention at noon in front of Lee
Chapel.

«Volunteers jump rope from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m.
in the parking lot in front of Doremus gym-
nasium to raise money for the American Heart
Association.

There will be an outdoor barbeque featuring
the Acoustical Jam at 5:30 p.m. in the Baker-
Davis-Gilliam Quad.

eCatch MTV comedian Pauly Shore and the
band the Spin Doctors at the Pavillion. Tickets
are $5 for the W&L community and $8 for
others. The doors open at 8 p.m..

 

 

Saturday, April 27

*Competitors dive into the 3rd Annual Kappa
Alpha Theta Triathlon at 9 a.m. in the gym.

*The first steeple chase of the traditional Fox-
field Races begins at 1 p.m. in Charlottesville.
Sunday, April 28

*The bluegrass band Down Boy Down and

student bands rock the Dell from 1 p.m. to 6
p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

COLOR PIN CARNIVAL
Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money.
You do not need to bea Penge nowiet to: boul!

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials
$1.50 per Game

Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM

Saturday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

 

 

$5

Spring Flowers
Half Price
3-5:30 p.m.

Saturdays
Cash and Carry

florist to The Homestead

Ten East Nelson
Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9841

Quality Quick Print, Ink.
for all student printing needs

~ Résumés, Invitations, Flyers,
Programs, Posters, Fax, ... ~

214 South Main Street + (703) 463-9232
LEXINGTON’S
ONLY 8¢ COPY

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bandeau and sarong by Fit To Be Tied.
Lazy Man shorts for him. Cool, comfortable cotton.

Caravans

121 West Nelson Street/Lexington/464-3500

 

Open daily from 10 AM-6 PM/Sundays from Noon-6 PM

 

 

KIKI IK KI KKKKKKKK KKK

s
: Sell for the Phi z
; The Ring-tum Phi is looking for a few good students to sell advertis- g
@ ing. Great experience with interpersonal relationships. Call Whitney °
: Swift for details.

 
   
     
   

Student House
For Rent

3 or 4 Students.

463-5383

audiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ALPINE
OPTONICA
CwD
DAHLQUIST
NAKAMICHI

 

 

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

@
Z& Rollerblade.

Sales & Retals

‘LOWE sanoas

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

it

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OFF ANY
SERVICE WITH
THIS AD

JUSTIN:
Old-Fashioned Wool
Baseball Caps

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

 

i
‘

THE UNivs

WASHINGTON @ | £

EXYINGThs
LEXINGI 0} VA

Sbar’s final hurrah --- see page 2

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 27

Low voter
turnout kills
amendments

 

From Staff Reports

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

Revisions to the student body constitution failed in
referendum Wednesday, because less than half the student

body voted.

Only 160 students voted on the proposals. The Voting
Regulations Board did not tally the votes, since at least
half the student body must vote in order for a revision to

pass.

Thomas Spurgeon, member of the committee that
prepared the revisions, said, ‘‘It’s very difficult to get
students at W&L to vote, especially for something that

complicated.,”’

On the ballot were 10 proposals dealing with Execu-
tive Committee quorum, succession, relations with the
Publications Board, and executive session. Measures on
the latter issue clarified when the EC could close its
door, as the current restrictions are ambiguous.

Senior EC Rep. Willard Dumas said that since the
revisions failed, ‘‘It will be left up to each EC to
interpret the constitution as we did two years ago on

succession.”’

Dumas said confusion over when the vote would take

place contributed to the low tumout.

The referendum was originally scheduled for March
26-28, but was moved to April 6. On April 6, VRB
Chairman Andrew Gaffney forgot to set up polling
places, EC President Tom Hatcher said.

The referendum was rescheduled for a third time and

set for Wednesday.

EC President-elect Giles Perkins said he does not
think the failure of the referendum will have much effect

on the EC.

‘The changes that were proposed were good ones,”’
Perkins said, ‘‘but [their failure] will not change how the

EC operates.”’

The current EC handles committee appointment
interviews and deliberations in closed session, but posts
voting records. Dumas speculated on future ECs adopting

a different policy.

‘‘When people are appointed to committees in the
dark, and the EC doesn’t publish voting records, you will
have to ask your rep why and how they voted,"’ Dumas

said.

Staff Reporter Greg Patterson contributed to this story.

 

Staff Reporter

 

By Maureen Levy

 

 

All

 

‘

Friday in

Association.

nutrition.

 

Students and faculty raised over $1,500
‘Jump Rope for Heart,’’ a
marathon event to benefit the American Heart

The university Health Education Committee
and Kappa Kappa Gamma co-sponsored the
second annual fund raiser on the final day of
Washington and Lee’s Heart Healthy Week,
April 22-26, a focus on good exercise and

“This culmination of our Heart Healthy
Week..was definitely a positive experience as
it brought students and faculty together for a
charitable cause,’’ HEC member Christine

Sophomore Karen Bosi can’t watch as a blood sample is taken last week to
test her cholesterol level. Phi photo by Leigh Allen.

Students work for health

Gorman said.
fraternities,
organizations, as well as faculty and staff

sororities and _ student

entered teams of three people to jump rope

sium.

from 2-4 p.m. in front of Doremus Gymna-

Junior Raphael Porres emerged as the top

individual jumper Friday, as he lasted for one

hour and 58 seconds. Sigma Chi’s team won
first place for the longest jumping time. All
of the winners received trophies.

Sigma Nu donated the most money, and
Sigma Phi Epsilon, Chi Psi, Delta Tau Delta,

Kappa Alpha Theta and Kappa Kappa Gamma

each raised over $100 for the event.
Convention donated $200.

Staff reporiér Jennifer Gibson contributed to
this story.

Mock

 

 

EC denies second ACLU request

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

The Executive Committee Monday
rejected a request by the Washington
and Lee chapter of the American
Civil Liberties Union for $160 saying
the group should be able to support
its activities through member, not EC,
support.

The move came after the EC last
week gave the ACLU chapter $30 of
the $500 requested. The money was
allotted to pay for publicity for an
‘‘open mike’’ Speak-Out on the topic
of the Law School recruitment policy.

EC members who voted in favor
of the $30 donation last week said
they did so because the Speak-Out’s
purpose was not to support the goals
of the national ACLU organizations
and would benefit the entire student

body.
On Monday, ACLU Chapter
Founder and President Andrew

Schneider asked for $160: $60 to

publicize a second Speak-Out and a
speaker, and $100 to take the
speaker, Ken Willis of the Virginia
ACLU, four professors, and four
students to dinner.

Schneider said he requested
money for the dinner because Willis
will not be paid for his speech.

When asked whether he had re-
quested money from chapter members
in order to support its activities, a
recommendation made by EC mem-
bers last week, Schneider said he had
collected about $125, but wished to
save it to be used for ‘‘more politi-
cal’’ activities the chapter could spon-
sor.

Senior EC Rep. Willard Dumas
made a motion to give the group
$160, but the motion was not sec-
onded.

Then a motion was made by se-
nior Rep. John Fialcowitz to grant
$30 to support another Speak-Out.

EC President Tom Hatcher, before
he called for a vote, said he consid-
ered last week’s $30 allotment a ‘‘re-

Callers seek cash

 

By Brian Root
Staff Reporter

 

It’s that time of year again. For
the fifteenth straight year, Washington
and Lee students are on the phone to
alumni in the Annual Fund Phona-
thon, asking for contributions.

“Calling alumni is a lot more
effective than direct mail notices,”’
said Alumni Fund Director Timothy
McMahon. ‘‘It’s a lot harder to say
no to a fellow W&L student than it
is to throw away junk mail.’’

As of Tuesday, McMahon said,
the Phonathon has been surprisingly
successful.

‘‘Through the first three days, we
have gotten 258 pledges totalling
almost $21,000,’’ he said. ‘‘I wasn't
expecting that kind of success.’’

The university has set June 30 as
the Annual Fund deadline with a goal
of $2,165,000. That translates to
about 8.5 percent of the university's
annual operating budget.

According to McMahon, the phon-
athon is mostly directed toward recent
alumni classes, which make up over
20 percent of the entire alumni body.
This group, however, also has the
lowest percentage of contributors, he
said.

The school has also attempted in

recent years to solicit pledges from
each senior class.

‘‘We want the seniors to learn to
contribute before they leave campus.
The amount of the contribution is not
as important as that they get in the
habit of giving to the school,’ he
said,

‘We understand that it’s often
difficult for people just out of college
to contribute, but even small contri-
butions add up to a lot of money,”’
he said.

W&L ranks last among the top 25
national liberal arts colleges in the
percentage of alumni that contribute,
and the school has made a ‘‘consid-
erable effort’’ to raise the percentage,
McMahon said.

McMahon said he hopes to hold
even more such events, because of
their success rate.

‘Many other schools do much
more calling than W&L does. I hope
to begin having another phonathon
each fall as well,’’ he said.

Equally surprising has been the
amount of student support. Each night
there have been more student volun-
teers than there are phones for them
to use.

‘Part of the reason that we hold
this during the spring is because it is
a much more relaxed time, and it’s
easier to find volunteers,’’ he said.

 

 

1991-92 EC Appointments

SAB Chairman - Will Jones

VRB Chairman - Ward Maedgen

Cold Check Chairman - Lee Rorrer
Emergency Loan Chairman - Jeff Rogers
Contact Chairman - Tim Gallagher

 

 

prieve so you could collect dues from
your members’’ and to grant money
again would open the way for a
“never ending battle’’ with the
ACLU continually requesting funds
for events.

The motion was rejected, 8-2,
with Dumas and Fialcowitz voting in
favor, according to Dumas.

Schneider later said Hatcher ‘‘ap-
parently changed his story’’ about for
what the original $30 was. Schneider
said the money was not a ‘“‘reprieve’’
because the ACLU chapter had al-

ready paid for the Speak-Out, but
was actually a reimbursement.

Schneider said the first $30 was
granted because Speak-Out was a
non-partisan, non-controversial activity
and that EC members who changed
their votes this week were ‘‘pressured
by the ‘My View’ column in last
week’s Ring-tum Phi.”’

‘*The EC should fund all political
groups with significant support,”’
penneicere $80. Fatt Of the
university experience is being exposed
to various political ideas.”

May 2, 1991

IFC yanks
$10,000 in
Contact aid

 

By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

 

The Interfraternity Council an-
nounced Tuesday night that it intends
to withdraw its $10,000 annual sup-
port of the Contact Committee.

IFC President Greg Hicks told
Executive Committee President Tom
Hatcher during Tuesday’s IFC meet-
ing that the council voted before
spring term to stop funding the com-
mittee for two reasons, inadequate
representation on the Contact selec-
tion committee and, as a result, a
lack of fraternity involvement and
interest with the Contact program.

EC President Tom Hatcher feels
that the decision was abrupt.

“I feel like they were little kids
who decide that they don’t want to
play anymore, so they just pick up
their toys and leave,’’ he said.

Hatcher said that the withdrawal
is not in the university’s best interest
and that the disagreement could have
been more constructively resolved,
but Hicks argues that the IFC’s role
in the Contact selection has become
increasingly inadequate, and it is time
that something be done.

When the IFC founded Contact in
the late sixties, the school was all
male and primarily Greek and the IFC
appointed all Contact members. Over
the past several years, despite the fact
that there is a smaller percentage of
fraternity men in W&L’s student

of the selection process.”

Hicks explained that Greek interest
in the Contact Committee is decreas-
ing and will continue to decrease
over the years if the fraternities do
not become more active in the orga-
nization. People do not want to give
money whvn they don’t know where
it is going and have nothing to show
for it, Hicks said.

Hatcher said he understands the
IFC’s concern, but he would have
liked to have been able to discuss the
problem before such drastic action
was taken.

‘The EC appoints the board and
has always made sure that there is
adequate Greek _representation.’’
Hatcher said. ‘‘I feel like this is a
misunderstanding we all could have
avoided with some discussion.”’

Contact Coordinator Charles Kran-
ich said that he has seen this problem
coming for several years.

‘Tt might be different if Pan-
hellenic and all other student organi-
zations had to pay equal amounts,”’
Kranich said, ‘‘but the fraternities
seem to be carrying the load for the
entire student body, and they don’t
feel that they get enough recognition
for that.’’

Another member of the IFC com-
mented that the fraternities already
make contributions above other stu-
dents in areas such as the univer-
sity’s social life. They seem to be
carrying a disproportionate load, he
said.

population, the IFC has still beerr-e Kranich said that the IFC's inten-

giving $10,000 a year, nearly one-
third of Contact’s $32,000 budget.
Hicks feels that such a sizable
donation deserves at least one-third of
the seats on the selection committee,
but the Executive Committee dis-
agrees and rejected the proposal.
‘‘We didn’t want any members on
it, and we didn’t want to change it at
all,’’ Hicks said. ‘‘With each house
paying $12 per member to Contact
every year, we just want to be part

tions are not to cut the funding of
Contact, but rather to see it funded
totally by student activities money.
Hicks agreed, saying that the $10,000
could be used for the fraternities
more productively elsewhere.

‘‘We want something to give fra-
ternities a good name and to raise
interest,’ Hicks said. ‘‘The EC was
not willing to give us thai, so we're
still considering, but I don’t know if
we will change our minds or not.”’

Howison names
administrators

 

By Tom Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee University
hired two new administrators last
week.

Dean of Students David L.
Howison named Dennis G. Manning
assistant dean of students and Mi-
chael L. Young director of university
security.

Manning, associate headmaster of
the Woodberry Forest School, will
replace Kenneth P. Ruscio in July as
dean of freshmen and residential life,
Howison said.

‘‘We’re very delighted to have
him [Manning] come here,’’ Howison
said. ‘‘He’ll be a great addition.”’

Ruscio will serve as associate
dean of the commerce school, a new-

QO Please see STAFF page 3

 

 

By Jennifer Gibson
Staff Reporter

 

Three fraternities will sponsor
a Sherman’s March to the Sea
party Saturday night at Chi Psi
while Kappa Alpha hosts its Old
South formal.

The Sherman’s March to the
Sea party, a venture by Chi Psi,
Phi Gamma Delta and Delta Tau
Delta, is a new concept, while the
Old South formal is an annual,
national KA tradition.

Chi Psi Social Chairman
Kevin Fliess said the party is
intended to celebrate the Union
victory in the Civil War.

The Sherman’s March to the
Sea theme refers to the Union
general's march through the Sou-
th, a campaign that included the
burning of Atlanta. However,
Fliess said the theme is not in-
tended as hostile.

‘There won't by any bel-
ligerent ruckus or northern hell
raising,’ he said.

KA isn’t taking the new theme
as an offense, according to KA
senior Fraser Bowen.

 

 

T-shirt designs for this year's Old South
and Sherman's March to the Sea parties.

“I’m just taking it in good
humor,’’ Bowen said. ‘‘They
mean it in the spirit of fun."

KA junior Trey Cox agreed

“If we're going to have our
party, we don’t have a right to
criticize theirs,’ Cox said, ‘‘I
think you can find merit on both
sides.”’

Students at Auburn University

last week dealt with the KA Old
South party there differently.

According to Auburn Director
of Student Affairs Grant Davis,
flowers around campus and an
announcement in the ' student
newspaper brought a number of
students out to protest the KA
Old South parade along the
school’s College Street.

Yankee twin joins Old South tradition

University officials were
notified of the protest, and the
event occurred without incident,
Davis said.

At W&L, conflicts seem con
fined within fraternities planning
the Sherman’s March to the Sea
party.

‘The fact that the party is on
the same weekend as Old South

just happens to be a coin-
cidence,’’ Fliess said.
But Fiji sophomore Darren

Johnson said the party was inten-
tionally planned for the same
weekend as Old South.

‘T don’t believe it’s in good
taste to support Sherman’s march
when it was just a pillaging raid
on the South,’’ Johnson said. ‘‘]
don't support the party and |
won't be there,”’

Richard Hughes, Fiji’s new
social chairman, refused to com-
ment on the party, saying he
didn’t believe in everything it
represented.

‘Some people are going sim-
ply because it’s a social event,’’
Johnson said. ‘‘They aren’t taking
the Sherman’s March theme too
seriously.”’

 

 

 
OPINION

No one else
to blame

Where were you from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Wednesday,
May 1, 1991?

That’s the question future generations of Washington
and Lee students will ask us as a student body when they
inherit the ambiguities of our student body constitution.

But who cares? Obviously not the current student body.

The 160 votes cast in Wednesday’s referendum were
not enough for the Voting Regulations Board to bother
tallying. The sum fell drastically short of the one-half of
the student body that must vote to amend the constitution.

Okay. Maybe you didn’t know. We admit that Phi
stories on constitutional revisions are not always as
interesting as Talkback — less pictures, to be sure. But
the issue is important, or we wouldn’t cover it at all.

The proposals made by the Constitutional Revisions
Committee appearing on the ballot were vital to update
the constitution and clear up some very vague areas about
how student government works.

One proposed amendment, for an example of which we
were particularly fond, determined when the Executive
Committee can enter executive session, thus excluding Phi
reporters and others. The constitution states that the EC
can close its door only ‘‘in the case of possible honor
violations.” That means every time the EC enters
executive session for appointment interviews and
deliberations, as it now does, it violates the constitution.

We do not advocate executive session for the entire
appointment process, but we do like to see the EC follow
the rules. Now W&L student government is faced with
separate de jure and de facto constitutions. Under such a
system, who will draw the line on EC actions? If the
constitution can be so blatantly violated in one respect, it
can be equally abused in any other. Who will intervene
when a future EC decides to close the door while it
allocates student dollars?

The fault for this tragic mishap can be laid on many
doorsteps. The VRB amnesia that postponed one vote, and
sparse EC publicity on the last vote, didn’t help.

The most serious fault of all, however, lies with the
apathetic student body. Apathy has not been a symptom of
poor polling organization, rather a cause. The first
postponement of the vote happened because only one
student outside the Phi and student government showed up
for the revisions forum in Lee Chapel mandated by the
constitution. It happened to be a beautiful, warm day, and
the students playing Frisbee outside the chapel didn’t think
the forum was important enough to come in.

Even the revisions committee members, which should
have seen more than anyone the need for these
amendments, have been stricken with this same strain of
apathy. Of five we contacted after Wednesday’s vote (the
sixth graduated), three didn’t know the results and, of
those, two claimed they did not remember what the
revisions they had written were about.

We don’t expect everyone to become avid readers of
student government news, or even to know every EC
member by name. We don’t expect anyone to be able to
recite the constitution chapter and verse, or even the
White Book without a copy handy. But sometimes, at
W&L and in the world in general, things come up that we
have to concern ourselves with to fulfil our obligations as
good citizens in a democratic system. Constitutional
amendments are like that; they’re important, whether it’s
the U.S. Constitution or the W&L student body.

At a time when student autonomy is said to be in
crisis, and student leaders are working desperately to
reestablish the confidence of alumni and administrators,
the student body could do no worse than express utter
apathy toward the supreme laws that govern student life
and protect student rights at W&L.

Quote of the week

I don't believe some small segment of the population
Should deprive all the citizens of enjoyment of the wildlife.

— A Virginia woman commenting on the shutdown of
a wildlife refuge after it became a rendezvous for
homosexuals.

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

 

 

    

  

 

  
 

 

  
      

Editors
Associate Editor
News Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Editorial Page Editor

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz

Pamela Kelley
Cathy Lopiccolo
Courtney Hall
Joshua Manning

   

     

 
   
 

    
 

 
     
     
     
     
 

ee ee) Jay Plotkin
Brig BG es oe 2 ta ee Marcy Brown
PS Bb st Craig Burke
te ee ee ea re re Leigh Allen
a a i ea te Tim Molloy

    
  

   

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

    
 

  
  
 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

       
   
   
   
   
     
 
 
 
 

 
  

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

    
 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 2, 1991
ET A Ea RUE cena teem

 

 

 

 

 

 

BT I DONT Fe
LiKe Germnge uf

 

 

 

Sbar starts satirist search
Offers seven pearls of wisdom to Sbarlets

 

The Sbar Side
By Jon Sbar

 

As I begin the first paragraph of my last Phi
article, my eyes are so blurred with tears that I can
barely see my computer terminal. My hands are
shaking like fig trees in the wind and every so of-
ten I emit a primal scream. I think of all the great
articles I should have written, but never did. Like
the one I had planned about the buildings and
grounds guy (the one with the baseball sized tobac-
co plug) who pulls a rotating pitchfork all over the
colonnade behind a tractor, putting little tiny holes
in the grass. I think of all the literary allusions that
I will never drop. Oh, WOE is me! I feel like two
ragged claws scraping across the dark surface of a
chalkboard in Payne Hall. I feel like this all too
solid flesh may melt and thaw. I feel like finding
out what a fig tree shaking in the wind looks like.

I realize that my first paragraph was a little
dramatic, but it is true that I’m upset about my Phi
career ending. Where else am I going to find a
newspaper that indulges my irresponsible and taste-
less writing style? With The Weekly World News,
that’s where. I’ve already signed a lucrative con-
tract which included a big signing bonus. I have
even started working on my first story --- Preg-
nant Man Carrying Elvis in Womb - Doctors have
heard the fetus singing ‘‘I ain't nothing but a
hound dog.”

Wanted: Irresponsible jour-
nalist to write humor for The
Ring-tum Phi. Must love
beer and big canines and
hold no political views.

Now that I’ve gotten past the hors d’oeuvres,
we can get to the meat and potatoes of my fare-
well article:

 

 

Wanted: Irresponsible journalist to write humor
for The Ring-tum Phi. Must love beer and big
canines and hold no political opinions. Apply
now - the pay sucks and you’ll hate your edi-
tor. Call Josh Manning immediately if you’re
interested.

That's right readers, the Phi is looking to
replace me after my four years of dedicated ser-
vice. Along with getting rid of me a month early,

Totally
Disappointing

Dear Editor:

I was very disappointed with the entertain-
ment (or attempt at entertainment) in the Pavilion
Friday night. The opening band was hopelessly
monotonous and annoying, which made the wait
for Pauly Shore all the more infuriating.

Shore opened his act with a generous dose of
profanity and never progressed. In fact, his entire
show was a tasteless exercise in vulgarity, which
might have been bearable had he demonstrated
any talent or sense of humor, which he never
did.

I feel especially bad for the ladies in the
audience who could only have been alienated,
repulsed, and embarrassed by Shore’s crass
sexism.

I know some people asked for their money

 

they have also requested that I write an article
soliciting a replacement. Can you believe that?
Talk about adding insult to injury. I gave them the
best years of my life. A man is not a fruit (but if
he was I’d want to be a mango). They can’t just
eat the nectar and throw away the peel. I demand
a party in my honor involving attractive female
strippers, my own ‘‘Talkback’’ question, songs
dedicated to me on the campus radio station, and
a year’s supply of free beer.

Now that I’ve gotten those bitter feelings out of
my system, it’s time for some sentimental reflec-
tion on my four years writing for the Phi. I sure
have learned a lot in that time. When I submitted
my first article in the second week of my fresh-
man year, I was immature, loved socially deviant
humor and had no knowledge of modern grammati-
cal laws. Now, in the last weeks of my senior
year, after hundreds of articles under the supervi-
sion of eight different editorial editors, my writing
is as infantile, socially unacceptable and unpolished
as ever. In fact, I think my writing is getting
worse. Maybe we should just skip the nostalgic
journey into the past. Instead I'll help out my re-
placement by sharing my definitive seven rules for
writing humor in the Phi.

Rule One: Drink lots of beer and write about large
canines. For some reasons, all humor writers do
these things. I really . know why. If you like
wine coolers and small dogs (under 30 pounds) or
cats then you should check into openings on the
W&Life page.

Rule Two: Keep in mind that humor writers are
sex symbols just like actors, musicians and profes-
sors. Attractive females frequently offer me their
bodies in return for autographed articles. It’s OK
to consort with your groupies, but don’t let it
interfere with your writing. And if you believe that
you should check into ‘‘Talkback’’ openings. The
truth is that writing humor for the Phi will proba-
bly make you unpopular with most members of the
opposite sex. Whenever a girl approaches me to
discuss my writing it usually means that she is
angry. Anyone who is really interested in you
because of your writing is probably a complete
weirdo and I advise you to stay as far away from
them as possible.

Rule Three: Try to intimidate the editorial editor
if it’s at all possible. In my years at the Phi, I
have been screwed by editors more times than I
can remember. J’ve been censored, buried on page

LETTERS

back. Maybe the University should do the same.
I am left wondering why we had a ‘‘comedian’’
from MTV appear in conjunction with Mock
Convention in the first place. With the money we
wasted on Shore we might have had another
political speaker to complement the visit of
Senator McGovern, which would have made
more sense as a Convention event anyway.

 

Justin Peterson, ‘94

Soderberg
Apologizes

Dear Readers:

I would like to apologize to both the Lexing-
ton and Washington and Lee communities for my
inappropriate and ungentlemanly behavior on
October 17, 1990, when I fired a shotgun into
the ceiling of my fraternity house in an attempt

four, and held over to make room for ‘‘My Vi- ,
ews’’ about political trends in Bangladesh. I’ve had
entire columns of an article backwards and key
words misprinted. Usually, the editor’s decisions
are for the good of the paper and the errors
accidental, but it’s a good idea for you to hassle

In my years at the Phi, /
have been screwed by
editors more times than |
can remember.

them anyway. However, occasionally you'll run
into an editor who just plain hates your guts. Last
year, for example, the editorial editor basically
refused to run my columns until one or two weeks
after she received them. If it wasn’t unethical and
inappropriate I’d tell you that her name was Tina.
If it wasn’t so unfair I might also take a cheap
shot at her and tell you that her idea of a good
time was reading The Wall Street Journal. I finally
solved my problems with her by writing a column
in which I threatened to bludgeon her with a
sledgehammer. My favorite editor was Chris
Baradel whose idea of good humor was a descrip-
tion of a guy picking his nose at a stoplight.

 

 

Rule Four: Maintain an apathetic political posture.
Don’t vote and avoid reading any serious news.
Political agendas and humor do not mix.

Rule Five: Don’t waste your time trying to get ‘
women to send you photographs of themselves in
sexy lingerie. I’ve tried this hundreds of times and
it hasn’t worked yet. However, if any attractive
females out there are thinking about it, it’s not too
late to send me some photos (Jon Sbar, 800
McCorkle Dr., Lexington, VA 24450).

Rule Six: Read Ann Landers religiously. I get
most of my ideas from her column.

Rule Seven: Never write under your real name.
‘Jon Sbar’’ is just a pseudonym. My real name is
John D. Wilson and the rest is silence, which is
what Hamlet said after killing his uncle and driving
his girlfriend to suicide.

Ed. Note: It is true that The Ring-tum Phi is
searching for a humor writer to fill the gigantic
shoes left behind by Jon Sbar. If you are interest-
ed, contact Joshua Manning at 463-2397 or Rick
Peltz at 464-5518.

to end a serious confrontation. I especially
apologize to those who were present at the time
for potentiating an already dangerous situation, |
would also like to assure everyone that I have
been sufficiently punished for my actions, by
both the Student Conduct Committee and the
Commonwealth of Virginia.

In defense of myself and our student govern-
ment, my trial by the SCC was fair and untaint-
ed. In response to comments made during the
interrogation of President Wilson last semester,
my father is not some ‘‘influential alumnus,’ as
I am the first in my family to attend Washington
and Lee. Furthermore, if he was, wouldn’t his
rumored ability to influence SCC proceedings be
but a reflection upon our student government and
not our administration?

Peer Soderberg, '92

Ed. note: The Ring-tum Phi received this letter
dated January 5, 1991, on May 1, 199].

 

 
NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 2, 1991

 

W&L history class blasts into past

 

By Kimberly Boots
Staff Reporter

 

A dozen W&L students are spending spring
term delving into W&L’s rich and lengthy
history by taking History 395B: The History of
Washington and Lee.

Professor Taylor Sanders initiated the course
last spring after students had repeatedly re-
quested to take such a course. Sanders, who
has taught at W&L for more than 20 years,
Said the main objective of the course is to ‘‘...
relae W&L to higher education in general”’
Over the course of its history and to encourage
the students to ‘‘think about the university in
ways maybe they hadn’t thought about before.’’
The course, only open to juniors and seniors,
focuses on the period between 1910 and 1945.

Each student must complete a research paper
on some aspect of Washington and Lee as a
Prerequisite for the class. Sanders said the paper
Tequirement keeps the size of the class small
and, because the students have already done

General Lee’s presidency, a history of violence
at W&L and histories of the journalism school,
the cross country team and the Beta Theta Pi
fraternity house. In addition to the initial
paper, students must also present oral reports,
write several essays and compile a 15-page
final research report.
The curriculum also includes lectures outside
regular class hours on various events in W&L
history. Most of these are conducted by W&L
faculty. Topics to be covered include W&L’s
1949 Bicentennial, the 1956 Mock Convention
and student life in the 1950s. The lectures are
open to the public.
This week’s class discussion centered on
W&L’s standing with regard to other relatively
old colleges. Sanders said W&L is a mixture of
the qualities of the ‘‘robber baron’’ colleges
such as Cormell, Johns Hopkins and Vanderbilt
and those of “colonial’’ colleges such as Wil-
liam and Mary, Harvard and Yale.

Sanders said that students interested in
taking the class should contact him early next
fall. Research work for the course should be

 

extensive research by the time the class begins,
they have specific areas of knowledge to con-

tribute to class discussions.

Paper topics included the Honor code,

McGovern
speech
draws 400

By Spain Brumby
Staff Reporter

 

 

About 400 people gathered on the
lawn fronting Lee Chapel as possible
1992 presidential candidate and
former senator George McGovern
kicked off the 20th W&L Mock
Convention with a speech Friday.

‘*We had an excellent turnout and
great media coverage,’ said Mock
Convention Committee Member Tal-
ley Woolley. ‘‘The media was very
interested in whether he was going to
announce his candidacy.’’

McGovern told the crowd he will
run if no other candidate emerges
who will stand for the liberal
achievements of the Democratic Par-
ly.

“I prefer a younger and less
battle scarred candidate who is com-
mitted to change,’* McGovern said.
“IT would not hesitate to yield to, a
better candidate.’’

A small potion of the crowd
applauded when McGovern called for
cuts in defense spending to be a vital
part of the Democratic platform.

‘It’s time Uncle Sam_ stopped
playing Uncle Sugar to Western
Europe and Japan and bring 400,000
troops home,’’ McGovern said.

McGovern told reporters after his
speech that the Democrats have a
chance of beating President George
Bush.

“‘T think it’s tough to take on an
incumbent president,’’ McGovern
said. ‘*I found that out in 1972. But
if the recession lingers, [Bush] will
be vulnerable.”’

McGovern also told reporters that
other possible Democratic candidates
are Virginia Governor Douglas
Wilder, Arkansas Governor Bill Clin-
ton, New York Governor Mario
Cuomo and Nebraska Senator Robert

: Kerrey.

 

ings.

done during the fall and winter, although ac-
cording to Sanders, there are no plans to extend
the course to the fall and winter course offer-

 

Above,

The W&L history class will focus on topics such
as student life in the late 1800s to the 1950s.
Students participate in the

 

1953

Homecoming parade.

 

No problem!

Freshman Brennan McBride is caught sitting down on the job while playing right field in an
Intramural softball game Wednesday. Phi photo by Leigh Allen.

 

 

 

 

STAFF

from page 1

 

ly created position in which he hopes
to’ combine academic work and cotin-
seling, he said in January.

Manning received his bachelor’s
and master’s degrees from Wake
Forest University and later worked
there as administrative assistant to the
president.

Manning has served at Woodberry
Forest for the past eight years as an
English teacher, dormitory master,
basketball coach, admissions officer,
and director of the summer school,
Howison said in a letter to the W&L
community.

“He [Manning] was a jack-of-all-
trades at Woodberry Forest,’’ Howi-
son said.

Manning said he is exhilarated
about his new position.

“I’m very interested in the tran-
sition to college,’ Manning said.
“I’m fascinated by the freshman year
experience.”’

Manning said he is impressed by
the general character of W&L.

‘Washington and Lee has a clear
commitment to education that extends

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

 

 

Pauley Shore, MTV Personality
- ‘‘I have no idea who you are
talking about...’’

 

Tara Makoski, ’92, Dallas, TX
- ‘Hunter S. Thompson be
cause he is the only guy crazy
enough to run against Bush.’’

beyond the classroom-specifically,
the honor system,’’ Manning said.

“T'think ‘it [W&L] is the most
attractive. schoolecertainly in the
South, and maybe in the nation,”’
Manning said.

Howison said he selected Manning
from a pool of about 120 applicants
from across the nation. Howison said
he primarily wanted someone who
could relate to freshmen and their
concerns.

Although Howison made the final
decision, he said he heard from ad-
ministrators, a search committee com-
posed of freshmen and faculty, and
many other students.

“We had a lot of people give
input into the process,’’ Howison
said.

Manning was  ‘‘recommended
highly’’ by several of his former
students at Woodberry Forest, H-
owison said.

Hal Waller, W&L ’93 and Wood-
berry Forest ’89, said he is ‘‘very ex-
cited’’ about Manning's appointment.

“Judging from the fine job he did

at Woodberry Forest, he should be a
huge asset to the W&L community,”’
Waller said.

Young, Director of Campus Safety
at Rollins College in Winter Park,
Florida, will replace Director of Uni-
versity Security Charles F. ‘‘Murph’’
Murray, who is retiring after 32 years
at W&L.

Young has more than 20 years of
experience in the field of campus
security and law _ enforcement,
Howison said. Young has served as
a military policeman, a security of-
ficer at the University of Iowa, and
chief of police in Tipton, Iowa.

At Rollins, which has an enroll-
ment of 1,500 students, Young over-
saw all safety and security concerns.
He developed informative programs
concerning fire safety, date rape,
orientation of new students, and al-
cohol and drug abuse for students
and staff.

In addition, Young serves as pres-
ident of the Florida Association of
Campus Safety and Security Ad-
ministrators, according to Howison.

 

TALKBACK

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

Health Ed

The W&L Athletic Department
will offer two health education
classes this May. A CPR class
will be offered May 7, 9 and 10
from 7 to 10 p.m. in the 500
level gym classrooms. A First Aid
class will be offered May 13, 14,
and 15 same time, same place.
Call Cinda Rankin at 463-8687
for details.

Tennis Time

The W&L tennis team will offer
a tennis clinic for all levels of
play on Sunday, May 5 from 3 -
4:15 p.m. at the upper tennis
courts. Register now, space is
limited. Call Cinda Rankin at
463-8687 for details.

Al Elections

Get involved now! W&L’s Am-
nesty International Chapter will
nominate officers at their May 7
meeting. The election will take
place the following Tuesday.
Meetings are at 6:30 p.m. in
Newcomb 7.

Calyx Candids

The Calyx still wants your pic-
tures of friends, vacations, or
whatever else! Place them in the
envelope on the door of the Calyx
office, room 206 of the University
Center.

Give Blood

The bloodmobile will be on cam-
pus Tuesday, May 7 from 9 a.m.
to 4 p.m. Donors of all blood
types are needed. The donation
center will be located in Doremus

Gym.
Be Famous

Seniors and third year law stu-
dents: if you want the folks back
home to hear about your gradua-
tion and stellar accomplishments,
please fill out and return current
info sheets to the News Office on
the first floor of Reid Hall ASAP.
Extra forms are available at the
library and the co-op.

New Handbook

The 1991-92 Student Handbook is
now being compiled. Any new
student organizations should noti-
fy Bernadette Kempton or leave
an entry consisting of a short
description of the organization and
the names of its leaders in the
Student Handbook box outside the
Dean of Students’ office in Payne
Hall.

Russian Lecture

Alexei Yablokov, member of the
Supreme Soviet and personal
advisor to Boris Yelsin, will
speak on the ‘‘How socialism can
be reconciled with democracy’’
Tuesday, May 7, at 7:30 p.m. in
C-School room 327. The lecture
is sponsored by the Telford lec-
ture series, and co-sponsored by
the International Club.

King Flick

The Film Society's final presenta-
tion of this season will be Ken-
neth Branagh’s version of Shakes-
peare’s Henry V (English, 1989).
The master’s story of war, poli-
tics, and the brutality of battle
come alive with performances
featuring Paul Scofield and Ian
Holm. The film won an Acade-
my Award and was nominated for
Best Actor and Director. The film
will be shown May 3, 4, and 5 at
8:05 p.m. in Lewis Hall room A.
Admission is free.

Paint House

The Baptist Student Union is
organizing a ‘‘scrape ‘n paint
bonanza’’ for Lexington’s home-
less shelter, the Gladys’ house.
This community service project
will take place May 2, 3, and 4.
Volunteers are needed. Call War-
ren Hammonds for information,
463-3313 (days) or 463-1136
(nights).

DoC Awards

Scholarships are available for Vir-
ginia residents who attend Virgin-
ia schools and are of lineal de-
scent of Confederate Veterans
from the United Daughters of the
Confederacy. Deadline for applica-
tions is July 1. Applications and
additional information are avail-
able at the Financial Aid Office.

GM God

Retired General Moters Chairman
Roger B. Smith will address Lee
Chapel Wednesday, May 8, at
8:15 p.m. The speech, sponsored
by Contact, is open to the public.

New Sbar

Think you’re funny? Well here’s
your chance to prove it. The
Ring-tum Phi is looking for two
hilarious humor columnists to
write a monthly column for this
esteemed publication. Interested?
Call Josh Manning at 463-2397 or
Rick Peltz at 464-5518.

 

In light of the Mock Convention kickoff,
who would you like to see nominated?

 

 

Harrison Shull, '93, Nashville,
TN = ‘‘Wouldn’: it just be a lot
easier for the Democrats to nomi-

nate Bush? ...Bush could go out
and murder someone and he’d
still win.”’

Elizabeth Besenfelder, ’93, Rich-
mond, VA —  ‘‘Senator Albert
Gore from Tennessee because if |
have to look at someone on tele
vision for eleven months he better
be good looking.”’

Mark Van Deusen, ’93, Englew-
ood, CO — ‘‘Al Gore because
the only way the Democrats have
a chance of winning the Presi-
dency is with a conservative
southerner.”’

 

 

 

Senator George McGovern —
‘*..Jesse Jackson still has presi-
dential aspirations if he gives up
his TV show.”’

 

 
   
   
       
     
        
     
     

Tennis wins
yet another
ODAC title

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

Washington and Lee has captured
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence men’s tennis title every year
since 1985, and the rest of the con-
ference has grown tired of looking up
at W&L.

Tired as they may be, however,
1991 offered no more rest for stiff
necks than previous years. W&L out-
pointed second place Hamdpen-Syd-
ney 69-52 in winning six of nine
flights to win the title again in 1991.

“Everybody gets up to beat us,”’
said senior Bill Meadows, who placed
second at No. 1 singles. ‘‘This is the
end of the season for everyone, and
it would make their season to beat
us. It makes things a little tougher
for us.””

W&L won three of the six singles
flights and swept the doubles in
winning the team title. Freshmen Rob
MacNaughton and Robert Wein and
sophomore Travis West captured their
singles flights at No. 2, No. 5 and
No. 6 respectively.

Meadows and MacNaughton
teamed to win the No. 1 doubles
flight, while Wein and West brought
home the No. 3 flight. Senior Reid
Manley and junior Richard Yates
captured the No. 2 flight.

For Meadows, the No. 4 player in
Division III, the loss in the singles
final marked his first loss in 40
ODAC regular season and tournament
matches. He called it a sobering loss.

W&L will now hope to go from
the role of favorite to underdog.
Ranked No. 12 in Division II], the
Generals must wait to see if they are
extended a bid to the NCAA Champi-
onships, held in California.

‘‘We’ve beaten one of the teams
ranked just below us already this
year,’ said Meadows. ‘‘That helps
us. Everyone is pretty confident we're
going to go.”’

The Generals finished the regular
season with a 5-13 record, but
Meadows thinks W&L can play with
teams ranked in the second five.

‘‘We have so much potential that

 

 

U.S.D.A. Choice Se
T-Bone Steak | =a

 

Senior Bill Meadows follows
through on a forehand in an
ODAC tournament match. W&L
photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

we haven't showed yet,’’ he said.
‘‘We’ve got more going for us than
our No. 12 ranking shows. We’re as
good as any team in the nation. It
just boils down to winning the big
points.”’

W&L won’t know if it is included
in the NCAA Tournament until Sun-
day,’ and the Generals will bide their
time practicing hard.

The team will be ready, Meadows
says, when the bid comes. The nature
of the NCAAs will guarantee that.

‘‘Nobody can be playing any
better than they are right now, espe-
cially the doubles,’’ he said. ‘‘And
the atmosphere at the NCAAs is so
intense that you can’t help but play
your best tennis.”’

rool a

LOW PRICES
EVERY DAY!

Another Reason To Switch To Harris Teeter!

 

 

Breast

io

Grade
am

Lb.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 2, 1991

W&L impatiently awaits bid

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

One might think an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference title and an
ODAC Coach of the Year honor
would satisfy the Washington and
Lee women’s tennis team, and one
might be wrong.

Despite finishing 30 points ahead
of the defending ODAC champions
and second place Sweet Briar, head
coach Cinda Rankin and her squad
won’t be satisfied without a bid to
the 1991 NCAA Division — Ill
women’s tennis national champion-
ships.

The Generals, one of four teams
ranked eleventh in this week’s Inter-
collegiate Tennis Coaches Association
(ITCA) poll, wait impatiently for an
invitation to the May 15 NCAA
Toumament to be played at Emory
University in Atlanta.

‘We'd love to go,”’
Kathy Leake.

said senior
“It would be a great

Generals

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

 

When a team loses a close game,
it often searches for excuses as to
why it lost. Very seldom does a team
admit there is nothing more it could
have done.

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse team lost to Roanoke College
8-7 Saturday in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament
semi-finals, but the Generals make no

excuses for their performance in
Salem, Va.

“It was the best game I have ever
seen,’ said senior Shawn Wert.

‘There is no way we could have
played a better game.”’

‘It was the best game we have
ever played at Washington and Lee,”’
said senior Melinda Conkling. ‘‘They
gave us opportunities, and we capital-
ized. Everybody played as well as
they could have played. It was an
amazing game to watch.’

W&L scored first against the

 

 

 
 
   
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

en ea prNORN Ne Ne nO me Tren ret a

Jumbo, Loose
Vidalia
(Onions

     
 

 

accomplishment.”’

As if giving the NCAA tourna-
ment committee food for thought, the
Generals cruised to their second
ODAC championship in three years,
recording four singles victories and
two doubles titles en route to 66
team points and the title. Seniors
Kelly Martone and Leake, and fresh-
men Eugenia Foster and Kim
Dickinson combined for the singles
flights victories.

Foster and senior Jean Stroman
joined Martone and Leake for the
doubles titles.

“Going into the finals we had
placed all six individuals [singles],
and two out three in the doubles
finals,’’ said Rankin. ‘‘We were all
over the courts.”’

Stroman and Foster finished the
regular season ranked twelfth nation-
ally by ITCA as a doubles tandem.
In singles, Stroman is 21st in the
nation. Even if the NCAA doesn’t
offer W&L a position in team com-
petition, Stroman and Foster may

put scare

fifth-ranked Maroons, setting the tone
of the game, said Wert.

‘‘The game was close right from
the start,’’ she said. ‘‘We scored first
and that sent them a message. They
wanted to win big. They are a physi-
cal game, and we showed them that
they weren’t going to push us
around.”’

‘Everything was working for us,”’
said Conkling. ‘‘Kimberly Bishop was
back after an appendectomy and she
played beautifully. Ginny Dallum was
everywhere and Erica [Ingersoll]
made the key saves.”’

After W&L opened the scoring,
the teams traded goals until the final
15 minutes, in which Roanoke took
an 8-7 lead. W&L then had to chase
the ball while Roanoke ran out the
clock.

‘(Head coach] Jan [Hathorn] tells
us that at the end of a game, we
shouldn’t be able to run any more,”’
said Conkling. ‘‘That’s how it was
Saturday. We gave everything we
had.”’

W&L reached Saturday’s semifinal

head to Atlanta for the NCAA’s
individual tournament May 19.

ITCA ranked Sewanee, Washing-
ton College, and Trenton with W&L
at the eleventh position. Although the
Generals haven’t played Sewanee this
season, Rankin hopes the NCAA will
compare W&L’s and Sewanee’s per-
formances against similar opponents
before choosing the nation’s top
twelve.

Both W&L and Sewanee beat
Hope College earlier this year. The
Generals won 9-0, Sewanee 7-2.
Fourth-ranked Mary Washington beat
W&L 5-4 while defeating Sewanee 6-
a

The NCAA will make its deci-
sion this Sunday. Until then, the
Generals will continue to practice
each afternoon, waiting impatiently
for a chance to compete as a team in
their first Division II] tournament.

‘The chance of going to the
tournament keeps us motivated,’’ said
Stroman.

into RC

by beating Sweet Briar for the second
time in three days Friday.

“It was a pretty easy win for
us,’’ said Wert. ‘‘We went in know-
ing we could win the game. After we
did, we were really psyched up to
play Roanoke.”’

Although W&L lost to Roanoke
early in the season, Wert said it was
a different W&L team the second
time around.

‘‘They beat us 8-3 early in the
season,’’ she said. ‘‘We weren’t as
prepared then. We were still trying to
put everyone in the right place on the
field. By Saturday, we were ready to
play.”’

‘*We played the number five team
in the nation to within one goal,’’
said Conkling. ‘‘We couldn’t have
played any better. It was a great way
to go out.”’

W&L finishes the season 10-6,
the most wins ever for the Generals.
Five of the losses came to teams
ranked in the nation’s top 15.

Golf defends
ODAC crown
vs. Macon

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee golf
team won its second straight Old
Dominion Athletic Conference title
this past weekend and head coach
Buck Leslie was named ODAC
Coach of the Year.

The Generals shot 302 in the
opening round of the ODAC Champi-
onships and then recorded a second-
day 308 to hold off second-place
finisher and tournament host Ran-
dolph-Macon for W&L’s third confer-
ence title in the last four years.

‘‘We thought we could win, but
we didn’t underestimate the other
teams,’’ Leslie said. ‘‘We played
good golf and consistent golf. The
round of 302 was a peak perform-
ance.’’

Junior Clay Thomas shot a pair of :
73s to lead W&L and finish as the:
second-place medalist, while class-
mate Jay McKnight carded a 152.+

Both Thomas and McKnight were : '

named All-ODAC for the second yenn
in a row.

“Clay and Jay anchored us, bins’
{junior] Brad Thoburn shot a 75 and *
an 80 which helped and [senior]:

Brian Kopet played steady with a Bs ‘

and a 79,’’ Leslie said.

The Coach of the Year award was °
the sixth for Leslie, who became,’
W&L’s golf coach in 1975. In De-
cember, 1989, Leslie was diagnosed
as having leukemia and was in and
out of the hospital for the next four
months. He stayed in contact with his
players by phone, and when he could,
he would go to matches and watch
them warm up.

‘‘Winning the award was very
rewarding to say the least,’’ Leslie
said. ‘‘I feel lucky, very humble and
thankful to have been out there. It’s
certainly an emotional high for me.’’

W&L (29-2) now must wait until
May 14 to learn if it receives a bid
to the Division III national champion-
ships, which will be held in Lincoln,
Nebraska, on May 21-24. The Gener-
als finished seventh out of 20 teams
at last year’s championships in Jekyll
Island, Georgia.

   

 

President's Choice
Grape Jelly

1°9

36 Ct.

 

 

Aika
Seltzer

2°

 

 

 

 

 

"Borden
Ice Milk

Half Gal.

 

 

7°

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

12 Pack - 12 Oz. Cans

Diet Pepsi,
Pepsi

2°9

  

 

 

Prices Effective Through May 7, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, May 7, 1991. In Lexington Store Only.
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Food Stamps.

 

'

‘

§
SPORTS

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

Sometimes it’s best not to wake a
Sleeping giant.

Hampden-Sydney found that out
last Saturday. The Tigers scored the
first three goals of the game before
the Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team exploded for seven
Straight goals en route to a 13-5 win.

The win gave the Generals their
first ever Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championship, and more
importantly, kept W&L’s hopes for
an NCAA Toumament bid alive. The
tournament field is announced
Sunday.

Junior attackers Jeff Roberts and
Drew Anton keyed the W&L

" Right

ane eS

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Standard 10% Discount
‘With Student I.D.

 

explosion. Roberts scored a career-
high six goals and Anton added four
as the Generals improved to 10-3 on
the season. Each added an assist.

‘It was an important game for us
because we had to win to keep our
play-off hopes alive,’’ said senior
attacker Mike Moseman. ‘‘It was also
for the outright ODAC Championship,
and we had never won that before.’’

Senior defenseman David Farace
said it took a while for the Generals
to get settled down.

“I was a little worried because
they jumped out to a 3-0 lead,’’ he
said. ‘‘We weren’t playing real hard
in the first quarter. Then we settled
down.”’

W&L scored once at the end of
the first quarter and then outscored
the Tigers 7-0 in the second quarter

——

Robby Jones
703/463-2022
11 W. Nelson St. |

Lexington, Va. 24450

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics Perfumes
Charge Accounts © Free Delivery

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

23 N. Main St.

, { Lexington, VA 24450
: Pr GV

ined wneag. FW Es

WILLSON-
WALKER

HOUSE

Restaurant

(703)463-5988

 

 

Reservations are recommended

30 N. Main St., Lexington

Special!

Spring Term
Memberships

46&8
Week
Rates

16 E. Nelson St.

 

 

 

Motivate!

   
   
  

464-1FIT

 

 

 

THE
standard of living.

CONVENIENCE:
*A short walk to Washington & Lee
Plenty of paved parking, 10 spaces covered!
*Fully-equipped kitchens include dishwasher,
disposal and microwave
«Common laundry room and snack room.
individual heat and A/C with efficient heat
pumps
COMFORT:
*Each unit insulated on all 6 sides
eQuiet provided by isolated wall framing, con-
crete sub-floors, wall-to-wall carpet and the ex-
tensive insulation
*Double-glazed windows

 

 

NEW STUDENT APARTMENTS — AVAILABLE AUGUST 15

 

PARK V | I f W
Blending modern convenience and traditional values in a new

Eleven four bedroom, two bath apartments, each featuring:

Herring RealEstate 41S. Main St.

SECURITY:

Steel entrance doors with deadbolts.
Full sprinkler system throughout
¢Smoke detectors

*Automatic grounds lighting

*Large,
closets
©24-hour emergency service.

STYLE

Traditional exterior design and details
Six panel doors

*Colonial trim and baseboard

individual, locked basement storage

463-7314

The Ring-tum Phi, May 2, 1991

Roberts, offensive explosion
produce first-ever ODAC title

to take firm control of the game.

While Roberts and Anton did the
scoring damage, much of the credit to
the offensive success belongs to the
midfielders, seniors Clark Wight and
Todd Garliss and sophomore John
Hunter.

“Our middies did a great job
beating their men,’’ said Farace.
“Once our middie beat his man, the
defenseman slid, and we hit the open
man. Jeff and Drew finished things
off better than they have all season.’’

Hunter was the main distributor.
He handed out four assists while
scoring a goal of his own.

‘Their defensive middies had a
hard time controlling us,’’ he said.
“We just went by our men and
dished the ball. Roberts and Anton
scored the goals.’’

 

It was not all offense for the
Generals. The defense was again
superb, allowing just two goals over
the final 45 minutes. Senior goalie
Tom Costello made 11 saves on the
afternoon.

‘The defense played well,’ said
Farace. ‘‘We weren't real aggressive
in the first quarter, but we settled
down. Cos came up big again, just
like he has all season.’’

The 13-5 win sets up another
must-win game for the fifth-ranked
Generals in Saturday’s Lee-Jackson
Classic against VMI. ‘‘We can’t
afford to lose,’’ Farace said simply.
‘‘We’re looking at this as the most
important game of the season. If we
lose — there goes the playoffs. If we
win, we have a great chance to get to
the playoffs.”

 

 

Sophomore John Hunter scores a goal In W&L’s 13-5 win over
Hampden-Sydney last Saturday. W&L photo by W. Patrick Hinely.

 

The first
Laser Writer that fits
in your wallet.

 

 

 

affordable Apple” LaserWriter ever. It has the power to
produce crisp text and high-definition graphics at up
to four pages a minute (it even has a built-in, high-

speed serial connection for enhanced performance),

 

 

Introducing the affordable Personal LaserWriter LS.

Now you can get impressive, professional-looking
documents without having to wait in long lines to use
the laser printer at the computer lab.

The Personal LaserWriter” LS printer is the most

It incorporates Truelype; Apple’ new font technol-
ogy that enables you to scale and print characters
smoothly and precisely, from the smallest footnote to
the largest headline.

But, best of all, it’s from Apple — designed to let you
get everything out of a Macintosh’ computer _ g
that Apple built into it. Not just the power
to look your best. The power to be your best’

 

For further information visit Tucker Hall Room 215A
and ask for Mac McCloud or call 463-8844

© 1991 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, LaserWriter and ‘The power to be your best” are registered trademarks, and |rue/ype is a trademark of Apple Computer, ing

CUUETETETTTTETTTETTCEC TELE TTT eee

 

i -

‘

AUG een GREE
Anttiilitiilittilidiie tie ht hee See hhbS neh esses Seb sbsbeASec ASPs dA Seb s hh bi hhbAeSs be BOG bh 604280 4 2 oo a Peed
rns "

ere

sot,
TT OT ees

*.
Pl sali
Serre rs

ae
1.7?

«
“Se

 
W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, May 2, 1991

 

History repeats, history repeats

 

By Marcy Brown
Entertainment Editor

 

James A. Garfield once said ‘‘History is con-
stantly repeating itself, making only such changes
of programme as the growth of nations and cen-
turies requires.”’

The following articles appeared in The Ring-
tum Phi five, ten and 25 years ago. Although some
of the details have changed, the events and the
debates they generated may resemble closely cer-
tain world and campus issues the W&L com-
munity has encountered recently. See what you
think...

May 1, 1986
ALIVE AND KICKING, OR JUST KICKING
OUT?
By Marie Kothman, Assistant Editorial Page Editor

If the number of people leaving school because
of honor violations is any measure of the useful-
ness and health of the Honor System, the system
is indeed alive and kicking. But the disturbing

fact is that these dismissals have resulted from
illegal activities that warrant heavy fines and prison

 

Sell for the Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is looking for a few good students to sell advertis-
ing. Great experience with interpersonal relationships. Call Whitney

Swift at 464-4280 for details.

 

 
 
 

      

terms in a court of law. Each week The Phi
headlines stories about credit card fraud, check
forgery, alleged rape, vandalized frat houses, and
students shooting other students. Alumni, be-
wildered by what they read, write letters begging
students to ‘‘please be gentle with our Universi-
ty.’’ What's going on here? It seems the W&L
student body is the sole cause of the crime rate in
Lexington.

The attitude of the majority of students seems
to be not ‘‘Let’s try to do what’s honorable,’’ but
‘‘Let’s see how much we can get away with.”’
With such an attitude, the Honor System becomes
a farce.

April 30, 1981

KA FINED, PENALIZED BY IFC JUDICIAL
BOARD

The judicial board of the Interfraternity council
met Tuesday night to settle a dispute involving
members of the Lambda Chi Alpha and the Kappa
Alpha fraternities. Throughout the winter term,
members of the two fraternities have traded bottle
throwing incidents and several fights have erupted.

On return from spring break, the window

Staff Reporter

 

By Bernadette Kempton

breaking and bottle smashing continued.

April 30, 1966
U.S IN LAND WAR, AGRONSKY SAYS HERE
By Ralph Fuller

What was once only American support of a
government in South Vietnam has become an
American land war in Asia, a CBS news corre-
spondents said here today, and he added that ‘‘for
the United States what is truly at issue in the
world crisis is how we will use our power.”’

Delivering the final address of the SIPA con-
vention in Lee Chapel, newsman Martin Agronsky
said the U.S. has become involved in a land war
it cannot win and cannot afford to lose.

But the problems of Vietnam relate and project
beyond the immediate situation, he added. He
cited the United States position as the most power-
ful nation in the world, and its ‘‘awesome respon-
sibility...the power to destroy absolutely.”’

Agronsky noted the view of Sen. William
Fulbright that the United States is in danger of
succumbing to the arrogance of power, and, he
added it is easy to be impatient with those who
question our policies.

Little Red Riding Hood joins the
scene to declare her purpose for
going into the woods. Although she

 

soul.

children’s _ stories,

Stephen Sondheim’s
Woods brought fairytale land to Lex-
ington Wednesday and took its audi-
ence on an exploration of the human

The make-believe quality of the
upbeat
catchy lyrics, and witty lines provide
a medium through which Sondheim
speaks to the audience in the lan-
guage of the heart. As the musical
begins, the giant storybooks of Cin-
derella, Jack and the Beanstalk, and
The Baker and His Wife literally
open to draw the audience into the
action. As all of the characters sug-
gest, life has been unfair to them and
there is something they wish to
change. The plaintive "I wish" rings
out and draws us to the central motif.

is afraid, she must go to take bread
and sweets to her grandmother. Gina
Valentine, as Little Red Riding Hood,
provides a delightful portrayal of
childhood innocence, curiosity and
fear.

The Witch appears, and explains
the curse of infertility which she has
placed on the Baker and his Wife.
She has also locked up the Baker’s
sister, Rapunzel, in a tower in the
woods. All, she claims, in vengeance
for the Baker’s father’s wrongdoing.
To remove the curse, the Baker and
his Wife must obtain Jack’s cow, Red
Riding Hood’s cape, Rapunzel’s hair,
and Cinderella's shoe. Every charac-
ter’s desire leads them into the woods
and on a journey through terror, evil,
and the choices that come with the
maturation process.

Into the

music,

 

 

 

130 S. Main St.

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

463-7969

 

 

 

 
     

 

|

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

Route 11 North

 

        
    
     

(7) Pan

COIL Q) yf \ IP

       
     
   

 

 

IN CARNIVAL

Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money.
You do not need to be a League bowler to ‘bowl!

 

 

 
  

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM

  
    
    
 
  

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

  

US HWY - 11 North

© Red Pin Bowling

Sunday Noon- 6 PM

Moonlight Red Pin

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

© College Specials
$1.50 per Game

Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM

Saturday Noon- 6 PM

© Red & Green Pin

       
      
 

  

OP) 203 N. Main St.

   

PHONE: 463-1712 +

 

  

SHOE FIXERS |

Instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

LEE Hl RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

Hairstylist

~ 36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

MMI
* QUICK COPIES * FLYERS

* PAPERS * BANNERS « INVITATIONS
GS) OPEN SATURDAY MORNINGS

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA * ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

   

 

CAREER DEVELOPMENT & PLACEMENT: “Juniors Get a

ACLU LECTURE: "A Quiet Civil Rights Revolution--How the
Voting Rights Act is Reshaping Virginia's Political
Landscape,” R. Kent Willis, executive director, Virginia
ACLU. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invitec

GLASGOW ENDOWMENT PROGRAM: A reading by Heather
Ross Miller, prose fiction writer. Northen Auditorium,

W&L HISTORY SPRING SEMINAR: "From ‘Gator to Gone: The
Demise of Big-Time Football," Frank A. Parsons, '54,
coordinator of capital planning at W&L. Room 221,

MONDAY, MAY 6
Registration for Fall Term 1991 begins.

4:30 p.m. FACULTY MEETING: Northen Auditorium.
5:30p.m. President's Reception for Seniors. Lee House.
TUESDAY, MAY 7
4p.m.

Jump on Next Year.” Lee Chapel.
8 p.m.
4p.m.

University Library. Public invited.
4:30 p.m.

Commerce School. Public invited.
5:30 p.m. President's Reception for Seniors. Lee House.
8:15p.m. CONTACT LECTURE:

"Motoring into the 21st Century: The

Future of the Automobile," Roger Smith, former chairman,
General Motors Corp. Lee Chapel. Public invited.

 

 

As the Baker and his Wife set out
to fulfill their goals, they become lost
in the web of right vs. wrong and
necessity vs. desire. As the Baker’s
Wife takes advantage of the rather
dense young Jack, trading her pur-
portedly magical beans for his milky
white cow, she declares "If the end is
right, it justifies the beans!" A touch-
ing scene reveals a heart within the
seemingly evil Witch, brilliantly por-
trayed by Kelly Ellenwood, as she
explains her attempts to protect
Rapunzel from the evils of the world.
She wishes Rapunzel to remain a
child, a selfish wish despite its good
intentions. The first act ends with a
rendition of "Ever After" portraying
all the fairytales with happy endings
while hinting of the uneasiness of the
moral integrity sacrificed in the pro-
cess.

As the second act commences, the
characters still long for more, al-

  
 

464-6666

Open 24 Hours

   
     
    
   

463-9455 (@@

eae
VISA
Sane

FAX #: 463 - 6918

 

 

  
 
   

equipped kitchen,
4 bedroom house, city,
3 bedroom house, city,

 
  
 

  

FOR RENT — STUDENTS

5 bedroom house, nice location, country, fully-

$900/month.
$700/month.
§500/month.

CALL ALICE STRECKER
463-

7168

For your extra pieces of furniture
115 S. Main St., eth

  

Play draws viewers Into the Woods:

though they claim to be happy. The
characte: retum to the woods, this
time in pursuit of a giant ravaging
their town. As the characters have
selfishly pursued their own desires,

they have become liars and thieves, ‘
and their actions end in death and de-- ,

struction. Just as the Baker’s Wife
realizes that she must reach a higher
level of maturity and leave the
woods, she is crushed by the giant.
The overriding themes of maturation

as an ongoing process and of the |

importance of parenting by exam-
ple rather than a dictatorship lead into
the last refrains. The lyrics ring out:
"You have to go....
leam and less to know," and “Be
careful what you say... children will
listen." We must all go into the
woods, but we must also remember
that "no one is alone," and we must
consider the effects of our actions
and our words.

Furniture Dealers

   

463-2742

There is more to |

 
  
     
      

 

 
    

Phy?

 

 

 

Student House For Rent
3 or 4 Students,

463-5383

 

 

aucdiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED

- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2760 Ogden Road - Roanoke —

 

    
    
    
    
    
      
  
  
 
 
      
     
  

 

 

 

Z& Rollerblade.

Sales & Re«tals

LOVE Tsanoas

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

JUSTIN:
Old-Fashioned Wool
Baseball Caps

 
 

 
 

15 W. Washington Si.
(Next to Lloyd's)
464-3000

  
 

 

  

 

  
    
 
*

«

“

* Alumni Director Rob Mish, '76.

‘Reps

“= Generals lose to OWU --- see page Gy:

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

VOLUME 90, NO. 28

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

May 9, 1991

W&L community, alumni prepare for big weekend

 

By Alisha Johnson

+ Staff Reporter

 

Over 700 Washington and Lee University

* alumni will return to their alma mater this
, weekend to celebrate undergraduate and law

class reunions.

’ A slate of activities have been prepared in

honor of the classes of 1941, 1946, 1951,
1956, 1961, 1966, 1971, 1976, 1981 and

* 1986.

‘*The single most important weekend here
at W&L is Reunion Weekend,’’ said Assistant
‘*We have
50 non-reunionists who are coming back to
see the campus. This reunion will target

* particularly the Class of °'41, who are

celebrating their 50th reunion, and of ’66,
who will be here for their 25th reunion.’’

Mish said the university also invited the
alumni who were in the Persian Gulf to
Participate in the weekend as W&L guests.
They will be recognized at the joint meeting
of the W&L Alumni and Law associations.

The weekend activities began today with
the meeting of the 20-member Alumni Board
of Directors and the opening reunion
assembly in Lee Chapel.

According to W&L Alumni Director
James Farrar, the Alumni Board meeting will
serve as an ‘‘update session’ in which
University President John Wilson will
comment on the state of the university.

The board, which serves as a mouthpiece
for 17,000-18,000 alumni, focuses on interests
such as alumni career assistance, alumni
admissions programs, alumni chapter events,
and the Alumni Athlete Hall of Fame.

In addition to board meetings, interested

alumni and their guests can attend one of two
panel discussions offered Friday.

From 10:30 a.m. to noon ‘Understanding
the Muslim Attitude toward the West’’ will
be held in Lenfest, led by W&L professors.
In Lee Chapel W&L history professors will
present a discussion on ‘‘Robert E. Lee:
Soldier and Educator.’’

‘The idea of bringing the alumni back to
attend panel discussions is to give them the
feeling of being back in classes as well as to
give them an opportunity to socialize,’’ Mish
said. ‘Intellectual stimulation and socializing
have always gone together at W&L.”’

Following a luncheon on the Front Lawn,
there will be a panel discussion on ‘‘W&L
Today: Presentations/Questions and Answers’”’
in the Lenfest Center with several deans.

‘“T think the alumni will be able to see
how W&L has changed over the years and

yet how it has stayed the same,’’ Mish said.
‘*We’d like students to be around so that the
alumni can see how the university is now.”’

Cocktails with the faculty will be served
to alumni at the Alumni House in honor of
professors retiring at this year-end.

Mish encouraged all students to attend the
third annual concert of the Alumni/Glee Club
performance in the Keller Theatre of the
Lenfest Center Saturday morning at 11:30.

Book-signing by Tom Wolfe, °51, has
been added to Saturday afternoon’s schedule,
for 1-3 p.m. in the University Bookstore.

Mish, who celebrates his 15th reunion this
weekend, said the 1991 Alumni Weekend is
the first major event he has organized since
his arrival on campus in July.

“One of the changes this year is that
there will be a band that plays anything from
Glenn Miller to Beach Boys to Motown,”’

 

 

talk on
CRC

«By Brian Root
, Staff Reporter

 

 

» After three controversial years, the
university is reevaluating the Con-
‘fidential Review Committee, and
«might make significant changes in its
operation as early as next fall.

* In connection with that review,
,Dean of Students David Howison
went to the Executive Committee
«Meeting Monday to hear the mem- |
bers’ opinions about possible changes.
* “Tt was a very productive meet-
ing,’ Howison said. ‘‘It’s very im-
‘portant that the university receives as
,much student input as possible.’’

Howison denied that the reevalua-

‘tion was related to recent criticism of
,the university’s Harassment Policy,
which the CRC enforces.

+ ‘The faculty had planned for a
review of the CRC back when it was
“first initiated,’’ Howison said. ‘I’m
sure there is an impression that we’re
doing this because of what’s been
‘said, but that’s not the determining
«factor.”’

Critics of W&L’s policy and those

   

Alumni Director James Farrar
Mish said.

He said that on Saturday night the Alumni
Office has arranged a banquet for classes '71,
'76, '81, ’86 at Zollman’s Pavilion.

“It will be an old-fashioned barbecue bash
with entertainment by The Voltage Brothers,
mud, a pig roast, the whole thing,’’ he said.

Renaissance

 

 

‘of other schools have charged that
universities, in their zeal to protect
minority students from harassment,
‘have infringed on students’ constitu-

Movin’ on up

 

,tional rights of free speech. Locally,
students and others have claimed that
*W&L is falling victim to the so-
,called doctrine of Political Correct-
ness.

+ According to Howison, both the

 

Senior midfielder Clark Wight moves upfield against VMI Saturday In W&L’s 12-4 win in the Lee-
Jackson Classic. Wight was named ODAC player of the year for 1991; he finished with 24 goals
and 19 assists. The generals advanced to the NCAA quarter finals against Ohio Wesleyan but
lost 19-10 Wednesday. Story page 6. Phi photo by Chris Leiphart.

 

 

faculty and the EC recognize the
‘importance of having such a commit-
ytee as the CRC.

‘I didn’t hear anyone [at the EC
‘meeting}] say that we should abolish
jthe CRC,” Howison said. ‘‘I think

takes bidders

 

By Tom Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

After one year of embarrassing
delays, the Fraternity Renaissance
Program seems to have finally found
its stride.

Phase I of Renaissance is almost
complete, and Phases II and III are
in excellent condition, ‘according to
Frank A. Parsons, coordinator of
capital planning.

Part of the reason for this im-
provement is the University’s new
policy of allowing several contractors
to bid competitively for the work on
each house.

Bass Construction, which built the
University Library in 1974 and has
worked on several projects for the
university since then, had a contract
for all the Phase I houses.

Parsons said Bass had been on
time and performed excellently in all
its projects prior to Phase I.

’ “Bass failed to perform, both at
the Lenfest Center and [on the Phase
I houses],’’ Parsons said. ‘‘This was
uncharacteristic of them."

The final two Phase I houses,
Beta Theta Pi and Phi Kappa Sigma,
may be able to use the party areas of
their houses for Alumni Weekend,
Parsons said.

Parsons said the Beta house is
“essentially complete.

“Once [Beta’s] house corporation
makes arrangements with [the univer-
sity treasurer], I think they can have
access to the common areas of the
house, particularly to the party area,”’
Parsons said.

Beta President Kevin Bauer, said
the fraternity is anxious to unveil the
house for Alumni Weekend, but will
not know if it will be available until
Thursday or Friday.

“Tt’s still a little bit up in the air,
but I hope we can use [the house],’’
Bauer said.

While construction on the Phi Kap
house is about two weeks behind
Beta, Parsons said the Lexington
building inspector will inspect the Phi
Kap basement Friday. Parsons said
the fraternity might then also be able
to use its party area this weekend.

Phi Kap President Marc Short said
he would like to show off the new
house for returning alumni.

“The University has put a lot of
money into [the house], and I know
the alumni want to see it,’ Short
said.

Parsons said Beta and Phi Kap
will move into their houses in Sep-
tember 1991, completing Phase I nine
months behind schedule.

In contrast, Phase II, which in-
cludes Lambda Chi Alpha, Kappa
Sigma, Pi Kappa Phi, and Phi Kappa
Psi, is progressing quvickly and
smoothly, Parsons said.

Parsons said the contractors work-
ing on the Lambda Chi house and the
old Zeta Beta Tau house [which
Kappa Sigma will occupy] ‘‘have
been very quick in moving the job
along.

‘The progress [on Kappa Sigma]
is very good, and at Lambda Chi, the
progress is even better,’’ Parsons
said.

) Please see HOUSES page 6

Houses get social pro for ‘Sherman’s March’

it’s clear that we have to have a
«committee to handle these kinds of
delicate issues.”’

EC members have in the past
jbeen some of the harshest critics of
the CRC and the Harassment Policy.
‘EC President Tom Hatcher, in his
gampaign, promised an EC-led assess-
ment of the CRC.

‘ Chief among the complaints about
the CRC, Howison said, is that the
committee should only adjudicate
«sexual assault cases, rather than hav-
ing much broader, less defined au-
thority. Cases of racial or ethnic

‘

. Q Please see CRC page 5

‘

 

By Rick Peltz
Editor

 

The Interfraternity Council Judicial Board
punished three fraternities Tuesday with social
probation for breaking an IFC bylaw by par-
tying together.

Chi Psi, Delta Tau Delta and Phi Gamma
Delta will begin one week of social probation
Tuesday. The board found them guilty of
violating an IFC bylaw that forbids more than
two fraternities from cosponsoring a party in a
chapter house.

The three houses cosponsored the ‘‘Sher-
man’s March to the Sea’’ party at Chi Psi
Friday night.

Social chairmen from the three houses all
said they were surprised by the judicial action,
and all said they had been unaware of the IFC
bylaw. Chi Psi Social Chairman Kevin Fliess
was especially surprised, because he registered
the party in advance with the IFC under the
three houses’ names.

According to Associate Dean of Students
Leroy ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins, an IFC officer usually
does not review the party registration forms
until after the parties occur.

“It would have saved us a week of social
probation’’ if the IFC had reviewed the forms
in advance and warned of the potential viola-
tion, Fliess said.

Atkins said the party registration form
includes a statement that the signatory is famil-

iar with applicable IFC rules.

“T think it’s been a while since a lot of the
rules have been enforced,’’ Atkins said, ‘‘be-
cause people are so slack about reading the
book.”’

The IFC constitution and bylaws are printed
in the Student Handbook.

According to the bylaws, the three-house
party rule exists ‘‘because no member of the
Council has a house large enough to accom-
modate more than two chapters.’’ The bylaws
also state that at most, fraternity members, their
dates, and ‘‘specifically invited guests’’ can
attend parties.

Chi Psi, Delt and Fiji have about 121
members combined, according to figures pro-
vided by their officers.

Fliess said that at the peak of Friday night’s
party there were about 500 people present. He
said the house was ‘‘near capacity,’’ but ‘‘you
could still move around.”’

Delt 1990-91 Social Chairman Richard
Martz said he disagrees with the three-house
party rule.

Three smaller houses together could amount
to a smaller party than the two largest houses
combined, Martz said.

Fliess agreed and said the criteria should
therefore be changed.

‘*If the idea is to limit numbers, they need
to do something else,’’ Fliess said. ‘At almost
any party on campus there could be a greater
number of people.’’

 

Sept. 6 -—- Students
" learn ROTC will leave

Through the year

A retrospective for alumni

Oct. 15
and World Report ranks =

- U.S. News |

  

  
 
  

Feb. 4

Ye

a
i

— David Herr,

84, dies in non-combat

related incident while on

March 8 — W&L’s holds

 

 

 

W&L at end of school W&L 15th among na- | 4 | I duty in the Persian Gulf. its 84th annual Fancy
year. tional liberal arts . sad | St.  . Dress Ball, “A Royal
‘ colleges. Jan. 19 — First performance at Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts | oe at King Arthur's
ourt.
; |
|
Dec. 2 — Senior Pat Feb. 11 — Law faculty
, Lopes is chosen as ; votes to prohibit recruit-
7 W&L's 14th Rhodes Feb. 1 — President Wil- ing by employers who
Oct. 13 — Homecom- Scholar — the school's en Tene discriminate against
4 — ing: Generals beat Ham- oS first female winner, pnomores for roe homosexuals, including
pden Sydney Tigers 21- 0) fraternity windows. Two the U.S. military.
1 7. Senior Jean Stroman pane days later he explains his
crowned queen. e ie. ee oe actions to jeering, booing cere 87 ~ Presiden
== 9 students in Lee Chapel. Wien amends law
{ from registered fraternity
parties. Lopes Wilson faculty policy to allow

 

miliatry to recruit.

 

 
 

 

OPINION
CRC going,
going...

The Executive Committee had a lengthy and productive
discussion with Dean Howison Monday, and _ the
representatives freely aired their views on the CRC. Howison
was very receptive to the EC’s input, but the
recommendations the EC made are only the beginning of the
demise of a committee with no jurisdiction of its own, and
therefore no purpose.

The EC sought greater control over the CRC through the
power to appoint the student CRC members, a power the EC
wants and should have. President Wilson’s current
appointment power in that regard stands only as an insult to
student autonomy, a snub to the EC.

The most important EC recommendation, however, one
with which Howison agreed, was that the CRC should be
limited to sexual assault cases.

But take that argument a step further. No EC member
raised the point that such cases are already handled in
another jurisdiction: the law.

In a case several years ago, the EC learned the hard way
that its confidentiality must be breached if an honor
violation might simultaneously be a crime; it cannot remain
secret from the police until the honor hearings are over.
Likewise, the CRC had best remember that any matter it
deals with that might be a crime should be referred to police
without delay. The law will handle the situation thenceforth.

But then what of the CRC? If the law finds the accused
innocent, does the CRC claim the right to try with a lower
standard of proof to determine guilt? And if the law finds
the accused guilty, but the accused remains enrolled, is
sexual assault not an honor violation to be dealt with by the
EC?

Stripping the CRC to handling sexual assault cases only
is a move in the right direction, but the case in which the
CRC might rightfully handle an incident of sexual assault
outside the law and outside the Honor System eludes
imagination.

No delivery

We tried and tried, but delivery of the Phi to fraternities ©

just does not work and is discontinued as of this issue.

Apparently, very few fraternity members eat in their
house, on time at least. It seems that most are so anxious to
get the Phi, they stop by the University Center and pick up
the issues intended for freshmen, independents and women
— despite a sign asking you not to last week.

We find ourselves each week with a shortage of Phis
with the current system of distribution. In an attempt to
alleviate this problem we have increased the number of
copies printed to the maximum our budget will allow, and
we will now put all copies in front of the GHQ which are
not scheduled for delivery to administration, faculty and
subscribers.

Come get your own Phis, but if you are getting them for
your whole house, only take as many copies as you will use
(count them as some weeks the paper is thin and a small
handful can be well over 100 copies), and be sure that only
one member of your house comes to pick up papers for
everyone.

Quotes of the week

The same type of perception held by many students about the
CRC is held by many of the Executive Committee: that we're
fascists and we're Nazis.

— 1989-90 EC President and 1990-91 senior EC Rep.
Willard Dumas

Murph’s replacement has a lot of innovative ideas to bring
to this school, which should make a lot of us anti-innovative
people nervous.

— 1990-91 EC Vice President Raymond Welder

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded. September 18, 1897

 

 

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley

Cathy Lopiccolo

Senior Copy Editor Courtney Hall
Meterid) PAGO BGO. ct tt tte ee eC
BO ec elie ee rite ee eee
Associate Sports Editor o. John Laney
Entertainment Editor .......... .... Marcy Brown
bpenrparts EGUOF ok ce ie ee ees cee Wo
eee i 4 bs 0 1 ee ee
Tim Molloy

Associate Editor
News Editor

John Simonton
.... Whitney Swift
ee eee

mG WO 8 kk i a Pees
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity,

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1991

 

 

1

(:

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WHY DDN/T THeu HAVE
7
THoSé WHen | WENT HECe .

 

Founder says
Critics mistake
ACLU positions

 

 

By

MY VIEW

Andrew Schneider

 

   

only

One

 

 

 

Charles Kranich and Tim Molloy have unfairly por-
trayed the American Civil Liberties Union as an ideologi-
cally extreme organization. The ACLU is not ‘‘on the
fringe’’ of traditional American values, as Kranich
asserted in his My View column, nor is it comparable to
the Communists or the Moral Majority, as Tim Molloy
portrayed in his Ring-tum Phi cartoon. The ACLU’s sole
objective is to defend and maintain freedoms and civil
liberties guaranteed in the Bill of Rights. What could be
more American or patriotic than that? Accusing us of
taking the Bill of Rights to extremes is, in effect, voicing
a more fundamental complaint about the Constitution and
some of the most deeply held values in our society.

When George Bush attacked Michael Dukakis as a
“‘card-carrying member of the ACLU,’’ his attack was

successful because Dukakis failed to respond.

However, had he defended himself by identifying the
aims of the ACLU, Bush’s attack might have been
exposed as the shallow fear tactic that it was. After all,
who are the true patriots, those who wrap themselves in
the American flag or those who wrap themselves in what
the flag represents?

Due to limited space, I will only be able to respond
to the two most misleading attacks made by Kranich.

was that the ACLU ‘maintains that even metal

detectors should be removed from airports on constitu-
tional grounds.’’ Actually, this statement is outright false.
What we do oppose are ‘‘drug courier profiles’? which
allow police and airport security guards to stop people
based solely on their look, rather than on objective
evidence. When personal appearance is allowed as a basis
to stop and search, discrimination results.

Kranich also complains that we challenge the tax-
exempt status of churches. While this statement is true,
it has the effect of making us seem anti-religious. Like
Thomas Jefferson, we think that ‘‘wall of separation’’
between church and state benefits both entities. When the
wall is breached, religious institutions become dependent
on the government for approval and financial support.
With a financial incentive like tax exemption, the govern-
ment is clearly encouraging the formation and growth of
religion, just as it encourages financial growth with tax
breaks for big investors.

Our country was founded on two great principles
which, in our founding fathers’ time, were considered
unprecedented. One was the principle of democracy:
people ought to be able to vote for their governing
representatives, and that the majority should govern most
political decisions. This idea has become pretty well
entrenched in our country. The other was the principle of
liberty. This is the idea that, even in a democracy, the
majority doesn’t get to rule everything. There are certain
individual rights that protect the few from the tyranny of
the many. This principle is a fragile one and it is the
principle that the ACLU was founded to protect.

ACLU sponsors non-partisan events

 

MY VIEW
By Matt Jackson

 

I am not a member of the Washington and Lee
Chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union; I
do not agree with some of the ACLU’s national
agenda and as a result, I do not want to pay a $5
membership fee to benefit the national assemblage.
But when considering the microcosmic agenda for
the W&L chapter, my sympathies naturally change.

The Washington and Lee chapter, to the best of
my knowledge, has sponsored two speakers on
campus and has coordinated a non-partisan ‘‘Spe-
ak-out’’ (a type of open debate). The chapter’s
accomplishments this year can only be classified as
heightening intellectual and political awareness on
campus. What’s wrong with that? The Executive
Committee evidently found nothing wrong with the

Sbar wanna

THE BIZARRE SIDE
By Tom Hespos

 

 

Okay, so maybe this isn’t easy. It’s kind of
tough to take the place of a person considered a
legend in his own time. As I began to tell my
friends that I wanted to write humor for the Phi,
their reaction 90 percent of the time was, ‘‘Tom,
don’t kid yourself. You’re not nearly as funny as
that Sbar guy. You're just an obnoxious New
Yorker. Go back to the frat house and have a
beer."’

It’s so nice to know that one’s friends can be
sO supportive in the face of impending doom. Sup-
pose I’m really not funny. Suppose I am only an
obnoxious New Yorker...

The label ‘‘obnoxious New Yorker’’ is one that
I have learned to live with since my arrival last
fall. I’ve been told that my style of dress, and
even my hairstyle, is obnoxious. The great-grand-
daddy of all insults, however, came last week du-
ring a game of foosball, when one of my pledge
brothers nonchalantly said:

“Tom, your car is really obnoxious!”’

Obviously, this resident of South Carolina was
unaware that insulting a New Yorker's car is like
looking death square in the face. Besides being a
reflection of my personality and personal philoso-
phy, my car represents thousands upon thousands
of man-hours of body work, engine work, and
transmission work. In fact, the last guy who
insulted my car is currently rotting in my trunk.
Since coming to W&L, however, I have mellowed
out considerably. Thus, I managed to take the
criticism at face value:

‘“‘What do you mean my car is obnoxious,
you scrawny, anorexic lightweight?’’

My brothers who were present began to name
several things that they consider obnoxious about
my car; things that simply blend right in at home.
I remembered most of these things, and I will

chapter’s local agenda, since it agreed to fund a
modest $30 to help pay for the Speak-out.

The Speak-out was an interesting, balanced
debate concerning the law school’s former policy
of preventing the armed forces from recruiting on
campus. The debate eventually ended up as a dis-
cussion over whether or not homosexuals should be
allowed to serve in the military. The event seemed
to be enjoyed by the more than 30 students and
faculty members in attendance. A great deal of
audience participation resulted, and the event was
totally positive. The chapter did not push an
ideological agenda; instead, it emphasized free
speech and open debate. The whole event was
educationally enriching and entertaining. Willard
Dumas, John Fialcowitz, Tom Hatcher, Giles
Perkins, Dan Munroe, Caroline Wight, and Ashby
Hackney, the EC members who voted in favor of
granting the $30 to the chapter, should be com-
mended for their wise decision that made the
Speak-out possible and enriched W&L’s intellectu-

al climate that day.

However, when the chapter requested additional
funding the following week to help pay for another
Speak-out and another speaker, the EC rejected the
request.

The chapter did not deserve to be rejected.
After all, the chapter planned to handle the second
Speak-out just like the first one. The audience
would have enjoyed a well-conceived, well-bal-
anced debate. If there were no complaints about
the first Speak-out, why did the majority of the
EC members reverse their decision concerning the
second Speak-out? Willard Dumas and John Fial-
cowitz, it should be noted, were the only EC
members who voted in favor of funding the chapter
both times. Their votes, unlike many of the others,
reflect a consistent belief that Washington and Lee
would benefit from a heightened intellectual and
political awareness. It is too bad that more EC
members do not share that noble consistent, belief.
Our campus would be better off if they did.

be talks cars and pizza

present them in the tradition of David Letterman...

Top Ten Obnoxious Things

About Tom's Car

10. Cheesy door reflectors bought for $1.99 at
local AID auto store.
9. Pinstriping with extra-cheesy lightning bolt
graphics on rear quarter-panels.
8. Windshield washers installed in grille to fire
forward at the touch of a button.
7. Louisville Slugger in back seat to discourage
those more obnoxious than I.
6. Really loud stereo that is worth more than blue-
book value of the car.
5. Penthouse air freshener hanging from rear-view
mirror.
4. Ultra-cheesy surfing decals and bumper stickers
covering entire rear end.
3. Sticks of dynamite in glove compartment to
discourage tailgaters. (Relax, Officer Clark, I’m
only kidding.)
2. Radar detector on dash, protesting the ban on
such devices in Virginia. This risks a $500 fine,
but as long as I have explosives in my glove
compartment...
1. Big dent on passenger side from fishtailing into
a large canine on I-95. (Sbar may like large dogs,
but they tend to make me ill.)

Okay, my car may be obnoxious, but I made it
that way. In the words of one female freshman
from California, ‘‘Tom, your car is sooo0000
Guido.”

That’s another thing that irks me. The general
populace assumes that Long Island, my place of
origin, is an extension of New York City, inhab-
ited exclusively by drug addicts and members of
the Mafia. You wouldn’t believe the reaction I get
when I tell people that I live in the suburbs, I’m
drug-free, and my last name isn’t Corleone. I'm
not even Italian.

Granted, New York City is a place of extreme
violence and human suffering, but to write off an
entire state because of the actions of only a few
million psychos is wrong.

People here get so freaked out when they hear
some of the things New Yorkers do for fun. We
don’t do such asinine things as cow-tipping or
flagpole-swinging. Illegal drag-racing, shoplifting,
and arson, however, are quite popular. Some New
Yorkers go as far as to idolize the New Kids on
the Block, not for their musical ability, but for
their ability to burn down motels. Even the way
we order pizza in New York offends people. Let
me explain:

How to Order Pizza in New York
1. Call Domino’s.
2. Order 15 large pepperoni pies.
3. Have it delivered to a house down the block.
4. Wait in bushes for delivery person.
5. When he arrives, beat him to within an inch of
his life.
6. Take pizza home to the family.
7. Read about your escapade in the newspaper the
next morning.

I kid you not, this actually happened in my
home town several times. Since then, Domino's
requires that you have a pistol permit to apply for
a position. Please don’t try it in Lexington, as it
will probably get you into trouble with either
Officer Clark and his infamous turbo golf cart, or
one of those silly committees like the CRC.

I realize that I haven’t exactly promoted tour-
ism in my home -state with this article. I have
heard some people say, ‘‘New York is a great
place to live, but I sure wouldn’t want to visit.’’
My advice to W&L students and faculty: Relax,
take a valium, and learn to tolerate New Yorkers.
Eventually, some will learn to conform and wear
Duck Heads and $75 Ray-Bans. Until then, please
be tolerant.

Ed. note: The search continues. This column is the
first applicant to replace The Sbar Side. How do
you like it? Think you can do better? If you would

like the chance, submit an attempt to the Phj
mailbox on level two in the University Center.
The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1991

 

Se

 

—

es zy
— oa

 

Rob Aliff (stairs), Allen Norman, Scott Bell, and Bryant Spann (I to

for the upcoming production Evita. Phi photo by Leigh Allen.

Evita will open

¢

 

By Jennifer Gibson
Staff Reporter

 

+ Washington and Lee will celebrate
the official opening of the Lenfest
‘Center for the Performing Arts May
»24-25 with two evenings of events.
The festivities begin Friday, May
24 at 6:30 p.m. with cocktails and
dinner at the Lenfest Center’s experi-
mental theater. The Board of Trustees
and special invited guests will attend
, An Evening at Sardi’s,’’ reproduced

ODK bids 5
to its circle

By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

 

'

Five rising seniors will join the
‘Omicron Delta Kappa leadership
sfraternity Saturday at 2 p.m. in Lee
Chapel.

‘Five or six new members are
,inducted twice a year on the basis of
exemplary character,’’ Assistant Dean
‘of Students Kenneth Ruscio said.

, _ The first induction this academic
year was at the Founder’s Day Con-
‘vocation in January.

Although Ruscio would not name
the recipients of the awards for Satur-
‘day, he described the criteria and
qualifying characteristics of ODK
‘members.

+ Exemplary character, responsible
leadership and service, superior scho-
‘larship, and genuine fellowship are

  

 

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

by W&L with menus, waiters’ uni-
forms and decorative panels and
caricatures lent by the New York
City theater district restaurant. Vin-
cent Sardi, Jr., restaurateur and arts
patron, will be on hand to welcome
guests.

At 8 p.m. Friday and 1 p.m.
Saturday the University Theater group
will perform the musical Evita.

Following a champagne reception
at 6:30 p.m. Saturday for donors who
made gifts to the theater and other
invited guests, the dedication ceremo-

 

Dean Ruscio

among the criteria, he said.

In addition to the five juniors
receiving recognition, a sophomore
will be awarded the Rupert Latture
Award.

“This sophomore is not yet eligi-
ble for induction,’’ Ruscio said, ‘‘but
excels in the same areas as those
receiving ODK initiation. It is a
sophomore leader who exemplifies the
outstanding qualities of an ODK.”’

 

 

‘| Sergeant R.H. Sutton, Lexington
Police Department —  ‘‘I like
them. A lot of them have been
helpful to us; I get along with
most of them, and most of them
treat me with respect. I’ve even
gotten invited to a few parties,”’

 

Teresa Cummings, Waitress, Lee

Hi Truck Stop — ‘‘I've lived
around here all my life, and some
of the students can be nice, but a
lot of them are arrogant and they
think they own the town, and that
isn’t right.’’

r) rehearse with their instructor

Lenfest

ny will begin.
Journalist Roger Mudd, ’50, will
serve as master of ceremonies.
Following a recital at 8 p.m. by
Marilyn Home, mezzo-soprano for the
Metropolitan Opera, guests will attend
a celebration dinner dance.

The new building is the first
state-of-the-art performing arts facility
in the Shenandoah Valley. It’s named
in honor of Marguerite and H.F.
Lenfest °53, who gave $3 million
toward: construction and endowment.

George
readies
for repair

By Tom Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

Old George, a 700-pound replica
of George Washington, will be absent
from his perch atop Washington Hall
longer than expected.

The statue of George Washing-
ton, affectionately called Old George,
will not return to Washington and
Lee until early 1992, according to
James W. Whitehead, director of the
Reeves Center.

Old George was removed from
Washington Hall on April 17, 1990,
for restoration and replication.

Whitehead, who is overseeing the
restoration, said the delay is due to
the eight months the wooden statue
needed to dry out. Branko Medenica,
a Birmingham, Ala., sculptor, could
only then begin restoration.

After Medenica finishes, a replica
of Old George will be cast in bronze
in a foundry in Florida, Whitehead
said. The bronze replica will be
painted white and placed atop Wash-
ington Hall. The original George will
receive a place of honor inside a
university building.

The statue, which stands eight feet
tall, originally carved by local
carpenter Matthew Kahle in 1840
from a pine log he found drifting
down the James River. According to
legend the university bought Old
George from Kahle for $100.

Since that time Old George has
become a widely recognized member
of the campus and a symbol of the
university. George has also been
painted colors other than his usual
white many times by pranksters and
dressed up for many _ university
activities such as Fancy Dress.

The estimated $100,000 needed to
restore Old George is being contrib-
uted by W&L’s Class of 1940, said
Director of Communications Brian
Shaw when the statue was removed.

 

HOUSES

from page 1

 

Parsons said five or six contrac-
tors, including Bass, bid on the Kap-
pa Sigma and Lambda Chi houses.
J.B. Wine & Son, Inc., Staunton, Va.,
won the Kappa Sigma job; Lantz
Construction, Broadway, Va., won the
Lambda Chi job; and H. Hamner Gay
& Company, Inc., Lynchburg, Va.,
was the low bidder on the Davidson
Park joo.

Parsons said all three contractors
are doing excellent work.

“They're performing quite well,
and the price was very attractive,’’
Parsons said.

Parsons said the Lambda Chi and
Kappa Sigma houses will be complete
by January 1992.

The university will receive bids
for the last two houses in Phase II,
Pi Phi and Phi Psi, later this month,
Parsons said. Phi Psi will be com-
plete by January 1992 and Pi Phi by

September 1992.

Phase III of the program will
include the construction of new hou-
ses for Sigma Chi and Sigma Phi Ep-
silon in Davidson Park.

Parsons said renovation of the
present Sigma Chi house would be
too expensive because of its small
size.

Renovating the present SPE house,
on the other hand, poses different
problems, Parsons said.

The SPE house ‘‘is a very large
house and would be a very, very
expensive renovation,’’ Parsons said.
‘‘Additionally, the house itself is not
considered a part of our campus.”’

The last houses to undergo reno-
vation will be Delta Tau Delta and
Kappa Alpha. Parsons said both will
be complete by September 1992.

“By January 1993, we should be
all done,’’ Parsons said.

 

 

Buddy Johnson, Manager, ABC

Store — ‘‘W&L students as a
whole have a lot of potential to
be outstanding citizens and are
assets to the community.”’

 

 

TALKBACK

Mark Austin, Fraternity Renais-
sance Construction Werker at
Beta Theta Pi — ‘‘They’re all
right I guess. Some of them got
their fingers stuck up their....’’

 

 

 

GENERAL NOTES

 

 

Lost

A small black Cannon Snapper 50
camera in a brown zipper case
was lost by the freshman quad
last week. If found, please return
it to the Graham-Lees security
office. Owner lives in Dayton
Beach, Florida.

Be a Peer

Interviews for next year’s peer
counselors will be held on May
20, 21, and 23 from 1 to 4:30
p.m. Applications may be picked
up at Carol Calkins’ office in the
University Center. Anyone is
welcome to apply.

For Sale

Single mattress and boxspring for
sale, $150. Dresser $35. Desk
$40. Interested? Call Rochelle at
463-9576.

Speak-out

The W&L chapter of the Ameri-
can Civil Liberties Union will
present a second Speak-out at
noon on Friday, May 10 at the
ODK circle in front of the Co-
op. The topic will be ‘The Was-
hington and Lee harassment poli-
cy: Is it a speech code that in-
fringes on our first amendment
rights?’’ Everyone is invited.

Russian Lecture

Donald Raleigh, Professor of
History and Director of the Rus-
sian Studies Program at UNC
Chapel Hill, will present a public
lecture on the topic, ‘‘Perestroika:
Where It Came From and Where
It Is Going’? at 7:30 p.m. on
Monday, May 13 in C-School
room 327. Dr. Raleigh’s talk is
sponsored by W&L’s Russian
Studies Committee with funding
provided by the university’s Mel-
lon Foundation Grant for Russian
Studies.

Student Flix

The W&L Film Society will
sponsor a showing of two student
films on Friday, May 10 at 8:05
p.m. in Lewis Hall classroom A.
The first film, /nside the Walls, is
produced by Regis Dotterweich. It
is a candid look at VMI life from
the eyes of a cadet. The second
film, Rara Avis, is produced by
Cary Moseley. It is a somewhat
shocking avant garde mixture of
camera work, images, poetry,
Narrative, and sounds.

SE

Be Famous

Seniors and third year law stu-
dents: if you want the folks back
home to hear about your gradua-
tion and stellar accomplishments,
please fill out and return current
info sheets to the News Office on
the first floor of Reid Hall ASAP.
Extra forms are available at the
library and the co-op.

Go Teach

The R.E. Lee Episcopal Church
has openings for Sunday School
teachers and teaching assistants
for the '91-’92 academic year.
Requires commitment on Sunday
mornings 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. if
interested, call Bill Stockwell,
Chairman of the Christian Educa-
tion Committee, at 463-6587.

New Handbook

The 1991-92 Student Handbook is
now being compiled. Any new
student organizations should noti-
fy Bernadette Kempton or leave
an entry consisting of a short
description of the organization and
the names of its leaders in the
Student Handbook box outside the
Dean of Students’ office in Payne
Hall.

Ides Speaks

Law Professor Allan P. Ides will
present a lecture on ‘‘Police mis-
conduct and civil rights’’ Monday,
May 13, at 8 p-m. in Northen
Auditorium. The lecture will be
one of a series of talks sponsored
by the W&L chapter of the
ACLU. Ides, a member of the
law faculty since 1989, is an
expert in constitutional law, the
Supreme Court, and the federal
judicial system.

T-Shirts

Anyone wanting Sherman’s March
to the Sea t-shirts, call Chris
Smith at 464-4454. Each shirt
costs $10.

New Sbar

Think you’re funny? Well here’s
your chance to prove it. The
Ring-tum Phi is looking for two
hilarious humor columnists to
write a monthly column for this
esteemed publication. Interested?
Call Josh Manning at 463-2397 or
Rick Peltz at 464-5518.

 

 

Diane Potter, Manager, Stop In
Food Store, 113 N. Main —
**..[ think they’re precious; I love
them to pieces...We like to be
considered the kids’ second
home.”’

   

! What is your opinion of W&L students?

 

Patricia Ferguson R.N., Emer-
gency Room, Stonewall Jackson

Hospital -  ‘‘...Unfortunately,
our biggest contact with them is
when they’re drunk, falling down,
and obnoxious...1 think they've
mellowed a lot since the women
got there...We have loads of vo
lunteers from W&L, and they're

terrific.’’

 

 

~~

PO FPP IO LLL LATS IAAI ILA AADAOC OOD COVEN, 1. FO. HH FOF 5.9.0 8 o>
ae PF TT

wera aaa

aah a
 

 

 

 

 

 

NEWS

 

By Jennifer Mayo ag
Staff Reporter

Pi Beta Phi might be the next
sorority to colonize at Washington &
Lee, Panhellenic President Dale Wyatt
told council members Tuesday. The
PHC extended an informal bid
sorority Tuesday afternoon wher
Wyatt called the national office and
expressed the university’s interest in
seeing their colonization here

to the

‘‘They were surprised to receive
the call, but said that they had seen
some of the recent Ring-tum Phi
articles and knew their name was
being discussed,’’ Wyatt said

The bid was extended after the
Student Affairs Committee
unanimously voted Friday that an
extension was vital to the sororities
already in existence despiti
Delta Gamma’s unsuccessful coloniza
tion attempt earlier this year.

here,

‘*We want to make sure that what
happened to DG doesn’t happen
again, but at the same time we do
need another group on campus,
Associate Dean of Students Leroy
‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins said. ‘‘Our chapters

here are just too big. We are striving
for houses of 75 or 80 girls, and
right now they are well over 100.”’

Since both Chi Omega and Kappa
Kappa Gamma sororities initiated
their largest pledge classes last week-

nd, each of the three sororities has
»ver 110 members.

Dean of Students David Howison
and the PHC are also in favor of an
extension in the near future.

‘Everyone has evaluated DG’s
situation, and hopefully we can learn
from the past,’’ Howison said. ‘‘We
all want another sorority to succeed
here. Even the three sorority presi-
dents want another sorority to suc-
ceed, and we hope it will be Pi Beta
Phi.”’

Pi Beta Phi officials seem opti-
mistic, but will not respond to the
bid until their national officers meet
ind discuss the proposal. They re-
quested that the three sorority presi-
dents at W&L send them statistics on
chapter sizes and rush quotas so they
can become more familiar with the
W&L Panhellenic group.

Pi Beta Phi’s Grand Vice Presi-
dent of Membership Caroline Lesh
said that the sorority has been inter-
ested in Washington and Lee for

The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1991
aaaase

Panhel invites Pi Beta Phi

SAC votes for the colonization of a fourth W&L sorority

some time, but needs some assurance
of success.

‘‘We would love to be on a cam-
pus like W&L,"’ Lesh said, ‘‘but we
do not want to come too soon.’’

She said if the group was to ac- -
- cept the bid, they would want the Pi

Beta Phi chapter size to be equivalent
to that of Chi-O, Kappa and Theta
within the first two or three years,
and this would drastically alter the
quotas and statistics of women’s rush.

‘Experience shows us that when
we are investigating an extension, it
is promising to see figures that show
we can equal in size within two or
three years,’’ Lesh said. ‘‘Our
chances of being strong in
Panhellenic and of having a strong
reputation would not be as good if
we weren't of comparable size shortly
after colonization.”’

But everyone seems to be willing
to make compromises for a new
group, and the PHC is already look-
ing into possible quota changes to
make a successful extension.

“‘We really want and need another
strong house here, and we’ve invited
one of the best,’’ Wyatt said, ‘‘but
for now all we can do is cross our
fingers and hope they will accept.”’

Handelman readies for China

 

By Maureen Levey
Staff Reporter

 

Fudan University in Shanghai,
China will welcome Washington and
Lee Politics Prof. John R. Handelman
next week.

Not only will Handelman
research Chinese politics, but he will
also conduct five series of lectures.

“It’s an ideal setting to talk with
students and faculty about the post
Tiannamen incident of two years
ago,’’ Handelman said. ‘‘I'’d like to
see how the politics and opinions
have changed.”’

Handelman will research into th
population or family planning policy
of China. But his main area of re
search will be into the higher educa
tion policy.

‘Higher education is an interest
of mine and continues to be,’’ Han
delman said.

Handelman prepared fiv:
for the Fudan ’ University

lectures
students

He will lecture on such subjects as
post-Cold War international system,
including President Bush’s New
World Order; the Persian Gulf Crisis
and its aftermath; and relations be-
tween the United States and Japan,
the Soviet Union, and China.

Handelman’s academic trip will
begin in Hong Kong on Saturday.
He will remain in Hong Kong for
four days, then he will begin his six
weeks of studies and lectures in
Shanghai.

In addition to his academic work,
Handelman looks forward to experi-
encing the culture and inhabitants of
the area.

‘Getting to know many people in
one place is one of the benefits of
this trip,’’ Handelman said.

“The chief benefit of the trip,
however, will be bringing firsthand
experience into the W&L classroom
which in one way or another im-
pressed me,’’ Handelman said.

Handelman will be applying his
experiences in China to his Chinese

 

Prof. Handelman

Political System course in the fall.

Handelman looks forward to his
trip, but he is apprehensive about one
minor detail. He doesn’t speak Chi-
nese.

‘Shanghai is one of the most
western cities in China, so luckily,
many. citizens. speak, English,"" Han-
delman said. fall gipicipas,| lots. of sur-
prises.’

English Comps see top scores

 

REE OT
By Kimberly Boots
Staff Reporter

The English majors graduating
this year produced the best set of
Comprehensive Examinations that the
English department has seen in many
years, according to Prof.
Craun, head of the department.

This year, three of the 38 students

Edwin

who took the exam earned a ‘‘distinc-
tive’’ rating. Craun said this year’s
class was ‘‘a remarkably good class,”’
and that there have been no distinc-
live ratings in the past three years.
Although students prepare + for the
exams, they are demonstrative of
‘‘the quality of work they’ve done all
along,’’ said Craun. The exams are
rated distinctive, pass or fail. A,
distinctive rating is recorded on the

ee ee

 

Fr
i
:
i
i
i
i
!
i
i
}
i
i
i
3
i
i
i
‘
i
i
t
i
i
i

10% OFF

Any Regular-Priced
Vierchandise
WITH THIS AD
(Expires 5-13-91)

S Fins! it! eam Sports

115 W. Nelson St.

 

 

 

Big Dog Graphics

 

 

cae

cle!

We have cut prices on Party Shirts.
Don’t miss this offer-it won’t last.

cle?

 

PLB)

HATS FOR ALL OCCASIONS

me Late
TOP QUALITY GOLF HATS AT THE BEST PRICE!

eu ED)

 

Come in or ¢
703-463-2618

 

all for Details

800-437-4443

 

 

 

Ee

student’s permanent record.

The examination serves two pur-
poses: first, seniors must pass the
Comprehensive Examination in order
to graduate with a major in English.
Also, the exam helps the faculty to
“‘get a sense of how well we're
teaching our majors,’’ said Craun.

Seniors took the exam after the
first week of spring term. ~

   
   
 
  
  
 
  
 

   
 

  

@)) 203 N. Main St.

     

130 S. Main St.

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

 

it out

Checking

Robert Stallard, Andrew Keller and Chris Cox inspect a Corvette, one of three General Motors
automobiles in front of Lee Chapel before Roger Smith's lecture. Phi photo by Leigh Allen. +

Smith speaks on future cars

Former GM head talks about the destination of transportation

 

By Jameson Leonardi
Staff Reporter

Retired General Motors Corp.
CEO Roger B. Smith gave the
Washington and Lee community a
taste of the future of personal
transportation last night in Lee
Chapel.

Smith, the retired chairman
and CEO of GM, gave a speech
entitled ‘‘Motoring into the 21st
Century: The Future of the Auto-
mobile,’’ sponsored by the Con-
tact Committee.

“Futurizing is risky, if you
venture out too far,’’ Smith said
at the beginning of his speech.
He said that the cars of tomorrow
would have certain elements com-
mon to today’s cars as well as
futuristic improvements.

Among these improvements

 

 

 

will be alternative fuel systems,
he said, and solar powered and
electric cars already exist at GM.
Another improvement is a com-
puter system that can detect ob-
jects near the car and warm the
driver in danger of a collision, he
said.

The list also includes devices
that help prevent a driver from
falling asleep at the wheel, Smith
said. Two engineers were brought
in for the multi-media presenta-
tion used during the speech. The
show presented some of the new
automobile technology GM_ is
working on, such as an exper-
imental solar-powered car.

An electric car called Impact
was also highlighted. The Impact
can accelerate from 0-60 mph in
8 seconds and has all the benefits
of a regular car, according to the
presentation, and GM plans to put

 

this car into production soon. +

For the speech, three GM
automobiles were set in front of’
the chapel. Two of the cars, a:
Corvette and a Saturn, were sup- |
plied by local dealerships. The’
third, a 1992 Cadillac Seville, has,
not yet been premiered to the
general public,

Smith is currently a member,
of the GM board of directors.
He serves on the boards of direc- *
tors of Johnson & Johnson,
Pepsico, and International Paper. '
Smith is also the originator of the +
GM Cancer Research Award,
which recognize the achievements *
of scientists for their work in,
Cancer research, treatment, and
prevention. .

**Personal transportation with ,
its glorious past and challenging
present has a vibrant and exciting +
future,’’ Smith said.

Rally organizers honored in D. C.

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

Student organizers and supporters
of February’s ‘‘Virginians for Vic-
tory’’ rally were invited to the White
House last month in appreciation of
their support of U.S. troops.

Rally organizer Marc Short said
Bobbie Kilberg, deputy assistant to
the president for public liaison, in-
itiated the invitation for the April 23
trip. Kilberg spoke at the rally in
Doremus Gymnasium.

Representatives from all the Vir-
ginia schools that participated in the
rally were invited, junior Nancy

463-9455 (@@

   
   
     
  
   
     
 

463-7969

       
  
 

 

 

LEXINGTON

 

16 E. Nelson St.

 

 

eGym and Aerobics
Studio

eLimited Membership
Available

Open Daily

464-1FIT

 

 

 

 

Mitchell said. Washington and Lee
sent one of the largest delegations,
about 50, because the rally was held
here, she said.

The students traveled to Washing-
ton, D.C. by bus and were taken to a
briefing room in the Old Executive
Office Building, across the street
from the White House.

There, the group listened to four
administration officials speak about
various aspects of the president’s do-
mestic agenda.

‘The theme was directing all the
energy and enthusiasm that was put
into the war into the domestic poli-
cy,”’ Mitchell said.

The next agenda item was

changed.

‘*We were supposed to take a tour
of the White House,’’ Short said,
‘but instead they took us out on the
lawn to watch the president and his
wife, Colin Powell and the presi-
dent’s dog get on a helicopter and ‘fly
away.’

‘*You know those people on the
lawn waving flags that you see ‘on
the news?’’ Mitchell said. ‘ That was
us.’”

Senior Paul Lagarde said he én-
joyed that part of the day and had ‘‘a
good time in Georgetown afterward.’

Short said ‘‘rumors that the dog,
Millie, attacked [senior] Charles Kra-
nich’’ are not true.

:FIXERS SS

"SHOE FIXERS

Instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

3 West Nelson St., Lexington

DE ) A () ROR (> RUT () NUE: RARER: CEERI (ARES

Coming back in September?
Registered for fall term yet?

Fall term registration
ends Friday afternoon!

 

Breakfast/Lunch/Dinner/Espresso/Cappuccino
19 West Washington Street/Lexington/464-1900 ®

| |
t
{

464-6666;

    

   
 

   
  
NEWS

Students help
area homeless

 

By Alisha Johnson
Staff Reporter

 

After praying for five years that
would live to see her house pain-
ted, Gladys Steele can check that
request off her list.

Last Wednesday, Thursday and
Friday afternoons several Lexington
residents volunteered to scrape and
paint the Gladys House, Lexington’s
Shelter for the homeless.

“This house has needed painting
for 25 years and we finally made it,”’
Siecle said, who recognized the Bap-
list Student Union for their work in
pulling the event together. ‘‘I was
rather surprised to see such a turnout,
and | was really impressed with the
W&L students because most come
from families who don’t know of
homeless families.’’

[he Gladys House, which sits
below the Nelson Street overpass to
Harris Teeter, is two stories with
eight rooms and two bathrooms.

“‘[ think that we are in a great
location,’’ Steele said. “You can get

she

to the house from anywhere because
three or four roads pass by this
way.”’

Steele said that from November to
the last week in March she operates
the shelter, where individuals and
families come for a good meal at
night, clean beds, and a nice shower.

“‘We have volunteers locally and
from W&L who come to spend the
night, and many churches and local
people bring dinner,’’ Steele said.
“W&L has been a great help in
taking up canned foods. I'd like to
thank everyone for what they’ve
done.”’

Steele continues to dream of more
improvements for the homeless shel-
ter. She would like to see renova-
tions done to expand the size of the
House, and wants to work with the
city to keep the shelter open year-
round,

‘‘T’ve seen so many good things
come from here. People leave here
and get jobs. So many have kept in
touch with me to let me know how
good things have turned out for
them,’’ Steele said.

Russian advisor
hopes for change

 

By Joshua Manning
Staff Reporter

 

Dr. Alexei Yablokov, — science
advisor to Russian Republic Presi-
dent Boris Yeltsin, spoke to Washin-
gton and Lee students and faculty
Tuesday on the future of socialism.

A zoologist and ecologist by
trade, Yablokov gave up his job as a
professor at the Academy of Sciences
in Moscow to run for the Congress
of Peoples’ Deputies during the
Soviet Union’s first free elections in
over 7(0) years,

“My science could wait for a
year or two,’’ Yablokov said. ‘‘Politi-
cal change in my country could not.”’

Yablokov won his election and
later was appointed by the Congress
to the more elite upper house, the
Supreme Soviet. He now sits as Dep-
uty Chairman of the Committee on
Ecology and also serves as the chief
science advisor to Russian Republic
President Boris Yeltsin.

This week,
Lexington.

As this year’s final Telford Lec-
ture Series speaker, Yablokov spent
four days on campus speaking on the
future of social democracy.

In his speech, he asked the ques-
tion, ‘‘Can democracy be reconciled
with socialism?’’

The problem with such a broad
question, said Yablokov, is that there
are many forms of socialism. Forms
range from National Socialism (also
called fascism) to Gorbachev’s new
‘socialism with a human face,’’ he

Yablokov. was in

said.

Whatever: Soviet Socialism may
be, Yablokov said it has destroyed
the land, the environment, and the
infrastructure of the Soviet Union to
a point where the majority of its 15
republics now favor slashing the very
word Socialist from the country’s
name.

While Yablokov did say it is
possible to reconcile democracy and
socialism, he recommends that his
country look to such nations as Swe-
den for a role model.

The Soviet Union, said Yablokov
will have to completely overhaul its
gigantic military/industrial complex
encompassing over half the nation’s
work force. He said such a change
may prove an overwhelming shock to
the system.

‘We will have to learn that our
neighbors may be richer than us,”’
Yablokov said. ‘‘It will go against
the fundamental principles of commu-
nism.”’

Yablokov, however, is not a com-
munist; he is a self-styled ‘‘eco-
politician,’’ in deference to his first
love, ecology.

While initially following Gorb-
achev’s lead in the political arena,
Yablokov is now deeply critical of
the president’s recent return to hard-
line communism.

This week’s visit was Yablokov’s
second visit to Washington and Lee.
As head of a 30-member Soviet
delegation to an environmental con-
ference held here last June, he said
he was intrigued by the calm and
beauty of Lexington.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1991

 

 

Now where’s that hammer?

 

 

 

Construction workers ponder their progress on the Pi
Kappa Phi house, part of Phase Il of the Fraternity Renais-

sance program. Work on the last Phase | houses is nearing
completion. Phi photo by Leigh Alien.

 

 

 

107 West Nelson Street

 

The Bookeuy

Hundreds of new and thousands of old books in every category.

Alumni, come by and have something to read on your way home.

P.O. Box 1388 (ase WZ
Lexington, Virginia 24450 oe Buy, Sell and Trade,
703-464-3377 _— Used Hardbacks & Paperbacks

 

 

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

Nationwide is on your side

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN

Agent

203 South Main Street
Lexington, VA

Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

Don't
Forget
Mom on
Mother's
Day

May 14

 

  

Registrar
drops fee

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

 

Students who want to switch
classes the first week of a term will
no longer have to cough up five
bucks to do it; however, students who
wait until after the first week to
drop/add will be paying much more.

Elimination of the fee for each
drop/add is one of the changes in the
university registrar’s office policy,
according to D. Scott Dittman, regis-
trar.
“Students think the fee is a both-
er,’’ Dittman said. ‘‘Well, we think
it’s a bother, too.’’

Dittman said the elimination of
the fee reflects the opinion of the
faculty that ‘‘students should be al-
lowed to switch classes the first week
{of the term].’’

However, students who drop/add
after the scheduled period will have
to pay $25 and get the approval of
the Faculty Executive Committee.
Exceptions will be made for students
who are ‘‘accomodating departmental

  

  

views,
4 Bedroom house, city,
3 Bedroom house, city,

 

 

MMMM

PHONE: 463-1712 «

 

 

* QUICK COPIES « FLYERS

* PAPERS « BANNERS » INVITATIONS
2} OPENSATURDAY MORNINGS

125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON, VA * ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

FAX #: 463 - 6918

 

 

Student Rental Houses

In City:

*29 Hook Ln. 4 Bedroom, all appliances included, large deck, screened
front porch, fenced yard, ample parking.

*301 Houston St. 3-4 Bedroom ranch, new appliances, nice front porch, B
large yard with good parking, safe family oriented neighborhood.

In County:

‘Timber Ridge, Route 716, approx. 6 miles north. 2 story, 4 bedroom,
all appliances included, on 2 acres of land, very nice property and loca-

tion.

*Timber Ridge, Route 727, approx. 7 miles north. 2 story farmhouse,
N 3-4 bedrooms, on 5 acres, porches and great private location.

§ Call Mrs, Colonna at Lexington Management Company, 463-7157
N Days or 463-2060 Evenings,

 

FOR RENT -

2 Bedroom country home, within 5 miles, scenic

CALL ALICE STRECKER
463-7168

  

 

Registrar Scott Dittman

wishes or other circumstances beyond
their control,’’ Dittman said.

Students will also have to pay $25
to register for a term after the normal
registration period but before the end
of the first week of the term. It will
take $50 plus Faculty EC approval to
register after the first week but before
midterm.

Students who do not register
before midterm will now be automati-
cally withdrawn from classes. ‘‘Es-
sentially they will be kicked out of
school,’’ Dittman said.

STUDENTS

$550/month
$700/month
$500/month

   

 
 

NEW

AMEX

 

 
    
       
       
      
    

CLASSICS

 

CRC

from page 1

 

harassment, previously adjudicated by
the CRC, could be referred to the
Student Conduct Committee.

According to Howison, reviews of
cases of sexual assault greatly benefit
from a ‘‘mixture of both students and
faculty.

‘These are such sensitive issues,
that it’s absolutely vital to have both
students and faculty involved,’’ he
‘said.

Howison denied that the W&L
Harassment Policy prohibits the exer-
cise of free speech.

“T’'ve read through our policy,
and I don’t consider it a ‘speech
code,’’’ Howison said. ‘‘However, I
understand that there is an impression
that that is the case.’’

Despite this, Howison told the EC
Monday night that the reevaluation of
the CRC will emphasize any possible
infringements on free speech.

“T think a major problem with the
CRC and the Harassment Policy is
that it’s too ambiguous, and we
should consider tightening it up,”’
Howison said.

Another complaint voiced by the
EC concerns how the student mem-

bers of the CRC are appointed. Cur-
rently, University President John
Wilson appoints the three students.

EC Secretary Jeffery Kelsey said
it was inappropriate for the EC to
have no input with a committee that
has the authority to expel students.

‘We have been completely cut
out of the loop with the CRC,’’ he
said.

EC President-elect Giles Perkins
suggested the EC make the appoint-
ments rather than the administration.

‘‘Personally, I think the students
should become more involved in the
process,’’ said Howison. ‘‘The only
problem the EC might have is con-
vincing the skeptics that the appoint-
ments wouldn’t be just popularity
contests.’’

Howison said that any possible
changes in the either the Harassment
Policy or the CRC would come next
fall at the earliest. However, he said
he hoped to set up several meetings
over the summer with both student
leaders and faculty to begin discuss-
ing suggestions.

‘‘That way, we won't have to
start from scratch,’’ he said.

 

ae

 

scant

‘Right >

ee)

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022
Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St.
With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

ae ie ei

women,

Corbin
Haspel
B.D. Baggies
Ruff Hewn-Men
W&L Tires-Belts
Exclusive

Exceptional Tee Shirt

Gitman
Sero

THE COLLEGE TOWN SHOP
111 West Nelson Street

463-2731

VISA

Visit us again for pleasant memories and
first quality merchandise for men and

 

ALUMNI SALE - Suits and Sport Coats+ 20% Off

Lanz

Tanner

Woolrich

Breckenridge

Ruff Hewn-Women

Jayson Younger
Cotton Sweaters

Linda Lewis

   

   

      
 

MASTERCARD

  
 
 

   
   
   

    

 
   
    
    
     
      

    
        
     
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS
OWU tops W&L in NCAA Tournament

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

In many ways, the 1991 men’s
lacrosse season mirrored the 1987
season, right down to the final loss.

Both teams reached the NCAA
Division II] Tournament. Both teams
finished the season 11-4. And both
teams saw their seasons end after a
seven-plus hour bus trip to Ohio
Wesleyan University in Delaware,
Ohio. OWU sent the Generals home
disappointed with a 19-10 loss.

The 1991 team had won five
straight games heading into the play-
offs, including a 12-4 thrashing of
city-rival VMI in the Fourth Annual
Lee-Jackson Classic last Saturday.
During that stretch, W&L had out-
scored its opponents 78-25 and al-
lowed only one team to score over
five goals.

OWU also came into the game on
a winning streak. The Bishops had
won their last 12 games, including an
18-11 decision over W&L earlier in
the season. The Bishops entered the
tournament seeded second and had
scored 111 goals in their last five
games, including 57 in their last two.

When the action started, the Bish-
ops wasted little time continuing on
their scoring spree. Neil Ringers
opened the scoring just 34 seconds
into the game.

Trailing 2-0, sophomore defense-
man Kirk Olsen got the Generals on
the board when he brought the ball
the length of the field unchecked and
scored the first goal of his career.
W&L tied the game at 3-3 with 6:05
left in the quarter on goals by senior
Todd Garliss and junior Drew Anton.

OWU reclaimed a 4-3 lead before
sophomore David Lefkowitz tied
things at 4-4 at the end of the first
quarter. Anton scored his second goal
of the game to tie the game again at
5-5 with 12:47 left in the first half,
but for the rest of the first half, the
Bishops took control of the game.

The Bishops scored the last four
goals of the half, including Tom
Mott’s shot just before the clock ran
out, and then the first two goals of
the second half to take an 11-5 lead.

Senior Mike Pardo scored to
break OWUs run, and sophomore

John Hunter scored to close the gap
to 11-7 with 4:46 left in the third
quarter, but Bill Bishop answered for
— to push the lead back out to

‘When we scored two in a row,
I thought if we could get one more
and cut the lead to three, we'd be
back in the game,"’ said head coach
Jim Stagnitta. “We had enough
close-i “in Opportunities to make it a
game.’

But OWU goalie Rich Flynn came
up big time after time in keeping
WA&L from converting enough oppor-
tunities. Flynn finished the game with
20 saves.

“Offensively, we never really got
it going until the second quarter,’’
said senior Clark Wight. ‘Their
goalie had a terrific game. We just
couldn’t put the ball in the net.”’

The Bishops put the game away in
the fourth quarter, led by Rich Franz,
who scored four of his five goals in
the quarter. OWU took a 19-9 lead
before senior Mike Moseman scored
with 32 seconds left to provide the
final margin, 19-10.

‘Coming in, we knew we had to
shoot well and minimize our defen-
sive mistakes,’’ said Stagnitta. ‘*We
ended up playing a lot of defense,
and you can’t stay on defense and
expect them not to score.’’

Franz set an NCAA Toumament
record with 11 points on five goals
and six assists.

The loss overshadowed a fine
performance by W&L goalie Tom
Costello, who made 19 saves on the
day.

“If you told me before the game
that Cos was going to make 20
saves, I’d have said we'd win,’’ said
Stagnitta. ‘‘He made some great
saves, some all-american saves.’’

A dejected Costello said OWU
just didn’t make mistakes.

“‘T let some things in that I proba-
bly shouldn’t have,’’ he said. ‘I
made some good saves, too, but they
just didn’t make any mistakes when
they got in close.’’

‘‘We tried as hard as we physical-
ly could,’’ said Wight. ‘‘They just
stuck it in the cage more. Cos had a
great game but they just had so many
opportunities.’’

The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1991
Sa

 

 

Senior Todd Garliss scores one of his three goals in Saturday’s
12-4 win over VMI in the Lee-Jackson Classic. Garliss finished the

OWU outshot W&L 56-35.

Costello said W&L simply got
beat by a better team.

‘They were just better than we
were,’’ he said. ‘‘We had a couple of
chances, but we could never really
put it together. They just beat us.’’

The Generals finish the season 11-
4 and ranked sixth in the nation.
Stagnitta was honored as Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Coach of the
Year and Wight was named ODAC
Player of the Year. Both agreed the

 

FAST

 

 

prey

Fast

Lane

 

 

 

COLON PIN CARNIMAL

oo. Over 50 ways to on money. a
You do x not t need t to be a : Peas bowler to

 

sgl :

 

 

® Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin
Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

loss shouldn’t take any of the luster
off a great season.

“‘It was a pretty positive season,”’
said Wight. ‘‘We accomplished four
of the five goals we set for ourselves.
We won the ODAC, we won the
Lee-Jackson game, we came together
as a team, and we made it to the
NCAAs. We never thought about
winning the NCAAs until we got
there.”’

“It always hurts more to lose in

—
as
*
¥

|

 

season as the Generals’ second-leading goal scorer with 32 on the
season. Phi photo by Chris Leiphart.

the playoffs than in the regular sea-
*’ said Stagnitta. ‘‘] don’t know

son,
why. You'll either lose your last
game or win the NCAA Champion-
ship. I don’t think the loss takes any
luster off the season. We can’t help
but feel good about what we’ve ac-
complished. We are still one of the
top six teams in the country.”’

Even in the loss, Stagnitta was
reminded of the trademark of the
1991 Generals, hustle and heart.

 

 

THE

standard of living.

 

 

NEW STUDENT APARTMENTS - AVAILABLE AUGUST 15

 

PAR KV IEW
Blending modern convenience and traditional values in a new

Eleven four bedroom, two bath apartments, each featuring:

Herring RealEstate 41S. Main St.

SECURITY:

Steel entrance doors with deadbolts.

*Full sprinkler system throughout.

¢Smoke detectors.

*Automatic grounds lighting.

*Large, individual, locked basement storage
closets.

©24-hour emergency service.

STYLE

*Traditional exterior design and details.

Six panel doors
*Colonial trim and baseboard

463-7314

 

 

 

 

 

Don t Forget
Mom

 

 

 

Mother's

 

 

May 14

Send a card &
say you care!

“Take a guy like Mike Pardo,”’
said Stagnitta. ‘‘He doesn’t score or
get any ink all year, but without him
we don’t win anything. He and the
other seniors playing as hard as they
could in the last two minutes and we
were down eight---that’s what
team is all about. They never pack
it in. We may not have been one of
the best teams in the country talent-
wise, but we made up for that with a
lot of heart.’’

1. Tom Wolfe: Book
Signing - Saturday, Mzy 11,

2. Spring yard sale May 15.
(Raindate: May 16)

3, Caps and Gowns issued:
May 20 thru May 23.

4, Graduation Announcements--
Pick ’em up now!

Alumni Weekend
Specials!

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

Check For Specially
Marked W&L Items

15 W, Washington St.
(Next to Harb’s)
464-3000

 

 

 
SPORTS

Sun shines on
Spring sports

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

It has been a productive spring
for Washington and Lee athletics.

An unprecedented five teams
clinched Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference titles this season and at least
three will have made appearances at
NCAA Division III national champi-
onships this month.

For the first time since 1987, the
W&L men’s lacrosse team (11-3, 5-
0 in the ODAC) received a bid for
the Division III national tournament.
The ODAC champion Generals, rank-
ed sixth in the nation, lost to second-
ranked Ohio Wesleyan, 19-10, yester-
day in Delaware, Ohio. See page six.

Women’s tennis received its first
NCAA team championship bid on
Sunday after dominating the ODAC
tournament for the second time in
three years and finishing the season
ranked eleventh in the nation.

“This is a once in a lifetime op-
portunity,’’ said head coach Cinda
Rankin. ‘‘I’m so excited.”’

The Generals, who sat precarious-
ly on the edge of the post-season
playoffs, got an invitation on Sunday
from: the NCAA to participate at
Emory University for the 1991 finals.

Beer © Wir =

Sunday Buffet 11:30 A.M. - 3:00 P.M.

W&L will face St. Thomas from
St. Paul, MN. in the first round.
Senior Jean Stroman will remain in
Atlanta through May 19 to compete
in the individual singles champion-
ship.

Men’s tennis finished this season
with a seventh straight ODAC cham-
pionship. The Generals will make
their sixth NCAA tournament appear-
ance in seven seasons on May 12-15
in Claremont, CA. No. 12 W&L
could face Emory, Gustavus Adolfus
or the University of California at San
Diego on Sunday.

““We’re thrilled for the opportuni-
ty to go,’’ said head coach Gary
Franke. ‘‘A little bit depends on the
luck of the draw.”’

Senior co-captain Bill Meadows
currently ranked 15th in the nation,
and freshman Rob MacNaughton,
raked 29th, have been nominated for
the Arthur Ashe Award and Rookie
of the Year honors, respectively.
Both players will remain in California
to compete as a doubles tandem May
16-19.

ODAC golf Coach of the Year
Buck Leslie and his championship
team will hear from the NCAA tour-
nament committee next week. The
Generals, ranked eighth in the nation,
finished the season 29-2 with a six-

RESTAURANT

Authentic Chinese Cuisine
Luncheon Specialr ¢ Extensive Dinner Menu
¢ Exotic Cocktails

Catering Available

 

 

   
 

CATHOLIC
CAMPUS
MINISTRY

  

 

St. Patrick’s Church
Mass Schedule:
Sat. May 11 5:00 p.m.
Sun. May 12 8:00 a.m.
10:30 a.m.

Welcome Alumni and Students!

 

 

 

 

  

crucliotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

DENON SONY
ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CwD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN

- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER

- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mail
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

       
 

  
     
    
  
  
   
 
   
    
 
 
   

 

 

Complete Carry-Out Men

463-3330

E. Nelson Street Lexington
(Behind McDonald's)

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1991

Baseball ends at 8-12

 

Rob MacNaughton

stroke win over runner-up Randolph-
Macon in the ODAC tournament
April 25-26.

W&L’s women’s track team cap-
tured their second straight ‘‘unoffi-

cial’’ ODAC championship last week
with an impressive performance at the
conference championships in Harri-
sonburg. Senior Sarah Bolte won the
high jump with a school-record 5
foot, 4 inch leap.

esieahe takes the
feminine approach.

appagoWo

23 N. Main
Lexington

 

 

By Phil Spears
Staff Reporter

 

The Generals’ 1991 season came
to a close with another narrow loss.

As it seems they have all season,
the Generals played to the level of
their competition, hanging tough until
falling to Shenandoah, 6-3, last Tues-
day.

Junior T.J. Daly supplied eight
steady innings on the mound, and the
Generals’ defense played error-free
baseball. W&L collected 10 hits and
five walks but were only able to
translate those numbers into three
runs, which proved to be their down-
fall. All told, W&L stranded 10 base-
runners, including five in the first
three innings.

Head coach Jeff Stickley said the
team’s inability to pick up runs early
in the game was the difference.

‘‘We just didn’t score early, that
was the big thing,’’ he said. ‘‘If we
had it would have been a different
ballgame.’’ ’

As it was, the game remained
scoreless until a two-run Homet hom-
er in the fourth. The next Shenandoah
rally, in the fifth, was aided by a
questionable call by the umpire, who
called Daly for a balk. The umpire’s
judgment upset Daly and Stickley,
who was ejected from a game for the
first time in five years.

“TI didn’t do anything I thought
would get me ejected. If I had known

x | ERR A ae Se cee gies

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

he was going to throw me out I
would have gotten my money’s
worth,’ Stickley said.

The mishap helped increase the
Hornet lead to 5-0. Senior Ron Katz
led off the seventh inning for W&L
with a solo homerun. Sophomore
John Hesse, senior J.T. Swartz, and
freshman Michael Ross followed with
consecutive hits to cut the lead to 5-
2. Shenandoah responded by scoring
one run in their half of the seventh.

In the eighth, a Daly walk, fol-
lowed by hits from senior Chris
Kavanagh and freshman Eric Peifer
produced the General’s final run, as
well as the game’s final 6-3 score.
Hesse and Peifer both had two hits
on the afternoon.

Despite the loss the Generals
remained positive about the 1991
campaign and prospects for next year.

‘‘We were much better than last
year,”’ Stickley said. ‘‘We made big
steps in the right direction. We
improved at the plate and as the year
went on we made fewer errors. I’m
already excited about next year be-
cause we’ve got most of the team
back and they will have a lot more
experience.’’

Kavanagh summed up the season
this way.

“It was kind of disappointing
vecause we beat [Division 1] Holy

Cross and [ODAC Champs] Bridge-
water but lost to teams we should
have beat. Our inconsistency was
frustrating, but I had a lot of fun.

 

Subscribe to the :

Phi

Send inquires for 91-92 to: i

Hal Waller

P.O Box 899 ~ |
Lexington, VA 24450 ‘

392-2700).

needs you! Opportunities are available

 

 

 

Ae. s

The team ought to be better next year
simply because they'll have more
experience.’

‘We started off well and, ‘then
everybody hit a slump [offensively].
When you only play 20 games that’s
pretty tough to overcome, but they’ re
gonna be real good next year,’
Swartz added.

Peifer led the team in hitting. with
a .354 batting average. Kavanagh,
Junior Brian Harper, and Daly, also
batted over .300. Kavanagh, Daly,
and Katz all collected two homé-runs
on the season, and the team’s season
homer total of eight bettered last
year’s sum by five. Kavanagh topped
the team in RBI with 15, and Harp-
er’s seven steals was the Gerierals’
high. Pitchers Daly and junior ’s teve
Momarella each had three 3” wins.
The Generals finished with an? 8-12
record, three more wins than the
1990 team totaled.

{j

 

ew ad es ae ates 4 ip Sli

SPEND A YEAR IN JAPAN!

The Japan Exchange and Teaching Program

If you have an excellent knowledge of English, hold a
bachelor’s degree (or will receive one by August,

1992), andarea U.S. citizen, the J.E.T. Program

 
 

in Japanese schools and

  

government offices.

Applications will be available this fall for program beginning August, 1992. kor more
information, please contaet the Consulate General ay Japan, LEAT. Program, 100 Colony
Square, Suite 2000, Atlanta, GA 30361 (10 1/

DEADLINE IS DECEMBER 20, 1991.

Aluin-@rnnis

Sport Coats and Suits

by Haspel, Gant and Ortisky
Sero Shirts
Bass Weejuns and Topsider Shoes
Knit Shirts - Izod, Cross Creek

VISA

 

Welcome Alumni
Alumni Special

Suits and Sportcoats
20% Off

 

 

 

 

Since 1963
MasterCard
9-5:30 Monday-Saturday

Duck Head Cotton Pants
Bermuda Shorts Plaids & Solids

Ray-Ban Sunglasses
W&L Belts, Ties and Key Chains

 

Student Charge

 

 

 

vs
 

AAR Ie RP TS

 

le RM Se

RS A ch SM Natt i Re.

See Ee LT ee aa

V&LIFE
10shen ts a spring tradition

 

R. Smith
Reporter

tudents have spent countless
in pursuit of na-
and quiet, fun in the

d hopefully, a cold beer.
yr almost 100 years Goshen has
important part of Washington
nts’ life

ys there

peace

It has become
{ spring ritual.

students have had

» gone to Goshen. Fifty

lents even used Goshen

ice skate and crew,”’

sor Taylor Sanders,

W&L’s unofficial historian.

The Goshen tradition began when
Commodore Mathew Fontaine Maury,
a naval officer and scientist, fell in
love with the beautiful scenery back
when Robert E. Lee was still alive.

It was Commodore Maury’s dying
wish that his body be taken through
Goshen Pass when the laurel and
rhodadendrum were in bloom.

A traditional day at Goshen to-
ward the tum of the century found
Don Stokley’s barrels of whiskey
scattered on the banks of the river.

The merchant kept them there
until the river rose high enough for
him to transfer them by flat boat to

The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1991

the market in Lynchburg. If the
market price wasn’t fair in
Lynchburg, he simply floated them
down to Richmond.

Stokley sold his cargo and boat at
his final destination, then he and his
three-man crew would walk home to
start all over again.

Legend has it that students first
went out to Goshen because ‘‘you
could smell the remains of Old Man
Stokley’s whiskey in the air!’’

Shortly after the turn of the cen-
tury a Lexington man named Henry
Boley published a history of the city.
In his book he speaks of Goshen
pass.

 

Faculty alums comment
on changes in W&L life

 

 

Rusclio in 1975

ESL 0 SPE a a a
By Laura Dolan
Staff Reporter

A few of the 1400 alumni
sxpected for reunion weekend
von’t have to travel much farther
than their office doors.

Assistant Dean of Students
Kenneth P. Ruscio '76 and Assis-
tant Director of Alumni Programs

Robert W.H. Mish °76 will ex-
perience their 25-year class re-
union on two levels.

They shared insights on W&L
life from their unique perspectives
as both alumni and _ ad-
ministrators.

Both Ruscio and Mish agree
that the Honor System is. still
going strong at Washington and
Lee.

“T don’t think the Honor
System has deteriorated at all.
It’s still a central part of student
life,’’ said Ruscio. ‘‘It’s my
impression that students still take
it seriously.”’

Ruscio also said he thinks the
balance between academics and
social life is much the same today
as it was 25 years ago.

‘“‘The social life was more
artificial then, in that girls were
here from Friday to Sunday and
were dates more than anything
else,’’ he said.

Mish said the main difference
he sees in the social life stems
from the lowered drinking age.
He remembers freshmen sponsor-

 

Mish in 1975

ing the grain party Fancy Dress
Weekend.

According to Mish, playing a
dual role in alumni reunions
enhances the experience.

“‘T’m better off being so in-
volved in the planning behind this
weelcend,’’ he said. ‘‘I enjoy
watching everyone have a good
time.”’

 

 

 
 

LOW PRICES

Hartis Teeter

EVERY DAY:

Another Reason To Switch To Harris Teeter!

Grade "A"
Holly-Farms -

**Mountains tower a thousand feet
on either side; bird-life is interesting
and abundant. A real treat is to fol-
low Laurel Run to its source: its
crystal ponds, filled with a myriad of
rainbow trout, and its miniature cas-
cades are beautiful beyond descrip-
tion. A sure cure for the blues and
twentieth century discouragement is
an hour spent in this delightful spot
with nature and nature’s God, after
which, one has a finer appreciation of
real value.’’

Boley’s words still hold true
today. Goshen is just as invitingly
beautiful, and just as visited as it was
before.

Goshen hasn’t changed a bit, as_ this
suggests.

 

1953 Calyx photo

Critics find restaurant Cozy

Goshen eatery satisfies budgets of ‘adventurous gourmets’

 

By John Stump and Mason Pope
Staff Reporters

 

For the true epicurean, Rock-
bridge County offers few inspiring
restaurants. The area also offers little
to those restless souls who yearn for

nighttime excitement away from
W&L and who are not satisfied by
another stimulating night of cow-tip-
ping.

The limitations of the average
student budget only complicate these
problems. However, having a budget
that provides for only an occasional
Country-Cookin’-level meal does not
necessarily mean one has to sink to
that level.

Not even periodic episodes of
bankruptcy should deter the adven-
turous gourmet, so we have set out to
prove that it is possible to eat well in
and around Rockbridge County for
under five dollars.

Our first excursion took us to
Cozy Corner Restaurant in Goshen,
cleverly disguised as two hungry
farmers. The disguise ensured that we
would not receive preferential service
intended to favorably influence our
review.

We borrowed a 1974 ‘‘Big 10’’
Chevy pick-up truck, complete with
rusted fender panels, bullet holes and
an inconspicuous, two-tone, light-

 

brown paint job. Friendly waves from
area residents let us know our dis-
guise was effective.

After a brief 20-minute drive
through beautiful Goshen Pass, we
came to the Cozy Comer, which sits
at the junction of Route 39 and
Route 42, across from the Stillwater
Textile Mill in the town of Goshen.

The owners, two sisters who
bought the Cozy Corner from their
Uncle Bob, said the restaurant had
once been a rowdy ‘‘booze ’em up.”
‘‘But hopefully when we get our
liquor license, there won’t be any
more broken windows or fights,’
they told us.

Anyway... the place was well-lit,
reasonably quiet and cooled by old-
fashioned ceiling fans. A_ pretty
young waitress directed us to table
number seven, and handed us two
dog-eared menus. Although we found
table number seven to be a bit wob-
bly, the problem was _ quickly
remedied by the strategic placement
of a few packs of matches.

Settling into the restaurant’s com-
fortable, form-fitting plastic chairs,
we surveyed the menu and found a
little something for everyone.

The seafood lover can choose
from fried or steamed shrimp ($7.50),
fried or broiled flounder ($4.95) and
fried or steamed oysters ($6.95). A
traditionalist might be alarmed at first

that the Cozy Corner does not serve
country fried steak, but one could
certainly appreciate the country ham
steak ($4.25), fried chicken ($4.25) or
the burger steak ($3.75).

The restaurant’s menu also fea-
tures a wide variety of salads and
fruit plates, as well as a_ broiled
chicken breast ($3.75) for diners who
are watching their figures.

Since we saw no evidence of
ocean water or an air strip in or near
Goshen, we decided the seafood
might be less than fresh, and opted
for two traditional selections. Both
were served with a garden salad,
fresh vegetables and hot rolls with
butter. The fried chicken was excel-
lent, and the country ham steak was
delicate and cooked to perfection.

However, a word of caution is in
order: avoid the peas. They formed
an overcooked, greenish-yellow mass
bathed in Country Crock Margarine,
and tasted like a bowl of ashes in
warm pea juice. The mashed pota-
toes did not look much like a vegeta-
ble either.

Overall, the Cozy Corner was
excellent. The main courses are
well-prepared, the atmosphere relax-
ing, the prices reasonable, and the
waitresses friendly. The iced tea is
all you can drink, and they accept
Master Card and Visa. What more
could anyone ask for?

 

3

15.5

Oz.
For

 

HT Pork
& Beans

99

Solid

1.5 Oz.

 

 

Roll-On

Or 1.75 Oz.

Ban

p°

 

 

 

Old Fashioned

Borden Ice
Cream

De

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
   

Caffeine Free Pepsi Cola,

Pepsi Cola,
Diet Pepsi

 

 

 

Prices Effective Through May 14, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, May 14, 1991. In Lexington Store Only,
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Food Stamps.

 
W&LIFE

_The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1991

 

THURSDAY, MAY 9
8:30 p.m. Opening Reunion

 

 

 

 

 

Assembly , = “g ree é

9-11 p.m. Welcoming reception in the
Alumni House

FRIDAY, MAY 10
9 a.m.-5 p.m. Reunion registration in
the Alumni House

10:30 am.-12 p.m. Reunion panel
discussion in duPont 102:
“Understanding the Muslim
Attitude Toward the West’’

 

10:30 am.-12 p.m. Reunion Panel
Discussion in Lee Chapel:
“Robert E. Lee: Soldier
and Educator’

12:30-1:30 p.m. Luncheon on _ the
Front Campus the NewInternational Order’
1;30-2:30 p.m. Reunion panel discus-
sion: ‘‘W&L Today: Presentations/ culty in the Alumni House
* Questions and Answers”’
2:45-4 p-m. A stroll across campus
’ leaving from the Lenfest Center

2:45-4 p-m. Reunion Panel Discus-

* sion in Room 327 of the Com- dance in the Warner Center

merce School: ‘‘Superpowers in

5:30-7 p.m. Cocktails with the Fa-

6:30-8 p.m. Buffet dinner in Stem-
mons Plaza with entertainment by
the Johnny McClenon Big Band

8:00-11:30 p.m. Informal reunion

 

Alumni weekend decorations in 1953

10 p.m.-1 a.m. The Neville Brothers
concert in the Student Activities
Pavilion

SATURDAY, MAY 11
9-10 a.m. Registration for late
arrivals in the Alumni House

9-10 a.m. Class photos at Lee Chapel

10 a.m. Joint meeting of the W&L
Alumni and the W&L Law As-
sociations in Lee Chapel

 

From Gator to gone...

_ Washington and Lee’s Coordinator of Capital Planning

Frank Parsons '54 lectured yesterday on the university's
+ football-cheating scandal. In the spring of 1954 Executive
Committee investigations led to the expulsion of 17 athletes
and a Board of Trustees decision to disallow athletic schol-
arships and remove W&L from “Big-time football.”

 

   

 

By Scott Bronstein
Staff Reporter

 

The signs are in place, the cock-
tail napkins are folded, and the door
handle of Lee Chapel is shined and
polished; Washington and Lee is
ready for another alumni weekend to
begin.

But, several alumni decided to
throw W&L a curve this year by
showing up a week early. One of
them, Frank Turner, Sr., '62, shared
his impressions of the campus as it
is, and not how the university wants
it to appear.

‘*‘The two changes I noticed im-
mediately was the lack of the law
school from the colonnade and the
addition of the new library,’’ Turner
said Wednesday. ‘‘Also, there seemed
to be a lot more girls on campus

 

 

LEE HI RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

|, Artists in Cahoots

Cooperative Gallery of Local Artists and Crafts People

Handcrafted silver and porcelain
jewelry, pottery, silk scarves,
sculpture, woodwork, glass, pain-
tings and photographs of local
landscapes, Lexington landmarks
and Virginia flowers.

Corner of Washington and Main Streets
Lexington *
Open 10 a.m. - 5 p.m., Mon.-Sat.
Visa and MasterCard Accepted

Reunion weekend schedule

11:30 a.m. Annual Alumni/Glee Club
concert in the Keller Theatre of
the Lenfest Center

12:30-1:30 p.m. Lunch on the Front
Campus

1-3 p.m. Book signing reception
with Tom Wolfe ’51 in the
University Bookstore

1:30-3 p.m. A stroll across campus
leaving from the Lenfest Center

5-7 p.m. Law School Alumni cock-
tails at the home of Dean and
Mrs. Randall Bezanson

6-10 p.m. Barbecue at Zollman’s for
Reunion Classes '71, ’76, °81 and
86

6:30 p.m. Class cocktail parties

7:30 p.m. Banquet for all Law
School Alumni in Evans Hall

7:30 p.m. Class banquets

9:30 p.m. Champagne and fireworks
at Stemmons Plaza

9:30 p.m.-1 am. Reception in the
GHQ for all alumni

Alumnus shares his
impressions of W&L

when I was here,’’ he said with a
smile.

Turner said his biggest disappoint-
ment was the lack of a freshman
assimilation committee, and therefore
a breakdown of the speaking tradi-
tion.

‘‘Walking down the colonnade
reminded me of the streets of New
York,’’ Turner said. ‘‘People just
stared at their feet. When I was here,
everyone said hello to you, and you’d
feel stupid if you didn’t say hello
back.’’

Turner said that the school should
stress a well-rounded individual,
instead of stressing academics only.

When asked about the Fraternity
Renaissance, Turner said that he felt
the administration would better know
what is good for the university, but
he did mention that it seemed like an
awful lot of money to spend.

WEEKLY CALENDAR

 

 

j The W&L Stamp

IT49 WASHINGTON s#oL EE UNIVERSITY 1949
5 vo nm a

a. A
&
. ry
ms

' Scott No. 982

‘This stamp, issued in 1949, makes a great momento of Washington and
_Lee. Or a nice touch used (with 26* additional postage) on graduation
announcements.

   
 

  

'

, We have a large stock of mint stamps and of first day covers which
were cancelled in Lexington on the day of issue.

«

 

We Buy and Sell New and Used
CD’s.

Mon.-Thurs. 11-8, Fri. 11-7, Sat. 11-5

—For Rent
Alone Mill

--- 4 Bedroom House ---
Nice Country Living
Along the River

Beatty Mill

--- 4 Bedroom House ---
Close to Town

Herring Real Estate
41 S. Main St. 463-7314

 

 

Welcome Alumni!

 

7 p.m.
j8 p.m.

10 a.m.
11:30 a.m.
1-3 p.m.

7 p.m.

3 p.m.

7-10 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

12 Noon

8 p.m.

3 p.m.

7:30 p.m.

8 p.m.

8 p.m.

 

Alumni Reunion Weekend.

Alumni Reunion Weekend. For full schedule of events, please
contact W&L Alumni Office.

POLITICS FILMFEST: The Emerald Forest. Room 203, Reid Hall.

FILM SOCIETY: Student films by Cary Moseley, W&L ‘93, and
Ray Dotterweich, V.M.|. Classroom "A,", Lewis Hall. Public
invited.

Annual Meeting of W&L Alumni Association and Law School
Association. Remarks by W&L President John D. Wilson. Lee
Chapel.

Alumni Glee Club Concert. Lenfest Center.

BOOK-SIGNING: Tom Wolfe, '51, author of Bonfire of the
Vanities, The Right Stuff, and other books. W&L Bookstore.

POLITICS FILMFEST: The Emerald Forest. Room 203, Reid Hall.

Mother's Day.
AWAY ATHLETICS: MEN'S TENNIS: NCAA Division Ill
Championships, Claremont, Calif. (through May 19).

MATHEMATICS SENIOR HONORS PRESENTATION: "Chaos
and Linearity," David S. Bennett, ‘91. Room 6, Robinson Hall
Public invited.

STANDARD FIRST-AID COURSE (May 13 - 15): For information
and registration, call Cinda Rankin, 463-8687.

RUSSIAN STUDIES LECTURE: "Perestroika: Where It Came
From and Where It's Going,” Donald Raleigh, University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Room 327, Commerce School.
Public invited.

W&L Employees Christian Fellowship Brown Bag Lunch. Room
114, University Center.

RELIGION/EAST ASIAN STUDIES LECTURE: "Impermanence:
A Buddhist View of Life," Yutang Lin, University of California
at Berkeley. Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public
invited.

MATHEMATICS SENIOR HONORS PRESENTATION: "sex,
guns, and theorems: The Legacy of Evariste Galois,” Daniel
M. Bettendorf, '91. Room 6, Robinson Hall. Public invited.

W&L HISTORY SPRING SEMINAR: "W&L Bicentennial
Celebration, 1947 - 1949," William B. Buchanan, professor of
politics, emeritus, W&L. Northen Auditorium, University
Library. Public invited.

MEDICAL ETHICS LECTURE: "Minors and Medical Care: Who's
In Charge?” Harmon Smith, Duke Divinity School. Classroom
"E," Lewis Hall. Public invited.

AWAY ATHLETICS: WOMEN'S TENNIS: NCAA Division Ill
Championships, Atlanta (through May 21).

W&L HISTORY SPRING SEMINAR: "Mock Convention 1956 and
the Death of Alben Barkley," John K. Jennings, professor of
journalism, W&L. Northen Auditorium, University Library.
Public invited.

 

 

 
        

 

 

 

GIFT SHOPPE

If your gift is from the Attic,
you know you’re special

25th Reunion

Class of ’66

UNIVERSITY

 

   
   
     
     

  

Welcome
B a ch

Mune

 Reflor’

 

the

Singles 25°
Plate Blocks(4) $1.25
Full Panes (50) $10.50
, First Day Covers $1.00 to $3.25

fferson

florist to The Homestead

Handcrafted treasures by talented artists

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES AND CRAFT SUPPLIES
Open Monday - Saturday 10-5
31 S. Main St., Lexington

i

AAXEE

 

er

from the Shenandoah Valley - and beyond.

541 E. Nelson St. (Rt. 60)
Convenient Parking At the Door
Open 10-6 * Phone 463-2222

 

 

 

     
    

 

Lexington, Va. 24450
(703) 463-9641

Ten East Nelson ©

 
 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 9, 1991 1 0

 

‘

‘

WELCOME ALUMNI
~~.

 

.

-

£At
on

Third-year law class readies for next step --- see page 6

c U
Le f

MAY 17 199],
VOLUME 90, NO. 29

 

WASHINGTON AND

New freshm

 

By Tom Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

Dennis G. Manning

Alum takes
‘Student’s car

Moore won’t press charges

lian
By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

A Washington and Lee student
whose car was taken by an alumnus
over the weekend has chosen not to
press charges.

Junior Jeff Moore appeared in
district court Tuesday morning and
declined to prosecute James G. Chan-
tilas, ‘87, charged with unauthorized
use of a vehicle. sags

The incident o
occurred Satur-
day night at
Beta Theta Pi,
of which
Moore is an
active member
and Chantilas

   

 

 

an alumnus.

Moore said
he parked the “"™
car, a 1988 Moore

Chrysler LeBaron convertible, in the
Beta lot in Red Square at about 7:30
p.m. He said he left the keys in the
dash console and the top down.

When Moore retumed to the lot
an hour later, the car was missing.
He said he waited until 9 p.m., in
case a friend had borrowed the car.
He then called friends to see if they
had the car and searched in other
places for it.

At 10 p.m., when the car had not
been returned, Moore called the po-
lice and reported the car stolen.
Moore said the police issued a state-
wide all points bulletin on the car.

Lexington police Patrol Officer
Gary B. Coleman said he spotted
Moore’s car at 12:30 am. being

For Dennis G. Manning, the newly ap-
pointed dean of freshmen and residence life,
Washington and Lee is the place to be.

Manning, associate headmaster of the Wood-
berry Forest School, will replace Kenneth P.
Ruscio as assistant dean of students in July.

Manning, who was in Lexingfon this week,
said the W&L position is the next and best step
for him.

‘Working at Washington and Lee and living
in Lexington just strikes me as an extraordinary
opportunity for me and my family,’ Manning
said.

LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Che Ring-tum Phi

May 16, 1991

an dean gets first taste of Lexington

‘Every time I've been here I get more and
more enthusiastic and excited about the dean of
freshmen position,’’ Manning said.

Manning received bachelor’s and master’s
degrees in English from Wake Forest in 1981
and 1983. He also worked as a graduate
assistant to the Wake Forest basketball program.

He took his first step into the field of
education when he accepted the position of
administrative assistant to the president of Wake
Forest for the 1982-83 school year.

Manning’s next move was to discover what.
he did not want to do with his life. He there-
fore spent a year studying for the MBA at
Wake Forest.

“‘T think it was the best investment of my
life,’’ Manning said. ‘‘For about $15,000 and

a year of my life, I found out exactly what |
didn’t want to do for the rest of my life.’’

Returning to the academic world, Manning
took a position at Woodberry Forest as an
English teacher, dormitory master, student
advisor, and basketball and tennis coach in the
summer of 1984,

A few years later, Manning won a fellow-
ship to study for his doctorate in English at
Rice University. But before he could leave, he
was pulled back to Woodberry Forest.

‘‘T was leaving Woodberry to go to Rice
when in February or March I got a note from
the headmaster and he appointed me to the
position of assistant headmaster for internal
affairs and student life,’’ Manning said.

‘‘T was responsible for every facet of the

residential life program for 360 students — and
at the same time was still coaching basketball,
teaching English, and serving as an advisor,”’
Manning said.

Manning soon appointed associate headmas-
ter, director of summer school, and director of
col ege counseling. These jobs especially pre-
par+d him for the job of dean of freshmen.

| ‘I've been at a secondary school where the
whole purpose of the four years is preparing’
students for a university experience, he said.

Manning said he will not teach during his
first years as assistant dean.

‘‘My first year or two here, I just want an
absolute, undivided focus upon my responsibili-
ties,’’ Manning said. Then ‘‘I’d love to teach
a composition class or a course in poetry.’’

 

driven south on Main Street and
intercepted it at the intersection of
Jefferson and Henry streets.

According to Coleman, the car
was being driven by Chantilas and
there were two other occupants in the
car. He said Chantilas admitted taking
the car and was arrested.

Moore, who talked to the other
occupants of the car on Saturday and
to Chantilas on Monday, said the
incident was ‘‘all a big misunder-
standing.”’

Moore said the alumni told him
that when they wanted to go get
some dinner their car was blocked, so
they took Moore’s. Moore said the
alumni went to Super 8 Motel, where
they were staying, to eat and fell
asleep.

Moore said the alumni were re-
turning the car to Beta when they
were stopped.

Coleman was not pleased Tuesday
when Moore dropped the charges
against Chantilas.

‘It does not set with a good taste
in my mouth,’’ Coleman said.

Coleman said that when he called
Moore Saturday night and told him
the car had been found, Moore said
he wanted to press charges.

Moore said police told him when
he reported the car stolen Saturday
that he should promise to press
charges against whoever took the car
or police would not look for it as
hard.

Moore contends that after he

Aaaghhhh, when do | let go?

 

 

found out on Saturday night that it
was an alumnus that took the car,
Coleman told him that Moore would
“‘have to talk to a judge about drop-
ping the charges.”’

 

Performing one of the rites of Spring Term, Junior Franklin
Pridgen swings out over the Maury River on a rope swing.

Recent hot weather has enticed students outdoors to
Goshen, Panther Falls, and the river just outside of town.

 

 

 

with academic achievement,’’

¢ John Donaldson - co-chair-
man of the 1992 Mock Convention;
scholastic chairman and rush chair-
man for Beta Theta Pi; university

Fancy Dress Committee.

ODK inducts
five students

Omicron Delta Kappa initiated five juniors
in Saturday afternoon’s ceremony.
of ODK is ‘‘to recognize leadership, combined
said Kenneth
Ruscio, assistant dean of students.

The purpose
to fund Contact

PHC says
no relief

Women reject plea

 

 

, By Joshua Manning

Staff Reporter

 

scholar; member of Kathekon and —

 

* Charles Edwards — member
of Alpha Epsilon Delta; two-time
scholar athlete; two-year cross coun-
try team member, president of Sigma
Chi; sunday school teacher at R.E.
Lee Memorial Episcopal Church.

 

¢ Jodi Herring — member of
Alpha Epsilon Delta and Phi Eta
Sigma; 1991-92 swim team captain;
varsity letter winner in swimming and
cross country; two-year dorm counsel
or; 1991-92 assistant head dorm
counselor.

   

versity scholar;

tain;

#4 arship chairman.

* Clayton Kennington - Exec:
utive Committee representative; chair
man of SAMS Lip-Sync Contest;
state chairman for Mock Convention;
Student Recruitment Committee mem
ber; Freshmen Orientation Committee
member; member of Kappa Alpha.

 

 

° Ashley Hurt -- member of Ph:
Beta Kappa and Phi Eta Sigma; uni
Dyer
recipient; women’s soccer team cap
1990 allODAC Second Team
member, Kappa Kappa Gamma schol-

 

 

 

By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

 

The Panhellenic Council decided
not to fund the Contact Committee
after Executive Committee President-
elect Giles Perkins asked PHC Presi-
dent Dale Wyatt if the women’s
Greek organization would contribute.

**It would make a bad situation
worse for Panhellenic to start funding

Contact,’’ said Associate Dean of
Students Leroy C. ‘‘Buddy’’ Atkins
Tuesday.

The  Interfraternity Council
withdrew their annual $10,000
support of the guest speaker
committee on April 30, leaving

Contact with only two-thirds of its
$30,000 budget.

IFC President Greg Hicks said the
men’s complaints stemmed from a
lack of fraternity representation on
the committee’s selection board. He
also felt it was unfair for Greek men
to be paying more than other students
to support guest speakers from which
everyone will benefit equally.

‘The fraternities already fund the
university’s social life,’’ Hicks said
last week, ‘‘but at least in that case
they have a say in where their money
is going.”

Atkins agreed that the fraternities
carry a disproportionate amount
financial burden

**It seems crazy for all students to
pay for SAB activities and then
fraternity men or women turn around
and pay twice,’’ Atkins said

 

Dale Wyatt

Atkins said SAB and Contact
funding are weaknesses of the student
government at W&L and should be
addressed. The Student Activities
Fund should cover it all, Atkins said,
and no student should pay more than
another

Wyatt expressed her concern that
PHC funding of Contact would only
lead to the same problems that IFC
funding caused

The IFC withdrew its
$10,000 support from

annual

‘‘We are a similar organization
and if the IFC had so many com

plaints, I don’t see why we would
n't,’ Wyatt said

I hope that the IFC and Pan

h I can use their money more

tively elsewhere,’ Atkins said

But if they have nothing better to

lo than turn around and start another

t speaker group...well, that's

tupid too

Lexington police arrested freshman Edward
S. ‘‘Ted’’ Elliott early Sunday moming
charging him with throwing a water bottle at an
unmarked police car.

Elliott, on his way home from a party,
threw a plastic bottle of Evian water out the
back window of a car driven by Sweet Briar

| College student Alison Trout, according to

police reports.

The bottle hit the driver’s side door of
Sergeant E. Wayne Straub’s unmarked police
car while he was heading south on Lee Ave.

While the bottle missed Straub, the water

Water bottle lands
\W&L freshman in jail

remaining in the bottle hit him in the face.

Straub then pulled the car over and arrested
Elliott on the felony charge of throwing a
missile at an occupied vehicle.

Elliott was taken to the Rockbridge County
Regional Jail and held until 7 a.m. Sunday
morning, when he posted a $1,000 cash-
secured bond.

A preliminary hearing is set for May 21 in
Lexington General District Court, where Elliott
faces up to five years in jail, more if found
guilty of malicious intent.

Elliott said he had been drinking and did
not mean to litter.

‘‘T feel a lot of remorse that the bottle hit
officer Straub,’’ said Elliott. ‘I’m sorry that it
happened. It was an accident.’’

 

 

By Jameson Leonardi
Staff Reporter

 

Navy Capt. Robert C. Peniston and his
wife, Frances, are donating two prints to the
Washington and Lee Executive Committee in
the name of their son, Robert Carl Peniston.

Peniston, director of Lee Chapel, said EC
President Tom Hatcher asked him to suggest
two prints the EC could buy and hang in its
meeting room He suggested the two paint
Robert E Lee
Lee by
originals of both
Lee Chapel

ings of Lee, Lieutenant and

General Theodore Pine The

of these paintings hang in

 

Chapel director donates
art to hang in EC room

Peniston then offered to buy and frame
the two prints, and donate them in the name
of his son

Robert Carl Peniston died on April 8,
1975 from heart failure, according to the
April 17, 1975 Ring-tum Phi. He would have
graduated the following month with a degree
in Business Administration.

Peniston was a dean’s list student and
member of Phi Kappa Sigma. He is buried in
Stonewall Jackson Cemetery, according to the
Phi

‘Captain Peniston and his wife are very
fine people,’’ said Hatcher. ‘‘The EC js very
honored to receive this gift from them.”’ :

 
 

 

 

 

OPINION

Benchwarmers

It must have been an interesting sight for an alumnus
to step into the University Center this weekend and find
the benches in front of the GHQ overflowing with
publications.

For many years the Phi was the only general interest
publication on the W&L campus. This year, there were
no less than three W&L student publications (a fourth
didn’t make it to print for the weekend), and a national
publication with a W&L student editor. What do we think
of the competition? We love it.

After the demise of the Southern Collegian in the late
1960s, the Phi alone bore the heavy burden of providing
news, commentary, and opinion to the student body as a
whole. With the appearance of The Washington and Lee
Spectator two years ago, a new era of student
involvement arrived. Paul Lagarde and Ray Welder’s
Spectator, providing its own distinct brand of com-
mentary and reporting, was such a success that other
groups decided they, too, could publish magazines.

Common Ground, a journal of Christian news and
opinion, published its first issue in March. Close on
Common Ground’s heels, The Traveller galloped onto the
scene just last month, providing yet another forum for
student opinion and reporting. Earlier this year, Paul
Lagarde became an editor of the nationwide Campus
student magazine.

There are also numerous special-interest publications
(many of which have been active for a number of years)
produced by W&L students, including: Ariel, Una Vox,
The Outer Circle, The Star, Theatre at Washington and
Lee, Political Science Review, and the Journal of Science.

We believe the sheer number of publications found on
campus disproves the oft-stated opinion that the W&L
student body has suffered an intellectual death. We have
published numerous letters on this page from alumni,

professors, and administrators who complain that all
students at this school are interested in is partying and
landing high-paying jobs after graduation. We invite these
Nay-sayers to survey the writings on the bench and still
say that our campus is intellectually dead.

We are encouraged Not just the sheer proliferation of
journals, but also the wide range of their political For a
school stereotyped as of a solitary, universal and
conservative opinion, there are plenty of forums for

individual expression. There is na. longer. any excuse for .

you, the W&L student, to not share your point of view
with your peers. Go by the University Center, and you
will surely find a publication to your liking. We look
forward to hearing from you, both on our own pages and
on those of our new-found colleagues.

Quotes of the Week

— No, I said you have to shrink her.

— I did, but her dimensions came out bigger.

Phi staffers Joshua Manning and Teresa Williams deciding
just how to crop Carol Calkins...for Talkback.

— Excuse me, did you know that your telephone number
is 1-800-DON’T-CALL?

— No it's not, sir. It’s 1-800-FOOTBALL.

Former Phi editor Brian Root disagreeing with an 800
operator late in the night.

The Ring-tum Phi, May 16, 1991

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

Editors

Associate Editor
News Editor

Senior Copy Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor
Entertainment Editor
Assignments Editor
Photo Editor
Cartoonist

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley

Cathy Lopiccolo
Courtney Hall

Joshua Manning

Jay Plotkin

Marcy Brown

Craig Burke

Leigh Allen

Tim Molloy

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

 

COMMENCE MENT.

ae

Fo@ A WHILE THECE 1 Wry
Uinis of concealed HEY
Wweeen’r Gowns TO LET
us AZMY GUYS INTO OV
OWN LAW ScHool’s
GRADYATION. \

 

 

 

   
     
  

A

 
 
 
  

 

 

 

 

=

 

 

Law ban raises larger issue.
Gay alum speaks out against discrimination

 

MY VIEW
By Ed Joy

I was very pleased to see the law school’s ban
on employers who discriminate on the basis of
sexual orientation debated in Thz Ring-tum Phi.
The tone of the debate, however, was quite dis-
couraging. I would like to take this opportunity to
do something I was not prepared to do during my
days as a student at Washington and Lee. I would
like to speak up for the rights of gay people. In
fact, I feel I have an obligation to do so, since I
am gay.

The time has come for the university and the
student body to recognize that discrimination
against gays is wrong and to impose sanctions
against those who engage in such discrimination.
Of course, I realize that many at W&L would
disagree. The school has a proud conservative
tradition, but equality for gays is not a matter of
the political right vs. left, but rather right vs.
wrong. The prevailing anti-gay attitudes at W&L
_ Sh a See Eee eRe

Discriminating against
someone on the basis of his
sexual orientation is bigotry

pure and simple. People do
not choose to be gay.

 

 

. cannot be changed without debate, so I ask, at the

very least, that this editorial be read thoughtfully
and thoroughly. You are part of a great university
and one of the fundamental objectives of any great
university is the pursuit of truth through higher
education. Truth is not achieved through mere
acceptance of the status quo, but through question-
ing and examining the foundation of your values
and beliefs.

The need for change is great. As much as
‘‘fag’’ jokes serve to belittle the discrimination and
dehumanize gays and lesbians, the fact remains that
discrimination has real and harmful consequences.

Art chair
supports prof

Dear Editor,

Since the Spectator comes out less frequently
than the Phi, I follow the time-honored tradition
of using your paper as the vehicle for expressing
my dismay over their recent attack on my col-
league, Valerie Hedquist. All she did was to
write to two local businessmen who are known
to have socially conscious views and to ask if
they knew the content of the magazine they were
advertising in. She enclosed a copy of the Spec-
tator so they could judge for themselves if they
shared her view that the magazine carried racist,
sexist and offensively conservative material. She
did not attempt to start a campaign to undermine
the advertising revenue of the magazine. She did
not even threaten to boycott their businesses. She
simply asked them to read the magazine and
come to their own conclusions. For this she had
her classroom invaded by three angry editors of
the Spectator, who, when she asked them to
come back during her office hours, returned with
hostile accusations. Their confrontation with her,
and their subsequent conversation with me, were
not done in a spirit of civility and tolerance.

The great irony in reading the scurrilous
attack on Professor Hedquist in the latest issue of
the Spectator is that they accuse HER of in-
civility! I have never read anything so full of
misinformation, innuendo and hate-filled prose.
Valerie Hedquist is a superb art historian, an
excellent teacher, and a wonderful person. We
are very fortunate to have her at Washington and
Lee. She has the respect, admiration and full
support of all of her colleagues in this depart-
ment.

 

A recent study by the Department of Health
showed that the suicide rate among gay teenagers
is three times higher than their non-gay counter-
parts. Twenty-five percent of all gay men are
physically assaulted during their lifetime because of
their sexual orientation. An estimated 40-50 percent
of all homeless runaway teenagers are gay. Over
100,000 people have died from AIDS, including
one of Washington and Lee’s very own professors.
Yet, only $1 billion has been spent in search of a
cure since the discovery of the disease a decade
ago (the equivalent was spent each day to pay for
the Gulf War). Apathy prevails because AIDS is
largely viewed as a gay disease and gay lives
somehow do not matter as much. It is no wonder
that The Wall Street Journal referred to gay peo-
ple as America’s last true minority...

Discriminating against:someone on the basis of
his sexual orientation is bigotry pure 4nd simple.
People do not choose to be gay any more than
they choose to be black or hispanic. Prevailing
scientific knowledge indicates that one’s sexual
orientation is set by three years of age. If you do
not believe this and still think people choose to be
gay, then imagine for a moment that you were gay.
Look again at what I detailed above and observe
the many problems you would face. Now, listen to
your families, friends and the world around you.
Do you still think that you would choose to be gay
if there were a choice to be made?

Given that being gay is a characteristic of
mankind, it would seem wrong to think that there
is a right to be gay. It is more appropriate to say
that gays have rights, human rights. Yet, our
society does not extend fundamental rights to gays
and lesbians.

People justify discrimination against gays by
referring to the Bible and traditional moral values.
In the past, passages from the Bible were used to
justify segregation of blacks and subordination of
women. Past generations committed these wrongs
without even recognizing them. Now, our current
society does the same with respect to gay people.
The Bible does not advocate anti-gay bigotry,
rather it is more accurate to say that human beings
read their own prejudices and biases into the Bible.

LETTERS

When I last spoke to Cameron Humphries
(the Editor of the Spectator), I reiterated my
offer to get a group of people together for a
discussion of what we find objectionable in his
magazine. If he and his friends really think it
would be hard for anyone to point out examples
of racism and sexism in the Spectator, then I
would be delighted to give it a try.

 

Thank you,
Pamela H. Simpson, Chair
Art Department

Alum criticizes
Phi cartoon

Dear Editors:

Some things never change. Leave it to The
Ring-tum Phi to include, in the Alumni Reunion
issue, a cartoon which implies continued denigra-
tion of women at this University. Many of us
who graduated years ago did NOT think women
were the sort of ‘‘sex symbols’’ implied by the
recent cartoon. We saw, especially in graduate
school, that their contributions to academic
institutions were every bit as worthwhile as ours.
Men are not here to parade around looking
attractive, and to portray women in this way
convinces me that you have not yet made this
the kind of University which welcomes women.

On another issue, might | also point out that
your editorial on sexual harassment misses a
major point. Stealing is an honor violation and
a criminal act; but we do not routinely tum in
thieves to the police. Would you prefer a system
in which these violations ARE handled by the
community? I think not. By the same logic, no

The ‘‘real world’’ protects victims of rape in

thanks W&L

Lexington Visitors Bureau to the Interfraternity
Council, the Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity, Kappa

Theta for their contributions to the Visitor Center

nothing disturbs what they helped pay for.

~

If people want to find the true source of their,
bigotry and hatred, then they need look no further
than their own flaws and weaknesses. Only a!
morality that teaches that all are created equal and,
fosters a respect for the dignity of every individual
is truly moral. ’

If I believed that there were no other gays and,
lesbians at Washington and Lee, I would not see
the need for change as being so urgent. Surely thise
is not the case. Just as I spent my years at W&L
LLL IIL AIT TEER AIO SOLS IIE SELES IE SIDE II TS E

Given that being gay isa__,
characteristic of mankind, it

is appropriate to say that —
gays have rights ... human.’

*

"rights. ©

 

hiding my sexuality from my friends and denying
it to myself, there are students there now who do‘
the same in an attempt to survive in an atmosphere ,
that is hostile to their true identity. The fear they
feel ensures that there will be no debate. This fear*
puts the burden of initiating the debate on those,
who are not gay and need not fear the costs of
discrimination. ’

While attending W&L, I was a good student, a ,

good dorm counselor and a good friend. Yet, I was

frequently confronted with ‘‘fag’’ jokes and other !
similarly insulting statements. In order to conceal ,

the fact that I was gay from even my closest
friends, I remained silent. Because I fit none of the «
grossly inaccurate stereotypes of gay people, no
one ever thought twice about making such state-
ments in front of me. Though I remained silent,
the pain I felt inside was very real. My hope is
that you will now choose to reconsider your
actions and attitudes because you begin to see that
they are wrong. At the very least, I hope you
choose to reconsider your actions and attitudes be-
cause the people who are hurt may be your friends,
colleagues or fellow students.

Ed. note: Edward Joy graduated from Washington
and Lee in 1989. He was an economics major.

University committee has the right to routinely
turn in reports of rape, unless the victim agrees.

many ways not accorded to other types of vic-
tims, and you are in error if you do not provide
extra protection here as well.

T. Morris
Class of '69

Visitors Center

Dear Editor:
I would like to express the thanks of the

Kappa Gamma, Chi Omega, and Kappa Alpha

landscaping project. Without their donations we
could not have made it as beautiful as it is. I do
hope that everyone concerned will feel that they
want to watch over the landscaping so that

Others that contributed to the project are the
Lexington Garden Club, the Rockbridge Garden
Club, the County Council of Garden Clubs, the
Natural Bridge Garden CLub and the Lexington
Rotary Club.

The Lexington Visitor Center is the gateway
to the community for at least 85,000 visitors each
year. Some of them even donated to the project,

Thank you W&L students for helping to
make the visitors feel welcome here.

Sincerely,
Martha M. Doss, Director
Lexington Visitors Bureau

 

 

ci
ame
“mm

ails

aaa

na, oy

ie gga ee AAR = A AEN SB

 

 
- NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 16, 1991

‘Wolfe will address third-years

, 110 students will receive JD degree in Sunday ceremony

 

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

Tom Wolfe, best-selling author and Washington
and Lee alumnus, will deliver the address for the
Law School commencement Sunday.

The ceremony, to begin at 2:30 p.m. on the Lee
House lawn, will award 110 juris doctor degrees to
students in W&L’s 136th graduating law class.

According to Dean of the Law School Randall
P. Bezanson, Wolfe, 51, was the overwhelming
favorite speaker among third-year law students for

 

Tom Wolfe, '51

the May 19 ceremony.

In the event of rain, the ceremony will be
moved to Warner Center.

Bezanson said that despite the fact that Wolfe
is not a lawyer, the author should do a good job.

‘‘He is a wonderful speaker,’’ Bezanson said,
‘and he has a great deal to say, not only about the
legal system, but also about social issues that are
relevant to law and lawyers.”’

Wolfe is the author of such books as Bonfire of
the Vanities, The Right Stuff, and The Painted
Word. He has also had published a collection of
drawings, entitled /n Our Time.

al a

o

«

me

- »

~

Ee
=

Baradel
fills alumni
Staff spot

By Tom Hespos
Staff Reporter

 

 

Senior Christopher C. Baradel, a
Journalism major, accepted the posi-
tion of Alumni Staff Associate for
the 1991-92.

Baradel, an Annapolis, Md. native,
is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha
fraternity. He served The Ring-tum
Phi as editorial page editor and
worked with Cable 9 News as an
anchor. He was a volunteer coach for
the Rockbridge Area Recreation Or-
ganization and a member of the Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee.

As part of his new job, Baradel
will assist in the planning and execu-
tion of events such as Homecoming
and reunion weekends, an alumni
office press release said.

He will also serve as editor of the
Classnotes section of The Alumni
Magazine and will edit a newsletter
to chapter presidents. He will deve-

‘lop programs for young alumni and
will travel to several of the univer -
sity’s 83 alumni chapters.

Baradel said he is ‘‘really
excited to get this position... I am
looking forward to promoting the
university with the alumni [office]

 

By Maureen Levey
Staff Reporter

 

Before leaving school this year,
you might want to rid yourself of an
overused couch or some old clothes.

The Rockbridge Area Relief As-
sociation is asking Washington and
Lee students to donate their unwanted
goods to charitable organizations in
the area.

Sue Ann Mead, former director
of RARA, said W&L students helped
the organization by collecting money
in the past.

“I think W&L could be very
helpful in donating and raising mo-

, ney, especially for people who need

help paying for utility bills and buy-
ing food,’’ Mead said.
W&L senior Jane Allen is orga-

     
   

   

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

 

 

 

Senior Chris Baradel

staff,’’ according to the alumni office
release.

James Farrar, Jr., director of
alumni programs, said, ‘‘Chris has all
the tools to make a real contribution
to the Alumni Office programs and to
the university. The current staff as-
sociate, Joel Smith, 90, has made a
great contribution, and I know Chris
will be every bit as strong.”’

Smith said the job has been a
positive experience for him.

‘*You stay around W&L another
year and get paid for it,’’ Smith said.

‘*You’re not like the new guy,”’
Smith said. ‘‘They give you a
substantial amount of responsibility.’’

Smith said the best thing about
the job is, ‘‘You’re at W&L, and you
don’t have to study.’’

nizing a drive for food, clothes, etc.,
with Alpha Phi Omega Service Fra-
ternity.

Although the drive will not begin
until the last week in May, Mead
said RARA encourages students to
donate now.

RARA and its affiliate, Helpline
know that the end of the school year
approaches, and they hope that after
spring cleaning, students will decide
to donate. They encourage students to
give canned goods too.

RARA started over 10 years ago
in a volunteer’s kitchen and reached
a small number of people to alleviate
their financial problems. The organi-
zation grew bigger and is now able
to help many more of the needy in
Lexington, Buena Vista and Rock-
bridge County.

People who can’t pay their utility

 

 

responsible for every iota of pain
I tried to subject the student body
to.”

 

aan \) i
Scott Dittman, University Reg- Maureen Levey, ’93, Livingston,
istrar — ‘‘'The Sbar Side’ was NJ — ‘‘I always wanted to send

photos to 800 McCorkle Drive,
but I was too shy.’’

 

Lenfest’s Evita
starts Wednesday

Musical dramatizes life of Eva Peron;
show uses slides of real personalities

 

By Jennifer Gibson
Staff Reporter

 

Washington and Lee’s theatre and
music departments will present Evita
May 22-25 as part of the official
opening of the Lenfest Center for the
Performing Arts.

The documentary-style production
follows the major events of Eva
Peron’s life through two acts.

Beginning as an illegitimate child
from the small village of Junin, Ar-
gentina, Eva rises to become a pow-
erful and controversial 20th-century
figure.

The play depicts Eva’s sordid
background as she leaves her home-
town and travels to Buenos Aires
with a popular Tango singer, Augus-
tin Magaldi. While in the capital, Eva
Duarte meets Juan Peron, a presiden-
tial candidate.

In Act Two, Eva, now the coun-
try’s first lady, is received more
enthusiastically by the people than the
new president. She basks in the glory
of her wealth and popularity.

bills, those in need of food, and
people just passing through town
without a place to stay are but a few
of those that RARA helps.

Once a person calls Helpline,
RARA will aid them in any way
possible, sometimes by giving meal
vouchers, canned goods, and even by
paying bills.

RARA refers donators and people
in need of relief to other organiza-
tions such as local churches, in order
to coordinate funds and relief for the
poor.

‘‘We’re kind of a clearing house
for other charitable groups,’’ a volun-
teer said.

The Helpline suggested several
places which are nearby W&L to
leave furniture, clothing, food and
even kitchen utensils. The food
houses include:

But eventually Eva’s health begins
to decline, and fier husband’s power
over the military weakens. In the
end, the dying Eva wants only to be
remembered as a loved and honored
countrywoman.

Although the basic plot is the
same, this show also differs from
other productions of Evita, agreed
cast members.

Because the stage directions are
vague, much is left to individual
interpretation, actress Jennifer Glad-
well said.

**J.D. Martinez, the director, has
added some nuances,’’ actor Robby
Aliff, who plays Che, said. ‘‘He is
trying to make it a clean production
centered on the show itself without a
lot of set changes or props.”’

This ‘‘docu-musical’’ will also
eature intermittent slide projections
above the stage showing real photos
of the actual Eva and Juan Peron.

Overall, cast members agreed that
it’s been a lot of hard work.

‘‘Everyone is dedicated to making
it the best show it can possibly be,”’
Aliff said.

‘Area service group seeks goods

‘ Relief Association finds homes for unwanted furniture, clothes, food

¢ The Lexington Food Closet behind
the Good Shepherd Evangelical Lu-
theran Church, 617 S. Main St.,
open from 3-4 p.m. Mondays.
* Total Action against Poverty (TAP),
534 E. Nelson St., open 9 a.m. to 5
p-m. every day.
* Randolph Street Community Center
at the United Methodist Church, 118
S. Randolph St., open Wednesdays 11
a.m. to 1 p.m.
* Community Share in Buena Vista,
2340 Beech St., open 10 a.m. to 12
p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays.
Habitat for Humanity Resale
Store, 321 N. Main Street welcomes
anyone who wants to donate furni-
ture, and they are open on Tuesdays
and Thursdays, 10 am. to 4 p.m,
and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
TAP and any thrift shops in the area
will take clothes.

 

TALKBACK
What impact did ‘The Sbar Side’

 

 

Will Davis, ’92, Fullerton, CA

_ “I’ve become a

munist.’’

com-

 

Russ Leavitt, 93, Greeley, CO
- ‘‘It have me a much im-
proved world view and increased
knowledge about W&L life.”’

 

GENERAL NOTES

Wolf Flick

The General Admission Film
Series will show the Academy
Award winning film Dances With
Wolves starring Kevin Costner
tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Lewis Hall
Classroom A. Admission will be

$2.

Be Famous

Seniors and third year law stu-
dents: if you want the folks back
home to hear about your gradua-
tion and stellar accomplishments,
please fill out and return current
info sheets to the News Office on
the first floor of Reid Hall ASAP.
Extra forms are available at the
library and the co-op.

New Handbook

The 1991-92 Student Handbook is
now being compiled. Any new
student organizations should noti-
fy Bernadette Kempton or leave
an entry consisting of a short
description of the organization and
the names of its leaders in the
Student Handbook box outside the
Dean of Students’ office in Payne
Hall.

Big Poem

The International Society of Poets
is accepting poems for the ‘‘Wor-
ld’s Largest Poem for Peace.’’
The document is expected to be
longer that seven football fields
and will be presented to the Sec-
retary General of the United Na-
tions in August. To be part, send
an original poem (20 lines or
less) to: World’s Largest Poem,
P.O. Box 627, Owings Mills,
Maryland 21117.

Be a Peer

Interviews for next year’s peer
counselors will be held on May
20, 21,-and 23~from’ 1° to- 4:30
p.m. Applications’ may be picked
up at Carol Calkins’ office in the
University Center. Anyone is
welcome to apply.

Pub Board

There will be a Publications
Board meeting on Monday, May
20 at 8:30 p.m. in the Phi office.
Old and new members please
attend.

Want Roomie

Do you know anyone who needs
a place to live winter/spring term
next year? How about a three-
bedroom house on campus. Please
call Kimberly Gladysz at 464-
5472.

Fun Run

Pi Kappa Alpha is sponsoring its
second annual Fun Run to benefit
the SPCA on Saturday, May 18.
About 30 runners will run the 35
miles from the current SPCA site
to the proposed one. Donations
can be made on Thursday and
Friday from 10-2 p.m. outside the
Co-op. Anyone interested should
call Benji Plummer at 464-3933.
Last year, PiKA raised over $800.
This year’s goal is $1,000.

Neville Bros

The Neville Brothers will perform
Friday night at the Student Pavil-
ion. Tickets may be bought in
advance in front of the Co-op for
$6. Tickets bought at the door are
$8 for students and $12 for non-
students.

Cable 9

Cable 9, the Washington and Lee
TV station, is opening up its
programming schedule this Sep-
tember. The station is meant to
the benefit the school and school
organizations as well as be a
working journalism laboratory. If
your organization is interested in
a TV show, contact Professor De
Maria at 463-8436.

New Sbar

Think you’re funny? Well here’s
your chance to prove it. The
Ring-tum Phi is looking for two
hilarious humor columnists to
write a monthly column for this
esteemed publication. Interested?
Call Josh Manning at 463-2397 or
Rick Peltz at 464-5518.

Get It Out

You too can have your event or
announcement in the General
Notes. Just write a brief message
and place it into the envelope
hanging outside the Phi office,
room 208 of the University Cen-
ter.

 

 

  

For the Record

In the May 9 issue of The Ring-
tum Phi, the reunion year of Assistant
Dean of Students Kenneth Ruscio and
Assistant Director of Alumni
Programs Robert W.H. Mish, both

have on your life’?

 

"76, was incorrectly stated. Ruscio

and Mish celebrated their 15th class

reunion at the last Alumni Weekend.
The Phi regrets the error.

 

Caro! Calkins, University Cen-

ter Coordinator — ‘‘...It made
me woncer, where is he coming
from? This boy is strange.’’

 

Jon Sbar, 91, Tampa, FL ~~
‘While it drove me to a life of
crime, drugs, and debauchery, it
gave me the confidence to appear
in a Talkback question.’’

 

 
SPORTS
Upset places

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team, ranked 12th in the na-
tion, upset Emory University to ad-
vance to the quarterfinals of the
NCAA Division III tournament before
losing three times and finishing
eighth in the nation.

W&L trailed 4-2 after singles
Sunday, getting wins from freshman
Rob MacNaughton at No. 2, 6-4, 7-
6 (7-5) over Todd Kennedy, and
senior Reid Manley at No. 4, 3-6, 6-
1, 7-5 over Jim Burs. Manley’s was
the last singles match to finish.

In the doubles, W&L’s No. 3
team of freshman Robert Wein and
sophomore Travis West were down a
set and 4-1 in the second before
rallying for a 6-7 (7-2), 6-4, 6-1 win
over Bums and Adam Brewer. The
No. 2 team of Manley and junior
Richard Yates topped Rick Grossman
and Colin White in straight sets, 6-
3, 7-6 (7-5) to tie the match at 44,

In the final match at No. 1 dou-
bles, W&L’s team of MacNaughton
and senior Bill Meadows upset
Emory’s O’Connell and Kennedy 7-
5, 3-6, 6-3 to give W&L the upset.
O’Connell and Kennedy are the na-
tion’s sixth-best doubles team.

Emory had defeated W&L 7-2
during the season.

On Monday, W&L couldn’t ex-
' tend its upset string. The Generals
fell to fourth-ranked Swarthmore 8-
1, with the lone win coming at No. 1
‘ singles, where Meadows blitzed Steve
' Tignor 6-4, 6-2. Meadows is the
nation’s 15th-ranked singles player.

The loss dropped W&L into con-
solation play, where California-San
Diego handed the Generals their

The Ring-tum Phi, May 16, 1991

men eighth

 

 

 

sina Pe |
: - oa
= ¢ Aeara

r

Senior Bill Meadows watches freshman doubles partner Rob MacNaughton volley in practice last
week. MacNaughton and Meadows teamed for the clinching win in W&L’s 5-4 upset of Emory in the
NCAA Division fll Tournament Sunday. Phi photo by Leigh Allen.

second loss in as many days, 6-3.
UCSD, ranked eighth, won five of
the six singles matches to earn the
win. W&L’s win came from Yates,
who topped John Cross 7-5, 7-5 at
No. 3. W&L’s two doubles wins

came from Yates and Manley and
Wein and West.
On Wednesday, the Generals

played seventh-ranked Gustavus Adol-
phus in a match for seventh place

and fell 8-1. The lone win came from
MacNaughton, who topped Gordon
Reid in straight sets 6-4, 6-2.

W&L, 6-16 on the season, fin-
ished eighth in the 12-team event. It
was W&L’s sixth NCAA Tournament
appearance in the last seven years.
WA&L last reached the tournament in
1989, finishing fifth.

Individual play begins today at the
Claremont Colleges in California. In

singles, W&L is being represented by
Meadows and MacNaughton. Mead-
ows takes on 37th-ranked Manish
Bhatia of MIT. MacNaughton, rank-

ed 30th, takes on Steve Ivankovich of
Chicago. Ivankovich is ranked 16th.

In doubles, Meadows and Mac-
Naughton will play Dave Jussila and
Ryan Skanse of Gustavus Adolphus.
Meadows is the defending NCAA
doubles champion.

W&L golfers
return to
NCAA meet

From W&L Sports Information

 

 

The Washington and Lee golf
team, the 1991 Old Dominion Athlet-
ic Conference champions, was se-
lected Tuesday as one of the 22
teams that will participate in the
NCAA Division II] Championships.

The Generals will be making their
second straight trip to the national
tournament. The tournament will be
held May 21-24 at the Firethorn Golf
Club in Lincoln, Neb. Nebraska Wes-
leyan is the host school. The Fire-
thorn course is a par-71, 6,505-yard
course and is ranked among the top
65 courses built since 1962 by USA
Today.

W&L finished seventh in 1990,
equalling the school’s best finish at
the event. The Generals will be repre-
sented by juniors Clay Thomas, Brad
Thoburn and Jay McKnight and se-
nior Brian Kopet, all members of last
year’s team. Joining them will be
junior Cliff Burrow.

Both Thomas and Thoburn were
All-Americans last year. Thomas, a

two-time all-ODAC selection, leads

W&L with a 77.67 stroke average.
McKnight, also a two-time all-ODAC
selection, is second on the team with
a 79.22 average.

Thoburn, a two-time top-ten fin- }

isher at the ODAC Championships,
has an 80.56 average. Kopet rounds
out the top four with an 81.56 aver-
age. As a team, W&L enters the
NCAA championships with a 318.33
average.

The golf team becomes W&L’s
fourth team to eam a bid to the
NCAA championships, joining the

Junior Jay McKnight and W&L
make a return trip to the NCAA
tournament. File photo.

men’s lacrosse and men’s and
women’s tennis teams. Never before
have four W&L teams competed for
national championships in one season

y

 

 

ee ee eee

Student Rental Houses i I
In City: Summer Jobs - $10/Hour To Start [| HelpWanted-SummerEmployment 1
*29 Hook Ln. 4 Bedroom, appliances, deck and porch, ample parking. i i y
*301 Houston St. 3-4 Bedroom, new appliances, good yard and neighborhood. lf you grew up and will be living in the greater Philadelphia, Cen- i Boy Scout Camp - 35 miles north of Lexington :
In County: tral/Southern NJ, Pittsburgh, Wilmington, Baltimore, D.C., Rich- t Positions Open: Commissioner, Camper Director, Health Officer :
mond or Norfolk, VA metro areas,

* Timber Ridge, Route 716, 6 miles north. 2 story, 4 bedroom, nice 2 acres, appliances.
* Timber Ridge, Route 727, 7 miles north, 2 story, 3-4 bedroom, 5 acres.

Call Michae] McQuown at (202) 223-3652 for appointment Call Mike Huffman at 261-6413

Call Mrs. Colonna at Lexington Management Company,
463-7157 Days or 463-2060 Evenings.

 

.
{.
1

a

ee

, — )
Has President's Choice Dimetapp |

LO W pe he f CS} E S Cranberry Juices Extentabs .

1’9 2°

Lady Borden

Ice i
Cream ||

99

Half Gal. | ||’

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EVERY DAY!

Another Reason To Switch To Harris Teeter!

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

  
   
 
   
   

Sunnyland
Sliced Bacon

 

 

   

 

 

Twelve - 12 Oz. Cans - ree.
Coke Classic, ||:
Diet Coke |

     
 

 

 

 

Green Beans,
Yellow Squash,
Pole Beans,
Loose Carrots,

Zucchini Squash

69'

 

 

 

Prices Effective Through May 21,1991 |:

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, May 21, 1991. In Lexington Store Only,
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities, None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps. '

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
\ romene

: Women’s tennis
-loses first match

The Ring-tum Phi, May 16, 1991

 

 

His honor

mr ays
ge

eee

< eon

Rear ecsenren Ssep

 

~

 

A ie Mee RTT BRE ee A I I
é Reg ye ig a °

om

 

From W&L Sports Information

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team dropped its opening
round match of the NCAA Division
III Tournament Wednesday, falling to
St. Thomas 6-3.

The Generals, ranked 11th in the
nation, fell to 18-2 with the loss to
the third-ranked Tommies. St. Thom-
as of Minnesota improved to 18-4 on
the year.

The Tommies led 4-2 after the
singles by virtue of two key three-
set wins and then clinched the win
by taking two of the three doubles

* Matches.

W&L dropped tough three-set
matches at No. 1 singles, where Jean
Stroman lost to St. Thomas’ Jennifer

. Harkins 3-6, 7-6, 6-3 and at No. 3

singles where Kelly Martone fell to
Emily Shea 6-7, 6-4, 6-3.

W&L’s three wins came from
freshman Genia Foster, senior Kathy
Leake and the doubles team of Leake
and Martone. Foster, at No. 2 singles,
topped Shannon McGraw 6-1, 6-2.
Leake, at No. 4 singles beat Kary
Bymers 6-4, 6-3. Leake and Martone,
W&L’s No. 2 doubles team, defeated
McGraw and Shea 4-6, 6-4, 6-4.

The loss moved the Generals into
consolation round play. W&L faced
10th-ranked Vassar today at Emory
University in Atlanta, Ga.

The women’s tennis team becomes
the first women’s team at W&L to
earn a bid to the national champion-
ships. W&L is in just its sixth year
of coeducation.

  

 

Freshman Genla Foster had one of W&L’s wins in a 6-3 loss to St.
‘Thomas Wednesday. Phi photo by Leigh Allen.

by Chris Leiphart.

 

Head coach Jim Stagnitta
earned the ODAC Coach of
the Year honor after guiding
W&L to the ODAC title and
an NCAA Tournament berth.
In his two seasons, Stagnitta
has a 20-8 record, including
11 wins this year. Phi photo

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L puts four on all-
ODAC lacrosse teams }

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

Washington and Lee was well
represented on the all-Old Dominion
Athletic Conference teams in both
men’s and women’s lacrosse.

The men’s team placed four play-
ers on the all-ODAC team, including

the player and coach of the Year.

Senior Clark Wight became
W&L’s first ODAC Player of the
Year, and Jim Stagnitta received
Coach of the Year honors in his
second season.

Wight and classmate Todd Garliss
were both named to the team at
midfield. Wight finished the season
with 24 goals and 19 assists. Garliss
finished with 32 goals and seven
assists.

Senior Mike Moseman was se-

lected to the team at attack. Moseman
led W&L in assists in 1991 with 25.
He also scored 14 goals.

Junior Robert Huke was W&L’s
lone selection at defense. Huke was
named to the team after his first year
of extensive playing time.

The women’s lacrosse team also
had four players eam all-ODAC
honors.

Senior Shawn Wert was named to
the first team for the second time.
Wert led W&L with 26 goals on the
season.

Sophomores Ginny Dallum and
Lisa Dowling, along with freshman
Angie Carrington, were named to the
second team. Dallum, a defensive
player, scored two goals and had
three assists on the year. Dowling
had 21 goals and 14 assists while
Carrington tallied six goals and six
assists,

 

 

   
    

 

 

i
§ 23 N. Main St.
%

Lexington, VA 24450
PVP VLPVLPVLPVLPOLPVLPVLP PVA PVP PVP OP

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
and Accessories

(703)463-5988

PAP AP VAP VAP

   
 

 

 

LEE M1 RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

Route 11 North

Open 24 Hours

Y
G.

463-5455

 

 

Senior Mike Moseman moves against VMI. Moseman and three
teammates received all-ODAC honors. Phi photo by Leigh Allen.

  
 

 

‘ ° . : * Right

f Lexi ngto n Bike S hop ae pesterng Quen Furniture Dealers

i Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant <y Fory your extra pieces of furniture

i ee oe ; , 115 S. Main St., Lexington 463-2742

} 1908. Main st. 463-7969 Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers , ei . coarwa

Robi Jone SHOE FIXERS “y
x Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Neison St. Instant Shoe Repair : t
; . 2 : We can heel you and save your sole while you wait. &
’ Opp acolo ] With Stadem 1.D. Lexington, Va. 24450 3 West Nelson St., Lexington 464 ~- 4
5 a ) Cites CH Ss Ei me a dee

&

Rockbridge Music

 

For the best in
instruments, amps,
discounted prices.

acoustic and_ electric
and accessories at

 

 

205 N. Main St.

 

Prescriptions © Cosmetics Perfumes
a Charge Accounts © Free Delivery

 
  
  
  
 

J Say No To Glasses & Contacts
Z There are muscles in the eye which elongate the eye to see close- -up. Two other mus-
Y

A

cles flatten the eye to see at a distance. When these muscles become weak they are una-

 

 

WILLSON-|

- 101 N. Randolph St. Conditional use permit for five stu- Restaurant

dents, Renovated in 1987. Close to campus. $900/month

minutes a day, will give you normal vision in 3 months. $25.00 covers cost of the man-
ual with brief & to-the-point instruction, packaging, mailing and tax.

 

COCO CEPOPPPEPOEPE POPE EPAPER EP EARP PAPA AAHS J ble to focus the eye resulting in poor vision, requiring either glasses or contacts to cor- W

> ’ ZY rect the condition. 12 years ago, I perfected a method of exercising my eyes, to correct A L K E R

,) RENTAL PROPERTIES J siete Gusge HOUSE

} , Z | By doing four simple exercises for eight minutes plus 3 eye focusing exercises for 7 Po : | #
Z
]

Send your check or money-order to: Reservations are recommended
Benjamin Company
P.O. Box 19098

Roanoke, Virginia 24019

WBF F606} dN

n® Paul Mitchel ¢ Seba.
{Stian

+ Many other 2-5 bedroom houses and apartments

   
 
    
     

Security Management, Inc.

30 N. Main St., Lexington
464-4832

RWWA

POOO DIO OOS OOPS CSCC PSST SA

 

 

 

PuUVCCeCUVUUUCUUCUUUUUCUCUCCCUCCC
POGOOO GOD ODI DDS ODIO PPPSD

J er

PCC CCV UCC CCC CCC C VCC

 

wn

5° Redke

      
 
 

ek —
Ne ig )

~ George’s ™®
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

RACKET FOR SALE
Wilson pro-file, 3.6 racket for sale,
Call 463-2134 or 463-5598

 
     
     

Oniy ‘nat

ene

A Nreyid CREATIVE APPROACH

Diploma Special $59.95

 

 

 

 

‘| Open Sunday

—For Rent
Alone Mill

--- 4 Bedroom House ---
Nice Country Living
Along the River

Beatty Mill

--- 4 Bedroom House ---
Close to Town

 

@ Includes 4 moulding choices

@ Drymounting of diploma

m@ Regular glass

w Your choice of mat color with V-groove
m@ Ribbons added if desired

 

Harbs’

A Bistro

Hours: Monday -Saturday10—5:30 gui

Herring Real Estate
41S. Main St. 463-7314

19 W. Washington St.
Lexington --- 464-1900

4 East Washington St. Lexington, VA 24450 (703)464-6464

 

 

 

 

 

 

—

 
W&LIFE

The Ring-tum Phi, May 16, 1991

 

Graduating law students look back

 

By Karen Lee
Special to The Ring-tum Phi

Three years is a considerable
amount of time to devote to any
activity, let alone one that forces a
person to forego any semblance of
normal, independent life. In fact,
voluntarily submitting one’s self to
three intense years of non-stop study-
ing, exams and papers could be view-
ed as nothing short of ludicrous.

While I review my time at Wa-
shington and Lee in terms of six
semesters, 87 weeks of class, three
mcct court competitions and indeter-
minate hours of studying, my friends
in the real world can’t believe it has
been three years already. But, I am
finally graduating; my three years of
fervor are over.

The best part of attending W&L
Law was the sense of unity and
belonging I felt as part of the law
school community. I enjoyed _per-
sonally knowing every member of my
class, sharing the joys and sorrows of
life and law school with fellow stu-

dents and discovering professors who
were genuinely interested in us as
unique individuals rather than just
another batch of bluebooks to grade.

I also appreciated the fact that
W&L Law School is not limited to
graduating a particular type of lawyer,
such as conservative, money-oriented,
or partnership-bound.

I have learned that having a law
degree is not a ticket to success;
success depends on the ticketholder.
What one ultimately does with a law
degree depends upon the personal
convictions and professional goals of
each person.

This encouragement of individual
diversity, along with the personal
attention students receive from the
faculty and staff, is what makes
W&L Law a special experience.

I hope to covey these qualities to
prospective students as a recruiter for
the law school next fall, after which
I plan to put my law deg-ee to use
by returning to Texas and practicing
in the area of elder law and esiate
planning.

 

 

Romantic evening

 

 

sion is free.

 

Talley’s Folly, a romantic one-act play by Lanford Wilson, will

be performed in the Johnson Theatre of the Lenfest Center at 8
p.m. Friday and Saturday, May 17 and 18. Al Gordon will direct
the production, which will serve as the acting thesis for theatre
majors Douglas Nelson, '91, and Devon McAllister, '92. Reserva-
tions may be made by calling the box office at 463-8000. Admis-

 

 

a i
= / =

yr Sl Gin. \
ee

 

 

 

ee as ee

 

 

Graduating law student Charles
their oldest son.

 

By Charles Grant
Special to The Ring-tum Phi

 

I came to Washington and Lee
Law School three years ago from the
Citadel in South Carolina. Prior to
my undergraduate years, I spent four
years in the United States Air Force.
I am married and the father of two
sons, both born while I was here
attending law school. As one can
imagine, my law school experience
has been anything but typical.

Nothing could have adequately
prepared me for the stress of the first
year of law school. On top of the
difficulty of the work, my wife was
living in a different city first semester
finishing up her masters degree.

How one reacts to the tremendous
stresses of law school is quite in-
dividualistic. I, for one, gained thirty
pounds in my first semester alone.
Some of my classmates started smok-
ing, some turned to drugs or exces-
sive drinking and a few managed to
keep their heads when all about them
were losing theirs, to paraphrase
Kipling.

Unlike Professor Kingfield in
‘The Paper Chase’’ (the movie is on
permanent reserve at the Law Library
for those of you who haven’t see it),
most of my first year professors
didn’t seek to intimidate and humil-
iate us. For the most part, they were
an engaging, enlightening bunch who
made what was of times boring

The
Fast

 

 

Q

 

oe
COLOR IPIIN CARNIVAL

Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ways to win money.
You do not need to be a League bowler to bowl! -

Lane

 

 

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

QMoonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin
Rock-N-Bowl

Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2AM

US HWY - 11 North

Bowling

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

 

 

Grant with his wife, Terry, and

and tedious work reasonably refresh-
ing and meaningful. I will leave the
law school with fond memories of
them.

I ended my first year of law
school with a flourish. My first son
was born to my wife Terry and me
one week before final exams. While
this certainly wasn’t ideal timing, it
was preferable to his being born in
the middle of finals, as was Dave
Clark’s son during our second year.

The work load increased tremen-
dously second year, but at least some
of the anxiety about surviving law
school had lifted. Straight academics
were supplemented with moot court
competitions, mock trials, and extra-
curricular activities.

The things that stand out from my
third year are the birth of my second
son in February, competing with the
National Mock Trial Team at the
Regional Competition in Richmond,
Va. and serving as president of the
Black Law Students Association.

The BLSA this year especially
wanted to convey how race still plays
a significant role in the criminal
Justice system in this country. It was
only several years ago, for example,
that the Supreme Court struck down
the practice of excluding blacks from
the jury merely because the defendant

is also black.

1 leave school with many fond
memories of my classmates, the law
professors and the administration.

WEEKLY CALENDAR

FRIDAY, MAY 17

 

8 p.m. PLAY: “Talley's Folley," by Lanford Wilson. Johnson Theatre,

Lenfest Center. Free Admission.

SATURDAY, MAY 18
8 p.m. PLAY: “Talley's Folley," by Lanford Wilson. Johnson Theatre,
Lenfest Center. Free Admission.

SUNDAY, MAY 19

2:30 p.m.
author, journalist, and member of the W&L Board of
Trustees. Front Lawn.

TUESDAY, MAY 21

3 p.m. MATHEMATICS COLLOQUIUM: “Invariant Measures of Group
Actions," Harry F. Hoke, W&L '79, University of Richmond.
Room 6, Robinson Hall. Refreshments at 2:30 in Room 7.
Public invited.

 

WEDNESDAY, MAY 22

8 p.m. PLAY: “Evita,” a musical based on the life of Eva Peron. Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center. For reservations, call Lenfest Box
Office, 463-8000 (through May 25).

THURSDAY, MAY 23

8 p.m. PLAY: "Evita," a musical based on the life of Eva Peron. Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center. For reservations, call Lenfest Box
Office, 463-8000 (through May 25).

FRIDAY, MAY 24
W&L Board of Trustees Meeting.

 

LAW SCHOOL COMMENCEMENT: Speaker: Tom Wolfe, '51, ?

“—

3 p.m. MATHEMATICS SENIOR HONORS PRESENTATION: "Hilbert
Spaces and Quantum Mechanics," H. Todd Pearce, '91. Ik
Room 6, Robinson Hall. Public invited. ;
8 p.m. PLAY: "Evita," a musical based on the life of Eva Peron. Keller

Theatre, Lenfest Center. For reservations, call Lenfest Box
Office, 463-8000 (through May 25).

SATURDAY, MAY 25

W&L Board of Trustees Meeting.

Lenfest Center Dedication.

PLAY: "Evita," a musical based on the life of Eva Peron. Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center. For reservations, call Lenfest Box
Office, 463-8000 (through May 25).

EXHIBITIONS

 

1 p.m.

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, MAIN LOBBY: "A Tribute to Our Retiring Faculty
Members" (through June).

UNIVERSITY LIBRARY, BOATWRIGHT ROOM: "Thesis Papers by
Washington and Lee Students Since 1890" (through June).

COMMERCE SCHOOL, MAIN LOBBY AND READING ROOM:

 

"Paintings by Kathleen Olson."

LEWIS HALL, CHARLES VAILL LAUGHLIN FACULTY LOUNGE:
"Retrospective and Recent Lexington Works," mixed media paintings by B

 

Kohlberg (through May 31).

 

 

 

 

standard of living.

CONVENIENCE

*A short walk to Washington & Lee.

*Pienty of paved parking, 10 spaces covered!
*Fully-equipped kitchens include dishwasher,
disposal and microwave

 

 

 

Blending modern convenience and traditional values in a new

Eleven four bedroom, two bath apartments, each featuring:

*Common laundry room and snack room. | DENON SONY
sindividual heat and A/C witn efficient heat —— — a ee ADCOM ALPINE
COMFORT: Sar eres B&O OPTONICA
TYLE
*Eacn unit insulated on all 6 sides ha : ‘ KEF CwD
*Quie! provided by isolated wal framing, con- —_,raditional exterior design and details. BOSTON DAHLQUIST
eas eh wall-to-wall Carpet and the @x- Colonial trim and baseboard KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI
*Double-giazed windows. - ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
‘ . - BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
Herring RealEstate 41S. Main St. 463-7314 - CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
+ IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER
- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS

FOR RENT:

Student House,
3 or 4 Students

Call

463-5383

for info

  

SECURITY:

*Steel entrance doors with deadbolts.
*Full sprinkler system throughout.
*Smoke detectors.

*Automatic grounds lighting

audiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

 

 

 

 

 

The Few. The Proud. The Marines.

For more information or interviews, contact
Capt. J.D. Decarli or Sgt. B.S. Hamilton at
1-800-542-5851 or collect at 703-387-1942.

 

Run your own
company at 26.

We're looking for a few good college students and graduates who
can fill the shoes ofa Marine Corps officer. That's a pretty tall order
It means leading other Marines. Being responsible for their
Well being. But that’s something no civilian job offers you at 26.
Ifyou think you're a rea/ company man, see YOUT omdgee.
Marine Corps Officer Selection Officer for details. Qe

 

+ TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

Year-End
Specials!

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

    
  

 

 

     
       
    
  
       
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SENIORS:
We Have
Graduation ‘91
T-Shirts

WO
463-5383

  
 

SPORT
SANDALS

15 W. Washington St,
(Next to Harb’s)
464-3000

 
   
     
  
    
 
     
   
   
     
  
     
 
      
 
  

 
 

VA. 2444

a Athletes of the year --- see page 6

Che KRing-tum Phi

 

" VOLUME 90, NO. 30

 

By Pamela Kelley
Associate Editor

 

i Lexington police and Washington and Lee

Security are still investigating a series of thefts
which occurred last week in unlocked rooms in the
freshman dormitories.
* According to W&L Security Director Charles
, Murph”’ Murray, four freshmen reported a total
over $1,200 of missing property Thursday.
Lexington Police Sgt. Torben Peterson said the
thefts probably occurred Thursday in the early
morning hours after 1 a.m.
« Peterson said the stolen property was mostly
jewelry, tapes and compact discs, and things which
were ‘‘quick to get out and easily concealable.’’
Police said the thefts occurred in one third-
floor room of Baker, Gilliam and Graham-Lee’s
tach. A VCR belonging to one student was also
yaken from a second-floor lounge in Baker

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

dormitory.

One key to solving the break-ins may be in a
report filed with the police by Rebecca Parkins,
who also lives on Baker dorm’s third floor.

Parkins awoke shortly after 4 a.m. Thursday
morning when an unidentified black male entered
her room. Parkins told authorities the man ran
away when she screamed, although she glimpsed
him long enough to help police create a composite
of his face.

In addition to the freshmen dormitory thefts,
W&L security members also think the burglars
attempted to steal a VCR from Newcomb Hall.
According to Murray, Custodian Sharon Nicely
encountered two black males, whom she did not
recognize, on the building’s ground floor at
approximately 3:30 a.m. After they left she found
a VCR from the hall’s third floor in the main
hallway.

Nicely said Newcomb Hall’s lights were out
and she heard voices on the building’s second or

Dorm thefts puzzle police

third floor when she entered the building around
2:30 am, but assumed some students were upstairs
studying,

According to Nicely, one male descended to the
first floor and saw her cleaning. She said he went
back upstairs, returned with another man, asked her
where the restrooms were and the two left shortly
afterward. Nicely called campus security when she
turned the ground floor lights on and found the
VCR.

Nicley said the police sketch made from
Rebecca Parkins’ description resembled one of the
men she saw.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard said the
investigatton has tumed up a few leads, although
nothing concrete. Authorities checked the license
plate of an automobile that was towed from the
parking area near the freshman dormitories shortly
after the time the robberies are thought to have
occurred, Peterson did not say whether the owner
was a suspect.

 

Cry of the Wolfe

 

 

By Thomas Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

Former Washington and Lee soph-
omore Ulysses Shiu-Ting Hui was
sentenced to a $2,500 fine and two
years of probation Friday for smug-
gling and possession of drugs.

U.S. District Judge James Turk
said in the Roanoke Times and
World-News that he did not imprison
Hui because Hui had not been in
trouble previously.

Turk could have sentenced Hui to
a prison term of up to six months.

Hui testified at his sentencing
hearing in Roanoke that he accepted
full responsibility for his actions.

“I realize how stupid what I did
was,’’ Hui said. ‘‘I let down those
who trusted my judgement — my
family, my friends. I will not make
the same mistake again.”’

In February, Hui pleaded guilty to
charges of illegally importing a one-
ounce package of hashish and pos-
sessing 75 grams of marijuana.

Hui was arrested at the Sigma Phi
Epsilon house on Jan. 10 by federal
agents after accepting a package of
hashish that he had sent himself from
his home in Hong Kong. Hui had
addressed the package to an unwitting
fraternity brother.

 

 

commencement in the Warner Center. His s

Author Thomas Wolfe, '51, speaks to the third-year law class at Saturday’s law school
peech focused on the perils universities are facing
in the era of “political correctness.” Degrees were awarded to 110 graduates in W&L’s 136th
law school graduation. Phi photo by Hal Waller.

When arrested, Hui had marijua-
na and a hashish pipe in his pocket.
The agents also found a plastic bag
of marijuana in his freezer.

The fraternity expelled Hui the
night of his arrest.

 

 

Cadet gets Panhel ma

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

a,

 

\ \ a Z ‘

 

Lexington police released this
composite, drawn from a W&L
student’s account, of a man
suspected of intruding in Baker
dormitory.

Court hands Hui
probation, fine

SPE President Brad Peterson, a
junior, said some fraternity members
think the sentence is too harsh, but
that he disagrees.

“I feel that it’s a felony charge of
a pretty serious nature, and that the
sentence is pretty just,’’ Peterson
said.

Hui told the Roanoke paper he
intends to reapply to W&L.
Se een a SL
dents David L.
Howison _ said
Hui withdrew
rom — Ene
University prior
to a [Student
Conduct Com-
mittee] judicial
action’’ and is
Sligiple to
reapply.

“T expect to hear from him [Hui]
very soon,’’ Howison said.

Peterson had not spoken to Hui
and said he does not know if Hui
will seek to affiliate with the frater-
nity. Hui would have to undergo a
long and tedious process of appeal to
the SPE national fraternity, Peterson
said.

“We don’t talk about it much
because he is not around here
much,”’ said SPE Vice President Max
Dunlap, a sophomore.

Hui’s application would be re-
viewed by the Commitice on Re-
admission, which includes Howison,
Dean of the College John W. Elrod
and several faculty members, accord-
ing to Howison.

 

 

Hui

 

May 23, 1991

SAB
reports
deficit

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

 

Members of the Student Activi-
ties Board told the Executive
Committee Monday that the SAB will
end the year over $3,000 in debt
ticause of unexpected costs from
Fancy Dress.

FD Chairman John Flippen told
the EC that FD came up $6,300 in
the red. He said the deficit consisted
of $500 for missing rented equip-
ment, $400 for a second printing of
invitations for faculty and _ staff,
$1,000 for fireworks, and $2,000 for
cleanup.

Flippen said the extra cleaning
costs were ‘‘totally unexpected.’’

SAB Chairwoman Kathleen Duwel
said the $2,000 paid for 20 people at
$11 per hour to clean. Duwel said ihe
cleaners were mostly ‘‘friends and
family’? of Buildings and Grounds
personnel. She said B&G was sup-
posed to do the whole job and the
SAB would file a formal complaint.

EC President Tom Hatcher said
the problems were partly due to the
fact that no financial records survived
from last year’s FD, so there was no
guide for this year’s planners.

Duwel said the SAB will probab-
ly end the year with a surplus of
about $3,000 which will be applied to
the $6,300 FD debt. Thus SAB will
end the year with about a $3,000
deficit. Duwel said she will present
the final figures to the EC at its
Monday meeting.

Duwel said another reason for the
deficit was the disappointing turnout
at last week’s Neville Brothers con-
cert. She said about 430 people at-
tended instead of the projected 800 to
1,000. As a result, the concert, which
cost the SAB about $18,000, only
brought in $3,000 in revenues.

The 1988-89 SAB left a deficit
that ultimately amounted to over
$20,000 in unpaid bills, taking the
1989-90 SAB and EC largely by
surprise.

That earlier deficit resulted in a
concentrated SAB-EC effort to more
closely monitor SAB and FD spend-
ing, including by the closing of
charge accounts. Efforts were also
directed at bringing the 1990 FD
under budgetary control for the first
time, a feat Duwel said had not been
accomplished in remembered history.

In other business, the EC-elect, in
executive session, named Christopher
Haley as the chairman of the Student
Conduct Commitice for 1991-92,

y cut pledge class sizes in half

diploma in
U.S. court

«By Craig Burke
_ Assignments Editor

 

 

* Despite opposition from Virginia

, Military Institute’s Board of Visitors,
a federal court in Roanoke ordered
‘the military academy to hand over a
,cadet’s diploma.

Michael Scott Milner received his
‘diploma in a federal courtroom Mon-
day, two days after VMI commence-
“ment exercises.
¢ Milner’s attorneys, Bernard and
David Natkin, filed a petition Friday
*in the U.S. District Court in Roanoke,
«asking the court to allow Milner to
graduate Saturday with the rest of his
‘class

The petition stated that Milner
was told he couldn’t participate in
‘commencement exercises or receive
his commission into the United States
‘Air Force, because VMI claimed it
+wWas investigating him.

The investigation was rumored to
‘center around an audio recording of a
sexual encounter between a cadet and
“a female VMI employee.

» Officials from VMI and Milner’s
lawyers refused to comment on the
“investigation.

, The two parties reached an agree-
ment Friday afternoon. VMI agreed
‘to mail the cadet his diploma Monday
,if he didn’t participate in Commence-
ment

' VMI's Board of Visitors, howev
er, voted unanimously Saturday mom

_ Please see CADET page 4

 

By Jennifer Mayo
Staff Reporter

 

Sorority women may see their pledge classes
cut in half next year, Panhellenic President Dale
Wyatt said on Tuesday.

The PHC is investigating different quota
setting techniques for women’s winter rush
1992 for two reasons, both to lower pledge
class and chapter size of the three groups here
and to make room for a fourth group to rush
successfully.

‘*Pi Beta Phi said that they will not come if
they are not assured that their chapter size will
equal those of the existing sororities at W&L

within two years,’’ Wyatt said, ‘‘so we need to
make a drastic change in our present system or
look for a new plan.”’

Wyatt said that even if Pi Beta Phi should
reject the invitation, another group will be
invited to colonize as the fourth sorority, so the
quota adjustment is necessary cither way.

Last week, PHC invited the Assistant Dean
of Women and Greek Affairs from the
University of Richmond, Alison Bartel-Lord, to
visit W&L to explain Richmond’s present
extension methods, which have been extremely
successful. Dean Bartel-Lord discussed goal-
setting for rush with a new group.

‘“Because they are similar in size and rush
Statistics, we feel that we can benefit more

from their experience than we can necessarily
from National Panhellenic suggestions,”
Panhellenic Rush representative Brannon Aden
said. ‘‘Richmond’s system would allow the
newest sorority to start with many more girls
during rush than the other three, giving them a
strong chapter from the start.’’

Kappa Kappa Gamma nationals oppose the
proposed quota change mainly because it is not
in the National Pahellenic Council handbook.
Chi Omega and Kappa Alpha Theta nationals
have not been contacted for responses, but PHC
expects similar reactions.

“Our nationals are all scared of seeing our
chapters get smaller numbers, but it’s gonna
take drastic reductions to get a fourth group on,

and our nationals know that we need one,”’
Wyatt said.

Dean Atkins agreed that the proposed
change would give the new group a much
better chance to survive.

“If we give one-half of the rushees to the
new group right off the bat, we will make them
a strong group immediately,’’ Atkins said.
“‘Otherwise they might end up very small like
DG and no one will want to join because such
small numbers are not an attractive option.’’

Aden also acknowledged the need for a
major adjustment.

‘In the situation that we’re in, we must
compromise to avoid last year’s problems,’’
Aden said.

 

Graduating seniors anticipate future, reflect on past
Sheepskin sets W&L diplomas apart

 

By Thomas Eisenhauer
Staff Reporter

 

Wilson and Executive Committee
Vice President Raymond Welder
will speak at Commencement.

Despite the beginning that ‘‘co-

 

 

The end of the road is just
around the corner for seniors at
Washington and Lee.

W&L will graduate 403 stu-
dents with 405 degrees on Thurs-
day, June 6, said University Regis-
trar Scott Dittman. Dittman said
Lovell West and Shana Horrigan,
will have each earned two degrees.

The College will award 268
degrees and the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics
will award 137, Dittman said.

The traditional Baccalaureate
Service will take place at 11 a.m.
on June 5. Commencement will
follow the next morning at 11 on
the president's front lawn.

University President John D.

mmencement’’ implies, many se-
niors view it more as saying a
tearful farewell to an old and
changing friend.

Student Activities Board Chair-
woman Kathleen Duwel said she
will miss the intimate W&L envi-
ronment.

“T’ll miss the small classes,
where you know everyone, and the
teachers who really seem to care
about you,’’ Duwel said. ‘‘Next
year I'll be one of the masses,’’

Former Kappa Kappa Gamma
President Linsly Hunt said she
appreciates the natural beauty of
the Lexington area

(J Please see GRADS page 4

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

What do W&L graduates have
in common with graduates of
schools like Notre Dame, Amherst,
Smith, and Williams?

A diploma

Of course, every college grants
diplomas. But W&L is one of only
eight institutions left in the United
States that gives out
sheepskin diplomas

So what goes into making the
diplomas destined to grace office
and den walls across America?

genuine

According to
Registrar

University

Scott Dittman, the

William Cowley Co. of Buck
minster, England is the only source
of sheepskin for diplomas in the
world,

The sheepskin is sent to Herff-
Jones in Pennsylvania, the only
company which will still prints on
sheepskin.

In turn, Herff-Jones prints the
diplomas with the only ink which
will both adhere to the skin and
meet federal Environmental Protec

tion Agency standards for safety

The ink, of course, is produced
by only one company. In Ger
) pan)

many

Each graduate receives special
instructions with the diploma
detailing how it should be framed

Dittman said the instructions are
the result of an 18-month experi-
ment done by the Cowley Co. at
the request of W&I

The for diploma
comes to about $46, according to
Dittman. Thus the university, with
about 400 undergraduate and 100
law students graduating each year,
spends close to $25,000 a year on
diplomas

Dittman said W&L could get
“‘good-quality parchment
for 510 each

However, a sheepskin diploma
is more durable
Dittman said

cost each

diplo
mas”’

than paper
sheepskin cannot be
ripped and must be cut with a

blade to be destroyed

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 ee ees es ee ewe ee errnws

awe ea EERO ee ee ew ere ee 6 re ee ee er ne

OPINION

 

Boys and girls,

We have listened to the angry tirades from both camps.
We have read and re-read the statements of the warring
factions. We have spoken with the generals from each side,
as well as many of the foot soldiers. This week we have
stood by_as our own pages have been transformed into a
battle ground. We have observed the battle from a safe,
albeit noisy, stronghold, and we have seen the light.

There is a way to end this war. There is only one way
to end this war. The antagonists must stand up, brush
themselves off, step out of the sandbox, and walk away.

The recent tumult between The Washington and Lee
Spectator and its supporters and Assistant Professor of Art
Valerie Hedquist and her backers has done nothing but show
that Washington and Lee is most certainly not the special
place it tries so hard to tell the world it is.

The world has grown accustomed to childish bickering in
other arenas: the World Wrestling Federation, Congress,
‘*Geraldo,’’ France. Apparently, onlookers must now expect
the same from W&L.

We are dismayed that both students and faculty at our
university would allow themselves to be whipped into such
a frenzy that there is no longer any hope for a mature,
reasoned discourse.

It wasn’t always this way. In the beginning, there were
serious issues raised by both sides, issues that otherwise
would demand our attention. The problem is, those issues
have been overrun by a largely useless adolescent squabble.

When we decided to explore the issues surrounding this
case, one thing we did not expect was to find two armies so
blinded by hate, that they could do no better than throw
insults in the general direction of their opposition.
Unfortunately, this is exactly what we have found. And this
is why the solution proposed above is the only feasible one.

Get up and go home, both of you. Play with your own

Se ee ae

friends until you learn how to behave.

Thankfully, the perfect opportunity for the two of you to
do just that is upon us. Summer is fast approaching. We
will provide no more forums for these hate-exchanges, at
least for now. We will leave this place and hope that upon
our return in September, we will find the peaceful, friendly,
mature community that once welcomed us here at W&L.

None tonight

In case you haven’t heard, the Lenfest Center is having
another Grand Opening this weekend. Actually, this is the
Grand Opening. Publicity abounds. The denizens of the
long-neglected Washington and Lee Drama Department are
now going to great lengths to bathe in the congratulations of
an adoring media.

It would seem that success has gone straight to their
collective head.

If the Phi staff had a dollar for every complaint from the
Drama Department we’ve received about a lack of coverage,
we would all be quite rich. In response, the new editorial
staff has attempted to better cover the Lenfest Center.

In following with what seems to be a recent tradition at
W&L, our efforts have been met with a less than civil
response. The best thing about drama stories is that they are
often accompanied by entertaining pictures. That’s apparently
not going to happen with The Ring-tum Phi, because we
were prohibited from taking flash photography during a
recent rehearsal of Evita, and will apparently never be able
to. We do not propose to disturb any actual performances,
merely to use about .005 seconds of time to shoot a couple
of photos.

Obviously, as recent on-campus feuds go, this is a pretty
boring one. Nevertheless, when an entire department of the
university acts in such a manner, we think you ought to
know about it.

Quote of the week

As you can see here gentlemen, we've got a full house. We
appreciate the publicity, but obviously we don’t need it.

— Lenfest Center employee Mike Gorman informing the
Phi’s photo editor that no flash photography would be
allowed during Tuesday’s rehearsal of Evita, thank you.

 

 

    
   
   
   
       

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

Jason Kelley, Rick Peltz
Pamela Kelley
Cathy Lopiccolo

News Editor

       
         
        
 
  

meer Goer BO eg, 6 phe eee ee Courtney Hall
Editorial rage Editor ees Joshua Manning
OU (sv 1 eee Jay Plotkin

Entertainment Editor
Assignments Editor

Photo Editor
Cartoonist

Marcy Brown
Craig Burke
Leigh Allen
Tim Molloy

John Simonton
Whitney Swift
Hal Waller

me ene MME 8 i se
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week's edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

 

 

     
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

 

MAIN EVENT:
HEDQUIST vs. SPECTATOR

Alum returns to
changed Wé&L .

 

MY VIEW
By Harvey Allen, Jr., ’

 

 

 

You can go home again. I know because I did. For,
the first time in almost fifteen years, I came back home
to Washington and Lee this month for a weekend reunion

‘‘with my classmates,’’ few of whom I actually got to
see. Reunions are great if the people you were closely in
touch with come back too... like fraternity brothers, or,
folks who did the same extra-curricular activities.

With a shortage of members from the Class of '61;
I immersed myself in meeting and talking to as many,
current students as possible, went to Frank Parsons’ class,
paid my respects to General Lee, and talked with newy
and longtime faculty members and administrators. It was
also a special event to talk with my fraternity brothers,
Kappa Sigma, hear their concerns, and rejoice over their,
new home the old ZBT house.

Reading the business news on WLUR-FM Friday*
night was a mountaintop experience for me. I recalled,
my days as a senior editor of ‘‘Home Edition,’’ a
evening radio news show that was then broadcast over’
WREL, then the AM station in town. My thanks to,
WLUR-FM, especially Pam Kelley, for my ‘‘air time.”’

You current students and almost graduates are really'
terrific. I am truly impressed by all whom I met and,
talked to, which is more than I can say for some of the
administration and faculty. You are bright, good-looking!
(the girls only), and appreciative of the rich heritage of,
your university.

You value the honor system, being yourselves,
treasure your friendships (some of which will last a life-
time), and just enjoy being a part of what only a Wash-"
ington and Lee student can fully comprehend: what somes
folks call ‘ta Mink.’’ When I was a student, I really,
didn’t pay much attention to the ‘‘mink’’ stuff, although’
the VMI folks liked to call us that for some reason.
However, they still liked to party with us and keep

 

Mouroy

 

PC profs make unjustified attack .

 

MY VIEW
By Paul Lagarde

 

As a soon-to-be alumnus, I wish to express my
disappointment over several professors’ actions
concerning the Spectator and Professor Hedquist.
Since I am no longer an editor of the magazine, I
can speak only for myself; the current editors will
respond in their own manner.

As a former editor of the Spectator, | have a
unique perspective on the whole affair. The Spec-
fator is a conservative magazine, and for that
reason it is controversial, especially among the
faculty. No one would admit that he doesn’t like
the Spectator simply because it is conservative, but
I believe it’s true. So the illiberal educators come
up with other reasons to disparage it. I can’t tell
you the number of times that the magazine has
been criticized for its ‘‘tone.’’ Many professors, as
well as deans, have personally told me that they do
not mind what the Spectator says, only how the
magazine says it.

Well, listen to what the professors say about
the Spectator — and how they say it. So far, the

magazine has been accused of being “blatantly
‘Tacist, sexist, and offensively conservative’ without

‘substantiation (by Professors Hedquist and Simp-

 

For the PC professors,
academic freedom is a
subjective concept... That is
intolerant and uncivil.

son). Simpson has called its editors ‘‘angry,’’
‘‘hostile,’’ uncivil, intolerant, and writers of ‘‘hate-
filled prose.’’ Professor Peck will have her turn in
the new issue of The Traveller. Other professors
are actually signing some sort of protest, which I
assume will be made public, against the Spectator.

Everything that the Spectator has written about
Professor Hedquist has been in response to specific
actions that she took on her own initiative. The first
editorial in the April issue of the Spectator was
mild when compared to the latest issue which
featured Hedquist on the front cover. Professor
Hedquist ignored the first editorial, and, according-
ly, the Spectator reacted to her subsequent actions.

In my opinion, the outcry against the Spectator

 

General who?

Publication mocks Lee’s code of

 

MY VIEW
By Damon L. Sanders

 

The Speaking Tradition is a part of the legacy
left by General Lee to the students of W&L. The
gist of it is understood by all: greet people kindly,
and expect the same from others. This greeting
does not have to go beyond ‘‘How are you?’’ to
which the response is something like ‘‘I’m fine,
thank you. And yourself?’’ Some students at W&L
have a difficulty remembering their lines or re-
sponding to their cues.

W&L possesses individuals that wish to cling
to the traditions of Lee. A few individuals that
espouse their reverence for Lee’s codes of honor
and civility lack creativity, rationale and... civility.
I] judge them by their reactionary, irrational and
vitriolic writings or by my personal experience
with them. Several of these individuals write for
a publication that places the last nails in the coffin
of civility and gentlemanly behavior.

Some of their criticisms have some validity, but
the thesis of virtually each and every article seems
to get lost somewhere amidst race and sex. Affir-
mative Action, military appointments, deconstruct-
ionism and a host of other items are debatable and
amendable, yet nothing can be accomplished until
the frustrated authors of these misbegotten articles
deal with the fundamental principles behind each of
these issues. They should first explain what are the
principles behind what they are complaining about,
what these principles are intended to accomplish,
will the policies inspired by these principles ac-
complish their goal and why or why not.

Articles on Affirmative Action end up being
lirades on unqualified Blacks. Without going into
what ‘‘unqualified’’ means, the history behind
Affirmative Action, why it was implemented, what
it has done and is supposed to do is left unchal-
lenged. Their solutions to the problems that they
neglect to deal with, the ones that brought the

policy about in the first place, are grounded in
another era. The necessity for the United States to
prepare for an uncertain future goes beyond the
“‘glory days’’ of the turbulent sixties and Lee’s
era. Forward looking citizens are trying to figure
out ways to utilize all human capital at their
disposal. The face of the nation is changing, and
if we continue to act blithely about it, we will fail
to recognize ourselves and our strengths in the
future.

A few individuals that
espouse their reverence for
Lee’s code of honor lack
creativity, rationale, and
civility.

Our country has a magnificent as well as sordid
past. Many injustices were necessary and elim-
inated in order to pave the way for this magnif-
icent past. However, sins of our past and present
creep upon us. Affirmative Action and other
initiatives seek to atone for these sins. The effect-
iveness of these policies is debatable, but they
attempt to make changes for the better.

In an article entitled ‘‘Brave New College,’’ the
authors state their objections to the International
House and the Chavis House. Their complaints
tefer to inequality and favoritism in housing, as
well as lack of access to the students that live in
these residences. These whining individuals should
speak with the appropriate administrator if they are
unhappy with their accommodations.

There have existed openings at the Chavis
House. We would not have objected to having
either of the authors live in the vacant room
(before having read their article, of course.) I’m
sure if the situation of a vacancy in the I-House
were the same, its residents would have a similar
response. Before making statements on such
matters, did the authors of this article take the time

 

various personal items stashed in our houses.

Thank God Saturday classes are gone; they were aj
severe limit on serious partying which usually began with
the Saturday departures to the
academies’’
you have the best of both worlds
and the neighboring riding academies (the term used in’
the Phi during the 50s and 60 s).

Your appearances have changed from my days at the’
University, but mostly for the better. It would be nice to»
see coats and ties on the guys (and skirts on the girls),
but it’s not really as important as who you all are. Inside
and out you are all that I hoped for. ‘

You are the University and you are keeping the Honor
System and the traditions of being great Washington and’
Lee students alive and ng well, thank you. Please keep,
doing what you’re doing. I

‘‘neighboring riding*
to bring back the girls for a weekend. Now

i %
— female ‘‘minks’’

, for one, am very proud.

by a vocal minority gets to the heart of the PC’
issue. The professors seem to think it illegitimate |
for the Spectator to defend itself against its critics. ,
The Spectator ‘‘attacked a professor,” they decry.”
Yet, these professors seem to have no qualms?
about attacking the Spectator, Professor Simpson |
even personally attacked its editor.

The double standard is obvious. One doesn’t
write letters or sign petitions over a mere disagree- |
ment. In truth, the PC professors cannot stand the '
very fact that the Spectator exists. For them, »
academic freedom is a subjective concept; question

authority, question society, question your parents’ *

enc

eg

 

values. But don’t you dare question the academy or,

any of the illiberal faculty members! That is

intolerant and uncivil. y

In today’s university, if one has a_ liberal
opinion, he is open-minded; all conservatives are
considered close-minded. And so, the ‘‘open-

minded’’ faculty members continue to write letters 4

and sign petitions and call the conservative students
racist, sexist, and intolerant.
Newsweek, The New Republic, and The Atlantic

join National Review, The Wall Street Journal, and *

The Richmond Times-Dispatch in denouncing the
PC crowd, it’s time for everyone to take notice.

honor, civility

to investigate the procedures on acquiring a res-
idence in either of these two houses?

I doubt that either Nomikos or Ebner have *

made a serious effort to make the acquaintance of
the residents of the I-House or the Chavis House.
Curiously enough, I have never seen either one of
them come knocking at my door with ‘‘Greetings
and felicitations to ail!’’ Part of the problem with

But when Time, *

 

them not making enough friends at the I-House and
at Chavis is that they just don’t care to or are not

trying very hard at all!

Race(ism) and sex(ism) seem to take the place
of valid arguments against progressive policy. A
particular article in the publication that undermines
civility states that whites parading around in
““blackface’’ is not racist. ‘‘Blackface’’ had and
still has a mocking, condescending and offensive
connotation towards Blacks. If it no longer does,
I would like Nomikos and Ebner to inform me of
when the connotation changed and what it means
today.

The same publication now attacks professors in
an effort to promote or restore ‘‘civility’’ to the
University. A particular professor objects to the
depiction of women as those-who-should-stay-at-
home-if-they-don’t-want-to-be-raped, and as incap-
able authors with nothing befitting the canon that
scholars study. For this, she is defamed by the
publication, Remarkable! There are women that are
conservative on this publication’s staff. However,
their acquiescence, assistance and association to
articles that promote sexism can only be trying on
their rationale and intellect.

W&L should be the last place that would
defend total freedom of speech and expression. The
Honor Code and the code of civility appear to
deem some speech and expression unacceptable:
making racist and sexist remarks is not civil
behavior, and throwing beer bottles through frater-
nity house windows is not acceptable expression.
These codes are in difficult times, and a few that
supposedly value these traditions are pushing them
over the edge of obscurity.
OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

 

 

Hedquist states
position

Editor:

In hopes of clarifying my actions which I
believe have been misunderstood, I offer the
following facts.

In early spring, I wrote two local business
owners regarding their advertisements in the
independent paper, the Spectator. Since | shopp-
ed on a fairly regular basis at both businesses, I
felt comfortable asking these two individuals to
reconsider their decisions to advertise in the
Spectator. I enclosed a copy of the Spectator so
that they could draw their own conclusions.

I believed at the time I wrote the two letters
in February, as I do now, that I have not only a
Constitutional right to express myself in this
manner, but that I also have a social respon-
sibility to do so. It was, and is, in this spirit that
I will continue to conduct my private and profes-
sional life.

Sincerely yours,
Valerie L. Hedquist, Assistant Professor

Spectator
replies to prof

Editor:

I write to inform you of my utter dismay and
disbelief concerning Dr. Pamela Simpson’s letter
in the May 16 issue of The Ring-tum Phi. Prof-
essor Simpson deliberately and repeatedly mis-
represented the truth with regard to the Spec-
lator’s disagreement with Professor Hedquist.

For the record, we take strong issue with the
following parts of Dr. Simpson’s letter.

“For this she had her classroom invaded by
three angry editors of the Spectator.’’ The three
editors, myself included, were led into her
classroom, which had already been dismissed, by
a student in Dupont Hall. We were neither angry
nor did we ‘‘invade’’ her classroom. Indeed, all
three editors were aware of (and discussed
before we ever saw Dr. Hedquist) the need to
remain completely calm when approaching a
professor over this sensitive matter in order to
avoid any possible misrepresentation of our
actions or motives. We did just that.

‘‘Who, when she asked them to come back
during office hours, returned with hostile accusa-
tions.’ After Professor Hedquist learned who we
were, she quickly told us that evening’s Phi Beta
Kappa dinner, among other things, required her
immediate attention. She therefore asked us to
come back at 8 am. the next morning. Our
alleged ‘‘hostile’’ accusations consisted of asking
the professor if she actually wrote the letters as
we had been told, if we could have a copy of
the letter to print unedited in the magazine and
if she planned to continue writing letters. The
tone of each of the three conversations (she
insisted upon seeing us individually and with the
office door closed) never approached any form
of ‘‘hostility.’’

“Their confrontation with her, and their
subsequent, conversation with me, were not done
in a spirit of civility and tolerance.'’ Not only
did Professor Simpson welcome all three of us
into her office, she readily agreed with us that
we were generally civil people, and at no point
in the conversation did she ever indicate that our
discussion violated this civility. In fact, the
conversation was light, pleasant, and marked by
periodic laughter -- both by the professor and
the editors. I have had several discussions with
the professor over the past two years; they have
always been pleasant in tone. | find this asser-
tion some two months after the meeting in
question most interesting since in a conversation
I held with professor Simpson in late April she
described my offer to further discuss Professor

 

 

LETTERS

Hedquist’s actions ‘‘sweet’’ but unnecessary.
During this April conversation Professor Simpson
was also non-committal regarding her offer to
‘‘get a group of people together for a discussion
of what we find objectional in the magazine."’

“All she did was to write to two local bus-
inessmen who are known to have socially con-
scious views and to ask if they knew the content
of the magazine they were advertising in.”
Professor Hedquist did far more than this. At
least Professor Simpson dropped the earlier claim
that the two businessmen she wrote were her
friends. They were not. Furthermore, according
to one recipient of the letter, it was “‘hostile’’ in
tone. The businessman who showed us a copy of
the letter felt that she was campaigning against
us. She wrote that she would take their advertis-
ing in the Spectator into consideration when she
conducted business in Lexington. Is this not a
boycott? She mailed her second letter (casual
correspondence) via registered mail and stamped
CONFIDENTIAL on the envelope. Her actions
suggest an intentional and methodical campaign
against the magazine.

I also wish to inform you that the magazine
has contacted the media, the Board of Trustees,
and legal counsel regarding this matter.

Sincerely,

Cameron Humphries
Editor-in-chief

The Washington and Lee Spectator

Club objects to
‘ill-informed’
article

Editor:

In regard to the Spectator issue of May 1991,
we, the officers and members of the International
Club, feel the need to publicly air our grievances
against the article ‘‘Brave New College.’’ This
article refers to the International House and Club
in a way which is uninformed. Obviously,
neither Mr. Ebner nor Mr. Nomikos sufficiently
researched their topic before reaching their
erroneous conclusions.

In the article, the authors state, ‘‘Facilities
like the Chavis House continue the segregation
of the undergraduates which began even before
matriculation... It is similarly unfortunate that
international students are treated in a comparable
manner — by having their own residence house
which separates them from the campus at large

— with analogous results.”’

They continue, that if this situation per-
severes, ‘‘W&L will always be divided,’’ and
that we will never again be favored with the
presence of someone like Phillipe Labro, ‘‘the
accomplished French exchange student of the
1950s who integrated himself memorably into
the W&L community.’’ We would like to ad-
dress these points in order:

First, not all international students live in the
International House. Of the international students,
more live in the Gaines and freshman dorms,
Woods Creek apartments, and off-campus hous-
ing than in the International House. In addition,
not all residents of the International House are
international students. In fact, eligibility to live
in the House is open to any International Club
member, most of whom are not international
students.

Second, the International Club and House are
integrating factors for both international and
regular students alike. The Club provides a
forum for communication between the two
groups, and allows them to participate together
in many events in which both share the planning.
Furthermore, the International House furnishes an
important meeting place, especially for the one-
year exchange students who find they can not

take full advantage of the fraternity and sorority
programs. Also, the International Club is larger
than several fraternities, with a current member-
ship of 62.

Finally, with regard to Phillipe Labro, our
understanding of his book, A Foreign Student,
leads us to believe that Labro felt forced, rather
than willingly chose, to conform in order to
survive. Washington and Lee, as the Spectator
continually espouses, is a liberal arts college. A
liberal arts education is one which liberates the
mind. Being forced to conform is the antithesis
of this ideal.

We, therefore, invite anyone, including the
staff of the Spectator, to visit the House and
participate in Club events. In this way we can
promote integration in an environment comfort-
able to all.

Sincerely,

David Cilligan, President

Ashwin Mirchandani, Vice-President

Niv Goldberg, Secretary

Unanimously endorsed by the International Club
membership at a meeting on Tuesday, May 21.

‘Civil’ behavior
Spurs action

Editor: oe

The Spectator ‘‘civilly’’ listed my course
‘‘Women and the Creative Arts’’ among those
that are ‘‘polluting the catalogue.’’ I assume that
they will not then protest when I ‘‘civilly’” write
to their advertisers to suggest that the Spectator
is polluting this campus. Now, won’t the intel-
lectual atmosphere of our campus profit from
this stimulating free exchange of ideas? Is this
Washington and Lee?

With the utmost civility,
Kathy Koberstein, Associate Professor

Professors
speak out

Editor: :

We strongly protest The Washington and Lee
Spectator’s public vilification of our colleague,
Valerie Hedquist, in its most recent issue.

K. Lambert, D. Peck, P. Scofield, G. Campbell,
J. Barnett, C. West-Scttle, H.R. Huntley, D.
Stuart, C. Hankla, N. Margand, K. Koberstein,
D. Novak, M. Rogers, E. Scott, W.L. Sessions,
A. Brown, C. Camuto, K. Van Ness, P. Bourd-
on, P. Wilson, M. Wall, L. Jarrard, J. Lambeth,
A.G. Fralin, S. Kozak, A. Rogers, H. Beckley,
M. Pellicciaro, K. White, R. Marks, L. Olsen, P.
Simpson, G. Spice, T. Gaylard, L. Stene, M.
Brouwer, J. Donaghy

Posthumous
BA for Peniston

Editor:

My wife and I were most pleased to donate
the two prints of Robert E. Lee to the EC. We
did so knowing our son would approve.

There is one bit of information I should like
to provide in addition to last week’s Phi article.

Our son was awarded a Bachelor of Science
with Special Attainments in Commerce on May
29, 1975, albeit posthumously. We take great
pride in the fact that he is a graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee University. It has provided us a
bit of solace these past 16 years, and for that we
are most grateful to General Lee’s college.

Sincerely,
Robert C. Peniston

 

 

IGENERAL NOTES

Clean Sheets

All freshmen using the campus
linen service, remember to tum in
all your white stuff to the Univer-
sity Cleaners by June 3.

Junk Wanted

APO will be collecting unopened
food, furniture and clothes for
donation to Habitat for Humanity,
RARA and other organizations on
Friday and Saturday, May 31 and
June 1 in the Baker, Davis, Gil-
liam and Gaines Quads.

Interns

Career Development and Place-
ment is interested in knowing if
you have been offered an inter-
nship for the summer. If you have
finalized you summer plans, come
by the CD&P office and complete
the proper forms, or speak with
Beverly Lorig, Assistant Director.

Parking Purge

The following university parking
areas will be closed after 2 p.m.
on Saturday, May 25 for the
dedication of the Lenfest Center
for the Performing Arts:

Parking area by the A-wing at
Gaines Hall.

Upper and lower parking lots
behind the gym.

Lot A pool entrance at gym.
Parking on d-hall side of Wash-
ington Street.

Alternate parking may be found
in Woods Creek, faculty parking,
or the corral.

This will be for Saturday, May 25
only.

New Handbook

The 1991-92 Student Handbook is
now being compiled. Any new
student organizations should noti-
fy Bernadette Kempton or leave
an entry consisting of a short
description of the organization and
the names of its leaders in the
Student Handbook box outside the
Dean of Students’ office in Payne
Hall.

Big Poem

The International Society of Poets
is accepting poems for the ‘‘Wor-
Id’s Largest Poem for Peace.”’
The document is expected to be
longer that seven football fields
and will be presented to the Sec-
retary General of the United Na-
tions in August. To be part, send
an original poem (20 lines or
less) to: World’s Largest Poem,
P.O. Box 627, Owings Mills,
Maryland 21117,

Ariel Winners

The Ariel's literary contest win-
ners are:

Prose, John McWhirter, ’91
‘‘The Promise’

Poetry, Alison Bell, '91

‘‘Alone Community Cemetery’’
Art, David Phillips, '93

Cubist Painting

Want Roomie

Do you know anyone who needs
a place to live winter/spring term
next year? How about a three-
bedroom house on campus. Please
call Kimberly Gladysz at 464-
5472.

Cable 9

Cable 9, the Washington and Lee
TV station, is opening up its
programming schedule this Sep-
tember. The station is meant to
the benefit the school and school
organizations as well as be a
working journalism laboratory. If
your organization is interested in
a TV show, contact Professor De
Maria at 463-8436.

Lawyer Award

Law professor Judith A. McMor-
row will be presented with a
Distinguished Faculty award from
the Virginia Women Attorneys
Association Foundation tomorrow
at an awards ceremony in Lewis
Hall. The VWAAF presents four
such awards each year statewide
to recognize outstanding faculty
members at accredited Virginia
Law Schools. McMorrow _ has
taught law here since 1988.

New Sbar

Think you’re funny? Well here’s
your chance to prove it. The
Ring-tum Phi is looking for two
hilarious humor columnists to
write a monthly column for this
esteemed publication. Interested?
Call Josh Manning at 463-2397 or
Rick Peltz at 464-5518.

No Notes

Given that this is the last Ring-
Tum Phi of the year, we are no
longer accepting Gencral Notes.
The first regular issue of next
year is scheduled for September
12. Please feel free to submit
your information at that time.
Have a great summer.

 

 

 
    

Interviews and photos
by Teresa Williams

 

TALKBACK

What will you miss the most
about W&L?

 

 

Charles F. ‘Murph’

Murray,
Director of Security -— ‘‘I’ll MD —

miss the people around here, the Murph.”’
students and everybody. But I
won't miss these late nights, fool-
ing around with these parties, and
parking... It’s what I’ve been do-

ing for almost 33 years.”’

Todd Pearce, ’91, Mount Airy,
**Murph.

 

 

 

Definitely CT ces

 

 

 

Chris Smith, 91, Chevy Chase, MD and Ian Shupack ’91, Weston,
“Cold beer, good women, big parties, and the memories....”’

Tammi Simpson, ’91, Nashville,
TN --- ‘‘The Colonnade and all
my friends.”’

 

Professor Buford §. Stephenson,
German Department ‘*Two
words: my students,’’

 

 
 

NEWS

Library to
go hi-tech

By Sarah Drain
Staff Reporter

 

 

Innovative Interfaces, a
automation company,

ize the

library
will computer-
undergraduate and = law
libraries over the summer with about
$450,000 in hardware and software.

Head Librarian Barbara Brown
Said the automated system ‘‘will
change the way we use the collec-
tion.”’

The libraries had not earlier pur-

sued an automated system because
““we weren't ready to do it yet,’’ said
Brown said.

Washington and Lee examined

other schools’ automated library sys-
tems, particularly ones by Innovative
Interfaces, such as at Georgetown
University Law School and the Uni-
versity of Virginia Law School.

The criteria for choosing a system
was based on the question: ‘‘How
easy will it be for students to use the
system in the middle of the night,
when no one will be there to help?”’
Brown said.

Access to the online catalog will
be available through 83 staff and
public computer terminals in the
undergraduate library, its branches,
and the law library. Eventually, any
computer on the campus network will
be able to access the system.

CADET

from page 1

 

 

ing to withhold Milner’s degree.

Milner and his attorneys returned
to court Monday, asking the judge to
force VMI to present Milner with his
diploma.

U.S. District Judge James Turk
granted a restraining order, barring
VMI from withholding the degree.

“Give the degree to him now,
then you can go ahead and appeal if
you want,’’ Turk said.

Milner, ranked 12th in a graduat-
ing class of 250, received a United
States Air Force commission Tuesday.
He plans to join the Office of Special
Investigations.

      
        
 
 
 

  
 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

 

 

Alums

By Greg Patterson
Staff Reporter

 

 

Two Washington and Lee :
alumni who served in operations LJ Lit:
Desert Shield and Desert Storm nia
say that while conditions were
rough, knowledge of support on

the home front kept them going.

Lt. Cliff Deal, ’89, and Lt. Jon
Missert, °88, are both members of
the Army 82nd Airborne Division,
which was the first unit of ‘U.S.
troops deployed to Saudi Arabia
after the Aug. 2 Iraqi invasion of
Kuwait.

Deal and Missert,
an apartment near Fort Bragg,
N.C., said they were watching
television at about 10 p.m. when
the call came.

‘*They said to come in and that
was the last time we saw _ the
apartment’ for eight months, Deal
said. ‘‘My parents came in [later]
and there were still glasses in the
sink and food on the table.’’

The division was flown to
Dhahran in eastern Saudi Arabia
and a few days later took up de-
fensive positions at Al Jubail near
the Kuwaiti border, part of the
“line in the sand’’ drawn by
President Bush.

According to Missert,
were stationed on the
wailing for ‘‘the hordes which
never materialized’? until the end
of September. Then, because armor
and artillery units had _ been
summoned to positions on the bor-
der, the 82nd pulled back.

While Missert was. stationed
around Dhahran to defend the
allied forces’ secret air base, Deal
was sent to Abqaiq, an hour west
of Dhahran to defend oil refineries
against terrorist attack, he said.

Missert said the troops spent
their free time playing cards, writ-

who share

 

they
border
desert was ‘‘a little better chow,”’
Deal said. Other than that, he said
it was ‘‘business as usual.”’

Once the air war against Iraq
began on Jan. 16, the troops began
gearing up for a ground offensive.
Deal said that while the likelihood
of ground war may have been
‘“‘debated in the newspapers,’
there was never any doubt to the
troops that they would be used.

On Feb. 23, Deal’s battalion
led the westernmost coalition
forces over the border into Iraq at
ing letters, and playing sports. the outset of the ground war.
Deal said the men ‘‘lived for mail Because the area had _ been
call. You could tell each day who ‘‘pounded”’ by artillery during ‘the
got mail and who didn’t.’’ night, Deal said there ‘‘wasn’t a

Deal said he spent time reading lot there.”’
a book on Arab history that was Deal said support = from
sent to him by W&L chemistry American citizens, both at home
professor Dr. Lisa Alty. and in the Middle East, was
The only difference between  ‘‘incredible.’’
Christmas and any other day in the Deal, who arrived back in the

tell tale of war

 

2nd Lt. Cliff Deal, 89, and 1st Lt. Jon Missert, ’88

U.S. on March 31 and Missert,
who got back on April 2, said
coming home was a memorable
and moving experience.

On the flight home, Deal’s
plane made a surprise stop in
Bangor, Maine.

“We figured it was just a
routine stop,’’ said Deal. ‘‘But the
whole town was out there with
banners and flags. Then they
played the ‘Star-Spangled Banner’
and I was in tears.”’

Deal said that after coming
home ‘‘it was hard to get used to
everything being so green. I was
used to everything being brown
and flat.”’

In summing up the whole
experience, Deal said, ‘‘The end
feeling was that we were the

baddest country on the planet.
There was no way they could have
beaten us.”’

 

 

LOW PRICES
EVERY DAY:

Another Reason To Switch To Harris Teeter!

Holly Farms
Whole Fryers

a

Tew Dy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jumbo
Vidalia
Onions

 

 

 

Students plan trips :
to the Old World

pass which allows them to travel on
trains in most European countries for
a fee of $560.

‘Traveling by Eurail is ideal for
students because it gives you com-
plete flexibility,’’ John Buchanan
said.

Youth hostels will also provide
for an economical place for the trav-
elers to stay at each destination.

 

By Maureen Levey
Staff Reporter

When one thinks of an ideal place
to spend a summer, Europe many
times comes to mind. Europe’s his-
tory, culture, beauty and mystique
will draw several Washington and
Lee students and faculty in the up-
coming weeks for a little work and a Seniors Ed Wilson and Mark
lot of play. Lotruglio plan to backpack through

Jennifer Noble, a junior Spanish Europe this summer and travel by
anc Economics major, will study in Eurail. They will spend six and a
Madrid for seven wecks this summer half weeks going from England all
through an East Tennessee State the way to Austria.
program. Senior Eric Mutz will travel simi-

She will take an art class at the larly but through the countries of
Prado Museum and a Spanish civili- Spain, France, Italy, Germany and
zation and culture course. She ap- Turkey with two of his friends. He
plied for the program earlier this year thinks the trip will be appropriate for
and will receive credits for her this summer.
studies. ‘Our age is the perfect time to

“Tam looking forward to travel- visit some of the more distant cities
ing through Spain and enhancing my I may never get back to again,’’ he
Spanish,’’ Jennifer said. said.

Several Pi Kappa Alpha seniors Professor Follo of the German
planned a two month, post-graduation Department said he anxiously awaits
excursion throughout at least ten his ninth consecutive summer trip to
northern European countries. the Alps.

Judson Blazek, Michael He plans to read German and
Danzansky, Jeffrey Woodland, Doug- study plants and animals to enhance
las Denby, Richard Perry and John his knowledge as a professor and as

Buchanan each purchased a Eurail the Outing Club Coordinator.

GRADS

from page 1

 

“Most of all I will miss being in unfortunate degeneration of conserva-
the middle of the Shenandoah Val- tive opinion, i.e., there’re more liber-
ley,’’ Hunt said. als,’’ senior John Miller said.

In contrast to such sentiments, ‘I think most of the new profes-
several students fear the changes they sors have shown they’re not thinking
believe W&L has undergone during along the same lines as W&L tradi-
their four years here. tionally has,’’ Hunt said.

‘It seems to me that one of the Senior Richard Perry summarized
biggest changes has been in the make the complaints of many seniors.
up of the student body,’’ EC Presi- ‘‘When I entered as a freshman, it
dent Tom Hatcher said. was a Mice, conservative student

‘The students that come in each body,’’ Perry said. ‘‘Now we have a
year seem really concerned with bunch of Eurofags.
studying and not at all with enjoying ‘First of all, we have a new $10
the rest of the W&L environment,’’ million art center; secondly, we have

Duwel said. a new bistro in town; and finally,
Many seniors also expressed con- there are a bunch of freshman walk-
cern over an ideological shift of ing around with long hair and earr-

students and faculty to the left.
‘Basically,

ings — and they’re not girls,’’
said.

Perry
I’ve witnessed the

 

Borden American
Singles

1°9

White Rain
Products

Assorted

..
15 Oz.

 

 

 

 

 

  

Ice Milk Or

7 Breyers
Ice Cream

, B00

 

 

 

 

 
 

Twelve - 12 Oz. Cans - mee
Coke Classic,
Diet Coke

 

 

 

Prices Effective Through May 28, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, May 28, 1991. In Lexington Stores Only,
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Food Stamps.

ae saeieaenil

 

 

 

eee ne

* on
so
ev

fai

gall
as

an

wl
sv

* Fe

a

he
a Wi

“ba
na

*su

 
The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

NEWS
Murph’ to

 

Seven profs
will retire

   

|

WhRa

step down

V&L Security Director

stires after 32 years

=
’ Alisha Johnson
aff Reporter

After more than 32 years of lurking behind bushes
d stalking unauthorized vehicles, Charles ““Murph’’
urray will retire from his position as Washington and
e's Director of Security at Washington and Lee.

“‘That’s a joke here around the office,’’ Director of
munications Brian Shaw teased. ‘‘Murph has retired
ery year for the past five years.’’

This time however, Murph is not joking. Michael
sung from Rollins College will replace Murph as
rector of Security in July.

‘I’m going to miss all this, but when you get old age
| you, you have to think about being able to do
mething on your own and not having to worry about
erything,’’ Murph said.

Born in Lexington, Charles Murray moved with his
mily to Lynchburg when he was ten. He attended
mchburg High School, now called E.C. Glass. Shortly
ler graduation he joined the Marine Corps and was
signed to a cruiser stationed in the Mediterranean.

After a few years of patrolling North Africa, Sicily,
d southern Italy, the young Marine was stationed in
rginia. In 1945 Charles Murray returned to Lexington
here he settled down and married his longtime
yeetheart, Marita Frenche Mays.

Murray served as Lieutenant of the Lexington Police
ce for more than ten years before coming to W&L as
roctor,’’ or overseer, of the university property. It was
re that Murray would find his life’s calling and here he
ould lose the name Charles Murray forever.

In 1962 Bob McHenry, a W&L alumnus and
sketball and lacrosse coach, who invented the nick-
me that would follow Murray for the rest of his life.

“‘He started that ‘Murph’ stuff,’’ Murph said. ‘‘The
idents just heard everybody calling me that, so they
arted picking up on it. I even put it on my license
ate,”’

“It’s one of those rare one-word names--the kind that
comes so familiar that whenever someone says it,
eryone at Washington and Lee and most everyone in
-xington knows immediately to whom the speaker is
ferring,’’ Shaw wrote in the November/December 1987
sue of the Alumni Magazine.

From issuing parking tickets to investigating rashes of
eft and vandalism, Murph has always managed to keep
reast of what is happening on campus. Last month the
ynchburg Chapter of the Alumni Association presented
m with a plaque, acknowledging his competent service
id ‘‘ubiquitous and comforting presence’’ at W&L. for
ore than three decades.

 
 
      

known to

 

SON 4 Aeon | INC

Fe i 43 ‘

ag

#4

Charles ‘Murph’ Murray

Washington and Lee’s Director of Security and honorary alumnus Charles Murray, affectionately
students and faculty as ‘Murph,’ will retire after 32 years. Phi photo by Leigh Allen.

‘Virtually nothing happens on the campus or at the
fraternity houses without Murph catching wind of it,”’
Shaw said. ‘‘To call Murph ubiquitous is an understate-
ment. Back in the 1970s, the Phi once reported that
Murph was sighted in three different places at the same
time on the same party night. He was, and is,
everywhere. Or so it seems.”’

But everybody knows that a 69-year old person
cannot try to be everywhere at the same time. Everyone
except Murph.

“T don’t act like a 70-year-old man,’’ said Murph,
who will celebrate his birthday on November 22.
Murph said alumni have visited W&L and commented
that, although everything from the students to the ap-
pearance of the campus has changed, Murph is always
the same.

What does Murph plan to do with all the spare time
that accompanies retirement?

‘IT guess I’m going to have to find some hobbies,”’
Murph said. ‘‘I plan to be here [at W&L] more than al

home,’’ Murph said. ‘‘I’m not going to sit around the
house for 24 hours. The Dean asked me about working

a couple days a week.”’
Murph said he also looks forward to being able to

. The

 

 

 

Fast

 

 

 

ro

Lane

 

 

 

   

   

 

COLOR PIN “A

— Every Saturday Night at 6 PM

Over 50 ‘ways to win money. | :
You do not t need to bea League bowler to bowl! .

 

 

 

 
   
  
   
  
    

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

 
 
 

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

   
 

 

US HWY - 11 North

   

© Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

Bowling
Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

 

 
     

 

spend more time with his wife, Marita.

‘*After 47 years of marriage, I don’t know how she’s
put up with me,’’ Murph said in deep reflection.
Murph said that he will always cherish the memories he
has of his 32 years at W&L. According to Murph, his
most memorable moments are when the Lynchburg
Chapter presented him with a plaque for his expertise in
law enforcement and for his ability to effectively relate
to colleagues and collegians, and when he became an
honorary W&L alum in 1988.

‘I’m real proud of my awards,’’ Murph said. ‘‘When
Norwood Morrison presented me with that plaque, I
didn’t say a word. I told him afterward that the reason

I didn’t say anything is that I didn’t want them to see a’

grown man cry. And that’s just what. I would have
done.”’

Murph also said that he will always remember the
friendships that he has made, past and present, among the
student body.

“I’m going to miss all the togetherness with the kids at
this school, girls and boys, and I’ll miss all the people
I’ve been working with...but I’ll be back!’’

  
    

for all student printing needs

  
    
   

  
   
    

LEXINGTON’S

$5

L Wy ITA

 

By Sarah Drain
Staff Reporter

 

Quick ~ Inexpensive ~ Easy Parking
Quality Quick Print, Ink.

~ Résumés, Invitations, Flyers,
Programs, Posters, Fax, ... ~

214 South Main Street +» (703) 463-9232

ONLY 8¢ COPY

OFF ANY
SERVICE WITH
THIS AD

Seven treasured Washington and Lee professors will
soon become glowing memories when they retire at the

end of this school year.

Jay D. Cook, Jr., professor of accounting; James
Keith Shillington, professor of chemistry; Buford S.
Stephenson, professor of
German; Henry Sharp,
Jr., professor of mathe-
matics, Sidney M.B.
Coulling, professor of
English; Milton Colvin,
professor of politics; and
C. Westbrook  Barritt,
professor of romance
languages, are retiring.

All retiring —_ pro-
fessors are tenured.
Several of the professors
plan to pursue personal
interests in their extra
time.

 

 

 

 

Dr. Keith Shillington
Barritt will continue his involvement in Habitat for
Humanity, as well his hobby with guns and antiques,
Dean of the College John W. Elrod said. Sharp retired at
the end of winter term and immediately traveled to
England. Coulling has been on leave spring term to study
at Oxford University.

Some of the retirees
have been involved in the
university’s phase retire-
ment program. Phase
retirement allows profes-
sors to teach half-time
for two to four years
before retirement. While
the professor’s work load
decreases, a new faculty
member is hired and
integrated into the depart-
ment.

At retirement, a cita-
tion is prepared by each
retiring professor's de-
partment. The citation chronicles the retiring professor's
career and includes anecdotes. The citation is read to the
faculty members and included in the faculty meeting’s
minutes.

Retiring professors are also presented a W&L chair
that includes a plaque on the back with the professor’s
name, rank, and years of service. In addition, President
Wilson will pay homage to the retiring professors by
mentioning them in his commencement address, Dean El-
rod said.

 

Prof. Milton Colvin

 
 
    

NATIONWIDE
INSURANCE

Nationwide is on your side

 
   
  

E. BOLIVAR HUFFMAN

Agent
203 South Main Street

Lexington, VA
Phone: 463-7719 Res: 463-4051

 
     
   

cudiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House
DENON SONY

  
   
 

  
  
   
    
  

    

ADCOM ALPINE
B&O OPTONICA
KEF CWD
BOSTON DAHLQUIST
KLIPSCH NAKAMICHI

       
     
       
   
   
       

- ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
- BUYER PROTECTION PLAN
- CAR INSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
- IN-STORE SERVICE CENTER
- WE SERVICE MOST BRANDS
- TRADE-INS ACCEPTED

(800) 468-6667

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

mune

A MORE CREATIVE APPROACH

Regular glass

Diploma Special $59.95

Includes 4 moulding choices
Drymounting of diploma

Your choice of mat color with V-groove
Ribbons added if desired

Hours: Monday - Saturday 10 — 5:30 om

4 East Washington St. Lexington, VA 24450 (703)464-6464

     
       
   
    
    

MasterCard

     
  
 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

 

Phi honors

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

For most teams at Washington
and Lee, 1990-91 was a very
successful year. In the spring,
four teams competed for NCAA
Championships. Throughout the
year, six teams won Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Champi-
onships, and 12 teams finished
with records .500 or better.

Seniors Shawn Wert and Clark
Wight each had standout years for
four successful teams. For their
exploits, they have been named
The Ring-tum Phi Athletes of the
Year.

In the fall, Wert was the
mainstay of the ODAC champion
women’s cross country team
before tendinitis sowed her down.
Wert was the top W&L finisher
against Mary Washington (23:33),
Lynchburg (22:19) and Eastern
Mennonite (21:04).

“‘At the beginning of the year
I was running the best I had in
my life,’’ she said. ‘I got tendi-
nilis in the middle of the season,
but I ran through it, with some
help from Advil. Towards the end
of the season I wasn’t able to hit
my peak speed.”’

For Wert, it was hard work
over the summer in expectation of
some tough competition that led
to her early success.

“I trained real hard over the
summer because I knew we'd be
facing some tough competition,
both in practice and in meets,’’
she said. ‘‘As a team, we knew
we were going to be good. We
all did a lot of intense training."’

And the hard work paid off in
W&L’s first ODAC title.

‘We worked together, trained
hard, and it all paid off,’’ she
said. ‘It was a lot of fun despite
all the training. We were a close
knit team.”’

Over the winter, Wert ex-
changed her running shoes for a
lacrosse stick, and in the spring
led W&L to its most successful

 

 

 

 

 

 

Senior Shawn Wert moves in a game last year. Wert, along with

Clark Wight, was named The Ring-tum Phi Athlete of the Year.

women’s lacrosse season ever.

The Generals finished 10-6 on
the season, losing to nationally
ranked Roanoke 8-7 in the ODAC
semifinals. Wert was the team’s
top goal scorer with 26 and sec-
ond leading scorer overall with 33
points. For the second straight
year, she was named to the all-
ODAC first team.

“‘T started slow, but I eventu-
ally started scoring at getting

more assists,’’ she said. ‘‘I felt
like I was in groove with every-
one. We had a tremendous sea-
son.”’

In the fall, Wight was a main-
stay on W&L’s football team that
finished the year with four wins
in its last five games to finish S-
5. Wight was seventh on the team
in tackles with 58 and second
with four interceptions.

In W&L’s 21-7 upset win on
Homecoming against Hampden-
Sydney, Wight recorded eight
tackles, including a touchdown
saving tackle. He also had two
interceptions, one of which came
in the end zone.

‘‘We had some tough losses at
the beginning of the year,’’ he
said. ‘‘We had some big wins
over Hampden-Sydney and Guil-
ford. It was one of those seasons
where everyone committed every-
thing they had to the team and
worked hard every day.’’

In the spring, Wight traded his
football helmet for his lacrosse
helmet and his hard work, along
with others, helped W&L enjoy
it’s best season in five years.

In leading W&L to an 11-4
record, its first ODAC title and a
berth in the NCAA Tournament,

Wert, Wight

Wight also eamed the ODAC
Player of the Year honor. But
Wight is quick to point out he
was no more important than any-
one else on the team.

‘*Coach [Jim Stagnitta] worked
us real hard,’’ he said. ‘‘We
didn’t have one person we could
tum to. Everyone picked each
other up. Everyone worked real
hard. We were bummed out to
lose in the playoffs, but we put
that in perspective. We had a
great year.’’

Wight finished the season with
24 goals and 19 assists for 43
points, all career highs. He credits
winning Player of the Year most-
ly to Stagnitta.

‘A lot of my winning Player
of the Year is Coach. He gave
me a lot of confidence,’’ he said.
‘“‘He gave me, and everyone, the
freedom to do what we wanted,
He worked with everyone to
utilize their strong points.’’

Both Wert and Wight have
many memories from their four
years at W&L.

‘For cross country,’’ Wert
said, ‘‘my best memory is win-
ning the ODAC Championship.
When we started out as freshmen,
we had a few good girls, but we
were slow and not very good. But
we've improved. We can now say
we really were good.’’

For lacrosse, Wert’s memory
is more personal.

‘I will remember most getting
voted MVP by my teammates,”’
she said. ‘‘That means a lot to
me, knowing my _ teammates
thought a lot of me to vote me
MVP.’’

For Wight, the memory is not
individual.

‘‘l won’t remember wins and
losses so much,”’ he said. ‘‘I’m
going to remember how both
teams were tight. We had such a
successful year, and I learned a
lot and made a lot of friends. I'll
remember a lot of successful
experiences.”’

 

 

More sports next year

 

The Phi for fall football

Happy Draduation from. .

R.L. Hess & Bro.

Watchmakers, Jewelers, Silver, China and Crystal
A large selection of Gift Items

WM. L. HESS, Jr.

 

For Rent
Alone Mill

--- 4 Bedroom House ---
Nice Country Living
Along the River

121 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450
(703)463-2833

 

 

 

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back*- Giant **

Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

130 S. Main St.

463-7969

 

Ee

Hirst lit

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

 
 
     
 
    

   

 

  

HT Bg
PRA MIC Rg
nea le

CENTURY 21* professionals
nationwide help more peo-
ple find the perfect home
than any other real estate
sales organization. When
you're ready to buy a home.
call a member of the team
that leads.

FOGO REAL ESTATE

Lexington
463-1801

  

Women’s tennis :;
12th in NCAAS-

 

By Phil Spears
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team journeyed to Atlanta last
week and became the first W&L
women’s team — in any sport — ever
to compete in NCAA playoff action.

Despite a twelfth-place finish,
W&L gave several higher-ranked
teams extremely tough matches and
confirmed their new role as one of
the nation’s elite teams and a serious
national championship contender.

On Wednesday, third-ranked St.
Thomas of Minnesota edged the Gen-
erals 6-3 in the opening round.
W&L dropped three tough three-set
matches in the contest.

The Generals points came from
freshman Eugenia Foster at No. 2 and
senior Kathy Leake at No. 4, who
both gained straight set victories in
singles. The No. 2 doubles team of
Leake and senior Kelly Martone gar-
nered the final W&L point in the
match with a three-set victory.

The Generals moved to the conso-
lation round on day two of the tour-
nament where they met 10th-ranked
Vassar College. W&L fell 5-4, again
dropping three three-set matches.
The Generals played Vassar even
through the singles matches. Foster
won easily, and classmates Mary
Nabers and Kim Dickinson won at
Nos. 5 and 6 respectively. W&L’s
lone doubles win came from Leake
and Martone,

On Friday 11th-ranked St. Olaf
defeated the Generals 7-2, bringing
W&L’s season to a close. W&L’s
points came again from Foster in
singles and Leake/Martone in doubles.
Foster won all three of her singles
matches at the nationals without
losing a set. Leake and Martone won
all three of their doubles matches.

The Generals finished the season
with an 18-4 mark ranked No. 12 in
the nation.

Head Coach Cinda Rankin was
extremely pleased with her team’s
first performance in what will hope-

 

 

 

 

 

Jean Stroman

fully become an annual trek to thé
national championships. ’

“It was a great experience,’ " she
said. ‘‘The whole thing was impres*
sive and perhaps a bit overwhelming

for us. We went in as an underdog,
but we played everyone tough and
lost several close, three-set matches
I was thrilled with the performances
of our kids. We had a great year.’”
W&L will say goodbye to the
nucleus of the team for its first few
seasons: seniors Jean Stroman, Leaké
Martone. The trio was been vital in
helping W&L produce a 51-10 record
and two ODAC championships the
past three years. 7
Despite the losses, Rankin is
excited about next season. ‘‘We are
gearing up and getting a tough sched-
ule to get us ready for the kind o
competition we will face in the nas
tionals,’’ she said. ‘‘I think this
year’s team will be the foundation of
many more great teams.” ,
Stroman, W&L’s No.1 player
throughout her career, two-time “
ODAC Player of the Year, and the,
only W&L player ever to compete in
the women’s singles national champi+
onships, competed for her third,
Straight year in national singles play.
Stroman dropped her first round
match but bounced back to post two,
straight- -set consolation round victo-
ries. Stroman’s run ended when shes
was subdued by the No. 6 player in
the country, Cameron Tyler of Sew-*
anee. Stroman finished her career,
with a 62-29 singles mark.

LEE HI RESTAURANT

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop

Route 11 North

Open 24 Hours §

BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME

 

FE aoe

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing

and Accessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

(703)463-5988 ,

PPV PVLPVLPVLPV PVA PVLPV PV LPP AP VAP AP OLPVAP AP OPAPP r

 

Beatty Mill
--- 4 Bedroom House ---
Close to Town

Put your trust
in Number One.

 

 

jenna
f Contury Rev its shale Cot pat aie

 

haw al tha '
t ACH OFFICE IS INDE PENDENTLY OWNED AND OPERATED

 

 

 

 

The W&L Stamp

1749 ) WASHINGTON ane Leno EE UNIVERSITY 1949

Herring Real Estate
41 S. Main St. 463-7314

K & W Office Equipment

Wishes all W&L grads a bright future!

 

 

    
  
   
  
   

To The
Class of 1991

 

 

Scott No. 982

 

 

This stamp, issued in 1949, makes a great momento of Washington and
Lee. Or a nice touch used (with 26* additional postage) on graduation
announcements,

 

 

We have a large stock of mint stamps and of first day covers which
were cancelled in Lexington on the day of issue.

Today's Need For

Tomorrow's Growth QD Teleflora’

rsofrl

Singles 25°
Plate Blocks(4) $1.25
Full Panes (50) $10.50
First Day Covers $1.00 to $3.25

fee

florist to The Homestead

eens |

Last Nelson
(703) 463-1620 | Special Lealnaton, Vo. 30000 =
7 —" CRAFTS PLUS, INC. (703) 463-9641
11 E. Nelson Street lates 9
Lexington, VA 24450 Soe GAMES, HOBBIES AND CRAFT SUPPLIES

Open Monday - Saturday 10-5

31S. Main St., Lexington

 

  

463-3355

 

 

a

 
SPORTS

Coach of the Year goes toHathorn

Initiator of first women’s soccer and lacrosse teams claims honor

 

By John Laney
Staff Reporter

 

Janine Hathorn had never built
an athletic team from scratch
before. But during the 1987-88
school year at Washington and
Lee she started building two.

In the fall she started up
W&L’s first women’s soccer
team, and in the spring she went
to work on the first women’s
lacrosse team.

The first-year results were not
outstanding (soccer finished with
a 2-8-3 record while lacrosse,
playing an exhibition schedule in
its inaugural season, ended at 4-
7), but the new head coach had
the ball rolling.

Signs of Hathorn’s skill at
developing new teams began to
show in the fall of 1988 when
she led the soccer team to a
fourth-place finish in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
Tegular-season standings. That
season she was voted ODAC
Coach of the Year.

And last spring her lacrosse
team finished second in the
ODAC. This year’s story had an
even more successful ending.

After another year of hard
work and dedication, Hathom
guided each team to its best sea-
son ever.

The 1990 soccer team reached
the championship of the ODAC
tournament for the first time,
where it fell to top-seeded Roa-
noke in a game decided after 12
penalty kicks. The team’s final
mark of 11-6 (5-2 in the ODAC)
provided the first winning record
in W&L women’s soccer history.

On the lacrosse side, the Gen-
erals finished at 10-6, (5-2 in the
ODAC), setting a record for vic-
tories and reaching the ODAC
semifinals for the second straight
year, where they too lost to Roa-
noke by one goal. W&L went 9-

 

 

 

 

 

Jan Hathorn
2 in its last 11 games, and of its
six losses, five were to teams
ranked in the top 15 in the na-
tion,

For her achievements, Hathorn
is The Ring-tum Phi Coach of the
Year.

“She certainly deserves it,”’
said senior Shawn Wert, a two-
year all-ODAC lacrosse player.
‘*She’s very dedicated to women
athletics in general, and she’s
worked long and hard to get
W&L’s women athletics off the
ground.”’

Part of Hathorn’s success
formula lies in her ability to
increase the performance level of
her players. :

“I never played lacrosse be-
fore I came to W&L,”’ said se-
nior Melinda Conkling. ‘‘But I
took [Coach Hathorn’s] lacrosse
gym class in the fall term of my
freshman year, and in the spring
I tried out for the team and made
it. I went from knowing nothing
to starting my junior and senior
years, and that says a lot about
her as a coach.

“She has a great understand-
ing of the game, and through that
she is able to teach players, and
teach them well.’’

‘‘She’s a great coach,’’ said
sophomore Lisa Dowling, a sec-
ond-team ODAC selection for this
year’s lacrosse team. ‘‘She’s
worked really hard to get us to
the level we reached.”’

“We've come a long way

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

since my freshman year,’’ noted
junior Ashley Hurt, a three-year
letterwinner in soccer, in reference
to 1988s 7-9 record.

Effective at developing — as
well as recruiting — talent, Hath-
om is also adept at steering it
down the right road.

‘She put our talent into some-
thing that works well together,”’
Wert said. ‘*‘We owe our winning
to her. Talent alone is not going
to do it. She molded and directed
oe

The coach, however, is quick
to deflect a lot of credit back to
her players.

‘The athletes I coach are very
hard working,’’ Hathorn | said.
‘They have heart, desire and a
positive type of pride. Both teams
want to be known as a good
team. They have talent and they
want to win. I take that and direct
them.

“But it’s a 50-50 deal. They
have to go out and do what is
asked of them. I’ve been success-
ful because of the quality of
student I get to work with.’’

According to Hathom, this
year, and the three previous years,
are the foundation for future
success.

‘*We had our most successful
season [in soccer],’’ she said.
‘‘Now the challenge is being able
to continue our new-found level
of success. Within two years we'd
like to be one of the regional
teams to beat.

‘With lacrosse, we're right
around the corner. In three or
four years we should be consid-
ered nationally for the toum-
ament.”’

Hathom acknowledges that
these are lofty goals, but said she
would not feel bad if the bottom
drops out.

“I wouldn’t be disappointed if
we didn’t win, but gave our all
and enjoyed ourselves. My great-

est task is to keep [the game] fun
and keep [the players] coming out
with enthusiasm if we're losing.’’

This year’s success is certainly
nothing new for Hathorn. Before
coming to W&L, Hathom had
five successful years at Denison
University, where she was the
North Coast Athletic Conference
Coach of the Year in field hockey
in 1984, and in lacrosse in 1987.
She coached 12 All-Americans at
Denison — nine in lacrosse and
three in field hockey.

Hathorn also led the Denison
lacrosse team to five conference
titles. Her 1983 team finished
sixth and her 1984 team third in
the Division III U.S. Women’s
Lacrosse Association National
Tournament, while her 1985,
1986, and 1987 teams were eighth
in the NCAA Division III Nation-
al Tournament.

‘*I wanted to try my hand at
starting both [the soccer and
lacrosse] programs. It was a very
exciting proposition [to come to
W&L],’’ Hathorn said of her
decision to leave Denison.

“I didn’t fully know what I
was getting into until I was in the
middle of it. This was quite a
new experience because the teams
at Denison had been good for
years. But coming from a suc-
cessful program was definitely a
great learning experience.”’

Now, the two programs Hat-
horn has built will someday pro-
vide another learning experience
for the next challenge that catches
her attention.

“It’s her fourth year as coach
here and she’s finally getting
results,’’ Conkling said. ‘‘She just
loves the game so much and she
conveys that to the players.’’

‘I do love what I’m doing
and I feel blessed in that way,”’
Hathorn said. ‘‘It’s been wonder-
ful. I wouldn’t trade it for any-
thing, either.’’

 

 

RACKET FOR SALE ..

Wilson pro-file, 3.6 racket for sale.
Call 463-2134 or 463-5598

 

  
  
      
 
     
     
  
     
       
         
       
   
 
       
  
 
 
 

   

Great W&L
Summer-Wear!

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

 

 

 

 

 

 

SENIORS:
We Have
Graduation ‘91

T-Shirts

‘LONE lsanoas
SALE: LAX SHORTS

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Harb’s)
464-3000

 
 

r

) <a

SH

ee be

EEE) RNR CS A 6) RR RTE RRR) RMR) SERIE > ARERR REE |

E FIXERS

“a W Instant$hoe Repair --- at He Rate At De | .
S e can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

( 3 West Nelson St., Lexington

464-6666

RE SE AUD: REED 1 LR GARR a) RMN) SER | BERR 3 ERB

 

   

Please call Dr. Lombard

Apartments/Cottages/House
For Rent

An understanding landlord, less than 20 minutes from
campus. Heating included. $175 to $700/month, with a 25%
Discount to students with a 3.25 GPA or better.

     
   
        

(703)925-2264

(703)377-6638 |

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Standard 10% Discount
With Student I.D.

Robby Jones
703/463-2022

11 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

te bp fe bp bp fo bp hp be fp bp bp bp hn be bn bn bp hn bn be bo be bn he he be ban ha an aarp

 

POO O OOOO CCC CCOOOCOCC CSCS

POGGIO GIES SPST CEC SSCP PCTS CCC CS EEC C EEN

RENTAL PROPERTIES
4

- 101 N. Randolph St. Conditional use permit for five stu-
dents, Renovated in 1987. Close to campus. $900/month

+ Many other 2-5 bedroom houses and apartments

Security Management, Inc.
464-4832

 

A Mi Mn Mi hi Mi Mi hn MN Ni Mant he hh A hp tt

DEAVERS ALLEY

Pa Babb hn tn tn Ma ha hn Ma a tn ha a tt

 

POOODP DDO DD DDD IODIDE FEPSD

Summer Jobs - $10/Hour To Start

Generals seventh after two
rounds in NCAA golf meet

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

After two days of competition at
the NCAA Division III Golf Champi-
onships, the Washington and Lee
Generals find themselves in familiar
territory.

W&L moved into seventh place in
the 22-team field by totaling the
third-lowest round of the day at the
Firethorn Golf Club in Lincoln, Neb.
W&L finished seventh in last year’s
NCAA Tournament.

W&L’s second day total of 314
came after a first-round 320 which
placed W&L 15th. Junior Jay Mc-
Knight led the charge with a second-
round 75.

Juniors Cliff Burrow and Brad
Thoburn also shot sub-80 for the

Generals. Burrow’s 77 was a carecr-

best and came in just his second
competitive round of the year. Tho-
burn shot 79 for the second straight
day.

“On Tuesday, junior Clay Thomas
shot 79 to lead the W&L scoring.
Both Thomas and Thoburmn were All-
Americans in 1990.

W&L is 30 strokes off the pace
set by defending champion Methodist,
who leads the way with a two-day
total of 604, Gustavus-Adolphus
(613), Ohio Wesleyan and Cal. State-
San Bernadino (618), Wittenberg
(625), and Allegheny (627) follow,
and W&L is seventh at 634.

UC-San Diego and Knox (635)
and Redlands (637) round out the top
10. W&L’s seventh place finish in
1990 equalled its best finish ever al
the NCAA Tournament. Play contin-
ues through Friday.

Meadows, MacNaughton
win men’s tennis honors

 

By Phil Spears
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee men’s
tennis team has a tradition of excel-
lence in the post season. W&L won
the team title in 1988. In 1989, John
Morris won the individual singles and
doubles titles. In 1990, Morris and
senior Bill Meadows won the dou-
bles.

In 1991, Meadows and freshman
Rob MacNaughton looked to extend
W&L's championship string last
week-end in Claremont, Ca.

Meadows, who succeeded the 6-
foot-6 Morris as W&L’s top player in
1991 had big shoes to fill. Maybe too
big. Meadows, who was ranked as
high as fourth individually this sea-
son, closed his distinguished career
by reaching the quarterfinals.

After tallying straight-set victories
in the first two rounds, Meadows —
ranked 15th entering the toum-
ament — bowed out of singles play to
3rd-ranked and eventual national

champion Lewis Miller of Kalama-
zoo. Meadows’ run to the quarterfi-
nals earned him All-American status.

 

 

Meadows received further recogni-
tion while at nationals. He was a-
warded the Arthur Ashe Sportsman-
ship Award for outstanding sports-
manship and contribution to team and
institution.

MacNaughton, the only freshman
competing in individual tournament
play left his mark when he upset
16th-ranked Steve Ivankovich of
Chicago in the first round. Mac-
Naughton’s run was ended by 2nd-
ranked Gavin O’Connell of Emory in
round two.

MacNaughton was named Volvo
Tennis/Rookie of the Year for Divi-
sion III. The doubles team of Mac-
Naughton and Meadows ‘‘got a bad
draw’’ according to Meadows and
were unable to advance past the first
round.

Head coach Gary Franke was
pleased with the individual play.

‘Meadows had a good finish to a
great career here,’’ he said. **Mac-
Naughton had an outstanding fresh-
man year and helped us tum things
around, and we look for bigger and
better things to come.”’

 

 

The Wight move

Senior Clark Wight moves toward the goal against VMI. Wight, the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Player of the Year, was named The Ring-tum Phi Athlete of the Year along with
Shawn Wert. Phi photo by Chris Leiphart.

   

 

 

If you grew up and will be living in the greater Philadelphia, Cen-
tral/Southern NJ, Pittsburgh, Wilmington, Baltimore, D.C., Rich-
mond or Norfolk, VA metro areas,

Call Michael McQuown at (202) 223-3652 for appointment

   
    
 

  
 

 
  
 

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

     
 
  

 

 

 

PARKVIEW

 

THE
Blending modern convenience and traditional values in a new
standard of living.
Eleven four bedroom, two bath apartments, each featuring:

OP) 203 N. Main St.

   

   

In City:

   

  
  
 

    
  
 
 

In County;

Student Rental Houses 4

+29 Hook Ln. 4 Bedroom, appliances, deck and porch, ample parking.

+301 Houston St. 3-4 Bedroom, new appliances, good yard and neighborhood.
+ Timber Ridge, Route 716, 6 miles north. 2 story, 4 bedroom, nice 2 acres, appliances.

* Timber Ridge, Route 727, 7 miles north, 2 story, 3-4 bedroom, 5 acres.

Call Mrs. Colonna at Lexington Management Company,
463-7157 Days or 463-2060 Evenings.

 

   
    
   

 
 

 

 

MMMMM

var ounV nex Copg- qayhicgd-—

PHONE: 463-1712 + FAX #: 463 - 6918
125 W. NELSON, LEXINGTON
ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE "="

 

—— =

GOOD BYE - GOOD LUCK, AND FOR THOSE LUCKY ENOUGH TO BE
RETURNING THIS FALL, SEE YOU IN SEPTEMBER!
THANKS FOR ALL YOUR BUSINESS.

  
  
   
    
 
   
 

CONVENIENCE
*A short walk to Washington & Lee
#Pienty of paved parking, 10 spaces covered!

eFully-equipped kichens include disnwasner,
disposal and microwave

eCommon laundry room and snack room.
eindividual neat and A/C wiln efficient neat
pumps

COMFORT:

*Eacn unit insulated on ali 6 sides.

*Quiet provided by isolated wall framing, con-
crete sub-floors, wall-to-wall Carpet and the e@x-
tensive insulation

*Double-giazed windows

 

 

Herring RealEstate 41S. Main St.

SECURITY

Steel entrance doors with deadbolts
Full sprinkler system throughout
eSmoke detectors

eAutomatic grounds lighting.

Large, individual, locked basement storage
closets

©24-hour emergency service

STYLE

*Traditional exterior design and details
Six panel doors

*Colonial trim and baseboard

463-7314

 

 

 

 
 

Wé&LIFE
A chat with Charles Neville...

 

By Joei Dyes
Special to The Ring-tum Phi

 

I found Charles Neville alone last
friday evening behind the pavilion
under the trees doing what seemed to
be an odd sort of dance. He was
wearing a pair of army camouflage
pants, a purple Neville Brothers’ Tour
T-shirt and a black beret with a pin
of the ‘‘yin-yang’’ symbol on it.
Slowly, he would bring his left leg
up and turn his right arm out and
then do the reverse with the opposite
limbs. Next, he would rotate his head
and shake his entire slim body as if
erasing every previous movement so
he could start over again.

He did not notice me at first; or
if he did, he simply ignored me. I
thought perhaps he was meditating.
The evening was pleasant and peace-
ful; maybe he was becoming one
with nature. I could dig that.

I decided to set aside my note-
book and tape recorder to flip
through some magazines I had
checked out of the library with arti-
cles about the Neville Brothers. In
People Weekly, there was a picture
of Charles doing his peculiar dance.
The caption called it @’ai chi. When
I looked over at him, he had stopped
and was looking back at me.

“‘Nice t'ai chi (ty chy),’’ I said,
happy to finally have his attention,
trying to impress him.

“T’ai chi (ty chee'),’’ he cor-
rected, smiling.

‘*Thanks.’’ He tuned me out again
and went back into his rain dance.
Well, so much for making an impres-
sion. | flipped through some more
pages and continued to wait.

   

Aaron Neville

The Neville Brothers is comprised
of the Neville siblings, Aaron, 50,
Art, 53, Cyril, 42 and Charles (the
one in bushes kicking the air), 52.

Aaron, a vocalist, is a big dude
with muscles and tatoos all over
visible parts of his body that say
things like ‘‘Mom”’ and ‘‘Aaron.’’ It
threw me a litle that the voice that
can hit high notes that put Michael
Jackson to shame comes from a man
like that.

Art, aside from being the oldest,
is the keyboardist and group leader.
In the illustrations and on stage, he
reminded me of a big teddy bear.
He is credited for setting the family
course.

Cyril, the baby of the family and
the only member who sports dread-
locks, eventually joined brother Art’s
group, the Meters. A_ percussionist
and vocalist, Cyril is thin like Charles
and has a flair for African jewelry
and clothes.

Charles, an accomplished jazz and
rock player, is a saxophone demon.
His performance in the grass was no
indication of what was to .come.
Later on stage, the way his hands
held — no, caressed his saxophone
made me wonder what other talents
they could render.

Within a moment, I decided I had
done enough. After a day of classes,
I had come back to my room, show-
ered (this always wins points), made
myself up and put on one of my
Sunday best. This was enough, I
thought. It had to be. Just remember,
I said to myself, be firm and profes-
sional; don’t take no for an answer.

‘Hello.’ Charles had completed
his business and was approaching me.

‘*Hi!’’ I said, almost too eagerly.
‘“‘Hello. Mr. Neville? My-name-is-
Joei-Dyes-and-I-would-very-much-
like-to-interview-you-for-our-student-
newspaper-would-you-mind-talking-
to-me-for-a-few-minutes?’’

oe

“It’s not authorized,’’ he said.
“This interview has to be cleared
through the office in New York.”’

‘*T've-tried-Mr.-Neville-Honestly!-
All-week-A & M-Records-has given-
me-nothing-but-the-run-around.”’ I
began to rattle off names of people I
had left messages for, who had not
returned any of my calls.

‘‘Okay, okay,’’ he said, climbing
up the steps. ‘‘I don’t want to do
this, but okay.’’ He looked at me and

The Ring-tum Phi, May 23, 1991

frowned. ‘*You know, if you’re stay-
ing for the concert, you may want to
change. You’ll probably get pretty hot
in there.”

‘T thought if I looked nice, you’d
talk to me,’’ I said, opening my note-
book.

He smiled. ‘You know, I’d talk
to you no matter what you looked
like.’’ I wanted to tell him I liked his
smile. Jt put me at ease. Instead, |
began firing questions.

‘*What’s that you were doing out
there?”’ T asked.

'T'ai chi,"’ he explained. ‘‘It’s a
martial art.”’

“Do you do that to prepare for a
concert?”

‘I do that for me.’’

Charles Neville went on to tell me
about his upbringing, which naturally
included music. ‘‘Music is a part of
life,’’ he said. ‘‘It’s been there since
pre-school and kindergarten. At home,
our grandparents sang spirituals a-
round the house when we were kids.
Our parents performed together. My
mother, Amelia, was a dancer.”’

**You all record albums solo and
as a group,’’ I said. ‘‘You’re all so
talented. Do you go solo because you
need the additional outlet to express
you own abilities?’’

‘‘No,’’ he said, quickly. ‘‘When
we record as the Neville Brothers, the
record company expects all of us to
perform. We all contribute. We all
sing. We all write. We all give.
Music is music. It just flows. That’s
the real appeal of working together
and of watching us work together.
You’ll see.... Of course, we all do
our own thing, too.’’

‘*We’ve always played music,’” he
continued. ‘‘Art and Cyril were re-
cording with their group, the Meters.
Aaron was recording. I went to New
York for awhile. Around 1966, my
uncle George Landry, my mother’s
brother, called us together to make an
album. I then decided to move back
home. [After all,] everyone else was
there.’ This Island Records release
of ‘‘Mardi Gras music,”’ titled ‘‘Wild
Tchoupitoulas,’’ was a regional hit,
but the brothers really did not begin
concentrating’ on their music until
1977. Before that, they supported
themselves with odd jobs, said Char-
les. ‘‘Longshoremen, laborers, con-
struction workers, restaurant workers,
truck drivers,’’ he rattled off.‘‘You
name it.”’

   
   

Charles Neville

The Neville Brothers current pros-
perity has been an uphill climb.
Charles says Aaron’s success has
certainly helped the group, which
toured with Linda Ronstadt for three
months last year. The experience
‘introduced us to a wider audience,”’
he said. ‘*‘Black radio stations won’t
play our music because they don’t
consider it black music. Rap and
urban pop get a lot of play. But, not
what we do.”’

‘Well, what exactly constitutes
black music?’’ I couldn’t help but

‘ask this aged question.

“My only definition of black mu-
sic is music played by black peo-
ple,’’ Charles said. ‘‘Big corpora-
tions are interested in money, not
music. Rap is what the kids buy
because that is all they are given to
listen to on the radio. They have
nothing to compare it to.’’

‘‘Our fans are mostly white be-
cause white stations and college sta-
tions play our music,’’ he went on.

In spite of the group’s current
success, they have obviously decided
there is no place like New Orleans.
‘*Art and I still live in the old neigh-
borhood,’’ said Charles. ‘‘Aaron and
Cyril have both moved to the other
side of town. But, anywhere we go
in New Orleans, we'll be near some-
body we know.... Have you ever seen
a Neville Brothers concert?’

‘*No,’’ I admitted.

‘Well, there’s nothing like i',”’ he
said. ‘‘We just get together and jam.
The music just flows. You'i! see.’’

‘Thank you,’’ I said cencluding
cur interview.

‘‘You’re welcome,” he
‘But, trust me. You’ll see.’’

And that I did.

said.

 

   

WEEKLY CALENDAR

May 24 to June 6

FRIDAY, MAY 24

3 p.m.

8 p.m.

W4&L Board of Trustees Meeting. :

MATHEMATICS SENIOR HONORS PRESENTATION: "Hilbert
Spaces and Quantum Mechanics,” H. Todd Pearce, '91.
Room 6, Robinson Hall. Public invited.

PLAY: “Evita,” a musical based on the life of Eva Peron. Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center.

SATURDAY, MAY 25

1 p.m.

DA
4:30 p.m.
8 p.m.

8 p.m,

6:30 p.m.

W&L Board of Trustees Meeting.

Lenfest Center Dedication.

PLAY: "Evita," a musical based on the life of Eva Peron. Keller
Theatre, Lenfest Center. For reservations, call Lenfest Box
Office, 463-8000.

ENGLISH DEPARTMENT AWARDS CEREMONY. Room 21,
Payne Hall.

CONCERT: Applied Music Recital by W&L music students.
duPont Auditorium, Public invited.

W&L HISTORY SPRING SEMINAR: Panel: “Student Life at
WA&L during the late 1950s and early 1960s.” Edward Cc
Atwood, professor of economics and former dean of
student; Charles F. "Murph" Murray, director of security and
university proctor; J. Holt Merchant, professor of history.
Northen Auditorium, University Library. Public invited.

A

SENIOR NIGHT: Awards Ceremony, Lee Chapel. Followed by
dinner on Alumni House Grounds.

Undergraduate examinations begin.

ONDAY, JUNE

Undergraduate examinations end; December 1991 degree
applications due.

IUESDAY, JUNE 4

11 am.

12:30 p.m.
2-4p.m.
2-4 p.m.

3 p.m.

8 p.m.

8:45 a.m.

Vi am.

Senior grades due by 9 a.m.

BACCALAUREATE SERVICE: Speaker: Robert L. Shaw, musi:
director emeritus and conductor laureate of the Atlanta
Symphony Orchestra. Front Lawn.

LUNCHEON ON THE LAWN.

PRESIDENT'S RECEPTION. Lee House.

TOURS OF HISTORIC FRONT CAMPUS BUILDINGS.

FINE ARTS SENIOR THESIS PRESENTATIONS/AWARDS
CEREMONY. duPont Auditorium.

FAIR FOOTLIGHT PRODUCTION: "The Last Resort,” a play by
Tom Ziegler. Lenfest Center.For information and
reservations, call 463-5900 (through June 9).

MILITARY COMMISSIONING CEREMONY: Speaker: Col.
Andrew Jackson, Fourth Brigade Commander. Front Lawn
North.

COMMENCEMENT CEREMONY: Speaker: W&L President
John D. Wilson. Front Lawn.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

YOU DESERVE IT

Celebrate Your Graduation at La Matson

Reservations, please
(703) 366-2444

 

 

 

 

 

 
~

Lexington mayor defends car tax --- see page 3

,

——s Che Ring-tum Phi

 

" VOLUME 90, NO. 20

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

Perkins
wins EC
election

‘Two advance to
.VP runoff today

As

 

By Rick Peltz
" Staff Reporter

 

Giles Perkins, ’92L, won a close
"race for Executive Committee presi-
, dent, capturing a majority of the

1,150 votes.
* — Perkins, who has served on this
, year’s EC as the second-year law
student representative, won with 599
¢ votes to junior Clayton Kennington’s
520 in Monday’s Big Three election.

Joshua MacFarland, °93, faced

+ Hamilton ‘‘Bo’’ Russell, 92, in a

run-off for EC vice president today.
‘ Ballot boxes were still open at press
, time.

MacFarland and Russell knocked
‘ out Kirk Ogden, ’93, Monday, 289
, and 525 votes to Ogden’s 266, Rus-

sell was 51 short of the majority
+ required for victory without run-off.

Caroline Wight, ’92, won EC
* secretary unopposed with 833 votes.
« Perkins said at last week’s can-

didates’ forum in Lee Chapel that the
‘ preservation of tradition by strong
, leadership was his top priority.

“It’s very important that we instill

‘ to every entering class that the Honor
System is a lot of what W&L is
. about,’’ he said.

In addition, Perkins called Univer-
sity President John Wilson’s suspen-
sion of three W&L students ‘‘an
insult to student government.”’

He also expressed concern about
‘ the university administration ‘‘taking
on new roles, in my mind inap-
propriate.””

Voting Regulations Board Chair-
man Andrew Gaffney said voter tum-
out was slightly lower than for last
year’s Big Three election, but that
last year tumout was unusually high.

Petitions for Law School EC
representative and class officer elec-
tions will be available Feb. 18, due
Feb. 25 for a March 4 election.

Undergraduate candidate petitions
will be available in Carol Calkins’
office in the University Center March
4, and are due March 11 to be eligi-
ble for the election, which will be
held March 18.

«

«

-

-

~

oe

 

*

 

 

Pro-troop rally

raised

 

By Chris Simon
Staff Reporter

 

The Board of Trustees voted last
weekend to increase Washington and
Lee undergraduate and Law School
tuitions by more than six percent next
year.

In a move that will push the
annual average cost of tuition, room
and board to $15,650 per student, the
Trustees set undergraduate tuition at
$11,575 and Law School tuition at
$12,050 for 1991-92.

For the last two years, W&L has
been listed as a ‘‘best buy’’ among
private colleges and universities by
the magazine U.S. News and World
Report in its annual ratings colleges.

The Board also outlined the pre-
liminary steps for an endowment
campaign set to begin in 1992. The
campaign would boost W&L’s current
$150 million endowment fund by

 

approximately $100 million.

February 14, 1991

W&L tuition

again

by Trustees

Board ‘outlines 1992
endowment campaign

Board regretted that the incident took
place.”’

Despite Wilson’s concems that the
incident had threatened the $12 mil-
lion Fraternity Renaissance program,
the Trustees reaffirmed their commit-
ment to completing the project.

Throughout the weekend, Trustees
received favorable reports from var-
ious university departments. Hotchkiss
said the Board was particularly im-
pressed with the Admissions Depart-
ment’s report. Application rates in-
creased this year at W&L despite a
shrinking national application pool.

“The Board came away feeling
very encouraged about Washington
and Lee University,’’ said Hotchkiss.

 

Washington and Lee students
show their support for U.S.
troops currently deployed in the
Persian Gulf at the “Virginians
for Victory” rally, held last Sat-
urday In the Warner Center. The
list of speakers for the rally
’ Included Admiral Jeremiah Den-
ton, who was a prisoner of war
in Vietnam for more than seven
years. Above, Dax Cummings
waves the American Flag. At
right, Macon Miles holds up one
of the many posters from the
rally. Photo by Claudia Schwab.

“Of all the things in the cam-
paign, student aid and scholarships

Specifically, will be the largest single

item in the endowment,”’ said Sec-
retary to the University Farris Hotch-
kiss. ‘‘We hope that we will have
raised our ability to help students
through our endowment™gifts™in a
major way.”’

The Trustees also heard prelimi-
nary reports on the proposed Student
Center. Hotchkiss maintained that
design, location and _ construction
logistics for the Center are still in-
complete.

In other business, the Board ex-
pressed support for President John
Wilson’s suspension of three W&L
students involved with vandalism at
the recently renovated Sigma Alpha
Epsilon.

“The Board was very solidly
behind the position that President
Wilson took on that issue,’’ said

 

 

.

a

 

=

By Courtney Hall
Staff Reporter

 

‘ The Student Conduct Committee, in
conjunction with the administration, is re-
examining the university's judiciary process and
* will present reccomendations for procedural
changes to the Student Affairs Committee after
Washington Break.

‘ EC President Tom Hatcher said that the
Campus Life Committee of the Board of
Trustees, which met in Lexington last weekend,
* charged him with pursuing possibilities for
changes.

‘*My personal concem is that it [the system]
¢ is so cumbersome that it hampers the
effectiveness of the committee,’’ said Hatcher.
“Our goal is to make it as efficient as
« possible.’’

According to Dean of Students David

Howison, the proposed revisions will address
the following issues: the way in which
members are chosen to be on the SCC, the way
in which members of the community are
informed about the judiciary process, the
investigative process, the role of the advocate
(the person who represents the accused), and
the way in which the SCC complements the
honor system.

‘*We want a system based on honor. Second,
a clear system that all students can use; a
system that works fast so cases go in and out
as quickly as possible,’’ said SCC Chairman
Spurgeon.

Spurgeon said he is compiling a 30-page
proposal to address basic constitutional changes
of the SCC. The proposed changes come after
President Wilson’s recent decision to suspend
three students without the consultation of
student government.

Howison said that one of the options would

 

 

‘Prof. Parker

have been to involve the SCC, but that because
of the context of the incident, the president
needed to take decisive action.

Howison would not say that the SCC was
incapable of decisive action, but merely said,
“‘they’re honorable people and do the best they
can.”’

Howison proposed that student hostility
resulting from the president’s actions might be
geared in a more positive direction.

‘‘The key is how to channel the honest
differences of opinion and strong emotional
feelings, ’’ said Howison.

When asked to give students forewarning of
what would result in such strong action in the
future, Howison said that he may ask the
students to decide.

One possibility, Howison said, is getting the
students to define a few areas of conduct that
they consider unacceptable or dishonorable.

Howison admitted that there would be

Hotchkiss. ‘‘At the same time, the

problems in forming clear definitions for
“‘dishcnorable conduct.’’ He did say, however,
that unprovoked physical assault would be one
such instance.

Though it will not institute internal revisions
itself, the Executive Committee, according to
Hatcher will ‘‘move forward with the IFC to
promote contingency plans for the fraternities,
something along the. lines of automatically
tuming over instances of vandalism to the
cc

‘In this way, we would ensure that the
SCC, our elected representatives, will adjudicate
student conduct violations,’’ said Hatcher.

There will be ongoing discussion concerning
the procedural revisions, he said.

Howison said he is encouraged by the
progress, and that hopes to have formal
recommendations for changes ready for the
faculty by April and to the Board of Trustees
by May.

Trustees
Support
Wilson

By Pat Lopes
Editor

 

 

The Board of Trustees sup-
ports President John Wilson’s
controversial suspension of three
students, according to Rector A.
Stevens Miles, Jr.

“The Board agreed with the
action that he took,’’ Miles said
on Monday, ‘‘but we did that
with regret.”’

According to Miles, the regret
was in response to an apparent
failure in student government.

“We're absolutely committed
to the student run Honor Code
and Student Conduct Committee
but the system has to work,’’ he
said.

 

 

SCC proposals may change judicial process

 

 

 

 

Dean David Howison

City begins mailing car tax bills

 

.| recovering

» | By Sarah Drain
Staff Reporter

 

 

‘ Associate Professor of History
J. David Parker is in stable con-
dition and is expected to leave
‘ Roanoke Memorial Hospital to
return home at the beginning of
*] next week,

Prof. Robert McAhren said
Parker is in good spirits, but tired
«| after suffering a rare ‘incomplete
stroke,’’ he said.

. McAhren said given Parker’s
age and physical condition, the
stroke was unusual. The cause of

* the stroke could be due to he-
redity or injury
Parker still occasionally ex-

hibits some neurological symp-
toms, but will make a full recov-

 

"

ow

 

 

 

Prof. J. David Parker

ery, said McAhren.

McAhren is now finding re-
placements for Parker’s classes
for the remainder of winter term.
Parker will be hopefully teaching
one class during spring term

McAhren discouraged visits,
but said short phone calls or
cards would be appreciated.

 

residents.
By Greg Patterson Baker said the arrival of the bills should not be
Staff Reporter unexpected,

 

 

 

Despite continuing controversy between students
and city officials, the city of Lexington is prepar-
ing to send personal property tax bills to vehicle
owners within a few days.

At last Thursday’s City Council meeting, Mayor
H.E. Derrick said the city has held off long enough
and would begin sending bills to car owners who
are not currently paying the tax.

Derrick said the city was ready to send the bills
before a meeting between city officials and student
representatives on Jan. 22. After no compromise
was reached at a second meeting on Feb. 5, Der-
rick said he decided to go ahead and prepare the
bills.

Commissioner of Revenue Courtney Baker said
she has tumed over all billing information to the
city treasurer's office and the bills are being
prepared.

Baker said 350 to 400 bills are being prepared,
but not all of the bills are for W&L students. She
said the list also includes VMI cadets and local

“I hardly think it’s a surprise. It’s something
we've been working on for two years,’’ said
Baker.

Baker said she is sorry for the timing, with the
bills being sent out just before Washington Holi-
day. The bills will be sent to the registered owners
of the vehicles. Bills sent to parents should arrive
while students are home on break, she said.

Baker said she wants to eliminate the miscon-
ception that students, especially Virginia residents,
will be taxed twice.

‘There is no reason to pay tax on property in
the place where property isn’t,’’ said Baker.
“‘People are not going to be made to pay twice."’

Derrick said he hopes students will cooperate.

“It is a proper and correct tax,’’ said Derrick.
“‘Given the standards of the student body and the
Honor System, I would hope that there will be no
problems.

Executive Committee president Tom Hatcher
called the city’s decision ‘‘unfortunate and short
sighted,’’

Hatcher said the city’s plan to collect the tax
from students is ‘‘a blatant attempt to increase
revenue at the expense of non-constituents.’’

‘The city’s financial problems are a result of
a short-sighted decision by the City Council and
W&L students today are paying for it,’’ said
Hatcher.

Hatcher refers to a decision by the City Council
in the mid-1980s to enter into a revenue-sharing
agreement with Rockbridge County.

As part of the agreement, the city consented not
to annex any more land and thus cannot expand
the base of taxable land.

Hatcher says he is not willing to reconsider a
boycott since he believes that it would ‘‘hurt
people who really don’t have much say.”’

However, Hatcher said he is still planning to
make a presentation at the March 7 City Council
meeting.

“I’m still planning tg. go to City Council and
give them a piece of mY mind,”’ said Hatcher.
Hatcher said he thinks the city is going to have
trouble collecting the tax from students.
“All [ can say to the city is ‘Good luck,’’’ said

Hatcher
 

OPINION

ee
As American

as apple pie

Last Saturday afternoon, Washington and Lee was the site
for one of many ‘‘support the troops’’ rallies. The Warner
Center, which ironically had been the location of Hunter
Thompson’s somewhat disjointed anti-war ramblings only
five days before, was filled with 600 vocal supporters of our
war with Iraq, or at least supporters of those now fighting
that war.

That’s the good news. The bad news is that something
not quite so positive could be gleaned from that gathering.
There seems to be an increasingly popular notion that the
only way to be patriotic is to support the war effort; that
somehow only those who agree with the decision to oust
Saddam Hussein from Kuwait (or simply to oust him) are
entitled to brandish the American Flag.

A recurring theme in some of the many impassioned
speeches at the rally was that student-led protests of the
Vietnam War are responsible for our ignominious defeat
there. That had the government and the troops been given
more support back home, we could have won.

That, to us, begs the question. Surely, it is not the stated
policy of the United States of America, the bright light of
freedom and democracy in a sometimes dark world, to enter
wars only because we think we can win. Is it not possible
that the protesters of the Vietnam era fought against the war
effort because they believed that we should not have been
there, that our cause was not just? Perhaps that is the reason
that anti-war protests are not as common now, because a
majority believe that our current cause is just.

Whether or not that is the case, to accuse those against
the war of being ‘‘anti-American’’ is to engage in senseless,
worthless demagoguery. Like it or not, to speak against a
tide of majority opinion requires a certain kind of courage,
a courage that deserves better than to be blandly written off
as ‘‘unpatriotic.”’

After all, the intolerance of minority opinion was what
drove our Founding Fathers to the New World in the first
place. Since there are no convenient alternative continents to
which those with unpopular ideas may be exiled, we suggest
that everyone learn to better deal with non-conformity of
opinion.

Congratulations

There were several winners in the recently completed Big
Three elections. Of course, The Ring-tum Phi congratulates
President-elect Giles Perkins and Secretary-elect Caroline
Wight. At press time, we don’t yet know the winner of the
runoff for Vice President.

The other winner, one that equally _ deserves
congratulations, is the student body; a large majority of
which turned out to vote. More than 1,100 undergrads and
law students showed up, which makes for an impressive
percentage.

Help wanted

It’s that time of year again. Applications are now being
accepted for the Editors of the 1991-2 Ring-tum Phi. Please
submit a cover letter and resume to Carol Calkins’ office
before March 13. Interviews will be held March 17-18.

Quote of the week

If we lower the standard for DUIs to .08, it will take all the
sport out of drinking and driving.

— A Virginia state senator, offering his truly enlightened
view of the debate to toughen the state’s drunken driving
law.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 14, 1991

Anorrr DAY

IN OUR FRATERNITY

 

MY VIEW

By Laura Taylor

 

Some of you older students and
faculty members may remember that
nearly two years ago I wrote an
opinion column for this paper poking
fun at the first issue of the Spectator.
I intended no harm, because I have
great respect for the intelligence of
most of its staff members, but I
wanted to point out a major flaw,
which was the Spectator's policy of

taking potshots at anyone or anything
that did not suit the writer’s concept
of what was right (i.e., white, Anglo-
Saxon, Christian and Republican).

I had hoped that, after a year’s
absence from W&L, I would return
to find the Spectator full of lively,
intelligent commentary — even if I do
not agree with its ideology. Imagine
my disappointment when I realized
that the Spectator was producing the
same old nonsense as before. I tried
to ignore it, in hopes that it was all
just a figment of my active imagina-
tion, but I was sharply brought back

  
    
   

,

 

to reality by Mr. Humphries’ most
recent article, ‘‘Myth of Multi-
culturalism.’’ I will not waste my (or
anyone else’s) time by tearing the
article to shreds, but I have taken it
upon myself to enlighten Mr.
Humphries about some of the darker
aspects of his beloved Christian West.

FACT: Augustine of Hippo was a
hypocrite. Although he may have
been a great theologian, and one of
the first to extol the virtues of fore-
going the pleasures of the flesh, he
had fathered a son by his concubine.

FACT: Many of the men (and

women) we praise as saints or found-
ers of the Church were condemned as
heretics by that very same Church.
They were, among others, Tertullian,
John Chrysostom, Thomas Aquinas,
and Joan of Arc.

FACT: Three of this millennium’s
greatest thinkers were distinctly not
Christian. Maimonides was Jewish,
and Avicenna and Averroes were
both Muslim. Avicenna’s influence
was so great that his medical texts

() Please see TAYLOR page 3

 

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

THE STUDENT VOICE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Founded September 18, 1897

 

 

Editors

Associate Editors
Assignment Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Senior Copy Editor
Entertainment Editor
Sports Editor
Associate Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Editorial Cartoonist
Editorial Assistant
Copy Editor

Patricia Lopes, Brian Root
Alesha Priebe, Andrew Waters
Cathy Lopiccolo

Chris Baradel

Jason Kelley

Pam Kelley

Jay Plotkin

John Laney

Chris Leiphart

Jeff Woodland

Joshua Manning

Courtney Hall

Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager

Anne Dysart
John Miller
Chris Mark

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising, but
also from a portion of the student activities fee, The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the chief editors and business manager,
but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, Room 208
of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

wy, The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450

 

 

Fraternities use
Code to conceal

In light of the recent hoopla surrounding yet
another incident of fraternity misconduct, com-
plete with accusations. directed at both the admin-

, istration, and. the houses themselves, it. seems

necessary to point out a few oversights. Although
I do not wish to attack the Spectator, it is safe
to say that the recent supplement has made a
couple of these oversights very obvious.

First of all, I would like to point out the
irony in the article’s reference to ‘‘uncivilized
verbiage’” on the part of President Wilson.
Anyone present at the open forum can attest to
the fact that the students whose random shouting
and rude behavior that marked the meeting are
the most guilty of ‘‘uncivilized’’ behavior.

Furthermore, the Spectator seems to imply
that President Wilson is unable to differentiate
between ‘‘the pledged word and fraternal rela-
tionships.’’ The relationship between the fraterni-
ties and the Honor Code shows that the fraterni-
ties are the ones incapable of drawing the line.
The method used by fraternity officials to discov-
er the guilty parties in this and other cases seems
structured to allow fraternities to hide behind the
Honor Code. If Mike Skarda knew that the
Honor Code would not permit him to reveal the
names of the responsible students, what was he
planning to do with the knowledge once they
came forward to confess? According to the
Honor Code, he could not even inform the
SCC — the Spectator's desired course of action.

Although everyone may not be guilty of this
cowardice, il is easy to see how fraternities can
justify concealing information by claiming that
the Honor Code silences them. Many students,
fraternity members included, are offended by
seeing fraternities protect themselves with the
Honor System while breaking various laws and
even breaching the Code itself. A short list of
these violations would include: the continued
hazing by many fraternities, the theft of road
signs for decorative uses, the continued use of
fake ID’s to purchase alcohol, and (yet another
irony) the theft of Christmas trees.

Of course in most cases, the proof required to
justify these accusations is attainable only by
members of the guilty fraternity and surfaces to
outsiders through the word of a member who has
seen it happen. If I am wrong in assuming that
an outsider who hears such second-hand knowl-
edge cannot legally accuse someone of a crime
they did not witness, please correct me.

Many of us, independents and fraternity
members included, are sickened by the blatant
violations committed in the name of ‘‘Fraternity
Pranks,’’ which slip through the system. The
time has long since passed to consider whether
or not the “‘traditional’’ behavior of fraternities
can coexist with the tradition of honor. Subse-
quently, we must decide which is more worthy of
our energy.

Sincerely,
David Wilmington '94

Wilson failed
student trust

President Wilson and his faculty supporters
have failed the student trust. They have by-
passed the procedure in which we put our faith
in order to make students aware of their new
restricted rights. Student rights are now secondary
to the policy prerogatives of the administration.
The incident is no longer an issue of whether
students should be punished for breaking win-
dows, but rather the autonomy of student govern-
ment and the procedure in which we put our
faith. President Wilson has sacrificed the means

LETTERS

to justify the ends. This act goes against the
principles in which both Washington and Lee
believed. Judgement by our peers is a right
which the administration cannot usurp. If our
system fails to deal properly with problems, it
fails us more than anyone. However, it is our

responsibility to reform ‘the system, not the
responsibility of an administration that’ feels» it :
‘~~ knows" best: aa v

President Wilson is not the first executive
who has bypassed procedure to achieve his goals.
Watergate and the Iran-Contra scandals were
about executives bypassing procedure for expedi-
ency. President Wilson shares as much popularity
among the student body as Richard Nixon after
Watergate. President Wilson has substituted his
vision of progress for that of the procedure of
student government we embrace. Our system has
worked for 116 years since the days when
General Lee led Washington College. I hope that
President Wilson’s vision of progress will not
erase this tradition.

Unless President Wilson repeals his decision
and puts the case before the SCC for review, he
will not have the respect or trust of the W&L
community. His action has shown he does not
respect or trust us. No leader can lead a commu-
nity without the respect of those he leads. |
suggest that President Wilson show honor and
leadership by repealing his decision and putting
the matter of action before the SCC, If he fails
to do this, he will not be the legitimate leader of
the W&L community. Maybe President Wilson
should resign if he doesn’t have faith in those he
leads. The grocery packing spots around Lexing-
ton have been filled by suspended students, but
I hear there is a busboy position open at Lee-
Hi truckstop.

Sincerely,
Ted Elliot 94

Students apologize

We apologize for the breach of student ethics
which occurred on Jan. 31, 1991. The SCC has
made it clear that these actions are unacceptable,
and we agree with that decision wholeheartedly.
Our actions were inexcusable and again we
apologize.

Sincerely,
Daniel Bevill ’91
Jeffery Rogers ’91

Patriotic display
makes vet proud

An event took place on Sunday evening,
January 27 which I would be remiss if I did not
share with the W&L community.

We here at Letitia Pate Evans Dining Hall
were having our annual Super Bowl Sunday party
(buffet, giant screen TV, contest, etc.). At ap-
proximately 6:20 P.M., there were 350 students,
guests and staff present in the Dining Hall.
Everyone was having a good time talking, enjoy-
ing the buffet and interacting with folks as they
anticipated the kickoff of Super Bowl XXV.

At this time, I sensed a sudden quietness in
the front of the room near the TV. I positioned
myself so that I could see the TV, and noticed
Whitney Houston had begun to sing our National
Anthem.

I then observed individuals — then groups -
- then whole tables of people stand up in silence.
Within ten seconds, everyone in the Dining Hall
was standing reverently, and in total and absolute
silence. Each person listened with a different
stance — some with heads bowed, some with
hands over hearts. A VMI cadet, who had joined
us for dinner, stood at attention, proudly saluting.

Being a veteran, I know pride of country, but

I have never been more proud or more moved as
I was while observing our students — the youth
of America.

Sincerely,

John T. Taffe

Objectivity a

key to war effort

I just experienced the patriotism of the Wash-
ington and Lee community. Today’s ‘‘Support the
Troops”’ rally was undoubtedly pro-American and
will hopefully boost the coalition’s morale.
Furthermore, the rally provided an exceptional
experience for the students who attended it: it
underscored the importance of objectivity.

Former Senator Denton stated that the college
students who acted on their opposit'on to the
American involvement in the Vietnam conflict
had been misled by their professors and the
press. He decried their ‘‘loss of objectivity,’’ and
thanked the crowd for being different, for sup-
porting the war effort. Then Mr. Denton told the
crowd that had the students of the 1960’s been
like the students of today, the United States
would have prevailed in the Vietnam conflict.

Perhaps Mr. Denton was correct; perhaps the
outcome of the Vietnam conflict would have
been different had the students not stood up for
what they believed in. But maybe if they had all
gone to the beach, as some of the Washington
and Lee students of Mr. Cribb’s (W&L °70) era
did, President Johnson would have run for office
in 1968 and won. And as Mr. Denton implied,
he would be dead had this happened, for it was
President Nixon aggressive policy that saved his
life.

Objectivity...

Sincerely,
Gregory Thatcher Densen, '9

More to French
major than
titillating reading

‘Sexy, Erotic & Titillating...”’ I cannot
begin to express my gratitude to the Spectator
for the positive publicity for my course ‘‘Women
and the Creative Arts,’’ as well as to the many
of you who have since expressed interest in
adding the course even at this late date. Unfortu-

nately, this course is reserved for the University
Scholars.

However, I also enjoy teaching a course in
the literature of the French Enlightenment where
we contemplate the philosophy of the Marquis
de Sade and the moral degradation that results
from illicit love. In preparation for Fancy Dress,
my students and I are currently profiting from a
course in French Classicism where the tension
between passion and the French honor code is
the topic of the day.

This is only a small sampling of the wide
variety of courses available to our French majors,
certified experts in the affairs of the heart. The
French are a romantic people, and we in the
Department of Romance (!) Languages are proud
to uphold that tradition.

The registrar has assured me that the sexy
and erotic among you can consider adding a
French major at any point in your college career.
Your petition to the Executive Committee is due
in Dean Peppers’ office by noon on Monday of
the week in which itis to be considered. But
hurry. Space is limited.

Again, thank you to those
expressed interest in my courses.
With Lustful Abandon,

Dr. Kathy Jo Koberstein
Assoc. Prof. of Romance Languages

who have

 

 

 

 

saaeatamee ia

 

soem: I
'

NEWS

‘Hui pleads guilty

to drug charges

 

By Scott Bronstein
Staff Reporter

 

Former Washington and Lee soph-
omore Ulysses Hui pleaded guilty at
a preliminary hearing Tuesday to
charges of importing hashish and
possessing marijuana.

Hui, who withdrew from W&L
last week, was in Federal District
Court in Roanoke to face charges
stemming from his attempt to send
hashish from his home in Hong Kong
to his post office box in Lexington in
January.

He was charged with felony

.counts of importation of a controlled

substance and importation under false
bill and one misdemeanor count of
possession of marijuana.

Both felony charges carry a maxi-
mum five-year sentence, but the
controlled substance charge also car-
ries a mandatory two-year supervised
release penalty and a maximum
$250,000 fine. The importation under
a false bill charge has a maximum
$10,000 fine, and the misdemeanor
charge of possession of marijuana
carries a possible one-year jail sen-
tence and a fine of up to $1,000.

During the hearing, the prosecu-
tion called federal customs agent
David Borden as its only witness.
Borden, the officer who arrested Hui
at the Sigma Phi Epsilon house on
January 10, testified he received
information from customs officials in
Anchorage, Alaska.

He said they had intercepted a
Federal Express package that con-
tained hashish, a concentrated form of
marijuana, as it entered the country in
Anchorage on its way from Hong
Kong to Lexington.

Borden said agents in Anchorage
became suspicious of the package
when they noticed it was addressed to
a post office box number, since Fed-
eral Express does not deliver to P.O.
boxes.

Hui had listed the package as con-
taining cassettes when he mailed it
from Hong Kong. When officials
searched the package, they found
hashish inside a plastic cassette box.

Hui addressed the package to
W&L junior George Benson, one of
his fraternity brothers, but sent it to
his own P.O. box. The package also
listed a phone number registered in
Hui’s name.

Borden called the phone number on
the package, and Hui told him he
could deliver the package to the SPE
house. Borden went to SPE dis-
guised as a Federal Express delivery
man, and arrested Hui after he signed
for the package.

Borden then searched Hui, and
found a hash pipe and a small
amount of marijuana in his pockets.

A later search of Hui’s room uncov-
ered 74 grams of marijuana in a
Ziploc bag in his refrigerator.
Borden said Hui told him that he
purchased the hashish in Hong Kong
for $120. He said Hui refused to tell
authorities where he had purchased

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 14, 1991

 

 

 

 

 

Ulysses Hul
..Ppleads guilty to drug charges

the marijuana found in his room, but
did said he bought it in Lexington.

Borden explained under cross-
examination that he did not find any
scales or large amounts of money
that might have indicated Hui was
planning to distribute the marijuana.
He said Hui told authorities that all
the drugs found were for his own
personal use.

Judge James Turk reduced Hui’s
bail from a $150,000 property bond
to a $10,000 cash bond. He was
released into the custody of his moth-
er, who has flown to the U.S from
Hong Kong and rented an apartment
in Lexington. The court also man-

dated that Hui take a drug test before -

his sentencing date.

Hui’s attorney, David Natkin of
Lexington, said that he has a good
feeling about the sentencing.

“We're very optimistic that Ulys-
ses will receive a suspended sen-
tence,’’ Natkin said after the hearing.
“If he goes to jail at all, it should
be a very light sentence.’’

Superdance earns $30,000

  

Kennon Walthall

...Superdance Co-chair

By Craig Burke
Staff Reporter

 

The Washington and Lee
Superdance for the Muscular Dystro-
phy Association raised over $30,000.

Superdance Chairman Kennon
Walthall said the money raised sur-
passed the original goal, but actual
figures will not be ready until late
this week. :

Fraternity attendance was down,
while sororities brought in more
money than in previous years, Faculty

Advisor Fontanne Bostic said.

The Superdance Committee was
particularly pleased with contributions
made by several student organiza-
tions. The Executive Committee and
the Student Activities Board both
contributed over $1,000, and the
Student Telephone Union gave $500.

Saturday’s concert with Drivin’
and Cryin’ sold over 900 tickets and
raised almost $8,000, Bostic said.
Cho won the contest with Soul Kitch-
en in a close second. Both played
Saturday night because the scheduled
band was in a car accident.

Female
to join
C-School
faculty

Oliver to fill
accounting slot

 

By Pat Lopes
Editor

 

The Commerce School has hired
its first tenure-tracked female profes-
sor.

Elizabeth Goad Oliver, currently a
doctoral candidate at Texas A&M,
has accepted a position as an assis-
tant professor in accounting, C-School
Dean Larry C. Peppers announced
last Tuesday.

She will fill a position left open
by accounting Prof. Jay D. Cook,
who retires in June after 38 years in
the C-School.

“‘What appealed to us most of all
was the fact that she had a back-
ground in English literature. She
really convinced us that she had an
understanding of a liberal arts col-
lege,’’ Peppers said.

Oliver, a native of Fort Worth,
Texas, earned a bachelor’s degree in
English literature from Mary Baldwin
College in 1972. She went on to earn
a master’s degree in the same subject
from the University of Kansas.

It was there she met her husband,
Bill, who was a student in the same
program. After their graduation, her
husband went on to the University of
Virginia for a doctorate degree in
English.

Meanwhile, in her work with a
small company, Oliver took an ac-
counting course to help her prepare
budgets. Oliver said she enjoyed the
class so much that for her next de-
gree she switched from English to
Accounting.

It is likely Bill Oliver will be
offered a part-time teaching position
next year, said English Department
Chairman Edwin D. Craun. Both
Craun and Prof. Demaree C. Peck are
planning sabbaticals starting in the
fall.

However, Craun said the universi-
ty did not offer the Olivers a package
deal with positions for both.

Mayor explains car tax stance

 

 

Library Hours

Washington Break hours at the
University Library:

Closes Feb. 15 at 6:00 p.m.
Feb. 16, 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Closed Feb. 16.
Feb.18-22, 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Feb. 23, 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.
Opens 12:00 noon on Feb. 24.
The library then resumes its 24-

hour schedule.

MC Speakers

The Steering Committee of the
Mock Convention is now begin-
ning to solicit speakers for the
MC’s Kickoff weekend this May
as well as for the convention this
March. They are asking the stu-
dent body for their insight and
assistance. Contact the MC offices
at 463-8579 with suggestions.

Speaking Date

Assistant Professor Demaree Peck
will speak at R.E. Lee Episcopal
Church on February 26, at 7:30
p.m. Peck will discuss Their
Eyes Were Watching God, a novel
by Zora Neale Hurston about a
young black woman’s quest to
find herself.

 

GENERAL NOTES| |

Fireworks!

The International Club will host a
fireworks display tonight at 9:00
p.m. in front of the gym. All are
welcome.

Summer Camp

Camp Sea Gull and Seafarer will
be on campus Tuesday February
26. Have an interesting summer
and gain valuable experience.
Questions? Call John Cuzzocrea
at 463-7142 or Frank Martien at
463-2795.

Reporters

Interested in writing for The Ring-
tum Phi? We're looking for
tesponsible news reporters and
writers with a creative bent to
work on our features page. Call
Cathy 464-4553.

Get It Out

Need to let people know what
you’re up to? Leave a note in the
General Notes envelope outside
The Ring-tum Phi office.

 

 

MY VIEW
By H.E. ‘‘Buddy”’’ Derrick

 

During recent city council elections, the candidates
running for office heard from the citizens of Lex-
ington that the cost of living in the city was
rapidly becoming prohibitive, especially to our low
and moderate income residents.

In response to that trend, the council began a
‘concerted effort last spring to reduce some of the
higher taxes, such as real estate and personal
property. The council also sought to redistribute
other financial burdens such as water and sewer
fees and the commercial utility tax.

In addition, council asked the city’s constitn-
tional officers — the commissioner of revenue and
the treasurer — to become more aggressive in
assessing and collecting taxes legally due the city.
The personal property tax is one such tax that has
not been aggressively pursued in the past few years

     

Interviews and photos
by J.R. Smith

 

 

because of staff shortages in the commissioner of
revenue’s office.

The council agreed to pursue this action for the
following reasons:

1. The city’s tax burden is falling more and
more on property owners, thus driving up the
already extremely high cost of housing. More than
58 percent of the city’s assessed value is tax
exempt. The two tax exempt institutions — VMI
and W&L — make up the majority of that proper-
ly.

2. Equity. Students comprise approximately 40
percent of our population but, in general, do not
pay real estate taxes which comprise approximately
30 percent of our revenues. Yet, students receive
significant services from the city such as road
maintenance, fire, police, and rescue services, etc.

3. State law is clear that this tax should be
collected on all vehicles housed in Lexington for
the majority of the year.

The City Council does not look at this issue as
one in which they are targeting students for some

punitive reason. It is an issue of equity. In the
hard fiscal climate we presently face, all segments
of our community must shoulder the burden of
supporting municipal services.

We consider W&L and VMI to be the cormer-
stones of our city and highly value the faculty,
staff, and students as integral components of that
community. Part of the responsibilities of being
citizens is to support governmental services through
taxes. No one likes to pay taxes, but they are a
reality that cannot be ignored.

The City Council requests your understanding
of this issue and hopes that a boycott of our down-
town businesses — the greatest supporters of
students — will not be revisited.

We encourage you to bring your concerms
directly to the city council or the city manager and
help us to make Lexington a better place for all of
us.

The Lexington City Council meets the first and
third Thursday of every month at 8 p.m. in the
Courtroom in City Hall.

 

TALKBACK

Valentine?

 

 

TAYLOR

from page 2

 

were still being used the nineteenth
century.

FACT: Our heritage of ‘‘religious
pluralism’’ and ‘‘individual rights’’
prompted good Christians to massacre
Jews all over Europe and in Pales-
tine, Orthodox in Constantinople,
Huguenots in France, and Catholics
in England. In contrasts, the Arabs
provided safe passage for the Crisad-
ers to the border of the Byzantine
Empire when they were escorted out
of Jerusalem, and Islamic law re-
quires that all ‘‘Peoples of the Book’’
(Jews and Christians) be permitted to
freely practice their respective reli-
gions.

FACT: Galileo was forbidden to
publicize his findings about the solar
system; namely, that the sun and
planets do not revolve around the
earth. It has also been suggested that,
were it not for Muslim scholars,

Aristotle’s writings would have been |
completely eradicated by the Church.
John Scopes was tried and found
guilty of teaching the heresy of evo-
lution in Tennessee, although Clar-
ence Darrow proved, using William
Jennings Bryan as an example, that
perhaps we are much closer to our
primate ancestors than we think.

FACT: ‘‘Suspicious’’ women were
tried and executed as witches in
Salem, Massachusetts.

FACT: Signs declaring that ‘‘No
Irish Need Apply’’ were posted out-
side businesses all over the northeast-
em United States.

FACT: An entire tribe of Chero-
kee Native Americans was forced to
march from North Carolina to Okla-
homa. Less than haif survived the
“Trail of Tears.’’ Nearly an entire

  

What are you doing for your

 

 

J.B. Meek, ’94, Dalton, GA ~
‘I’m going to deliver her flowers
at 3 a.m. in red boxers.’’

Alison Cowand, °’94, Norfolk,
VA — ‘‘Valentine’s Day sucks.’’

tell,”’

Franklin Daniels, ’91, Chatta-
nooga, TN — ‘‘Gentlemen never

Lisa Rosiello, ’94, Shrewsbury,

MA — ‘‘Valentine’s Day is a
cheery holiday created by Hall-
mark.’’

 

 

Jim Hess, ’94, Long Island,
NY — ‘‘I’m going to be alone on
Valentine’s Day.”’

tribe was wiped out at the Massacre
at Wounded Knee, and to this day
the U.S. Army claims the incident
never happened.

FACT: Millions of Jews and
Catholics were exterminated, just for
being Jews and Catholics, in Europe
fifty years ago.

FACT: Over two hundred rapes
are committed in this country every
day, most of them by men familiar to
the victims (husbands, boyfriends,
friends). Many women who resist are
beaten into submission, but when the
perpetrators are publicly accused, they
claim ‘‘she wanted it.’’ In contrast,
crime — especially crime against
women — is almost nonexistent in
Muslim countries.

FACT: In Greece, a ‘‘Western’’ (I
have used quotations marks because
I disagree with this label) country,

women often have to buy husbands.
husband can run as high as one-tenth

of her father’s herd. In recent years,
the dowry system has beer, banned by
law, but it persists. There is not
dowry requirement in Muslim coun-
tries.

I could continue, but I will not, in
hopes that my point is clear. No
matter what culture we claim, there
are facts of which we should be
ashamed. The only harm in ignoring
these facts is that we have an incom-
plete picture of history. Thus, Mr.
Humphries, before you criticize those
who pursue multicultural studies for
being blind to the truth, awaken to
the truth about your own culture.
Euro-Americans are just as violent,
just as oppressive, and just as barbar-
ic as any African, Arab, Indian, or
Asian.

Chip Hathaway, °94, Darien,
CT — ‘Beats the s--- out of
me."’

 

 

 
   

 

NEWS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 14, 1991

Spring term review
delayed another month

 

By Marcy Brown
Staff Reporter

The debate is still raging on the
relative merits and drawbacks of
W&L's Spring Term, so the commit
tee established to review the situation
will not submit its suggestions until
at least the end of February.

According to Chairman H. Thom-
as Williams, Prof. of Physics, the
committee, which is composed of two
students and nine professors, spent
Fall Term collecting and interpreting
information and opinions from faculty
and students. Actual discussion began
after Christmas and has taken longer
than expected, he said.

‘‘We had intended to have our

report ready by the first of Kebru-
ary, = si oi Bot OP at
persuaded everyone on the committee
has had their chance at the podium.
We're really still debating.’’

According to committee member
Hampden H. Smith, Prof. of Journal-
ism, the debate is an old one that
keeps coming up.

‘‘Ever since this thing was estab-
lished, the same people have basically
taken the same sides. Some faculty
continue to be unhappy about not
being able to get everything essential
into their fall and winter classes, and
there is also the perception that Spr-
ing Term is an academic disaster,”’
said Smith. ‘‘On the other side,
you've got departments shouting
about opportunities they can’t offer

anytime but Spring Term."’

Smith said that what the commit-
tee hopes to do is come up with
suggestions that would reduce the
level and frequency of the debate.

“If I had to guess, I would say
the actual calendar of twelve, twelve,
and six weeks would not change,"’
said Smith. ‘‘But our committee will
make some sort of suggestions about
adjusting certain things about the
term, perhaps to the specific depart-
ments. We just don’t know what the
nature of those suggestions will be
right now.”’

According to Williams, whatever
suggestions the committee does make
will probably not affect Spring Term
for a few years.

 

 

 

Hampden Smith

..committee member

Three fraternity burglars indicted

 

From the News-Gazette

 

Washington and Lee junior Peer
Soderberg was indicted Mon., Feb. 4
for firing a shotgun in his fraternity
house, and three other men were
indicted for a string of burglaries at
W&L fraternities that took place in
late October and early November.

A Rockbridge County Circuit
Court grand jury indicted Soderberg
for firing a firearm inside a building

   

when other were present on Oct. 27.

The jury also indicted one Lexi-
ngton man and two men from Staun-
ton for the fraternity burglaries.

Tito Jermaine Johnson, 17, of
Staunton, has already been convicted
in connection with the burglaries and,
and was sentenced Dec. 13 to ten
years in prison, with seven years of
that sentence suspended.

William T. Carter III, 29, of
Lexington, was indicted for breaking
and entering the Sigma Phi Epsilon

 

  

130 S. Main St.

Lexington Bike Shop

Cannondale - TREK - Bridgestone - Diamond Back - Giant
Mon-Fri 9-5 / Sat 9-12 noon

 

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFT SUPPLIES

463-7969

 

tic, or just friends.

TWO GREAT NEW GAMES!
A Enchanted Evening and Getting to Know You Better
Both suitable for couples in any type of relationship, roman-

 

 

Monday - Saturday 10 a.m.-5p.m.
3158. Main Street, Lexing

WANTED

on 463-3355

 

.

      
      
   
  
 

  
 
     
     

fraternity house on Preston Street and
the residence of Mitch and Kara
Neurock, for grand larceny of a Hon-
da Accord belonging to W&L senior
Chris O’Brien, a stereo receiver and
VCR belonging to SPE and a com-
puter and jewelry belonging to the
Neurocks.

Also indicted were Mike W. Hart-
less, 28, and Floyd E. Richardson II,
19, both of Staunton.

Hartless was charged with grand
larceny of a purse belonging to

3 West Nelson St., Lexington
CS) OREO <a)

eas

     
      
 

xv5

 

Persons to work at FD

SAB will pay $5-$6

per hour for persons
willing to do various
jobs during the ball.

Contact Katie Duwel
at the SAB office:

463-8572

Rockbridge Music

Rockbridge Music can help dress up your Fancy
Dress parties with live entertainment... Priced to ac-
commodate your budget. Call soon.

11-5 Weekdays, 11-3 Saturday

 

463-5455

 

ont? - hety , Me

 

A Special Place
6 E. Nelson St,
Phone # 464-4080

belts,

ACROSS FROM THE POST OF FICE
PHONE:703-463-1712

 

TIT

Oe

Winter Sale
10-50% Off

% Selected Items

Framed prints, clothing,

elry, rugs, pottery, etc.,
etc., etc.

EEE EEE TPE

OMMMMMM \

Multiple masses of quality copies-copied quickly and quantitatively.
HAPPY VALENTINE’S DAY
* 125 W.NELSON ST

   
  
    
  

sweaters, jew:

Re

g

« LEXINGTON
* FAX: 703-463-6918

 

 

 

Read
about
the 1991
Fancy
Dress
theme
in the
Phi
March
1st!

 

 

 

Speers cane ee

 

George’s
Hairstylist

36 Varner Lane
463-3975
Mon.-Thurs. 8-6; Fri. 8-5

Stephanie White, the Neurocks’
computer and jewelry, O’Brien’s
Honda, SPE’s receiver and VCR, as
well as an amplifier, tape deck, and
receiver owned by Kappa Sigma, a
wallet, computer and stereo mixer
from Pi Kappa Phi, and a television
and VCR belonging to George
Triplett.

Hartless was also indicted for
breaking and entering into SPE, Kap-
pa Sig, Pi Phi, and both the Neurock
and Triplett residence.

EO REE ORE CSREES (GRR ERE: (GRRE (I GRR RE

SHOE FIXERS

instant Shoe Repair
We can heel you and save your sole while you wait.

464-6666

 
 

man (L,

Rollerblades
Are In!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UNIVERSITY

SPORTWEAR

       
 
 
      
       
   
     
       
  
     
   
 
       
     

 

 

 

 

 

 

University Sportwear has the
best selection of W&L im-
printed T-Shirts, sweatshirts,
embroidered fitted baseball
caps and much more. Come
see our new W&L Flannel
Boxers!

  

STUDENT
ACCOUNTS
AVAILABLE

15 W. Washington St.
(Next to Lloyd’s)
464-3000

0 SR (ARR RN (RE) ;
_ e Redken® Paul Mitchel e Sebasii.

ect

ae

Eastside principal

preaches self-help |

 

By Steve Fugitte
Staff Reporter

 

Joe Clark preached a message of
self-reliance and determination to a
packed house at Lee Chapel, Monday
night.

“Success is failure turned inside
out,’’ Clark said. ‘‘If you want some-
thing done, get off your rusty-dusty
and do it yourself.’’

Clark put his words into action
when he reformed Eastside High in
Newark, New Jersey.

When Clark took over Eastside in
1982, it was one of the state’s worst
schools, a showcase of drugs and
violence that had become the signa-
ture of inner-city Newark. Clark
replaced drugs and violence with law
and order, tuming Eastside into a
model school in only two years.

Clark, who often refers to himself
as a ‘‘poor black welfare child who
made good,’’ seemed pleased with
himself and the rewards that he has
received from his American success
story.

He joked openly with the
audience about his fame, which in-
cludes a Time magazine cover and a
Warner Brothers movie about his
reign at Eastside, Lean on Me.

But Clark did not dwell on his
successes, choosing instead to address
topics he sees as more pressing,

including America’s ailing public
education system.
Clark advocated a voucher system

of education that would allow parents —
to choose the school their children ;

attend, while being taxed accordingly.
He denounced desegregation, forced
busing and admission quotas.

“Black people have the intellec-
tual capacity to compete
anybody,’’ Clark said. ‘‘When we
lower standards to help black stu-
dents, what we are saying is that
these students are unable to
compete.””

Clark pointed out domestic
problems of a political nature as well.

“We have become a nation of
squabbling nationalities,’’ said Clark,
referring to Americans’ propensity for
seemingly endless debate. ‘‘Let us
meet at an oasis of cerebral under-
standing and cooperation.”’

Clark stressed that people had
become hung-up on the names and
titles given to different races.

“If I call you a white cracker
honky and you turn around, you’re a
white cracker honky,’’ Clark said.

“It’s not what they call you, it’s
what you answer to.

“‘Why are you worried about your
color? We are all brothers and we
must work together in a spirit of
cooperation.”’

appagolWlo

Big Sale
On All
Merchandise

23 N. Main St.
Lexington

 

for 10 students.

House, 463-8723.

Sr ee ee

Application deadline, March 7, 1991

 
   
   
  
     
   
  
       
 
 
     
 

Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee

* Counselors for Summer Scholars July 7 - Aug. 2, 1991

Summer Scholars is a four-week program for 100 rising high school
seniors. Each counselor serves as resident advisor in Graham-Lees dormitory

* Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 12 - August 5

The Office of Special Programs employs 5 W&L students to serve as
hosts/hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni
Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities
management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation.

For further information, please contact Office of Special Programs, Howard

Large Farm House
In Country

10 miles west (10 minutes)
Recently Remodeled.

5 Bedrooms
Lots of Outdoors
Available June Ist

463-6575 Office
463-2868 Home

 

with °

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
SPORTS

The Ring-tum Phi, February 14, 1991

 

Hoping for a strong finish

 

By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

_ “Everyone remembers how you
‘finish,"’ said Washington and Lee
head basketball coach Verne Canfield.

“You can flounder, but if you
‘finish strong,’’ said Canfield, ‘‘that’s
how you'll be remembered.”’

The W&L basketball team has
floundered during the 1990-91 season,
but with Tuesday’s 96-72 win over
‘Old Dominion Athletic Conference

rival Eastern Mennonite, the Generals
are making a run to finish strong.

W&L is now 11-13, 7-9 in the
ODAC.
Senior forward Craig Hatfield

scored 13 of his team-high 15 points
in the first six minutes of the game
as W&L jumped out to a 48-38 half-
time lead over the Royals, who are
currently tied for eighth place with
Lynchburg in the ODAC standings.
W&L’s defense held EMC with-
out a field goal for over four minutes
while outscoring the Royals 14-5 late

 

 

» By Jay Plotkin
Sports Editor

 

f The most productive senior
class in Washington and Lee
history will be honored before
»| tonight’s basketball game in the
Warner Center.

' W&L will take on Guilford
College in the final regular season
game for the Generals at 7:30
‘| p.m., but the evening will get
underway with a pregame ceremo-
ny to honor almost 6,000 points.

‘ “It will be a great night,”’
said W&L head coach Verne
‘| Canfield. ‘‘The six seniors have

 

Honors for seniors

provided both me and the Univer-
sity many fond memories, and |
would like to see nothing more
than them to play well tonight--
for themselves,”’

It will be the last regular
season appearance in the Warner
Center for Jim Casey, Pat Galla-
van, Ed Hart, Craig Hatfield,
Mike Holton and Chris Jacobs.
As a group, they have scored
5,806 points in four years, pro-
duced a regular season Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship, and won 62 games.

Jacobs (1,505), Hart (1,189)
and Holton (1,156) are all mem-
bers of W&L’s 1,000-point club

 

 

Dudley nips national qualifyin

 

‘By Randall Ellis
_Staff Reporter

Sophomore Claire Dudley quali-
,fied for the NCAA Division III
Women's Swimming Championships
‘in the 200-yard breaststroke on Satur-
_ Say afternoon against Mary Washing-
ton.
+. The Washington and Lee women’s

‘team, however, lost to Mary
“Washington, 116-86, but defeated
Hollins, 116-89, on Friday.

’ ‘The men were ‘also beaten by
‘Mary Washington, 118-86, on Satur-
, day. It was the fifth straight loss for

W&L (0-5).

‘| Dudley qualified with a time of
; 2:32.69, one-tenth of a second better

~

a eam

 

~

emer or

~

~

 

than the national qualifying standard.
The championships will be held at
Emory University in Atlanta on
March 14-16.

Head coach Page Remillard said
that he felt Dudley was progressing
well this year an that the extra work
she has been putting in is starting to
pay-off.

“‘Her performances will really
begin to shine over the next few
weeks.”’

Remillard also said both teams
had fantastic performances despite the
losses.

‘‘We swam well, got some excel-
lent times,’’ he said.

On Saturday, the Generals chalked
up quite a few firsts despite the loss-
es. Dudley and sophomore Stephanie

Tern eer

SWITCH TO OUR
LOW PRICES IN ‘91

U.S.D.A. Choice
Cube Steak

 

Breast

ene

House of Raeford : Gt

Tu rkey Self-Basting

we

Lb.

  

in the half.

After EMC’s Gary Chupp hit a
three-pointer to start the second half,
W&L went on an 11-0 run to open
up a 58-41 lead capped by senior Pat
Gallavan’s three-point basket to put
the game away. Senior center Chris
Jacobs added four points during the
run.

W&L placed five players in dou-
ble figures. Hatfield led the way with
15 points and 11 rebounds. Jacobs, in
his first start since Jan. 22, scored 14
points along with Gallavan, who hit
four three-pointers. Senior Ed Hart
added 13 points, and sophomore
Bryan Brading, making his first ca-
reer start, scored 10 points and hand-
ed out five assists.

W&L shot a season-high 56.5
percent from the field for the night

while outrebounding the Royals 45-
31. W&L also had a season-high of
24 assists, with senior guard Mike
Holton handing out a career-high 10.

For Brading, a 5-foot-9 sopho-
more, it was his second straight game
in double figures. He scored a career-
high 15 points in a 111-88 loss at
Roanoke last Saturday in another
ODAC game. Brading’s two game
output of 25 points was more than he
had scored in the first 21 games of
the season (19).

Hatfield led the way for W&L
against Roanoke with season-highs of
20 points and 14 rebounds before
fouling out. Holton also added 15

Sauers placed first in their two indi-
vidual events. In addition .o her
qualifying swim, Dudley captured the
200-yard individual medley with a
time of 2:19.35. Sauers won the 50-
yard freestyle with a 25.94 and the
100-yard freestyle with a 56.92.

Junior Jodi Herring joined the two
sophomores by turning in another set
of firsts: the 1000-yard freestyle in
11:19.81 and the 500-yard freestyle in
5:35.17. Coleman also turned in a
first on Saturday in the 200-yard
butterfly with a time of 2:18.13.

On the men’s side, senior James
Dunlevy led the way by winning the
200-yard freestyle in 1:47.94 as well
as the 500-yard freestyle in 4:57.59.

Senior Tomas Perez also had a first,
winning the 200-yard individual med-

  
 
  

nig cee irdeaee gb Race Spl oe

 

 

 

    
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bryan Brading

points and senior Jim Casey chipped
in 13,

“Everything nice you can say
about a player holds true for Craig,”’
said Canfield. ‘‘He’s playing well,
and he’s also providing us with some
great leadership.”’

Over the past seven games, Hat-
field is averaging 15.9 points and 9.7
rebounds while making 61.9 percent
ofthis field goals and 71.7 percent of
his free throws. Hatfield is a career
61.4 percent free throw shooter.

W&L will play Guilford tonight at
7:30 in the final regular season game
of the season. It is also Senior Night,
and W&L’s six seniors will be hon-
ored before the game. Thé Generals
will play in the ODAC Tournament
next week. The first round is played
Tuesday at home sites with the semi-
finals and finals Friday and Saturday
in the Salem Civic Center.

g mark

ley in 2:07.36.

Junior Doug Brown had a first in
the 1000-yard freestyle with a time of
10:19.95. Andrew Pearson, a sopho-

more, had a first in the 50-yard free- |

style with a time of 22.5 and fresh-
man Greg Golub won the 100-yard
freestyle in 50.97.

Remillard said this weekend was
one of the best weekends the teams
have had.

But, once again it was the Gener-
als’ lack of numbers and depth that
was responsible for their fall to Mary
Washington.

On Saturday, both teams will
swim at Radford University and then
host the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Sprint Meet on Sunday.

 

 

  

SPORTS NOTEBOOK

  

 

The

Washington and Lee
indoor track team was unable to
place in any event at the Virginia
Tech All Comers meet this past
weekend, but the Generals did
have some fine performances.

Senior Catherine Caldwell’s
2:41 in the 800 meters was the
best ever indoor time by a W&L
woman in that event.

Freshman Stephanie Brown ran
a W&L-record 65 seconds in the
4 x 400-meter run, while class-
mate Wendy Neel was one-tenth
of a second off the school record
in the 55 meters with her time of
7.8.

“Once again, I thought we
performed extremely well against
Division I athletes,’’ said
women’s head coach John Tucker.
‘We are getting a good idea of
where we want to be and what it
will take to get us there.”’

The next meet for the men

Sophomore John Conkling and the women is the Old Domin-
finished third at 190 pounds with ion Athletic Conference Champi-
a pin in his consolation-round onships in Lynchburg on February
match. 73

From Staff Reports

 

Junior Peer Soderberg finished
second and three other Washing-
ton and Lee wrestlers finished
third in their weight classes as the
Generals finished last in the Vir-
ginia State Championships at the
Warmer Center last Weekend.

Soderberg, W&L’s 177-pound
wrestler, improved his record to
14-9 and recorded his seventh
pin, but damaged tendons and
ligaments in his knee. The injury
will keep Soderberg from compet-
ing at the Eastern Regionals in
Albany, New York, this weekend.

Seniors Larry Pilkey and Bill
Avery both finished third at 126
and 158 pounds, respectively.
Pilkey, who finished the tourna-
ment with two wins, will compete
at the Eastern Regionals.

 

 

One Bedroom Apartment For Rent
On Maury River. Students Only, $220/month
Available Now
Also, two others available in Fall.

hair cut. We have three experienced Barbers.

Ideal Barber Shop
22 S. Main St., Lexington, VA

 

 

 

Hamric & Sheridan, Jewelers

Robby Jones
703/463-2022
Standard 10% Discount 11 W. Nelson St.
With Student I.D. Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

 

14 Oz. ]

 

President's Choice
Choc. Chip Cookies

99

With Choc.
Fudge

Listerine
Mouthwash

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ice Cream +. ca:

 

 

 

  

vem

     
 
   

fall cise

MT hy ak hee

et Tied tin sheh
- _

   

  

 

== Pepsi-Cola,
Mountain Dew

=

 

 

Thniibahek sai Te caine

 

 

 

 

ns

Prices Good Through Tuesday, February 19, 1991

Prices In This Ad Effective Through Tuesday, Febr

In Lex tore Only
We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.
W&LIFE

Make those FD
reservations now

The Phi’s encyclopedic sampling of
restaurants for you and your date

 

 

By Pamela Kelley
Entertainment Editor

Fancy Dress is March 8, and although now may seem too soon for
some to begin thinking about getting a date, it is certainly the time to begin
thinking of restaurant reservations. In the southwest region of Virginia there
are many eateries that can more than adequately cater to your Fancy Dress
dining needs. Tucked away in Charlottesville, Staunton, Lexington, Lynchburg
and Roanoke are some great dining establishments. This article was adapted
from a similar piece written several years ago describing favorite restaurants
of Fancy Dress dining parties and it seems some of the oldies are still
goodies. Bon Appetit!

Charlottesville

The Boar's Head Inn, Route 250 W., 1.5 miles off Route 29, 804-296-2181.
Located in a posh region of Albemarle County, the Boar’s Head Inn serves
as both an 174 room inn and a restaurant. Though the menu lacks interna-
tional flare they do serve duck. The glory of the Boar’s Inn is solid
American cuisine prepared impeccably. Prices of entrees range from $14.95
to $24.95. A full bar with a good selection of wines will accompany a meal
nicely. Reservations and jackets for men are required.

The Ivy Inn, 2244 Old Ivy Road (across from Ivy Gardens, one mile from
University of Virginia), 804-977-1222.

Dine by candlelight in this restored large house, built circa 1803. The
‘menu at the Ivy Inn varies greatly, including chicken, beef and veal. Prices
range from $12.75 to $17.95. The romantic atmosphere requires casual dress.
All spirits are served.

The C&O Restaurant, 515 E. Water, 804-971-7044.

This may be one of Charlottesville’s and southwest Virginia’s, most
enjoyable and unique restaurants. At the C&O Restaurant, the emphasis of
the dining experience is on the food (‘‘the focus of the senses’’) and as such
the formal dining room (coat and tie requested ) is decorated all white: white
linens, and freshly painted white walls with white floors. The French cuisine
is served a la carte but unlike European restaurants the portions are large.
Don't pass up the opportunity to enjoy your meal with a bottle of wine from
the C&O’s extensive wine cellar which has been voted one of the top 100
in the nation by Wine Spectator magazine. Entree prices range form $18.25

‘to $28. There are two seating for dinner, the first at 6:30 and the second at
9:30 p.m.

Located at Lee Hi Truck Stop
Open 24 Hours

Route 11 North

BREAKFAST SERVED ANYTIME

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 14, 1991

Roanoke
The Library, 3117 Franklin Road (in Piccadilly Square), 985-0811.

The Library is a beautiful, quaint French restaurant that offers continental
cuisine and an excellent atmosphere. The service is perfect as is the extensive
menu complete with seafood, beef, lamb and veal dishes that will delight the
palate of even the pickiest eaters. If you can stand it, leave room for the
dessert tray which will both amaze and delight. Entrees will run anywhere
from $15.50 to $26.00. The Library is possibly the finest restaurant in
Roanoke and definitely one of the finest in the state according to Virginia:
A History and Guide.

La Maison, 5732 Airport Road, 366-2444.

The elegance of La Maison is evident even. before you enter the front
door. Once a Georgian mansion, the beautiful structure now contains 15
dining rooms in which delicious French cuisine is served. French veal and
lamb are generally the order of the day but American fare of beef and
seafood are also served. Entrees run generally between $8.95 and $30 with
$15.95 as the average. Dress is optional but a coat and tie are recommended.
Dinner is served Monday through Saturday from 5:00 to 11:00 p.m. or later
on weekends. Reservations are recommended.

Lexington
The Willson-Walker House, 30 N. Main St., Lexington 463-3020.
The Willson-Walker House is similar to old inn ding. There are several

rooms which add to its coziness and eliminate much of the hustle and bustle
of large one-room restaurants. Cocktails, beer and wine will complement your

meal. The menu is strong with beef, seafood and chicken dishes. Entrees are
prepared a variety of different ways, including Southern American. The
location is a plus and convenience in choosing the restaurant for its walking
distance from most parts of town. Prices range form around $11 to $16.95.

Reservations are a must during Fancy Dress and coat and tie are recom-
mended.

Maple Hall, Route 11 and 81, Lexington, 463-4666.

Maple Hall is a beautiful large country home converted into a restaurant.
There are several small dining rooms decorated in impeccable colonial taste.
Maple Hall does have a private room reserved for larger parties. The menu
will vary from day to day but a patron can always count on high quality
service and fine country dining. Again the convenience in the Lexington area
is obvious, Seating times are at 5:30 P.M. and 8:30 P.M. Reservations are
appreciated! and coat and tie is recommended.

Hunan Garden, East Nelson Street, Lexington, 463-3330.

This, Lexington’s only Chinese restaurant (and the only Oriental restaurant
since the demise several years ago of the legendary Aloha Wok) opened in
April of 1988. Students have varying opinions of the establishment --- some
think it offers respectable Chinese cuisine (particularly taking into account the
fact that it is located int he hear of the Shenandoah Valley). The Hunan
offers a variety of Chinese dishes, and combinations, and even gives you a
fortune cookie at the end of your meal. They also serve mixed drinks and
several spirits. Dress is casual.

Il Palazzo
North Main Street, Lexington, 464-5800

Il Palazzo, which recently opened to the Washington and Lee community,
offers fine Italian cuisine. Opened seven days a week, the restaurant serves
dishes from pizza pie and calzones to a full dinner menu of tempting dishes
like chicken parmesan. Wine, beer and mixed beverages are also served. The

 

‘Che
QSonic CGallery

TYPING

* Resumes * Reports * Papers *
Quality Work Only
464-1100 Noon - 5:30 p.m.

 

     
       
   
  
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

® Red Pin Bowling © College Specials

$1.50 per Game
Monday 9 PM-1 AM
Sunday Noon- 6 PM

@Moonlight Red Pin ©Red & Green Pin

Rock-N-Bowl
Every Friday Night
11 PM- 2 AM

US HWY - 11 North

 

$1.50 per Game
Thursday 9 PM- 2 AM
Saturday Noon- 6 PM

Tuesday 9 PM- 1 AM
Win FREE games

464-BOWL (2695)

Bowling

A

snowboard ski are just $10.

 

Sa DENON SON’
ADCOM ALPI
yeyiect “Sun, B&O OPTONICA
word - A G KEF cwD
Call today fr your TOSHIB Rect Rune
educational price on DiComy aw" EVEREX- - ALL COMPONENTS PRE-TESTED
the following products: Cc L - CARINSTALLATION DEPARTMENT
Onis eee
DSR, Inc (800) 468-6667
1-800-875-0037

* We guarantee the lowest prices on TOSHIBA laptops

aa haa inn a mad alee einai is ail

Shred Center.

Enjoy winter's newest challenge, Snowboard Skiing at

Massanutten, Hone your skills as you fi
Show your skills on our challen
Snowboard skiing is permitted on al
trails, including our two new slopes from the top of the moun-
tain, Lessons and limited rentals are also available.
College Twilight skiing rates ($12) apply on Monday and

nging hal

Friday, With your valid college ID and this ad, lift tickets to

Come ski what's new at Massanutten.

MASSANUTTEN

10 Miles East of Harrisonburg, Virginia on Route 33

Mh cece ce ees Sl

 

restaurant has a charming atmosphere and its food and service have received '
praise frommany: patrons.. Dré8s. is optional. Weekend reservations are
appreciated.
Harb's Bistro
Washington Street, Lexington ‘

Harb’s, located in the old Lloyd’s building has not yet opened, although
the owner hopes to make it available to the Fancy Dress crowd. This esta-
blishment will be a European-style cafe, which offers cappucino and ,
expresso, as well as homemade breads desserts, etc. Jazz music will be piped
into the stylishly remodeled restaurant to provide a stimulating and relaxing
atmosphere. An English-style game room is also planned. Plans for a beer
garden and more are underway. Keep an eye out for the opening of this chic
new eatery.

Staunton
Buckhorn Inn, 12 miles west of Staunton, Route 250 W. Churchville, 337-
6900

The Buckhorn Inn is a very casual restaurant connected with a 200-year-
old inn. It serves a $12.50 seafood buffet on Friday. Enjoy beef, wine and
a lot to eat between the hours of 4 and 9 p.m. Two of the restaurant’s
biggest specialties are fried oysters and pork tenderloin. Their peanut butter
pie is also popular. Reservations are not necessary but you may want to call
ahead to be sure. :
The White Star Mill, 1 Mill St., 884-3409.

Truly one of the finer establishments around. The While Star Mill is not
cheap but is definitely worth it for the tremendous variety of soups. Desserts
are a la carte and plentiful but the entrees are the bill of the day. Pasta, beef,
all types of seafood, and Cajun dishes are prepared in impeccable detail and
taste. An evening at the White Star Mill for two including drinks could run
around $100.

The Belle Grae Inn, 515 W. Frederick St. (Downtown), 886-5151.

The Bell Grae Inn contains two dining facilities, one is a bistro and the
other a more formal dining room located in the old inn. Currently the two
dining rooms offer the same menu, alt.ough their atmospheres differ. A fresh
selection of entrees is offered daily according to the chef's choices. Entrees
include prime rib, chicken, pork and swordfish. Prices range from $9.50 to
$19.50. A full bar will add an additional price per drink. Coat and tie are
advised and reservations are suggested.

Lynchburg
Emil’'s, Boonsboro Shopping Center, Route 501 North, 804-384-3311.

Emil’s is reportedly wonderful, probably as many Sweet Brian girls can
attest. Emil’s serves lunch and dinner in its two dining rooms. The menu is
varied and enticing. All ingredients are fresh. Emil’s dining room specialties
include flaming entrees, Norwegian salmon, and their rack of lamb dinners
carved for two. Liquor, beer and wine are served. Dinner prices of entrees
start at around $12, the average being about $15. There is no strict dress
code and reservations are recommended.

Sachiko’s International Restaurant, 126 Old Grave Mill Road, 804-237-5655.

Beef, seafood, veal, lamb and chicken dishes all prepared in a great variety
of international styles will certainly satisfy a number of different tastes.
Prices range from $10.95 to $24.95. Excellent service and a full complement
of spirits will help carry the evening. Sachiko’s is an elegant restaurant and
requires coat and tie as well as reservations.

     
  
     
        
 
      

DEAVERS ALLEY

Term Papers Typed
Resumes
FAX

463-9455 (@@

SPRING BREAK 1991 - Individual
or student organization needed to
promote Spring Break trip. Earn
money, free trips and valuable work
experience. CALL NOW! Inter-
Campus Programs: 1-800-327-6013.

 

 

aucdiotronics

We Sell the Best Seats in the House

       
       
   
     
    

Corner of Ogden & Starkey Roads
Overlooking Tanglewood Mall
2750 Ogden Road - Roanoke

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Love in letters.
Caresses in cards.
Saying amoré
isn't very hard.

Over 75 cards and
sentiments to express
your affections
from peak to base. on Valentine's Day.

pee

open ye and
$10 Balloon Bouquets.

(Free downtown and campus delivery)

POSEMARKS
& PLEASURES

117 West Nelson Street/Lexington
Open daily 10 am - 6 am
Sunday Noon - 6 pm

 

 

 
