U112 ‘ﬂing

THE FRESHMAN ISSUE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

me Phot

W&L students participate in tear night before the Inter Ftraternity Council and the university forced the fraterni-
ties to tone down their activities. The entire rush process was rethought last year.

IFC starts relaxed rush

.,

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 4, 1993

Freshman class:

brains and brawn -x

By NANCY PAvLovic
Phi Managing Editor

Today, Saturday, September
4, 1993, it’ll be official. High
school will be over and college
life just begun for the 429 in-
coming members of the Class of
1997.

As they arrive at Washington
and Lee, this year’s freshmen
class brings with them a myriad
of life experiences, perspectives
and expectations that will inﬂu-
ence their time here.

“This is a great class and very
similar to last year’s class as far
as academics go,” said Assistant
Director of Admissions Rob J.
Aliff. “I think it’s fulllof students
who desperately wanted to be
her ”

F‘ a class that includes, 53
former student body or class
presidents, 88 former presidents
of major student organization and
141 varsity team captains, the

Class of 1997 nevertheless found
time to excel academically. Rep-
resenting 346 different second-
ary schools, there are 29 National
Merit Finalists and 33 Valedicto-
rians and salutatorians among
them. The Class of 1997 has 327
Advanced Placement classes un-
der their belt.

“We were looking for the ul-
timate well— rounded student
who was capable of. doing well

academically and wasn’t afraid
of being involved,” said Aliff
trying to characterize the selec-

_ tion process used by Admissions

Like the class before them,
they maintain the Board of Trust-
ees’ mandated 60 to 40-male/
female ratio to a tee, with 258
men and 171 women. Neverthe-
less, they are the select few cho-
sen from an application pool of
3,318 and represent the best 42
states and seven countries could
offer. Virginians once again are
the best represented with 56.
Pennsylvania, Texas, Maryland
and New York round out the top
five states freshmen will be ar-
riving from today.

Admissions is eagerly antici-
pating the arrival of the Class of

1997 and the beginning of their
four—— day long Freshmen Ori-
entation Program.

“We’re really looking forward
to them [the Class of 1997] get-
tinghere on Saturday,”Aliffsaid.

with open contact for men

L
By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi Staff Writer

Relaxed Rush?
Strange, but true.

In the past, freshman men were under
closed Contact Rush rules when they arrived
on campus. That meant that freshman men
could not talk to upperclass fraternity mem-
bers until almost one week after their arrival.
This year, freshman men have two weeks of
open and casual Contact before Rush activi-
t'es officially begin on the second Monday
0 classes. ' I

“This gives freshmen more time to see
the school without Rush”, said Integfrater- _
nity CouncilPreside'ii'§ZCurt Smith. ‘fit takes
some of the pressure off freshmen.”

Other‘Rush changes include more open
léouses and heavier penalties for Rush viola-

tions.

“There will be 16 open houses instead of
nine,” said Smith. “This gives each fraternity
a fair opportunity (during open house). In the
past 6 or 7 houses were left out.”

“Rush penalties are stiffer because you
have to go out of your way to screw up under
the new Rush schedule.”

Smith also offers some advice for fresh-
men who are considering Rush.

“Basically you get to see what W&L
social life is like. You get the opportunity to
meet alot of people- shaking 600 hands in the
course of two weeks is a good introduction to
the school.

“Be open minded- make sure you check
out every option. Take yourtime when you’re
going through the process. Try not to ‘feel
pressured.”

The schedule for Rush events will be:

Sept. 4: Freshmen arrive

Sept. 5-7: Closed contact during orienta-
tion events; casual contact after freshman
orientation.

Sept. 8-17: Open contact 5-8 p.m.

Sept. 18: Open contact 1-5 p.m.

Sept. 19: IFC Assembly 1-3 p.m., after 3
p.m. closed contact

Sept. 20-23: Open houses 6:30- 9:05 p.m.

Sept. 24: Preference Cards due from fresh-
men and fraternities by 1 p.m. Informal drop-
ins at house 1-5 p.m. After 5 p.m. - closed
contact

Sept. 25: Open contact 1-5 p.m.- After 5,
closed contact— freshmen can’t go out

, Sept. 26: Revised cards due by 12 p.m.

Rush dates 1-2 :12:30p.m.- 3:30 p.m.

W Sept. 27: _RushAdat_es_‘3-4: 6-9 pm.
"_'Sept.'28:’Casual"5ontact on Hill

Sept. 29: Rush dates 5-6: 6-9 p.m.

Sept. 30: Rush dates 7-8: 6-9 p.m.

Oct. 1: Tear Night

New

The EC readies for the year

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

The Executive Committee,
‘W&L’s student government,
must complete two tasks before
students can get down to busi-
ness as usual: introducing the
dass of 1997 to the Honor Sys-
tem and or-
ganizingthe

said the Honor System Orienta-
tion will not change this year.

Tompkins said he expects all -

freshmen men to be wearing a
coat and tie and the women should
also dress appropriately for the
orientation Tuesday night in Lee
Chapel.

Tompkins will give a speech
at the orienta-
tion, which all

budget.
The EC
is made up
of 13 stu-
d nts repre-
sentingeach
of . the un-
dergraduate
and law
classes.

upperclass
and law rep-
resentatives
are elected
each spring.

F r e s h m a 11
must attend,
and then the
freshman will
be divided into
groups. The
groups will be
takenby an EC
member to
watch a video
about the
honor system
and discuss it
in more detail.

Tompkins
said he hopes

F r e s h m e n

will elect

their repre-

s9ntative this fall.
EC President Bob Tompkins

Tompkins

the freshman
will realize
what an inte-

gral part of W&L life the Honor
System is.

“I hope they’ll have afnn filled
four years, but if there’s an-
evening to be serious that’s it,”
Tompkins said.

The EC is also responsible for
an Honor System orientation for
new faculty members. Last year
each new faculty member re-
ceived a letter about the Honor
System during the summer. Af-
ter the orientation each incoming
faculty member received a visit
from an EC member.

The EC’s next piece of busi-
ness will be organizing the bud-
get. Last year the EC allocated
$235,425 to student organiza-
tions.

The EC will not fund organi-
zations which are politically or
ideologically partisan After the
budget allocations several stu-
dents came to the EC requesting
the policy be changed to allow
the EC to fund all campus orga-
nizations. Tompkins said he
thinks the EC’s policy is the best
one he has heard, but he is will-
ing to hear any suggestions.

Tompkins said he hesitates to
codify the budget process any
more than it already is. But,

Tompkins said he hopes the bud-;
get process will not deter new
clubs from starting.

“I wouldn’t mind seeing some
new [clubs] come in this year,”
he said.

All student organizations,
such as sports clubs, service or-
ganizations and specialty clubs,
who want funding will submit
requests to the EC and have a
chance to justify their requests.
After hearing all the request the
EC will decide how much money
to allot each group.

The EC will also begin the
process of setting up the White
Book revisions committee,
Tompkins said.

The revisions committee will
review the White Book, the writ-
ten explanation of the Honor Sys-
tem, during the entire year. The
revisions committee will then
suggest possible changes to the
White Book.

The EC will request applica-
tions for the committee positions
in about two weeks, Tompkins
said. He said he hopes to have
the committee members in place
in about a month.

Two boys stroll across the footbridge the week before most students arrive in Lexington.

Photo By Sarah Gilbert, of The Ring-tum Phi

    
crass es, test

A sign painted by FOC member Sue Krawchuck greets the Freshmen.

FOC prepares freshmen
for life at a university

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The 429-member class of 1997 begins its orien-
tation week today with activities planned by the
Freshmen Orientation Committee.

The FOC is a group of over sixty students who
each year plan most of the en-
tire orientation week and pro-
duce the Freshmen Record.

This year’s schedule of
events includes several new
programs, including an op-
tional Community Service Ac-
tivity seminar sponsored by
Project Safe and Sound and
Alpha Phi Omega, a service
fraternity.

“With this new addition we
want the freshmen to realize
that they are part of a larger
community than our ivory
tower here and to realize what
that means,” said Dennis G.
Manning, Dean of Freshmen
and Residence Life.

Freshmen may choose be-
tween the community service
seminar and trips to the Chessie
Trail Walk and a hike to the Saddle of House
Mountain sponsored by the Outing Club.

“We have provided activities which we think
freshmen will want to attend,” said Carlin Jones,
FOC co-chair. “I would like to see every freshmen
at every event.”

The remainder of the orientation week follows
the same format as previous years. _

Activities begin with the Playfair presentation
tonight at 8 p.m. at the Student Pavilion. An official
class meeting and welcome by President John D.
Wilson will be held in Lee Chapel on Sunday at 1
p.m.

Placement tests in foreign languages and En-
glish are scheduled for Sunday afternoon starting
at 2 p.m., followed by FOC small group meetings
at 5 p.m. and the annual Alumni Association
Barbeque at the Liberty Hall ruins at 6 p.m. New
this year is an 80’s theme party that will take place
in the General Headquarters at 9 p.m.-

On Monday the‘ mathematics placement test

Manning

will be administered in Evans Dining Hall at 8:30
a.m., to be followed by the CIRP Freshmen Survey,

/ and then another class meeting in Lee Chapel at

10:30 a.m. for a speech on the history and traditions
of W&L by Professor Taylor Sanders. Freshmen
will return to Lee Chapel at 2 p.m. for a speech on
academic life at W&L by Dean of the College John
Elrod, to be followed by an introduction to the
Commerce School by
Dean Larry Peppers.

On Monday evening
freshmen will eat dinner
with their faculty advis-
ers and there will be a
class party in the Baker-
Davis-Gilliam Quad be-
ginning at 9 p.m.

On Tuesday freshmen
will register with the fac-
ulty advisers for their fall
classes, and in the after-
noon have the opportu-
nity to participate in the
community service semi-
nar or the Outing Club
activities.

All freshmen receiv-
ing financial aid will meet
in Northen Auditorium in
the Leyburn Library at 4
. p.m. Freshmen will have
dinner that evening with their big siblings on the
front lawn. The Honor System orientation will be
Tuesday night in Lee Chapel. All freshmen must
attend the orientation.

On Wednesday Freshmen lwill matriculate in-
Payne Hall, take their swimming proficiency test
and receive the library orientation in the order of
their last names all starting at 9 a.m. The student
activities fair will be held simultaneously on the
front lawn from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. That
evening the small groups will meet again to discuss
responsible behavior.

Classes for all students begin on Thursday and
are abbreviated to accommodate Opening Convo-
cation. Physical Education registration will also be
held this day.

On Sunday, September 12, a fraternity system
orientation will be held in Lee Chapel for men at 1
p.m. A sorority system orientation will be held in
Northen Auditorium for women.

  

PAGE 2

Tillie ilting-tum   lﬂlii

, 9
The Ring-tum Phi, September 4, 1993

,-

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

To the Freshmen

After what probably seemed. the summer that would
never end, and at other times the summer that was ﬂying by,
you’re finally here.

You’ve already received tons of mail from Washington
and Lee, students and administrators alike. Some of it you
threw away and some of it you actually read. Before you
even got here you had a dinner date with your advisor
arranged for you.

A group of students calling themselves the freshman
orientation committee have planned an entire week for you
and published a Freshman Record, all to help you get to
know one another. That same committee has helped you
move in and they set you up with your small group leaders
and Big Brothers or Sisters. '

Administrators, faculty, staff and students have tried to
perfect every detail to make sure your first weeks at W&L
are as smooth as possible. Why? Well, you’ve been told it’s
because we are glad you’re here. If you’re the cynical type
you might not believe that, but it really is true.

We’re glad you’re here because you deserve to be here.
You’re intelligent, but you don’t just sit home and study.
Each and every freshman brings unique experiences and
talents to W&L. Some ofyou are athletic, others like student
government, some of you can sing, some can write and some
of you will probably discover what you love to do most in
the next four years.

You came to one of the best liberal arts universities in the
country because you wanted to be challenged. And, let’s
face it, you came because you heard the social life was good
here.

You’ll definitely be getting a good education and have
fun if you go to class and go to parties, but you’ll be missing
out too. Along with great courses and great parties, W&L
offers hundreds of extra—curricular activities. There’s some-
thing out there for everyone. But, YOU have to get in-
volved.

Each freshman breathes fresh air into this 246 year old
university. Each one of you hassomething to offer this
university and in return it will give you four years of
memories and experiences you will never forget, on top of
an education that many will envy.

All you have to do to get the most out of W&L is be
yourself. Be the student that stood apart from the others and
was considered special enough to attend W&L. Get in-
volved in whatever interests you. And have fun. These
really will be the best four years of your lives.

To the parents

You’re probably reading this to keep your mind off the
fact that you’re going to be leaving your child soon. Even,
if you’ve done this before it’s not easy, at least that’s what
our parents told us. You’re a little nervous and a little

WELL IWAS .
WHEN I F7R5T ’
Got‘ in LIME.

‘Flt,

Injury Leads to Intellectual Growth

0

My View
Dennis G. Manning
Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life

Nothing in my almost two score year’s experience
matches the sheer exhilaration I used to feel coming
home from school, bounding off the bus and drop-
ping a pile of books like a depth-charge in our family
room. How quickly, too, I could effect a metamor-
phosis from schoolboy to feral child by peeling off
school clothes and wriggling into tattered cut-offs
and a T-shirt for play.

School, I thought, diminished the freeness of each
day. Mysteriously spun and evanescent as cotton
candy, playtime was to be enjoyed only in quick,
little gossamer nibbles.

I do remember playing outside one late afternoon
after school was over. There was more than just an
intimation of autumn as the leaves surrendered to
surreal hues, colors I saw only in pictures of Mars in
my grade school science text. Greg was our neigh-
borhood bully (his corpulence his most endearing
quality), a fellow who had the dangerous habit of
trying to sit on his friends. Piecing together shards of
memory, I recall circling under a superball that had
been bounced much higher than the roof of our house,
some thirty feet into the air, thinking I might catch it

and abscond with it. Just as I gathered the ball into
my hands, Greg, with all his weight, buckled my left
arm under both our bodies.

Astonishingly, I don’t remember the doctor set-
ting the bones in my arm - my mind won’t let me

I remember the same feeling of discovery when I ﬁrst
read Keats’ “On First Looking into Chapman’s
Homer.” Could reading poetry - even an Elizabethan
translation in this case - be this magical, could it be
as powerfully exciting and original as discovering an

revisit that pain - but I do ocean (so what if I
reniemberthemodem day really was Balboa
G‘°“°’ 'a”‘°"“g °" ""“‘° Piecing together shards of and “°‘ C°"°Z’) °‘

strips of plaster to create
the shell that would en-
case my arm for some
months. During those
months, I discovered phi-
lately and reading, serene
pursuits of the mind.
Stamps withbi-planes and
reading, figures from ex-
otic-sounding places like
Madagascar. Treasure 15-
land and Tom Sawyer sud-
denly came to life. A sci-

ence book, All About the ies.

memory, I recall circling under a
superball that had been bounced
much higher than the roof our
house, some thirty feet into the
air, thinking I might catch it and
abscond with it. Just as I gath-
ered the ball into my hands,
Greg, with all his weight, buckled
my left arm under both our bod-

peering through a
telescope and sud-
denly viewing a
new planet? The
patently simple aiﬁ.
swer is yes. To ini-
tiate and cultivate
a life of the mind,
however, you
needn’t, like me,
break a bone or in-
capacitate your,
self. One of the
paradoxes of your

Human Body, long since
out of print, I am sure,
opened my eyes to the marvels of this mortal shell
we inhabit.I had never before known that the mind
alone — no matter the condition of the body - could
afford such independence and freedom.

Some years later in my freshman year of college,

college years is that

you are naturally

and gloriously incapacitated: removed for the most

part from the vicissitudes of modern life for four
years, free to read, to write, to think, to discover, tn
play, to work, to express yourself. Cherish these

years.

Welcoming Season Starts Today

Dream Land
Richard Weaver

Let me begin my remarks today by

your roommate. I'll simply refer you to
a recent movie: Single White Female :
Living with a roommate can be mur-
der.

Now before I get some angry letters
on cute puppy stationary from people
who really liked theirroommates (there
must be, what, eight or nine of those),

Day One: Turkey Slices wrapped
around stalks“of broccoli. — — I

Day Two: Chopped up turkey and
broccoli combination.

Day Three: Pureed turkey/broccoli
served with dumplings.

Day Four: Green Jell-O.

Now, if you’ve heard enough, and if

0!

OK; what they lack in service they
make up for in eye makeup. We’re
talking Tammy Faye Bakker territory.
Or Uncle Fester from TheAddams F am-
ily.

But that’s not the point here, and th;
point is, I don’t aimlessly wander from
subject to subject. Any subject I dis-

. . . waloomin ou, the class of 1997, to I’ll make it clear now that just because youwant cuss, trust me, re-
excited all at ,the same t1me',There,’S’ not gomg to be “The Welgoilnin season”hei-e in l_,t-,x- ou will be livin with someone in a to know W’? lates back to food in
8 Y 8

Someone Standmg over your chlld t°Hm_g them when to do ington. In the coming days prepare to room the dimensions of a 1978 Honda w h e r e I1 IIl0VlIlg-Ill day some way, and get-
their homework, when to come home at night, orwhat to eat. be heartilyweicomeubyvanousdeans, Civic for the next ‘nine months does g o o ‘d last year, my father and tlng back to when
But, you can go home with that key chain that says My Kid professors, upper-class students, fel- NOT means you Wlll eventually com- food IS I H d . f “ you go to lee-Hr,
Goes to W &L, and be truly proud. lowfrt_=,shmen,Jiinfi-om EastLex,_Vl/&L «mit an act of viollence against lrhits) per- servhed, .Pu4e4  In 0111!’ ll ' you lniusktf alwayfs
We’re not going to kid you, we have no idea what you’re Security and their tow truck.fr,iends, ‘S‘on,.it msans t ere just mig t e an govyl ere slze X e.v1-0 et av; rsph a(s}t,pre 1

. . the Rockbndge County sheriffs De- incident one day, where you Iron t C truck, car In all nfm era y 6 enera
feeling right now..We are students ourselves. But, we do panmem, the Cadaver Society’ and “s1ipS”from ynnrnands and«lnndven_ truckers 1'3’  Y Lee)’ 1 won’t tell
know what W&L lS all about. And we can tell you to stop A1vin-Dennis(“"rhe Belt People”)_ ently” lands on your roommate’s go. _and earthly POSSCSSIOIIS, 35 you what it consists
worrying. If the phone does not ring every night or there I know that last year my reaction “head” nfhile he.’-S Sleeping 3113 “aCC1- “V0113 ’ well as two of my °f(Y°“ have i0 find
isn’t a letter in the mail box once a week, it does not mean was» w_h° “"3 mes“ P°°P1°?_ The“ d°.“‘a"Y W15 “S m°“‘h .Sh“' 5,? 3'?“ y°“ have friends’ thin S all ‘hm °“‘ f°’ .y°“"
th. . T th . .t b bl th. my reaction was,“what’s for dinner?” will no longer hear that bizarre boil- the Lee- g Self), but I Will teﬂ
Solzne lng IS Wrong. . Tu IS, 1 pro a y means lllgs are and then «Can I go to Sleep n0w?:a The ingn «Sounds» that he makes “after”  truck     you thatlgive it five
going great. Your child has a lot of people to meet, and in A whole an]-nsnnent process to strange drinking “a” whole 2-liter bottle of s t o p , the cab and wra ed u stars.(Editor’sNote:
a few weeks your child will have more work than ever. little/Lexington (the “Twin Peaks” of “Dr. Pepper.” . _ w h e r e _ PP P . Richard gives the
SO, be prepared to go a little longer than usual before you Virginia) Will take a while, but that I, of course,_ irresponsibly make W a i t — In an enormous blue Sttop-Inlcpngeniefnce
get that phone call or letter. Your child still loves you, but   Y°“ CS“ ‘ Ste? bta‘il_‘ 3 ;l;°S°rig(:r:‘(f;;‘1(‘f::t‘}‘:;‘: d;:Wl‘;‘g1;‘S’t“;;l;‘: if  51°51 tarp. We were the Lex- :£::a°lS;'S;’[gnSa;g:
there’S S0 Inufih to do here. . scilnedule  I llzsed alone in GrI:;haII)n_.LeeS 260, S e r V g    you had ’bettel' lwt
One last thing. The library is open 24 hours a day here. will soon can nnma vvfhichltheorizle 3/asbuilt as Solrle kind you 24 various fraternity mam. trusthisjudgimcnt.)
We Swear‘ ratrfii ..'.'i'.§’Vr‘§‘.§ii.'§.r‘l.‘},’rlailryiiilslii §o§§.‘;".§¥§,f§cl. r“.§I.‘I.gr.r".i¥‘I.'.1'.'...";°t.’.§“.1 a°2"sy if b‘*”S,Wh° were S*3“°“ed now.?u?i$oir3‘3§§
4x4 Chevrolet truck, carrying all ofniy and without moving my body reach s e v e n outside the d0I'I'l1S t0 commentary in the

~ . earthly possessions, as well as two of any spot in my morn‘. This rgade it days ka help the freshmen move future. Iilldclose by

‘ f‘ d ’th' ll t k ti h‘ incredibly easy to wa e up at p.m., w e e . , saying: a ies an

@112 ‘IKIIIQ-ﬁlm lﬂlit :::l.“.::; :..*:.‘.%:.**..:.*;.°,..°.. 1:: :.%*‘:.:  wen. -nwazkeaaway from  as Y01
enormous blue tai—p_ we were the Lox- ;nlock( tlh)e ldoor dto al:l)’<())wMDomino’s talking our truck, from what I pulil dqwn the covers

~ - ' t l-{'llb‘ll' , Th ' f t - izza “ e ivere in inutes or w a i - an ge in oyournew
Executrve Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas  0nI1|e mlbe {is 5:0 weoevsatnttgiﬁe 52:) 3- RSS by our ﬂeet of RonS_R°yoeS,,) to I 6 S S C S assume, was fear: Does bed tonight, ques_
Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic side the dorms to help the freshmen bring me f00d_ t h 3 t this rlng a be“ with any uoning why in the
News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Andrea Cobrin, Thomas Hespos move in wazked away from out truck, You say, “Richard, Iwill never buy n e v e r of you? world your parents
Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver 3l<_>m_WhatbI liissutlrlle, Wasf fear‘; Does Zxtfa E0041, espéclallly S1n0Cf°tﬁ  Zfﬁgmgr ;‘l*(‘)‘I’l‘: alt°‘gaS3’h‘:;‘g:“£

. - ‘t _ oing 0 every sing e one e i i .
Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert ‘sI’;'13eS“S tﬁatvgy $3; ‘;o3l’l°§ave an ha“ mealsmat my parents S 01 d my They]-us, and Lee’ have faith
Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeanne Briggs re me and con uered wal_ little sisterto a for-_”Andlsa to ou, watch the procession of truckers, that in ashort time, you’ll be question-
ady co ,seen, q P Y Y Y , _ _
Photography Editor. . . . . V . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Darran Winslow Mart, and Mom has purchased all kinds “Wait ';_l1l"liil (yo: are seéved Turlcey Di- tctivséniets. (erﬁ Leilliligttialn tcitizetnss), and iilg hotw yout evelloorlisidered any other
. . - f ' hl db kc nd van.” is is proviesape ec ex- suenswoc oea. ome- pace ogooscoo.

AS.SlstZ.mt Photogrilphy Editor ' ' ° ' ' ' 't ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' Bethany Snilth iutiltiecfwirg :1: gwingicjtsaiaglsiicah I ample of my theory of the Letitia Pate times the sleep deprivation puts them And to the current resident of Gra-

Edltorlal CaI't00n1St - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -Jeb T111)’ assure you will never be used for any- Evans Dining Hall Food Chain, which on edge and they’re not quite as friendly ham-Lees 260, call me here at the Phi

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt thing other than building an nn‘pen_ traces the evolution of dining hall en- as you might expect, like when they sometime and let me know if the ohl

Computer Graphics Artist . . _ ' _ ‘ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _plnl Canon an-able Berlin wall between you and trees; throw your silverware at you. But that s homestead has changed much.

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allen Flickinger . I

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Miriam Neel A Q u I c k R e a d O n  e P h I

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . William Polaski ‘ O

  Features

Stories of human interest or about
the arts appear in this section. A
story here may be light-hearted or
take a deep look at a serious issue.
This section usually occupies two
facing pages. If the facing pages are
connected they are called a double
truck. The features editor has greater
ﬂexibility than other section editors
in using creative designs and differ-
ent fonts in headlines. The syndi-
cated puzzles, Colonnade Cross-

The Ring-tum Phi is published Thursdays during the under-
graduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily
from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and business
manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that
week’s edition. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

Opinion

This section, the opinion page,
usually occupies pages two and three
but may extend to other pages. In the
left column of page two is the staff
editorial, which is the opinion of the
Editorial Board, unless it is initialed
by only some board members. The
Phi administrative staff is listed in
the staff box. The Phi prints four
biweekly political columns and two
biweekly humor columns which re-
ﬂect the author‘s opinions. My View

News

The news section always begins
on the front page and often extends
to other pages. The name of the
newspaper, underlined by the vol-
ume, number, place of publication
and date, is called the ﬂag or name-
plate. The frontlpage includes the
week's most important stories with
longer stories jumping inside. When
designing the front page, editors try
to make several entry points, places
which attract the eye to start reading.

Spons

This section covers the Generals
athletics. Stories here are often a mix
of the feature and news styles of writ-
ing. If there is an opinion column in
this section, it is labeled as such. The
Phi uses a sports front format, which
means that the most important stories
are on the newspaper's back page.
Jumps and other sports stories are on
the inside pages. The Phi does not .‘
have enough space to cover every sport

The Ring-tum Phi every week, so highlights from vari-

Post Office Box 899 Teaser boxes _at the ‘top of the page columns and letters, which anyone word, usually appears here. The sec- ous sports are sometimes put together
Lexington, Virginia highlight stories inside the P3PeT- Can Write, 3“? U0“ 3150 has music 1’6Vl6WS- in a section called Sports Notebook.
24450

 

 

  

S Th‘e Ring-tum Phi, September 4, 1993

    

By Francesca Kefalas

Sometimes it seems like Lexington has more
places to eat than it has year—— round residents.

But even staunch fans of the Letitia Pate
Evans Dining Hall will agree sometimes you
need a change. If you do not have access to a car
your options are a little more limited. But, then
ayin it’s about as far to the freshman parking
lot as it is to most of the restaurants that are not
a few blocks from the dorms. -

Lexington’s newest restaurant The Raven
and The Crown, is also the closest to the dorms.
An old English style pub, it serves breakfast all
day, which is something no other food places in
town does.

The menu offers quite a few breakfast
choices, such as french toast and omelets, and
also features a variety of appetizers that might
remind you of popular fun-food chains such as
TGIF’s or Bennigans. The Raven and The
Crown serves a variety of hot sandwiches and
also has full dinner entrees. There are also daily
sp‘!cials.

But, maybe the best part of the Raven and
the Crown is the prices. Eating dinner at the
restaurant could cost less than $5. The Raven

More food than 1)

and the Crown, located underneath Mountain
Copy Graphics on Lee Street, is closed on
Mondays.

The Palms was opened in 1975 and has been
a tradition for students turning 21 ever since.
But, The Palms, besides boasting one of the
longest drink lists you may have ever seen, also
has a large variety of hamburgers and hot sand-
wiches. The Palms has a bunch of “starters”
that really are more like a dinner unless you
share them. The Palms also has entrees and
serves a Sunday Brunch, which features choices
such as eggs Benedict and steak and eggs.

A typical dinner at the Palms will cost about
$8. The Palms is located on the corner of
Nelson and Jefferson Streets and is open every
day.

Spanky’s is another Lexington staple. The
chain restaurant features a long list of hot and
cold sandwiches in combinations you may not
have thought of. Each sandwich has its own
distinctive name but you can build your own
sandwich too. Spanky’s also has fun-food ap-
petizers and, to top it off, a wide selection of
deserts that will stuff you even if you have not
eaten dinner.

Dinner or lunch at Spanky’s will cost about
$8. Spanky’s is open for lunch and dinner every
day. It is located on
Jefferson Street next to
the fire station.

Harb’s is a bistro that

tal breakfast, lunch and
recently started serving
dinner entrees along
with their list of interest-
ing sandwiches and sal-
ads. Staring at you from
the counter is a display
case of Harb’s desserts
for the day. You may
want to skip your meal
and move right to des-
sert. _

Lunch or dinner at
Harb’s will cost about
$8. The restaurant is
open every day and is
located on Washington
Street, two blocks from
the dorms.

City Steaks and Subs
is not a sit-down restau-
rant, although there are
tables and chairs. The
restaurant features a
cheese steak modeled af-
ter the authentic Phila-
delphia Cheese Steaks,
and they deliver.

City Steaks and Subs

serves a light continen- .

V _is on ‘Main Street, and Walker unless it is a special occasion. But last

PAGE 3

‘FEATURES

you can get a sandwich there for less than $5.

The Sandwich Shop serves mostly cold sand-
wiches and is reasonably priced. It is located on
Jefferson Street and also has live entertain-
ment.

The Bone Bar and Grill serves starters, sand-
wiches and entrees. If you like ribs or spicy
chicken wings The Bone is the place in town to
go. Eating lunch or dinner will cost you about
$8 to $10.

You may wonder why every restaurant is
serving sandwiches, but these really are not the
kind of sandwiches you would make at home.
And, every restaurant has its own distinct menu
of sandwiches. But, if you’re in the mood for
something more than a sandwich, there are
places for that.

The Southern Inn serves breakfast, lunch
and dinner. Although it is not a big student
hang—out, it does have a homey, quiet atmo-
sphere. The Southern Inn is located on Main
Street.

If you don’t mind spending some more
money you can go to I1 Palazzo, Lexington’s
only Italian Restaurant. 11 Palazzo serves ev-
erything form pizza and calzones to seafood.

Many students go to 11 Palazzo for special
occasions, although you can eat there for as
little as $8, you can also spend as much as $15
just on your entree. Il Palazzo’s is open every
day and is located on Main Street.

The Willson-Walker House is next to II
Palazzo on Main Street. It is Lexington’s oldest
restaurant and certainly its most expensive.
You will rarely see students dining in Wilson-

5."

year, the restaurant began running dinner spe-
cial for $10. If they do it again it might be worth
the money just to see the beautiful restaurant,
which is located in a historic home.

If you like pizza, you have several choices in
Lexington. Domino’s has set-up a deal with the
university that allows students to put money on
the general debit portion of their identification
card and charge their pizza. Domino’s is also
open late, and deliver so often to W&L stu-
dents, chances are they can find you even in an
academic building.

.54‘ ,3;

l

eople in Lexington

Frank’s Pizza is out on Route 60 near Harris
Teeter, the supermarket, Frank’s also has hot
Italian heroes and other Italian fast foods.
Frank’s has an on again off again delivery
policy.

Pizza Hut is also on Route 60, a little farther
away than Frank’s. Pizza Hut delivers, or you
can go to them.

Right outside the Lexington city line is Little
Ceasers. Little Ceasers is on Route 60, in the
same shopping center as. K-Mart. They don’t
deliver, but the price is usually lower than the
other pizza places.

If fast food is what you want Lexington has
a lot of that too. On Route 60 you can find
McDonalds, Wendys, Hardees. Kentucky Fried
Chicken, Long John Silvers. Soon Taco Bell
will be joining the group. Also on Route 60 is
Old Virginia Barbecue. If you like barbecue
they will certainly make you happy. They also
have racks of ribs.

On Route 11, near Wal-Mart you will find
Burger King.

This may seem like a long list of places to
eat, but it’s not exactly complete. There are
restaurants that some student have never heard
off, and then there are always places like Shoneys

and The Golden Corral on Route or Country
Cookin on Route 60.

But, if what you really want is a snack and
not a meal, you can always walk to the Co-op,
W&L’s very own snack bar. With the magic of
your identification card you can satisfy all
kinds of hunger pangs at the Co—op. The Co-op
is open until midnight Sunday to Thursday.

So, there you go. If you ever want a change
of pace from the dining hall you have a lot of
options.

Enjoy.

 

O

. The Ring-tum Phi is looking for interested and
.enthusiastic people to write news and features, take

pictures, ask questions, edit copy, and fetch coffee (only   I
° kidding). The only requirements are a willingness to get l

involved and wanting to be among the first to find out all
'° the news at W&L.

See the World....Join the Phi

, Sign up at the Students Activities Fair,
Thursday, Sept. 8. The Phi will also have a
meeting to discuss goals for the coming year.

Join us and tell us what you would like to see in

the newspaper. The meeting will be Saturday
Sept. 11 in the University Center’s Fairfax
Lounge at 3 p.m.

. l

 

 

 

Last Week:

Practice for fall sports
began September 1

PAGE 4

Generals take the field with high hopes for fall :93

By SARAH ‘GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

For all of the freshmen who turned
to the sports page first, this is the story
you’ve been waiting for: The Of-
Course—Football-is-Most-Important-
But-We-Have-to-Mention-the—Other-
Sports-Anyway story. For everyone
else, this is a preview of the upcoming
year of Washington and Lee sports.

Football (yes, we must always be-
gin with football) comes off what the
sports world calls a “rebuilding” year
in which the Generals compiled a 5-4
record. This year, unfortunately, the
boys in blue must rebuild again, due to
the loss of both graduated seniors and
injury-prone under-grads.

Junior Geren Steiner, quarterback,
is the most glaring loss from the Gen-
erals’ roster. However, optimism reigns
in W&L’s locker room; a strong class
of freshmen and sophomores should
keep the team at least as strong as last
year.

On a more superficial note, the
scheduling highlight of the decade is
the first-ever Washington and Lee ath-
letic event held in Bermuda, as the
Generals face the Hoyas of Georgetown

flirt iﬂing-tum iﬂhi

SPORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBAL_L, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

November 20.

W&L faces Emory and Henry at
Emory for its first contest September
11. The Generals will come home to
Wilson Field for the first time October
9, homecoming, against Davidson Col-
lege.

Because sports editors have the
power of self-imposing a qualitative
order on sports which each have their
own intrinsic merits, we now move to
one of W&L’s most interesting sports,
water polo.

Water polo is something of a mys-
tery to many incoming freshmen. The
game is similar to soccer, played in the
water with seven men and using one
hand to move the ball.

Last year’s water polo team was
rousingly successful, winning the East-
em title. This year’s team, with the
return of senior top scorers Greg Golub
and Jake Berman, should prove to be
equally stellar.

Coach Page Remillard and his band
of waterboys will kick off the season
with an intrasquad scrimmage today,
and will host the Washington and Lee
Fall Classic Sept. 1 1.

Men’s and women’s soccer both
begin their seasons on Sept. 11, as well.

The Lady Generals will travel to

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Hing-tum Phi

Athletic practice has just started at Washington and Lee, but
this athlete is already in agony in the training room.

Parents 

For 96 years the W&L community has looked
to The Ring-tum Phi for the latest news,’

opinions, sports and campus coverage.

 

Agnes Scott College for their season
opener. Coach Janine Hathorn hopes
to better last year’s second place finish
in the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence.

With a squad which only graduated
one player, the Liberty Hall Fields
should be action-packed and victory-
laden this season.

Their male counterparts open their
season with two matches in Kentucky,
versus Centre College on Sept. 11 and
Transylvania University Sept. 12. The
Generals return home for the W&L
Soccer Classic on Sept. 18-19.

Little has changed since last year’s
team went 8-8, so seniors Dan Rhodes
and John Robinson should lead the
squad to a new and improved season in
’94. '

Volleyball begins its season with a
brand-new coach, Terri Dadio of Tren-
ton State, and a roster full of experi-
enced returnees, notably senior Tara
Burns and junior Jennifer Garrigus.

W&L volleyball will kick off the
’93 season with a match at Christopher
Newport Sept. 11.

Finally, cross country returns from
a very strong year in which both men
and women claimed ODAC titles and
sent at least one athlete to Division III
National Championships, each retum-
ing with one All-American.

Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer, the
last word in W&L women’s athletics,
will return after her All-American sea-
son to lead the Generals, who did not
lose any athletes to graduation.

Coach Jim Phemister will lead his
squad to their first meet Sept. 11 at the
Lebanon Valley Invitational.

Though the men lost their All-
American to graduation, coach John
Tucker hopes to repeat as ODAC cham-
pions with a strong core of runners.
The men will join the women at their
Lebanon Valley meet.

Freshmen who have actually made
it this far, through the turgid mire of
soccer, volleyball, cross country and
the like, would probably like some
additional information.

Washington and Lee University has
an exclusively Division III athletic pro-
gram, competing in the Old Dominion
Athletic.Conference. Some of the Gen-

 

This Week:
Most teams’ first contests will

be September 11

Water Polo: Scrimmage today 9’

  
 
  

 

   

SEPTEMBER 4, 1993

    

Washington and Lee volleyball players wait for practice to begn

in Doremus gymnasium.

erals’ chief rivals include the Maroons
of Roanoke College, the Wasps of
Emory and Henry and the Yellow Jack-
ets of Randolph-Macon.

Football games are played on nearby
Wilson Field; soccer is held on the
Liberty Hall Fields. Water polo will

Subscribe to the Phi.

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOJOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO0COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO000000O000000000
O

5/ Receive 29 issues“anid”i4 special issues of
The Ring-tum Phi at your home every week
for only $30 a year. The Phi is mailed the day

of publication without exception.
3/To subscribe, fill in the information on the

right and enclose with a check for $3Q made
payable to The Ring-tum Phi. Send payment

to

The Ring-tum Phi, P. O. Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450

%5Yes, start my subscription immediately!
I want to keep up with life at W&L.

Name

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-tum Phi

show its stuff in the Cy Twombly Pool.
Enjoy your first few days, freshman
sports nuts! If you need up-to-the-
minute info, call Washington and Lee
sports information at 462-8674. 0
Expect excellent sports coverage
every week at Ring-tum Phi sports.

Be apart of an evolving tradition.

Address

Telephone number

4.~L,a v- ‘I V10‘

P 65  LEXINGTON, VA 24450

"" 0*‘ 35;: 1 o 1993

Take a hike

to   
,   Weekend Weather.
Today: Partly sunny-, low 80’s‘
The Outing Club leads Freshmen
to the saddle of House Mountain
and plans for the coming year.

  Bump, set, spike
Women’s Volleyball
gets a new coach.

Tonight: Clear and noticeably
V” cooler, low in the 50's ‘ .
Saturday: Sunny, mid-70’s

Sunday: Sunny, low‘ 7 0’s

1 0

he ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂlri

VOLUME 93, NO. 01

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 10, 1993

  Faculty houses
hit by burglaries

he Watson Pavilion was completed in June and opened in August.

* rt pavilion opens

 sian fine art on display

. By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

The Watson Pavilion is
open.

At last, the building most
students seemed to hate can be
seeg from the inside and out.

' ut not everyone hated it.

“I ’m enchanted,” said Eliza-
beth Watson, the donor of the
building and the majority ofits
contents. “It’s one of the hap-
piest things that’s ever hap-

perwl to me.”
atson decided to make
Washington and Lee the re-
cipient of her extensive Orien-
' tal porcelain and art collection
in memory of her husband
William, a 1929 W&L gradu-
ate. Watson‘s gift to the Uni-
vergity includes collections of
porcelain, jade, bronze, ivory,
and silver, and ranges in age
from the first century B.C. to
the 19th century A.D.
“I wanted to go back for-
ever. I wanted older Chinese
por9,elain,” Watson said. “I

wanted a stimulus for students
[that would encourage] strong
East Asian studies.”

In addition, she gave W&L
the funds needed to house the
collection in a new building.
The Watson Pavilion and the
Reeves Center will also house
recent gifts from the collec-
tions of Groke Mickey, Mr.
and Mrs. Bolton McBryde, and
Mrs. William L. Wilson.

Students and faculty com-
plainedthatthe buildingwould
not fit in with the rest of the
Colonnade when plans for the
building were revealed two
years ago.

But opinions have changed
now that the building is com-
plete, said recently named
Reeves Center and Watson
Pavilion Director Tom
Litzenburg.

“Visitor and University re-
sponse has been overwhelm-
ingly favorable,” said
Litzenburg. “The Palladian ar-
chitecture is compatible with
the Greek revival architecture
of the Colonnade, and with the

collections and the way they ’re
exhibited.”

Litzenburg has been in-
terim director of the Reeves
Center and Watson Pavilion
since former director James
Whitehead retired in May
1992. Litzenburg is a 1957
graduate of W&L, and has a
Bachelor of Divinity degree
from Yale University and a
Master of Arts and a Ph. D.
from Princeton University.

He’ served as assistant
chairman of the National En-
dowment for the Humanities
from 1979 to 1981, and as
president of Salem College
from 1982-1991.

Litzenburg said that he be-
gan placing porcelain in the
display cases in mid-June, af-
ter the construction was com-
pleted. He finished the dis-
plays in late July, and the Pa-
vilion opened to vistors in
August. The original Febru-
ary opening date was pushed
back due to construction com-

->See WATSON, pg. 6

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Dean Elrod said that he has not added any
additional security to his home. The burglars
entered through an open

Thieves have preyed on Lexington three
times this summer—twice within the Washing-

ton and Lee community.

The third Lexington strike came on August
25 in the home of Dean of the College John
Elrod. The thieves took $12,000 in silver and
jewelry, carrying the items out of the house in
Mrs. Elrod’s sewing machine case. Their home

was undamaged.

According to Lexington Police Seargeant
Torben Pedersen, the culprit is a gang of thieves

following a well-worn pattern.

“This is a phenomenon that takes place
every year in Maryland, Virginia, and Pennsyl-
vania,” said Pedersen. “Groups referred to as
gypsies ﬂy into an area, rent a car, and go on

(burglary) sprees.

“They have already cased the places- then
they break in and usually take silver and jew-

elry.”

not unwary.

Elrod said.

window, not even damag-
ing the screen. But he is

“[We] need to be aware
of the fact that there are
unscrupulous people that
come to Lexington and
take valuable things,”

According to Pedersen,
the thieves have burgled

more than 70 houses in

Virginia this year alone,
including the home of Dr.
Tom Litzenburg, Acting University Chaplain
and Director of the Reeves Center and the
Watson Pavilion. The thieves broke in on the
day of Baccalaureate exercises and took silver
and jewelry from the Litzenberg home. The
same theives burglarized the home of Lexing-

Elrod

ton resident James Brown.
Police have some leads in the case thanks to

a thief’s fingerprint found
in the Elrod home. Police
also have a witness’ de-
scription of two women
with a brown suitcase and a
man with gray hair seen
leaving the Elrod’s home
in a blue car.

Pedersen said the gang
may consist of several hun-
dred people working in
teams of three or four. They
do not use force or damage
the houses they burglarize.

Pedersen said that al-

though W&L students should safeguard their
belongings, they are probably in no danger
from the gang of thieves.

“Students won’t be threatened unless they
have 30 to 40 thousand dollars worth of silver,”
said Pedersen.

Campus check-cashing nixed

By THOMAS HESPOS
PhiNews Editor

Scenario: You’re buying some
books at the University Bookstore.
You’re out of cash and you need
some beer money for later tonight.
No problem. You’ll just write the

bookstore check for ten bucks more '

than the amount of the books, right?
Wrong.

According to a memo circu-
lated by University Treasurer
Lawrence Broomall, theUniversity
policy regarding check cashing has
turned a complete about-face.

‘‘It will now be the University’s
policy that the use of personal
checks on campus will be limited
to the exact amount of a purchase,”
said Broomall in thelune 17memo.
“This policy is effective immedi-

ately.”
Broomall cites several reasons
for the change, saying in the memo

that the University’s annual. audit ’

by Coopers and Lybrand spawned
the recommendation for the change
in policy.

“The reasons for this new policy
are: cashing checks increases the
University’s exposure to potential
bad debt liability,” said the memo,
“the cost of processing the checks
and the security risks associated
with such activity has increased;
the volume of check activity on
campus has increased dramati-
cally.”

Broomall said the “security
risk” referred to in the memo oc-
curs when bookstore employees
carry the checks to the bank and
return to campus with the cash on
foot. He said that in some cases,

bookstore employees walk from
the bank to the campus with large
sums of money, which may seem
tempting to a robber. Broomall
said the memo was never intended
to imply that bookstore employees
might be cashing checks in a dis-
honest fashion, or that students
cannot be trusted to avoid bounc-
ing checks.

“If we didn’thave honestpeople
in there (the bookstore), we’d al-
ready be in trouble,” he said.

Broomall said he discussed
changing the policy last year with
then-Executive Committee Presi-
dent Josh MacFarland. Broomall
said MacFarland was understand-
ing of the university’s situation.

“[MacFarland] said it wasn’t an
honor system issue,” said
Broomall. “He seemed comfort-
able with it.”

According to Broomall, pro-
cessingfees forcheckcashing have
exceeded $100 for certain months.

Tidge Roller of the University
Bookstore agrees that the cost of
cashing checks has been exces-
sive.

“[The bank] started charging
us in May,” she said. “lt was
something like $150 for June.”

The installation of an automatic
teller machine on campus has been
discussed as a possible remedy for
the situation. Broomall said he
may have a proposal for a campus
ATM within a week.

“We’ve been pushing for it,”
said Roller.

Broomall was optimistic with
regard to the possibility of a cam-
pus ATM, saying the probability
of acquiring one was “fairly high.”

Students love, hate phones

9 By Nancy Pavlovic
Phi Managing Editor

What started out as a simple phone
system upgrade promises to turn into
the first love/hate relationship of the
year.

"She “new phone system” is more
like an expansion ofthe system that the
administration has been using since the
early 19803. Last year, staff size and
modern technology surpassed the ca-
pacities ofwashington and Lee
University’s 10-year-old telephone
sysﬁm switch. According to Director
of University Serviceslames Johndrow,
the University had been looking into
replacing that switch and better serving
the needs of students living on campus.

“Technology had outgrown our
switch and we just ran out of room
on e system,” Johndrow said. “We
knew we had to replace that switch and
figured we might as well go ahead and
add phones to the dorms. Then it was a
simple step to go ahead and do fiber
optics and cable.”

Because of an agreement with
Adglphia Cable, cable cost for on— cam-
pu housing will also lower with this
new system. The cost ofcable for the
year drops to $155 for basic service
with no connection fee. Students with
cable in the common area will receive
basic service free and will only have
monthly charges for premium service
likg HBO, Cinemax, Showtime or
Disney.

Until this fall, students living on
campus had to provide their own phone
and answering machines and deal di-
rectly with the local phone company,
Centel, for service. The new ROLM
phﬂne system makes those hassles ob-

;olete but the new system does come
vith problems of its own.

“There’s some confusion about how
‘tings work. But, so far, most of the
roblems have been with students liv-

!- in doubles and not being able to get
‘ .

into phone mail,” said Dana Camper,
the Telecommunications Customer
Service Representative.

When the new system was loaded,
every student was assigned a long dis-
tance authorization code and a phone—
mail password. The long distance au-
thorization allows them to place long
distance calls from any campus phone
and have it billed directly to their line.
Students living in doubles were listed
alphabetically in phone—mail. To ac-
cess their messages, the roomate with
the first name alphabetically must dial
a 1 after their extension number and
the second roomate must add a 2 to
their extension number. According to
Johndrow, many of the problems stu-
dents are having with the system can
be solved quite simply.

“People are really not reading the
literature,” Johndrow said. “Weare
willing to help anyone but please read
the literature first.”

Students are responding with mixed
reviews of the new system thatwas
designed to be convenient and save
them money.

“It’s a bit confusing but it does
seem to come with some
realconveniences,” senior Nikki
Mayfield said. “As long as I get my
messages, that’s all that I care about.”

But for senior Maurice Cole,
“Phone—mail is generally a good idea,
but it’s not efficient. After everybody
learns how to use it, it will be a good
thing.”

Camper also said some parents are
having trouble reaching their children
with the new 462 exchange.

“Sometimes the local long distance
company hasn’t put the new exchange
into their computers so it’ll tell you
that number doesn’t exist,” Camper
said. “But parentsjust need to call their
local long distance company and have
the company put the new exchange in
if they continue to have trouble.”

Johndrow said many of the addi-
tions like phone—mail and cable were

added in hopes of enticing more stu-
dents to live on campus and to improve
the quality of life in the dorms.

“With the new phone system, stu-
dents can access anything from any
touch—tone phone that they can do from
their room,” Johndrow said. “Hope—
fully the addition of the new system
will encourage students to move back
on campus.”

The University borrowed the $1.25
million spent to install the new phone
system and to provide cable and com-
puter jacks in all on-campus housing.
The Chavis House, the International
House and the Outing Club House are
also on the system. Each fraternity will
have two system phones installed but
will not be able to make long distance
calls on those lines.

In an effort to ease the transition to
the new system, University Services
will be holding training sessions for all
students livingon campus. Gaines resi-
dents will be the first to benefit from
this information session which will be
held Tuesday, September 14 at 7 p.m.
in the Gatehouse. Freshmen will be
next to receive the hands-on help that
will attempt to showcase all the fea-
tures available.

The new system comes complete
with call waiting, conference calling,
save/repeat dialing, camp—on calling
and a host of other features. With the
new system, on—campus housing tele-
phone numbers no longer go in nu-
merical order. So knowing one num-
ber does not mean being able to figure
out all other numbers in that suite or
onthat floor. The new system allows
calls to be traced if made from another
on—campus line.

“The system was loaded with ran-
dom numbers to provide more per-
sonal security forthe students,” Camper
said. ‘‘If a problem comes up, we can
track the call. If you’re making pranks,
it’ll come back to haunt you.”

Photo by Fran Kefalas, The Ring-tum Phi

Freshmen leap into the air while calling out their birth month, January, at Playfair on Saturday,
September 4. The Freshman Orientation Committee organized Playfair to help break the ice.

FOC finishes orientation

by RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

Freshmen Orientation Committee
activities for the class of 1997 ended
Wednesday, but plans are already be-
ing made for next year’s freshmen.
Kris Fegenbush and Sue Krawchuk
have been named as the new co-chairs
of the FOC.

Current FOC co-chair Carlin Jones
was pleased with how this year’s orien-
tation week went.

“The parents I met loved the pro-
cess, and I couldn’t have asked for a
better staff,” Jones said.

“I have confidence that Sue and

Kris will do a greatjob - they know this
program in an integral way,” Jones
added.

Tentative plans for next year call for
the role of the small groups and the
small group leaders to be increased in
the whole orientation week. Also in
consideration is a mandatory service
project.

“A lot of schools require freshmen
to do community service, and we think
that if we take the excitement and mo-
tivation that freshmen have during ori-
entation and apply it to helping people,
it will make their next four years in
college much better,” Fegenbush said.

The alcohol awareness seminars

may also be moved up during orienta-
tion week to inform the freshmen about
the realities of the W&L social scene.

“Drinking is prevalent on this cam-
pus, and freshmen need to be aware at
the beginning of school of the regula-
tions,” said Krawchuk.

This year’s hiking trip in conjunc-
tion with the Outing Club will prob-
ably be continued next year. There
may be additional trips, such as camp-
ing, depending on liability, Fegenbush
said.

The FOC plans to poll freshmen
soon so as to gauge reaction to this
year’s events. An organizational meet-
ing is also planned to take place soon.

PAGE 2

 

 

@112 filing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Something Old,
Something New

It has been built.

Despite student petitions and months of grumbling ,the
Watson Pavilion has been completed and the Watson
collection is on display.

You know what? We’re glad.

We understand that the University tore down an old,
beautiful tree to build the Watson Pavilion. It would be nice
of the university to plant another tree to replace the one
they tore down, but the Watson Pavilion’s value goes far
‘beyond a tree.

We understand that the buildinglooks a little different
than most of the other buildings on campus, but then again,
so does the Leyburn Library. There was not a protest when
the university proposed building the library.

The students’ impassioned protest over the construction
of the Watson Pavilion failed to realize its intrinsic schol-
arly worth. The educational value of the Watson Pavilion
extends to several areas- the arts, East Asian studies, and
architecture, to name a few.

We understand that it is at the end of the Colonnade, but
it is not the first thing to catch a visitor’s eye. The comple-
tion of the Watson Pavilion has proven that the building is
not the architectural eyesore so many had feared it would
be.

Trees and aesthetics aside, the Watson Pavilion is a
tremendous gift to this university; a gift Mrs. Watson did
not have to give. She chose W&L to be the benefactor of
her collection; a collection many other universities would
have taken without a word of protest and placed exactly
where she wanted it. Many students here complained about
the Pavilion without ever finding out what they were
talking about. We can not help but wonder if many of these
students will bother to take a tour of the new Pavilion, or
of the Reeves Center which has been open since the early
80s.

Elizabeth Watson’s collection, some of which dates
back to first century B.C., is priceless. Everyone affiliated
with W&L should be thrilled to have such _a respected
collection on campus. ‘ A

Mrs. Watson, if you ever get a chance to read this, thank

you.
—-F.K., M.B., N.P.

O
The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1993

 

Military should shut the closet

President Clinton, by attempting to lift the ban on
gays in the military, has risked the effectiveness of the
military to pander to the radical gay lobby. The
military ’s authority over its admissions and its mem-
bers’ conduct has been overtaken by the gay lobby’s
political inﬂuence. For an institution that depends on
strict discipline, the
military’s loss of au-

them the freedom of living an “altemative lifestyle.”
The ﬂaw in this logic arises from its contention that
the military must not deny individual freedoms. The
military has no place for individual freedom. Even the
notion that the military should attempt to be tolerant of
individual’s “lifestyles” is preposterous. The military
has one purpose: providing security

for the U.S. Everything about the

thority threatens its ca- military should serve this end. Sac-
pabilities to perform riﬁcing individual ri hts rocures
. . . . . . g P

missionswith minimal ANDREW the strict discipline needed by any
loss of life. military force.

Fortunately, mili- OLMEM Individuals outside the military
tary leaders, such as '96 enjoy the freedoms of speech and

Colin Powell, so
strongly opposed lift-

 

movement, but they need to be de-
nied to individuals inside the mili-

ing the ban that Presi-

dent Clinton found

himself without the political strength to completely
overcome them. A compromise, “Don’t ask, don’t
tell,” was all that President Clinton could drag from
them. The ambiguous policy fails to set down ﬁrm
rules of acceptable conduct and further contributes to
the military’s loss of strict discipline.

President Clinton never wanted to lift the ban to
improve the U.S.’s military; rather it was to reward
the gay lobby for its political support. Their vast
political resources greatly contributed to his victory.
And as a president who received signiﬁcantly less
than ﬁfty percent of the vote, he needs their resources
in the 1996 election.

The Clinton administration justiﬁed its pander to
the gay lobby by asserting that the military must allow
all its members to live their own lifestyle. Gays are
ordinary citizens who j ust live an “altemative lifestyle.”
They have, as all individuals do, a right to pursue
happiness without hindrance from the government.
Citizens and government need to respect all lifestyles.
The military, like all individuals and institutions,
should not discriminate against gays and prohibit

tary. The military’s task of protect-
ing the country, a duty of the high-
est importance, demands that it has the special privi-
lege of denying individual free-
doms. Depriving it of this in-

cannot be considered a protector of liberty. Could
President Clinton find that the Democratic Party
has discriminated against conservatives, and try to
rectify this injustice by having the government
force the appointment of conservatives to its lead-
ership? Of course not. Government should not
force individuals or organizations into undesired
associations, especially with individuals who mor-
ally repulse them, like gays.

The gay lobby, for all its rhetoric about striving?
for freedom cares nothing about it. The reason they
fought so hard to lower the ban was not because
they had an uncontrollable desire to serve the
country. They hoped to force individuals within
the military and society at large to accept their
lifestyles, even if it resulted in the weakening of
American military power. Unfortunately our comQ
mander-in-chief who should guard against such
threats cares more about political paybacks and
getting re-elected
than producing a

dispensable authority need-
lessly jeopardizes the lives of
both military and civilian citi-

The military can also pro-
hibit gays from joining, since it

strong military.
American so-
ciety depends orb

zens. ' ' having a military
It should not be concluded has the. nght ti’ choose wlth capable of pro-
rnn the military has the power Whom It ass0c1ates.A govern- tectingitfrom for-

under this pretext to discrimi-
nate and deny liberty to indi-
viduals outside the military.
While it should havevast pow-
ers to organize itself, its au-
thority should remain limited

liberty.

ment that tells its citizens with
whom they must associate can-
not be considered a protector of

eign aggression.
Liberty cannot
exist in a society
continually over-.
run by foreign
powers. Its func-

to its own boundaries. Only

lawmakers have any authority to impose restrictions

on individual freedoms for national security concerns.
The military can also prohibit gays from joining,

since it, like any individual or organization, has the

right to choose with whom it associates. A government

that tells its citizens with whom they must associate

tion is too vital to
use it for the promotion of radical lifestyles. Mili-
tary personnel should have our society’s deepest
respect and gratitude, for surrendering their
lifestyles so that America may enjoy the products
of liberty, not its contempt for prohibiting a speciaﬁ
interest group’s selfish desire.

“An AIDS Story” touches all of us

:0

PHI F.Y.I.

As you might have noticed, The Ring-tum Phi did not
come out yesterday like it has in the past. Starting this term,
the Phi will be published once a week on Fridays. Changing
the publication date to Friday will allow us to focus more on
week—to—week news and provide better coverage of events
on campus and in the area. _ ‘

Quote of the Week

An emperor found Rome in bricks and left it

marble. John Wilson found W&L in bricks and
left it many, many, many more bricks.

—Reginald Alton, guest speaker at Opening
Convocation and retired Bursar and Vice-
Principal of St. Edmund’s College at Oxford
University.

@112 Ewing-tum iﬂlri

In this first column of the year I
would like to talk about something that
means quite a bit to me personally and
it is my sincere hope that it will come to
be equally important to you. It is some-
thing that, whether we know it or not,
involves all of us. It is the ﬁght against
AIDS.

Those of you who are returning this

Some still believe that AIDS is about
homosexuality and that as long as
you’re not gay you can’t get AIDS. If
you feel this way I should tell you that
you are not alone. In fact there are
thousands of people sitting in doctor’s
ofﬁces and hospital rooms right now
who are still trying to figure out how it
is that they are heterosexual and are

 

yntar nmay known now HIV-Posi-
‘at 33tYea1' tive. If you
fplrgrgegd an would like to
1103' join that club
IIOII Pl’0jCCl on  than all you
Ems camp“ to MCDERMOTT need do is con-
1nC1'°3S¢ the .94 tinue thinking
awareness of tha;way_
the  COm- There are
mum‘). I be- also some folks

lieve we had a

very successful year and I am looking
forward to this year. I was most pleased
by the fact that our events and meetings
were not just attended by a core group
of members, but by a cross—section of
the campus. I felt this was particularly
appropriate since this disease effects
everyone. More and more I ﬁnd that
almost everyone has “An AIDS Story”
to tell. I have heard stories about broth-
ers and sisters, aunts and uncles, nieces
and nephews, mothers and fathers, and
friends all dead from this plague. These
stories have come from alumni and
faculty, from students and staff mem-
bers. They are all equally painful and
they all exemplify the horror of this
disease.

What many of these people tell me
is that they are still grieving for their
loved ones and that they live in fear that
this grieving is going to continue be-
cause they see their friends on this
campus engaging in behavior which is
not safe. Many people here have some
real misconceptions about this disease.

on this campus
who feel that this disease was meant
for homosexuals and that it was sent by
God to destroy them. I find this to be a
particularly interesting argument be-
cause it usually comes from the same
people, who, if you let them, will sit
you down and tell you how much Jesus
loves you! If you want to believe that
He is the one sending down diseases
than why not believe that in this coun-
try He chose the gay community to
suffer first because he wanted us to
develop compassion and love for a
group of people we had shunned as
outcasts for too long. Further, He
intertwined the path of the disease so
that if we did not deal with it immedi-
ately and with a total lack of bigotry,
our actions would return to haunt us as
the disease began to enter the general
population. Indeed, that is exactly what
has happened.

There is one last group of people on
campus who are relatively well in-
formed about the disease, they know
how it is transmitted, they know that it

can affect all different types of people,
and they think that they can engage in
high risk unprotected behavior and
never get infected because, “If my part-
ner had AIDS they would look sick,”
or, “I think I know who this person has
sleptwith and they’re OK.” If you have
said these or similar things to yourself
before, then all I have to say to you is
that the Health Center offers confiden-
tial HIV Antibody testing and you
should probably take a walk over and
sign up. After that, it wouldn’t be a bad
idea to take a walk downtown and buy
yourself a box of condoms, if you plan

our campus’ professional Health Edu
cator, Jan Kaufman, at extension 8590.
Finally, I would ask you to join the
efforts of the AIDS Education Project.
We can always use some fresh ideas
and an extra pair of hands. Otherwise,
you should learn how to protect your-
self. Whether you choose at-stinence.
or condoms, that is up to you, but you
have an obligation to be informed, both
to yourself and to those you care about.
Some people have said that we will
be the first generation of college gradu-
ates who attend more funerals than
weddings. In fact there are many people!

to continue to be not much older
SCXl.I3lly active. than us, who
Iurge )’0U_t0 m""'—"*'—"*—— look around
?°°°md° b 1"‘ I have heard stories them and real-
Ofmﬁ 8 Out ize that all of
this diS€3S€~ If a_b0ut brothers and theirfriendsare
you have ques— sisters, aunts and uncles, gone. .,
“°"5 V°“ have nieces and ne hews T"“‘“‘“‘b°“l
many excellent P 9 that for 3 sec-
sources that you mothers and fathers, ond_ [ma ﬁne
O u g
:‘nasYnf°"‘a°‘ and friends all dead  tW<n>u1d
€1’S- - ee 1 e o ose
from this la e These -
have an on.-cam- p g“ ' your five clos-
pus honline you stories have come from est friends?
mayca anytime - Imagine no
at 464_AIDS alumni and faculty, having nnynne
(2437) you may from students and staff to go out and
3‘S°°a‘“h°C°“‘ members. They are all Party With-
ters for Disease . Imagine not
ll f l d th
Control’s Na- equa y paln u an ey being able to
tlionnciininlotlnirlrnezat all exemplify the horror really talk to
- - - ' ' anyone. Imag-
AIDS (2437)_ If of this disease. incbeingnlone
youwishtospeak in a hospital
With someone in room and won-
PCTSOIL 011 3 deringhowev-

strictly confidential basis, you may
make an appointment with the physi-
cians at the Health Center (Inﬁrmary),
you can contact the counseling office,
or you can make an appointment with

erything fell apart so fast. If things
continue as they are and people con-
tinue to be uninformed about this dis-0
ease, you will not have to imagine
much longer.

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David Wilmington

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bethany Smith

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advenising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.’ Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Advenising does not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

LETTERS

“Women's House” should not be built, unfair to men ’

To the editor:

I am an independent male member of the class of
1994. I recently was perusing the May 1993 issue of
Women ’s Forum when I came across the proposal for
a “Women’s House” which was submitted by this
group.

I shall state up front that I disagree with the
continuing existence of Women ’s Forum, as I believe
that, whereas during the early days of co-education,
such a group may have been necessary, at this point
the stresses faced by male and female students are
essentially the same, and that the continued existence
of a female support group can only be justified by the
formation of such a group for male students.

Along these same lines, I greatly resent the sug-
gestion of the construction/designation of a “Women’s
House” without an accompanying structure for men.
As an independent student, I have made minimal use

of the fraternity facilities, to say the least. I believe that
these groups should not be considered a formal part of
the university, and that any use of the fraternity facili-
ties should not be considered use of an “official”
university facility, as these groups are not funded by the
university, nor were the houses built by the university.
I am, however, fully in favor of the sororities (and

_ women’s fraternities) being allowed to, indeed, in light

of the recent “Renaissance,” perhaps financially en-
couraged to build their own houses.

It is also my understanding, however, that such
facilities are not desired by the sororities on campus
because these facilities would then have to compete
with the fraternity houses for attendance at social
functions and the like. Then, if the sorority members
are willing to sacriﬁce their own facilities so they may
take advantage of those presented by the fraternities,
they should not be rewarded with a university-spon-

sored and paid for building of their own. If the
women’s groups are willing to band together and
build their own building with an equal amount of
assistance, as was received by the fraternities, and.
with the same restrictions placed upon them, then

I fully encourage their efforts.

If the university’s much-vaunted new student
center is built (an idea which many ofthe women’s
groups on campus support), then it would serve as
an ideal co—ed facility, not restricted to use by
men’s or women’s groups, and which would equi-g
tably serve all students. However, should a
Women’s House be built, then there should be a
“Men’s House” of equal size and quality provided,
so equality could be restored to the campus.

Matthew J. Appel, ‘94

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1993

D

Spos slingshots into Lexington

.Q\
SPos’ SPACE

Tom Hespos

Greetings and salutations to all!
After a long summer of having fun and
drinking beer, Spos is looking forward
to another year at Washington and Lee,
filled with days and nights of... having
fun and drinking beer. This year will
be slightly different with regard to the
appearance of Spos’ Space in your
fdendly college newspaper. I will be
alternating on-and-off with “Dream
Land,” a humor column written by
Opinion Editor and stud-in-training
Richard Weaver.

No longer will Spos have to deal
with weekly deadlines (sigh of relief).
/‘.s a result, I will only be able to harrass
the student body on a bi-weekly basis,
quite unlike the weekly ritual of last
year. By the way, if vou’re a freshman
and have no idea of what the hell I am
talking about, just cruise on to the next
sentence, where I will discuss... Stu-
pid things Spos did over the sum-
nﬁrz The legend of the mighty sling-
shot

Early in the summer, after a long
hard day of digging ditches, I sat down
in front of the television, hoping to
catch one of those cool cop shows

where policemen beat innocent civil-
iaQs with nightsticks for jaywalking
offenses. Instead, I turned on the tube
and saw three beautiful girls in bikinis
operating what appeared to be a giant

slingshot. The wheels in Spos’ devi-
ant mind slowly began to turn.

“Fire water balloons over 200 yards
with our Aqua-Sling water balloon
slingshot,” said the voice on my tele-
vision. I took down the address for the
mail-in offer and mailed my check off
the next day. The legend ofthe mighty
slingshot was born.

While waiting for my Aqua-Sling

 

The first real test of the Aqua-
Sling’s power came at the annual
Patrolman’s Benevolent Association
picnic. My best friend John’s father,
a detective, had been getting us tickets
for this event every year for about as
long as I can remember. The extrava-
ganza included all-you-can-eat
burgers, hot dogs, corn on the cob, and
lots of other foods. It also included

water bal- all-you-
loon sling- can-drink
shot to ar- beer,much
rive, the to Spos’
w h e e l s delight. As
were still amatterof
turning: fact,lbe-
What else lieve that
could I the unlim-
launch at ited beer
unsuspect- contrib-
ing passers— uted some-
by? Golf what tothe
b a 1 l s ? activities
Small ro- that took
dents? My place that
two-year- Partying with Van Halen at Central Command am-,mo0n_

old cousin?

The possibilities were endless. By the
time the thing actually arrived at my
house, I already had several ideas,
many ofwhich had the potential to get
me arrested.

Unfortunately, the first test of the
mighty slingshot had to be aborted.
Spos and several friends had planned
to bombard an ex—girlfriend’s house
with several balloons filled with grape
Nehi, but we were chased away by a
neighborhood dog.

Things
started off pretty tame. My friends
and I shot a couple of water balloons
at some girls, testing our range and
accuracy. This soon evolved to shoot-
ing balloons filled with beer, which in
turn evolved into firing pieces of food.
Some of the picnickers seemed sur-
prised to see entire hamburgers ﬂying
past them at sixty miles an hour.

Our fun came to an end after an
attempt to hit the hamburger stand
with an ear of corn. The corn, not

exactly aerodynamically suited for ﬂy-
ing at high speed, went slightly awry,
whizzing past an elderly gentleman at
approximately the speed of sound. I
could have sworn the poor guy almost
had a coronary right there in the middle
of the picnic.

No doubt this was one of the coolest
things Spos did all summer, that is, if
you don’t count the time I got drunk at
a bar in the Hamptons and entered a _
boxer short contest. Needless to say,
Spos lost. The mighty slingshot made a
few more appearances during the sum-
mer, but had to be forcibly “retired”
after a launched cantaloupe came aw-
fully close to destroying the expensive-
looking bay window at the home of my
junior prom date. (The prom sucked— I
could have had more fun at a conven-
tion of economics professors.)

Without the mighty slingshot, the
summer probably wouldn’t have been
as interesting as it turned out to be. I
don’t think I did anything else nearly as
interesting as firing large pieces of fruit
at the homes of ex-girlfriends. Of
course, Spos had a few parties at his
Central Command in beautiful subur-
ban Long Island (see photo), but the
satisfaction of hearing a watermelon
crash against the house of a sworn en-
emy cannot be equaled.

By the way, I hope this doesn’tspawn
any ideas amongst the fraternity males
out there. Lexington Police already
have their hands full keeping y’all from
passing out in the middle of the street.
The last thing they need is a bunch of
complaints about strange ﬂying fruit.

Placement

The Senior Placement Meeting
will take place on Wednesday,
September 15, at 4 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. Senior packets will be dis-
tributed. A make-up meeting for
athletes and others who cannot at-
tend the 4 p.m. meeting will be
held the same day at 7 pm. in
Room 114 of the University Cen-
ter.

Law School

A meeting for those planning
on attending law school will be
held on Thursday, September 16,
at 7 p.m. in Commerce School
Room 221. Contact pre-law ad-
viser Lewis-John for more infor-
mation.

 

General Notes are compiled by Richard Weaver.

PAGE 3

Interviews

An interviewing workshop
will be held on Tuesday, Septem-
ber 21, at 4 p.m. in Room 109 of
the University Center. This work-
shop is required for all seniors
planning on having a videotaped
practice interview.

Phi

The Phi welcomes letters to
the editor and My Views. Sub-
missions are due at Tuesday noon
and will be printed in the order
received. All submissions will be
printed. Mail letters to P.O. Box
899 or drop off in the envelope
outside Room 209 in the Univer-
sity Center.

Clinton's college plan not the right path

. MY VIEW

Cecilia Kirk

President Clinton recently unveiled his national
service plan to provide federal funds for college
trjtion in exchange for a student’s service. Essen-
tially, Clinton proposes that the government pay for
two years of tuition for each year a person works in
a sanctioned social-,Service type program. The stu-
dent may perform his service before, during, or after .
his college enrollment, or even take the grant directly
and pay it back as a portion of his income. To many
st§dents, that sounds like quite a deal. '

The plan promises much, but it lacks many details
and must be thoroughly considered.

In his address, Clinton spoke of hundreds of
thousands of students participating in the program.
According to the Clinton administration, the national
service program will begin with 1,000 students and
w' I increase to 100,000 students by 1997. Clinton
compares the plan with the Peace Corps, although at
its height, the Peace Corps involved only 16,000
young people. The projected cost of the program is
$9.5 billion for the next five years.

For good reason, Clinton stated that the program
should not become bureaucratic. However, by its
nature, a national organization demands administra-
tiﬂn; in fact, an office of national service, directed by
Eli Segal, has already been established. The office of
national service must grant, process, and follow up
on its awards; it will screen programs, certify that
they meet standards, and provide capital to found
new service corps. It must decide which groups to
sanction, decide which students to accept, pay col-
leges the tuition funds, and keep records of those
transactions, follow up on those students who elect to
pay their grants back as a portion of their incomes and
maintain a payment program with them, and provide
salaries to its employees, among those administra-
tion functions. Given the centralized nature of the

institution, it is impossible to prevent the bureaucra-
tization.

In his campaign manifesto, Clinton proposed to
“scrap the existing student loan program and establish
a National Service Trust Fund to guarantee every
American who wants a college education the means to
obtain one.” Following that promise, the Clinton
administration has suggested these grants could re-
place Pell Grants, which are awarded to needy stu-
dents. Pell Grants are considered “high vris,k”because
many of the recipients fail to pay back their loans.
Replacing the Pell systqn wiﬁrthe national service
system does not guarantee that needy“stu*dent‘s‘<.,will=
receive federal loans; it is still i '
“high risk,” however, because

front dangerous situations. Is police work really prac-
tical for one-year service students? Teachers must
have knowledge and experience. Many undergradu-
ates complain about being taught by graduate stu-
dents without teaching abilities. Can college students
be expected to undertake the same educational duties
as professional teachers? If they can, why shouldn’t
they be employed as are other teachers?

Financial considerations aside, national service is
troubling in the way it approaches community.
By discussing “community service”, the president

.». ‘ V tful,l~.y'-aclqpmple, I  lack of comgnunit 
ixgnhericbnslhéed t3 re’ scover an aﬁthenticﬂsgense gf
community as respon-
sible citizens who unite

service students could decide
what percentage of their incomes
to pay back and there is no surety
that they will do so. Impor-
tantly, of the 5 million students
who have college loans only 2%
of them could participate in the
president’s plan. The percent-
age of students benefiting fi-
nancially from the new plan is
even smaller as there are 14 mil-
lion college students currently
enrolled. In short the national
service program would apply to

a much smaller number of stu- Students°

The national service pro-
gram would apply to a much
smaller number of students at
a cost much higher than the
current grant program. This
will be paid for by the taxpay-
ers, who, by the time the
program is in effect in a few
years, will be today’s college

in changing the des-
perate and often alien-
ating conditions of
contemporary Ameri-
can life.

However, the
means to instill virtue
and respect for others
and then to resolve
these social ills is not
found in costly bureau-
cratic programs that
come from the top
down. Loyalty to com-
munity is a voluntary

dents at a cost much higher than

the current grant program. This

will be paid for by the taxpayers, who, by the time the
program is in effect in a few years, will be today’s
college students.

Another troubling aspect of the plan is that “ser-
vice” is vaguely defined. Naturally, most students
would want to do their “service” in the field of their
choice, making it simply a career move.

The two most frequently cited service jobs are
teachers and auxiliary policemen, to help with the
essential duties of education and crime prevention.
Policemen require extensive training and must con-

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

TALKBACK

response that comes

from within a person
and cannot be enforced by a program emanating from
Washington.

Instead, we must work through the intermediary
institutions like the family, churches, civic institu-
tions, and schools to restore an authenticsense of
community. The national service plan is about gov-
ernment employment, not community; and college
students will be required to pay the tab, both finan-
cially and in terms of community.

Cecilia Kirk represents the Young America ’s
Foundation.

hearing.

Student Body Notice

A member of the student body was accused of theft at

the end of the 1993 Spring Term and has chosen to
withdraw from the university in the face of a closed

Inmate seeks letters

To the editor:

I am a prisoner on death row at
Arizona State Prison and was won-
dering if you would do me a favor. I
have been here for almost sixteen years
and have no family or friends on the
outside that I can write. I was wonder-
ing if you would put a small ad in the
campus newspaper for me asking for
correspondence.

If you are not able to do that, then

‘maybe you have some type of mes-
sage or bulletin board you could put it

on. I realize you are not a pen pal club
or anything like that, but I would
really appreciate it if you would help
me.

Death row prisoner, Caucasian
male, age 46, desires correspon-
dence with either male or female
college students. Wants to form a
friendly relationship and more or
less exchange past or present expe-
riences and ideas. Will answer all
letters and exchange photos. Prison
rules require a complete name and
return address on the outside of
the envelope.

Thank you,

Jim leffers

Arizona State Prison
Box B-38604
Florence, AZ 85232

EC addresses cable

To the members of the Washing-
ton and Lee community: _
With the advent of the new phone
and cable services on the Washington
and Lee campus, several questions
have been raised regarding the impli-
cations for the Honor System. While

it is not customary for the Executive

Committee to respond to hypothetical
inquiries regarding potential honor
violations, the committee will, on oc-

casion, comment on the impact of ‘

significant changes in campus life on
the Honor System.

Students should be advised that the
misappropriation of cable services
(e.g. cable “splicing” or unauthorized
use of cable converters) or phone ser-
vices (e.g. through use of another’s
access code) could potentially amount
a breach of the Honor System. Stu-

dents are therefore cautioned that such
practices should be discontinued and
avoided in the future.

By this letter, the Executive Com-
mittee merely seeks to have students
consider the consequences of the de-
scribed actions in light of the man-
date of the Honor System. The com-
mittee maintains its policy of not
developing an inclusive or exclusive
code of honorable conduct.

Questions regarding this or any
other matter concerning the Honor
System may be addressed to any
member of the Executive Commit-
tee.

Thank you.

Robert K. Tompkins
James E. Rambeau, Jr.
Kevin Webb

As a freshman, what has been your most
memorable experience so far?

I my Gorman, ’97, San Anto-
io, Tex. —“That guy that ran
layfair made me feel really

‘ ecial.” strange.”

Doug “Troll” Brown, ’97,
Bedford, Va. —-— “That guy that
was doing Playfair was really

MG

Nichole Bryant, ’97,

Columbia, SC., and Amy Bohutinsky,
’97, Kansas City, Mo. — “We really enjoyed that cool Honor
System film.”

‘ t

Gambrill Corckran, ’97, Ba]-
timore, Md. — “I went up and

started talking to these two
people I thought I knew and
then realized I had no idea who
I was talking to.”

Jon Adelman, ’97, Geneva, 
Switzerland. —— “Finding out I v
have an 8 a.m. class five days a lg
week.” 3!

it

    
   

. ' PAGE 4

I

I
I I

 
 

FEATURES

By DAVID WILMINGTON
Phi Features Editor

Despite recent focus on their new
building, the only house the Outing
Club is really concerned with rises
hundreds of feet above Rockbridge
County.

Approximately twenty freshmen
were introduced to the traditional House
Mountain hike on Tuesday. The hike
was included in this years’ freshman
orientation schedule with the provi-
sion that it stop at the Saddle instead of
continuing to the top as usual.

Faculty advisor Kirk Follo explained
that neither he nor Dean of Freshmen
and Residence Life Dennis Manning
felt comfortable with the idea of fifty

Left: Members of the Class
of ‘97 take a breather as
Prof. Kirk Follo points out
the trail to the Cliffs of Big
House Mountain. Right:
Outing Club House Man-
ager Alex Ruskell and
Kerry Egan prepare first
aid kits before leading the
first hike of Fall term.

PRINCIPLES 0/i SOUND RIi'l‘IRli.\lliN'l‘

i'\'\'1«;s'riN(;

  

IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS
EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF
THROUGH RETIREMENT.

hink about supporting yourself for
twenty~five, thirty years or longer
in retirement. It might be the greatest
ﬁnancial test you'll ever face. Fortunately,
you have one valuable asset in your
favor. Time.

Time to take advantage of tax—cleferral.
Time for your money to grow.

But starting early is key. Consider this:
ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at
age thirty, you can accumulate $172,1o9*
by the time you reach age sixty-five.
Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside
$219 a month to reach the same goal.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

’ 9 I 993 Tauierr Iruumnce and Annuity A.r.rac1alion/ Cal/cg: Retirement Equilier Fund.

\

At TIAA-CREE we not only under-
stand the value of starting early, we
can help make it possible—with flexible
retirement and tax-deferred annuity
plans, a diverse portfolio of investment
choices, and a record ofpersonal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education
and research are already enrolled in
America’s largest retirement system.
Find out how easy it is to join them. Call
today and learn how simple it is to put
yourself through retirement when you
have time and TIAA-CREF on your side.

Start planning your ﬁtture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.

/

I

*,{,r_.-,,,,,,',,,, ,1” [n],-r(_r/ mm M XIII)"/o rmiilzr} In Tlxl/i Rvlirrrumt/I/1/1111'/1).»: T/1/ﬁr mt: /.ru.m7.m/1/_y In .r/Jaw llu'_mIu'rriIIIr) (ti/2'1‘! 4!/‘H’/'lﬂI’ll/N)/_'1.4l< LW‘”' "’ /”.'4/5"‘ ""1"-V “"”‘U
‘ }, N, 1), I H. ,.,,._V ,),'/_f(rm/ mm/l.r. (‘REF I't’I‘Il_i/lt‘lI[t‘.|'41I‘( 1)Lr/rf/m[g(I/r‘y TI/‘iii-(REF[Il()U'l()ll1I[1III() IlimlulwmilSzrwmn

 

or so hikers milling around the edge of
the Cliffs.

The hike is somewhat symbolic in
that the Outing Club is partly respon-
sible for the preservation of the moun-
tain. Developers were bidding for the
land during the first year the club be-

‘ came official, Follo said. The students

organized several fund raisers to help
Virginia conservation groups buy the
land and ensure its undeveloped condi-
tion.

Now the hike up Big House Moun-
tain is one of the “must-do-before-you-
graduate” activities at W&L. ,

The Outing Club does not subscribe
to a traditional organizational hierar-
chy. Since the beginning of the club,
there has been a core group of organiz-
ers instead of an elected or appointed

The Fling-tum Phi, September 10, 1993

government. This year, there are only
two titled positions. Alex Ruskell serves
as House Manager and general orga-
nizer and Justin Youngblood is the
Equipment Manager.

Formal activities won’t gear up un-
til the second week of classes to give
everyone time to get settled. Although
dates have not been set, Outing Club
plans include hikes to Apple Orchard
Falls, cross-country skiing trips, rock
climbing, and a white-water rafting
trip to West Virginia.

Although these big trips are the most
well known of the club’s activities,
they are not necessarily the focus. The
club is primarily a resource to allow
students to set up their own excursions.
As in past years, any student can check
out equipment to use for purposes such

 Hikers Hit House Mountain   .

 Outing Club hopes for suggestions to plan ’93-’94 activities

as camping or canoeing, but this year a
returnable deposit will be required.

Because both Ruskell ahd
Youngblood live in the new Outing
Club house, check-out hours for equip-
ment will be much more ﬂexible than
in past years.

In addition to the scheduled trips
and free equipment, various classes
have been offered in the past. Ruskell
is looking for anyone who has experi-
ence with rock climbing or kayaking
that would be interested in instructing
others.

Outing Club activities take place
during all three semesters, even the
usually cold Virginia winter. 0

“We get our best turn out in the fall
and spring,” Follo said. “In winter
people wimp out.”

Photos by David Wilmington, The Ring-tum Phi

. eshman’s college
And that, sometimes, fresh ,

to ignore their classes
sure they don’t, we’r..

2135500 scholarshi
member with the

    
    
 
    
     

have work to d

use on campus.
raternity should be an

  

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1993

Garth saddles

0
O O

Mus lc Rev zew

0
By David Wilmington

Phi Features Editor

‘D

For the past few years, the fence that
divides Top-40 pop and country music
has been slowly dismantled.

One of the primary reasons for the
breakdown can be directly traced to the
general popularity and huge record sales
of Garth Brooks. His approach to break-
ing down the already decaying fence
has been to throw a saddle on it and ride
the middle until you can’t decide on
which side he belongs. Brooks’ latest
album, In Pieces, continues his fence
rail ride by blending numerous ele-
. ments and sounds into a package labled

‘Country’.

The songs on the album that could
be called ‘Country’ without causing
too many arguments represent the tried
and true elements of country music.

“American Honky-Tonk Bar Asso-

Q ciation” has a down-home dance hall
feel and lyrics that celebrate an infor-
mal coalition of mistreated, blue-col-
lar, beer drinking, gun owning patriots:
a kind of ‘United We Swagger’ organi-
zation.

“Ain’t Going Down (Til The Sun

. Comes Up)” represents what has be-
come a modern Country custom: a song
for would—be teenage rebels everywhere
to rally behind. The lyrics, which are
spoken in a fast, primarily three note
melody, describe the hot-to-trot hero-
ine and her bad boy hero escaping from

. her parents to express their undying
love in a pickup truck. Events come to
a head in a Chuck Berry styled
choronology: “Ten ’til twelve is wine
and dancing, Midnight starts the hard
romancing, One o’ clock that truck is
rocking, Two is comin’ still no stop-
ping.” You get the picture. It’s not
poetry, but it’s a fun song and it men-
tions George Strait.

“Callin’ Baton Rouge” is a road
song in the traditional sense. Guest
artist Bela Fleck is featured on banjo in
a bluegrass—inﬂuenced backup chorus.

Country fans will be pleased to rec-

’ ognize Trisha Yearwood as the other
guest artist on the album. Yearwood
joins Brooks to sing backup harmony

O

on three selections.

The songs from the other side of the
fence might elicit a few head scratches
from some C&W listeners.

Right around the middle of the al— .

bum, Brooks pulls two songs from an
as yet unseen Lyle Lovett inﬂuence.
“One Night A Day” and “Kickin’ and
Screamin’ ” tap into the bluesy con-
temporary sound that Lovett and
Bonnie Raitt have made popular.

In direct opposition to the shock-
testing love scene described in “Ain’t
Going Down”, “The Red Strokes” uses
the metaphor of colors in a painting to
symbolize aspects of a relationship.
This song is very much like the ballads
heard on ‘Adult Contemporary’ sta-
tions with names like ‘K-Lite’.

SUPE

DRUG STORES

FEATURES

One non-traditional C&W song that
will not sound unfamiliar is “The Night
Will Only Know.” The song describes
another automobile-bound love tryst,
but this time, a murder outside the
steamy car window thrusts the lecher-
ous pair into a moral quandary. Listen-
ers might sense some relation to “The
Thunder Rolls” in the visually descrip-
tive scenes of violence and injustice.
The guitar sound on this track is an
especially obvious example of what
once would have been shunned by the
country establishment.

After listening to the album from
start to finish, it is obvious that Brooks
will have at least three very big hits
from this album.

However, some C&W fans may be

Open 7. Davs.

Week,.;i

" 7;-"I-_-L-_r__..—
nalllﬁj

   

Ruudlour Iilntvvnatullum an lttlllltulv mi»; avaml uuulvn live mnu
um Io rulers $00

We ment the light ml aniilims

ul in in Mu
who Rclll

Lexington

Imlilcm yuu n umwr 4 QllOlIIMEb(H!1 M-en mm! ur a llncllcm Mum inhu: Iv uunhcu hr -unnm-i rum al In mmliscd uno: Season: mrm axcliord
Vnornuy not bcwlhu onai ll not lie uvuoluis uznemy Ont; one undo: uiupon in remains but rum lawn aiuoon(s) avatar: in sum

 

’ US Hwy.11, Rt. 7 Phone: 463-7126

fence again

PAGE 5

college

ple," e.g. (2 wds.)
Evaluate
Extremely small

direction
disappointed by the new level to which

. _ Pacino classic (2 wds.) by Picasso

Brooks takes his mrddle—of-the—fence or land measure 33 "she's —..."
approach. As exemplified by Billy ”9et5G:yP<(l:<"*:FxlX>et DOWN 34 égrtrgweﬂashdance )
Ray Cyiusiacoumrlf Smg_er who sieps plane) 1 Those who are duped 35 Visible trace

too far into pop territory is in serious 26 Capri , e.g. 2 "Do unto -—.. ." 36 Think

danger of being ostracized by the Core 27 Belonging to Mayor 3 Fourth estate 37 woman's under-

- Koch 4 Goals garment
fundamemahsts of the  _SCe_ne' 28 Irritate or 5 Hell-known record 38 Corrrnit ——-kiri
Even thoughcountry music isenjoying embitter label 40 — burner
a large amount of popularity with the 30  f°" 3 b°’‘l"9 ‘; ”l‘§l1l;:"‘c";’:S‘;:"9 42 L-I3)-lf°'”,_"f I ""
lmdel ‘WWW C‘°Wd> “"5 Older 00”’ 31 —- and the 8 Prefix meaning milk 44 Actress Gibbs
group can still break a performer by Belmonts 9 confused (2 wds.) 46 African antelope
labeling hinla fake_ ’, 3: gropegsionsme t 19 n;;; buskgiat 47 beg;-known TV band-

7 .. . . . ie upp e n nne e e er
If BT90“ a_b”“Y ‘9 “F the “gm (abbr.) 12 Like a sailboat 49 Pince-—

nerves \vith audiences nllive perfor- 38 Scottish historian 13 Cash register key (eyeglass type)
mances is any measure of his ability to 39 ::<1l1l:glll<1?:°léhe"n 14 E2 Wd-S-(as a who”) §$t3g§‘_§1lr£I.b''a—-"
, - . E ree - ll 1- n E Y‘
sense the eVer'swaymg pendulum of ville, Pa. 15 Auto racing son of 51 1965 film, "—

public sentiment, he’ll know when to 40 The vane.-abie __...
lean back toward the side of the fence
from where his saddle came.

collegiate crossword

© Edward Julius

41 "...not with -——— 19 Political disorder

ACROSS but a whimper." 20 — cit. (footnote
1 where one might 43 Return on invest- abbreviation)
study Andy Warhol's ment (abbr.) 21 Traveled on a

works (3 wds.) ’ 44 Pondered
12 Enrollment into 45 Belonging to Mr. 24 Glorify
Starr
14 "Calculus Made Sim- 47 Part of the classi-
fieds (2 wds.) 28 Nell-known govern-
16 48 Possible place to
‘ 17 study abroad (2 wds) 29 American league
— 18 Follows a recipe 52 Small school in Can-
ton, Ohio (2 wds.) 30 Fictional hypnotist
19 Belonging to Mr. 53 Orson Welles film 32 Style exemplified
22
23
24

Richard Petty

Flexible Flyer

25 Prospero's servant
in "The Tempest"

ment agency

team (abbr.)

Ryan's Express“

Mexican

Mondays

Every Week

Blackbean Quesadillas w/ Salsa & Sour Cream .
/Bgpetizer 5.95

 

inner 7.95
Shrimp Tostadas 7.95
Shrimp & Crab Enciladas w/ rice 8: beans _ 8.95
Chicken Burritos w/ rice & beans 7.95

8 a.m. Breakfast- Huevos Rancheros Omelettes
Dinner- Tuesday thru Saturday
Sunday Brunch
Mexican Menu served every Monday

 , Frog Pond 8: Patio

NOW OPEN
A 3, Mixed Drinks & Fine Wines

19 West Washin ; ton Street/Lexin ton/464-1900

F02 26 WAYS
to hei.p save me
f‘-‘AP-+H cau.
“9°°***88-938-i

V ( (W 
201-7292
2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista - (Behind Pizza Hut)

$l.50ANY SHOW

Pvowrshoudng

SON-IN-LAW
Rated PG-13
Shows Daily at 1, 5 & 9 p.m.

ROOKIE OF THE YEAR
Rated PG
Shows Daily at 3 & 7 p.m.

SPEXJAIJJKUES}K)VV(MVLY75(JEVTS
EX)bLID¥I445V]1ﬁDDPh4 F1lLdEDE()DﬂJY

“All You Can Eat”
BOTTOMLESS BUCKET

$3.00 OFPOPCORN $3.9

 

 

— “~—n..-r"‘1IIIrU

\;.__._.

off everyday!
Famous Catalog &
Brand Name Clothing

Shop our stores for unbelievable savings

on mens and womens fashions. Great
clothing from some of America's most
famous catalogue companies.
"' Lexington, Va. 24450

17 S. Main St.

463-9730
Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30

0%

O

 

 

Trustees name library
for James Leyburn

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee Board of Trustees voted in
May to name the university library for James G. Leyburn,
former dean and professor at W&L who died in April.

“The mark that James G. Leybum left upon Washing-
ton and Lee is enduring and can be seen today although
he retired 21 years ago,” said John D. Wilson, president
of the university. “His legacy lives on in our
commitmentto teaching and to the liberal arts.”

“His concepts of personal honor, integrity, and self-
discipline set a wonderful example for generations of
Washington and Lee students,” Wilson added.

Wilson said naming the library after Leybum would
recognize Leybum’s role in shaping the mission and
character of Washington and Lee.

Barbara Brown, university librarian, said the decision
to name the library for Leyburn was “inspired.”

“Naming the chief academic building on the campus
after a man who has meant so much to the university is
perfect and appropriate,” she said.

Among Leybum’s objectives when he came to Wash-
ington and Lee were the strengthening of the university ’s
academic standards and bringing the curriculum closer to

the liberal arts ideal. In what became known as the
Leybum Plan, he wrote that it was his goal that “everyone
by common consent [should] name us first on the list of
great teaching universities, just as everyone tends to
name Harvard first in any list of great research universi-
ties.”

He served as dean of the university until 1956, when
he stepped down to return to fulltime teaching in the
sociology department.

After retiring in 1972, Leybum returned to his family
home in West Virginia near the Maryland panhandle. He
remained there in retirement, continuing his scholarly
work and his voluminous correspondence, until his death
on April 28, 1993.

“This man was the best man there ever could be in a
teacher,” said William M. Gottwald, ’70, the member of
the board of trustees who proposed naming the library for
Leybum. “Dr. Leybum left an indeliable and positive
impression on every student in his classroom.”

Leybum received his B.A. and M.A. degrees in eco-
nomics at Duke University, an M.A. in economics and
social institutions from Princeton, and a Ph.D. in sociol-
ogy from Yale University. He came to Washington and
Lee in 1947 from Yale, where he had taught for 20 years.

 

Phone costs down

tance rates. Day, evening and night
rate times will also be similar to
AT&T. Weekend rate times will run
from Friday at 5 p.m.to Monday at 8
a.m. All students may apply for an
MCI calling card from University
Services which comes with the Wash-
ington and Lee logo embossed. Stu-
dents using these calling cards can
expect to see a savings of five to
eight percent over other long dis-
tance company calling cards.

“The calling cards are really ben-
eficial to students off campus be-
cause they provide a much cheaper
rate for the same service Centel would
provide,” Camper said.

it PHONES, from page 1

Additionally, long distance costs
and monthly services fees will be
lower for students. Because the
monthly service fee is built into the
cost of the room‘, the university was
able to charge less than Centel’s typi-
cal monthly service fee of $22. Stu-
dents living in single rooms are now
paying about $18 per month and stu-
dents in doubles each pay half that
amount as part of their room fee.

Students can expect to see cheaper
long distance rates with the new phone
system. Students will receive a 10

Pavilion opens

Iv WATSON, from page 1

cations and bad weather during
the construction of the building.

The Watson Pavilion and the
Reeves Center will be open from
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. weekdays, and
special arrangements can be made
for weekend visits.

“The staff is always happy to
take visitors,” Litzenburg said.
“The real message is that we’ve
just been gratified by the praise
that’s been heaped on the new
collections and the architecture
of the building from all quar-
ters.”

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20 1993

70

Wilson, Alton address seniors

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The class of ’94 celebrated the be-
ginning of its last year at W&L yester-
day.
President John Wilson officially
opened the 1993-94 academic year with
the annual Opening Convocation in
Lee Chapel. Wilson asked the class to
lead the student body by example, with
maturity. Seniors should help new stu-
dents by offering “light—handed guid-
ance.”

Wilson introduced Reginald Alton,
recently retired Bursar and Vice-Prin-
cipal of St. Edmund’s College, Oxford
University, as the special guest speaker.
Wilson said Alton was his teacher dur-
ing his years of graduate study at Ox-
ford University.

Alton thanked Wilson for his intro-
duction with some comments about
Wilson’s tenure at Oxford and W&L.

“An emporer found Rome in bricks
and left it marble,” Alton said. “John
Wilson found W&L in bricks and left it
many, many, many more bricks.”

In his address, Alton drew compari-
sons between Oxford and Washington
and Lee Universities’ evolution from
small, personality-driven schools to
respectable universities. He described
life in 1749, as he understood it, at both
Oxford and W&L.

Alton warned universities from
overemphasizing research and
deemphasizing undergraduate teach-
mg.

Alton quoted Aristotle in saying,
“Learning is one of the greatest plea-
sures in the world,” and he urged the
audience to extend “benevolence to
yourself and to others.”

The Opening Convocation has been
held in honor of the senior class since
1987. Dean of Students David Howison
said that although convocation seems
like an old tradition, Wilson founded
the current proceedings.

Photo By Richard Weaver, The Ring-tum Phi

Reginald Alton, retired Bursar and Vice-Principal of St.Edmund’s
College at Oxford University speaks at yesterdays convocation.
Alton taught President John D. Wilson while Wilson attended

Oxford for his graduate studies.

  
    

percent discount on AT&T long dis- 0
. . MOONLIGHT MADNESS HOUR
10th Anniversary Celebration 1 ‘I: ‘ I:

.   ._, , _ S t. 10, 1993 10- 5:30

  .  ,.   .. g 3.. iii ..  e]l:ive Music A1] Day  .  Mo\;ie &zEf\//(irfeo (fame '

- ' \‘-~- Refreshments Gifts Sales ' "1 1¢ 1 2 pnce or t 9
WELC0ME...,BAC;K».:SIFUDQNTS ROCKBRIDGE ’ ’ Invzv .E;‘§f.§Ei’:‘.:

Let "3 help You get Orgamzed “nth Diana Madsen Schofield

Résumés, cover letters and quick copies.

'3"

PHONE: 463 - 1712 -

_ FAX It: 463 - 6918
is w. NELSON sr. - LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA - ACROSS mom THE rosr OFFICE

 

205 North Main Street
Phone 463-5455

Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

4 East Washin
Lexington, VA 4450 ,
(703) 464-6464

10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

   
 
  

W&L Art “*1 “ F°°“°r
Hickory _ « ’  .’ thought
Signatures: Smoked “Would You 8°
Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee BBQ & to a Steakhouse
M. Miley ' John Letcher _ for fish?»
Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr. Rlbs
Sam Houston A. P. Hill
W&L Copperplate, hand-colored Rt. 60 (Beside Pizza Hut) Hog-Head 464-4323
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art

it

<IK

ii

on Street *

+1

«it

Open Monday - Saturday :
Sunday 11a.m. - 3 p.m. .k

A ‘Son

Shenandoah Bluegrass
Bluegrass at its best
Parties, Receptions, Sliows
Foot-stomping traditional Bluegrass
East Coast Champions
Bo0kings- 463-5749 or 463-6683

¥¥-¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥

¢*******************‘k*'ki5+
11>

2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2?

The College Town Shop

Ruff Hewn
Timberland

Duckheads- Shorts
& Long Pants

111 W. Nelson St.

Embassy. Boxers

B. D. Ba
Gitman

gies
hirts
Woolrich Outerwear

Your Home Away From Home!

Visa

Mastercard

Since 1926
Amex

House Charges

Sun. - Thurs. 10 a.m. - 10 p.m. Fri. - Sat. 10 a.m.-11p.m.
Lexington - Buena Vista Sho ping Center L
Lexington, VA 24450 (703 463-9654 »

”We Bring the Movies to You!”

 

Foe 7.6 v~lAYs
io hetp sixve rue
eAi2h-\ cnu.
I-eoo-was-9387.

ll.

Earth Share \«

, . Mic some. or
. Publication

6 V

  

_ The
Point of View

Restaurant

Next to Days Inn, Rt. 60 Wst
463-7797

Casual Dining
Elegant Setting
° Finest Steaks

° Fresh Seafood
0 Pork Ribs

- Banquet Facilities

 

LEXIIGTOI

SHOP
:s::.::i.*:::

- v
p...'.%'£“5.i:.“.‘,t nltoblo
- Jamport Bogs & Packs

Hours Mon- Frt9-5Sat9- Noon

 

Lexington’s Homemade

Ice Cream Shop ':
I

Buy one, get one F REE :

(Free item must be of equal or lesser value) I
Excluding Ice Cream Cakes and Pies

106 W. Washington St.
Lexington, VA 24450 I
463-6055 I

¢****+n+****a+*,,

LG

    

*************************
5+2;2+¥4u+a+>+¥.2+au+442+4§au+4+42+2+>g>+

¥¥44444444¥¥

 

Nourish yourself ’‘
for lunch
Monday - Friday
11:30 to 3:30
0

Carry Out
Available

110 W. Washington St.

 

463-2800 ..

  

SPORTS

   
   

. File photos
Clockwise from top: the Washington and Lee water polo team, junior Jennifer Garrigus and senior Aspen
Yawars show their form, hoping to help W&L make headlines in ’93.

3

Stonewall Square Shopping Center
Lexington, VA

The Ring-tum Phi, September 10, 1993

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

While you were away....

Washington and Lee students may not be sur-
prised to see sophomore Josephine Schaeffer in
the headlines yet again, even if these particular
acclamations are a long time coming.

But this headline has something new and dif-
ferent; Schaeffer has made an indelible mark on
history not only by becoming the ﬁrst W&L woman
to become a two-sport All-American, but also
achieving this in her freshman year.

At Baldwin-Wallace College in Berea, Ohio,
May 26, 1993, Schaeffer ran the 10,000-meter run
for the third time in her life and placed second
nationally for Division III of the National Colle-
giate Athletic Association.

Schaeffer’s time of 36:31.82 was an amazing
improvement over her previous mark of 37.34,
and was more than sufficient to attain her second
All—American title, after last fall‘s stellar cross
country season.

Her solitary performance gave W&L a 31st
place of 63 participating teams. As they say, the
third time’s the charm.

“She’s great,” women’s cross country coach
Jim Phemister said simply.

Schaeffer is running even better this year, ac-
cording to her coach, and she and the rest of the
cross country team will take the stage at their first
meet tomorrow at the Lebanon Valley Invita-
tional.

The Generals are coming off an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Championship season (even
though Schaeffer took a wrong turn during the race
and failed to achieve a title she was expected to
win). Washington and Lee placed a best-ever third
in the regional championship, even though the
team ran what Phemister tagged its worst race of
the season.

With the strong back-up of juniors Kim Her-
ring and Sue Deutsch and sophomore Amy Mears,
the Generals can only improve this year.

On the men’s side, a young team hopes to prove
that last year’s runner-up ﬁnish at the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Championships was not a
ﬂuke.

The Generals mourn the loss of three-time All-
Region runner Bo Hannah. Junior Matthew Brock
and sophomore Brad Paye hope to help fill that
ugly gap. Paye, who missed much of last year with
mononucleosis, was the General’s number two
runner at the beginning of the ’92 season.

Schaeffer astounds campus
with second All-American title

ﬁle photo
Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer has
two big reasons to be smiling.

Joining the women at the Lebanon Valley Invi-
tational, the men’s cross country squad will debut
freshman talents Sandy Hooper and Alvin Townley.

Both the men’s and women‘s squads will face a
field of 32 teams, both Division II and III, with
almost 200 runners Sept. 11.

Expect big things from this season’s cross coun-
try teams-coach Phemister does.

“If I had to predict an outcome for Saturday’s
race, I ’d predict Josephine winning,” said
Phemister.

For history in the making, watch the W&L
women‘s cross country team.

/ Join us for our 9 \
Sunset Special , 3
Tuesday - Saturday 5:30-6:30 p.m.
$10.00 per person

Includessalad,homernaderolls&muﬁn,
entreeand

Willson - WaIker&H0use

Q0 N. Main St.. Lexington Reservations Recommended 463-3020 )

IIIIIIIEIISI

THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L T-SHIRTS, SWEATS
HATS AND OTHER W&L SPORTWEAR
LEX|N6TDN'S ONLY SOIIRIIE FDR TEVAS MID MERRILL BOOTS

15 W. WASHINGTON 81‘. WE DO MAIL ORDER!
LEXINGTON 703 464-3000

463-9800

Check our 99¢ Selections each Month.
September Special - DRAMA

(New Releases excluded)

 Restaurant

Free Video Rental Membership a, mg; 3; mg; gm

T

Buy any $10 worth of cards and/or comic books, Get a
free Nintendo or Movie Rental of your choice.

   BREAKFAST
  BUFFET

FRIDAY & SATURDAY NIGHTS
11 p.m. to 4 a.m.
Open 24 Hours

Route 11 North 463-3478

$0 T

Now carrying wider variety of shirts including sports,
comic book characters, rock, and novelty.

Welcome W&L Freshmen
}7l[71zn—Dennzs

102 West Washington St.

0 Duckhead Pants and Shorts
0 Dirty Bucks and Bass Weejuns 0 Blue Blazers
O Ray-Ban Sunglasses 0 Red Wing Boots

0 W&L Belts, Ties, Keychains

' O Embassy Boxers

Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m.-10 p.m. Fri. & Sat. 10 a.m.-11 p.m.

Sun Noon-10 p.m. Since 1963

Student Charges

(703) 463-5383

Visa Mastercard

  

Last Week:

Washington and Lee athletes
wrapped up two-a-day practices in
preparation for fall ’93 competition.

PAGE 8

  s

Elbe ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

This Week:

FB:
CC:
VB:
WP: W&L Fall Classic 09/ 1 1-12

@ Emory & Henry 09/11
@ Lebanon Valley 09/ 11
@ Chris. Newport 09/ 11

 

SEPTEMBER 10, 1993

Sports issu
V examined

 

  
    
  
    
  

you. Alcoholjiv
abused, destroysth

As an athletei’ nd
avid spectatort   
years, the fact at an
athletes abuse fth ' :.
drugs has always horrifi _

mawhenlcamet Emory, Virginia.

W&L football ics f ’94 seaso

Photo by Sarah Gilbert of The Ring—tum I’/zi

Washington and Lee football players practice above Wilson Field. The Generals begin their season Sept. 11, squaring off against the Wasps of Emery and Henry in

 

T

L

     
  
  
   
 
   
   
 
   
 
   
   
 
  
   
     

i use of the drug».
. which mandates that
' letes abstain from alcohol‘ -
for 48 hours before ’a co
test can only point tog.
serious problem. ' . .
Researchers C an '
coaches are constant,

’ searching for new Ways to
“ maximize athletes.’ poten-

 

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Washington and Lee gaineda
new face in the athletic depart-
ment this summer when Terri
Dadio, formerly of Trenton State
(N.J.) College, brought her many
talents to the women’s athletic
program.

Dadio will coach volleyball
and women’s basketball at W&L.
She acted as an assistant basket-
ball coach at Trenton State, while
also serving as assistant varsity
and head junior varsity volley-
ball coach at her alma mater, Free-
dom High School.

Her playing experience at
Lafayette College included two
years as captain of the basketball
team, selection as a member of
the first-team All-Patriot League
in 1992 and the All-East Coast
Conference rookie team in 1989.

sive regimens of physical-
discipline. At 

Squire athletes to_ adhere? if
. curfews and strict diet, At

It is not only that; J
letes at W&L do was
the discipline ordesirléj . .-
make sacrifices in order to ~
be the best they can beglt " '

A a larger problemfth , V

. mosphere ofis.“ V
j centered on theéuse of al-
cohol (and cigarett_es’ are

' often the natural comp '0
ion to beer) that it isd

  

 

 

’ culttostaydmg-free,i,.,.i, She was third all-time leading

0111 isolating 0n€$§1ffY scorer at Lafayette.
the Social community Dadio’svolleyball experience
Alcoholandtobafcco is confined to high school, but
cornpletely_oppose"dtoe, she was stellar as a four-year
' ' Ch starter and a two-time all-league

selection at Freedom.

“Washington and Lee is com-
mitted to having a quality athletic
program,” athletic director Mike
Walsh told Sports Information.
“With the appointment of Terri
Dadio as the coach of women’s
basketball and volleyball we’ve
taken a giant step towards fulfill-
ing that commitment.”

With a basketball team newly
elevated to varsity status and a
young volleyball team, Dadiowill

 
    
   
  
   
 
 
 

 seen Washingtoniand
athletes 'smok_ef* ‘daily A L
. season and then truggle
through routineksp
practice, I haveiseen ll“. -
letes drunk atfrateirn ' ’
hours before they are 'e
pected to compm.
The idea that an

 

Volleyball, basketball star
takes the helm for Women

have her hands full. “We feel she
has the background and enthusi-
asm to meet the challenge,” Walsh
concluded.

 

Valley ‘True ‘Value

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

TEFIRI DADIO

Water polo hosts tourney

Washington and Lee water polo, the reigning
Eastern champs, opens its season tomorrow
with the annual W&L Fall Classic. The field
includes rivals Richmond and Johns Hopkins as
well as Villanova and Queens.

As last year’s team finished with five straight
wins, the Generals will be leaning heavily on
experienced team members such as senior Greg
Golub, a 1992 first-team All-American with 73
goals.

Also returning for W&L will be senior Jacob
Berman and juniors Derek DeVries and Reuben
Munger, who hope to lead the Generals to a
finish to rival last year’s 16-10 record.

Men’s soccer to Kentucky

Though five starters have graduated from a
team which was 8-8 in 1992, Washington and
Lee men’s soccer hopes to improve on the record
with a core of tri-captains Alan Christensen,
John Robinson and Dan Rhodes.

The Generals head to Kentucky this weekend
for matches versus Centre and Transylvania.

Women’s soccer experienced

In contrast with the men’s team, Washington
and Lee women’s soccer team returns most of its
top performers.

Only two starters graduated from the 1992
squad which won the regular season Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference title. The Generals’
defense, which allowed less than two goals per
game last year, returns seniors Aspen Yawars
and Allison Lewis.

Leading the returnees for the offense are
seniors Angie Carrington and Corinda Hankins
and junior Anne Spruill.

The Lady Generals open their season tomor-
row with a road trip to Atlanta. They play Agnes
Scott College Sept. 11 and Emory Sept. 12.

Football faces top-
ranked opponent

Washington and Lee gridders return from a
5-4 season Sept. 11 to face Emory and Henry,
ranked 10th in Sports lllustrated’s pre-season

 

J ockShorts 5

Division III rankings.

The Wasps of E&H opened their season
with a 15-8 victory over Cumberland last week,
and, as defending Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference champions, should be the Generals’
toughest competition this season.

Leading W&L as quarterback this year will
be sophomore Matt Reedy, replacing junior
Geren Steiner, who opted not to play this year
after becoming the eighth-all-time leading
passer in only two years.

Senior running back and tri-captain Tom
Mason will be missing tomorrow after breaking
a bone in his left hand during scrimmage last
weekend. Mason rushed for 518 yards in five
weeks as tailback last year, and coaches are
breathlessly awaiting the diagnosis of a special-
ist Mason will see this week.

Washington and Lee defense is headed by
junior noseguard Jason Chartrand, whose ca-
reer includes 116 tackles. Joining Chartrand on
the line are juniors outside linebacker Stephen
Cox, cornerback Jon Wagner and safety Marc
Newman.

Leadingthe offensive line, senior tri-captain
John Surface will join forces with senior center
Derek Boggs and sophomore tackle Robert
Turner to protect Reedy and the other backs.

Impressive newcomers include tailback J .P.
Josephson, quarterbacks Brooks Fischer and
Tommy Rueger and punter Jonathan Gardner.

All told, the Generals are looking strong and
optimistic for the 1993 season. After a bye next
week, W&L returns to Wilson Field Sept. 25 to
face Centre.

Volleyball debuts coach

Co-captains senior Tara Burns and junior
Jennifer Garrigus hope to lead this year’s Wash-
ington and Lee volleyball team to a winning
season after barely missing the .500 mark with
a 13-14 record last year.

The Generals head to Christopher Newport
College this weekend for a tri-match against
their host and Marymount.

Sept. 11 will mark the debut of Terri Dadio
as head coach of volleyball for W&L. [See
related story, this page.]

Chrissie Hart will be missing from action
this season following knee surgery, widening
the gap left by top hitter Catherine Hess.

 

 

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

 Welcome
Back
Students.’

We serve Pizza to a
Full Italian Dinner!

24 North Main Street
Lexington, VA

CUISINE 464-5800

 

  
   

Carryout Available

THE
SANDWICH SHOP

11 S. Jefferson St.

 

Yarner &’P_o‘le_ ,

Spec1al_izi_ng=in Unfurnished

.. Futnlture &S_h.Stdes

‘ 19 S. Randolph St. _ ~_
Lexm _on,VA 3.463-2742

’ .eW;Lo“cat_10n! A

 
   
  

' . ..-A.-:-255:,

 

A Full Service Salon

-Cuts

-Color

-Perms

—Highlighting (Foiling)
-Manicures

-Pedicures

—Sculpured Nails

Welcome Freshmen & Upperclassmen
to Marlene’s Hairstylists & Tannery

Marlene, Kelly, Bobbi,
Barbara, Cindy, and Kim
invite you to stop in, no

appointment necessary

A smalltown salon with
an uptown attitude

 

10%oﬂ‘anyregular
prioedshoeswith
thisad.
ConvelSe.Adidas

First Team Sports

115WNekn§.

 

 

   
    
   
 
 

0
pa‘ 1-V5‘

g-

. Today: Cloudy, 40% chance of
.  showers or T—storms. High-75.
_—_: Tonight: Low 65, cloudy, 30%

._  gshance of showers '
 Saturday: 30% chance of

‘a morning showers. High near 80
Sunday: Partly sunny, high-70

eekend Weather

New faculty give
impressions of W&L

  

Water polo debuts at
W&L Fall Classic

0

(D

 

tn: ﬂing-tum lﬁhi  

: w',.-mt: LlF".“£\'3\‘V

‘l\  ‘M4

 U-M g.izI.r;«;

F

.-
«

  

VOLUME 93, NO. 02

  

~ 9

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Frats kick off Rush

By NANCY PAVLOIVIC
Phi Managing Editor

.Men’s Rush officially begins Monday
Night with the first of four open houses.

But Rush isn’t what it used to be.

Until this year, freshman men and upper-
classmen were under closed contact rules
until the second week of school when Rush
officially began. Under closed contact, fresh-
m and upperclassmen cannot talk to each
other. But this year, freshmen and upper-
classmen were able to hang out and party
together under open and casual contact rules.

“We wanted them to experience the typi-
cal W&L party and let the freshmen meet the
upperclassmen,” Interfraternity Vice Presi-
dent Ryan Donaldson said.

e new contact rules were designed to
make things easier for both the upperclass-
men and the freshmen men. Additionally, the
new Rush rules allow freshmen to get to
know W&L before they begin looking for a

fraternity.

“It takes a lot of pressure off the fresh-
men,” senior Phi Gamma Delta Doug
Kaufman said. “Now we’re not jamming
Rush down their throats as soon as they get
here.”

Although the IFC has attempted to clarify
the new rules, Donaldson said there has been
some confusion as to how the new system
works. Donaldson said “people are calling
to make sure they are following the rules. In
the past the rules were there, but they were set
up knowing they’d be broken.”

Junior Rush Counselor Adam Plotkin said
things are not as mixed up as the IFC con-
tends.

“All the confusion they[the IFC] make
out isn’t right,” Plotkin said. “Everybody
knows what they need to do.”

Despite the changes in the contact rules
and the initial confusion, this year’s Rush is
going smoothly.

“Generally the new system is working out

really well,” Donaldson said. “It’s not per-
fect but it’s a start.”

Monday night, the freshmen going
through Rush will be divided into 16 groups.
Rush Counselors will lead the groups to the
various Open Houses. Rush Counselors are
new to Rush this year. Similar to the sorority
Rho Chis, Rush Counselors are “someone
freshmen could talk to who was impartial
and could answer any questions they had
about Rush,” Donaldson said.

There are 16 rush counselors assigned to
the different men’s halls. Most counselors
have one hall of freshmen men, but some
counselors are in charge of two.

Junior Adam Plotkin, a Rush Counselor,
feels the counselors are a good feature of the
new Rush system.

“The Rush Counselor is there to go over
the different contact rules and explain how
the parties are supposed to be,” Plotkin said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 17, 1993

Phi Delts,

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

A street brawl between Phi
Delta Theta members and Vir-
ginia Military Institute cadets
early Sunday morning resulted
in at least four injuries and two
arrests.

The fight started in the base-
ment of the Phi Delt fraternity
house and later spilled out into
the street, filling the intersection
of Jefferson and Henry Streets
with fighters and onlookers.

“It reminded me of a South
African race riot,” said Rich
Talmadge, a Sigma Nu member
who saw the fight that occurred
at about 1:30 a.m. Sunday. “There
were about 60 people in the street,
some fighting, some trying to
break it up. Some people even
tried to grab our lawn chairs to
use in the fight.”

Phi Delt President William
Guice said the fight broke out
when a Phi Delt asked some ca-
dets to leave.

“A young lady told me that

some of the Veemies were grab-
bing her. I don’t know if they
were asked to leave in response
to that or if it was something
else,” said Guice. “They went
out the side door where there is a
narrow stairwell. A Veemie at
the top of the stairwell started
kicking, and fights broke out.”
Guice said two cadets had
actually been invited to the party,
but they arrived with other unin-
vited cadets who asked to be let

hvsee BRAWL, pg. 8

Wilson to retire

File Photo
A fraternity celebrates the genesis of a new pledge class during last year’s tear night. The lnterfraternity Coun-
cil revamped Rush last year to avoid scenes like the one above. Tear Night will be held on October 1 this year.

h-vsee Flush. pg. 8

EC sets stage for White Book

review,

budget hearings

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
Phi Executive Editor

_ After a dozen years of service at Washington
and Lee, President John D. Wilson will retire in
June of 1995.

Wilson announced his retirement at a faculty
meeting Monday. Wilson said he announced his

. retirement. early because of the many rumors that

had been circulating around campus. When he
heard a rumor claiming he was leaving as early as
Christmas this year and received a letter from
Oxford questioning him about his retirement, Wil-
son said he knew it was time to make a formal
announcement.

Wilson said he chose to end his tenure in June of
1995 because capital campaign, W&L’s fund-rais-
ing campaign to raise $127 Million, will be com-
pleted.

“l’m committed to the Board [of Trustees] and
the University to see capital campaign to a success-
ful completion,” Wilson said.

Wilson said he has no plans to take a teaching or
administrative position at another university. He
said his primary reason for retiring is because he
believes it is time to move on.

“I will be 64 that summer,” Wilson said. “That
used to be regular retiring age,”

“I think it important new and fresh minds take
over,” Wilson added. “Twelve plus years, that’s a
very long time for a university president.”

Wilson said he and his wife, Anne, have not
decided where they plan to live after he retires.
They do intend to leave Lexington, but will stay in
Virginia.

Dean of the College John Elrod said he does not
want to dwell Wilson’s retirement and he hopes
other people will not focus on it either.

“I don’t look forward to his retirement in June of
1995,” Elrod said. “His presidency has been one of
extraordinary leadership.”

“I get uncomfortable talking about the next 20

after campai

 

Wilson

most important months of his presidency, Elrod
said. The capital campaign is an essential part of the
university’s future, he said.

Elrod said although it is difficult to know how
people will perceive history, he believes Wiison’s
accomplishments will make him an important part
of W&L history.

“I think he will stand high as one of the top
presidents of this university,” Elrod said.

Elrod said he thinks co-education will be con-
sidered Wilson’s greatest achievement as presi-
dent of W&L. But Wilson likes to acknowledge his
lesser known accomplishments. He said paving the
parking lots near Liberty Hall Ruins was an impor-
tant accomplishment because it made it possible to
watch a baseball game without all the dust from the
parking lots ﬂying around.

Wilson does admit he is glad the controversial
Watson Pavilion has been completed. Wilson said

 

By THoMAs Hesros
Phi News Editor

The Executive Committee
announced plans to conduct in-
terviews for positions on a com-
mbtee that will review Washing-
ton and Lee’s Honor System.

Interviews for the White Book
Review Committee will take
place on September 28, starting
at 7 p.m. Applications for inter-
views will be available next week
inQCarol Calkins’ office in the
University Center. According
to the White Book, appointments
must be made by October 1.

Executive Committee Presi-

    
 

D

dent Bob Tompkins said the EC
is looking for open-minded stu-
dents who are good organizers
and want to be “a conduit for
those who do have concerns for
the (honor) system” to serve on
the committee.

No member of the EC is per-
mitted to sit on the nine-member
committee, which will be com-
posed of eight members-at-large
and a chairperson. Any changes
to the White Book suggested by
the committee will be voted on in
a March meeting of the EC,
Tompkins said.

‘‘I think, whether they present
change possibilities or not, it will

be good for the school,” said
Tompkins.

Tompkins said the ideal White
Book Review Committee mem-
berwill consider concerns of both
the students and the faculty.

‘‘I think [the faculty’s] im-
pressions of the system are im-
portant,” he said.

According to Tompkins and
the White Book, the honor sys-
tem will be reviewed every three
years. Any proposed revisions
to the White Book must be sub-
mitted by the committee before
March 1. However, the EC will
also consider revisions submit-
ted “on proper motion with an

accompanyingpetition signed by
at least 50 current students.”

Also discussedattheEC’s first
regular meeting of the 1993-94
school year were the annual bud-
get hearings, which will take
place Monday, September 20
through Wednesday, September
22, starting at 6:30 p.m. Clubs
will submit their individual bud-
gets for approval on these dates.

Also discussed at the meeting
was replenishingthe Publications
Board reserve, which was dimin-
ished by $5,000 in a financial
mix-up. According toTompkins,
a proposal will be formulated at
the next EC meeting.

months,” Elrod added.

Wilson’s last 20 months will be some of the

bsee WILSON, pg. 8

Offices relocate

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

Three campus offices have
relocated to the new University
Services Building in the El Ro-
deo restaurant.

University Services, the Uni-
versity Print Shop and the Uni-
versity Mail Room have been
moved to El Rodeo, which is

W&L students

-,~ tudents used .e able 0 leave their bicycle nattended.

Thieves prey on

  
   
   
    
    
   
   
    
   
   
   
     
    
 

    
   
 

  

By MlCHELl.E BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Lock your doors, cars and bikes.

Washington and Lee students have been
victimized by a string of burglaries since the
beginning of September— losing bikes, ste-
reo equipment, and compact discs.

Someone even stole a guitar, amplifier
and effects pedals from freshman Thomas
Leggett.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce M. Beard
said since the beginning ofSeptember W&L
students reported nine thefts. Almost all the
thefts involved unlocked apartments, bikes
and cars.

Leggett said that because of a miscom-
munication with his roommate, he left his
guitar and equipment outside his Davis

dormitory bedroom window for several hours.
Someone stole it around midnight.

Although W&L Security found Leggett’s
equipment behind the old Sigma Chi house,
Leggett says he will be more cautious in the
future.

‘‘I’m gonna keep my door locked now,”
said Leggett,“and I won’t leave my guitar
outside.” .

Beard said with the exception of two
burglaries on Henry Street, the thefts were
not committed by the same person. Investi-
gations are continuing, but police have a
suspect in only one case, said Beard.

“Please encourage students to lock their
apartments and cars and to padlock their
bikes,” Beard said. “If we could do that we
could curb the problem.”

officially known as the Univer-
sity Services Building, but some
students have dubbed “Taco
Hall,” according to Suzanne
Wade of the University Print
Shop.

“It went pretty smooth,” said
Wade, speaking of the summer-
time move. She said the move
required the relocation of several
tons of equipment.

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

A recent rise in the number
of DUI’s among W&L stu-
dents has both Lexington Po-
lice and Campus Security at a
loss for an explanation.

According to Dean
Howisoljmhere have been 6
DUI’s in the past two weeks,
five involving undergrads and
one involving a law student.
Last year, there was a total of
15 DUI’s for the whole year,
Howison said.

The only explanation that
Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard could offer was that

Six get DUI’s

’ drivers.”

people are not aware.”

The absence of the print shop
will allow the journalism school
to expand onto the first floor of
Reid Hall. The News Office is
one of the offices slated to move
to the old Sigma Chi house on
Lee Avenue, which will serve as
office space for the university.

“That will allow the

I->See EL RODEO, pg. 8

“for a year the number of
DUI’s has goneup.” But, he
added, W & L students gener-
ally “haven’t been the prob-
lem.”

Campus security also has
no explanation. “These five
got caught,” said Mike
Young, head of campus secu-
rity. ‘‘I’m really surprised
and sorry that we have drunk ”

Howison said he is upset
by the high number of DUI’s,
but he does not know why
there would be an increase. .

“I can’: explain it,”
Howison said. “It’s not that

PAGE 2

    

(Titre ilting-tum lﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Dear Colonel:

We’re sorry to hear that you do not believe the fight
between some of your cadets and some of our students
was a big deal. But we happen to think the fight was a big
deal. If the fight had just involved one student from each
college it would have been a big deal.

But, this fight involved a lot of people. Several people
had to be taken to the hospital. A police officer found it
necessary to mace a cadet to subdue him. That same cadet
was pulled away by two other cadets after he had been
arrested. Apparently his sense of honor has not led him to
come forward, since you told one of our reporters that you
knew nothing about it. ’

It‘s true, compared to the Los Angeles riots the fight
was not a big deal. But sir, this is Lexington. You told one
of our reporters the incident was a “hiccup.” That’s an
awfully light way to approach the incident.

Yes, we are making a big deal about the incident over
here. We had hoped you would too. Less than one year
after Jason and Martin Dunn founded the Preston Society
in an effort to improve relations between VMI and W&L,
the biggest fight in several years occurred.

We’re sorry that you think that W&L reporters’ efforts
to get the true story from you are bothersome and overkill.
But we happen to think that the students responsible for
this fight, whether they are Cadets or W&L students,
should be held accountable for their actions. It‘s a simple
philosophy, really. You see, the job of any good newspa-
per is to hold people accountable for their actions.

So, we’re trying to do our job. All we want is for VMI
and W&L to do their jobs by investigating the fight as a
serious incident, as opposed to a hiccup. Simple isn’t it.

But, Colonel Bissell, we have to say we are very
disappointed by your reaction to the incident. We were
under the impression that you were the type of man who
belived in holding your cadets accountable for their
actions.

Don‘t misunderstand us, W&L students were not the
merely innocent victims in the incident. We do not want
to pin the blame of the fight solely on the cadets. We just
want both W&L and VMI to look into the incident as they
would any important event. The reason why we are
picking on you, sir, is because you want to blow the whole
thing off. Dean of Students David Howison happens to
think the fight was a serious incident. We trust he will
make sure a proper investigation is done. If you had said
the incident was serious we would have believed that you
would look into the incident properly as well.

But, you have given us no reason to believethat,you
will look into the incident at all. ’ .4 ~ 

D.U.I. after all..

After all the commercials and admonishments, you’d
think people would listen.

After all the publicity and news coverage, you’d think
people would get the picture.

After all the tragedy that has pained this campus, you’d
think people would know better.

After what happened to Ahsley Scarborough four
years ago, you’d think people wouldn’t dare.

Blake Comer is in jail for his second drunk driving
offense. The first time he struck and killed Ashley
Scarborough.

But even after all that, six W&L students were arrested
for driving under the inﬂuence of alcohol last weekend.
Six last weekend, when there were only fifteen all last
yean

What can we possibly say that hasn’t already been
said?Drinking and driving don’t mix. Drinking and driv-
ing is not only dangerous, it’s against the law. Drinking
and driving kills.

How much clearer can we make it?

Drinking and driving could kill you.

Quote of the week

I didn’t like him when he was alive, so I figured I’d
celebrate him when he was dead and buy a stamp.

—A Lexington townsperson talking about Elvis stamps

v~1\

.vv1._v¢—-¢-,-vv:v-< .~.. .
uq.n.o-v www v ~.-yvw v-ir v

Ellie iﬂtng-tum lﬂlii

Executive liditor . . . 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Features liditoi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David Wilmington

Photography liditor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allan Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sally Obermueller

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum l’hi is published Thursdays during the undergraduate school year at Washington and
Lee University. l,e‘<iugton. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi comes primarily from advertising

and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and

business manager‘, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Tuesday to appear in that week‘s edition. Advertising does not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum

Phi or its staff. '1 his newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring—tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

The Ring-tum Phi, September

 

Q
/ ,J/
"“’ 0
O
O
0

Clinton health plan not a cure-all  

I’ve lost count of how many times I have heard
friends lament the low starting salaries they will face
after graduation. While, on average, our generation
goes to school longer than our parents’, we now doubt
that we will even be able to reach their level of

afﬂuence.

That fear was fanned again and again during the

lastpresidentialcampaign.
Bill Clinton labeled the
current economic recov-

ery a “low-wage recov-
ery.” While some new jobs
are being created, most do
not pay very much. They
are not the sort of jobs on
which one could support a
family. We should take a

 

 

RYAN
DENNARD
’94

moment to ponder this be-
fore we rush to embrace
Clinton’s health care re-
form proposals.

There does seem to be a consensus across partisan
and ideological lines that something must be done to
address the ills of our health care system. The com-
mon charge is that we spend more on health care than
any other industrialized nation and still leave huge
numbers of people without care of any kind.

I do not want to refute these claims, which are
fairly persuasive on their face. Nor, for the time being,
do Iwant to question the way Clinton proposes to deal
with the situation. I do, however, want to make clear
some of the bad that is sure to come, with the good.

, , You can?t get something for nothing and extending

».health insurance to cover those who are currently
., ,uninsured will require further sacriﬁce on the part of
the American taxpayer. Clinton himself publicly
stressed this fact before he moved health care to the
top of his legislative agenda. And, while new taxes
are no small matter and should be weighed carefully,
we should be aware that there will be other, perhaps
more important costs that we will not immediately

S86.

One major aspect of the Clinton plan will be to
require employers to help pay for insurance for all of
their workers. In this way, the administration hopes

has made no net gain.

to accomplish extensive reform while maintaining
our current structure for the provision of health insur-
ance. This approach has its merits, but it is also sure
to exacerbate the low-wage problem that Clinton
harped on during the campaign.

That is because requiring employers to pay for
workers’ health insurance forces a direct trade-off. In
rather simplified terms, the
money spent on health insur-
ance will be deducted from the
salary a given worker would
have been paid.

For instance, suppose the
prevailing wage rate for pro-
duce truck loaders is about
$25,000 a year. If the produce
company is now required to
provide $1,000 in health insur-
ance for each worker, the
amount they are able to pay in the form of salary will
go down, presumably to $24,000. Thus, while the
worker has acquired $1,000 in health insurance, he

rial earlier this year. Citing
environmental regulation
and legal expenses along-
side health care, he showed
that non-wage spending
has skyrocketed in the last

may not be much bigger than last year, your company
probably spent more to preserve the environment,
wage legal battles, and provide health insurance.
Now Clinton proposes to make the third category,
which has risen to absorb a whopping 12.2% of the
Gross Domestic Product (1990), even bigger.

It is commonly thought that when they are required
to pay for health insurance, businesses will absorb the

Robert Samuelson ex-
plained this phenomena in
a Washington Post edito-

additional costs, but that simply will not happyn.
Especially in the midst of this modest economic
recovery, there are few firms making sufficient
profits to bear this additional expense. One way or
another, the costs will be passed on. While the ,
worker who gets health insurance for the first time
probably won’t have to take a pay cut, he may not
get that raise next year, and in the end the resuﬁis
the same. ‘

So, in thinking about health care, we should
balance the potential benefits against the costs. If
there is, as Samuelson suggests, a fairly direct
trade-off between companies’ wage and non-wage
spending, we will essentially be mandating that
workers’ wages be spent in a certain way, and we
should consider this carefully.

Might there not be some instances in which it
would be a rational decision for a worker to forgo
health insurance, and should we second-guess that
decision? What of the family that feels it cannot
afford health insurance? How would they bear the
declining wages that are sure to accompany guar?i-
teed insurance? If that family now has heath

insurance, but can
no longer afford
things it counted as

While new taxes are no
small matter and should be
weighed carefully, we should be
aware that there will be other,

necessities, things it
considered higher
priorities than health
insurance, wlfat
have we really given
them? ‘
Perhaps health
care for all Ameri-
cans is something

1 twentyyears,absorbingap- perhaps more important costs
P’°"i"‘a““Y "“'f°f““" P’°' that we will not immediately see
ductivity gains during that '
period.

So while your paycheck

we do want to guar-
antee. But We

should be aware that except new taxes and new
transfer payments, we are not providing the
uninsured with anything. We are simply forcing
them to spend what would otherwise be their money
on something we believe they need.

And next time we ponder our paycheck and
wonder where the money has gone, we shouldift
have to ask.

Minority students diversify W&L

Take a close look at this year’s
freshman class and you will notice that
the class of 1997 is geographically
diverse and has wide ranging talents,
but yet is almost entirely white.

This year, only six black students
enrolled at Washington and Lee, the
lowest enrollment of black students
since 1986. Such a low minority en-

such things as cultural orientation and
political outlook. This leads to the un-
fortunate and erroneous perception
that the black community is mono-
lithic. A larger contingent of black
students would dispel this myth and
demonstrate that blacks can be politi-
cally liberal or conservative, culturally
oriented or more assimilated.

 

rollment might Enroll-
seeminevitablefor ing more
aschoolthatsome- black stu-
times appears to d e n t s
pride itself as the w o u l d
shrine of the Con- ANDREW ease their
federacy. But the SCHNEIDER a d j u s t -
class of 1991, ,94 ment and
whichhad17black assimila-
students, is evi— tion pro-
dence that Wash- cess. Un-
ington and Lee can doubtedly,

recruit and attract more minority stu-
dents.

The villification of diversity has
coincided with the decline of black
enrollment at W&L. Mention the word
on campus and many students instantly
think you are pushing a “liberal agenda”
or striving towards political correct-
ness. Diversity has become so politi-
cized and distorted that people tend to
forget its true purpose and benefits.

Interaction with people from differ-
ent racial and ethnic groups is essential
‘to reducing the social and cultural dis-
tance between the diverse groups in
our society. Without such interaction
our cities will continue to exist as
balkanized war zones, and the Ameri-
can “melting pot” will only be a myth.
In addition, our global economy now
requires interaction between diverse
groups of people, so those who have
experience in dealing with minorities
are at a distinct advantage. One of the
most important elements of a college
education is the education received
through one’s peers. If your peers are
all white then you are losing out on a
more interesting and intellectually
stimulating college experience.

Having as few black students as we
do at W&L can lead to false stereo-
types and myths about blacks as a
whole. The fewer blacks that are en-
rolled, the greater the chance that they
will not be different from each other in

many black students will have trouble
adjusting to an environment in which
they make up only a handful of the total
school population. Naturally, many of
them will stick together as a group and
will find it more difficult to interact
with others. Many white students at
W&L see the black students’ “self seg-
regation” as being anti-social or sepa-
ratist. These same white students might
be amazed at how uncomfortable they
would feel if they were among only a
few Caucasians attending an all black
institution like Howard University.
They would most likely band together
too.

Some students may jump to the false
conclusion that enrolling more minor-
ity students means affirmative action.
The truth of the matter is that affirma-
tive action is not necessary to increase
the number of black students here. For
starters, a more vigorous recruitment
might help. The number of black ap-
plicants this year was the lowest since
1985. The law school makes up only
one-fifth of the number of students at
W&L, yet it manages to attract more
than twice as many black applicants as
the college.

What does W&L Law do that the
undergraduate side doesn’t do? For
one, they hire a recent black graduate
each year for a period of three months
during the fall, to act as an admissions
representative. This admissions repre-

sentative travels the country visiting
colleges and universities to help attract
and recruit black students. Though the
undergraduate side has a black assis-
tant director of admissions who works
on minority recruitment, the admis-
sions representatives at the law school
can actually speak from first hand ex-
perience about what it’s like to be black
at W&L.

In addition, the Black Law Student
Association is very helpful in attract-
ing minority students to the law school.
Each year BLSA obtains a list of ac-
cepted minority students which they
use to contact each student and to per-
sonally encourage them to come to
W&L Law. While the Minority Stu-
dent Association on the undergraduate
side helps out
with prospec-
tive minority

 

Q

cally correct. Coincidentally, black stu-
dent enrollment has been lower since
they discontinued it. The minority
students weekend at the law school is
an effective admissions tool because it
wins over prospective black students
by making it clear to them that they ate
wanted at W&L. In addition, the spe-
cial weekend for minorities is optional,

so black students. who wish to visit
W&L at another time may do so.

Not only do students benefit from
diversity, but the college admissions
office has a stake in it too. The pop‘-
lation of college age blacks is growing
at a faster rate than college age whites.
Therefore, W&L needs to increase its
commitment to attracting black stu-
dents in order to maintain its competi-

tive edge in the
college market
A few stu-

students dur- . dents here have
ing the week— Many white Students the misguided
eI}d_s thgt at W&L see the black perception thhat
visit, 9 5; increasing t e
seems to do S_tud’ent 5 _Self segrega: number of black
more. tion ’ as being anti-social students would

W&L law , or Separatist These somehow meat?
also does bet- . ' sacrificing the
terthantheun- Same Whlte Students academic stan-
dergraduate  be amazed at how dards‘ of W&L.
side on the per- This is just a re-

centages of
blacks who
enroll after be-
ing accepted.
W&L Law
School had 16
black students
who enrolled
this year
which was
64% of those

uncomfortable they
would feel if they were
among only a few Cau-
casians attending an all
black institution like
Howard University.

flection of the
pervasive racial
stereotypes ii?

our society.
Studies have
shown that

people of color,
just by virtue of
who they are, are
automatically as4
sumed to be less

who were accepted. Only 35% of those
black students accepted by undergradu-
ate admissions decided to enroll.
W&L Law School helps to woo the
black perspectives by hosting them for
a minority students weekend during
the spring. Eighty percent of black
students who attended this weekend
ended up enrolling at the law school.
The undergraduate side used to do the
same for their accepted applicants but
did away with the practice when it
came under attack for being too politi-

competent than white males at any
task. Even more qualified blacks are
often perceived as being less qualified.
Only by increasing the diversity on our
campus will we end such stereotyping.
The responsibility for the way the;
admissions process is conducted lies
with the trustees. The trustees make
the policy which the admissions office
merely carries out. Hopefully the trust-
ees will realize the importance of di-
versity and not be distracted by silly

distortions like political correctness. .,

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

U

OPINION

Credit cards threaten our world

.5

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

Let us now sit down in our favorite
arair and address the greatest threat
facing Washington and Lee students
today: credit card companies. They in-
nocently call you on the phone, waving
$500 credit lines in your face, knowing
that you’ll bite, line, hook, and sinker,
and sell yourself into the world of the
<§edit-card-enslaved.

It’s so easy! Before long, you are
calling 1—800—FLOWERS and Judy,
the Time—Life Operator, or ordering
Elvis commerative plates from the
Franklin Mint, or purchasing small gifts
for Tom Hespos, because all you need
'3 a little piece of plastic and no actual
money leaves your wallet. And it’s so
easy!

Not that I have gone overboard.
Quite frankly, I enjoy the convenience
of receiving a bill of all my expendi-
tures at the end of the month. OK, l’ll

honest: I enjoy receiving two bills of
expenditures. You must understand, I
am a repeat offender; I have swallowed
the Visa AND Mastercard bait.

A voice deep inside of me has al-
ways wanted to answer a sales clerk
who has said “Visa or Mastercard?” by

ying, “Your choice.” This thrill, how-
ever, quickly disappears whenever the
mail comes, and I begin to question the

wisdom of that $144.51 impulse pur-
chase at “South of the Border.”

I must now get up from my comfort-
able chair and congratulate whatever
force decided to offer college students
credit cards; it is a genius. I say “it”
because I have a new conspiracy theory
that credit cards are the secret weapons
of an evil and sadistic reptilian alien
race, destined to saddle this generation
with unmanageable debt and thus con-

 

Los Angeles. What a woman! My
theory includes the idea that the credit
card companies are now using Diana as
an incentive for college students to
make monthly payments: _
Visa: Your minimum payment this
month is $25. Are you going to pay it?
W&L student: Well, um, I have to
pay the Lexington car tax this month...
Visa: Well perhaps our friend Diana
can persuade you to change your mind.

trol it as part W & L
ofitseviland student:
sadistic plan NO! NO!
to take over PLEASE
ourgreatfree NO! Here,
nation, and here’s the
harvest its $25. In fact,
people for takethis$400
food, and Iwasgoingto
drain our use for my
oceans of W&L Greek
water to sat- Tax! Take my
isfy their evil watch...

and sadistic - Visa: Too
leader, and late.

to guarantee their evil and sadistic desert
home planet’s survival. This theory is,
basically, the plot from V.‘ The Final
Victory.

Any guys out there will agree with
me when I say that the one redeeming
feature of this mid-1980’s sci-fi series
was, without a doubt, actress J ane
Badler, who portrayed the character of
“Diana,” the kind, soft-spoken, gentle
alien commander who bit the heads off
of live rats, small dogs, and residents of

Diana: (Crunch... GULP).
OK, OK, I realize that I may be

being a little unfair in my theory, but I"

am in too deep to care. But, in my
defense, I dare you to give Mastercard
a call and ask their spokesalien if it
isn’t true that .051780%DLY is some
kind of tracking code to make it so
YOU CAN NEVER ESCAPE FROM
THEM. And while you’re at it, ask
them about the little microphones they
have implanted in my teeth so they can

listen in on my conversations.

My credit card conspiracy theory is
not limited just to Visa and Mastercard,
but it even includes ATM cards. Think
about it: you go to a bank machine, type
in your personal identiﬁcation number
and then you withdraw your book
money for the semester and use it for a
weekend of partying. By doing this,
you immediately tip off the aliens as to
your location and then they can sit
around theirTV screens with their alien
buddies and watch you (via the ATM
videocameras — see how this is all tying
in?). The way that students handle their
ﬁnances around here probably provides
many entertainment opportunities for
the aliens:

W&L student: (types in number)

Joe Alien: Hey, Bob, look: this kid
is withdrawing more money. Hey, l’ll
bet you five bucks that he uses it to pay
his Centel bill for the past three months.

Bob Alien: No way, Joe; he’s going
to use it buy his Chemistry books and
pay his tutor to understand them for
him. You’re on.

W&L student: (withdraws money
and turns around) DIANA! Oh my
God! NO! PLEASE NO!

Diana: (Crunch... GULP) (She
takes the money).

JoeAlien: That was great! Let’ssee
it on instant replay...

Well, consider yourself warned. l’ll
be running along now. I’ve heard ru-
mors a new Lee-Hi credit card being
offered, and I am off to check it out.

LETTERS

Dean of students issues student judicial report

To the student body:

C‘ he Honor System

The Executive Committee of the Student Body is
entrusted by the Washington and Lee Board of Trust-
ees for the administration of The Honor System. In
1992-93, the Executive Committee conducted 15
investigations of alleged violations of
The Honor System, held 10 closed hearings, and
found two students guilty of honor violations. Both

students withdrew from the university. There were

no open trials.

Executive Committee President 19.93-.9..4 

Robert K: Tompkins .’94L

Student Conduct Committee
The Student Conduct Committee was created by
the University faculty to exercise its responsibility to
control student conduct. A 13—member body, SCC
comprises the elected president and vice president of
each undergraduate class as well as the president from
each law school class. The SCC chair is elected from
the student body.
The SCC investigates and acts upon complaints of
glleged student misconduct except for violations of
The Honor System or cases which fall under the
jurisdiction of the Student-Faculty Hearing Board.
Its jurisdiction extends to all conduct in Lexington
and Rockbridge County, including nearby colleges,
and conduct while engaged in any University-related
activity. The SCC is empowered to assess various
Qenalties, ranging from a reprimand to dismissal from
the University.
In 1992-93, the SCC reviewed 18 cases, one case
was dropped for lack of evidence. Of the 17 cases
heard, 16 involved men and one case involved a
woman student. Misconduct included property dam-
age, alcohol offenses in residence halls, physical
Qssault,-disorderly conduct, public urination, tres-
passing, defacing a poster, and marijuana use in a
residence hall. Ten of the cases involved alcohol.
Penalties included dismissal from the University (the
student had been suspended for a prior violation of
University standards), community service, letter of
apology, and a monetary fine, in addition to conduct
probation for all of the individuals found in violation
of University standards.

SCC Chairman for 1993-94 — Rajeev K.
Aggarwal ’94L

The Student-Faculty Hearing Board

The Student-Faculty Hearing Board is authorized
to hear and adjudicate allegations of sexual miscon-
duct involving Washington and Lee students. The
SFHB consists of four students appointed by the
Executive Committee and four faculty appointed by
the Dean of the College. Two student alternates and
two faculty alternates are also appointed.

‘ «Sexual misconduct is defined asinappropriate
physical conduct or threat ;of :1 sexual nature. .Ex--,

amples include: "
' ' Unwanted sexual conduct

Forced sexual contact

Physical assault with sexual intent

Sexual intercourse without consent ~ by means
of force, threat, intimidation or victim incapacity

Use of a position of authority in any University
course, program, activity or organization in an at-
tempt to obtain sexual favors

The university official (Mediator) responsible for
the initial handling of alleged sexual misconduct is
Anece F. McCloud, Associate Dean of Students for
Minority and International Student Affairs.

In 1992-93, the SFHB conducted one hearing on a
charge of sexual intercourse without consent against
a Washington and Lee student. The SFHB found “no
clear and convincing evidence that the accused was
guilty of sexual misconduct;” Two complaints of
unwanted sexual contact were reported to the Media-
tor but no formal action was requested by the com-
plainants.

SFHB Chairperson for 1993-94 — Cecile West-
Settle, Associate Professor of Romance Languages

Mediation

From the university “Statement on Personal Con-
duct”

At Washington and Lee, we expect an atmosphere
of civility and mutual respect to prevail. Instances of
uncivil behavior involving students are most effec-
tively dealt with in personal and informal ways, not
by formal and judicial procedures. Therefore, mem-
bers of the Washington and Lee community who
believe themselves to have been objects of such

interviews and photos
by Joe Framptom

TALKBACK

 

behavior should seek reconciliation by personal con-
sultation with friends, faculty, or others who may
intervene in the dispute. Instances of uncivil behavior
involving students may be reported to the Dean of
Students who will take appropriate action by resolv-
ing the matter, referring the matter to the Mediator or,
in appropriate cases, to the Student Conduct Commit-
tee. ,

In 1992-93, David Howison and Anece McCloud
mediated 17 cases of alleged uncivil behavior. Five of
the cases fell into the category of sexual harassment,
three were racial in content, four involved verbal

. abuse between a male and female student, two cases

involved defacing ‘property, two cases involved of-.
fensive telephone calls, and one case involved a
threatening letter. Actions taken included apologies,
reprimands, counseling and administrative referral.
In addition to the 17 mediation cases, there were
two cases that culminated in formal judicial action. In
one case of harassment and ungentlemanly—like con-
duct, a student was referred to the SCC and dismissed
from the University. In the other case, a complaint
was filed against a fraternity for an offensive theme
party. The case was referred to the IFC Judicial
Board. The IFC required a letter of apology and an
educational program funded by the fraternity.

Board of Appeals

The Board of Appeals, which consists of the Dean
of Students, President of the Executive Committee,
and senior faculty member of the Student Affairs
Committee, reviews appeals from the Student Con-

‘duct Committee, Student-Faculty Hearing Board,

interfratemity Council Judicial Board, Panhellenic
Judicial Board and residential disciplinary cases
handled by the Dorm Counselors and Resident Assis-
tants.

In 1992-93, the Board of Appeals heard two ap-
peals. One appeal was from a student who had been
dismissed from Washington and Lee by the SCC. The
second appeal was from a fraternity that appealed a
decision by the IFC Judicial Board to place it on social
probation for two weeks. In each case, the original
decisions of the SCC and the IFC were sustained.

David L. Howison
Dean of Students

Pit Party

There wil be an alcohol—free
party sponsored by the Univer-
sity and Alpha Phi Omega on
Sept. 17 from 9-12 p.m. in the Pit.
Non-alcoholic beverages will be
served. The party is open to all.
Call Heather Loveland at 462-
4392 for more information.

Health

Interested in health issues at
W&L? There will be an organi-
zational meeting Wednesday,
Sept. 22, 3:00-4:00 p.m., Arling-
ton Women’s Center. If you can’t
come, call Carol Calkins at 463-
8590. We need energy and
creativity to bring exciting pro-
grams to W&L.

Support

The Blue Ridge Sexual As-
sault Center and the Rockbridge
Area Coalition Against Sexual
Assault will be sponsoring a sup-
port group for persons who have
experienced sexual assault
and/or incest. The group will
meet in Staunton for 16 weeks,
Tuesday mornings, Sept. 21, 1993
- Jan. 4, 1994. For more informa-
tion, call the Blue Ridge Sexual
Assault Center at 885-7273 or
RACASA at 463-7273.

RACASA

The Rockbridge Area Coali-
tion Against Sexual Assault is
seeking volunteers to provide di-
rect victim services and commu-
nity education programs. The
33- hour Fall Volunteer Training
Program will be held from Thurs-
day, Sept. 30, 1993 through Sat-
urday, Dec. 4, 1993 at the Mint
Spring United Methodist Church.
For more information, call 463-
RAPE.

Medlterraneo

The Washingtontand Lee Uni-
versity Film Society will open the
1993-94 season with an Italian
film, Mediterraneo, directed by
Gabriele Salvatores. Showings
will be at 8:05 p.m. Friday and
Saturday, Sept. 17 and 18, in the
Troubadour Cinema at the corner
of Main and Henry streets. Ad-
mission is free.

The Phi

Anyone interested in writing
for TheRing—tum Phi should come
to storyboard meetings every
Tuesday at 8 p.m. in Room 208 of
University Center.

Kathekon

Kathekon will be in front of

the Co—op Tuesday, Sept. 21 , from

1 1 a.m. to 2p.m. and Wednesday,
Sept. 22 from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
with catalogs for ordering ﬂoat

. supplies for the Homecoming

"Parade.

GENERAL
NOTES

 

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

The Flies

The W&L Theatre Departinent
announces open auditions for their
upcoming production of Jean-
Paul Sartre’s The Flies to be held
in the Johnson Theatre of the
Lenfest Center on Thursday, Sept.
16 at4:00 p.m.and 7:00 p.m., and
on Friday, Sept. 17 at 4:00 p.m.
and 7:00 p.m. Scripts are avail-
able from the Theatre secretary
on the third ﬂoor of the Lenfest
Center. Performance dates are
Oct. 22-26 and Oct. 29 and 30.

Lecture

Women’s Forum will hold its
first meeting this Sunday, Sept.
19 at 6:30 p.m. in the Arlington
Women’s Center. Professor Tay-
lor Sanders,University historian,
will speak about W&L’s “first”
female student - back in the 18th
century. Students, faculty, men
and women are all welcome. Re-
freshments will be served.

 

Resumes

Resume Workshops will be
held on Monday, Sept. 20, 1993
at 4:00 p.m. in Room 109 of the
University Center and Wednes-
day, Sept. 22, 1993 at 11:00 a.m.
in Room 109 of the University
Center. These workshops are
open to all students who need
help with their resumes.

Interviews

An Interviewing Workshop
will be held on Tuesday, Sept. 21,
1993 at 4:00 p.m. in Room 109 of
the University Center. This work-
shop is required for all seniors
planning on having a videotaped
practice interview.

Accounting

Practice interviews for ac-
counting majors will be held all
day on Sept. 23, 1993. Atten-
dance at the Sept. 21 interviewing
workshop is required prior to par-
ticipating in the practice inter-
view.

Study Abroad

There will be a meeting for any
students interested in advanced
studies in England -— Bath, Ox-
ford—in Payne Hall Saturday, Sept.
18 at 3 p.m.

Yearbook

The Calyx will hold its first
orgainzational meeting in the
University Center Room 206
(above Fairfax Lounge) Sunday,
Sept. 19at6:30p.m. new and old
members welcome. Section edi-
tors, advertisinng managers,
photo editors and many other
staff positions available. If you
cannot attend this meeting please
call Sarah Butler at 463-5377 or
Anthony Catalano at 464-8814.

‘Now that summer is almost over, is there anything

you didn’t do that you wish you had done?

Stephanie Boden, ’96, Gladwyne,
.'Pa. — “Slept more and taken more
advantage of the sun.”

  

Tenn. —— “I wish I had gone to the
beach for more than two days.”

)7

per.

—— “Nothing you can print in this pa-

cleaned.”

 

Kirsten Ergenbright,’94,Maryville, John Brannum, ’96, Corvallis, Ore. Murphy, The Hill. — “I wish I had Chris Couzen, ’97, Union, NJ. —“I David Rosenbaum, ’97, Louisville,
gotten a new bone and my teeth wish I had gone down to the Jersey Ky.—“I wish I had relaxed more.”

shore more.”

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

MY VIEW
Michael Hewlett, ’96

August 28, 1993, approximately
100,000 people marched on Washing-
ton. In front of the Lincoln memorial,
speakers cried out for jobs, economic
opportunity, and an end to racial injus-
tice. The heat was unmerciful; people
passed out. Sweat glistened on many.
Asian—Americans, Native Americans,
and homosexuals as well as blacks with-
stood the heat to cry out for justice. Yet,
things were calmer. No one had to fight
Jim Crow anymore.

In 1993 blacks don’t have to see
“Colored” signs anymore. They don’t
have to worry about waterhoses and
biting dogs. They don’t have to force
their ways into restaurants, hotels, or
movie theaters anymore. But August
28, 1963 was a different time. On that
day Martin Luther King, Jr. proclaimed
his dream of a world unmarred by racial

injustice to an audience of over
200,000 people and to a nation sick-
ened with hatred. He hoped that his
daughter would one day be judged by
the content of her character, not the
color of her skin. He saw a world of
harmony and peace.

He dreamed of a Utopia where the
“sons of former slaves and the sons of
former slaveowners would be able to
sit down together at the table of broth-
erhood.” He had a wonderful, beauti-
ful dream of a day when America
would move beyond hate and truly
live up to the idea that all men are
created equal. But, alas, his dream
turned into a nightmare.

Only days after the march, four
little black girls were killed when
their church was bombed. Cities all
over the country exploded in violence.
Even after the Civil Rights Act of
1964 and the Voting Rights Act of
1965, the Kerner Commission found
that America was becoming two na-
tions, separate and unequal. Thirty

years later America is still two nations.
Although some progress has been made,
the sting of racism still burns. Most of
America, however, seems to be in a
state of denial. Maybe it was easier to
see injustice in 1963. You knew some-
thing was wrong when you turned on
the television and watched in horror as
waterhoses nearly washed black youths
up and down the street. You knew
when you saw heads bashed and
thrashed. You saw dogs biting people
and the police throwing tear gas. Big-
ots yelled “nigger.” The Ku Klux Klan
burned crosses. Oh, you knew America
was not America.

But you say, “Hey, this is 1993. All
that stuff ended a long time ago.” It’s
easy to say. That way you don’t have
to deal with the painful reality. The
reality is that racism is here. How do I
know? I know when I watch a justice
system give two years to a couple of
police officers who decided to hit
Rodney King 56 times over the head.
Why? Because Rodney King pretty

Martin Luther King J r.’s dream still unfulfilled

much deserved it. I know when I
watch in horror as Christopher Wilson

‘ tells how two white guys burned over

40% of his
body simply
because he is
black. Iknow
when I learn

Thirty years later
America is still two

about the plight of the black family but
not the American family. I know when
people start fearing black crime, not
crime. Iknow
when I become
defined by sta-
tistics. Iknow
when all I see

that an nations. Although some on the news
A m e ri ca 11 progress has been made about blacks is
who fought , . . ’ inner-citycrime
for the end of the sting of racism still and poverty. I
§partlheAi:l ‘in bul-ns_ Most of kno; bqpausel
ou rica - am ac .
is stabbed to ' Amerlcai h0.weVer9 Yet, most
death be- seems to be in a state of Ame ricans
cause of her denial. Maybe it was choosetolivein
color. Iknow , , , , _ afantasy world.
when 1 walk easier to see injustice in They say, “I
down the  don’t see
streets and re— color.” Tliat’s
alize that alie. Ofcourse,

some people will probably assume
that I am a drug dealer before they
realize that I am a college student. I
know when people continuously talk

you see color. You know how to tell a
black person from a white person. The
problem comes when you attach certain
assumptions about a person because of

 

PAGE 4

his race. Race has nothing to do with
intelligence, athletic ability, sexuality,
or moral fiber. Well, you might say, “I
know that.” Fine. Pass that message
along. People need to hear it. re
importantly, people need to talk. Yes,
there will be tension and anger but also
understanding. In The Souls of Black
Folk, W.E.B. du Bois said that the
problem of the 20th century would be
the color line. It still is.

However, the problem will not be
solved by trying to convince ourse ves
that the problem does not exist. It will
be solved by honestly talking about
race with each other. We need to
respect and understand each other’s
culture, history, and individuality. This
is the key to ending racism in America.
It’s not about being politically corﬁ:ct
or incorrect, liberal or conservative,
it’s about doing the right thing. It all
comes down to what Rodney King
asked 30 years after Dr. King dreamed
his dream: “Can we all just get along?”
Well, can we?

Discrimination in the military jeopardizes safety

MY VIEW
Meriwether Nichols, ’94

After reading the first several paragraphs of
Andrew Olmem’s essay on homosexuals in the
military, I was surprised to see that he actually
makes a point that I agree with.

He says, “The military has no place for
individual freedom.” I thought about this a
great deal, and I kept mulling over the idea of
the good of the whole being more important
than the wishes of a few and how such an idea
plays into the entire controversy. Then it oc-
curred to me that insisting that homosexuals
stay out of the service, or, at the very least, keep
quiet and remain abstinent in order to stay in, is
just pandering to the desires of some not to have
to deal with anybody who isn’t straight.

It is a fundamental right in this nation to have
the freedom to choose, to discern, and by some

,"'<v, 3
...“. .~§‘»~d- '

definitions, to discriminate, but the law also
defines some cases in which this nation will
tolerate it. The groups which have garnered this
protection under the law have not won it easily,
and right now the

and unity of a fighting corps would be compro-
mised if openly queer people served in them.
(Funny that those same people forget about the
possibility for blackmail in a military which

outlaws homosexu-

homosexual com-
munity is stepping

If sleeping next to or working

ality, but which has
always had homo-

forward to say that sexuals in the
it wants its propers with a spic, nigger, Bible-beater; _ ran_1I<;)- k, d f
oo. esame In 0

Idon’thear this cracker’ or homo bothers you’ argumentwas made

group of men and
womensayingthey
want all determi-

don’t join the military. It’s that
simple. That is your right.

when integration of
the armed forces
was at issue, but the

nants thrown out. I
understand the
message to mean that one’s desire to sleep with
someone of the same sex is not a valid deter-
mining factor on one’s ability to serve effec-
tively in the armed forces; in other words, that
it should not enter into the picture at all.

One often hears the argument that the strength

United States gov-

emmentsaidthat the
right of these people to serve over-rides the
potential problem of racism in the ranks. Things
certainly didn’t go smoothly, nor do they al-
ways now, but the government basically said to
the bigots of the military, “Get over it and make
it work.”

It seems inconceivable now to think that a
man in the military would have a legal leg
tostand on if he argued he didn’t feel he could
trust his life in battle to that nigger who sleeps
in the bunk next to him. Why is it any different
if someone doesn’t feel safe sewing with a
queer or sleeping next to one in his barracks.

This brings me back to the issue of personal
freedoms. The right for gay men and women to
sleep with whichever consenting adult they
want, of which ever sex they want, is far more
compelling than the right for all homophobic
military personnel not to have to deal with
faggots and dykes.

So, if sleeping next to or working with a
spic, nigger, Bible—beater, cracker, or homo
bothers you, don’t join the military. It’s that
simple. That is your right.

But it is not your right to say that a lesbian,
for example, cannot serve her country’s armed
forces because, oh my god, she goes to bed with
other women. And likewise, I should not have

« I
«mu! r4g_.\qi H '5 i‘
' v

.v~-5-. . ..
-pas: art’-Iii ' 

'7-14-1.4‘

the right to insist that all Christians, for ex-
ample, remain silent about their relationship
with Christ, because I may have an extreme
moral objection to the tenets of Christianity.
Although there is not much protective legis-
lation yet, the time is here, whether or not
everybody is ready for it. Things are rapilly
changing, and soon any pseudo-intellectual ar-
gument touting that allowing people who are
attracted to those of the same sex to enjoy the
same rights of all Americans and to be protected
from discrimination will sound just like the
false arguments asserting the inferiority of
women or of African-Americans. 9
It may not happen during this administration
or the next, but it will happen, and all of the
homophobic people in this country will have
either to change their views or become tolerant
of gays, lesbians, and bisexuals, because the
closet door has been ﬂung open, and with more
queers coming out all the time. I’m pretty sgre
that closet is way too small by now anyway.

DUI 3 higher than last year I

To the editor:

Three years ago, in an effort to in-
crease the awareness of student disci-
plinary issues and promote more re-
sponsible behavior in our community,
the Office of the Dean of Students
compiled the student arrest records in
the city of Lexington beginning in Fall
1988.

In Fall Term 1990, with the coop-
eration of the Inter-fraternity Council,
the Lexington City Police, the Lexing-
ton Community Council, and the Vir-
ginia Department of Alcohol Beverage
Control, a coordinated effort was made
to improve communication between
Washington and Lee and the Lexing-
ton community. Our goals were to ad-
dress issues before they became seri-
ous problems and to reduce the number

of Washington and Lee students ar-
rested for alcohol-related violations.

In the first two years of our “Town-
Gown” effort, the results were encour-
aging. Arrests for alcohol-related of-
fenses declined from a high of 182 in
1988-89 to 152 in 1989-90 to a low of
117 in 1991-92.

Unfortunately, the total arrests for
last year reversed the positive down-
ward trend. 121 Washington and Lee
students were cited for alcohol viola-
tions in 1992-93 with the most signifi-
cant increase coming in the area of
under-age-possession/drinking in pub-
lic.

As we started this academic year, I
was hoping that our cooperative efforts
with the Lexington Police and our pro-
grams to increase awareness of the

consequences of the abuse of alcohol
would get us back on the right track.
Unfortunately, the report I received
this week from Mike Young indicated
that we are not off to a good start. Over
the past week, six Washington and Lee
students were arrested for DUI. The
total figure for all of last year was 15.

I call upon all Washington and Lee
students to exercise good judgment
and responsible conduct, particularly
when it comes to the use of alcohol.
Remember that your conduct in hex-
ington is a measure not only of indi-
vidual standards but is also a reﬂection
of the standards of Washington and
Lee.

David L. Howison
Dean of Students

LETTERS '.:;:.:::«.!=.'; .2;

Professor
resents trash
on her lawn

To the editor:

A sure sign that W&L students have
returned to Lexington is the appear-
ance on Saturday morning of three beer
cans on my little front lawn, across the
street from fraternity houses on East
Washington Street, and within view of
a city trash container.

I know your mother taught you bet-
ter... Tsk, tsk.

Greta McCaughrin

Guidance Counselor

thanks W&L students

To the editor:

I am writing in an effort to recog-
nize and thank the many W&L stu-
dents who have worked as tutors and
Big Brothers or Big Sisters to the stu-
dents at Central Elementary School.

Most of these students have dedi-
cated 1-3 hours a week all year to
helping our children in grades K-5.

Our students have grown socially
and academically because of this atten-
tion. .

Thanks to:

Eric Shirley, Steve Johnson, Justin
King Sara Morgan, Amy Rash, Ashley
Myler, Elise Hagensen, Jen Ciocca,
Susan Mahan, Rachel Simpson, Will

Graham, Paul Mallos, Sarah Wyatt,
Miriam Neel, Julia Podlas, Kerry Egsn,
Robert Carter, Heather Leonard, Carter
Page, Becca McCord, Billy Aiken,
Robert Hull, Barton Sterling, Patricia
Coughlin, Christine Hamle', Kristin
Lawrence, Julian Smith, Ashlie
Kaufman, Mary Nabors, Francie
Cohen, Sally Oberrneuller, Elizabeoh
Carson, Ayanna Brady, Brandon
Neblett, David Bartlett, Fran Ascher,
Dave Leﬂtowitz, Melissa Miller, Kim
Schooley

Sincerely,
Mrs. Margie Page
Guidance Counselor

dog.

Right NOW... someone is eating a really bad chili 1

Right NOW... someone you know is playing boccie.

Right NOW... you could be writing for the Phi and

not have to care about chili dogs or boccie, and you
could be having fun writing about interesting things.

  Be 01 partof Right Now... write

  for the Phi ’ ”

ii

41

M. «:2» +-;<~.r~r«~.:*.'~w: -pl» -~~~a-.:”~»“'~‘~-'.’: <"~*;?r~..v.:     v =4

 

 

The Psychology behind  

' the Citibank Classic Visa card, and the

emotional security of the Photocard. The Citibank Classic Visa‘“’

    

 

O
instills in students feelings of safety, security, and general wellness not unlike those experienced
in the womb. Therefore, it is the mother of all credit cards. ‘I[ Some experts attribute these feelings
‘ _
to the Citibank Photocard, the only credit card with your photo on it. A voice inside says, “This
is me, really me.” (As opposed to, “Who the heck is that?”—a common response to the photo
9 on one’s driver’s license.) It’s an immediate form of
ID, a boost to your self-image. ‘][ Of course if your card is.
Q o o -
ever lost or stolen and a stranger 1S prevented from using it,
ou’ll feel exce tionall ood (showin 'no”si ns of Credit
Y P 3’ 8 g 3
o H Subject suffering from ' ‘ '
Credit CardTheﬂNm0Sa' Card Theft Nervosa). ‘][ Other experts point to specific
services, such as The Lost Wallet“ Service that can replace
* your card usually within 24 hours. Or the 24-Hour Cus-
tomer Service line, your hotline, if you will, for any card- The Monarch“ Notes Version:
- related anxiety whatsoever. ‘][ Further analysis reveals three The Cmbank Classic Card gwes
. . . . dents eace of mind rotection
S b - - C b k - . . . 3t“ P ’ P
M J eCC,:,i{;:r\,:::,ei)V;,Z§(,c.:f;([1n services that protect the purchases you make on the Citibank _
\ against Freud——or rather fraud—a
a‘ Classic Visa card, at no additional cost. 1. Buyers Security“ can cover them against accidental low rate and no fee. Apply today
damage, ﬁre or theft, for 90 days from the date of purchase.l..(prexre;;ti;gg, of course, Insecurity). Call 1-300-CITIBANIQ eXt- 19

. 2. Citibank Lifetime Warranty“ allows one to extend the warranty for the expected service
life of eligible products up to 12 years? 3. And Citibank Price Protection assures you of the best

price. You need only see the same item advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank

 

-5
will refund the difference up to $150‘ (hence no Post Purchase Depression). ‘ll Special student
‘ savings are particularly therapeutic. There’s the free Citibank Calling Service“ from MCI to save
up to 26% on long distance calls versus AT&T.3 (You’re encouraged to call Mom and Dad regu-
. larly preventing Parenta Non—Supportus.) And a $20 Airfare Discount“ on any domestic flight.
(Case studies indicate that a Fear of Flying is overcome when Spring Break in sunny Florida is a i
. possibility.) Not to mention the low variable interest rate of 15.4%5 and no annual fee for college A
\ students. ‘ll Sufﬁce it to say, you’ll have a credit card you can depend on while building a credit
history. So call 1-800-CITIBANK, extension 19, to apply over the phone (students don’t
o x .
need a job or a cosigner) or to have your photo added :
,9 '0 to your Citibank Classic Visa card. ‘ll If we say that a 
1? ‘ sense of Identity is the ﬁrst component of the Citibank 
Classic Visa card, a sense of Security the second, and 
.3 a sense of Autonomous Will from your newfound 1
ﬁnancial independence the third. don’t be crazy...Call. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.
in

‘Certain conditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Security is underwritten by The Zurich International
UK Limited. ’Certain restrictions and limitations apply Underwritten by the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product and is at
least the minimum based on retail industry data. Details of coverage are available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. ‘Savings claim is
based on a I0-minute night/weekend call in the l.9ll to 3.000 mileage band using MC|'s Card Compatibility rates vs. AT&T‘s standard calling card rates. effective
4/93. Citibank Calling Service long distance usage cannot be applied to obtain beneﬁts under any other’ MCI partner program or offer. including travel award programs.
‘Offer expires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by [SE Flights only ‘The Annual Percentage
Rate for purchases is l5.4% as of 8/93 and may vary quarterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for cash advances is l9.8"/o. If a finance charge is imposed. the
. minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional ﬁnance charge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% of the amount of each cash advance Il'zln.\‘.lCIl()ll'. however.
it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than $10.00. Monarch” Notes are published by Monarch Press, a division of Simon & Schuster. a Paramount (‘ommunications
Company. Used by permission of the publisher. Citibank credit cards are issued by Citibank (South Dakota). N.A. ©l993 Citibank (South Dakota). N.A. Member FDIC.

‘ll 

 

 

Foreign masterpiece deﬁnes ﬁlm excellence

Patience and sense of humor necessary for first—time viewer to avoid frustration

By David Wilmington
Phi Features Editor

 

Foreign film. Foreign Film?

For most people, just hearing those two
words conjures up images of dark, smoky scenes
inhabited by sulky, rude people wearing berets.
To the uninitiated, foreign films are a night-
mare of philosophical babble and weird camera
angles. And of course, we can’t forget the
looming presence of the Clown of Death made
popular by beer commercials.

If you can get around the initial culture
shock though, you’ll probably see something
that will forever change your idea of what a
movie can communicate.

Federico Fellini’s masterpiece, 8 1/2, is one
of the landmark events in film history. The plot
concerns an Italian director named Guido,
played by Mercello Mastroienni, trying to make
a movie while at the peak of his career.

He has a patient, wealthy producer, an army
of assistants, a huge production crew, and two
of the most famous and beautiful actresses in
the world. Though he has all of these resources
at his ﬁngertips, he is unable to find any sense
of direction in his story.

Guido asks himself, “Suppose you’re really
finished, you uninspired, untalented
fake...Enough of symbolism, and these escapist
themes...'I'hen what am I looking for?” Writer’s
block is too weak a term to describe Guido’s
condition. Mid—life artistic impotence is prob-
ably a more appropriate description.

The initially confusing aspects of this film
are also the most brilliant. As Fellini follows
Guido through the painful process of indeci-
sion, the audience is allowed to see Guido’s
dreams and memories.

The opening scene is a dream sequence in
which Guido’s feeling of suffocation is trans-
lated into a visual image.

Perhaps the most famous scene from 8 1/2 is
Guido’s hilarious fantasy about controlling all
of the women in his life, past and present. In his
daydream, all the women he has ever known
live and serve him in his childhood home.

When the normally happy and subservient
women begin a rebellion, Wagner’s “Ride of
the Valkyries” begins blaring as Guido fright-
ens them all back into loving submission. The

scene successfully illustrates Guido’s desire
for resolution in his life as well as his need to
feel completely in control. It is important to
remember that these scenes are supposed to be
as strange and disjointed as real dreams and
fantasies.

Most of the film is set at a fashionable
mineral water spa where Guido hopes to be
cured of his indecision. The entire film crew is
at the spa as

FEATURES

him he has committed a mortal sin. For added
effect, his mother is called in to show how he
has shamed her. After a lesson about the neces-
sity of completely shunning women, a priest
explains to Guido that Saraghina is the Devil.

This ﬂashback sequence fades directly into
Daumier saying, “What does that mean? It’s
just another episode from your childhood
memories..you must lift everything to a more

raphy. There is even a scene where he antici-
pates his wife’s reaction to seeing 8 1/2. Guido
invites his wife to watch the casting calls for the
hopelessly mired movie. Here she sees that the
character modeled after her has been cast as an
unattractive mother ﬁgure while the mistress is
sensuous and warm.

It’s a wonder that Fellini had any friends at
all after 8 1/2 was released.

The other
well as his great mo-
writer, pro- " ' ' ment of this
ducer, mis— kind of dual
tress, and 3 ' ; realitycomes
eventually, _; w h e n
his wife. This §  Guido’s pro-
mass of  _ 3 ducer tells
swarming E .  him, “I un-
peplple allows E - ,' d :31 r s t a n d

e miano - :. E" w at ou
portunity $0  i want the film
show the J! - to say. You
ran eofpres- i ' want to show
surgs Guido - -; theoonfusion
must deal ' :  ‘ that man has
with. .  inside him-

The com- ‘g ‘ self. Just be
mentary of ii surethatwhat
G u i d o ’ s  interestsyou,
w r i t e r ,  interests ev-
Daumier, is " erybody. Re-
one of the member, the
most brilliant audience has
elements of tounderstand
the film. The the film.”Itis
snobbishly certainly not
intellectual hardtoimag-
Daumiercon— ine Fellini’s
stantly criti— p r 0 d u c e r
cizesGuido’s echoing the
story ideas by same words.
addressing W h e n
many of the things seem
vague sym- to be as in-

bols and sequences that the audience is ponder-
ing. In effect, Daumier is critiquing8 I/2 while
it’s being viewed by the audience.

For example, during one sequence, Guido
remembers an event that happened while he
was in Catholic grammar school.

He and some friends walked to see Saraghina,
a crazy woman who lived on a beach near his
school. For entertainment, they pay her to dance
while they laugh at her. Just as Saraghina con-
vinces Guido to learn the dance with her, two
priests come running up the beach to break up
the show.

This seemingly innocent episode results in a
session before the head priests where they tell

sophisticated level. You must use stringent and
unassailable logic! Don’t you see the confu-
sion? The ambiguity!” g

It almost seems as if Fellini were trying to
second guess possible criticism of his movie.

As with any work of art, programmatic
information is not necessary, but it can make
some aspects clearer. To understand some of
the more subtle elements in the movie, it helps
to know that Fellini made this movie as an
autobiography. 8 1/2 is a movie about Fellini’s
artistic struggle to make 8 1/2. Guido is Fellini
just as Guido’s wife and mistress are Fellini’s
wife and mistress.

Fellini held back nothing from his autobiog-

sane as they can possibly get, Guido realizes
that the only way he can make a movie about his
abstract, confusing life is to put everything
from his life into the movie. Seemingly unre-
lated characters and ideas all come together in
one place-just as they do in everyone’s mind
and memory. The end of the movie is»a proces-
sion of everything from the mundane to the
absurd that makes Guido who he is. It is one of
the most moving and truly uplifting scenes in
film history.

8 1/2 is Italian and was filmed in black and
white. The actors are Italian, French, andAmeri—
can and they speak Italian, French and English
duringthe movie. Fellini supervised the dubbed

 
   
     
   
   
   
   
     
  
    
    
   
  
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

version himself, so the impact of accents an
articulation are not lost as in most dubbed films
Unfortunately, the W&L Library only has th
subtitled version which suffers from some in
stances of illegible text due to a white back
ground. ‘

In terms of getting your feet wet, this ma
not be the best introduction to foreign film
After all, this film is difficult to understan
when it’s being explained in English. Don’t
expect to get everything the first time around.
Even after the fourth viewing, I found mysel
laughing at jokes I had missed before an
seriously thinking about what I had previously
thought were jokes.

Maybe that’s the key to appreciating foreign
films-the understanding that if something seems
funny or sad or weird to you, it was probably
meant to be funny, sad or weird. Just because a
movie is in black and white and in a different
language doesn’t mean that it’s dealingﬁvith
fundamental questions of human existence!
But it might be.

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
     
   
  
   

Octob

Tnﬁiﬁyz . . — 99*. I
. V Coricert Guild 5,5 «ls-.'I'h M I "K0
up . . (

 

 
  

 
 
 

With this, you

That penny jar on your dresser

Now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh® per-
sonal computers. You can also get special student financing with the
Apple® Computer Loan*— to make owning a Mani“ even easier. To see

Apple Macintosh » 5
Color Classic‘ 4/80, Built-in 10" Color
Monitor 6App1e Keyboard I1. 5933

Apple Macinlotsb
[C111 4'/80, Apple Basic Color
Monitor GApple Keyboard 11. $1250

With these, you .
can save for years. can save right now

  
 

 

just how affordable a Macintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus
Reseller today. And discover the power more college students ' L
choose. The power of Macintosh.’ The power to be your best‘?

For further information visit University Computing in
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud

‘Available /0 qualgfyirzg students‘, alparlidpalirig aulborizezlAp/)le Campus Resellers. ©1993 Apple Computer. Inc. All riqblv re.vez'zml. A/2/Ile. //Je Apple logo. Jim‘.

or call 463-8844

*Prices do not include sales tax

Mzm'n/or/J (HI(l “T/1r‘ power 10 b£’_)'0Il?‘ bexl " are regi.\'/cred /rztzlernzxrlzs Q/ll/i/Ile (Iom/ruler. Inc. /ilacm/ml; (lm/ri.\' mI(ll’011~ez-Baal: are Irzlrlerrlurkv o/A/I/Ila C0/ll/JIIIWI Im: C'lu.u'ic it (I regilrlered Imzlemarlz /iwriml /0 Apply Cam/mlw: Inc:

Apple PowerBoole ”‘ 1458 4/80,
Built-in Keyboard and I0" Badelit Super
Twist Monocbmme Display. $12 78

AppleMaci'ruosb Cemris" 610 ’ 4,
4/80, Apple Basic ColorMom'tor 6 ‘
Apple ExtendedKeyboardll. $1488

  

 
  

 
 
 

  
 
  
  

   

   
  
  

Ca:

   
 
  

  

 

    
 

Q

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

FEATURES

 

PAGE 7

‘Visiting professor stomps the blues

By David Wilmington

P/Ii Features Editor

The   e nt
ctivities
Board

is now taking
applications for
membership.

Forms anci interview schedules are
available in the University Center
at Carol Calkins’ office.

 DEADLINE: Saturday, September

   

 
  

18th

     
   
 

Notice: This does not apply to the
FD Committee --— Interviews will
be held in January

Tuesday, visiting professor Albert Murray started his
semester long stay at Washington and Lee by reviewing the
evolution of democracy and defining the nature of art. He

also sang a few choruses from Count Basi'e’s “One ‘O Clock

Jump”.

Murray is the critically-acclaimed author of several books
of essays and two novels. Count Basie chose him to
transform his autobiographical memoirs into stylized prose.
The list of jazz musicians who have considered Murray as
intellectual mentor and friend includes Duke Ellington and
Wynton Marsalis. Romare Bearden’s “The Block” was
painted from the View out of Murray’s Harlem apartment.

Despite his proximity to legendary characters, Murray
has remained comparatively unknown outside of academic
and jazz circles. By the time he published his first book in
1970, Murray was 54 years old. He had a B.S. from Tuskegee,
an M.A. from NYU, 10 years of teaching experience, and
service in two wars under his belt.

Murray ’ s professorship came about through W&L’s mem-
bership in the Virginia Foundation of Independent Colleges.
The DuPont Foundation gave a grant to the VF IC to enable
member schools to obtain various guest professors and
lecturers. When English professor Severn Duvall saw
Murray’s name on a list of available professors, he urged
Associate Dean of the College Lad Sessions to get him.

During his tenure at W&L, Murray is teaching two
courses in two departments. The Blues is an Interdepartmen-
tal course focusing on the aesthetic, social, and heroic
characteristics of blues music. Murray describes the empha-
sis of his English class, Introduction to Regional Literature,
as “the processing of the idiomatic details of regional expe-
rience into universal literary statement.”

The reading list for the course includes “Oedipus Rex”,
“Hamlet”, The Sound and the Fury , and Murray’s two
novels-Train Whistle Guitar and The Spyglass Tree. He
points out that although the English course deals with
literature instead of music, keeping an American frame of
reference guarantees that the blues is still relevant.

One of the first tasks the 77 year-old Murray takes upon
himself is to differentiate between the blues as a feeling and
the blues as music. He says the purpose of blues music is not
lamentation, as sociologists have taught, but rather affirmation
and celebration. Blues music is created to stomp away the
melancholia brought on by the feeling of the blues.

The next major concept present in much of Murray’s
work is the definition and categorization of art. In books and
lectures, Murray defines art as “the ultimate extension,
elaboration, and reﬁnement of the rituals that represent the
basic survival technology of a culture.” He goes on to relate
this definition to the continually overlapping categories of
folk, pop, and fine art.

Murray’s statements on art are interwoven with observa-
tions on the nature of Western thought. He stresses that
government for the people, by the people, and of the people

 

was an invention, it didn’t just happen. “It was
a logical extension of western jurisprudence. ”
Using numerous examples, he makes a refresh-
ingly clear case for deﬁning Eurocentrism as
the most multicultural of all schools of thought.

His process of explaining and exemplifying
his views draws upon a seemingly endless
knowledge of virtually every imaginable field
of study. Murray stresses the construction of
what he calls “a twentieth century mind set”
through the synthesis of every attainable piece
of knowledge.

“I provide existential equipment for living,”
he said.

'Albert Murray provides “existential equipment for living” in seminar courses

After the first lecture, student reaction was a
mixture of enthusiasm and dazed admiration.
“He’s the smartest person l’ve ever met,” said
senior Maryanna Phipps, “he knows every-
thing.” Other students noticed that after dis-
cussing apparently divergent topics such as the
second law of thermodynamics and the ancient
Phoenicians, Mr. Murray is somehow able to
relate everything back to the blues.

Many students and friends have commented
on his overwhelming sense of purpose and
vitality. Murray offers the best explanation for
this impression, “I am a professor because I
profess something.”

And it’s a part ’
will not sacr

    
       

  
    
      

 

Brawl causes at least two trips to hospital .

Men kick off Rush Monday .

h>BFtAWL, from page 1

“We’re there to help the freshmen un-
derstand Rush.”

The freshmen will go to four houses
per night until Thursday evening. Until
this year, freshmen did not have to
attend all 16 fraternities during the
three nights of open houses.

“I’m glad they’re going to every
house now,” said Kaufman. “[Before]
you were basically cutting six or seven
houses because of rumors.”

According to Donaldson, the open
houses will be a little shorter but the
freshmen will be able to see all frater-
nities during the period.

Offices move
to El Rodeo

 

9
The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 19.

h>BFiAWL, from page 1

in. The cadets who were formally invited were
not involved in the ﬁght, according to Guice.
Phi Delt members James Whiteside and
Douglas Kennedy suffered injuries in the fight.
A cadet broke a bottle over Whiteside’s head,
bloodying his face. Kennedy suffered a broken
nose when he was kicked in the face by a cadet.
Whiteside had no comment on the tenth phone
call to his home, and Kennedy could not be

.  reached after ten phone calls to his home.

Two cadets also suffered injuries. One cadet

‘ I broke his ankle when he leaped over W&L’s

memorial wall as he ﬂed from police. The
second bruised his ribs in the fight. He refused
treatment when it was offerred by the police,
but later asked to be taken to the hospital.

A total of ten police cars arrived at the scene
to break up the fight—- four Lexington city
police cars, four county police cars, one VMI
post police car and a game warden car, said
Lexington Police Seargeant R.H. Sutton.

“When police arrived the ﬁght dispersed,”
said Sutton. “I don’t know how long it was
going on, but it didn’t last that long.”

Sutton said that two cadets were arrested,
but one got away.

“I arrested one— [I had to] mace him. He

was power—driving a W&L student into the
ground. But two other cadets pulled him away
behind Lee Chapel— he got away and I have
not yet identified him.”

The second cadet, Jay John Ferriola, was
arrested by Lexington Police Officer Mark
Ramos, said Sutton.

Despite the arrests, Sutton said no one has
filed a complaint. He is undecided on what
action he will take, if any.

Interfraternity Council President Curt Smith
said that the IFC will not take action on the fight
because it was between Phi Delt and the cadets.

VMI Commandant Colonel Mike Bissell
said that both sides were guilty in the fight, but
told a different version of the story.

“All I can tell you is what I got,” said Bissell.
“Nine or ten cadets went over to the party.
Three of them had lived with a W&L student
over the summer. They were invited and asked
if their friends could be invited [when they
showed up].'

“Cadets were being harrassed. It got out of
hand with pushing and shoving. Then someone
called the post police.”

Bissell said VMI is conducting a student
investigation of the fight, but that “no one at
VMI is interested [in the fight].”

“They’re not even putting it in the paper [at
VMI],” said Bissell.

   
  
  
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 

Bissell said he did not know that two cad
were arrested.

W&L Dean of Students David Howist
said that “It’s a very unfortunate way tgbeg
the year.”

~“The reality is this— when cadets are i
vited to our parties, they are the guests of o
fraternities,” said Howison. “Our students ha‘
the right to expect respect for people and pro,
erty.”

Bissell said that he and Howison met wi
the Lexington Community Council on Thur
day.

“We want to keep relations going,” sa
Bisell. “These are two great schools—we shou
get along better.”

But Bissell said that W&L and VMI shou
not try to mix on a social level.

“It would be great to party together?’ sa
Bissell, “but the potential for fights is ther
When you get alcohol with two close schoo
it’s just a tendency— we have two differ_

types of schools.

“I don’t think cadets should be invited ‘
It’s a W&L party,” Bissell said.

Howison agreed. 0

“One of the steps from the fraternity pe
spective is not to invite the cadets,” sa
Howison. “It’s unfortunate, but understan
able.”

“Now the freshmen are required to
go to all 16 houses. Before they just
picked nine and cut six right off the
bat,” Donaldson said.

Preference cards from the freshmen
will be due a week from today with
Rush dates starting Sunday, Sept. 26.

At Tuesday night’s IFC meeting, Pi
Kappa Phi became the first fraternity to
receive a Rush violation this year. Pi
Phi received the violation after inviting
freshmen to a brother’s home for a
Monday night football party. When
IFC President Curt Smith walked in,
there was no member from another
fraternity present.

“They got the violation for enter-

taining freshmen with no other frater-
nity present,” IFC Vice President Ryan
Donaldson said. “We looked into it and
it was pretty blatant.”

But Smith added “on Pi Phi ’s behalf
there was one Kappa Sig at the party
for 30 minutes to an hour.”

Pi Phi received a $1500 fine and is
on social probation until Saturday. Al-
though they lost their Wednesday night
party and tonight’s party, Pi Phi did not
lose its Saturday night band party.

Because the penalty for the infrac-
tion depends on the circumstances, the
IFC opted not to give Pi Phi the full
penalty which would have resulted in
two weeks social probation and the
fine.

I-vBRAWL, from page 1

Committee reviews
W&L coeducation

people who have been at W&L

    
  
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  

Registrar’s Office to expand some,” said Jour-
nalism Department Head Hampden Smith.

Smith said there is currently no money in,
the capital campaign for a full renovation of
Reid Hall, a renovation he said is definitely
needed.

“The hope is that around the first of the
year, the university will be in a position to do
some construction in there (Reid),” he said.

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS
6 Phi Excutive Editor

In the ninth year of coeduca-
tion President John D. Wllson
and Dean of the College John
Elrod have appointed a com-
mittee to review coeducation.

since before coeducation began ‘

and who arrived after it began.

Joining Simpson and Strong
will be Lisa Alty, assistant pro-
fessor 0 Chemistry; Arthur
Goldsmith, associate professor
of economics; Kathy Jo
Koberstein, associate professor

   
    
   
   
 

Wilson plans 1995 retirement

campaign will help fulfill. He said he
would like to see the science center in
an advanced stage, although he knows

continue to worry. .
“I’d love to retire at the point wher
I can stop worrying,” Wilson said. ‘

I->BRAWL, from page 1

he believes the Watson Pavilion and

it will not be completed before he
leaves. Wilson also said a successful
capital campaign will help the univer-
sity increase its financial aid budget,
which he said is “strapped.”

Wilson said he would also like to
see the new women’s varsity basket-
ball team do well and the Student Ac-
tivities Board organize more social
events that do not group students by
Greek affiliation and involve the entire
student body.

But, Wilson said he does not want to
over commit himself in his last years.

“You have to try and limit your-
self,” Wilson said. “You can’t do too
much.”

Wilson said he will continue to ap-
proach his job the same way and he will

worry too much all the time.”
Wilson said he worries about th
students when he hears a car screec
away from the dorms at night and i
bothered when he sees something th .-
needs repair.
“I can’t take a walk without seein
a window frame that needs to be painte
or a beer can under a bush,” Wilso
said. “I’ve picked up more beer can
than any student I know. You sort 0
become so close to a place, you hope .’
can be the best it can be all the t9me.-
Wilson said it’s a sign that you ha
been somewhere too long when yo
worry about everything. After Jun
1995, he plans to live a quieter life.
“I’ll just go and disappear into th .
16th century.”

TGIF

Elrod said the committee,
which will be chaired by Pamela
Simpson, professor of Art His-
tory and Art Department Chair,
and Robert Strong, professor of
politics, has been asked to docu-
ment the changes in the univer-
sity during the last eight years.

of Romance Languages; Nancy
Margand, associate professor of
psychology; Elizabeth Oliver,
assistant professor of account-
ing; Cecile West-Settle, associ-
ate professor of Romance Lan-
guages and Tom Williams, pro-
fessor of physics. Senior Frankie
Jones, Juniors Daniel Felton,
IV and Carol Pierce are the stu-
dent representatives.

Dean of Students David
Howison said he had recom-
mended the students to
Simpson, Strom, and Elrod.
The coeducation committee’s
findings will be reported at the
end of the academic year.

    
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
     
  
     
 
   
   
 
    
   
    
    
    

Smith stressed there are no concrete plans
for how the vacated space in Reid Hall will be
divided, but speculated how things might end

up

the Watson collection will be tremen-
dous assets to the university. He said
the more students learn about the col-
lection the more they will appreciate it.

“It won’t be thought to be so much
the elegant side show that some stu-
dents think it to be,” he said. “There’s
a whole story to be told by those cups
and saucers.”

Wilson said the Watson collection
is very unusual and gives the university
a unique opportunity.

“Every college and university has a
responsibility to preserve the best of
the past,” he said.

But Wilson, like Elrod, stresses that
his work is not done. Wilson said he
has some goals that a successful capital

“We suspect that... the print shop will be
split in two and a computer room and a seminar
room will be placed there,” he said.

Smith said that although no concrete plans . . .
have been made to move professors’ offices in Elrod Sald the commmee W1“

Reid Hall, such moving around is “a possibil- also Consider the present and
 9: future.

“We need to take our pulse
at the moment,” Elrod said.
“And we need to look into our
future.”

Elrod said he and Wilson
appointed Simpson and Strong.
Elrod said he and Wllson
wanted to have a balance of

W

Equally nebulous are the plans for the use
of the office space which will be vacated by the
Career Development and Placement Office in
the University Center. According to Ruth
Lewis of CD&P, the office is scheduled to
move to Sigma Chi next year, along with the
News Office and the University Publications

Office.
W

Party Picture Photographers Needed

  

 

    

 
         

     

  

 
     

  
  

—
H I The Must have own 35 mm equipment & car
Point of  Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6 C
R t t
FRATS! SORORITlESi es man Join us for our T
swarm GROUPS! "“'”‘;';::;;“"‘ Laxuiarotl H. ,_ sunset special Lexingtop
Raise as MuchasYou , , mcycu W1LL30N-  W Ii“. I qwuesday - Saturday F 17 S01\l,Ilth,3ia\l,:,:)r§1f,'n=S
"""='"‘ ”‘ 0"‘ Wwk’ C""‘“lD”"?"' SHOP W A L K E R    5:30-6:30 pm. ‘;‘{‘;‘;‘;fa Sid Shoes rm
$100. . .$600. . .$1500! E1280!!!‘ Setting  illgagrgg  $1000 per person America’s Finest Catalog _

   
     
   
   
   
     

  

 

    
    
    
  
  
    
 
    

Market App"°‘“j°"‘ f°' ‘he ~ Finest Steaks ' °“"‘ '5'” " s""'°' Mail Order Companies. Ne

~“s‘iv“‘i‘;'i°4"$i§i‘—E‘iE”.{i§B. - push Seafood ' "°'§‘.i.'n'-"pod B-9-Al P-ch Includes salad, homemade rolls & rnuﬁn, Shipments Every Week.
Users earn BIC DISCOUNTS -Pork Ribs ' entree and beverage. Experience the Thrill‘ of

on GM CARS! Qualify for FREE
T-SHIRT 8: '94 CMC JIMMY.
Call 1-800-950-1039, ext. 75.

Saving 50% to 80% off of
Catalog Prices. 0

 

_ K - Banquet Facilities J

30 N. Main St.. Lexington Reservations Recommended 463-3020

 

  
  
 

Guaranteed.
Fr \\ E22 22. WAY5 _
W&L Art *°“eLP$'*”e“*e  463-9730

GAP-h-I CM-L mmw Hours: Mon. - Sat.

Signatures: l’m°"“l’88’8887' M”. 9330 ' 5:30 3
Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee A
M. Miley John Letcher
Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr.

   
    

      

Sam Houston A. P. Hill

Horse Boarding

Lazy Acres: 9 stall barn, new lighted ,
arena, excellent turnout, new fencing, _, ,
miles of trails, and conveniently located 
4 miles from Rt. 11 South, 2 miles from
the Virginia Horse Center on 39 West,

across from Long's campgrounds. $300
per month includes stalls cleaned and  ’ ‘ .
bedded, light daily grooming, turnout b1anket'ng, feed,

and water. Pasture board available at $100 per month
per horse. Riding lessons and horse training available
from qualified personnel. Call (703) 463-1636 and

leave a message.

   

W&L Copperplate. hand-colored
W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

k\ A

      
     
     
 
 
 

 
 
   

  
  

     

 
   
    

  
 

Caans

117 W. Nelson Street Sunday 11-4 Daily 10-6

 
 
   

 

  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee has 20 new
= aculty members for the 1993-94 aca-
. emic year.

Edward Adams joins the English
Department as a specialist in 19th cen-
tury British literature (Victorian). He
taught for two years as a graduate stu-
dent at Yale before coming to Wash-
ington and Lee. Before earning his
M.A. and Ph.D. from Yale in 1990 and
19%, respectively, Adams earned a
B.A. from Amherst in 1986 and an
M.A. from the University of California
At Berkley in 1988.

Adams factored Washington and
Lee’s size into his decision to teach
here.

\;I went to a small college, and I
wanted to teach at one, and Washing-
ton and Lee was very attractive,” Adams
said.

George Bent taught Italian Renais-
sance Art last spring in Cortona, Italy,
in a program sponsored by the Univer-
sity of Georgia. Bent’s area of spe-
cia y includes medieval and Renais-
sance art. He earned his B.A. from
Oberlin College in 1985 and an M.A.
and Ph.D. from Stanford University in
1988 and 1993. This year he will be
teaching classes in Baroque and Ro-
coco studies. He already admires the
Hoﬁor System here.

“I think (the Honor System) is a
great way for the student body to take
responsibility for its own actions,” he
said.

Paul Brantley is now teaching mu-
' sic for Washington and Lee. He earned
hisﬂ3.M. at the Manhattan School of
1 Music in 1983, and his M.M. from The

Eastman School of Music in 1988.

Before coming to Washington and Lee,

Brantley worked as a free—lance cellist
' in Nashville.

“James Collins will be teaching psy-

' chﬂogy this year. His area of specialty
is in neuroscience, and this year he and
several students will be conducting
‘ experiments involving a genetically-
bred epileptic gerbil. Collins is gather-
ting information on the different inﬂu-
ences of learning history on animals, as
well as working on learning more on
the movement and anxiety components
of epilepsy.
_ Collins received his B.A. and B.S.
degrees from Virginia Polytechnic In-
’, stitute in 1985, and he earned an M.S.
and Ph.D. from the University of Geor-
ia_$ii 1989 and 1993. He is replacing
I’ rofessor Len Garrard, who is on leave
tzor the year.

  
    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

it Groups & Clubs

Raise up to $500 - $1500 in less

than a week. Plus Win a trip to
Spring Break ‘94 and get

a FREE T-shirt just for calling.

1-800-950-1039

 fewest:
 STUDENT GROUPS! “
Raise as Much as You
Want in One Week!
$1 OO...$600...$1 sool
Market Applcotions ior Citibank
VISA. MCI. SEARS. AMOCO etc.
Coll for your FREE T-SHIRT ond to
qualfy for FREE TRIP to MTV

SPRING BREAK'94.
Cal 1-soc-932-0523. Old. 66.

     

      
     
   
 
    
   
    

  

 
 

 

UVLGVVIJZ/VLQN

W
261-7292

2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista - (Behind Pizza Hut)

$l.50ANY SHOW

No w Showing

ALADDIN
Rated G
Shows Daily at 5 & 7 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 1 pm.

’ SON-IN-LAW
' Rated PG-13
Shows Daily at 9 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 3 p.m.

    
  
 
 
 
  
  
 

F

 

“All You Can Eat”
B0’I'I‘0MLESS BUCKET
€3.00 OF POPCORN $3010

   
 
  
  
 
 
 

   
   
   

Lexington
Shop for

Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

Accessories

0.PpogoQQo'

It
Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

0

  
   
  
  
 
 
   
   

     
 
   
  
 

    
 
  

    

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

Collins served as a student investi-
gator for the Virginia Tech judicial
system as an undergraduate.

”I am favorably impressed with the
Honor System here. It is much tighter
than what I have seen before,” he said.

Terri Dadio will coach women’s
basketball and volleyball at Washing-
ton and Lee. She previously coached at
Trenton State College, where she is
currently working on receiving her
Master’s degree. Dadio received her
B.A. from Lafayette College in 1992.

Brandon Dixon will be teaching
computer science this year. He received
his B.S. from Vanderbilt in 1989 and
his MS. and Ph.D. from Princeton in
1990 and 1993. Dixon’s area of exper-
tise is theoretical efficient algorithms.
This area of computer science deals
with trying to find algorithms of prob-
lems posed in theoretical terms and
proving that those outcomes are effi-
cient.

Yuri Dubinin is teaching courses on
Russian foreign policy and the history
of international relations in the Pacific.
From 1978 through 1982 he served as

the cultural officer of the Soviet Em- .

bassy in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and
has since served as a professor, associ-
ate dean, and vice president for inter-
national contact for the Moscow State
Institute of International Relations.

Most recently Dubinin was a
Fulbright Professor at the Fletcher
School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts
University. He has been teaching since
1968.

Michael Evans joins the Mathemat-
ics department as its head. He received
his B.S. from Eastern Illinois Univer-
sity in 1966 and received his M.S. and
Ph.D. from M.I.T. in 1967 and 1970.
After 23 years of teaching at such insti-
tutions as Ohio University and West-
ern Illinois University, Evans said he
was looking for a small institution at
which to teach.

“I heard of Washington and Lee’s
fine reputation and fine math depart-
ment,’-’ he said.

Evans’ interest is in real analysis,
which he describes as “super-duper
calculus.’ Real analysis is used for ev-
erything from physics to computers to
engineering, he said.

Andrew Holliday joins the Com-
merce School and is teaching business
law and principles of economics. He
received his B._A._from Michigan State
University, his M.A. from the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin, and his J.D. (with
honors) from Illinois Institute of
Technology’s Chicago-Kent College
of Law.

Holliday has also recently worked

NEWS

ew professors arrive in

 

PAGE 9

011

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

Twenty new faculty members pose behind Robinson Hall. The new faculty members represent 15 different departments.

as a lawyer on product liability cases in
Chicago, particularly several involv-
ing asbestos and ﬂammable fabrics.

Before coming to Washington and
Lee, Holliday was a professor at East
Carolina University.

“After two years it’s nice to come
back to a place where you don’t feel
like a monitor or a policeman all the
time,” he said.

Peter Hoogenboom now conducts
the University Chorus and teaches voice
to individual students. He earned his
B.A. from Wesleyan University and
his M.M. from Indiana University. In
the interim between college and gradu-
ate school Hoogenboom worked on
musical theater productions.

The Washington and Lee students
made an impression on Hoogenboom
even before he was hired.

“When I came to _see thecampus

 last springihad a positive feeling due

largely to the students and my (future)
colleagues. All of them are very bright,
enjoyable, and personable,” he said.
Linda Hooks is teaching Money and
Banking, as well as Principles of Eco-

 

'OOOoO

‘T’ $1.99 Burritos
IMONDAY NIGHT

 

Pianist Wanted
I Honky Tonk
_ d at Harbs’ -
morning, noon, evening,
& Sunday
Contact Sharon or J‘ohn 464-1900
1

W///7'7//a’iii’

Jazz, Classica
Play for foo

Miiil

brunch

 

'l®\\®

 

 Restaurant

BUFFET

Friday &: Saturday Nights

at LEI Ill Truck Stop

  
  
  
  
     
  

nomics. She has first-hand knowledge
of these areas from her experience as
an economist for the Federal Reserve
Bank in Dallas. There Hooks researched
the banking industry and analyzed the
impact of new bank regulations.

Hooks graduated with a B.A. magna
cum laude from Louisiana State Uni-
versity in 1984 and received her M.A.
and Ph.D. from UCLA in 1986 and
1991.

Hooks believes that Washington and
Lee’s learning environment is unique.

“What is special here is the good
relationship between professors and
students and that definitely adds to the
atmosphere for learning,” she said.

Veronica Hubert-Matthews is teach-
ing French this year. She has previ-
ously taught at the University of Vir-
ginia, where she is currently a doctoral
candidate. She earned her B.S. and
M.A. from the University of Florida in
1984 and 1986.

Lawrence Hurd has been teaching
for over twenty years. He received his
B.A. from Hiram College in 1969 and
his Ph.D. from Syracuse University in

1972. In moving to Washington and
Lee to head the biology department,

Hurd was looking for a “small place '

with high standards and an apprecia-
tion for faculty scholarship.”

Hurd’s area-of specialty is predator-
prey interactions. He is studying insect
systems and the role of predators in
regulating species diversity.

Byron McCane earned his B.A. from
the University of Illinois, his M.Div. at
Trinity Evangelical Divinity School in
1979, his Th.M. from Duke Divinity
School and his Ph.D. from Duke Uni-
versity. His area of specialty is early
Christianity and early Judaism (from

100 B.C. to 400 A.D.).

Albert Murray is a duPont Visiting
Scholar and is teaching a course on the
South in American fiction and a course
on American music. Murray is the au-
thor of /The Omni-Americans (1970)

and South to a Very Old Place. He‘

attended Tuskegee Institute.

Debbie Owens is a Jessie Ball
duPont Visiting Scholar in journalism.
She received her B.A. from the City
University of New York in 1977, her

M.S. from the University of Illinois in
1982 and she is currently a candidate
for a doctorate in mass communica-
tions at the University of Florida.

In addition to teaching, Owens was
a reporter and public affairs correspon-
dent for WCIA-TV in Champagne, Il-
linois, as well as a reporter for the
Chicago Tribune and the New York
Amsterdam.

Erich Uffelman teaches chemistry.
He received his B.S. from Bucknell in
1984 and his Ph.D. from the California
Institute of Technology in 1991. After
receiving his doctorate Uffelman took
a post-doctoral fellowship at Stanford
University.

Vaughn Stanley has been a librarian
for eleven years and now at Washing-
ton and Lee he is responsible for main-
taining the Leybum Library’s collec-
tion of rare books, Robert E. Lee’s
letters, and the university’s archives.

Stanley received his BIA. from
Davidson College in 1973, his M.A.
from Virginia Polytechnic Institute in

1975, and an M.A. from the University A

of Chicago in 1982.

M32.

l’Rl.\'Cll’l.l£S of S()I'Nl)

R If 'I‘ I R Ii

iN\'i«;s'i‘ING_

      
 
 
    

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT

11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.

Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

463-3478

 
 

{NIGHT OWL MUSIC C03
25 S. Jefferson Street - Open 11 a.m. ’til 7 p.m.
Lexington, VA 24450 464.405 Monday-Friday
Between The Palms Sat, 11am, - 5p_m_

&Domino’s Pizza  & 
COMPACT DISCS

CASSETTES & LPS

Everyday Low Prices on New Items
($1.00 Less Than List Price)

Free, Fast Special Order Service

All Items Guaranteed

 

 

C) I 993 Téazbmr lruuranc: ant? Annuily A.r.mci'a!imi/ C 0/kg: Rdfrrmml E4/ui[i't.r F um).

an't afford to save for retirement?

The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want
to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.

By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax-deferral and give your
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $100 each
month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $i72,1og* by the time
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $219 each month
to reach the same goal.

%

Start planning your ﬁtture. Call our Enrollment Hutline 1 800 842-2888.

for those who shape it!"

Even ifyou're not counting the years to
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve—
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvest-
merit choices, and a record ofpersonal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education and
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of
their list for retirement planning. Why not

join them?

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you
have time and TIAA-CREF working on

your side.

75 years of ensuring the future

 

“/i.r.rumi'Ii_4; an i'n!tr:.;I rat: uf Z00”/o (rallied to TIA/l Rdirrnunl Aniiuititi. Tbu raft Lr uxtd mlzly Ia Jbaw [be rower am) (ﬂed ufcompauriding. Lower ar /Iigbtr I‘t1!(J' would
product very diﬂtrtni nt.ru[!.r. CREF (tI'(t/l£a!{.f are 3Lr!ri6u!:¢7 6y TIA/1-CREF Indie-491141/and Inﬂilulional Srrvirtx.

    

 

:ﬂ/1//:/V’l/ s/’L=j_/M/1/1%
5 1 I2:
: t 
() ‘A7 
y 0 u

DO YOU EN or ,  
SHOOTING SKEET? 

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.

   
   

  
   

WAT o'u> I D?

C 0 Carryout Available 11 S Jefferson St A61 : Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting Sport. ,
. ' ' ' 1 - .

Llve Bands on Thursda S \\o\D IEPMO 0 ‘_ , Back ard skeet isf n b ui.o:, ~g u _ ol|i- ._ 5

u. 3’ .96 .7. x _ “,5 M i .

and Frida s .
b e 3' At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all .~
 _2595 angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting ,.

A;  MN MW To REL Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot

       

   

 
   
    

  
 
    

      
    

 

V  in m=.z_\zF.S_ae vzememaezeb L0 enjoy a round.
1-  ;.  7_ *3:*;:“;:“;:ff"°‘ Call for a free brochure 463-1800
i   :  -. A cM2w°~I. Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays
g THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L. T-SHIRTS, SWEATS \ L
O 1‘ HATS AND OTHER W&L. SPORTWEAR 
LEX|N6TON'S ONLY SOURCE FOR TEVA8 AND NERRILL BOOTS rot! MORE 'NFoRMATio~ mu. ' : > , V ' L p’
t e is w. vmsmuciou :1. we no MAIL ORDER! 1.900-552.9.-Lg * I A » ‘
P 0 LEXINGTON 703 464-3000 7{]m_WmWMM

a 11 Valley True ‘I/afue H
C 0 Hardware, Paint, and Related Items , 3» .,"‘L _ ~

I I I . -  L T "3 T i:

u 1 d _ V  r A   2.3. ‘Q ;-. , .;.r  I ’ 3,: j l
Open Mo .- S t. 8:30 . .- 6 . . S . 1-5 . . \ .  " ’ /.. ' T E

E E. NelsonnSt., iexingxgnm p m UH463-zlisnsl  1, ,.  ~._~m ‘3

a.  »'/rr;«i..<<=*"i': ‘ L 9

. Septemb .. Sunndaty Sp eial .

1 Rent 1 Video, Pay 1/2 price for a second. New ' eleases included. ‘ E

O O O 0

§ Gomaies, Gomsies, @’0lIlIlGS @ @ @ -

; Complete selection of comics arriving weekly. All major companies & E
u . independents in stock. We have collector’s editions & newsstand. ’ E

- E -
1 II Rock & Roll, Novelty, Sports, and Comic book character in stock. [E
a b During September -- $3.00 off any T—Shirt. T

p E.
0. 11 t Lange Selection 3
1 t . 115WNebm3_ Buy any 2 CD ’s or cassette ’s & receive $2.00 off or a free cassingle of your, [F
' I
choice 5
J!‘
a   ETCOIIIC LO L B l... R.
up 

For 96 years the W&Lcommunity has looked
to The Ring-tum Phi for the latest news,-  

opinions, sports and campus coverage..
Be a part of an evolving tradition. 

Subscribe to the Phi. "

 

s/ Receive 29 issues and 4 special issues of
The Ring-tum Phi at your home every week
for only $30 a year. The Phi is mailed the day

of publication Without exception.
V To subscribe, fill in the information on the

right and enclose with a check for $30 made
payable to The Ring-tum Phi. Send payment

to: _ . _ ZTelephone number
The Ring-tum Phi, P. O. Box 899, Lexington, VA 24450 3,‘

§Yes, start my subscription immediately!
lwant to keep up with life at W&L.

Name
Address

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

oooooooooooooooooooooooco
uooooooooooooooooumuooooooocoooooo
K NV_'_,,_..4 .4.—,»»-~— 

ooooooooooooooooonocooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo0ooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

 

9
PAGE 11

 

Harrisreeter  
MEANS LOW PRICES

 

Soccer loses in overtime

REDUCED PRICE
U.S.D.A. CHOICE

LONDON

 

  
 
 

 

 TEA ET

WHOLE

 

TYSON-HOLLY FA 2‘ E

  

FRYERS............m.

 

 

CRISP
CUCUMBERS

  
  

    
 
  
  
 
  

  
  
  

 

. , E‘¢‘'ﬁ'?)-‘3.

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

99

I2 PK.
I2 OZ. CANS

PEPSI
C

    
 

REDUCED
PRICE

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 17, 1993

  

By RANSON JAMES
Phi Contributing Writer

The men’s soccer team began its
season on a sour note last weekend,
dropping its opening two games. The
Generals fell in a dramatic 5-3 over-
time loss Saturday to Centre College,
and then suffered a 5-0 blanking at the
hands of Transylvania on Sunday.

“We knew it was going to be tough
playing two games on the opening
weekend, but we feel like we learned
some good Iessons,” said Coach Rolf
Piranian.

With the loss of four valuable start-
ers to graduation, the Generals figured
this season to be a rebuilding one.
Piranian instituted a zone defense. The
zone is not commonly used, but can be
effective when played correctly.

Against Centre, ranked fourth in the
southeast, the Generals employed the
new defense and it proved itself fairly
well. After falling behind 2-0, senior
Tim McCarthy had a highlight—ﬁlm
goal, rocketing a 25-yard volley into

with some momentum, sophomore J eb
Wofford punched in a six-yard kick set
up by an indirect play. Moments later,
Wofford struck again, this time with an
assist from sophomore Scott Willard.
Late in the second half, Centre tied the
game on a penalty kick, caused by a
controversial foul. Overtime was too
much for the Generals as Centre scored
two goals to claim the victory.

Tri-captains John Robinson, Alan
Christensen, and Dan Rhodes all played
well. Newcomers Wofford, keeper Matt
Mazzarelli, and defenseman Billy
Ziegler showed great promise. But
Piranian was not totally satisfied with
his team’s play.

“We didn’t play as well as I think
we should. We learned some things
and will try to make adjustments this
week,” said Piranian.

The Generals host the first ever
W&L Soccer Classic this weekend.
Hampden-Sydney, Juanita, and pow-
erhouse Frostburg State are scheduled
for the tournament.

Saturday’s game will be broadcast

 

:11.»

the upper right-hand comer. Playing on WLUR.

   

Schaeffer leads cross country

Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer surpassed every ex-
pectation Sept. 11 by not only routing a field of 204 at the
Lebanon Valley Invitational, but beating the next runner by
51 seconds, setting a course record by 25 seconds, and
beginning her season with an unexpected 19:01.

“It was a good way to begin the season,” said Schaeffer.
“I felt really good; I was excited. The whole team did really
well.” ‘

With an overall place of fifth in a field of 22 teams, the
team can’t complain. Backup for Schaeffer was provided
by the remaining members of the Generals’ triumvirate,
sophomore Amy Mears, 16th, and junior Kim Herring,
28th.

“We didn’t really have any clear expectations for the
meet; we needed to do either a time trial or a race, and I felt
a race would be more fun,” said coach Jim Phemister.

As a warm-up, early-season race, the Generals can’t
complain. The men slid in just under the women's standard,
placing sixth in a 26~team field with solid performances by
four athletes.

Sophomore Tom Fink placed 34th with a time of 28: 19,

, followed by three Generals also under the 29-minute mark:
sophomores Jeff Zeiger, 28:28 and Brad Paye, 28:41; and

’ freshman Alvin Townley, 28:54.

Tomorrow the Generals head to Mary Washington Col-
lege for a tri-meet with MWC and Shephard College.

J ockShorts

Volleyball debuts coach with
two-game Winning streak

New beginnings are not always painful.

The Washington and Lee volleyball team proved that
last week as it opened the 1993 season with two solid wins
over Christopher Newport and Marymount, the same week-
end it was debuting coach Terri Dadio and freshmen Eliza-
beth Bahn and Virginia Yoerg.

Bahn and Yoerg combined for 18 blocks as the Generals
swept Christopher Newport 15-9, 15-4, 15-3 and were
forced to play five games to defeat Marymount.

Senior co-captain Tara Burns amassed 15 kills over the
weekend, leading the Generals to their first two-win sea-
son—opening streak since 1988. (W&L ﬁnished 16-11 that
year.)

Other bright spots came from sophomore Kelly Horan,
who won 13 points on her serve against Christopher New-
port, and sophomore Cheryl Taurassi had 42 assists.

Swimmers earn academic honors

1993 Washington and Lee graduate Claire Dudley was
named to the Academic All-American Division III swim-
ming team after earning a grade point average of 3.668 in
Chemistry and achieving All-American status in the 200-
meter breaststroke. ‘ '“"" “‘"’  " i”

The women‘s swimming team, whose collective GPA
was 3.280, was ranked tenth in the academic listings of the
Collegiate Swim Coaches Association.

HARRI TEETER... LOW PRICESALL DAY, EVERY DAY

  

.$ELECTED VARIETIES

   

,1 .
5.5-6 OZ.

   

EAGLE rr-rms
ROTATO cmps

   

 

VALUABLE COUPON

 

  

BUY ONE I5 OZ. KELLOGG'$

. FROOT LOOPS
AND GET ONE FREE

   

I WithA I0.

 

   

I This Cou Ma§Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per Customer Per Visit
00 inimum Purchase. OIIer Good Sept. I5,Thru Sept. 2l, I993.

  

3929
, —"_—=n_—_
i
‘I u .____
um
D
“'::—= PLU 2572
.'i'.——— GROCERY
‘xi
“E
III

  

 

COUPON
VALUE
§3.2l

VALUABLE COUPON
BUY ONE 16 OZ.

it

     
  
  
   

‘AND GET ONE FREE

 
         

With A 10
3932

  

  
 

Harris Teeter

\

  
     
 

l. .0

 

    

:9.
r:

PLU 2482
GROCERY

couPoN I I
VALUE _j___.
M I -———-
 !

I
IOK TIIIRST OUENCIIER I

, This Cou Ma Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per Customer Per Visit
00 Nlinimum Purchase. Otter Good Sept. I5, Thru Sept. 2l , I993. I

1 -o o
' rrces Effective Through September 2 I, I 993
. ces In This Ad Eltective Wednesday, September I5 Throu I
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None %oId To Dealers. We Gladiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

Tuesday, ptember 21 I993.ln

P/R OR AD BAG

FOLGERS

I69
COFFEE ................ .. 13 oz.
LIQUID

YES , 299
DETERGENT. ......... ..96 oz.

6 PK. I2 OZ. CANS

PC SOFT
DRINKS ............................ ..

O
7éls”‘EI&‘E“iiM I 99
SANDWICHES ........ .. 12 CT.

VALUABLE COUPON

BUY ONE I6 OZ.

I
IIT COFFEE CREAMERI
AND GET ONE FREE I

This Cou n MaL‘Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per Customer Per Visit
With A l0.00 inimum Purchase. OI‘Ier Good Sept. 15, Thru Sept. 2I , I993. I

   

 

D

-———— I
I3

D

U

"-' PLU 2480 I
E . GROCERY
§__-""' c9,gIQ~

HEIIISTBBIBI I49

- VALUABLE COUPON

| BUY our 40 oz. prrsn PAN CREAMY PEANUT sum |

I AND GET ONE 24 OZ. LOAF I
I III‘ KING IIIIN BREAD FREE I

This Cou n Ma Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per Customer Per Visit
I With A I0.00 inimum Purchase. OIIer Good Sept. I5 Thru Sept. 2l, I993. I

    

 

IBIIED DDDDIJ U

 

Hanlsmeter

OUPON I
I—""""' VALUE 6
m 70¢ I

Lexington Stores

   

  l

III
, 4-...-
ll

  
 

    
 
     

 . ._ ’ i _.__,_.=___
I tumult!!! .....=._.::_

  
 
     
    
    
  

jééj 1 — imj

All those interested in playing
Mews [Lacrosse

Please Contact Coach
Jim Stagnitta at  
463-8678
or
Doremus Gymnasium #525

 
     
 

  

Last Week:
FB—Emory&Henry 36, W&L 6

VB—def. Chris. Newport, Marymount
WP—2-2 at W&L Classic
XC—at Lebanon; W—5th, M—6th

PAGE 12

S

PORTS  

Cilia itting-tum iﬂlii

This Week:

VB—W&L Invit. 09/ 17-18
MSoc—W&L Classic 09/ 1 7-18
WP—at Eastern Tourn. 09/ 17-18 ,
XC—at Mary Washington 09/17

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

SEPTEMBER 17, 199

Where to go
Mon. night?

Sarah on Sports
by Sarah Gilbert

It isjust me or is their a
dearth of places to watch
Monday night football?

Perhaps the most popu-
lar regularly broadcast
sporting event on televi-
sion (I am, of course, not
accountingfortheregional
fascination with those boys
of summer, that’sright, the
ever-so-wonderfulAtlanta
Braves), the game has been
perverted and prostituted
so many times that it has
become tradition to capi-
talize on this arbitrarily-
chosen, often mediocre
football game.

 

Even on nights that the 7. -
mighty Indianapolis Colts’ q

(my sources from Indiana

tell me that Colts is really 7

an acronym for Count On
Losing This Sunday) face
some team akin to the At-
lanta Falcons (a subject for
another column in another
paper, perhaps: Isn’t it a
shame that the Braves be-
came decent a few years
back and ruined the fine
tradition of Atlanta’s pro-

fessional sporting teams?) ’

fine Lexingtonians every-

where flock to the Palms, a ‘

fraternity house, the Gra-
ham-Lees TV room, or
some other television
where the audience is
largely male and the beer is
cold and watch lots and
lots of commercials and ex-
players who should have
retired from the sporting
world entirely comment-
ing on the brief interludes
of football.

This topic came to the

forefront of the Ring-tumvl

Phi sports mind because,
continuing in the fine tra-

dition, the Raven and ,

Crown Pub (previously
closed on Mondays) has
just unveiled its own Mon-
day night football promo.
The eating establishment
will now be open from
8pm—12midnight on Mon-
days so diehards who have
exhausted every other
venue in town for viewing
the “big” game will have a
new hang-out. Not only a
new hang-out, but one
which serves basmati rice

with its dinner entrees.

(This is a good thing. Re-
ally. See for yourself.)

Yes, WREL(That’s w-; 
Robert-E.-Lee) has been

known to broadcast from
the Palms on a Monday
night. Good fun, good
friends, good football?

Sometimes. If all of one’s 
friends can agree on which . '
good fun place to Watch. 1
their Monday night big ’
game, one is a very lucky ’ ‘

person. I mean it.

Perhaps the full possi— if

biliti-° of -‘“'< Monday
night thing have not b. ..
explored. I won<3:i' how
successful football at
Hull’s drive-in would be?
Of course, seeing a foot-
ball game several months
after its initial release just
doesift have the same fla-

vor. But the second feature 3

has always been half-price.

Another little theatre
whose full potential has not
yet been met is the Trouba-
dour Cinema. Perhaps this
previously untouched big-
screen (at least, in terms of
sports)couldbe utilizedfor
a great night of football.

And isn’t the General
Headquarters now avail-
able on previously-spoken-
for weeknights?

Don’t get me wrong. I
love Monday night foot-
ball as much as the next
(fill in your non-gender-
specific pronoun of prefer-
ence). I just believe that
it’sbeenalittle...well...ex-
ploited.

Do try out the new Mon-
day nights at the Raven and
Crown, and do try the
Basmati rice. It’s really
excellent. Breakfast is
served all hours, and un-
like Lee-Hi, you don’t have
to fight the truckers for a
parking spot.

lt’s almost Monday
night....doyouknowwhere
your football is?

Water polo splits four in Classic

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

In Washington and Lee water
polo, the question of the week is:
who should we give top billing?
The brilliant young talent who
surprises everyone with a heck
of a tournament weekend, or the
seasoned star who shows top form
to lead his team to a nail—biting
overtime victory?

Thankfully, sportswriters can
always fall back on the alphabet.
Senior Greg Golub scored 15
goals in the W&L Fall Classic
last weekend as the Generals won
two and lost two games against
four of the top East Coast teams.
Freshman James Silberstein con-
tributed a mere 12 goals to the
W&L cause.

Before you call Guiness, it
must be admitted that the Gener-
als scored a total of 61 goals over
the weekend. In this situation,
Golub scored only 25 percent of
the total; Silberstein, 20.

Washington and Lee dropped
two games, to Johns Hopkins,
13-15, and to Richmond, 12-17,
before striking out in their true

Women’s soccer road trips;
Wins, loses games in Atlanta

form, annihilating Queens 21-
10. Silberstein scored six goals
and four assists in that effort.

The game and the perfor-
mance of the weekend were both
saved for the final match—up,
Washington and Lee versus
Villanova on Sept. 12. Golub
scored four of the Generals’ final
five goals in regulation and then
came back strong with two more
in overtime to lead the squad to a
15-13 victory.

In goal, sophomore Dane
Merkel and junior David Silvester
combined for 46 saves over the
weekend.

Tomorrow, W&L treks to
Richmond to face Bucknell, Slip-
pery Rock, and Villanova for an
Eastern Water Polo Association
tournament. The trip of the year
comes next weekend, however,
as the Generals head for
Claremont, Calif.

Next week’s road trip will be
a homecoming for coach Page.
Remillard; several team mem-
bers hail from California, as well,
notably Merkel (San Diego) and
Golub (Menlo Park). Perhaps the
Generals have a vested interest
in the state?

Senior Greg Golub, who scored 15 goals over the weekend, searches for an open teammate in a water polo

game. The Generals won two and lost two in the W&L Fall Classic Sept. 11-12.

File pﬁoto

 

 

straight post season appearance
are high. Just in case there were

Away Games

Weekend sports update

. I
In the American league,
there are more teams in pen-

  

by Stephen Williard

Welcome to the newest ad-
dition to the Phi. Hopefully,
this column will serve those
die-hard, pain-in-the-butt
sports fans (you know, the ones
who steal the television for
Braves games and Monday
Night Football). In any case,
may good taste prevail (most
of the time) and enjoy!

First on the agenda for this
week is the Atlanta Braves’
late season charge. Through
their last 34 games, the Bravos
have 28 wins. Combined with
the Giants epic choke job (8

 

any doubts, the Braves re-
sponded to a 6-2 ninth inning
deficit Wednesday night with a
5 spot capped off by a three-
run, game-winning, Ron Gant
homer.

Despite Atlanta’s mecha-
nized demolition of foes, ques-
tions remain, not just about the
Braves, but about the National
League in general. Even though
the Braves, Giants, and Phillies
still have the three best records
in baseball, the competition is
beyond suspect. Winning 100
or more games is rather easy
when you play triple-A teams
(the San Diego Padres), the Mets

nant races. Hence, teams are
still going with their best ev-
ery night (meaning I still rec-
ognize the players in the suit-
ing line-up). Don’t let the
records fool you—the National
League entry is not about to
cake walk through the series
this year.

—In other news, what hap-
pened at the U.S. Open? V611
somebody tell me where this
Pioline kid came from? With
seeded players dropping like
bad guys in an Eastwood ﬂick,
this year’s Open began to re-
semble a who’s who of tennis

 

consecutive losses as of
Wednesday), hopes for a third

(need I say more?), and expan-
sion teams.

Washington and Lee women’s soccer split its matches last weekend, against Agnes
Scott (3-0) and Emory (0-4). Goals in the Agnes Scott match were scored by senior
Angie Carrington, junior,,Anne Spruill and freshman Michelle Bauman. Most re-
cently, the Generals played at Liberty Hall Fields Sept. 16.

File photo

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Asst. Sports Editor

touchdown.

. Despite a 36-6 loss to the Wasps of Emory and

Volleyball

Football

Water Polo
Women’s Soccer
Men’s X-Country
Women’s X-Country0-O

Men’s Soccer

W&L Team Records

2-0
2-2
1-1
0-0

0-1
0-2

Henry this past weekend, the Washington and Lee
football team has a number of bright spots on
which to build.

The Generals hurt themselves in many cases
during the game. The majority of the Emory and
Henry offensive attack was based on W&L mis-
cues. The Wasps capitalized with a fumble recov-

. _ against Centre.
cry for a touchdown and four scoring drives origi-

1.000

wannabes. Pete Sampras vsgs
more than willing to take ad-
vantage of the carnage, cruis-
ing to the title and a number
one ranking.

-Parting Shots-

Hey Buffalo fans! You
won! After last weekenrxs
edging of the Dallas Cow-
boys, I’m sure everyone has
forgotten last year (52-17) and
that memorable THREE
game losing streak in the ig
one. Not even Minnesota
Denver could do that. (1

A note to Barry Bontﬁz,
Don’t worry, October is not
your month anyway. Way to
go Mr. June! You just started
your standard slide a little
early this year.

After Chinese women dis-
tance runners set a string of
records last week, numerous
accusations of blood doping
and steroid use have been
denied my China’s coach Ma
Junren. Ma cites highly ad-
vanced training techniques.
That has about the same rirg
of truth as the repeated assur-
ances of boxing promoters
that the Chavez—Whitaker
fight was not fixed. OK, what-
ever.

I
I
I
I

Wasps embarrass Generals

ered in the end zone by an E&H receiver -for a

The pressure on the W&L defense proved t be
too much, however. Though the Generals gavé) up
only 284 yards of offense to E&H, the Wasps wore
down the defense with their numerous drives from
deep in W&L territory.

Considering the Wasp’s number-10 national
ranking, the Generals performed admirably. With
a week off to rest and work out the kinks, the W&L
squad should be well prepared for its home m9tch

nating inside the W&L 30-yard line. Also instru-
t l t bl k d t d ' ht t — '
. 5  tr:::r]i(a;a:vkeSre wo oc e pun s an eig quar er  
The news was not all bad, however. Senior Tom
5 O 0 Mason rushed for 90 yards on 20 carries and caught School Record
. 4 passes for 35 yards with a soft cast on his left ,
hand. Quarterbacks Matt Reedy and Brooks Fischer
0 O 0 turned in solid performances. Reedy completed 8 Emory & Henry 2'0
- passes in 17 attempts for 91 yards against one Hampden—Sydney 1-0
interception. Fischer was 8 for 15 for 90 yards and Bri d ewater 0 1
O O 0 one touchdown toss to James Urban. g '
' The score was deceiving for the W&L defense, Randolph-Macon 0- 1.
which played a solid game on their side of the ball Guﬂford 0_2
O 0 O as well. Just as the offensive squad suffered from .
' tough breaks, the defense endured its share of bad Washlngton & Lee 0‘1

luck. Early in the game Lady Luck set the tone
when Washington and Lee safety Marc Newman
forced a Wasp fumble only to see the ball recov-

.000

 

 

 
 

 

They Might Be Gia

Read the exclusive

interview in the Phi

 LEYBURN us av
ON & LEE UNIV . IT-Y

LEXINGTON, VA 2

sep 2 71993

Volleyball equals

best start in history

0

he ‘ﬂing-tum lﬁlri

VOLUME 93, NO. 03

" olice arres

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Three freshman men suffered injuries when
a group of young black Lexington men as-
saulted them on Washington Street Saturday
nigﬁt.

“It made no sense,” said Mike Casillo, one
of the injured freshmen.

Casillo, Andrew Ruwe and Derek Schulze,
the two other injured freshmen, said that there
were at least 15 men in the group that followed
them as they walked down Washington Street
tovqrd the Pi Kappa Phi house. Casillo, Ruwe
and Schulze were with five other freshmen;
three women and two men. The youths did not
attack any of the women. The two other fresh-

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

t one local juven

men man ran to get help.

“Me and a friend were at the end of the line,”
said Schulze. “We passed a group of about 15
black guys. They were talking stuff to us.

“One of the leaders came up to me and said
‘now why’d you want to call us a bunch of
niggers?’ I said ‘we didn’t say anything, we
don’t want any trouble.’

‘‘I heard him behind me giggling. Then he
punched me in the back of the head. I turned
around and punched him back and then I was hit
by another guy in the jaw. They punched Mike
too. Then I yelled ‘run’— it looked like a bad
situation.”

Ruwe was walking ahead of the group with
two of the girls. Ruwe said that he received the
worst beating because he did not realize quickly
enough what was going on.

“We were walking ahead of the group sing-
ing and having a good time,” said Ruwe. “Then
all my friends started sprinting past me. I got
punched and I went down [since I was trying to
run]. I got up but then I got punched again
halfway up the Pi Phi lawn. I looked up to see
three big black guys standing over me.”

Ruwe said the attackers continued to kick
him until they were chased away by Pi Phi
members.

But that was not enough to scare the youths.
Ruwe said they returned a few minutes later
with sticks and baseball bats.

“I guess they came back to prove a point,”
said Ruwe.

Lexington Police Seargeant Wayne Straub
said that Shulze identified one of the attackers
later that night when they searched the city in a

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

patrol car. Police arrested the 16-year-old
Lexington youth Tuesday night. He was held in
a juvenile detention home until his hearing
Wednesday. The hearing was closed because of
his status as a minor.

Sgt. Straub said the youth may also be
charged with parole violation from a previous
conviction if he is convicted on the assualt
charge.

“He is charged with assualt and trespassing
on W&L property,” said Straub. “Papers were
served on him a year ago not to be on W&L
property.”

Police arrested two other youths the night of
the assualt for violating Lexington’s 11 p.m.
curfew for minors aged16 and under. Straub
said police “feel strongly that they were in-
volved [in the assault], but they can’t be charged

Domino’s
cancels ID
charges

By ET}-IAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Reporter

Domino’s Pizza has decided to dis-
continue its student ID charge program
after a test run of the program proved
urrﬂuccessful.

Rick Ficken, manager of Domino’s
in Lexington, said the program was

. started under owner Tom Wallace, who
had prior experience with the program
at other schools,

including Roanoke College. At
other schools, the program had proven
succesful for both the school and
Domino’s. Washington and Lee Uni-
versity decided to tryout a similar pro-
gram with the local Domino’s exclu-
sively because Wallace was familiar
with the system and was willing to pay
th§up—front cost of $3,600 to lease the
equipment, said John Cuny, assistant
treasurer and business office control-
ler.

Cuny said Wallace “approached the
Uniziersity with the intention of setting

us such a program.” W&L received 15
;' rcent of the total sales placed on the
r afd by students. According to Cuny,
the amount of pizza ordered was far
below what was expected, but Wallace
“felt that it would get better.”
Recently, Wallace decided to sell
his Lexington Domino’s franchise to
Ficken. Ficken opted to end the stu

u>'§ee DOMlNO’S, page 6

Bocci weather...

Students socialize in front of the Co-op while the weathélvremains summer-like. Autumn will
‘ probably make its presence felt this weekend for the football game, with rain and low temps.

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

SEPTEMBER 24, 1993

 reshmen hurt in racial assault

ile for assault and trespassing

without a positive identiﬁcation.”

Straub said although this assault is similar to
incidents involving the L-Posse two years ago,
this attack had nothing to do with gangs

“We got rid of the L-Posse,” said Straub.
“Most of them went to prison. This is a younger
group coming up — it runs in cycles. l’ve been
here for 15 years and I’m still fighting to put it
down.”

Straub said students should walk in groups,
especially at night. Straub also advises W&L
students not to associate with townspeople.

Straub said police are continuing the inves-
tigation, but advised students to be extremely
cautious.

“These kids are student bashing. Do every-
thing you can to avoid them. They’re out look-
ing to beat someone up.” 0

‘EC allots
SAB $70,000

By THOMAS Hesros

AND MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Of The Ring-tum Phi staﬂ

which asked for $2,400, fell under the
new policy and for the second year in a
row did not receive funding.

The Student Activities Board must

Third year law representative James
Rambeau motioned that$2,000 be given

be feeling pretty important right now.
At its annual budget allocations, the
Executive Committee gaveSAB

$70,000, an increase of $7,000 over.

last year, and an increase I of over
$15,000 over the past two years. But
most other student organizations, in-
cluding the Calyx, suffered cuts be-
cause the Executive Committee had
only $210,800 to distribute, excluding
$20,000 place in its reserve funds. The
$210,800 is about $25,000 less than the
EC had to give out last year.
The EC’s Honor Reserve has
$7,000, the Student Body Reserve has
$8,000, and the EC reserve has $5,000.
Additionally, Jason Robertson, former
president of the Student Telephone
Union and the Student Power Union,
allocated $17,000 to the EC to be used
for long term needs. Unfortunately,
the EC depleted the STU/SPU fund —
‘$4,000 was used to buy acopier and the
rest was used for miscellaneous alloca-
tions.

On Wednesday night during delib-
erations, the EC adopted a policy which
states they will not fund ideologically
or politically partisan organizations.
The American Civil Liberties Union,

to the ACLU specifically to fund a
debate between law professor Lani
Guiner and conservative/libertarian
Clint Bolick. But the EC felt that
would contradict the newly-adopted
policy.

Andrew Schneider, the president
of ACLU, defended his organization
as being politically neutral in protect-
ing the Bill of Rights. Ted Elliot of the
College Republicans didn’t see things
in quite the same way. “I didn’t see the
ACLU running to protect our constitu-
tional rights,” said Elliot, referring to
an incident last year when College
Republican posters were torn down.

Second-year Law Representative
Kevin Webb suggested that the ACLU
look to other resources for funding. “If
they (ACLU) need funds, they can have
a bake sale or something,” said Webb.
Amnesty lntemational was also ex-
cluded under the new policy.

Amnesty asked for $2,400. At issue
was their opposition to the death pen-
alty and the anti-death penalty display
they displayed in the library last year.
Secretary Ashby Hackney argued that

bsee EC, page 6

&L rank rises to 20

From Staff Reports

Washington and Lee is movin’
on up.

W&L ranked 20th among the
nation’s best national liberal arts
colleges in this year’s edition of
U.S. News and World Report’s
College Rankings. That’s up two
notches from 22nd place, where
W&L has ranked the last two
years.

The 1,371 accredited four-
year schools included in the study
(institutions with 200 or fewer
students were excluded) were
ranked according to a system that
combined statistical data with the
results of an exclusive U. S. News
survey of academic reputations
among 2,655 college presidents,
deans and admissions directors,
resulting in a record 65 percent
response rate.

To determine the reputational
rankings, the participants in the
survey rated only institutions in
the same category as their own
schools. They were asked to place
each school into one of four
quartiles based upon its reputa-
tion. Each time a respondent
placed a school in the top quartile,
it received four points; in the
second quartile, three points; in
the third quartile, two points, and
in the fourth quartile, one point.
The points for each school were
totaled and divided by the num-

ber of participants who placed
the school in one of these quartiles
to calculate the reputational
scores. To determine a school’s
overall rank, the reputational
scores were combined with data
provided by the colleges. These
included statistics that measured
student selectivity, faculty re-
sources, financial resources,
graduation rate and alumni satis-
faction.

The statistical data and the
reputational rankings were then
converted to percentiles. The
highest raw score for any attribute
was valued at 100 percent. Next,
all the other schools were taken
as a percentage of the top score
and totaled. The six attributes for
each school were then numeri-
cally ranked in descending order
and weighted: Alumni satisfac-
tion counted for 5 percent, gradu-
ation rate for 10 percent, finan-
cial resources 15 percent, faculty
resources 20 percent academic
reputation and student selectiv-
ity accounted for25 percent each.
The weighted numbered ranks
for each school were totaled and
compared with the weighted to-
tals for the others in its category.
The highest ranking school was
the one with the lowest total. Its
overall score was converted into
a percentile of 100. The totals for

I->See W&L, page 6

Mrs. Watson’s passion
for Asian art revealed

Passion.

For Mrs. Elizabeth
Otey Watson, this was
the ingredient that
sparked her interest in
collecting East Asian
art and furnishings
now on display at
Washington and
Lee’s Watson Pavil-

_ IOII.

“I ’m terribly interested
in the Far East,” said
Watson. She lived lived
in Canton, Hong Kong,
Bangkok, Indonesia and
Taiwan.

From antique Khoton
rugs to Ming Dynasty
lamps, the Watson col-
lection spans a broad
range of East Asian art.
Some of the Chinese ex-
port porcelain and jade
goes back nearly 2,000

years.
“There’s not one [center] in

 

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Reporter

 

this country that can encom-
pass the broad range [of East
Asian art] that the Watson Pa-
vilion and Reeves Center do,”
said Mr. James Whitehead,
fonner director of the Reeves
Center.

Watson graduated from

 

Radcliffe, which is part of
Harvard-Radcliffe, with a
bachelor’s degree in fine arts.
“My major was ﬁne arts, so
naturally I had an inclination
[towards art],” she said.
However, her love for art
did not start in college. Even in
her “middle school” years, she

bsee WATSON, page 7

 

  

PAGE 2

Ellie iﬁing-tum lﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

In the middle

Last Week Washington and Lee students were told that
it might be best if they did not associate with Virginia
Military Institute cadets. This week Chief of Police Bruce
Beard told a reporter it might be best if students did not
associate with townspeople.

But aren’t we continually told that we need to work at
improving relations with both Lexington residents and
the cadets? So where does that leave us? We either stop
associating with non-W&L folks or we try to improve
relations. Either way we have to ignore one piece of
advice.

But, realistically, how can we just stop associating
with townspeople or cadets? It’s rather difficult to walk
the streets of Lexington without bumping into one or the
other. The three W&L students that were beaten did not
go out looking for the townspeople. They went out
looking for a W&L party and just happened to meet up
with a group of townspeople that wanted to beat them up.
Maybe we should just pick up the fraternity houses that
are more than a quarter of a mile from campus and move
them closer. Then we can build big huge walls around
everything W&L owns and dig tunnels to connect every-
thing, so we never have to take the risk or bumping into
a cadet or townsperson. Of course we would have to work
something out with one of the supermarkets to have them
deliver. We would have to bend the rules a little to get the
groceries from the delivery person though. After all, that
delivery person would have to be from town or a cadet
because W&L students would be too busy making sure
we did not associate with townspeople or cadets.

Ridiculous isn’t it? Well, that whole scenario is only as
ridiculous as the idea of ignoring whatever problems
have caused the last two fights involving W&L students.
We can not avoid cadets and townspeople and be a part of
the community at the same time. And we can not just
remove ourselves from the community. Lexington and
W&L are just too small.

There is no way for W&L, VMI and Lexington to
completely separate themselves from one another. W&L
would not be the same university if it was in another city.
Lexington would not be the same city without W&L and
VMI. Any suggestion that the three try to separate them-
selves from one another is ludicrous. Instead of ignoring
our problems with each other, we should try and figure
out what is going on.

Speak Y’al1

;.,..)(0u’«ve- heard. it before, but you’re going to hear it

. again,  speakingtradition-is at the lowest point any of

uscan remember. It may not be dead yet, but it’s gasping.

Other than a few freshmen, just about everyone on this

campus chooses to look away from their fellow students
rather than say hello or smile. The question is... why?

Perhaps W&L has become as rude as the rest of the
world. Reginald Alton said at Opening Convocation that
the people here were the happiest and friendliest he had
ever met. We would like to think Mr. Alton was right, but
you have to wonder when we can’t be bothered to say
hello to one another.

Maybe it’s apathy. It’s possible that apathy has set in
so deep in all of us that we can’t be bothered to speak to
each other on the Hill. But maybe it’s not that bad. It
could just be a momentary lapse of reason on the part of
the entire student body.

So, in the hope of slapping us all awake — SPEAK.
It’s one of those little traditions here that help make
W&L a unique place. So, unless you want W&L to
become just like all those other places, say hello or even
just smile at your fellow students when you see them on
the Hill. Any acknowledgment of existence is far better
then averting your eyes. And anyway, the ground can not
be that interesting.

PS. Professors, it would be nice if you would say hello,

Eiuote of the Week

It’s like ebony and ivory.
— A Sigma Nu watching two cadets speaking to a Phi Delt

Tilt: iittng-tum iﬂlii

 
 

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien,ThoIrias Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . ., . . . . .Ricltard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sar'ah Gilbert

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

..Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .l(evin Roddey

Assistant Business Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allan Hiekinger

. Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

‘Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

H I The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
' j University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi comes primarily front advertising and
,subscr_i'ption revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the executive editor and
l business manager, but The Ring-rum Phi is otherwise independent.

“' V ; Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208ofthe University Center, by noon
' . on Tuesday to appear in that week‘s edition. Advertising does not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum
. Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, September 24, 1 ' '

  

 Au» at llsoenr flaws, 95 VEZLEN1’ or

ALL. AMEZKANS sA«i> ‘me
A HEALTH one PLAN PR posse ey A

Wo\lt.D Rt‘-:"sEc.i' M-

“"\.,

MAN wuo's FAVORWE MEN-. is A any
MAC , LARGE FRIES AND A SHAKE.

O

Vouchers will help U.S. educatio, ..

In 1978 Califomia’s voters over-
whelmingly passed Proposition 12,
which cut and prohibited further in-
creases in property taxes and started
the greatest tax revolt in modern Ameri-
can history. It spurred similar revolts
nation-wide against bureaucratic gov-
ernments that excessively taxed and
scarcely provided useful services. Be-
fore it was over, it propelled Ronald

educate and are often crime-ridden.
Vouchers give these parents the free-
dom to choose a school for their chil-
dren, instead of having it tyrannically
imposed on them.

The competition between schools
brought on by a voucher system im-

proves the entire educational estab- 

lishment. Bad schools ﬁnd their stu-
dents leaving to attend better schools,

 

Reagan into forcingthem
the presidency to either im-
and gave him prove or
the political close down.
support he The

needed to re-  of 
duce federal Olmem ptoﬁtentices
taxes. The dy- 996 education
namic eco- entrepre-
nomic growth neurstoforrn
generated by newschools.
these‘ tax cuts‘ W V y x   V  existing
broughtfoitliaj _ _ ' ‘ M I ‘ I “ ‘ jeducational
new renaissance of ‘entrepreneurship a monopoly, which‘-perpetuatesthe»cre-

and.‘ economic advancement in
America.

In November Califomia’s voters
have a chance to again start a renais-
sance in America; this time it deals
with something of more importance
than economic policy, the education of
America’s children. Proposition 174
seeks to establish in California the
nation’s ﬁrst school choice system. It
would give every child in California a
$2,600 voucherto be used at any school
of the parents’ choice. Parents would
shop for a school just as they do for a
car. Vouchers give them greater free-
dom to ﬁnd the particular school that
best meets their childrens’ needs.
Whether it’s a school with a Afro-
centric curriculum or a strong science
department, parents decide what type
of education their children receive.

Low-income families stand to ben-
eﬁt the most from a voucher system.
Students from high and middle income
families can afford to leave a bad pub-
lic school; students from low income
families do not have this option. They
are left trapped in schools that do not

Perot’s demogoguery a threat -

inﬂuence, he has a good deal of that too. He’ll be
able to run the country just like he ran his billion
dollar business and pretty soon we’ll be doing ﬁne,
right? WRONG! 4
It’s true, Mr. Perot is not in this game for the
money or the inﬂuence, he ’s had those for years, but
he is in it for another reason, he’s in it for the
attention. He is a bored billionaire with only one

Last week Americans witnessed an unusual sight
in our nation’s capital. Former presidents Ford, Caner,
and Bush joined President Clinton at the White House
in a ceremony supporting the North American Free
Trade Agreement. My purpose is neither to agree nor
disagree with their positions, but to expand upon

statements made by President
Carter concerning a danger-

ation of morons, would evaporate into
a system of hundreds of independent
schools, each competing to be the best
educator. America’s students can only
beneﬁt from such a system.

Vouchers give parents who want
their children educated on religious
matters, but who cannot afford to pay
both for a public school and for a paro-
chial school, the ﬁnancial ability to
afford the school of their choice. Par-
ents do not want their children attend-
ing schools where metal detectors have
replaced the Ten Commandments. A
voucher system allows them to send
their children-to a school where reli-
gious matters are treated seriously, in-
stead of to a public school where they
are neglected.

The national coalition pushing for
school choice has a non-partisan com-
position. In Wisconsin, Democratic
state legislator Polly Williams pushed
through legislation that gave part of
Milwaukee a voucher system. She and
other minorities, who are ﬁghting to
get poor inner-city children out of the
collapsed public schools, are aligned

ous force now at work in our
nation. This force is embod-
ied in one person, a man Mr.
Carter spoke of as a “dema-
gogue.” A demagogue who
has “unlimited ﬁnancial re-
sources and who is extremely

 

Patrick
McDermo_tt

careless with the truth, who is
preying on the fears and the

uncertainties of the American public.”
name is H. Ross Perot and I must wholeheartedly
agree with our esteemed former President’s opinion

of this attention-addicted showman.

One columnist described him as, “a vertically
impaired billionaire who sounds like a chihuahua.” I
happen to agree, but more important than his annoy-
ing style is his unrelenting pursuit of celebrity. This
pursuit will inevitably be at the cost of the millions of
Americans who have swallowed his empty lure. He is
a populist, but he is unlike any political populist this
country has ever seen. Mr. Perot would be more at
home on a list of such fonner populists as Jim Jones
or David Koresh, and let me tell ya folks, you don’t

want to drink his cup of Kool-Aid.

His platfonn, like his rhetoric, is full of absolutely
nothing. He has not a single workable idea for what to
do with this country because he has realized that it is
both easier and less risky to go fiorn podium to
podium telling the people what they want to hear
without really giving them any answers. Since losing

The man’s

plans at home because
he did not expect to be
asked about them!
What scares me the
most about the “Perot-
mania” which is taking
place in our country is
that it demonstrates just
how desperate the av-
erage American citizen
is for a politician he or

she can trust. During last years election they were
frustrated with what seemed like endless corruption
and inefﬁciency on the part of their elected represen-
tatives. And then here came H. Ross Perot, American
Billionaire, who offered himself up as the people’s
candidate. What could be more perfect? He isn’t in it
for the money, he’s got plenty. He isn’t in it for the

the presidential election, Mr. Perot, still needing his
daily “ﬁx” of empty applause and blind support, has
been going from his home base of Larry King Live, to
each of the morning talk shows and all around the
country on his lecture tours. He has attacked the
President’s budget proposal, he denounced the Clinton
Deﬁcit Reduction Program,‘
and now he is after NAFTA,
even though he has no alter-
native toofferforany ofthese
issues.

ers what his solution is, he
continually makes excuses
and use his famous one-lin-
ers and empty slogans to ﬁll
airtime until the show is over.
When he was pressed recently by a reporter to give a
substantive response to any one of these issues, Mr.
Perot told the viewing audience that he had leﬂ his

with such free-market conservatives as
Noble Prize winner Milton Friedman.
They do not seek to impose any politi-
cal position on schools, only to reform
them.

As with every refonn movement,
there is an entrenched establishment
detennined to squelch it. This time it is
the teachers’ unions and the political
class it supports.

The June 7 Forbes examined the
unrestrained powerof the National Edu-
cation Association. It found that as the
percentage of teachers in unions has
increased, starting in the early sixties,
the average SAT score has fallen. The
NEA loves to explain this decline as a
result of too few dollars being allo-
cared to education. Yet, spending per
pupil and teachers’ salaries, as Forbes
points out, have both dramatically in-

creased since 1945. The average teach-,

 

  
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   

schools controlled by it are the sam
schools parents so badly want thei
children to ﬂee. As students and thei
vouchers leave the NEA’s, schools, i
loses its monopolistic power to de
mand higher wages for teachers Th
higher teachers’ wages, the higher th
union dues which can be collected. The
NBA complains that teachers are n it
well paid. That’s partly because '
NEAcollectsforitsown uses,asFor .
reports, $742 million in dues fro A
teachers. 6

On what does the NEA spend thi
excessive war chest?

Notice that teachers were the larg
est single voting bloc at the 1992 Demo
cratic Convention. To protect its mo
nopoly, the NEA has become a majo
player in elections. Its deep pogket
are attractive to any candidate. As th -
proponents of school choice have ‘dis

  
   
    
    
   
  
   

ers.’payhasrisen T covered, the - o
in1992constant T liticalfriendst -
g;>1|;_%_~ flrgirsi ouchers give par- {EBA buys wilt
, in - is money ma -
to $35,334 in cuts who want their educationa re
1992,andspend- children educated on form nearly im
ing perpupil has possible. Wha
increased from t makes Proposi
$974 to $5,216. tion 174 so dan
W II II- I? 3 I
 P l:,'l‘i’cl"l;m pay both for a public ﬁegxus *3‘ 
cation is not school and for a pan)’ goes over the
money; it’s that chlal school, the ﬁnan- heads of it§ po-
the government litical allies. ..
has allowed me cial ability to afford the amount 0
teachers’ unions school of their choice. money can buy
to gain a mo- offparent angry
nopoly. - about the shality

This monopoly has more control
over childrens’ education than their
parents. -It sits back and allows such
topics as “Health Awareness” and
“Why Billy has Two Daddies” to re-
place math, science, and English. The
concerns of the NEA are not educa-
tional matters but the protection of its
monopoly.

The NEA recognizes that if school
choice plans spread throughout the
country its power will collapse. The

When asked by interview-

world left to conquer, and he has decided tiiattno
matter what it takes, he is going to win. I have no
doubt whatsoeverthat Mr. Perot’s name will appear
on the Presidential ballot in 1996. He has invested
too much money and is having too good a time to
stop now. What we must do is close down his little
party before he damages the people and the strength
of this nation.

Whether you think NAFTA is a good idea or not,
one thing is for certain, Mr. Perot is in it fo the
wrong reasons. He has now gone beyond eva ing
the tough questions and is purposefully spreading

  
 
   
  
    
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  

of education their children receiv

When Californians vote thilI&o-
vember they will be deciding in re
than the structure of their education
system. The vote will determine
whether a government sponsored mo-
nopoly or parents can best serve the
needs of America’s children. Proposi-
tion 12 helped Americans regairy:on-
trol over their property; let’s hope
Proposition 174 helps Americans re-
gain control over their children.

blatant lies about this

treaty. He has repeat-

Ross Perot will be able to run Eﬂlﬁﬁlalﬁd 

0 WI C05 6

the country just like he ran his United SW5 5 "_
billion dollar business and lion jobs. Even the

pretty soon we’ll be doing ﬁne,

right? WRONG!

staunchestopponents
of the treaty will tell
you that this is sim-

go home.

ply not true. All the
while, the hard work-

ing citizens of our nation are being fed Mr. Perot’s
frightening misinformation. “
This must stop. It is time we all stood up to Ross
Perot for what he is, an egocentric bully who got a
little bored and got carried away with a dangerous
game. It’s time we told Ross to pick up his toys an e

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 24, 1993

Sros’ SPACE
Tom Hespos

Its about that time. It’s been almost
a month since you arrived at Washing-
toigand Lee. If you haven’t done it
already, now is the time to write the

» infamous first letter to your parents.
» Although you may have had to call

Mom and Dad a few times since your
arrival, the old parental units like to get
a little mail every once in a while, so go

Washington and Lee. I have made
many new friends here in the dorms.
(You have to meet this guy Harold.
During open contact, he went to Alpha
Beta Gamma and got really drunk...then
he puked on our dorm counselor.)

My classes are going well. I think
my professors really like me. (Except
for my Calculus professor. On the first
Thursday, I slept through class because
I was hungover. He dropped me from
the class and I had a real problem
getting back in.)

Books and school supplies sure cost
a lot of money here in Lexington, so

has become pregnant, in which case
I’m really screwed.)

I got my first test back in English
class today. It was a little below what I
expected to get, but I talked to the
professor and he says I can get my
grade back up. (I got a 46. The profes-
sor dedicated an entire 15-minute in-
class tirade to me and my pitiful score.
He said that unless I get my ass in gear,
I will probably
fail.)

Are you
coming for
P a r e n t ’ s

OPINION

Spos misses his family (maybe)

Books and school

apartment parties and a state trooper
nailed me for doing 85 in a 65.)

All in all, I think things are going
fairly well here. (If you don’t count that
small laundry mishap that turned all of
my clothes pink.) I hope to see you
soon. (I need money... big time.) I
hope Sis is doing OK. (Hmmmm...
maybe she could send me some cash?)

Write back soon. (Or call. I can’t
afford to call since
some of my
hallmates used my
phone to call
Guam and never

Kathekon

Kathekon will be in front of the
Co-op on Tuesday from 11 a.m.to.2
p.m. and Wednesday from 11 a.m.to
A3 p.m. with catalogs for ordering
ﬂoat supplies for the Homecoming
parade.

England

i ﬁn" 1:;

PAGE  a 

 

from Professor Ronald Lane Reese,
Parmly Hall 216 (463-8885). Dead-
line for applications for next year is
November 29. -

Contact A A

Members of Contact who have
not attended meetings yet, please
call Matt Jackson, chairman, at 463-
9819.

3h d and Write l0 them -lU_St doll,‘ d0r1’tbe t00 Surprised When you get the Weekend? I . paid me back.) - Any students interested in Ad-
tggve ihelm anydmore information than :ill.b('I‘(ljie iize otfi)ny CD collection has can’: wait to supplies sure COSt 3 lot vanced studies in Engiand shouid
ell Y“ Y nee - 0|! e ,I oug - see you. (I can of money here in Lex. Love, come to Payne 20 on Saturday at A

During Spos’ freshman year, he
made the mistake of writing down ev-
ery little thing that happened to him
during Rush, with the end result being
tha$“Spos’ mom almost had a king-size
he

I started a charge account at a store
called Alvin-Dennis because I needed
some new clothes for school. (-and
when you get the bill, you might not be
able to make your next two car pay-

"certainly
wait... my
roomisaoom-
plete mess.
The neatest

ington, so don’t be too
' surprised when you get
the bill. (The size of my.

Joe Freshman

V P.S. Do you
think’ you could
send the tune-up

3:00 p.m. to receive information.

Women’s Forum

The Rockbridge Area Coalition
Against Sexual Assault is seeking
volunteers to provide direct victim

. attack Whlle SPOS’ dad PI°b3h_lY merits.) thing about it CD c0nect10n has money quickly? At this week’s meeting of the services and community education
smiled atlhe Slghlgflhe leher ahd “"99 A few Weeks ago. l Went t0 my first is the six-by- doub]ed, th0ugh_) (l’ve already post- Women’s Forum, Professor programs. The 33-hour Fall Vol-
“Thatis my ho)/”l_ _ fraternity party at Alpha Beta Gamma- six beer pyra- poned my court Simpson will present “The Tradi- unteer Training Program will be

The f°ll°W1hg‘5 3 Sample Ofa WP1‘ The brothers Were really nice l alS0 mid my room- date — twice.) tion of Women at W&L.” All are held from Thursday, September30
Cal fTeShm3h’S ﬁfsl lellef h0m°- The melthis really nice girl named Susan-l mate and I invited to attend on Sunday, Sep- through Saturday, December 4 at
pans that should be censored are given think you’ll like her (The Alpha Beta built last Gettheidea?lf tember 26 at 6:30 p.m. in the Ar- the Mint Spring United Methodist
lh Palehthesesy 50 lhal haw freshmen Gammas fed me beer until 1 COUld weekend.) Joe’s mother is exposed to any of the lington Women’s Center. Church. Formoreinformation,call

caﬂleam from it and ease the strain on
their mothers’ hearts:

Dear Mom and Dad,
I am having a great time here at

barely see. I passed out and woke up
next to this girl named Helga. I don’t
know whether you would like her or
not — in any case, I have no intention of
everspeaking to heragain. . . unless she

The car is doing fine. I was wonder-
ing if you could send me a hundred
dollars so that I can get an oil change
and a tune-up. (T une-up my foot! My
buddies made me drive to the Hollins

parenthetical quips above, she will drop
dea in the middle of the driveway on
her way back from the mailbox. So
watch what you put on paper.

See you in two weeks...

Confederate ﬂag not appropriate

F MY VIEW
’ Michael Hewlett, ’96.

I don’t like the Confederate ﬂag too much. Even
after a year at Washington and Lee University, I’m
still not quite used to seeing that ﬂag hanging proudly
ouﬁof peoples’ rooms. Most people who hang the

were raped and black men were emasculated. A time
when the crack of the whip on human ﬂesh was heard
over and over again. A time when those happy singing
darkies picked cotton and tobacco from sunup to
sunset. A time when being black and being American
were two different things.

Yet, most defenders say that even though slavery
was bad, it wasn’t the cause of the Civil War. It was
about state rights. Well, if it was about state rights,
then why did Abraham Lincoln issue the Emancipa-
tion Proclamation which didn’t even affect theborder

federal government was encroaching on their prop-
erty, which of course included slaves. Yet, some
people just acknowledge and then quickly dismiss
it. Some people even believe that blacks should
revere the Confederate ﬂag because if there had not
been a Civil War, slavery would not have been
abolished. Hogwash!

After the Compromise of 1876, when Rutherford
Hayes agreed to take Union soldiers out of the
fomier Confederate states, black codes were estab-
lished that virtually stripped blacks of all their

Resumes

A resume workshop will be held
on Tuesday, September 28 at 4:00
p.m. in Room ‘108 of the University
Cemei=.. This workshop is open to
all students who need help with
their resumes. ‘

Interviews

Practice interviews will be held
on Tuesday, September 28 all day
in Room 109 of the University Cen-
ter. Sign-up is necessary before par-
ticipating in a practice interview.
Si gn-up in the_Career Development
and Placement Office.

463-RAPE.

Photos

There will be a meeting for any-
one interested in being a photogra-
pher for the W&L yearbook (Ca-
lyx) on Tuesday, September 28 at
6:30 p.m. in the Calyx office (Room
206 of the University Center). No
experience necessary! Assignments
will be given out at the meeting.

Calyx

For all students and faculty who

battle ﬂag say they’re celebrating their Southern states? It certainly rights. Somehow I don’t D ' d1’ did h°‘ ""'°°l"°-‘h¢h" 1993 C3134»
heritage. I’m all for celebrating one’s heritage, but wasn’t because he feel the urgent need to go ea lne morebookswillbearrivingshortly.
somehow I don’t see how displaying the Confederate wanted the immediate out and buy a Confederate , We apologize for the shortage.
flag is celebrating one’s Southern heritage. aboiition ofsiavei-y, He ﬂag. The resume drop date for Octo- '

This summerduring one of the Senate sessions,
Sen. Jesse Helms of North Carolina wanted his fellow
coﬂeagues to help celebrate his Southern heritage by
patenting an emblem that included the Confederate

flag for the gentle ladies of the Daughters of..thea

Confederacy. It had been done numerous times before

“h man chattel” —- simply property. Charges of
racism and political correctness were hurled at her.
Sen. Helms reportedly sang “Dixie” to her on the
elevator. But it didn’t matter. She was right.

When you continually see white supremacy groups
like the Ku Klux Klan waving them around proudly,
you begin to not like the Confederate flag very much.
Ye’, it’s not just redneck racists who display the ﬂag.
It’s supposedly intelligent human beings who refuse
to understand what that ﬂag represents to me. It
represents oppression. It represents a time when blacks
went by the name of either “nigger” or “boy.” A time
when blacks were inspected and auctioned off as if
they were pieces of meat. A time when black women

. .

«coin. wasn3't> opposed to

simply wanted to pre-
serve the Union and if
abolishingslaverycould
dothe job, sobe it. Lin-

slavery and 'mli¢»h<i asi he

Some people even believe
that blacks should revere the
Confederate ﬂag because if

rﬁtliere ‘had not been a Civil

However, more than
slavery, what really both-
ers me is that people per-
ceive the Civil War as

wasn’t. 620,000

would eventually end,

but he didn’t~think blacks

and whites could coexist. The war just forced his
hand. Besides the Emacipation Proclamation didn’t
really free the slaves because the border states were
not affected. It was not until the 13th Amendment that
slavery was abolished. This is not to say that Abraham
Lincoln was not a great man, but he was not perfect
either.

And does anyone think that if the South had won,
slavery would have been abolished? Maybe, but not
likely. Slavery was a part of theSouthem economy,
especially after Eli Whitney invented the cotton gin.
One of the reasons the South seceded was that the

cans were fighting each
other not some foreign enemy. Should we be proud
of that? Should we be proud of the fact that it took
a war to end approximately 300 years of human
bondage? Should we be proud of the fact that it was
a war that woke up our slumbering sense of moral-
ity? Yet, people continue to display the ﬂag as if
they ardently wish that the South had wori.

Well, sorry folks, the South lost, and the waris
over. Maybe America will move forward when we
finally face up to the fact the Civil War is not
something to celebrated but something to be re-
membered. Then maybe we as a nation will move
forward and not make the same mistake again.

LETTERS

Alpha Phi Omega president thanks freshmen

somethingﬂglpjrious‘. It’
‘ iK'ine,ri- .

C
To the Editor: V

On behalf of Alpha Phi Omega, I
would like to extend a sincere thank-
you to all those who participated in
Project Safe and Sound during fresh-

0

man orientation. .

Many residents of the Lexington
community have beneﬁted from your
hard work. Indeed, it is that sort of
effort that makes this town a better

place to live in and attend school. We
feel that this project was a tremendous
success, and based on this year’s expe-
rience, we look forward to continuing
it in the years to come.

TALKBACK

Thanks again, and congratulations
on a job well done.

Josh Cook ’95
President, Alpha Phi Omega

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

 

ber companies is September 30 in
the CD&P. '

v a

American Universities and Colleges
may do so by submitting the name
and qualifications of that student to
Dean Howison in Payne Hall 6 by
October 8. Criteria for selection to
Who’s Who include: (1) scholar-
ship, (2) participation and leader-
ship in academic and extracurricu-
lar activities, (3) citizenship and
service to Washington and Lee, and
(4) potential for future achievement.

Oxford

Washington and bee sends one
student each academic year to Uni-
versity College, Oxford, typically
during the junior year. Students

be juniors during the next academic
year (1994-95) are invited to seek
further information about the pro-
gram and application procedures

interested in the program who will -

Fulbrights

Seniors with 3.5 GPA and higher

»with no opposition. But this time things were a litw was oppij§8d"[(‘)‘{h'é ﬁjr- --.:~«War, slaverynwould 'll0t have N ”""I“‘ ;z‘:’a'hg‘die’d'fﬁ’th'5‘{'W5r cnio-re ' ’ «- '*Anyone- {who wishes ‘to nomi- who are interested in applying fora
different. Carol Mosely Braun, the first black woman thei-ex‘rengiondf5ia:vefy_ 'i'r:b>e‘en  liogwash»! ” ‘- ’ manta“-y‘ '(-“her in Ameri_ nate;_a memberof the current under- Fulbright grantfor next yearshould
to serve in the Senate, objected, citing the ﬂag as a There’s a difference, ' can history. Bmmore hm._ graduate senior class for selection see Professor Dickens in Tucker
sy bol of a time when blacks were nothing but He believed that slavery rjfying than that, Ameri_ to Who’s Who Among Students in 307. Deadlineforcompleted appli-

cations is Monday, October 11.

There will be a meeting or the J
AIDS Education Profect in Fairfax" ;

Lounge on Tuesday at 7 pm". New. ' .
members are urged to join. "  

Filmp

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce that
its next presentation will be the
acclaimed drama Gas, Food, and
Lodging (USA, 1993). Showings ,
will be at 8:05 p.m. on October 1
and 2 in the Troubadour Cinema.
There is no charge for admission. '

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

""i|._o,'..

‘ What does Lexington lack that would make it a more

Kathy Boozer, ’95, Columbia, SC. Kimberly

 

? exciting place to go to school?

Peterson, ’95,

 

Don Skelly, ’9?, Westport, Ct. —

Jeb Tilly, '94, Chapel Hill, NC. -

  

Lauren Brillante, ’95, Bowie, Md., and Kathy Savory, ’94, Idaho Falls,
Id.— ‘‘It lacks a dance club with male strippers.” .

Marshallville, Ga. -- “More places
to party when fraternities aren't hav-
ing parties.”

— “I wish we had a lake that we could
I waterski in.”

“A bar with some good ol’ fashioned
table dancing.”

“More cool cops like Officer Smith.”

 

O
The Ring-tum Phi, September 24, 1993

 

 

Gal/lard PHYS Lenfest  Faculty cello recital

Pianist to perform classic pieces of Beethoven and Moussorgsky Introductory concert by visiting pro-

fessor featured selections from Ba-.
roque, Classical and 20th century

By David Wilmington
Phi Features Editor

_ By David Wilmington also studied at the Eastman School
Associate Professor of MUSIC Dr. . . of Music ag university of Ro¢he5_
Timothy Gaylard will give his annual Ph’ Features Edltor gen .
piano recital this Tuesday, S€Ptemb61' Washington and Lee got its first Brantley’s compostitions have
28 at 8:00 p.m. in the Lenfest Center. look at visiting music professor Paul been performed by such diverse en-
The program includes Brantley at his recital on Tuesday. sembles as the Atlanta Symphony,

Moussorgsky’s “Pictures at an Exhibi-

Brantley performed pieces for the Society for New Music, and the
tion” and Beethoven’s “Moonlight”

cello by Bach, Beethoven, and Syracuse Children’s Orchestra.

Sonata—twoofthe most popularpieces Debussy as well as contemporary Brantley has performed on cello
in the piano repertoire. Gaylard Will piecesby himselfand Daniel Godfrey. with the Eastman Musica Nova, we
also perfonn Samuel Barber’s “Four Pianist Arlene Shrut accompanied SocietyforNew Musicandthe Harry
Excursions for Piano Solo”. Brantley on three of the pieces. Jacobs Chamber Orchestra.
Gaylard’s recital has been One Of The program began with Shrut has received national
the best attended annual Music Depart- Beethoven’s “Sonata in C major”, accalaim as an accompanist and
ment events since hisﬁrst yearat Wash- Opus 102, No.1 and “Sonate pour voice coach. She is musical director
ington and Lee in 1984. In past years, Violoncelle et Piano” by Claude of the undergraduate opera program
he has performed other piano classics Debussy. at Julliard and a faculty member of
such as Rachmaninoff’s 2nd Piano Brantley’s piece was an arrange- the Manhatten School of Music.‘
Concerto and GershWin’S “Rhapsody ment of a hymn for unaccompanied Shrut has also served on the
in Blue”. cello titled “...crystal tide forever...”. staff of Syracuse University, USC,

Gaylard began his piano studies in
his native Canada, later earning two
degrees each from Carleton University
and the University of Toronto. He also
received a diploma from the world-
renowned Mozarteum in Salzburg,

The Godfrey “Arietta” was writ- Dartmouth, University of North
ten speciﬁcally for Shrut and Brantley Carolina, and the Opera Theater
during the time they taught at Syra- Center at the Aspen Music Festival.
cuse University. She has performed throughout

Brantley also perfonned Bach’s the United States and in Canada Qd
“Suite in G Major” for solo cello, one Europe. Her performances can be

Austria. Gaylard received his Ph.D. in of the staples of the cello repertoire. heard on the Orion, Centaur, and

musicology from Columbia Univer— Brantley is currently professor of Dorian recording labels.

sity. composition while Dr. Margaret March 26, Brantley willperform
He has performed on radio and tele- Brouwer is on leave for the year. He is the Boccherini “Concert in G” with

vision and has won awards for his teachingthesecondyearmusictheory the University-Rockbridge Sym-

playing in festivals and competitions course and indivdual composition les- phony Orchestra and guest condQp-
in the United States and Canada. His sons. tor/ﬂutist Avner Biron from Israel.
list of playing experiences also includes Along with his

performances with the orchestras of
Carleton, Columbia, and Washington
and Lee Universities as well as the
Ottawa Civic Symphony.

Gaylard’s musicological work in-
cludes studies of Mozart’s influence
on Beethoven and seventeenth-ce ntury
English vocal music.

Gaylard teaches advanced piano,

c 0 m p o s i t i o n
classes, Brantley
is teaching cello
and organizing
the Sonoklect
new music festi-
val. Sonoklect is
scheduled for
January 25-29 of

piano accompaniment, and various sur- ‘ 94,

vey courses in the Music department. Brantley re-
He is also director of the W&L ceived the Pablo

Concert Guild, a student organization Casals Award

that organizes a series of visiting artist while studying at

performances at the Lenfest Center.
While at W&L, Gaylard has also
volunteered his talents as an accompa-

the Manhatten
School and the
L e o n a r d

   

nist for student recitals. Bernstein Fellow-
The Tuesday recital is free and open sh i p while at
to the public. Tanglewood. He .

5 File Photo

  
   

  

       
   
 

               

O
0
0
O
The Euviro/rFarces That 1‘
Are Changing the Sahara Desert
..  nnnn W .
O
   
Monitor 6AppleKeyb0ard1l ColorMonitor6A1>/>16 Keyboard 11 Super TwistMonocbrome Display Monitor enppleaxiended rm,
:1: =1: Key ‘M-
$953 $1250 $12 78* $1483» .
Right now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintosh“ see just how affordable a Macintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus
personal computers. You can also get special student financing with Reseller today. And discover the power more college students I
the Apple” Computer l..o:mi“  to make owning 2. Mzic“ even etniitr '12; cl 10039. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your best?“  '
g 0 Q Q 0 0 O '
For further information visit UIl1V€1’S1ty Computing
in Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud ‘
or cail 463-884
 do    
Hzlaaiableloqualiﬁrrygstmkvik, at/1arIicr',oaIiI1gaulhorizetl/I/yr/it (,'m21/um /(me//w:\'. ©1993 /l/l/1ft’ (/rmz/mlwz /m‘ All riub/.v ruvur1'¢rl. .~l/7/7/L’. I/.n'.l/1/7/0 //W Jim: .l/(l('llI/!/.\’,.lIHl(/ /7.11’/Io!/1'1‘/1; /Ii’ nmrbm-/‘ z/11' rig:/Lvlrrr-ml /mzlmmriw o/‘.1/J/7/c (Sum/mlvr. Inc. .I/aciii/orb (.'enIr1Lmn1IPo14'erB0olz are trzulmmrkr 0fA[)/7/t‘ (lam/mler. Im: (.'I!l.i\‘iL'l\‘tI I‘l’,t'L\'Ir/I'('(//I‘1I(/('IIl1II‘k/it'r’IIXt»'(/I0.-I/I/Flt’Cllliwlllwi Im‘.

I

 

 

he_ Ring-tum Phi, September 24, 1993

  
    
  

  

 
  
   
   

They Might Be Giants: John Flansburgh and Joh

By David Wilmington
Phi Features Editor

Tomorrow will find yet another
nationally known band playing _at
Washington and Lee.

They Might Be Giantswill bring the
live version of their brand of alterna-
tive pop to the Pavilion Saturday night

 

 
 

at 9:00. The concert is the result of a

joint effort by the Inter-Fraternity Coun-
cil, Student Activities Board, and As-
sociate Dean of Students for Greek
Affairs Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins to
provide entertainment on a rush week-
end. The concert was originally planned
as an IFC event but later received SAB
support. “The IFC was planning on
having something so that people

wouldn’t be tempted to dirty rush,”

 

 
  
 
   

 
  
 
  
 
  

 
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
   

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
  
 
 
   

  
 
 
 

Party Picture Photographers Needed

 

Must have own 35 mm equipment & car
Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6

V; RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.

V’ Back yard skeet is fun, but compared to Sporting Clays,

 Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot

  

DO YOU ENJOY
. SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL

Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

it’s boring
At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
. to enjoy a round.

Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

 

n Linnell

Publicity Photo

 
TMBG features accordian, glockenspiel
  Ban shows off new and bigger sound Saturday at Pavilion

Valley  3

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

 

PAGE 5

said SAB chairman John Kleckley.
“They Might Be Giants was going to
be in the area and we got them for a
great price.”

Kleckley also noted that freshman
men going through rush will be al-
lowed to attend the concert.

They Might Be Giants is celebrat-
ing their tenth year with a new sound
and a new release. ‘

Until the middle of last year, the
albums and shows were mostly the
work of co-founders John Linnell and
John Flansburgh. A beefed-up band
and a more improvisational approach
mark a departure for the Brookly,NY
band.

In an interview Saturday, Linnell
said the new sound was a conscious
change.

“We’re leaning on the band to do
improv stuff which we couldn’t do
when it was just us two. But we didn’t
just hire a band, we kind of groomed
one.”

One of newest components in the
new sound, Steven Bernstein, is de-
scribed by the official TMBG press
release as a trumpet virtuoso. Linnell
described him as “a mixture of San
Francisco and New York. He has this
New York voice and San Francisco
‘Yo Dude’ voice.”

Linnell and Flansburgh discovered
Bernstein when he was referred to them
by another horn player.

“These brass players always sub
for each other. You don’t really hire
one, you hire a whole family” said
Linnell.

The band performing tomorrow
night will be the one Linnell and
Flansburgh have been touring with
since the middle of 1992.

The stop in Lexington is part of a
tour to support the band’s new ep, Why
Does The Sun Shine?( The Sun Is A
Mass Of Incandescent Gas). Though
recorded in a studio, Linnell said, the
new ep “was kind of a live perfor-
mance with the band.”

A new lp, to be released next spring,
will use this same approach. The new
sound is in contrast to the usual two-
man, overdubbed method that has made
TMBG famous.

The ep is being released in a new
format called CD-5. The CD-5 is so
new that even the recording artists

haven’t seen one. Linnell said, ‘‘I don’t
really know what that is. I haven’t even
met anyone who knows what a CD-5
is.” The only clue to the mystery comes
from the TMBG press release. It de-
scribes a»CD-5 as “like a 4 song ep only
silver and small.”

This small, silver disk includes the
new song “Spy” and covers of the Meat
Puppets’ “Whirlpool” and the Allman
Brothers’ “Jessica”. The title track was
taken from a 1959 educational record
called “Space Songs”.

They Might Be Giants debuted in
Soho, NY in 1983 in an all live duo
format. “John (Flansburgh) played gui-
tar. I played organ and clarinet and that
was the gig” said Linnell.

They released a 23-song cassette in
1985 and an 1p in 1986, both self-titled.
After two more eps the next year, they
released the lp Lincoln in 1988. For a
band with such a unique sound, their
big break came from an unlikely source-
MTV. In 1990, TMBG was awarded
the MTV Breakthrough Award for the
video of “lstanbul (Not
Constantinople)” from their third lp
Flood.

“Apart from my feeling about the
medium,” said Linnell, “MTV had a
big effect.”

After their big splash on MTV that
the talk show rounds began. TMBG
has appeared once on the Today Show
and twice on the Tonight Show. Their
three appearances on David Letterman
have probably proven their best venue
for gaining new fans. Linnell men-
tioned that they would probably per-
form on Lettennan’s show again after
their lp is released next spring.

The first characteristic of They
Might Be Giants that usually strikes
listeners as unique is probably their
lyrics. The songs defy characterization
in that they combine elements of word
play, social commentary, hilarious
word combinations, and strikingly ab-
surd poetic phrases.

For example, “Particle Man”, from
Flood, initially seems like a humorous
presentation of comic book themes:
“Triangle man, Triangle man/ Triangle
man hates particle man/ They have a
fight/ Triangle wins/ Triangle man/
Universe man, Universe man...” The
tone of the lyrics makes a sharp turn
however, when Person man is intro-

duced. “Person man, person man/ hit
on the head with a frying pan/ lives his
life in a garbage can/ Person man/ Is he
depressed or is he a mess?/ does he feel
totally worthless?/ who came up with
person man?/ degraded man, person
man...”

Musically, TMBG uses a great deal
of tongue-in-cheek humor. Many of
their melodies seem to be written as
lighthearted jingles to contrast with
sometimes darkly ironic lyrics.

Linnell and Flansburgh frequently
poke fun at themselves also.

The first song on Flood is called
“Theme From Flood” and features a
choral-style vocal with trombone ac-
companiment. Sung in a somewhat
serious manner, the lyrics read “Why is
the world in love again?/ Why are we
marching hand in hand?/ Why are the
ocean levels rising up?/ It’s a brand
new record for 1990./ They Might Be
Giants’ brand new album:/ Flood.”
Obviously, Linnell and Flansburgh are
in no danger of taking themselves too
seriously.

The instrumentation of the band
reinforces their position as one of the
most unique groups on the pop scene.
Linnell’s primary instrument is the ac-
cordion, but he doubles on baritone
sax. Drummer Brian Doherty adds an
interesting new dimension to the show
with his glockenspiel playing.

Another original aspect of TMBG
is their “Dial-A-Song” service. Since
1983, fans have been able to call 718-
387-6962 to hear unreleased songs at a
regular long distance rate.

Audiences have managed to make
their own addition to the TMBG im-
age. For some reason, people like to
slam dance at their concerts. This prac-
tice is not always appreciated by the
band.

“lt’s good that kids have a way to
have fun, but it’s kind of disappointing
especially during the quiet songs..,”
said Linnell, “they’re not listening.”

TMBG will roll into Lexington in
their usual unconventional manner.
Where as most bands have a convoy of
tour buses, Linnell explained that they
opted for an alternative method of trans-
portation.

“We have a Crown Victoria, a Ryder
rental truck, and a couple of vans. It’s
a mighty caravan.”

College

Bring your Horse to

Stabling available just off W&L "
Campus. Full Board/ Large Riding
Arena/ 80 Acres of Trials/
Lessons Available
Phone #’s 463-2194 (Day)
463-1859 (Evening)

   

KK

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

iiiiitmnnis
lllllllllll

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

y

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 464-6620 (Barn)
(K W&L Art V
Signatures:
ii“§i.‘l‘g“ L“ J h.‘f'L’“i.'.Ei‘iE.
. I
Edward xzientme 0 R. E. Lee, Jr. ' Every MOnday
Sam Houston A. P. Hill

Lexington's
lively Bistro
and
Outdoor Patio.

   

5 "9 P 0 m 0
Now Accepting Reservations I
for Parents’ Weekend

Point Cards available - Charge them
Home!

Harbs’

19 West Washington Street

- o
(7o3)_ 464 190 I

 

ALVIN-DENNIS,
102 W WASHINGTON ST.

INC.

. IS CELEBRATING 30 YEARS IN BUSINESS WITH A 30th ANNIVERSARY SALE SEPT. 24th & 25th
30% OFF SUITS & SPORTCOATS, DUCKHEAD SHORTS, & KNIT SHIRTS
REGISTER FOR DOOR PRIZES TO BE GIVEN AWAY SEPT. 24th & 25th.

’ ** THIS IS A GREAT TIME TO BUYA NEW SUIT FOR UPCOMING INTERVIEWS!
PRIZE--- CQMPLIMENTS OF
|/Suit ontsky
g/Blue Blazer B°Wd0n
t/Outerwear Jacket Forest Club

' /Ray-Ban Sunglasses Bauch & Lomb
/Dirty Buck Shoes Walkwer
5/Pin Point Cotton Shirt §§1‘°1 . h
gggegieg , Dﬁﬁtéliad

a 1 an s .
  
& much more
Monday - Saturday 9 - 5:30 MASTERCARD 463-5383 STUDENT CHARGE

 

NEWS

An artist's rendition of the new science center, to be placed between Parmly and Howe Halls

 cuts most budgets

I->EC, from page 1

Amnesty International
refused to allow the Col-
lege Republicans to have a
pro-death penalty display.

Rambeau countered,
saying it made sense for
Amnesty International to be
opposed to the death pen-
alty because they are a hu-
man rights organization.

“We are now punishing
a group for what they did
last year,” said Rambeau.
As for Publications, The
Ring-tum Phi asked for
$11,100, but Hackney im-

mediately motioned that-

$l,500 for student assis-
tance and the $5,000 cush-
ion fund be cut. A total of
$4,605 was allocated to the
newspaper. ‘

The Trident asked for
$11,900 and received
$7,105, $2,500 which ‘the
EC allocated to buy a com-

puter. The computer will be
purchased with money from
the Student Telephone
Unionl Student Power Union
fund. STU/SPU was dis-
banded last year by the EC,
which reclaimed all of its
funds.

Ariel asked for $2,280

and ended up with $2,000. '

The Calyx asked for $51,000
and received $28,600. The
Journal of Science asked for
and was given $950. The
Political Review requested
$1,020 and received $900.
Contact received $30,000
and a separate $8,000 fund
designated for ‘speakers.
This “speaker fund” was in-
creased by $500 over last
year and can be accessed by
several campus organiza-
tions. Contact must take pro-
posals from these organiza-
tions and decide which
speaker they should acquire
with the money.

The controversial new
Men’s Panel, a counterpart
to the Women’s Forum, re-
ceived $250. A motion to
allocate $500 for the new
group failed. At least one
EC member at first believed
the Men’s Panel budget re-
quest to be a joke, but real-
ized the organization was
legitimate after seeing that
the group had planned for
serious discussions, includ-
ing speeches by campus
deans.

The Student Bar Asso-
ciation received $48,000 af-
ter a lengthy debate, with
law students on one side and
undergraduates on the other.
EC Vice President Jimmy
Kull argued that law stu-
dents’ activities fees were
being given to the SBA in
disproportionate amounts.
Webb argued that the social
life of a law student is radi-
cally different from that of

an undergraduatestudentand
that law students would have
little to do without the SBA.

“Imagine if you lived in
Lexington and the only thing
you could do was go to the
Palms,” he said. “If you
want to sit in a bar with 100
Veemies looking for intel-
lectual stimulation — good
luck!”

After doling out the big
bucks to the campus organi-
zations, the EC found itself
only $168 overbudget. That
amount was covered by a
reserve fund. However, the
EC managed to completely
deplete the STU/SPU fund,
which was originally ear-
marked to help pay for the
Pavilion. Kull said he felt
the fund was meant to con-
tribute to long-term con-
structive expenses and said
he was against “blowing the
whole thing in one year.”

Domino’s
dumps card

I->DOM|llO’S, from page 1

—dent charge program since Wallace
“could afford to lose some money on
the card system because [Wallace] has
11 other Domino’s locations, [but] I
can’t with only one location.”
Currently, the University meal card
system is provided by the Grifﬁn Com-
pany. The university learned of
Domino’s decision to discontinue the
service when an employee of Griffin’s

competitor found the machine lying ,

unplugged and unused at the store.
Both Pizza Hut and Frank’s Pizza
felt slighted by not being included in
the trial run, but neither was willing to
put the money in for the lease. Pizza
Hut Manager E.R. Smith said owner
Hugh Cosnerwas “disgusted that W&I
did not contact him in the beginning.”
Pizza Hut learned of the system
from a W&Lstudent who worked there
at the time. However, when contacted
by Cuny, Cosner felt the cost was not
worth it. Tony Scotto-Di-Rinaldi at
Frank’s Pizza agreed. He said he
couldn’t afford to give 15 percent to

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

Professor Michael Evans is the new
head of the Washington and Lee math
department. g

“I think it was a wise move by the
department. Evans seems to have a
very positive attitude and has been
active and involved with students,”
said Heather Leonard, a math major.

Evans is teaching Math 101 and
Math 221 this term He said he chose to
teach lower level courses so he could
get to know the curriculum from the
ground up.

Evans was chosen as head of the
math department at W&L after being
the director of undergraduate programs
and professor of mathematics at North
Carolina State University. ‘

J Evans made math head

ested in working at Washington and
Lee because of .the small classes and
close contact with his students.

“I was especially impressed by the
Honor Code and by the town,” Evans
said.

As department head, Evans said he
wants to continue to educate
students,and to encourage high per-
sonal contact between math students
andprofessors. He does not plan any
changes for the math curriculum, al-
though he does want to institute more
special programs like the use of Maple,
a high-tech computer program now
used in Math 221 classes

Evans, as the department head, is
the recipient of the Rupert and Lillian
Radford Endowed Professorship. He
hopes to use some money from the
endowment to bring in more speakers
and to enable students to participate in
more competitions.

Evans said he ﬁrst became inter-

 

  

 

rI¢\

The Fling-tum Phi, September 24, 19.33

 

Science center to be
completed in 2001 '

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

Whenthe class of 2001 arrives, they
will probably be taking most of those
cumbersome science courses in the new
science center, according to Frank Par-
sons, director of capital planning.

The estimated $20—21 million
project will include the renovation of
Howe Hall and Parmly Hall as well as
the construction of a new science cen-
ter.

According to Farris Hotchkisss,
Vice President of University Rela-
tions, the target is that the building cost
no more than $20 million.

Parsons said that the biology and
physics/engineering departments will
move to Howe

Hall while the computer science
center and psychology will move to

Parmly Hall. Also, the science li-
brary will be expanded, and extra class-
rooms will be added for ﬂexibility in
class schedules. The science centerwill
house new quarters forthe geology and
chemistry departments, said Parsons.

Hotchkiss said that the idea for the
new science center came when faculty
realized that the current facilities were
inadequate and old. Parmly Hall is 30
years old and Howe Hall is 60 years
old.

“The two of them are not large
enough to accomodate the sciences,”
said Hotchkiss.

He said the two buildings needed to
be modernized. When the project is
done, all three buildings will be con-
nected to make one.

The Board of Trustees will meet in
late October to determine if enough
money has been raised for the project.

Hotchkiss says that $5 million has
been raised and will be used as a match-
ing challenge to raise another $5 mil-

lion. Formal fundraising has not yet .

begun because a booklet for publicity
is being prepared with plans for the
building and descriptions.

The funding for the project is being
done in conjunction with $127 million
capital campaign for Washington and
Lee University. According to

Hotchkiss, there are 48 geographic cam--

paigns and 500 volunteers.

However, Hotchkiss said, “Ourcam-
paign is a personal effort.”

Parsons expects contractors to start
bidding on the project in May, and
actual construction is likely to be in
next summer.

Parsons estimates that project will .

take four years to complete.

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring~tum Phi

The new Sig Ep house in Davidson Park. The old house will go on the market within two weeks.

Old Sig Ep house for sale

By HILLARY OLsoN
Phi Staff Writer

T e o d Sigma Phi Epsilon house
will officially enter the real estate
market within two weeks, said
Lawrence Broomall, University Trea-
surer.

The university is currently negoti-
ating with local real estate firms and is
still cleaning up the house.

The new Sig Ep house is located in

 

VMI seeks solution
to co-education issue

Davidson Park, which is probably a
better social location, admitted senior
Sig Ep brother Jamie Hambrick.
Hambrick lived in the old house for
two years.

“I had great affection for it, but the
new one is good. Our old one would
have been really hard for the univer-
sity to renovate,” he said.

Hambrick said he may not learn to
love the new location but he hopes his
younger fraternity brothers will.

“We don’t have the best real estate
market to sell the house,” said Broomall.
“Four other homes in the area have
been on the market for years.”

The fraternity house is also rather
unique in the neighborhood so the time
of the house’s sale is almost impossible
to predict. ,

A speedy buyer would be welcome,
however, said Broomall, because the
proceeds of the house’s sale have been
included in this year’s fiscal budge:

W&L in top 20 colleges

bW&L, from page 1

From Staff Reports

Virginia Military Institute may have found a solution to
its legal troubles - with Southern Virginia College for

Women.

The Richmond Times-Dispatch reported that VMl’s
lawyers have been meeting with the presidents of SVCW in .
Buena Vista and Mary Baldwin College in Staunton to

explore solutions to VMl’s problems.

the other schools were then translated into a .
percent of the top score with the schools ranked in
descending order.

W&L had an overall score of 84, and was ranked
25th for academic reputation. W&L scored a seven
for student selectivity and an 11 for faculty re-
sources, but scored 48th for financial resources.
W&L ranked number 32 in graduation rank, with its

    

   

W&L and ‘he §‘a““‘f‘P F05,‘ “'35 ‘O0 The Fourth Circuit Court ruled that VMI must admit alumni satisfaction rank at 63. The average SAT .
mg” He also smd he “:9” ‘ lose any women, go private, or start a parallel program for women score for students attending W&L is 1258_
m°3°Y_ f1'°m.:h° 5)_'r5‘°m- r Lat elsewhere in Virginia. In May, the Supreme Court refused ofw&L’sfrcshrnan class, 69 pcrccntwcrc in the
““'e”“_ 3’ r°_as‘",° , , ry to hear VMl’s appeal of the Fourth Circuit Court ruling. top 10 percent of their high school class_
Bmomau sald the umvemty '5 m the President John W. Ripley of SVCW was quoted by the W&L accepts only 29 percent of its applicants
process of reviewing the system“ cur- Richmond Times-Dispatch as saying that housing female and has 10/1 student/teacher ratio. w&L also has a
renlly‘“P1a°°a“f1a"°:V5yS‘em’ may cadets at a nearby college is a possible solution to the highly educated faculty;96 Pei-centhnvcadoctoi-ate
be in place by winter. The new sys- pr0b]em_ degree_ a
tem, according to Cuny, would give VMl’s lawyers are expected to present a plan to U.S. Each W&L student has a $14, 695 gducaﬁonal
W&L the optlon t° buy ‘he needed District Court Judge Jackson Kiser on Monday to resolve program
eqmpmem 3‘ P‘_1°°S m“°h l°w°’ man the problem and bring VMI into compliance with federal Graduation rate stands at 83 percent, and 37
Eugen‘ ‘°?5° P"°°5' The same would law. The governor must approve any plan that VMI pre- percent of alumni give to w&L_
0 true or any area merchants who sents, or he can formulate one of his own. VMl’s Board of
w°'_-‘Id  "“°‘°5‘°d '“ a°°°P‘"‘8 ‘he Visitors will meet tomorrow with their attorneys to discuss
University Card for purchases. the ohm .
........._C.C................0’.......C..0.’.0................C....‘..OCCCCOCCC  G 
- 0 3 N
Chinese Restaurant |:|" "0' " f|
~ ..   - : 0 A : ~
,   Jena. .9: ﬂew. :wIth copy of:
this ad '
L 2 2 _ — 2 - 2 J
W

HP

 

air
9

   

Take out or eat in! 7
Open Seven Days a Week! 11 a.m. until 10 pm.

Ftockbridge Square
(behind McDonald's)
East. Nelson Street 463-3330

Speciafizing in
:71/unczn Cb’ Szecﬁuan
Cuisine

 

 

    
      
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  

e ﬂin « -tum Phi, September 24 1993

WATSON, from page 1

s collecting.

While a student in Paris at the Lycee de St.
ud and the Ecole Lafayette, Watson pur-
= ecfan ivory netsuke ﬁgure. ‘‘I loved France,”
said.

Watson acquired her high school education
t. Catherine’s in Richmond, Virginia.
After graduation from Radcliffe, Watson
rked as a teacher, for WAVES in Washing-
, D.C. and later worked in German Naval
elligence.

It was in 1947 that her link to Washington
and Lee was solidified, when she married the
late William Watson, a 1929 Washington and
Lee graduate.

William Watson was first in his class in
graduate school and the senior class president
at Washington and Lee.

He was also a member of Delta Tau Delta
fraternity, Alpha Sigma—~an honorary fresh-
man English society, the Troubador Theater
Club, a member of the gym team and the
Interfratemity Council, and received a Spanish
scholarship his junior year in college.

Being involved at school paid off for Will-
iam, when a Delta Tau Delta brother introduced
Elizabeth to him.

The couple moved to the Island of Shameen
in Canton, China in 1946 after being married in
the Lady Chapel of the English Cathedral.
William was working for the Standard Oil
Company in administration. There, Watson
began serious collecting.

“I think the Far East is the up and coming
country now,” Watson said,who was socharrned
by the Far East that she refused Standard Oil’s
offer to furnish the Watson’s apartment, desir-

ing instead to furnish her home with native arts.

Thus began the Watson collection, most of
which is now on exhibit in the Pavilion.

Elizabeth Watson gave Washington and Lee
her gift for two reasons, one being that her
husband attended the university.

“I think he’d be awfully pleased,” she said.

Watson also desired to promote an aware-
ness of the Far East.

“I hope this will promote an interest in East
Asian culture... art, philosophy, religion, etcet-
era,” she said.

,avilion collection considered unique

time I walked in [to the Watson Pavilion],” said
Brian Shaw, director of communications at
Washington and Lee. “[The Watson Pavilion]
adds another dimension to this place, a dimen-
sion that other small colleges don’t have.”

“I’m perfectly delighted with it. I couldn’t
be more pleased,” said Watson.

Good cheer and admiration, however, have
not been the only feelings that have surrounded
the Pavilion. Last year controversy erupted
over the placement of the Pavilion when some
students argued that it would obstruct the Col-
onnade.

 

    
  
  
   
 
        

J a m e s
Whitehead felt the
Pavilion would
have a definite im-
pact on academia at
W&L. “It will be
utilized by many
departments,” he
said. According to
Whitehead, just by
studyingthecollec-
tion one can
glimpse the “eco-
nomic, political,
social and reli-
gious” import of
East Asia.

Watson herself
was embroiled in
the economic and
political turmoil
China experienced

Headlines like “There goes the neighbor-
hood” and “Keep additions off the hill” con-
veyed the feelings of some of the students,
which seem to have changed now that the
Pavilion has opened.

“I understood the nature of the controversy

but was puzzled that the drawings available
really made it clear that [the Watson Pavilion]
would never intrude [on the Colonnade],” said
Dr. Tom Litzenburg, director of the Reeves
Center and Watson Pavilion.
Litzenberg feels that “as a piece of architecture,
it [the Pavilion] is extraordinary.” He also felt
that the Palladian architecture complements the
surrounding buildings very well.

“I think it [the controversy] was good for the
students. I would hope that those who were
concerned would visit the Pavilion,” said Shaw,
who felt that students would then see “what a
real treasure the Watson Pavilion is for Wash-
ington and Lee.”

Watson, who is humble about her achieve-
“fheﬂ ‘he C0mml}- ments, impressed Mr. Whitehead “because of
msts I001‘ OVCT 1" her interest and knowledge in Oriental ceram-
1949 and they icsj’
m°Ved to H0718 The word interest is an understatement—
K°"8- the enthusiasm and excitement in Watson’s

_ In ff’-C1, ill‘? 59' voice as she talks about the Far East tellsastory
0131 5111133100 1" in itself. East Asia wasWatson’s true love.
‘China had 3 direct “Peking used to be so charming,” she said.
1mP3°t 0“ It was in 1968 that the Watsons again be-
_w3tS°n’5 Collect" came heavily involved with W&L, when they
“‘8- P°°P1° were met James Whitehead and helped him identify

Selling family h°lT' several items in the Reeves collection.

1001115 in 0Td¢|" 10 Thisinvolvementbecamethe Watson Pavil-

buy food I0 SUTVIVC ion, the extension of the Reeves Center that is

and She began t_0 “a magnificent addition to the beauty of this

P“T°h‘}3_° from CW’ campus” according to Dr. Whitehead.

11953 C"1Z¢“S- According to Dr. Litzenburg, other donors
W3t_50n eV°mU' of the displays currently in the Pavilion are Mr.

311)’ built UP 3T€PU' W. Groke Mickey from Charlottesville, Mr.

tation for being an

and Mrs. .1. Bolton McBride from Blacksburg,
excellent collector

Mrs. William L. Wilson from Lynchburg, and

and ham’-fer, Mrs. Felicia Warburg Rogan.
3m355l“8 3 b°3Uti' Watson plans to invite “a lot of people in
ful collection.

Lynchburg and friends whose husbands went
to Washington and Lee,” and others to the Oct.
23 dedication of the Watson Pavilion.

“I was over-

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi whelmed the first

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

PUT YOUR VALIIABLES
IN A SAFE PLAGE.

IAOTONOYOLE OPEIATON LIOENSE

Howard G. Nichols
8381 Center Ave.
Hometown 27670

‘"7 ‘’7/7; ' .
A§;1.<<f4’. . 

ANY STATE, USA

wnru DRINKING can A FRIEND. 
on em mm: wlru A srnnuarn. A   S

YOU SAY YOU OAN RIDE?
PROVE IT.

       
     
 

Helmets make riding more comfortable and funfltleon saier. In a crash
without one, you are five times as likely to suffer a serious head injury

than a helmeted rider. No matter how short your ride, wear a helmet. It’s
the best protection for your most valuable asset. MOTIIIIGYGLE SAFETY roumriou .,

Drinking and riding can lead to a loss of license, a conviction, or even worse.
'I‘hat’s if you’re lucky. The fact is, 30% of motorcycle fatalities involve

riders who have been drinking. So if you have been drinking, get a ride
Bith a friend. It’s the best call you can make. uoroncvcir SAFETY roumnoii e

A rgotorcycle operator license is more than a legal document. It’s proof
that you are a rider of a certain caliber. Statistics show that unli-

censed riders account for 80% of the fatalities in some states. So get é
your license and prove that you can ride. uoroncvcu sum roumriou ®

      
 

     
      
     

  

    

   

    

  
  

. Pianist Wanted
FRATS! SORORWIES! Jazz, Classical Honky Tonk ‘Tag 25 WAYS GROUPS!
STUDENT GROUPS! Play for food at Harbs’ - +0 he SN CLUBS:
Raise as MuchasYou morning, 110011, evening, LP em Raise up to $500 to
want In One Week’ C t t&SS1lI1da)’ ‘l]31'[1lI1C]16 4 1900 GAR11-t CALL $1500 in less than a
  1500!  0 n - ' '
 gnlac usanoim I-800-433-9337. ‘§§§‘§S‘;};‘,;;V;;‘,:a‘,??9§°
:~i1e(izvne§»fiMii§:iiza:§e:3:iJiTi—:. ﬂ    and get a FREE T-shirt
 c£laIN:y for FREE "(J ‘A ‘ l':m"“7“‘"M' E,,,,,s,m_'_ just for calling
T'5“”RT 5‘ '9‘ GMC "MMY'  1-800-950-1039 ext. 65
Call I-800-950-l 039, ext, 75. N

               
  
 

CATALOG
OUTLET

Lexington 17 South Main St.

Famous Men’s & Women ’s Apparel and Shoes from
America’s Finest Catalog Mail Order Companies. New
Shipments Every Week. Experience the Thrill of
Saving 50% to 80% off of Catalog Prices. Guaranteed.

Hours: Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 463-9730

   
 
   
  
  

         

   

'7'‘ V
5055 O

EXCEPTIONAL
g OPPORTUNITY

FIFTY PERCENT PARTNERSHIP IN
g CAMPUS LINEN SERVICE
BEING OFFERED FOR STUDENT PURCHASE

   
    
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
        
  

 
 

 
  

   
     

 

-G ' aluable professional experience in marketing, _, Join f om.
maalrlrdgfement, and sales while operating your own proﬁtable T“ ’ Sunseutssogecial
business. WILLSQN-  Eaill iéél mesday _ Saturday 5‘
.Earn a 12% to 15% return on your investment in this well L’ guhslé 13 R    5:306:30 p_m_ A 
established business that has been owned and operated by ,.,,,,,,,,,., ‘ﬁ_l_ﬁ!ﬁ_l_ $1000 per person Vegetarian
Washington and Lee students for over 30 years. mns& Eatery
_ ~ entree and beverage. V
-Provide the desperately needed clean hnerli andltplxlzéelsrtoog
fellow  student_s_wh1le acqulljlng prlce ess S ’ p 30 N. Main St., Lexington Reservations Recommended 463-3020 Nourish yourself
your own marketability, and earning money. _ for lunch
, .For more information please contact:  Monday - Friday
T‘ 11:30 to 3:30

Gene Pride ‘92

P.O. Box 1962
Telluride, CO 81435
(303) 728-2083

Carry Out
Available
463-2800

110 W. Washington St.

THE BEST SELECTION OF W84. T-SHIRTS, SWEATS
HATS AND OTHER W84 SPORTVIEAR
lEX|ll6lOll'8 ONLY SOURCE FOR IEVAS ANO NERRIIJ. BOOTS

15 w. wnsumcrou SI‘. VIE D0 MAIL ORDER!
uaxmerou 103 464-3000

 
 

t
ob

 

 
 

C

. PAGE 8

Hams TGGIBI

MEANS LOW PRICES

 

Volleyball off to good start

QUALITY AND VAIETY
BRYAN HONEY CR

COOKED
HAM

99 
oR TURKEY ~.;. ~

BREAST _ .,

3 I-40 COUNT

EJHWEE
Eﬂﬂmﬂﬂ

    
   
 

   

LB.

THOMPSON

WHITE SEEDLESS
GRAPES

 

DIET COKE OR
COCA COLA

 
 

2 LITER

Enjoy

I la?-

Trademarks ®

 

 

 

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE
SOFT
DRINKS

2 I.TR.

   

SELECTED VARIETIES
I.AY'S
POTATO CHIPS

  
 

6 OZ.

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE All NATURAL OR
UXE

D
$HEI.l.5& CHEESE .... ..l2 oz.

'22

c'?zIeEAé4i7lTlEXE'I2zM/CELII OR 4/  O

SPAGHEITI ................ ..l 6 oz.
78%-*I$’i’2‘iu 2 oo
BARS ........................ ..l2 CT.

IN THE DELI-BAKERY

KAISER 25
ROLLS ................ ..6 COUNTO

EXTRA STRENGTH
TY LENOI.
A GELCAP5

29

 
  
 

24 COUNT

HUNTER FARMS
ICE MILK
BARS  

2/
I2

COUNT

  

TROPICANA PURE PREMIUM
ORANGE
JUICE

99

ALL

54 °Z- VARIETIES

 

Prices Effective Through September 28 I993

Prices In This Ad Ellective Wednesday, _5eptember 22 Througso _
' OnIy.We Reserve The Right To LImIt Quantities. None Id To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

Tuesday, September 28 I993. In

Lexington Stores

The Ring-tum Phl, September 24, 1999

0

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Before falling in straight sets to
Guilford Sept. 22, the Washington and
Lee volleyball team had equaled its
best season start ever, in 1988.

But at the end of the week, the Lady
Generals had dropped to 5-3, still a
stellar mark for a season beginner, with
a brand-new coach and some brand-
new stars.

Senior Tara Bums made a season-
high 10 kills in the Generals’ win against
Sewanee in the Washington and Lee
Invitational last weekend.

W&L defeated the University of the
South 2-1, Roanoke 3-0 and Catholic
University 2-0 in its home invitational
Sept. 18-19.

The Generals fell to Pitt-Johnstown
2-0 and Goucher 2-0 in the same week-
end.

After Tuesday’s match, sophomore
Kelly Horan led the team in aces with
14, closely followed by junior Jenny
Queen with 13.

Sophomore setter Cheryl Taurassi
has made 131 assists so far this season.

The Generals play at home versus
Eastern Mennonite Sept. 28.

Schaeffer tops field

You’ve heard of average winning
margins, I am sure, in sports such as
basketball and football. But cross coun-
try?
Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer
won her second meet in her second
start last weekend, this time by over
two minutes. This brings her season
average to 1227.5 seconds.

Unfortunately, Schaeffer’s perfor-
mance could not bring her team a vic-
tory in its tri-meetwith Mary Washing-
ton and Shepherd College, as the Gen-
erals fell short of MWC by only three
points Sept. 18.

Schaeffer’s time of 18:43 is her best
of the season (though last week’s time
was set on a course slightly longer than
5000 meters). She was followed by
Mary Washington’s Laura Douglas;
sophomore Amy Mears and junior Kim
Herring also ﬁnished in the top ﬁve for
the Generals.

Juniors Sue Deutsch and Teresa
Lamey finished in tenth andeleventh
place.

Injured men fall to MWC

Up against Mary Washington Col-
lege as well, the men’s cross country
team fell into second place as two run-
ners sat out with injuries.

Sophomore captain Tom Fink was
the top runner for the Generals, ﬁnish-
ing in sixth place with a 29:34.

Cheering on the sidelines were in-
jured junior Matthew Brock and fresh-
man Sandy Hooper. The two were lucky

J OCKSHORTS

to escape the muddy course, which
caused several W&L runners to slip
and fall.

Washington and Lee faces Christo-
pher Newport this weekend.

Water polo in California

Leading 18th-ranked Slippery Rock
in the fourth quarter, the Washington
and Lee water polo team failed to stop
the Rockets from scoring four con-
secutive goals to win a heartbreaker,
23-20.

W&L was down 15-8 in the third
quarter when they rallied to take a 20-
19 lead on freshman James SilbeIstein’s
two-point goal. After seven games,
Silberstein has already been the ‘top
scorer twice.

The Generals topped Villanova in
their second match-up of the season,
16-15. The game highlight was a length
-of-the-pool two-point goal by sopho-
more goalie Dane Merkel, capping a
ﬁrst half rally.

W&L heads to California this week-
end to face Claremont and Pomona.

Women open season

Junior All-American Marilyn Baker
will lead the women’s tennis team as it
opens the 1993-94 season this week-
end at Catholic University in Washing-
ton, D.C.

Men’s tennis hosts again

Defending their Rolex Regional
doubles title this weekend, senior
Robby MacNaughton and sophomore

Peter Hammond hope to lead the host
Generals to the head of the Rolex tour.
nament.

For three consecutive years, W&L
has hosted the tourney and won either
the singles or doubles title.

Women’s soccer wins big

Crushing, dominating——These ar
words that have been used to describe
the 1993 women’s soccer team. After
rolling to three straight wins, all by
shutout, the Generals have served no-
tice that they are a power in the ODAC
(2-0 record).

. The most recent victim of the W&L
attack was Hollins College, falling 8-0
on Wednesday night. Two goals each
from Corinda I-Iankins, Kate Burton,
and Michelle Bauman paced the as-
sault. The Generals’ strong start con-
jures vivid hopes of postseason play.

Washington and Lee improves to 4-

1 on the season with their third straiglﬁ
dominating performance. The Lady
Generals are easily off to the best start
of any fall sports squad. The stiﬁing
defense has combined with several scor-
ing threats to provide an exciting and
promising 1993 team.

0
Golf hosts Fall Classic
Washington and Lee golf begins its
1993-94 season this weekend as the
Generals host the W&L Fall Classic at
the Lexington Golf and Country Club.
Seniors Jimmy Kull, Scott
Robinson, Pearce Smithwicl: and B0
Williams all return this year to lead the
Generals.

For the very
first time..
ever... -

The W&L Bocci Ball Tourney
begins today, September 24
Watch the mighty Ring-tum Phi °'

  face

   

5 p.m. on Lee-Jackson lawn

Bocci.
Catch the Fever.i

O

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 24, 1993,} ’
SPORTS '

__ V , , .._ _._ _.e, _.,.. ..-.—-..-e... r
_.‘__'_?J ‘T "‘,‘<_ d_r_,___r._,_ _, e_. _._.g,,  ., __ ,.. .« ..-.x... .--..-g -.~.~..».-4. -X F ' 9 -‘H’

photo by Bemany smim 7-he R,-,,g_;um phi Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fiing-tum Phi
Members of the Washington and Lee men’s soccer team battle against the Wasps of Emory and Henry Sept. 21 in the Generals’ fifth game and first win of the season, played at W&L.

A. » v
‘ I " \ ’ ..-- .. ~e-u-JNH-—-PJ*J'i‘v‘i‘I‘
L.‘ ..¢..~, or:2-vjéazrrr:-I.1-.i~»:snR-nxxt«xx!~svxa-.~_- A -'-.- - I

\‘“

SELLTl§II;lSlI1l3JA(l§NB(§‘ES3I,:.I§ g)(z)tFREEw in V H A  g 1' SKYDIVEH . Wanted: Campus Representative .
, istudentlﬁaveiggeﬁikééfis  K “:..,]lg_,£,'ti’-gg ¢§gpeﬁgnne,&,experﬁse a£r~your..,Instructore .    -A“

V important? Make our first jum under the - ' _ ’ p
can (800) 6484849 tutelage of the an1y}fwo Instructofas at Skydive (vacatlon Packages) Earn cash &

Orange certiﬁed in all three disci lines; Static Line, FREE tri (S)° Cancun ' Bahamas '

Tandem 8: Accelerated Freefall. ou can freefall up S.Padre Is and - Daytona. We handle
to 60 seconds your first skydive! Call toll free for

b h 1 800 484 7400“ wh h th bookkee ing i‘/you handle sales.
I'OC L1l'€. - - - 811 011 831‘ 8 °
tone dial 5531; or call (703) 94 -8988 1'800'336' 26 Onday thm Fnday

(9 a.m. - 5 p.m.).

 Restaurant (C""""""" 0'”) K

261-7292

a has I! T   2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista - (Behind Pim Hut) vI1}1e

*1°5"ANY 53°“ Point of View 
Aladdin ‘-

Rated 0 Restaurant
Shows Sat. & Sun. 1 & 3 p.m.

~‘«~r'~&~r 

5 _-.

B  Hocus Pocus NM mmysnmmmwm

463-7797
 Shows Daillyadfg  & 7 p.m.

Friday & Saturday Nights Robin Hood: Men in Tights Elegant Setting
11 p.m. to 4 a.m.‘ Rated PG-13 l

Sh ' D '1 9 . . °FmestSi=aks
Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. °w'"g 3' y at P m

- Fresh Seafood
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours 463-3478 “A"Y°"°a"Ea'” °P°rkRibs
BOTFOMLESS BUCKET . Bmqueg Facilities
Q00 OF POPCORN $3 K

Iudge Advocate Program

0 Immediate trial practice

9.‘  E 9‘ 4- ‘- '- '  Q. 1. oz . s. it. 45:1-.-I-.\_s.%.~..~i'-1'-*' -eh-‘-‘ * -1‘ W
.—.i‘

0 Three—year student loan

, deferment.
0 Excellent starting salary,

full medical & dental benefits 0 Immediate commission upon

  in   l V I _ completion, of 10-week
S‘p€@l'alS . Law School “me Counted Officer Candidates School
---Cassette Singles Special — - 3 for $9.00—- for promotion
$2.00 Off CDs, $1.00 Off Cassettes for these releases: Aerosmith-GetA

Grip, Soul Asylum-Grave Dancers Union, Prince-Hits - 1 or 2, Illegal-The ° Naval Justice School . Diversity
Untold Truth, Garth Brooks-In Pieces, Aaron Tippin-Call of the Wild. guaranteed

Scorpions - Face the Heart
Nirvana - In Utero
Abba - Gold
Cure - Show
Yes - Best of
Led Ze pelin - Box Set 2‘

an Many More! , nieiew. 77iePmud. T71eMan'nes.
, ‘ For more information on Officer Pro rams, Ieas ll
. ©0Ini]@S fiﬂnl Captain Graham at 1—800—5{i2—585i or (7O3)3§7—194§coi|:cCtato set up an
Valiant, Image, Marvel, D.C., and others. New selection arrives every mterwew “me 'm.erV'eW5 "Y'“ be C°”d“Cted 0” October 5”‘
‘ Thursday. in the University Center.

We also carry Trading cards, T—shirts, Magazines, Movies, and Video
Games: Nintendo and Sega.

‘“¢"$'_-C ,_.-V,.y- rguwsv i-.vv-r >9;-,rrr_vir9.z..r.>r,-:zv.o:¢:.-r.

0 30 days annual paid vacation

, ykje
. 5' _
I A:».-..~5~.-er».-.-.5.-er.-. .J.-.-. .- - - - - - -

 

Last Week:

WSoc—defeats R-MW C, W Maryland
VB—defeats Roanoke, Catholic
WP—defeats Villanove, loses two
MSoc—defea’ts Emory&Henry, loses two

  3

PAGE 10

(J11: illing-tum ilﬂhi

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

This Week:

FB—Centre 09/25 .

WP~at California 09/25-26 V
MTen—Ro1ex Regional 09/25-26

Golf—W&L Fall Classic 09/25-26’

9
SEPTEMBER 24, 1993

bocci:  
Vcatchithe fever

 

—  ON Sroars
BY SARAH GILBERT

 

o Throughout the years,

’ Washington and Lee Uni-

V versity has seen some
ﬁerce battles in the arena

Nof sports. W&L was the
home of Cy Young, major
league pitcher who was so
great an award was named
after him. W&L has sent

numerous athletes to in-
tensely-fought games at

. the Regional and National
championshiplevel. Many .

" passionateandviciousath

‘letes have been proud to

. call themselves the Gener-

als of Washington and Lee.
' But I will predict that

A no battles will have been
fought so ﬁercely, no ath-
letes will have been so
lauded, no sport will-have I

- such a savage history as I
the Washington and Lee

~ ' Bocci BallToumament, to

. open its wild ’and..i1lustr.i‘~’ .
ous season today. A 5 V,  
At 5 pm; tonighgftwo V
of the keenest riyals’}.ot_t;
campus will kickoff .t, of
. tournamentwith anintense’
. and heroic match ‘onj._the’ ’
Lee-Jackson ﬁeld. Fourf ”

. courageous cha.l1engers *

. . from the.Ring-turu.Phiw_i1l

'_ facefour mad‘'defenders. ,
from the'Tridentjin¥what_ :
could be the most. notori~ ; I

 ous clash in the history of '

bW&L Bocci.‘ . _ . -:5

 And toanswer.theques-

1 tion of the week (yes, this
one’s for you, Stephen), q
bocci isyan ,Ita1ian‘iawn_l

. bowling. game;"'.Partici— 
pants attempt toroll‘ balls . '

gsirnilar to bowlingballs in

I ‘ an attemptto come near a '_ I

:3 wooden ball.‘ Trash talk-

ZV,_in'g is allowed. ,

Boccii Commissioner V
-. I)avi.dfHo'wiVson tested the ‘

1,: ftVe]ld»V.lastI ».weel; 13;; 1 Va; p;g_.~. _

', eason 2 withvsorne
2 g of .t1ife;Idorrn counselors; 2'
" ;'‘‘We: found the ﬁeldto

{be in .excellent shape.’ for v
' the ,first competition,”
’ .:Howison said. .“Infact, we

  

 narn’ed"a slight hillon the . .

,V field ‘Spencer Ridge’ fora ,
I notorious“ shot‘ ’Spen_c,er— ‘
Golladay made.” V o
..  JuniorBethProvanzana
explained the shot, in
which :G:olIaday’*s ball.

' stopped’ just. above‘
. Howison’s ball on the V
V, j. small rise; causing bothof
{is the balls to roll down the
, ridge.V..l.*~ '3  j .-

‘i~ff‘Icou1dn’.t,belieyehow .
ﬁercely A. competitive we
got,’.’.Prcvanzan_a said.

, Bocci is Vnot just"corn-

I petit‘ive,f_'it can get mean. »

'-Howison explained that .

heckling is a part of the
garnegj jg; , .. . V
I H “Bocci_.} requires great
courage)’; the commis-
sione.1i_said.V"fHeckling is V
encoura"ged.f’§  ii .5 
’ Heckling will be the
leastofour worries as we
facethc Tridcntfthis after- V
noon. If the reader has pe- -‘
rused the‘--lremjainder of
these hallowed pages (re;

willknow’one_ reasonwhy.
Other cvmatch-ups
planned, one every Friday,
includetheCollegeRepVub~
Iicans versus the College

, Democrats, Jubilee versus V
Southern Comfort, “all the ,
real rivalries on campus,” ‘

. said I-Iowison’. »V V

3 24-; TI1evW&LfBocci Ball 3

_ Toumamentwillbeplayed ‘

 ,in._traditional tournament

 format; winners will ad-
vance and, sometimeinthe
future, a champion will be

"crowned. .. ” I

1;.  “My dream isfor an
interesttodevelopon cam-

_ pus,and tohaveachampi-

; onship match where hun- .
dreds of people will come
out to watch, and a barbe-

. cue at my house,” said

.~Commissioner Howison.

 “I have ....¢:s in ans-” 

  "the"  
* 1* sonkicks off tonight at ﬁve.
.- {The Trident intends to

— “make -_full_use; of the un-
limited substitution rule.”

 Takingthefield forthePhi
will be, among others, your
trusty sports editor.

Expect greatness. I do.
And read about it in the
Phi-whetherornotwewin.

the‘EC budget story), he I‘

Hall of Fame game set

Generals closer to a ﬁrst victory.

On the defensive side of the ball, safety Marc
Newman turned in an outstanding performance in the
Emory and Henry game. If the defense does not spend
the game in its own end, the fans on Saturday can
expect a solid performance.

One of the key questions going in to the Centre
contest has to be W&L’s offensive line. The unit
allowed eight sacks last week and two blocked punts.
In order for the Generals to win, the line must provide
both adequate pass protection and run blocking.

The Generals must also avoid the turnovers that
plagued them against Emory and Henry. With fewer
turnovers, the defense plays fewer series with their
backs against the goal line. If the W&L team plays
with conﬁdence and precision, they have the talent to
put together a win on Saturday.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assitant Sports Editor

After the defeat at the hands of Emory and
Henry two weeks ago, Washington & Lee has
a chance to dent the win column against Centre
this weekend. Boasting a number of statistical
leaders in the conference (OK, so it’s only one
game, but still, what other good things can
come out of a 36-6 defeat?), the W&L squad
could make some noise in Saturday’s game.

Tom Mason needs to turn in a repeat perfor-
mance of two weeks ago (90 yards rushing) to
give some support for quarterbacks Brooks
Fischer and Matt Reedy. Also, consistent ef-
forts from Reedy and Fischer would push the

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Members of the Washington and Lee men’s soccer team avoid an Emory and Henry defender during the Gener-
als’ first win, Sept. 21 at Liberty Hall Fields.

By RANSOM JAMES
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team re-
bounded this week after an 0-4
start, claiming a 10-1 thrashing
of Emory and Henry and a 4-0
defeat of Bridgewater.

On Tuesday, the first-year
Emory and Henry squad visited
W&L, giving the Generals a
chance to regroup and build some
confidence. Goal-scoring had
been a problem in the four losses
but the team charged out of this
slump, putting the ball in the back
of the net ten times. After senior
midﬁelder Matt Goodwin scored
early, the Generals were relent-
less. Sophomore attacker Bo
Manuel netted two goals while
John Robinson, Shag Drewry,
and ﬁve others contributed one
goal apiece. Freshman keeper
Matt Mazzarelli continues to im-
prove in the net, giving up just
one goal.

“Obviously, there wasn’t too
much pressure in the game so we
were able to work on a few things
we needed to do,” said Coach
Rolf Piranian.

AgainstBridgewateron Tues-
day, it was more of the same.
Seniorcaptain Alan Christensen,
freshman David Coming, and
Drewry all lit up the scoreboard
for the Generals. Freshman Bill
Gill added one more on a penalty
kick to claim the 4-0 victory.

After being outscored 16-4 in
their ﬁrst four games, Coach
Piranian retooled the defense. He

lrst Win for men’s soccer

had employed a zone during the
losses, and the break in the sched-
ule allowed him to make some
changes. .
“We didn’t change the whole
zone. We just made a little ad-
justment with the back four dc-
fenders. There will be some more
assignments given out as opposed
to just a strict zone,” said Piranian.

The adjustments were rﬂade

in part due to the team’s disap-
pointing showing in the ﬁrst—evcr
W&L Soccer Classic. In
Saturday’s opener, the Generals
managed to keep Frostburg State

scoreless until just before the ﬁrst

half ended. Down 1-0 at thObe-
ginning of the second half, the
team looked ﬂat. They allowed
two more goals to drop the con-
test, 3-0. ,

W&L looked better on Sun-
day against Juanita, maintaining
some control over the pace tfthe
game. Senior Tim McCarthy

scored in the ﬁrst half to keep the

game close. Despite a 21-10 shot
advantage, however, the Gener-
als couldn’t hold on, losing 3-1.

Besides the 0-4 start, the team

appears to be on a comelﬁck. ‘

They will need all they can us-
ter for this weekend as they face
ODAC-favorite Roanoke Col-
lege.
“Emory and Henry is no
Roanoke,” Piranian said, “but
we’re trying to work on some
things and get ourselves t<,the

level we should be playing at.” ~ I

The Generals are now 2-4*

overall and 2-0 in the confer-
ence.

On the run...

    

Photo by Bethany Smit , The Ring-tum Phi

Virginia Mllitary Institute cadets serve as a daily reminder for Washington and
Lee students that the Surgeon General recommends weekly exercise.

Plays of theweek:
the wild and the zany

 

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

Football. While it is still
early in the season, football is
fast becoming the dominant
sport on television (at least on
every TV I’ve seen). To all
those who are already caught
up in the violent mayhem that
is American football-—Gct a
grip. The season is only three
gamesold and already the Cow-
boys have been written off for
dead and the Giants and Eagles
are Superbowl contenders.
Yes, there have been some great
games, but I prefer to take my
yearly dose of the sport in De-
cember and January, not Sep-
tember.

Despite the fact that the sea-
son remains in its inchoate
stages, some controversy has
already arisen. In a recent
Redskins—Cardinals game,
Phoenix safety Chuck Cecil de-
livered two crushing hits on
Redskins receivers. One hit,
on Ron Middleton, jarred loose
Middleton’s helmet. After re-
ceiving accolades from an-
nouncers, coaches, and fans
(both hits came in crucial situ-
ations in the Phoenix win),
Cecil was informed of the
$30,000 fine resulting fromthe
two hits.

In the incident, the league
(citing spearing, or hittingwith
the crown of the helmet) ﬁned
a player for playing good, hard
football. There were no penal-
ties on either play. In fact one
of the announcers calling the
game described the hits as_Pro-
Bowl caliber. Maybe the NFL
should entertain the novel idea

 

of letting the players play foot-

ball.

The other major story of the
week comes from the baseball
arena. Bottom of the ninth—

Red Sox ahead 3-] with Yan-
kee catcher Mike Stanley at
the plate and two out. Stanley
ﬂies out to end the game...Or
does he? At the last possible
moment, the home plate um-
pire calls time and the play
doesn’tcount. The reason? A
15 year—old fan is running down
the third base line. The play
eventually cost the Red Sox
the game after the Yankees ral-
lied to win 4-3. This is the
second time that a fan has
played an instrumental role in
a Yankee victory. In August, a
fan reached out and presented
Don Mattingly with a home
run at the expense of Oriole
outﬁelder Mark Maclemore. A
fan catchinga ball is one thing,
but Stadium security should
never have allowed the Boston

incident to take place.

Yankee Stadium, while one
of the most famous venues in
baseball displays woefully lax
security. Fights,physical abuse
of opposing fans, and disturb
ing incidents such as the one
described have become all too
common. Maybe it’s all a plot
to get the team moved across
the river to New Jersey.

Parting Shots———

Hats off to Randau
Cunningham after leading the
most impressive comeback of
the season against the Wash-
ington Redskins on Sunday.
Randall scrambled his way to
an impressive down the ﬁeld
march with under 2:00 to play

To the staffs of the Phi and
the Trident... What the hell is
Bocci?!?!

W&L Team Records

Women’s Soccer
Volleyball

Men’s Cross Country
Women’s Cross Country

Water Polo
Men’s Soccer
Football

Wins—Losses
4-1

Percentage
.800 "
.625
.500
.500
.429 0
.200
.000

 

  

‘ ‘r
n
A

,I\\—l_._‘ v,..a lvr --‘

LEXINGTON, VA 24-450

OCT 0 4 I993

 

 



  
   

@ .\-

 —~
. 
"' \ V .

' - . o

.. , -

‘.__; v - ' .

  W&L Celebrates
 top 20 ranking

   

Women ’s soccer
hits hot streak

  

 

U112 ‘ﬂing-tum ljﬂlii

VOLUME 93, NO. 04

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 1, 1993

ECto
correct
error

By THOMAS Hesros
Phi News Editor

/

Everything you ever needed
to ﬂow you learned in Kinder-
ga n: share your toys, don’t run
with scissors, and above all, when
you borrow something, give it
back. .

At Monday’s regular meeting
of the Executive Committee,
Publications Board President An-
thoﬁy Catalano and Publications
Board Advisor Brian Richardson
showed up to ask that the EC do
exactly that—retum what is right-
f u l I y
theirs.

A bud-
geting er-
ror in 1989
resulted in
the Pub
Board’sre-
serve fund
b e i n g
knocked
down by

$ 5 , 7 0 0 .

 

 
 
  
 
 
  

 
    
    
  
   
  
 

Tompkins

 

spring, af-
ter Richard Peltz and Cathryn
Lopiccolo appeared before the
 on behalf of the Pub Board,
then-E.C. President Josh
MacFarland admitted a
discrepency and deferred taking
any action because of the E.C.’s
ﬁnancial situation at the time.
MacFarland agreed to reimburse
the ub Board when it received
money at the year’s end. This
never occurred.

On Monday, Catalano and
Richardson asked the E.C. to
correct the error, saying that the
Pub Board never voted to ap-
prqye the transfer of the $5,700.

    
  
     
 
 
 
  
  
  
   

Thieves strike
student autos

Last’

 

I->See EC, page 7

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-mm Phi

A Chemistry Project

W&L Security confiscated this marijuana-smoking device recently. The bong is
made from materials “borrowed” from the chemistry department. A member of
the chemistry department found the bong during the summer and turned it over
to security. Among the items confiscated by security this year: beer kegs and
beer funnels. Director of Security Mike Young said security returns kegs to the
distributor after confiscation. Two kegs were taken early this year, while over 30
were taken during the course of last year. —-Ethan Krupp

By THOMAS Hesros
Phi News Editor

If you park your car in a uni-
versity lot overnight, you should
probably reconsider.

Thieves have hit at least three
student cars in the past week and
a half, breaking side windows
and removing car stereos.

“My door window had been
broken out,” said freshman Ja-
son Barton, describing how
thieves broke into his Mitsubishi
Eclipse in the freshman parking
lot.

Barton said thieves removed
his Alpine CD player from the
dashboard of his car. Washing-
ton and Lee Security called
Barton at 2:30 a.m. on Friday
morning to inform him that his
car had been broken into. Secu-
rity also called freshman Philip
Jordan after determining that

Jordan’s car had also been bro-
ken into.

“Somebody knocked out the
small vent window,” said Jor-
dan.

Jordan’s CD player was also
removed from his car. .lordan’s
car alarm was set off by the
thieves, but the thieves entered
the engine compartment and cut
the wire that provided power to
the alarm system, thus silencing
it. Between Barton and Jordan,
$1,300 worth of property was
damaged or stolen.

Perhaps the same thieves vic-
timized senior Leland Yee, who
had his window smashed and his
stereo stolen. Yee described his
stereo as “a cheap model.”

“You’d think they would at
least take a decent one,” said
Yee, who reported only $190
worth of damage on the police
report.

Yee’s car was parked in the
university lot near the Lenfest
Center when it was burglarized.

Chief Bruce Beard of the Lex-
ington Police Department said
the police have some suspects in
the break-ins. According to
Beard, Washington and Lee Se-
curity ofﬁcers also have some
suspects of their own.

“W&L Security saw some
suspiciouslookingvehicles,” said
Beard.

According to Jordan, police
may attempt to apprehend the
criminals by taking ﬁngerprints
from the car. All three victims
have ﬁled reports with the po-
lice.

Yee found some irony in the
situation.

“I survived an entire summer
in D.C.,” he said, “and I get back
here, and what’s the first thing
that happens to me?”

IFC hands down
Rush violations

By NANCY PAvLov1C
Phi Managing Editor

As Tear Night draws near, two more fraternities
join Pi Phi in the ranks of those who have violated
Rush rules.

Phi Delta Theta and Chi Psi each received Rush
violations stemming from two separate incidents
which occurred last week.

Chi Psi received the violation for breaking
closed contact rules. Under closed Contact rules,
freshmen and upperclassmen fraternity members
cannot talk to each other. According to Chi Psi
President John Hudson, the violation occurred last
Tuesday after Rush Open House Night number

“You’re not supposed to have contact after 9
p.m.,” Hudson said. “Some guys were talking to the
freshmen at the house after the open house.”

Hudson said a freshman who was not at the
house reported the incident.

“He knew the guys that were here and took it
upon himself to tell a Rush Counselor who in turn
took it upon himself to bring it to the IFC,” Hudson
said.

Phi Delt received their violation when members
of the fraternity purchased beer for some freshmen
men, lnterfratemity Vice President Ryan Donaldson
said.

hvsee RUSH, page 6

 

TWO.

 

By NANCY PAvLovic
Phi Managing Editor

 
 
 

 
 

A non-tenured professor will make Washington
and e history as she challenges her department’s
decision to not renew her contract.

Assistant Professor of English Demaree C. Peck
ﬁled an appeal with the President’s Advisory Com-
mittee Friday, Sept. 24, requesting a review of the
English Department’s decision to not continue her
contract.

“In essence, it is a denial of tenure,” Peck said. “It
cuts short my probationary period by two years. I
had not been led to expect that decision.”

Peck, who joined the faculty in 1988 as an in-
structor in English, began a four-year probationary
period for a tenure track position in the department
the following fall. Candidates for a tenured position

  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  

must complete a six-year probationary period before
being considered for tenure. Peck would have been
up for a tenured position in 1994-95.

However, in May of 1993, the eight tenured mem-
bers of the English department examined a portfolio
of material which included student evaluations, re-
views by faculty who had visited her class, letters
solicited by the department from all her former stu-
dents as well as three articles she has had published
and several chapters from her book on Willa Cather.
According to English Department Head Edwin D.
Craun, the department followed the procedures out-
lined in the University Faculty Handbook in consid-
ering her case. Under these procedures, her job per-
formance must be evaluated in three areas, namely
teaching effectiveness, intellectual achievement and
academic citizenship. It was at this time that the

Professor appeals decision

Craun however would not comment on the spe-
cific reasons for her dismissal in order to protect
Peck’s privacy.

“We are not allowed to make anything but the
most general statements,” he said.

Peck though is not sure how or why the depart-
ment arrived at its decision.

‘‘I can’t really speak about the English
department’s decision because I don’t really know
what they considered,” she said. “They told me they
were not going to renew my contract because of
deficiencies in academic citizenship and deﬁcien-
cies in teaching which have not been speciﬁed. I
don’t understand the decision; it hasn’t been ex-
plained to me.”

After classes ended last spring, Peck began look-

I->See PECK, Page 7

   

  
  
   

  
  
  
  
   

  
  
  
 
 

  
   
 
   
   
  

department opted not to renew her contract.

By MICHAEL Hswusrr
Phi Staff Writer

Virginia Military Institute has submitted
a federal court a proposal to resolve the
controversy over whether women should be
admitted to VMI. According to a copy of the
“VMI Defendants’ Proposed Remedial Plan”,
a Virginia Women’s Institute for Leadership
would be established at Mary Baldwin Col-
lege. Virginia Tech would maintain its co-
educational Corps of Cadets. The Leader-
ship Institute would be open to all qualiﬁed
women and will in some ways be similar to
VMI.

In the proposal VMI cited numerous times
the decision of the U.S. Supreme Court of
Appeals which found that a single—gender
undergraduate institution is justified and can
., be beneﬁcial “for young women who may be
otherwise be denied leadership opportuni-
ties in coeducational settings.” Under the
ruling the state must establish an equal edu-
cational opportunity to women that is similar
to VMI. VMI assertsthat its plan satisﬁesthe
Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. According to Crista Kcade.
Director of Institutional Advancement at

  
  
   
 

    

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
f irginia Military Institute cadets in formation

Mary Baldwin, said that the 4th Circuit Court
will hear debate on the plan on January 6,.

Public Relations Director Lt. Col. Mike
Strickler said that Governor Wilder has ap-
proved of the plan. According to Strickler,
a subcommitte consisting of two members
of VMI ’s Board of Visitors, two members of
Mary Baldwin’s Board of Visitors, and ﬁve
members of the govemor’s staff will over-
see the program on a continous basis.

As opposed to women schools such as
Southern Virginia School for Women, Mary
Baldwin was chosen primarily because it
was a four year college and has had long
tradition of educating women, according to
Strickler.

Kcade said that the academic faculty on
September 24 accepted the concept of the
Virginia Women’s Institute for Leadership
as being in line with the school’s
committment to educating women by a vote
of 52-8. She stresses, however, that no
specific plans for the Leadership Institute
have been made.

Kcade said that the president, Cynthia H.
Tyson has endorsed the plan, but an aca-
demic curriculum has not been established.

Strickler says that students in the Leader-
ship Institute would be lodged in the regular
dormitories, but once the number reaches

VMI proposes compromise

I->See VMI, page 6

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

A student uses one of Annie’s terminals. Annie is now equipped
with more features, which will make research easier, than before.

Annie’s new dress
Computer gets a face lift

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

The students and staff of Washing-
ton and Lee now have more access than
ever to electronic information.

The W&L on-line catalogue, named
“Annie,” is available to all computer
users with Liberty accounts. Through
Annie, users can access a wide array of
information around the world.

Annie is updating its technology.
“Two years ago it would not have been
possible to do this,” said Hugh
Blackmer, a reference assistant at
Leyburn Library. Blackmer regularly
updates the system’s resources.

Part of the new system includes
Gopher, a campus-wide information
system. It is internationally connected
to list electronic periodicals according
to subject. Blackmer and other pro-
grammers regularly choose and catego-
rize new electronic periodicals to add
under the various headings. In addition,
Gopher now contains several step-by-
step guides to using the computer sys-
tem itself.

Blackmer said that the Gopher sys-
tem is constantly being updated. He
said that professors could even put their
lecture notes on the computer system
for students to retrieve at their leisure.

bsee ANNIE, page 6

    

_PAGE2

rihe amg-tum am

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Lock it up

It is a frustrating feeling. You walk out to your car to
drive out to Wal-Mart or McDonald’s or whatever and you
find a surprise: your window is smashed. That’s not all...
several valuables are missing, including your car stereo.

If you read our story on automobile break-ins this week,
you will soon realize that this is not happening just in New
York or Los Angeles. It is happening right here in
Lexington. In fact, it is happening right here on our
campus.

Problems like this are extremely frustrating. After all,
you can’t sit around watching your car all day long. The
bottom line is this: If thieves want to get at the contents of
your car, there is very little you can do to stop them.

What you can do is try to make your car look less
inviting to a burglar. Locking doors is not enough. If you
have valuables in your car, cover them with a jacket or a
towel. If you have a pull-out stereo or a removable face-
plate, take it with you. If you have a car alarm, arm it.

Truly, having to invest in an auto security system in
Lexington is sad, but it is a sadder experience to come out
to the car one morning to find a surprise. We are used to
leaving our personal belongings around campus and find-
ing them in the same place when we return. It is time for
Washington and Lee students to realize that despite the
honor system that governs our lives, we are not living in
a theft-free world. One can almost see how an outsider
could consider W&L a thieves’ paradise. Students leave
the tops on their convertibles down and merrily skip along
to class, without a single concern in the world, leaving
valuables out in the open. If we were thieves, we would
probably spend some time in Lexington, too.

So, don’t trust the world. The world does not live by the
Honor System.

Separate
and not equal

Soon a judge will decide whether or not Virginia Military
Institute’s proposal for remedying their co—education problem
is suitable. If the judge likes the plan, Mary Baldwin will
become the home of the Virginia Women’s Institute for Lead-
ership and VMI will go on as it has since its beginnings.

  
 

..
The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1993

{S M4
“gsmg
LE. <‘.rtM°"€5
ts: srnﬁl‘ “’
-ex: -
M
3l,t,.:.$‘Let5 F9“ “E
 G'R°°P-"
o
0
0

EC fails to live up to its statements

Last year, Amnesty lntemational received a yearly
allowance from the Executive Committee of $700.
Last week, the Committee broke with precedent and
docked their yearly allowance for bad behavior. What
was Amnesty guilty of?

They engaged in “ideologically partisan” behavior
with the campus pa-
riah — the W&L chap-

Minority Student Association also could be consid-
ered “ideologically partisan” on the basis that they
deal with gender or racial issues. Yet all of them

receive EC funding.
There are two ways the EC could resolve this
conﬁict. One would be to cut the funding of all those
organizations mentioned and en-
courage them all to start having

ter of the American
Civil Liberties Union.

 

Andrew

bake sales. The other would be to
throw out the policy of not funding

Last November, “ideologically partisan” groups.
Amnesty lntemational S e The second option would seem
chnelder . .
and the W&L ACLU ’ to be the wiser one for a liberal arts
co-sponsored an ex— ’94 institutionlike W&L. The ﬁrst pay-
hibit in the main foyer off of a policy to fund all legitimate
of the Leybum Library student groups, regardless of ide-
entitledA Critical Ex- ology, would be to increase the
aminationoftheDeath diversity of thought on this cam-

Penalty. The exhibit was a thought provoking educa-
tional display of library books, statistical information
and other factual material supporting both groups’
belief that the death penalty is a violation of human
rights.

The Executive Committee refuses to fund any
group which takes a position on controversial issues
such as capital punishment. The EC likes to call such
groups “ideologically partisan.” They believe by “ap-
proaching issues of national politics with complete
neutrality,” they can best serve the W&L community.

If the truth be known, the Executive Committee is
not living up to its own ideals. How can the Executive
Committee claim that it is completely neutral to issues
of national politics when they fund groups like the
AIDS Education Project? Is not AIDS prevention,
like the death penalty, a politicized national issue?
How about the Outing Club and their promotion of
recycling? Women’s Forum, Men’s Panel and the

pus.
The EC’s claim that a diversity of student groups

education.

The Executive Committee erroneously believes
scrapping their current policy will automatically
result in a sudden proliferation of student groups
immediately inundating the BC with requests. Their
fears are clearly unwarranted as one can see jusgby
looking across the ravine how the law school ably
manages to fund all of their organizations regard-
less of a group’s ideology.

Finally, the EC is fond of making the argument
that the Graham-Lee-Washington Society and the
Contact Committee, both of which receive EC
funding, fulﬁll the campus need for intellecyial
discourse and the free ﬂow of ideas. Unfortunately,
the Executive Committee does not appreciate the
vitality and energy which politically oriented groups
bring to the intellectual discourse and free ﬂow of
ideas on campus. A completely neutral and sani-
tized debate society and speakers bureau cannot ﬁll
this need alone.

can exist without their funding is nothing more than The Executive Cam-
an empty promise. While mittee, during last
C°n591'V3liV° °TganiZ3' T week’sbudgetdelibera-
tionslike the Washington - lions, ll 5 ‘ lcall

& Lee Spectator can sur- he first P513.’ off of a policy shown itgeifllgnbe th:
viveoomfortably without t0 fund all legitimate student most ideologically par- '

the EC’s patronage, many
non-conservative groups
could only survive with
the EC’s backing. The
Spectator beneﬁts from

groups, regardless of ideology,
would be to increase the diver-
sity of thought on this campus.

tisan organization
around. Their decision
toshutthefundingvault
on Amnesty’s face

an extensive alumni sup-
port network that is just
not available to non-conservative groups. Thus refus-
ing to fund all “ideologically partisan” organizations
would result in a vitually one-sided exchange of ideas

on campus— certainly not beﬁtting of a liberal arts:

while keeping on the
payroll other ideologi-
cal organizations has the
stench of blatant “political correctness.“ Hopefully
the EC will sensibly rectify this situation in a tirrﬁly
fassion before Amnesty and the ACLU are forced

The proposal looks very nice‘ onitjs sdffacé. §BiI‘,t,th'e' l')r'dp'Osal
raises a question that goes beyond wh‘ether_”VMI‘s'hou1d*be‘co-
ed or not. The proposal will create another state-‘funded insti-
tute that will supposedly give women the same leadership and
military skills that men receive at VMI. Proponents of the new
plan say that women and men learn differently and build
confidence and character in different ways. There are not too
many people that would be willing to argue against this point.
But will the separate institutions provide the same opportuni-
ties for their graduates?

Before any judge okays this plan, that judge needs to sit
down and think deeply about its consequences. That judge
needs to ask some tough questions that may not be easily
answered. VMI graduates have many opportunities for state
jobs because they are VMI graduates. Will a woman who has
graduated from Baldwin’s Leadership program be given those
same opportunities? Will the military embrace one of Baldwin’s
graduates as it does VMI’s graduates?

These are not meaningless questions. If the state intends to
create an equal opportunity for women, it has to make sure that
opportunity is equal on all levels. Unfortunately, history has
shown that separate usually does not mean equal.

Quote of the Week

Hey, pull up a chair.
No thanks, I’ll just sit down.
—Two W&L students at Spanky ’s last weekend

@1112 iﬂtng-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assitant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Willard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Address thepoorindiv

Last week I saw something that we
who are wrapped in our tight little
cocoons of parental support rarely
glimpse—the real face of poverty.
“Joshua,” as I shall call him for
anonymity’s sake, is neither devil nor
saint. He is neither wholly respon-
sible for his plight nor free of guilt.

Joshua is 46 years old. He has no
marketable skills. His last job was

Joshua’s wife, you see, is handi-
capped. She is burdened by a debili-
tating and eventually fatal disease that
conﬁnes her to a wheelchair. When
the state learned that Joshua’s time
working at Hardee’s left Matthew at
home with his mother, they intervened.
Because his wife could not adequately
care for her child, the state insisted
Joshua not leave the child alone with

 

part-time her. Failure
minimum- to comply
wage work at with this di-
Hardee’s, on r e c t iv e
which he and Ryan would have
his wife resulted in
“ b a r e I y l)ennard9 Matthewbe-
scraped by.” ’94 ing taken
Before he into the cus-
was married, tody of the
Joshua was state.
regularly in Because

trouble with the law. Released from
prison without a way to support him-
self, he soon turned to petty theft,
stealing small items from local apart-
ments and then selling them. While he
has, by all appearances, put those par-
ticular misdeeds behind him, they
surely help to account forthe ﬁnancial
situation he now ﬁnds himself in.

While a part-time job and marriage
seemed to bode well for Joshua, new
trouble soon arrived in the unlikely
form of a child. The third member of
Joshua’s family is a blonde haired,
blue eyed beauty of a boy, eighteen
months of age. “Matthew’s” face
glows like the sun on a weekend mom-
ing and his constant curiosity leads
one to think the child would be of
some promise were his social situa-
tion improved.

Joshua clearly loves the child and
maybe it is fatherhood that has ﬁnally
tamed his less desirable impulses. He
handles Matthew with a love and pa-
tience that I have seen in few fathers.
Joshua’s son has brought joy into his
life, but he has also brought difﬁcul-
ties.

minimum wage will not pay for a
baby-sitter, Joshua quit his regular
job and now does odd jobs on which
he can take his son. That is how I met
Joshua. He was going from door to
door, carrying Matthew, asking if there
were any chores he might do.

Odd jobs have not provided enough
to support the family and they have
sold most of their meager possessions.
Their house is no larger than one of
ourclassrooms. It makes my run-down
apartment look like middle-class com-
fort. Unable to pay their bills, they
have now had their gas shut off, and
they have been unable to bathe for a
week. They have no phone. They have
no car and Joshua must hitchhike (with
Matthew) to ﬁnd work or purchase
diapers. So Joshua goes door to door
refusing handouts but begging work.

People do not like to see poverty
and as a consequence they do not like
to see Joshua. Often, when he knocks
on a door looking for menial work, the
police are quickly called and he is
chased off as a nuisance.

Perhaps Joshua is a nuisance, es-
pecially when he intrudes on our two

car garages and white picket fences,
but there are other questions that need
to be asked. Just what is this man
supposed to do? We wish he did not
exist, that this suffering did not con-
front us. But he does exist, and we
should wonder how we would support
ourselves and our family were we in
his shoes.

It is not a half-ﬁctional, emotional
portrait that I have painted. These are
simply the facts. There are, of course,
other facts, which will either allow
you to push the image of this man
from your mind with a clear con-
science, or, if you still care, will strike
a chord of helplessness about the whole
issue.

Joshua’s troubled past may be rel-
evant, but he has also contributed to
his troubles in the present. While they

cannot pay their gas bill, the family-

has a dog. Be-
sides the expense
of feeding it, the
dog’s recent ad-
ventures in a
neighbor’s yard
cost Joshua 75
dollars in ﬁnes.
That is what led
to his inability to
pay his gas bill.
Joshua also
smokes, to the

People do not like to
see poverty, and as a
consequence they do
not like to see Joshua.
Often, when he knocks
on a door looking for
menial work, the police

.,to getrouttheir baking sheets.

iclually  

,0

them. ‘

Most of all, Joshua has been incredibly
short-sighted. You cannot sell your pos-
sessions forever. And what long-terrn good
could it do to pay off his gas bill? It would
only be turned off again when he vgas
unable to pay next month. Joshua is very
juvenile in that he seems unable to grasp
and deal decisively with the big picture
and instead lives day to day.

The decisions people make are impor-
tant. We want to help but we do not want
to throw money away, either. We want
Joshua, and those like him, to be resp<9n-
sible. But what do we do if someone is
willing to make a clean start? Does it
matter that sometime in the past they may
have laid the foundation of their current
troubles? Perhaps.What if the problems
come from decisions made in ignorance
rather than malice? What about Matthow
and those like him? How do we help the
child without sup-
porting the irre-
sponsibility of the
parent?

I have asked
plenty of qu@-
tions, but cannot
begin to give an-
swers. Maybe
there are no an-
swers. In the end
the points I want to
make are simlje

tuneofacartona are quickly called and ones. We should
week.Withciga- he is chased off as a acceptthatpoverty
rettes selling . resultsfromacom-
anywhere from nulsance° bination of bad
tentoﬁfteendol- luck and bad
larsacarton, it is choices. Denying

striking when Joshua claims he can-
not afford the fourteen dollar round-
trip taxi fare to get to the food bank.

Once these shortcomings are
pointed out, he does indicate a will-
ingness to remedy them. But these
problems say something about how
Joshua arrived at his present circum-
stance. He has clearly made bad
choices, and he is clearly paying for

eitheris denying reality and makes it mo e
difﬁcult to reach lasting solutions. e
should acknowledge poverty where it ex-
ists. Fear and loathing will only make it
worse. We should come to grips with what
we are willing to do, both as individuals
and as a society, remembering that failure
to act as individuals leaves more to do

a society. And, most importantly, xx
should care.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Pub|icationsBoardelectstheexecutiveeditorandbusinessmanager,butTheRing-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Advertising does not reflect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
703 462-4060

LETTERS

Professor praises coverage '

To the editor: _

I am writing this letter not only to the editors, but
to all students who have contributed to the first issues
of this year’sRing-tum Phi. Last year, I found the Phi
to be about the worst college rag I had ever seen —
anywhere. Its negative tone and salacious fixations
were an embarrassment to many members of the
community.

As a newly recruited faculty member, I felt so

demoralized by the Phi that I soon stopped reading it.
Had we moved to Washington and Lee or to Sodom
and Gomorrah, I wondered! Happily, this dismal
period in the Phi ’s history now seems to have ended.
Once again, people are writing about what is interest-
ing and important to all of us: health care, alcoholism
on campus, cultural diversity, and ﬁlms — not just
about fraternity brawls. Usually, the quality of a
college newspaper is a reflection of the quality of the

college itself. A good college therefore needs and
deserves, a good student paper. Now that we again
have one, let’s keep it that way. Keep up the good
work! .

Winston Davis
Professor of Religion

 

 

 

Fhe Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1993

OPINION

Wrestlemania invades Lexington

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

. The other day I was sitting in the
Ring-tum Phi office (or, as we call it,
“Shangri-Phi,”) reading other peoples’
computer ﬁles and listening to the ra-
dio. '
At the end ofa WREL “music mix”
gvhich typically consists of successive
ngs by Elton John, Metallica, Barney
the Dinosaur, James Brown, and
Zamﬁr, master of the pan ﬂute), the
disk jockey came on the air and an-
nounced that the fourth person to call
the WREL studio line would win two
tickets for World Championship Wres-
tflng in Roanoke with Ravishing Rick

Rude and Ric “Nature Boy” Flair. It
was not necessary to know the answer
to a trivia question or anything; you
just had to be the right caller. This was
a contest that required no talent, and
since I don’t have any, I called in.

G The disk jockey picked up and in-
formed me that I had won. A few min-
utes later, he aired our recorded con-
versation, which included my sponta-
neous comment that “I have really been
looking forward to seeing WCW wres-
tling.”

. Phi Art Director Phil Carrott wit-
nessed my excitement in the ofﬁce at
having won. This included several rebel
yells, setting off of small ﬁreworks, a
prank call to Carol Calkins, and several
shots at the Phi dart board with some
X-Acto knives. I then decided that a

i all-expense-paid trip to Roanoke
was in order, to investigate the news-
worthy effects of fat sequined men
tackling each other and their impact on
Washington and Lee students (me).

Accompanied by my friend and pro-
fessional wrestling aﬁcionado Nick,we
arrived in Roanoke expecting all of the
sports world’s major ﬁgures, as well as
all of the networks, to be on hand for
the upcoming match. However, we
were met at the parking lot by a traffic
attendant, who was simultaneously di-
recting us to a lot and trying to calcu-
late the black market value of our car’s
spare parts.

Before I go on, I must take a minute
to say that I, as a habit, do NOT attend
WCW events, except whenever 1) they
are free 2) I am really bored, and 3) I
want to hang out with the cultural elite
of southwest Virginia.

I must emphasize how elite the
crowd was: they tucked in their WCW
T-shirts and spit into cups instead of
onto the ﬂoor. They stood in line to
purchase copies of WCW magazine
which was touted, various times over
the loudspeaker throughout the
evening, as pretty much the authority
on Ricky “The Dragon” Steamboat’s
family life, the break-up of the British
Bulldogs, and Arne Anderson’s new
line of action ﬁgures.

Nick and I took our seats and waited
for the match. After several minutes,
the stadium lights dimmed, and sud-
denly there was a distinctive white
light reﬂecting from the WCW wres-
tling mat and the voices of angels were
singing in the background (or maybe it
was the non-stop screams from the
groups of 14-year-old boys sitting near
us). We deﬁnitely had entered wres-
tling nirvana.

There were several matches between
wrestlers whose names I cannot recall,
(I guess they could be classified in the
wrestling “minor leagues,” not yet
measuring up to WCW professional

standards). I do remember that one of
their names sounded something like
“Hespos,” but I couldn’t be sure. Any-
way, one of these matches involved a
British wrestler who was accompanied
by his top-hatted valet. Now, please
forgive me if you are up on WCW
trivia and know his name, but take it
from me, it didn’t matter what this
guy’s name was; once the audience
heard he was British, he was doomed.
The 14-year-old boys were shouting
“U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A., etc.,” waving
the American ﬂag, and shouting for his
opponent to kick England’s butt. At
this point Nick raised the relevant point
that it sure has

been a long

time since En-

the ring onto the ground. This is the
maxim of professional wrestling; for
every action there is an opposite and
exaggerated reaction.
The ﬁnale of the evening was defi-
‘nitely the title ﬁght: Rick Rude vs. Ric
Flair. Before the actual competition,
both Rude and Flair gave a brief speech
touting their sports prowess,_ good
looks, and virtues of their home states,
and then stripped off their robes. The
immediate impression on the audience
was: these guys are really, really old.
And look at their hair! Who did that?
Clorox?
The fight, monitored by a referee
and two score-
keepers, who I
am sure were

gland was 01" T f%"?'—‘_-T paying close at-
eneIr\§1_yi( d 1 his is the maxim of tintion, took
10 an - ~ , a out twent
wawhedinawe professionalfwrefltlling, minutes mg
astheseprofes- or every ac ion ere is ended as Flair
S i 0 n ally ’ _ bodyslammed
mined m_ an opposite and exag Rude and left
emed athletes gerated reaction. him lying them
jumped around The crowd
the rmg W6aI- cheered not only
ing bikini forthe win, butl

shorts so small

that they would make the W&L water
polo team blush. Even though our seats
were high up in the Civic Center, we
could for sure detect about 3 inches of
space between a wrestler’s blow and
the part of the other wrestler’s body the
first guy supposedly hit. It was as if
both wrestlers had major depth percep-
tion problems. This was no matter,
because even if one of the wrestlers
had given the other a “high-ﬁve,” the
other probably would have reacted by
ﬂipping over backwards, hitting the
ropes around the mat, and ﬂying out of

assume also for
spite,because only minutes earlier Rude
had derided the crowd by calling them
a bunch of “Backwoods Roanokers.”
Rude violated the sacred wrestling rule
of not taunting the crowd especially
when many of them are from the back-
woods, from Roanoke, and have guns.
And he paid the price. He was still
lying on the mat when we left.

All and all, that evening was pretty
interesting. Scary, yes, but also inter-
esting. So, if you’re bored one week-
end and you want a little spoits action,
go see the WCW. Join the invasion.

Confederate flag symbolizes pride

MY VIEW

‘ Nicholas Waddy, ’96

When I read Michael Hewlett’s invective against
the Confederate battle flag in last week’s Phi (part
two in his now-weekly “Sins of the Honkies” series),
I was really quite bothered. I promised that I would
respond. Since the Confederate ﬂag is an honorable
ﬂag, I will try to give it an honorable defense.

Let me be clear: I am not a Southerner. I am from
upstate New York, where, far-from"naving~a’draw1,'-‘1
we speak with a distinct nasal accent, usually foiind
only in lower primates with sinus conditions. Atany
rate, because of my place of residence, I cannot be
accused of writing this out of any blind parochialism.
Nefend the ﬂag not because it is “mine,” but because

it deserves to be defended.

Mr. Hewlett had a lot to say about how the Confed-
erate ﬂag is a symbol of “[a] time when black women
were raped and black men were emasculated. .. when

homeland.

Dean thanks FOC,

T9 the editor,

I would like to take this opportunity
to thank publicly the entire W&L com-
munity for providing such a warm and
enthusiastic welcome to the class of
1997 during the Freshman Orientation
program.

Of particular importance was the
wbrk of the Freshman Orientation Com-
mittee, and its leadership, Carlin Jones
and Phil McCoy, and the Dormitory
Counselors, all of whom gave
unﬂaggingly of themselves. Planning
and organizing orientation activities and
st‘affing virtually every orientation

event-—from Playfair to airport
shuttles——made for a very smooth
opening week.

Thanks also go to: Mr. Jim Arthur,
Mr. Randoph Hare, Mr. Bill Radford,
and their staff who saw to it that all of
the dormitories and other facilities
were in immaculate condition for
Check-in day; Mr. Jerry Darrell and
Mr. John Taffe and their staff who
furnished the culinary touches for
several meetings and special occa-
sions; Jim Farrar, RobMish, Jerilyn
Farren, Southern Comfort, Jubilee,
General Admission and Gordon Spice

being black and being American were two different
things.” To him, “[the ﬂag] represents oppression.”
Fair enough. But he is very unkind to those of us who
see things differently (we ﬁgure prominently in his
piece as “supposedly intelligent human beings”).
To us, the Confederate ﬂag represents, in addition
to the injustices alluded to by Mr. Hewlett, honor,
integrity, duty, and aristocracy in its best sense. We
should remember the extraordinary character of those
who fought under it: men from every walk of life
exhibiting an awesome ferocity in the defense of their

It is difﬁcult to respect federal soldiers in the same
twayg‘ ‘let us remember, by and large Northerners '
fought not for the -liberation of black folk (for whom
they cared little), but forthe solidiﬁpation of Northern
power over the agrarian South.

The Confederate ﬂag is not the only Southern icon
under attack these days; even our respected patriarch
Robert E. Lee has been lambasted by revisionists.
Both Lee and the ﬂag have detractors and fans,
running the gamut from those who see in them only
the evils of slavery to those who over-romanticize

LETTERS

others who helped orientation

Confederate history until it becomes a sort of civic
religion. We should be wary of extremes.

The characters of Lee, of the South, of the ﬂag:
none of these are spotless. But is surely unfair to
pigeonhole any one of them as “inappropriate” or
evil. A ﬂag is a symbol; the only way it can be evil
is if that which it represents is evil. Are we prepared
to render such a harsh judgment on the South?
Surely not, for to do so would be absurd and grossly
inhumane.

In effect, I would challenge Mr. Hewlett to move
beyond his own sensibilities, to examine the ﬂag in
a more universal light. On one hand, it does stand for
an age in which WASPS were dominant or at least 1
moreso than they are now; on the other hand,some 3

gofthose WASPS‘,‘W€§£'L_ nien l,ike§RobeitE§‘gLee._Men :
who, while imperfect, history has judged to have
been honorable and decent.

If many Southerners, and many Americans
too, choose to see the Confederate ﬂag as (on
balance) a symbol of that kind of nobility of charac-
ter, that is their right. I encourage them to display it
with pride.

for providing a festive Alumni Associa-
tion BBQ and choral program.

Special kudos to Sue Krawchuk for
her extraordinary work with virtually
every aspect of orientation; Fran Kefalas
and Nikki Magaziner fortheirwork with
the Freshman Record; Ms. Joan Neel
and the APO Service Fraternity for ex-
cellent leadership of community service
activity; Professor Kirk Follo and the
Outing Club for organizing the hike to
the saddle of House Mountain and the
Chessie Trail walk; Professor Taylor
Sanders for his remarks on the history
and traditions of W&L; Bob Tompkins,

Interviews and Photos

By Joe Framptom

Professor Lamar Cecil and the Execu-
tive Committee for a meaningful orien-
tation to the Honor System.

Others too numerous to mention
also contributed to the Freshman Ori-
entation program, and this general note
must sufﬁce as a thank you. I am
pleased that the Class of 1997 was the
beneficiary of sucha community ef-
fort!

Sincerely,

Dennis G. Manning
Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life

TALKBACK

 

 

Annual Fund

The Development Ofﬁce is look-
ing for enthusiastic students willing
to work with the Annual Fund activi-
ties such as coordinating student
phonathons. Applications will be
available Thursday, Sept. 30, outside
of Carol Calkins office. If you have
any questions please contact Maureen
Levey at 463-8487.

Pre-Law

The Pre-Law Society will meet in
room 221 of the Commerce School at
7:00 p.m. on Thursday evening, Oct.
7, with members of Phi Alpha Delta
legal fraternity. Activities for the
academic year will be discussed and
officers will be elected. In addition,
undergraduates will be paired with
law student mentors from PAD. All
undergraduate students considering
law school after graduation are in-
vited to attend. For further informa-
tion, contact Professor Lewis G. John
in Room 125-B of the Commerce
School.

Study Abroad

Representatives of the following
organizations will be on campus next
week to talk with students about op-
portunities for study abroad.

Beaver College with programs in
the United Kingdom, Greece, and
Australia — Tuesday, Oct. 5 at 2:00
p.m. in Baker 106.

Marymount College with intern-
ships in London—— Wednesday, Oct.
6 at 1:00 p.m. in Baker 106.

American Institute of Foreign
Study with programs throughout
Europe — Friday, Oct. 8, 11:00 a.m.
to 1:00 p.m. in the Student Center
lobby.

For more information, contact
Kirk Follo at 462-8828.

Movies

Women’s Forum will have a

“movie night this Sunday, Qct._3 at“ .
[6330p.ri’1,,in.the,Arlington ,Wonien’s _ , ‘

‘Center, complete with popcorn. All '
women and men are invited to join,
and bring your favorite movies for us
to choose from.

Interviews

An interviewing workshop will
be held on Tuesday, Oct. 5 at 4:00
p.m. in Room 109 of the University
Center. This workshop is mandatory
for all seniors planning on participat-
ing in practice interviews.

Resumes

There will be a resume work-
shop on Thursday, Oct. 7 at 1 1:00
a.m. in Room 109 of the Univer-
sity Center. This workshop is open
to all students.

Career Tests

There will be a career test inter-
pretation at 3:00 p.m. on Thurs-
day, Oct. 7 in Room 109 of the
University Center. Thosewho have
taken the career tests and have not
attended an interpretation session
should attend at this time.

Chuchelo

The Russian Film Series will
show “Chuchelo” (“Scarecrow”),
a 1983 Russian-language film with
English subtitles directed by Rolan
Bykov based on the novella
Chuchelo by Vladimir
Zheleznikov. The one screening
will be at 7:00 p.m., Monday, Oct.
4, in Northen Auditorium.

Troubadour

The Film Society will present
Gas, Food, Lodging tonight at 8
p.m. and also at 8 p.m. tomorrow in
the Troubadour Theater. There is
no charge for admission.

Phi

The Phi will hold its weekly
storyboard meeting in room 208 of
the University Center every Tues-
day at 7 p.m. Anyone in writing is
invited.

Club Hockey

'\

K I‘ Tliere will beameeting of club

ice hockey on Monday, Oct.r 4, in
Commerce School room 323 at 8
p.m. All interested are invited to
attend. For more information please
call Eric at 464-8879.

ACLU

There will be an ACLU meet-
ing on Saturday, Oct. 2 at 5 p.m. in
the University Center Game Room.
For more information call 462-
4193.

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

0
Correction
In the Sept. 24 issue of The Ring-tum Phi the story “EC allots SAB

$70,000” should have read the Calyx

asked for $28,600 and received

$22,000. The story should also have read Ashby Hackney said Amnesty
International would not allow the College Republicans to participate in
a Death Penalty demonstration. The Phi apologizes for the errors.

What is the Worst thing about being a professor at

Dr. David Novack, professor of so-
ciology — “Grading examinations.”

Washington and Lee?

Dr. J . D. Futch, professor of history
— “Washington, D.C. is 190 miles
away and I drive never over 40.”

Dr. Michael Anderson, professor of
economics —- “Being so far away
from Wisconsin and the Green Bay
Packers.”

Dr. Holt Merchant, professorofhis-
tory — “Committee meetings. They
last too long and accomplish too little.”

Dr. David Harbor, assistant profes-
sor of geology —- “Chasing Zeke
around campus.”

 

Dr. Barry Machado, professor of
history — “Thursday mornings.”

 

 

FEATURES

  

The Ring-tum Phl, October 1, 1993 1

Religious involvement on the rise.

Campus leaders say growing activity reﬂects a new outlook

By LAKEISHA TowNEs

Phi Staff Writer

 

Amid the ﬂurry of academic and
social activities at Washington and Lee,
there is also an active religious com-
munity.

The Registrar’s ofﬁce report on de-
mographic characteristics for 1993-94
shows that 921 students expressed a
religious preference. 872 students in-
dicated Christianity as their preference
while 34 selected Judaism and 15 chose
“other”.

Among the denominations of Chris-
tianity, the three most popular choices
were Catholicism with 275 students,
Episcopalian with 192 and
Presbyterianism with 127.

Though the total number of stu-
dents expressing a religious preference
has dropped by 229, there is a growing
amount of religious activity on cam-
pus.

Last year, there were ﬁve groups on
campus providing religious activities
and support.

Hillel, the Jewish student organiza-
tion, provides a medium for students

and townspeople to participate in reli-
gious functions.

Since the nearest synagogue is in
Staunton, Hillel is one of the only fo-
rums in the county for observing even
the major Jewish holidays.

A representative of Hillel could not
be reached for comment.

The remaining four groups are all
Christian.

Though there are now enough
people interested to sustain this many
Christian organizations on campus,
participation in religious groups has
not always been so popular.

University Registrar Scott Dittman
said when he arrived at W&L in the fall
of 1985, Christian support was not
easy to ﬁnd. “The ﬁrst couple of years,
the Christians were a real quiet voice
on campus.”

Then, around 1987, the Christian
community experienced “a real
movement...an explosion,” said
Dittman.

More students attended meetings of
lnterVarsity Christian Fellowship (IV),
Campus Crusade for Christ formed on
campus, and Fellowship of Christian
Athletes (FCA) became even more ac-
tive, Dittman said.

Dittman is excited about what’s

.3. -
.' ‘I: T; ',"ﬁw"'
o\_guuIu '" ,
..}i ', °

 

going on in the Christian community.

“At least looking at the last eight
years, Christians have become more a
part of the main campus,” Dittman
said.

The growing level of student in-
volvement with religious activities has
been noticed by many organizational
leaders.

“There is much more involvement
in every aspect [of lnterVarsity],” said
junior Katie Stephens, IV president.
“I’ve seen more interest in Bible study
and fellowship in general.”

“The numbers as a whole at the
BSU [Baptist Student Union] have gone
up,” said juniorAlan Carter, BSU presi-
dent.

He adds that although it takes a
while to get freshmen and new Chris-
tians involved, he is excited about the
increased attendance.

Sophomore Julie Sauers, co-leader
of FCA, is also encouraged by the
growth of Christian involvement.

“There is deﬁnitely more interest,”
she said, “FCA seems to be growing.”

“There’s a deﬁnite increase,” said
Catholic Campus Minister Burr Datz.
Datz, a 1975 W&L graduate, said stu-
dents are more involved with the church
and living out their faith.

“I get a sense that people just want
to get in touch with God,” Datz said.

He said more students are attending
retreats and activities at St. Patrick’s
Catholic Church, and those who regu-
larly attend often bring friends.Datz

 

  
  

Baptist
Catholic

Episcopal

Lutheran

 

Methodist
Presbyterian O
Other Christian

Judaism

I
El
El

Other

no preference

 

Theatre department

sets cast for The Flies

From Staﬁ Reports

The Theatre Department has set the cast for its ﬁrst
production of the year.

Senior Heather Aussiker and freshman Dan Tipton
will perform the roles of Electra and Orestes in Jean-
Paul Sartre’s play The Flies.

The Flies focuses on the children of Greek hero
Agamemnon during the fall of his great house. Sartre is
arguably the most well-known practitioner of French
existentialism.

Other Washington and Lee students with featured
roles are senior Ellen Dean as Clytemnestra and fresh-
man Jason Shaffer as the tutor of Orestes. Acting in the
roles of townspeople are sophomores Phaedra Cianciulli
and Jeanne Dillon, juniors James Durbin and Brian
McClung, freshman Ian Leavy and senior Avery
Rembowski.

Performances begin Oct. 22 at 8:00 p.m. and en;
with the 8:00 p.m. show on Oct. 30. Other perfo -
mances are on the 23rd, 25th, and 26th at 8:00 p.m. and
at 2:00 p.m. on the 24th and 30th.

Contrary to the schedule listed in the season bro-
chure, the performance on the 29th will be at 9:00 p.m.

Tickets are available at the benfest Box Ofﬁce (463-
8000) from Noon to 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday
and two hours before any performance. ‘

Other theatre department events this year will in-
clude the December production of The Lady ’s Not For
Burning, a senior thesis directed by Rosanne
Combrooks.

In February, Noel Coward’s comedy Blithe Spirit
will be presented.

The Annual Festival of One-Act Plays will shovl
case student directors this March as a project of the
Advanced Directing class.

 

   
   

    
  
 

 

. , . , said he is encouraged by the growth. The roles of Zeus arid Aegisthus win be performed The grand ﬁnale of the year comes in May with the
. . _ He sees the increased activity as by community members Tom Raisbeek arid Mark production of Mozart’s The Marriage of Figqro— the
~ ’ . - . . part of a different approach to religion. 1)aughtrey_ first fully staged opera organized by the theatre and
“[Christianity] is not just an hour on The play will be directed by A] Gordorr music departments in over 30 years.
Sunday, it’s a way of living.” Q
Wf *" * e i Tm * ” e- ~ :':\;t"i?.l”}".”‘,"  1' ‘
  e e 1.0  C I 0
 .
Q
"   W’? ....... .. .,..W.....,.,...,.,.......w..r..... , . . , ---- g >
‘Right now, you can get a great price on an Apple printer for your puter lab. You can even get special financing with the Apple Computer
Macintosh‘? So you’ll be able to print sharp, professional—looking papers Loan?‘ See your Apple Campus Reseller today. And discover the I
right there in your room — without having to wait around at the com- power more college students prefer. The power to be your best?’ 
0 O 0 0 o o . '.
For further information visit University Computing
in Tiicker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud
or call 463-8844 ,

‘Available to qualifying s/up’erz/s. a/parlicipaling authorized Apple azmpus Resellers. ©1993 Apple Corryiuler. Inc. All rights reserved. Apple. the Apple logo, 1_.a.i'erWr-iter, /llacmlosla, .S'!_vleWr'iIer and “The power /0 beyour /793/ " ((rt) ,.qpii;i»ra/ /rmlemrlrki 0/‘APP’? C0"1/'1’/Pf 1'76-

*Prices do not include sales tax

  

 

«Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 1993

l ay-care center evolves in Lexington

- By Hillary Olson
Phi Staff Writer

In an alleyway, nestled between
rowﬂed buildings, sits the kingdom of
ellow Brick Road Child Care. Cen-
v red in the basement of the Robert E.
' e Episcopal Church, Yellow Brick
'oad is one of only two licensed child
are centers in all of Rockbridge
unty. As administered by Ms. Hunter
ohﬁng, executive director of the cen-
r, it is an environment that gives
hildren “as much free time as pos-
ible, for kids are born to learn.”
The Yellow Brick Road program
egan in 1976 in a woman’s basement
part of her master’s degree program.
he program grew into a non-proﬁt
ompany when people realized that the

majority of parents desperately seek-
ing child care in the area had no way to
pay for it. An extensive scholarship
system was set up to help local parents
affordthe oftenexpensivecostsofchild
care.

As part of its outreach program in
1978, the Episcopal church contrib-
uted the use of its basement and utili-
ties for $25 a month.

Mohring, known as “Hunter” to the
children, says that even with her “pretty
title” of executive director, she fills
any role she needs to. Some days, she
makes lunch for the children with cherry
tomatoes from her own garden.

As she grates carrots for a salad, a
little student waltzes in wearing a prin-
cess costume to say hello. Hunter takes
all the interruptions in stride saying
“we’ve got to deal with the kids as
individuals.”

The only other licensed child care
center in Rockbridge County is in a
Buena Vista woman’s home. However,
Yellow Brick Road is receiving its
most noticeable competition from the
new Montessori school in Lexington.
The center cares for 23 children daily,
the majority of them for 40 hours a
week.

Hunter said that her job is a very
gratifying one, although it gets very
hectic at times. She said that she read in
a magazine somewhere that “child care
workers hear as much loud noise in a
week as a construction worker with a
jackhammer in six hours.”

FEATURES

Left: children who attend
Yellow Brick road enjoy
playtime. The children
are also given more
structured activities
throughout the day.

Below: There are
several teachers in the
Yellow Brick Daycare
center. Each teacher is
responsible for an age-

group.

Jfomecoming weelﬁemf

offers more tﬂan fo0t5a[[

From Staff Reports

The Lexington city streets will once
again host the sights and sounds of
Washington and Lee’s Homecoming
Parade next Saturday, October 9.

Starting at Brewbaker Field, the
parade will come into town on Main
Street and then head toward campus on
Washington Street. The procession is
scheduled to begin at 11:00 a.m.

Various university groupswill build
and drive ﬂoats in the paradedepicting
a theme representing either their re-
spective organization or depicting the
Generals’ victory at the football game
later_in the day.

Lexington ﬁre departments, res-
cue teams and local officials will also
participate. The Liberty Hall Volun-
teers will march in Colonial militia
attire.

The bands of Rockbridge County
High School and Lylbum Downing
Middle School will provide music for
participants and observers.

The tradition of the Homecoming

‘Parade was revived by Kathekon, the

student alumni group.

Other Homecoming Weekend ac-
tivities include alumni receptions, lec-
tures, concerts, and the football game
against the Davidson Wildcats.

Members of W&L classes 1990-93
will participatein an event called “Clus-
ter Reunion”. The new program gives
younger alumni a means to participate
in campus events before the traditional
five-year reunion.

The “Five-Star Generals”, alumni
of W&L classes from 50 or more years
ago, will attend an honorary dinner in
the Evans Dining Hall Friday evening.

Two lectures will also be offered on
Friday. The John Randolph Tucker
Lecture will be given at 12:10 p.m. in
Lewis Hall by The Honorable A. Leon
Higginbotham, Jr. senior judge for the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit, Philadelphia.

Accounting professor Lyn F.
Wheeler, history professor Roger B.
Jeans, Jr., and associate professor of
administration Kip M. Pirkle will host
a seminar titled “From Communism to
Capitalism: Can the Red Giants Play
Ball?” The seminar will begin at 2:00
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

There will also be an alumni recep-
tion at the Alumni House at 6:00 p.m.

J ubiLee, Southern Comfort, and the
W&L Choral ensembles will perform
at 8:45 p.m. in the KellerTheatre at the
Lenfest Center. The concert is free and
open to the public.

Saturday’s festivities include the
beloved football game and the crown-
ing of the 1993 Homecoming queen.

Spending Spring Term in

SPAIN
GERIVIAN Y
FRANCE
ITALY
ETC.?

Need FINANCIAL HELP?

Check with the Financial Aid Office to
make sure you have the correct

applications on ﬁle.
DO IT N OW!!

Point of View  

Restaurant

NexttoDeysInn.Rt.60Wut

Attend the Spring Term Abroad general
information session Tuesday, Oct. 19, 1993
at 7:00 p.m. Room 114,
University Center.

EXCEPTIONAL STUDENT BUSINE
OPPORTUNITY

FIFTY PERCENT PARTNERSHIP IN
CARIPUS LINEN SERVICE
BEING OFFERED FOR STUDENT PURCHASE

-Gain valuable professional experience in marketing,
management, and sales while operating your own profitable
business.

-Earn a 12% to 15% return on your investment in this well
established business that has been owned and operated by
Washington and Lee students for over 30 years.

, -Provide the desperately needed clean linen and towels to your
fellow W&L students while acquiring priceless skills, promoting
_ your own marketability, and earning money. -

-For more information please contact:

Gene Pride ‘92

P.O. Box 1962
Telluride, CO 81435
(303) 728-2083

sxxxxxxxxxxxx332gassasssaxxxxsxggsggaxxxxxxa

: ,,. 4

  

PAGE 6

Administrators rejoice over ranking rise

applications we wouldn’t normally see.”

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Administrators and admissions ofﬁce repre-
sentatives are savoring Washington and Lee’s
20th place finish in U.S. News and World
Repor1’s best colleges issue.

“We are very proud to be in the company of
the ﬁne colleges on the list,” said Assistant
Director of Admissions Rob Aliff. “lt’s impor-
tant because when (high school) students see us
listed as a top college, it does draw some

two years’ 22nd place ﬁnishes.

that the speciﬁc ranking is not what matters.
“The range is very narrow from 15 to 25,” said
Howison. “The fact is that we are part of that
very distinguished group.”

ranking is high onwthe scale does have its
advantages.

W&L moved up two places from the past

But Dean of Students David Howison said

But, said Howison, the fact that W&L’s

“[This report] has become in higher educa-
l

 

Construction workers put the finishing touches on Lexington’s newest restaurant.
Fear not, true believers. The long-awaited Mexican eatery will open soon.

Run for the border...

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Lexington will soon offer yet
another alternative to D-Hall din-
ing—Taco Bell is due to open
sometime next week.

America’s south-of-the—bor—
der fast food eatery has been un-

- der construction for the last 75

days and was scheduled to open
on September 27.

Bad weather pushed the date
to next week.

‘‘It all depends on the
weather,” said owner Tassos
Paphites. The earliest Taco Bell
can open its doors is October 6, if
skies stay sunny.

According to Paphites, the

Taco Bell site was chosen be-
cause it met demographic crite-
ria. It is supposed to do well,
being between two cities and near
two universities.

“We’re real excited about it,”
said Paphites.

The Taco Bell address is 9541 ,
located on Route 60. Taco Bell is
owned by Burgerbusters, Inc.

IFC hands out two Violations

{ I->RUSH, from page one

Both fraternities received a $1500 ﬁne and one
' week social probation. Since both fraternities re-
ceived the violation last Friday night they will not

. lose any Tear Night activities.

“They started it [social probationjitflienightthey 
» got the violation, 'ai1d»it-”ll be over by Friday'night-,”‘: * F

Donaldson said.

Additionally, neither fraternity lost any parties
since They Might Be Giants played last weekend

and no fraternity functions were scheduled.

“They really picked a good weekend for it,”
Donaldson said.
Donaldson however was quick to point out far

A - fewer Rush violations had occurred this year.

_ “Last year, there were between ﬁve and eight
violations. ‘This year, the number of Rush viola-
tions has decreased dramatically,”Donaldsgn_said.

. V

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1, 19

  
 

@

tion a very important resource,” Howison said.
“There is no question that parents and kids look
to that issue to make a decision.”

Aliff agreed.

“[Our ranking in the report] helps people to
know we have a solid academic program. We
are in the same category as other colleges with
high academic reputations, and reputation is
key,” said Aliff.

While the overall score placed W&L at 20,
the school rated better in some areas than higher
ranking schools. For example, W&L proved to

I->VMI, from page one

50, the students would be lodged
in the now defunct Staunton Mili-
tary Academy which was bought
by Mary Baldwin and is adjacent
to the school. Kcade said that
Mary Baldwin bought Staunton
Military Academy in 1976.
Kcade said that students
would have their own living quar-
ters , but it hasn’t been deter-
mined whether they will live on
the original campus orthe former
Staunton Military Academy.
Strickler said that students
would take 12-18 hours of Lead-
ership courses that would make
up a Leadership minor. In addi-
tion to that, students would be
required to take four years of
intensive physical education and
ROTC training. Kcade adds that
students would be required to

Annie brought up to date

acceptance rates.

ranking.

W&L rode fairly low on the education pro-
gram per student and ﬁnancial resources lists,
spending about $14,965 per student and plac-
ing 48th on the financial resources scale.

VMI proposes solutio'

take an “extemship”, or an in-
ternship, with a corporation in
the public or private sector.

Furthermore, Strickler said
that like VMI, there would be an
Honor Code established at the
Leadership Institute in addition
to the rigorous physical training
and ROTC.

However, that is where the
similarities end. Strickler said
that there will not be a rat line
system at the Leadership Insti-
tute.

Strickler believes that the rat
line would be unsuitable for
women.

‘‘It would be very tough for
women to go throught the type of
training that the Cadets go
through here,” said Strickler.

Kcade also said that research
shows that women learn differ-
ently and do not develop self-

I->ANNlE, from page one

The library now holds subscriptions to
two new databases, which are available
through Liberty. The subscriptions, which
are paid for out of the library’s budget, make
the information free to all W&L faculty and
students. The new databases are UnCover
and FirstSearch. A third Database soon to be

added is Lexis-Nexis.

UnCover is produced by the Colorado
Association of Research Libraries (CARL).
It contains listings of the tables of contents of
almost 15,000 journals owned by Colorado
libraries. Users can search the database by

subject or by title.

FirstSearch is new this year.
specialized databases like Medline, which
It also gives
access to listings of government publications
and the MLA bibliography_. FirstSearch,’

indexes medical literature.

  

RlNCll’l.l£S Hf SOUND

R If T l R I‘) .\I If N 'l‘

 
  

rxvr“

       
  
 
  

ized publications.

Because of the nature of the new data-
bases, the library may cancel some subscrip-
tions to paper periodicals after a trial period.
Blackmer said that some CD-Rom subscrip-
tions have already been canceled because
FirstSearch appears to be cheaper.

John Doyle, an associate law librarian,-
created Netlink on the liberty menu. This
program has made W&L internationally
known in the computing world becauseit has
combined 2777 information points (library
databases, gqphers, bibliographies, etc.), and

It holds

be one of the most selective schools in the top
20, admitting only 29 percent of its applicants.
Only the top two schools, Amherst College and
Williams College in Massachussetts, had lower

W&L and Davidson, in North Carolina,
were the only southern schools in the top 25

while free to students, costs the library about
ﬁfty cents for each search, and its use is
therefore restricted to people at W&L.
Lexis—Nexis will be a full-text database,
and not just a bibliographical or abstract
listing like most others. It will give access to
periodical articles by title. Lexis—Nexis con- .
tains mostly legal information and special-

money.
for W&L.
Aliff. .

conﬁdence well. _

“We would want to set up an
environment conducive to
women for learning, character
building, and development of
self-confidence,” said Kcade.

Chris Meyers, a 1st Classman
and senior, believes that women
would not be able to handle the
rigorous physical and mental
training the Cadets go through.

“If I had a daughter I would
feel uncomfortable with her go-
ing through what we go through
in the rat line,” said Meyers.

According to Strickler, to al-
low women into VMI would de-
stroy its uniqueness.

‘‘If women were admitted to
VMI, the system would change,”
said Strickler.

He said that VMI has an open-
air environment—no bathrooms
in the room, entireley open-

 

center.

Howison offered an explanation for this.
said that W&L’s endowment level is low
comparison with other schools, but W&l
tuition is also low. Students are not making
for low endowment by paying higher tuitit
W&L just offers a quality education for 1:

D
But this year’s ranking is shiny, happy ne

“It certainly makes my job easier,” s

adds new items every day. It includes listing
such as Compact Disk Connection, an 8n-lir
electronic catalogue that allows users to o
der CDs with a credit card over E-mail. Tl
popularity of this system, however, has fore
the university to place limits on the numbert
outside usersthatcan aocessitsimultaneousl

Blackmer said that to learn how to use tl
new system, students need to “just play Qou .
with it.” He said that the library has consit
ered offering help sessions, but that he do
not anticipate an enthusiastic response t
these. Students can also obtain help at t -
library reference desk and in. the comput

The developments in the library’§corr
puter resources are continuing, said Blackme
He called. the databases “libraries withor
walls that leak into.the lntemet,” and said thz
their capabilities are “so powerful and so fu
of potential that it is overwhelming.”

v

  
     
     
    
    
     
    
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
    
    
   
   
    
    
      
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
    
   
  
    
  
    
       
      

spaced toilets and showers.

Meyers said that al owi
women into VMI woul cre:
tension between the sexes.

“You’re going to feel unco»
fortable when you’re forced
accept something that you do
want to accept,” said Meyers.

Strickler believes that VMI
a unique part of the higherlduc
tional system.

“VMl is just a sample of t
diversity in higher educatio
said Strickler.

Kcade said that Mary Baldw
fully intends to go ahead with ti
project even if the courtgejec
VMl’s proposal. .

Kcade said that the Lead:
ship Institute is a logical or
growth of Mary Baldwin’s mi
sion in training women.

“We see it as a wonderf
opportunity,” said Kcade.

     
       
 
  
  
    
      
     
    
   
     
     
     
  
 

 

 

Diana Madsen Schofield
205 North Main Street
Phone 463-5455

       
  

Lexington
Shop for

Pappagallo .
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

Accessories

oppogomlo

Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

   

    
 

9 I993 Tiacbrrx Irnrurnntr am)/Innuity Axmucralrktn/C0//cg: Rtlirtmtnt Equiliu Fund

 

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS

LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

‘ :an’t afford to save for retirement?

The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement

can last 20 to 30 years or more.You'll want

to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.

By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax-deferral and give your
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $100 each
month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $172,1o9* by the time
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $219 each month
to reach the same goal.

Even ifyou're not counting the years to
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve-
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio ofinvest-
ment choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education and
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of
their list for retirement planning. Why not
join them?

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you
have time and TIAA-CREF working on

your side.

Start planning your ﬁtture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.

%

for those who shape it?"

75 years of ensuring the future

 

\

 

product vtry Biffcrent r:JulI.r. CREF ttrtéfxaltm art dirtribuml by TI/M-CREF Inrlivulualarrrl Imrlilulianal Strvirnr.

"/i.r.mInr'/lg an irrltrnri ml: of 7. 01.7% rra/zlrd to TIAA Rtllrtnunl Annuities T/IL! raft Lr u.r:r}.ra/1/y Ia Jbow the power and tﬂtrt ofrumpaundirrq. Lawcr ar higher rate: would

 
 
  

\b.:;.....';.

Oetober Spec-i-als '9
———Cassin les Special - - 3 for $9.50-—-
$2.00 off a 1 CDs, $1.00 off all Cassettes

       

anrrve

The Budd Holly Collection
Dazed and on ed Soundtrack
Perfect entlemen
Carlislly Duffer - Sax-A-Go-Go
Taj ahal - Dancing the Blues

George Strait - Easy Come, Easy Go
KRS-ON E — Return of the Boom Bap

Souls of Mischief — ‘93 "til Inﬁnity
Spice I - I87He Wrote '

Emmy Lou Harris - Cowgirl ‘.9 Prayer

Dan Fogelber - River 0 Souls
Raw Bree - Lune unz
The Posres - Frosting on the Beater

     

   

 

Stonewall S uare Shopping Center

    
   

xin ton
463-9 00

     
    

   
   
  
 
  
 

 :»-V :5.-,.-.vut-¢~.-.x~ nu...-ya -a. .7 . -

 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
  

.§et it out,” she said. “But the AAUP
.1’ gaysghere ought to be a process to hear
‘,3 case about inadequate consideration.”
5' The AAUP stipulates that a com-

 
   
 
  
   
 

faculty member challenges negative

 
   
 
  
 

    

I e Rlng-tum Phi, October 1, 1993

PAGE 7

 

taut: :24. 1‘ ~«.u.»s«
1" ml: «An Ixvmuu

   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
   

Naughty Reading

«.

'lhe Bookstore displays books that have been banned. some of the titles may surprise you.

I

non-renewal case.

iI>PECK, from page 1

, ing into the options open to her. She
iiscovered she could appeal the deci-
iiongfter looking into guidelines set
for professors by the American Asso-
;iation of University Professors [the
AAUP].

“I was unaware I had this option
because the faculty handbook doesn’t

the appeal.

appeal.

hiittee composed of elected faculty
members should hear cases in which a
‘decisions because of inadequate con— agreed upon procedures.”
side tion or more substantial consid-
bratrons such as discrimination or de-
nial of academic freedom.” At W&L
there is no standing committee to hear

Professor H.‘Thomas Williams, Jr.,
chair of the President’s Advisory Com-
mittee, said the committee has not been
formally charged by President John D.
Wilson to review Peck’s petition. Once
charged, however, the deans would not
take part in the formal deliberations of

According to Williams, there are
two issues to be considered in Peck’s

“Two issues are at point here. One is
procedure and the other is about the
fairness of the outcome,” Williams said.
“The committee’s responsibility will
be limited to one charge and that is if
the English department followed the

He added the “committee will in no
way look at if the decision of the En-
glish Departiiierit was right or wrong.”

Craun learned of Peck’s intention to

   

such cases.

file an appeal in late July when he
received a copy of the letter she had

   
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
 

l The President’s Advisory Commit-
lee, which is composed of six elected
faculty members and 3 deans, is the
lnosfsimilar to the committee recom-
inended by the AAUP. The members

yet to see the actual petition.

: ,

‘(Iraui1"s'a’fd{ " ‘I

for three years. Curren‘tly1,“St'he‘ ’
President’s Advisory Committee is the
committee who reviews all tenure de-

sent to Wilson requesting a review of
the department’s judgment. Craun has

“We ,don’t know what she has al-
bf the faculty on the,co'mrnittee~ aifeﬂ "leged1;rtit’we‘arej¢onﬁde[nt, inthe pro-
elected by the entire faculty   ’f,“f:es§§ﬂd‘.t‘if2ﬁ_‘i1fl’1‘as‘liet5ti up fé.‘i"rly‘," “

Peck would not comment on the
specifics of her appeal. However, ac-

  

cording to Wilson, who will formally

appeal will allege the English depart-
ment did not follow standard proce-
dure.

“The AAUP stipulates that inad-
equate consideration is the threshold
allegation and should be first dealt
with,” Wilson said. “Judging by her
initial reaction, I fully expect there will
be a second petition.”

Peck’s decision to ﬁle the 67—page
appeal was strengthened by the sup-
port she received from both students
and faculty members. .

“There were some professors an
students who asked if there was any-
thing they could do and I began think-
ing of asking the department for recon-
sideration.

Some students even wrote letters to
the department asking for reconsidera-
tion,” she said.

Junior Melissa Miller was one stu-
dent who sent a letter to the department
requesting a review of Peck’s case.

“Professor Peck is one of the best
professors here,” Miller said. “When I
talked to Professor Craun, l was given
no real answer as to why she was let go.
I’m not sure she received one.”

Miller believes the'_English depart-

ment did not’ haxléijust ‘cause‘t‘o’termi‘- A "

nate Peck’s contract and did not take
student opinion adequately into con-
sideration.

“Everyone I talked to had very posi-

«Beck challenges department ruling

responses,” Miller said. ‘‘I expect they
will disregard student opinion [about
the appeal]. Look at the way they did it
with Professor Lynch.”

Although the department did re-
ceive some letters from students after
the decision had been made, Craun
said the department opted not to recon-
sider.

“The tenured members of the fac-
ulty decided not to reconsider their
decision based on [the letters],” he said.
“The group decided there had been a
fair evaluation already.”

Because the appeal is the first of its
kind, no one involved with the case is
sure how to proceed next or how long
it w ill be before a decision is reached.

“I have no experience with this type
of procedure,” Williams said.“lt [the
appeal] could drag out for the semester
but the hope is, on both sides, that it
won’t.”

Although Peck feels “students
should let theirvoices count,” she wants
to “see the process move along as ob-
jectively as possible without any out-
side interference.”

The English department, Craun said,
is not worried about the appeal. ,

‘ ‘‘I "think “I can ‘safely say for my
colleagues that we have nothing to fear
from a review,” Craun said. “The fac-
ulty handbook is our guide and it is
quite explicit about those things that

&L tries

to comply
with ADA

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee campus
needs some work, at least when it comes
to serving the handicapped.

The university is currently working
to comply with the regulations of the
Americans with Disabilities Act. This
law became effective in July 1992, and
prohibits discrimination based on an
individual’s impairment.

The ADA applies to all private em-
ployers, state and local governments,
government agencies, and labor unions.
Violations of ADA cannot be crimi-
nally prosecuted, but if the institution
does not respond adequately to a
complainant’s request, that institution
is liable for punitive damages. How-
ever, the university could be prosecuted
under state law, as well as be liable for
damages.

The state of Virginia’s code, the
Human Rights Act, coincides with the
new federal anti-discrimination laws.
According to the ADA Handbook
(which is published by the Department
of Justice and the Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission), violations
of the Human Rights Act now fall
under the same repercussions as those
applicable to race, sex, national origin,
and religious discrimination underTitle
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

Director of Capital Planning Frank
Parsons has made arrangements for
handicapped students, faculty, staff and
visitors over the years.

“For now, the most difficult prob-
lem is dealing with campus visitors
who have special needs that we can not
anticipate. However, when we know
we will have these visitors, we see that

they are taken care of (when on the
campus),” Parsons said.

“We know what the (new ADA)
regulations are, and as problems are
brought to our attention, we do the best
that we can,” he added.

The protection laws concerning
physical addition (the installation of
ramps, elevators, etc.) can exempt some
buildings if it can be proven that the
alterations would be an “undue hard-
ship” on the operation of the establish-
ment that ownsthebuildingorinbuild-
ings of a historical nature, such as the
academic buildings on the Colonnade.

Gaines Hall and Graham-Lees dor-
mitory are up to ADA standards, but
Woods Creek apartments are not. Ac-
cording to Parsons, not all university
housing must comply with the regula-
tions, as long as a handicapped-acces-
sible alternative is provided for those
students requiring it.

The newly-built Sigma Chi and
Sigma Phi Epsilon houses are equipped
with wheelchair lifts, as part of their
compliance with ADA.

However, the other renovated fra-
ternity houses only had to comply with
the Fair Housing Act at the time they
were constructed.

“Had we had to comply with the
ADA at the time of the renovations, the
university could not have afforded fra-
ternity renaissance,” Parsons said.

Because the university now owns
all of the fraternity properties, it now

shares liability for an lawsuits that may ’

result from discrimination or lack of
accommodation for the handicapped
on the part of the fraternities.

The new science building will be
built according to ADA speciﬁcations.
The recently-opened Watson Pavilion
also complies with ADA.

EC, Pub Board clash

I->EC, from Egg 1
“The fact remains,” said Richardson, “this money was taken from the

Pub Board without approval.” .

E.C. President Bob Tompkins said he wished to discuss the situation
with Assistant Controller Don Holt and past E.C. President Bo Russell
before any further action is taken. Russell was E.C. President at the time
of the budgeting error andauthorized the transfers of funds.

Russell distributed the money to two campus clubs: The~Ring-tum Phi
got $5,000 and Club Volleyball got $700. The E.C. did not have an
explanation for why Russell illegally took the funds from the Pub Board
reserve.

During its annual budget hearings, the E.C. tentatively set aside $2,700

bisiﬂis and all promotions. Until now

the committee has never handled a

   
    
  
     
     
  
   
      
 
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
   

ﬁt’-€d Y0 b6 C0nSid€f6d~” to bring the Pub Board Reserve back up to its minimum level, but $3,000

more is needed to fully reimburse the board.

CATALOG

tive things to say. I got no negative

Valley 

charge the committee on Monday, her

Marlene’s Hairstylists & Tannery
n A full service salon:

-cuts -manicures

-color -pedicures _ _  .

-perms -sculptured nails Hardware, Paint, and Related Items Lexington 17 South Mam St.
-highlighting Famous Men’s & Women’s Apparel and Shoes from

America’s Finest Catalog Mail Order Companies. New
Shipments Every Week. Experience the Thrill of
Saving 50% to 80% off of Catalog Prices. Guaranteed.

Hours: Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 463-9730

Marlene, Kelly, Bobbi, Barbara, _Cindy and Kim
" invite you to stop in -- walk-ins welcome

463-6003

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

 Restaurant

at LEE 1!! Truck Stop

25 N. Main St.

   
 

HATS and T-SHIRTS

Originally $10.00. . . now $7.50 each
Cocoa-Mill Beefy T’s - All Cotton - M, L, XL
Cocoa-Mill Hats - All Cotton or Supplex -
American Made - Colors Galore! Long Bill
Available. Free Truffle with Purchase!
Across from the Post Office - 121 W. Nelson St.

: “Let them
  eat steak.

(“Then, give them any regular 6"sub* of their
' choice for just 99¢.”)

_   BREAKFAST
* BUFFET

Friday &. Saturday Nights
11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

 

463-3478

 
 

V N‘

O 1
W &L Art 

Signatures: if

Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee 

M. Miley John Letcher 

‘ Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr. §
Sam Houston A. P. Hill 

W&L Copperplate. hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

  fiiﬁmuats
Caravans Bﬂllillﬂ

117 W. Nelson Street Sunday 11-4 Daily 10-6

No wonder things went bad for Marie Antoinette.
She said, “Let them eat cake;”not “steak." Anyway, we’re playing
it smart, because for a limited time when you buy a delicious Steak 86 Cheese
Sub with a medium soft drink, we’ll give you any regular 6" sub‘ for just 99¢.
(Hey, we’ve got our heads on straight over here.)

: v.\ x ‘us.-

 

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington. VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

E» ‘(cl ‘»‘.«.“€\...

 

Place Your Address lloro.

‘ Sol molt ho cl oqul or Iouor voloo. lot good villi ny ollor oﬂor. In I llunllod tlln.

kk J

PAGE 8

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1919

Schaeffer undefeated; sets record agai

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Where can a girl go from here?

SophomoreJosephine Schaeffer has
achieved far more than the human mind
can conceive orthe human body should
be able to endure. For the first time in
Washington and Lee history, a cross
country athlete has gone undefeated,
setting the course record on each of
three courses she has raced on, re-
setting the school record, and sat out
practice because of a spider bite.

Yes, Schaeffer was bitten by a spi-
der bite this week, but never fear, she
said as she ran back and forth on the
Washington and Lee track, “It feels
good now. Well, not good, but...” and

she laughed.

Running 45-50 miles a week to stay
on her toes, the least of Schaeffer’s
worries is a little insignificant pain that
doesn’t affect her performance (she
intends to race this weekend at the
Frostburg Invitational, Oct. 2). Top on
herlistofThingtoWorry About: where
to go from here?

A two—time All-American,
Schaeffer’s margin of victory (a new
statistic I personally created for this
unprecented necessity) is now 1:12.6
for the season. That means that she has
beaten the entire ﬁeld at each of her
cross country meets so far this season
(one which contained over 200 run-
ners) by an average of one minute,
twelve and two—thirds seconds.

Last weekend Schaeffer ran in the

File photo

Schaeffer runs to second place at last year’s track and field

championships in Berea, Ohio.

  SPRING BREAK ‘94
SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, & GO FREE!!

Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps.

Call (800) 648-4849

Dickinson open and re-set her own
school record and personal record, a
four-second improvement, at 17:50.
This was also a course record; Schaeffer
has set three course records in as many
meets this year.
Her time helped Washington and
Lee to a second-place finish in the
meet, after a Divison II team,
Millersville. Teammate and sophomore
Amy Mears finished a strong eighth
with a time of 19:47.
Schaeffer was pleased with the
course.
“It had good variety,” she said. “A
little bit of everything; hills and good
down-hills, some terrain, and even good
weather.”
Hesitant to call any performance ’
her best, she was happy with the race.
“I still want to work hard and im-
prove even more by the end of the
season, but I’m pleased,” she said.
What sets Schaeffer apart? No one
seems to have an answer for that all
important question. Some have the gall
to ask, What’s so special about that?
Running around and around really fast?
Well, anyone cannot do it. (I tried.)
It is a unique talent; whether it is her
technique, her genetic make-up, her
long history of intensive training
(Schaeffer was running road races in
grade school) or her work ethic, not
even her coaches can tell us. They just
know that they are happy to have her .
Last “year, Schaeffer blew the
competition’s minds not only locally ﬁt"
but nationally, as she came on the Na-
tional Track and Field Championships
with a provisional qualifying time (sig-
niﬁcantly below the time required to
automatically qualify an athlete to ad-
vance to the National competition for
Division III) and astounded her com-
petition by finishing second for an All-
American honor and a new school and
personal record. -
When every personal record on
sets is a school record, every time one
sets is a course record, running could
get blase. But Josephine Schaeffer just
keeps running, laughing about an in-
fected spider bite and hoping to im-
prove.
There’s nowhere to go but up,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-tum Pf

Schaeffer works on one of her 45-50 miles she runs every week with the Washington and Lee

woman's cross country team to prepare her for another All-American hopeful season.

Josephine.
FREE TRIPS AND MONEY}! j
Individuals and Student Organiza-  0* |v9"’15V 0322-392

tions wanted to promote the Hottest

Spring Break Destinations, call the
nation’s leader. Inter-Campus

Programs 1-800-327-6013. .

2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista - (Behind Pizm Hut)

 

Party Picture Photographers Needed

Must have own 35 mm. equipment & car
Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6

Hair Salon

Good thru 10/31

SHEAR nmnne S";;;:,;

Specials
Tanning Special-10 visits for $25.00

$2.00 Off on a hot oil manicure.

17 S. Randolph St.
464-1145

Hocus Pocus
Rated PG
Shows Daily at 5 p.m. & 7 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 1 p.m.

FRATS! SORORITIES!
STUDENT GROUPS!

Ralse as Much as You

   
 
 

 
  
  
 
   
      

 
 

Want In One Week’ Haaggjalzget
$100' ' °$690j ' '$f1i?0! Shows Daily at 9 p.m.
 gr/er‘: Sat. & Sun. 3 p.m.

NEW GM MASTERCARD.
Users earn BIG DISCOUNTS “All You Can Eat”

 
 

    

$ ANY SHOW

on cm CARS! Qualify for FREE BOTIOMLESS BUCKET
T-SHIRT 8: '94 GMC !|MMY- goo or POPCORN $39
can 1 -800-950-1 039, ext. 75.

    

SKYDIVE!!

Is the experience 8: expertise of your Instructor
important? Make your first jump under the
tutelage of the only two Instructors at Skydive
Orange certified in all three disci lines; Static Line,
Tandem & Accelerated Freefall. ou can freefall up
to 60 seconds your first skydive! Call toll free for

brochure. 1-800-484-7400 ¢‘:~Ar When ou hear the
tone dial 5531; or call (703) 94 -8988

 

College

Bring your Horse to

Stabling available just off W&_L "
Campus. Full Board/ Large Riding
Arena/ 80 Acres of Trials/
Lessons Available
Phone #’s 463-2194 (Day)
463-1859 (Evening)
464-6620 (Barn)

    
 

 20%(ﬂ‘anyreguhrj¢

Spanky’s is Now Hiring for
All Positions
Part & Full-time Positions
Available - Apply in person

 

'3' Every Monday
5-9 p.m.

Now Accepting Reservations

Home!
Harbs’
and

for Parents’ Weekend
Point Cards available - Charge them
Lexington's
lively Bistro
Outdoor Patio. 19 We(§‘02;“,f,:.‘,',f'19,t,‘§,'},St’eet

 

0 0 , ;j:1i "mex>u.~I oio inner
I ,,t'.g,urj’ 9At2t2~I Tu-loom

/  / "qorpaur 5616.5;
‘ VD ND NE a
V //   

I
o"
”//r

 

"III!

_-\\I‘
\

“wuo is run 

 

I \

_  «net the «ewe-*6€<61>."He~: I'M
 jo 5931' A CA2-roovi ct—tA2Aae9.

,.‘ 1 com eveu HAVE TO
K/

Quowee .

gar nicer. en}? 3Tu171'V '
get AIVS

Goa MDKE \t~\t=oQMl-\Tior~l CALL. '. ‘ .

1-8w—6eZ~&l£L ms

N,.~nL,.u._ M51’;-n_;1g ON 920 A3095 0.5 195342-rM€NVoF HEM/TH 4ND ummxl scewaes,

PAGE 9

  Hams Teeter
MEANS LOW PRICES

9 QUALITY AND VARIETY
' ARMOUR MEAT

HOT
_ooes

inoz. ,

SELF BASTING GRADE A"
HpuSE or RAEFORD

TURKE
BREA

LIMIT 2 WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE

LB.

Eﬁiﬁﬁt

W&L Water polo dips in Pacific;

CALIFORNIA

ICEBERG
I.E'I"I'UCE

DIET COKE OR
COCA COLA

6 PK.
12 OZ.
CANS

Enjoy

159

| KC»-

Trademarks ®

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE
RAISINS FIRST
COOKIES

i4.I oz 

COOKS IN ONE MINUTE

QUAKER
QUICK OATS .............. ..l8OZ.

TASTY, CRUNCHY QUAKER

HONEY

GRAHAM 0'5 .......... ..l2OZBOX

HT
ORANGE

JUICE ........................ ..<s4 02..

IN THE DELI-BAKERY

FRIED

CHICKEN ........ ..8 PIECE BOX

153
189
I09

99

SELECTED VARIETIES
‘EAGLE RIPPLE
POTATO CHIPS

 69

EXTRA STRENGTH

TYLENOL
CAPLETS

94

50 COUNT

HUNTER FARMS
FUDGE
BARS

I2
COUNT

-5

BANQUET

HEALTHY BALANCE

DINNERS

2/ 00

IO.25-

I I.25

OZ.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 1 , 1993

sinks two of three Calif. teams

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Weekending in California, the
Washington and Lee water polo team
swam in a few pools, caught a few rays,
and won two of three tough games
against top California teams.

Appearing at Claremont—McKenna
for the dedication game of the new
pool in Claremont, the Generals fell
11-5 after senior Greg Golub, injured
in the second game of the weekend,
decided he could not play.

This game was encompassed, how-
ever, by two big wins over Pomona,
16-5 and Loyola Marymount, 13-12.

Coach Page Remillard said the
Loyola Marymount game was athriller.

‘‘It was a one-goal game all the
way,” he said. “We scored with 19
seconds to go in the game to win.”

The game was a nail-biter the whole
way; 3-3 at the end of the ﬁrst quarter,
5-4 W&L at the end of the half, and 8-
8 at the end of the third. Loyola
Marymount scored with a second to go
in both the second and third quarters,
keeping the Generals on their toes until
the final two seconds, when a shot in
goal by Loyola was negated by a viola-

tion, and Washington and Lee could
breath fairly easily; though they had
the ball deep in enemy territory.

‘‘It wasn’t over until the buzzer
sounded,” said Remillard.

Washington and Lee, with five play-
ers who call California home on its
roster, as well as coach with California
coaching experience, were at home in
the land of sun. The Generals had trav-
eled to the Pacific once before, six
years ago, to face Pomona and Univer-
sity of California at San Diego, one of
the best teams in water polo.

“It was more like a bowl-game ex-
perience,” said Remillard, who cited
the hosts at Claremont treating the team
to meals and even a trip to the beach.
The mighty Generals were not to be
distracted, however, and pulled off an
upset, a win and a tough loss.

“There were no hitches; everthing
was just like clockwork,” said
Remillard. “We went there to play water
polo, and we did a heck of a good job.”

Other teams, Remillard reported,
were surprised to see an east coast team
play so intensely.

“Loyola Marymount was not ex-
pecting the tenacity of our players;
some voiced doubts about our ability,

and our players overheard,” he said.

This obvious mistake helped W&
hold on for a final victory, bringing its
record to 5-5 on the season.

Probably the toughest season the
Washington and Lee water polo team
has ever faced, 1993 will be a success
if the Generals ﬁnish above the .500
mark.

‘‘If we are going to come out over
the mark, we are going to have to pull
an upset sometime this season,” said
Remillard. “We’re preparing ourselves
to pull that upset; we don’t know when,
but we’ll be ready.”

Facingtoughcompetitionthisweek-
end, the Generals will host an Eastern
Water Polo Association Tournament
at Cy Twombly Pool. Up against the
Generals are Princeton, Georgetown
and Johns Hopkins.

“Princeton is definitely the tough-
est of the teams, and Johns Hopkins
beat us once this year,” said Remillard.
“We probably need to win two of three
to have any opportunity of post-season
play.”

Washington and Lee is a young
team, with plenty of bright future (tough
as it may be) ahead. This team, 5-5 thus
far, could be going places.

 
Prices Effective Throu h October 5, I993

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, Segember 29 Through uesdoy, October 5,1993. In I Lexington ‘ Stores Ph t b B I , ' V" "_ H I 4
OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit uontities. None Sold To Dealers. We Glodly Accept Federal Food btomps. womenss Volleyball players bump set spike on their way to eStab“"s‘I’m3;g‘:';:”é::‘g:{J"§e’Z:%:”7 P3’
- _ _ v v - cor
I In Washington and Lee sports this season.

   

Last Week:

WSoc—defeated Hollins, Va. Wes., MWC

MSoc—defeated E&H, Bridge., Guilford
WP—2-1 in California tourney
WX-C—2nd in Dickinson Open

PAGE 10

S

Glln: ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

PORTS

 

This Week:
FB—at Randolph-Macon 10/02
VB—at Emory tourney 10/01-02
WP—EWPA tourney 10/02-03
MSoc—at Randolph-Macon 10/02

  

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

OCTOBER 1, 199

 

  
notes... . .

. SARAHEONV SPO
BY-SARAH GILBBR
This wcck'f’,d«jtt$t.1x}c
to commeritfon some ran
dom sporting eviems
occurrences in [the
. munity, as sports on

nists arc priigileged to j
_ First, rugby. I attends’
part of a game to,da_y,- an , _
it’s exciting.’ Scrumt”ning,:_’
is actuallyias‘ gootlfas
sounds. When the boys
rugby shirts (yes, t ’ .
is the origin oftlicc
item) startscnimming,
actually cangsee  ‘
callit a scrum. ..

' The action stops oft
though, so perhapsthiis. i’
not the perfect sport
club team is serio

 

 

some do irnoreflspéc’ _
larly »wcil than others"

 

Ha11ofFarne'presentations
and “ the :gt1fdd,ers.~. play
vs hard. and { am‘f.very.proud
, o£theni;butwomen’.s”sI
cerdeservedshe‘ réss’
» an impressive . "
an imponantjijseesb
ass; notyof explana
“Third.  3. 
. , oral. Sonietofgyon 5
wondcringijabfoutjthrs n
. feature iitithc _l_2ing”-ftumj Pi!"
sportsf sacrum. xwashing
ton and Lee Univers‘ '
Radio $P¢rtsand.thcRi:1_g:
tum Phisponssectionhave ,
decidedtofworkincollaf ’
ration to crown and "publto
cize the athlete of the
month every/monthcg
Washington. and Lee.
This month,’ we -ha.
chosen Corinda :1-lanki
for her comebackcjfrom

 
     

 

tioned iniprizssive ta
A Congratulations,

the Fe_v<:rf’bocci   ‘A
in the works. Okay,‘ ..
all my idea. Butltc

the “saints iitirneéfasﬂthose 
Bocci Championships the 3'

not know about,

 - 19‘ me.‘
know, call me,”f8X“[:me,;j

 

write me, and i,:1;_:ry; todo ’
a story on it. Please, no V
ed nakedjanyt 'ng.=_That..~ .
d0¢sn’tc<?l1Iiti-:1;   it ‘

In part

     

. , finig,.j.this’week,;_
A I’d like.t'o’as1§ you allito ,
A support W&L ,sports.,:  .
several coaches reminded‘ ‘
me this week, thesesguys A
work hard. See’ you at the 
ball game. ‘ 1

Women’s soccer extends streak‘

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

  

        
   

 

Some things don’t happen
very often. The Washington &
Lee women’s soccer team de-
feated Virginia-Wesleyan forthe
first time in school history as the
Generals extended their winning
streak to four games.

The 3-1 win encompassed the
two main strengths of Washing-
ton & Lee’s team— explosive
scoring and ironclad defense.
Virginia Wesleyan’s goal was
the first scored against the Gen-
erals in the four game streak.
Earlier in the week against
Hollins, the Lady Generals not
only shut out their opponents,
but did not even allow a shot on
goal.

On the front line, W&L kept
up their torrid scoring pace. Af-
ter trailing for most of the first
half, the offense struck. The
W&L squad exploded for three
goals in a ﬁve minute span. This
comes after tallying 8 scores
against Hollins.

The season has been a re-
markable one for the Lady Gen-
erals. The increased offcnse has
meant less pressure on the dc-
fense, and as the defense gains

confidence, the wins pile up.
“We finally learned how to
score,” states coach Janine
Hathom. And score they have.
After only six games, Washing-
ton and Lee has scored 22 goals.
Throughout last year’s entire
season the team amassed only
19.

Another key factor in this
year’s success is leadership.
Only one senior graduated from
last year’s team. “Last year’s
experience meant a lot,” says
Hathom. The Generals have
relied on a balanced attack. Ten
different players have scored
goals for the team, led by senior
Corinda Hankins whose 17 ca-
reer goals ranks second in team
history.

The next three games will be
mark an acid test for the team
according to Hathom. Games
against Emory, Mary Washing-
ton, and Trinity will challenge
the W&L squad. Hathom clas-
sifics the three opponents as
“very similar in style.”

Watch the Lady Generals for
hot footwork; with the best
record in Washington and Lee
sports this season, they could be
looking at the season of their
history.

[See related story, this page,
for more information.]

Senior Kathleen Eastland courageously fends off an Old Dominion Athletic Conference challenger in the Gener-

als’ win over Randolph-Macon Women's College Sept. 16.

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

 

Barring any natural disas-
ters (earthquakes), there will
be a baseball postseason. CBS,
NBC, and ESPN have agreed
to do 24 hour a day coverage of
the games and teams. By
chance accident, ESPN com-
mentator Chris Berman was
heard to say, “This thing is
larger than life! Holy cow,
everybody has finally realized
that baseball is the only mean-
ingful sport in America!”

Now that l’ve been waked
from that glorious dream (I was
booted out of the lounge dur-
ing a Braves game for
Seinfeld.), here is the way
things shape up in baseball. In
the American League, the ex-
ceptional pennant races that
were supposed to materialize
died on the wing. The Blue
Jays will meet the Chicago
White Sox to determine the
fodder for the Atlanta machine
(just kidding).

Toronto has the edge on ex-
perience, but the White Sox
have a great pitching staff and
Frank Thomas (enough said.).
However, the Blue Jays just
have too much ﬁrepower. Pick:
Blue lays in 6. -

In the National League, the
Philadelphia Phillics are the
team that has clenched already.
The West race is still on. At-
lanta and San Francisco will
likely duel it out to the bitter
end. My money is on Atlanta
down the stretch. No one can
argue that the Braves have the
deepest pitching staff in base-

MLB postseason picks;
unsolicited opinions

ball and the addition of Fred
McGriff to the line—up provided
the charge that put the Braves
overthe top. However,itis still
too early too make a pick (don’t
want to jinx them).

In the wonderful world of
football, last week presented
an incredible series of games.
Last second wins by both the
Vikings and Saints more than
made up for the lackluster
games elsewhere. What was
the deal with the Monday Night
game? What scheduling ge-
nius put the powerhouse At-
lanta Falcons on the schedule?
Sorry folks, but the chances of
Atlanta seeing a football post-
season are crepuscular at best.

__._. ,_.

Parting Shots-

CongratulationstoAnthony
Mazzcrclli of the Washington
and Lee soccer team. There
are a gracious plenty of excep-
tional soccer goalies, but it
takes a real man to SCORE
from that position. You really
did beat Emory & Henry badly,
didn’t you?

Linebacker Brian Cox of
the Miami Dolphins gets the
guts award for the day, though.
While walking onto the ﬁeld
in Buffalo, he made what one
might say is a universal ges-
turetothe Buffalo fans. It cost 3‘
him a hefty fine from the NFL, i
but: Huh... Huh... That was
pretty cool.

Football loses again;
works for experience

By STEPHEN WILLIARD 1
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee foot-
ball team continued to stumble
out of the gate with a loss to
Centre on Saturday. Washing-
ton & Lee did manage to produce
a late game drive that made the
score reasonably close at the end.

Centre College put 14 points
on the board early, and the Gen-
erals spent the rest of the game
playing catch-up. Despite the
loss, the Generals’ passing game
put up some impressive num-
bers. Freshman Brooks Fischer
threw for 205 yards and sopho-
more James Urban caught 7
passes for 98 yards.

The downside of the W&L
attack was the running game.
Tom Mason ga‘ ed only 28 yards

on 12 carries and Wilson Moore
had 51 yards on 10 carries. As a
team,thc Generalsrolled uponly
52 yards rushing (in case you’rc
wondering, the team lost 27
yards rushing that cancelled out
some of their gainsl).

Fischer’s standout perfor-
mancc marked only the second
time in school history that a
freshman has thrown for 200+
yards. Urban’s 7 catch effort
lifted him to third in the ODAC
standings with 4.5 catches per
game.

if the Generals expect to re-
bound against Randolph-Macon
this week they need, no, must,
have a balanced rushing and
passing attack. The tools are
there to have a successful sea-
son, but the pieces have not come
together yet. Tom Mason is a
standout talent at the running

back position and Fischer has
shown his ability to not only con-
tribute, but to put up big numbers.

Washington and Lee needs to
come out this weekend with a
single goal: intensity. The Gen-
erals have something to prove
against Randolph-Macon after
embarassing defeats in each of
the last two years, and something
to prove to the fans after two
losses to open the season.

ODAC standings

Emory&Henry 2-0
Hampden-Sydneyl-0
Randolph-Macon O-0

Bridgewater 0-1
Guilford 0-1
Washington&Lee 0-1

‘Major General Hankins’
closes in on soccer record

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

When a team goes from 5-11 one season to 5-]
early the next, it takes more than a typo to justify
the turnaround.

Washington & Lee’s women’s soccer team has
not only equaled their 1992 win total, they’ve
already surpassed the number of goals scored last
season. There are many reasons forthe turnaround,
but one big one is the return of senior Corinda
Hankins.

Hankins was a first-team All-ODAC pick two
seasons ago, but spent last year studying abroad. It
has not taken her long to rediscover the back of her
opponents’ net. With four goals this season, tied
for the team-lead with Kate Stimeling, Hankins
has moved within three scores of equalling the
school record of 20 career goals. That mark is
currently held by Catherine Baillio (1987-89).

Last week, after scoring twice in an 8-0 rout of
Hollins College, Hankins netted the game-winner
in W&L’s 3-1 victory over Virginia Wesleyan at
the Liberty Hall Fields. The win was the ﬁrst ever
by the Generals over Virginia Wesleyan.

Although the women fell 3-0 Thursday to Mary
Washington, the play of Hankins is one reason
head coach Jan Hathom and the team are thinking
of another first——-their first ODAC championship.

Having outscored theiropponents 22-5 through

IL.

  
        

0 Photoby NancyiPavlov|c, The /ng- urn Phil

six games, the thought of an Old Dominion Athletic
Conference crown is not hard to grasp. Washington
& Lee is 3-0 in the conference with their next
ODAC action coming at home versus Sweet Briar
College (Oct. 7) and Guilford College (Oct. 9).

Should the team continue to roll, Hankins Will
surely play no small pan.

 

 

Photo by Nancy Pavlovic, The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Corinda Hankin’s heroics on the field have earned the first Major General

award for the month of September, 1993.

     

Sp@@:T_a1 Smplmﬂnt

Ta£PF«‘5 nose 0N5: we 0
514%! A   pﬁa  M an em!

   

 

  

 

Heomecomin

  

The Connells stop at “the big barn”

Band returns to Lexington hoping to build on past successes

By HILLARY OLSON
Phi Staff Writer

Popular alternative rock band “The
Connells” will perform at the Pavilion this
Friday at 8:30 p.m. for Homecoming week-
end.

Queen Sarah Saturday, known for
their forceful guitar songs, will begin the
concert, followed by the opening band
“Cracker” at 10 pm. The Connells should
start at 1] p.m., according to StudentActivi-
ties Board President John Kleckley.

The Connells’ visit is timely since
their new album, “Ring”, hasjust come out.
According to vocalist and guitarist Doug
MacMillan, the album has been successful
so far.

Radio stations in San Diego and Long
Island have already picked up the ﬁrstsingle,
“Slackjawed,” which MacMillan said the
Connells will play Friday. The band plans to
play several songs from “Ring,” he said.

MacMillan fondly remembered play-
ing twice in one day at W&L several years
ago for Fancy Dress.

“The big barn [the Pavilion] is a really
cool place to play,” MacMillan said. ‘‘I’m
anticipating a good night Friday.”

Currently on tour throughout the
United States, The Connells will make a
stop in Las Vegas for the first time next
week. MacMillan said that although touring

is fun, at points everybody “gets tired and
wants to go home.”

Cracker, the California-based open-
ing band, is “not an easy act to follow,” said
MacMillan.

One member, David Lowery, for-
merly performed in Camper Van Beethoven.
MacMillan said The Connells and Cracker
share similar musical sounds but have mark-
edly different styles.

The Connells — brothers Mike and
David Connell —grew up in Macon, Geor-
gia, where Otis Redding, Little Richard,
and the Allman Brothers also originated.
The brothers relate more to the sounds of the
Beatles and Humble Pie, however, and their
music reflects this tendency.

The Connell brothers’ college band
gained momentum and within a year re-
corded its first album, “Boylan Heights”,
followed by “Fun and Games”, an all-time
favorite of many fans.

“One Simple Word” was produced in
Wales in 1990. The Connells took a break
from their 3-year touring to record “Ring”,
their newest release.

SAB president Kleckley said that The
Connells have been a hit here many times
and Friday should be no exception. He said
that as always the SAB was limited by
money and routing difficulties, but he is
pleased with the choice of The Connells.

Tickets for the concert are on sale in
the Co-op Wednesday through Friday for
$8. Tickets at the door will cost $10.

¢*********‘k***k****ir******A"k*****

‘K************‘k*********‘k***********

 

Back

Alumni

Relive old times
at The Plains

101 W Nelson St.
463-7911
444444444¥444444444444¥4444444

‘Kl-‘V-¥‘V-4¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥‘V-¥¥¥

  o

 

 

 

The Rin - mPhIOctobe 1993

 

Iomecoming '93 ' ‘

 

Page 3

 

  Generals dust off, aim high

Team tries to break slump with Homecoming Win

By Sarah Gilbert
Phi Sports Editor

In the best of all possible worlds, I would
be predicting a win for this year’s homecoming
football game against Davidson.

But, as Candide discovered, this is not the
best of all possible worlds, the Generals of good
old Washington and Lee have yet to win a game
this season, and the last homecoming win was in
1990.

Even in a good year (i.e. last year, the
Generals turned the team from a 1-9 misery in
1991 to a somewhat victorious 5-4 squad in
1992) the Generals fell short at homecoming.

After a shocking 9 to 31 embarrassment at
the hands of the Yellow Jackets, the General’s
fans can only hope that the team will at least rise
from the ashes of tradition.

Have a heart, Washington and Lee fans.
This year’s squad actually features a few play-
ers who have had the experience of a win at
homecoming.

Every senior who played when he was a
freshman will remember the glorious 21 to 7
whuppingthe Generals took out on the Hampden-

 

3‘, ,.

Sydney Tigers.

My high hopes rest in the once—broken
hands of senior tri-captain Tom Mason, who
was actually a starting defensive back his fresh-
man year. With that experience and a promising
start this year, even though his supporting cast
has not been able to pull off a win, he may be able
to provide the leadership and kick-in-the-rear
these Generals need to overcome the Wildcats.

On a brighter note, the Generals lead the
series with Davidson 14-9-1. The rivalry dates
back to 1909, when W&L beat the Wildcats 18
to 6. More recently, the Generals lost the two
match-ups in 1977 and ’78, took a hiatus, and
came back in 1991 to play Davidson and lose
again, 14 to 16.

Thankfully, last years’ squad was victori-
ous in its face-off against the Wildcats, walking
over the poor kitties 27 to 12.

The good news: the Generals beat
Davidson last year. The bad news: this year’s
team looks, sadly, much more like the 1991
squad than the 1992 one.

All in all, we will have to set a precedent
to win this Saturday. It is not impossible but...l
wouldn’t bet on it.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 

Above: Geren Steiner launches the ball as the
Randolph-Macon linemen advance in last year’s
Homecoming game.

Left: Wilson Moore makes a dash for a hole in the
Yellowjackets’ line.

j-‘ILL If I II--L

§= I WIVII UIIIEV

THE LARGEST SELECTION OF MOVIES, VIDEO GAMES, & TRADING CARDS IN THE AREA!
NEW SELECTION OF LICENSED COLLEGE & PRO SPORTS CAPS & T-SHIRTS

*** FREE MEMBERSHIP & GIFT WITH THIS AD! ***
SUNDAY — THURSDAY 10 A.M. — 10 P.M. FRIDAY & SATURDAY 10 A.M. — 11 P.M.

LEXINGTON-BUENA VISTA SHOPPING CENTER
463-9654 T

I

  

lntemational Club
Assia Georgieva, W&L ’95

“Academic excellence, social
leadership and also extracurricu-
lar involvement.” ’

 

Pi Beta Phi

Christine Grandinetti, W&L
’94

Escorted by Lawson Brice ’95
“The Homecoming Queen
should be dedicated to the tradi-
tion and spirit of W&L.”

    

Kappa Alpha

Julie G. Giddens, Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College ’94
Escorted by Dan Rhodes ’94
“The Homecoming Queen
should be a warm and friendly
person. lt’s more a personality
thing than a beauty contest.”

  
   

 

Sigma Nu

Cindy Gregory, Duke ’95
Escorted by Mark Crider ’95
“The ability to enthusiastically
represent the position with the
grace, intelligence and poise it
requires.”

   

Student Bar Association
Elizabeth Mason, W&L ’94
Law

Escorted by David Lawrence ’94
Law

“Diversity.”

  

 

Sigma Alpha Epsilon sigma Chi

Kappa Kappa Gamma

Amy Rash, W&L ’94 Caroline Johnson, Hollins ’95 Heather Aussiker, w&]

Escorted by Andy Dutton Escorted by G Mattingly ’96 Escorted by Jim Gilreath
“The ability to laugh at one- “That they’re truly proud to rep- “A burning desire to H551

self.” resent the fraternity or social or-

ganization that nominated them.”

President since he’s ever
than last year’s.”

 

Alpha Phi Omega

Elizabeth Dettmar, W&L ’94
Escorted by Keith E. Grant ’94
“She should be someone who
has left W&L a little better than
she found it.”

Z1/i[[ wear
tﬂe crown?

What is the most
important characteristic

a Homecoming Queen
should have?

Phi Kappa Sigma

Kylie Edwards, W&L ’96
Escorted by Alex Haw ’96
“A sense of dedication to
honor, integrity and the
tradition of genuiness at
W&L.”

   

Phi Gamma Delta

Carrie Southgate, W&L ’95
Escorted by Tinkham Veale IV
’95

“She should be a very outgoing
person who should care about
her school and the people who
are there.”

        

Kappa Alpha Theta

Pi Kappa Alpha Kappa Sigma

Kirsten Ergenbright,W&L’94 Lollie Sheehan, W&L ’94 Kristen M00", W&L ’9‘
Escorted by Thomas Becker ’96 “A sense of humor.” ESC0l'ted by Rob MCGinl€j
“She must be: smart, talented, “Someone who doesn’t tal<
witty, attractive and involved in so seriously.”

campus activities — and an avid
viewer of the MacNeill-Lehrer
Report.”

 

1 Alpha Epsilon
line Johnson, Hollins ’95
ted by G. Mattingly ’96
they’re truly proud to rep-
the fraternity or social or-
ttion that nominated them.”

Sigma Chi
Heather Aussiker, W&L ’94
Escorted by Jim Gilreath ’94
“A burning desire to kiss the EC
President since he’s even cuter
than last year’s.”

wi[[zz/ear
tﬂe crown?

What is the most
important characteristic

a Homecoming Queen
should have?

 

1 Sigma
Sheehan, W&L ’94
se of humor.”

     

Kappa Alpha Theta
Kristen Moore, W&L ’94
Escorted by Rob McGinley
“Someone who doesn’t take life
so seriously.”

 

Chi Psi
Kim Herring, W&L ’95
Escorted by Eric D. Lundquist
’94

“I think that it’s most important
that the Homecoming Queen
have a love and a respect for all
of [W&L’s] aspects from aca-
demics to athletics to just being
involved in the W&L commu-
nity because of her love and re-
spect for it.’

Delta Tau Delta
Rachel Wright, W&L ’97
Escorted by Gregory Patterson
’94

“Honesty in presentation of self
because too many people hide

themselves behind a facade.”

Phi Delta Theta

Molly Hoops, Hollins ’96
Escorted by Billy Guice ’94
“As the Homecoming Queen,
others are going to notice the
quality and standards you have
set for yourself and it will be an

opportunity to inﬂuence others.”

 

if .
Beta Theta Pi
Stephanie Cobrin, W&L ’96
Escorted by Tim McCarthy ’94
‘‘It would be an overall love for
her school so she can represent it
well.”

 

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Amanda Doss, W&L ’94
Escorted by Peer Soderberg ’92
Mandy was not available to an-
swer the question.

 

   

Lambda Chi Alpha

Tonya Uplinger, W&L ’96
Escorted by Will Shepherd

“A Homecoming queen should
be someone who is active at
W&L, as well as being active
outside of campus where they

represent W&L.”

 

Chi Omega
Stacey Colfry, W&L ’94
Escorted by Jay LaCour

“The Homecoming Queen.

should be someone who posesses
aloveofand prideinW&Lwhich
is exemplified by her active in-
volvement in all facets of cam-
pus life.”

   
 
  

 

Minority Students Association
LaKeisha Townes, W&L ’95
Escorted by John Rogers ’95
“The Homecoming Queen
should be a person who is honest
and sincere to reflect the integ-
rity and honor of W&L.”

 

Phi Kappa Psi

Sarah Butler, W&L ’94
Escorted by Chip Hathaway
“The Homecoming Queen
should be enthusiastic and proud
of W&L and should express this
through her involvement in the
W&L community. ”

\

  

Pi Kappa Phi
Sandy Bookout, Hollins
Escorted by Matt Newton ’94
“Personality. Someone who is
friendly and outgoing and com-
fortablewithavariety of people.”

 

E3996;

 

Holmecolininig (93  .

Mink mystery explained

Up and coming legendedies early death

By Erin Leonard

Phi Contributing Writer

 

Perhaps you heard last fall that
Kathekon found a long forgotten trophy in
the attic of the Alumni House.

Well, you heard wrong.

Though the story had the making of a
great W&L legend, the truth is even better.

After deciding to revive the Home-
coming parade last fall, Kathekon decided
to award a prize for the best ﬂoat.

“[Kathekon] wanted something gaudy
and tacky,butrelativetoW&L,” said Alumni
Staff Associate Jerilyn Ferrin ’93.

Associate Alumni Director Rob Mish
’76 and then Alumni Staff Associate Matt
Felber ’92 decided a stuffed mink would be
appropriate.

The idea stemmed from the name
W&L Minks. Minks were students who,
when W&L was all-male, slyly picked up
VMI cadets’ dates after the cadets’ curfew.

Mish and Farber began calling taxi-

dermists in September. To their dismay, the
only minks available were frozen and
unembalmed. Raccoons and an alligator
were available, but no minks.

To make matters worse, taxidermists
claimed it would take five weeks to thaw a
mink. Homecoming was three weeks away.

Mish and Farber were about to give
up when they located a man with a frozen
mink in Abingdon, VA, who could thaw and
embalm the animal in two weeks. Elated,
the two gave him the job.

Mish said the man asked all kinds of
funny questions such as — What kind of
facial expression should the mink have?
Should he stand or sit? Should his arms be
crossed?

When the embalming was ﬁnished,
Mish took the mink to Valley Trophy in
Staunton. Owner Kelly Clendening mounted
him on the trophy and named him Critter.
The final product pleased Mish. He thinks
that Critter represents another side of W&L
students.

“One of the things that W&L alumni
are noted for is their honor. Lee is good
stuff,” Mish said.

Varner & Pole
Specializing in Unfurnished
Eurniture &Shades
_19 S; Randolph St.
Lexm ton, VA 463-2742

ew Locatton! ’

Have a safe and
happy weekend

The Phi is

oh angi
Seejust ﬂow mucﬁ frizfay

ng...

 

Lexington's
lively Bistro
and

Outdoor Patio.

 
 

Every Monday

Now Accepting Reservations
J for Parents’ Weekend

Point Cards available - Charge them Home!

Night

5-9 p.m.

7

AB1LS17’U

19 West Washington Street
(703) 464-1900

“The mink is all those other little
things that make W&L people who they
are.”

Critter, who has been on display in
the bookstore for three weeks, appears very
mellow.

Standing 15 inches high on his back
legs, he wears a blue and white t-shirt that
says, “Somebody from Washington & Lee
University loves me.” He also carries and
alumni name tag. His posture, like most
W&L students, is not great, but he looks
confident.

His sleek coat is brown except for a
wide white stripe that runs down his neck.
Critter’s tiny black eyes convey a sharp
intellect that people might not notice at first.

His grin is nonchalant yet knowl-
edgeable, “like he heard a dirty joke on
something,” said Mish.

Kathekon will award the trophy Sat-
urday at half-time of the football game.
Kappa Kappa Gamma won last year, and it
is rumored that they want to win again.

After a photo shoot with the winner,
Critter will go home to Mish’s office and
wait for next year.

Critter, the W&L Mink Pi” p"°‘°

 

Hair Salon

Good thru 10/31

SHEAR nmrns 

Specials
Tanning Special-10 visits for $25.00 A

$2.00 Off on a hot oil manicure.

Penni - Gail

17 S. Randolph St.

  

464-1145
V W& \\
Signatures:
Fitzhugh Lee R_E, Lee
M. Miley John Letcher
Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr.
Sam Houston A, P, H111

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

ﬂlilllllilltﬁ
liilllillll

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
J4

 

0 The Ring-tumPhi October 79993

   

Homecoming '93

‘ P3ge7

UIP treatment for alumni

Class of ’43 to get red carpet treatment

By Michelle Brien
Phi News Editor

One would expect a five star general
to be busy. ,-

But none will be as busy as Washing-
ton and Lee’s Five Star Generals this Home-
coming Weekend.

W&L’s Five-Star Generals are the
50-year plus alumni. This year’s inductees
to the Five-Star club are members of the
class of 1943.

The Five-Stars get red carpet treat-
ment from the moment they step into Lex-
ington.

There will be a fully stocked Hospi-
tality Room for all Five-Star Generals in the
Lexington Room of the Howard Johnson
Hotel, which will be open from 5 to 11:30
pm. on Friday and Saturday. Buses will run
a shuttle service between HoJo and W&L
from Friday morning through Saturday af-
ternoon.

The Alumni House will also pay for -

one night of the Five Stars’ hotel stay, a
rental car, and will waive the usual reunion
fee.

Rob Mish, Assistant Director of
Alumni Programs, has made sure that the
Generals will be treated with respect.

“We generally treat them as Alumni
VIPs,” said Mish.

Featured programs for the Generals
include an audience participation-based
seminar hosted by Professor of History Holt
Merchant, ‘61. Merchant hopes to delve to
the bottom of several W&L folklore mys-
teries with the help of the Five-Stars Gener-
als.

For example, Merchant hopes to un-
ravel the W&L train heist mystery. Appar-
ently a fraternity hijacked a train to take
their Fancy Dress dates back to Mary
Baldwin. That fraternity was kicked off
campus, but no one here seems to know
which fraternity it was. Worse yet, no one
seems to know the exact date of the episode
either.

Other topics of discussion will be the
origins of W&L’s nick-name “Minks”, and
whether Traveller is really buried outside of
Lee Chapel.

In addition to Mish’s endeavors from
the Alumni House, some of the Five-Stars
planned activities for themselves. Class of

VISA

 

Celebrate Holidays,
Bags, Play Secret Santa, Remember Friends,
Relatives & Business Associates with . . .

Fine Handmade Chocolate Confections
On Campus Delivery / Mail Order Anywhere
Call 1-800-421-6220 or 1-703-464-8400

Send Exam Goodie

MASTERCARD

John Dean ‘76
Tom Katz

?
%
%
%
é
%
%
¢
%
/
/
/
a
f
f
%
¢
¢
¢
%
/
f
¢
¢
¢
¢
¢
/
/
¢
%
¢
¢
%
a
f
%
¢
¢
%
/

HOMECOMING
BOOKSIGNING
PARTY

Saturday, Oct. 9th
1 to 2 p.m.

W&L Bookstore

The Great Wagon Road

EVERYONE WELCOME!

. I /II/I/II /IIIIII/I/I/IIIIIII/III//IIIII//II/IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Parke Rouse, Jr. ‘37

§\&\\§\\\\®Wt\\\\\\§\\&\\\\\\§\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

’38 alumnus Ernie Williams has cooked up
a variety of interesting dishes for the “38er
Alligators” 55th year class reunion —
W&L’s first 55th year reunion. The Gators
will have Ramblin’ Man the llama bearing
a Gator ﬂag in the Homecoming Parade, as

well as Homecoming souvenirs bearing the

Gator emblem. Some Five-Stars will ride in

horse drawn carriages in the parade. All
Five-Star Generals will be invited to-sit in
the special reserved parade viewing space
in front of Robert E. Lee Episcopal Church.

Thanks to Williams, the homecom-
ing football game halftime should be an
event to remember. But don’t ask why -
it’s a secret. Just come to the game.

 

Distinctive headgear identifies a Five-Star General

Alumni Office photo

 

The l’|;tcc\\"l1cI‘c I-'11

“Let their;
eat steak.

(“Then, give them any regular 6"sub* of their
choice forjust 99¢ .”)

No wonder things went bad for Marie Antoinette.
She said, “Let them eat cake;”not “steak.” Anyway, we’re playing
it smart, because for a limited time when you buy a delicious Steak 8( Cheese
Sub with a medium soft drink, we’ll give you any regular 6" sub‘ for just 99¢.
(Hey, we’ve got our heads on straight over here.)

  

N‘

is t|1c'llI.\lc.

 

V 503 E. Nelgsonmsgt. Lexington, VA 24450

Page 8

Th

 

 

O I 0

e Rln -tum Phi October 7 1993

 

Revived parade returns

Old tradition continues comeback for second year

By Cathy Resmer
Phi Contributing Reporter

The Washington and Lee Homecom-
ing parade will make its second appearance
in a quarter of a century this Saturday.

The official parade will begin in front
of Brubaker ﬁeld at 11:00 a.m. tomorrow
morning. lt will follow the same route as the
Mock Convention parade, traveling down
South Main Street through town, turning
left on Washington Street. lt will then pro-
ceed through campus and end.after passing
the Woods Creek Apartments.

The parade features a varied array of
participants. Non-W&L parade members
include fire departments, marching bands,
and mayor Homer E. Derrick. Alumni groups
involved in the event include the Five-Star
Generals, and the Class of ’38 complete
with the mysterious Hotchkiss llama. Vari-
ous campus organizations and every W&L
sorority and fraternity are scheduled to par-
ticipate as well.

Most of the W&L participants have
constructed parade ﬂoats for the occasion.
There will be five judges who will be sta-
tioned in a grand stand on the cornerof Main

and Nelson streets. The judges will be rating
the ﬂoats on a scale of one to ten in three
categories—creativity and originality, de-
sign and execution, and spirit and enthusi-
asm.

The first place ﬂoat will win the cov-
eted mink trophy, seized last year by Kappa
Kappa Gamma. The three runners—up will
also receive prizes.

Kathekon, the student-alumni rela-
tions committee, is responsible for reviving
the Homecoming parade.

Last year’s parade was the first at
W&L in over 25 years. Before the parade ..
was reintroduced, students celebrated by 
decorating fraternity houses on the evening
prior to the football game. 2

Kathekon,withthe helpofthe Alumni
Office, has been organizing this year’s pa-
rade since last spring.

According to Jerilyn Ferrin, Secre-
tary of Kathekon, “the parade will go on,
rain or shine.” “But,” she said, “we are all
keeping our fingers crossed for good
weather.”

Ferrin also said that she hopes the
good weather holds for a few hours after the
parade, “for the half-time surprise.”

3: L,

Sigma Nu’s float heads down Main Sreet I ‘last year’s parade

VI SA

- Fanc

ALVIN-DENNIS, INC.

102 W WASHINGTON ST.
463-5383

WELCOME W&LALU1VINI

- Woolrich
- Duckhead
- Ra _-Bans
- Red lng Boots

- 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos

- Embassy oxers

Alumni Special

Suits and Sportcoats
20% Off

Open This,Sunday at 10:00 a.m.

MASTERCARD

Cummerbund and Tie Sets
- W L Belts, Ties Dog Collars

STUDENT CHARGE

 

  U112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Welcome Back Alumni

”

8(C-SR!

  They’re Here

Check 0
Com

ut The
ics

Mm

ﬁUllUK l

v

arr

OL ME 93, NO. 05

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 8, 1993

  C clashes with SBA, Pub Board

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

IIQ1 move led by Executive Committee Vice
1' resident Jimmy Kull, the ECconsidered slash-
rig the Student Bar Association’s annual allo-
ation by $13,000 at this week’s regular Mon-
.-ay meeting.
“I think we’re coming dangerously close to
aving the law school separate from us,” said
C Qcretary Ashby Hackney, during the heated
r. rgument that ensued after Kull’s motion.
Kull prepared a ﬁve-page ﬁnancial break-
-c own of the proportions of student activities
ees used by the SBA, which funds all law
chool clubs and activity groups. Kull’s report
a utlined, among other things, the proportion of
l omy that goes toward paying for “frozen
unds”— funds that all W&L students must pay
'nto, such as the Pavilion fund and the EC
' eserve Funds.

According to Kull’s report, law students pay
$10 toward university-wide activities, while
undergraduates pay $70.65.

In order to have law students “pay their fair
share,” Kull proposed cutting the SBA’s fund-
ing, which was tentatively approved at the EC’s
budget hearings, by $13,000. Kull’s motion
failed.

“You could go through and attack every
little detail in this budget,” said SBA President
Patricia McNemey in the ensuing argument.
“You’re strapping us, basically.”

McNemey said the School of Law has a
different social setting than the undergraduate
side of the campus.

Law Class Representatives agreed.

“We depend on our organizations to provide
a social setting,” said EC Law Rep James
Rambeau.

Hackney said many undergrads pay addi-
tional money for their social settings.

pay their own social fees,” he said.

Other EC reps suggested that the SBA could
raise its membership fees in
order to ease the need for EC

the EC compromised on a figure of $41,883, a

figure $5,000 less than the allocation made

during the budget hearings.
Due to the adjustments in

funding. Kull suggested a
remedy of raising SBA fees
from $20 to $56.

“Thirty-six bucks is a big
chunk of cash,” said
McNemey, adding that many
law students are “living on
loans.”

During one point in the
argument, Second—year Law
Rep Kevin Webb suggested
that if the $13,000 cut were
approved, the SBA should
considerseparating from the
EC completely, a notion that
EC President Bob Tompkins
referred to as “blackmail.”

Kull

the budget, the EC had to de-
fer ﬁnal approval of the bud-
get to its next regular meet-
ing. Under the Student Body
Constitution, the EC must ap-
prove the budget twice, in
consecutive meetings at least
a week apart.

The EC made an additional
adjustment to the budget by
replenishing the Publications
Board Reserve Fund.

Through a budgeting error
years old, it was depleted by
$5,700 in an unconstitutional
move on the part of the EC.
Tompkins produced a copy of the minutes

which allocations to clubs were made out of the
Pub Board Reserve Fund.

“Your constitution says that the EC cannot
do that,” said Pub Board Advisor Brian
Richardson.

The EC unanimously approved a motion to
reimburse the Pub Board and simultaneously
reduce the allocations of the publications under
the jurisdiction of the Pub Board by 17 percent.
These publications include The Ring-tum Phi,
The Calyx, The Journal of Science, Ariel and
The Political Review. V

Tompkins said the purpose of the reserve
fund is to pick up any debts incurred by the
publications under the Pub Board’s jurisdic-
tion.

Tompkins said the EC’s move allowed
them to solve the budgeting error constitution-
ally, without hurting the publications.

“The money’s still there,” he said. “They’ll
just have to take it out of the Pub Board Re-

“A lot of [undergrad fraternity members] After more than two hours of deliberation, from the EC’s October 7, 1991 meeting, in serve.”

Q

Cadet receives
  racial threats



Photo by Melissa Wolf, special to Te Ring-tum Phi

A freshman completes his “tear” at a fraternity house Friday. Six rushees were hurt on Tear Night this year.

240 men pledge houses

THE SNAG

Pledges Actives
o 25 29
2443
24 41
2° 51
. 1831
18 34
i Kai, 19:. °
17  2
1645
’maamamw

I
I2

" s lI"Iii ID>eﬂ<:a Tilnetai 48
6 ,\ .\ /‘\ 14
2 ﬂl 15

Pledge statistics as of Tuesday, Oct. 5, obtained from the Dean
of Students office. Active totals provided by the Registrar’s office.

By NANCY PAvLovic
Phi Managing Editor

Fraternity Rush officially
ended last Friday, Oct. 1 but not
before it added 240 men to the
ranks of Washington and Lee
University’s 16 fraternities.

Of the 254 men who went
through rush, 94.48 percent
pledged, or joined, a fraternity
during Tear Night Weekend (Oct.
1-2). Unlike last year, freshmen
men did not choose one or two
houses in disproportionate num-
bers over the other houses.

“Only 2 percent of the people
who didn’t go through with it,
either got a bid and decided not
to accept or didn’t receive a bid,”
lnterfraternity 1 Vice-President
Ryan Donaldson said.

Chi Psi got the largest pledge
class this year with 25 freshmen.
Delta Tau Delta received the few-
est with only two pledges. Pi
Kappa Alpha and Sigma Phi Ep-
silon followed close behind with
each getting 24 pledges. Last
year, the number of pledges per
house ranged from 3 to 40.

1 According to Donaldson this
year’s pledge classes are “more
equally distributed than in year’s
past.” But, Chi Psi President John

#1

Hudson cannot believe pledge
class sizes are being described as
“evenly distributed.”

“The numbers are right in front
of you and they’re still saying it
was evenly distributed,” Hudson
said. “But you still had houses
getting great numbers and houses
getting killed.”

Hudson, nevertheless, is
pleased by their performance this
year and attributes much of their
success to being back in the fra-
ternity house. During last year’s
Rush, the Chi Psi house was still
under renovation.

“It made a world of difference
being back in the house this year,”
Hudson said. “It was kind of hard
last year to expect a freshmen to
tear at a fraternity when they
can’t see the house and what it’d
look like.”

Delt has both the smallest
pledge class of the year and the
smallest fraternity on campus.
Counting the two new pledges,
Delt has 17 members, seven of
whom will graduate this spring.
Until this fall, Delt had been on
suspension since January 18,
1992 for vandalizing their frater-
nity house. House President

I» See RUSH, page 4

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Virginia Military Institute cadets are angry and
scared this week after one cadet received racial
threats and the school administration brought in the
FBI to investigate.

A member of the first class at VMI received
three threatening letters, two of which had varying
degrees of racial overtones.

The cadet, whose name has not been released
but has been identified as a black athlete, received
the first letter a little over a week ago. The letter was
printed from a computer within VMI and said,
“You’ll be next.”

The second letter was subtly racial, but defi-
nitely threatening bodily harm, and the third had
definite racial overtones and was also very threat-
ening. Rumors that this was a death threat have
surfaced, but are unsubstantiated by sources close
to the situation.

Some sources inside VMI believe this incident
may be linked to a problem about four weeks ago,
in which a black fourth—classman, or freshman, also
an athlete, was involved in two or three confronta-
tions with upperclassmen.

First class member Zack Scott explained the
situation.

“Usually, when a cadet swings at another cadet,
he’s thrown out,” Scott said. ‘‘In this case, he was
only penalized.”

Evidently, the rat had initiated a shouting match
and had been in at least one physical fight. He was
not conforming to the rat line well, and the consen-
sus was that he did not like VMI from the begin-
ning.

Shortly after his penalization and the subse-

quent uproar within the student body, many of
whom felt he was being “protected” because he
was an athlete, the cadet withdrew from the institu-
tion.

The OGA, a committee of cadets called Pri-
vates, which is the internal court system for the
corps and usually handles problems such as harass-
ment and threats without the administration’s in-
put, was not asked to be a part of either case.

The first letter was taken as a joke by the first-
classman, but the second, more threatening one
was publicized to the coaches and first class mem-
bers at VMI. The third prompted the administration
to address the Corps of Cadets.

“Threats to or assaults upon any cadets, whether
racially motivated or not, will not, shall not, be
tolerated,” said Major General John Knapp, VMI
superintendent in the address.

Knapp also said that the initiator of the notes, if
and when he is caught, will be summarily dis-
missed, and his name will be turned over to the
police.

Cadets and administration believe the culprit is
a cadet or group of cadets, largely because of
limited access to barracks.

Scott, who is also a black cadet, believed that
race relations at VMI have changed over the years.

“When I was here five years ago, there was less
of a racial tension,” he said. “In the past few years,
I have noticed adefinite change in the level of racial
undertones.”

Scott felt the victim was picked out for threats,
not because of his relation to an earlier incident, but
because of his position in the institute.

A source close to the victim of the threats said
that the first-classman was “pissed off and con-

bsee VMI, pag£10

mt \iu)I  " I I

41-

   

O
The Ring-tum Phi, Octobe»r_8_,_1993

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World

China resumes nuclear tests

China conducted its first nuclear test in over a year on
Tuesday. The Clinton administration announced that it “deeply
regrets” the test and may resume nuclear testing next year.
The Chinese government announced that it would only halt
testing after accepting a comprehensive test ban treaty.

Russian Parliament building
shelled: as rebellion is crushed

Russian army units loyal to Russian President Boris Yeltsin
shelled the Russian Parliament building on Monday, leaving
dozens dead in a 10-hour battle. Anti-Yeltsin demonstrators
had vowed to hold the building until death, but were captured
in the battle.

Earthquake in India
destroys villages

An earthquake measuring 6.4 on the Richter scale hit India
last Thursday, levelling many villages. Survivors are over-

whelmed by the Vast number of dead, totalling more than
16,000.

The Nation

Clinton administration reviews
new Somalia policy options

President Clinton met Tuesday with advisors to discuss
new options for his policy on Somalia. Seventy U.S. soldiers

were killed in;,Somalia on Sunday after being pinned d,.<;yy,_r,1M,

in Mogadishu. ‘Since then, other U.S. military personnel
have been killed, including five soldiers when two U.S.
helicopters were shot down

U.S. Attorney opens case
in World Trade Center bombing

U.S. Attorney Gilmore Childers opened the prosecution’s
case against the four men charged with bombing the World
Trade Center in February. Several pieces of previously
unpublicized evidence were introduced into the case.

Ginsburg takes bench
in new Supreme Court term

Ruth Bader Ginsburg, the second female Supreme Court
justice in history, took her seat on the bench Monday, as a
new term started for the court. The docket of cases,
coincidentally, has several women’s issue cases scheduled

J oey. Buttafuoco pleads guilty

Joey Buttafuoco pleaded guilty to rape charges Thursday,
admitting that he had slept with an underage Amy Fisher at
a Long Island motel. Buttafuoco had previously denied any
sexual contact with Fisher. Fisher earned the nickname
“The Long Island Lolita” after shooting Buttafuoco’s wife,
Mary Jo.

Report forces ‘two ATF
officials to resign

Two hi gh-ranking ATF officials resigned after a report on
the raid on the Branch Davidian compound in Waco, Texas
accused them of lying and misleading the public. Daniel
Hartnett, an associate director, and Edward Conroy, a deputy
associate ATF director, both quit Saturday.

Sports

Michael Jordan retires from the
NBA

Basketball star Michael Jordan retired from the NBA on
Wednesday. In his announcement at a press conference,
Jordan said he had lost “the sense of motivation and the sense
to prove something as a basketball player.” Jordan denied
that the shooting death of his father had anything to do with
his decision.

NEWS

Phi Delts make “a big mess’

Leroy “Buddy” Atkins was called out
to see the mess by Phi Delt faculty
advisor Joseph Goldsten. Atkins de-
scribed the situation in the house as
“[the] kind of mess you would expect
from four-year-olds who had been
drinking.”

“They just made a big mess,” Atkins
said. “I don’t think they did any perma-
nent structural damage but it was a
pretty childish way to act.”

The fraternity was brought before
the Interfratemity Council’s Judicial
Board which referred it to the Student
Affairs Committee, IFC Vice-Presi-
dent Ryan Donaldson said. All cases
involving a fraternity come before the

  
   
        
   
   
    
  
     
    
    
         
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
    

nothing in the house was broken.

“All those rumors are totally un-
founded,” Guice said. “It was just a big
mess.”

Phi Delt Housemother Mata
McGuire attempted to stop the broth-
ers at one point, but returned to her
apartment when they refused. The fol-
lowing morning McGuire discovered
the ﬂowers and ﬂower pots in front of
her door had been destroyed. In light of
the previous evening, McGuire then
quit as housemother.

Guice said no member of the frater-
nity was responsible for this destruc-
tion but that it was similar to an inci-
dent which had just occurred at Sigma

“First and foremost will be to dete
mine who is responsible,” Atkins sai
“If it is only a few brothers or if t :
house is responsible.” 0

Because the SAC must give t .
fraternity a week to prepare for t
hearing, the earliest date the SAC coul
hear the case is Friday, Oct. 15.

The evening before the mess ..
made at the house, Phi Delt received i
second Rush violation. According t
Donaldson, several fraternities turne
Phi Delt in for taking a group of fres
men to Hollins College.

“We got handed in before we eve
left,” Guice said.

Phi Delt was placed on social pr

By NANCYPAVLOVIC
Phi Managing Editor

You may have heard about it, but
you probably heard wrong.

Last weekend, Phi Delta Theta be-
came the topic of rumor mills across
campus as news spread of the disorder,
slovenliness and chaos which was
wreaked there.

Sometime late Saturday evening,
Oct.2, several Phi Delt brothers de-
cided to dump the contents of the house
cereal dispenser, mix it with chocolate
syrup and spread it throughout the
kitchen and dining room PhiDeltPresi-

dent Billy Guice said. Shaving cream Alpha Epsilon. The SAE IFC before any decision is made. Ac- bation for two weeks and receiyed
wasalsosprayedonthewallsandnews- housemother’s plants were also de- cording to Atkins, before any punish- $2,000 ﬁne. Their two week soci
papers were strewn across the walls stroyed. ment can be decided the culprits will probation will end on Saturday, 0c
and ﬂoors of both rooms. Guice said Dean of Students for Greek Affairs need to be identiﬁed. 16,

,  '/ p 3 ,- - . . . . .

By BUNNY WONG ‘ elf =4‘  - 1 . ’
Phi Staff Writer — ,4 .; «*2?

Need someone to talk to?

Washington and Lee’s peer counselors can help.

Composed of 28 W&L students, the university’s
peer counseling group offers an open ear to students
with concerns ranging from stress to homesickness
to homosexuality.

“My dream was that we would have a group of
students trained year round to provide a service to
W&L students,” said Dr. James Worth, university
psychologist and founder and director of peer coun-
seling at W&L.

“We’ve got some really visible people,” said head
peer counselor, junior Julia Podlas.

With a one in three acceptance rate last spring,
peer counseling was able to draw in a very select
group.

“We cut some people who shouldn’ t have been
cut,” said Dr. Worth, saying that the pool of appli-
cants was so good last spring that students who
would normally be well-qualiﬁed as peer counselors
were not accepted.

“We had the finest group of applicants [last
spring],” said Worth.

Last year, approximately 10 percent of the stu-
dent body went to peer counselors. The average
counselor received eight to 10 people, according to
Podlas.

_ Peer counselors are people students are usually
comfortable talking with.

“I ’ve always been a person people can just come

“talk t.s.>.3:.§tt.i.<l.l’.<2.d.1...a.§...Z.1..!9v.s; t=1.l.l.<.iri.g.tc.>...r>.e<.>.r2l.<:-.’.T......  " "

“I like feeling like I’ve helped someone get through
a tough part of their life,” said junior peer counselor
Megan McCloskey.

Counseling is not always a piece of cake for the
peer counselors. They have to be available anytime,
according to Dr. Worth. Also, the responsibility of
counseling can sometimes be hard. Not all problems
are easy to address and sometimes are impossible to
address. In that case, the student is referred to the
university.

“Sometimes it’s hard to keep personal views to
yourself,” said Podlas.

Training helps counselors with all the glitches
counseling presents. “The peer counseling program
is the best trained program,” said Podlas.

A two-day training session with an emphasis on
listening skills is followed by meetings every every
month. Much of the training is done by Dr. Worth.

“A high percentage of peer counselors who apply
for dorm counselors have gotten in,” said Worth.

Listening skills are key. Peer counselors are also
taught to motivate students to foster their own self-

Photo by Francesca Kefalas, The Ring-tum Phi
The University Peer Counselors and Dr. Worth give students someone to talk to.

  
   
 

“I was just fascinated with what he was doing.at
Lynchburg College,” said Worth.
Washington and Lee was “very receptive” to the

Activities, education and outreach committees
are now a part of peer counseling.
“We’re just basically taking our message out to

  

worth.
problems,” said Podlas.

beyond” what he originally wanted it to be.

year we turned a corner.”

counseling encompassed.
the game.

“We are starting to do more outreach.”

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

A year after the Student-Faculty Hearing
Board was founded, its members are pleased
with the job it has done.

The SFHB, founded in order “to hear and
adjudicate allegations of sexual misconduct
involving Washington and Lee students,” con-
sists of four faculty members and four students.
Two faculty and two student members are also
appointed. This year’s faculty members are
Professors Brian Murchison, Pamela Simpson,
Cecile West-Settle, and William Watt. Roger
Jeans and Nancy Margand are the faculty alter-
nates. Student members are Justin Bakule,
Shawn Copeland, Julia Podlas, and Laura
Voeckel. Student alternates are Brian Hucks
and Sakina Paige.

If a student has a complaint, he or she can
take that complaint to the SFHB Mediator. The
1993-94 Mediator is Anece F. McCloud, asso-
ciate dean of students for minority and interna-
tional student affairs. The Mediator then dis-
cusses the complaint with all parties involved,
in an attempt to resolve the complaint. If it
cannot be resolved, and the complainant so
desires, the SFHB will hear the case.

Last year the SFHB heard one case of sexual

intercourse without consent, and found the ac-

“We really promote the person solving their own
Worth feels that the program has “gone way

“I’ve been tremendously excited to watch this
program grow and expand,” he said. ‘‘I thought last

This year peer counseling has become a multi-
dimensional program. Before, students could get in
contact with counselors through what was basically
a “hotline.” To a large part that was what peer

Outreach, however, has now become the name of

“This is kind of a really need year,” said Podlas.

the people,” said senior Doug Kaufman, head of the

outreach committee.

Peer counseling’s education committee strives to
educate students about issues like rape, AIDS, alco-

hol and stress.

education committee.

he has newer and higher hopes for it.

said.

Worth started the program six years ago when he
was inspried by Dr. Don Werner at a Virginia Psy-

chologists Association meeting.

SFH3 members claim success

cused not guilty.Two complaints of sexual mis-
conduct were reported to the Mediator, but the
complainants did not request any formal action.

“[The SFHB] is serving the purpose it was
created for,” said member Shawn Copeland.
But, “it hasn’t received much publicity, good or
bad.”

“The system is working,” said McCloud.
She added, however, “we have not received
complaints from all the students who may have
had complaints.”

McCloud emphasized the conﬁdentiality of
the system, and said, “It’s important for stu-
dents to be able to have confidence that other
students will not know about [their reports].”

“I don’t think students have any reason to
feel otherwise [than conﬁdent],” said Copeland.
“I would hope people would feel free to ap-
proach it.” *

Board member Julia Podlas also thinks that
not all students come forward with their com-
plaints. “There are so many cases that go
unreported,” she said.

Voeckel also stressed the need for students
to feel secure in the system. “The system can’t
work without students reporting their com-
plaints,” she said.

The board meets in the event of a case, and
other times during the year, “to discuss issues
of procedure,” said Board Chairperson Cecile
West-Settle.

“Right now we’re working on alcohol awareness
week,” said senior Sarah Butler, co-chair of the

While the peer counseling program has gone
beyond Dr. Worth’s original goals for the program,

“I would very much like to see the peer counselors
kind of like the trusted people around campus,” he

1987. Worth came to W&L in 1972.

idea of peer counseling when Worth introduced it in

He set up the first counseling service at W&L.
Students can go in to talk to him in the University

Center by making an appointment with Carol Calkﬁts.

in,” he said.

“You don’t have to have a huge problem to come

All counseling, both with Dr. Worth and with the

peer counselors, is totally confidential.

Worth majored in clinical psychology at Ohio

State University, received his masters degree in clini-

Colorado.

Lexington.

cal psychology at the University of Missouri and
obtained his doctorate at the University of Northern

He is currently licensed in clinical psychology in
the state of Virginia and also has a private practice in

Hickman gives

$50,000 for biology

lecture series

9

By MICHAEL Hewu-:1'r
Phi Staff Writer

What’s green, lives in the biology department, and

doesn’t smell like fonnaldehyde?
Money.

Cleveland Hickman, professor emeritus of biology,
donated $50,000 to the Biology Department. According to
Shoulders of Giants: News of the Campaign for Washing-
ton and Lee, the money will be used to endow the Biology
Lecture Series. Due to previous budget restraints, the
department had difficulty in affording more than one guest;
lecturer per year, and seldom for more than one day.
Hickman also designated an additional $4000 to the pro-

posed $20 million science center.

“We have many majors in biology, but insufficient

space for teaching and research,” said Hickman.

According to Farris Hotchkiss, Vice—-president of Uni-
versity Relations, Hickman’s gift is vital to Washington.

and Lee’s $127 million fundraising campaign.

“A gift of this sort brings us more encouragement for the
University ’s future than I can possibly say,” said Hotchkiss.
Hickman believes that his gift will be beneficial for

W&L.

“It’s been very helpful and will continue to be so for

' years to come,” said Hickman.

a-

   

    

  

I
e Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   

ALCOHOL, from page 1

In the 1990 Carnegie Foundation report Cam-

Lip: In Search of Community presidents of
leges and universities across America were

ed, “What three campus-life issues have

en ‘you the greatest concern?” The most

quent response to that question was “Sub-

nce abuse — primarily alcohol.”

A report from the Student Affairs staff at

shigton and Lee, dated September 1993,

ws that W&L ranks alcohol as one of its

atest concerns too.

“In the fall of 1991, the Student Affairs staff
t in a series of workshops to consider the

blem of alcohol at Washington and Lee,”

tes the report. “We concluded that alcohol

use among students at Washington and Lee is

roblem that needs to be addressed.”

How well is the University getting across its

ssage?

Howison said things improved for a time,

t are beginning to decline again. Three years

0 the Ofﬁce of the Dean of Students com-
ed e student arrest records in the city of
xington beginning in Fall 1988. In the 1988-

academic year, 182 students were arrested

I alcohol related violations, including DUI,

ssession, public drunkenness, noise and lit-
.. In the fall of 1990, W&L set a goal to reduce
= number of W&L students arrested for alco-
I related violations. W&L worked with the
te emity Council, the Lexington City Po-
e, the Lexington Community Oouncil and
= Virginia Department of Alcoholic Bever-
e Control. In 1989-1990, the number of alco-
l related arrests dropped to 152. The number
clined after that to 117 in 1990-91 and only
« in 1991-92.

Buﬁn the 1992-93 school year, incidents of
est for alcohol related charges went up again,
121 arrests. This year there were six arrests
r drunk driving within the ﬁrst two weeks of
e sses. There were ﬁfteen arrests for DUI all
t year.

Dean of Greek Affairs Leroy C. “Buddy”
kinﬁ said that part of the reason for the
tructuring of Tear Night two years ago was
help prevent injuries due to intoxication. But
is year, as in years past, broken bones and
rained muscles marred Tear Night for some.
Dr. James Worth, university psychiatrist
d head of the campus alcohol awareness
ogrﬂn, said that alcohol also poses greater
reats to students. An arrest for public drunk-
riess or an ankle sprained in a fall down the
». irs are only minor symptoms of alcohol
use.

“The VMI/Phi Delt ﬁght would never have

occurred if there were no alcohol present,” said
Worth. “In social problems where there are
student injuries and deaths, alcohol is almost
always present. I haven’t ever dealt with an
acquaintance rape where alcohol wasn’t in-
volved.

“And who knows how many relationships
broken, how many excellent GPAs fallen to
average or below, or how many careers left
because of alcohol,” Worth continued.

Newly published studies have shown that
abuse of alcohol affects learning and memory.
Not only can drinking to excess make you have
blackouts in which

drank less more often.”

Swartzwelder pointed out that the type of
drinking that goes on at colleges, including at
W&L, is exactly the type that causes the most
damage. Most colleges students drink very
little during the week, but then have a “blow-
out drinking spree” during the weekend.

“It’s a totally different psychology,” said
Swartzwelder. “They ’re looking for a real strong
alteration two times a week. That’s exactly
what disrupts memory.”

But there is a distinction between alcohol
use and alcohol abuse. Just because you drink

does not mean

you can’t remem-
ber anything, but it
can affect your
long term memory,
and your ability to
learn. Worth ex-
plained that means
that two weeks af- ,
ter drinking a
dozen beers, you
could still be suf-
fering from a

USO

ing evidence of use

Symptoms of dependency

' Trying to cut down or quit using some
substance, and failing at it

' “Blackouts”, or lapses of memory, after

° Using the substance while alone, or hid-

° Using the substance to forget about prob-

that you are abus-
ing alcohol.
“Abuse is us-
ing alcohol to the
point where you
are impaired in
somefashionand
tothepointwhere
you are endan-
gered by addic-
tion,” said
Worth. “It’s a

“mental hang- lems of worrigs two partrisk. The
over”. , - - - - more buzzed you
S C 0 t t h Doing things while under the inﬂuence feel the more m_
S w a r t z w e 1 d e r , t at cause Fegret later . _ paired you are.
neurosciemist and ° Not being able to enjoy an event without “You know
associate clinical the substance you’re safe if you

professor of psy-
chiatry at Duke
University, found
that alcohol dis-
rupts the chemical
messenger system
that carries infor-
mation to memory.
Swartzwelder also :
found that alcohol
blocks the changes
that take place in
the brain when it
learns something

social gathering

use the substance

abuse
' get the substance

the substance

° Using much more than other people in a
' Neglecting responsibilities in order to

' Family, friends, or employer expressing
concern about substance

° Being willing to do almost anything to

° Financial or legal problems from using

feel relaxed and
c o m f o rt a b l e
fromdrinkingbut
have not really
altered yourmen-
tal state,” said
Worth. “But for
most people it’s
very hard to real-
ize state of im-
pairment while
they’re actually
drinking.
“We’re cer-
tainly not trying

new — effectively
blocking the
transferral of the new information. The degree
of impairment increases with the amount of
alcohol imbibed.

“It is clear that when it comes to alcohol
affecting how well your brain is working, the
important factor is how much you drink per
drinking session,” said Swartzwelder. “We
don’t understand why, but in non-alcoholic
drinkers the amount that is drunk per drinking
spree is what affects learning. Scientiﬁc data
show that if when you drink, you drink a lot,
you’re hurting your brain more than if you

to say alcohol is
evil. The University’s position is to encourage
and, where necessary, enforce the use of alco-
hol in appropriate and risk free ways,” said
Worth.

However, Worth added that college stu-
dents are at greater risk to become abusers of
alcohol or alcoholics, especially students at
W&L.

“A guess that I have is that alcohol abuse at
W&L is higher than the average school —
that’s not a data based statement,” said Worth.
“But we do know statistically that alcohol abuse

is higher where there is fraternity membership.
That’s true nationwide. While other schools
have 20 to 30 percent membership in fratemi-
ties, W&L has 75 to 85 percent membership.”
By extending those figures, that means that
W&L very likely has more students who abuse
alcohol than other schools as well.

Peer Counselors Sarah Butler and Jennifer
“Goose” Garrigus, co-chairs of the peer coun-
selor education committee, said the pressure to
drink is hard to resist at W&L.

“There deﬁnitely is a problem at W&L,”
said Butler. “The average drinks per person per
week at W&L is way above the national aver-
age. Dr. Worth told us about a survey on college
campuses on the west coast. The drinks per
person per week average there is 2.9. I know
lots of people that drink way more than that
here. They might be drinking responsibly, but
we are way above the national average.

“If you took students out of this college
situation and put them in the real world-— if
they drank this much— they’d be considered
alcoholics,” said Butler.

Garrigus said the pressure to drink is espe-
cially great on freshman.

“lt’s so hard not to drink when the pressure
is so hard,” said Garrigus. “The freshman have
never been in this atmosphere before. Alcohol
is easy to abuse here because it’s easy to get.”

Head peer counselor Julia Podlas agrees.

“l’ve had freshmen come to me and ask if
they have to drink to fit in at W&L.” said
Podlas. “Girls come to me and say ‘I’ve never
drunk before and I don’t want to start now’.”

W&L surveys of entering students show
that most students drink even before they get to
W&L, however.

“In a recent survey of the freshman class at
Washington and Lee, 75 percent of the class
reported that they drank alcoholic beverages
before coming to W&L,” says the Student
Affairs report. And most students increase their
drinking when they come to college.

Therefore the potential for abuse also in-
creases.

And as abuse increases, so do its conse-
quences.

“Alcohol continues to be a standard feature
at the traditional W&L fraternity party,” the
Student Affairs report stated. “A signiﬁcant

number of the cases handled by the Student
Conduct Committee involve alcohol abuse.
Also, our surveys on sexual assualt/date rape
indicate the detrimental impact of alcohol in
cases of sexual misconduct.”

Worth addedthat alcohol’stendency to lower
inhibitions also makes for a lot of problems
with regretted sex and unsafe sex.

 lcohol abuse concerns administrators

“AIDS is a big concern,” said Worth. “But
who wants herpes, genital warts, or chlamydia?
If you’re drunk and out of control, a condom is
the last thing you think about.”

Academic problems often stem from alco-
hol abuse. Worth said that in a report by the
University of Minnesota, studies showed that
students with a GPA below 2.5 were three times
more likely to have drunk to intoxication within
the past month than those whose GPAs were
higher than 3.5. Dean Howison said that he
usually becomes aware of students with alco-
hol problems when they are flunking out of
school.

“What it takes too often is for the person who
needs help to hit rock bottom,” said Howison.
“In a way colleges are pretty good at dealing
with extreme situations. We are working with
people who know they are hurting. But the
person who abuses alcohol on a regular basis
doesn’t see it as a problem.”

But Podlas said that W&L students often
turn to alcohol to relieve classroom pressures.

“Students deal with a lot of self esteem and
stress problems by turning to alcohol,” said
Podlas. “A lot of self-esteem problems turn into
an alcohol problem.”

On the positive side, however, I-Iowison
said that there has been a decline in highly
abusive behavior in recent years.

“We’ve gotten word out to students so that
friends are looking out for friends,” said
Howison. “It has helped to reduce the extreme
problems.”

Worth and University Health Educator Jan
Kaufman are analyzing the data from last year’s
alcohol use survey. When those results come
in, more will be understood about the character
of alcohol and drinking on campus. But for
now, Worth, peer counselors and other student
leadership groups such as the Student-Athlete
Mentors and fraternity presidents are all work-
ing to provide a support network for those who
ﬁnd they do have an alcohol problem. Educa-

- tion programs are developing to address the

problem as well.

“The only way to manage [the problem] is
through education,” said Podlas.

Butler agreed.

“We’re not trying to shove this down peoples’
throats,” Butler said. “But we want to make
people aware of alcohol’s effects on you. We
can’t tell people what to do. So we’re trying to
take the approach that we’ll give you some-
thing to think about.”

Worth concluded that drinking in general at
W&L is not the problem. Irresponsible drink-
ing and drinking to excess are the problems.

“I hope the student body doesn’t think that
the administration is the grinch that stole party-
ing,” said Worth. “Have fun but be safe.”

 

ON THE
SHOULDERS

, or GIANTS

 ‘THE CAMPAIGN FOR

0

Washington and lee

... .,-.a.,.......,._ ..-. .... ﬂ-...-..—.,-.-...4—w...«.;-».....-,...,..—,,..,.,_,.,,\V__”_ 1 > A0

$8 7 million raised

from contributions by 12,692 alumni, parents, friends,
faculty, staﬁ’, corporate, and foundation donors.

$40 million to go A

to reach our goal of $127 million by July 1, 1995.

We need your support.

 

 

 

PAGE 4 The Ring’-tum Phl, October 8, 1993
NEWS

Committees examine life on Hill Financial aid down-

needs of a few.

By MELISSA SAWYER - - - _ - -
By ITORRMNE TIGAS Phi Staff write’ appiii:z:r‘ifdslii:ni’tYl‘:)‘e‘sIiiri)i‘z:i<‘e tblienndegdvtvsrrllolrtﬁ
PI" staff Wm" ‘ wasniri'g—ton and‘Lee"s f1naric—13Ti1ﬁ‘iﬁid'is' need for ﬁnancial aid a basis for admission.

_ _ still aﬂoat, although it may not be in for any DeCourcy saidthat he does haveto maketoug
Two new committees debuted this year, one to smooth Sailing choices. /‘
anaiyze °°ed,“°ad°“ at Wasbmgton and Lee and °“e ‘d This is the word from John DeCourcy, ”Peoples’ situations change‘— a divorce,
eevltabze Games Han‘ , _ _ W&L’s financial aid director. unemployment— these all factor in.” He said
The C°ed“°_a"°“ Cbmmmees °°'eh’"’ed by DeCourcy said that it is true thatacouple of that upperclassmen will not suddenly be cut
P’°fe5S°rs Pamela S"“P5°" abd Robe" Sdbngv “'35 students chose not to return to W&L this fall off. “We’ve madeacommitment to them, and

CV33"-‘rd ‘S’ 100'‘ 3”he1mP3¢‘°f°°ed“°3“°“°“ w&11"‘ because they were not given the aid they re- unless their situation changes, they are pretty
the 135‘ elgm Years and to Ieebmmend 3 edbrse df a_ed_°“ quested. He added, however, that they still had well protected.”

f°' the b“d"e~ The ebmmmee Plans ‘O 3"3]}’ze Stabsmfs options open to them. DeCourcy said that when The biggest problem with financial aid now
and l'e‘”eW feeshman S““'e)’5- Dean 0f Students D3"1d he sees that an upperclassman has a real need, is ﬁnding enough for entering freshman, said

Howlson sgld this committee Is “pnmanly Interested In W&L will fill it. DeCourcy. He said that while there has been
the f“d"'e- _ _ _ “We don’t give handouts though,” he said, no big increase in need, the numbers of appli-

, The ebmmmee ednslsts 0f “me f3e“_"Y ‘Hem’ noting the need for students to make difficult cants are steadily going up. W&Lis one of the
bets: L153 A“_ysA"G°ld5m“ha Kalhy Kbbememg Nanci’ choices concerning loans and school year jobs. cheapest private universities in the country.
Mafgmnda Ell23betl‘(_)11VeTs Ce°|1ewe5"S_°‘des S1mP5°“s W&L’s financial aid fund is supported Changes in the American culture, however,
Sdbng and Tom wllbamsé and thee 3PP°1"‘ed Stbdemei largely through endowed scholarships and have allowedmore middle- and lower-inco .
Cam] Piereev Fmblde J°"e5 and D3“ Fe"°“~ Sb‘ s“b' alumni gifts. Currently, the Capital Campaign students to come to this traditionally upper-
ebmmmees have bee“ fbrmedi admissibbs/aldmnlv ace‘ is trying to raise $30 million for endowments, class school, thereby necessitating an increase
d¢mlCS, C3mP“51ife- athletics! faculiy/Staff and the “5“8' and is rumored to be well on its way to meeting in aid. DeCourcy noted that some people have
gesdb“ box” e°mmi!te_e- The 135‘ edbebmmmeea beaded that goal. higher expectations. They want to maintain
by Margmnd and W'"'a“}5v '5 de5‘g"edt°bea5°““d}“8 W&L is “the only school that doesn’t use their standards of living- “some have outra-
b°f“'d between ‘he ebmmmee 3“d ‘be w&Le°mm“““Y= unrestricted income to pay ﬁnancial aid,” said geous demands,” he added. “It’s never easy
Sald S““P5°“- DeCourcy. That is, W&L doesn’t use money saying ‘no’ but if the facts indicate that there

when W&L ﬁre‘ decided t° adml‘ women i“ from the general tuition fund to pay for the
July of 1984, a plan was formulated to review coeduca-
tion after 10 years. The Coeducation Committee has s
been formed one year earlier than planned. lt has not . .
been determined how long the committee will continue
 S1x hurt on Tear N1ght

The Gaines Hall Committee was established to .
“explore ways to create in Gaines Hall a vibrant residen- .
tial community,” Dean Howison said. Women and ‘RUSH, "Om P3991

sororities will receive special attention.
Dean Howison hopes to “get more students Patrick McCabe is not overly concerned with number of pledges.

really is need, we work something out.”

over to Gaines” and believes that the committee can “I would have preferred to have done better, but the numbers aren’t a concern of mine,”
“achieve more if it looks at Gaines in a creative way.” McCabe said. “Quality is more important.”

At its first meeting last week, the committee The house’s small size is not an indicator of an imminent or impending end to the fraternity.
discussed plans for sorority meeting rooms and an ex- McCabe ascribes the fratemity’s uniqueness and characteristics to the smallness of the chapter...
panded women’s center. The focus on women and “l have no question what the future of the chapter will be,” McCabe said. “It still offers one of
sororities stems from last year’s petition of 500 students the best leadership possibilities on campus.”
for a larger women’s center. Allowing for the high and low extremes, the majority of houses got between 11 and 20 pledges

Committee member Laura Clark said there are with most falling in the high teens.
“means that haven’t been met” and hopes to see Gaines The differences between this year’s and last year’s Tear Night was the more equal distribution

made into “a productive and fun place to live.” of pledges and the fewer people suffering injuries or making visits to the local hospital.

Other members of the committee are Christo- An Emergency Room nurse at Stonewall Jackson Hospital said just six W&L students came .
pherAlbert, HeatherAussiker, Jamie Hardman, Kathleen in over the weekend for alcohol-related injuries. Only one student, suffering from a broken collar
Stimeling and Bob Tompkins. bone, came to the Emergency Room on Friday night.

   

. ,5 3", " ,

photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

        
 

'° ' ° ° -' °  ° ° ° ' ° ' ° °' FREE TRIPS AND MONEY" Ladies’ Shoes Clothin Accessories
: Just 'm_agm?"' your ad : Individuals and Student Organiza— _ ’ g’ _
: COUld be In this space and : tions wanted to promote the Hottest .
. both you and the phi . Spring Brealtk lgestilnztitiogs, call the  - _ .   - - . -.
. nat1on’s ea er. n er- am us

Z_ would be much happler _Z p,og,,m,1_800_327_601§_ RESUMES - COVER LETTERS - ENVELOPFS

' ° ° ° ’ ° ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' Wecanhelp you get organized with Resumes& CoverLetters.

We also do High-Speed, High-Volume Copies & Faxing. I

24-Hour tum-around on most jobs.
 Weekend’  A §w. Ne'i§22‘i¥;e‘é.‘3.  regs? 'I:i4I]639l’%)§'l‘ or=i'~%|
Home Some Take—Out  

V \‘
W&L Art

l
l

lﬁﬁllllmﬂﬂﬂﬁ oppogoggzot 

Signatures:
Fitzhugh Lee R.E. Lee
M. Miley John Letcher
Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr.
Sam Houston A. P. Hill

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

 

Nah. hm ‘h .k ms h B" l   Oéntannli/Iorisdgtyé Srﬁturday 23 N. Main St. Lexington, VA
in 0:5 cr wl w t - - ‘ - - -
beautiful ibpuqifetgof lllpwers. So std: iii and trienateyoursclf ‘ Mon‘ ' Sat‘ 10 - 5:30 
V tosomet mg spccia . t‘s just what your weekend needs. ‘ ¥
10 E. Nelson St. 463-9841 K /J
I
!' E L.‘
IJ
IE.

  
   

(Detober Speeials ‘J
--—Cassin les Special — - 3 for $9.50"-
$2.00 off a 1 CDs, $1.00 off all Cassettes

20% OFF ENTIRE STOCK — D335:?,§§,:Cg‘3°:§,§gf§:«§{§éi?3ck '3
e Cand Duffer-Sax-A-G0-G0

HOMECOMING SPECIAL Ic(;1e{3S”?§'(.).Is§‘.ii1t?::,§Z§’§?§,;f.’é;Ef.‘§§;oo _
- - e um 0 e oom ap ,

Souls of Mischief - ‘93 ‘til Infinity
Spice I - 187 He Wrote

Emmy Lou Harris - Cowgirl ’s Prayer
The College Town Shop Da"R1;2.-egg; :§;:,e;0,,§;m’s
 W‘ Nelson St’ Stonewall S uare Shopping Center

The Posies - Frosting on the Beater
- A xin on
Since 1926 453-9 00
MASTERCARD AMEX STUDENT CHARGES "1 4

    
 

  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  

1.
l

1: Kathleen Quirk
. hi Contributing writer

Bocal writers held a reading
to fight hunger at the Writers
Harvest held in the Leybum Li-
brary Tuesday night.

The local event, organized by
English Department head Ed
Cra n and W&L students Kelly
Bro zman and Cameron Howell,
is part of; the national Writers
Harvest, the largest literary event
to ﬁght hunger in the country
with over 600 readers participat-
ing in over,-150 readings.

Half o_f_the $5 admission
chaﬁe goes to the Blue Ridge
Food Bank in Rockbridge
County, “the most important sup-
plier in the valley for hunger re-
lief,”- according to Prof. Craun.
The other half will go to national
agencies for hungerreliefthrough
Sh@‘Ou'r"Strength, a non-profit
hunger organization of people in
creative ﬁelds.

The Writers Harvest program
started several years ago with
Frederick Busch, a novelist and
teacher at Colgate University.
“Hghought that a reading might
be a good way for creative artists

— _. Rin-tum Phi October 8, 1993

to raise money to combat hun-
ger,” said Prof. Craun.

Because the project is under-
written by American Express and
the Princeton Review, “we have
no overhead,” said Prof. Craun.
“Every bit of money goes to com-
bat hunger.”

“I just think it’s a wonderful
opportunity to share talent for a
worthy cause,” said reader Char-
lotte Morgan, who was recom-
mended by the Maury Rive-
Writers.

Morgan read two prose po-
ems about American icons Elvis
Presley and Marilyn Monroe.

The other readers were VMI
professor Mary Balazs, who read
three of her poems; W&L senior
Jeff Mikita, who read his short
story “Silent Mice”; W&L pro-
fessor Dabney Stuart, who read
three of his poems; and W&L
senior Cameron Howell, who

read six poems, including two
new ones.

“Rather than just get some
outside author,” Prof. Craun said,
“it’s what’s true to W&L to have
these students and teachers read.
We hope to do it again next year
and build it up.”

‘I/I/6&1; zfe

Photo by Joe Framtom, The Ring-tum Phi
Jeff Mikita reads his short story at the Writer’s Harvest

Student group schedule

All organizations listed are
planning Tailgate parties in the

  
        
    

freshman parking lot before the chi psi ,
f°°tb31lgah‘°- M05‘ are Wnning Friday: afternoon Cocktail
ﬂoats in the Homecoming pa- party
T3‘ 3150- Evening Banquet
Mi1101'itJ’ Students A55°ci3' Saturday: evening band party
tion  Sigma
Saturda)“ 10 P-m- to 1 a-"‘- Saturday: afternoon Cocktail
Homecoming Formal with DJ party
A1911“ Phi Omega Evening party with ‘The City’
Saturday: afternoon Alumni Lambda Chi Alpha
C0Ilft3i1 Pan)’ Saturday: evening party with
P1 Beta Phi ‘The Big Picture’
ichi Omega I ": ; 'Phi:Kappa Psi 
vKaPP=* Al2.l“:'§lTh°*8..'-1-1.-. . Sﬁufﬁﬁrtzeiiﬂﬂiﬂgimﬂy with
jKappa Kappa*"Gamma: ‘(St-éginoiidsit ‘ M ' . 1 ’ '
Delta Tau Delta ’ phi Kappa sigma
Fndéyi 5330 P-m- 10 8 P—m- Friday: afternoon party with
Ccgktail Party ‘ Choice’

tion10:30 a.m. Ribboncutting

 

 
  
 

Saturday: 10 a.m. Recep-

   

From Phi Staff Reports

The Connells aren’t the only famous musi-
sans visiting Washington and Lee this week.
The Mozart Orchestra of Hamburg will

Evening party with ‘Deli-
cious’

Saturday: evening party at

SAE with ‘The Grapes’

E

Tailgate prties before big events are a &L tradition

Chamber orchestra to play Tuesday

Orchestra, the National Symphony, the Boston
Pops and the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra.
He has given recitals at Carnegie Hall, the
Metropolitan Museum in New York and the
Terrace Theatre at the Kennedy Center in D.C.

Phi Gamma Delta

Friday: evening Alumni
Cocktail Party

Saturday: 7:30 p.m. to 10 p.m.
Cocktail Party10 p.m. to ?? party
with ‘The Press’

Pi Kappa Alpha

Saturday: evening party with
‘Mother Nature’

Sigma Chi

Friday: 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. Cock-
tail Party

Saturday: afternoon party with
‘Big Hairy Posse’

Evening party with, ‘RoLl,s‘of .

Azure’ - ~
Sigma Nu

Friday: afternoon Cluster Re-p

union Cocktail Party
Evening semi—formal dinner
Saturday: afternoon Cocktail
Party for all Alumni and mem-

,.. .,..,, ,,._,.,..._..,.. .....

bers.

Evening party with ‘Lost In
The Supermarket’

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Friday: evening pre—party be-
fore The Connells

Saturday: afternoon Cocktail
Party

Evening party with ‘The Un-
knowns

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Friday: afternoon Alumni
Reception

~‘-The§Grapes’ In .1 ~

 .ISa2na.:A.lpha

Saturday: evening party with
‘Uncle Mingo’
Schedule information compiled by Phi

contributing writer Kathleen Quirk

Saturday: evening party with

Friday:AlumnAiCockla”il(Pa"riy’i ’

Alumni schedule

THURSDAY,OCI‘OBER7
1:30 p.m. W&L Alumni Board
of Directors Fall
MeetingNorthern Auditorium,
Leyburn Library (Meeting con-
tinues on Friday and Saturday)

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 8

10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Five-Star
Generals and Homecoming Reg-
istrationA lumni House

10:30 a.m. Campus Tours.
Alumni House

12:10 p.m. The John
Randolph Tucker Lecture A.
Leon Higginbotham, Jr., Senior
Judge forthe United States Court
of Appeals for the Third Circuit,
Philadelphia. “Race and the
American Legal Process.”Lewis
Hall

12:30 p.m. Luncheon: Five-
Star Generals, Alumni Board of
Directors, Law Council, and their
spouses. Rain Plan—Doremus
Gymnasium. ront Lawn

2 p.m. Fall Meeting of the
W&L Law CouncilLewis Hall
(Meeting continues on Saturday)

2 p.m. Homecoming Semi-
nar: “From Communism to Capi-
talism: Can the Red GiantsPlay

‘vim; alumni will find their weekend full of activ

 

1 riters meet to fight hunger

Ball?” Conducted by Roger B.
Jeans, Ph.D., Professor of His-
tory, Kipling M. Pirkle, Ph.D.,
Associate Professor of Adminis-
tration, and Lyn F. Wheeler,
D.B.A., Professor of Account-
ing. Moderator: Mimi Milner
Elrod, Ph.D., Associate Director
of Special Programs Lee Chapel
6 p.m. Reception for all
Alumni honoring the Five-Star
Generals, the Class of l938,and
the 1993 Homecoming Queen
CourtAlumni House
7 p.m. Five-Star Generals
Reunion BanquetEvans Dining
Hall
8:45 p.m. W&L Choral En-
sembles including .JubiLee and
Southern Comfort Lenfest Cen-
ter for the PerformingArts, Keller
Theatre
10 p.m. Student Activities
Board Homecoming Concert-
The Connells and Cracker Stu-
dent Activities Pavilion
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 9
8:30 a.m. Men’s Tennis:
W&L Fall Classic Upper Courts
9 a.m. Law Council Meeting
resumes Lewis Hall
9:30 a.m. “The Great Train

  
 
     

I
--9:‘ ,
' k
3

 
   

  
 
   
  
  
    
   
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
         
        
    
    
 

Robbery” and other mysteries of
W&L Folklore. Moderated by J .
Holt Merchant ’61, Ph.D., Pro-
fessor of HistoryThe General
Headquarters( The Pit), Univer-
sity Center
11 a.m.The 1993 Homecom-
ing ParadeMain Street, Washing-
ton Street
ll a.m. Men’s Soccer vs.
Dickinson College Liberty Hall
Field
Noon - 1:15 p.m. Alumni
Luncheon with Faculty. Enter-
tainment by the Jim Caldwell
Band. Rain Pl: .—Evans Dining
Hall Front Lawn
1 p.m. - 2 p.m. Alumni Book
Signing Parke S. Rouse, Jr. ’37 -
The Great Wagon Road John D.
Dean ’76 - Tom Katz University
Bookstore
1:30 p.m. Women’s Soccer
vs. Guilford CollegeLibertyHall
Field
2 p.m. Football: Generals vs.
Davidson Special Halftime show,
featuring the crowning of the
1993 Homecoming Queen Wil-
son Field
4:30 p.m. Alumni Recep-
tionAlumni House

  
 
 

Alumni Office Photo

open the W&L Concert Guild season at 8 p.m.
this Tuesday at the Lenfest Center. The 26 -
member ensemble will perform Haydn’s 48th
Symphony, the Concerto in G Major for Viola
nd Orchestra by Telemann, Paul Hindemith’s
rauermusik’, and the Serenade for Strings in

E Major by Anton Dvorak.

The Mozart Orchestra has performed in
France, Korea, Spain, Germany, Switzerland
and the United States during the course of their
yearly 50 concert tour. The instrumentation of

he ensemble consists of the traditional string,
‘ boe and horn combination common to cham-
ber orchestras.

The featured soloist for the evening is New
York violist Marcus Thompson, recipient of
the first doctoral degree in viola from thelulliard
School. Thompson’s solo career has included
perfonnances with the Chicago Symphony

O

Thompson’s performances on ‘Fresh Air’ and
‘Performance Today.’ He has also released a
compact disc of Brahms’ chamber music to
wide critical acclaim.

chusetts Institute of Technology and a member
of the viola faculty at the New England Conser-

vatory.

Robert Stehli, founder of the Mozart Orchestra
fifteen years ago this month.

student involvement in the planning and prepa-
ration of a performance series of visiting amsts.
Dr. Timothy Gaylard serves as director and
faculty adv isor to the Concert Guild.

of the Lexington community.

National Public Radio frequently broadcasts

Thompson is professor of music at Massa-

Conducting the program on Tuesday will be

The Concert Guild was formed to allow

The concert is free and open to all members

 

      
   
      

  
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 
 

 

 

  

Page 6

off the mark

 

 

by Mark Parlsi

I‘M A LOUSY TIPPER AND 'l‘D

 

W&LIF E

 

The Ring-tum Phi October 8,19%

by Jeff MacNelly

LIKE \/oun Rui>EsT wA\TRE‘35 90 1
I woN‘T FEEL Guinv ABOUT IT-

  

v

   

J reserved.

‘ A
~ i~;.~..e‘-:
.‘i‘.~.;.i\I.*

t’.

 

©H‘I/ /“ARK Raizi/ii

01992 MARK PARISI

 

Collonade Crossword

ACROSS ° 1‘
1 Jelly flavor
6 Sinks 4 '5
10 Holds in wonder
14 Even
15 Beige
16 Lean off center
17 Unaccompanied
18 Mine cart
19 Sign of sorrow
20 Blew up
22 Greek letter
23 — majesty
24 Turned over
26 Tennis term
29 Scottish
negaﬁve
30 "I smell —!"
31 Happening
33 Artists’ studios
37 Nevada city
38 Glass squares
40 Semi-precious
gem
41 Earnest petition
43 Author Loos
44 Small pastry
45 104
47 Head cover A" W9
48 Of less weight 4 Pertaining to
51 Plane surface punishment
53 Zodiac sign 5 Fundamental
54 Ones not in part

19

©1993 Tr‘b ne Media Services, Inc.

Reserved

28 Canvas shelter

32 Compass
direction

33 One or another

52 Coral island
55 Italian city
56 Mystery writer

class 6 Wooden bench 34 Long heroic “Ema ,
59 Antitoxins 7 Farm measure «poem  m£t‘.5r:‘F’_|°alt%er
so Command to 8 Finish college 35 Pro — 60 B d ' 9- t -
tabby 9 Total 36 Strike with open ° Y ° W3 9'
61 Eat greedily 10 Careful listening hand
62 Finishes 11 Use as a 38 Peel
63 Raison d‘—— weapon 39 Draws
64 Raines and ' 42 Dines
F“z9e’a'd  I/Aaalb:til:Fi/Fitillin 43 Gets 9V5" ’°'
65 Relax ' injury
55 Sale Condition 21 gr.‘ 45 Social divisions
67 Winter vehicles recording" 45 w,-am
DOWN 22 Pass out cards 43 393'" Used in
1 Joyful 25 EXeC_ medicine
2 Depend (_upon) 26 withered  é::etreasr:slD;icrirne
3 English river 27 Tied 9

action

 
  
    
   
   
     
       

  

. MICKEY MAMTLE?
MY GCOPNE99, HOW

“W Lone HAVE Tuiase OLD
CARI79 BEEN CLUTTERlN(—Z-
up we CLOsET?..

 

in
\'''Q ._,.r- -__ a 4:’ 6
s . .1, T“
*4x&‘#,au-v-.-.-.ﬂt;§' }\§A?3n . “\\N.&‘\\~

w I erg never tlirvwout anyllim ,
izerilia:-§git'll be worth a Fortune late?

 

_ Dave by David Miller

 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

    

   

pa 1 

    
 

     

I we DqN‘T END up C1ETTlN(: ALLTHE
NEAT STUFF THE éiENERATioN BEFORE

__ TOWARD EACH OTI-lER...6UT IN UNl€ON

   
 

me GENERATION X
?RENuﬂ:AL AGIEEEMENT
o.i<., WHEN we C-ii=:r MARRiED AND

U9 GOT, WE HEREBY AGREE THAT WE
WllJ- NOT TJRN OUR F-Ru~§TRATioN-9

we WILL TJRN OUR FRu§TRATioNé
TowARD PREvi0u9 FRE9iDEN'l’lAL 160N4-
AND THEIK C0RRE9PoNDiNa Pbucieé...
—AND THEN... THEN WE'LL

Ju6T WATCH €oME
MORE T.v. ./

NON §li0lllTUlI

he

 

10/08/93

    

-rue \N°RLD .N\\G\\T i
I am) TOMORROW

 

 

i r ISM IN FOR ‘_
an   -= - serum
2 « -
0)’ Mike Palers WY   000 _5 
 ii ; ‘I ‘
,_,_ V, __ .
-'1": ,- ,;:-.7’ /’ '7/’ 7 I0-9 

SHOE

~‘\
CIGARS ARE \\\.‘.
by Jeff MacNe//_y -

GREAT-NO ‘ ‘ ‘

"6

QUE SIION

 

GROUPS!

CLUBS!

Raise up to $500 to
$1500 in less than a
week. Plus win a trip to
Mtv Spring Break ‘94
and get a FREE T-shirt
just for calling.
1-800-950-1039 ext. 65

   

HARDWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

SKYDIVE!!

Is the experience & expertise of your Instructor
important? Make your first jump under the
tutelage of the only two Instructors at Skydive
Orange certified in all three disci lines; Static Line,

Tandem & Accelerated Freefall. ou can freefall up
to 60 seconds your first skydive! Call toll free for
brochure. 1-800-484-7400 *Av~Ar When on hear the

tone dial 5531; or call (703) 94 -8988

We carry Matrix, Paul Mitchell, Nexxus, Bain de Terre &
Redken products.

‘Z2zng[e.s hair salon
College Square, RT 11 N. Lexington 463-1605
Hours: Mon.-Fri. 9-7 Susan Swisher
Sat. 9-4 Stephanie Camden
Bridgett Sensebaugh

 

Now at W&L Book store
ricii un vour conii ioiiaii

When was the last time you
laughed out loud? Former
Ring-tum Phi humor
columnist Jon Sbar’s
best-selling book is now in
college book stores from
Lexington, VA to Fairbanks,
Alaska. The Undergraduate
Almanac gives a hilarious,
uncompromised view of the
college experience. No
subject is safe from Sbar’s
irreverent humor. (22
original pen and ink
drawings)

ORDER TOLL-FREE
ANYTIME
1-800-444-2524

for easy delivery

'I'|IE NIIEII IIAIIUATE
Al¥M|NA byjon Sbar

A low life guide to higher edurulinn

 

K4

' Dormitory Subculture ' Soronty Dances '
° Parent's Weekend ' Sex ' Arrogant P sstirs *
' Dating Down The Road - Interns i om Hell -
' Greek life - Home for the o’ y
' Literary Musings of an Enlightened Cockrmch '

BUT THERE'S
STILL THIS STIGMA
ATTACHED TO US
CIGAR SMOKERS.

 

IN FACT] IN
SOME CIRCLES
WE'RE TREATED
LIKE PARIAHS...

 

SPRING BREAK ‘94 I
SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH, & GO FREE!!

Student Travel Services is now hiring campus reps.

Call (800) 648-4849

R&S Country Crafts
Craft Supplies

:For the crafter and finished crafts for the craft lover.

3,”:-,\iC1L ‘$333 We feature: ggcoﬁﬂm
K

C
- - b Delta - -
* Y Dimensions
Americana, and other name brand craft suppliers.

“How To” Books for Craft projects

376 E. 29th Street, Buena Vista
261-7441
Hours: M-Th. 2-6, Fri 2-8, Sat. 10-8, Sun. 1-6
JInnJnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnqqnn

    
 

Bring your Horse to
College gi-
Stabling available just off W&L " 
Campus. Full Board/ Large Riding
Arena/ 80 Acres of Trials/
Lessons Available
Phone #’s 463-2194 (Day)
463-1859 (Evening)
464-6620 (Barn)

     
  

Join us for our

  
   
 
 

Al

 

The   . .. .~. Sunsetspecial
Ilss|"i§l iii ‘

m-:°.~.;  "..' m-any-sat-my

HOUSE  ' 5:30-623013.111.

Rnlauraiil

Includessalad,homemaderolls&mumn,
enueeandbeverage.

30 N. Main St., Lexington Reservations Recommended 463-3020

 Restaurant

atliEElll'|'!uckSlop

  

E   BREAKFAST
  BUFFET
Friday 8: Saturday Nights
11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North - Open 24 Hours

463-3478

 

OVER 100 EMPLOYERS AT SLAC JOB FAIRS

S E N I O R S!
ARE YOU LOOKING FOR JOBS IN

ADVERTISING - CONSULTING - COUNSELING -

INSURENCE - INVESTMENT BANKING -
LABORATORY RESEARCH - LAW - MTV -
PUBLISHING - RETAIL - SALES — SCIENTIFIC
RESEACH - SOCIAL SERVICES - TEACHING

RESUME DEADLINE:
OCTOBER 22, 1993

COME TO CDPO FOR DETAILS!

nnnnnunnnnnniunnnnntv

$10.00 per person i,

*9

ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCES - HEALTHCARE - 5

 

e Iyng-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

H""” ’°"‘|‘Tﬂnue To mm on
No Mme/H. Fa, M0,, 1.“ k T)’

’°"‘T“'”" You (Am
"wk 7°“ Tfffﬂ m1-
0.

IF (1 Dow oor IT,
GET IT.”

6) I993 GREENWOOD TRUST (OHMMY, Hbﬁilx FN( XTR "o))VU5 ICTWOIIK

PAGE 8

    

Cllir ﬁling-tum lﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

A lie is a lie

Now that rush is over, we can all talk about its ups and
downs without feeling too self—conscious. So let’s talk
about dirty rush and rush lies. The Interfratemity Council
will tell you dirty rush and lies hinder rush, and they would
be right in telling you so. But that is not a complete
evaluation of the situation. Has it ever occurred to the
fraternity members who concoct these lies that lying, of any
sort, is dishonorable behavior? Has it ever occurred to them
that rush lies are just as serious as lies in the classroom? It
would appear some fraternity members have never consid-
ered that a lie is a lie — no matter where it is told.

We do not want to condemn every fraternity member or
entire fraternities. We would really like to think that the
people who make up the lies you hear over and over again
during rush are the minority. But, the fact that this minority
gets away with their rush tactics is ridiculous.

Every student signs their name to a little card that says
they agree to live by the rules of the White Book. The White
Book clearly says that lying is an example of dishonorable
behavior. So, just a couple of weeks after the freshman hear
this great speech about how honorable we are here at W&L,
we give them rush. Shortly after that, some fraternity
members find it necessary to lie to freshman men. Nice
example we’re setting.

It’s like saying, “Oh by the way, you know that big long
speech we told you was really important? Well, forget it for
now. This is rush, you don’t need honor for that.”

Funny isn’t it, but rush lies might be the only ones that pay
off; at least in the short term. A little wizardry and some
manipulated truths have been known to get a house at least
another pledge or two. More importantly, they’ve been
known to cause another house to lose——sometimes big. But
this is rush and big boys don’t cry — unless it’s about the lies
some other house has been spreading.

During rush, the short term, you can tell a freshmen a lie
and he just might buy it and your house for warning him. But
in the long run, the course of four years, he’ll know he found
brothers who didn’t believe enough in honor or themselves
to have conducted a clean and fair nish. Most importantly,
he’ll know those brothers didn’t think they could get him to

join their fraternity unless they lied about another.

Maybe it’s been so long since someone tried to take the
honor system outside the classroom that we no longer
believe it could exist off the Hill.

Our new look...

If you ﬂipped to page two to read the staff editorial,
you probably got very confused. Not only that, but you
probably saw some new additions to the Phi on your way to
this page. For example, our comics on page six. You’re
probably asking yourself “Did Kefalas hit Lotto or some-
thing? How can they afford to run 14 pages and have a
comics section when the EC cut their funding?”

Don’t worry about it. Let us sweat thefinancial
details. Right now, you are holding in your hands the first
newspaper (in a series of many) that reﬂects the direction
the Phi will be taking in the future. We have expanded our
coverage, and plan to expand even further in the future. In
addition to all the campus news, we are covering newswor-
thy events at other area campuses. Additionally, we are
covering world and national news in our new section “Be-
yond the Blue Ridge.” Issue stories, such as this week’s
alcohol abuse story, will also be seen quite frequently. They
are intended to spark debate and put things in perspective at
W&L. Feel free to let us know how you feel about these
issues.

We’ve also moved things around inside the news-
paper for aesthetic purposes. We hope you enjoy the new
look of The Ring-tum Phi. It is something we have worked
very hard on and are very proud of.

And yes— you get the comics, too.

Quote of the week

It’s not like being at the Phi Delt house. They come
and get you here. '

-A professor ofgeology telling students on theBlue Ridge
Parkway why they couldn ’t chip off pieces of rock.

OPINION

film illing-tum lﬁhi

AI MON\ éll\TE
UN\\lE\zslT‘{...

P\N\Né OUT

   

    
 
 
     

"BASIC ACCOUNTING
PROCEDURE‘-

Wl-IO
V\'H' 33'

   
 
       

  

mt

(°~.
F'“‘=a-

L...
in 24» “:3,-

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 199

, who ‘NF-\1E‘fo\) out mix?
with rut? no You ei-ti \t~\?
\\l\>l=.\2G NEREYOU ? .
wiseri R2 ‘(on eoirie To
ezow or ?
“ON EXACTIN I70 ‘fokl i’Li\N
to Mlxlqz R LN N6 man
You GRADOKYET

L-=1

 9-30 some uwiinimii oer me?/.~ ezu\>\V|E- I
I lj g ems wmseros ?o6-.' mfsee 

        
   

EC violates non-partisan policy 

Two weeks ago, the Student Execu-
tive Committee allocated over $7,000
to The Trident. I believe this was a
mistake of enormous proportions. The
Trident was founded last spring term
by a small group of former Ring-tum
Phi staff members, disgruntled over
what most of the campus saw as the

Pa)’-

Tliis fund has been the subject of
some controversy of late because of the
EC’s denial of funding to the campus
chapters of the American Civil Liber-
ties Union and Amnesty lntemational.
The EC explained its actions by stating
that these groups are ideologically and

 

waningquality politically
of our student partisan and
newspaper. I thatthey are
While their associated
motives may PATRICK with off-
havebeenhon- campus or-
orable, their MCDERMUIT9 ganizations
actions were 994 that hold
unnecessary ~ strongpoliti—
and the funding  .~— cal opinions.
they received This deci-
for this new sionispredi-

publication was, at best, questionable.

The editors of The Trident, desper-
ate for start-up funding for their new
publication, turned to the Campus Re-
porting Committee (the CRC). The
CRC is an off-campus committee that
is not affiliated with the university. It
was established a few years ago by
W&L students as the publisher of The
Spectator, an ultra—right wing publica-
tion.

The editors of The Trident, by ac-
cepting funding from the CRC, made it
the publisher of the paper. If the editors
of The Trident had been content to
exist on their advertising income and
on fundingfromthe CRC,this allwould
have been perfectly acceptable. The
problem is, The Trident decided to
request a budget from the Student Ac-
tivities Fund, a fund into which we all

cated on the belief that you and I, as
W&L students, should not have to pay
to support the political agenda of an
off-campus or national organization
with which we may disagree. Now,
without taking sides in the great ACLU
vs. EC debate, I must say that the
committee’s decision to fund The Tri-
dent seems to contradict the spirit of
their previous statements.

While The Trident may not be vo-
calizing the opinions of its publisher
quite as dramatically as The Spectator
does, it is still controlled by an off-
campus organization with strong po-
litical views. Is it really conceivable
that the CRC would simply give its
money away without having any con-
trol over how it is spent and what is said
with it? The editors and the business
manager of The Trident say yes. They

told the Executive Committee that they
are merely a branch of the CRC, a
branch, they added, which is not con-
nected to the CRC. I would very much
like to see a branch that is not con-
nected to its source. Has anyone seen
any free-ﬂoating tree branches lately?
No, of course not. And why? Because
a branch, by definition, is connected to
its source in order to survive. Without
the tree, the branch dies. Without the
CRC, The Trident would do the same.

So, the question remains, why did
the Executive Committee fund an or-

few blacks who got in on a quota caus-
ing trouble, and of those who disagree
with them as politically correct radi-
cals who ought to be run-offcampﬁs. Is
this what your university is all about,
intolerance and hatred for anyone or
anything different? I don’t think so,
and I don’t think that you want to have
your Executive Committee providing
such an organization with funding.
Does the CRC have a right to’say
whatever it wants in a publication it
funds? If they are funding the publica-
tion, absolutely. Should we be paying

ganization with these off-campus po- for it? Absolutely not!

liticalconnections The fact that
when they had de- M________ the CRC’s bias
nied ‘funding to Why  the EXecu_ isconservatiozeis

two other groups
for the same rea-
sons? Only the
committee mem-
bers can answer
that, and perhaps
we should ask
them to. As stu-
dents, we must ask
ourselvesifwere-
ally want to be

tive Committee fund an
‘ organization ‘with these

off-campus political
connections when they
had denied funding to
two other groups for the
same reasons?

really not the is-
sue here. The is-
sue is whether
we should be
paying for them
to express that
bias. Takengis a
whole,thepolicy
of the Executive
Committee not
to fund partisan

funding a newspa-

per that is con-

trolled by the CRC. Isn’t one Spectator
enough for this campus?

Let ’s not forget that the same people
who publish your weekly edition of
The Trident also publish The Specta-
tor. The Spectator has brought you
articles that spoke of campus sexual
assault as a myth drummed up by over-
sexed feminists, of race relations on
campus as being nothing more than a

organizations is
a good one, but
it must apply to both sides.

If we are to deny funding to groups
which have been traditionally thought
of as “liberal,” we must also deny fund-
ing to traditionally “conservative”
groups. This is just common sense. It is
not an attempt to destroy any of these
groups, on the contrary, they add much
needed debate to the campus. We §m-
ply need to be consistent.

University stands at crossroads

Last week U.S. News and World Report released
its annual rankings of colleges which upgraded W&L
to 20th among small liberal arts co1leges.The rise
comes from the fact that W&L has more students who
graduated in the top 10% of their class, a lower
acceptance rate, and a higher SAT average. But while

such statistical data has im-
proved, W&L’s traditions, its
most valuable assets, have

exists.

been gradually vanishing.
W&L is a great school be-
cause its traditions provide a
unique educational experi-

 

ANDREW
OLMEM,

W&L alumni off campus. Without the bond of a
common history, alumni have no reason to contribute
to W&L, since the W&L they attended no longer

Reducing the number of men on campus would
also adversely affect other W&L traditions. Since the
university took control of the
fraternity system through the
renaissance program, it is the
administration’s responsibil-
ity to see that its policies do
not adversely affect any house.
By adopting a 50/50 ratio the

contributes so much to its character.We should be
proud that W&L’s character makes it unlike an-
other college and shouldn’t fear that it turns off

prospective students. Students come to W&L for

its unique character, not because it has a 50/50 ratio.

The more we waste time debating the 6W40
ratio, the more we neglect taking steps to positively
change W&L. Allocating more money for study
abroad programs and ﬁnancial aid, or providing
houses for the sororities, are actions that would
improve the university. Instead of acting on such
practical improvements, resources are wasted on
studying the 60/40 ratio.

W&L has entered a period where its once.re—

ence, not because its students  E 996 university would betray the . _
Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Francesca Kefalas have high SAT Scores_ Un_ - entire fraternity System and vered traditions, have become neglected, There

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Nancy Pavlovic less the current trend is send a death blow to Several have been Substantial improvements over the 1351

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos Stopped W&L win soon be fraternities_ substantially 10 years, such as the construction of Lenfest Center

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver juStan0t’herschOO1thatisstm weakened with a decreased and the Fraternity Renaissance program, but these

u o - . - - . o . - - - o c o - - . . . . . . . . - o . - u . . u u s u - - - . u . - - - u u I ' ' 7 ‘ t 't‘

 ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ’ ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ’ ' ' ’ ’ ' ' ' ’ ' ' ' ' ' ' ’ ' "'S;e'Pi::'{\?]'ll;:§ tistically impressive, but hallow of any true character. number of houses, W&L’s long standing tradition of are merely tge ll.llllV((’.jI'Sli§S physlicall a:sets.f ”(lj‘h(ei

Features Editor _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ . _ . _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ . . . _ _ _ _ “David wnmmgm _ Recently there has been some discussionon revis strong fraternities could easily come totan ergd f tlnlVl61l’S:Iy s iT:a sant ra 1 itonfstshtpsvé Kasageeﬁqple

phmognpny Edno, _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , Benmn, smith mg the admissions policy of keeping the ratio of men A 50/510dra.tio woultd behacceptab e lb itsf energs ijnto_ is  e rnos rteczn. 0 At t. .1

An Dnecm, . _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , , _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ , , _ , _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ “phi; canon to women at 60/40 to improve W&L’s rankings in outweig e its cost, in t ere are no ene its. e ‘emiseo espea ing ra 1 ion. one imei was

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...Ieb Tilly college guides like U.S. News and World Report. The university ‘could pride_itself on how it got rid of such impossible to walk around campus without other ;

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Sarah Wyatt policy, so the argument goes, prohibits W&L from a discriminating policy, Students and fgiculty
becoming a “top-rated” school because it keeps out though discrimination in giving you a friendly
Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Kevin Roddey some qualiﬁed women and frightens away prospec- the admissions process B . _ h€3l10.- Today P601316 ,
Assistant Business Manager -------------------------------- --Allen Flickinser tive women. W&L should no itself ofthis discrimi- would continue. Ifthe top y adopting a 50/50 ratio the passing each other
AdV°“f5fn8 M39385’ - - - - - - v - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ' ~ - - ~ - - - - - - ~ - - 53")’ 9"°"'§“°“°’ nating policy and adopt, as most other colleges have, 400 applicants were all university would betray the watch their feeior
Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Brlan Widener a 50/50 ratio from the Same state, they _ , look away. IS the uni-
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt These anacks against the 60/40 policy illuminate would not all be admitted entlre fraternlty System and Versny anx better nff .
just what is destroying this great university. They sincetheuniversityiscom- send a death blow to several nowthatthistradition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

is almost dead?

A university
should have a distinct
character. Not eqry
student may find it
appealing or benefi-

. cial, but a university

throw out all its benefits, just to emulate other so
called “top” schools. No attempt is even made to try
and understand why such a policy actually contributes
to W&L’s exceptional educational environment.
The 60/40 ratio is a product of co-education. It
allows women to attend W&L while keeping alive
W&L’s all-male heritage. Co-education could have

mitted to geographic di-
versity. Is it fair that just .
because an applicant lives
in a state that has a large
number of W&L appli-
cants he is denied admis-
sions? It may not be fair,

fraternities. Substantially weak-
ened with a decreased number
of houses, W&L’s long standing
tradition of strong fraternities
could easily come to an end.

is otherwise independent.
Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University

Center. by "00" 0" Tuesday to 8PP°3T in W" “’°°k’5 °‘““°“- C°'“"‘"5’ '°“°'5’ 3"“ “My changed the university so drastically that students but it isa necessary part of does not attempt t0
Views” do not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does attending only 10 years anan eouid have had com- constructing the best pos- educate everyone. It
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current pletely different experiences. Without the 60/40 sible student body. looks for students

who would fit into and benefit from the typﬁof
education it provides. W&L provides a solid liberal

The academic environment would not improve
due to a 50/50 ratio. It does not matter if the classroom

ratio, W&L would have effectively become a new

ndt“ 't' fl'bel d b 't .
co“ 6 ml mm 1 an 0 Seem y school. The W&L built on two hundred years of

The Rmgdum PM traditions would have turned into a W&L that was is 40% or 50% women. A learning environment arts education within a community that prides its
Pm‘ office Box 899 indistinguishable from any other liberal arts college. doesn’t improve just because there exists a few more self on its honor and its history. The 60/40 ‘ratio
L°"i“8‘°"’Vi'gi"i“ Preserving W&L’s heritage creates a bond be- men or women. _ _ _ allows W&Lto include women without destroying

24450 tween all graduates. As important as it is to have a Most importantly W&L should have pride in its its character. If it is altered, W&L’s great character,
703 462-4060 productive community of students on campus, it is heritage, instead oftrying to hide it.A50/50 ratiotnes which benefits both W&L men and women, will be

to hide W&L’s all-male heritage, a heritage that lost. ‘

equally important to have a productive community of

 

    

  

O

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

  
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
    
  
   
   
   
 

Spos’ SPACE
' Tom Hespos

Greetings once again, faithful read-
ers. Spos would like to start this week’s
column by issuing a death threat:
ANTED—Dead or alive (but
pre erably dead and chopped up into
little pieces with a La Machine food
processor) — that freshman guy who
went around to all 16 fraternities
and made every Greek male on this
campus sick. Spos is offering a re-
ward here. Whoever can bring me the
head of this person will receive the $5
in dimes lying on my dresser, as well as
my undying gratitude.

As you might be able to guess, Spos
has been victimized by the freshman
class’ cruel Typhoid Mary. I spent the
better part of last week in bed, occa-
siorﬁally coming out of my room to eat
meals or to gather information about
the E.C. for my alter—ego, the mild-
mannered news editor, Tom Hespos.
(Incidentally, I would like to apologize
to Professors Craun, Kozak, Richardson
and John for my poor class attendence.
l’ll (art coming to class again once my
doctor gives me some cool drugs that
can nullify this sensation that my si-
nuses are filled with butterscotch pud-
ding.)

I remember the days of my youth
when being sick was actually fun—
yoigot to stay home from school and

think about the torture your classmates
were enduringwhile you watched “He-
Man” or some similar mindless car-
toon show. These days, staying home
sick isn’t nearly as fun. Sure, you get
to think about the torture your class-
mates are enduring, but you hope to
God that someone is taking good notes
(and is willing to let you photocopy
them).

I remember vividly how this whole
sickness thing started. I was procrasti-
nating (as usual)
by playing John

Linus Pauling’s theories on vitamin-c,
I was pretty ticked.

The next morning can only be de-
scribed as pure hell. I first awoke at
5:30 in the morning for no apparent
reason and realized that the little tickle
in the back of my throat had somehow
transformed into a painful sore throat
with accompanying annoying cough. I
went downstairs to get a glass of O.J.,
just in case Mr. Pauling happened to be
correct about the vitamin-c thing. I

settled back into
bed at around

Madden Football  six a.m., bliss-
on my friend S 3 COI[llllg 0 fullyignorantof
E’‘°’S5eg“ 0”‘ class again once my Wm“ was ‘°
esis. Just as my , come,

heroic New york doctor gives me some Thecbckra-

Giants chalked
up a field goal
against the evil
P i t t s b u r g h
Steelers, I began
to feel this tick-
ling sensation in

pudding.

cool drugs that can
nullify this sensation
that my sinuses are
filled with butterscotch

dio alarm went
off at precisely
8 a.m. As I
reached over to
turn it off, I
wonderedaloud
which one of

the back of my
throat. I remem-
ber thinking about what a pain it would
be if I were to be sick on Thursday
night (which is when we friendly Ring-
tum Phi people stay up all night doing
secret newspaper production stuff). I
remember looking for my vitamin-c
pills and not being able to find them
because one of my fraternity brothers
flushed the pills down the toilet so that
he could use the container as a dice cup
for “three man.” As a firm believer in

my friends had
convinced me
to drink enough beer on a school night
to leave me with a crippling hangover.
Then I remembered that I hadn’t been
drinking the night before.

It was horrible. It felt like someone
had jammed a hot glue gun up my nose
and emptied its contents into my si-
nuses. My lungs didn’t feel so hot
either. I briefly considered getting out
of bed to go to class, but 1 instead
laughed to myself at the notion and

Spos seeks W&L’s Typhoid Mary

PAGE 9

once again cruised off into dream land.

At around 2 p.m. I awoke with a
start. One of my derelict fraternity
brothers thought it might be amusing to
kick pennies under my closed door and
into my dresser, thus making a stupid
plinking noise and waking me up. (In-
cidentally, this particular frat rat, Doug,
is the kind of guy who wipes boogers
on your doorknob for fun. Wait’ll he
finds out what Spos did to his tooth-
brush, heh-heh...)

After clubbing Doug over the head
with my Brit Lit textbook (a weighty
volume of several hundred pages), I
attempted to-go back to sleep, but found
it impossible. Eventually, I was forced
to leave my bed in order to participate
in Rush, which is the sick social tradi-
tion that started this whole thing in the
first place. Think about it— Shaking

hands with over two hundred people is -

just about the greatest way to transmit
disease. And yet we do it each and
every year, like its no big deal.

Anyway, I am still sick, even as I
write this column (Sunday night about
7). I am also getting increasingly pissed
just knowing that some freshman out
there is going to read this and laugh
uproariously, knowing that he infected
almost the entire male Greek popula-
tion.

I think I will increase the award to
$6.11 by including all of the pennies
that Doug kicked under my door. Mis-
ter Spreader-of-Disease, whoever you
are, I will find you. Prepare to make
peace with your gods.

  

MY VIEW

MICHAEL HEWLETT, ’96

One day when I got tired of looking at Oprah, I
turned to see what Maury Povich was doing. Well,
sufﬁce it to say, the show was pretty heated, which of
course caught my interest. People were yelling about
reparations for blacks after 400 years of slavery. They
wanted that 40 acres and a mule their ancestors didn’t
get after the Civil War.

During the course of the show, a white girl stood up
and said she could not understand why blacks were so
anggy. She believed that the struggle was over, and
that blacks should be happy because they have Black
History Month. I just shook my head. Why should I
be happy when Black History Month occurs ;in the
shortest month of the year? Why should I jump for joy
when it took approximately 30 years to establish a
national holiday for Martin Luther King, Jr.? Should

- I bqglad when only one month is set aside for black
history and the rest for white history? Is the black
experience that limited? Somehow I don’t think that
is what Carter G. Woodson had in mind when he
established Negro History Week in 1926.

Think about it. In all those American history
classes you’ve taken, what have you really learned
abo t the contributions of blacks. Not much except
that blacks were slaves, that there was a Civil Rights
Movement, and that in 1963, Martin Luther King, Jr.
had a dream. Oh, and Rosa Parks refused to get up. At
least that’s all I can remember learning in my history

class. Well, there was something about Frederick
Douglass, Harriet Tubman, and Booker T. Washing-
ton. Butwhat about Malcolm X? What about Marcus
Garvey or W.E.B. du Bois? What about the Buffalo
Soldiers or the Tuskegee Airmen? Did you know that
Garret Morgan, a black man, invented the gas mask
and the stop light? Or that Dr. Daniel Hale Williams
was the first man to operate on the human heart? And
who was the first woman to own a bank? Maggie L.
Walker, a black woman.

And maybe, just maybe, there was more to the
Civil Rights Movement than Martin Luther King, Jr.
Ever heard of Fannie Lou Hamer, Dorothy Height, or
Ella Baker? Besides, Shirley Chisholm ran for presi-
dent long before Jesse Jackson even talked about
“Nationtime!” And by the way, that liberation ﬂag
you always see with the colors red, black, and green
was created. by Marcus Garvey and the Universal
Negro Improvement Association in the early 1900’s:
Red stands for black blood, black stands for black
pride, and green stands for black hope.

Isn’t all this just as American as George Washing-
ton, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and Abraham
Lincoln? Why wasn’t I taught about this when I took
American history? All my life l’ve heard what white
people have done for this country. I learned all about
the Founding Fathers and how they created that
magnificent document, the Constitution of the United
States. I learned about the Declaration of Indepen-
dence which declared that all men are created equal.
Everything was white, white, white. But I could never
find the black people. I’m not saying that white
people didn’t help build this country, but what I am
saying is that white Americans didn’t do it alone, not

Celebrate black history each month

when black slaves were in the ﬁeld picking cotton
and tobacco from sunup to sundown. '

Marcus Garvey once said that a people without
its history is like a tree without its root. My ances-
tors were not just slaves. As W.E.B. du Bois once
said, blacks “have fought their (white people’s)
battles, shared their sorrow, mingled our blood with
theirs, and generation after generation have pleaded
with a headstrong, careless people to despise not

. Justice, Mercy, and Truth, lest the nation be smitten

with a curse....Would America have been America
without her Negro people?”

What some people don’t seem to get is that black
history is American history. Blacks are not the only
people who need to learn about it. All Americans
should learn about it. Afrocentricity has nothing to
do with it. Black history is not just about what white
people did to black people —— it’s about what black
people have done for themselves and for this coun-
try.
Black history is about dignity, self-respect, pride,
and triumph just as much as it is about oppression,
racism, and tragedy. The black experience is rel-
evant because it is part of our collective human
experience. That is what history should ultimately
be —— the history of human experience.

Learning about black history could go a long
way in smashing racial stereotypes. It could lead to
better understanding and greater insight into the
problems of racism. Black history in its truest sense
is more than 28 or 29 days out of the year. It’s a life-
long endeavor. So if you have some time, stop by the
Maya Angelou Library in Chavis House and pick up
a book on black history. We both have a lot to learn.

LETTERS

U.S. News & World Report ranking means little

Toe the editor: '
hat’s with all the ooohing and aaahing over
W&L’s unremarkable 20th—place finish in the latest
“top colleges” issue of U.S. News and World Report
of which a more fitting name, anyway would be U.S.
Lies and World Propaganda)?

All the bafﬂing talk about how they come up with
that list really means this: it’s made up the night before
by §bunch of half-assed journalists relying on no
discoverable criteria - apart from what schools are
giving certain journalists’ dumb kids admissions
breaks that year, or what schools have promised to

4‘ Interviews and Photos

By Joe Framptom

certain journalists big-paying campus appearances in
the near future.

If you’re naive enough to doubt what I’ve just said,
think about this for a second. On this year’s list,
Haverford weighs in at number 7, while Bryn Mawr
ranks a humble 15th.

Now, as anyone who knows anything about those
two schools will tell you, students at each are always
making the short trip to the other campus to take
classes and participate in special programs and what-
not.

I once worked in Italy with a Haverford archeol-

 

ogy major who’d done most of his meaningful
academic work at Bryn Mawr, had twice studied
overseas under their auspices, and had an archeol-
ogy-type job with them. _

The point is, Haverford students and the Celticly-
named Bryn Mawr’s fine ladies get essentially the
exact same educational experience. So why the 8-
place gap?

Fine “report” there, U.S. News.

Niall MacKenzie, ’93

TALKBACK

 

Resumes

There will be a resume work-
shop on Wednesday, Oct. 13 at 4:00
p.m. in Room 109 of the University
Center. This workshop is open to all
students.

Internships

There will be a workshop on
interships, “How to Apply,” on
Thursday, Oct. 14, at 4:00 p.m. in
Room 109 of the University Center.
All students interested in interships
are encouraged to attend.

Deadline

All seniors should be reminded
that the resume drop deadline for
Novembercompanies is Friday, Oct.
15 at 4:00 p.m. in the Career Devel-
opment and Placement Office.

Job Fairs

All seniors interested in partici-
pating in the SLAC job fairs in
January should be advised that the
the resume drop deadline for par-
ticipating in these job fairs is Fri-
day, Oct. 22. stop by the CDPO for
more information.

SPJ

Anyone interested in becoming
a member of the Society of Profes-
sional Journalists, please come to a
meeting Wednesday, Oct. 13 in the
Reid Hall library.

Law

“What’s a mother to do?” is the
theme of a program at ~ the
Rockbridge Regional Library on
Tuesday, Oct. 12at 7:30 p.m., spon-
sored by the Rockbridge Area
League of Women Voters. Three
local attorneys will discuss the court
systems that deal with divorce, cus-
tody, support ,visitation, and juve-
nile crime. During the program, the
league will provide child care to
supervise children in the youth sec-
tion of the library. Refreshments
will be served during informal dis-
cussions from 9:00 p.m. to 9:25
p.m.

Lost

A thin. bracelet — gray in the
middle with gold beads on the out-
side and an ordinary clasp. Please
call Corinda Hankins at 464-8874.

‘ Found

Key ring with numerous keys —
several room keys and a key for a
Ford car. Contact David at 462-
4167.

VMI Theater

Virginia Military Institute pre-
sents The Boys Next Door, a com-
edy by Tom Griffin. The show runs
from Oct. 14-16 and 21-23 at 8:00
p.m. and Oct. 17 at 2:30 pm. at
School Shipp Hall — VMI. Tickets
are $5 for adults, $3 for students
and senior citizens, and free for
cadets. Call 464-7389 or 464-7326
for reservations.

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

Student Body Notice

Four freshmen students were found in violation of university policy for
smoking marijuana and drinking on campus. The following sanctions

were levied:

Student #1 — The student was givena session with Dr. Worth because
the student was given a ticket that next week by the police for drinking in

public.

1) 25 hours of community service (15 hours have to be done doing Live
Drive) to be completed by end of semester.

2) $25 fine
3) 1 session with Dr. Worth

4) Conduct probation for the remainder of the academic year. This
essentially means that if the student comes before the committee again he

will be dealt with more harshly.

Student #2 — additional community service hours were given because

this student provided the alcohol.

1) 28 hours of community service (15 hours have to be done doing Live
Drive) to be completed by the end of the semester.

2) $25 fine

3) Conduct probation for the remainder of the academic year.

Student #3 —

1) 25 hours of community service (15 hours have to be done doing Live
Drive) to be completed by the end of the semester.

2) $25 ﬁne

3) Conduct probation for the remainder of the academic year.
Student #4 - This student was given additional community service

hours for providing the marijuana.

1) 31 hours of community service (15 hours have to be done doing Live
Drive) to be completed by the end of the semester.

2) $25 ﬁne

3) Conduct probation for the remainder of the academic year.

4) 1 session with Dr. Worth.

Correction

In the Oct. 1 , 1993 issue of TheRing-tum Phi, the article, “EC to correct
error,” should have read “EC President Bob Tompkins said he wished to
discuss the situation with Assistant Controller Don Holt and past EC Vice
President Bo Russell. The Phi regrets the error.

' What is your idea of the perfect Homecoming Queen‘?

 

Mark Crider, ‘95, Russell, Ky. ——
“My girlfriend.”

Eric Shirley, ‘95, Olney, Md. —

Chris Stiehl, ‘97, Columbia, Md. -
"Shorter than 5’4”.”

“An outgoing, attractive, friendly
woman not afraid to get down and
dance.”

Matt Cannon, ‘96, Meadeville, Pa.
-— “She has to stumble around the
track.”

Justin Peterson, ‘94, Novato, Calif.
—— “Anyone with a sincere commit-
ment to world peace.”

Travis Wisdom, ‘97, Tuscaloosa,
Ala. —— “A girl who’s really hot and
' likes blond-headed guys.”

9

 

 

 

The ﬁing.-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

It’s Twister

Freshmen men and upperclassmen join together in a rush scene that could have taken place five years ago. But this scene was Friday night. Rush has been
radically changed in the last few years, but scenes like the one above have not chnaged. This year six men were taken to the hospital as a result of Tear
Night activities.

 Happy Jfomecoming ‘l/I/eeﬂencf

 

0
PAGE 10

Cadets -
racially 

s harrasseda»

h>VMl, from page 1

fused. He understood that [racially biased ca-
dets] were here, but to have it reach a point

where they are leaving threats on doors....We .

thought our parents went through that so.we
didn’t have to.”

The feeling among VMl cadets is that the
administration should have allowed the OGA
to deal with both of the situations from the
beginning.’

Scott commented on the attitude of the black
cadets. . .

“We’re looking over our shoulders,” he Qaid A

FLC launches
new year  

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The Freshmen Leadership Council is ready
to launch into the 1993-94 academic year.

The FLC was selected by Dean Mamﬂng,
following an application and interview.

“If you look at the leadership credentials of
this group, you will ﬁnd that they bring a wealth
of leadership experience from their high school
backgrounds to the university,” said Manning.

The 11-member council’s first project was
the building of a ﬂoat for Saturday’s HfQne-
coming parade. It incorporates a replica of Old
George, which has been given to the freshmen
for their use on their ﬂoat . -

“The freshmen have been really coopera-
tive. We raised over $125 from the dorms to go
towards building of the ﬂoat,” said council
member Erin Dougherty. '0

After freshman elections in two weeks, the
FLC plans a survey to see what activities the
class is interested in participating. The elected
freshman president and vice president will head
the FLC.

Members of the FLC include Sara Benson,
Adrienne Bryant, Ashley Deaton, Erin
Dougherty, Steve Fanning, Amy Gorham,
Heather Hicks, Hollis Leddy, Justin St. Clair,
Alvin Townley, and Gill Uhlhom. Alternates
are Kristin Manion, Marcus Rayner, and Allison
Simmonds.

“With our activities, we hope to keep our

class close,” Dougherty said. .
I
D.
I
. l
0
Apple Macimosb
Color Class?’ 4/80, Built-in 10"
Color Monitor and Apple Keyboard 11.
V an
The Macintoshi Color Classic‘? It offers a bright, sharp Sony Tlinitron® special financing with the Applei Computer Loan*—to make owning
display. its compact enough to fit on any desk. And right now, this already one even easier. Visit your Apple Campus Reseller today. For the ’
affordable model 1S available at an unheard-of price. You can also get power more college students choose. The power to be your best? , .,
For further information visit University Computing
111 Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud .
' ill
or call 463-8844
A *Prices do not include sales tax
‘Available ll) qualxfymg sludentr, alpartzripaling aut/Jorx'za1Apple Campus Resellers. ©1993 Apple Computer, Inc. All ngbls reserved’. Apple, lbe Apple logo, Macrrrmb and “The power lo be }mlr best" are regllrtered Irademarlzs of Apple Computer.  Classic is a registered trademark licensed la Apple campuler, Inc. 7h'm?nm is u regxlrlered lrademarlz of Sony Corporalion.

 

     
 

0
The Ring-tum Phl, October 8, 1993 smug 11

The Economics of the Citibank

Classic Visa card. How Student Discounts and Price
Protection contribute to upward growth. A variety of factors have been

1 suggested as contributing to the economic growth of students, including (1) more lottery winners
between the ages of 18 and 22, (2) a 37% increase on earnings from bottle and can returns, (3) more
students doubling earnings in the lightning round of game shows, and (4) the Citibank Classic Visa”
card. It’s this last one, however, that affects most students. 1] The Citibank Classic Visa card offers
immediate savings to student cardmembeis. You can save up to 26% on long distance calls versus AT&T
with the free Citibank Calling Service“ from MCI.‘ And you can capitalize on a $20 Airfare Discount

for domestic ﬂights? Savings on mail order pur-
g chases, sports equipment, magazines and music

i‘ also abound. Maximize these savings with a low
variable interest rate of 15.40/03 and no annual fee,

and you can significantly improve your personal

     

- .  M  a bottom line (especially if one’s net income tends
No known picture of Washington smiling exists. Economists believe Washington was
unhappy because he felt he could have received a better deal on war supplies. If he used a

1 Citibank Classic Visa card, he would have been assured of getting the best price and probably to be  gr0SS). Put another Way, One 
, would have been happier (Artist rendering of how he would have appeared on the dollar.)

even have enough savings to reinvest in a CD or two (the musical kind, of course). 11 On the way to the

record store, or any store for that matter, take stock of the 3 services concerned with purchases made on Monarch Notes® Version:
the Citibank Classic card. Citibank Price Protection assures one of the best prices. See the same item “*6 Citlbank Classic V153 93'“ will
be there for you with special stu-

advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank will refund the difference up to $150.4 To protect
. dent discounts, no fee, and a low

if these investments, Buyers Security“ can cover them against accidental damage, ﬁre or theft (ordinarily
rate. . .so your own econmny will

bemorelikeaboomthanabust.
Call 1-800-CITIBANK, ext. 19.

‘ causes for Great Depressions) for 90 days from the date of purichaseﬂ And Citibank Lifetime

 

I VVarranty““ can extend the expected service life of eligible products up to 12 years.5 ‘ll But perhaps the
features which offer the best protection are your eyes, your nose, your mouth, etc. —all featured on The
Photocard, the credit card with your photo on it. Carrying it can help prevent fraud or any hostile
takeover of your card. (Insiders speculate that it makes quite a good student ID, too.) Even if one’s card is
stolen, or perhaps lost, The Lost Wallet“ Service can replace your card usually within 24 hours. ‘ll So
never panic. As we all know, panic, such as in the Great Panics of 1837, 1857, and 1929, can cause a
downswing in a market. But with 24-hour Customer Service, there’s no reason for it. A question about
your account is only an 800 number away. (Panic of the sort experienced the night before Finals is
something else again.) 11 Needless to say, building a credit history with the support of such services can
only be a boost. You’re investing in futures—that  house, that future car, etc. And knowing the
Citibank Classic Visa card is there in your wallet should presently give you a sense of security, rare in
tbday’s—how shall we say?—ﬁckle market. 11 To apply, call. Students don’t need a job or a cosigner. And
call if you’d simply like your photo added to your regular Citibank Classic Visa card. Here’s the num-
Ber: 1-800-CITIBANK, extension 19. 1] The Law of Student
Supply and Demand states, “If a credit card satisﬁes more of a
student’s unlimited wants and needs, while reducing the Risk

Factor in respect to limited and often scarce resources-—with

 

die greatest supply of services and savings possib1e—thenistu-
dents will demand said credit card.” So, demand away-call. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.

‘Savings claim is based on a 10-minute night/weekend call in the 1,911 to 3,000 mileage band using MCI’s Card Compatibility rates vs. AT&T’s standard callin card rates, etfective 4/93. Citibank Calling
Service long distance usage cannot be applied to obtain beneﬁts under any other MCI partner program or offer, including travel award programs. ‘Offer expires 6/3(§/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is $100.
bates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by ISE Flights only. ’The Annual Percentage Rate for purchases is 15.4% as of 8/93 and may vary rterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for c_ash

. vances is 19.8%. If a ﬁnance ch is imposed, the minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional ﬁnance ch for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% oilillie amount of each cash advance transaction;
however, it will not be less than $2. or greater than $10.00. “Certain conditions and exclusions apply. Please re er to your Summary of Additional Program Infonnation. Buyers Securit is underwritten by The
Zurich lntemational UK Limited. ‘Certain restrictions and limitations apply. Underwritten by the New Hamnpshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product an is at least the minimum
based on retail industry data. Details of cove are available in your Summary of Additional Pro I ormation. Monarch’ Notes are published I; Monarch Press, a division of Simon & Schuster. 3
Paramount Communications Company. Used pennission of the publisher. Citibank credit s are issued by Citibank (South Dakota). N.A.,©l 93 Citibank (South Dakota), MA. Member FDIC.

 

    

PAGE 12

     

Men win one at last

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Never say never. Following a harsh
0-4 start, the W&L men’s soccer team
has rebounded to play improved ball in
their recent games.

While the overall record stands be-
low the .500 mark, the team has gradu-
ally improved in their last few games to
post wins in tight games. During the
last week, the Generals posted a 1-0
OT victory against Guilford. This fol-
lowed a 4-1 loss to Randolph-Macon.

The team is led by Shag Drewry
with three goals on the year. On the
whole, W&L relies on a balanced at-
tack with 13 different players posting
goals on the year. The Generals have
the potential to pick up the pace and
make a charge in the conference.

Washington and Lee sports have
come out of the gate with a stumbling
gate on the whole, but at least the men’s
soccer team has made a concerted ef-
fort to build a successful season. If the
Generals maintain their balance and
build upon their strengths, they will be
atough opponent for any team through-
out the season.

Now that the team is enjoying a 5
game homestand, they need to make up
the ground which was lost at the start of
the year. On Saturday, the Generals
play host to Dickinson College with
hopes of beginning their resurgence. It
remains to be seen whether or not the
Generals can maintain their recent suc-
cess. lf they can, then the W&L men’s
soccer team might still make some
noise in the General sports world. With
some skill and good fortune, the team
might just accomplish this goal.

 .e-...e~='

ﬁg’. 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fling-tum Phi

Soccer players struggle with a defender en route to a 3-6

record.

I5 VI. WASHINGTON ST.
LEXINGTON

' truism

THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L T-SHIRTS, SWEATS
. HATS AND OTHER W&L SPORTWEAR
LEX|ll6TO|l'S ONLY SOOROE FOR TEVAS AND MERRILL BOOTS

WE DO MAIL ORDER!
703 464-3000

DO YOU ENJOY
SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

Back yard skeet is fgn, l_)_ut compargg tg Spggjing ﬂags,
it’§ boring

At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot
to enjoy a round.

Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

Homecoming

Weekend Special
Fri. & Sat. only  ,
Fitted W&L Hats ‘ _
Reg. $16.95, on Sale
for $15.00

First Team Sports
115 W. Nelson St.

Cross-country

Is anyone surprised?

Yes, once again, sophomore
Josephine Schaeffer set a course record
and won the field of her cross country
meet.

For the fourth straight time,
Schaeffer set the record at the Frostburg
Invitational last weekend in a field of
16 teams, leading her team to fourth
place overall.

Schaeffer has yet to race a course in
which she did not win and set a course
record.

Saturday’s time was her second-
best of the season, 18:50. Sophomore
Amy Mears, ﬁnishing in eighth place,
ran a time of 20:35

On the men’s side, sophomore Brad
Paye finished in 25th place.

Paye led the Generals to a eighth
place in the Frostburg meet.

Second finisher for the Generals
was freshman Alvin Townley.

Tomorrow, the men will travel to
Lynchburg for an invitational, but the
women will remain at home to train
through the weekend.

Volleyball

Falling off their exceptional start,
the volleyball team finished in third
place at the Emory Invitational.

With a 2-4 record for the weekend,
the Generals fell to 7-8. The team
began the season with a 5-2 record,
equally the best start in school history.

W&L defeated Agnes Scott and
Methodist, and lost to Principia,
Sewannee, Oglethorpe and Emory.

This weekend the Generals travel
to the Goucher tournament.

Women’s Tennis

Junior Marilyn Baker, returning
from an All-American year, won the
singles title and helped to win the
doubles title at the Rolex South Re-
gional Championship at Mary Wash-
ington last weekend.

Teaming with sophomore Julie
Ayers, the two lost only four games in
their first three matches.

Ayers and Baker will head to the
Rolex National Championships Oct.
27-31 in Edmond, Okla.

on
The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

Valet parking....

l

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phg

Many student-athletes get a little extra exercise by riding bikes to class. Over the next few .
issues, the Phi will begin a periodic feature on outdoor sports enjoyed by Washington and

Lee students.

Groups & Clubs
Raise up to $500 - $1500 in less
than a week. Plus Win a trip to
MTV Spring Break ‘94 and get
a FREE T-shirt just for calling.
1-800-950-1039

F V

   
       
   
       
    

The
Point of View

Restaurant

NexttoDayslnn,Rt.6OWeu
463-7797

Casual Dining
Elegant Setting

- Finest Steaks
- Fresh Seafood
0 Pork Ribs
- Banquet Facilities

J

L
6 one‘

2275 Beech Ave, Buena Vista - (Behind Pina Hut)
$1.50 ANY SHOW
Now Showing
Free Willy
Rated PG

Showing Daily at 7 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 12:50 & 4:50 p.m.

Jason Goes to Hell
Rated R
Showing Daily at 9:15 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 3 p.m.

onewwv

“All You Can Eat”
BOTTOMLESS BUCKET

@300 OF POPCORN $3.9

 

Nourish yourself
for lunch
Monday - Friday
11:30 to 3:30

Carry Out
Available
463-2800

110 W. Washington St.

   
  

Shop our stores for unbeliev-
able savings on men’s and
women’s fashions. Great
  clothing from some of
America ’s most famous cata-
logue companies.

17 South Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450

TGIF Outlets

Famous Catalog & Brand Name Clothing

 W&L Homecoming ‘93

50% to
80%

OFF EVERYDAY’

Open Mon. -  V
Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 
ph. 463-9730

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 8, 1993

'7‘ A, .- A ‘ By STEPHEN WILLIARD ‘  ' A ’
,‘ - Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The measure of a successful athletic
., team is how it responds to pressure.

After two losses slowed the the Wash-
ington & Lee women’s soccer team,
the Generals responded in a convinc-

QUALITYANDVARIETY  . i T,  A ~ ii  _ ingmanner.

A Against Sweet Briar yesterday, the
HT _  T .' ' ' ‘ _ ‘ 5 .. W&L women outshotSweetbriar by a

 DOG  , ‘, ‘ - _ V — , , » . wide margin ina3-0 victory. Accord-

' . _ t , , . . - » ‘ . ' ‘ '  ’* ing to coach Janine Hathorne, who

. ' -  . A , ' g “ ‘I _ _ '  - maintains that Sweet Briar is experi-

  r _ , ' . ~ g ,. * 2 _' ' v. - (st encingadown year, “We hadafeeling
D . v _ - . . » ‘ , w ' v * ,

we should dominate the game and we

. -_ f . V‘ ‘ . I N ; y : - ~  " ‘ ‘ ‘V did.”
2! ; ~ ' ' . . ‘ .  . »_ _ The first goal of the game came via
_ I ‘ . . 4 ‘ _ ~ ~_ grcﬁ _ _ a new rule this year. On a pass back to

_ 4 1 V"  6 ‘ - . » the keeper, the goalie is not allowed to

pick up the ball. On the kick, Corinda
Hankins inched closer to the all-time
W&L scoring record. Michelle
Bauman and Angie Carrington scored
in the second half to put the game
away.

Following the game, the W&Lsquad

.1 
(“A

V was conﬁdent. “We’re rolling along
GROUND FRESH SEVERAL TIMES DAILY right gsgwtang gigging §eai_1grXe1I.:
acorn oa ne. em n1

79%   uMﬂ' 5 L35, Carringtgn provided some insight irgito
w[1H the team’s goals for the year, “We’re

ApDnO~A'_ definitely aiming to win ODAC.

pukc-"A55 Randolph Macon and Roanoke will be

9 tough. We’ve set that goal as a team.”

PLEASE With the win the team moves to 6
and 3 on the year. The Generals hope
I-B to enterthisseasonintothe W&Lrecord  N p
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I . b00kS 35 one Of the StI'OTlgCSt CVCT.  ‘Q 5, 
the team carries their conﬁdence and ‘E —
emotion through the remainder of the ‘ ' »
V[~E mpg season and the ODAC tournament,that - 
DUE’ K: on should be the least of their accomplish— -
P EM UER  , ments. Photos by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi 5
OM  Members of the women’s tennis team sweat their way to a 3-0

blanking of Sweetbriar Oct. 7. The Generals are now 6-3.

  

2 l.'l'R.

 

Enjoy

K,-

Trademarks ®

HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

9  .R'EFG&LAR OR UTE
PREM MAYONNAISE ............ ..32 01099
BATH TISSUE zaréististsrss 69

  

~ CHlP$.............................5.5-6 oz.
. ....  ...... ...........<s4oz..
O50.  IN THE DELI-BAKERY
RoAsr mo 599
BEEF.. ...... .......T€?..Q.'3P.E.'?.....LB.

  KEEBLER PECAN SANDIES OR sruscrro VARIETIES
‘ cc mop WHITE RAIN
mam; HAIRCAREPRODUCTS

.   4-T5 OZ.

18 OZ.
  SELECTED VARlETlE$
. "M3570"! MARIE cnurunrms

"114 mrnrrs

.2/O0 2/ O0

285%‘ 13-1702.
L:

        

   

Prices Effective Through October 12, 199

Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday, October 6 Through Tuesda , October 12 1993. In County Stores
Oniy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To gr,-aiers. We Giodly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

'0

 

  

Last Week:

WP—defeats GW, Johns Hopkins
WSoc—defeats Sweetbriar, loses 2
FB—Randolph-Macon 35, W&L 14
MSoc—defeats Guilford, loses 2

PAGE 14

 

bat-.iajrjid~
_ L featureacztt’ V
i . vplace"onﬂW'.ilso

S

(J11: ﬁling-mm Elﬂhi

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

File photoi

Last year’s football team, which started its season significatnly better than this year’s Generals, still failed to win
its homecoming game. The Generals have high hopes for their homecoming game Oct. 9.

St3V9’S SP01't5 Water polo hot, wins two of three
follies 0’ week

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

Ha! Now there’s something
in the world of sports that should
even interest the laziest, most
out-of-it, apathetic non-sports
fan. No, you can’t stop him, in
fact, you can’t even hope to con-
tain him—that’s right—Michael
Jordan has overtaken headlines
once again.

Here’s the scoop. If you want
to read about Michael, find the
related article (it’s in here some-
where). There are other things
happening (and I’m tired ofwrit-
ing about it). Come on, the base-
ball playoffs are underway, and
even that ghastly other sport
(football) is in full swing.

My first jab of the week goes
out to CBS. I read somethingthis
week that brought up a good
point. Why, when you spent bil-
lions of dollars on baseball TV
rights, do you televise week FIVE
football games and not the last
day of the best pennant race in
years? Oh well, it’s their money.

The National League Series
looks to be one to remember. If
Wednesday’s game was any in-
dication, this one might rival last
year’s Pirate series. The Phillies
(those horrid scrubs) won in 10
innings 4-3. However, last night
the Braves responded with a
crushing offensive explosion
against a marcescent Philly pitch-
ing staff. The teams move to At-
lanta tied at one game apiece.

Unfortunately, the American
League series looks to be a wash.

After two games in Chicago, it’s
2-0 Toronto. The Sox have quite
a task (winning two out of three
in Toronto) if they plan to scratch
back into the series.

Moving to football, there is
now a great reason to root for the
Philadelphia Eagles. After
Cunningham broke his leg in
Sunday ’s game, the starting quar-
terback is named Bubby. Maybe
the Jets willwinthe AFC, andthe
superbowl could feature those
two wild, wacky, washed-up
quarterbacks——Bubby and
Boomer. Nah, that would pro-
vide too much CREATIVE ma-
terial for the announcers to
handle.

Parting Shots—-

Hockey season has started.
Didn’t they just ﬁnish?

Florida State plays Miami in
college football this weekend.
Florida State is out to prove that
you can actually win big games
on field goals instead of losing.
How many teams direct their re-
cruiting to obtain a kicker...just
to beat one team. Maybe this
year it will go THROUGH the
uprights.

Whoa...l just found out that
there was a professional indoor
soccer league. The fan interest
seems to be surprisingly high. I
mention this because the com-
missioner (Ron Weinstein) gets
my understatement award for the
week. When asked about low at-
tendance in Los Angeles, he said:
“We think it’s an awareness prob-
lem.” I am constantly amazed by
the perceptiveness that is ram-
pant in professional sports. Have
fun until next week.

tournament has been cancelled.

By SARAH GILBERT _ _ _
The Virginia State Tourna-

Phi Sports Editor

ment, set for this coming week-

Talk about comeback kids.

Washington and Lee water
polo has turned another page in
the “Impossible Things That
Never Really Happen” book.

In the fourth quarter ofa game
versus George Washington last
weekend, the Generals scored
eight unanswered goals to squeak
out with a 14-13 win.

Not only did the water polo
squad out-do every fan’s wildest
water polo dream, goalie David
Silvester finished the game with
a bang by saving the game on
George Washington’s ﬁnal shot,
attempted with three seconds re-
maining in the game.

The reader may not be sur-
prised to hearthat this weekend’s

end in Twombly Pool, was can-
celled. Speculations as to why or
who caused the extinction of this
meet will be allowed to run free
(they’re scared).

The win over George Wash-
ington, combined with a victory
over Johns Hopkins, 23-19, and
a defeat at the hands of 12th-
ranked Princeton, brings the
Generals’ record to a solid 7-6
on the season.

A .584 is nothing to complain
about, especially in a season that
Coach Page Remillard tagged as
the toughest a Washington and
Lee water polo team has ever
faced.

In an interview before the
Eastern Water Polo Association

This Week:

FB—Davidson, 10/09

VB—at Goucher 10/09
MTennis—W&L Fall Classic 10/09 .
WSoc—Guilford 10/09

By RANSOM JAMES
Phi Staff Writer

The Generals’ football team
is still looking for its elusive ﬁrst
win, as it fell 35-14 to Randolph-
Macon last Saturday. -

Washington and Lee was
never able to get its passing game
going, completing j ust two passes
for a meager seven yards. The
lone bright spot for the air attack
was an eight-yard touchdown
pass in the ﬁrst quarter from fresh-
man Brooks Fischer to Haynes
Hodges. This score tied the game
and the Generals seemed to have
a chance.

But W&L never really got
anything else in gear as
Randolph-Macon proceeded to
score three more touchdowns
before the fourth quarter to lead
28-7. Before the third quarter
ended, however, the Generals put
together a 70-yard drive, culmi-
nating in a 1-yard touchdown run
by fullback Wilson Moore.
Randolph-Macon added one
more score in the fourth quarter
to seal the victory.

Despite the trials of the pass-
ing game, the Generals did mount
an impressive running attack.
Senior tailback Tom Mason
posted some outstanding num-
bers, rushing for 118 yards on 18

crossover tournament, Remillard
mentioned that it was necessary
to win two of three to keep hopes
of post-season play alive for the
Generals.

After an early-season loss to
Johns Hopkins, W&Lmight have
paled at the opportunity. But they
rose to the occasion, barely hold-
ing on to the GW win and sailing
over Johns Hopkins.

In the future for the Generals
is a home game against Rich-
mond Oct. 22. During the long
lay-off between now and then,
the Generals should be working
on Remillard’s goal, of pulling
off at least one big upset this
year

“There is something out there
for us, and we are working very‘
hard to get it,” Remillard said.

He praised his team for their

OCTOBER 8, 1993

nrals celebrate homecoming

O
carries. He also set up Wh
W&L’s touchdowns with lon
runs of 33 and 32 yards, respe
tively. Moore carried the ball ju
six times, but racked up 45 yard
Freshman J.P. Josephson als
contributed 26 yards.

There was a bright spot ‘an th
defensive side of the bal als
Sophomore defensive tackl
Robert Hull had twelve tackle:
including four sacks. He lea-
the team in tackles, with 34 c‘
the season.

The loss dropped the Gene
als to 0-3 overall and 0-2 t
Old Dominion Athletic Confer
ence.

This weekend Washingto
and Lee faces Division I-AA fo
Davidson, as the Wildcats corn
to Wilson Field for homecom
ing. Last year, the Geﬁfral
gained 405 yards in total offens
in a 27-12 victory over the Wild
cats. W&L will try to put it al
together for their first win. Kick
off is set for 2:00. ,

Though the Generals have no
won a homecoming gamg. fo
three years (the last homecom
ing win for Washington and Le
was against Hampden-Sydney i '
1991, 21-7), that leaves at least (-
few members of that original glo
rious homecoming-game-win
ning team still ﬁghting ft; th
Warriors.

 

ability to work together.

“We work really well as
unit,workingtowardsacomm
goal,” he said. “They are all fa
inginto doing theirjobverywe
We’ve got our punters puntin
and our ﬁeld goal kickers kic
mg.”

Among the shining stars a
the weekend were junior Dere
DeVries, senior Jacob Berrna
and freshman James Silbegstei

DeVries had five goals, an
both Berman and Silberstei
scored four.

Silvester has kept up his ste
lar work in goal, failing to allo
George Washington a single go
in the ﬁnal quarter of that am

For the rest of the season, sai
Remillard, the Generals inten
to “come out with all our gun
smoking.”

Water Polo

Volleyball
Men’s Soccer
Football

Overall

1993 Team Records

Women’s Tennis
Women’s Soccer

Men’s X-Country
Women’s X-Country

1-0 .
5-3
7-6 I
1-1
1-1 I
7-8

3-6
0-3

25-28

Jordan hangs up shoes,’

I

but comes out on top ‘

Every sport has legends. Babe Ruth, Joe Louis, Gordy Howe,
and Jim Thorpe will always be a part of the collective concsiousness
of America. Michael Jordan gained entry into that select club of
athletes Tuesday with his retirement from basketball.

Jordan’s name gained national notice with his famous jump
shot in the 1982 national championship game that gave the
Tarheels the title. Since then, the freshman who sometimes left
the venerable Dean Smith at a loss for words has travelled a long
road. Eleven years, two gold medals, three world titles, and a
handful of M.V.P. awards laterthe man who dominated the N.B.A
has called it quits for good.

In his public statement regarding the momentous decision,
Jordan said, “I have always stressed that when I lose the sense of
motivation and the sense to prove something as a basketball
player, it’s time to leave. It’s_ not because I don’t love the game.
I just feel l’ve reached the pinnacle of my career. I don’t have
anything else to myself to prove.”

One must admire the courage of Michael Jordan. In an age
dominated by high priced athletes dragging dead careers an extra
year, Jordan’s decision is a refreshing alternative: the superstar
who goes out on top. Jordan joins the ranks of such standouts as
Jim Brown, Rocky Marciano, and Sandy Koufax in leaving while
ahead of the game.

The basketball world will miss Michael Jordan. According to
Bulls owner Jerry Rheinsdorf, “It would take 30 or 40 years to get
somebody 75% as good as Michael Jordan.” Along with Magic
Johnson and Larry Bird, Jordan helped revitalize the NBA. Air-
Jordan left behind a legacy of moments and ability that will never
be equalled. Each year fans waited to see what impossible plays
he could turn out. With Michael, every shot, steal, block, rebound
and assist was a new adventure.

No athlete can perform forever. There comes a time when the
glory and cheers are in the past. For many that time comes when
the body canno longer perform to the same level that created the
legend. Nolan Ryan and George Brett, two other 1993 retirees,
come to mind. No-one enjoys the retirement of a truly great
athlete, but Jordan’s announcement hits especially hard because
of his status and young age.

Now that Michael has quit basketball, he will have added time
to spend with friends and family. And what is the ﬁrst thing he
plans to do? “I’m going to watch the grass grow, and then go cut
it.”

’v'/

  

-i‘

K

 

wt

 

eekend Weather

artly sunny, high in tow 70s
' ‘ artly cioudy, near5O

tly cloudy, 30 percent

‘ wars; High in upper

213031]   ’
“Sunday '(3_ anee°otshowers,j . ~
~ zthti deirstorms, highs‘ near

i 70 .

.IA‘.VEi.‘3 G. LEYEUPIN Ll " ‘ ' '
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

Meet the candidate°s°l3.5‘9 Women’s tennis

Freshman elections
on Monday

0112 iting-tum Iﬂlii

VOLUME 93, NO. 06

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Flush!!!

Kappa Alpha Theta sisters cruise down Main Street on their way-to a victory in
_ Ute Homecoming Parade float competition. Thetas threw custom-made minia-
ture footballs from the float in honor of this year’s football game.

Photo by Bethany Smith, Thé'Ir‘i’ng—tum Phi

NAACP may examine
VMI racial incident

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer
As the Virginia NAACP considers the incident

, of mcial threats at Virginia Military Institute in its

g annual convention, cadets report that the issue has

* been taken too far.

 “It’s been completely blown out of proportion,”

j said VMI first—classman Douglas Estes.

V The state branch of the National Association for

; the Advancement of Colored People considers the
top‘ too hot to discuss until a decision has been

‘ made at the state convention. The decision, at press

. time, was expected at any minute.

_ “It’s a timing thing,” said first-classman Zack
Scott. “The NAACP just happened to be meeting
this week, so they picked up the issue.”

Meanwhile, rumors run around the East Coast.
“ y uncle from North Carolina called and asked
about the cadet killed in racial beatings,” said Estes.

I “And then my mom’s hairdresser in Raleigh asked

Clark xlilains do

her about a black cadet killed in a racial incident.”

Estes also reported a magazine article which
castigated VMI for having the “nerve” to not only
refuse to admit women, but to decide to stop
admitting black cadets.

Sources say the current theory on campus isthat
a cadet who really disliked the victim of the threats
simply took his hatred too far.

“He’s the kind of guy that you either really like
or really dislike,” said one ﬁrst-class source. ‘‘It
wasn’t as much the fact that he was black as the fact
that somebody just disliked him personally, and
took the race factor on as well.”

While rumors run across state lines, national
and state organizations decide their opinions, the
FBI investigates, and media on every level inves-
tigate, the cadets have forgotten the incident.

“I’m not seeing any FBI. I’m not seeing any
police. I’m not seeing anybody,” said Estes.

Scott agreed.

“It’s old news,” he said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 15, 1993

Reviewof Honor
System in Works

By THOMAS Hesros
Phi News Editor

seniors Nathan Dunn, Cameron Howell and

John Richert; Second-year law

student Ashley Rowe; and

A committee of nine students has begun
the process of reviewing the White Book and
may change the Honor System at Washing-

ton and Lee.

At its regular Monday meeting, the EC
heard the ﬁrst report from the White Book
Review Committee, a group composed of
EC-appointed students that will review the

Honor System.

“We haven’t discussed very much sub-
stantially,” said committee Chair Ames

Hutton.

The group is composed of nine students:
Hutton, freshman Adam Branson; sopho-

Stakes.

than the EC’s.

Hutton.
EC

Third-year law student Mike

Hutton said the group will
receive a list of Honor System
criticisms from the EC, but is
also looking for input other

“The committee is very
much interested in input from
the W&L community,” said

President

Bob Tompkins

Tompkins agreed that the EC

mores Caroline Guerin and Harris Morrison; at.

IFC to review Rush

Tear Night presents conflicts for next year

By NANCY PAVLOVIC
Phi Managing Editor

If the fraternities liked this
year’s Rush, they’d better hold
onto their pants next year when
Tear Night will fall on Home-
coming weekend.

But that may be achange un-
der consideration in the last two—
and—a—half weeks of October as
the Interfratemity Council and
fraternities began examining the
new Rush system.

“Right now, we want to get
feedback on all the changes we’ve
made,” IFC Vice President Ryan
Donaldson said. “We’re trying
to fine tune Rush, not really
change it.”

According to IFC President
Curt Smith, fraternity members
were pleased with the way Rush
worked. ‘

“There weren’t a lot of com-
ments [at the meeting] because
there seemed to be a general con-
sensus that the system worked
pretty well.”

Sigma Nu Rush Chairman
Brain McClung said the new sys-
tem addressed many of last year’s
concerns about Rush.

‘‘I think we accomplished a
lot of what we set out to do,”
McClung said.

Under the new rush system,
closed contact rules went into
effect when the freshmen arrived
and lasted until the Wednesday
night before classes. Under

g laws

By FRANCESCA KEFALAS

Phi Executive Editor

a bundle.

Man’s best friend can sometimes create a
student’s greatest problems.

Any dog running at large, without dog tags, or
without a rabies vaccination can cost a pet owner

According to Lexington Animal Control Of-

closed contact, upperclassmen
and freshmen men are not al-
lowed to talk to each other or
associate in any way. Casual and
open contact began that Wednes-
day evening, with formal Rush
beginning thesecond Monday of
classes. Rush Counselors and
open houses for all 16 fraterni-
ties were also added this year.

Under the old Rush rules,
freshmen and upperclassmen
were under closed contact rules
untilalmostoneweekafterfresh-
men arrived on campus. At the
start of Rush, freshmen cut six
houses from their list and chose
only nine houses to visit during
open houses.

Rush Counselors were seen
as the most effective addition to
this year’s Rush.

“General consensus was that
Rush Counselors were effective
and very helpful,” Smith said.
“We just need to train them
sooner and better.”

Smith said the majority of the
fine-tuning would revolve around
the open contact period and the
effectiveness of the open houses
for all 16 fraternities.

“We need to look at the open
contact period and whether the
time frame needs to be adjusted
or the entire period changed,”
Smith said. “Although people
were generally satisfied with the
16 open houses, some felt [they]
would be more effective if we
had more open contact after-

should not be the only force in determining
what Honor System issues should be looked

“I think the purpose of this is to have input

from the EC, but not to have the
EC pulling the strings,” said
Tompkins at Monday’s EC
meeting.

Hutton said the committee
planned to get input on honor
issues by polling the students,
faculty and administration. But
Hutton said the purpose of the
committee is not only to review
the Honor System, but to “edu-
cate the students first, so that
they know what they’re talking
about.”

The committee may also

sponsor debates in Lee Chapel or in the

I-vsee EC, page 4

wards.”

Lambda Chi Alpha President
Robert Ferris thought the 16 open
houses were beneficial to most
houses. I,

“The 16 houses helped out a
lot of the houses,” Ferris said.
“lt’s fairer to the freshmen be-
cause last year they had that ﬁrst
weekend to narrow 15 down to
nine houses so if you heard one
bad thing, you didn’t go check
that house out.”

McClung agreed adding the
open houses worked to his
fratemity’s advantage.

“The 16 open houses, al-
though a strain on fraternity mem-
bers and freshmen, are benefi-
cial. There are some guys we met
only during the open houses that
are now in our pledge class,”
McClung said.

But Phi Gamma Delta Presi-
dent Moke Wolfe said the 16
houses were “useless.”

“By the time open houses
came, the freshmen had already
decided where they wanted to
go,” Wolfe said.

Sigma Phi Epsilon President
James Hess thought the open
houses were a good ideabut came
too late.

“It’s good to have the fresh-
men go to all 16 houses, but
people have already made their
decision at the parties before they
made it to open houses,” Hess
said.

McClun g said the open houses

were a worthwhile part of Rush
and should not be discontinued.

“Our house [Sigma Nu] and
Chi Psi are really in favor of it,”
McClung said. “Houses that usu-
ally had a good Rush thought it
was a waste.”

Some have suggested switch-
ing the period of open contact
with the open houses but such a
move would mean the periods of
open contact would then have to
be dry. Since formal Rush is free
of alcohol, any period between
open houses and Tear Night
would also have to be subjected
to all the rules and regulations
applying to formal Rush.

Smith said switching open
houses with the open contact pe-
riod just is not possible.

‘‘If you have open houses,
Rush has begun. You can’t just
start and stop,” Smith said. “ln
the in—between period, you’re in
violation.”

“Open houses should be
moved up to the ﬁrst week,”
Wolfe said. ‘‘It’d be better for the
freshmen to come tocampus, then
have the open houses and then
have two weeks of open contact.
Then have a week of formal Rush
activities.”

Ferris suggested another band
party after the open houses could
help some freshmen decide where
to pledge.

“Another band party could

bsee IFC, page 4

ficer R.D Clark, the biggest problem created by
student’s pets is when the animals run loose. The
Lexington leash law states that a dog must be
“under owner’s immediate control.”

When a student’s dog is picked up, it is taken
back to the student, if the dog is registered with
the city.

If the dog is not registered, it is taken to the
shelter, where the boarding fees are $8 a day. If
a ticket is issued, the pet owner must pay a ﬁne
set by a judge.

A dog that bites someone and is not vacci-
nated against rabies must""be boarded in the
SPCA shelter for ten days, which costs $80. By
law, every dog staying in the Commonwealth of
Virginia for longer than 30 days must be vacci-
nated for rabies.

Clark’s chief concern is animals being hit by
cars. He said any student who hits an animal

Not paying tax may damage credit

property tax which also applies to boats, motor-
cycles, trucks, and business property and equip-
ment. The tax is known as a car tax because it
applies predominantly to automobiles. The tax
applies to anyone who has an out-of—state car in
Virginia for more than six months. Ellestad said
there is no double taxation—if the student pays a
car tax in another state, he doesn’t have to pay a tax
in Virginia. If the vehicle is registered in another
locality but is garaged in Lexington for more than
six months out of the year, the student pays the tax
in Lexington.

Ellestad said that the real difficulty in collecting
the tax is determining exactly where the vehicle is

bsee CAR TAX, page 4

By MICHAEL Hr~:wLr~:i'r
Phi Staff Writer

Have you paid your car tax lately? If not, you
might have to dig into your wallet a little bit.

Last year, the car tax sparked controversy when

the city of Lexington proposed to apply the car tax

to Washington and Lee students. Some members

of the W&L community, including President John

Wilson, thought this was unfair. But in order to

“W” ‘° ‘°‘ him "“°“"’ °* "WY may *’° °““g°" £?$§°c'I.'.‘i.'.‘§.I§§i'f.'§.‘é'i’§iI‘§ §‘§.tf}i‘;§f;“§L?§‘u%”§Z.§l°

 I with hit and run. _ , ‘

. '  . But Clark said students have not had many quem ta’.‘Pay‘_’rs: 1°“ Euefstad’ I-’°x”‘g'°“ C"? man‘

Photo by Bethany Smith, T’1€’R'"8"""' Phi problems with the new laws ager, said this IS the third year that the city has

This dog has a leash, but unless it is under an owner’s control, it may ' actively pursued payment of taxeson automobiles.

“So far I haven’t picked up many animals; _ _
end up taking a ride with Animal Control Officer R.D. Clark. I’m reauy pleased)’ According ‘O Ellestada the C“ W‘ '5 3 Personal

0

  
  
  
    
  
     
     
 
     
      
  
   
     
    
       
    
   
     
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
 

 

Demographic shows 
more foreign students

The Rin -tum Phl October 15 1993

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

   

  
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 

    

     

 

e or r 1 
most representatives was Pennsylva-

° ‘ ° By STEPHEN WILLIARD nia with 146. International students
Alde_ed calls for cease flre phi staff writer (such as our friend from Kirghiz) ac-

Somali warlord Mohamed Farah Aideed called for a A/iérlgiéma counted for 31 total students. This
cease-fire in the four-month conﬂict between his forces A k na _ _ _ number has dnnhled in the P35615
and American-led United Nations troops late Saturday Califbriiisiaig D0 y°" k“°“' whm K“gh‘z ‘S7 Yem-

, , . ' Colora Someone at Washington & Lee deﬁ- One criticism of the school has been
Th 11 f r t d fte Aideed do . .

e ca . or a cease- ire Came _juS ays 3 _l' “ Connecticut nitely knows——that person lives there. itslackofethnicdiversity. WhenW&L
urged his troops to increase their attacks against U.S. Delaware The Admissions department proudly students were asked about this in the
Colonjalismf’  . states its goal is to put together a class past, only 25% found the school lack-

C? that is “geographically, ethnically, and ing.
0 Hawgaii culturally diverse.” “It’s hard to attract ethnic and reli- 7.
UoNo relmposes embarg0 Idaho True t0 form, Washington and Lee gious minorities, ” stated Dittman. “l
0 0 Illinois has put together a motley crew of stu- would like to see it more diverse be-
on Halt] Indliggivzéll dents from every imaginable region of cause I learn a lot from the different
- ~ - H - - - d th the U.S. and the world._ _ . _ groups.”
H Armed civgllianlf (l?£{§:kt’;ddl)S}; t altlaélcpollge arti e  The 1993 Geographic_Distribution The University has maintained the
aitian army OC e n1 6' a CS an ana ian I‘OOpS Louisiana Survey shows students hailing from 48 goal of achieving a more nationa] ﬁg-
from docking at Port-Au-Prince on Tuesday. The troops aine states , D. C., and 19 foreign countries. vor. Throughout its recent history,
were on a mission to aid Haiti in returning to a democratic M Magyland southern Northern western _ “Th?-_SnW¢Y has atwftys been Some’; Washington & _1-Ce has steadily F133’ ed '
goverment from a military dictatorship. The United asslélcicgisggls ;iz1i1n§0lfj1[r1Iit:2crSsIitt<>atiilzlegttggetéiggit 8IV1VaY tth°th]th°/‘(teal “’jf.”‘° ‘°°I“)l.l'b°’a'
Nations planned to have deposed Haitian President Jean- Minnesota Numbers obtained from the Registrar. Diﬁman y g 3.1.: 5° .°° ' °°°’ "'3 ;° '"m‘;:."
' ' ' M1SS1SSippi Western is West of th M‘ ' ' "S h ' - - - eye '5.“ .awaren.es.s° geograp 1'
B6Itrand A1'lSl1dC back In pOW6I‘   30. The  . e lsslsslppla. out em The unlverslty census a]So pro‘/Ides cal divers"), In adnnsslons.”
Pentagon ordered the U.S. Navy ship carrying the troops Montana ‘“"'”d"5 T_°’“’S’ A’k“"5“5’ 3"“ F‘°"d3? 3"“ data On €thniCit)',re1igi0"S Ptnference. Concordingly, the numbers of stu-
to leave Haitian Waters on wedneSday_ on Thursday, the  Northern IS North of Ken and and areas of study for all students dents admitted from the state of Vin‘
U.N. Security Council voted unanimously to reimpose New Ham Shire Etetédetgtad and law) 3‘ Wa5h"‘gt°" & g::n1c1;nl:V:o<1f;>ri3%d éizlyrsizffclittgfggtnit ‘
th? _0i1 embargo and to freeze the finatlcjal aS_Set$ of the blliaex/VM%I;fi%36 Virginia paced the list with 336 I1)973 to §36 this yezllr) as Washington
military leaders who prevented the ship s arrival. New York students The state with the second & Lee has expanded its h0,;zo,,s_
North Carolina
North Dakota 1
e a   Penns  Non-resident alien |1.29l6 .\
- Rhocfé Island I,
South Carolina Native American 0.1%
_ Tenngssee t
exas . .
   Utah M"m'ra°'al/other 02%! Numbers obtained from the
Suicide Doctor Jack Kevorkian lost his second court étilgigt His am '0 8%!’ Registrar; Total number of .
battle for ignoring Michigan’s ban on assisted suicide. Washington P - I students: 1,960, including the
Kevorkian helped a 73-year-old man to kill himself last W€S\iVVlI’g1I11_a Black !3_-,~'% Law 5°h°°’~
month. Michigan State District Court Judge Karen  '
Khalil said Kevorkian could remain free on bond and ' , Asian ht-7916
scheduled arraignment for October 26. 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 I""""' ' “ "
39 33 § 39 39 39 39 39 39 39 39
0 O O O O O O O O O O 0
Post Office gets face lift * ‘“ ‘° " “’ ‘° “ °° °’ 9
The Post Office is getting a face lift. The United States _
Postal service plans to spend $7 million to replace the 9 _
logos on post offices, vehicles and mailboxes. The Postal 11  S Wa a   C c  .
Service is faced with a $1.3 billion operating deficit this ,
year. 9

From St3ffReP0l‘tS Prizesihave bee" donated f°r the °.V°..“t by 10931  *3» Registration will begin at 12:30 p.m. and will cost '

. businesses and merchants, and will be distributed to -~ ’ ' - - -

those who turn in the most pledge money at registra- iilelllijggl-elalllezhsd atrliaeal/A2/i<l9lLzll.)leCc?-toDo'l‘nliiang2ulr3saeni'(s
tion. The first 100 registrants will receive Making approximatebi ﬁve miles Ion Thig event is bei

Strides shoelaces, and all those turning in more than Sponsored by Chi Ome a somgit Al ha phi Omeng
$50 Wm "’°°lVe 3 Making Strides T'5htt't~ service fraternity of Vli/ll and Ca)tholi[c) Campus 
WaI;§’itI11°rt:1)trlYz:3r:’d'°IlJt‘*';1‘t:{;"z:t’:ll*‘eTt“i  Euckt 1495113 Of istry, andwill take place regardless of the weather. In
. g _ _ C P3 me“ a T°°°VeT‘ case of rain, those not wishing to walk are asked to turn
"18 from Chromc leukemta and r°°°m5P1°°" 5“t’89TYa their money in at registration, or mail a check to the

and George Cunningham, still running marathons American Cancer 5 - t PO B 100 Le - t
despite removal of his larynx years ago. For more informigfnrcail ,i63(_)§533_’ xmg 0"’

Clintonli1i5ges.anti-crime- -
legislation

President Clinton urged Congress Saturday to pass
anti-crime legislation this year. The legislation would
impose a five-day waiting period for handgun purchases,

add police officers and set-up boot camps for young
offenders.

On Sunday, participants in the fifth annual Mak-
ing Strides Against Cancer event for the Rockbridge
Unit of the American Cancer Society will attempt to
chaseaway cancer.

The event will take place at 1:30 p.m., beginning in
the Harris Teeter parking lot. To participate, cancer
patients, family members, friends and the public
obtain sponsors to honor their efforts as they run,
walk, and bike across a set course.

 

Jurors replaced

in Denny trial

Judge John W. Ouderkirk, presiding judge in the
Reginald Denny trial, replaced two jurors this week. The
jury has reached a verdict on two of the counts against
Henry Watson, one of the two men on trail for beating
Denny during the riots after the April 1992 acquittal of
four Los Angeles police officers in the beating of Rodney
King. Watson and Damian Williams face 12 charges,
including attempted murder.

Sports

Phillies and Jays advance
to World Series

The Philadelphia Phillies defeated the Atlanta Braves
in six games in the National League Championship
Series. Philadelphia ended the Braves’ hopes of becom-
ing the first National League team to win three straight
pennants since the 1942-44 St. Louis Cardinals. The
Phillies’ Most Valuable Player was pitcher Curt Schilling.

The Toronto Blue Jays earned a second consecutive
World Series berth by defeating the Chicago White Sox
in six games. Jays’ pitcher Dave Stewart snagged the
most Valuable Player prize after winning both of his
starts.

Redskins suffer worst
loss at RFK

The Washington Redskins endured a 41-7 spanking at
the hands of the New York Giants on Sunday. The 34-
point loss was the Redskins’ worst at RFK stadium in
team history. Redskins coaches admit to having their
“worst day” in the historic loss.

Seles’ attacker goes free

Guenter Parche, the man who stabbed Monica Seles
on court last April, became a free man Wednesday after
receiving a suspended sentence from a judge in Ham-
burg, Germany. Seles was reported to be distraught,
saying that she was shocked by the decision.

SCC president
plans for the year

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Approaching his second year as Stu-
dent Conduct Committee president,
Rajeev Aggarwal is coming in with ex-
perience and some definite goals for the
SCC and its role in the Washington and
Lee community.

Aggarwal’s first goal concerned the
clarification of the SCC’s function and
policies.

“We are going to put out a pamphlet
describing all the procedures in detail,
especially because many studentson cam-
pus have voiced questions about the roles
of the SCC,” said Aggarwal.

“The pamphlet is a big goal,” he said.
“We want to give deﬁnition and clarity
to these ambiguities.”

Aggarwal cited the appeals process
for those who have been expelled by the
SCC, of which many students are igno-
rant.

An appeals board made up of the
Executive Committee president, the Dean

of Students, and a senior faculty mem-
ber reviews appeals cases, and can rec-
ommend that the SCC re-hear the
student’s case.

“This only happens in a case where a
student gets thrown outof school, which
doesn’t happen very often,” said
Aggarwal. “There has been one in the
last four or five years.”

Aggarwal hopes to formulate a plan
in which appeals could be overturned by
the student body, similar to the process
currently used for honor violation ap-
peals.

“lt’s a personal goal of mine to give
students some kind of recourse besides
going to the appeals board in extreme
cases,” he said.

Aggarwal also wants to publicize the
fact that the SCC hears harassment cases,
because many students do not realize
that the SCC and EC have different
functions.

He also mentioned a fourth goal.

“Lastly, I want to serve justice to the
students.”

ethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
Assistant Director of Alumni Programs Rob Mish treats
himself to the festivities on Homecoming Weekend.

 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 

 

Blood drive attracts.
more students

By IJOURRAINE TioAs
Phi Staff Writer

Chi Psi cosponsored the biannual
Bloodmobile on October 6. Over 100
people participated, donating a pint of
blood each, an increase from last fall.

Chi psi sophomore Josh Nitsche
said taht the number of participants
was “a good number because there was

a lot of sickness going around,” which‘

disqualified a number of students.
The Bloodmobile was held in

Doremus Gymnasium from 11 a.m. to
5p.m. One hundred and ﬁfteen peoplt
signed up to donate blood, but some
were released during the process for
various reasons, said Chi Psi junior
Bart Sterling.

Chi Psi has been cosponsoring the
Bloodmobile with the American Red
Cross since the mid-80s, said Sterling;

There will be another blood drive in
the spring. Chi Psi expects a bigger
turnout then because only one sport is
in season. Athletes are unable to do-
nate blood during their sport’s season.

0

  
  
 
   
  
   
    

  

   
   
   

9
' he Ring-tum Phi; October 15, 1993

Freshmen office hopefuls sound-off

What are your qualiﬁcations and past leadership

experiences?

What are your goals if elected?

?,What are the reasons for your candidacy?
‘What issues do you think will be important in the

campaign in the coming year? How do you stand on

, those issues?

Freshman elections will take place on Mon-
way, October 18. The elected offices are: EC
representative, class president, and class vice
president. A survey of the candidates yielded

. the following responses to ﬁve basic questions.

Some candidates were unavailable for com-

meg.

EC candidates

Robert Elam

1) Leadership
team representative,
President of 2 clubs,
author of high school
constitution.

2) “I hope to do
my best to maintain
the highest standards
of honesty.”

3) “The only rep-
resentative from the
freshman class in the
EC must represent all

students. I want to be that person.”
4) The EC’s policy for funding organiza-
tions and White Book revision

ndy Hooper
A 1 Eagle scout,
Student Council of-
ficer, National Honor
Society member.

2) “I want to main-

in the current sys-
"e whileconstantly
checking its effec-
tiveness . . . I would
like to see the Honor
system applied more
in the gym.

3) “I want to preserve the Honor System
here because I witnessed the decay of my high
sch ol one.”

4) In favor of constant review of the White

Book but only with consideration of the rami-  .-

fications to the system.

Marcus Rayner

1) President of
Model United Na-
tions, Student repre-
sentative to Board of
Education, Student
Council (4 years)

2) “I want to be
the freshman voice in
the EC, and to sup-
port adherence to the
Honor System.”

3) “I love W&L, I

want a fair and accessible EC.”
4) Opposed to EC funding of ideologically
partisan organizations

Paul Saboe

1)Interact Presi-
dent, Future Business
Leaders of America
Regional President,
Youth and Govem-
ment Club President.

2) ‘‘I would en-
force the Honor Sys-
tem justly. I would
promote the improve-
ment of W&L—VMI
relations and the re-
vitalization of Gaines Hall.”

3) “I am running
to provide the mem-
bers of the Freshman
class with an effec-
tive voice on the EC.”

4) honesty, integ-
rity, accountability

Justin St. Clair
1) “I’m a highly
V organized, highly

 moti.Vated,«.W6.1J.—in-. .

formed person.”
2) “I want to provide a liason between the
EC and the freshman class.”

Presidential candidates
Kevin Alexander

1) “I’m a respon-
sible people person.”

2) “I want to make
sure all of the fresh-
men enjoy their first
year in college.”

3) “I want to be
involved in W&L
life.”

4) “Maintaining
academic excellence
while maintaining
freshman happi-
ness.”

Sara Benson
1) Student body
president, National
Honor Society vice
president, Captain of
varsity volleyball and
soccer.
2) “I want to make
each member of our
freshman class feel as
though they are an im-
portant part of the
W&L community.”
3) I believe that I
would be an effective class president because I
am hard-working, well organized, and friendly.”
4) the Honor System, student housing, the
Greek system, and women’s and minorities
organizations.

Todd Denbo

1) Captain of Ice Hockey and Golf teams,
150 hours of community service, Big Brother.

2) ‘‘I want to keep the class informed and to

adequately represent
the Freshmen.”

3) ‘‘I want to have
a leadership role and
to make sure that all
of the freshman have
a great year.”

4) ‘‘I will deal with
them as they come
up. I would like to
see more class par-

ties and freshman social alternatives.”

Will Hill

1) Class Historian,
Student Activities
Board (high school),
captain of football
team

2) “I’d like to get
to know all of the stu-
dents, to share their
views, and to help get
what they want.”

3) ‘‘I already know
a lot of the student
body and I feel that I can represent them the
best. I’m a well-balanced person.”

4) The character of the president and his
responsiveness to the students, and his ability to
gain more power for the class of 1997.

Alvin Townley

1) member Fresh-
man Leadership
Committee at W&L,
student government,
captainofcrosscoun-
try and track teams

2) “I want to main-
tain class unity
t h r o u g h o u t
pledgeships.”

4) “A president
needs to handle situ-
ations as they arise.”

Gary Wenger

2) “I want to pro-
mote class unity.”

3) “I want to do
something meaning-
ful for the school.”

4) Unity, class
mixers.

Vgi_ce_-Presidential candidates .

Lauren Guthrie

1) involved in
class government,
Senior Prom coordi-
nator, “I ’m
openminded”

2) “I want to up-
hold the high stan-
dards of W&L with
faimess.”

3) “I think that the
sense of honor and
tradition and the stan-

dards of behavior make W&L unique. I want to
be a part of that.”

4) Maintenance of traditions and the stan-
dards of “gentlemanly behavior”

Sasha Hartman

1)Student Coun-
cil, Captain of ath-
letic teams, voted
most spirited in High
School.

2) “I want to en-
hance class unity and
class pride.”

3) “I have always
been involved in stu-
dent government.”

4) class unity

Lathrop Nelson
1) President of se-
nior chorus, in charge
of fundraising for a;
trip to France.
2) Class unity V
3) “I want to have ‘
a voice in this com-;
munity. I want to;
make a difference.” 1
* 4) The Honor Sys- 3
tem and preservation of the speaking tradition j

Eii Smith

1) President of
four organizations,
officer of 10 organi-
zations, state ranked
Mock Trial team
member

2) “I want to
make the freshman
year fun and bear-
able.”

3) “I want to do
something that will
have an impact on W&L”

4) Fair decisons at SCC hearings

Question and answers were compiled by Phi 5
Staff Writer Melissa Sawyer. Not all of the:
candidates could be contacted.

With this, you
can save for years. can save r

lbatperzrtyjaromourdrasser

Now, you can get substantial savings on these Macintoshi per-
sonal computers. You can also get special student financing with the
Apple“ Computer Loan*— to make owning a Mac‘” even easier. lb see

Apple Macintosb
Color Classic‘ 4/80, Built-in 10'' Color
Monitor 6Apple Keyboard 11. $953

Apple Macintosh
LClll 4/W, Apple Basic Color
Monitor 6Apple Keyboard 11. $1250

With these, you

just how affordable a Macintosh can be, visit your Apple Campus
Reseller today. And discover the power more college students '
choose. The power of Macintosh. The power to be your best? .

For further information visit University Computing in
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud

or call 463-8844

*Prices do not include sales tax

'A1'uilal)le /0 ([ll(lllf_}‘l7lg xlmlenls, :1/parlzopaling auIborz'2ez1A/Iple Campus Resellers. ©1993 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights re.ter1'arl. Apple. Ibe Apple logo. .’lIllC, Marin/osb mid “The power lo be your bar!" are regislered /mdemu .2. of Apple Computer Inc. Alarm/ash Cmlrxs (rm! Pou'erBoolz are lnrzzlemarkv Q/Aﬂﬂlé’ (fompuleiz Inc. (.11/svic it (I rrgisleretllrrlr/enIz11'l licensed lo Apple (lompulw: Inc.

l HOW

Apple PowerBook“‘ 1455 4/30,
Built-in Keyboard and 10" Backlit Super
Twist Monochrome Display. $1278

Apple Macintosh Cenzris" 61
4/80, Apple Basic ColorMom'!or 6
Apple Evended Keyboard 11. $1488

1

Game What ga?

   

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Tailgaters frolic in the parking lot at Saturday’s football game.

The Hing-tum Phl, October 15, 199

EC debuts WBRC

I->EC, from page one

campus newspapers, Hutton said.

At Monday’s EC meeting, Hutton asked
for the EC’s opinion on procedural matters
for the White Book review. According to
Hutton, there are “some very vague guide-
lines in the White Book [for an Honor Sys-
tem review].”

Tompkins said he would like to see the
committee report to the EC at the start of
winter term, before submitting the results of
their review on March 1.

Another concern was the violation of
confidentiality if the WBRC were to discuss
specific honor trials in their meetings.
Tompkins said he would like to protect the
confidentiality in the case of current stu-

dents, but said he didn’t see a need to make a
rule regarding what the WBRC could and
could not discuss.

Second-year Law Representative James
Rambeau agreed.

‘‘I think you can adjust the fact patterns,”
he said. “Make them hypothetical... Student
A and Student B.”

Hutton said the WBRC meetings would be
“for the most part, closed.”

Some debate ensued when Tompkins sug-
gested that an EC member be present at WBRC
meetings to offer input.

‘‘I think they should put these things to-
gether without our inﬂuence,” said EC Secre-
tary Ashby Hackney.

Hutton said he plans to put together a
calendar for the WBRC to follow while con-

ducting their review of the Honor System. I
addition, he said the committee has ac
quainted itself with the White Book in lht.
two meetings it has held. ‘ 
“We’ve got three people who have prac-i
tical experience,” he said. 3
Other business covered at Monday’s EC ,
meeting included an appeal from Kevin
Roddey, business manager of The Ring-tum‘
Phi, who asked that the EC not cut th ‘~
budgets of the publications under the _ﬁll'lS'l,
diction of the Publications Board. The E.
tentatively decided to cut each Pub Boar
publication by 17 percent at its meeting tw
weeks ago, in order to correct an old budget ‘
ing error. The funding cut became ofﬁcia
Monday when the EC passed the budget b 1‘
approving it for the second time. I "

IFC to examine Rush

h>lFC, from page one

help them see what you’re all
about.”

McClun g suggested that some
formal function precede the open
contact period so that freshmen
could meet all fraternities in a
casual setting before the open
houses.

“lFC might considersponsor-
ingacookoutorsomethingwhich
would allow the freshmen to meet
five or six guys from every house
before open house,” McClung
said. “So if a freshmen decided
to go to a fraternity during the
second week, they would know a
few brothers at the house and not
feel awkward or out of place.”

Others have suggested that the
open contact period be shortened.

Car tax can affect credit rating

I->CAFl TAX, from page one

garaged for the majority of the
year. In order to resolve this dif-
ﬁculty, Ellestad said that if the
student has his car in Lexington
for the more than six months of
the year, it is assumed that his car
is garaged there.

Ellestad said the past four
years the car tax has been $4.25
per $100 of assessed value. Five
years ago, it was $5.50.

Failure to pay the car tax, ac-
cording to Ellestad, will result in
the treasurer ﬁling debt warrants
against the owner, which would
appear on the owner’s credit
record. Ellestad said that the
warrantappearingontheowner’s
credit record acts as an incentive
to pay.

Ellestad said that if the stu-
dent fails to pay the tax, the courts
will intervene to force payment,
but he adds that it is more diffi-

 

cult to force out-of-state carown-
ers to pay. According to Le;v.ing-
ton Cit y Treasurer Pat DeLaney,
it is difficult for the court to force
an out—of-state resident to come
to court because that is beyond
the jurisdiction of Virginia.
DeLaney said that a court
judgement will go against the
resident’s credit record, but the
owner will never have to serve
jail time. Usually, the car tax

. will be paid oncethe owner re-

ceives a copy of his credit record
and calls the treasurer’s office.
She said that sometimes the
owner finds that there was a mis-
take and doesn’t have to pay.
Delaney said that the trouble
comes when people are not forth-
coming in their information. As
for W&L students failing to pay
their car tax, Delaney says that
the students have either paid or
discovered that they didn’t have

to pay.

“The open contact times re-
ally weren’t utilized the way we
thought they’d be,” McClung
said. “lt might work better if
lasted five days or a week.”

One potential reason for short-
ening open contact next year may
be to prevent Homecoming week-
end and Tear Night from occur-
ring the same weekend.

“Tear Night next year, under
the current system, will be Home-
coming Weekend,” McClung
said.

Homecoming weekend can-
not be changed due to the foot-
ball schedule. Kathekon and the
IFC will need to reach some
agreement about this before Rush
plans for next year can be ﬁnal-
ized.

Donaldson hopes to have the

review of Rush completed
quickly this year.

“Last year, we took all year to
work it out,”'Donaldson said.
“We hope to get it done by the
beginning of November.”

ThelFCwillalsobeholdinga
meeting with the freshmen on
Monday evening at 7 to discuss
deferred pledgeship.

“lt’s not so much about their
rights as it is about how they are
to become part of the house,”
Smith said. “They’re not pledges
during the fall, they’re social
members or whatever you want
to call them but they’re not
pledges.”

Smith said there is a list of
regulations as to what the fresh-
men can and cannot do during
the remainder of this semester.

Deferred pledgeship means tha
the freshmen are not ofﬁdall «.
pledges until the beginning 0
winter temi.

“Deferred pledgeship mean
the freshmen have 10 weeks 0.‘
get really comfortable with th
house and the brothers they’v
decided to join,” Wolfe sgﬁ.

In other IF C business,
was placed on two week socia
probation for having kegs in thei
house.

“The kegs got taken by Secu-
rity this afternoon,” Donaldson
said. “They came in and togd us
about it and it was all taken care
of.”

Smith said Chi Psi canno
have any parties at the house fo
two weeks due to the punish-
ment.

1Ps'\

 

 

C
35;’ '-' ‘ V’-—'r""

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-rum Phi

The 38er Gators prepare to make an announcement at Saturday's football game.

l.\'\'liS'l‘l.\'(}

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START ,
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

an't afford to save for retirement?

Even if you're not counting the years to

The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want
to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.

By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax-deferral and give your
money time to compound and grow.
Consider this: set aside just $100 each
month beginning at age 30 and you can
accumulate over $154,031* by the time
you reach age 65. But wait ten years and
you'll have to budget $211 each month
to reach the same goal.

retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve-
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest-
ment choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education and 50
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of
their list for retirement planning. Why not
join them?

Call today and learn how simple it is
to build a secure tomorrow when you
have time and TIAA-CREF working on ‘
your side.

Start plamniog your ﬁcture. Call our Enrollment Hatline 1 800 842-2888.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?" '9' 5 ,

Q I 995 Father; Imruranrr and A/umi! y A.r.rariali41II/ Ca//(gt Rtlirtmtnt Equiliar Fund.

\

"‘/i.I.mmin_q an ilrlrmrl rim 11/6. 50% 1'r:()i'lt1) In TIA/-I Rrlirrmtnl /*lnIu4[![r.r. Thir rulr Lr u.r:'z).m/t/_v In Jlmuv lbr power am’ rj7i*i'I if/'4'nm;wuI:Jir:_4;. Lawr ur 51:4/her mIe.r u-uulzl
,vru()urr wry (hf/Err/il rr.ru/l.r. C REF n'rIi/i4'r1I:.r 1lIj( dirlri/mm) /Iy TI/lrl-(‘REF I/11):}-{Jun/it/1:7 Iu.rliIuIimm/ S(n'i4‘r.r.

 

The Fling-tum Phi October 15, 1993

 

PAGE 5

D By EMILY BAKER

Phi Staff Writer

 

yours are vital .

THE WHITE HOUSE

I am pleased to join the National Foundation
for Infectious Diseases in recognizing National
Hepatitis 8 Prevention Day.

Your awareness program to educate the American
people about prevention of hepatitis B can help
improve immunization rates and reduce the number
of deaths from this disease each year.
1 percent of the 28 million young Americans at risk
of infection have been vaccinated, efforts such as
Ultimately, vaccinations and
prevention efforts save lives, prevent suffering,
and allow significant savings in health care costs.

I commend you for acknowledging the seriousness
of hepatitis  and.for encouraging all Americans to
accept their individual and collective responsi-
bilities to prevent this disease.

Best wishes for much success.

 

‘T/I/e’a“L tfe

Hepatitis B target

  Disease is 100 times more contagious than HIV

Evading the ﬂu epidemic may be the current
medical concern for students on the Washing-
ton & bee campus, but another, more danger-
ous affliction has medical experts worried about
student health. Hepatitis B, a potentially fatal

WASHINGTON

Since only

G

‘Renaissance woman ancfﬂforneeorning Queen

..

File Photo

President Clinton has offered his support for the Hepatitis - B awarenessl
vaccination program. Dr. Ruth Westheimer (not pictured) has also come
forward as a spokesperson for the cause.

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

. Senior Heather Aussiker has all the attributes
of a Homecoming Queen—she’s involved, per-
soriable, outgoing, and adept at bartending.

Yes, bartending. “It was a blast,” said
Aussiker of her bartending school experience
last summer. Not many people go to bartending
school as a summer activity, but W&L’s Home-
coming Queen is not an ordinary person.

Aussiker is the vice president of the Chi
Omega sorority, a member of the leadership
honor society Omicron Delta Epsilon, a mem-
ber of the Student Affairs Committee, a G.
Holbrook Barber Scholar, and the head dorm
counselor at W&L, as well as one of the leads

in the Theatre Department production of The
Flies.

As the head dorm counselor, Aussiker works
closely with Dean Manning and the other dorm
counselors. “I’m here if they need anything,”
she said.

“I really enjoy them [the activities] all. You
try different things throughout yourwhole W&L
experience,” said Aussiker. Part of her experi-
ence included being nominated twice for home-
coming court.

“I was thrilled just to be nominated,” she
said of her nominations by Sigma Chi both this
year and last year. “I was very surprised and
happy to be chosen as Homecoming Queen,”
Aussiker said.

The Homecoming Queen selection process
involves ﬁlling out a questionnaire and being

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  

. Left: Aussiker
tries on her new
crown

Below: W&L’s
1993 Homecom-
ing Queen,
Heather Aussiker

Photo by Bethany Smith, I" he Ring-tum Flu

communicable disease which attacks the liver,
is spreading rapidly among college students. _

Young people, ages 15 to 25, are the fastest
growing segment of the population with hepa-
titis B according to The Chronicle of Higher
Education. The number of young adults with
hepatitis B is now 77 percent higher than it was
10 years ago. Hepatitis B is 100 times more
contagious than HIV. One in 20 Americans has
been infected with the virus, and each day 14
Americans die from hepatitis B-related illnesses.

Once inside the body, the virus strikes the
liver, and may lead to cirrhosis or liver cancer.
The risk among carriers of developing liver
cancer is 200 times higher than that of non-
carriers. There is no cure for hepatitis B, but
there is a vaccine.

People transmit the disease through infected
blood or bodily ﬂuids including semen, vaginal
secretions, and saliva. Hepatitis B can be
transmitted through vaginal, oral, or anal inter-
course.

The risk of contraction is increased for those
who are sexually active, have unprotected sex,
have more than one sex partner, have another
STD, share needles for injecting drugs, or work
in health care.

Also at risk are natives from areas where
hepatitis B is endemic, including Alaska, the
Pacific Islands, Africa, Asia, and the Amazon
region of South America.

Most of those infected do not suspect they
have hepatitis B, because its symptoms are so
similar to those of the ﬂu. “It can fool people at
first,” said Dr. David Copeland of the W & L
inﬂrmary. Symptoms include nausea, fatigue,
vomiting, loss of appetite, jaundice, and ab-
dominal pain.

Dr. Copeland recalled no recent cases of
hepatitis B on the W & L campus. If there were
such a case, “we would offer the patient an
inﬁrmary stay. But there’s probably not much
we can do,” he said. “There is no treatment, just
rest and good nutrition.”

The American College Health Association
recommends that all college students be vacci-
nated against the hepatitis B virus. Some schools
require the vaccination and most medical stu-
dents are required to be vaccinated. “Any
student who is going to be involved in health
care should get the vaccine,” said Dr. Copeland.

The vaccine stimulates the body to produce
antibodies, which protect those exposed to the
disease. It is given in a series of three shots with
a total cost of around $130.

asked questions by a panel of ﬁve judges. “It
was a great honor to be picked,” she said.

While being W&L’s Homecoming Queen
doesn’t involve any specific duties, Aussiker
feels that being the queen means “being a
representative of the school and all that it en-
tails—spirit, friendship, and tradition. I hope I
can do it.”

Aussiker has more than queenly duties to
fulfill, though, Like all W&L seniors, next year
she will have to face those two familiar four-
letter words: real life.

“It’s scary being a senior. Part of you is
really excited and part of you says ‘Don’t take
me away’,” said Aussiker.

Although she came to W&L planning to be
21 Physics major, Aussiker is now double major-
ing in Journalism and Theatre. Next year she
plans to get her Master of Fine Arts in acting
and plans to do bartending on the side for
money.

Aussiker got into theatre when she audi-
tioned for “The Skin of Our Teeth” her fresh-
man year. “I got the bug,” she said.

With her many activities, Aussiker has to be
very organized. “I have this huge black book,”
she said. “I live off coffee. Coffee is my favorite
food.”

If coffee is her favorite food, W&L is deﬂ-
nitely her favorite place to be.

“I can’t imagine being any place else and
being as happy as I am here,” said Aussiker.

File mom"

U1
0
C
III
III!
CD
W9.
('0
W

  1).a1"l_ ‘I  V

n‘sxni_t'ti'e d '  i at: as e

V‘

. Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring ::.'m Phi
EC President Bob Tompkins receives one of the perks of his office.

 

 

        
     
   
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 

PAGE 5
PVIUQQGVS by Jeff MacNel1y

O“ fh¢ mark W Mark Parisi -   
IT'S A QUl7’E C-O;1MON S7'A—rE OF ‘ HOW CAN ‘(DU . EECAK/5E NW '0«llRTlEé 
3323? .5v5__ 2355 I; »2g5KT~f_;;15E- .-  ~~ﬁi¥§9%i.E€é§~; ZéiiZE3Ef§”S2Tiso.
CONDI7’/ON OF HER 50YFRIEND‘5/
SHOWER CURTAIN...

      

  
  
  
  
 

., . ,9‘, _ ‘
' ,3$2-x

 

119% I We plucggers ‘find it hard to he
AYIAITCFHYUM GINJMIRKPARISI ‘I43    '

Colonnade Crossword

W&LlF E

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

     

The Ring-tum PM October 15,1993

KlDDlE
i PHOTb5 -1 g

  

   
 
 

   

 

Dave by David Miller

 
  
   
  

E ,, THE ,, .
PuT MY ' "<5
PurzciiA~;e 0N MY «Q A CKEWT

azeoir CARD. APWCAFON
e A F

  
     
 

ACROSS

1 Mop

5 Send

9 Tiny particle
13 Lounge
14 The ones here
15 Outer garment
16 Minute amount

NON L(§‘l:}UlTUli

FNK1 Tlxiras urvnéo 1  " ‘ 6 it

 
 

   

KNV \—\E P\)FFEVi BUT WE
COULDN'T BL>\N VO‘NN T\—\E

. roe we N\NET\Eé...   

K3099 lN\DE OF BR\C—K-
ga-mg ac. EN) WOLF

  

 
    
 

     

  
  
 

    

 

 

    

 

     

       
  
      
 

     
  
    

  

 
  
     
     

     
   

I -,
| V '..l V; ’ ,
17 Mirrored image 1’ I, l ’ ii ‘ ‘ :,?4I;.‘=_—-—:_ ‘ I \N QANNTO “XE (‘BUN-Vl
$?‘§1‘;':;':2 ‘ii’  we 1  1   r<EcE“°:R\>ER5°F“‘°9 W
.— mull ‘L “‘ '3 ‘
22 Guided - -—,-s-._._  _  V\éC.°\(ER.ED "\'\3ii\'l ‘ME .
23 Kingdom. i 3  . -  meg; \_\ﬁLr._ \>\(,£ NEVER
-. I’ 3 \"‘ ‘ ‘ un" )-
25 Man of vision ,  _.f‘.., A
27 cry or surprise .1... . I fr’-’»,4;/s?.’§<.g~".~‘ N’\’L\El> FOR
29 Slender -— 1 ‘  I “ Q 9 \L FQgN\\‘\'
. _ \ l . ,. § 9 $0 V\N(7 
31 Covered with -—-   1  '0 ‘
cloth VIE"-V  l . . “ﬂ
35 wage, omzméiiiuam E951’ wwrr-as moo? ‘
:3 Stacked
Tricky fellow _ ~. \*>‘' \_ ~ _ \

39 Dlsmounted U ' * \\ ‘:3 , \\§ ' ‘i ‘p  v
41 Made garments . LET  \ " . KW

23 ansnare I v ‘  M \\ 3} 5 . ‘\ \ E ; ;

ovesine . ‘,\» " ‘ '
W, I _.o REAVTD usAeAi
46 Pick up. as an ‘ TONGHT.  
option mesa Tribune Medi Services. Inc. - ;
48  ‘°"”’°" e 0 S‘ sremem «was
49 Invigorating _ D 0 HO
drinks 7 Seagirt lands Y 5 Pull‘? s°|V9d- .  H, I

51 Prime donna 3 Féemoved rind 6‘ ,5‘ r \ l .
52 Favorite ariunkel - \\ \\‘\li - g \ .‘. _

53 Tugboats 10 Labor \ V’ Ex 5 J '~ \\\‘ 4: 5 I |
55 Merriment 11 Musical - g - .. N‘ A . A H
57 That woman instrument \, ‘ ‘Q \

60 Trodden way 12 Repair - -) ‘\\ §~ ~. ‘ , 3 ‘ \ 4

62 Coil 14 Latticework , gfl‘,  ‘x. . o, .,‘ ~ % «

65 shrewd swap 18 Store employee ' V k '46‘. 7 A ~ 34

68 Weight 20 Catch the breath _________________j______ _

$9 glﬁionvézpriizg 24 Ertﬁtligelz _ ' ('l>TF'|AT'$ KIND ' ‘ OKAY! -n,E .

0 Hawaiian 6 cold  co”; E7 ' ~ I I. , 1
dance: 27 Neutlcal_t_ergr\"'- ’  pa . _ 5caNDlNG._ A \ Uﬂ    ~

71 Continent 28 Telephone word ‘ '~

72 Cozy home 30 sounded like a E ,

73 Plant part cat

74 Certain tide 32 Restate §.

33 Dodge 5
DOWN 34 Station I
1 Lose one's 37 Overalls tabric g
looting 40 Taunt .= ‘
2 Fleece 42 invents 54 Pompous walk 61 Healthy 3
3 Change 45 Extent 0t 56 Gigantic person 63 Opera melody  -
4 Lent of grass activity 57 Leg part 64 Jump 3
5 That woman 47 Fabric threads 58 What 66 TV unit ‘
6 Weight 50 Mowing sweeps 59 Makes mistakes 67 Water barrier

 

 

    

 BERKY’S i............
  at use In Truck Stop

Snow White
Rated G
Sat. 10:30 a.m.
Sat. & Sun. 12:30 & 2:30 p.m.

Free Willy
Rated PG
Showing Dail at 7 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. :35 p.m.

  

  BREAKFAST
 BUFFET

-135°“ ,‘,3‘t’ef,sR‘° He" Friday & Saturday Nights
8
Showing Daily at 9:30 p.m. T1 p.m. to 4 a.m. ‘
“All You Can Eat” Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
"°"“’M“ESS ""°"” Route 11 North Open 24 Hours 463-3478

@.00 OF POPCORN $3.9

 

 

 

$2.00 off all CDs, $1.00 off all Cassettes

Come try_ our Quick-Draw game. Buy $10 worth of tradin cards and/or comics & ggayll

Win %1:1ZCS ran in from movie rentals to a $25 ift certi icacate. Horror movies (2.
New s ipment 0 -shirts. Just Arrived!! $16.99 ncludin Looney Tunes, Blind Melon,
Ren & Stimpy, and Cyprus 1 1.

EM; i_11”si*,c% 9"llih”ii”sfl

Bodeans — Go Slow Down
Alabama - Chea Seats
Geor e Clinton - ey Man
Common read - Songs 0 the Eagles
Juvenile Committee - Free s Colored Kids
DJ Jazzy Jeff - Code Red
Lemonheads — Come On, Feel
Leaders of the New School - TI.M.E.
Swervedriver - Mezcal

Stonewall S uare ShoIpping Center
xin to
463-9 00

 

 

  

 

 

  

   

  

 

..— ~    '.
I SAID ELEVEN ~ /’ 4 '
Uﬁﬁll _’ _
‘ HAPPY MEALS. ‘ _ ' -I;
| _§‘(\\_7{-", / A ‘.1

 
    

 
    

on . '7'
my 4,. 3,__ _¥..  .
§

1 ~1>

 g-
..ﬁfy_«4k~.'  “F

    

   

  
  

‘/F‘  
 =-as -
 ,,.“isf‘.l‘.i'\\*‘.1 '

‘,-.\.
" (1%, ‘T’ . 

 

   
 

  

   

  

   1 youd

 

   

like to share your artistic E

talents with W&L; work for

 

the Phi, be one of our car- "=

 

toonists, take the plunge.

 

C’mon. '2

 

 

 

Also, if it’s not too much trouble,

 

 

we are looking for some good fea-

 

 

ture iceas; so all you people that -

 

 

 

worked on your high school

 

 

paper, or even if you didn’t, be ,

 

 

creative for us. Please.

 

 

Call us with your ideas. 462-4060.

 

 

    
 

I

he Rln -tum Phi October 15 1993

00

A (IHosE WHO CANT. 911‘ IN THEIR DORH
   AND EAT HACARONI *3 CHEESE.)

a>.4<"" “ ""‘ “‘

Q"*KT¢'& cu?
"""‘ 30 Wrrcp.
I

Vlotrssro

C“ff§f A", No L":‘_
Hf‘/-' V” YOUR Noo .

N.r_,

WT THC (g”_

If ou vow 601 IT,
oar IT.‘"

0 I993 GKEDIWOOD TKWT (OHMNY, HLHVEK FN( ﬁﬂllﬂ KTWORK

PAGE 8

Ellie "ﬁling-tum Iﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Close but... not

No one got arrested.

The 38er Alligators donated $25,000 to the University
AND,sponsored a sky-diver for half-time.

The football team played really well, at least for the first
half.

Seems like it would have been a close to perfect Home-
coming. But it wasn’t. Close, but no cigar. And we can’t
think of a good reason why it couldn’t have been perfect.

Few students may have realized there were a couple of
ﬂoats missing from the Homecoming parade. They were
not missing because of a last minute construction disaster or
a ﬂat tire. They were missing because some students
decided to totally disregard one important rule for partici-
pating in the parade: no alcohol.

Apparently, students on two ﬂoats decided they could
ignore that little rule. No one can claim ignorance of the rule
as a defense either. Many students will tell you the Lexing-
ton police made it absolutely clear to them alcoholwas not
an option on a parade ﬂoat. The parade ﬂoat registration
materials also made this very clear.

So why did a few students decide to ignore what they were
told? Good question. But what is even more confusing 1S
why they felt it so necessary to have alcohol on a parade ﬂoat
at 1 1 :00 in the morning?

Don’t get us wrong. We are not saying W&L students are
not allowed to have fun. We are not saying alcohol IS an evil g
thing either. But there is a time and a place for alcohol, and
the Lexington Police made it very clear the parade was not

' the right time or place.

The biggest shame in all of this is that students and the
Alumni Office have worked very hard the last two Home-
comings to revive an old W&L tradition. The students who
completely disregarded the alcohol rule just didn’t care. '

They didn’t care about the work Kathekon and the Alumni
Office put into organizing the parade. And they didn’t care

about the work theyhad put into creating their own ﬂoats.

One alarm too many

While the Gaines Hall Revitalization Committee is look-
ing into how to improve life at Gaines we have one more

Book banning exists at W&L too

speculate on it.” Why not? Wh
asked I was told that they sim ly ‘
not want to.” The truth is, ro
book says Hill lied during the Clare
Thomas confirmation hearings. 7
proprietors happen to like Anita
and, as a result, they do not like

be the same as mine.The relevant works
were allowed to be published and dis-
tributed. They are sold in bookstores
across America. They can be found on
the shelves of your local public library.
But should parents decide they don’t
want their children to have unimpeded

By now I’m sure most of you have
seen the display in the University Book-
store. For those of you who haven’t,
there is a table loaded with books that
were supposedly denied the privileges
of the First Amendment. In each one is
a card titled, “This Book Was Banned!,”

The fundamental question is who gets
to decide what children can and can’t
see. The problem with school libraries
is they are one place that a ‘parent
cannot screen the material a child sees.
If a family goes to a bookstore or a
public library, the parents can see what

 

_ . . accom anied accesstocer- the children are readin .But at school, book. In fact, last ear the re on
thmg for them ti) look Into: the ﬁre a1armS' d by an e)i’plana— tain materi- children can checkoutiooks and leave called it “trash.” llvlaybe it ispn’t
Llvlng ln Games can, have 3' l~0_t 9f pe_rkS' But Stu_ ems tion ofthe hei- als, some el- them there, far away from the prying speech they are concerned zﬂiout
living jg..Q_aines  tell you adeflmte. disadvantage 15 the nous crime. ements (like eyesof parents. It only makes sense,“ Wmuch asfreedoni fortheirsortofspe
fire,ai.m.m__1t haS.av[‘§n‘d‘e,‘nCy, (of go off: at ,4‘a‘.m,. It usually: Yellow ‘Sl'l'~lpS‘ _ RYAN the propri—. then, thai parents are concerned about_ ‘The feminist rhetoric ‘of M
b for bout lsminutes»-and then it gets turned 0ff_ But, marked -Cau- etors of the what is in those libraries. What if  Angelou is championed while con
uzzes a . . 1 -11 t tbuzzin tion”surround DENNARD Bookstore) happen to find these “banned” books vative political works are scorned.
fest assllfeds llllle out of 10 “mes the a arm W1 S at g the display, suddenl cry perfectly acceptable? If several other is not what the First Amendment i
- ’94 ’
again. _ and a large censorship. parentsobjecttoaceitainpiece,Iwould about. Maybe our local non-part
AS most W&L students remember,It1l1ie fibre alarms are a postqrl VVl’1]ll'l & b Okneofdthe still bs frporetahan lﬁappyAtpt seelit rfei cthalptefr of the ACl_.UfSl;lt(1)uld bok
- d t . e uzz at stran e airy— aec ar- oo son is- move om e sc oo. er a ,i i. n airness, one o e proprie
problem m the frilzlshmen orms 00 y g acters, read- play is Maya want my children to read it, I can al- stressed to me that they would 0
hours there as we ' ing, “Who’s Angelou’s 1 ways get it at the local library. That the book if I requested it. “We’re

But they dOI1’t_lllSt ring ln the middle of the night’ All too Afraidof Snow White, MotherGoose,” Know Why the Caged Bird Sings. way, everybody is happy. This is not a censoring your right to read it,”

The Ring-tum Phi, October 14, 199.

often they go off in the middle of the afternoon and stay on

for a while. dentally: “People who ban books. to black women and is a significant just common money to
. - - - a 1 th That’s who.” figure in contemporary American lit— sense. it in sgick.
‘.An.d umverslty Ofﬁclals Wong? why we don t cave 6 When I first saw it, I was surprised erature. Why then, was her book re- Whatdoesn’t isn’tthisstil
bulldlng when the alarm goes  _' , _ , . by the large number of books on the moved from a ninth-grade required make sense is worsethanv
ll’S 5lmPle- W&L Students llvlllg lll lllllvelslly llouslllg display. I own a copy of By Way of readinglistandtheshelvesofaneighth— our Bookstore’s These crusaders of public sch
are tired of having their sleep disturbed by 0i)nOX10uS_ flfe Deception.‘ The Making and Unmak— grade classroom? Maybe _it.was b_e— hypocrisy.They freedom feel c0mf0rt_ have done.
alarms has not like We get that much Sleep as It 1S_ Besldes, mg of a Mossad Officer, the only book cause of_the passage describing child have set them- _ _ _ . leastthesch
' in recent years to be subjected to prior molestation: “Mr. Freeman pulled me selves up as able l‘aCtlClIl Olltlcal are rotec
d 1 ff so fre uentl the no longer have any . . P
they ran om  go 0 . (1 y y h b restraint, and thatcourt orderwas over— to him and put his hand between my champions of a censorship on the adults childr n.
impact. The flre alarms 111 the llomls have become t e 0y turned in all of a couple of hours. So, legs....He threw back the blankets and free press, at- . . . you and I r
0 cried wolf one too man times. curious where the bookstore had found his ‘thing’ stood up like a brown ear of tacking arents’ of thls llnlVeI'Slty- need to be
wh Y , P
If someone is actually planning fire drills in the middle of so many violations of freedom of the corn. He took my hand and said, ‘Feel efforts to limit tected?
the ni ht Someone else needs to Sit down and have a long press, I was inspired to investigate fur- it. ‘It was mushy and squir_my like the their children s If the B(
g_ ’ _ , . d 1 O-n off ther. I quickly discovered that most of inside of a freshly killed chicken.Then exposure to store pro
talk Wlth h1m- If the flle alarms are Just ran om y g 1 g the little “This Book Was Banned!” he dragged me on top of his chest with morally ques— etors were

then maybe we should have someone take a look at them. If
they go off when there isn’t fire, what are they going to do
if there ever is a fire? More importantly, will anyone be able
to tell if it is real or not?

Quote of the week

This is great, but it’s made out to Washington and Lee
University.

——President Wilson during the halftime ceremony when
the 38ers presented him with a $25,000 check

‘Lillie ﬁling-mm lﬂlii

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . .2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  Phil Carrot!

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Richard Weaver

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

' is otherwise independent.
Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
' Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Columns, letters, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
coun definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
703 462-4060

etc., towers over it. The answer, inci-

cards read something like this: “Book
ABC by John Doe was removed from
the school library in Smalltown, Kan-
sas, after parents complained of its
profanity and sexual content.”

Of course, some weren’t actually
“removed”; they may have been “ob-
jected to” or “reviewed by the school
board.” This is when I clued in to the
fact that their idea of banned might not

Angelou writes about themes relevant

his left arm, and his right hand was
moving so fast and his heart was beat-
ing so hard that I was afraid that he
would die.”

While child abuse is an issue that
needs to be addressed, I’m not sure that
I want my thirteen-year-old addressing
it in that context. The truth is, I don’t
care whether parents are objecting to
Playboy or Little Red Riding Hood.

violation of the First Amendment. It is said. They just don’t want to use

 

. adults of this university. Try going into

tionable material. Nonetheless, these
crusaders of freedom feel comfortable
practicing political censorship on the

cemed about being able to sell

But that is not what this is all abou
when you go into our University B
store and see the proprietors we
their “I Read Banned Books” pins
them if they have read The Real

the Bookstore and picking up a copy of
The Real Anita Hill, by David Brock.
You can’t, because it’s not there.
Though this is a widely sold book, the
proprietors of our local establishment
are “just not using their resources to

tive political views? The progiet
the Bookstore. That’s who.

Candidate’s views could backfir

Ever since Thomas Jefferson drafted the Virginia
statute of Religious Freedom in 1786, religious groups
in Virginia have enjoyed a liberty of conscience

unequaled by most coun-
tries. Even those religious

children.

groups who have tried to
restrict the liberty of con-
science of others have en-
joyed the benefits of
Jefferson’s law.

Thomas Jefferson real-
ized his statute of Religious

 

ANDREW
SCHNEIDER,
’94

Freedom and the Constitu-
tional guarantee to religious
liberty would not be self-

enforcing. Each successive generation of Virginians
would have to maintain the “etemal vigilance” that,
as Thomas Jefferson said, is “the price of liberty.”
Especially today, Virginians cannot afford to take
their inherited freedoms for granted. Pat Robertson’s
Virginia-based Christian Coalition would love to
impose its religious morals on others if only it could
elect its members to political office. Already the
Christian Coalition has managed to infiltrate the
ranks of the Republican party. In this year’s Virginia
state elections, dozens of candidates, affiliated to
varying degrees with the Christian Coalition, are
running as Republicans. The most prominent of those
candidates is the Republican contender for Lieuten-

ant Governor, Michael Farris.

Michael Farris, a 41 year old lawyer and member
of the Christian Coalition, was the treasurer for Pat
Robertson’s 1988 presidential campaign. He also
worked for the Moral Majority in Washington state
before he settled down in Virginia 10 years ago.
Currently, Farris is the president of the Home School
Legal Defense Association, an organization he
founded to support families who educate their own

taxpayers to subsidize re-
ligious schools and
thereby religions to
which they do not sub-
scribe.

State support of reli-
gious education is an is-
sue that has been around
for a long time. In 1784,
Patrick Henry proposed
a bill in the Virginia leg-
islature to provide state
funding for religious
education. The bill if en-
acted, would have re-
quired taxpayers to des-
ignate a church to re-
ceive a proportionate al-
location of state funds.

The Farris campaign captured national attention
when the candidate denounced public schools as a
“godless monstrosity,” “val-
ues indoctrination centers”
and “a multi-billion dollar in-
culcation machine.” Farris,
who with his wife Vicki, has
educated their eight children
at home for 12 years, would
support a state tax credit of
up to $2000 per child for the
cost of public, private, paro-
chial or home schooling.

This tax credit proposal,
which he calls “educational choice” would deal a
heavy blow to our liberty of conscience by forcing

James Madison, also a Virginia state legislator at
the time, responded to Henry’s bill by writing his

famous A Memorial and Remonstrance A
Religious Assessments . In this document, Ma
declared that religion “must be left to the convi
and conscience of every man.” He added th
legacy of government support of religion mo
to “superstition, bigotry and persecution.

Madison’s arguments not only helped to d
Henry’s bill but they also laid the intellectual
dations for the Constitutional ban against an e
lishment of religion. The Virginia General A
bly enacted Jefferson’s bill for Religious Fre
in place of the defeated Henry bill.

Michael Farris andthe Christian coaiiimns
take a second look at Virginia’s rich history
provides more than a few lessons on religiou'
erty. They may perhaps be unaware of the fac
religion ﬂourishe
when not subsidi
supported by the
Today most ou
which support rel
are also centers 0
gious strife, like
em Ireland and B

Moreover,
Robertson and Mi
Farris may iﬁt r
they could beco
victim of their
goals. State fundi
Farris’s home s
and Christian Coa
schools might als
clude fundiqig
“hard core feminist” and witchcraft school.
this in mind, Robertson and Farris would pro
be much lessenthusiastic about “educationalch

This tax credit proposal,
which he calls “educational
choice” would deal a heavy blow
to our liberty of conscience by
forcing taxpayers to subsidize
religious schools and thereby
religions to which they do not
subscribe.

Real Anita Hill, I would urﬂierst

Hill. After all, who’s afraid of alte

O

   

e nm - -tum Pin, October 14, 1993 OPINION PAGE 9
I
arriage tou 'nsp' gr db 1
b 3 t . . .77 u .
I R«EAM LAND ¥2’$'.i.'§$’.'.“ 5.2313: .o°§2??§.’.i"y“f§f 54%.: “ii G13. it to the Lexington P... i.‘§,°§i?.?.2’.hZ".‘3?3.i§'55'..g,‘$1’."§'§..i“§f.I§
. and Dad Experience Lexington From Office to use to deliverthe mail (Sorry, street and for eating the shrubbery on
Richard weaver The Viewpoint Of A Native (you). I forgot; that’s what they use now.) Henry Street. How do you plead?  Resumes

Whenever the bookstore gift shop 3) Old-Fashioned Hay Ride/Wok DEFENDANT : Naaaaaaaay (De-

I’m positive that by now you’ve
en the horse-and-carriage that ferries
urists around our lovely little city-
-thO—interstate, showing them the
rious local historical sites, such as
onewall Jackson house, Lee Chapel,
e old graveyard, VMI, the friendly
all, Taco Bell, The Palms, and Letitia
.te Evans Dining Hall. If you haven’t Us
en the horses, close your eyes and
ke apdeep breath.

That

ceases to amuse them, you better have
a “Plan B.” How does that carriage tour
sound now?

On our carriage tour, guided by a
graduate of Our Name Is Now South-
ern Virginia Col-
lege for Women
So Start Calling T‘-———-—:
(or Better start cleaning
“Sem,” for short), '
my family and 1

ing Hall.

I feel that this is an appropriate time
to admit that I love the name “Letitia,”
and when I was accepted by W&L and
found out it was
the name of the
dining hall, I
i m m e d ia t e l y
sent in my de-
posit for that

y0lll' I'00IIlS DOW because

Night from the Letitia Pate Evans Din-

fendant sticks head in bag of oats).

I started thinking also that the car-
riage tours might be a great source of
revenue for the city of Lexington. Since
there is a car tax assessed on W&L
students, why not have a horse tax
assessed on the carriage tours?

Perhaps it could be ﬁgured on a per-
hoof basis or on terms of the riders and
wear-and—tear on the streets. Perhaps
even, toll stations could be set up along

You ask yourself, why would any- leamedwhattem- you’ve got a scant tW0 reason, Not the [our route to collect the tax;

e take a carriage tour of a city no perature bricks weeks to get ready for only that, but TOLL COLLECTOR: OK,
ggerthanaDisney World parking lot were glazed at to Mom and Dad E . “Letitia” is just you’ve got two horses, a tour guide,
he“ ‘hey Could easily Wfilk? find I be used_for Lex- _ XPe1°|' a fun word to four tourists, three of which are over-
ould zlmtswfetr yoiti. by sayirsigz. T'll‘iey lngi0l'll]SldCWalll:S, ence Lexlngton From say. Try it. weight, and one of which is from New
ve a o 0 rec ime an in eir as we asatw at - - Letitia. Letitia. Jerse and w ‘

» . . The View oint Of A . . 3’ ‘‘'‘‘"‘“g 3
nd exact incline _ P Letitia. Letitia. “DUBYUHNELL”T- h'rt. Let’ 
Now before I dig too deep a hole, I Main Street used Native (you). See? that will be $6.50. S 1 ssee
ill admit that,OK,lhave taken one of tobeinthe1800’s. Speaking of HORSE: Naaaaaaaaay (The horse
ese tours, butlfeel obliged to add the Now where else fun words, on startsgnawingontollcollector’spants).
sclaimerthat it wasasadiversion for can you gain such our carriage OK, there are a few “kinks” in the

a me visiting relatives, and not for my
rsonal enrichment.
You say to me, indignantly, “Rich-
d, l‘vould never go on one of these
urs, for any reason, even if Tom
espos held a gun to my head.” And I
-A y to you, “Wait until Parent’s Week-
. d.” And you say, “Oh, no,” to which
add, “Oh, yes.” Better start cleaning

Q

knowledge? Throughout the tour, my
mind began to wander as to what prac-
tical applications could be made of the
horse-and-carriage transportation sys-
tem. I came up with the following:

1) Use it to replace W&L Security’s
Suzuki ﬂeet. (JOE STUDENT: “Try
and tow my car away with that horse!”
W&L SECURITY: “High ho, Silver,

about it:

tour, we heard quite a few from Lex-
ington motorists. It seems that the car-
riages are immune to traffic laws and
may go through red lights, switch lanes
without signaling, double-park, etc.
with no fear. And there’s not anything
that the Lexington legal system can do

JUDGE: Sir, you are charged with

system, but that’s not to say it’s all bad.
And, OK, I probably shouldn’t have
spent so much time thinking while tak-
ingthistour. But seriously,the carriage
tour is something worth doing at least
once during your four years here. You
can even tell your grandchildren about
it.
Naaaaaaaay.

LETTERS

roject Horizon Depression symptoms can
‘"398 awareness be diagnosed, helped

0 the editor:

October has been recognized as Domestic Vio-
enc9Awareness Month. Project Horizon would like
0 encourage students to join us in our efforts to end
he terrifying cycle of family violence.

Project Horizon is a non-profit organization which
erves Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge

ounty. We are committed to increasing our
ommunity’s awareness of domestic violence and to
rovﬁie information and support to families afﬂicted
ith this widespread disease. Our direct services to
ndividuals in our community include:

1) a 24-hour hotline for information and referral.

2) emergency shelter within the community for
ictims and their children.

3) long-term shelter outside the community.

Alysupport groups to help individuals understand
heir situation and to regain control of their lives.

5) assistance in court for those who choose to
ursue relief within the legal system.

6) Teen Dating Violence program presented to
«- ighth graders in area schools as a part of the state-

andated Family Life Curriculum.

7@ ongoing educational programs presented to
ivic and community agencies who serve battered
omen.

If you would like to join Project Horizon in its
~ffort to aid troubled families, there is a great need for
volunteers. Phone volunteers provide three days or
nights per month as a volunteer advocate (calls are
aut atically transferred to your home) working
ano ymously to give out information, coordinate
emergency services, and often just to listen with an
understanding ear.

A training program for volunteers will be held in
November. Anyone who is interested in learning
more about Project Horizon is invited to a special
gathering on Friday, Oct. 22 from 5-7:00 p.m.

1! our country, a woman or child is victimized by
domestic violence once every 15 seconds. We cannot
accept this. Can you?

Lisa Coffey
Executive Director, Project Horizon, Inc.

C

MY VIEW

DR. JAMES W. WORTH

College counseling services consistently will tell
you depression is the “common cold” of mental
health problems on campus. lt’s not a question of
whether or not you’ll become depressed but when,
how intensely and for how long.

Fortunately, most students who become depressed
experience it only as a temporary case of the blahs, a

bad day or perhaps even a bad week. Usually this kind, ..

of depression is a reaction to some sense of loss,
which has emerged in the normal course of daily
events.

More than a simple disappointment, this brief
reactive depression could be triggered by a low exam
grade, a stormy romance, troubles at home or peer
problems on campus. Homesickness, a very common
experience among freshmen, is a form ‘of depression
caused by the “loss” of one’s daily routine and contact
with home. For most students, homesickness disap-
pears within a few days or weeks as they develop a
new set of friends and a new routine at school.

Recognizing depression, either in yourself or oth-
ers, can be difficult. Feeling sad is not the same thing
as being depressed.

Symptoms of Depression

Depression is often accompanied by a numbing of
feeling. The depressed person is apt to deny being
depressed but will instead say that he or she has been
tired, less energetic, not as well organized as usual and
perhaps even lethargic. Depressed individuals find
the things in life they used to enjoy no longer hold the
same appeal.'I'hey typically have changes in their
eating and sleeping patterns. Some, especially those
who are mildly to moderately depressed, may eat and
sleep considerably more than what is normal or usual
for them.

But as depression deepens, sleep usually become
fitful and disturbed, often with a pattern of waking up

nterviews and Photos
y.Joe Framptom

TALKBACK

 

early in the morning and not being able to go back
to sleep again. Appetite drops off and weight loss
can occur. Sexual interest may diminish, too.

Depressed people frequently find their sense of
confidence is lower, and they blame themselves for
things. They won’t believe or accept the compli-
ments others give them. Although depressed people
desperately need the emotional reassurance and
support of their friends, they often become irritable
and somewhat withdrawn, which discourages oth-
ers from approaching them.

This can be something of a vicious cycle. The
depressed person has trouble seeing their decreas-
ing contact with, others .is not a rejection but is the
reaction they themselves have provoked.

Often accompanying depression are physical
symptoms that are not associated with an actual
disease. Headaches, stomachaches, backaches, skin
reactions, constipation or diarrhea and chronic fa-
tigue are the kinds of symptoms campus physicians
report hearing from students.

Anxiety and tension are also typical among
those who are depressed. Acute or intense bouts of
anxiety, known as panic attacks, are especially
common among those with moderate to severe
depressions.

Suicidal Thinking

The symptom of depression that is most fright-
ening to others is the emergence of suicidal think-
ing. Almost no one seriously contemplates suicide
who is not significantly depressed. Although most
people who threaten to commit suicide usually
don’t actually do it, most who have killed them-
selves did threaten to do so. Consequently, no
suicidal threat should be taken lightly.

One other statistic is worth keeping in mind.
Males threaten suicide less than females but actu-
ally succeed in killing themselves more frequently.

One of the real fears and misperceptions is if you
have a friend who you know is depressed, you

Political consultant Lance
Tarrance, ’63, will discuss current
trends in U.S. public opinion on
Tuesday, Oct. 19 at 8:00 p.m. in
Room 327 of the C-school. For more
information please contact Chuck
Erdman at 462-4359.

Women’s Forum

October is Rape Awareness
Month. Women’s Forum will
present “Deﬁning Rape and Sexual
Misconduct,” with Dean Anne
Schroer-Lamont on Sunday, Oct.
17 at 6:30 p.m. in the Arlington
Women’s Center. All women and
men are invited to join the discus-
sion.

Alcohol

What effect does alcohol have
on your ability to learn and remem-
ber? More than you might realize.
Find out on Monday, Oct. 18, at
8:00 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.
“Alcohol and Memory — A
Neuroscientist’s Perspective,” will
be presented by Scott Swartzwelder,
Ph.d. — a leading researcher on alco-
hol and the brain from Duke Uni-
versity. '

Hillel

The Hillel Society will present
“Peace and the Accord,” a speech
by Fred Lazin of Ben-Gurion Uni-
versity, in Northen Auditorium at
8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, Oct. 19.

Interviews

The final practice interviews for
seniors for this term will be held on
Wednesday, Oct. 20. Sign up for a
time in the Career Development and
Placement Office.

Test Inventory

There will be a career test inter-
pretation session for those who have
completed the Myers Briggs, Strong
Campbell test inventories on Thurs-
day, Oct. 21, at 3:00 p.m. in Room
109. Call the secretary in CDPO if
you plan to attend this session.

All seniors should be reminded
that the resume drop deadline for
November companies is Friday,
Oct. 15 at 4:00 p.m. in the CDPO.

SLAC

All seniors interested in partici-
pating in the SLAC job fairs in
January should be advised that the
resume drop deadline for partici-
pating in these job fairs is Friday,

Oct. 22. Stop by the CDPO for more ‘

information.

Office Hours

The CDPO will have extended
office hours the week of Oct. 18.
The ofﬁcewill reopen nightly (Mon-
day-Thursday) from7:00-9:00p.m.
for seniorswishing to review SLAC
materials and submit resumes for
the job fairs in January. '

O O '
Exhlblt

Selected works from the art col-
lection of the late J. Keith
Shillington will be on exhibit in the
duPont Gallery from Oct. 19
through Nov. 11. A panel discus-
sion titled “A celebration in Memory
of Keith Shillington” and opening
reception for the exhibit will be
held Tuesday, Oct. 26, at 5:00 p.m.
in the gallery. The public is invited
to attend.

Concert

The W&L Alumni Association
and the department of music will
present Robert Vienneau, painist,
in recital at the Lenfest Center on
Tuesday, Oct. 19 at 8:00 p.m. The
concert is free and open to the pub-
lic. A reception will follow at the
Alumni House.

Phi

The Phi will hold its weekly
storyboard meeting on Tuesdays,
7:00 p.m. in Room 208 of the Uni-
versity Center. All interested in
writing are invited to attend.

General Notes are compiled by Richard Weaver.

I» See SUICIDE, page10

Student Body Notices

1) Two students have been found guilty of cheating on a ﬁnal exam
during the 1993 Spring Term exam period. Both students have chosen to

withdraw from the university.

2) A student has been found guilty of copying another student’s
computer program during the 1993 Spring Term and has chosen to

withdraw from the university.

If you Were doing Talkback this Week, What
question would you ask?



arah Aschenbach, ‘95, Potomac,
d. —- “Whose face would you most
‘ant to see on the back of a milk
rton?”
0

Ben LaBrecque, ‘97, Clinton, NY.
—— “Now who are you going to vote for
in ‘96?”

Shannon Jones, ‘94, East Hampton, NY., and Carrie Southgate, ‘95,
Rivervale, NJ. -— “Whose face would you most like to carve on your
Halloween pumpkin and why?”

Paul Howe, ‘96, Cortland, NY. —
“What do you dislike most about the
Trident?”

Sasha Hartman, ’97, Princeton, NJ.
— “Why don’t squash balls bounce?”

  

PAGE 10

 

How to recognize symptoms of suicide, depression

I» SUICIDE, from page 9

should never raise the question of
possible suicide because that would
put the idea into his or her head. Actu-
ally, just the opposite is true. By giving
a depressed friend the opportunity to
discuss any suicidal feelings he or she
might have, you can reduce the likeli-
hood that your friend will actually take
his or her own life.

If you have a friend who is de-
pressed and who makes some kind of
suicidal threat or even broad hint he
might prefer death over life, don’t ig-
nore the possibility. Sit down with your
friend and let him talk about it. Try to
be as accepting and calm as you possi-
bly can.

In such a situation, if you get upset
or start trying to give a little lecture
about how wrong it would be for him to
actually do something to himself, you
will cut off the communication pro-
cess. Instead, quietly and patiently in-
vite him to tell you how he feels.

Don’t worry about having answers
for his problems. He has to work out his
own answers. You can be helpful sim-
ply by listening and by accepting his
feelings.

Don’t hesitate to ask directly if he
has ever thought about hurting him-
self, especially if he has brought the
subject up first. In particular, find out
how detailed his plans may be. Some-
one who has only vague or general
thoughts about self-destruction is in
less danger than one who has selected

a time, place, and means for ending his
life.

You can even ask a person to rate
the chances of taking his own life — 10
percent likelihood, 50 percent or higher.
While even a low estimate must be
taken seriously, someone who says the
chances are 50 percent or higher would
be considered overtly suicidal.

It probably seems very strange to
think of yourself talking to a friend
about these kinds of things. Probably,
it is something that won’t ever happen.
But it could. Thinking about it in ad-
vance will make it easier for you to act
in a purposeful, helpful way.

How To Help A Sui-
cidal Friend

So, what is your worst fears are
confirmed? What if your friend shares
with you that he indeed is depressed
and has a strong desire to end it all?
What should you do?

First of all, take a deep breath, relax
and remember one important thing.
Your friend would not have confided
in you in there weren’t a big part ofhim
that wanted to live. Otherwise, your
friend would have simply gone out and
done away with himself. That you have
even been told is a sign that a healthy
part of that depressed person is mobi-
lized and wants to get help.

This is one time when you must not
worry about breaking confidences or
appearing to be a tattletale. Sooner or
later, you are going to have to see that

his information is passed on to some-
one who can help your friend.

If your friend is willing to go to a
minister, physician or mental health
professional, or to a college adminis-
trator or faculty member, then all you
need to do is make sure he gets there.
After that, you are off the hook.

But if he refuses to do that, you need
to be prepared to tell someone on your
own. That may seem to be unfair in one
sense, especially if your friend told you
his problems in strictest conﬁdence.
But death is irreversible, and so are
many forms of injury that people can
inadvertently inﬂict upon themselves
in a failed suicide attempt.

He may not realize it at the time, but
your going to someone else could save
your friend ’s life or health. You simply
have to trust that one day he will be
healthy and mature enough to recog-
nize what you were faced with. Most
likely, he will be very grateful to you.

If you sense a fellow student really
could attempt suicide in the immediate
future, do not leave him alone. Call a
friend or some responsible person on
campus. Stay with your depressed
friend until he has been taken for help.
Explain to him what you are doing.

Tell him honestly if you are fright-
ened, and don’t be ashamed of that. He
has told you something that is very
frightening. But don’t blame or criti-
cize him for his self-destructive feel-
ings. He already is loaded with guilt.
Simply tell him you value him and will
not allow him to do anything hannful,
even if that’s what he truly feels he

 

Room available with three
sophomores - $140 mo. Nice 5
bedroom house located 7 miles
past soccer ﬁeld. Contact Tom

Donnelly (703)464-8628 or Mrs.
Doris Mahanay (703)232-3854

(Rome, GA).

 

Groups & Clubs

Raise up to $500 - $1500 in less
than a week. Plus Win a trip to
MTV Spring Break ‘94 and get
a FREE T-shirt just for calling.
1-800-950-1039

Horse Boarding “

Lazy Acres: 9 stall barn, new lighted
arena, excellent turnout, new fencing,
miles of trails, and conveniently located
4 miles from Rt. 11 South, 2 miles from
the Virginia Horse Center on 39 West,
across from Long's campgrounds. $225
per month includes stalls cleaned and
bedded, light daily grooming, turnout blanketing, feed,
and water. Pasture board available at $100 per month
per horse. Riding lessons and horse training available
from qualified personnel. Call (703) 463-1636 and

leave a message.

 

Chicken Burrito / Black
Bean Tostada / Cheese
Enchilada / Beef Fajita
Alldinners $5.49

 
 

  

'3‘ I0. ! u.s. Depanment at Transportation

OPINION

wants to do. If the depressed friend
does not appear immediately suicidal
but you suspect that he could become
so in the future, see if he will make a
“non-suicide agreement” with you.
Even if this seems silly, it has been
shown to be a very powerful helping
technique.

Ask the person to promise you he
won’t do anything self-destructive for
a specified period of time. It could be a
day or a week, or even longer. Get him
to commit to this, even in writing. This
promise, though made to you, is actu-
ally a covenant with himself. It is not an
absolute guarantee, of course, but is a
very important commitment that many
depressed and suicidal people will
honor.

During the time you have bought
with the non-suicidal pact, you can do
everything in your power to get the
student to a counselor or some other
person who can help. Or, if he refuses,
you can talk to a counselor or dean
about the problem.

Treatment of Depression

Depression can be treated and over-
come. The simple reactive depressions
we all occasionally experience usually
go away with the passing of time. A
good long chat with a friend or a call
home to a parent may speed the process
along. When the depression seems to
be lasting longer than two to three
weeks, it might be helpful to talk with
someone in your campus counseling
service. The people there are trained to

The Ring-tum Phl, October 15, 1993

deal with what you are experiencing
and will probably be able to help.

Some depressions are biological in
nature, meaning there is a physical
reason for them. No amount of talking
will make this kind of depression go
away because it isn’t a matter of ac-
cepting or dealing with factors in the
outside world. Rather, it is a matter of
an imbalance in body chemistry.

Fortunately, there are a variety of
antidepressant medications which can
be prescribed that are often quite help-
ful. New medication that has hit the
market shows special promise of alle-
viating depression without producing
disruptive side effects.

Antidepressant medication is not
like an aspirin that works in 15 or 20
minutes. It may take as long as four to
six weeks to build up in the blood
stream and produce maximum results.
The newest antidepressant works faster
than older ones, but the effects are still
not going to belinstantaneous.

If there are panic attacks, these, too,
can be reduced by medication. Tran-
quilizers, such as Xanax, are frequently
prescribed, and they do work quickly.
Panic attacks are disruptive and fright-
ening. If you’ve never had one before,
you may think you are having a heart
attack or even going crazy.

The feelings are extreme dread and
fear. Your heart may beat wildly, your
hands get cold, and you may have
tightness in your chest. The feelings
build up to a sort of climax, then taper
off, leaving you feelingtenseand spent.
Panic attacks are extremely unpleas-

   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
     
    
   
  
   
      
    
  
   
    
   
   
        
   
     
  
   
   
    
      
      
     
    
  
   
    
    
    
     
    
  
     
    
   
      
     
  
   
    
   
    

6

ant.'If you have having any symptom:
like these, depression is a definite pos
sibility. '

Drugs and alcohol are particularl;
tough on depressed people. Getting
high produces a brief euphoria tha
gives a sudden, temporary sense 0'
relief from the depression. The hook i:
that alcohol and many drugs, espe-
cially marijuana, are themselve9 de-
pressants. lt’s like trying to put out 2
ﬁre by pouring gasoline on it.

Many suicides that do occur are
done under the inﬂuence of a sub-
stance. So if you are depressed, b
especially cautious about any form 0
chemical use. It may seem like it lnlps,
but it could be pushing you deeper intc
the problem.

Maybe the bottom line on all of this
is simply to recognize that mild depres-
sion is probably going to come into the
lives of us all from time to time. We
learn special ways to cope wiﬁi it.
Whether we simply wait it out, talk t
a friend, go on a shopping spree 0|
distract ourselves by becoming more
deeply immersed in our regular activi-
ties, any non-destructive coping tech-
nique is okay.

However, if we find that after sev-
eral weeks the depression hasn’t l ed,
it might be time to see a mental health
professional. He or she really can help.
There is no need to simply let natur
take its course when treatment exists
that can greatly speed up the recovery
process. .

© Dr. James W. Worth, 1993

. Iver Get A Pal
Smashed!

   
 

 

FRIENDS DDN'l [El FRIENDS
DRIVE DRUNK.

 
 
   

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Organiza-
tions wanted to promote the Hottest
Spring Break Destinations, call the

nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs l-800-327-6013.

   
 

R FRATS! sononn1i3s:t‘i’¥
sruoem GROUPS!  

Raise as Much as You
Want in One Week’

$100. . .3600. . 31500!
Market Applications for the
hottest creditcard ever-
NEW GM MASTERCARD.
Users eam BIG DISCOUNTS
on GM CARS! Qualify for FREE
T-SHIRT 8: '94 CMC JIMMY.
Call l-800-950-l039,ext. 75.

  

 
   
   
   
       
 
 

  

 

EXCELLENT

EXTRA INCOME NOW! Kl .

::'::.1.":?.*:;z':° -=‘°°-~°°-v-~---
Bvooﬂvn. New York 11230

- IES is the only non-profit teacher placement organization, and there is n_Q__§j1argg to students!‘
For more information contact your career office or call (800)257-5102

lnbmatiomt Inc.
1375 Conny Islmd Ave.

IF YOU WANT TO GET FROM

 

  
 
     
   
   

STUDENT

PARKING

FACULTY

PARKING

 
   
  
   
     

START HERE

We will be visiting Washington and Lee
November 15-16

Want to teach? Consider independent (private) schools!
Over 450 independent schools have job openings every year and many seek the energy and
diversity of recent graduates to ﬁll their positions.

INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES - 353 NASSAU ST. - PRINCETON, NJ 08540 - (800) 257-5102
Email at TEACHIES@AOL.COM

 
  
     
    
  
  
    
    

  
  

 
 

  
  

0
e Rin v -tum Phi, October 15, 1993

 

H o m e c o m I n g
Weekend was the
setting for a few,
firsts in W&L his-
tory. Left: 38ers
cheer on a skydiver
they sponsored for
their55 reunion pre-
sentation to W&L.
Thereunionwasthe
firstt 55-year re-
union in W&L his-
tory.

Right: Ernie Will-
iams, ’38, presents
President John D.
Wilson with a
$25,000 check. The
donation was the
first ever made by a
class for their 55-
year reunion.
Below Left: The
weather gave W&L
a break Saturday.
Below Right: Two
generals watch the
action from the
sidelines. Despite
out performing
Davidson in the sta-
tistics cloumn W&L
still fell short in the
win column.

1
PAGE 11‘-

 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
   

     
 

  

Bring your Horse to

College
Stabling available just Off W&L "
Campus. Full Board/ Large Riding
Arena/ 80 Acres of Trials/
Lessons Available

0

ATTENTION FRESHMEN! !!
~ Remember how important the overnight stay is in
choosing a college? If you didn’t spend the night,
don’t you wish you could have? The Admissions

‘ office is looking for FRESHMEN

HOUSING HOSTS. Phone #’s 463-2194 (Day)
Apply before Nov. 1, Stop by our office for an 463-1859 (Evening)
application.

464-6620 (Barn)

 

DO YOU ENJOY
_ SHOOTING SKEET?



Y"I~
3
N .
Q
§

 

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL  

1 RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington. 

I Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.  and .‘7{e5taurant  . . ,’ .

1 

T‘-I-‘lg  Paella, and Homemade Tortellini. .

 A‘ QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS’ ~“’”’” Sh°°‘ 3“  Si’iz’§§§."irIIL'3 $3r°rI.":§§f,II§sii§.”Iiii§."3§?;i:3‘i§§i§i§:'3§ri1L'i'" . '

angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
« Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot
~ to enjoy a round.
Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment — Closed Tuesc‘: j./s

setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions. Weekend of
October 22nd & 23rd, Tables still available for dinner.
Tuesdays- lnternational Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine
Saturdays— Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Fall / Winter Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00
Carriage House $85.00
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
Call for reservations: 703-463-9715

‘ -. I A Vol ‘eh. I . o ' - 'aO.
: :~' ‘.' '5‘ . ' . "'- :~‘ ‘* -
4.-.5'.‘.*-"’2.--’.-5?-':’.¢"-’-'-'  ‘V-?a.-E .  ..~'--re:

 

 

'.' at...-_ -,-,-3,.” Q...-,
. *':V\,-s r-.55.,-,.,5'; ~.~

   

 

I '3 Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) F‘ If
4' ' ~-

I

I
I
I
I
I

HAD A HOT
OHE LATELY?

Want it hot? We've got it. Saucy Meatball and
hearty Steak & Cheese. Steamin' hot subs
on fresh baked bread with free fixin‘s. it you're
looking for a hot time. come to Subway.

 
 
  
       
    

BUY OHE REGULAR FOOTLOHG HOT
SUB, GET OHE OF EOUAL VALUE FOR

503 E. Nelson St. Lexington, VA 24450

)mMMg_ .-.,..t,.w.»...._..~,.,,.,..,,,,.,.m...,..,..«_,.......;;\;.-¢«..A,,.-.v.....;.,...._._.,-.,,.:..,..;< ,. -4....‘-..-.-.-.w_-.;->-... .  ..

 

   

 I ‘ v ‘ssouaasxau-m«a«.2;«-awwoaxawsvmwnux<:x:.s:~;.y.::.x....z: :.. :«,.2-.:-..~. VI»V

‘Second lootlong sub must be of equal or lesser price. Limii: One coupon
per customer per visit. Not good in combination with any other offer.
- Offer expires:

99¢*

 

PAGE 12

   
  

As junior Bob Phillips looks on, freshmen defensive linemen Robert Hull and Peyton Williams attack the Davidson front line at

Wilson Field in the Generals’ Homecoming game, which Washington and Lee lost 21-14.

Eyes on the ball...

   

 sPORTs

Shut from eomn, fotall struggles Os

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Less than spectacular, dismal, even
failing—All are words that have been
used to describe this year’s Washing-
ton and Lee football team.

With an 0-4 start to the 1993 cam-
paign, the Generals have made most
people forget about the promise that
abounded at the inception of the sea-
son. A 5-4 season last year had many
holding out hopes of a second straight
solid, winning year.

The most recent loss in the General ’s
string was, by far, the most painful.
Leading 14-7 entering the 4th quarter,
W&L looked to be on their way to the
first victory of the year against the
Davidson Wildcats. A two touchdown
rally by the Wildcats spoiled the Gen-
erals hopes however, and left W&L on
the short end of a 21-14 Score.

Senior Tom Mason turned in an
outstanding perfonnance in the loss,
however. Mason rushed for over 100
v _ _ ' . . yards for the second straight week,
'5 _,  _  ' ‘ _ turning in a 135 yard effort. Mason’s
' yardage left him ranked third in the
conference with an average of 92.8
yards per game. The standout senior

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fling-tum Phi -

Volleyball ends slump, wins six .-

By RANSOM JAMES
Phi Staff Writer

to move their record to 11-11.

15-8, 15-11.

matches.

 

Lynchburg15-7, 11-15, 15-5, 15-7.

..,,e,__,  »‘ 

After winning Thursday night against Emory and Henry, the Washington and
Lee volleyball team has raised its record to 13-11.
The Generals posted a 2-2 record this past weekend at the Gouchertoumament

W&L faced Pitt—.lohnstown in the first match of the tournament. Elizabeth
Bahn recorded five kills in the match, but the Generals couldn’t pull it off, falling

The team then got its first taste of victory for the weekend as they Shut down
Messiah 3-15, 15-7, 15-9. Freshman Virginia Yoerg, coming off a great week,
had ten kills to lead the Generals. On the week, Yoerg had 39 kills in just six

After losing to Lebanon Valley 15-13, 15-6 in the third match, the Generals
posted their second victory of the tournament. Yoerg was again the story, getting
eleven kills, as the team pulled it out 15-12, 15-10.

This past week signiﬁed a good start for the Generals as they embarked on a
key ﬁve-game stretch against all ODAC opponents. On Tuesday, W&L defeated

W&L moved its conference record to 3-3. lts three losses have come at the

The Fling-tum Phi, October 1 5.19

  
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
    
  
   
    
   
    
    
    
    
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

lacks only 111 yards from beco =
only the 16th player in W&L histor
rush for 1000 yards in a career.
Once again, freshman Bro
Fischer turned in a solid performa
though not of the caliber of the pr
ous week’s. Fischer threw ﬁn
yards on 10—18passing withtwoto .
downs against two interceptions.
the overall Old Dominion Athl
Conference rankings, Fischer is for
with a rating of 100.2. 1
Another standout for W&L \
sophomore defensive tackle ‘R0
Hull, who racked up two more sack
raise his season total to 7. The Sc ‘
record for Sacks in a season is 10
1991. Hull also leads the team
tackles with 53.
Next week’s game at Hampd
Sydney will determine a great
about the W&L team. A win aga
the 3-2 (2-1 ODAC) Tigers could,
the Generalsbackonthewinningtr
Last year, Washington & Lee won ,
21 in a hard fought affair. A loss wo
virtually guarantee the W&L squ‘
losing season at 0-5. Despiteghe 5
that half the season remains, the W '
football team would be reduced to
cusing on individual milestones.

   

hands of the top three teams in the standings-Bridgewater, Guilford, and Eastern
Menonite. The next three games against ODAC teams give the Generals an
excellent chance to make up some ground.

 
     

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Women's soccer players carefully maneuver around their Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Hing-tum P.

opponent in a game last week.

    

E. Nelson St., Lexington

« ; SHEAR nmme 

Valley gaggle S  Hair Salon Penni ' Gail choosing a college? If you didn’t Spend the night,
., “ V S ecials don’t you wish you could have? The Admissiops ,
Hardware: Paints and Related Items Tanning Special-10 visits for $25.00 OfﬁCeIi_iE§%(iSnig;IO(r;FI_lI{g:EN
$2'00 Off on 3 hot Oil manicure’ A 1 before Nov 1 Stop by our office for an
Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. Good am, 10/31 17 s_ Randolph Ss PP Y 3- alication -
463-2186 464-1145 PP °

  
   
     
   
    
 
    
 
   
   
  
    
  

   
 
 

   
    
  

Mon - Sat
4‘ O M C1 -S t d . . .

53;‘?-'.‘».t:I.:.'.;I.I:t.<v.\3:!.~’.z“::  1<§’3.‘m.7"5:335 p.r3.ur ay 23 N. Mam St.
463-5988

THE FLIES

ci gripping tale of murder and revenge
by Jean-Paul Sartre

Volleyball players prepare to return a serve from Lynchburg.
Qewa

_ ATTENTION FRESHMEN!!!

Remember how important the overnight stay is in

   
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

 

(703) 464-6464

K g

S E N 1 0 R 3 1 ;°' 't.'.s°tt'm'a§,tIt.§..T§t.'..t'a°t° "; F \W 5: -

ARE YOU LOOKING FOR JOBS IN : °°gft;°;';‘§;;jg“°;h?"“ : W&L Art  Lexington
ADVERTISING — CONSULTING — COUNSELING — E Wonk, ‘gs mush hzppié, 3 Signatures:  Shop for
  t§.“t’t‘.‘t‘;§“““ ...:t..:::. :5 Pappagauo

LABORATORY RESEARCH — LAW — MTV — Edgvailfldljl/()aE1eSr1¥)irIl1e RAI?'I>.LiIeIi1Jr'  Ladies ’ Shoes,
PUBLISHING — RETAIL - SALES — SCIENTIFIC -: Clothing and
c 1 t ,h d- 1 d :. a
RESEACH—gg§II;5TSi§§<$f§§s§EACmNG- wt‘?’t“;L..t°t§’.*€:’.*3:.: i’t...t?;‘t .°t‘it?.§f. art :5 Asssssssiss
Sculpture by Ron Tunison :_ .
OVER 156 EMPLOYERS AT SLAC JOB FAIRS Pusup ‘NM~Amm Mary and George Washington pieces :E s
RESUME DEADLINE: ' - E: *
OCTOBER 22 1993 HoursMonJ-‘%::at?‘9‘-'fl.::n' 0 _ . :: 
9 ..__. I:
COME TO CDPO FOR DETAILS! W 463-7969 4 East Washin on Street :;
Lexmgt0ntVA 4450 5: Hours: 10 - 5:390

 
 

France Germany

General Information

011

 

STUDY ABROAD

Tlresda y, October 19

we

     
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

     
     
     
        

England

Meeting

 .......,_.........L,......,,!. - J.!..-...._.. ......._...._..L-

. at . .
. t »._ s g A Spring Term, F1nanc1al 1
Ellen Dean ‘94 (ctytemnestro) & Heather Aussiker ‘94 (Electra) 5 A Semester, or 7 P M  E3
’ = O O .
Oct. 22, 23, 25, 26 & so at 8:00 p.m.   S3 A F“11Yea‘ , AV311ab1e 

           

Oct. 24 & 30 at 2:00 p.m. *
Oct. 29 at 9:00 p.m.

‘JOHNSON THEATRE - LENFEST CENTER
5 ticket reservations463-8000-noon—4:OO p.m.oMor_.I.“-Fri.

111

Denmark

Room 114 University Center

.,...;__.ss..,.,_._..~,.,....« ....t ,..L......-.. _....-N. -r...

  

Gr;*13

 

 
 
 
 
  
   
 

\

y Harrisfeeter

 
 
  

”"‘”‘ ‘WW5’

 

QUALITY AND VARIETY

   

.1‘

U.S.D.A. CHOICE

 BONELESS CHUCK

ROAST

   

1' 199
7 LB.

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS
JUMBO PACK

I-EG
QUART'ER5..l.§.-.

        
     

LIMIT 3
PK GS. WITH
ADDTIONAL
PURCHASE

 

     
  
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
 

. REEN CABBAGE, CUCUMBERS OR

1 EI.I.OlM WHITE OR
 I-COLOR CORN

DIET PEPSI OR
PEPSI COLA

  

I2 PACK
I2 OZ. CANS

PEPSI
v

 

   

I-IARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

  

   
   
  
  
  

" SELECTED VARIETIES

GATORADE

 

   

 

L???” 159
STEW ......................... ..24 oz.

 

  
     
 

RUI-'I-'I.ES

POTATO CHIPS

   

THIRST OUENCHER f,E,‘_=E,C;f,”¢,V,’§,’*+’-§;”E5 3/99
 o VEGETABLES ............ ..i<s-1702..
32 oz.   189
TOOTHPASTE ...... ..6.4—8.2 oz.
' . ’t’/i’i5é%i-‘ii’éi‘i2l T(§UOCRE0)ER 99
BAKED HAM ............. ..LB.
SELECTED VARIETIES SELECTED VARIETIES

FINESSE
HAIR CARE

 

 
    
   

O

  

i5.5-6 oz. 7-no oz.

; CHEESE & PEPPERONI on ORE-IDA TATER T075
. DELUXE GOLDEN FRIES OR

BAGEL BITES GOLDEN CRINKLES

. 2/ 00
14 OZ.

 

   

   
 

    

   

Prices Effective Through October I9, I993

' Prices In This Ad Ettective Wednesday, October] 3 Through Tuesda , October 19 1993. in Lexington County Stores
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To
0

lers. We Glcdiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 15, 1993

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

Standings as of 10/11/93
Men’s Cross Country Women’s Soccer
Overall Records* ODAC Standings
Lynchburg 1 1 -0-0 Randolph-Macon 5-0-0
Eastern Mennonite 5-2-0 Washington and Lee 5-0-1
Hampden-Sydney 8-5-0 Roanoke 6-1-1
Washington and Lee 3-2-0 Va. Wesleyan -2-0
Roanoke 3-3-0 Lynchburg 3-3-O
Bridgewater 3-9-0 Guilford 2-4-0
Randolph-Macon 1-11-0 R-M Woman’s 2-5-0
Sweet Briar 0-7-0
Hollins 0-5-0
Women’s Cross Country
Overall Records*
Volleyball
Roanoke 3-0-0 Overall Records
Emory and Henry 2-0-0
Lynchburg 2-1-0 Brid ewater 14-3
Eastern Mennonite 3-3-0 Guil ord 18-5
Washington and Lee 1-1-0 Eastern Mennonite 14-9
Bridgewater 1-3-0 R-M Women’s College 12-8
Lynchburg 7-7
Washington and Lee 10-11
Men’s Soccer SWCCI Bn'ar 5-7
Overall Records R0aIl0k€ 5-7
Hollins 5-8
Roanoke 12-1-0
Va. Wesleyan 11-1-1
Randolph-Macon 12-2-0 0DXE"§{::(',lingS
Hampden-Sydney 8-4-2
Eastern Mennonite 8-6-0 Guilford 6-0
1-Ynchburg 5'84 Bridgewater 4-0
Emory and Hem)’ 3'-5'0 Eastern Mennonite 4-0
Wa,5hm to“ and Lee 4'7'0 R-M Women’s College 2-3
Gmlfor 2- -1 Hollins 2-3
Bridgewater 1-8-0 Sweet Bria, 2_4
Washington and Lee 1-3
Roanoke 1-3
Men’s Soccer Emory and Henry 1-4
ODAC Standings Lynchburg 0-3
Roanoke 6-0-0
Rando1ph—Macon 5-1-0
Virginia Wesleyan 4-1-0
Eastern Mennonite 3-3-0
Washington and Lee 2-3-0
Hampden-Sydney 2-3-0
Lynchburg 2-4-0
Guilford 1-5-0
Bridgewater 0-5-0 Washington and Lee
Team Records
(updated for 10/15/93)
Women’s S099" Women’s Tennis 2-0
Overall Records Women’s Soccer 7-3-1
Water Polo 7-6
, Randol h'Ma°°“ 10'1'0 Men’s Cross Country 3-2
Washington an Lee 7-3-0 Volleyball 12_11
Roanoke 7'5'0 Women’s Cross Country 1-1
LY1_1Chb“Yg 6‘6'0 Men”s Soccer 6-7
Guilford 4-7-0 football   . 3 ». 0-4
R-M Women’s ‘ 4-7-0
Va. Wesle an 4-7-0 8' _ -
Sweet Brig; 2_8_0 Overall 38 34 1
Hollins 2-9-0

Mims Rowe rappelling from the footbridge was the photogenic athlete of the week
for Oct. 15, 1993

*Only dual and tri-meets are
included in cross country records

 

»
I

hoto by Sarah Gilbert/'I71Ring-tum Phi

 

  

Last Week:

WSoc—defeats SweetBriar, Guilford
FB—W&L 14, Davidson 21
Vo1leybal1—wins ﬁve, loses three

. MSoc—defeats Hampden-Sydney

S

PAGE 14

@112 iﬂing-tum lﬂlii

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

This Week:

FB—at Hampden-Sydney 10/16
WTennis—MWC 10/ 16 ,
X-C—at Virginia State Meet 10/ 16
WP—at EWPA Round Robin 10/ 10

OCTOBER 15, 1

Women’s tenis hot in

  

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Fling-tum Pi

Junior Marilyn Baker smashes a return to her Radford opponent. Washington and Lee defeated Radford Oct. 14, 6-3.

J OCKSHORTS

 

_ Men’s Cross Country

Washington and Lee men’s cross country, competing without the women last weekend, failed to
overcome the power of Old Dominion Athletic Conference rival Lynchburg, which had the top three
finishers.

‘The Generals, however, did ﬁnish above Hampden Sydney and Catholic University to score two wins
(wins and losses are only assessed in cross country for dual, tri— or quad-meets).

Sophomores Brad Paye and Tom Fink, again leading the Generals, finished ﬁfth and sixth overall.

Paye ran a quick 29:02, with Fink just seconds behind him in 29:14.

Freshman Alvin Townley continues in his top form, and ﬁnished in the top ten at Lynchburg with a
time of 29:52.

Senior Brian Shearer, in his best race of the season, ﬁnished in 30:48.

Water Polo

Water polo, after abye because of a cancelled Virginia State meet last weekend, will return to the water
Oct. 16-17 as they head to Annapolis, Maryland.

Washington and Lee will face Dayton, 11th-ranked Navy, 19th-ranked Richmond and 18th-ranked
Arkansas-Little Rock in the Eastern Water Polo Association Championships.

Senior All-American Greg Golub,.who suffered a shoulder injury against Loyola Marymount two
weeks ago in California, is still undecided for this weekend.

Women’s Cross Country

After an off week, the women’s cross country team returns this weekend for the State Championships.
The Generals will attempt to defend the Division II-lll title they won last year. The biggest competition
should come from Mary Washington, which beat Washington and Lee in a dual meet earlier this year.
Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer, completely recovered from the spider bite that kept her from a few

days of practice over a week ago, will return as defending State Champion, hoping to continue her
undefeated season.

Look out below....
 » is 

  
  

   

 

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Fling-tum Phi

Sophomore Mims Rowe slowly lowers herself to the ground near the Chessie
trail. Members of the Outing Club rappelled from the footbridge Oct. 12. The
unpublicized event drew over 20 spectators and hopeful participants.

\

 

fall sason

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

 

With junior All—Ameri
Marilyn Baker at the helm,
Washington and Lee wome
tennis team is the only per
squad at W&L yet this sea:
Of course, the Generals have (
played two contests in this, t
fall season, but their recon
impressive.

After a match against Rad ‘
Thursday,whichWashington:
Lee won 6-3, Baker in sing
and in doubles with parti
sophomore Julie Ayersjiop
advance far in next weeker
National Championship.

Baker comes strongly off
second All-American sea
after playing and teaching ter
all summer. With the added
perience of these two pagt me
and the upcoming contest (

 

16 versus Mary Washington, ,

and Ayers should be in top ft

to face the tough competitioi

Nationals.

The Generals’ other win 1'
season was against C tho
wheretheytookfiveofsixsin
titles to overpower the Ca
nals.

Steve re-castsseries hunch,
moves gamely on to football

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

The sports world is about to
pass dominion from baseball to
football and basketball. Now
that the World Series is here,
baseball readies for its last gasp
of glory. The fallclassic(while
driving some fans to bitter
mourning this year) represents
the best baseball has to offer.

Toronto has the edge on ex-
perience and should beat the
Phillies in a six game set. Phila-
delphia has a great deal of tal-
ent and will put together a few
remarkable games. In the end,
however, just as with the White
Sox, the Blue Jays hittingshould
just prove too much for the
Phillies to handle.

I have given football a hard
time all year long, but now it is
actually time to start enjoying
the sport (it’s actually starting
to mean something now). Al-
though some teams (the Atlanta
Falcons) wish the season was
overalready,the remaining two
months will hold both uncer-
tainty and promise for most
squads (right up until the
Superbowl, where the NFC
team will win yet another ex-
ceedingly boring blowout).

Actually, the Superbowl is
not THAT bad. After all, there
are some truly great commer-
cials that air during the game.
Besides, the half time show is
usually decent (except last year:
Michael Jackson?!?). Once
again there will be the Bud Bowl
game, as well. There might be
some new scoring record set
this time, too. Golly, maybe
even Buffalo (4-1 at this point)

will be there (what would the
Superbowl be without the
Bills?)! OK, so I’ll still watch
the game like every other idiot in
the Western world.

Now finally, the main topic
for the week: college basketball.
In a few weeks, many teams will
hold what is known as “Mid-
night Practice.” On theﬁrst day
of practice (as mandated by that
friendly, caring body: the
NCAA) the teams get together at
exactly 12 midnight to celebrate
the beginning of basketball sea-
son.

The conferences to beat this
year will be the Atlantic Coast
Conference (big surprise there)
and the Big Ten (or eleven, but
who wants to argue semantics?)
The University of North Caro-
lina and Duke (once again: Big
surprise) ﬁeld the strongest teams
out of the ACC while Michigan
and Indiana will ﬁght for the top
of the Big Ten.

Parting Shots——

What in the world hap-
pened to the Washington
Redskins? How does ateam
go from the playoffs toa41-
7rout at home? If you know
the answer, ﬁll out ‘our

Redskins coach application. '

The Dolphins won .
rather Pyhrric victory last
week. Although they won
the game, they lost all-pro
qarterback Dan Marino for
the year. Without Mari o’s
golden arm, the Dolp ins
stand about as much of a
chance at the playoffs as the
Atlanta Falcons.

Phillies fans: Does John
Kruk ever bathe? Can Mitch
Williams ever have a 1’-2-3
inning?

Don’t worry Falcons fans
(are there any left?): Deion
is back!!!

To all those industriou
souls who read all the wa
through the column...Ar
you that bored? '

 

 

Soccer cuts losses, ,
wins two in a row

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Inexperience can give even the most success-
ful coaches ﬁts. A thoughtless mistake can be the
difference between a win and a loss.

“This is the most inexperienced team l’ve ever
coached,” says coach Ralph Piranian. According
to Piranian, the team’s slow start this year was the
result of nothing more than inexperience. Follow-
ing a streak of four consecutive losses to open the
year, the Generals have played a much improved
brand of soccer, going 5-3 in their last eight
games.

The plus for the W&L squad this year has been
a remarkable work ethic. ln continuing his com-
ment about this year’s team, Piranian said, “This
is also one of the hardest working teams l’ve ever
coached.” In Piranian’s opinion, the team put as
much effort as possible into every game. “There

were some games in which I thought we iﬁaye
stupid, but I always thought we played hard,” re
marked Piranian.

Following Tuesday’s 3-2 win over Hampde
Sydney, the Generals improved to 4-7 and 3-3 in th
ODAC (Old Dominion Athletic Conference). To thi
point in the season, Shag Drewry has led the scorin
with contributions from numerous other playek (i .
eluding a score from an unlikely quarter—keepe
Anthony Mazerrelli).

In a 3-2 win over Dickenson College, General’
scoring leader Shag Drewry tallied a goal in the la .
20 minutes that tied the game and sent it into over
time. The win was of considerable important sinc
Dickenson was ranked in the east region. 0

There is only one home game (amidst a slew o
away contests) remaining for the Generals before thi.
ODAC tournament (against Eastern Menonite). I
strong ﬁnish could produce another .500 or bette
season; something soccer fans at W&L have becomt
accustomed to.

 

H -

  
 

\lt.x..s2_“.

rt
LEXINGTON, VA 24450

   

.\n1r

DCT9. 2 ‘IQCI3
Melissa Etheridge
K  hits scene with
I I new album 9

Schaeffer Wins
State Championship

 
  

 
 

(9

he ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

VOLUME 93, NO. 07 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   

 

 

   
   
    

  
  

 
  
 
  

photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
Professors take classes outside recently to enjoy the warm weather. But a cold front com-
ﬁg through Lexington this weekend may make classes on the lawn a thing of the past.

   

  

  

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

hi Delt gets
SAC Warning

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

 

Students, community
build playground

ing friends in Alexandria, Va.,
and decided that Lexington
needed such a structure.

But this is no ordinary play-
ground. Among the unusual fea-
tures of Lexington’s KidsPlayce
will be a pirate ship with a crow’s
nest and cargo net, four slides -
one wheelchair accessible and
one in the form of a dragon’s
head- a castle with a maze, tow-
ers and bridges, a fun house with
special steel mirrors, a tree fort
and aclimbingwall.

It may seem dif-
ficultto ﬁt allofthis
into 10,000 square
feet, but Lewis
showed slides from
a few of the Leath-
ers’ 850 other
projects throughout
the United States,
Australia and Israel.

The project
shouldcostbetween

  
 

She met with children all day
Tuesday at Lexington and
Rockbridge County schools,
gathering ideas from the “Kid’s
Committee,” before compiling
them all and drawing a plan.
The playground, which will
be built on Brewbaker Field over
the span of ﬁve days, April 20-
24, is a community effort headed
by Susan Dittman. Dittman first
came into contact with play-
grounds of this type when visit-

 

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

  
 

 

Children ran excitedly around
the gymnasium at Lylbum Down-
ing School Tuesday night as plans
for a new playground,

 
 
  
  
 
 

I ‘q(idsPlayce,” were unveiled by
its architect.

“This is a different kind of
playground,” said architect Jane
Lewis of Leathers Associates.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  

 

The perc

What do you get when you mix
chocolate syrup, corn ﬂakes and shav-
ing cream?

Critical probation.

The Student Affairs Committee
voted 8-3-0 on Oct. 15 to place Phi
Delta Theta fraternity on critical pro-
bation for the remainder of the aca-
demic school year.

The punishment stems from an Oct.
2 incident in which Phi Delt fraternity
members spread chocolate syrup and

cereal through the kitchen and dining
room of the Phi Delt house. In the same
incident, Phi Delts used shaving cream
to stick newspapers to the walls and
ﬂoors.

“The SAC decision was pretty rea-
sonable,” said Phi Delt President Billy
Guice. “It doesn’t curtail our social
plans, it just makes us more respon-
sible.”

The 1993-94 Student ‘Handbook
defines critical probation as “a strong
warning to a fraternity that speciﬁc
conduct has been unacceptable, and
that further violations of the Standards
for Fraternities and/or University

OCTOBER 22, 1993

policy could result in the suspension or .
the expulsion of the fraternity.

“A fraternity on probation would
automatically be considered for sus-
pension or expulsion by the SAC if
violations occurred in the following
areas:

OBlatant destruction of the frater-
nity house

0VioIation of the University Drug
Policy

OViolation of the University Haz-
ing Policy ~

hr See PHI DELT, Page 4

Alcohol causes 44  
student arrests

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi New Editor

Forty—four Washington and Lee stu-
dents have been arrested for alcohol
related crimes since the beginning of
the term —— 19 of them got snagged last
weekend.

That averages one alcohol-related
arrest per day since the beginning of
the term. Lexington City Police Chief
Bruce Beard had no explanation for the
high number of arrests last weekend.

“You usually find something like

this on big party weekends,” Beard
said. “The ABC wasn’t out in force,
but there were several here.” .

Beard added that on‘ an_average
weekend Lexington police and Alco-
holie Beverage Control officers make
four to six arrests for alcohol related
crimes. Beard said that there are usu-
ally two to six ABC ofﬁcers in Lexing-
ton on any given weekend, and usually
six on big party weekends.

A spokeswoman from the office of
ABC officer Leonard Vess said that
she was not at liberty to disclose how

many ABC officers were patrolling
Lexington last weekend, but added that
the arrests “were part of their daily,
regular job. Observations are part of
their working day.”

Causes for arrest include drinking
in public, -driving while under the in-
ﬂuence, reckless driving, underage
possession of alcohol, littering, and
refusal to take a breathalyzer test.

Of the 44, 14 were freshmen, 10
were sophomores, 12 were juniors and
seven were seniors. Only one law stu-
dent was arrested.

1993 Graduates in The Job Market

 

I Employed

 

E] Looking For Jobs

 

entages above are the current statistics available at Carreer Development and Placement.
The percentages are from the people who have responded to CD&P, 81 percent of the class of ’93,
and do not reflect the entire graduating class. These are not ﬁnal statistics.

$50,000-$75,000,
but the Kidsplayce
committee has al-
ready collected
more than $21,000,
mostly due to a do-
nation in memory of
Dittman’s father,
who died last year.

  
 
 

Class of ’93 still searching

Late job search delays in employment for many

 
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
 

  

Members of the
committee include
students from
Washington and
Lee, Virginia Mili-
tary Institute and
residents of Lexing-
ton and Rockbridge
County.

Dittman likened
theworkoftheplay-
ground to having a
baby and said it
would have to come
out sometime.

I» See
PLAYGROUND,
Page 4

  
 

    

photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Scenes like this will soon be a familiar sight at Kids Playce.

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee’s Class of 1993 is
becoming cozy with a new four-letter
word...jobs.

The Career Development and Placement
Office (CD&P) has been keeping tabs on last
year’s seniors from the time they graduated
in June. They do this through December.

“We gather figures by writing to the se-
niors and telephoning them in September and
December,” said Beverly Lorig of the CD&P
office. ‘‘In December we hope to have a high
number with jobs.”

So far, 81 percent of last year’s graduating
class has responded to CD&P’s inquiries.

Fifty-nine percent of that 81 percent is
currently employed, in graduate school, or
continuing their education in some otherway.

While 59 percent is a seemingly low fig-
ure, many graduates have just started hitting
the pavement in the quest for a job.

“Oftentimes, seniors will take the sum-
mer off,” said Lorig. “They take a break
before they begin their job searches.”

Of the respondents, 2.74 percent said they
weren’t looking for jobs when they replied.

“We are seeing the result of students de-
laying [their job searches] until the fall,” said
Lorig of the 59 percent figure.

Thirty-eight percent are still looking for
jobs.
A “We expect that to become less,” said
borig. “We’ve been encouraged by recent
job offer reports.”

Hot regional spots for W&L grads include
the mid-Atlantic area, the District of Colum-
bia, Virginia, New York City and Georgia.

The job market is becoming more com-
petitive, said Lorig.

“Students need to be flexible,” she said.

W&L has an advantage in the rat race
with its strong academic profile. It is part of
an 11-member Selective Liberal Arts Con-
sortium (SLAC) that counts Bryn Mawr,
Haverford, Vassar and Pomona among its
members. V

“All [11 colleges] together have a real
strong profile,” said Lorig.

Employers have become more and more
interested in the SLAC’s job fairs. The fairs
are convenient for the employers to attend.

This year, 157 companies are participat-
ing in SLAC job fairs, a figure that is up from
previous years. The employer interest in
W&L is stronger than ever, according to
Lorig.

Atlanta, Chicago, Los Angeles, New

it See GRADS, Page 4

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World

Ethnic cleansing continues in
Bosnia-Herzegovina

“Ethnic cleansing” continues in Bosnia-Herzegovina. In
Serb stronghold Banja Luka, Muslims and Croats continue to
ﬂee by the busload, forced out of the area by fire from Serb
gunmen. Local authorities deny there is any policy of terror
and claim unidentified “extremists” are at work.

Israel-PLO talks hit snag

lsrael’s refusal to release Palestinian prisoners accused of
killing Israeli citizens has served as the first stumbling block
in the Israeli-PLO negotiations. The issue is a sensitive one
for both groups. The Israeli government fears that freeing the
prisoners would bolster support for right-wing groups that
oppose the peace pact with the PLO. Palestinian negotiators
have stressed they want all prisoners set free, but would agree
with a phased release.

Aristide ally kidnapped

A parliamentary ally of Jean-Bertrand Aristide has been
reported kidnapped, according to two private Haitian radio
stations. Samuel Milord, a member of the Aristide coalition
National Front for Change and Democracy, was kidnapped
by gunmen late Wednesday in the uptown Debussy area of
Port-Au-Prince, according to family members.

The Nation

 

Shuttle astronauts participate
in medical study

As part of a study on space motion sickness, astronauts
aboard the space shuttle Columbia stared at colored dots in a
spinning dome. The shuttle was dispatched on a 14-day
medical research mission along with 48 research rats. Scien-
tists hope to use the data collected on the mission to counter-
act the effects of long space stays.

Censorship concerns raised

The Walt Disney Co. re-edited its motion picture “The
Program” after one teenager was killed and two others were
seriously injured while lying down in the middle of a busy
street, in imitation of a scene from the film. The move
immediately followed changes to the animated film “Aladdin”
and the MTV cartoon show “Beavis and Butt-Head” after
numerous complaints about their content. “Beavis and Butt-
Head” was moved to a later hour because of references to fire,
which an Ohio woman claims contributed to the death of her
daughter in a fire set by her young son. Arab-American
activists have called “Aladdin” racist.

Denny attacker acquitted of
attempted murder

Damian Williams was acquitted of attempted murder in
his April 29, 1992 attack on truck driver Reginald Denny in
the Los Angeles riots. Williams was found guilty of felony
mayhem for hitting Denny in the head with a brick. He was
also found guilty of four misdemeanor assault charges,
stemming from four assaults on other motorists. Henry
Watson was found guilty of misdemeanor assault for placing
his foot on Denny’s neck so that Williams could hit him with
the brick.

The State

State college students rally

Thousands of students at several Virginia colleges pro-
tested the possibility of budget cuts and tuition increases. A
crowd of 4,5 00 students gathered at Virginia Tech on Wednes-
day in protest. Smaller crowds gathered at Mary Washing-
ton, William and Mary, George Mason, and the University of
Virginia. Since 1989, the state has cut college funding by
$413 million. A $500 million budget shortfall is projected,
prompting Virginia’s Secretary of Education to direct state
schools to prepare for possible cuts of 10 to 15 percent.

Killer says he didn’t plan
trooper’s slaying

Prosecuters in the trial of Lonnie Weeks, a man accused of
killing a state trooper, say the accused killer was a small-time
drug dealer and car thief who bragged he could beat a murder
charge. Weeks has confessed to the slaying, saying he feels
remorse for the Feb. 24 killing on a dark exit ramp off
Interstate 95. Defense lawyers said he doesn’t deserve to die
for his crime.

By MICHAEL Htzwuzrr
Phi Staff Writer

If you’re in the mood for an All-
Vegetarian Pizza, then come on down
to the Generals’ Headquarters, other-
wise known as the Pit.

This year you may notice a couple
of changes from last year, including
changes in management and in the
menu.

According to Judy Sensabaugh, the

new manager of the Pit, the menu has ,

been changed from last year. She said
that appetizers like potato skins with
bacon have been added, as well as two
vegetarian sandwiches.

Sensabaugh said that the prices for
the salad bar are one dollar less than
last year and that fresh baked, hand-
carved roast beef will be available ev-
ery day.

Last year dinner in the Pit was dis-
continued because of declining proﬁts.

“The few regulars we had coming in
were upset,” said Sensabaugh.

Sensabaugh said that people didn’t
know where else to go.

However, according to Sensabaugh,
business is improving, and the all stu-
dent staff is doing a great job. She said
that an average of 80 to 100 people are
served everyday.

According to Sensabaugh, the Pit
can be reserved for student functions
by contacting Janet Goad in catering.

“If the organizations leave the Pit
like they found it, there is no charge,”
she said.

Sensabaugh said that there will be a
suggestion box outside the Pit for stu-
dents and that there will be a different
special each week, targeting a specific

Alcohol Abuse week kicks off 

Pit menu revamped-

0
The Rina-tum Phi. October 22.1993

  

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Two students enjoy a meal at the General’s Headquarters. The menu was redone for this year.

group on campus such as law school
students.

Student reaction to the changes in
the Pit are mixed.

Sophomore Tamara Watkins loves
the salad bar, but she said that the menu
has ﬂaws.

“lt’s missing a little bit of the sand-
wich variety it had last year,” said
Watkins.

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Health Education Committee and the Peer Counsel-

OIS.

Neuropsychologist Scott Swartzwelder of Duke
University kicked off Alcohol Awareness Week with

a lecture on alcohol and memory.

In his lecture, Swartzwelder revealed that alcohol
affects reflexes and memory, and inhibits the ability
to acquire new memory. Even “social drinkers show
cognitive deficits too,” said Swartzwelder, although
they are less severe than the effects resulting from

heavy drinking.

Alcohol Awareness Week is sponsored by the

' '5-‘fr’ 7zv."1r1r'f"~3'*.—.“ 'r.v''r~’ .

Econoriﬁc

reaches 0.09.

ler.

w-':r‘*s'3'«::«'"r«r-  "“'<f's"v=  7 6 *

 “apartment

in support of NAFTA

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The members of the economics de-
partment at Washington and Lee have
unanimously endorsed the ratification
of the North American Free Trade
Agreement (NAFTA).

In a statement sent to President Bill
Clinton and to all members of the Vir-
ginia Congressional delegation, the
members of the department said the
agreement ‘‘will allow most citizens,
including most workers, in the United
States, in Canada, and especially
Mexico, to enjoy a higher standard of
living and a better overall quality of
life than exists today. We recognize
that there will be some transitional
problems of adjustment when the treaty
comes into force, most notably some
modest reallocation of labor. Unfortu-

nately progress always involves
change, and change means necessarily
some problems of adjustment.”

The 12-member department also
endorsed President Clinton’s and Sec-
retary Robert Reich’s proposals for
programs of “adjustment assistance for
those individuals who must make
changes, especially programs of re-
training and skill development for la-
borers displaced by increased imports.”

“This endorsement reflects our
hopes that Congress and the American
people will see that free trade is the
best hope for seeing our economy
grow,” said Larry C. Peppers dean of
the school of commerce, economics,
and politics at W&L.

The endorsement was also signed
by the nine other members of the fac-
ulty of the C-school.

Watson Pavilion

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Watson Pavilion for Asian Arts
will be dedicated during ceremonies
Dct. 22 and 23.

The Watson Pavilion houses a col-
lection of more than 500 pieces of
porcelain, jade, ivory, and bronze span-
ning a period of 2,000 years. A large
part of the collection was donated by
Mrs. Elizabeth Otey Watson of
Lynchburg. Watson made the gift in
honor of her late husband, William C.
Watson, W&L class of ’29. Mrs.

Watson also provided fundsfor the con-
struction of the building.

Popular, provincial and imperial
porcelain from the Ming and Qing dy-
nasties predominate the Watson Col-
lection which includes Chinese paint-
ings, furniture, and accessories. Also
on exhibit at the Watson Pavilion are
collections of Chinese, japanese, and
Korean ceramics given or on loan to

the University by Groke W. Mickey of '

Charlottesville, Mr. and Mrs. Bolton
McBryde of Blacksburg, Felicia
Warburg Rogan of Charlottesville, and

Next Wednesday, October 27, a controlled drink-
ing experiment will take place in the Pit from 7 to 9
p.m. Subjects ofthe experiment will drink one 12 oz.
beer every 15 minutes until their blood alcohol level

“We’re asking every social organization to have
one representative,” said peer counselor Sarah But-

“We are going to constantly monitor their blood
alcohol level,” to ensure it stays within the legal limit,
said Dr. James Worth, University psychologist.

She believesthat the Pitbeingclosed
for dinner is limiting.

“Now, options for dinner are even
smaller,” she said. “A sit down dinner
at the Pit is more formal than at the Co-
op.”

Junior Lakiesha Townes agrees.

‘‘I’m getting used to the Pit not
being open for dinner,” said Townes.

Senior Pat McDermott believes that

Lexington police officers will administe =
breathalyzer tests after every beer.

“We’re trying to educate the campus on how
much or how little alcohol it takes to reach that level,”
said Butler.

Students can win door prizes and listen to the band

if the Pit was losing money then it
should have been subsidized by the
university instead of closing it down
for dinner.

Sensabaugh said that the Pit is al-
ways open for suggestions for improve-
ment. .
“lfwe know whatthe students want,
we’ll do everything we can to give it to
them,” said Sensabaugh.

Big Harry Posse during the experiment.

“It’s meant to be fun, but it will also have a
serious side,” said Dr. Worth. Participants in the

experiment will sign a contract stating that they will

not drive any time on Wednesday night. Live Drive
will be provided for those needing rides from th
experiment.

to be dedicated

Mrs. William L. Wilson of Lynchburg.

“Mrs. Watson’s magnificent gift
enhances W&L‘s position as an
importat research center for the study
of porcelain fromthe China trade,” said
Thomas V. Litzenburg, Jr. ’57, direc-
tor of the Reeves Centerfor research
and Exhibition of Porcelain and paint-
ings. ”Generations of students, schol-
ars and collectors will long benefit
from her collections and her benefac-
tion.”

The dedication ceremony will take
place at the Watson Pavilion at 1 p.m.,

 
 

g-tum Ph

 

Photo byBethany Smith, The Rin
W&L work-study students use these books to research porcelain in the Watson Pavilion

Saturday, Oct. 23. A. Stevens Miles}
‘51, rector of the University’s Board of
Trustees, and University President John
D. Wilson will speak at the dedication.
The ceremony will be moved to Lee
Chapel in the event of rain. Following
the dedication a special luncheon for
invited guests will be held at Evantl
Dining Hall.

Activities associated with the dedi-
cation begin at 2 p.m., Friday, Oct. 22,
withalecturetitled“China forthe West”
by Beverly M. Dubose Ill, ‘62 of At-
lanta. Dubose, a member of the Board
of Trustees, is an avid collector of.
Chinese export porcelain.

At 3:30 p.m. John K. Copelin and
Michael C. Nappa, architects with the
William Hall Partnership of New York,
designers of the building, will present
a lecture, “Palladian Architecture and
the Watson Pavilion”.

The principal lecture of the series.

will be given at 10:15 a.m., on Satur-
day, Oct 23, by William R. Sargeant,
curator of Asian Export Art at the
Peabody and Essex Museum at Salem,
Massachusetts. Sargeant will speak on

“Chinese Porcelain, Domestic and Ex- .

port”.

The final session before the dedica-
tion will be a panel discussion on “Un-
derstanding Asia: The Importance of
Cultural History”. Participants in the
discussion will be Professors Harold
C. Hill, Roger B. Jeans, Jr., Joan H.

O’Mara, and AnnT. Rogers. the mod- 9

erator will be Professor W. Lad Ses-
sions. All participants are members of
the Washington and Lee faculty.

All lectures and discussions will
take place in duPont Audittrium.

 

  

    

The Ringq-tum Phi, October 22, 1993

Dan Tipton, ’97, as Orestes and Heather Aussiker, '94, as a Electra, during rehesals for The Flies.

The Flies opens this Weekend

' .r_a
.

Ads.

Photo courtesy of The Lenfest Center

From Staff Reports

For this year’s fall production,
Washington and Lee’s Theatre Depart-
ment will present The Flies by the
renowned French existential play-
wright, Jean—Paul Sartre. In this play,
Sartre presents his view of the Greek
story of Orestes and his call to avenge
the murder of his father, Agamemnon.

Al Gordon, who is directing the
production, said he has long wanted to
produce a version of this story.

“Not only is it one of the most
popular sources of plot material in
western dramatic literature,” said pro-
fessor Gordon, “but it also has striking
relevance to modem-day civil strife in
such places as Bosnia and the Middle
East. Orestes’ dilemma when faced
with the intervention in the violent
cycle of feuding in his family reflects
the dilemma of outsiders facing today ’s
intemecine horrors.”

The story of the bloody downfall of
the house of Agamemnon begins when
Agamemnon, as Greek general, is
forced to sacrifice his daughter,
lphigenia, in preparation for the Trojan
War. in retribution for this act,
Agamemnon is killed by his wife,
Clytemnestra and her lover Aegisthus.
Aegisthus also holds a family grudge
against Agamemnon. Orestes is subse-
quently honor-bound to avenge his
father’s murder becoming involved in
what seems to be a never-ending fam-
ily feud of death and destruction.

The Flies picks up this compleix
story as the young Orestes (Dan Tiptqn
‘97), returns from a 15-year exile to his
home of Argos accompanied by his
tutor (Jason Schaffer). There he dis-
covers not only is the town festering in
its guilt over Agamemnon’s death, but
also that his sister Electra (Heather
Aussiker ‘94) is serving as a slave to
her own mother and step-father. ;

Shocked by the depressing state of
affaris but also repulsed by the pros-
pect of more violence, Orestes must
decide what action to take. His‘ deci-
sion affords Sartre a crucial opportu-
nity to demonstrate the existential phi-
losophy of free choice. How he coit-
fronts his mother Clytemnestra (Elldn
Dean ‘94) and deals with Aegisthils
(Mark Daughtrey ‘74), who is noiv
married to Clytemnestra, will" detet-
mine who he is. And to add to the
situation, all his actions are jealously
watched over by the God Zeus (Tom
Raisbeck) who seems to want to keep
the feud going. The result is a compel-
ling combination of Greek drama arid
French thought. I

The Flies willbe performed on O0-
tober 22, 23, 25, 26, and 30 at 8:00
p.m.; on October 24 and 30 at 2:00
p.m.; and on October 29 at 9:00 p.rI1.
Please note the change of time of tlie
October 29 performance originally
published in the season brochure. Indi-
vidual tickets are on sale now at tile
Lenfest Box Office (463-8000), frotn
Noon to 4:00 p.m. Monday throu
Friday and two hours prior to any pe -
fonnance.

Get More
Bang F or
Your Buck.

Advertise in the Phi.
For More information
call 464-4060

EDICATION/SYMPOSIUM

Symposium: Panel Discussion, “Understanding Asia: The Importance of Cultural History.”

' Carryout Availabl  _ 11 S. Jefferson St. W 16WAY3
 THE" *°heH>sAveme
.  SANDWICH SHOP [.&«gR_”;:”88c_f:9|:9l’87;
“Wild Grass” playing on Friday, Oct. 22 " Emﬂ;
I 463-2595

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 22

. 2:00 pm, duPont Auditorium, Public Invited
Symposium: “China for the West,” Beverly M. DuBose III ’62, collector.

_ 3:30 pm, duPontAuditorium, Public Invited
Symposium: “Palladian Architecture and The Watson Pavilion,” John K.
Copelin and Michael C. Nappa, William Hall Partnership, New York.
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 23

_ 10:00 am, duPont Auditorium, Public Invited
Symposium: “Chinese Porcelain: Domestic and Export,” L
William R. Sargeant, curator, Peabody and Essex Museum.

' Noon, duPont Auditorium, Public Invited
1:00 pm, Watson Pavilion, Public Invited
Watson Pavilion DedicationCeremony.
3:00 - 5 :00 pm, Public Invited
Guided tours of the Watson Pavilion and the Reeves Center.

ATTENTION FRESHMEN!!!
Remember how important the overnight stay is in
choosing a college? If you didn’t spend the night,
don’t you wish you could have? The Admissions

office is looking for FRESHMEN

HOUSING HOSTS.

Apply before Nov. 1, Stop by our office for an
application.

, A ,7 , _g____,_A_,_,_;_,__,_W_________________,____,,_,,,___.__,.....___..__..__._.,_._..__.._...,_____._........___....._.._...._.,_.._., ,_-,------_‘r C//1'4.”/I/.’.//./_/4!!/4//MW/!W¢' ///.1/we/1/mwam--------

 

PAGE 4

 5‘ “
Phi Delt

 

   

File to

Phi Delt gets critical probation

In» from PHI DELT, Page 4

CA pattern of abusive, anti-social, or
ungentlemanly behavior, including persistent
violations of the University Alcohol Policy”

Phi Delt members came before the SAC
with a plan to improve their fraternity’s behav-
ror.

“We would increase chapter activities, do
more community service, and keep strict adher-
ence to fraternity standards,” Guice said. Guice
said the plan was an “attempt to reform our
current pattern of misbehavior.”

Associate Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy”

such as eliminating all damage to the fraternity
house, maintaining a perfect record on damage
reports, involving the house mother in frater-
nity activities, and involving the fraternity in
community service projects.

‘‘I think it’s a pretty sound aproach for
dealing with things,” Atkins said.

‘‘It’s the proper way to function in the sys-
tem and what being in a fraternity means,” he
added.

Guice said that he and Phi Delt Vice Presi-
dent Wilson Moore drafted the plan with help
from all the house officers, Dean Atkins, Phi
Delt faculty advisor Dr. Joseph Goldsten, and
the Phi Delt house corporation.

“We’re placing a strong disincentive on
behavior contrary to our goals,” Guice said.
Guice added that the people responsible for the
mess were punished by the Phi Delts. One was
kicked out of the fraternity, and three others
were placed on conduct probation for the re-
mainder of the term. Those three also were
given three weeks of social probation.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins said that the Phi Delt’s house corpora-
tion had no plans to further punish the frater-
nity.

“Everyone understands the situation,” Guice
said.

“We just need to improve a little bit.”

Atkins said that Phi Delt’s plan includes goals

  

’93 Grads do well
in job market

to From GRADS, Page 1

York, Philadelphia, San Francisco and Wash-
ington, D.C. are the cities participating in the
job fairs this year.

“[The companies are] pleased with the qual-
ity [of W&L],” said Lorig.

Recruiting days for 1993-94 boast compa-
nies such as CNN, Mattel, Warner Brothers,
MTV, Aetna, JP Morgan, Hewlett-Packard and
Rolling Stone magazine, among many others.

In a tough economy, experience is key.

“Employers are becoming more and more
interested in seeing students who have had
internships,” said Lorig.

A growing number of W&L students are
becoming interested in internships.

   
    
 
    
    
   
  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 22, 099:

Interviews, however, still hold the vog: fo
being the biggest part of the job hunt to worr‘
about. Without a successful interview, grad 
ates won’t get a job.

‘‘It (the interview) is the way to get a job,
said Lorig.

Grade-point average and activities also F ;
ure intothe picture. Activities show com nie:
how students get along with people and wha
interests they have.

Hot jobs, according to the federal govern
ment, include those in health care, science an:
technology and consulting.

CD&P is optimistic about the graduates’ jol
searches.

“We’re seeing good jobs and good ofTers,’
said Lorig. “The job search is taking more time
Persistence is the key.”

 

I» from PLAYGROUND, Paget

“I hope the commitment of the adults
matches the enthusiasm of the children. All
we need now is money,” Dittman said.

The children were indeed enthusiastic,
and members of the Kid’s Committee wrote
and perfonned a song at the beginning of the
unveiling. _

‘‘I am amazed by this,” said sixth grader
Brandon Hintz. “This is exactly what Lex-
ington needs.”

His friends, twins Matt and Will Oliver,
agreed heartily.

“This is a dream come true to all the

Playground brings .
community together

 

children,” said Matt Oliver.

Third-grader Andrew Mullin said that
April 24 is his birthday.

“l’ve never done anything like this be-
fore,” Mullin said. “My favorite part is the
big castle and the maze.”

Other children were more reticent, but all
smiled and nodded when asked if they were
looking forward to the building of the pﬁk
and every child agreed that all the hard work
was worth it.

“This is going to bring Lexington to-
gether,” said Hintz.

“If this is coming to Lexington, who
knows what will come next?”

Hours: Mon.-Fri.
9-7

College Square, RT 11 N. Lexington 463-1605

We carry Matrix hair and skin care products, Paul Mitchell,
Nexxus, Bain deTerre and Rcdken hair&skin care products.

  

We serve Pizza
to a Full Italian

Reservations no longer
‘available for Parents Week-
end. Walk-
able, early or late dinner.

24 North Main Street
Lexington, VA

Dinner!

in space avail-

 

P‘ck-3.;...'s.».7‘s.;;”r§.'
-Jennportﬂogel llhelu
llourslion-Frl9-5sat9-Noon

 

Carry Out
Available
463-2800

110 W. Washington St.

  

 

FREE TRIPS AND MONEYII EXCELLENT I
Individuals and Student Organiza- EXTRA INCOME NOW! IX A
tions wanted to promote the Hottest V ENVELOPE SWFFING——$°0-$800-vorvw-k J _
Spring Break Destinations, call the F"'°""'°s"sf,:';,,_,,°,_, M \ getarlan " .
nation’s leader. Inter-Campus 137§CorIlVI|'IMAV'- E  ‘ "
Programs 1-800-327-6013. L °'°°"""’"'"°"”m° at‘ '3’ ~73‘
Gl‘0l1$pS & glubs , 1*‘ Iii" I
Raise up to 500 - 1500 in less
33I0n thanaweek. Plus Winatrip to INSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD
M1‘VSPI1'ngBreak‘94andget 3 u T L r-: R u N r v E R s 1 T Y
a FREE T-shirt just for calling. -
1-300-950-1039 N°““5h Y°“’Se1f , UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN C

S"Sa“SW“h“‘ fmunch 22222“’2**GREAT“BRFFAIN

Stephanie Camden Monday - Friday 

Bridgett Sensebaugh 11:30 to 3:30  I A 

Want a Beer?

The Peer Counselors and SAB invite
students to participate in a
controlled drinking experiment,
Wednesday Oct. 27 in the Pit.
The experiment begins at 7 p.m.

Date:
Location:

464-5800

IRELAND .
NEW ZEALAN D

Fully integrated study at British, Irish,
New Zealand and Australian universities

FALL OR SPRING SEMESTER ° FULLYEAR 0
INST EP ° SUMMER PROGRAM 0 INTERNSHIPS

Stud A r ad Inf rmation Sessi n
Representative:

 

For further Information please contact: Your Study Abroad Office on campus
or the Institute for Study Abroad. Butler University. 4600 Sunset Avenue.
Indianapolis. IN 46208. Tel: 317/283-9336 or l/800-368-6852 Ext. 9336,

 

- *4

Mike Roberts

Tues. Oct. 26

ll:00 - 1:30

Co-op Table (if sunny) Q
or University Ctr. Lobby

Horse Boarding

HAD A HOT our LATELY?’

Want it hot? We’ve got it. Saucy Meatball and hearty Steak &Cheese. Steamin’ hot subs on fresh»
baked bread with free fixin’s. If you're looking for a hot time, come to Subway.

Lazy Acres: 9 stall barn, new lighted
arena, excellent turnout, new fencing,
miles of trails, and conveniently located
4 miles from Rt. 11 South, 2 miles from
the Virginia Horse Center on 39 West,
across from Long's campgrounds. $225
per month includes stalls cleaned and . g I . -— v. . . ' - ;  ' V ~' » < - .
bedded, light daily grooming. turnout blanketing, feed, , I I - h ‘ . ‘ _~ g -g    ‘ ... 9
and water. Pasture board available at $100 per month I I A  I ' I I I ' 2 ' I I I
per horse. Riding lessons and horse training available
from qualified personnel. Call (703) 463-1636 and
leave a message.

 

Law Center

INVITING APPLICATIONS FOR FALL 1994

I CONVENIENT LOCATION
Huntington, Long Island campus
is easily reached by public or private

If you wish to receive admission
materials andlor arrange for a campus
visit, you are encouraged to contact:

BUY ONE REGULAR FOOTLONG HOT SUB, GET ONE OF EQUAL VALUE FOR  ‘I

 

"IarOsAp:rAattli;nEVENlNG cusses  Law Center 503 E Nelson St Lexington VA 24450 463‘3322 I
Select either a Full-Time Day, 300 Nassau Road — »  -—  -  - -w -2 i -

    

Part-Time Day, or Part-Time Evening Huntington, New York 11743

  
  

   

 

I
I
I
I
Phone |
I
I
I

equal opportunity institution

schedule. I

I ACCREDITATION TOURO COLLEGE

r~°e:.w..°::::~:.:";:v... 1-~ (512)421-2244 -I

r e I .7. V '

Bgrp Association. JF’?}CC(:fsg',RG 1:" ext 314 I
L  an affirmative actionl I
—~:__ I

l_*Second footlong sub must be of equal or lesser price. One coupon pre customer per visit. Not good in cimbination with any other offer.J

 

 

‘Hie Ring-tum Phi October 22, 1993

_‘ From Staff Reports

The Virginia Festival of American Film will
begin its 1993 season next Thursday, Octoboer
28 in Charlottesville.

The focus of this years’s festival is “Film
Noir: Through a Lens Darkly,” the style of
ﬁlmaking made popular by the 1944 film
“lhuble Indemnity.” Festival programming
director Carolyn Corry described ﬁlm noir as
”a term applied to the shadowy films of the
1940’s and 50’s [conjuring] images of the femme
fatale, the hard-luck loser, the hard-boiled de-
tective and a fatalistic world.” Modern ﬁlms
which use film noir concepts include “Blade
Rﬁiner,” “Body Heat,” “Chinatown,” and “The
Grifters.”

The University of Virginia sponsored festi-
val consists of ﬁlm screenings, guest speakers
and academic discussion sessions.

Conﬁrmed guests at the festival‘ include
actors Robert Mitchum and Richard Widmark,
witers Tess Gallagher, Richard Price and
Donald Westlake, Weslayan University ﬁlm
studies cairleanine Basinger and Pulitzer—prize
winning ﬁlm critic Roger Ebert.

Mitchum and Widmark will discuss their
roles in the movies “Out of the Past” and “Night
and the City.”

After a screening of Robert Altman’s new
ﬁlm “Short Cuts,” Gallagher will discuss the
adaptation of short story to screenplay.

Price, Westlake and Basinger are scheduled
to participate in several of the post—screening
discussions based on their writings for or about
ﬁlm.

Ebert will host a three-day workshop focus-
ing on an analysis of “Sunset Boulevard.”

Previous festival’s have featured Robert
Altman, Julian Bond, Ossie Davis, Robert
Duvall, Gregory Peck, James Stewart, Horton

. Foote, Sidney Poitier and Jane Alexander.

The Advisory Board of the VFAF lists

S muel Goldwyn, Jr., Shirley MacLaine, Sissy

S acek, and L. Douglas Wilder as members.

' ' The VFAF marks its sixth year as the only.
-national ﬁlm festival sponsored by a major
university. Entertainment Weekly, a subsidiary
ofTime lnc., is co-sponsoring this years’ events.

   
 

m fest
mi:

In addition to its highly recognizable list of
guests, the VFAF has gained a national reputa-
tion for its scholarly approach to ﬁlm.

The screenings and discussions will be held
at UVa through October 31.

For more information call l-800—UVA-
FEST.

 

by Meriwether Nichols

Phi Contributing Writer

 

Melissa Etheridge’s latest work, Yes I Am,
will be a bit of a disappointment for those who
dislike the current trend of diversity for
diversity’s sake.

Many performers have given into pressure
to present a mixture of many different musical
styles on the same album for the sole purpose of
demonstrating their artistic ﬂexibility.

Unfortunately, Etheridge makes this mis-
take and includes some pieces on her album that
do nothing to showcase her beautiful, soulful
voice.

That’s not to say there aren’t some intense,
passionate songs on Yes I Am.

Etheridge really shines on a few pieces, but
like so many albums, this onelhas its share of
ﬁller songs, and bad freshman poetry. Perhaps .

i ’ she was afraid of releasing an unvaried, unin-

teresting piece of work.

Whatever her motivation, the result is a
handful of intense, moving ballads padded by
some weak attempts at pop music versions of
faster country blues.

The album opens with the kind of song
Etheridge does best. “I’m The Only One” fea-
tures the rich country blues guitar and raw,
wailing vocals she is known for. The lyrics
about desire and devotion are sung on top of a
slow, dragging, pulsing beat. At times, it sounds
like mainstream pop music, but the chorus
makes up for that slight weakness. Overall, it
highlights her ability as a singer and guitar
player quite well.

The second song does not fare so well. In
fact, it has no redeeming qualities.

Etheridge sounds like she is yelling out the

Eide departs fr

Singer sacrifices tried and true for stylistic diversity

lyrics on this piece. Perhaps that wouldn’t be so
bad if the lyrics were not so trite and uninterest-
ing. This is definitely a filler song.

‘_‘Come To My Window,” the third selec-
tion, is one of the better songs on the album.

An engaging percussive intro leads the lis-
tener into the full sound of several acoustic
guitars layered on top of each other, some
playing a rhythm line while the others play a
more melodic lead line.

“Silent Legacy,” while not as musically
interesting as some of her other songs, is an
impassioned and poignant description of the
pain and frustration she feels as a lesbian.
Fortunately, the song is not socially or politi-
cally didactic about the topic. It is a moving
piece that will pull at the heartstrings ofanyone
who has felt pressure to deny one’s feelings and
do what is socially acceptable. .

The next song is, without a doubt, the best on
the album. “l Will Never Be The Same” show-

,_ cases everything that Etheridge does best. Her
ﬁsigmple, movinglyrics and raw, yet somehow _

sweet ‘vocal style compliment the easy melody
to make the song truly graceful and disarming.

The rest of the songs are not terribly capti-
vating because they do not sound very original.
“Ruins” and the title track are performed well
and are decent musically.

“Ruins” has a great funk bass line and good
vocals, but the lyrics are a bit stale. The song
really smacks of the overused pop-psychology
of the late 80’s. Her account of her inability to

- love just does not sound very genuine or com-

pelling. Maybe this is because the same thing
has been said before so many other times.

“Yes I Am” is actually a good piece with
some interestingchord progressions and a sleepy
rhythm. However, it soundsjust like the Indigo
Girls—which is ﬁne ifyou are the lndigo Girls.

The remainder of the songs are not really
worth mentioning.

PAGE 5

1

 

They are full of cliches, weak poetry and
tiresome metaphors. Musically,,they are boring
as well.

It is a shame that Etheridge does not stick to
what she does best — writing slow folk/coun-
try/blues songs that communicate her experi-
ences with desire and passion.

The world could always use another torch
song, but hackneyed pop songs are a dime a
dozen.

Essentially, this album is good enough to
borrow from a die-hard fan to tape a few songs
off of it for a good mix tape.

Safety plus

(0)

PEER
COUNSELORS’
CORNER

Peer Counselors’ Corner is
written by members of
Washington and Lee’s Peer
Counseling Program. Columns
will appear periodically covering a
variety of issues important
to the W&L community.

Questions about the column
topics or the Peer Counseling

~ the author of the column.

Program should be directed to ﬂ

l ,   ,

awareness

By CARLIN JONES
Special to the Phi

According to many people in our commu-
nity, alcohol abuse is part of the lifestyle at
W&L. Everyone has a story about them-
selves or their friends that is an account of
abusive drinking. To some, this is the way
that it should be for college students. To
most, the centralization of alcohol abuse in
our campus life is scary.

Alcohol Awareness Week is a time to
address one on the greatest concerns on this
campus. W&L students are certainly aware
of alcohol. Many of the social problems on
our campus in some way can be traced back
to the abuse of alcohol. It leads to bruised
egos and mixed signals, and often unhappi-
ness.

This is not to say that the use of alcohol
should be avoided at all costs, but instead the
abuse of alcohol should be avoided. The
intent behind Alcohol Awareness Week is
not to teach students to abstain from the use
of alcohol, but instead to provide the alterna-
tive of responsible drinking.

From the time that we arrive as freshman
until Graduation Day, we are surrounded by
alcohol abuse. It is an integral, and unfortu-
nate pan of this campus. Very few people
can truly say that they have never abused
alcohol after four years here.

Some try to rationalize their abuse: “l
don’t do it very often” or “l’ve never been
arrested” or ‘‘I can hold my booze”. The truth
is that abuse doesn’t necessarily mean drink-
ing until you pass out every weekend and on
Wednesdays. Abuse is not only a history of
irresponsible drinking, but also drinking too
much at any given time. Abusive drinking
can be one night or an entire lifetime.

According to the American Medical’As—
sociation deﬁnition ofbinge drinking (five or

is needed

more drinks in one evening), W&L has a real
problem.

Education alone will not stop the alcohol
abuse on our campus, but it is important to be
aware of the risks involved. Many students
come here as freshman with little drinking
experience, and quickly find that abuse is
easy, easier than responsible drinking. Un-
fortunately, many freshman are not aware of
the upperclassmen that choose not to drink.
Freshman are especially subject to peer pres-
sure.

Eventually most students wi1l‘have ascary
evening, and try to cut back. For some this is
a trip to the hospital, and for others it is
waking up and having no idea what happened
the night before. Some never learn respon-
sible drinking habits while they are here.
Hopefullythey willacquirethose habitssome-
where else, but in some cases they never learn
them.

Drinking irresponsibly contributes to sta-
tistics like the incidence of driving under the
influence by W&L students. Those statistics
are from the lives of real people like Blake
Comer and Ashley Scarsborough. His irre-
sponsible behavior took her life.

But, it isn’t isolated to the cases that make
the front page of the Phi. On an individual
level, it effects the things we take for granted,
like our memory. Alcohol abuse effects our
relationships, as well as academic perfor-
mance. Abuse does not touchjust one area of
our lives, it is all-encompassing.

This column is not intended to preach
against the evils of consuming alcohol. The
peer counselors are certainly not chosen for
their desire to prohibit the consumption of
alcohol by W&L students. In fact, most of us
choose to drink at least occasionally. We are
committed to educating the campus about the
effects of abuse, and helping students deal
with the ramifications of abuse. We are
available to talk, and help if you decide that
you need someone to listen.

 

 

 

W&LlFE

 

    

The Ring-tum Phi October 22,1993

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

O

    
      
 

O“ t|'I¢ mark by Mark Parisi

  
   

24 MARK ﬁLrzi-,’v/
I cim Ynounc mm. Scmcu. Inc /Mug¢r1 17 /“T
All «gnu reuma /I / , r / _
1%; _
\

 

—mA1"45 11: VERYGQDD. ..

     
    

I0 W”

@1993 Tu
All Rtg

MM l Services, Inc
Ruse

  
      
 
 

I'LL BE RIGHT BALK...

  
    

 

  
    
 
  

wHY CAN'T THEY CARRY
.wAl-LET4 LIKE (J9... '

      
  

  

  
    

  

    

 

 

AKLA, DON'T 0_H PLEAQE
KEEP COOPERATING AND LEAYFE H125, “K5 O0N'T LEAVE ME
YOURBEER will-BE SAFE-- -L 1‘ -
We pluggere will spend 20 bucks 12) win 
a. two-clollarrtecldy bear. 
Colonnade Crossword -“
ACROSS
1 Dwindle
6 Snatch

10 Breakfast food

14 Banishment ‘NE KEEP ‘WE

15 Hayseed

16 Home oi song ‘ R TQRN QGNAL  ‘.-

17 Cables , ON N,\_ Dl>§{ _ .. i '

18 Indian or Peru ‘ ' ‘ A- . , _ 7 z;
19 Meal for Dobbin l>~ND TNL6, - - S , ~ « _ i ,
20 Kind of stone i »-A .; W ‘ , , ‘ '
22 Shangri-la H LL 36 ‘WE / /*7 ‘ 1  l " '

24 Cluckers Q LEFT 5 . ,4 .,.$\, , » i/ /

25 Branch ' "'  1/; 1 ; “ “' ‘_.

26 Seize control 0 ...._... L‘: , ’ _

29 Ecvsetgiéilze  L2. : 3 y,//  ‘vi L.-;:v_—-__: WE QR  \N\LL BE

—-—-—z-.:-—-' =‘—'-'”‘' V’ '/7 4.’  ‘ 
33 "— You Glad  I”  ”'/’/ ‘ ‘- 3 _._f~ M FWNY 0‘: ‘(O13 TOVPX
You're You?" ' ' i ”‘ ‘ ‘ ' ‘ '
34 Skill ‘
35 Collection of
anecdotes
36 Thrash CLOSER“,
37 N n-clerical
pica. CLOSER.“

38 Sour

39 Tavern

40 gerlgassion @139: ilg'f':K‘)stJ%B° 31311;: Services. Inc. 10/22/93

41 Greek island 9 | ed

42 Person with a 8 Alphabet run Last week S puzzle S0 V

valid will 9 Adorn

44 Hear 10 Flowers

45 Bad 11 Harvest

46 Nevada city 12 Against

47 Hat 13 Space org.

50 lncivility 21 Sign

54 Surrounded by 23 Try

55 Atop 25 Bed boards

57 Cecil B. De— 26 Custom

58 Baseball team 27 Dunne or Castle

59 Oat 28 Denims

60 Something of 29 Thorn MORE VIOLENCE

value 30 Phase 05,19 MAYHEM-
61 Headliner 31 Wed IVE HAD I11!
62 ‘Sheep 32 Burdened
_ 63 Seethes 34 Noel g
g 37 Freedom from I
oovvn,“   restraint‘ * V
1 cburchliencnes 3e Firebug , I
3:92:55’. 22$.::::.,. = .~ 1
e p. e. . -_ ~ -
4 Circus 43 Gentle , . ‘ I// , ' - , ,,. I, ,'§
performer 44 Guided 48 Leave out 51 Etillnerwise _ ‘- '. , /_l_ /41” ,' ’, 14/’ V J ’,,l,,/,:/,
' ‘ ' ' -  r » / ~' ’..‘, ,' "1-/r .»’ ,
22:52:“ 46§m:lri"aﬁ:‘ot|itters :3S:l¥?;“;’$ 5”" 23623:‘...    )r-  ,1
7 Ladder part 47 Forbids ‘ play 56 Internee: abbr. " .  5_-._.  A \.i . ,

F W

261-7292
2275 BeediAvc., Bucna Vista - (Behind Pizza Hut)

$1.50 ANY SHOW
Now Showing
Snow White
Rated G

Sat. 10:30 a.m., 12:30 & 2:30 p.m.
Sun. 12:30 & 2:30 p.m.

 Restaurant

at LEE Ill Truck Stop

bVL9}'Vl.a/

   

BREAKFAST

 

 The SeRc;;:(ti garden
Friday & Saturday Nights Sat. & Sun. 4:40 p.m.
11 .m. to 4 a.m. M . N
Sundaylras 9 a m to 2 p m - .‘{a‘°da’?‘?y
‘ ' ' ' Showing Daily at 7:00 & 9:15 p.m.

Route 11 North Open 24 Hours 453.3473

“All You Can Eat”
BOTTOMLESS BUCKET

‘$3.00 OF POPCORN $3.001

r l'_..,

 

      

 

E

New Shipment of T-Shirts

Check out our Ren & Stimgy‘, Looney Tunes - “Locker Room,”
& Torc _ ‘and Twang.”

New Concert Shirts — Cyprus Hill, Blind Melon, and Pearl Jam.
(0c-tober Spec-ials
$2.00 off all CDs, $1.00 off all Cassettes. Cassingles 3/$9.50
, All Horror movies only 99¢. 1

 

Plus, our huge selection of T-shirts, including Marval “Comic Images” on
sale for only $8.99 during October.

Purchased $10 worth of trading cards a_nd/or comics & play “Quick Draw”
for a chance to win great prizes.

Stonewall S uare Shopping Center
qLexin ton
463-9 00

 

GROUPS! 4

CLUBS!
Raise up to $500 to
$1500 in less than a

week. Plus win a trip to
Mtv Spring Break ‘94
and get a FREE T-shirt

just for calling.

1-800-950-1039 ext. 65

Valley

7/Ede’?/z&:e

HARDWARE STORES 8’

   

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

If you wantto be the kind of leader that individuals look
up to, you should take a good look at the Marine Corps.
We'll develop your physical and mental strengths so you
can set the kind ofexample others will wantto follow.

For more information about becoming an officer of
Marines, contact the individual below

.1 ;’~"

For more information on Officer Programs, please see Captain
Graham at the University Center onOCtober 27, from 11:00 a.m.
to 1:00 p.m. or call 1-800-542-5851 in \/A or collect (703)387-1942.

 

  To be up to date on the
  news of L exington and  
W&L, subscribe to    
    the Phi.    

And students, your    
parents will appreciate it
.   if you finally get them
that subscription        ey've 
- been nagging you for all
'   term.      

It 's just 3 0 bucks.

To Subscribe,

Call 462-4060

 

PAGE 8

    

Ellie ‘tlting-tum lﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Eenie, meenie,
miney, mo

The brothers of Phi Delta Theta have been on
critical probation for a week now. The critical
probation is the result of what boils down to a very
messy food fight. —

Since the beginning of the month, the Phi Delts and
other students have been wondering what would
happen to the fraternity. But anyone who tried to
guess what kind of punishment Phi Delt would re-
ceive from the Student Affairs Committee probably
came up wrong.

Based on SAC’s track record the last few years, it ’s
anyone’s guess what kind of punishment a fraternity
will receive when it goes before SAC. You have to
feel a little sympathy for any organization that must
defend itself to SAC, even though they had to do
something wrong to be there. It must be scary to go
before the group that has the power to kick your
fraternity off campus with no idea of what to expect.

About two years ago SAC put Delta Tau Delta on
suspension for five years, after the Delts damaged
their unrenovated house. President Wilson stepped
in, reduced the suspension and left Delt with a chance
of becoming a healthy fraternity. Last May, SAC
decided to let Beta Theta Pi and their house corpora-
tion take care of any necessary punishment after
several incidents at Beta — including the destruction
of furniture. Beta’s renaissance had already been
completed. Now there is Phi Delt. They have to deal
with critical probation for the rest of the year.

The Phi Delts are probably a little relieved, while
still concerned. Another serious mistake and they
could be suspended or expelled. The Question is:
What constitutes another serious mistake? Only SAC
knows.

Is what Delt did really that much worse than what
Phi Delt or Beta did? In SAC’s eyes it was the
difference between murder and shop-lifting. But
when you get right down to it, all three fraternities
showed-total disregard..for«their houses.

All of this is not to say Beta or Phi Delt deserved
to be suspended from campus. A fraternity system
where the houses fear the guillotine is not a healthy
one. But a system that cannot dole out consistent
punishments for similar mistakes is also not healthy.

SAC’s latest decision just confuses students as to
what the University considers unacceptable behav-
ior. Damage an unrenovated house and SAC will
suspend your fraternity for five years. Damage brand
new furniture and other parts of a renovated house
and SAC will let your house corporation take care of
it. Cover your walls in shaving cream and newspa-
pers and SAC will watch you closely for a year.

The only pattern here is there isn’t one.

Quote of the Week:

“ Have you discovered any difference between
men and women?”

“I think I have.”

—— Dean Howison posing a question to Alcohol
Awareness Week speaker Scott Swartzwelder

OPINION

  
       

I'LL Four. A DOCILE
LITTLE RABBI-i’ our
OF My HM‘!

  

»n:ict<,

  

0
The Riﬂq-tum Phl, October 22, 1993

PC president could hurt W&L

Dear Members of the Board of Trustees:

During your October meeting you will very likely
discuss the search for a replacement for retiring Presi-
dent Wilson. I urge you to take special care to ensure
the new president will be respectful of Washington
and Lee’s traditions, particularly its academic excel-
lence and reverence for
honor.While I am conﬁ-
dent that you have from

They did not seem to educate their students as much
as they politicized them.

The anti—traditional and PC-driven spirit of
Carleton, I found, is typical of colleges. Many have
even worse records. Administrations at many col-
leges have attacked and have even banned fratemi-

ties. When an institution under-
takes such action, it is very diffi-
cult to believe its claims to sup-

 

the outset had this first and port a student’s decisions. The
foremost amongst yourcri- _ ~ ANDREW thought of attending an institu-
teria, what I have seen of  " tion that does not trust its stu-
other colleges and the path  _ OLMEM, dents enough to allow them to
theirpresidents havetaken ’ __ 996 participate in fraternities surely
them compels me to be a ‘  is repellent to thosefamiliarwith
little more concerned. ‘ Washington and Lee’s commu-
I, like most Washing— nity.

ton and Lee students, came

here because W&L was unlike other schools. Every
other school I considered had ﬁne academic records
similar to Washington and Lee’s, but the communi-
ties present at these schools could not be further from
Washington and Lee’s. For example, Carleton Col-
lege is often considered the pinnacle of liberal arts
colleges. Yet any fine academic traditions which it

possesses are completely submerged .l.)_yV2{__t3£V)ull}Cl’: -f H p H“ _
  j... ..-. ,.; wh('),sp—ea]‘(s-a

productive community. ,

On my visit to its campus I found a complete
absence of friendliness or respect. The students formed
their own cliques, as all students do at every college.
What was so disturbing though was the fact that there
was no common bond or traditions to bring them
together. Meeting a fellow classmate at Carleton
would be no different from meeting a student from
another college. The only common trait found in the
students was their adherence, either from fear or
respect, to political correctness. I found it hard to
believe this community so infiltrated with PC could
actually foster liberal education.

Even more disturbing than the student body was
the behavior of many of Carleton’s professors. The
politically correct atmosphere of the campus radiated
directly from the “teachings” of PC sympathizing
professors. The course catalogue was filled with classes
formed around professors’ own political crusades.

The incident earlier this

year at the University of Pennsylvania where a stu-
dent was almost expelled for calling some students
“water buffaloes” illuminates another troubling prob-
lem on many college campuses: speech codes. Free
speech in a politically correct school is no longer
considered a requirement for liberal education. In-
stead of; allowing students to find truth, colleges
impose what tlje considertruth pnthem.~Any'student
rryzhing counter to‘theii“poIi'tically7 cor-
rectdoétrines, even as ‘ ‘ - '5 ‘
trite as “water buffa-

against traditions and towards political correctness.
Students come to Washinton and Lee for preciselyo
this reason. They seek to be part of community built
on honor, traditions and respect. They aspire to
become educated, not indoctrinated, and feel free to
converse and even become friends with their pro-
fessors.

Yet, despite its appearance today, Washington
and Lee could easily fall victim to the politicallyo
correct orthodoxy. The presidents of too many
schools have allowed, either by not acting to stop or
actively promoting, political correctness to domi-
nate their institutions.

It is of paramount importance for the preserva-
tion of Washington and Lee that our next president
openly reject the politically correct ideology. It has.
preserved its unique position among liberal arts
colleges for generations, it would be a tragedy to
see the new president make it just another ordinary
PC saturated college. -

Selecting an individual already familiar with
Washington and Lee is the best guarantee the new
president will not abandon Washington and Lee’s
heritage. The more one experiences Washington‘
and Lee’s community, the more one appreciates it.
Ideally the next president can give Washington and

F'I3éé~'a reviv'aI"of its tradition. After a decade of

successful faculty im-
provements, Wash-

loes,” pays a price,
often expulsion.
Schools that em-
body the radical po-
litically correct
dogma, like Carleton
College and the Uni-
versity of Pennsylva-

It is of paramount impor-
tance for the preservation of
Washington and Lee that our
next president openly reject the
politically correct ideology.

ington and Lee would
very much welcom
a president dedicated
to preserving its heri-
tage.

Also, I urge you to
consider students’
views as you search

nia, have become in-
stitutions most Wash-
ington and Lee students would rather not attend.
Students who want a liberal arts education prefer to
avoid institutions which pursue the politically correct
and neglect legitimate education.

Fortunately, Washington and Lee has remained,
for the most part, immune to the dangerous trend

for a new president.‘
Administrators, fac-
ulty, and alumni will always exert their inﬂuence on
the selection of a new President, but students’ ideas
can easily be overlooked and unheard. Please take
time to find out what students would most like in a
president; after all it is the future of their education
you are deciding. g

on ‘i'!?i1tg-tum rim

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

A11 Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent. '

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Columns, letters, and “My
Views" do not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
703 462-4060

Wake up to admissions reality

The title of a recent column in this
space was, “University stands at cross-
roads.” I quite agree with that state-
ment. The two roads before us could
not be more different.

Many believe that we at Washing-
ton and Lee must live our future as we
have lived our past. They believe the
traditions and history of W&L are the

with equal or superior academic quali-
fications are denied acceptance to
Washington and Lee, because 20 per-
cent of each year’s freshman class is
reserved exclusively for men. When
questioned about this policy, the ad-
missions staff give what has become
their stock response, “We are simply
following the directive of the Board of

 

most important Trustees.”
things to keep Well then,
in mind when perhaps it is
considering time forthe
new policies. I Board to re-
believe we PATRICK consider its
must follow our MCDERMO[T, directive.

university’s , The rea-
motto, “Not 94 soning be-
Unmindful of hind the 60/
the Future,” 40 split has
when deter- alwaysbeen
mining our di- A that to

rection. We must always remember the
history of our institution, but we must
never allow that history to prevent the
university from moving forward.

In 1985, President Wilson and the
Board of Trustees initiated coeduca-
tion at Washington and Lee. At that
time, the Trustees decided to set a maxi-
mum ratio of 60 percent male and 40
percent female. This is the ratio we are
at today. and the Trustess seem intent
on maintaining those numbers.

They are unmoved by the fact that
this is a blatant violation of the state-
ment appearing on the university’s ad-
missions application. That statement
reads, “Washington and Lee Univer-
sity does not discriminate on the basis
of race, color, religion, national origin,
sex, age, etc.” In other words, the same
admissions office that boasts about the
Honor System in every one of its bro-
chures was ordered by the Trustees to
lie to prospective students on their ap-
plications.

The simple fact is the University
does discriminate against female ap-
plicants once the 40 percent quota has
been ﬁlled. This means that women

change the statistics any further would
be to radically alter the traditional char-
acter of the university. In other words,
some of the fraternities would be forced
to close down if the male ratio were to
drop below 60 percent. It is generally
believed if the university were to make
its admissions policy “gender blind,”
the ratio of men to women would most
likely reverse to 60 percent female and

40 percent male. This would mean 20 _

percent fewer men would be rushing
and pledging the 16 on-campusjrater-i
nities. That is something the Trustees
and the administration desperately want
to avoid in the midst ofa $127 million
Capital Campaign. They know alumni
tend to look rather unfavorably upon
their fraternities closing down, and in
turn, they give less money to the school.

Before going any further, I think it
is important to remember the tireless
efforts of many members of the Board

and the administration are all meant for '

our benefit and the beneﬁt of those
who will follow us. Without their
dedication, this university would not
be the nationally ranked institution it is
today. We owe them a tremendous

debt of gratitude for the leadership they
have shown throughout a time of great
difficulty. However, their dedication
to W&L does not make them infallible
and I believe they have made an error
in judgement here.

It is wrong for the university to be
held captive by its alumni. It is ludi-
crous for anyone to expect the univer-
sity _to maintain the same number of
fraternities now as we had when this
was an all-male institution. It is time
our alumni “wake up” to the fact we
now have 40 percent fewer men then
when they were students here. By de-
manding we not lose any fraternities in
the process of coeducation, our alumni
force the houses to place enormous
pressure on each entering class of fresh-
man. They must mantain an 80 to 90
percent pledge rate or they are in dan-
ger of losing houses. There simply
aren’t enough freshmen to go around.
So if we were to change the admissions
policy, and the number of freshman
men suddenly
dropped by 20

who were dragged kicking and scream’
ing into coeducation, now see a univer-
sity which far surpasses what existed in
1985. The fact is, in the United States
today, women show higher academic
standards than men. They are one of
the_ major reasons W&L ranks high]
on the lists of top liberal arts colleges
like that published by U.S. News and
World Reports. If it were not for the
women on this campus, W&L would
be nothing more than another medio-
cre liberal arts college, instead of 20th
in the nation. Washington and Lee
should continue its rise on that list, bu?
that’s not going to happen until we
equalize our admissions policy and
reach our true academic potential.
This issue is not about whether one
supports fraternities. The greek system
is, has been, and always will be an
integral part of the Washington ant!
Lee tradition. No one can deny that.
What we must decide is whether we
wish the academic potential of our in-
stitution to be
controlled by an

Percent» ‘W6 aspect of its so-
would certainly T ““‘‘Z—. . cial life. Like-Q
see the end ofa he same admissions wise, the c,P,_'
{$“tVl_f]ra*¢mi:i;§- I office that boasts about tal Carnilmign is
I 6 IS - essentia to en-
Wonk, be ,,,_ the Honor System in we the ﬁnam
ggettlgjble. bit every one of its bro- cial stability of
S OH not 6 ‘ the universit
thepﬁmarymw chures, was ordered by me the nexyt.
iivaiion for the Trustees to lie to c..,,,.,,,y_ what

maintaining a
flawed admis-
sions policy.

prospective students on we
their applications.

should
avoid is sacri-
ficing the aca-

The Trust-
ees and the ad-
ministration are
right to expect a drop in alumni gifts if
fraternities close, just as they wereright
to expect a drop in giving when coedu-
cation ﬁrst began. However, this drop
would not be permanent. After all,
W&L is now succeeding in raising

more money than ever before. This is_

only possible because all those_alumni

demic stan-

dards of the in-
stitution while in the process of raisin
money for its future. We must admit’
students based on their ability to live
up to the standards set by the founders -
of this great university. We must real-
ize while the era of the W&L Gentle-
man may be ending, a new generation
of Washington and Lee Leaders is
waiting to begin. ’ » . ~ '

 

 

oThe Ring-tum Phi, October 22, 1993

Spos’ SPACE
, Tom Hespos

Greetings, loyal readers. I have
been anxiously awaiting the day when
I could write about this week’s topic
without fear of retaliation from the
parties involved. This week, we will
discuss (drumroll, please)... on-cam-
pus jobs.

Last week, Spos was fortunate
enough to have ﬁnally secured a job
with the Washington and Lee Snack
Bar. Admittedly, making sandwiches
‘for the W&L populace may not be the
most glamorous of jobs, but we’ll see

‘who will be drinking Meister Brau on
the weekends and who will be drinking
Corona with lime.

Searching for an on—campus job
usually ranks right up there with do-it-
yourself nose jobs in terms of painful-
ness. Trust me —— Spos can relate

§everal instances where a job search
has brought him extremely close to
wanton violence, especially when he
has to deal with the schmucks over at
the ﬁnancial aid ofﬁce. (You don’t
know how long I have been waiting to
say that—— boy, it feels good.)
. Participating in the college work-
study program at W&L is the path most
W&L students take toward getting an
on-campus job. Most aren’t lucky
enough to survive the journey down
this long and arduous path. Those that
do survive, however, are given such
ggh-level titles as Assistant Associate
og Crap Scooper or Associate Assis-

tant Canine Feces Collector, and are
sent forth from the ﬁnancial aid office
with pooper-scooper in hand. Of
course, some are lucky enough to se-
cure jobs in the library or whatnot, but
most work-study participants end up
quitting after a week or so. Maybe the
people at ﬁnancial aid throw giant,
private keg parties with the money.

As you might have guessed, Direc-
tor of Financial Aid John DeCourcy
and the Sposmeister do not get along.
Mr. DeCourcy is living proof of Spos
Postulate #137 which states that the
intelligence of a departmental director
is inversely

sonably intel-

ligent being,

capable of ex-

periencing human emotion and logical
thought. Now, however, after several
years of exposure to large sums of
money, DeCourcy has but four words
in his vocabulary: “cut,” “deny,”
“blame,” and “lunch.”

My father and I quickly found out
about Mr. DeCourcy’s vocabulary this
summer, when we received a letter in
the mail from ﬁnancial aid, describing
the aid that Spos had been awarded for
the coming school year. Realizing that

 

the College Work-Study Program was
omitted from the list, Dad called ﬁnan-
cial aid for an explanation. DeCourcy,
apparently unaware that Dad is an ex-
Green Bay Packer of enormous bodily
dimensions, rang off a stream of harsh
sentences (composed entirely of the
aforementioned words) in Dad’s ear
before rudely hanging up on him. By
the way, John, if you’re reading this,
Dad has expressed that he is “looking
forward to Parent’s Weekend,” and he

hopes to see you soon.
Equally problematic is Kim Ruscio.
As an assistant ﬁnancial aid ofﬁcer,
Ruscio often

proportiohalto. finds herself
tlhe sizte of tthq Blezgiing up
eparmena y e ourcy’s
budget. May I gimpg glrvmlgfe 1}‘-. ,{5.,,m mess. Addition-
also mention «tr ' ally, she is re-
’ that it is very ' sponsible for
possible, in writing memos
fact probable, and keeping the
that DeCourcy bureaucracy to-
wasoncearea- gether. An ex-

ample follows:
MEMO
To: Friends,
relatives and acquaintances
From: Kim Ruscio, Assistant, Fi-
nancial Aid
Re: Keg Party
To celebrate the huge reduction in
scholarship monies this year, I will
host the first of several keg parties at
my home on November 11 at 9 p.m.
Hope you can make it!
Obviously, one can try to get an on-
campus job, but there are strong forces
working against it. Try getting a job in

OPINION

-Spos takes on financial aid office  

the Co-op or in town.

Another option is getting a job do-
ing research with a professor in one of
the science departments. Several of
Spos’ fraternity brothers have taken
advantage of these awesome opportu-
nities. lnstead of making sandwiches
like your average harmless food ser-
vice employee, these research assis-
tants usually end up making home-
made hydrogen bombs or cloning
deadly viruses, all for the sake of sci-
ence. Mister Wizard would be proud.

For example, Spos’ good friend
Alex, who works with Professor Akins,
would come home from work with a
dazed expression, thus arousing curi-
osity:

Spos: Hey, Alex, what did you do in
research today?

Alex: Well... we ran a peanut butter
and jelly sandwich through the centri-
fuge/ positron collider/ laser salad
maker, and it got transmuted into a
giant woolly sloth, which ate three
department secretaries. Anyone got a
beer?

Spos: Have several.

Another option is to get a job in
town, which is both complex and nerve-
wracking, so I ’ll spare you the details.
As for me, I’ll see you in the Co-op.
And don’t ask me to make you a turkey
club sandwich. They’re hard to make
and I usually screw it up, in which case
bacon, turkey and other sandwich ma-
terials end up all over the ﬂoor. This
means I have to start all over, unless
you’re Richard Weaver, in which case
you get the dirty sandwich anyway.

Until next week...

Political incorrectness goes too far

MY VIEW

being opposed to abortion, afﬁrmative action, diver-
sity, multiculturalism, and the idea of sexual harass-
ment. James K. Kilpatrick, former editor of The
Richmond Times-Dispatch, claims it would have been

Michael Hewlett

' When I applied to this university, I remember
writing an essay attacking the idea of political correct-
ness as a hindrance to free speech. I believed strongly
the defense of free speech, no matter how offensive,
is necessary to ensure a democratic society. As an
aspiring journalist, I still believe in free speech, but
this business of political incorrectness has begun to

Either me.

Whenever someone talks about multiculturalism
on diversity. an.vu1tra.°.<?r!S.<*1r.V.%.1ti.‘!<=;. «in,vari.al>.1y~an. an-
gry, persecutedwhite male, Rush Limbaugh-wannabe,
yells “politically correct” and proceeds to give his
obviously superior politically incorrect opinion. In-
creasingly, political correctness, which started as an
ztademic movement, has become a tool which con-
servatives use to shove their ideas down everyone

else’s throats. .

What used to be an attack on the limiting of free
speech has now turned into an attack on free speech.
Being politically correct now means being as politi-
cally incorrect as possible. And what does being
mlitically incorrect mean these days? Well, it means

criticized President
Clinton for being politi-
cally correct when he
nominated Lani Guinier
to the post of deputy at-
torney general for the
Civil Rights division of
,,,the._ Justice Department.
Yet, Clintonrproved him-
self to be true to the po-
litical correctness doc-
trine when he unceremo-
niously dumped Guinier
before she could defend

too politically incorrect for President Clinton to have
nominated a white male for the Supreme Court, even
though there are only two women and one black male
on the court — the rest are white males. Conservatives

herself. Senator Carol Mosely Braun found herself
castigated as being politically correct —— even racist
— when she attacked the Confederate ﬂag.

I have nothing against the free discourse of ideas in
a free and democratic society. But there seems to be
a thin line between being politically incorrect and

being racist. The bottom line is even in a free
society people should not tolerate racial or sexual
intolerance. Yet, some ultraconservatives use “po-
litical incorrectness” as a way to hide behind their
racism. They think it’s okay to be racist or sexist -
just as long as they are not politically correct. But
it’s never okay to judge someone on the basis of
their skin color or gender. lt’s not even safe to

nominate anyone ei-
ther non-white or fe-
male without the label

I have nothing against the
free discourse of ideas in a free
I and democratic society. But
 f,theréisee’n‘is.'to be ‘a thin ’line*
between being politically incor-

rect and being racist.

of political correctness
being stamped on it.
The solution comes
when we start to rec-
ognize political cor-
rectness when it oc-
curs, and not when we
simply disagree with
someone’s opinion.

To all members of the University com-
munity:
The Coeducation Review Commit-

tee has been charged by President Wil- -

son with seeking answers to the follow-
igg questions:

Does the environment of our class-
rooms, labs, student government, Greek
organizations, departmental and admin-
istrative ofﬁces, and on our playing
fields, in our dormitories, student clubs

and organizations promote the high-
est possibilities for the development
of our students and faculty?

Have we succeeded in creating for
our women members a sense of own-
ership in this community that rivals
the way men feel about W&L; are
women ableto think of W&Lassome-
thing they possess equally with men?

One way we are proceeding with
this task is to ask any staff members,

faculty member, students and alumni
who have information, anecdotes, sug-
gestions, observations of problem areas
(or solutions!) to send your comments
to the committee.

Our ﬁnal report hopes to include
issues pertinent to the entire commu-
nity — staff members, faculty, and ad-
ministrators, and students.

We are interested in hearing about
the successes and failures that you be-

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Frarnptom

VVhat’s your favorite Way to procrastinate?

 

TALKBACK

 

My opinions cannotbe
dismissed as being po-

litically correct becausethey represent my thoughts,
my feelings, and my beliefs. If you don‘t like my
opinions, then tell me why you disagree with me.
Forget about whether l’m politically correct or
incorrect. Worry about whether I’m on the right
track or not. Maybe then we’ll get somewhere.

LETTERS

I . Coeducation Review Committee seeks university input for report

lieve have occurred over the last 9
years.

Yourcomments need not by signed,
but if you would like to meet with a
member of the committee, or have
your comments followed up in some
way, it would be helpful to know how
to contact you for more information.
All comments will be kept conﬁden-
tial. Please feel free to send comments
to 2

Writing Center

The Writing Center is now open
for Fall Term on Sundays through
Thursdays from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m.
in Payne 2B. This year there are
student writing tutors majoring or
double-majoring in Biology, Eco-
nomics, English, German, History,
Mathematics, Philosophy, Politics,
and Theater. Students who want
help with writing projects of any
kind are encouraged to sign up on a
sheet outside the door or to just stop

‘ by for an individual conference with
a writing tutor.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum will present
“An International Perspective on
Women” this Sunday, October 24,
at 6:30 p.m. in the Arlington
Women’s Center. All women and
men are invited to participate.

Pre-Law

The Blue Ridge Pre-Law Forum
will be held from 1:00-5:00 p.m. on
Wednesday, October 27 in th Uni-
versity Center. Representatives
from law schools and the Kaplan
Center will be available to answer
questions about their law schools.
All students are invited to attend.
Call extension 8595 if you have any
questions.

Retreat

Episcopal students interested in
attending a conference/retreat en-
titled “Making God a Partner in
Decision Making” the weekend of
November 5-7 at Shrivemont Con-
ference Center should contact Bar-
bara Taylor at Robert E. Lee Memo-
rial Church, 463-4981. There is a
$20 registration fee.

 

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

PAGE 9

Gap party

Bridge the Gap party for seniors
and law students this Friday from
4:00-7:00 p.m. at the Law School
field (or the Pavilion if it rains).
Come by for subs, beer, and
Wildgrass.

Flu

Inﬂuenza vaccine for 1993-94 is
now available in the Student Health
Center for a minimal charge. The
vaccine should prevent illness with
inﬂuenza during the ﬂue season
December through March. All stu-
dents are encouraged to receive it
now.

Kafka

The Film Society will present
Kafka (USA, 1991) on Friday, Oct.
29 and Saturday, Oct. 30 in the
Troubadour Theater’ at 8:05 p.m.
There is no charge for admission.

Debate

Phyllis Schlaﬂy, a pioneer of
American conservatism, and Jane
Benshoof, a leading litigator and
legal expert on reproductive rights,
will debate the topic of abortion on
Tuesday, Oct. 26, at 8:00 p.m. in the
Lenfest Center.

Panel

On Wednesday, Oct. 27, at 7:00
p.m. there will be a ﬁlm followed
by a panel discussion on the death
penalty in Virginia will take place
in Lewis Hall Classroom A.

ing sancations were levied:

Student Body Notice

An upperclassman has been found in violation of university policy for
ungentlemanly behavior directed towards a dorm counselor. The follow-

1) 15 hours of community service.

2) Banishment from the freshman dorms.

3) A meeting with Dean Manning to discuss the situation.
4) Conduct Probation for the rest of the year.

Professor Nancy Margand, Psychol-
ogy department, Tucker 315

e-mail: nmargand@wlu.edu

Professor H. Tom Williams, Phys-
ics department, Parrnly 206

e-mail: williams.ht@wlu.edu

Daniel Felton, Class of ’95, 464-
5297, e-mail: dfelton@wlu.edu

If you would be more comfortable
sending yoursuggestions toother mem-
bers of the committee.

They include: Professors Alty
(Chemistry), Goldsmith (Economics),
Koberstein (Romance Languages),
Oliver (Accounting), Simpson (Art),
Strong (Politics), West-Settle (Ro-
mance Languages), and student mem-
bers Frankie Jones and Carol Pierce.

Thank you for your help.
The Coeducation Review Committee

 Dickinson, ’94, Atlanta, Ga.—— Alex Kostera, ’97, Hammondsport, Stefanie Brown, ’94, McLean, Va., and Julie’Guerin, ’94, Hammond, La.

“\"\/_a_I(‘l1l'lg Beverly Hills 90210 and
Melrose Place.”

NY. — “Just watching any crap I can
find on TV.”

— “Checking out boys at the Co-op.”

...--7

Dr. Fred Schwab, professor of geol-
. ~— “Leave town on an exotic trip
or go to acoffee house.”

---- ._- _ -.-.-- ..__- -.. ____ -..'-._‘-'J.

Ali Walker, ’9s, Fort Lauder-daie,i§
Fla. — “The Co-op. lt’s the ultimate
way to procrastinate.”

l.
i.
l
I
V!

 

 

  

PAGE 10

Women overaehieve

0
The Ring-tum Phi, October 22, 199

Tennis Wins again, Nationals neg:

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

To produce a successful season, a team needs a
combination of luck, talent, and timely production.
According to coach Jan Hathorn, the Washington and
Lee women’s soccer team has been blessed with all
three.

With two games remaining before the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament, the Generals are once
again playing well.

On Wednesday, W&L defeated Lynchburg 2-1 in
overtime in a gut-wrenching affair. In a game which
Hathorn called, “a little two close for comfort,” the
Generals produced a win after losing to Messaiah on
Saturday. The victory provides the Generals with a
rallying point entering the ﬁnal stretch of the season.

Another turning point for the team, according to

Hathorn, was the game against Roanoke. The Generals
tied a powerful Roanoke squad on a day where the
Washington and Lee team did not play one of it’s better
games.

“We were very proud to walk away with a tie because
we didn’t play well,” said Hathorn.

Each game for the Generals presents an opportunity
for a different W&L player to step up. Also, younger
players have provided an infusion oftalent without being
overly encumbered by inexperience.

The next game for the Generals is for first place in the
ODAC against Randolph-Macon. After that, the W&L
team will gear up for the ODAC tournament where the
Generals are guaranteed to host the first round regardless
of the outcome of the Randolph-Macon contest.

With an ODAC record of 6-0-1 to this point, the
Washington and Lee women have already produced a
highly successful season. However, the team hopes to
accomplish their goal of winning the conference title.

Undergoing further preparation for
the Rolex National Championsh' in
Edmond, Okla., the Washington and
Lee women’s tennis team rolled over
still another opponent Oct. 19.

The Generals are still undefeated
for the fall season after Saturday’s vic-
tory over 4th-ranked Mary Washing-
ton. The 6-3 win was W&L’s first-ever
win over MWC. .‘

Sophomore Julie Ayers was behind
by a set when she came back to win
over Karen Vatz 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. Class-
mate Helen Chandler, also a come-
from-behind, rallied to beat Meghan
Cutler 3-6, 6-0, 6-2.

These two wins brought the Gener-

Football close, no cigar

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

“Wide Right!” Those are the two
worst words to mention to this team.
No, we don’t mean Florida State. No,
not the Buffalo Bills, either. We’re
talking about the Sewanee Tigers!

A hoarse sportscaster was heard
shouting those words over the WLUR
airwaves last year as Sewanee’s at-
tempt at a game-winning ﬁeld goal
with 42 seconds left sailed passed the
wrong side of the uprights. Washing-
ton and Lee’s 17-16 win in front of
several thousand Parent’s Weekend
spectators was the only blemish on the
Tigers’ 1992 record.

Saturday, the Generals will be in
Sewanee, Tennessee, where the Uni-
versity of the South will be pursuing
some big revenge.

Although Washington and Lee has
already topped last year’s loss total of
four, Sewanee is not quite the team
they were last year, either. The Tigers
have dropped two in a row and own a 3-
3 record, a far cry from their 1992 8-1
season.

Sewanee features one of the most
balanced attacks of any General oppo-
nent this year. Quarterback Russ Young
«averages near 200 passing-yards per

"i game and is considered one of Division

f Ill’s top QBS. When he’s not throwing

Read
the
Phi

Fitzhugh Lee
M. Miley

Sam Houston

tk

W&L Art

Signatures:
Edward Valentine

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

fmtmunts
Blllllllll

the ball, Carl Cravens can run with it.
Cravens carried for just under 200 yards
in last year’s loss to W&L.

One other item going against
W&L--although the Generals lead the
all-time series 23-19, the home team
has won 29 out of the last 38.

The Generals fell to 0-5 after last
weekend’s 28-20 loss at Hampden-
Sydney. W&L’s 20 points outscored
every member of the H-SC offense
except one—Cedric Gayles. Gayles
found the General endzone four times
to account for every Tiger touchdown
(That’s the Hampden-Sydney Tigers,
not Sewaneel). He leads the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference with 10
touchdowns, nine rushing. Gayles’ 142
yards improved his rushing average to
105.8 yards/game, good enough for
second in the ODAC.

The Generals rushing attack, a
strong-point all year, didn’t make out
as well. Senior Tommy Mason was
held to just 45 yards on 19 carries,
while senior Wilson Moore chugged
17 on ﬁve runs. Mason had rushed for
more than 100 yards in each of the two
previous games. The tri-captain needs
just 66 yards to reach the career 1000
mark.

The Generals scored first as fresh-
man quarterback Brooks Fischer con-
nected with classmate Jon Gardner on
a 22-yard TD pass. It was Gardner’s
first catch of the year as the punter saw

 

FHIENDS llllN'l lil FRIENDS
llllllll llllllNK.

4

J
. '5'! l u.s. Depanment cl Transponanon

R.E. Lee
John Letcher
R. E. Lee. Jr.
A. P. Hill

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

J

a ar k
it’

DO YOU ENJOY
SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

is fun but

At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot
to enjoy a round.

Call for a free brochure 463-1800

m ared toS ortin la s

in

some action at tightend. .

Hampden-Sydney led 14-10 at half-
time and upped the Homecoming Game
lead to 21-10 early in the third-quarter.
But a 34-yard TD reception by junior
Jake Kimball and the second ﬁeld—goa1
of the game by freshman Drew Tho-
mas cut the score to 21-20.

Washington and Lee had the ball
back with five minutes to go, but
couldn’t score. The Tigers then let
Gayles lead the way down the ﬁeld for
his fourth touchdown. With under a
minute to work with, the Generals went
to the air, but Fischer was intercepted
on a bomb with seconds to go.
Hampden-Sydney moved into a sec-
ond-place tie in the ODAC with Emory
& Henry, as W&L remained winless
with Guilford and one game back of
Bridgewater.

Sophomore Butler Ball had two in-
terceptions as the Generals’ defense
forced five turnovers. Senior Jason
Chartrand had one of his best games,
making 12 tackles and one sack. Junior
Andrew Cooper recorded a season-
high 11 tackles in his second start at
linebacker.

Washington & Lee returns to Lex-
ington nextweekto beginathree-game
homestand. After a Parent’s Weekend
game against Bridgewater, W&L faces
Catholic and Guilford before the No-
vember 20 Bermuda Bowl versus
Georgetown.

als to a4-2 advantage over Mary Wash-
ington. The doubles team of Kim
Dickinson and Anna O’Connor won in
straight sets to lock in the win for
W&L.

The squad is now 3-0 for the year,
the only undefeated team this seaton,
and will wrap up fall competition by
sending junior Marilyn Baker and
Ayers to the Rolex National Champi-
onship Oct. 28-31.

Baker, a 1993 Division lll tennis
All-American, is the Rolex South Re-
gion singles champion, and she te ed
with Ayers last year to earn the dou les
title.

After the Rolex competition, the
Generals will take a hiatus until the
spring season begins during winter
term.

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-tum Phi

Sophomore Julie Ayers returns a volley from her opponent as
the women s tennis team kept its season undefeated last week.

9

J OCKSHORTS

 

Up against Richmond, the Generals fell 13-8, though
they brought the game to a tie at half-time. Unfortunately,
the Spiders broke away in the fourth quarter to lock in tb
wrn.

Host Navy completely silenced the Generals, winning
17-5, but the W&L team could be comforted by the fact
that Navy, Rickmond, and University of Arkansas-Little
Rock are all ranked in the top 20 water polo teams in the
nation.

The Generals have a chance to get revenge on at leagt ,
one team this weekend, however—make that two chances. ,

Water Polo

During the Washington and Lee water polo team’s
first outing in a few weeks, the entire field at the Navy
Eastern Water Polo Association tournament proved too
much for the Generals.

W&L lost to Dayton and Arkansas-Little Rock in
fairly close games. The score against Little Rock was a
bare 8-9, while the Generals just failed to pull out a few
key goals versus Dayton, losing 11-16.

In the game against UA-LR, sophomore Bryan Drum

attempted a two point shot with 10 seconds remaining in
the game, but he was blocked by goalie Jose Aldebot.
Senior Greg Golub, playing again despite an unfortunate
shoulder injury during the team’s trip to California
earlier this season, was stopped in his last-ditch rebound

W&L will play Richmond at home Oct. 22 and will travel
to Richmond for a match at the Spiders’ home pool Oct.
23. Richmond is ranked 19th nationally.

Game time for the homematch Friday will be 7:00 in
the Cy Twombly pool. This is the Generals’ first home

attempt. game in two weeks

   
  
    

  
 
   
  

College
Credit

I‘€S€(ZI'Ch COLll'S€S, come 10.‘

     

  
   
     
     
     

A CORAL REEF, A RAINFOREST. . .

With SFS you can study critical environmental
issues worldwide including:

0 Wildlife Management in Kenya

0 Marine Ecology in the Caribbean

0 Rainforest Dynamics in Australia

0 Marine Mammals in Baja Mexico

0 Sustainable Development in Costa Rica

For more information on Semester & Summer field

       

O
El“
1 V. k .
THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L T-SHIRTS, SWEATS ll  B61:I1?I‘I:)S3t:il(Iint/OC/3 Black
ms AND omen war SPORTWEAR it E 11.1 d *1 heéée
LEXlll6l0ll'S ONLY souacr FOR rms AND umuu B0018 . 2* “C I 8, a / Beef Fajita
15 w. wnsmucron 81‘. WE Do MAIL ORDER! % All dmners $5.49 -
LEXINGTON 703 464-3000 5
F 7 \5°‘.:.;:.;.;,.:.;..t;.:.:.:.°°-,
The : could be in this space and o
- - . both you and the Phi I -
P O1Rnt of Vlew 2 would be much happier :
estmﬂant °oooooooooooooooo°
-rams: sononymesitl-1
”°""°‘;';;“;"’.,;‘.§‘°""' sruormt rcnoupislf
G ID. . g RalseasMuchasYou °
Eleeamsetﬁns ¥l32.‘..';‘..f3T‘.‘£E"5’3§
. pines; snub £A(:nr:<:tt/(\:pé>(lii_cationCsi for the
.FnshSeaf r ltcar ever-
° anquet acilities °" _-' al 0"
K J 3.-.i*:!:.§.:*.:4.“.*a§.*,':*.:“;g.
IN OUR LABORATORIES YOU’LL
0
FIND GIRAFFES, DOLPHINS,
lD«on"t II<n—ow \wmt to be four

IHalllI«owe«en’.P
Dent at ‘I3-osturme from 0

lloltarllllgv lDa|lrlt 

Financial
Aid

SFS SLIDE PRESENTATION
Tuesday, Oct. 26, 4:00 PM
Washington & Lee Univ.
University Ctr., Room 109

Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

 

Y
Dentall Service
Monday «- Saturday 9:30 1- 6:30
4154--672:0

or write: SFS, Box A, 16 Broadway, Beverly, MA 01915, (508) 927-7777

llll SCllllllL Fllll FlllLll S'l‘lllllllS

THE WORLDIS YOUR CLASSROOM

 

 

 
  
 
   
  
 

SP  The Hing-tum Phi, October 22, 1993

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

 
 

 Hamsteeter

 
  

   

 

 

 

Standings as of 10/19/93
- Men’s Cross Country Women’s Soccer
Overall Records* Overall Records
* Lynchbur 12-0-0 Randolph-Macon 11-1-0
Eastern ennonite 5-2-0 Washington and Lee 8-4-1
Hampden-Sydney/C 8-5-0 Lynchburg 10-6-0
' Washington and e 3-2-0 Roanoke 8-5-]
Roanoke 3-3-0 Va. Wesleyan 7-7-0
. . -ea‘-' .. . grid elvvlatirl 3-91? 0 guilfcald 5-8-0
«. an o p - acon - - -M omen’s 5-9-0
QUALITY AND VARIETY /  S _ Honing 3_11_0
U.S.D.A. CHOICE ~' ' Sweet Briar 2-9-0
EYE   '2. Women’s Cross Country
an Women’s Soccer
R0  ;. Overall Records ODAC Standings
 R _ _
Eglggkind Henry 3_8_8 Randolph-Macon 6-0-0
Lynchbur 2_1_0 E/ashington and Lee 6-0-1
Eastern ennonite 3-3-0 V°a“°k° 6‘1'1
Washington and Lee 1-1-0 L;‘I'1:1‘:l°)‘Sl1r‘°'g3’a“ Egg
Bridgewater 1-3-0 {arid 3_5_0
- ’ 2-6-0
Football Hollinsoman S 1-7-0
ODAC Standmgs Sweetbriar 0-8-0

Randolph-Macon 2-0-0 Vone ban

Emory and Henry 3‘1'0 Overall ecords
IgIampden—Sydney 3-1-0

rid ewater . 1-2-0 Gu-If d 20_5
q.s.D.A. CHOICE gvunlhqrd M 0-2-0 Brtdgiimet 19-5
35 ‘"8103 an e 0'-3'0 Eastern Mennonite 15-10
BOTTOM ROUND  
as ington and e 13-11
F00tba|| . Lynchburg 8-9
"M", 2 ‘WITH Overall Standings ﬁg:-_$)l}(3g1a, 
‘°""°""‘ ‘ LB Emory and Henry 5-2-0 Hollins 5-10
PURCHASE ° Ham d°n'S dm)’ 4'2'0 Emory and Henry 4-13
‘ ' IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII    3-2-1
B - bridgewater 2-4-O '
'  1-5-0 
Ann R” D, K: on Washington and Lee 0-5-0 ODAC standings
APP   ODAC Offensive Player of the Week gggfggater 
V Ronnie Howard-RB—Bridgewater Eastgm Mennonite 5_1
, Washington and Lee 3-3
‘ ODAC Defensive Player of the Week Sweet Bria‘ , 3'4
Aver Farmer—CB—Randol h-Macon R'M.W°m°“ S College 2'5
y P Hollins 2-5
Roanoke 1-4
Emory and Henry 1-4
Lynchburg 1-5
Men’s Soccer
L Overall Records
Washington and Lee

R°a“°k° 12'1'0 Team Records

Va. Wesle an 11-1-1

Rando1ph_S acon 12_2_20 (updated for 10/21/93)
Hampden- ydney 8-4- W a - _
Egggﬁgglgnnonite §-3-(1) wgﬁgilri $3333 8191

3 Emory and Henry 3-5-0 E//I§1I11e§,bCar1c])SS Country 1331
washm to“ and Lee 4'7‘0 Women’s Cross Country . .. 1-1
Guilfor 2-10-1 Water Polo 7-10
Bridgewater 1‘8'0 Men’s Soccer 5-10
Football 0-5
M ’ S
011,53 SSt:1:cli:gs Overall 39-454
Roanoke 6-0-0 Women’s Intramurals
ORVME SELECTED 99 1‘{]andolpla]Ma1con Z-1-8 Football Results
1r ima es e an - -
.     1 EaS%efﬂ Mcnn0%ite 3-3-0 Kappa  Theta 14’ Freshman Worncn 2
A P P L E POPCORN ................... ..21 OZ. Washington and L66 2-3-0 Kappa Al ha Theta 14, Kapga Kappa Gamma 9
' Ham den-Sydney 2-3-0 {aw School 7, Pi eta Phi 7
JUICE }{,’(i’§§’[g’}’{,“,£, ‘airotsrg 322:8
Brid ewater 0-5-0
2

BATH TISSUE ......... ..t57.5 so. FT.g

*On1y dual and tri-meets are
included in cross country records

1 64 01.

G. E.
THREE-WAY '29 .
LIGHT BULB ........... ..1 COUNT Sports

IN THE DEH-BAKERY
TURKEY -8”<§EBsR 499
BREAST. ........................ ..LB.

snscrrn VARIETIES D£co~G£srANr
° wig: SUDAFED
6 oz.

4 name CHIPS 7431575
24 CT. 

PTLLSBURY HIGHLAND CREST

. MICROWAVE   ICE
PANCAKES CREAM

. 2/ 0
Photo by Sarah Gilbert. The Fting-tum Phi

16.4 OZ.
0 0 Marllyn Baker, Intent upon a tennis ball at a Washington and Lee match re tl , th
Pl‘ E  h    photogenic athlete-of-the-week for Oct. 22, 1993. Gen V was e
Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, October20 Through uesda[yéaOctober 26 1993. in -Lo_xIng'ton __ County Stores ,
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To lers. We Giadly Accept Federoi Food Stamps.

ent o’ the week...

  
   

U

   

 

 
 
 

 
 

l/2 GAL.

Lo

0

 

  

Last Week:

WSoc-loses Messiah, defeats Lynch.
FB-W&L 20, Hampden—Sydney 28
Volleyball—wins ﬁve, loses three
MSoc—defeats Hampden—Sydney

PAGE 12

     
  
   

  

TS"

_  ing participatiorii. events

, the fan aspect hat '”
,ﬁgures.:irrto 3” '
' cess o,r;failu’rei.;.
, it has .bceIr mentioned 1
that, besides the to

   

 ‘eredithejgselutio
3 ‘ cret of sue 

       
 
 
   

  

does ‘Virginia Milrta
" stltute, a school;with~o_ril
; ‘a few moremaie studer3ts~;
1315.3 pet€=nnia1!3*’11  ‘'5
footbai_l.tea:ri,”ha ‘

 a1{wiys‘d;ggz"li, .
fans, many orn-

S

iillnz iﬂing-tum iﬂlii

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Fling-tum Phi
Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer runs through practice at the Washington and Lee
track. Her win at the state Division ll-lll championship at Christopher Newport is her
second straight victory on the state level, and keeps her undefeated this season.

  
 
   
   
 
  
   
    

 

Rockbrid’ge_*:;:‘
Cheerleaders, t'I:1at’si W
Arguably, th
 cheerlc’aclers9*s
from Southe ,,

A: College‘ for Whine

. not v’ery.go‘od‘

; do.» But-.'they"ire
' A something that "is. hey,
' the "individual-. qualifi_
tions of a few girlswhosel.

#328 my or».m§aY.:r(0.t

, made for displa"y_;in“.sho
' skirts.  “ '
. Cheerleaders.
 1301 that someo A
._ien‘oughto’orde‘r '

 

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

sport? On Wednesday night,
the Phillies and Blues Jays
combined for a World Series
record 29 runs on 31 hits. The
previous record for runs in a
game had stood since 1936.

Has either of these two
teams heard of pitching? I
thought I was watching a
Rockies vs. Padres game in
Mile High Stadium. Call me
a fanatic, but I GUARAN-
TEE that the Braves could
score 14 (yes, 14) runs and
win the game.

Maybe the Philadelphia
Eagles should take some
pointers fromthe Phillies. The
Eagles only managed to pro-
duce 10 points in last week’s
loss tothe Giants. The Phillies
14 would still not have won
the game, but it would have
made the score closer.

Thursday night, however,
the Phillies and Blue Jays
completely forgot how to
score runs. lnapitcher’s dual,
the Phillies defeated the Jays
2-0. l figure the two teams are
just trying to even out the
scores of the other 4 games as
far as average is concerned.

I would like to apologize
to all Atlanta Falcons fans (not
really) for last week’s humor.
The winged warriors managed
a win last week. The only
reason I pick on the Falcons
is, well, that way I anger the
fewest number of people. If
you didn’t get thatjoke, then
you are a true Falcon’s fan (or
possibly one of the players).

Also last week in football,
the Brownssubrogated Vinnie
Tcstaverdc for Bernie Kosar
(how did one team end up
with two QB’s named Bernie

  
   
     
   
     
       
    
 

°kay'.y0u’regoingt.<>.'
' forns sorneday”:~t A
spirit cheer)"
,; — Cheerleaders,
'  V613’ Pf¢$?Il1_°¢. is
" thereiisalwaysiat "of V
love their team.1Most’ irn
, 'portantl_y,;theclr

    
  
   
 
  
   

buzzer ; not y
» thefoothallpfayas

might help ': resin
1 dedicated’ friends-..,

up the lcgsof a cheerieade
standing on the shoulder
or hands ofarroth h’
ever felt;¥the rus
lighted. stadium‘ on
night, durin g a tense time: ' '-
‘ out when the team i_syards- A

 

Isn’t baseball a wonderful

Baseball blunders,
football follies

and Vinnie—it sounds like the
Godfather or something).

Surprisingly, Vinnie per-
formed well, leading the
Browns to victory.

The hockey season is now
well underway, and appar-
ently some things never
change. Wayne Gretzky tops
the scoring charts early. This
is an impressive feat for a
man who is approaching 90-
years-old or something. Oh
well, it is shaping up to be
another season like last year’s
where Lemieux missed an
inordinate number of games
only to return and blow ev-
eryone else away in scoring
for the rest of the year. Be-
sides, Gretsky is an injury
waiting to happen.

Parting Shots-

Steve’s Top Five (since
top ten would be a copyright
violation or something) Sur-
prises o’ the Week:

1) Mike Piaza wins the
National League rookie of
the year.

2) Redskins lose in a lop-
sided affair.

3) Mitch Williams can’t
hold a lead late.

4) The Eagles lose with-
out Randall Cunningham.

5) Everyone in the sports
world (players, coaches, net-
works, etc.) gripes about
money.

My pick to win the
Superbowl: the Cincinnatti
Bengals in a hard fought win
over the Atlanta Falcons.

When will Mike Tyson
get out of prison and kick
every other pretenders sorry
butt? He is probably a better
fighter after a few years be-
hind bars.

Finally, Seinfeld watch-
ers necd to learn the merits
of post-season baseball.
Happy trails.

 
 
  
 
 

onds“left;
roar 'o”f<the“' _ 
spouse to the yell o
eight or ten girls, who":
looked like the outcome of
the football gam_eHtonight.. '
was their wh 0 ld

  

 

  

 

Volleyball extends streak

By BILL Rusr
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee volley-
ball has gone on a tear, matching
its season opening four-match
win streak, and improving its
record to 13-11. The latest vic-
tory wasa 15-3, 15-1 3, 15-4 route
of fifth-ranked Sweet Briar Tues-
day.

The Generals’ assault was led
by sophomore Kelly Horan with
nine kills, and sophomore setter,
Cheryl Taurassi, who had 27 as-
sists in the match. Freshman
Elizabeth Balm managed three
blocks, and junior Captain Jen-
nifer Garrigus had 11 digs to
hold off the Vixen attack.

The Lady Generals hope their
winning ways continue through
the next two games and into the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence tournament.

“We’re streaky,” said senior
Captain Tara Burns, “but re-
cently we have been playing well
together and winning.”

The team ’s ODAC record now
stands at 4-3 and the Generals are

lVIen’s soccer struggles -
. . l
to overcome inexperience

o o y et any Smith, The Firng-tum P

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Records have been set at
Washington and Lee, champion-
ships have been won and sec-
onds have been shaved from pre-
vious marks.

Sophomore Josephine
Schaeffer, though, has done
something even a little more than
all these in her performance Oct.
16.

Leading the Generals’ Divi-
sion ll-III state championship
effort last weekend, Schaeffer
successfully defended her State
title in 17:25.

This time, amazingly, is 25
seconds off her previous record
(which is a school record) set this
season and is better than the win-
ning time in all but three of the
National Collegiate Athletic As-
sociation Division III champion-
ship meets since 1985.

Schaeffer did not expect im-
provement such as this.

“l never dreamed of dropping
25 seconds,” she said. ‘‘I was
hoping for a personal record, but
Ididn’texpectanythinglikethis.”

Schaeffer has improved by
leaps and bounds this year; at the
beginning of the season coach
Jim Phemister assessed her per-
formance as better than last year,
when she was an All-American
in both cross country and track.

“We’ve all been working
hard,” said Schaeffer of the team.
“We’ve all improved a lot. It all
seems to be coming together.”

Coming together are the

in fourth place.

But they went into a two and
eight downward spiral the last
time they won four in a row, and
have to avoid a similar fate this
time.

‘‘If we win the next two, and
we better win the next two,” said
Burns, “we should be in a good
position for the ODAC tourna-
ment.”

The team looks solid and has
posted a seven and three record
since the slump. As of Tuesday,
Taurassi lead the team with 451
assists, and Garrigus lead in digs
with 166.

Freshman Virginia Yoerg has
had a record setting season with
74 blocks, breaking Chrissie
Hart’s mark of 69 set last year,
and Tara Burns recently moved
into third place on W&L’s all-
time list with 408 kills. She leads
the team with 129.

They play Hollins away on
Tuesday, and take on the Cru-
saders of Randolph—Macon on
Thursday at home to close out
the regular season. Both matches
are against conference rivals and
may prove critical.

A soccer player maneuvers toward the team’s 5-10 record.

 

 

This Week:

FB—at Sewanee 10/23
VVPolo-Richmond 10/22, at Rich. 10/23
WSoc—at Randolph—Macon 10/22
MSoc—at Va. Wesleyan 10/22

 

chaeffer leads x—country to title

squad’s chances of being invited
to the Division III national cham-
pionship for the second year. A
first place at the regional cham-
pionships next month would give
the Generals an automatic bid.

After last weekend’s effort,
nothing is impossible for W&L.
Five Generals set personal
records during the race to come
out just ahead of Mary Washing-
ton College, a victory by eight
points.

Sophomore Amy Mears
placed fourth and junior Kim
Herring came in seventh to earn
all-state honors. Shaving huge
numbers from their previous
times were junior Sue Deutsch
and freshman Cathy Merritt;
Deutsch finished in 12th place,
up from the twenties last year.

Mears, with a time of 19:33,
spoke for the team’s morale.

“We were deﬁnitely happy,”
she said. “We were getting kind
of worried when they were count-
ing up the points.”

The win over MWC was a
true team effort, but even more
will be necessary if the Generals
hope to run in National competi-
tion.

“lt’s definitely within reach,”
said Schaeffer. “It’s going to take
a lot of hard work, but the team is
great.”

Mears was positive about the
chances.

“I think we do have a chance,”
she said. “I’d be really happy if
we could [win Regionals].”

If Schaeffer and the rest of the
team ever repeat a performance
like that of last weekend, the cross

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

A learning experience-that
is what this year’s men’s-soccer
season will be called.

An inexperienced Washing-
ton and Lee team has played hard
throughout the season, with many
of their defeats coming as the
result of costly lapses in close
affairs.

Following a defeat of
Hampden—Sydney, the Generals
lost to Maryville 4-2 after lead-
ing 2-1. Rhodes College also
proved to be too much to handle
for the Generals, winning 2-0 on
Saturday. The team’s next game
was Thursday against Eastern
Mennonite College, which they
lost 3-2.

Thursday’s loss moved the
Generals’ record to 5-10 overall
and 3-4 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference with one
game remaining on the schedule
before the conference tourna-
ment.

The Generals trailed 3-0 be-
fore rallying on goals by Bill Gill
and Dan Rhodes. The rally fell

. petitive with almost any Divi-

Phto y Bethany Smith, ing-u ‘ h
A member of the volleyball team spikes over the n t at
Doremus gymnasium. The team is currently 13-11 .

     
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
   
    
  
     
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
   
     
   
     
   
     
  
    
   
 
  
     
   
   
   

OCTOBER 22, 1993

country program had better ti-
tion for an upgradeto a higher
division.

Schaeffer, at 17:25, is com-

sion I runner, and improvement
of chunks of time like 25 seconds
shows that she is only starting to
realize her potential.

In her coaches’ opimions,
Schaeffer is improving every day.
The team as a whole, running 45-
50 miles a week, optimistic and
still fairly young (only one se-
nior, Amy Brown, is currently .
running for the team) is cor$is-
tently working hard and truly
improving.

On the men’s side, the young
and injury-prone squad pulled
out a strong third place.

The Generals were us! behind
Christopher Newport and Mary
Washington, who both have pe-
rennially strong cross counry
teams and are W&L’s top rivals
in the sport.

Sophomore Brad Paye was
Washington and Lee’s top fin-
isher, coming in ninth to carnal]-
state honors. His time was a quick
27:12. ' .

Also ﬁnishing below 28 min-
utes were freshman Sandy
Hooper and sophomore Tom
Fink. Hooper was running with-
out injury for the first timeghis
season.

The menwi1lbeidlethisweek-
end as the women head to the
Gettysburg Invitational Oct. 23. 4
Both teams will host the school ’s
only cross country invitational
of theseasonthe followingw3=:k-
end, Oct. 30.

             
      
   
  
    
      
   
   
    
    
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
   
  
    
    
    
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 

short, however, when a last sec-
ond shot cleared the crossbar.

Saturday’s game against Vir-
ginia Wesleyan will close out the
year for the W&L squad. De-
spite this year’s discouraging
record, the future appears bright
for the Generals. A number of
the young players return for next
season, and hopefully the experi-
ence ofthis campaign will aid the
team next year.

Sophomore Fernando Bﬁavo
made his first start in goal against
Rhodes on Saturday making eight
saves in the first half. Also, se-
nior Dan Rhodes has played well
lately. He tallied a goal and as-
sist against Hampden—Sydney in
addition to his goal Thurglay
against Eastern Mennonite.

The General’s hope to. close
out the season on a high note
with a victory against Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday. A win
would enable the Washington &
Lee squad to finish at .500 irothe
ODAC with a 4-4 record.

W&Lsoccer enthusiasts have S
ample reason to expect a suc-
cessful season next year, but first
the Generals have to close out
this season.

 
 
   
     
     
 

O

  

 
  
    
 
   
  
   
 
  

 
  
  

 

’§oday:_ Increasingly cloudy, high in
 . low 605 v .
Topight: Rain or showers, lows in 40s
ﬁturday; "Rain or showers, breezy
‘ cooler 50-60, lows 30s — A
Sunday: Breezy cool 50-55, low 30s
 go back one hour at 2 a.m
- unday,0ct. 31 A ‘ '

JAMES G. l_E‘r'BURN UBRARY
WASHINGTON 3. LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXlNGTON, VA 24450

OCT 2 91993?

Parents’ Weekend Edition

 

 Mountain Views

and Waterfalls

A guide to local attractions

Women’s Soccer
advances in ODACs

3%

he ﬂing-tum Iﬂlii

‘ OLUME 93, NO. 08

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 29, 1993

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Organizations ask EC for $9000

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

Two weeks after the EC approved its bud-
get, two more organizations came in and asked
for a combined total of over $9000.

'ﬂiat’s the dilemma the Executive Commit-
tee faced when the Freshman Orientation Com-
mittee and Club Ice Hockey came to Monday’s
meeting to request money from the EC.

“We just took office,” said FOC co-chair
Kris Fegenbush, explaining why he and co-

chair Sue Krawchuk hadn’t appeared before
_ the£C earlier, during the budget hearings.

Fegenbush and Krawchuk asked the EC for
$7,950, after receiving $500 from the EC last
year. Fegenbush explained that freshman ori-
entation has been “inferior” in the past and that

Fegenbush said other schools comparable to
W&L spend far more on their freshman orien-
tation programs. He said Davidson College
spends $25,000 on their program and Centre
College, which is half the size of W&L, spends
$15,000.

Krawchuk said she would like to see a pro-
gram that freshmen can have fun with.

“From the freshman’s perspective.. .[orien—
tation] was a horrible thing,” she said.

Fegenbush agreed, saying, “people were
sneaking out of orientation stuff.”

Fegenbush said FOC would like to com-
pletely revamp the orientation program, start-
ing with eliminating Playfair.

But EC President Bob Tompkins said the
EC would like to look into procuring the money
from other sources, such as funds controlled by
the various deans.

Tompkins. “We came into

order to help defray the costs, but Mintz said

this year with less money
than we came in with last
year.”

The EC passed a pro-
posal to delay voting on
allocating money to FOC
until Tompkins could speak
to Dean Manning and lFC
President Curt Smith about
the issue.

“Something like this
would be a good argument
for raising [student activity
fees],” said Tompkins.

The EC also heard from
Eric Mintz of Club Ice
Hockey, who requested

 

Tompkins

team members already pay
for their own equipment and
provide their own transpor-
tation to Roanoke for games.

EC members agreed to
allocate $1,600 to the club,
to be taken from the EC’s
reserve funds.

‘‘In keeping with the tra-
dition that we never give
anyone exactly what they ask
for, the number that pops
into my head is $1,600,” said
Tompkins.

Jeff Rogers, chairman of
the Emergency Loan Com-
mittee, was also present at

operating budget of close to $4,000, of which
they needed $3,000. The EC voted to take
$1,000 from the ELC’s budget, which will be
put into the EC reserve funds.

Rogers said the ELC had “two or three
outstanding loans.” He said one of the loans
was in default, but that the person who took it
out is “still a student.” According to Rogers,
the ELC has the power to withhold grades and/
or block registration if a loan is not paid back
within a reasonable time.

The EC also voted to allow Rogers to “go
into the red” if the ELC needs extra money for
loans.

The EC also heard an update from the Stu-
dent-Faculty Hearing Board and welcomed the
new freshman representative, Marcus Rayner.
They also assigned EC members to observe

Ovel-$1,350 for his organization EC members the meeting to update the EC on the ELC’s Contact, the Publications Board and the Stu-

other schools “laugh at [W&L’s] program.”

“This is a big chunk of change,” said

suggested that Club Ice Hockey charge dues in

progress. Rogers said his committee had an

Women’s
Rush to
get 150

 ILIJOURRAINIE TiGAs I ‘
Phi Staff Writer

One hundred fifty women
signed up for sorority Rush on
Sunday, October 17.

Registration was held in the
Pit from 3 to 5 p.m. Women paid
a $15 registration fee and could
buy T-shirts for $5.
egistration continued
_ through the week, from October
17 until October 24. Lise Brown,
Panhellenic membership chair,
e s t i m a t e d
that an addi-
tional 15 to
. 20 women
signed up
during the
, week, includ-
ing “some
sophomores
and a few

 

 Clark

juniors.”

I" he number of women that
signed up for Rush is approxi-
mately the same as last year.

There can now be “no formal
organized contact between Greek
women and freshman women,”
according to Brown. Accidental
contact is not prohibited. ,

Sorority Rush begins January
7 and lasts one week. It consists
of four nights of parties and con-
cludes with Bid Day.

One change has been made to

V the process. Previously, when a
ruﬂiee was invited to all four
preference parties on the last
night, she had to decline one.
This year rushees may attend all
preference parties to which they

A

ﬁn.

dent Activities Board.

Freshmen
get grades

' WBy’JAY WHHE
Phi Contributing Writer

In accordance with the chang-
ing of the leaves occurs the pe-
rennial processof Fall term mid-
term examinations.

Each year students, still fresh
from summer, must buckle down
and face the year’s first set of
knowledge indicators. This pro-
cess is particularly jarring for the
freshman class, the class of 1997.

Not only must they contend
with the difficulties of being in a
foreign environment, there is also
present the lively social atmo-.
sphere that goes along with
Washington and Lee. Both re-
quire a certain amount of adjust-
ment time and are intruded upon
by the first set of of many college

speed, so too does the possibility
of a stern lecture from the mater-
nal and paternal units concem-
ing academic performance.

According to Dean of Fresh-
men‘Dennis Manning, the aver-
age midterm GPA for all fresh-
men women was 2.766, while
the mens’ came in at 2.467. The
overall GPA averages out to
2.617 for the entire freshman
class. Of those, 20 fell below the
below 1.5 mark. Freshman whose
GPA fall below 1.5 at the end of
the academic year are subject to
the automatic rule, and are asked
to sever all ties with the Univer-
sity.
Dean of Students David
Howison remarked on some key
points that he felt were repre-
sented in these grades and those
in recent times.

Watson Pavilion Dedication

Last weekend’s weather couldn’t have been better for the Watson Pavilion dedication. Over 200 people
came to the ceremony which was part of a two-day celebra
tours of the Reeves Center and an open house at the Watso
she and the Board of Trustees did not see eye to eye at first on the creation of the Pavillion, but she
quipped, “They came ‘round.” 5 '

Photo by Patrick Hineley

tion that included symposiums, lectures, guided
n Pavillion. Elizabeth Watson admitted that

are invited. «

Tuition buys more than classes  

Academic programs soak up two-thi

 
   
 

E lnstructiori
Public Service
Academic Support
 Strident Services

 

17,405,000 '
8 E Institutional Support

I Physical Plant
E Auxiliary Enterprises
D 'l‘raixsfere

Expenditures for 1992-93, total expenditures: $37,988,000

By KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writer

Every Washington and Lee
student pays over $1100 per year
to keep W&L looking pretty.

Still, the nine percent of tu-
ition spent on Physical Plant is
only a fraction of the funds for
academic programs and support,
which take roughly two-thirds of
the University’s operating bud-
get.

According to University Trea-
surer Larry Broomall, tuition is
the largest contributor (approxi-
mately 64 percent of University
revenues) to meeting such ex-
penditures as faculty and staff
salaries, benefits, department

rds of W&L’s budget

supplies, travel expenses, print-
ing, and “the typical kinds of
expenses any business would
have.” ,

However, tuition is “basically
one of several sources of income
that help to support the univer-
sity,” said Broomall. “lt is al-
most misleading to say that your
tuition dollar goes tothisorthat.”
Other sources of income include
endowments, gifts, trusts, the
annual fund, and even applica-
tion fees. Broomall said, “You
can say that two—thirds of every
dollar this [Treasurer’s] ofﬁce
spends is supplied by tuition.”

Broken down, about 45 per-
cent of University money goesto

hvsee TUITION, page 8

midterrns.
As Parents’ Weekend ap-
proaches at an alarming rate of

he see GRADES, page 8

. The Princeton Review
Student Access Guide —
The Best 286 Colleges

' Beautiful Campus
V 3. Hollins College’
6. University of Richmond
. 7 .' Sweet Briar College
. I ' 13. Washington and Lee University

Happiest Students _
.51. Hollins"
9. W&L
12. Sweet Briar '

. Most Homogeneous Student Body
' - 1. University of Richmond
, 6. W&L
 18. Hampden-Sydney College‘

Lots Of Hard Liquor
3'. W& L ’
5. Richmond
17. Randolph-Macon

Major Fraternity and Sorority
. ’ 1. W&L
, 4. Richmond
15. Randolph-Macon

I , Best Overall Academics
17. w&L

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Peacekeepers say at least 15
Muslim villagers killed

United Nations troops looking through the burnt remains of a
Muslim village north of Sarajevo found at least 15 bodies, confirm-
ing a Croat mass killing. ‘

A U.N. statement said Stupni Do, a hamlet of approximately
250 people about 20 miles north of Sarajevo, was the site of a Croat
massacre. The whereabouts of the other villagers are unknown.
Croats barred peacekeepers from reaching the village for three
days, after threatening the U.N. troops with rocket-propelled
grenades and anti-tank weapons.

Fighting calms down in
Mogadishu, wounded released
United Nations officials reported only sporadic gunfire in the

Somali capital on Wednesday. ,
The latest violence, which broke out on Monday, produced at

least 50 wounded, most of which were released from hospitals

Wednesday. A U.N. spokesman said the U.N. force was not
involved in ending the violence, which killed at least 11 people.

The Nation 

Fires rage through California

    

Thousands of acres and dozens of homes throughout southern
California were destroyed by fire Wednesday.

Fierce winds helped to fuel the ﬁres, one of which forced the
evacuation of several animals from the San Diego Zoo. Seven fires
were reported burning from Ventura County to the Mexican
border. Dry weather and 60 mile per hour winds are helping to keep
the fires going in some areas. Hundreds of homes have been
evacuated. '

‘Clinton gives in to criticism

President Clinton released a revamped health care plan Wednes-
day that put off universal coverage by one year and offered
significant concessions to his critics. . 

Clinton hopes to ensure every American ' a standard- set "of
benefits by 1998. The President and Mrs. Clinton delivered their
1,300 page Health Security Plan to Capitol Hill Wednesday. The
latest version of the plan makes concessions in order to win over
disillusioned legislators, special interest groups and other Ameri-
can citizens who were put off by what Clinton unveiled in Septem-
ber.

“Superboy” survives leap from
building  

A five-year-old boy sustained no injuries whatsoever after a fall
from the seventh ﬂoor of a New York apartment building.

The boy, Paul Rosen, was resting comfortably at a New York
Hospital on Monday, after his fall from his bedroom window onto
concrete. New York Newsday called the incident “the miracle on
79th Street.” Rosen suffered no abrasions or broken bones in the
fall, which one paramedic described by saying “it was‘ like the
angels caught him.” Investigators say the boy was leaning out the
window in an attempt to retrieve a dangling toy microphone.

“Assisted suicide” ruled a
homicide by examiner

A medical examiner in the case of a Michigan woman who died
in the presence of Dr. Jack Kevorkian ruled that her death was a
homicide, and not a suicide.

Dr. Ljubisa Dragovic said Kevorkian’s involvement in the
death puts the death outside the realm of suicide. According to
Dragovic, 72-year-old Merian Frederick died of carbon monoxide
poisoning in Kevorkian’s apartment. One of Kevorkian’s attor-
neys said Kevorkian could not be tried under Michigan’s new
assisted suicide law because a death has to be ruled a suicide in
order for prosecutors to use that course of action.

Killer moose on the loose _

An Anchorage, Alaska woman was found dead outside her
home Sunday, apparently trampled by a moose.

The woman had gone outside to check on two puppies, which
were found unharmed in the woman’s yard. Investigators said the
puppies may have spurred the attack, as male moose are especially
aggressive toward dogs. An adult moose can weigh up to 1,700
pounds. ~

The State €17:

Anti-Barney exhibit pulled

A Halloween attraction featuring the hanging “death” of a
Barney the Dinosaur doll was pulled from a Colonial Heights
Jaycees display on Tuesday. ~

The display was removed from the Jaycees Haunted Forest
when a single patron out of 1,600 complained about the hanging
doll. The complaintant said her two children were disturbed by the
attraction and feared that their television idol had been “killed” in
the display. The display featured a song parody of the Barney
theme song - “I hate you, you hate me. Let’s get together and hang

Barney.”

  

The Rin -tum Phi Ocober 29 1993

 

N DI offers students low prices 

By ERiN GNIDZIEJKO
Phi Contibuting Writer

Have you ever considered what
you’ll do after college?

Will you move into your own house
or apartment? Start a family? Buy a
car?

How are you going to afford it?

A possible solution is Network Di-
rect Incorporated, an organization de-
signed to bring its members name brand
products at manufacturer’s prices. NDI
promises a price lower than the best
advertised price and a ‘double the dif-
ference’ guarantee if the consumer can
prove a better value somewhere else.
This guarantee covers all the products
available through NDI, from VCR’s
and ampliﬁers to strollers and day beds.

NDI credits its service to its ad-
vanced databases which provide in-
stant price quotes and order assistance.
To purchase an item, a member calls
the customer service department and
gives his NDI membership number,
the manufacturer’s name, the model
number, the description of the product,
and his charge card number. Unlike
most mail order companies, the prod-
ucts that NDI handles are shipped pre-
paid, and the manufacturer’s warranty
is extended, in most cases, up to a year.

’ Thought the initial membership cost
is low compared with what one might
expect to save with the program ($1000
over a three year period) , a member is

only guaranteed a savings of $1000 .

after a minimum of $7000 is spent
through the NDI program. Following
the first year, membership is acted on
by an annual activity fee (not to exceed
$65) and an additional renewal fee. For
this reason, the choice to join NDI
seems beneficial to an active consumer,
but perhaps a poor choice for someone
who is not planning heavy spending in
the future.

It may seem that NDI can provide
almost anything a customer desires,
but in actuality many items are not
available through the program. Besides
the obvious —clothing—— NDI does
not carry many popular brand names
(Kenmore and Sears among others).
Still it has additional benefits such as
cut-rate travel, eyeglass care, and a
grocery coupon service (available at an
additional cost).

Earlier this month, the University

Division ofNDl visited W&L’s frater-

nity houses, armed to the teeth with
propaganda about their program. Slide
shows hinting of free vactions and re-
duced price automobiles lured students.
The enlisting brothers of each house
were awarded with free airline tickets
to one of several tempting locations or
free lodgings there once the airline
tickets were purchased through NDI.
Convinced by these sugary offers
many W&L students have signed their
names to a lifelong membership in
NDI. They, it seems, have decided that
the future holds a life of consumerism.

Some studentshave signed lifetime contracts with NDI

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

’93 law grads

shine on bar exam  

Fl'0ll Staff Reports

93 W&L Law grads exceed average
pass rate on Virginia Bar
Recent publication of the Virginia
Bar examination results shouw that
92.2 percent of Washington and Lee
University’s law graduates passed the
bar exam.
The overall pass rate for the Vir-
ginia Bar Exam was 77 percent.
“While the law school does not edu-

cate students specifically for the bar
exam, it does provide a well rounded
and very demanding legal education
for our students,”'said Randall
Bezanson, Dean of the W&L Lag’
School. “Our high degree of success on
the Virginia Bar Exam is a testament to
the high quality of our students,” he
added.

Fifty-one spring graduates from
W&L Law School took the exam in
July. Of these, 47 passed. ,.

Solati Trio appearing 0

at the Lenfest Center‘

Fron Staff Reports

The Boston-based Solati Trio will
be in residence to teach and perform at
Washington and Lee for one week,
beginning November 2.

ln additon to master classes and
tutorial sessions, the group will give a
performance on Nov. 2, at 8 p.m. in the
Lenfest Center.

In the recital, the trio will perform
works by Beethoven, Mathis and
Tchaikovsky. They will join the
Rockbridge Orchestra on Nov. 6 in a
performance of Beethoven’s Concerto
for Violin, Cello, Piano, and Orches-
tra. Both concerts are open to the pub-
lic free of charge.

The Solati trio fonned in 1984 and
has since appeared in numerous highly
acclaimed concerts, presenting a wide
range of repertoire i ncluding premieres
of new works written especially for the
trio.

In-"1985, they won first prize in the
Shoreline Alliance New England
Chamber Music Competition.

Members of the Solati Trio at.
Sophia Hemian, violinist, and Ludmilla
Lifson, pianist, twin sisters who were
born and trained in Russia. They gradu-
ated from the Leningrad Conservatory
of Music and were both appointed to
the faculty.

New England-based emigres sin?
1979, the Herman-Lifson duo has pe -
formed throughout the eastern part of
the U.S.

The third member, vioincellist Hrant
Tatian, is a native of New York and a
graduate of hte Juilliard School of
Music where he studied with Leonard

‘Rose for four years. Tatian has beﬁi

principal cellistwith the St. Louis Sym-
phony and the RochesterPhilaharrnonic
and performs extensively.

The Solati Trio residency at W&L
was made possible by a grant from the

' Class of 1963 endowment.

Q

JublLee and Southern Comfort (pictured above) will perform in Lee Chapel at 5:30 on Saturday

91
1

photo by Bethany Smith, the Ring-tum Phi
for Parents’ Weekend. . r

 

 

 

 

A The Ring-tum Phi, October 29, 1993
Freshmen respresentatives tell all

Newly elected officers discuss plans, goals and expectations for the year and their class

   
 

By BUNNY WONG From the speaking tradition to the rigorous Your new VlCe' we’re both willing to do everything for it.” life as a freshmanrepresentative.
Phi Staff writer academics, he’s in love with W&L, , As vice-president, Hartman Wlll also serve . “ltwas interesting, and Iwas able tosee how
“A1vin’s a really nice guy and I’m sure he’ll Presldent: Sasha on the FLC and the SCC. important the EC really IS to student life,said
be a very dedicated class president,” said fresh- For Hartman, after college-plans include Rayner of his ﬁrst EC meeting. _
man Deborah Zollmann. Hartlnan going into advertising and marketing. “I ran [for EC representative] to do my part
‘ . His “first order of business” will be to start a .. “I’m going to go right into the work force to maintain the honor system and traditions of
Meet your Presldentt recycling program with the help of the Freshman [after undergraduate school],”
, Leadership Council (FLC) over which he willbe said Hartman, who currently
AIVIII TOWnley presiding. Sitting on a mini-refrigerator and swing- plans to major in business ad-
“l’ve really enjoyed workingwith [the FLC],” ing her legs, blue-eyed, blond-haired Sasha ministration-
said Townley,. Hartman looks happy. “Sasha Hartman is a model
Washington and Lee on a Sunday after- He also wantsto “try toexpand”the interdorrn Happy to be the freshman class vice-presi- student,” said freshman Amy
notii. The Hill is strewn With thousands of volleyball competitions for freshmen. dent, happy the Blue Jays won the World Jarvis.
As the freshman class Series, but most of all, happy to be here. “She represents everything
president, Townley will “W&L’s the best,” says Hartman, who W&L stands for. I think she
serve on the Student Con— was born in Toronto, Canada. will do an inconceivably ex-
duct Committee (SCC). She lived there for sixteenyears before traordinary job as our fresh-
He also runs for W&L’s moving to her present home in Montgomery, man class vice president,” she
cross-country team. New Jersey, said.
“Cross-country makes Hartman attended Montgomery High, The Class of ‘97 is in for
me discipline myself,” he Marcus Rayner, the recently elected repre— some optimism.
said. sentative to the Executive Committee, at- “I love making people
Cross country and Eagle tended the same high school. happy,” Hartman Said.
Scouts were two of Montgomery had the honor of being se-
Townley ’s favorite high lected as one of the 43 schools in the nation to
school activities. be a Blue Ribbon school.

“We got to go hiking a Hartman feels she will work well with _
lot,” he said with an all- class president Alvin Townley, who she met And y0ur E.C.

American smile. while visiting W&L.
Like most W&Lstudents, “We basically have the same theories,” Representa-
Townley is organized. she said. “We both love [W&L] so much that .
“I know that tive: Marcus
I don ’t have
time to goof
Off, Rayner
He ’s also fo-
I cused (“I’d love , i _
to teach here”), Rayner
sincere (“I hope
I can serve the Walking into a room,
freshman class Marcus Rayner looks every
well”) and bit the politician...composed, focused, and W&L)’
charming (“Is f1'ieI1dlY- I The EC meets once a week to discuss
this when I’m And if the recent freshman elections for allocation of funds, honor matters, and other
i g I / supposed to say the‘Executive Committeeare any indication, business,
Towme s o m e t h i n g he IS every bit the politician. . Rayner’s political bent appears in his other
y witty?”). iisomedal’ I hope to fun for Public office,” W&L activities. He is a member of the College
Townley is Said Rayner. . Republicans and reads the news for WLUR.
autiﬂnn leaves and Alvin Townley, book in considering a degree in politics and He graduated from Montgomery High in Not surprisingly, he plans to major in politi-
hand, is studying in the midst of them. sociology, though he’s not com. Montgomery, New Jersey. Rayner visited cal scienceand/or public policy.

It’s impossible to ignore the atmosphere. pletely sure, . Montgomery along with freshman class Vice “I enjoy them,” he said.

“I walked on this campus and it just felt His present goals after under- President Sasha l‘laI1man- After undergraduateschool, he is consider-
right,” said freshman class president Townley. graduate school include getting his “They [the residents of his hometown] ing going to law school or getting his MBA.
“The atmosphere is so different than every- doctorate and teaching at a univer- were really happy for us,” he said. Although a New Jersey-based boy, Rayner
where else.” sity. The freshman Class Seems to be happy for looked closely at Virginia Universities his se-

'li>wnley was accepted through the early- The class of 1997’s new him, too. nior year_

- ecision process to W&L. president might be a leader, but his “Marcus always looks like he’s got it all The University of Virginia and the Univer-

“This is the only place I wanted to go,” said best quality is his ability to make together,” said freshman Tracy Marshall. sity ofthe south were two of the three he

ownley. you feel good about attending “From what l"’° 59°“ ahd heard. he~’S> A ‘considered’.

Healso applied to the University of Geor— W&L. honest and diligent and l’ think he’ll SerVe the" ‘ However, he chose to come to W&L.
ia as a back—up school. Townley attended “There’s no other college in the job Well,” She Said- ‘‘I just fell in love with [W&L],” he said.
ublic school in Atlanta, where he was born United States where l would . Although just elected to serve on the EC, Judging from the past elections, w&L re-
4 ndgaised. rather be,” — — — — — . . Rayner has already been able to experience turns the sentlrnent,

Hartman

~ ON THE
SHOULDERS
~ or GIANTS

88 million raised

I. from contributions by 12,7 7 8 alumni, parents, friends,
faculty, staff corporate, and foundation donors.
~ nu ion to go
3 9 ll °

to reach our goal of $127 million by July 1, I995.

Wenecd your support. 

lb THE CAMPAIGN FOR
Washington and Lee

8

...,¢«g~ .ur\v|r»¢\-ﬂzC'V\,‘/‘ka‘-«V-s-dn\4a"-1"’ -~

 

    

PAGE 4

W&L charges less and has less

By RICHARD PELTZ
Special to the Phi

If the bottom line is value for money, every-
body knows W&L comes out on top. The
university has taken best—buy honors in U.S.
News & World Report ’s rankings of liberal arts
colleges for three years running.

But judging by another bottom line ~—— net
assets — W&L ﬁnishes further back in the
pack. _ _ ‘

W&L’s net assets —~— $181 million in 1991
— are less than half those of Amherst and
Williams in Massachusetts and Swarthmore in
Pennsylvania, the three school U.S. News picked
as the top liberal arts colleges in the country.

Williams reported net assets of $413 million
in 1991, Swarthmore reported $399 million,
and Amherst reported $394 million.

Not surprisingly, perhaps, Amherst, Wil-
liams and Swarthmore were absent from the
best—buy ranks.

Despite their relative wealth, they charge
higher tuition than W&L’s $12,330 in 1992-93.
Williams students paid $17,840 the same year.

In a comparison of the latest available tax
returns from W&L and eight other schools,
W&L ranked seventh of nine in terms of bot-
tom-line, net assets.

All eight schools ranked above W&L in the
U.S. News survey of overall quality.

W&L’s net assets topped those of Davidson
College in North Carolina and Haverford Col-
lege in Pennsylvania, both of which reported
about $130 million in net assets in 1991 and
1992 respectively.

Despite its relatively small net assets, W&L
held up well against the competition by other
financial measures. The tax return show:

0 W&L generated $56 million in revenue in
1990-91 and gained almost $15 million in capi-
tal.

O The university paid Bass Construction
$8.8 million in 1990-91, about five times more
money than any of the other schools reported
spending on a professional service.

0 Contributions to W&L in 1990-91 totaled
almost $14 million, $5 million more than the
year before.

0 Instructional expenses cost W&L $27.5
million in 1990-91, about two-thirds of all
spending.

W&L Executive Director of Development
Lex McMillan said there is no cause for con-
cern about W&L’s ﬁnancial health.

“We are certainly not in trouble,” McMillan
said. “We are a strong institution by any mea-
sure.”

W&L Dean of College and Vice President

for Academic Affairs John Elrod said W&L
might appear better than it is on the tax returns
relative to the other schools, because only W&L
of the schools in Peltz’ s study has a regular
graduate program.

“lt’s going to make us look a lot better off
than we are,” Elrod said. “Law school is going
to distort it badly.”

But in terms of net assets, W&L is not
leading the charge.

W&L Treasurer Larry Broomall said the
university might be lagging behind most of the
other schools in net assets because it started
systematic fund-raising efforts years later than
they did.

“This is purely conjecture, but generally
speaking, particularly schools in the northeast
have focused on fund raising for far longer than
most other institutions,” Broomall said. “There
is a concentration of selective, high—quality,

W&L
Amherst
Bowdoin

Davidson
Grinnell
Haverford
Oberlin
Swarthmore

Williams

 

V ......;”._....a_..

l l l i l l l
$0 $50 $100 $150 $200 $250 $300 $350 $400 $450
tee in millions

Fi

 

- 1990-91 means for every dollar W&L tod: in,

Lexington
Shop for
Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,

Clothing, and
Accessories

oppogoggo

Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

       
     
     
       
 
    

 

Oomxies, Oomiies, Cvomaic-s! ‘8
During November, if you purchase $15.00 or more worth of comics, we will

give you 25% off purchase price. We have all name brands, such as Marvel,
D.C., Valient, etc. & Independents. Largest comic selection in area.

Ct1“n;r§%‘i9>@ gseteiam tlﬁrlv. W 7 :éﬁrr_li2‘;e.rt:'"i5

\'/// D0n’tLet

   

G0 Hungry

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket

Lunch, and Dinner

Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties

Fresh Salads & Soups

Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Dinners

Give Your Student a Homecooked
Meal With Our Point Card

7

19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

    

""‘* ’ is . .

é4JLi.@LlL17

S-uunday

1st movie regular price, 2nd for $1.50
Nintendo & Sega Genesis games only 99¢

7’,hi‘n2r CHECK OUT ROCKBUSTER MUSIC CHALLENGE! skﬁitr

'1

3 C Your Student 3 -*

Redeemable for Breakfast,

  

L.

‘I

     
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
 
    
    
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
   

0
The Fling-tum Phi, October 29, 1993

liberal—arts institutions in that area, institutions
which have been very successful overthe y rs
The compounding effects of gifts is incred-
ible.”

McMillan said Broomall is right.

“Some would say there’s an older tradition '
of philanthropy in the northeast,” McMillan
said, simply because the northeast is the oldest
part of the country. .

McMillan said fund raising at W&L has
been around since the Board of Trustees of
Liberty Hall Academy solicited George
Washington’s famous gift of1796. But it wasn’t
until the 1960’s that development efforts were
concentrated in a single, permanent university
ofﬁce. .

Broomall said W&L’s smaller bottom-qine
stings most when the school passes out finan-
cial aid to students.

“We’re seeing as we go into next year, we’re
having some difficulty in providing the level 0
financial—aid grants we want to provide,”
Broomall said. “We’ll still have a very solid
class of students, but there’s been a little itch-
ing up over the years that will sort of stabilize.”

Ordinarily, a school with more financial aid
to offer prospective students can attract better
students. Broomall said W&L keeps a com-
petitive edge by keeping tuition low.

McMillan said W&L’s smaller bottom line
can be deceiving.

“These comparisons can be really prob em-
atic because some schools have more compli-
cated programs,” McMillan said. “They may
have a lot of additional elements in their pro-
grams that don’t make a lot of difference to
individual QhIrlr"\tQ ”

For example, McMillan said a school might
operate a museum with a staff of curator!

“We run a pretty lean program  Big chunks
of those dollars [at other schools] could be
going to their museums, special programs out-
side their educational purpose,” McMillan said.
‘‘I doubt if there’s any school among those top
25 where a student can get a better education
than at Washington and Lee University.”I

W&L’s $181 million finish in 1991 was a
$10 million drop from the year before, on
paper. But that was due to a change in the IRS
instructions in how schools record deprecia-
tion, according to Broomall.

In fact, W&L’s nearly $15 million gain in

it still had 27 cents after expenses. That $15
million helps beef up the bottom line.

Only Bowdoin College in Brunswick, Maine
did substantially better in the same year, gain-
ing 35 cents per dollar of revenue. Grinnell
College in Iowa gained 29 cents per dollar in
1991-92. ..

Not every school fared so well.

The financial giant Amherst lost-$1.5 mil-
lion in investment trading. For every dollar in
1991 revenue, Amherst spent $1.02.

Oberlin College in~Ohio alsoalost -in invest-

bsee ASSETS, page 5 *

.\l I‘) N 'l‘

lN\'liS'l‘lN

IF YOU THOUGHT COLLEGE WAS
EXPENSIVE, TRY PUTTING YOURSELF
THROUGH RETIREMENT to

Q I993 Yiarbmr Inrumnr: am? Annuity /l.r.raa'aIimr/Co/leg: Rtlirrmznl Equdier Fund.

\

hink about supporting yourself for
twenty-live, thirty years or longer
in retirement. It might be the greatest
ﬁnancial test you'll ever face. Fortunately,
you have one valuable asset in your
favor. Time.

Time to take advantage of tax-deferral.
Time for your money to grow.

But starting early is key. Consider this:
ifyou begin saving just $100 a month at
age thirty, you can accumulate $154,031*
by the time you reach age sixty-five.
Wait ten years and you'd need to set aside
$211 a month to reach the same goal.

E

Start plannirg your ﬁtture. Call our Enrollment Hotline 1 800 842-2888.

75 years of ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

At TIAA-CREF, we not only under-
stand the value of starting early, we
can help make it possible—with flexible
retirement and tax-deferred annuity
plans, a diverse portfolio of investment
choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75 years.

Over a million people in education
and research are already enrolled in
America's largest retirement system.
Find out how easy it is to join them. Call
today and learn how simple it is to put
yourself through retirement when you
have time and TIAA-CREF on your side.

In

/

\

7

‘Aavumilrg an 1'n.'trr.r! raft of 6. 517% trtdilti to TIA/‘l Rzfiremtnf /innuiliu. T/nlr rat: Lr urea} ma/z/y to .r/mw I/7: paultr am) (ffrt! ofvompuunﬁirry. Luwzr or big/yrr rater would
produce utry Jzffrrtnt run/IJ. CREF ttr!rfu‘aIt.r art Jirlri/ruled /7y TI/{A-CREF In()iviz9un/ um) ln.rI[!u(inna/ Srrvzrtw. '

O

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 29 1993

PAGE 5

W&L plans for future budget concerns

Amount spent per revenue dollar

 

C
Williams
Swnthnnore
I
Oberlin - In Cents
I-Iaverfond
Grlnxaell
. Davidson
‘ Bovvtioira
Amnherat
‘W&L
(I
I_
’ Williams '90 —— Law Firm
Swathmore ’90 —— Architectural Firm
Oberlin ’90 —— Engineering Consultant Firm
. Haverford ’91 —- Medical Doctor
Grinnell ’90 — Investment Management Firm  .  77
Davidson ’90 — investment Management Firm
. Bowdoin ’90 —Investment Management Firm
Amherst ’90 -— Investment Management Firm iii
W&L ’90 —— Bass Construction
. W&L ’89 — Bass Construction 22:2‘
I * I '
° 8 53
C O
C O
C O
G Q
2 2
G

I->ASSETS, from page 4

ments, almost $1.7 million. It scraped
by at year—end with a gain of less than
half a penny for every dollar of rev-
enuc.

Whether a school ends the year with
a gain or loss depends largely on how it
invests its money. For that reason, most
schools pay big bucks to investment
managers.

Amherst spent about $700,000 on
its number—one money handler and
more than $300,000 on its numbertwo.
Grinnell also paid investment manag-
ers more than $1 million.

W&L’s investment management
costs are not on its tax return, which
lists only the top ﬁve professional-
service bills, but Broomall said W&L
pays its top investment manager, one
of four, about $250,000.

The ﬁgure is not on the return be-
cause W&L’s construction expenses,
more than $9.5 million, nudged it out
of the top ﬁve.

The $8.8 million W&L paid to Bass
Construction covered much of Frater-
nity Renaissance, the addition to Lewis
Hall and the completion of the Lenfest
Center, Broomall said.

W&L also paid $315,000 to Lantz
Construction and $450,000 to VMDO
for architectural services.

Of the other schools, only
Swarthmore reported substantial spend-
ing on construction and architecture,
$2.8 million. Swarthmore Senior Ac-
countant Kedebe Teferi said that cov-
ered a campus renovation project and
went toward a $10 million performing
arts center.

W&L Coordinator of Capital Plan-
ning Frank Parsons said W&L has a
record of commitment to capital
projects.

“We’ve done a very respectable job
of meeting the outstanding needs of the
university and not putting off what
repairs and such that need to be done.”

Parsons, who said he had no back-
ground in architecture or engineering

prior to being asked to oversee capital
projects for W&L in 1967, lauds past
W&L President Robert Huntley and
current President John Wilson for their
dedication to capital projects.

“Both Huntley and Wilson are
hands—on presidents,” Parsons said.
“Both have been very concerned with
maintaining the beauty of this campus
and the facilities that support the edu-
cational function.”

Parsons said he does not know how
other schools handle spending, but he
said smart budgeting allows W&L to
spend money on capital projects de-
spite the school’s relatively small as-
sets.

“W&L has done very, very well in
managing its operating budget, bud-
geting on a basis that if you need the
entire budget, the money is there,” he
said. ‘‘I think it’s true that each year, we
finish in the black, and the surplus goes

bsee ASSESTS, page 6

  

 

0000002 9
00000017 Q
0000009 ~

0000009 ‘
0000002. 
0000008 ”

0000006 - ;

« ;

 

WOOLRICH

. Welcome Parents
AIUIH " E31111!/5 Still The Leading

 

SERO — Cotton Dress Shirts

Cross Creek Sweaters
Embassy Boxers

Long Sleve Sports Shirts
Woolnch Outerwear
Leather Watchbands
Shoes by Bass, Topsider, Clark’s, Walkover

Ray-Bans

Corduroy Pants
Cashmere Blend Topcoats

A11 Suits n d 5 0% 011‘

Red Wing Boots
Wool Slacks
Duckhead Khaki’s

W&L Belts, Dog Collars, Visors,

Ties, and Straw Hats

100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos

Formal Shirts

Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts

Xmas Stockings for Sale

OPEN THIS SUNDAY 10 am.

‘ Alain - Beatriz

Phone (703) 463-5383
Since 1963
STUDENT

CHARGE ACCOUNTS

MASTERCARD

  

 

Twice 9;

Capital plans signa1budget’s health

 

  

 

D From ASSETS page 5 W&Lspent $41 million in 1990-31,
$250:O00 T I l 1 Hligheslt sajary ’ two—thirds on construction. That’sa 13
_  Benefits to unrestricted plant funds, for capital percent increase over 1989-90 spend-
- Sat prog')ects.” ‘d th t h W&L ing, but anritricreaste coveretll by higher
" a arsons sai a w en expe- revenue. e ins ructiona spen ing
 —_'_ - ry rienced a surge in class size after co- amounts to about $13,700 per student
_ education, the university allocated the in 1990-91.
- extra income for more students to capi- Those ﬁgures are impossible to copi-
‘ tal improvements and maintenance. pare to other schools, at least using the _
$150900‘) '2 Generally, Parsons says, W&L’s tax returns, because every school re-
- capital spendingisasignoftheschool’s ports its spending differently. Each
* f"inancialhealth.“You wouldn’tunder- school computes its instructional ex-
_: take that [capital spending] if you were penses with its own formula. Some
$1oo’OOo - putting at serious include student
~ risk the essentials services such 5
" A ,5 of the educational housin and me i-
" :3 C‘ I T" 3 t ‘ ” h cal cargn 'nstruc
__  :3 55; fs en erprise, e l i -
$5O’00o - ‘ ‘f.   :~ said. tional costs be-
- N__ ,<_’  ,   <2: While W&L’s cause they are as- V
:       ‘V spending on con- sociated with. the
$0 __ struction outdis- school s mlSSl0ll.
tanced the other The IRS in not
:83 E _,.,:\-§ ‘:3 % E :32? g E schools’, W&L particular abtiit
0 ' '13 ‘E: ;__-3 finished near the making sure dif-
% g ' S ‘E g g E 75:.‘ middle of the pack ferent institutions
1 cs’ (3 ‘*3 -E 3 in annual conIribu- fill out their forms
:1: 3 tions. similarly.
('9 S u p p o rt e r s IRS representa-
25- gavethe university tives in Philadel-
‘ almost$14 million phia, Baltimcte
: in 1990-91. That and Washington,
Fi r S ‘ m'1]°° number was D.C., said they do
20- gu e In 1 1 ns topped by Wil- not know the pro-
' liams’ $21 million, cess by Wl’llCll the
: Bowdin’s$18mil- forms are re-
- lionandA'mherst’s viewed. A repre-
15 - $15 million. . sentative in Phi‘a-
- But annual gifts delphia said no one
: can fluctuate who reviews tax
wildly from year to year. W&L’s 1991 returns is allowed to talk to the public.
- - - 10- contribution totaled $5 million more AnotherlRSrepresentativeinPhila-
I pubhc conmbutlons - than in 1989-90, an increase of more delphia took note of an inquiry from
‘ than 50 percent. Forthatreason,school Peltz in May regarding the tax—return
: ‘ . ﬁnancial officers say annual giving is review process.
_ - - . not a reliable indicator of ﬁnancial She romised to rela the uestiT)n
P Y ‘I
- ~ health. to mana ement. The IRS had not re-
‘ - c 00 s cannot accurate y antici- spon e y cto er .
S h I I l d dgb O b 29
: pate how much money they will re- While the tax returns seem to indi-
0.u " " ceive in any given year, W&L Assis- cate W&L is in relatively good ﬁnan-
tant Treasures John Cuny said. cial health, McMillan hastens to add
83 8 8 8 S :5; 5 S 8 8 “There are gifts out there we don’t the university has other endowmen s
a .—o " ' even know about,” he said. “Someone that don’t show up on the returns.
I-J I-J (D C H -—u '8 G 0) U)
93 ,3 g... '3 0 do :: *-I E might’ve signed a will 25 years ago, “The most valuable endowment we
3 g 0 -E  5 cos *6 E "cg and when they pass away, we find out have is what Robert E, Lee gave us in .
‘E 0 —° 4: _=; about it.” the last years of his life,” McMillan
E 8 8 C5 3 O ‘B 3 Cuny said deferred gifts —-— money said, “That’s a spiritual endowment.
5: g allotted by contributors gradually but You can’t mend roofs with it, but you A
(I) transferred ina lump sum——accounted are fed by it.” .
I

Jfcwe cz Happy czntfstzfe weekend .

    

Lunch Specials

  

   

  
       
    
   
 

Dall Lunch S clals All $5.00
Monday - App e Smok Chicken with Sun-dried
Tomato Mayonnaise
Tuesday - Black Bean Vegetable Enchilada

    
 

Wednesday - Hickory Roasted Bnrbeque on Kniler Roll.

    
      

    
      
    
 

   

    
 

Cole Slaw

Thursday - Phyllo ﬁlled with Mushrooms. Spinach &
Feta Cheese

Friday - Crab Cake Sandwich on Roll

Saturday - Chicken Gumbo with Rice

Sunday - Fruit Omelettel. Chocolate Chip Pancakes.
Chef‘: Special

Dinner Specials

Monday - Monday Niﬁt Football Chicken hichilnda w/
Sella - $6.95
1 1/2Pounlhot‘ourhmous SmokedWi:nga-
$6.00

Tuesday - Sauteed Turkey Breast w/ Prosciutto. Mozzardla

    
 

and Tomato Sense served with Fettucini - 38.95
Wednesday - Pork Tenderloin Medallion: w/ Apples - $9.95

 
   
   
   
 
        
 

Thursday - Grilled Beef Tenderloin Ituﬁed w/ Mushrooms -
$11.96
Friday - Crab Cnkuwl Dijon Sauce - 89.95
Saturday - Mnrlnnted Grilled QIIII - $10.95
Sunday - shrimp with Miinhroouns - $10.95

    
 

Aﬂa1uessa'vedwnhdiobeofrk>eorpotato,ﬁed1vegetablesandhmisemhd

Friday, Oct. 29 “Leslie Tucker” 9:00 — Cloec, $2 covcr 
Saturday, Oct. 50 “Wild Graee” 9:00 — Close, $2 cover

¢%/tea4%r4l 27¢:/vedeﬂfﬂ Qay.’ 

_ ﬂ/me 7 Qaya ad Weeé 

5 *9?e¢eu«a/tom .;»1ow/trm/
e/Va/mle/t I6‘ 2%» bdl¢9Iul% .%m.y/on

   

 
       
    

     


454-3474

 

Celebrate Holidays, Send Exam Goodie
Bags, Play Secret Santa, Remember Friends,
Relatives & Business Associates with . . .

Fine Handmade Chocolate Confections
On Campus Delivery / Mail Order Anywhere

Call 1-800-421-6220 or 1-703-464-8400
MASTERCARD

VISA

The Hing-tum Phl, October 29,1993

 

  

Q

for some of the 1990-91 increase.

 

fcneonw

Now Showing
Rated PG-13
Daily 6:45 p.m.

Needful Things
Rated R

3

251-7292
2275 Beech Ave., Buem Vista — (Behind Pim Hut)

Man Without a Face
Sat. & Sun. 1:45 & 6:45 p.m.

Sat. & Sun. 4:15 & 9:15 p.m.
Showing Daily at 9:15 p.m.

lvertet al “

“All You Can Eat”

OF POPCORN

 

 
 

   

t
(l ((l

  
 
  

I
ll
‘iii
(«W
(W

      
 
 
 
 
  

I
7/(757 I‘
lllﬂﬂﬂﬂ
lltﬂl ll
I\(&l(|ll(((
«I («(1
..*.st§§‘.<,(,<

         

\\

?
{I

§l“k“‘
M’

    
  

Florist to The Hoincstcad

 
 
  

Q00

BO'I'I‘OMLESS BUCKET

-30 Minute Delivery l’
10 Minute Pick-Up

FRANK’S PIZZA _
463-7575

Hot & Cold Subs 0 Salads 0 Dinners O BeveraRg§s
PLEASE MENTION THIS AD WHEN CALLING IN AN 0 ER

 

  

    

Smashed!   
$3.9 ‘

1 Medium 14” CHEESE & ONE TOPPING PIZZA

$5.99

WITH  COUPON
(8 slices)

_2—Iv;:(-1_i1i—m_14_”_CIIEI3—S-E E; ONE TOPPING PIZZAS
$10.99

WITH THIS COUPON
(16 slices)

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 29 1993

NEWS

‘WI

 

 

 

   

   

 

 

, (79
J
\ \_~.

 

   

 

   

 

   

 

 

 

i.‘>:'.-"-‘-».l\‘\y‘.-LT’  §
‘I l..'!Hi1Iii\ 4;;//, S  A ‘

» J
,€._ " ‘$39.4/'— »---*r- .i.-,..

///A.

 

 

   

C this? If you’d
like to share your artistic

talents with W&L; Work for
the Phi, be one of our car-
toonists, take the plunge.

C’mon.

Also, if it’s not too much trouble,
we are looking for some good fea-
ture ideas; so all you people that
worked on your high school
paper, or even if you didn’t, be
creative for us. Please.
Call us with your ideas. 462-4060.

W&L stands apart
from the pack M

 

Parents,

By RICHARD Piauz
Special to the Phi

In September 1992, Richard Peltz
requested from the Internal Revenue
Service the latest available tax returns
for Washington and Lee and 10 schools
to which it compares itself in self-
studies.

The tax returns include information
such as how much an institution spends
in a year, how much money it take in,
the value of its assets, and the top
salaries of its ofﬁcers and employees.
The returns can be used to compare
Washington and bee’s financial health
to that of other schools.

By May 1993, the IRS had provided
1990-91 tax returns for six schools and
1991-92 tax returns for two schools
(inset).

The IRS says it is still searching for
tax returns from Middlebury College
in Vermont and Bates College in Maine.

Peltz chose the 10 schools from

among the 16 to which W&L com-
pared itself in studies for the last long-
range plan. Peltz dropped three Cali-
fornia schools from the list because
geographical disparities might make
the schools less comparable. Three
other schools were dropped arbitrarily.

W&L Dean of the College and Vice
President for Academic Affairs John
Elrod said the various members of the
faculty and administration who par-
ticipated in the long-range plan each
developed theirown lists of schools for
comparison.

None of the otherschools have sig-
niﬁcant graduate programs.

Elrod said the undergraduate pro-
grams at the eight colleges in the study,
all of which outranked W&L in the last
U.S. News and World Report survey of
liberal arts colleges, do offer a good
basis of comparison for W&L.

“We want to know where the com-
petition above us is,” Elrod said.

But he said that does not mean W&L
wants to emulate the other schools in

all respects.

“We want to be like ourselves,”
Elrod said.

“ But when it comes to plain finan-
cial ﬁrepower in delivering the educa-
tional goods, we want to be like them,”
he added '

Elrod cited curriculum —especially
in W&L’s business, engineering and
journalism programs — as one area in
which W&L is unique and does not
want to change.

“In most cases, the curriculum is
different” at W&L, Elrod said. “We are
much more pre-professionally tilted
than all those other schools.”

Peltzreviewedthevariouscolleges’
tax returns in consultation with Uni-
versity Treasurer Larry Broomall and
accounting student Elizabeth Currall,
’93.

Comparisons focused on bottom-
line net assets, spending on profes-
sional services such as construction,
overall expenses and revenue, and re-
ported salaries and beneﬁts.

To lrnaw everything that
goes on in Lexington (and
maybe a little more) ,
subscribe to
The Ring-tum Phi.

Il"5 0111)’ 25 UOIIEITS f0I' UTE

rest of the year.
Call us at (703) 462-4060

t0 5l.lD5CI'ibE.

  

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20 1993

Frosh -
grades in

I->GRADES, from page one o

been a significant increase in the qual-
ity of the grades,” he said.

Howison also remarked that before
co-education the average midterm GPA
for freshmen was as low as 2.2, but
since 1985, it has averaged appro i-
mately 2.6. Howison noted in compari-
son that the Class of ’96 had the
highest freshmen Fall term midterm
GPA in the history of the school, a 2.7,
with only 12 students falling below a
1.5. Still, the Class of‘97, according to
Howison has fallen in somewhere in
the average domain, as far as midteﬁn
GPA.

When questioned about the effects
of Rush and pledgeship on academic
perfonnance, Howison commented,
“Rush has an impact on time, conse-
quently on studying.”

Particularly this year, with the 6(-
tended Rush schedule and with 94% of
freshmen males participating in Rush,
the results are obvious in the near third
of a point difference in male and fe-
male GPAs. Ninety percent of those
rushees tore at one of the male greek
institutions on campus, thus addin o
the “time constraints” on studying.
Kappa Alpha was the only fraternity to
have no freshmen fall below the 2.0
mark.

Professor John Evans, who teaches
English 101 and English 105, com-
mented that his students “are v
bright” and “will do fine in the l g
run, much better than at midtenn.”
Professor Mark Rush said that his stu-
dents fared “just average.” A professor
from the Romance Language depart-
ment who identified himself as “one of
Bill Clinton’s half-brothers” said t at
freshmen midterm grades were, “fr e,
because I haven’t graded them, yet.”

Freshmen had little to say when
asked about their feelings on their ﬁrst
major academic effort at W&L. Ones
that varied included Trevor
Stockinger’s fatherly, “As long as you
stayed ahead of the academic game and
on top of your studies, you were ﬁne. i
know that sounds nerdy, but it’s true.”
A student who wished to remain anony-
mous said, “This school isn’t as hard as
I thought it would be.”

. . . Whatever the comments, the en-
I Photo by Bethany Smith, The Rmg-tum Phz emlconsensusofthose pduedwas h§Q_
Wh  a  O u  a  n g  7 ' . ful rather than negative. With Parents’

y ' . Weekend looming, those students who
need» a Vlittle reassurance will no _doubt
ireceiveit.‘ But those who need the most

   

One of Washington and Lee’s campus dogs stares down our photographeirron  A

Although on a leash, this critter is still apt to attract the attentions, of Animal Control Officer encouragement can seek out help from
R.D. Clark because his owner is not in physical control of the dog. Several students have Dean Manning and Dean Howlspn.
already been cited for violations of the city dog ordinance, including tickets for free-roaming Who are already Planning On rn°°"l8

with students who have fallen below
the 1.5 mark.

Tuition money: more than just classes

for libraries, etc. And a tiny portion —— public.

animals, unlicensed animals and other violations.

 
 
  

 

    

   

DTUITION, from page one less than one percent —- goes to Public As for tuition increasing, the Board V _ , ‘  — V V
Service. According to Steven of Trustees meets in February to ap- '  — V ._ t _, . V I V

instructions With 3dminiStr3tiVc 3313' McAllister of the Treasurer’s office, prove the level of tuition increase for     . i

Tics allcttcd through Othcr budget cat‘ these are “community services that the following year. Broomall said that V _. ‘ - ‘ ' ’

°g°l’icS; mainly institutional S“PP0rt, W&L does to open itself beyond the he attends Parents’ Weekend discus- ‘ . V V - ” r “ ‘ 0
Academic Support, and Student Ser- school to the whole Lexington and sion sessions to respond to parents’ ‘ f V Pﬁ_y_s:igaIP&;{z,g_t

Vi°95- El°V°n Percent °ft“iii°n Will 80 Rockbridge community,” such as con- questions about tuition. ‘ I

t0 Academic Sllppcrt, Which is mainly cert series and lectures open to the \

.  Vamrzgemnr
Tuition &Fees  _. ,S';gppor:.'»V ‘
Auxili rite rises Annual Fund . V 172%
,921,000 ‘‘ ‘  .
W I Endowment Income  - -
221 000 § Income from Trusts V .. .
$321,000 I Investment Income «Z 
$2,206,000 $24,414,000 Other V V .  :
Auxiliary Enterprises ‘ ' 9%
$2,332,000 5, S 3 E2 "
gig CDC ’
:0. Q
$2,610,000 “*7 ._ ».
C Academia-
Revenues for 1992-1993, Total Revenues $38,024. . ’ 2 (Lt ’ )
' 13%
O

%~:~o~.~o~""""'.~o~""o‘~'u"‘

\Wirliit«e to ltlhe lDlhii £53

Hanan Garden F°¢7'6"‘AY3
Chinese Restaurant

________l —k>\ne\.p smletue

I"
I1 0% Off: 9”-l“ °"""  
i with copy of I "3°°’“33‘988;i,,, V  BERKY’S Restaurant

I this ad ' Ag  ,,,,h,,,,,._._ at 1.3!: in Truck Stop

B11111 _ \.\l|<'.l€l(1\N

Specializing in C e t M 0 V. e A 2

Hanan Kr Szecnuan
, Cuisine ‘ Bang For
Take out or eattin! your BuCk_
Dpen Seven Days a Week! 11 a.m. until 10 p.m~. Advertise in the PM

R°°kbl'id9e Square For More information
(behind McDonald's) Call 454-4050

East Nelson Street 463-3330

in

   

  BREAKFAST
BUFFET .

    

 
 

  

Friday & Saturday Nights
1". p.m. to 4 a.m.
Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours 4533473

 

 

-tum Phi October 29

-Parents’ Weekend tr

:0 ,  ,
my 
'~?\a»“%é<<95&”’. ’

’-5‘  . «
cc:
3”‘

\

Photo by Carlin Jones

Hikes around the Homestead resort in Hot Springs can yield beautiful sur-
prises.

’l'K‘}m\i. mun 55
u,,,«m, sures ~

_ Photo by Carlin Jones
A fifteen minute drive down Route 60 East will bring you to the beginning of

the Blue Ridge Parkway.

Photo  Richard Weaver
Goshen Pass has achieved legendary status with W&L students and alumni

Q

The Blue Ridge Parkway offers numerous scenic overlooks and picnic areas.

By HILLARY OLSON
Phi Staff Writer

At certain points in the year, namely Par-
ents’ Weekend, it is important to remind our-
selves of the pleasures in Rockbridge County
lying at our ﬁngertips.

Hopefully, the following list of
scenic, historic places will inspire
those looking for something to do
to visit a few of the more famous
sites in our area.

Starting with the least adventur-
ous endeavor, Woods Creek Park is
a natural path originating behind
the Leybum Library that follows
the creek from one end of town to
the other. The park passes behind
old, stately neighborhoods and the
elementary school. It is a quaint,
albeit short, retreat into the nature
within the town itself.

On East Washington Street, the
Stonewall Jackson House is open
for tours until 5 pm every day. The
house, built in 1801, was Jackson’s
home for ten years before the Civil
War while he was a natural phi-
losophy professor at Virgina Mili-
tary lnstitue.

The tour relates several interest-
ing stories about Jackson. In addi-
tion to infonning visitors the build-
ing was the only house ever owned
by Jackson, the 'tour guides give
insights into Jackson’s everyday
life.

Apparently, he lacked some lec-
turing skills during his tenure at
VMI. Whenever a student asked
any question, Jackson would repeat
a portion of his lecture which he had
memorized before class.

Just down Route 60 East is the
Buena Vista General Store. Estab-
lished in 1891, the store sells a wide
variety of downhome merchandise
including country hams, rug beat-
ers, tinware, overalls and long johns.
The General Store also features an
early farm equipment exhibit.

Outside of Lexington, the scenic Blue Ridge
Parkway connects the Shenandoah National

Woodrow Wilson’s birthplace

Weekend revelers to one of the Seven Natural
Wonders of the World. Natural Bridge is a giant
natural rock formation which was worshipped

Park in Virginiato the Great Smoky Mountains
National Park in North Carolina and Tennes-
see. The closest entrance to the parkway is
located off Route 60 East just 15 minutes from
Lexington. The parkway offers many scenic
overlooks and paths from which to view the
mountains in their autumnal splendor.
Driving 40 minutes on I-81 South and 5
minutes on Route 11 South will bring Parents’

1P 31.1143

Photo from Visitors’ Center

”pi.¢?o by Carlin Jones

by the Monacan Indians, surveyed by George
Washington——whose initials you can still see
carved into the rock—-and owned by Thomas
Jefferson. The tiny town of Natural Bridge also
contains a wax museum, hiking trails and un-
derground caverns.

Goshen Pass is a Washington and Lee tradi-
tion. The 3-mile mountain gorge is a half-
hour’s drive down Route 39 off Route 11 North.
Prior to the arrival of railroads in 1880,
Goshen Pass was the thoroughfare for
stagecoaches to reach the outside world.
The pass was also the trail used by elk
and buffalo as they crossed the moun-
tains in search of food.

Large rocks in the middle of the river
ﬂowing through Goshen Pass are favor-
ite sunning spots for W&L students dur-
ing spring tenn.

If walking tours are a favorite activ-
ity, Staunton, home of the Statler Broth-
ers, should be high on the must—see list.

The town is located 30 miles north of
Lexington on I-81. Staunton is most
notable for its unique architecture and
for being home to Woodrow Wilson’s
birthplace.

The Wilson townhouse, built in 1846,
is a National Historic Landmark and an
artifact museum. The house is open for
tours 9 am—5pm daily. Brochures for the
self-guided Staunton tour can be found
in the Lexington Visitors’ Center on
East Washington Street.

Thursday through Saturday from
10am-5pm, Rockbridge County’s first
modern winery is open for tours.

Visitors to Rockbridge Vineyard can
taste White Riesling, Chardoinay and
Tuscarora Red wine among others. The
grounds of the vineyard are also open
for picnics or self-guided tours.

Rockbridge Vineyard closes for
theseason on Nov. 1. It is located on
Route 606, one mile from exit 205 on I-
81.

The George C. Marshall Museum is
within the confines of VMI—within
walking distance of W&L. The museum
honors the World War II general and
Nobel Peace Prize recipient.

Highlights of the tour include an elec-
tric map and recorded narration.

Information on these and other area activi-
ties can be obtained at the Lexington Visitors’
Center on East Washington Street.

Natural Bridge is one of the Seven Natural Wonders of the World. You can still see where George Washington carved
his initials into the rock when he fi* “st surveyed the bridge.

The Ring-tqm Phi, October 29, 1993 ‘ “PAGE 10"

  
 
   

  

  To TAK
FOR

YOUR
XI‘ ALI.-

N0 Amvc/AL gig)
A fbooo (KENT Lwa,

Au»  
How,‘ wsnoxvwwt A((£fTAa/(L
THAT FOR AN £Y£-ofﬁuﬁxz

IF % von/‘T 601 :1,
GET IT.‘"

MEMBER NETWORK com! mwwoov TKUST(0P1MNY, MEMBER Fbl(

REDUCED PRICE
FRESH

GROUND

  

 

  

  

Harrlsfeeter
MEANS LOW PRICES

  
   
 
  

 

  
   
 
  

   

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October.29, 1993

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

Standings as of 10/26/93

  

Men’s Cross Country Women’s Soccer
Overall Records* Overall Records
Lynchbiirdg 11-0-0 Randolph-Macon 14-1-0
Eastern ennonite 6-2-0 Roanoke 9-6-1
wm den-Sydne Le §-3-g Washington and Lee 1%-68-1
as ington an e - - Lynchburg - -0
Roanoke 3-3-0 Va. Wesleyan 8-8-0
Brid ewater 3-9-0 R-M Women’s 6-8-0
Ran olph-Macon 1-11-0 Guilford 5-8-0
_ Hollins 3-11-0
Women’s Cross Country Sweet Briar 2-104
Overall Records* ’
Women’s Soccer
Roanoke 3-0-0 ODAC Standings
E d H 2-0-0
L;,I:$ﬁIb?:; emy 2_1_0 Randolph-Macon 8-0-0 ’
Eastern ennonite 4-3-0 Washington and Lee 6'1'1
Washington and Lee 1-1-0 7 Roanoke 6-1-1
Bridgewater 1-3-0 Va~ Wesleyan 5'3'0
' Lynchburg 4-4-0
Guilford 3-5-0
R-M Woman’s 2-6-0
Hollins 1-7-0
Football Sweet Briar 0-8-0

Overall Records

   
  
   
 
  
  

    

u.s.D.A. CHIE 

 G S; 1% 
BROIL.............._

LIMIT 2 PKGS.

 
 
 
  
 

    
  

mﬂ.

  
  
 

 
      

ROMA
TOMATOES

  
 
 
 

  

   

  

PEPSI COLA
2 mm

  

HARRISTEETER... Low piu DAY, EVERY DAY

   

‘SELECTED VARIETIES
DORITOS
CHIPS

‘I 2 9
9'  OZ.
O
I

VALUABLE COUPON
BUY ONE TO OZ. BAG

’ SALAD MIX
AND GET ONE FREE  

I This Cou n MaK‘Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coo Per Customer Per Visit
1 With A 10.00 inimurn Purchase. Otter Good Oct. , Thru Nov. 2, I993.

   
 

 
       

PLU 3065
PRODUCE

coupon
H8I'llS TBGTBI ‘gig

VALUABLE COUPON

   

l —_-an-——=n

   

AND GET ONE FREE

This Cou n Ma Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Cou Per Customer Per Visit
I With A 10.00 inimum Purchase. Otter Good Oct. , Thru Nov. 2, I993.

  

   
 
 

 

L____..___

1 BUY ONE 4 PK. 40, 60, 75, I00 WATT SOFT WHITE I I

GTE SYLVANIIL LIGHT BULBS | |

DIET PEPSI OR I

PEPSI

QUICK OR OLD FASHIONED

QUAKER

OATS ..................... ..l8 oz. 099

SELECTED VARIETIES

TROPICANA
TWISTER .................... ..46 O

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

SPRING WATER ..... ..5o.7 ozo
2/

SELECTED VARIETIES

TON Y'S

Z..

PIZZA .............. ..l5.3—17.5 oz.

VALUABLE COUPON

AND GET ONE

This Cou n Ma Not Be Reproduced. Limit One C
With A l0.00 inimum Purchase. Oiter Good Oct

%‘i",

GU

    

0

O
(J
‘O
(.0
rs)

 

 

BUY ONE 32 OZ. BOTTLE

TOK TIIIRST OUENCHER |

FREE

Per Customer Per Visit
Thru Nov. 2, I993.

I PLU 2610
GROCERY

'  :1 v  ::
COUPON
Hamsteeter V/igﬁ G-J

  

   

159
77

VALUABLE COUPON

inimum Purchase. Otter Good Oct.

« BUY ONE 24 CT. OF

GOODY'S TABLETS
AND GET ONE FREE

This Cou n Me Not Be Reproduced. Limit One Coupon Per Customer Per Visit
I With A 10.00 N\ 27

Thru Nov. 2, i993.

 
  

NFS GROCERY

HBIIISTGBTBI

   
 
 

Prices In This Ad Ettective Wednesday, October 27 Throug

    

    

PLU 2551 I

COUPON I I
VALUE
§2.69 I

E_____

I Prices Effective Throughd Noember 2,

, Léxlnslerz
. OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dyealers. We Gladiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

Hamsfeeter

November 2, 1993. In

PLU 2550
NFS GROCERY

COUPON
VALUE

$1.39

04

 

I 993

Stores

Emory and Henry 6-2-0 Voueybau
Ham(pden-S dney 5-2-0 Overall Records
Ran olph- acon 4-2-1 _
Brid ewater 2-5-0 Gullford 20-5
Gun ord 1-5-0 Bridgewater 21-6
Washington and Lee 0.5-0 Eastern Mennonite 17-11
Washington and Lee 13-11
R-M Women’s College 12-11
Football Lynchburg 1 1-1 1
ODAC Standings SW36‘ Bria‘ 8'11
Roanoke 5- 1 1
Randolph-Macon 2-0-0 Hollins 542
Emory and Henry 4-1-0 Em°1'Y and Hem)’ 5'18
Hampden-Sydney 3-1-0
Brid ewater 1-2-0 Volleyball
Gui} ord 0-3-0 ODAC Standings
- Washington and Lee 1-3-0 1 _
Guilford 8-0
Bridgewater 7-0
Eastern Mennonite 5-2
ODAC Offensive Player of the Week Washington and Lee 4-3
Dexter Hurt—RB—Rando1ph-Macon Evyvggfﬂgfrlgr 3:2
I Hollins 2-5
ODAC Defensive Player of the Week Emo and Henrcy 2-5
Robert Hull—DT—Washington and Lee R'M 0m°n’5 011983 2'6
- I Roanoke 1-6

   
        
    
    

I

Men’s Soccer
ODAC Standings

Roanoke

Randolph-Macon
Virginia Wesleyan
Eastern Mennonite
Hampden-Sydney
4 L nchburg
ashington and Lee

Guilford
Bridgewater

I’?

 

Men’s Soccer -
Overall Records wavi~l;[:§t1(i:cE:::.:lisI'ee

Va. Wesle an 14_2_1 (updated for 10/27/93)

Randolph‘ acon 16'3‘0 Women’s Tennis 3-0

Roanoke 15'3'0 Men’s Cross Country 3-2

H3-mPde“'SYd“°.Y 10'6'2 -Women’s Soccer  . 9- -1
"-'E3ST8fIl Mennonite»-~ » 11-8-0 ‘-“**f—’»~r*v3b11eyba1] 5_=§'~‘~°**> ;’.***‘14_11

Lynchburg ‘ 8‘ 0'1 ' Women’s Cross Country A‘ 1-1

Emory and Henr 3-6-0 water polo 8_11

Washington an Lee 5-11-0 Menvs Soccer 5_12

Br1_d ewater 3-11-0 Football ()_6

Gull ord 3-13-1

Overall 43-51-1

Women’siIntramurals—Football
Pi Beta Phi 21, Kappa Alpha Theta 9
Kappa Kappa Gamma over Freshman Women

Washington and Lee Bocci
Ring-tum Phi 18, Trident -1
International Club 16, MSA 11
Dorm Counselors 17, Resident Assitants 11
Southern Comfort 16, Jubilee 7

OOCOOOOOC

*Only dual and tri-meets are
included in cross country records

Sports moment 0’ the week...

 

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-‘mm Phi

Members of the Washington and Lee men's soccer team in deshabille shortly
before a home game were the photogenic athletes of the week for Oct. 29, 1993.

 

    

PAGE12

 

W  The Ring-tum Phi October 29,1993

Bound-& Gagged by Dana Summers
O“ the mark by Mark pans; Pluggers by Jeff MacNel1y ”"“”““-""-t‘ I

  
  

WHAT YOU SAY... NI-lAT7HEY HEAR

    
 
 

DWUWIH imbva nv
WI ‘lawns mom wwiu Costa

1 wow E25 IN
‘lbDAY...I'M N6!’
FEEUNG WELL 

%(

  

5/1u4—-.//42$ /0'”

Dave by David Miller

       
        
  
 

WARNlNa=u9E 0F T1416
’ /V\lNl—6PARE CAN Resum
lN 96:10:49 iNJui2Y ‘V0

THE MALE Eéio.

     

l MléiHT AS WELL §FlZAY PAiNT
"VORK" ON THE $195 OF

    

 

liltﬂditﬂﬂ tﬂ|O ilinlﬁl 0tUN'|lV
Q|993 rnpuru mam Somcu. inc 1 Pmwm. I ’
V‘ his I‘ V . “

“CA”-'AmNG:, A FEATURE WE COULD Yuve go’: a teenage plugger when neithe:

 

 

   

        
 

      
  
 

   
   
 

    
 
 
 
   

    
 

     

  
 

R541!-Y USE FROM THE PHONE COMPANY oneof you wants {:0 look like the other.
Colonnade Crossword I
ACROSS 1 O ‘
1 —- and rave   N OK HRROLV '\'\ME To (,0
5 Enjoys a book T\AERE'5 REVELF“-‘ON... _. ‘ ' 

10 Display  \.\oN\E M10 GET IX L\\=E
14 Love god "

15 Goad -.

16 Actress Miles 3 ' ‘ ‘

17 Partly: prefix

18 Bouquet

19 Turkish bigwig

20 Exact

22 Environmental

science W

24 Tangle

25 Tool set ""...=."

26 Up-to-date --'

29 Place mat's

place _

34 Burning

35 Snakelike fish I

36 Mimic

3, SW, How ow, lT5 A BABS3.

38 Gazette G\RL“,  

39 Londoner for

' ARE ANATOMlCALUe
short
40 Range of O
knowledge  

41 Woody stems 93 Tribune Media Services. Inc. 10/29/93  In

42 singly I Rights Reserved .

43 More fancy ,

45 Lawless one 9 Lunch counter's Last week 5 Puzzle solved

46 Corn unit cousin

47 water and 10 Slender

Murphy 11 Blood: pref. - _ ,

48 North Star 12 New: abbr. ‘ -' ~ ’
52 Like a dodger 13 Suspicious

56 Wicked 21 Concerning  

57 Din 23 Unctuous   
59 Norse god 26 Halloween items

60 P0l SOUVCS 27 Many times ﬁ ‘I1 ' f IV’: kw‘ V ,~;. II‘ _ V II "' V

61 Croc's cousin 28 Rigg or Ross J 50 THAT'S ‘Mi  ‘rm _ ‘"3’ ‘“ .‘‘'''£‘‘ ‘' .  __
62 Honey drink 29 Drunkard S H 0 E ‘N WHAT FIBER W A YUB THAT5 IT A. I THOUGHT IT K; « . '\
ea Lath 30 War god in, orrics I5? 0 IN A NIIFSHELL ‘\ -:  WA5 Asomeiz i _‘
64 Travel on blades 31 Mystical card illlll} ‘ NEW CEREAL.

65 Actor Mineo 32 Express a belief gt ‘ - ',.-I , .  - .

et al. 33 A Fonda ~ _ -/1./9 , ' ' /9', r
35 Horse's hair J I/,.
DOWN - 38 Couplings 1
1 Coarse file 39 Flowers __ 1-.
2 Part of A.M.A.: 41 Powerful ruler " _ 1 $
abbr. 42 Verdi opus . lg ‘ _ ‘ .
3 Place in Alaska 44 Fanatic ' V _ , I V. L‘ _ --*_’ “ , ' ;\
4 Deception 45 Honor ‘ ' /It  ’— , p \ A’  _
5 Think 47 Muddle with , ( 4;], pl '4 . V I
6 Heron drink 50 Money in Milan 54 Vessel for liquid « ‘u/,,j . ‘,-y -1.’; r V’ . 
7 In the past 48 Animal friends 51 Overcharge 55 Means justifier ' =: 7 v{ .’,\‘ l .  '  1 _‘ K-
8 Rounded roof 49 Racetrack 53 Notion 58 Give — whirl  2' ‘, ,_‘~ . _._  . . '2./iliiiis’

 
 
  

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Organiza-
tions wanted to promote the Hottest
Spring Break Destinations, call the

nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-800-327-6013. 

Carryout Availab 1 S. Jefferson St.
Valley -

7/Ia?!/a&ce

HARDWARE srones ""

      

SANDWICH SHOP

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items |I&§AufN~cT0MEN°wl Xi.

Hoursuon-Fri9-5s;¢9.Noon sNvELoi=Es1uri=mo—ssoo-saoouvaryweok

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m.-6p.m. Sun. 1-5 .m.  _ F"°°'ws‘sE'° “M 1;] J ” 1 F ‘d O t. 29
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-21186 %   as y an pa on n ay, C

 

TO  A Corbin Suits/Sport Coats  Ruff
' _ V  . I Hewn - Men’s 0 Marvel Comic
T  T Ties O Sero/Gitman Shirts 0
 » B.D. B ' ff
1  Parents  
‘L   Sewing Washington & Lee Since 1926 . JayS0nY0unger . Timberland
 \
i  , Thank You For Your Support .
O     g

  In appreciation - we are offerin

l

ALL SPORT COATS,

   g   Men,SW0OmCh BLAZERS AND SUITS '

- See l
Canvas Jackets 20 % Off Our Ladies Window 

A S1_1ia-s-h-Hit! ‘ A TS Great 1-3-arnilackets '

C

 The College Town Shop

I   Open Sunday — 10 to 3 111 West Nelson Street AMEX. - Master Charge - VISA

 

 

PAGE 13

 -The History of the Citibank
 _Classic Visa card and the Age of Credit

Card SeCurity. In the 67th year of the 20th Century A.D., Citibank introduced a credit

    

card aptly titled the Citibank Classic Visa® card. Established on the premise that a credit card should

offer——24 hours a day—warm, personal service, the Citibank Classic Visa card marked the end of the

Ice Age. And it ushered in a new era. 1] With the introduction of the first Photocard, the credit card
9

bearing one’s own photo and signature on the front, it soon became
evident that Man was entering the Post Paleolithic Period. First,

Man was no longer looking like a Neanderthal, as one often does on

 

more primitive cards such as the Student ID. He or she could now

T,,,,_ ,a,,,,,,_ (W, 3,, BC, W, ,,,._. ﬁn, choose his or her own photo. Second, by deterring other anthropoids

_kriown attempt to put one’s photo on a credit
card—but not without drawbacks. Photography
had not yet been invented. It weighed over 50

,,.,,,,,,,,, W ,, ,,,-,, ,,.,, ,,-, W, ,-,,,., ., ..,,,,.,_ from using the card, Man was helping to prevent fraud. Surely this
‘was a sign of advanced intelligence. 1] The subsequent rise of services was nothing less than an
American Revolution. So as you might expect, Citibank would be there for you, even if your card
was stolen, or perhaps lost. The Lost Wallets“ Service could have a new card in your hands
usually within 24 hours. (You can almost hear Paul Revere crying, “The card is coming! The

'99

.card is coming ) 1] When the Great Student Depression came along, Citibank introduced
New Deals—special student discounts and savings. Hence, today’s student can enjoy a $20
“Airfare Discount for domestic ﬂights‘ (ushering in the Jet Age); savings on mail order
purchases, sports equipment, magazines and music; a low variable interest rate of 15.40/02; and,
‘no annual fee. ‘ll Finally, comes the day you enter the Classical Age (i.e. when you charge
your purchases on the Citibank Classic card). You receive Citibank Price Protection to assure
‘you of the best prices. Just see the same item advertised in print for less, within 60 days, and
Citibank will refund the difference up to $1503. You receive Buyers Security“, to cover
those purchases against accidental damage, ﬁre or theft, for 90 days from
the date of purchase? And Citibank Lifetime Warranty“, to extend the

expected service life of eligible products up to 12 years“. Together they

give you complete coverage; and with everything else. . .the Age of Credit

 

Z‘if2fZZ”é’vl§’§1-'}."5iZ2'i?Z,$ Card Security. 1] It’s credit history in the making. With the help of Citibank’s
with its Lost Wallet Service. he

1 would not have been cam-
‘ .pelled to hold on so obsessively to

the wallet ms.-.1.» his ,...~k.»,. services and savings, you earn some of the credentials needed later on to
purchase a car or even a house. ‘ll So call to apply. Students don’t need a job or a cosigner. Call,
‘also, if you’d like your photo added to your regular Citibank Classic Visa card. The number
is 1-800-CITIBANK (1-800-248-.4226), extension 19. 1] If
- after reading this chapter describing the prosperous condi-
tions set forth by a Citibank Classic Visa card, one feels that

. he or she has left forever the Dark Ages and has entered upon

 

a new age, the Age of Enlightenment, then your time, as

_ they say, has come. Destiny is calling. And so should you.

Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.

‘Offer expires 6/30/94. Minimum ticket purchase price is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembers on tickets issued by ISE Flights only. ‘The Annual Percentage Rate for
purchases is l5.4% as of8/93 and may vary quarterly. The Annual Percentage Rate for cash advances is 19.8%. Ifa ﬁnance charge is imposed. the minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional
ﬁnance charge for each cash advance transaction equal to 2% ofthe amount of each cash advance transaction: however. it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than $10.00. ‘Certain
conditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program Information. Buyers Security is underwritten by The Zurich International UK Limited. ‘Certain
restrictions and limitations apply. Underwritten by the New Hampshire Insurance Company. Service life expectancy varies by product and is at least the minimum based on retail industry
data. Details of coverage are available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. Monarch 5" Notes are published by Monarch Press. a division of Simon & Schuster. a Paramount
‘ Communications Company. Used by permission ofthe publisher. Citibank credit cards are issued by Citibank (South Dakota). N.A. ©1993 Citibank (South Dakota). N.A. Member FDIC.

The Ring-tum Phl, October 29,1993

Monarch Notes® Version:
With the Citibank Classic Visa card,
you can build a credit history before
you reach your middle ages. And,
receive special student discounts.
Call today 1-800-CITIBANK

(1-800-248-4226), extension 19.

PAGE 14

 

 

(J11: iﬁittg-tum lﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Follow the Dollar

Many of The Ring-tum Phi’s articles in the past have dealt with a
comparison between Washington and Lee and other schools like
W&L. Although most of us would agree W&L is a unique experi-
ence that cannot be duplicated at another college, much can be
gained by comparing W&L with other schools, just to see where we
stand.

Although it’s nice to finish first in the “Major fraternity and sorority
scene” category or ninth in the “happy student body” category in a
survey, sometimes that isn’t enough of a basis for comparison.
Perhaps this notion crossed Rick Peltz’s mind last Spring Term when
he started his Public Affairs Reporting class. He began getting
copies of W&L’s and other colleges tax forms (not an easy task).
From these forms, he was able to make comparisons of net assets,
revenues, expenditures and instructional expenses.

What Peltz found, in our opinion, is quite interesting. Granted,
comparing colleges based on social activity or general student
satisfaction is interesting, but how often do you hear how schools are
doing financially? You’re probably a bit curious about how W&L
compares to other schools in these categories. That’s why we ran the
article. Financial details of the inner workings of Washington and
Lee rarely get much attention because they are not made readily
available. We hope you read Peltz’s article. It may give you a
perspective on a rarely-publicized aspect of Washington and Lee.

Enjoy.

Welcome Parents

Well, you’ve made it.

For many of you this is a new experience. Your child is here on his
or her own and you are visiting them. That’s a bit of a switch from
what you’re probably used to, even if your child did go away to
boarding school. At least at boarding school there was that whole
Locus parenti concept. Here they are on their own.

With all these things in consideration this weekend could be trau-
matic. But it doesn’t have to be — really. As students who have
experienced the whole Parents Weekend gala before, we would like
to give some advice to everyone concerned with this weekend.

The first thing every parent should remember is we have just finished
mid-terms. We are caught somewhere between total mental exhaus-
tion, the urge to blow everything off and the far too recent remem-
brance of insane amounts of stress. Washington and Lee is not Easy
U, as you well know, but it is hard to believe there could be a more
demanding place to attend college.

The second thing parents should know is professors are not out to get
us. They don’t assign incredible amounts of work because they feel a
need to persecute us. We are supposed to be an intelligent group of
students and the professors just want us to use our gray matter. They
mean no harm.

Many of you will have the pleasure of meeting our esteemed profes-
sors. When meeting these professors remember they met your child
on adult terms and your child probably likes it that way. In other
words -try not to tell professors about the time little Johnny’s volcano
exploded all over the gym in the sixth grade science fair.

We don’t mean to sound condescending, but it has happened.
Academics are not the only possible trouble spot during the weekend.
Living conditions can cause some interesting conversations that can
turn ugly. If your child’s room is clean, great. Just don’t look under
the bed or in any closets. If the room isn’t clean, then take it in stride
and forget about it. It’s that high amounts of work and stress factor

a ain.

Tghe situtation works two ways, however. Sometimes we forget that
our parents are people too. It’s not like they were born the day
before they got married, or hatched out of an egg as full-grown
adults. Parents have actually lived full lives and, believe it or not,
they really do have a clue about where we are coming from. So try
not to cop too big of an attitude with them.

Anyway, the point is have fun and enjoy each other. There are a lot
of great things to do and its a good opportunity to catch-up on what’s
going on with each other. So, have a great weekend and be safe.

Quote of the Week

Television was invented about the same time I was.
-—Professor Richardson

And they call this the best thing that ever happened to
W&L—Hah.
———a professor who just ﬁnished grading a class of freshmen

papers.

@112 iatng-tum lﬂht

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Oberrnueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-mm Phi
is otherwise independent.

letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Columns, letters, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
703 462-4060

  

DRINK 

OPINION

-\.

HALLOWEEN ‘s Hex:
AND THE lNc£N'rt\/E To

.,_\‘

 
 

‘I _.

SoMzi’iMES, Fog
us To THlN|<...

MAKES I1’ HARD,

The Ring-tum Phi, October 29, 1 993

So 8: CAZEFUL
THIS WEEKEND ,
I>or*'T HAVE Any

\\lREC.\»($.. .

AM» Awe EY£K*[THii~tt.-
Else. PtzAcra LE SAFE
S£x.l

Participation would help W&L ,

As Americans all across the country cast their The prevailing attitude is “who cares who my home-
town county legislator or village supervisor will
Washington _and Lee will, for the most part, only be...they won’taffectme.”Anothercommon off-year
election excuse for not voting is
“how can I vote for local candi-

ballot on Election Day next Tuesday, students at

remain on the sidelines.
While some students

will read this and realize
for the first time Elec-
tion Day is next Tues-
day, others will merely
growl “big deal!” For a
group of people consid-
ered to be among the

 

ANDREW
SCHNEIDER,
’94

educated elite of our so-
ciety, the apathy among
students at W&L is very unsettling.

For many students, the reason for not voting is that
the absentee ballot process is not worth the trouble.
Some students are turned off of voting absentee by the
costs. One W&L student felt the cost of the long
distance call to his local board of elections to request
an absentee ballot would be particularly burdensome.
Surprisingly, a few students don’t even have the
slightest idea how to obtain an absentee ballot and
seem more than willing to live in eternal ignorance. A
number of students find filling out a bureaucratic
application for an absentee ballot to be a serious chafe
and, as a result, have little patience for voting.

The fact that this is an off-year election is another
reason why many students will not be casting a ballot.

dates whom I know nothing
about?”

Off-year election apathy can
have serious consequences. Radi-
cal groups like Pat Robertson’s
Christian Coalition have started to
take advantage of this kind of voter
apathy to get their religious ex-

Instead of casting their ballot with a vengeance,
some of these students have acquired a feeling of
helplessness and ﬁgure their vote cannot change
anything. This attitude is self defeating. If students
voted their frustration instead of “staying home
election day,” so to speak, government and the leyel .

of political discourse might improve.

tremists
elected to ofﬁce. They real-

ize they cannot convince a
majority of Americans to
support theirradical agenda.
Therefore, Christian Coali-
tion-afﬁliated candidates do
best and get elected when a
majority of eligible voters
do not vote. When election
outcomes are determined by
6 percent of eligible voters
as in less publicized local
races, extremist candidates can win.

Some students have become disillusioned by gov-
ernment and the current level of political discourse.

with current
events by read-

If students voted their frus-
tration instead of “staying home
Election Day,” so to speak, gov-
ernment and the level of political
discourse might improve.

ing a newspaper
on a daily basis.
If more W&L
students were
less apathegic
and more en-
gaged in the po-
Iitical process,

ing.

you might find
that this campus
would be less

monolithically conservative.
On second thought, it’s probably wishful thiQk- -

Recycling efforts encourage waste

Several weeks ago I began thinking
about the environmental movement in
some detail and was struck by how
much we now take certain ideas for
granted. Believing unchallenged
thought is no thought at all, I looked
around campus at the various groups
that sponsor
r e c y c I i n g

In economic terms, this is the cost you
bear for recycling. If we were to be
particular, we could even quantify that

cost in dollar terms.
When you donate your products to
a recycler, society may beneﬁt; that
benefit might even, on a rare occasion,
be greater than
the effort you

 

programsand expended in
came to a gathering the
conclusion RYAN recyclable
that will vari- roducts in the
ously annoy, DENNARD9 first place.
shock or of- 994 This benefit
fend you. If comes in the
we look be- form of lower
yond the sur- prices for con-
face of the is- sumers, and it

sue, we will see participation in volun-
tary recycling programs is a bad eco-
nomic choice at best. At worst, it may
actually perpetuate a system in which
resources are wasted.

Before you Outing Club and APO
members holler too loudly, listen to
what I have to say, and consider it in
light of what we as a society seek to
accomplish by recycling. Reusing re-
sources is an effort to conserve those
things that we fear may be excessively
depleted. We are concerned that there
would be serious consequences if we
were to run short of particular raw
materials. Presumably we want to avoid
either the rationing or higher prices
that would accompany such a short-
age. So, we encourage voluntary recy-
cling programs we think will at least
delay such shortages. The short-run
beneﬁt of recycling is lower prices,
since our raw materials are more plen-
tiful.

Let’s consider the economic events
that occur when you decide to recycle
on a voluntary basis. You spend your
time and energy to collect the recy-
clable material and take it to the de-
pository. It may not take much time,
but it still requires effort of some kind.

too can be expressed in dollar terms.
You have helped society, but was it a
rational choice?

You have incurred a cost for your
efforts, but what have you gained?
Certainly, you have the beneﬁt of lower
prices, but so does everyone else in
America. With roughly 250 million
people in this country, you will reap
about 1/250,000,000th of the reward
for your efforts. But you bear the full
cost. You have just made a very bad
choice.

Most of you will object: voluntary
recycling will work if we will all just
do it. The problem is many people
don’t. For instance, my roommate,
Michael, in his disdain for environ-
mentalists’ world views, refuses to re-
cycle at all. No amount of persuasion
will convince him to recycle and this
leaves me with a dilemma. If I choose
to bear the cost of recycling, Michael
and those like him will share in the
beneﬁts, and my reward will be less
than my cost. Because I recognize this,
I, and many like me, do not recycle.
We make the rational choice to leech
off the efforts of most of you. And why
shouldn’t I? You are foolish enough to
help me out, even though you know I

will not participate. I gain the beneﬁts
of voluntary recycling efforts whether
I participate or not, so I choose not to
bear the individual cost. Though some
of you may not like it, I am making a
good economic choice.

Most of you will decide that I am an
aberration and will choose to go about
your business just as you did before.
After all, what kind of nut actually
thinks recycling is bad? But, before
you go, let me point out, though I may
be a parasite on the efforts of society, it
is you and your ideas that allow me to
exist.

Like all goods, recyclable resources
are subject to basic market forces. As
they become more scarce, prices are
bid up. As prices rise, people will
choose to consume less. In this way the
free market provides its own incen-
tives to con-
serve. The

carelessly and wastefully, enjoying the
low prices that you recycling fanatics
have so kindly provided for us. With
lower prices, we consume more; we
are reaping the rewards that you, as
recyclers have sown. Yourefforts, ou
see, have given us the power to waste at
your expense.

The alternative? Though you love
our environment, you might collec-
tively recognize that Michael, myself,
and those like us are playing you for
fools. You could take a broader view
of the dynamics of the situation Ind
decide to quit recycling altogether. The
result? Prices would eventually rise,
and I would be made accountable,
through my pocketbook, for my waste-
ful ways. Moreover, with higher prices
it would actually pay to recycle. Recy-
cling companies would begin to thy

you for your re-
cyclable products

timber indus- I :‘“‘?‘:—‘j_ (as many do for
try provides a gain the beneﬁts Of aluminum now),
§.‘i.‘}.‘le. ii‘; V°‘““‘3'Y “Cycling 3?3i§.TIi?§"d§2I
lumber has efforts whether I Par‘ ceivethebeneits

b e c 0 m e
scarcer, the
price of wood
has risen. The
result? Many

ticipate or not, so I
choose not to bear the
individual cost. Though
some of you may not

of your efforts.
No longer would
I be able to leech
off of you poor,
public-spirited

people now , _ _ creatures.

buy furniture llke It, I am Itlaklng_ 3 Of course! I
made of good economic ch0lce_ realize my advice
pressed wood will fall on deaf
and other sub- ears, but at least I

stitute materi-
als. We now use true wood products
much more selectively. Ten years ago,
I may have bought wood furniture for
my donn room. Today I would not.
Because I bear the cost of my decisions
directly, I am careful not to waste.
But what happens when some mem-
bers of society choose to recycle? As
stated, they prevent shortages and the
attendant price increases. In the mean-
time, Michael and I continue to live

have eased my
conscience by telling you the Truth.
Most all of you will continue in your
noble efforts, but at least now u
know what you are doing. As for me,
I won’t complain. In fact, as I heave

All of the obstacles W&L students face or per- .
ceive to voting are surrnountable if they care enough
about carrying out their civic duty. As members of
the educated elite, W&L students should not only
care but be actively engaged in the whole demo-
cratic process. They should ﬁnd time to keepgip

I

my used aluminum cans and newspa- ,
pers into the dumpster outside, I’ll be ’

sure to give you a word of thanks.
After all, I can afford to buy more.

Maybe there is such a thing‘ as a fgee .

lunch.

 

e Fling-tum Phi, October 29, 1993

.0

PAGE 15

ax away this Parents’ Weekend

DREAM LAND
I Richard Weaver

Welcome to Parents’ Weekend! In
ht of this popular annual event, I
ve ecided to issue you, The Read-
- , a travel advisory for making the
propriate choice for family-oriented
tertainment. Naturally, the ﬁrst rec-
mendation to spring to mind was...
ell, before I tell you, let me give you
e scenario. It went like this:
I was sitting in the Phi ofﬁce eating
a meQ>f the Chinese food that has been
the Phi refrigerator since Home-
0 ming (by this time the food has grown
s own pair of chopsticks), when it
ddenly struck me: I’m running out of
ean clothes. I was then struck by the
x ought of “Who’s going to wash these
othas?” Then I was struck again by
3 a king at the calendar: Parents’ Week-
d is this weekend; Mom’s coming
to town!
I ﬁgured, after laundry, my mother
ould probably like to see a little of the
etroLex area. Now, since I rarely
nttge outside of my house, the Phi
fﬁce, Reid Hall, the inﬁrrnary, and
e-Hi truck stop, my list of sugges-
ons for things to do was a little lack-

. g.
Phi Art Director Phil Carrott was in
e room when I “took charge” and
r adgthe tough choices” and decided
u proceed with a plan to determine the
ltimate destination for Parents’ Week-

end:

Richard: Phil, it is time for a Phi
all-expense-paid trip to the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum to investigate the
newsworthy effects of wax ﬁgures of
famous people on Washington and Lee
students (us) and their parents. Are you
up for it?

Phil:My three mid-tenns can wait.

Richard: Let’s go.

Phil and I arrived at the museum by
goingon Route 11 overthe actual Natu-
ral Bridge. I as-
sume the NB
people must have
known we were
coming fora visit
because the mu-
seum was empty
except for us. I’m
guessing they did
not want the usual
mobs of excited
tourists to bias
our journalistic

Weekend.

I “took charge” and
“made the tough
choices” and decided to
proceed with a plan to
determine the ultimate
destination for Parents’

1 determined the lion operated on the
motion-detector method of scaring
people. I assume that this is how moun-
tain lions in the wild stalk their prey.
The next stop was actually a dark
hall with a plaque on the wall. This
plaque described the life of Archibald
(Bar) Tolley, who killed 385 bears in
this area and “was known for his hon-
est, if salty, tongue.” After reading the
plaque, we walked away and another
motion-detector kicked into effect and
we saw a man
wrestling with
what appeared to
be either 1) a re-
ally angry bear 2)
a woolly mam-
moth 3) Tom
Hespos. In case
you were wonder-
ing, “Bar” died at
age 91 after step-
ping on a nail.
Further along

evaluation, so

they kicked ev-

eryone else out.

We bought our tickets, passed through
the tumstile and entered at the point
where all museums should begin: the
temptation of Adam and Eve.

We then came to a group of Indians
who were gathered around a ﬂickering
red light bulb trying to stay warm.
Following the Indians we walked
around a comer only to be alarmed by
the vicious roar of a fearsome wax
mountain lion above us. After close
examination and several tests, Phil and

the way we en-

tered the “Hall of

Presidents,” a re-
alistic portrayal of several dozen presi-
dents shaking hands with each other,
never mind the fact that none of the
“shakers” were alive whenever the
“shakees” were. Along a porch of the
more modern presidents there is a va-
cant “hook” next to Ronald Reagan.
Looking at the brochure we were able
to determine this was the former rest-
ing place of the wax George Bush. If
there are any College Republicans out
there, this might be a good place for a

tasteful memorial plaque.

The last stop in the museum was a
pair of doors with the gold letters, “The
Last Supper,” above them. Beside the
doors were two mounted trafﬁc-lights
indicating for us to wait for the “green
light” to enter. When we got the “go-
ahead” we went inside. The show be-
gan with a burst of music from a stereo
and the illumination of a wax Leonardo
Da Vinci. The statue didn’t say any-
thing; it just sat there. The spotlight
then faded and another one shined on
the thirteen wax ﬁgures of “The Last
Supper,” and then a voice boomed out
the sins of those sitting around Christ.

Suddenly, the spotlights went out
and then a wind machine started up in
the theatre. There was wind blowing,
and then there were lightning ﬂashes,
and then we saw a wax ﬁgure of Christ
alone. The wind machine went faster
and then a “wooshing” sound kicked in
and there was a “rumbling” sound and
then suddenly, it all stopped, and the
show was over. “Tacky” would be an
appropriate word to describe this show.

We exited into a gift shop where
Phil purchased a refrigerator magnet
that said “Kansas — A State of Excite-
ment,” and we watched several women
eyeing the last copy in the store of the
“Natural Bridge Cookbook.”

We returned soon afterto Phi World
Headquarters here in Lexington, and
after careful evaluation, I would like to
ofﬁcially recommend visiting the Natu-
ral Bridge Wax Museum with your
parents. lt’s an experience you won’t
soon forget. Send me a postcard.

LETTERS

I lecommunications ofﬁce gives phone, cable hints

o the editor:
I am writing to give several hints to users of the
niversity telephone system and the university cable
ystehi.
We ask that you please put your name on your
oice mail box. It helps in returning messages. Also,
lease change your password occasionally.
When calling extension 4002 for your current
alance, please call either early in the morning or late
' the evening. There is only one line now, so it is often
usyQluring the day. Please try to avoid using it as
2 uch as possible.Please make sure we have your

orrect billing address. This will prevent disruption to

Reader recalls
Southern leaders

To the editor:
It is time since 1865 to be fair to the South.
‘All the great presidents except those of the
Roosevelt family were Southern: Washington,
Jefferson, Monroe, Jackson, Houston, Polk,
Lincoln, Davis, and Wilson.

In all the wars the nation has had the leading
general was Southern: Washington in the Revo-
lution, Jackson in the War of 1812, Winﬁeld

‘ Scptt and Zachary Taylor in the Mexican War,
Lee in the Civil War, Pershing in World War I,
Eisenhower and MacArthur in World War II,
Ridgeway in Korea, and in Vietnam,
Westmoreland.

Yours truly,

Dr Edwin Pleasants

209 - 7th St., NW
Albuquerque, New Mexico

P.S. We would appreciate pen-pals. If you
would write to the address, I’ll answer.

I‘

your long distance should the balance not be paid. To
reach a Centel operator, dial 900. To reach a MCI
operator dial 90.

Please don’t unplug the telephones. We are con-
ducting tests to determine if all the phones are work-
ing so that we can return bad phones to the manufac-
turer under warranty. If the phone ring bothers you,
pick the phone up and turn the volume lever down.

Also, please don’t unplugthe data modules. Please
plug them in the phone and plug in the phone. This
allows us to get an accurate test of all of the new
equipment.

Anyone who signedwup for premium channels‘

V.

should be receiving them now. If not, please come
by the office. There may still be some blackouts but
that will end on Monday.

lastly, for anyone who is making harrassing
phone calls or sending harrassing messages, we
have the capability to trace the call and we will turn
in any inappropriate behavior to the Student Con-
duct Committee. If you have any questions on any
aspect of the phone or cable system, please call me
at extension 4000.

_.,1)_¢n.a.9amper- _
2- v  g 

Hz:  . I ’

White Book Cornmittee requests

cooperation from students

To the Washington and Lee Community:

The White Book Review Committee wishes to
relate to the student body the purpose and the imme-
diate plans of the committee. The purpose of the
committee is stated in the White Book:

“The Review Committee shall ascertain the opin-
ions of those in the Washington and Lee community
regarding all aspects of the Honor System. The Re-
view Committee shall report periodically to the EC.
By March 1, the Review Committee shall submit to
the EC a comprehensive report on the state of the
Honor System as well as proposals for any changes to
the White Book the Review Committee deems appro-
priate.”

During registration week, the committee will be
conducting a survey in the registration line to gain
student opinion on issues concerning the Honor Sys-
tem. The survey will be anonymous and the student
body is strongly encouraged to show openness and
candor in responding. The results from the survey will
be made known to the community.

The success of the Review Committee will depend
greatly upon input from students, so please contact

Interviews and Photos

By Joe Framptom

any member of the committee about suggestions or
matters of concern.

Thank you,

Ames Hutton, ’94, Chairman
Caroline Guerin, ’94

Adam Branson, ’97

Harris Morrison, ’96

Nathan Dunn,’94

Cameron Howell, ’94

John Richert, ’94

Ashley Rowe, ’95L

Michael Stakes, ’94L

Letters

Letters to the editor and “My Views” are
due on Tuesdays. All letters will be printed in
the order in which they are received.

Found

Found: A small book belong-
ing to Caroline, My Utmost for His
Highest, by Oswald Chambers, at
the corner of Lee and Nelson
Streets. Call David at 463-4353.

Careers

There will be a Minority Ca-
reers Day at the University of Vir-
ginia on Tuesday, November 2nd.
All those wishing to attend please
pick up a registration form and
sign up for transportation in the
CDPO by Monday, November 1st.

Haunted House

Lambda Chi Alpha and the Lex-
ington Police Department are 00-
sponsoring a Haunted House at 225
East Nelson Steet. The house will
be open from 7:00 p.m. until 9:00
pm. Admission is 75¢ and goes to
the United Way.

Kafka

The Film Society will present
Kaﬂca on Friday and Saturday, Oct.
29-30 in the Troubadour Theater.

Showings will be a 8:00 pm. and
there is no charge for admission.

Speech

Ron Chemow, author of The
House of Morgan and ‘The
Warburgs, will speak at Northen
Auditorium on Thursday, Nov. 4,
at 8:00 p.m. A reception and book
signing will follow his talk.

Recital

The Boston-based Solati Trio
will give a performance on Tues-
day, Nov.‘ 2 at 8:00 pm. in the

University-RockbridgeSymphony
Orchestra for a concert on Satur-
day, Nov. 6, at 8:00 p.m. in the
Lenfest Center.

Aphy at Colorado State University.

Lenfest-Centeri. They wvi‘l.l ioinithe --

Speech

“Challenges in Environmental
Ethics” will be the topic of a
Howerton Lecture on Monday, Nov.
1, by Holmes Rolston lll, University
Distinguished Professor of Philoso-

The lecture will be given at 8:00
p.m. in Northen Auditorium

Concert

The University Wind Ensemble
will present its fall concert on Satur-
day, Oct. 30, at 8:00 p.m. in the
Lenfest Center. The concert is free.

Basketball

The basketball team is looking
for managers. If interested, please
call Coach Bill Raleigh at 462-8691.

Phi

If you are interested in writing for
the Phi, come to the weekly
storyboard meeting on Tuesdays at
7 :00 p.m.

Play

The Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College Department of Theatre will
present Dancing at Lughnasa in the
Thoresen Theatre in the Leggett
Building on November 1 at 8:00
p.m. Admissions is free.

Speech

Dr. Alastair Small, professor of
classics at the University of Alberta,
will present a lecture, Excavations at
Gravina and the Roman Conquest of

South Italy,”onTuesday, November

2 at'4:30‘p.m. Theleeture will take

‘place invroom 315 in the Martin Sci-

ence Building at Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College.

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

Cancer Society thanks
student volunteers

To the editor:

On behalf of the Rockbridge Com-
munity Unit of the American Cancer
Society, I want to thank over 100 Wash-
ington and Lee students for their assis-
tance and participation in the ﬁfth an-
nual “Making Strides Against Cancer”
event which took place last Sunday.

Thanks to pledges of SAE, Chi Psi,
APO, women’s track and many fresh-
men for participating on a dreary Sun-
day afternoon. Over $1,500 was col-
lected to assist us in providing service
and rehabilitation for local cancer sur-
vivors. Eric Shirley, a dorm counselor,
won the grand prize (gift certiﬁcate to

Night Owl) for collecting over $100 in
pledges prior to the event.

In particular, the following were a
tremendous help in planning, organiz-
ing, publicizing and carrying out the
event: Lucy Cavett, Madeline White,
Carrie Southgate, Sarah Brombacher
(all members of Chi Omega) and Eliza-
beth Dettmar (of Alpha Phi Omega).

On behalf of all those in our com-
munity ﬁghting for their lives, a huge
“THANK YOU!”

Sincerely yours,
W.C. “Burr” Datz
Rockbridge Community CancerBoard

TALKBACK

How are you planning to entertain your
parents this Weekend?

Melissa Desai, ‘94, Houston,Tex. —
“Call them and tell them I wish they
were here.”

Julian Montague, ‘96, Wilton, Conn.
— “Get them drunk and get a sober
pledge to drive them home.”

Molly Apter, ‘94, Pittsburgh, Pa., and Heidi Traulsen, ‘94, New York City Timothy Carr, ‘94, New York City

— “Lots of shopping.”

— “Get them drunk and ask them for
money.”

Richard Weaver, ‘96, Vero Beach,
Fla. —“Take them to the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum.”

  

PAGE 16

Images of the Maasi: Susan
Lexington

  to celebrat
 with Africa

r

Photo by David Wilmington

By David lllilmington

Phi Features Editor

 

If you happen to see a woman
walking down Nelson Street cany-

ing African spears and clubs, don’t

worry - she’s not planning to use
them.

' y . Starting Saturday, Nov. 6, Lex-

ington merchant Susan Harb will
begin a show featuring the clothing,
jewelry, weapons and religious ma-
terials of tribes of Western Africa.

Her loft at 7 West Nelson Street
will be transformed into a gallery
ﬁlled with items collected during
her 3-week trip to Kenya last month.

Much of the collection will be
available for sale.

Though she has been settled in
Lexington for years, Harb is no
stranger to foreign countries and
cultures.

“I’ve been to Belize, Guatemala,
Portugal and Mexico. I spent six
weeks in Thailand and Indonesia
and backpacked up into the Golden
Triangle,” she said.

Her travels have given her a
strong appreciation for the variety
found in the attitudes and art of
different countries. Harb believes
differencesbetweenculturesshould
be emphasized, not erased.

“I think we need to share the
differences and celebrate them and

understand them and love them and

embrace them and maybe help pre-
serve them. That’s why I’m drawn
to Third World countries ’cause I

  
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   

see us becoming so homogenc

The show is one way Hart
make people aware of the vast ’
of experiences available from o.
tures.

“I feel like the world ismhrii
much...why do we want everyo
the same? This [show] is my li
man marching band effort to bri
some differences and maybe I
appreciation of those differenc
Harb. .
The majority of the materia
play comes from the Maasi, a
Western Africa whose cultui
different from America’s as o '
imagine.

The Maasi are a group of r
tribes who live on a go em;
protected stretch of land cal
Maasi Mara.

The Mara stretches 320 squa
from central Kenya southwz
Tanzania and the Serengeti P12

They are famous amtﬁig o=
tive Africans and students of _
culture for their fierce adher
tribal custom and tradition. Th
have only recently begun ada
pects of Western life.

“They still have the warrii
and the circumcision ceremonit
Harb.‘

The Maasi still lead noma
centered around the grazing l
their cattle - the most prized el ‘
their culture. ‘

Cattle hold this high plac<
culture because the tribe belie‘
God gave all the cattle in the '
the Maasi after the separation o’
and earth.

Cattle serve as the measu
person’s wealth as well asfhe
payment for any wrongdoing-

Photo courtesy of Susan Harb

 

LIFE

_PAGE 17

i'b brings Africa to Lexington
. inesswoman
ifferences

‘.

arriors would rather be killed by a
ion than lose a sheep or a goat or a
w,” Harb said.

Jewelry is another very important
spect in the lives of the Maasi. They
~verIrade their beloved cattle for beads.

Harb explained the tribe members
lways dress just as you see them in
ictures. The men wear a full outﬁt of
ewelry even when tending their cattle.

The Maasi hold soil sacred because
t su lies grass for the cattle to graze.

T eir respect is so great the dead are

ot buried to avoid the disturbance.
he Maasi also refuse to dig wells or
row crops.

Their beliefs necessitate a very lim-

ed choice of food. The Maasi live off

die? of meat and a liquid mixture

ade from milk and fermented cattle
lood.

Though this may seem unhealthy
ompared to western dietary conven-

ons, the physique of the Maasi is
idegl celebrated as remarkably strong
nd picturesque.

The general sense of their personal-

y seems ﬁtting fora very traditionalist

ulture. “They’re real arrogant and in-
ependent and just beautiful,” said
art»

One of the traditions Harb remem-
ers as distinctly exotic and beautiful is

e Maasi warriors dance.
“It’s a standing jump and they try
nd make it appear effortless. They do
for ours.”

The adherence to strict cultural
uidelines creates some interesting situ-
ions.

Even though the male and female
'rcumcision rituals are two of the most

portant events in their lives, the Maasi
ringnpeople from other tribes to ex-
ute the actual circumcision.

_rt display

“The Maasi only make war tools,”
said Harb, “lt’s demeaning for them to
use any other tool.”

Even though they are one of the last
traditionalist tribes, the Maasi are con-
stantly feeling pressure to change their
lives to match the westemization of
Africa.

“As one [Maasi] said, ‘Every cir-
cumcision ceremony may be the last.’
The government has tried to erase some
of the tribal distinctions. They want it
to be one Africa,” said Harb.

The government has also outlawed
the killing of lions and other wildlife—
activities which the Maasi have always
done as part of tradition.

Industry is also making it necessary
for the Maasi to change their way of
life. “There’s some large wheat grow-
ing projects so their nomadic existence
is harder,” Harb said.

She sees a serious dilemma regard-
ing the adoption of western ideas.

“You worry what’s gonna happen
and how independent you can be,” she
said. “What part of Western culture do
we want to share ? Certainly medicine
and health care and schools, but where’s
the balance? When do these things cease
to be?”

Harb’s display will be in Lexington
will be open to the public until Nov. 8
after which it will be shown in Norfolk
from Nov. 10 to the first week in Janu-
ary and Virginia Beach starting Janu-
ary 15.

The idea to display in Lexington
didn’t occur to Harb at first because of
the greiit’ervaLidieric'e'iintl ‘market in the
two larger‘ towns. "After" she returned
from‘ Africa, however, Harb decided to
open the show here.

“Lexington is where I live and what
I care about,” said Harb.

Phto cortesy of Susan Harb

r A 1.!

Photo courtesy of Susan Harb

Photo courtesy of Susan llarb . I H  E J I i V I i i   J  E i  D3Vid Wilmington

    

PAGE 18

of the Month for October.

ur IM HAVING
A C7REAT TIME!

 
     

_
Hull chosen as October Major General“

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fling-tum Phi

Sophomore Robert Hull, number 75, struts his stuff during the Homecoming football game. Hull, a
starting defensive tackle for Washington and Lee, was chosen as the WLUR-Ring-tum Phi Athlete

 

  

Groups & Clubs

1-800-950-1039

Raise up to $500 - $1500 in less
than a week. Plus Win a trip to
MTV Spring Break ‘94 and get
a FREE T-shirt just for calling.

20% Off

  
   
   
    
 

  
     

 

   

    

The

 
   
   
     
      

All In Stock
Basketball Shoes L, (m Point of V1eW,
with Coupon Restcmrant
at

NexttoDayslnn,l'tt.60Wut

 

  

The Fling-tum Phi, October 29, 1993

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Despite the record-after-record setting performances of
Josephine Schaeffer (who is now known simply as
“.losephine”) and the court-dominance of Marilyn Baker,
there was one General who this month so far surpassed
expectations and dominated his specialty to earn the WLUR-
Ring-tum Phi “Major General of the Month” award—the
football team’s Robert Hull.

Hull becomes the second recipient of the honor, follow-
ing the women’s soccer team’s Corinda Hankins in Sep-
tember.

A member of Lexington High School’s ﬁnal senior
class, Hull has so thoroughly dominated play this month
that he has put himself on course to shatter virtually all of
the numbers put up by last year’s W&L defensive leaders.

Here are what the numbers say through six games: 83
tackles, 36 unassisted tackles, eight sacks, six tackles for
losses, ﬁve fumble recoveries, and four forced fumbles. All
of those ﬁgures are tops on the team and all are well ahead
of the pace of—if not already better than—the 1992 team
leaders. In fact, Hull’s eight sacks are just two short the
school single-season record, 14 away from the career mark.
And he’s just a sophomore.

But the Generals are not the only ones noticing. Follow-
ing his 16 tackles, one sack, and one fumble recovery last
Saturday against Sewanee, Hull was named the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Defensive Player of the Week.

That capped off a month (that still has a game to go) in which
Hull could have received that award for any of four perfor-
mances.

The Octoberfest-on-offenses began with a 16-tackl,
four—sack game at Randolph-Macon College. Hull followed
that with what some believe was his most dominant game-
two sacks and a season-high 19 tackles at Homecoming
versus Davidson. WLUR sportscasters Moke Wolfe and
Tim Veale understandably lost track of how many times they
had called his name that day.

“Hull has been their big-play man all year,” said Wolﬁ.
“He’s in there on every play. He really makes big things
happen on defense.”

Hull encored that game with 13 tackles and two fumble
recoveries at Hampden—Sydney. Compared with these games,
the performance at Sewanee might actually be considered
his quietest game of the month.

“The biggest thing about Hull is, no matterwhere the plgy
is, he’s there,” said W&L sports infonnation director Brian
bogue. “He makes the plays that draw attention.”

Hull was far from unnoticed at Lexington High School.
He was a three-sport standout and was the MVP of the West
team in the Virginia High School 1991 football all-star
game.

The 6-3 210 lineman has made a quick impact on e
defense. in his freshman year, Hull recorded just 24 tack es
as a backup. This month, he is averaging 16 tackles, one-and-
three-quarters sacks, and a fumble recovery per game.

For these performances, it is without hesitation that we
honor Robert Hull as the W&L athlete of the month.

 

    
   
  
  
       
 

NIGHT OWL MUSIC C0.

 

When you bring in this ad 0

25 S. Jefferson 464-4050
Open 11 a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, Saturday 11 a.m. - 5 p.m.

 

463-7797
First Team Sports Casualbinirtg
115 W. Nelson St. Eleswsem
-Fmestsmks
-Freshseafood
°PorkRibs
- 223$ _ -Banquet Facilities J
.1 n llllllllllllllllllllll

.l0ffAnyPurehase'

   
 

“Ike W}\}r3u1:2-’l32Lm_=,-tum ‘l'—'?I~t
’  ../VV\a}ar General awarcl  A

.§V¢m-mm

mm

¢§Il«.¢ /major General 3.: ckesew wxantkly icy sarak Gluloeri’, and "<u¢'tU\ Grant

«ll

  
  
 

    
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
    
 
 
 

 
 

,5.
. _,S

Catalogue" Shoppg

Barn jacket;

   

ATTENTION PARENTS 0

Now you can learn Washington & Lee’s most valuable lesson.

5 I08 .00

$108.00

Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 Phone 463-9730

17 S. Main St. Lexington, VA 24450 .

Also in Lynchburg, Farmville, Chapel Hill, Blacksburg, Lexington, and Smith Mt. Lake

‘s.’ 0  
TGIF Outle

Barn jacket:

Denim Shirt:

l)enim Jeans:
Moccasins (S.‘\I.li):

Total:

We serve Pizza

__ Q  to a Full Italian

Dinner!

Reservations no longer
available for Parents Week-
end. Walk-in space avail-
able, early or late dinner.

24 North Main Street
Lexington, VA

FINE lTALlAN CUISINE 454-5300

  !§ 4
FTHE BEST W&L T-SHIRTS
15 W. WASHINGTON ST.

SPORTS

Run like the wind...

Athletes at Washington and
Lee are busy this week as
seasons begin to wrap up and
championships begin.

The women’s cross country
team, already State champi-
ons, finished eighth in a 21-

A‘ team field at the Gettysburg

Invitational Oct. 23.
Sophomore Josephine
Schaeffer, right, continued her
undefeated season with a first
place in the 211-runner field.
Her time for the race was
18:18, five seconds off the
course record and Schaeffer’s
first failure this season to set
a course record.

Sophomore Amy Mears,
middle left, finished 23rd

overall and was W&L’s second
runner in.

Also hot for the Generals this
year are juniors Kim Herring, far
left, and Sue Deutsch, near left.
(Also, below left.)

The entire squad is running 45-
50 miles a week in hopes of
qualifying for National Division
III championships as a team. A
tough win at Flegionals will be
necessary to send the team as
a whole.

Both the men’s and women’s
cross country teams will host
an invitational this weekend,
Oct. 30. Participating schools
include Eastern Mennonite,
Hampden-Sydney, Sheperd and
Southern Virginia College for
Women.

This will be the Generals’ only
home cross country meet of the
season, and results will be
announced during the pregame
show of the WLUR football
game broadcast.

The Ring-tum Phi, October 29, 1993

Photos by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-tum Phi

Men's soccer, however, saw the end of its season Oct. 26 as Washington and Lee lost, 2-0, to

Virginia Wesleyan in the opening round of the Old Dominion Athletic Conference championships.

Mom & Dad Can Fax You Here!
RESUMES ° COVER LETTERS 0 ENVELOPES
High—Speed, High-Volume Copies, Binding, & Typing.
24-Hour tum—around on most jobs.

I PHONE: 463 - 1712

FAX: (703) 463 - 6918 lgl

125 W. NELSON STREET - LEXINGTON - ACROSS FROM THE POST OFFICE

DO YOU ENOY
SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

Back ard skeet is fun but comared to Sortin Clas
it’s borin
At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot
to enjoy a round.
Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

Welcome

Parents

20 South Randolph Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
(705) 465-6414

Value oriented American Fare

@aLlEi4'Lng
DJ & Dancing — No Cover

@:c.i@y
2nd Annual Halloween Party

-Caeh Prizes
—Live Entertainment

Sunola
7/2 Price Hamburgers

 

 

 .: ii “¢:«“€.5a:3ial(:

5..

 

l ,‘

PAGE 20

24;.»-; iTf}uilI7ord 2-0, advances
~r~< ilollins, Sweet Briar

 

S

Cilia ‘ﬂing-mm ilﬁhi

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

Why not
Varsity,
aerobics?

SARAH ON SPORTS
BY SARAH GILBERT

A sports source recently

informed me that foosball ’

was once an intramural
sport at Washington and
Lee. He seemed nostalgic,
sure that his fraternity
would grab the lead if only
foosball could return into
competition between the
houses.

I will admit that foosball
is a popular sport in
Rockbridge County (check
out the tournaments in the
local hang-outs if you
doubt) but intramurals?

“Foosball is cool,” said
my source.

I suppose it is worth
exploring...whichotherul-
tra-popular “sports” prac-
ticed by W&L students
should be given intramu-
ral, or even Varsity status
at this great school? Do
hidden talents exist which
could catapult this univer-
sity to national attention?

After considerable re-
search Ihave discovereda
few sports which the ath-
letic director and intramu-
ralcoordinators mightcon-
sider.

Darts.

Unbeknownst to many
students at W&L, there is
form to the madness. I did
not realize, until today, that

. the goal was not simply to

hit the correct numbers on
the dart board. (Of course,
my hand-eye coordination
being somewhat short of
Olympic caliber, I have
never tried excessively
hard to learn.)

According to one dart-
player, those numbers ran-
domly scattered in pie
wedges around the board
are random for a purpose.
The difﬁcult task is to hit
each numbered wedge in
order.

I gave up before trying
on that game (and discov-
ered the other side of our
board has a baseball game,
much easierto understand),
butnot before realizing that
there must be some undis-
covered athletic geniuses
at Washington and Leewho
could soar to the top of the
sports world if only W&L
would recognize the sport!

Step Aerobics.

Perhaps the casual ath-
lete will have seen these
women in the small gym in
the late afternoon, and
stopped to watch, fasci-
nated by the instructor's
rhythmic movements.

When my roommate
comes home from a ses-
sion, covered in sweat and
moaning about her poor
ﬁtness level, I realize that
this takes amazing talent.
lmaginewhataMandy ora
Sonja could do on televi-
sion!

Cindy Crawford is one
thing, but a few aspiring
Generals could take the fit-
ness world by storm; I am
sure that competition on
the college level could help
these women gain the na-
tional recognition they de-
serve. Why not?

Mountain Biking.

Take it from me. W&L
is home to some school stu-
dents who are fanatical
about this sport. Ask their
professors on a beautiful
Friday afternoon.

Trips to more challeng-
ing trails than Rockbridge
County has to offer are not
unusual forthese dedicated
few, and true mountain bik-
ing takes more than being
able to pedal up Washing-
ton Street from Alvin Den-
nis to Doremus without
breaking a sweat.

Who knows whatmight
happen if W&L began en-
tering teams in mountain-
bike competitions? I do not
know how much a profes-
sional mountain biker
makes, but it could be
worth looking into if Lex-
ington was home to the
right type of training and
possibilities for races.

It was worth a try.

Hope it’s not a touchback....

Special teams for Kappa Kappa Gamma and the Freshmen women prepare for kick-off in the Oct. 26
women’s intramural football game. Football is the first sport for this year’s intramurals; this year will be

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

the ﬁrst full year of women’s intramurals at Washington and Lee.

Football loses again,
looks forward to BWC

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

They do run, run, run they do run, run. There is
no other way to describe the Generals Parents’
Weekend opponent, Bridgewater College.

The Eagles (2-5, 1-2 Old Dominion Athletic
Conference) come to Wilson Field Saturday hav-
ing completed a mere 27 passes this year, only one
of which has gone for a touchdown. That is an
average of four completions per game! There is
one very good explanation for this——-Ronnie
Howard.

The Eagle tail-back was held to just 36 yards
versus Frostburg State last week, but holds a com-
fortable rushing lead in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference (133.7 yards/game). Howard, a sec-
ond-team All—ODAC selection last year, has topped
230 yards on two occasions this season. Those
performances came in Bridgewater’s two games
prior to last week, earning the senior consecutive
Offensive Player of the Week honors for the con-
ference.

Those ﬁgures coupled with the Generals high-
ranking pass defense will ensure a ground-domi-
nating game by the Eagle offense on Saturday. The
Generals (0-6, 0-3 ODAC) will have something to
say about whether Bridgewater is ground-domi-
nant, though. The Eagles’ passing game—rather,
the lack thereof—should allow W&L’s strong pass-
ing defense to step up and zero-in on the run.
Freshman Eagle quarterback Keith Fix has just a
.339 completion average for 28.8 yards passing per
game.

One player who could counter Howard is W&L’s
Robert Hull. The sophomore defensive lineman’s
numbers are equally as impressive as Howard’s
(see October Athlete of the Month section).

Lexington native Hull was the ODAC’s Defen-
sive Player of the Week for his 16 tackle perfor-
mance in the Generals heart—breaking 26-23 loss at
Sewanee (4-3) last week. He recovered his team-
high ﬁfth fumble. He enters W&L’s seventh game
as the team leader in tackles (83), sacks (8), tack-
les-for-losses (6), and forced fumbles (4).

The ODAC recognition, though, is little solace
for what was the team’s most difficult loss to
swallow this year.

The Generals held a 20-6 lead late in the second
quarter, but All-American quarterback Russ Young
(held to just 13-of-29 passing for the game) engi-
neered a touchdown drive in the ﬁnal minute of the
half.

After a touchdown run by Sewanee’s Carl Cra-
vens tied the game in the fourth quarter, W&L took
a 23-20 lead with 5:16 to play on a 34-yard field
goal by sophomore Drew Thomas. A 35—yarder by

Thomas with 5:59 to play was the game—winner in
last year’s 17-16 shocker over the Tigers at Wilson
Field.

“Le revenchisme” was with the Tigers, though.

Following a 41-yard punt return, Cravens com-
pleted the last-minute game-winning drive with
his second touchdown carry for a 26-23 Sewanee
lead (kick failed).

The Tigers, though, were bent on giving their
several thousand Homecoming Game spectators
heart trouble. On their first play after intercepting
freshman QB Brooks Fischer with undera minute
to go, Young fumbled the snap and it appeared as
if the Generals had recovered a miracle turnover.
However, an offside call against W&L nulliﬁed
the play.

Sewanee would fumble once more, but recov-
ered it themselves and ran out the clock for the
win. It was the Generals fourth defeat by eight
points or fewer, and the second in which they had
held a fourth-quarter lead. The loss ensured head
coach Gary Fallon of just his sixth losing season
in 16 years at the helm of W&L football.

Fischer, the younger brother of Duke QB
Spence, finished the game with 104 yards pass-
ing. Young was just a yard better after previously
averaging near 200 per game.

Senior running back Tommy Mason rushed
for 91 yards, moving him over the 1000 yard
career mark. He is just 26 yards behind former
NFLcoach and All—Prolinebacker WaltMichaels
(1947-50) for 15th place in W&L history.

Despite more than 250 total offensive yards, it
was the General defense that provided two of the
squad’s three touchdowns. On the ﬁrst play of the
second-quarter, sophomore defensive end Rich
Achee returned a fumble 25 yards for the first TD
after freshman linebackerTravis Wisdom crushed
Young on a blitz and forced the loose ball.

v Two possessions later junior cornerback Jon
Wagner returned a fumble 20 yards for a General
13-3 lead. Wagner’s score came after a Tiger
receiver had already made a catch, but dropped it.
The W&L defense has forced 17 fumbles through
six games, recovering 13. General opponents
have coughed the ball up a total of 28 times this
yean

Washington and Lee was upset by Bridgewater
last year 20-] 2 in the Eagles’ Homecoming affair.
Howard had a breakthrough game, doubling his
season average with well over 100 yards on the
ground. His 58-yard scoring run in the ﬁnal
minute held off a late General rally.

Bridgewater, who trail W&L in their all-time
series 15-8 despite four consecutive head-to-head
wins, is on course to ﬁnish no better than fourth
for the 16th time in 17 seasons in the ODAC.
Theironly better finish was their 1980 champion-
ship season.

Washington and Lee will be home for their
next two games, next week versus Guilford and
the following one against Catholic. Both games
can be heard on WLUR-Lexington (91.5-FM),
with pre-game beginning at 1210. Unfortunately,
anyone wishing to follow the Nov. 20 Bermuda
Bowl action versus Georgetown will have to buy
a plane ticket.

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

Now that baseball is over,
what am I supposed to write
about? Of course, being the
omniscient entity that I am, I
would like to remind readers
that I DID pick the Blue lays in
six games. Any questions?

Actually,the end ofthe base-
ball-playingseasonsigniﬁesthe
beginning of the REAL
sialagogic competition. Now,
fans can pick up the sports sec-
tion, tune in ESPN, and talk to
friends about the bidding wars
for all those whining free-
agents.

Which team will get
(want???) Jack Morris, etc. etc.
This year, there is not only this
corrupted fun, BUT, for those
die-hard fans, the owners are
debating a revenue-sharing
agreement, AND the labor
agreement with the players ex-
pires. Who says that baseball is
not a year-round sport?

The performance of the week
award goes to Eric Metcalf of
the Cleveland Browns.

Against Pittsburgh on Sun-
day, Metcalf turned in the per-
formance of his career with two
punt returns for touchdowns to
tie an National Football League
record. The ﬁrst went for 91
yards, and the second, a 75 yard
scamper, provided the winning
margin with less than 2 minutes
remaining in a 28-23 Browns
win.

The Falcons are really mak-
ing me look bad in the past two
weeks. Sunday, the Elvis
(Glanville) led team defeated

This Week:

I

FB——Bridgewater, 10/'30 

WSoc—at ODAC semifinals 10/30
WTennis—at Rolex Nationals {indiv

I
0.‘
ul

X—C—~VV&L Invitational 10/30 )

Women

OCTOBER 29, 1993

score

ODAC victory .

By STEPHEN WILLIARD

Phi Assistant

Sports Editor

The are a group of women at

W&L who won’t take no for an

answer and will run over their opposition if at all possible. 9

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team has proven so far
that they are a force in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference. After
defeating Guilford 2-0 on Tuesday, the Generals moved into the
semi—ﬁnals of the ODAC tournament and revived from a disappoint-
ing week that saw the team lose twice.

According to senior Corinda Hankins, “We are acting more like
a team now than at any point in the year.” The Generals reboundgd
after being shut-out against both Randolph-Macon and Notre-Dame
(Md.) with goals by Michelle Bauman and Kate Stimeling. Jennifer

Lynch had assists on both goals.

According to coach Jan Hathorn, “It’s good to have a certain
amount of tough games on the schedule.” Despite the rough week,
the women responded in the big game. The next game will be tough
according to Hankins. “Roanoke is usually a rough game. Roanoke
has some tough fans, and so does Randolph-Macon,” said Hanki .

The soccer team credits the W&L fans for some of their success.
Hankins said, “W&L has been really good about supporting us this
year.” Also, the women hope that the support continues on Friday.

The leading goal scorer for the Generals this year is Michelle
Bauman with six tallies. Aspen Yawars leads the team in assists with
four. Corinda Hankins and Kate Stimeling have scored ﬁve goals
each for the Generals. In all, twelve different players have scored Rir

the W&L squad.

Keeper Beth Mozena has also put together an impressive season
with seven shutouts and an .821 save percentage as the General’s

only goalie.

In all, it has been a successful season for the Generals, and one that
the team hopes is far from over. A win on Friday would catapult the
team into the ODAC finals on Saturday. No matter how the seaﬂn
turns out, the Generals can count this as an extremely positive

experience.

Steve told you so

New Orleans in the Superdome.
The victory leaves the Falcons
undefeated since the return of
Neon Deion Sanders. The win
was especially meaningful for
Atlanta QB Bobby Hebert, who
once started for the Saints. Hebert
completed 13 of 16 passes against
his old mates in front of a chorus
of boos.

In other NFL news, Charlotte
was the proud recipient of an
expansion franchise. The home
of the Hornets emerged from the
battle after terrorists (or was it
just some Denny’s waiters)
threatened to bomb any other
city which received a franchise
before the Queen city.

Actually, this week I have a
note from the good ol’ Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
(since my editor says I have to
write out any abbreviations-
ODAC from here on out). T94:
mighty Eagles of Bridgewa‘
defeated Washington Bible Col-
lege to break a ﬁfty year old
record for wins in a season. There
is a catch to this good news,
however. Men’s soccer at
Bridgewater was dormant (there
wasn’t a team) from-1942 until
1992 (which accounts for the 50
year thing. Also, in 1942, the
team only played two games,

going 2-0 for the season. Last
year the team went 1-1 1 . The
worst thing about the whole
thing is that the ODAC;
Sports News actually PUB-
LISHED this underthe head-
ing, and I quote,
“Bridgewaterbreaks50—year
old Record.”

Parting Shots-

The Blue Jays victory in.
the World Series was not the
only notable news in Toronto
this past weekend. The
Toronto Maple Leafs opened
the hockey season with an
undefeated record. I think
the fans in Toronto need to
get their priorities straight.
After all, the National
Hockey League season will
still be in full swing NEXT
baseball season.

Manute B01 is still in the
National Basketball
Leaguel!!! ‘

Cincinnati is still playing
just an incredible caliber of
football. Even though the
Falcons have let me down,
the Bengals are a powerful
0-7 at this point.

That is all that I can mus-I
ter for this week. Have a
great weekend, and remem-
ber—your parents are here.

 

Volleyball streak to five‘

By BILL RUST
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee volley-
ball crushed Hollins 15-3, 15-7,
15-6, to secure its ﬁfth straight

Congratulations...
Cjke Octeloer /\x)luv-12«i.v\g-Luwx (DRE
W/v\..;... c3......,...u-

'<Sop[-scwxore
Qebert
1-4 ..u

h-vsee story, page 18

 

match. The victory broke the
school’s old record of four con-
secutive wins, which was set in
1988 and equaled at the start of
this season.

It improves the team’s over-
all record to 14-11, its Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
record to 5-3, and guarantees the
Lady Generals their ﬁrst win-
ning season since 1988.

Senior Tara Burns had a theory
about this year’s success. .

“The biggest difference [from
last year’s squad] is that we play
together as a team,” Burns said.
“We don’t have one player who
really stands out, so we’re really

balanced; one game, one player
will have a good night, and an-
other game some other player
else will.”

The team presented Hollins

with an even attack. Burns led
the team with ﬁve kills, but jun-

ior Jennifer Garrigus, freshman
Elizabeth Bahn, and freshman
Virginia Yoerg followed closely
behind with four each. Setter
Cheryl Taurassi contributed 16
assists, and Bahn had seven aces
to complete the Generals’ on-
slaught.

The team’s defence was once
again led by Yoerg, who extended
her record-breaking season by
contributing eight blocks. She has
82 to date, far eclipsing the
school’s old record of 69.

She was aided this time by
Bahn, who managed 11 digs, and
sophomore Kelly Horan, who had
seven.

The team’s ﬁnal home gamt

came on Thursday against
Randolph-Macon. They enter the
ODAC tournament on Nov. 5-6
at Roanoke. .

Burns felt the team has a
chance to compete in the ODAC
tourney.

‘‘If we keep playing the way
we’ve been playing, we’ll have a
good chance,” she said. “I‘m not
promising anything, but we’ll
giave a lot of teams a run for thar
money.”

With a young team and a new
coach, the Generals have had to
adjust this year. The team began
the season with a winning streak
which equalled its best
ever,slumped mid-season, arﬁi
now has returned to re-set the
streak record.

‘‘In a lot of respects, having a
new coach has helped the team,”
said Burns. “J ust the fact that the
team knows that she’s going to
be around, helps.” Q

$4 V

 

    

   

- ‘v---< A

wAsi»»iiNGToN 5. i.».;..: LJJ;V£Ei7iSllTY

 
 

 

L'.:.XlNGTON, VA 24450

NW 0 5 i993"

,‘?lin’t your Eusiness anyhow...
ﬂiutﬁor 91/[c‘l/Viffiams discusses con-
sensuaf crimes across the 11.5. 9

Football victorious
Bridgewater defeated 41- 16
Mason breaks records

 

he ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

VOLUME 93, NO. 09

EC Warns
Zollman’s
erashers

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

By TOM HESPOS
Phi News Editor

Members of the Executive Committee nearly

“lﬁt it ride” Monday, when it was announced
that several students had misrepresented them-

selves in order to get into a Halloween party.

Second—year Law Representative Kevin
Webb said Monday that complaints had been

received about students using other students’

identities to gain entrance to a multi-fratemity

pagty. The party, held at Zollman’s Pavilion,

had a guest list of people who would be admit-

ted to see the Dave Matthews Band.

“One dude’s name got used, like, fourtimes,”

said Webb.

EC President Bob Tompkins drew parallels
to last year’s Lip Synch party, when students

regmedly snuck in without paying.
“Both of these kind of things are bad,” said
Tompkins.

After several EC members expressed that
the EC should forget about the incident and “let
it ride,” Junior Class EC Representatice Alex
Cross suggested the EC draw up a student body

noﬁce, condemning the situation.

The EC also heard from Vice President

Jimmy Kull about avoiding the city car tax.

Kull said the city can charge students for their
cars only if they can prove that the car is
garaged in Lexington for 6 months out of the

year.

ccording to Kull, if a student keeps his or
her car in town for the school year, the car will

be present in Lexington for six months and
seven weeks. Kull said if students can keep
their cars out of town for seven weeks, students
can avoid the car tax.

“Don’t let the city scare the students,” said

Klw.

Photo by Patrick Hinely

Thanks for the memories....

A. Stevens Miles ‘51, left, rector of the Board of Trustees of Washington and Leeiuniversity, accepts a
resolution of appreciation from Lexington Mayor H.E. “Buddy" Derrick. The resolution recognizes W&L:s
contributions to the city's wql being through cultural activities, involvement of students, faculty and staff in

a variety of activites, economic beneﬁt, and Fraternity Renaissance Program.

NOVEMBER 5, 1993

Pledgeship

rules

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

The Interfraternity Council
voted to pass deferred pledgeship
policies at its meeting on Tues-
day.

The new regulations restrict
the treatment of pledges by fra-
ternity brothers.

The new policies permit fresh-
men to attend one weekly chap-
ter meeting (not a pledge meet-
ing); freshmen may participate
in house clean-ups after week-
end parties between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and noon on Saturday
and Sunday as long as an equal
number of active members also
participate; freshmen may serve
as sober drivers on the weekends
no more than once a month as
long as at least one active mem-
ber is also assigned that chapter
duty; freshmen may participate
in service and philanthropy
projects which are chapter rather
than pledge activities.

The new regulationsalsocarry
with them new penalties. On the
ﬁrst offense, the fraternity loses

one week of pledgeship and ob-
tains one week of social proba-

tion. On the second offense, the
fraternity loses twoadditional
weeks of pledgeship, receives
two weeks of social probation,
pays a ﬁne of $25 perpledge, and
the IF C notiﬁes the National Fra-

set

temity and Housing Corporation.
On the third offense, the frater-
nity receives probable referral to
the Student Affairs Committee.

Responses to the changes have
been mixed, although the mea-
sure was passed unanimously at
the IFC meeting on Tuesday
night. Alvin Townley, freshman
class president, said “Deferred
pledgeship benefits freshmen a
great deal by allowing those of us
who decide to pledge a fraternity
several months to adjust to the
academic demands and social
pressures of colle ge without hav-
ing to also deal with the rigors of
formal pledgeship. At this point
most of us are still learning to
manage our time well and the
time that formal pledgeship con-
sumes would make things much
more difﬁcult.”

Sasha Hartman, freshman
class vice-president, said that
from a woman’s point of view,
“If there is any feasible way to
enforce it, then it’s great. But I
can’t see a pledge turning in his
fraternity brothers.”

IFC members cited enforce-

ment as_ a problem with the new
regulations. Ryan Donaldson

noted in the last IFC meetings
that while the council will not
seek our pledgeship violations in
the manner that it sought out rush
violations, reports of violations
will be investigated.

Dorm visits confuse

Security suspects Cadaver entered rooms

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

The Cadaver Society is ﬁnally
getting some publicity.

The Cadaver Society is a se-
cret society that bills itself as
“friends of the university”. Ac-
cording to Washington and Lee

‘ director of security Mike Young,
. the Oociety has made numerous

monetary donations to‘ W&L.

‘However, the group is better

known for its late-night poster-
hanging forays on campus.

A man who security officials
believe to be a member of the
secutt society entered rooms 103
and 109 in Graham-Lees dorm
early on Oct. 27. The man ﬂed
when he realized that the occu-
pants of the rooms were awake.

Dorm Counselor Allen
Gillespie said an average sized-
mag between 5’ 10” and 6’,
weighing about 170 lbs. and
wearing dark-colored clothing
entered his room (109) at about
3:45 a.m., about 15 minutes after
he had gone to bed. Gillespie
admitted his room was dark, but
said that light coming from the
hallgvay behind the man framed
him in the open doorway.

“I’d been up late that night
writing a paper with one of my
freshmen,” Gillespie said.
“Within 10 to 15 minutes of go-

ing to bed I woke up and saw
someone in my room.”

Gillespie said that when the
man realized he was awake, he
took off across the parking lot
behind the dorm.

“I yelled stop, but he took off
running,” Gillespie said.

Gillespie said he saw three
people dressed in black ﬂee from
near the stairs leading to the foot-
bridge, a total of four people.
Gillespie returned to his room
and called campus security, but
left again to check his car. He
said he was afraid of a possible
burglary.

‘‘I went back to my room and
put on pants— I was in my under-
wear and it was kind of cold out
there. There was paint on the
stairs where they were squatting.”
Gillespie said he also saw a stack
of Cadaver Society posters on
the ground nearwhere they were.
Ther e is also a newly painted
Cadaver symbol on the stairs
leading to the Footbridge.

The reporting security ofﬁ-
cer, Fred Ryan, said he went to
the parking lots behind the gym
when he got the call. When he
arrived, he saw two cars parked
side by side in the otherwise
empty lower lot. Both sped away
in opposite directions. Ryan fol-
lowed one vehicle — a black
Jeep wagon, possibly a Chero-
kee or a Wrangler, he said. Ryan

saw four young males in the car.

‘‘I believe it was an out-of-
state license plate,” Ryan said.
‘‘It didn’t appear to be a Virginia
license plate. The number se-
quence corresponds to Louisi-
ana.”

Ryan said that the car is not
listed in the student vehicle reg-
istry, but it is “a campus-type
vehicle with a W&L sticker.”

Ryan called the Lexington
police that night . The police ran
the license number sequence —
three numbers, a letter, then three
more numbers -—~ Ryan had writ-
ten down through the police com-
puters, but no match was found.
Ryan said either the number he
took down was incorrect or the
computer network was down.
Ryan had not checked the num-
ber with the Louisiana Depart-
ment of Motor Vehicles.

Freshman Doug Ghertner in
room 103 said that he was half-
awake when a man entered his
room, but he turned over in bed,
apparently frightening the man
away.

Security found two Cadaver
Society posters in the Graham
bees hall where Gillespie and
Ghertner live. Cadaver posters
and signs were out on campus the
next morning, as well as the
painted Cadaver Society symbol
on the Footbridge steps. There
are also Cadaver Society sym-
bols painted on the outside wall
and windowsill beneath the win-

if

, Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
VMI ofﬁcials said Cadet Phillip Watson’s statement is enough to clear his name without any further evidence.

VMI ends investigation

Cadet denies sending racial threats to himself

notes contained racial overtones.

it was a hoax. They haven’t said anything.”

 

dowof Graham-Lees room 109,
which is next door to Ghertner’s
room.

Director of W&L Security
Mike Young said there have been
no reports of Cadavers entering
dorm rooms in the three years he
has worked here. Ryan also said
this is the ﬁrst report in the ﬁve
years he has worked as a security
guard for W&L of Cadavers en-
tering dorm rooms.

“I don’t think they’re bad
people,” Young said. “But from
time to time some members try to
outdo the other members. This is
all speculation, but I don’t think
it’s unreasonable.

“It’ll probably probably cool
their jets when this comes out in
the newspaper.”

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Although state police and the FBI con-
cluded their investigations of racial threats
allegedly made to a Virginia Military Insti-
tute cadet, VMI’s investigation continued
until today.

Colonel Mike Strickler of the VMI public
relations office said that state police deter-
mined the incident “was a hoax. There was
no racial motivation and no threat to the
safety of the cadet.” But Strickler said the
internal VMI investigation will continue un-
til today and will conclude whether or not a
culprit is found.

The investigations stemmed from a series
of threatening notes sent to first—year, or
senior, black cadet Phillip Watson. Watson
received a total of three notes, each more
threatening than its predecessor. Two of the

Media reports last weekend said Watson
himself wrote and sent the notes. But Watson
read a statement to the corps of cadets Mon-
day and to Channel 10 Tuesday stating his
innocence.

“News reports that appeared last Satur-
day, October 30, contained several distorted
statements,” stated Watson. “To be speciﬁc,
the letters that I received several weeks ago
were not written by me, nor do I know who
wrote them. I have worked hard during my
nine semesters here to support the corps and
the Institution. I hope that you, the corps, will
now help me clear my name and set the
record straight.”

Strickler said state police concluded the
letters were a hoax when Watson told police
that he “didn’t mean for it to go this far.”
Strickleradded the police “did not say Watson
initiated the letters. They [the police] deter-
mined from their investigation that they felt

“People could have taken the FBI state-
ment to say Watson initiated the hoax,”
Strickler said. “It could be construed as
that.”But, Strickler added, “The fact is that
he has placed his honor on the line.”

If a culprit is found within the student
body, discipline will be severe and could
include dismissal from the institute, accord-
ing to Strickler. VMI Superintendent Major
General John Knapp said in the Oct. 8 edition
of the The Ring-tum Phi that “the initiator of
the notes, if and when he is caught, will be
summarily dismissed and his name will be
turned over to the police.”

Knapp recently said that Watson’s state-
ment to the corps and to the press was sufﬁ-
cient to clear his name under the VMI Honor
System.

“Absent evidence to the contrary, that is
all we need in the VMI system to relieve him
of any suspicion.”

 

 
  

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Eleven-year-olds go to trial in
toddler death

Two English 11-year-olds are the youngest people in Britain
to ever be charged with murder after they allegedly killed a 2-
year-old toddler who wandered away from his mother at a
shopping mall. James Bulger was killed in February after he
disappeared while accompanying his mother to a butcher shop.
The boy wandered off and was found dead two days later. The
two older boys were photographed with the child in the mall
after he had wandered off.

Chretien takes over as Prime
Minister of Canada

Liberal Party Leader Jean Chretien took over as prime
minister of Canada Thursday after the Labor Party was cata-
pulted into power in reaction to voter dissatisfaction with the
economy. The Liberals pulverized the opposition in last week’s
general election, winning 177 of the 295 seats in the House of
Commons. Kim Campbell, who became Canada’s first woman
prime minister after taking over for Brian Mulroney, submitted
her govemment’s resignation at 10 a.m. Thursday. An hour and
a half later, Christien and his Cabinet were sworn in.

The Nation

Director killed in Malibu fires

Helicopters dumped huge containers of seawater on the
ﬂames as ﬁreﬁghters continued to ﬁght an arson fire in Malibu
that claimed 200 homes and killed a man. Although Wednesday
brought relief in the form of moist ocean breezes that allowed
ﬁreﬁghters to contain a small part of the blaze, gusts of wind
posed a continual threat to homes. Director-screenwriter Duncan
Gibbons was burned while attempting to rescue a cat from the
house where he was staying. Gibbons later died. He was 41.

Man who built stealth model
two years early unveils plane

 

A model designer for Testor Corp. claims he has worked out
an accurate model of a new U.S. spy plane that can ﬂy at seven
times the speed of sound. The United States Air Force denies
that any such plane exists. However, the last time‘ Testors did
this, it turned out to be an accurate model of the then-secret
stealth fighter. The plane the model represents can supposedly
ﬂy at 5,200 m.p.h. The current record-holder, the SR-71
Blackbird, can travel at 2,193 m.p.h.

Packwood prepares for court

After being defeated in the Senate, Senator Bob Packwood is
preparing to go to court to keep his personal diaries out of
investigators’ hands looking into allegations of sexual miscon-
duct and criminal wrongdoing. Packwood said the Senate
Ethics Committee has no right to rummage through his diaries,
which he called “very very personal.”

River Phoenix autopsy
inconclusive

Investigators are awaiting test results to learn whether drugs
caused the death of actor River Phoenix after an inconclusive
autopsy. Phoenix, 23, died early Sunday after collapsing
outside a Los Angeles nightclub. Paramedics that arrived on the
scene were told Phoenix had been taking drugs and tests found
cocaine and Valium in his bloodstream.

The  

License plate case
goes to federal court

A man whose vanity license tags reading “GOVT SUX” were
canceled by the state has taken his case to federal court to have
the plates reinstated. Mark Steckbeck, 34, of Arlington, ﬁled a
suit Tuesday in the U.S. District Court in Alexandria, saying his
First Amedment rights were violated by the State Department of
Motor Vehicles.

Allen predicts smooth transition

Govemor-elect George Allen said he and Governor Douglas
Wilder will work closely in order to ensure a smooth transition
after 12 years of democratic control. Allen pummeled Democrat
Mary Sue Terry in elections on Tuesday. Allen said he antici-
pates few problems in getting his programs through the Demo-
crat-controlled General Assembly. ,1 ~- 1:

Sports 5

AL, NL bestow Cy You

Greg Maddux won his second straight National League Cy
Young award and J ack McDowell became the first member of
the Chicago White Sox to win a Cy Young in a decade. Rumors
have circulated that the White Sox may trade McDowell if an
agreement cannot be reached on a multi-year contract. Maddux
is the first player to win the Cy Young in consecutive years with
different teams.

      

Pg .

     

N IFC chooses W&L for program

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

National lnterfraternity Conference Representative Richard
Kurila speaks to students about the merits of Adopting a school.

Dog owners continue
to get city violations

By JOEL SYMONDS
Phi Contributing Writer

Many Washington and Lee students
have been fined by the City of Lexing-
ton for various “dog offenses” since
the beginning of the school year.

Lexington now requires that all dogs
be on a leash, be in the company of the
owner, have a rabies vaccine and have
a city dog tag.

Lexington Dog Warden R.D. Clark
has given out 24 fines since Sept. 1.
Eighteen of the ﬁnes were for “dogs at
large”.

Clark picked up senior Don Skelly ’s

dog for being at large. The dog was
consequently taken to the Animal Shel-
ter, where Skelly had to pick up his dog
and pay a $41 ﬁne. Skelly calls the dog
law a “fascist oppression of W&L’s
dogs.”

Lexington Chief of Police Bruce M.
Beard said the laws were made in an
attempt to prevent the destruction of
property by dogs and to “keep animals
contained to the owner’s property.”

“The student body has been com-
plying better than in previous years,”
Beard said.

He added that he felt the number of
students ﬁned was pretty low.

Cold-check
covers students

V By KATHLEEN Qurru<_
7"" Phi Staff Writer '

What should you do when you sud-
denly realize that your account won’t
cover the check you wrote last week?
Don ’t panic, W&L’s Cold Check Com-
mittee has probably already taken care
of it for you.

The Washington and Lee Cold
Check Committe'e covers bad checks
written by W&L students.

“Basically, if a student writes a bad
check, we just cover it and try to get the
student to pay it off,” said committee
member Alex Churchill.

The Executive Committee founded

the committee about 10 years ago with
the intent that student checks could
cotne to be accepted in town, accord-
ing to committee chair Pat Smith.

“Merchants don’t have to worry
about student checks,” Smith said.
“They can accept them without ques-
tioning. If you bounce a check at, say,
The Palms, we cover it.”

The student is then called to a meet-
ing to repay the committee. There is
also a fine, usually around ﬁve dollars,
that can vary “depending on the of-
fense,” said Smith.

The committee has only had one
bad check to cover this year.

“But,” said Smith, “come spring
term, we get a lot more.”

The Ring-tum PhLNovember 5. 1993

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

National lnterfraternity Conference
Representative Richard Kurila was on
campus Wednesday to discuss its
Adopt-A-School program.

The goal of the program is to estab-
lish one-on-one relationships with at-
risk students at the elementary school
level. Kurila, a senior at Lynchburg
College, is the regional director for the
program.

The program is sponsored by a
$99,500 start-up grant from the W.K.
Kellogg Foundation of Battle Creek,
Michigan, to implement the program
at 85 pilot colleges and universities
throughout the nation. Washington
and Lee was chosen as one of those

E schools. Part of the reason is W&L’s

strong Greek system.

The program has ﬁve basic seg-
ments. The ﬁrst is the ‘Community
Voice segment. During this stage, the
participants get out to the schools and
determine need and set up the program.
The second stage, Orientation Semi-
nars, stress commitment and training

     
  
    
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
    
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
     

for the program. Meaningful Action,
the third stage, allows the college stu-
dents to work with and encourage their
assigned student. This is done through
two hour-sessionsaweek. Abimoﬂthly
meeting is the fourth stage of the Adopt-
A-School program. The Reflection
stage allows students to talk with oth-
ers about methods and share success
stories. The ﬁnal stage, Evaluation,
allows the participants and schools to
look at the program, find areas in Qeed
of improvement, and suggest solutions.
Kurila is responsible for explaining
and organizing the Adopt-A-School
program at Lynchburg College, Uni-
versity of Richmond, George Mason
University, College of William and
Mary, and Washington and Leeﬂlnin,
versity. l
Associate Dean of Students Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins volunteered to serve
as a coordinator to the program. “This
program could be in place by the be-.
ginningof the winterterm,afterChristi
mas,” Atkins said. .
He and Kurila hope that the 16
fraternities, four sororities, and other
interested organizationson campuswill
make this program a success.

By CATHY RESMER
Phi Contributing Writer

Fund can help ’*
Journalists

Journalism students at Washing-
ton and Lee will soon be receiving a
helping hand, thanks tothe creation
of the Tau Mu Phi fund.

The Tau Mu Phi’s Greek letters
are an acronym for the phrase “sup-
porters of the student voice.” The
fund can beneﬁt any student inter-
ested in journalism. It is a non-
profit, charitable trust created last
April by three former editors of The
Ring-tum Phi: Cathryn Lopiccolo
and Rick Peltz, both 1993 gradu-
ates, and Patricia Lopes, ’91.

The fund was created to provide
students with outside contacts in the
fields of law and journalism, and to
provide resources that will enhance
journalism education in the class-
rooms. One of the ways the three
founders of the fund hope to accom-
plish this is by providing a link be-
tween students and alumni that is
independent of the university. The
creators of Tau Mu Phi also hope to
one day be able to provide money
for scholarships and equipment pur-
chases and to bring speakers to cam-
pus.

Another goal of the founders of
Tau Mu Phi is to aid the creation of
new publications. Because there are
so few student-produced publica-
tions available to W&L students,
the Tau Mu Phi founders feel that
more forums are needed for stu-

   
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
   
   
    
     
  
   
  
   
  

dents to express their views. Thgy
said the addition of more student-
produced publications and possibly
the addition of new broadcast sta-
tions will beneﬁt the entire campus
by broadening the scope of view-
points to which W&L students and
faculty are exposed. '

Lopiccolo hopes that new publi-
cations, “might be ableto spursome
debate” about issues of public inter-
est.

The monetary goals, as
Lopiccolo was quick to explain,will
not be realized immediately. Tﬂe
Tau Mu Phi fund was created just
last year and its ﬁnancial base is not
yet large enough to support exten-
sive monetary ventures

Lopiccolo said donations are
being solicited from alumni, as well
as from other nationwide funds, llrt
it will be a few years before the fund
is able to give substantial grants.

The Tau Mu Phi fund came about ‘
because, as journalism majors,
Lopes, Lopiccolo and Peltz all felt
that W&L journalism students
needed outside help. Peltz said the
school’s current method of provid-
ing all support through the Execu-
tive Committee and the University
“makes you overly dependent on
student government and the univer-
sity and it inhibits your ability to do
your job.” §

Lopiccolo said the Tau Mu Phi
fund was created because its
founders “want to make your job as
journalism students easier.”

  

  

What are you doing’?

 
 
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
  
  

   
 

Photo by Bathany Smith, The Ring-tum Qhi

 

Occasionally students catch a photographer in the act. But the weather will rapidly change, leaving little opportunity for
photographs of students studying outside. Weather reports say there is a chance of snow tlurries this weekend.

 
  

    

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5,1993

Bestselling

By @tl’Z1i£{‘J/Vi[T11i71£qt0Tl I
’.Pfii ffeatures £t{itor

     
      

When is the last time you read a book that
proposed to legalize drugs and prostitution,
reinterpret the Bible and generate $200 billion
dlars per year for the national government
along the way?

Ain ’t Nobody ’s Business If You Do , pub-
lished earlier this fall, aspires to such colossal
goals and more. This is the kind of book that
reviewers love to call ‘an ambitious project.’

Nobody ’s Business is ambitious in the way
thg a book report on the Encyclopedia Brittanica
might be considered ambitious.

The subtitle of the book, The Absurdity of
Consensual Crimes in a Free Society, offers
readers a glimpse of what author Peter

. McWilliams has in store for them in the next

815 pages. That McWilliams chose to use the

' . tit of a Bessie Smith blues as the title instead

,.

of c more descriptive subtitle is a signiﬁcant
commentary on his instinct for combining an
informal, often playful, style with seemingly
unapproachably serious topics.

It is hard to imagine any American disagree-
ing with McWilliams’ thesis: “You should be
able to do whatever you want with your own
peﬁon or property, as long as you don’t physi-

cally harm the person or property of another.”

The disagreements come when McWilliams
applies his thesis to activities considered con-

1 sensual crimes in America. Aconsensual crime

is an action that is against the law, but does not

1: hann anyone’s person or property. If his thesis

is Dccepted as an unconditional, fundamental

. characteristic of a free society, McWilliams

argues no consensual activity can be consid-
ered a crime.

A brief list of some existing consensual
crimes McWilliams believes should be legal-
ized includes: prostitution, drug usage, po-
lygimy, homosexuality, pornography, assisted
suicide, public drunkenness, and transvestism.
He approaches each issue assuming that most
readers have grown up conditioned to consider
certain consensual activities as unquestionably
criminal.

The final judgment on the validity of
M Williams’ conclusions rests on the readers’
wil ingness to apply the idea of personal free-
dom to all circumstances—especially those
usually considered taboo.

He resists the idea of being labeled a liberal
or conservative. McWilliams said the ideas
presented in the book represent “the essence of
co ervatism and the essence of liberalism and
the essence of what Jesus taught. Conservatism
is based upon individual responsibilities, small
government and business.”

Much of the strength of McWilliams’ asser-
tions in the book comes from his comprehen-

, sive research of the history of speciﬁc laws and

tabs) activities.
ne area where McWilliams will almost

' certainly be attacked is his argument for the

‘legalization of drugs. He called this concept
“simply pragmatic.”
His chapter on the recreational use of drugs

A includes historical studies of the uses of popu-

11

   
 

 

VOIKLI

DION): VJUIIN

return
. ..   ,

‘I/I/eﬁ“L ife

iNobody’s Business is good business

author aims to legalize consensual crimes

lar drugs and the
physiological and

vote...Tyranny has
always come in

I

psychological ef-  through the active
fects of those ' . minority and the
drugs. P 1 Christian Coali-

McWil1iams’    tion is a minority.
narrative describ- L The old enemies,
in g the powers be- A Catholics and Prot-
hind theoutlawing I   estants, who used
of marijuana pro- to burn each other,
vides an entirely have banded to-
new perspective gether.”
on the anti-drug The longest
campaigns of re- sectionofthebook
cent years. is devoted to ex-

He traces the aminingChristian-
eventual govern- ityintertnsofcon-
ment ban on mari- sensual crime.
juana, or hemp, to The most
abusmess concern unique and surpris-
of William ing aspect of
Randolph Hearst Nobody’sBusiness
and the DuPont M I , ~ is McWilliams’
Corrioratgon. d “'76 ADSl»t't'0'll,:t) Of 1 7 8 — p a g 3

“ n t e mi -  ., .. , -~ ' , review an
1930’s, machin- (“fm‘sU1‘Md( C’)./ml“ reinterpretation of
ery was perfected in at ,l3‘i’(i£3 SOClEi.)1 theteachingsofthe

that would allow
the hemp fiber to

Bible. He spends
much of his time

be more easily and giving his view on
economically the teachings of
separated from the Jesus.

plant...Hearst not “You may, like
only printednews- m e , w o n d e r :
papers; he made ; .  ‘Where do these
thepaperonwhich *-W 1«)§3“57 evangelicals get
to print them. If _i\,jCV\‘.rfl[;‘am5 off taking a nice
hemp became the man like Jesus and
primary source of using him to jus-
paper...much of tify their igno-
Hearst’s paper rance, intolerance,
m a c h i n e r y and personal

[would] become
obsolete...DuPont
...had just patented
a process for mak-
ing paper from
wood pulp...The
process, which re-
lied heavily on
DuPont chemi-
cals, was not nec-
essary in manu-
facturing paper
from hemp. Addi-
tionally, DuPont
had...perfected the
miracle fiber
nylon...lnexpensive,
readily grown
hempﬁberswould
put a damper on
two of DuPont’s
future money
makers...Make of these facts what you will.
One thing is certain: Hearst and DuPont made
a fortune thanks to the prohibition on hemp.”

McWilliams goes on to show how Hearst
used his newspapers and magazines to prompt
the government campaign against hemp and
the eventual ban in 1937.

Though not discussed in the book,
McWilliams likes to draw a parallel between
Prohibition and the War on Drugs .

S

“Both political parties were behind
[Prohibition]...Education was behind it...They
taught if you took one drink, you’re life was
ruined,” said McWilliams.

He believes that religion is the basis for most
of the support behind consensual crime laws
including the ban on drugs.

“The opposition is a religious issue,” said
McWilliams, “They’re well ﬁnanced and well
organized and well aware that people don’t

‘.3

     

with old drive

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer

Who says old dogs can’t learn new tricks?

Often, success is just a matter of remember-
ing old tricks, or, in the case of Rush, getting
back to the sound that spawned their success.

With their new release, Counterparts, the
time-tested trio of Neil Peart, Geddy Lee, and
Alex Lifeson moves away from the increas-
ingly mellow tunes of Presto and their most
recent release, Roll the Bones. Whether or not
this is an improvement is left up to the discression
of the buyer, but for me the album stands above
Roll the Bones as a success.

Right from the start, Counterparts pulses
with an energy that was lacking in most of the
two previous albums.

The lead single, “Animate”, sets the tone for
the other 10 songs. The tempo is upbeat, but not
to the point of incomprehensible thrash. Rush
seems to have found that delicate middle ground
between the early releases (Rush,Hemispheres,
etc.) and the latest mature efforts.

On any successful album, there are failed
concepts. Rush is by no means exempt from
this fact. “Alien Shore” is the weakest tune on
the album, and, along with “Cut to the Chase,”
just maintains a confused rythm. These are
more than atoned forwith the power of “Double
Agent” and “Cold Fire.” “Cold Fire” might
possibly be the best song on the release if for no
other reason than sheer drive and force.

The closest approach to the sound of Roll the
Bones comes with “Nobody’s Hero,” a song
that ties acoustic elements to the “grunge”
sound of the rest of the album to produce a
hybrid sound that leaves the listener riveted.

Once again, however, the real strength of
Rush’s music lies in their lyrics. Neil Peart
once again writes or co-writes all of the songs,
and pieces together the words into a form of art.
Throughout the album, Peart places the deﬁn-
ing stamp on each song with his lyrical signa-
ture.

One listener complained that Rush had no
“drive” in their music. With Counterparts, the
band has recaptured the spirit of their early
work and combined it with the maturity that
comes from almost twenty years of experience.

prejudice,”
McWilliams says
in the introductory
chapter ‘Consen-
sual Crimes and
the Bible.’

He goes on to
reinterpret almost
every Biblical
verse used to sup-
port the existence
of consensual
crime laws.

»

tend to upset con-
servatives. Some
recent deﬁnitions
of sexual harass-
ment and rape have
him up in arms.

The concept of responsibility and consent
are very cut and dry issues for McWilliams. “If
you’re in a situation then you have given con-
sent. If you say no or walk away, you take it
away,” he said. “You ’ve got to be able to say no
and get up and walk out.”

McWilliams believes people need to re-
examine their deﬁnitions of responsibility.
People need to ask “Are you responsible be-
cause you say no or is the other person respon-

McWilliams’«

‘ PAGE 3

sible for not asking?” he said. Rape shouldn’t
be a case where “If you are largerand she thinks
you might overpower her—that’s nonsense.”

McWilliams doesn’t want to seem insensi-
tive to harassment or rape issues, though. “It’s
a very serious business (rape)...Men need to
learn that they do not have the right to have sex
with a girl because they went out on a date. But
people get caught up in all the nonsense...The
people who need to realize the idea of consent
use the nonsense to point out how they don’t
need to learn anything.”

McWilliams includes a state-by-state chart
at the back of the book comparing the status of
laws against consensual activities in the United
States.

Virginia is notable for being one of the states
with laws against all but one of the charted
activities. Some people may be surprised to
learn that laws have been passed forbidding
heterosexual oral sex, fornication, and cohabi-
tation but not assisted suicide.

McWilliams said the age of consent for each
state is also included “to compare and con-
trast.” “lt’s astonishing that 13 is the age of
consent in New Mexico...you don’t usually
think of New Mexico as a heathen state,” he
said. McWilliams thinks it is also worth noting
that the age of consent ranges from 13 in New
Mexico to 19 in Wyoming.

He believes these laws haven’t caught up
with changes in society. “You talk to someone
about 13 or 14 year olds and they’re like ‘Oh my
God! They’re so innocent!’ Give me a break.
13, so what? I knew what I was looking for. I
knew what I was doing.”

One of McWilliams’ primary motivations
for writing the book is his anger that an incred-
ible amount of effort and money are wasted
punishing crimes which harm no one. He points
out that arrests and related fees for enforcing
consensual crime laws cost the country $50
billion dollars per year.

If legalized drugs were taxed and 6 million
jobs were created from formerly illegal activi-
ties (prostitution, polygamy), McWilliams es-
timates the United States would pull in an extra
$200 billion per year.

His suggestions for the uses of the extra
money are a good example of the playfulness
that permeates the book.

With $200 billion dollars, we could “Pay off
the national debt in twenty years...allow the
Pentagon to purchase 23 wrenches, 16 office
chairs, and 243 paper clips...send a check for

«$87,000 to every rhighischool graduate for.fur-
.views. ‘.are,n.’t salsa ftberirig bi$’br .her.eduQations1LfQrrstarting.real
‘W3')'S31h.°ﬁyP€ ijhatfil lifscasend teVt:ry**p¢fS£m;f)V.cr\!85«zyears old a
V check. for $66,000 with a note saying, - ‘Hey,

congratulations!’...or buy President Clinton
100,502,513,000 Big Macs.”

As for the 350,000 people currently in jail
for consensual crimes, McWilliams said, “We
are in a lot of trouble as a nation and we need to
use every resource we have available.”

Nobody ’s Business was published less than
two months ago and is only now making its way
to review columns and best-seller lists.

Because McWilliams’ fascinating combi-
nation of humor and persuasive intensity makes
the content of the book more accessible than
any previous work on the subject, Nobody’:
Business will probably become one of the most
inﬂuential books published in this decade.

 

 

 

W&LIF E

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5,1993 ‘

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

off the mark

Pluggers

by Mark Parisi by Jeff MacNe11y

      

OH)cﬁD”l   I/23

pATERNiTY‘5UlT-- -

 

4
/0199: Yllbum mar: services. inc [Pluggll$, in:
Al rig:-is usovuu

ii--.1

We pluggers never.manage to check .
our anti-freeze. on a. warm day,

CAPTAN i<iRi< lN RETiREMENT $5“
at?

IQIHVA VNVN Uﬁlﬂ

 

‘ores: tnouno Moot: sorvlou. Inc.
Al aiym no

ufvld,

   
 
 
 

 

  
  
 

YEAH, THIS IS THE GUY!
WE 6.01" HIM ./

 

     

 

   

   

 
 
 
   
 
  
   

 

  

 

Colonnade Crossword
ACROSS 1 u_

1 Quarry   U

5 Eel
10 "— o'clock

scholar“ ill

14 Woe is me! \\_i
15 Suppose -
16 Hub " ‘é

17 Covenants i_

19 lndian 3

20 Curve . Z

21 Furnish W E ’ E

22 Near ‘ 2

24 Bowling items 5

25 Merger "'..."." g

26 Most unusual “’

29 Dangerous §

current

32 Explode

33 Unseeing

35 Arrive 0 

34 Stray  .

,6 /ﬁf . iieu.o,PRAnceR. [,5
37 Hodgepodge &  R5M5MB5R M5.7€’OU 7’
38 “— my ,

 NEVER LET ME PLA4 ’
keepeg;-» by Mike Pants    '
39 Loud trumpet @1993 Tribune Media Services. inc. 1 1 /[]5/93 a
Sound All Rights Reserved  ‘H ‘,

40 Parlor Last week’s puzzle solved 1%,‘,

41 Vista 6 Unlocks m ., y I t ' .,' -""1" ii”.

43 Leaped 7 Orange peel ) .' l“'mi't'i|''m’“m ’ml'

44 “—- home is his 8 Picnic pest {j l mil ‘ ll ml?! lhlwﬂ/'
.. . .32°:.e*a$iv @  ..'li,ii«,i' “iiyilw/5”

ccoun an s e ain .

46 — leather newsman (tag tﬁ  -  _ Ii  I ‘I I ,l '

48 Fired 11 Italian dance ____,.._.1 ‘ ‘,-‘  » « .r  I . ..........L.,. 11-3
49 Female 12 Level ““ - --I ’ ""“" ”""“"""
52 Biographer 13 Necessity

Ludwig 18 Tilting
53 Showing 23 Fastened You KNOW
curiosity 24 — Le Moko S H 0 E ’
56 Gad 25 Join 5€é{‘,Eg”,'_%=_,r{,”.,.° 1745 ONLY
57 Lariat 26 Kind of tire by Jeffﬁfxﬂe/[y ‘ MAN FOR
58 Eastern garment 27 Scent THE J05-~
59 Allowance for 28 Meditating
weight 29 Extreme
60 Ground cover 30 Constellation
61 QED word 31 Amiss
33 Rays
DOWN 36 Sloping
1 Yard entrance 37 Paddles
2 Pundifinks ,, 39 Kind of muftjn
3 Lump. . ‘40 Torrent 46, Sassy 50 Wife of Zeus .
4 superlative 42 Egg dish 47 Cupid 51 Amend texts
ending 43 Kin of seeds 48 Greek portico 54 And not
5 Trice 45 Board game 49 Headliner 55 Wind dir.

 
 
 
   

     
 

Party Picture Photographers Needed
Must have own 35 mm equipment & car
Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6

J ZlJ’J.lj’J‘]‘.l

 

Foe 25 v~lAYs

 
  
   
      
     

 

I‘/II.I§I(3
1

Diana Madsen Schofield
205 North Main Street
Phone 463-5455

 

+0 lnei.p sitveime
9A?-11-l cnru.
“3°°""83"988'/.

. but Sonic. 9'
-. H‘, 71-Iblleullon

1 Medium 14” CHEESE & ONE TOPPING PIZ
$5.99

WITH THIS COUPON
(8 slices)

_2_lVI-ecTi11—m—14”_C-HEE_SE:8-cONE i7o_i>Eii7ic? i?iZz?i§ it’
$10.99

WITH THIS COUPON
(16 slices)

30 Minute Delivery
10 Minute Pick-Up

FRANK’S PIZZA
463-7575

Hot & Cold Subs 0 Salads 0 Dinners O Bevera es

DO YOU ENJOY
 SHOOTING SKEET?

Back ard keet is fun utc m ared toS o in

rin

 

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

I

At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you dOn’t have to be a good shot

to enjoy a round.

Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

   
     
         
       

PLEASE MENTION THIS AD WHEN CALLING IN AN OR ER

 

        
     
  

  

oppoumty ESJ ,
Come in during the month of ovember and purchase $15.00 or more of comics &
receive 25% of Purchase price.

We have the biggest and best comic se ection in the area. D.C., Marvel, Image,
Independents & many, many more to choose from.

Ask us about our Gift Certificates — They make Great Christmas Gifts!

SBCIIOII f0I' the MOM” —/ICIIOH - 99 C
Stonewall Stiucare Shopping Center

xin on
463-9 00
I‘

F

1.
5 Beech Avc., Buena Vista - (Behind Pizza

727 26 Hut)
ANY SIIOW

$1.50

Now Showing

The Good Son
Rated R
Daily 9:30 p.m.

Sat. & Sun. 2:45 & 9:30 p.m.

Sleepless in Seattle

Rated PG-13
Daily 7:00 p.m.

Sat.&Sun. 12:30, 4:45 & 7:00 p.m.

one)

7292

Q00

“All You Can Eat"

BOTTOMLESS BUCKET

OF POPCORN

$3.00

  

                  

"' ,n. " ~ -. "a-_.‘ 0-.3 --_. ' -. ,9‘-g. ,
"   .. . -.-:.'.- :-5 -.

   

'- .._ .._ _ ~ ...._‘ ..,. .._.
'«~"'-'5‘-'3’“‘?-ﬁﬁfrf-W"$:?<£%:’@i§€ﬁi¥‘35

   

  

-.5: 4 :5
writ.’

   

' ~r ;.,'‘(a' , '3; _-.>- .- 4
‘.z":":kI~!«*~"':’5 *5‘.-.9319‘? '6‘?

   
 
 

Run

and ‘.7{e5taurant . - .__  “ r . .1 -
Chef Stewart prepares daily culinary delights
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen,

1.

  

Paella, and Homemade Tortellini. gg
Six Room Inn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dininy3'

_.._. ~* V), ‘.._a -' p _, _ .. _ _

;'5,‘«_'2_.-?"r»,r.\.5-.‘3;\"4;:?'§re:h;;.§§= '3_=,.-‘m3;.- 1-. 4 -r
.t. a_r . s  -‘ s
ztiiar.-*.~.Il:«_i$r

Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.
Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

- _ 4, . ~..._u . .._- r’ »4~..._. a p‘_ 4:4, -.:
':.?.-«.:-:t2;%‘a\Fc;:?'g‘2z:?':cir‘a-'- 5:2.-?'_rrr«*.,--3-'rC‘i‘»‘.=:».:-5‘:‘.?;«.

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle” '

'3.’

Special Fall / Winter Package 

_ Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only 
‘ Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00 
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two 

'5!’

(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

Schedule your holiday parties Now!
Gift Certificates & Holiday Packages Now Available

  

s.

 

 
 

Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) 
'_ 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. 
«'21. Call for reservations: 70-463-9715 azi-

\-
u
S
at .

‘I; 4-.. .» .~- . r.. v.. - . .--v.. .- I ‘ .*- ..-'-.T"

 ...   

WHEN Yoll RIDE nnuu ONE MORE
FOR TIIE ROAD HAVE

All EIl'l’IlIEl.V DIFFERENT IIFJIIING.

     
  

 
 

    

 

.-’&lcohol qiiickigf at"l’r.*cts your jurlgrrxr.-ri1.. l)al{lll(‘f.’. and \~?00l"(IlI1afIOll. Wlicii tl1o.~';u tarultios
“W 1111931! Cd. Yldlntz becomes more than difﬁctilt. it becomes dangerous. Don't drink
‘ and ritlc.-. Or your last drink rmglit be your last drink‘. mrmcvcu SAFETY FOIIIDATIOI -V

 S Restaurant

1   at 1.3: III Truck Stop

':

i .5) _

 BREAKFAST
 BUFFET

Friday 8: Saturday Nights
2'11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

     

Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

463-3478

 

 

 
   
 
     
  
  
   
 
      
  

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1993

WITH NO ANNUAL FEE

W ‘V’ A moon (RENT Lwa,
(AN KISS ALL mos:

EXFENSII/E (AKDS ooomm

6 LT IT ‘"
0
MEMBER NETWORK ©1993 oxawwoov TRUST <onr»wv, MEMBER FDK

E;-..-ma u.r.r4:.-.' mcurv on-um‘: nos uninucv uvw put I’ SPVR1!

5

'5

 

PAGE 6

    

Cllrr ﬂing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Conditional Honor

On Oct. 27 some students decided the Honor System
did not apply to them at Zollman’s. They crashed a band
party sponsored by several fraternities. In doing so, they
lied.

The Honor System applies to all aspectsof student
life It applies anywhere a Washington and Lee student
is identiﬁes himself as such. W&L’s Honor System is
unique because it is more than just empty words. Most
W&L students live by it proudly.

But over the last few years, there has been some
debate over whether the Honor System applies to social
life at W&L. There should not be any debate. Unless the
W&L community wants the Honor System here to
become just another code no one believes in, nor takes
seriously, every member of the W&L community needs
to support the Honor System on and off the Hill. Many
other schools have something they call an Honor Sys-
tem that are in reality farces because they only prohibit
academic misconduct. The students who lied to get into
the Zollman’s party would probably be much happier at
one of those other schools.

Registration Workout

By now most students have finished registering for
their Winter Term classes. If you haven’t, you should
seriously consider putting the paper down and getting
that registration form into the Registrar’s office. But for
those of you who think you’re done, think again.

Maybe you forgot about physical education classes,
but don’t forget about them for too long. Before you
know it, you will be a senior and will have three PE’s or
more to take. It’s not a pretty picture. If you’re lucky, it
will hit you like a brick sometime before it is too late.
Suddenly, you’ll realize you had better start taking
those PE‘ classes. The only problem is schedulinga PE
class you might have the slightest interest in taking is
like trying to shoot a three-pointer in the dark. If you’re
lucky it might just happen.

So how do you schedule a PE class? Well, you either
leave a block of about two hours free on Monday-
Wednesday-Friday, or Tuesday-Thursday, or you leave
an even larger chunk of time free one day a week for one
of those great PE’s you have to drive 45 minutes to get
to. If you don’t plan ahead, you’re going to find‘ out that

youfre not_'tal?i_ri_g a PE and’_  rr’i'ayj‘wiiid- ‘taking two
in one terrn during your senior'''year'.‘'' ‘ i  f"

The whole process would be a little easier if the
university provided students with a list of PE’s and their
scheduled times in the registration list. They would not
have to change the way we register for PE class. They
would just be providing us with a list that would make
it a little easier to save space for PE’s.

The current process for registering for PE’s was
imposed two years ago to stop students from blocking
sections of class hours with a PE they were going to drop
anyway. But providing students with a list of PE’s
would not hinder the university’s purpose in changing
the registration. It would just make students’ lives a
little easier.

Now is that too much to ask for?

Quote of the Week:

OPINION

loll

 
 
 
  
  
  
    
    

.(,\\o melt.
or 114: t..ulEI
j.jgp.,t.‘.lI'l6ﬂf~E
pg. aluw BE

E
'°-r»

1°

 

  
 

«

\\\u-i--‘:--

1__r::1.lirlmrlllalulllrhllill

i 1+

I
\
l
I

M
=-

 

_——_.

mm§4l;=or_ OP. FA'l'N-- - -

  
 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 199
O

     
    
  
 

0

Earlier this week, the two 1 1-year-olds in England,
who are accused of abducting and murdering a two
year old boy, began their trial. It reminded me of the
week, last April, when their story was announced in
the media. These two young boys are accused of
taking young James Bulger from a mall, bringing him
to a nearby wooded area, and killing him. No one can
say what motivated them to commit such a crime;
many have theorized, but no one knows for sure. What
I expected to hear when I watched the media accounts
of the murder was a consensus of sympathy for the
victim and for the obvi-
ously disturbed perpetra-

by the New York Public Defenders Association noted
the costs involved in prosecuting just the first three of
the eleven stages of a capital case, was approximately
$1.8 million, the total cost often reaching more than
$3 million. The cost for life imprisonment is roughly
$600,000.

Beyond the ineffectiveness and expense of the
death penalty, it is important to consider the view of
the world community on this issue. The United States
is one of only three industrialized countries that still
supports capital punishment. The other two are South

Africa and the former Soviet
Union, two countries whose

tors. Instead, I found my-
self listening to one talk

human rights records leave much
to be desired. Perhaps it is time

show where caller after PATRICK for our nation,the world’s lead-
callerstatedtheybelieved CDEMIOH. ing democratic nation, to re-
both boys should be ex- M ’ consider its position on this is-
ecuted or,“fried,”asone ’94 sue. Do we really want the

viewer characterized it,
for their alleged crime.

 

United States to be a country
where people derive pleasure

I wondered if they
could hear what they were
saying. Did they actually find comfort or pleasure in
the thought of two 11-year-olds strapped into an
electric chair as thousands of volts of electricity ran
through their bodies causing them to scream in pain,
defecate, and ﬁnally die? It did not seem to matter to
the callers that these were children. They did not seem
to care that an 11-year-old is not fully capable of
realizing the seriousness of this action. What these
people wanted was revenge. Americans like the idea

.3  ..of3 killing,kille'rs,.,of ...‘.‘making the punishment fit the
‘ ,‘.§[‘gnﬁ,!” gt,/eil‘)§glieye._the, death penalty is the best way

, to show, criminals our society does not allow the

‘ kiliing of our fellow citizens. Americans believe all of

these things for one simple reason: they don’t know
the facts.

Many people who support capital punishment are
people who are frustrated by our judicial system.
They are tired of seeingviolent criminals receive light
sentences and be paroled in a few years because of our
overcrowded jails. They are equally tired of the rising
cost of our justice system, especially because they
seem to be getting less and less for their dollar. I
believe these are legitimate problems that we as a
nation must begin to face. However, extenninating
criminals is not the answer. In fact, the Federal Bureau
of Investigation stated in its publication, Crime in the
U. S., that murder rates are significantly lower in states
that have abolished the death penalty. Those states
average 4.9 murders per 100,000 people, as opposed
to states that still have capital punishment, which
average 7.4 murders per 100,000.

In addition, those people who believe the death
penalty is a less expensive way of dealing with violent
criminals, might be surprised to learn it is up to ﬁve
times more expensive than life imprisonment. A study

from “frying” human beings?
The last group of individuals
who had this kind of attitude were the Nazis. Are we
really that far away from setting up a nice clean
incinerator to do away with those people we would
rather not have to deal with? Do we not hear many
people saying, “Well, they committed horrible crimes
and we don’t have the room or the money to put them
in prison, so let’s just eliminate them.” Granted, they
deserve punishment, but do they deserve death?
One can almost hear the resounding, “yes,” from
those who actively support the death penalty in this
country. They feel a ‘  ‘ f ‘ I
need for vengeance

., .;-

s" Tiiis‘

 We’ve outgrown the death penalt  

the state and later found to be innocent. Since 19
when the death penalty was again legalitd, .
people who were sentenced to death, have be
found to be innocent upon review of their cases.
a person is wrongly convicted and sent to pri
the courts can release them. We have yet to inv
a court that can give someone their life back. ‘
can’t do it, and we shouldn’t have to. Many wou
argue there is a margin of error in everything. :
this is not an inconsequential substance we .
dealing with. It is not an industry where there
always a little loss of the product. Life is far t
precious to allow even one innocent person, ’
alone 23, to die at the hands of the state. Yet, th
continue to be large numbers of support for capiw
punishment in this country. .

One of the most interesting groups that supp
the death penalty is the Christian conservativ
They have a true dilemma on their hands. Wh
pressed on the issue, they will often have difﬁcu
finding Biblical support for their argument. Us
ally, they will tell you the Bible says, “An eye for .
eye.” That’s true, but it also says, “turn t ot .
cheek,” and, “love your neighbor.” Maybe it’s
but I somehow don’t get the impression that Jes
would be a big fan of execution. Rather than thin
ing of ways for revenge, I think he might be happ'
if we asked ourselves how we might help those w
are so disturbed, that they take the life of anot
human being. The God I believe in isn’t looking ‘
revenge, he’s looking for forgiveness, for lo9e, a
for understanding. Unfortunately, these are ve
difficult qualities for human beings to acquire.

 4- ~ are much more interest
inthe quick solution,ev

for the appalling
crimes committed.
They feel the families
of the victims need to
know someone else

Perhaps it is time for our na-
tion, the world’s leading demo-
cratic nation, to reconsider its

if it has been proven to
the wrong solution.

In the last moﬂth,
have all seen the ca
paigns here in Virgi

hasdied fortheirloss. position on this issue. Do we re- and around the count
l’°“‘°a"Y""a“Y f‘““‘ ally want the United States to be a MW °“"‘“d"‘.°.5 °“ b
ily members of mur- . sidesofthe political sp
der victims do not Colllltry Where P901119 denve trumknowthef:-ctsa

want the death pen-
alty imposed on their

' ‘I
loved one’s murderer. belngs '

pleasure from “frying” human

the death penalty, th
know about all of
faults, but they contin

Many realize nothing
the state can do to pun-
ish the criminal can bring back their loved one, that
“violence only begets violence.” Many family mem-
bers would rather see an active program of rehabilita-
tion for those offenders who can be helped, and a real
“life sentence,” for those who cannot.
Implementing these types of programs would also
avoid what is the most tragic result of the death
penalty, the execution of innocent people. Since the
turn of the century, 23 people have been executed by

to support it. They reg
it as a “necessary evi
which they must support if they wish to be elect
This is true from the local sheriff right up to t
President of the United States. They have aﬂ tak
a most cowardly path, and it is time for us to redir
them. We must educate ourselves about the de
penalty. Whether you oppose it on moral, leg
ethical, or practical grounds, if you are inform
you must oppose capital punishment. There is si :
ply no other choice for citizens of a modern socie

“The weatherman says this will be a good night to get that

someone special and struggle under the stars.”

- A Channel 2 news anchor presumably mispronouncing
the word “snuggle. ”

Ellie filing-tttm lﬂlrie as

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sport Editor . . . . . . . . . . . ., . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obennueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Ciruilation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but Theking-rum Phi
is otherwise independent. 5

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that weel<’s edition. Columns, letters, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does >
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity. “

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
703 462-4060

Clinton should heed own advice.

. President Clinton loves to complain
about the deﬁcit, yet his own budget is
bloated with the same wasteful spend-
ing he condemns. Below is a portion of
the hundreds of needles programs and
departments Clinton found in his bud-
get for the 1994 ﬁscal year. Eliminat-
ing any one of them would have saved
the government and taxpayers mil-
lions or even billions of dollars. If

oil shortages of the 1970’s are over,
Carter is back in Georgia, and this
department is still around.

6. The World Agricultural Outlook
Board - As important as the monitoring
of banana production in Siberia is, our
government can endure the pain of its
loss.

7. The National Endowment for the
Arts — American culture will not col-

 

Clinton truly lapse without
wants to reduce it; morelikely
the deﬁcit, I en- it will im-
courage him to provewithout
start with this ANDREW the NEA to
list. sponsor pro-
1. The De- _ OLMEM, gramslikethe
partment of Edu- ’  , 996 M3PP1°th°TP°
cation — Educa- ‘  D exhibit.
tion is a matter 8. The
forstate,notfed- B a r r y
eral government. Goldwater

. Maybe if the teachers’ unions had not
contributed so much to his campaign it
would have received a cut.

2. The Rural Electriﬁcation Ad-
ministration — This depression-era
program’s goals were achieved about
thirty years ago.

3. Contributions to lntemational
Organizations—The entire list of inane
organizations to whom Uncle Sam
gives a healthy donation is too long for
a complete list. My favorites are the
International Ofﬁce of the Vine and
Wine, International Seed Testing As-
sociation, and the International Rubber
Study Group.

4. Advisory Commission on
Intergovernmental Relations — Have
you heard of it? How important can it
be?

5. The Energy Department -— The

Scholarship — Goldwater is one of the
great advocates of limited government;
his name should not help contribute to
excessive government.

9. The Hubert H. Humphrey Fel-
lowships — If Barry doesn’t get one,
neither should Hubert.

10. The United States Polar Re-
search Programs — The $78 million
spent in a desolate wasteland for this
program could be put to more produc-
tive uses back in the U.S.

11. The Corporation for Public
Broadcasting — The benefits of not
having this corporation, besides from
reducing the deﬁcit, would come in the
form of better television.

12. The Neighborhood Reinvest-
ment Corporation — A typical govem-
ment program intended to help people,
but which actually helps no one.

13. Trust Fund for Boat Safety -Are
people in our society so stupid that the
government must remind them to wear
their life jacket?

14. The Wage and Hour Division of
the Labor Department — This country
doesn’t need either a minimum wage
or its enforcement agency.

15. The Post Office — In a world of
faxes, it is becoming obsolete.
Privatization would allow it to change
and improve its service.

16. The Environmental Protection
Agency — This agency has become a
business killing machine. We all love
trees, but we should not have to kill our
economy to live in a clean environ-
ment.

17. The Small Business Adminis-
tration— Encouraging small businesses
to look to the
governmentfor
advice is no
way toimprove
an economy.

18. The
Housing Pro-
grams of the
Department of
Housing and
Urban Devel-

Trying to solve all of
society’s problems by
transferring responsibil-
ity from individuals to
the government inevita-
bly leads to disaster.

tent and end ours.

20. The National Magnetic Levi E
tion Prototype Development 9- TI
program conducts research on grou
transportation technologies.

21. The Helium Fund — This p
gram has been out of date since t
Hindenberg disaster.

22. Woodsy Owl and Smokey B
— Two fictional characters wk) ha
been turned into a huge govemm
bureaucracy.

23. Older American Volunteer P
grams — Senior citizens will volunt
with or without this program.

I don’t expect Clinton to adopt a

of these proposals, because W t *

believes big government is good.
best evidence of this is his health c
proposal. There was never an atte
to improve hea
care other th
through sociali
tion. Cli to
only propglsal
resolve any pr
lem is governm
intervention. T

society’s pro
lems by transf

opment — The

g 0 v e r n m e nt

should not be in the housing business.
Most of the government projects are
crime-ridden hellholes, the sooner their
tenants get their own houses the better
off they will be.

19. Farm Subsidies — The Agricul-
ture Department’s budget is full of
questionable (and confusing) subsidies.
We complain when the Europeans have
them, so we should at least be consis-

ring resporﬂsibil
from individu .
to the govemm :

inevitably leads to disaster. The res

is not only a multitude of govemm
program, but also govemment’s c
trol of the economy. Liberty can
exist without economic freedom.
more government acquires the resp
sibility for solving society’s proble
the closer Americans come to loosi
their liberties.

 

ing to solve all

  

Ihe Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1993

OPINION

Spos reviews the White Book

SPos’ SPACE

l Tom Hespos
Back in the days of the Civil War

When folks were of honorable breed,

And gentlemen knew what courtesy was for,
A man came to Lexington on his steed.

Eee was his name, an honorable man,

e saved Washington College from despair
Of honor he was undoubtedly quite a fan
He left discipline in the students’ care.

He left W&L with his system of honor,
The effects of which we’re still feelin’
Violate the system and you’re a goner—
No lyin’, cheatin’ or stealin’.

Dishonorable conduct was also forbidden,
Students were without a doubt

Or hooligans who thought the E.C. was kiddin’
Soon got themselves kicked out.

And the Honor System seemed to work well
For one hundred years plus twenty.
Gentlemenlike behavior at Dubyuhnell
Could be found on campus a—plenty

But students sometimes found contradiction

In the system that they held so high.

{here were problems with the E.C.’s jurisdiction —
When did the Honor System apply?

If you borrow a pencil without asking prior

And so they established the W.B.R.C.
To get the answers they sought.

The White Book review will take place very soon
And its not so difficult to see

The Honor System may be singing a different tune
After the changes of 1993.

So how did everyone like Spos’ introduction?
Cute, huh? In any case, the White Book Review
Committee, headed by the gallant and noble Ames
Hutton, will be taking a serious look at different
Honor System issues this year. Hopefully, they will
get some of the B.S.
cleared up. Like for in-
stance, how many people
on this campus know that
the two prosecutors at an
honor trial later sit on the
jury ,of the accused. Neat,
huh? lt’s like starting off
with two votes automati-
cally against you.

And that’s not all. The
W.B.R.C. will have to ex-
amine several other con-
troversies as well: the
single sanction penalty,
whether failing to report
an H.V. is an H.V. in itself, (etc).

Ames and company have been given quite a bit of
power by the Executive Committee. Their proposal
for changes to the Honor System could alter the lives
of every student at Washington and Lee. Think of
how much fun they could have...

Top Ten Proposed Changes to the Honor System

 

by the Student Body Constitution.

7. Stealing a sorority girl’s car stereo after she
leaves the top down on her Volkswagen Cabriolet
is permitted, as well as encouraged.

6. Any student found guilty of an honor violation
may avoid dismissal from the university by agree-
ing to a punishment of approximately equal value
(i.e. spending a week with Professor Goldsmith at
a secluded mountain retreat, discussing supplyside
economics).

5. Robbing a bank is not an honor violation, as
long as Bob Tompkins gets his cut.

4. Students may cheat on exams if they acknowl-
edge they did so in the
honor pledge.

3. The Sol Wachtler
Rule — stalking a former
lover is not considered dis-
honorable conduct.

2. Pathological liars
may attend Washington
and Lee if they agree to
negative stimulus therapy
(a sharp whack in the head
with a stick for every lie
they tell).

l.Thethet‘tofroad signs
for decoration purposes is
permitted, as long as a
promise is made to return them after graduation.

These are just a few that Ames and his friends
might consider. I’m sure the student body can think
up some more imaginative ones. Submit them to
Ames when you do. After all, if the students don’t
participate in the Honor System review, the pledge
may end up looking like the following next year:

Is that like stealing a car?
Could the E.C. likely brand you a liar
For stories told at a bar?

There were plenty of questions for the E.C.

Some that required great thought

MY VIEW

MICHAEL HEWLETT, ’96

Qear Whoopi,

At one point in my life, I was proud
of you. You won an Oscar for Best
Supporting RoleinGhost—ararity for
a black woman. Yet, your actions of
late have my soul in a tundra. You seem
to have forgotten your history, your
I/onderful,beauti—
ful black history.

I remember

 

10. Wearing Birkenstocks with socks can be con-
sidered dishonorable conduct.

9. Lying to protect one’s reputation after drinking
too much and engaging in sexual activities with an
unattractive member of the opposite sex is permitted.

8. Burning the White Book is a freedom protected

and the jokes, declaring that nothing
was wrong with them. In fact, the
jokes were hilarious, you said.
Suffice it to say, you disappointed
me. You sold your history short. Does
Amos ’n’ Andy ring a bell? What
about Al Jolsen, that white actor who

‘ performed in black-face? What about

all the blacks who had to play the
“Sambo” role or pass for white in
order to get their foot through the
door? Did you remember them? They
didn’t disgrace themselves because
they wanted
to—they had
no choice. In

reading in Jet “Nigger” wasn’t the early part
magazine how you of this cen-
encouraged your funny whell blacks were tury, white
;‘;;::.:::‘,”a“S:‘; Spa‘ 3;» ,‘,''‘‘PP§‘‘’ :.*;3;.:2:::
“Cheers”), to ap- curse ’ urne 9 caS- accept blacks
pear publicly in trated — reduced to as intelligent,
black-face and tell   a   complex hu-
a few “nigger” man beings.
jokes at the Friars human chattel- The They would
Club. You even word was never humor. rather see an

rote some of the . Uncle Remus
jokes. I thought Ous then? and It can thanaSidney
you had more never be humorous now. Potier. We,

sense than that.
From the moment
I saw you in The
Color Purple, I thought you were an
ixceptionally gifted actress. You
rought a sense of dignity and strength
to Celie’s character. Where was that
dignity when you guffawed at those
insulting “nigger” jokes? I sure didn’t
see it. No, you had to stand up for your
man. You had to defend the black-face

h o w e v e r ,
don’t have to
do that any-
more, and we shouldn’t feel com-
pelled to make fools of ourselves for
the white man’s pleasure. Somehow I
thought being black meant more to
you than allowing your lover to use a
word that still demeans millions of
blacks everyday.

Yet, you thought it was funny.

“Nigger” wasn’t funny when blacks
were spat at, whipped, cursed, burned,
castrated — reduced to nothing but a
piece of human chattel. The word was
never humorous then, and it can never
be humorous now. How dare you even
suggest that I, as a black American,
should ever laugh when I hear that
word? I don’t even laugh when other
blacks call each other “nigga” (as if the
spelling changes anything). But you
wonder why blacks such as Montel
Williams and former New York Mayor
David Dinkins were so upset. Whoopi,
think about it for a moment. If that guy

had been anyone other than Ted Danson, 
.wouIdn’,t’ Y<]5u.’I.1,a>’/.¢ be.é'!iIi.l!‘t2§§?.t?.'}. . 
Whoopi, this has nothing to do with"

the fact that youare dating a white man.
Frankly, I could care less. If this was

“On my honor I have made my best effort to
copy the answers of my classmates and sneak peeks
at the textbook. I acknowledge that my Washington
and Lee diploma is therefore worth less than a
serving of nachos from Stop-In. (signature).”

See ya in two weeks...

Whoopi forgets her heritage

done in the privacy of your own home,
I wouldn’t have bothered to write the
letter. But you and Ted chose to dis-
grace yourselves in public. I thought
you were proud to be black. But I’m
not so sure anymore. When Ted Danson
appeared in black-face, he reduced the
struggles and triumphs ofblackAmeri-
cans to a joke, and you laughed. The
reason people, particularly blacks, were

upset with you is that you and Ted _

showed a lack of sensitivity and dig-
nity. Being black means more than
“niggerz”

Being black means being proud,
being strong, being dignified. We are

" ’ riot arid 'never were “niggets'.‘~r thought

'y6u=€terrewj*"tna1: but ‘as pb'8t"Sonia
Sanchez once said, “Man, ‘you way
behind the set.”

M) ville lie

cowses ii: wsivsel.

 l.55\J|¢5. tl\.¢  6&4 l~\AVY\OI'

caluwxvxlslis. Use <:k'e or awytklwg clan Hunt .

send. letters to like editor and /my
Views to l'.l~¢ (DRE cFFi.c¢. voaws. 23% 9‘:
tlse University center we later Uvsavs Una
¢§l\A¢sela\J la¢Fere publication.

at... ‘FDA;

 

Sophomores

There will be a workshop for
Sophomores entitled “Choosing a
Major or Career” on Tuesday, Nov.
9 at 4 p.m. in Room 109 of the
University Center.

Internships

There will be a workshop on “In-
ternships: How to Apply” on
Wednesday, Nov. 10 at 4 p.m. in
Room 109 of the University Center.
All students are welcome.

Career test

. There will be a career test inter-
pretation on Thursday, Nov. 11 at 3
p.m. in Room 109 of the University
Center. All students who have taken
the career interest tests but have not
had them interpreted, please plan on
attending this session.

Women’s Forum

Women’s Forum invites you to
attend an informal meeting regard-
ing women’s housing at Washing-
ton and Lee. The meeting will be
held in the Arlington Women’s Cen-
ter at 6 p.m. on Sunday, Nov. 7.

Ariel

The deadline for applying for the
staff of the Ariel literary magazine
has been extended until Nov. 10.
Applications are available in the
University Center.

Speech

Sister Helen Prejean, author of
Dead Man Walking:AuEyewitness
United States, ' spea  onday,
Nov. 8, at8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.’ The
public is invited.

.Acsguev.ar:I;e_zmi@Fé;,*e rx.t4.§'»e.

Speaker

James P. Pinkerton, deputy as-
sistant for policy planning in the
Bush administration, will speak on
Nov. 11 at 8 p.m. in Northen Audi-
torium on “Post-Clinton America:
Democrats and Republicans Aside,
What Should America Be Looking
for the 1990’s.’’

. Loans

Loans for students in need are
available. For more information,
please call Jeff Rogers at 462-4049.

Pub Board

The Publications Board will met
Monday, Nov. 8, at 8 p.m. in room
208 of the University Center. All
members of the university commu-
nity are welcome to attend.

Register

Students may ‘pick up their copy
of the 1993-94 Register of Stu-
dents, Faculty, Staff from the
Registrar’s Office. -

W&L-VMI

The Preston Society, in con-
junction with the SAB and the VMI
Cadet Programming Board, is spon-
soring a party with “Dost in the
Supermarket” at Zollman’son Sun-
day, Nov. 7, from 1:30 to 5 p.m. All
students from bothschools are in-
vited to attend.

Concert

4 The Concert Guild,will present
-..th.ea..cati? ...si. ' 7 .uP»Chan-
.,:icieer,;o;lii‘oesJl,%$igv. 9 at 8
p.m. in the Lenfest ‘Center. The
public is invited.

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

Student Body Notice

, I A male sophomore has been found in violation of university policy for
drinking in Gilliam dormitory and throwing a beer bottle out of a second-
story window, almost hitting two students. The SCC has imposed the

following sanctions.

1. Social probation until Nov. 19

2. 6 hours of community service
3. $25 ﬁne

4. Letters of apology to all parties involved.

5. A session with Dr. Worth
6. Conduct probation for the rest

of the year.

‘Interviews and Layout by Joe Framptom

Photos by Bethany Smith

TALKBACK

 

VVho is your favorite cartoon character and Why‘?

 

Colin Higgins, ’94, Ridgewood, NJ.
«I» —— “Bugs Bunny because he gets lots
of chicks.”

Chris Albert, _’95, Baltimore, Md.
— “Scooby Doo because I remember
watching him when I was a kid.”

Andy Jacobsen, ’96, Florence, Ky.
— “Bugs Bunny because he looks
good in a dress.”

Tom Fink, ’96, Ashtabula, Ohio -
“Spiderman because he’s almost as
tough as my real life hero Brian
Shearer.”

All Wilson, ’95L, Berkely Heights,
NJ. — “Batman because he’s a su-
perhero.”

David Olimpio, ’96, Houston, Texas"
-—- “Hobbes because I don’t know if.
he’s real or not.” 1

 

  

MY VIEW

J OSEPH E. VALLELY

Pope John Paul II has repeatedly stated that
the contemporary world has lost the sense of
sin. The Vicar of Christ has said that modern
man no longer experiences guilt when he vio-
lates God’s laws. The Pope has taught that
knowledge of God’s laws comes from two
sources: the Church and the conscience, the
inner voice of the soul.

The American population including those
of us who identify with the Roman Catholic
faith have pushed aside the directives of the
conscience in order to pursue “liberty” in
thought and action. The philosophy of liberty
was advanced by the French atheists of the
early 1700’s. The writers of the United States
Constitution were deeply affected by these

heretics who advocated the exclusive use of
reason and the rejection of conscience as a
moral guide. It is interesting to note that Jesus
never employed the principle of liberty.

This nation values liberty to the extent that
a massive statue built in France and conse-
crated as a goddess was placed in the New York
City harbor for all immigrants to witness and
adore. The structure, of course, is called the
Statue of Liberty, donated by a country which
possessed in the Middle Ages a profound devo-
tion to the Blessed Virgin Mary whom the
French affectionately called Notre Dame, i.e.
Our Lady.

Liberty is not freedom. The exercise of
reason separated from the conscience is liberty.
The reason cannot make moral decisions con-
sistent with the will of God. Only the con-
science is capable of this function. The separa-
tion and destruction of the conscience began
centuries ago. The world is reaping the bitter
fruit of this decision.

OPINION

The counsels of the conscience are true and
infallible. The person knows the truths of God
by means of the conscience. Reason is a tool for
gathering information and nothing more. Dur-
ing the French Revolution, a statue called the
Goddess of Reason was placed on the main
altar of the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris.
The blasphemous revolutionists were making it
very clear that reason detached from the con-
science was motivating them... to murder, plun-
der and destroy especially everything which
pertained to the holy Catholic Church.

The liberation of reason from the conscience
has been accepted in the civil law of the United
States because of the Constitutional guarantee
of the “pursuit of liberty” provision. Few moral
advocates including members of the Catholic
clergy have perceived the perverse and de-
monic strategy which has been operating. This
philosophy of liberation gradually eroded the
entire spiritual consciousness of this nation and
all countries of the West.

The abandonment of the conscience caused
the loss of the sense of sin which Pope John
Paul II complains about. The gloriﬁcation of
reason has been the major focus of the educa-
tion community. The process of education is
the indoctrination of the exclusive use of rea-
son. Contemporary education makes no refer-
ence to the conscience nor to the soul. God, of
course, is never mentioned either. All knowl-
edge therefore is evaluated by reason and not
by the truths of God as inscribed in the Ten
Commandments. The academic community
has no use for the Commandments of God
given to Moses and afﬁrmed by Jesus. Almost
all educators, especially at the college level, are
atheists.

As atheistic rationalists, they deny the exist-
ence and relevancy of God. They are the
offspring of the French pagan intellectuals.
Entire generations of God’s children have been
infected by the atheists of academia and their
Cinderella sisters, industry and government.

  

The Ring-tum Phl, November 5, 1993
4' :-

Franciscan delivers present status of the World

Academia produced the conscienceless opera-
tors who presently function in these three spheres.
The seduction into Godlessness by the pursuit
of liberty was clever and complete. Most saw
the devilish strategy too late.

Those who believe in God, the conscierye
and other spiritual entities such as the soul,
demons, heaven, hell, angels, and sin are per-
ceived by the educated rationalists as simple
idiots. The devoted servants of reason run the
show through out the entire world. Their influ-
ence and control are immense. The liberation of
reason from conscience is complete. 5

In the garden of Eden, Satan tempted Eve’s
reason with the knowledge of good and evil.
The first woman ignored the counsels of her
conscience in her excessive desire for informa-
tion and we have all had to pay for this liberated
desire including the Son of God on a cross.
Reason cut off from the conscience is chags. ,
This is the present state of the world.

The author is a Third Order Franciscan.

Reader disagrees; Recycling must be instituted

LETTERS

Honor System violated

C“

To the editor:
Mr. Dennard’s editorial in the Oct.
29 Ring-tum Phi shows how. short-

it may make some economic sense to
him, personally, it eschews the respon-

sibility to the community that is part A A
and parcel of our freedom. His attitude ‘

is selﬁsh, pure and simple._  the
narcissistic emphasis on how the world
affects oneself alone and how one can

Letters

Letters to the editor and My
Views are due on Tuesdays in
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the
University Center. All letters will
be printed in the order in which
they were received.

use the world is, in the long run, coun-
terproductive, even for the individual

W‘ ,-in question.
sighted his view of the world is. While ‘
‘ and time-consuming for Mr. Dennard

. Although it may be less bothersome

to toss his cans, bottles, and papers in
the trash, that trash has to go some-

: where. Although it disappears from his
‘sight, it does not vanish, Instead, it
 must be stored somewhere. In this area

it goes into a landfill that is fast ﬁlling
up, as they are all over the country. The
cost of dumping in landﬁlls is rising
steeply. We all have to pay that bill,
including Mr. Dennard.

In otherareas that trash may go to an
incinerator to be spewed into the atmo-
sphere as pollution that Mr. Dennard
will breathe. Down the road a few
years, he may ﬁnd trips to the doctor an
increasing necessity because of that
polluted air, and doctors aren’t cheap,
either. Or, if he is lucky enough to be
unscathed by the air, others will not be,

and he will in some way underwrite
their medical expenses. Thus, there is
some inaccuracy in Mr. Dennard’s ac-
counting.

I do agree with him that recycling is
not now paying its way. Not enough
has been done to incorproate recycled
goods into the mainstream of industrial
output. There are problems with re-
tooling machinery, for instance, and
more research and development needs
to be directed to working out the cur-
rent impediments. But that will come,
willy-nilly. Those of us who have the
habit of recycling won’t even notice
any extra effort it may involve, when it
becomes mandatory. Because if people
refuse to willingly participate, they may
well ﬁnd that they are coerced in some
way to comply.

Mr. Dennard allows that aluminum
is now offering a return for those who
recycle it. There are people in the county
who travel the roads, picking up cans.

But it is interesting to observe how
many cans there are to pick up! Al-
though individuals could get a
“payback” on recycling their alumi-
num, precious few bother. Obviously,
economic incentive is not enough.
Finally, I believe that someday,
when he has lived longer, Mr. Dennard
will see that there are higher rewards
from serving others along with him-
self, than in doing things only for his
immediate gratiﬁcation. And he may
see that to put a monetary value on each
and every minute or gesture limits the
rewards of a good life. If we are to stop
and ﬁgure the economic beneﬁt of ev-
erything we do, we will have no time to
enjoy the life we have. We must de-
velop a long-range, world community
view of our actions in order to survive.

Sincerely,
Adrienne Hall Bodie
Newcomb Hall

by lying about identity

To the Washington and Lee Stu-
dent Body:

Last Wednesday night members
of our student body chose to disre-
gard the Honor System and lied to
gain admittance to a Halloween
party at Zollman’s. Several frater-

nities organized the party and put

forth a large sum of money to hire
The Dave Matthews Band.

They established a guest list com-
prised of the members of their houses
and invited guests. They also took
the precaution of hiring people to
check the names of those arriving at
the gate against the guest list.

This is understandable given the
money each of those houses con-
tributed to the event and the capac-
ity of Zollman’s, not to mention the

IFC regulations.

One of the great strengths of
Washington and Lee is the spirit of
mutual trust among students, in the
classroomsandout.'l'hosestudents
who lied about their identities or
fraternal affiliations violated that .
trust. They showed disrespect to
the students working the gate by

lying to them, to the members of 5

those fratemities that paid for the
band by crashing theirparty, and to
the student body as a whole by
abusing the Honor System.

Those students are apparently
under the mistake belief that the
Honor System does not apply in
social settings. It does.

The Executive Committee

     
   
     
   
     
      
   

  THE PING-TUM PHI.  
wE REPoRT MoRE NEws EVERY FRIDAY THAN    
SOME NEwsPAPERs REPoRT ALL MONTH.

ARE YOU LOOKING roR SOMETHING To Do IN vouR
sPARE TIME? Do YOU WANT AN EXCELLENT AD-
DITION To voUR RESUME? THERE IS A SOLUTION:

JOIN THE PING-TUM PHI. wE’RE LOOKING FOR RE-
PoRTERs, COPY EovToRs, PHoTooRAPHERs, AND
ADvERTvsvNc STAFF. NO EXPERIENCE IS NECES-
SARY;WE’LL woRK WITH YOU. PLEASE GIVE USA
  CALL AT 462-4060.

  

  

 

     
  

.1 »

Harrisfeeter
  MEANS to PRICES  

D-_ ‘-3.

I QUALITY AND VARIETY
93% LEAN

tntsn GROUND 
 BEEF 

     
  
 
  


I M . ._,.,  ..
HOUSE OF RAEFORD

GRADE "A" SELF-BASTING

TURKE Y......2 

ADDTIONAL
PURCHASE v
I I‘IIIIIIIIIIIILIIBI:I

PREMIER SELECTION DIET PEPSI
SWHITE POTATOES OR PEPSI

2 LITER 9 9
O

PEPSI
A

5 LB.
BAG

 
 
   
     

  

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

 

2/ oo
DRINKS .............................. ..2 LITER
SWISS MISS PLAIN MILK CHOCOLATE
HOT COCOA O9
MIX ................................ ..i o COUNT
KARIETIES 2/ O0
MUNCHEMS ....... ..7 OUNCE
  499
I BREAST. ........................ ..LB.
   1yp'5EI.ECTEDVARIETIESE EXTRA STRENGTH

TYLENOL
GELTABS

69

   I.AY'$”  
 POTATO cmps

x.

— ..;-‘rig; ..,L‘,,..w_..__.:~.‘.-1 .

 6 oz._

     

.- ~ :....,.:_a,$_-—~—.-

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1993

 HT
 PREMIUM
ORANGE JUICE

HUNTER FARMS
SHERBET

$"('-E  - :.-".2

2/

I QUART

Wm

  
 

T.‘-

 59
 64 oz. I
: = 9" .

\ .

 

 

 Prices Effective Through November 9, I993

 ".;Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday, November '3 Through uesd<l:)y, November 9,1993. In '- '?XITT910" Stores
‘ OnIy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To eolers. We Glodly Accept Federal tood Stamps.

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

Standings as of 11/03/93;‘"E:cordsiare regular} season-

Men’s Cross Country Women’s Soccer
Overall Records* Overall Records
Lynchbur 11-0-0‘ Randolph-Macon 14- 1-0
Eastern ennonite 6-2-0 Roanoke _ 9-6-1
Roanoke 5-3-0 Washington and Lee r 8-6-1‘
Washington and Lee 3-2-0 L/ynchburg 10-8-0
Hampden-Sydney 9-7-0 a. Wesleyan 8-8-0
Brid ewater 3-9-0 6 R-M Women’s ‘ 6-8-0
Ran olph-Macon 1-11-0 Guilford 5-8-0
Iélollins _ 3-11-0
Women’s Cross Country “feet. Bnar M p 2-10-1
Overall Records*
Roanoke 4-0-0 * W , S _
Emory and Henr 2-0-0 ‘06’X'(e:“S‘s. ‘(feet
Washington an Lee 3-1-0 9 , . 1 tan “'35 A
IEZs1t(e}r111iur ennonite  I %?ndh°.1ph'Ma°°5‘1£ V ,8°(1)’0
Bridgewater 1-3-0 Roisnglrggton an e 
Va. Wesleyan 5-3-0
Lynchburg 4-4-0
Football R}I1ll'1If(\)lI"E)man’s 
Overall Records Houins 1_7_0
Emory and Henry 6-2-0 Sweet Bnar 08-0
Randolph-Macon 5-2-1
Hampden-Sydney 5-3-0 3 M
Brid ewater 2-6-0. “w « Volle ball
Was ington and Lee 1-6-0 Overall ecords
Guilford 1-7-0 G If d
ui or 22-5
Bridgewater 22-7
Football Eastern Mennonite 20- 14
ODAC Standings Washington and Lee ' 15-11 _
R-M Women’s College 16-12
Randolph-Macon 3-0-0 Lynchburg 13-13
Emory and Henry 4-1-0 Roanoke 7-11
Hampden-Sydney 3-1-0 Sweet Bfiar 9-15
Brid ewater 1-3-0 HOHIHS 9-16
Was ington and Lee 1-3-0 Emory and Henry 6-19
Guilford 0-4-0
Volleyball];
ODAC Offensive Player of the Week ODAC S“"“““g5 « 1‘
Tom Mason—TB-Washington and Lee Guilford 9-0
gridgewléiter « 8-1
QDAC D f - P] f h k astem ennonite 7-2
e ‘inswe ayer 0 t e wee Washington and Lee S 6-3
Rob Moms-LB—Randolph-Macon , Lynchburg . 3_6
Roanoke M 3-6
Men, Socce Emory andcHenryT 3-6
s r B ' .
Overall Records Hvgleﬂs mar %_;
R- ’ -
Va. Weslc an 14_2_1 M Women s College 2 7
Rando1ph- acon 16-3-0
Roanoke 15-3-0 .1; ' W3-shingtqnlgeej‘ I ~
Hampden-Sydney 10-6-2 ‘ Team'Records
Eastern Mennonite 11-8-0 (11 dated for 11/04/93)
P
Lynchburg 8- 0-1
lévmorly antd Henr Le 53-161:0) gomenk Eennisqo I s g-1]).
its "'8 0“ an 9 « - - ..»   omenis ; , s *“ u.try   ;. 
Brid ewater .. K i <2 r; ,3-§1%srQﬁ' I‘-5» Mgipybﬁv‘  g  pas‘ §5.11t‘
GU11 0rd 3- 3-1 Wen’s Crogs Country 94-3
omen’s occer -7-1
Water Polo 11-11
Men’s Soccer V A h V, * 5-13
Men’s Soccer Football . . 14- ‘A I I 16.
ODAC Standings Overall 51-52-1
Roanoke - -
Randolph-Macon - - » 4 M _ « L _. _ - A
Vugmla Wesleyan ' ' Women’s Intramu‘rals—FootbaIl

Eastern Mennonite

Hampden-Sydney Pi Beta Phi 21, Kappa Alpha Theta 9

710
620
620
530
4-4-0
440
350
170
080

L nchburg - - Kappa Kappa Gamma over Freshman Women
ashington and Lee - -
Guilford - -
Bndgewater ' ' *Only dual, tri- and quad-meets
, are included in cross country records
Sports moment o the week...

Photo; by Bethany Smith. The Fling-tum Phi ‘

We are not quite sure what these athletes are doing, or how" it relates to soccer, but these
members of the Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institutesoccer team were the
photogenic athletes of the week for Nov. 5, 1993.

 

    

PAGE 10

 

Cross country hosts invite;

Women first, men second

Photo by Joe Framptom, The Hing-tum Phi
Sophomore Tom Fink was the second-best
finisher for the Generals in the Washington
and Lee Invitational Oct. 30.

By BILL Rusr
Phi Staff Writer

Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer and the women’s cross
country team surpassed Eastern Mennonite and Shepard this
weekend to win the Washington and Lee lnvitational.

The Lady Generals badly outpaced their opponents, taking
the top four spots in succession. They set a school record with
17 points.

As usual, Schaeffer was the ﬁrst to cross the ﬁnish line.
She ran the muddy three mile course in 18:36, only 18 seconds
short of her best for the W&L course. She has had a
phenomenal season, ﬁnishing ﬁrst in her last seven meets, and
setting a personal best time, an incredible 17:25, earlier this
season.

Junior Amy Mears followed Schaeffer with a time of
20:43. Junior Sue Deutsch was next, ﬁnishing in 21:19. Her
third place ﬁnish in the meet was a personal best.

Junior Kim Herring ﬁnished right behind her, with a time
of 21:30.

The ﬁrst opposing runner passed the ﬁnish line 32 seconds
later, with a time of 22:02.

The Lady Generals have won all but one of their meets this
season, (only dual, tri- and quad-meets are counted in stand-
ings) and enter the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Tour-
nament anticipating their second consecutive championship.
If they succeed, it will be their third in the last four years.

The men’s team, for its part, placed four runners in the top
10 to ﬁnish second to Eastern Mennonite in their only home
meet.

Senior Brad Paye ﬁnished third, and lead the Generals
with a time of 29:29, his best performance of the season.
Sophomore Tom Fink ﬁnished sixth with a time of 30:1 1, and
freshman Sandy Hooper’s 30:50 placed ninth.

Senior Brad Shearer was next, ﬁnishing tenth. ,

The Generals ﬁnish the season with a 4-3 record, fourth in
ODAC. Lynchburg, 11-0, is expected to win the conference
tournament again this year. If W&L does not finish second,
it will be the first time in four years.

Both teams travel to Bridgewater this Saturday for the
ODAC tournament. Schaeffer will be attempting to avenge
last year’s race, in which she missed a turn on the course.

Czssa Liuck.

ewevals!

      
     
         
       
 
   
      
   
   
   
   
 
   

 

 LENFEST SERIES

AT WASHINGTON AND LEE

The THMING Of
Th€i Shnew

Join Kate and Petruchio as
they battle their way to a
happy marriage in Shakespeare's
lively and face~paced

November 13 S
2:00 & 8:00 p.m.

This performance is sponsored in part by a gift from Mr. & Mrs. Joseph L. Crayoroft, Jr. '59

 

presents NCSF in

romantic farce.
 aw...

Keller Theatre

Ticket Information:
Lenfest Box Office
463-8000
Monday-Friday
Noon-4:00 p.m.

  

sea

Volleyball aims to ODACs

and by freshman Virginia Yoerg who

has a W&L record setting 84 blocks.
The team enters the ODAC touma-

ment on November 5-6 as the fourth

  

The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1993

By BILL RUs'r
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee vol- seed.
leyball team enters the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference 'l‘ouma-
ment on the heels of an incredible

W&L faces Emory and Henry in
their first match, and hopes that their

recent winning ways carry over into.
the conference tournament.

Burns was positive about the
team’s chances.

‘‘If we keep playing the way we
have been playing,” said Bums, “we
might have a chance.”

six-match win streak.

Kelly Horan had nine kills to
lead the Lady Generals in their 15-
9, 15-2, 15-7 defeat of .Randolph
Macon Women ’s College on Thurs-
day, Oct. 28.

The team has completed the regu-
lar season with a 6-3 ODAC record,
and a 15-11 overall record. lt is the
second winning record in their his-
tory, and the first since 1988.

The team has been successful, in
part, because they are so well bal-
anced. A different athlete led the
team in each major statistical cat-
egory.

Senior Tara Burns leads the team
with 140 kills. Freshman Elizabeth
Bahn leads with 26 aces, and sopho-
more Cheryl Taurassi has 486 as-
sists to complete the Generals of-
fense.

The defense is lead by Junior
Jennifer Garrigus with 180 digs,

‘P

  
   
   

         

 

Women’s soccer

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

A solid season came to a disappointing end for the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s soccer team on Saturday with defeat at the
hands of Roanoke.

A 4-1 loss to Roanoke brought to an end a season in which
the Generals tallied nine victories and a team record 36 goals.
“We were a little disappointed that we lost in the semi-ﬁnals,
but it was still a good year,” stated junior Jen Lynch.

The Generals equaled last year’s victory total in their ﬁrst six
games and maintained a steady pace throughout the year.

Last year, the team suffered a down year, yet, with many of
the same players, responded with a highly successful year this
season. According to Lynch, “We won a lot of games early and
scored a lot, and that boosted morale.” The team also beneﬁted
from the return of starter Corinda Hankins who did not play last
year, as well as an outstanding class of freshmen led by
Michelle Bauman and Beth Mozena.

It will be these freshmen primarily who will carry the burden
next year for the Generals. Seven women’s soccer players

loses in semis

graduate this spring, all of them key to the team’s
success. Whether the young players can respond will be
seen in the season to come.

The squad was successful this season for a number of
reasons.

“We were a really close-knit team, and there weraft
really any conﬂicts,” stated Lynch in giving reasons for
the team’s success.

On the whole the Generals maintained an excellent
combination of experience and younger players.

When asked about the loss to Roanoke that ended the
season, Lynch said, “We didn’t ﬁnish our offensive
attacks and also, in the ﬁrst game (which W&L tie00-
0) we had a big incentive.”

Lynch was referring to the fact that in the first game 4'

one of the Roanoke players was on the verge of setting
a school scoring record.

Don’t be fooled by the ending. The 1993 campaign
was a successful one for the Generals. Hankins and
Angie Carrington finished their careers as number No
and number three on the career goal list at W&L.

Also, the team rebounded from a dismal season to
post a 6-1-1 Old Dominion Athletic Conference record.

   

Excmgnr g 1 g BEACHS’RNGBREN( E
1 ' EXIIAINCOMENOWI 5 PROM°TER_ or 
Itsbaaack. =»m»m-»-»~-«~-~-« §Lmgc,Gmup&YM§;“““ 

 

  

_l
4. hurl _ 

 

    

Mro er’s
neighbor ood.

T-SHIRT

Black imprint on
White 100% cotton T-shirt
L or X-L 512.00 plus tax

To order call
70312584664
(not long distance from lzxihgfon)

Wednesday Afternoon Tea J

   
   
    
 

From 3-5 p.m., we serve your favoe hot tea with
homemade scones, muffins, and assorted breads.

plus tax and gratuity - group rates available.

3
We are now taking reservations for holiday banquets. Let us
make your office or business party elegant and easy for you.

Warm up a crisp aftemoon.

 
 
     

   

   

0
ad join us by the ﬁre a
r‘. ‘ “ '',§"!:' #1 ‘
WlLLSON-  -*-:=' M
WM-KER 5‘ :.: 2% ‘
.l!.9.‘.’§§ Is i-1-1-I

$5 per person

After 6:00 p.m. weekdays.
daytime on weekends.

30 N. Main Street, Lexington, Virginia

GROUP LEADERS \‘{.L\'TElJ E

 

 To .

    
   

 

    

FACULTY

.11:-}

PARKING

~35MllmYMlI'8lAIlIﬁ$.5'l0|3fI'l’
CALL 1300} 714 - 5657

FLORIDA Km

Point of View

Restcrurcint

 

START HERE .

We wilt be visit.i.n.g Washington and Lee

Waatto teeth? Consider independent tzarivatei sci:-.:.w«_;ts5
0’('tt‘ 451} iodegxnxdcttt scimets Ems: jut: uiumiugx ¢'\'t:f_\’ yea: and many seek the «me: gs‘ and
diversity of nice!!! 'gmt::atc.s to tilt their positions.

9.3:‘ is We may rsompmfit teacher ptat-«ment m~,,§a\\i'.¢.a.titm, amt there is 339 ;'k§_{;-3. 9 to .«.m;.em'.<.s .
. . . . , . - , ,. ' . "V
For more information crmtact your cam‘: utizec at (‘all {W3,2.s:~S.l92

i-\<'t‘.i'.?i£NE':&E-V‘? i2a;a:.=:.s. TE{:Z'£.‘.§. .'£:“iR\r't(.t?.'-2 v.‘.$.i .’~‘».'i$At.‘ 3'3‘. - mi.-»-1:i:'r‘.'.-:.=. .><.: -.~.z::.~z:» -;-».i'v.:_~. .>.s1.si«'s:

 

November 15-16 '

 

2-21,‘:-

sa-ﬁga .t-.z;u\<-.-.z:s:§ ‘e:

  
  
 
  
    
    
  
   
   
 
  
  

SP S The Ring-tum Phi, November 5, 1993

An
age_o|d Water polo
rivaIry__ Wins three

The Washington and Lee '

men’s soccer team  a 

wrapped up its season

Nov. 2 with a game By SARAH GILBERT

against one of the Gener- Phi Sports Editor
als’ oldest rivals, the

Keydets of Virginia Wasn’t it Yeats who said “the
Military Institute. Though 060*“ Cannot hold--3’?
W&L lost, 24’ fans must The Washington and Lee

water polo team must not con-
tain English majors, because they
once again restored their record
to a solid 11-11. Here is one
centerwhich has no trouble hold-
mg

remember that VMI is a
Division I competitor.
The Generals ended the
season with and over-all
record of 5-12.

Strangely, their ﬁnal game
this weekend, the last any W&L
team played before the men’s
soccer game Tuesday, brought
the grand total of W&L team
records this season to 51-51-1, a
perfect .500.

Water polo wins came over
Fordham, 27-7; St. Francis, 13-
4; and Johns Hopkins, 15-14.

Johns Hopkins was the only
real challenge for the Generals,
as the team eased to a victory in
the Eastern Water Polo Associa-
tion playoffs at the Merchant Ma-
rine Academy.

Sophomore goalie Dane
Merkel, who had 20 saves and
12 goals-allowed for the week-
end, commented on the Gener-
als’ competition.

“We didn’t play very com-
petitive teams,” he said. “We
were kind of fooling around,”

Before this past weekend,
W&L suffered losses which
caused the match-up with less
competitive teams.

“We’ve lost to teams we
should have beat,” said Merkel.
“Last week, we should have been
at another tournament playing
tougher teams.”

The real test for W&L comes
this weekend, as the Generals
head to Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, Nov. 5-7, for the

Photos by Bethany Smith. The Ring-tum Phi

The contest against VMI is played for the unofficial Lexington city championship, and the Eastern Division in champion-
Keydets captured the title from the defending Generals, who won last year’s contest 3-2. ships. W&L will be oompeting
Junior Alan Christensen was named to the All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference first team as ‘he d°f°ndi"g_Ch3mPi0"- _

shortly before the game; Christensen has two goals and four assists for the Generals this “mm mm‘ "‘ "‘° °h‘"“P"

. . . . . onship] are psyched up to beat
season, splitting time as a midfielder and a back. us,” Said Mark“ “That gives Us

a motivation to beat them.”

‘Dom’ MIZOUT!

 
 

-'.~7:"~.<- ‘.?~2.v. t.‘ ,5

  
    
 
    
      
     
      
    
 
     
    
    
     
       
     
     
       
       
   
       
        
 
     
   
   
   
     
        
 
     
  

. . .-ar-,—«.:i.

. ~., _I ...- ,.,
A
 ' .1-:.~’r'.r 

r lllL.....\



1 iiririolfliilll
lﬂllriilliiiirlerolsiiiiiriiriiiliil
tigilillt,iitililiigililiiliiili-;f?i";..
diiigisriirlimiresliyvirsir 1  

 
 

THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L T-SHIRTS, SWEATS
HATS AND OTHER W&L SPORTWEAR
lEX|H6TOll'S OHLY SOURCE FOR TEVAS AHO HERRHI. BOOTS

15 w. wiisiiiiiciori sr. WE no MAIL ORDER!
iiexiiieroii 1 103 464-3000

20 lllllllili l lilll

'iili)Cv;i[ll8SSUl€{il0pSl0 iﬁxcessrisknf _
rrrrrnrrl discaseislralfririiofa

Jilscriiedripsronormal smoker

r ayremperarureofhands

zréleeiincrerrsesrirnorrrral "ms

§
§
*3-
§

   

. Valley

HARDWARE STORES

«Lurg carrier death rare for
3 iiiilii average lormersmoieririre

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items .g,,r,._»,,,,,,,~,,,o,;rg:rrm prctadayrrecreasesby

  

     
 

° i?i(lr}édi0pSl0ﬁ0IZnil almobihali

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. oﬂirtcilcielinbirrrrd *Slrrrkeriskisrcduccdtoihai

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 gmlﬁsronafnlai gf3n9n5mok¢;5.15-W

ifierquilling ~._‘
., ii “iii ikisiofcincerofrhcmoulh, ’\
11 S. Jefferson S 463_2595 ‘(.ilillCt’()ill€(£il:lll{lCli m,0Mimpi,3gu5i5h3if .‘
- d°‘¥'“'”~/‘C3 thiiofismolms .4. i

18 |l0ll_S mm;
'3‘l"'l"l‘*_“d““:3.55”*" «Lungcarrcerrleiihrr1esimi-
i9§l"f‘“*l“c°; ' lirroilrarofnorrsmoiers
_ vi-t>i%.ir§=rrrsmell:rrdirrrre .p,mmmiim
zxenhincid mpimd
lilllliioillillilli -Risrrfcmrrfirmwl»
«Circrrlriiirnim arcs 1hma.l‘cS°Pmg““'b‘adder‘
. V . krdrreiand pancreas
vwalirrrglxwmeseasrer démm
lung l‘rrrrcrirrrr increases

   

       
  

SANDWICH SHOP

“Kitchen Lizards” playing on Friday, Nov. 5
9-12 p.m. $3 cover charge

‘ '1 ‘I':'o
n‘n'n‘u 

  

ix \\
W&L Art

 
  
   

 
  
     

 

L V Signatures: uprcrillprrcenr i5 
F't h h L . . - is *
M.‘§m‘é§ 66 J0hr}iqIE£€3t(I)l1'€i(;I‘ Ho 9 lllllllli  6020,,”
Edward Valentine R. E. Lee, Jr. icmgghina. ' _ '
Sam Houston A. P. Hill ‘ W: 4 E = hem
  dn 
w&vii.&L  ha‘:?s:r°‘°“ed    riiii‘ ~ . 4 
an . . e im't 't‘ t  '
b SCu1ptureb§e]RoI»:’?‘uIiiS1o:vi)n at irirgic. V W, THE WORLD S MOST POPULAR MUSICAL
“Wand Gwge WaShi“8t°n vim éltﬁnfrit smoker ROANOKE civic CENTER AUDHORIUM 0 NOVEMBER 9-14
_ bli?‘*"d“‘?i5€ Tuesday -. Srriitiiiy at 1:30pm 4 Saturday and Sizmicy 2pm
ﬂ . . ‘CW3 l§§Y03l’ili ' ,‘.__,_' k   [MW Tidicts at the (Mt (eater Box Office and <13 Virginia Ticketmaster outiets.
iungr. rrrcrca<rngrb:l- Group sales imiiiiiioz 703-981-nor . W... 
,4:  "J U  ﬁeiiﬁjétfjysgg‘ Ef:{‘5§"ee‘ éiyrrrliandie mrcuirrean CHﬁiRGE~8Y~PHON£: 703-343-8l00 ------------ --
(703) 464-6464 thelirrgtrerirrceinfccirrrrr E _ . . . _ . _ . _ _ _ _ _ _ O .
 . , 0 _ _ o
C1Jpen M0n5<ia3(') - Saturday  'Br><%}ir0‘€Wllil?lE-‘F Oaszattirrezictnﬁatzeiﬁecisiyg : Just imagine... your ad :
O a'm’ ' '3 p'm‘  inrrcases CBni9!$?Ci9i$8&S€OCHIl‘i31d 0 could be in this space and 0
K J  PM» 2 both you and the Phi I
_K J  2. would be much happier .3

 

 

  

Last Week:

FB—W&L 41, Bridgewater 16
WSoc—Roanoke 4, W&L 1

VB—def R-MW C 3-0

XC—Women 1st, Men 2nd in Invit.

PAGE 12

S

?Jl12 iﬁing-tum iﬂlﬁ

PORTS

This Week:

FB—Guilford, I1/06

XC—at ODAC Champs. 11/06

WP—at East Div. III Champs. 11/06 ’
VB——at ODAC tourney 11/05-06

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

NOVEMBER 5, 1993

Somef3ai[thl;e:
coaches at Was
and Lee hay
doubtsabot1t_,__
and even. ’t
editor’s—<_:_omm1tm

v understanding-ofthe _
cation ofathlete‘ tW

“She’s anﬁt,
self, so why,‘ ‘ "
realize new
working?’ once

8.
ticed; I have tel.
Q deans, facuit

less conversatro
I have Ase
players’

season athletes.  ,
“So yotfvertrai

of you  
do; lha've*he’ard.tize ‘
ments of students zwn.

shouted toa
ning on afreezrnge
this week. :  ‘I
“Are you
screamedtoait ,
ing through ‘tron
training. i  ‘
Many. athlel
aside ‘studies’
activities’
besttheyca
, a school. like
cannot expect. fan six“
and id.°131fY.il3
found at D 
schools.‘ 
Footballandtias 
playersatwashin ,
Lee can pass men
tiresemestersw‘

 

    
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
    
  
 
   
   
  
   

athletes of the
ledthe Old.Dortt _
letic Conference’

thatsimply:faiIed,,t_o
late into ‘was. is

takes piled up to
the win w,t_ren”th’

that the General, 3
Men’s soccer,
suffered :rex;;’_
record and inc ,
but featured,}som.,
bright stars, ‘goal’
the like whose '
was not reflect
; win~iossﬂ.'

 

only thingfellcw
really see,__is he
‘loss, the la
tion ofsozn
viduai contrabut
lead this : ptoblemﬂto

Themessage
dents must rerne V’ _
good team is notahya 
winning team;"likei>v’rs
the athletes ,mt1St‘k’
their achieveme,
hard work are appreciate,

   

   
 

* .«~, n

 
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   

 
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Seniors Wilson Moore and Thomas Mason heads toward the goal at Wilson Field.
The Washington and Lee football team won its first game againstsridgewater last

Saturday.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Success spawns success. After
a season that saw the Washington
and Lee women’s tennis team go
undefeated in its fall season, sopho-
more Julie Ayers and junior
Marilyn Baker reached the ﬁnals
of the Division III championships
before falling two sets to one.

Marilyn Baker also ﬁnished in
third place in singles after losing
to the eventual champion in the
semiﬁnals.

The strength of a team, even in

 

gains for the W&L squad.

an individual sport cannot lie with
only two players. On a team that
lost no one to graduation, Ayers
and Baker maintained key roles
in on a team driven by youth.

With eight incoming fresh-
men, the team received an infu-
sion of talent from the start. Ac-
cording to Ayers; “We had a big-
ger team and had incredible
depth. We’re all so close in abil-
ity that we improved off each
other.”

Despite the fact that the team’s
record stands at only 3-0, two of
the wins represented important

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Ring-tum Phi

Junior Marilyn Baker struggles to another win on the
tennis courts. She placed third in national competition.

Doubles take second

Radford was a Division I school,
and Mary Washington presented
a special challenge. “A lot of it
was personal rivalries. We had
never beaten Mary Washington,”
said Ayers of Washington and
Lee’s victory.

Baker said, “Our goal at the
beginning of the season was to
beat Mary Washington, since
they’ve always been the team to
keep us out of the national team
competition.”

Concerning the Radford
match, Ayers remarked, “We
never thought we’d beat Radford
since they’re Division I and they
beat us pretty badly last year.”

The season began in promis-
ing fashion with the arrival of the
incoming freshmen and retum-
ing players. “We knew it was
going to be a good year,” said
Ayers.

Baker echoed this.

“Our tennis season was fan-
tastic!” she said.

These early season expecta-
tions were more than born out
during the course of the fall por-
tion of the campaign. As a side
note, Baker is a junior and Ayers
a sophomore, so one would ex-
pect the team to continue its win-
ning ways through next year as
well.

The spring section of the 93-
94 season should be a strong one
for the Generals as well. “We
expect to do just as well in the
spring—provided we work,” said
Baker. “Our goal is to go to Na-
tionals as a team.”

In listing reasons for the
team’s success, both Baker and
Ayers cited team unity, and Baker
listed team goals, and willing-
ness to work hard as major fac-
tors. According to Baker, condi-
tioning was a major facet of the
team as well.

On a squad that traditionally
improves in the spring, the W&L
tennis gurus are aiming to con-
tinuetheirwinningwaysthrough-
out the year.

 

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Another week, another great back, another fresh-
man quarterback. It sounds like the same old, same
old with Guilford College visiting Wilson Field
Saturday for the ﬁnal conference game of the year
for both them and Washington and Lee. The Gen-
erals can cam a fourth-place Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference finish with a win.

Last weekend produced another thriller for the
W&L parents, who last time in town witnessed the
Generals 17-16 upset of Sewanee. A school-record
ﬁve touchdown runs by senior Tom Mason carried
the Generals to a 41-16 slaughter of Bridgewater.
The point total was their most since 1989 and
W&L’s sixth-highest output in 16 years.

The Quakers will bring along for the ride an
offense that may look familiar—they throw the ball
nearly as little as Bridgewater College, while star-
ring an explosive running back.

“They’re similar to what we’re playing with,”
said W&L head coach Gary Fallon. “They have a
lot of young talent that each week, like us, seems to
get better.”

Guilford (1-7, 0-4 ODAC) has struggled all year
while being outscored by a better than 2-1 margin.
However, they are coming off a near upset of the
ODAC’s top team, Randolph-Macon College. The
Yellow Jackets were bailed out by two touchdown
grabs by receiver Garry Carter in their 16-13 es-
cape of Guilford. With Guilford bouncing back
from a 46-14 thumping by Emory and Henry, so
last week’s game may not necessarily be a sign
Guilford is playing much better football. The Quak-
ers beat the Jackets last year, and Fallon thinks that
may suggest something about the Quakers’ perfor-
mance last week.

“They upset Randolph-Macon in a bizarre game
we couldn’t believe [last year],” Fallon said. “They
apparently get up for Macon.”

Looking up for the Quakers-on the ground, at
least—is sophomore running back Jeff Hatch. Hatch,
a transfer student from junior college, may just be
the ODAC’s best new talent. His 766 rushing yards
are the second highest total in the conference, and
Hatch places third in the ODAC with a 95.8 yards/
game average. Like Bridgewater, Guilford features
a freshman quarterback whose primary job is to
hand the ball to Hatch. QB Donald Gwynn has
completed just 20 passes, only 15 of those to the
right team.

The two men ahead of Hatch,,on the ODAC’s
rushing list did their share of racking-up yardage at
Wilson Field last Saturday as Bridgewater’s Ronnie
Howard (214 yards) and Mason (230 yards) tore up
the turf. Howard went over 1000 yards for the
season and is now averaging a conference-best
143.8 yards/game. However, subtracting Howard’s
two 50-plus yard runs, the W&L defense held the
conference-leader to an average of three yards/
carry.

For Mason, the game was a classic. In one of the
single-greatest individual performances in school
history, the senior set W&L rushing records for

Mason eads fooball’s first victory

yards, touchdowns (ﬁve), and points (32—he caught _

a two-point conversion). 0
His 1,255 career rushing yards are ninth best in

Washington and Lee history and just 61 yards out ‘

of seventh. Mason, who began his college career as
a defensive back, has played just 11 games in the
Generals’ backﬁeld. He was named the ODAC’s
player of the week for his historic Parent’s Week-
end performance. . 4"

Tri-captain Mason overcame a sore knee to pick

up 119 ﬁrst-half yards and his ﬁrst three touch- '

downs on 21 carries. His longest run of the day was
for only 15, which says a lot about his consistency.

Fullback Wilson Moore was a pillar of consis-
tency as well for W&L, which did not lose yardage
on a play from scrimmage and committed no
turnovers. Moore carried the ball for 49 yardsgand
was the team’s top receiver, gaining 64 yards on
seven receptions. The senior tri-captain fell less
than a yard short of the goal-line on one of his
catches, setting up Mason’s second TD run.

Even special teams performed well for the Gen-
erals as sophomore kicker Drew Thomas nailed
ﬁeld goals from 43 and 27 yards. Freshman puﬂter
Jon Gardner saw limited action as W&L scored on
seven of nine possessions, but booted punts of 44
and 46 yards.

Coach Fallon felt that everything seemed to go
right for the Generals that day.

“It’s a fun day when things click like that,” he
said. The win was the 70th of Fallon’s Washingon
and Lee career.

Fallon instituted a new quarterback rotation that

he plans to continue with for now. Freshman Brooks "

Fischer started the game, as usual. Sophomore
Matt Reedy, though, entered the game on W&L’s
next possession and the two continued to alternate
at quarterback until late in the fourth quarter, wﬁen

sophomore Jon Lakamp came on the ﬁeld to wrap ‘

things up. 4

“We wanted to take some pressure off of
Brooks,” Fallon said, “and we wanted to give
Reedy some work out there, as well. I felt at 0-6 we
had to ﬁnd some spark, so I told both quarterbacks
we’d give it a shot.” _ Q

Neither Fischer nor Reedy needed to throw
much, courtesy of “Touchdown Tommy,” but they
did ﬁnish with solid numbers. The freshman was 5-
for-10 passing for 42 yards, while Reedy went a
perfect S-for-5, gaining 48 aerial yards.

“Both threw the ball well,” said junior wide-
receiver Jake Kimball. “With the way things wgnt,
they didn’t have to do anything out of the game-
plan.”

That game plan gave the Generals 423 total
yards of offense. As with the 41 points, the total
yards was a team-high over the past four seasons.
Much of the credit belongs to the W&L offensive
line of Derek Boggs, Ryan J ander, Andrew Stat n,
John Surface, and Bob Turner. Although M on
never broke a long run, he also was never tackled
for a loss. He left the game following his ﬁfth
touchdown carry, a two-yard scamper with eight
minutes left in the game.

Next week, Washington and Lee will play their
ﬁnal state-side game of the ’93 season as ‘he
Generals host Catholic at Wilson Field.

Steve wraps up baseball,
ﬁnally; opens hoops season

For you die-hards, the foot-

coaching.

 

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

’Tis the season of change in
the world of sports.

While baseball is doling out
achievement awards, the Na-
tional Basketball Association
is preparing for another gruel-
ingcampaign (that usually,like
hockey, extends well into the
next baseball season—this is al-
ways a source of solace to base-
ball fans who sufferwithdrawal
at this time of year).

The American League an-
nounced its Cy Young award
winner on Tuesday, going with
Jack Morris—-excuse me—Jack
Mcdowell of the Chicago White
Sox. Coming in second was,
well, for those of you that care,
Randy “Where is itgoing?!?!?”
Johnson, the Seattle wild-man
who struck out 308 batters this
year to lead both leagues (prob-
ably because the hitters were
scared to death of being killed).

On Friday, the NBA opens
its season without Michael Jor-
dan. Those sounds you hear are
the network execs and owners
cringing at the thought of los-
ing one of the biggest attrac-
tions in sports. I know it’s
early, but I’m going to go out on
a limb and predict that the Dal-
las Mavericks will NOT win
the NBA title. If the Mets played
basketball, this would be their
team.

In all seriousness, the team
to beat will be the New York
Knicks. Watch out for the Suns
and those up-and-comers, the
Hornets, Magic and Heat. The
Knicks, Suns, Hornets, and
Portland Trailblazers are prob-
ably the strongest teams in the
league this year.

ball slate from this past Sunday
produced some truly “swell”
games. One of the best, and most
controversial, was the Detroit
Lions’ win over the Minnesota
Vikings at Minnesota on Sunday
night.

With less than one minute on
the clock, and Detroit trailing
27-23, Lions QB Rodney Peete
threw what appeared to be an
incompletion on fourth down that
would have given the game to the
Vikings. However, a late ﬂag for
defensive pass interference gave
the ball back to Detroit on the
one yard line. Detroit scored and
won the game.

I just have one thing to say:
That ref has more courage than a
badger in heat to make a call like
that (I had to watch the replay
two or three times to see the
infraction) IN Minnesota.

The college basketball world
always deﬁes those gurus of early
season predictions. That is, of
course, because I have not been
involved.

This year, though, there is a
startling amount of parity. The
only two remaining powerhouses
are Kentucky and North Caro-
lina. Both teams were successful
in replacing graduating seniors
and have wonderful coaches.

Indiana and Duke will also turn
in impressive seasons if for no
other reason than exceptional

Parting Shots-

Mr. Montana, don’t you.
think it’s time to retire?

All those who think that
Don Shula is God, raise your
hand. AfterDan Marino goes
down for the year, Shula still
manages to win with super-
sub Scott Mitchell. Last.
weekend the 31 year coach-
ing veteran tied George
Halas with 324 wins for ﬁrst
on the all time coaching win
list.

In a cost cutting effort,
the National College Ath-
letic Association has decided
to hold a playoff at the end of
the season between Duke and
North Carolina to determine
the national title. The move
saves the NCAA money and
a lot of embarrassment for
other college basketball’
teams.

Finally, the Falcons lived
up to my standards last week
by losing to TAMPA BAY!

I think “inept” is a germane
description of the Bucca-
necrs. C’mon Jerry, you can I
do better than that (you’d
better).

Somebody, PLEASE
beat Buffalo and keep them
out of the Superbowl.

That is enough madness
and mayhem for this week, 0
auf wiedersehenl

  

 

d' D

WASHlNG‘T0

  

LExstfﬁe6'psu.,i A, ‘M3

 
 

 

Folll Fashion Review ,

Bosios ore beautiful for
W&L’s classic look

  

Water Polo drowns out
the competition, defends
eastern title

  

he '4;’tt1tg-tttm lﬂhi

VOLUME 93, NO. 11

Survey reveals

By EMILY BAKER
I Phi STAFF WRITER

One out of four men of last
year’s freshman class believes
that many men secretly desire to
rape a woman. 1

One out of four felt that many

I women cause their own rape by

th way they act and the clothes
they wear. The results of the
1993 sexual attitudes survey re-
vealed these and other attitudes
of both men and women of the
freshman class.

The sexual attitudes survey is

j a ggquestion survey developed

by e Virginia State Task Force
on campus sexual assault. Vir-
ginia studied campus sexual as-
sault by surveying 5000 college
students across the state. lnaddi—
tion to personal questions, the

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

pertaining to sexual attitudes. W
& L freshmen, in the spring of
1992, were asked the same 25
questions.

“As we evaluated these 25
items the first year, we noticed
that there were 10 questions
where Washington and Lee stu-
dents had some percentages in
their responses that needed to be
addressed in educational pro-
grams,” said Associate Dean of
Students Anne Schroer-Lamont.

When the State Task Force
conducted the survey, they sur-
veyed not only freshman, but also
sophomores, juniors, seniors, and
graduate students.

“Becauseweare studyingonly
the freshman class, we’re deal-
ing with a lower level of maturity
with our freshmen more than we
studied in the statewide survey,”
said Dean Schroer-Lamont.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 12, 1993

sexual attitudes

In 1993, 15.9 percent ofW &
Lfreshman men said they agreed
or strongly agreed that most men
accused of rape are really inno-
cent. This was slightly down
from last year’s freshman male
response of18.1 percent, but still
higher than the overall state _male
response of 5 percent. Zero per-
cent of freshman women agreed
with this statement.

At 35.5 percent, more than a
third of W & Lfreshman men felt .
that if a man does not have sex
with a woman who wants to, his
masculinity may be questioned.
This, too is above the Task
Force’s 30 percent of men who
agreed with the statement. 13.2
percent of W & L women agreed
with the statement. .

I-,>See SURVEY, page 3

50% ,
45% _:

   
 

44.8% '

  

I Men -

Women

State 1991

   

W&L 1992

W&L 1993

Percent of students agreeing with the statement
“Many women cause their own rape by the way
they act and the clothes they wear around men.”

sttglents were asked 25 questions

photo by Elizabeth Ureennouse, special to The Ring-tum Pi I

Chestnuts roasting on an open fire...

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

The third time was a charm
for a car thief last Saturday when
he broke into and hot-wired a car
parked in Woods Creek Parking
lot, . . , V - . .

The thief removed the door
lock from law student Robert
Grant’s 1988 Chevy Blazer, and
then started it and drove away.

According to Lexington Po-
lice Chief Bruce Beard, someone
attempted to steal two similar
vehicles in the same way, one on
Nelson St. and one on White St.,
earlier that night.

Beard said police recovered
the Blazer and arrested a suspect,
25-year-old Colin Quentin
Chappell, in Newport News on
Monday. Quentin has a Buena

-‘ Men
Women

24.6%

State 1991

 

 1992

W&L 1993

Percent of students agreeing with the statement

Vista address.

Grant said his insurance com-
pany will pay for the damage to
his truck, although he has not yet
seen the extent of the damage.
He added that he did not have a
car alann.

f‘l~’m just glad W&L Security
and the Lexington police got on
the case so quick,” said Grant.
“I’ll probably look into getting a
little more security for.[the car].”

The two other cars, a 1987
Ford Bronco and a 1992 Chevy
Blazer, were tampered with in
similar ways as Grant’s Blazer.
The owner of the 1987 Bronco
apparently left the doors un-
locked, so there was no forced
entry.

However, the steering column
showed signs of tampering. Beard
said the thief took a wallet from

By BUNNY WoNo
Phi STAFF WRITER

“Many men secretly want to rape a woman."

PC

One car stolen;
two attempted

the car, but only got away with
some pictures.

Marina Jackson, owner of the
1992 Blazer, said she discovered
a hole in the driver’s side door of
her truck.

“It was a nice neat hole,” said

-Jackson. “The police said-[the

thief] really knew what he was
doing. He was in my car but
couldn’t hotwire it.”

Beard said the thief tampered
with the steering column trying
to start the car. Police found
pieces of plastic from the steer-
ing columns where the cars were
parked.

Jackson said there were no
alarms on her car.

‘‘I thought it was awful,” said
Jackson. “I live in Houston and
nothing like this ever happened
there. Now I have the Club.”

SAGE educates

Student group ﬁghts STDS

Educated by W&L Health Educator Jan

Kaufman, SAGE seeks to “discuss information

ness Group Educators (SAGE).

‘Although the weather was chilly Sunday, over 100 people cruised out to ZoIlman’s for the first ever W&L]
VMI social event. Lost in the Supermarket played at the event sponsored by the Preston Society, a group
formed to better relations between the two schools. These students decided to keep warm by chatting
around the fireplace. For details on the event, see the related story on page 2.

this school year.

gether 21 other W&L students.

SAGE member Carol Pierce.

Black studies major maybe in works

Sophomore trying to gauge interest for new program

0 By DAVID WILMINGTON

Phi STAFF WRITER

interest in Black studies ﬁve years ago when he first

began teaching at W&L.

Although most students have stopped thinking about
organizing their classes, one sophomore is looking for

more.
John Branam has attempted to
gaige student, faculty and adminis-
tration support to create a Black Stud-
ies major at Washington and Lee.
After talking to students, Branam
said he “really saw a need for that
type of program. It would add a lot to
the curriculum...there’s a lack in the
diwrsity of education at W&L.”
Though no official guidelines have
been set, Branam has a general idea of
the form for the major. After the re-
quired courses, Branam said the ma-
jor would draw from almost every
current department on campus. The
cowses for a Black Studies major
would focus on aspects of traditional
majors that concern black experience.
Jarvis Hall, assistant professor of
politics, also believes there might be
enough interest to begin a new major.
Hall said there was not as much

1?

 

Branam

“I mentioned it and people thought there was not a
constituency,” he said.

Hall believes the combination of courses in a Black
Studies program would allow professors to make certain

concepts clearer than if the courses
were spread across different depart-
ments.

“The importance of black experi-
ence to all Americans and the con-
nectedness of it could be better un-
derstood by bringing the different
related aspects together under one
major,” he said.

The creation of an official major
would be an important step toward a
more thorough educational experi-
ence, Hall said.

‘‘It would almost guarantee a com-
mittal of resources,” Hall said

‘‘In many of the classes—english,
history and some politics — there
sometimes lacks a diversity of
thought,” Branam said. “That’s one
of the things a Black Studies major
would bring. Having a Black Studies
Major would not only bring diversity
of thought, but also a more diverse

student body.”
The major would offer something to everyone at
W&L, not just to black students, Branam said.

“STeients, black and white, are looking for exposure
to thoughts they hadn’t thought before. That’s what a
college experience should be — expanding your hori-
zons,” Branam said.

Branam said the theory behind a Black Studies major
is clearly inclusive, not exclusive.

“By understanding what it means to be black is also
to learn what it means to be white,” Branam said.

The large amount of interest in the specifically black-
oriented classes already taught at W&L makes Branam
confident that the student body might be ready for the
major.

Senior Allison Lewis, Branam’s classmate in Profes-
sor Demaree Peck’s African-American Literature class
and senior Executive Committe representative, supports
the idea. . .

“Obviously there is a need,” said Lewis. ‘‘I ’ve noticed
that the last few classes at W&L have had a different
ﬂavor , they’re more diverse...l think our student body
could use some more diversity. We’re a pretty homog-
enous student body.” ‘

Lewis sees practical advantages for having a Black

I-vsee BLACK STUDIES, page 3

Sex, contraception, and STD’s.
Last spring, 25 juniors and sophomores decided
to address these issues by forming Sexual Aware-

Started by junior Missy Curtis, SAGE began
presentations concerning contraception and STD ’s

Curtis, along with three other women, got to-

“We tried to get people who were respected at
W&L. People who cared about heath,” said junior

[about contraception and STD’s} with the fresh-

men, in the hopes that they will better understand

counselors.

the facts,” said a SAGE memo given to all dorm

SAGE also informs students of available infor-

they address.

mation on the W&L campus concerning the issues

The group met once a week during the spring

and is currently making presentations.

“Right now we’re just making presentations for

the freshmen,” said Pierce.

I» See SAGE, page 3

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World   

Pontiff takes a tumble

The Pope fell down the stairs.
Pope John Paul II, the 73-year-old pontiff, slipped and fell

 

 

down four steps while greeting officials attending a confer- 0

ence of the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization. The
Pope was able to break his fall with his hand, but doctors
insisted on taking X-rays, which came up negative. John Paul
was able to finish his meeting without any problems.

Bus accident kills 10 in England:
Nine American tourists dead

Ten people were killed in a bus accident Thursday in
Canterbury, England when the bus hit a van and skidded
down an embankment. Nine of the 10 killed were American
tourists. The British bus driver was also killed. “

Forty-six people were aboard the bus when it crashed. The
tourists were on their way to see famous cathedrals and
castles when the crash occurred.

The Nation

High school pep rally causes
six frostbitten fannies

 

Six Oregon high school girls may need skin grafts after
participating in a high school pep rally.

The six girls were chosen by the student body of Oregon’s
Silverton High School to participate in a contest to see who
could sit on a block of dry ice the longest. Silverton’s
principal acknowledged the mistake, saying he would make
sure it didn ’t happen again. Dry ice is the solid form of carbon
dioxide and can get as cold as 112 degrees below zero.

Malibu concerned more with
mudslides than forest fires

R_esid,;erItspf l\__/lalib_u,y_j California were worrying more about
T’  f .  < . .. iapprvaching storm
threateh¥C5§!:€i€Ht39é’ hills. 1' ' " " 
The  :vye_ré lieftlbare after forest fires destroyed hun-
dreds of homes and 200,000 acres in six counties. A quarter-
inch to a half-inch of rain was expected in Southern Califor-
nia. Without trees and their roots being present, very little
can keep mud from sliding down Malibu’s hills.

Studies show: a drink a day
may keep the doctor away

 
 

Researchers in Atlanta, Boston and Oakland are beginning
to admit that nondrinkers might reduce their risk of heart
disease if they have a drink of wine with their dinner.

Their study focuses on a comparison between the heart
disease rate in France, where tradition places wine on the
dinner table, and the United States. The French rate of heart
disease is less than half of the American rate. In the United
States, 200 people die of heart disease for every 100,000
people per year. The French rate is 75 deaths per 100,000 per
year. Researchers are beginning to accept that French wine-
drinking may be linked to the reduced rate.

The State L

Bobbitt acquitted of marital"
assault in mutilation case

John Bobbitt was acquitted of marital sexual assault
Wednesday in the famous Manassas case of the man whose
wife cut off his penis.

Lorena Bobbitt testified that she cut off her husband’s
penis with a filleting knife as he slept after pinning her down
and raping her on June 23. A jury member said the jury_ was
inﬂuenced by suggestions that Mrs. Bobbitt was simply
dissatisfied with her husband’s sexual performance, rather
than distraughtover a sexual assault. Mrs. Bobbitt testified
that her husband was insensitive in bed.

Mrs. Bobbitt will face 20 years in prison if convicted on a
malicious wounding charge. Her trial is set for November 29.

Manassas to host new Disney
historical theme park in 1998

The Walt Disney Co. Thursday unveiled plans for a theme
park in Manassas that will allow patrons to relive history.

Disney has purchased or has options on 3,000 acres in the
historic Civil War battlefield community. Disney plans to
spend hundreds of millions of dollars on the park, according
to the president of Disney’s design and development divi-
sion. The park is expected to open in 1998. It could generate
over $1.5 billion in tax revenues for the state and Prince
William County over 30 years.

NEWS

The Rin -tum Phi November 12 1999

 

 

VMI, W&L students gather
at Zollman’s for first mixer

By EMILY BAKER and
MELISSA SAWYER
of TheiRing-tum Phi Staﬁ‘

They spent three hundred
dollars on security, but the
party went off without a hitch.
The event: the ﬁrst joint
W&L-VMI party.

“Go out there and meet
somebody new.”

With this announcement,
the band Lost in the Super-
market began playing at
Zollman’s on Sunday.

Approximately ﬁfty Vir-
ginia Military Institute and
Washington and Lee students
gathered at Zollman’s at a
party sponsored by the Preston
Society, a group organized to
promote better relations be-
tween students of the two cam-
puses. Jason Dunn, a W&L
student and a founding mem-
ber of the society, said that he
was very pleased with the
event and that he hoped many
more such “mixers” would
follow. Dunn’s twin brother,
Martin, is a student at VMI.

Atticus Gill, a freshman at
W&L, said that “it was a good
time to throw down the ste-
reotypes.”

Partygoers appeared to en-
joy themselves and the event
ended without any complica-

tions. ,

Many of the students agreed
that getting to know each other
on an individual basis lead them
to diminish the traditional ani-
mosity. Gill blamed the bad
relations on “bad press and
fights that get hyped up.” He
said that individual disagree-
ments are often seen as school
issues.

George Stringer, a third
class student. or a junior, at
VMI, said that coaches at both
schools encourage rivalries
among students. Stringer, how-
ever, said that the administra-
tors and faculty of the schools
did not encourage the tensions
or the open ﬁghts between their
students.

The Preston Society spent
approximately $1400 on the
event at Zollman’s. To build
on the success of this event, as
members hope, the Society will
have to go to the EC to ask for
more money.

Bryan Patterson, lead singer
of Lost In the Supermarket,
said relations between the two
schools have not changed much
since he graduated from W&L
in 1991. “I think (the mixer)
can be a great success,” he said,
at the start of the party. “There
are deﬁnitely a lot of miscon-
ceptions about each others’
schools.”

.<
.=-W-»

Photo by Elizabeth Greenhouse, special to The Ring-tum Phi

W&L students and VMI cadets partied together to the sounds of Lost in the
Supermarket Sunday. (L to R): Susanna Craib-Cox, Martin Dunn, Karl Bucus

Patrick Reynolds speaks out_

CD&P warns of strenuous job searches .

By MICHAEL HEwLEI'r
Phi Staff Writer

If your job search is getting you nowhere, then
stop by the Career Department and Placement Of-
ﬁce. You may just get some relief from your frustra-

tions.

According to Beverly Lorig, Associate Dean. of
Career Development and Placement, the Selective
Liberal Arts Consortium sponsors interviewing days
with various companies in New York, Atlanta, Wash-
ington, D.C., Chicago, Los Angeles and Philadel-

phia.

Lorig said 107 seniors have submitted their re-
sumes to interview with companies around the coun-

try.

Although SLAC is the only job fair CD&P par-
ticipates in, Lorig said that Careers ‘94 is open to

W&L seniors.

For undergraduates looking for internships, Lori g
said that CD&P has developed information on spe-
ciﬁc internships and has written companies about
internships and job openings. Lorig said that work-

J shops are offered for practice interviews, resumes
internships. Freshmne have also taken advantyage of

CD&P resources

Lorig added that students can take advantage of

alumni contacts.

“Alumni have been very receptive as students
pursue their career interests,” said Lorig.
Lorig said that the job market will be a challenge

for seniors this year.

“However, there are still opportunities, but it will

take effort to find the job they want,”said Lorig.
“Seniors must be prepared fora strenuous job search.”

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
Patrick Reynolds, grandson of tobacco giant R.J. Reynolds,
speaks to students about the secrets of the tobacco lobby in the
Leyburn Library's Northen Auditorium on Tuesday. Despite his
anti-smoking stance, Reynolds is a reformed smoker, having
quit a dozen times since he started smoking as a teenager.

By YAI3Iz SEDGHI
Phi CONTRIBUTING WRl1'ER

Why would Patrick Reynolds,
grandson of the tobacco giant R.J.
Reynolds fight the tobacco industry?

On Nov. 9 in Northen Auditorium,
Reynolds revealed the events and Ino-
tives that have led him to where he is
today.

When Reynolds was three his par-
ents divorced and he did not see his
father for six years.

At the age of nine, Reynolds ﬁnally
wrote a’ letter to his father: “Dear Dad,
I want to meet you. Love your son,
Patrick.” 0

After being forwarded from place
to place, the letter miraculously reached
his father’s hand and he was sent for.
Unfortunately, as a result of smoking,
his father was dying of emphysema.
Over the next seven years Reynolds
saw his father only ﬁv_e more times and
each time he saw his father slowly
wither further away.

Watching his father die did not stop
Reynolds from smoking. Like many
other teenagers, he started smoking to
look older and impress girls. Today,
after twelve attempts at quitting,
Reynolds is ﬁnally smokefree.

In 1986, Reynolds and a friend went
to Washington D.C. with a friend to
make donations for the Republican
Senate Campaign Fund. During this
time, Reynolds met Senator Bob
Packwood and innocently asked him
why cigarette taxes are so low in the
United States— the lowest of any in-
dustrial nation. Packwood asked
Reynolds to come down to a commit-
tee meeting in which they were dis-
cussing the expiring 16 cent federal
excise tax. He also asked Reynolds if
he would like to testify before the com-
mittee. At the time, Reynolds found the
idea quite distressing and
unfathomable.

When he went back to California,

Reynolds started learning about tobacco
issues. He found out about a possible
bill banning cigarette advertising in the
U.S. As a result, he called up the
American Cancer Society and other
institutions to testify on their behaﬁ.
After this encounter, Reynolds claims
that he was besieged with requests for
speaking engagements.

Reynolds explained that for the most
part, his family does not worry about
his outspokenness. At ﬁrst he admitted
that because of the family’s previogs
experience with the media, they were
worried about being embarrassed. They
were also afraid that their stock values

would plummet. Reynolds sold his ~

R.J. Reynolds stock back to the family
in 1979.

Reynolds went on to discuss t e
strength of the tobacco lobby in Was -
ington and the problems with advertis-
ing. In reference to the 1992 Presiden-
tial campaigns in which both Bush and
Clinton received record amounts of
contributions from the tobacco lobby,
Reynolds said “No corporation ev§r
gave money without getting songethi g
in return.”

Reynolds, deeply disturbed by the
tobacco industry’s targeting of teens
and minorities, criticized the lack of
federal regulation.

“Ninety percent of all who smoke
are addicted by age 19,” said Reynolds.
He said he supports banning cigarette
advertising and increasing the smok-
ing age to 21.

“Tobacco advertising is an abuse of
Freedom of.Speech,” Reynolds added.

According to Reynolds, since the
1960s, smoking has decreased in ﬁre
U.S. and has had a worldwide increase
of 73 percent. Reynolds believes that
this increase is due to the targeting the
Third World and the Far East popula-
tions that are eager for the status that
America brings.-

“This is the greatest crime of we
20th century,” Reynolds exclaimed.

\

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-rum Phi

Ruth Lewis and Beverly Lorig of CD&P can assist students in their job searches.

 

i

 

- Ring-tum Phi, November 12,1 993

PAGE 3

exual attitudes survey results released

.. URVEY, from page one

he ercentageofW&Lmenwho
- ed ith the statement thata woman
pretend she does not want sex
use she doesn’t want to seem
e, but she hopes men will insist,
t 14.4 percent, below both the
ious year’s percentage and the

k F ce’s.

Ou men in 1993 scored below
yearon (this percentage) and were
tantially lower than Virginia men
ss the state, so that’s encourag-
” said Dean Schroer-Lamont. “But
whole idea that a woman hopes a
1 wi I insist doesn’t bear up with
su eys that have ever been done

State 991W&Ll .2W&L 1

993

order to protect men. judicial , ’

Percent of students agreeing with the statement ‘In

it very diﬂicult for a woman to prove she was raped."

should mako

omen. When a woman says ‘no,’

wants men to hearthat ‘no’ and not
. rpret it as a maybe.”

& L men’s

re of 23.2 per-
t agreeing with
staﬂmem that
woman drinks
e point of help-
‘ness and has
, it isn’t rape,
le lower than
. Virginia men’s
re ﬁ28%), is
t where we
- Id like to see
according to
an Schroer-
ont. “In all
esty, if a
anéshelpless,
he is uncon-
us, and a man
sex with her, it
peaccordingto

deﬁnition in the state of Virginia.”

intercourse without consent by use of
threat, force, intimidation or due to

occurs.
“That’s what we’ve tried to educate
men about,”
said Schroer-

J sun-1991 W&L1992 war. :99

Percent of students agreeing with the statmnent ‘A
woman will pretend she does not want. sex because she
doesn't want to seem loose. but she hopes men will insist.”

Lamont. “You
have nothing to
gain by having
sex with a
passed out
woman.”

“In the legal
sense, a man is
taking a tre-
mendous risk.
For a man to
havesex with (a
passed out
woman)...he is
k n 0 w i n g l y
c o m mi tt i n g
rape.”

The number
ofboth men and

physical helplessness or mental inca-

Virginia law deﬁnes rape as sexual pacity of victim in which penetration

I women agree-
ing with the statement that many women
cause their own rape by the way they

act and the clothes
they wear around
men decreased in
1993. 5.7 percent
of freshman
women agreed
with this statement
in 1993 as opposed
to 9.1 percent in
1992. The men’s
also decreased
from 44.8 percent
to 26.6 percent.
“That’s still
frightening,” said
Dean Schroer-
Lamont. In addi-
tion to the fact that
one in four men
agreed with the
statement, “I think
it is also upsetting
to women when
they see that even a
small percentage of
women agree with

State 1991 W&L 1992 W&L1993

this.”

One-fourth of
men, 24.4 percent,
say that many men

A Pprcent of students agreeing with the statement “If a
man doesn’t have sex with a woman who wants to, his
masculinity may be questioned.”

secretly want to
rape a woman. This
has held consis-
tently with last

PC

year’s W & L per-
centage and with
that of the State Task Force. One-tenth
of W & L women also agreed with this
statement.

One of the most troubling statistics,
according to Dean Schroer-Lamont, is
the fact that signiﬁcantly more men
than women agree that responsibility
for preventing rape lies with men.
While 59.1 percent of men agreed with

the statement, only 52.1 percent of
women agreed with it.

“Women are into blaming the vic-
tim behavior just as men are. It’s a
national problem that exists.”

“I think it’s early in this study to
draw conclusions. I hope we can con-
tinue this survey for the next couple of

‘ years, and will continue to educate and

see if we can make an impact now. lam
somewhat encouraged that several of
these items are showing greater matu-
rity in the response percentages.”

“Our whole reason for doing this is
to educate. We really want to raise
awareness, change attitudes, and help
students make more responsible deci-
sions for themselves.”

. ophomore proposes black studies major to deans

BLRCK STUDIES, from page one

dies major. “In the business world, you
1’t just take economics classes to get a job. A
of people are hiring people who have back-
unds in sociology and more specialized
Ids.”

Braﬂam said he believes some of the re-

ably already here. According to Branam, there
are already enough faculty members to teach
the major.

He speciﬁcally singled out Hall as “most
qualiﬁed to teach Black Studies at W&L.”

Lewis said she believes the hardest resource
to come by will be support from the administra-
tion.

“I think most of the resistance will come
from the administration. They’re very con-

cemed with tradition,” Lewis said. “I think the
traditions at W&L should be the Honor System
and academic excellence.”

Branam said the efforts of Associate Dean
of Students Anece McCloud and Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison indicate the administra-
tion might be receptive to his plan.

“The university has been gathering most of
the black students togetherwith Dean McCloud
and Dean Howison to get impressions of their

experience at W&L,” Branam said. “I’ve talked
at some length with Dean Howison and he is
very interested but only mildly supportive.”

Branam said he has realistic ideas of what
goals to pursue with the program.

“We’re open-minded. We know we’re not
just going to ﬂy in here with Black Nationalism
or something,” Branam said. “The main goal is
to open people’s minds.”

Branam’s current plan is to measure support

for his idea.

“We’re trying to build a consensus that this
would really add something to W&L and then
ﬁnd students interested to sit down with other
students and faculty and ﬁnd out what they
believe should be included.”

Branam calls the creation of a Black Studies
major “a pretty major move for W&L but
nonetheless a necessary one.”

“I think it’s a no-lose situation,” he said.

rces needed to start a new major are prob-

Shop for

Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

Accessories .

oppugoggot

Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

TGIF Ca alog Ou le

BIRTHDAY BASH
Friday & Saturday Only

Here’s our gift to you!
Extra Extra E.\'tra I€.\‘(ra lZ.\'lra lZ.\‘1m l ixrru
_ Instant Rebate
 $25 Off any purchase $99 or more.

$10 Off any purchase $49 c:> $98.

$5 Off any purchase $29 0 $48.
Nov. 12th and 13th

vuxg v.u.\‘3 29.1 ix] v.u.\'31 n_n.\‘_'.1 v_n.\j( m1.\‘_'. 1

Lexin ton Store Only
Just imagine... your ad , 17_ . Malﬂ StI'6ClI
could be in this space and Lexington, Va 24450 I
both you and the Phi Hours Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5 :30
would be much happier 463-97 30

l).ll.\'_T] m1.\f1

éessasgasaeea

Organizational

Meeting
Wednesday, November 17th
73OpnL
Reid Hall 203
Attention Sophomores:
Applications available for  
Tri-Chairmen
Freshmen also encouraged to apply.

. __..._ .....__.. ._..

Stanewa ‘§2i7i.=i‘re Shopping Center
LexIngtan,V
463-9800

Come in and take the If we don’t have
what you want, we will order it for you and give you $2.00 oﬁ‘ purchase
price. Guaranteed delivery in two working days. If we fail, you receive an
additional $1.00 off any purchase of a full-length piece of music.

Challenge Us Today!

Bryan Adams - So Far So Good
Phil Collins - Both Sides
Lowell George - The Factory
N 0 Alternative - No Alternative
J imi Hendrix - ‘Stone Free
A Tribe Called Quest - Midnight Marauder
Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri & Sat. 10a.m.-ll p.m., Sun.
Noon-10 p.m. '

O

+<
f4¥¥¥¥¥¥444¥4¥¥¥¥¥¥¥

EL

~ like your photo added to your regular Citibank Classic Visa

  

PAGE 4

  The Anatomy of the Citibank

Classic card: a body of services and peace of mind
f0l° students. For years, scientists could only theorize about the Citibank Classic Visa“ card,

unable to actually observe anything below its epidermal surface (i.e. the plastic). Surely, the highly

intelligent  were evidence of an advanced brain. But with the latest advances in x-ray technology,

and when the light could catch the various parts just so, it was coniimied: the Citibank Classic Visa card  

 ..  mg A    vb - r  F3 3 is head to toe more evolved than ever imagined. ‘ll At its

   
 

backbone are 3 services to cover the purchases you make

on the card. Starting at the Lower Costal Spine, 

see Citibank Price Protection can assure you of the
best price. All you have to do is discover the same item
 in print for less, within 60 days, and Citibank

Scientists theorize that the mind of the Citibank Classic Visa
cardmember (Fig A) is secure because it receives superior
service; the mind of the non- Citibank Classic Visa cardmember

(Fig 3) is not secure because—couId it be—it has a screw loose?  refund the difference up to $150‘. Along the 0ops-It-
Slipped Disc, Buyers Securit y"" can cover those purchases against accidental damage, ﬁre or theft, for 90
days from the  of purchase‘; and Citibank Lifetime Warranty" allows one to extend the warranty
for the expected service life of eligible products up to 12 yearsz. So if you ever buy a walkman, a stereo,
whatever, it will be reassuring to know that Citibank can bend and be ﬂexible while still lending support.
1] The backbone is then connected to the cranium or headbone. You can actually see it on the top left
hand comer of the card. Look at the bottom of the page. The Citibank Photocard has the head of the
cardholder on it, as well as his or her own signature, right on the front. That way, it will help prevent fraud.

It will make a  arm as well, since you getioi j  But what about the

 
 

  

Nervous System? The fact is, it doesri’ t have one, not in the spinal  nor in the brain. What it has is the
Very Calm System. Because even if your credit‘ card gets stolen, or gets lost, an involuntary muscle called
the Extendus Anewcardeus activates the Lost Wallet“" Service which can replace your card usually
within 24 hours. 1] As suspected, there’s another involuntary muscle: the heart—a beating and caring
heart, big enough to give students special discounts and  You’ll receive a $20 Airfare Discount
on domestic ﬂights’; savings on mail orderpurchases, sports equipment,  and music; a low
variable interest rate of 15.4%“; and, no annual fee. (In other words, the card itself doesrr’ t cost a forelimb
and a hindlimb.) 1] Naturally the heart of the Citibank Visa card pumps life and personalized customer
service into all its parts, 24 hours a day. So no matter what the question you nright have concerning
your card, you need only call the 800 number. Citibank representatives each have a neck they are eager
to stick out for you. They will always lend an ear.  a hand. They will keep an eye out for you. They will
put their best foot forward. Etc. ‘ll So call to apply. You don’ t need a job or La cosigner. And call if you’d

card. The number is 1-800-CITIBANK (1-C800-248-4226),
extension 19. ‘H If we take an overview of the whole body of
services that make up the Citibank Classic Visa card, and
consider that it will facilitate building a credit history, then

you must shake a leg, ﬂex your index ﬁnger and call today. Not just Visa. Citibank Visa.

‘Certain conditions and exclusions apply. Please refer to your Summary of Additional Program lnfonnznion. Buyers Securit is underwritten _by The Zurich International UK
Limited. ’Certain restrictions and limitations a ly. Underwritten by the New Hampshue Insurance Company. Service ‘I e expectancy vanes by product and_ is at least the
minimum based on retail industry data. Details 0 coverage are available in your Summary of Additional Program Information. ’Oli‘er expires 6/30/94. Mrmmum ticket purchase
price is $100. Rebates are for Citibank student cardmembeis on tickets issued by ISE Flights only.‘ The Annual Percentage.Rate (APR) for purchases is 15.4% as of 10/93 and may
vary quarterly. The APR for cash advances is l9.8%. If a ﬁnance charge is imposed, the minimum is 50 cents. There is an additional ﬁnance charge for each cash advance
transaction equal to 2% of the amount of each cash advance transaction; however, it will not be less than $2.00 or greater than $10.00. Monarch’ Notes are published by Monardi
Press, a division of Simon & Schuster, a Paramount Communications Company. Used by permission of publisher. ©1993 Citibank (South Dakota), N.A. Member FDIC.

"Call? cl-800i-CITIBAN ;

 

     
 

O

1hmFN.IovllD812, me

 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

Monarch Notes’ Versibn
With your purchases covered
no fee, and a’ low rate, th

Citibank Classic Visa card
goeasyporiyoiirltlerwtis ‘ 

(1-I00-248-4226), extension, 1 'e

 

  
  
 
 
 

The Ring-tum Phi November 12, 1993

By HILLARY Olson
Phi Staff Writer

On the grounds of the other Lexington cam-
pus, the cadets of Virginia Military Institute
perform an elaborate ritual every Friday at 4:30
p.m.

The VMI parade is a complex formation
originally practiced in preparation for battle but
continued now as a matter of tradition. Its
powlarity with tourists may also account for its
long lasting existence.

As you might expect, the parade follows a
speciﬁc pattern every week.

The first to march onto the parade deck, the
ﬁeld in front of the barracks, is Band Company.
The drummers perform a cadence to keep the
cadsts in step. From the three arches of the
barracks emerge the nine other companies,
separated- into three battallions of three compa-
nies each. Each company is led by a company
commander in front and a cadet guidon who
holds the company guidon, the ﬂag with the
company’s letter.

e companies are named alphabet, Alpha
through India, after the military alphabet used
to clarify letters in radio communications.

The companies line up in alphabetical order
facing the reviewing stand where the officer of
the review, often Superintendant Major Gen-
eral John Knapp, supervises the parade.

Also facing the companies is the Regimen-
tal Staff,,a group ofseniorcadets headed by
Regimen'tal’Commander' Jon 'Laude'r.~ Lauder
delivers the commands of the parade.

, The parade colors, the United States, Vir-

ﬂanked by two others with riﬂes who march
between the companies and the Regimental
'I'he’Regimental Adjutant, another member

of the Regimental Staff, directs the cadets to fix
: bayonets on the end of their_riﬂes. The use of
‘ bayonets is an honor granted to VMI to recog-
nize its participation in the Battle of New

Mar

  
 

A

  

 

  
   

By Kathleen Quirk

Phi Staff Writer

    
    
 
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
    
 
   
   
     
    
    
     
   

9

, ginia.andVMI ﬂags, are carriediby threejcadets, ,

 

 

  ‘I/I/@“Li e 
Eeeeesaeéasegs E eeeaee  

Cadets honor tradition with weekly march

The Corps also wears red on their overcoats
to signify the blood lost at New Market where
ten cadets gave their lives.

According to tradition, the cadets’ coatees,
dress blouses with tails and gold buttons worn
by upperclassman during the parade, have
unsewn tails to remind them that cadets at New
Market had to cut the tails of their uniforms to
make bandages to care for the wounded.

The Regimental Commander leads the Corps
in Riﬂe Manual, a routine that emphasizes
precision and perfect timing.

The band is featured during Sound Off,
when it marches back and forth in front of the
reviewing stand playing marches with strong
drum beats. Band Company Commander
George Schrefﬂer leads the band and some-
times acts as drum major. The band practices its
rather complicated marching routines on Tues-
day afternoons on the parade deck and its music

on Thursdays after dinner.

The Officers’ Call is next, in which all
company officers and their guidons come for-
ward to face the Regimental Staff. Historicall,

this call gave the commander the chance to give
instructions to his officers before a battle.

The next activity, after the band plays the
National Anthem, is Pass and Review. At this
point the companies pass before the officer of
the review as the band plays a cadence.Each
company, lined up from tallest to shortest,
marches by with two of its three platoons since
many of the cadets are usaually absent because
of sport functions. The rats, freshmen cadets,

arein a separate platoon because they have not
yet been fitted for coatees and still wear grey
blouses. As the cadets pass by the reviewing
stand, they turn their heads at the command
“eyes right” to honor those officers on the
reviewing stand.

The cadets then return to barracks in forma-
tion as the band plays another cadence. With

little variation, the cadets dedicate almost an

hour every Friday afternoon to honor this mili-
tary tradition.

“Even though the parades are sometimes a
hassle to us, the parents and community seem to
enjoy them,” said cadet Vein Wilkens.

Fashion mavens take note: don’t expect much
radical trend setting on the Washington and Lee

campus this winter.

It shouldn’t surprise anyone to ﬁnd students

here are ending fall with a traditional look.

 

PAGE 5

Whether running late to class or hangin’ at the Co-op, many students opt for the
casual, yet timeless, “sweats and sneakers” look.

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Virginia Military Institute cadets stand tall during their weekly parade and review.

  l:C]Sl’lOfl Pei o clelails “ClC]SSlC”  lo0l<s

A glance at male and female style, or lack thereof, on the Hill

“People dress really conservatively here,”
says freshman Christi Wooldridge. “Very J.

‘ Crew, Gap—ish — all the guys dress the same.”

Indeed, the College Town Shop reports
Duckhead pants and ﬂannel shirts are as popu-
lar as ever. Jeans, of course, are omnipresent,
along with the T—shirts worn under every but-
ton-down which is often left untucked for a
casual look. Baseball caps are plentiful even on
good hair days and almost no one goes without
hiking or duck boots. As the weather grows
cooler, wool sweaters and big coats — espe-
cially barn jackets —— make their appearance
too. '

When the occasion calls for something a

little dressier, W&L guys turnout in droves
wearing navy blazers and khakis. Some, though,
make the foray into new territory with herring-
bone or tweed. Shirts — usually white——and
ties fill out the outﬁt, while insignia belts — the
ultimate W&L accessory—complete it. Varia-
tions on the theme include khaki shorts (when
the weather was warmer), jeans, bowties and
suspenders and, of course, baseball caps,. Close
observers can also find the occasional suit — in
dark, traditional colors only, with the exemp-
tion of those great seersucker suits the deans
wear with white Bucks in summer. In general,
W&L just says no to anything ﬂashy, funky, or
Euro—styled.

W&L girls are wearing a broader range of
styles — especially in class. There the look can
range from sweats — the “late—for—class ca-
sual” look — to jeans, skirts or dresses.

“Here they dress up more for class than for
going out,” says freshman Marie Lamb.

Girls even wear ﬂannel shirts with their
jeans and hiking boots. Southwestern styles are
also highly popular according to the College
Town Shop. Girls often wear vests, along with
wrap skirts in a wide variety of styles. Wrap
skirts, both short and long, straight skirts, and
plaid skirts (pleated, straight, short and long)

are very visible. Jackets are always popular
with tailored skirts, wool slacks and wide-
pants. Favorite fabrics include chambray, fuzzy
ﬂannel and fine gauge sweaters. Pretty sweat-
ers are never wrong; W&L women generally
choose classic traditional clothing.

“I think the biggest fad that will ever hit here

is someone changing the color of their argyles,”
says freshman Caitlyn Pentleton.

Part one of two

Photo by Richard Weaver, The Ring-tum Phi

     
      

 
 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-ruin Phi

Barn jackets and khaki pants are considered essentials for the discriminat-
ing W&L male.

    
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
        
  
      
      
      
       
    
   
    
     

 

W&LIFE

    

O

The Ring-tum Phi, November 12,1993

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

Pluggers

gff tI|¢ mark by Mark Parisi

Ail,~/Es, MR. eono... wHEN WE
CANDLE BURNS THE ROPE IT WILL
mass rm; spams ssnome THE
rsowuue BALLTOWARD m5 DOMlNo£s
WHICH WILL H17 THE 76661.5 swlTcH...

‘_ ~ oi9sarnmmMoaasuvas.mc./F|uo9cvI-lv-=-
V I 1

  

%i?a’.€ 

lw,
 §

 

9-ll nwmc rurw eiumuumw

   
  

by Jeff MacNe1ly

   

/

sometimes lying isn't 1ying,it'9 éurvival .

a 
M0005 OF
A CAT

?/{T95/In Odd

//~ ‘\§“ 79-?
(-0
I

by David Miller

Dave

  
       
 

   

\\ ‘
PoléuNANT
FAFHER —~- 9-ON
MoME_NT .
FALL ‘la

\"'

Colonnade Crossword
ACROSS 1

1 Long tooth

5 Had debts V

9 Cowboy's rope
14 Assert formally

_ 15 Fix roads
16 Actress
Susan -—
17 Reside
18 March date
19 Derisive sound
20 "Queen for —"
21 Roman tyrant
22 Barbara or Clara
23 Works in the
garden

25 52

  
 

NON (§EQUlTUll

35%

\\/ll'.’=-‘EV.

l—lAPPY sea SNUUIY Humane  <-



ﬂy..-

DAl7...(.lM...NElZE EXACTLY I5 Your?
WAl6TLlNE ? WHAT HAPPENED To IT?
...AND 16- n’ HEl?El>lTARY.7

BATH TIME.

.\ (1,/at
r.~l‘;'%v’/’ ra-
‘I/" /’//

’ \

01933 Tfmuvll Media services, he.

  
  
      
    
    

 

&fE\ 7

 \

llo\N To TELL YOU'RE LEl>N\N(-’ 5
l\ NNOR l\N\E\’4¢l\N CYYY...

     
      

Al sigma Resolved

 
   

              

  
    

1 ,__ / :7" "   \\Illé,V§
'_ -r l.l>~éT CP~Rx3l>~C\<V=\? §
. / :§ ‘
i
ll
R
B

 

  

   
  

    
      
           
   

 

 

  

  

 

   

Small or large groups. Your’s
FREE, discounted or CASH.
Call CMI 1-800-423-5264

F7‘
The

Point of View

Restaurant

   
    
   
  
 
 

Next to Days Inn, Rt. 60 West
3 463-7797
[ Casual Dining
2 Elegant Setting
Finest Steaks - Fresh Seafood
Pork Ribs - Banquet Facilities
l

Wanted: Waiters & Waitresses,
K part time. Call: 463-7797

J

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Organiza-
tions wanted to promote the Hottest
Spring Break Destinations, call the

nation’s leader. Inter-Campus

OIIHBEYMIIIIIWIJTOGIII
C.~ll.L I500! 714 ~ Still?

FLORIDA KEYS

  

‘BEACH SPRING BR_EAK PROMOTER

 

  

   
  

     
        
     
     
       

   

      
 

_ADDA

 
 
     

£pEc1AL

   

Programs 1-800-327-6013.

   

With the Autumn

 
     

 adds to the

 ﬂorist to The Homestead .
‘Ten East Nelson 0 Lexington 0 465-9841

Harvest Bouquet,
this bounty of
seasonal color

A _ celebration.

27 intuitive letters -/3 l
28 Bear the cost

31 Troubles

32 goes fish k ..

a snac 1-,  - o
332:::a::*°°9  OFFHANPAI? 5A9
41 R bb't k‘ .,.‘,-~
42 lnzigencr owes Tribune Media Services. Inc. 1 1 /12/93 
  , , ..,, ; FAKlNG DEATH
:4; ggiton thread gThought Last week S pun e S0 v    A
47 Btaerleed shrllly haﬂrziﬁlilsly W ,1    l”

48 Barbara — 7 At all ' &

Geddes 8 Laid waste

51 Coastal flyer 9 Movie dog

52 Flow slowly 10 — Karenina

53 Warning sound 11 Gem

55 Audacity 12 Culls

57 First place 13 Ready _ I

2; :::::':.:°'av oE “A5 i‘-‘‘‘' 4»  
3 §gg';;g;°v° SH 5€.l“L‘i»‘.1*5'2,%*-%.Eé’TV#£l‘.&l?1’éF*     o~ ~¢
65 A few 30 — and aft

66 Be cognizant 31 Provide food

67 Restaurant 32 Small dog

g customer 34 Lap dog
68 spouted pitcher 36 Fastener
69 Scaleless 37 Heraldic border
fish 38 Unwanted plant
40 Dread _A
DOWN 44 "Let sleeping 48 Founded 56 Swear
1 FDR's dog dogs —" 49 Oilyv resin 58 Great —
2 Greedy 46 composure 50 Old language 59 Environmental
3 Leningrad river 47 Disney ﬁlm, 52 Muck sci.
4 Racing dogs "Old —" 54 Reign 60 Recent events
V N‘       2
W&L Art “lT’STHEFUNll]iSTFlLMOFTllEYEAR” GROUPS!  l:'““"“’*"°”“‘
0 CLUBS: ‘ EMPLOYMENT
~li.»h l’ulun.~k\. (‘BS \l;\\'S .Vl.'l'\\'()Rl\' . . Make up to $2,000-$4,000+ per
we have three Ralse  to  to month teaching basic
R E  %  III 1688 than 3 - conversational English abroad.
. . J ’ ' Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea.
Signatures; Two are war Date‘ ‘ P920 Mart)’ employers Provide room
w&L C 1  P g , 8: board + other benefits. No
w&L and°l§%er£)e:t§’I:1?%dé%(ﬁ?red t and get 3  T'sh1rt teaching background or Asian
Sculpture by Ron 'l‘un1sori) n ar . . just for calling‘ ia?gua§::r:ig1ﬁired' For more
Mary and George Washington pieces 1 1  1-800-950-1039 ext. 65 m(<2>;;g) m 1 14-6 Ext 5342
From the Director of Wayne's World. ‘_
ﬂ ' . [I>:G]_$. emxr-I-an-.-an-M1 ‘Maw
4 East Washin on Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464 ONLY unerncu me
Open Monday - Saturday _ ’
  10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. 261 7292 o
. Show Times .
Daily 7:00 & 9:15 p.m. -
S t.&S . 12:30, 2:35, 4:45, 7:00 & 9:15 . . . , .
k a "£1275 Beech Aw, Buena “Sm P m] Want It hot? We ve got It. Saucy Meatball and
hearty Steak & Cheese. Steamin’ hot subs
on fresh baked bread with free fixin’s. If you’re .

looking for a hot time, come to Subway.

 

503 E. Nelson
463-3322

 

One ooupon per customer per visit. Not good in combination
with any other offer. Offer expires Nov. 19, 1993

 

Q .
e Ring-tum Phi, November 12, 1993

DAD 5

N   THING’:    

WELL. G UES9 WHAT?

u

IF ou vow 601 IT
  GET IT.’"

MEMBER NETWORK ©l993 omuwoov TRUST (on?/M, HEM$ER‘FDI(

PAGE 8

    

~ 0 " or f
@112 ‘IKIIIQ-111111 lﬂlit
The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Student apathy affects
, White Book review

Last week, members of the White Book Review Committee
distributed surveys to the undergraduates (law students ‘received the
survey this week) to get opinions on how the Honor System was
working and what, if anything, needed to be changed. Less than 600
students, about 38 percent of the undergraduates, bothered to
respond to a survey about a system which governs their every action
on this campus.

The majority of students who completed the survey did so with
the least amount of time and effort. The majority of students
answered only “yes” or “no” without elaborating beyond that. Few
filled in the area asking for additional comments with only those
with a strong opinion using short answers to get their point across.

Granted, many students will never be in the position of facing an
honor trial, but that does not mean we should ignore revision of the
system. Just about the only good thing that can come from simple
one—word answers will be the committee’s calculation of percent-
ages. But is that all one’s opinion should count for ?

Washington & Lee students have never been quick to become
involved and participate whether it be ﬁlling out a survey, cam-
paigning for office, or voting. But one would think students would
be quick to take part in the review of a system which makes W&L
what it is. Whether they did not respond because of a lack of time

or, dare we say, interest, this time W&L students’ apathy caused ’

them to bow out of the debate when they should have been actively
participating. The Honor System at W&L is one of the most
enduring aspects of our campus. Little else during a student’s career
here at W&L will have as great an impact on them as the Honor
System.

Without the Honor System, W&L is little more than an obscure
small liberal arts college in a small town. The trick with the Honor
System is: it works effectively only as long as the students actively
participate in the system. But this student body sent a loud and clear
message that students cannot be bothered to review the Honor
System. Perhaps we do not deserve the system. Certainly student
apathy indicates the system is little more than words in a book we no
longer care about. If there is a time to discard apathy and make time
to participate, it is now. Any student that cares about W&L should
care about the White Book review.

Car 54...Where are you ?

Last month, we ran a front-page story about car stereo thieves on
campus. This week’s story about the theft of a law student’s truck
is just the next link in the chain. Lexington Chief of Police Bruce
Beard will tell you car thefts are a rarity in Lexington. But three
attempts, one of which was successful, were recently made to steal
student automobiles from campus parking lots. So what does this
signify?

Perhaps local thieves have heard how lax security is over at
W&L. Perhaps they have heard W&L freshmen have to park their
cars way out in BFE, even beyond the audible range of a car alarm.
‘Maybe they have. heard security patrols of thewcampus parking lots

» are feW.,%lidv~f3I, between: 1‘ " ‘ . ’  , I 1 I I‘ ‘  ‘

In any case, thieves seem to have specifically targeted W&Lias
an easy mark for thefts. Admittedly, W&L’s Honor System gives
members of the W&L community a laid-back attitude toward
locking their cars, but precautions can be taken.

First, W&L Security needs to step up the patrols of the campus
lots. If campus security officers patrol parking lots more often,
thieves will probably think twice before trying to break into a
student’s automobile. Maybe after prolonged security patrols, the
thieves will get the message that maybe W&L is not such an easy
tar et.

gsecond, students who have to park their cars in isolated lots need
to take more precautions. Let’s face it—these isolated campus
parking lots just don’t cut it. The freshman lot is a thieves’ paradise
-— no one around to hear a car alarm, no one around to see a window
being broken, no one around to see the license plate of a getaway
vehicle. The Wood’s Creek lot is not much better. Our suggestion:
buy something like The Club, an auto theft prevention device. Any
police officer will tell you, the harder it is to steal your car, the less
likely a thief is to even try. .

In any case, the best deterrent against campus thefts is an efficien
security force. Students can’t be expected to go through their daily
routine with one eye riveted on their automobile. Car 54...Where are
you?

Quote of the Week:

“Look it’s a fallacy symbol.” _
—A Raven & Crown customer watching television.

. every competent individual

ge.-.7: - - -..:..-.:;-.-.=- -.-_-.-:-.-.-..-.'..2..-..-..;,.- -..,..- M:-: 1 2. -. 1-:
_ 3, _ . ,

(J11: ﬁtting-tum ﬂirt

Executive Editor . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .-. . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas I-Iespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sport Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Pliil Carrott

Editorial Canoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .AlIen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at

» Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-nan Phi

comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but TheRing-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, My Views, and
columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
703 462-4060

  
 

q

\ lg 
’ ".§,.,;;
- ‘ 4

   
  

‘ll

 

OPINION

va
ll

1 I

‘Senora; 
Haaasrnwr Fweb Acwﬂsr you, you Au;

Senreueeb TO SP6» THE. NIGHT’
LOZENA Eogrsirf,

H€2E8y
mm

   

The Ring-tum Phl, November 12,199 ~

 or €£xokL

     
 
  

O

I uhinv

Support physician-assisted suicide

Most people wish to die quickly and painlessly at
home surrounded by loved ones. But many people
. expect and fear a prolonged death on a machine in the
hospital all alone and in pain. In our age individuals

suffering from terminal ill-
nesses can be kept alive well

always present.

beyond the deterioration of the
quality of their life. With this
possibility in each of our lives,

should be entitled to make the
personal decision to end their
suffering and hasten their own
death.

 

, AANDREW
F SCHNEIDER,
’94

Over 20 states in the U.'S.
make it a crime for a doctor to

assist in a suicide. Yet polls have shown that at least
half of Americans support physician assisted suicide.

Dr. Jack Kevorkian and his highly publicized
assistance in numerous suicides has caused the Michi-
gan legislature to enact the most recent statute ban-
ning such acts. The Michigan law makes assistance to
a suicide a felony punishable by up to four years in

prison.

Teresa Hobbins and Kenneth Shapiro, both termi-
nally ill cancer patients, are mounting a constitutional
challenge to the Michigan statute. They have been
joined in their lawsuit by seven highly respected
medical professionals who specialize in the treatment

of chronic and terminal illnesses.

Teresa Hobbins has suffered from multiple
myeloma, a severe blood disease, for the past six
years. Multiple myeloma, an incurable illness, spreads
throughout the skeletalsystem, including the skull,
leaving lytic lesions (holes in the bones), turriors and
weak bones that fracture easily. Pain in her bones is

Shapiro said.

Moreover, Shapiro an-
ticipates that the tenninal phases of his disease may
involve extreme and unbearable pain and suffering.
He wishes to have the option of assisted suicide open

to him.

Hobbins has had surgery, chemotherapy and ra-
diation to treat her disease. Yet she is well aware that

when their quality of life amounts to nothing. Gov

emment should not be in the business of coercing u :
to preserve life at all costs. That is cruelty masquer

viding sufficient drugs to
reduce his pain. “My doc-
tors will have to wonder if
they will be prosecuted for
taking a certain course of
action that could conceiv-
ably lead to my death,”

the medical profession may not be able to control the
unbearable pain. She has
said, “I fight, I cry and I
work at it, but when the time
comes and disease has got
me and there isn7 t an-ything. ..
- more I or -'anyo‘ri'e«’else T carti
do, I want to have all options
available to me — including

assisted suicide.”

Kenneth Shapiro, the
other plaintiff, has suffered
from malignant melanoma
since 1982. Since then he has undergone over forty
surgeries. Many of his treatments have been classified
as experimental and therefore risky. Shapiro fears the
assisted suicide law will
make doctors afraid of pro-

ading as moral policy.

In Cruzan v. Director, the Supreme Con I
grounded the legal basis for the right to die '3 th
Fourteenth Amendment’s guarantee of liberty. Th 2
Court said: “The principle that a competent perso
hasa: cniistitutionally protected liberty, interest ,i .
Jefusing unwanted.-‘medical-treatment maybe in

ferred from our prior decisions.” ,_
Opponents claim that if the courts allow assiste -

suicide, euthanasia will be next. This fear is ugwar

death.

Every competent individual
should be entitled to make the
personal decision to end their
suffering and hasten their own

ranted. There is a clear difference between th
conscious choice of a competent adult and th
mercy killing of an incompetent invalid.
Instead of criminalizing physician assisted sui

cides, the government should regulate them. Legis-
latures should establish procedural safeguard

against abuse dt
assure that the re
quest for physician
assisted suicide is th -
voluntaiy and full
informed product 0
the patient’sown fr s *
will. Lawmaker
should also Qter

Competent adults like Teresa Hobbins and Ken-
neth Shapiro should be free to hasten their own deaths

mine what type of Ii
censed physicia

should be permitted to provide the assistance.
People should not have to fear a prolonged an as
painful death. Government should respect the dig-

nity, privacy and personal freedom of competen

suicide.

adults even when they choose a physician-astiste ‘

How to beat Lexington’s car tax _

it’s that time of year again! Students
everywhere are anticipating the arrival
of the dreaded car tax. If you haven’t
received yours, don’t celebrate quite
yet. The local postal service is prob-
ably performing up to its typically high
standards, and you will get it soon
enough.

For underclassmen who didn’t wit-
ness the threatened boycott of Lexing-

to pay in property taxes if it weren’t
exempt, then gives that amount to the
city as a gift. In some years, the school
donates even more. We should also
remember the tens of thousands of dol-
lars we pour into the local economy
annually through sales taxes. Any rea-
sonable examination of the issue will
find that students pay more than their
share. Nevertheless, the city insists on

 

ton businesses lining its
and the angry coffers with
discussions car tax
with City Hall, money.

the car tax may RYAN As taxes
seem partand D go, this one
parcel of an ENNARD9 sets new
out-of-state 994 standards in
education. It is A inequity.
useful there- Students
fore to first in- who pay
form—and to property

review for upperclassmen — why the
enforcement of the car tax is so egre-
gious.

The city derives much of its revenue
from property taxes. Because Wash-
ington and Lee occupies large amounts
of valuable property within the city
limits, and because its status as an
educational institution makes the uni-
versity exempt from property taxes,
the city says that it is put in a difficult
situation. The presence of the univer-
sity limits the city’s major source of

* revenue. Since it is the university which

causes the problem, Lexington ﬁgures
the logical course is to tax the students.
Hence, the car tax.

But this reasoning overlooks one
important fact. Every year the Univer-
sity calculates how much it would have

taxes on their cars in their home states
are exempt. Students who don’t pay
such taxes at home must pay them here.
This may seem fair at first glance, but
it isn’t. Car taxes presumably go to pay
for roads and the like. But states with-
out car taxes, such as Texas, still have
roads. They just pay for them in other
ways, perhaps with higher license and
registration fees or higher sales taxes.
A Texas resident pays as much for
roads as does someone from North
Carolina. The North Carolina resident
just happens to provide that funding
through a car tax and is, as luck would
have it, exempt from the Lexington
tax. The levy is biased in favor of
people from states with property taxes
on cars.

The tax may also be unconstitu-

tional. In addition to the obvious objec-
tions (taxation without representation
and all that), the tax may constitute a
restriction on interstate commerce. It
may also involve the taxing of one state
by another. These are serious prob-
lems, but the potential cost of testing
the law in court is so high that no one is
likely to attempt it. The other approach
— having the law repealed by the state
legislature —' came up short a couple
years ago, when W&L’s characteristi-
cally apathetic student body failed to
convey its opinion to the committee
considering the matter. Now, it seems
that we all just have to do our best to
live with the situation.

On the bright side, living with the
situation may not require paying the
tax. The state law under which the city
car tax operates has a loophole, and

and they plan to transfer the title to yo
sometime before the school year be
gins. If they transfer the title after Jul
1st, you will avoid the tax. Suppose th A
title is transferred on the first of Au
gust, and you receive a car ta; bil
sometime in November. You woul
simply call the city treasurer’s offic
and inform them that you did not 0
the car on July 1st; your parents did
Can they tax your parents? No, sinc
they currently do not own the property.
By transferring ownership of on
car sometime after July 1st, you avoi -
the tax. Nextyear, youasthe ownerca
transfer the title of your car back to -
parent. While such a transfer does in
volve some paperwork and a fee (whic l
varies from state to state, but is gener
ally in the $50 range), the cost will
certainly be less than paying thatax

with a little Duringyourfoui
money and in- years at‘W&
convenience, —----—-——?- you can simply
you too can use Any reasonable transfer'-Vowner-
‘”° 3’°“““""‘"' examination of the issue 5“? °f?‘‘‘'»‘° °‘“
tage. _ back and fort
The car tax is W!“ find that students betweenyoian
based on a “fis- a m if your parents.
cal year,” which p y ore than the The -‘city has

means that, for
the purposes of
the tax, the year
starts on July 1st

and ends on June money.

share. Nevertheless, the
city insists on lining its
coffers with car tax

to be aware 0
this loophole,
but there’s not
much they can
do aboutt it.

30th.Tliecartax
only applies to

property owned at the beginning of the
ﬁscal year. For example, if you bought
a car on July 2nd, that property is not
subject to this year’s tax. Suppose,
then, that your parents own your car,

Eliminating this
option would re-
quire a change in the state law, and

that’s not going to happen any time

soon. So go ahead and avoid the dreaded
car tax. Give your car to your parents,
and beat the city at its own game.

 

    
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

O

' 1}EAM LAND
’  ‘ :Richard Weaver

Now if you are like me (which is
ighly unlikely) you turn to the pages
“ f The Rockbridge Weekly newspaper
' o r qttertainment. I am always excited
hen I receive my copy in the mail

ery Wednesday. It means it is time to
eel the pulse of Rockbridge County
:2 nd see if the towns of Lexington,
niuena Vista, Glasgow, Goshen, Natu-
tal Bridge, Raphine, Fairfield,
es vius, and Steeles Tavern are still
so ing.
Raphine? Vesuvius? What? I didn’t
c ven know these places existed. Where
2 e all of the Raphians and Vesuvians?
' never see them around. Are they hid-

ng? Until I see conclusive proof, I am
maintaining the position that someone
is nﬁking them up.

Anyway, The Rockbridge Weekly
provides all kinds of information that
we at The Ring-tum Phi, frankly, don’t
have the guts to print. For example, I
admit we have totally glossed over the
campaign of B. Eli Fishpaw for the seat
of scpervisor of Buffalo District.

In the Oct. 27 issue of The
Rockbridge Weekly, candidate Fishpaw
had quite a show of support on the
editorial page with letters under such
headlines as “Fishpaw livens debate
with bold new ideas,” and “Fishpaw
haswision for sustainable future,” not
to mention “A vote for Fishpaw is a
vote for change.” Think of how much
better W&L would be if we all had a
working knowledge of B. Eli Fishpaw.
The Rockbridge Weekly also fea-

Rlng-tum Phi, November 12, 1993

tured a slick ad by Enoch Hager, candi-
date for sheriff of Buena Vista. “My
only campaign promise is I am quali-
tied for the job” was part of the text that
accompanied his picture. Now, as all of
you political analysts out there are now
pointing out to each other, in terms of
campaign promises, Enoch has made a
doozy. Forget no new taxes; this man
promises that he is
qualified. One can
only speculate as to
the amount of po-
litical action com-
mittee dollars that
went towards for-
mulating Enoch’s.
campaign slogan:
“It’s Time For A
Change.”

Now we get to
my favorite part of
The Rockbridge
Weekly: “The
R o c k b r i d g e
Traveler”column
Here, read this:

Word is thatRi-
chardLewis, of the _
Bank of
Rockbridge, has
purchased an inter-
esting gift for his
wife in celebration of their 10th anni-
versary: a rototiller. Now that ’s what!
like, a man who knows how to keep a
wife busy. I buy those kinds of gifts for
my wife too - you know, the kind that]
can use as much as she will (this not
being one such example)...

This leads me to my theory as to
why the name of the author of “The
Rockbridge Traveler” is not listed: Ri-
chard Lewis, of the Bank of

    

PhoIooourutIyolBuunVIutaA-oolludwnn.

549 pounds of party fun.

LETTERS

Rockbridge, and his wife might take
their new rototiller and use it to send
“the Traveler” on a trip to Stonewall
Jackson Memorial Hospital. This is
assuming, of course, that the Lewises
would not be really pleased with hav-
ing their names associated with anni-
versary gift rototillers in The
Rockbridge Weekly. I could be wrong.

We alsoleam in
“The Rockbridge
Traveler” of a 549
pound stuffed
black bear which
was on display at
the Lexington True
Value Hardware
store. The bear,
which is the 1991
Virginia State
Champion (of
what, the column
does not say), has
now moved to the
Buena Vista Ace
Hardware store. I
assume this ispart
of some new
stuffed bear pro-
motional tour, and
Iwould like to sug-
gest to the tour
managers that they
rent the bear out for special events at
W&L. Think of the possibilities for a
549 pound bear on this campus:

1) Use it for an Alaskan Wildlife
Night themed dinner at the Letitia Pate
Evans Dining Hall (Letitia! Letitia!
Letitial). '

2) Put the bear on a leash and attach
it to the statue of Old George on top of
Washington Hall.

3) Place the bear in the Registrar’s

I’ eel the pulse of Rockbridge

PAGE 9

Office so that it can be rude and scare
away students who want to ask ques-
tions about their schedules.

4) Position the bear in the middle of
Red Square and see which fraternity
would be first in having its pledges
dress the bear in women’s clothing.

Speaking of bears, and continuing
with “The Rockbridge Traveler,” we
learn that Tommy Slusser, on his way
back from dinner at Shoney’s, hit a 297
pound bear with his car. The Traveler
notes that Slusser’s family “owns
Nicely Funeral Home in [Clifton Forge]
— the company does not, repeat, does
not have a taxidermy subsidiary.”

What? Anyway, if you need more

information on taxidermy, you need

look no further than The Rockbridge
Weekly’s Hunting Edition special in-_
sert, and thumb through it until you
reach the article, “Local Taxidermies
Offer Tips for Preserving Kills.” David
Grimes offers such advice as “ NEVER
haul animal around on hood of car. The
heat from engine will cause hair slip-
page.” Now, I DON’T want to see any
W&L students violating this tip. W&L
Security might have to get involved in
enforcement, such as in this scenario:

JOE SECURITY OFFICER:
Well, would you look at this, that Tom
Hespos has left another dead antelope
tied the hood of his yellow VW. Shall
we tow it away?

BOB SECURITY OFFICER:
Tow the antelope or the VW?

JOE SECURITY OFFICER: The
antelope.

For the money The Rockbridge
Weekly is a good read (it’s free by
direct mail). I highly recommend you
pick it up every week. And remember,
hair slippage is the enemy.

: Racial columns have ‘become tiresome

Tothe editor:

I am writing in response to the ﬁve “My View”
columns Michael Hewlett has written in the eight
weeks since school began. Although I firmly respect
the right of every member of the university to express
his own views freely, I question both the quality of
Mr..Hewlett’s arguments and the motivation behind

hiwlvritings.

Each of Mr. Hewlett’s five columns has addressed
some aspect of America’s race problems. However,
3‘ each has also played moreto grandiosity and histrion-_._,~ ‘.-
:'ics'than"’to well-thought? out intelligent arguments. It ~
seems he manages to mention the castration of black ‘
' slaves in every article. I am almost surprised he has
noﬁaffixed the initials “FMC” (Free Man of Color) to
II his name as proud ex-slaves did following the Civil
War - or, that I might fit Mr. Hewlett’s stereotype, let
me call that “The War of Northern Aggression.”
To provide an example of this sort of confused
thinking, in his piece on the importance of black
r history, Mr. Hewlett makes the claim that the lives of

3

’ To the editor:
_. My letter is a few weeks late, but
 only because the Phi was sent to my
; pﬁents in Florida, who then sent it to
. me in New York. Forgive my tardi-
3; ness. I am writing in response to Ryan
Dennard’s Oct. 1 opinion column in
V which he suggested we “address the
poor individually.”
Personally, I am very grateful that
~ h hared “Joshua’s” story and posed

the questions that are often so hard to .

answer, but yet are inevitable ones for
anyone to ask who has had a personal
encounter with the poor.

Fannie Lou Hamer, Dorothy Height, and Ella
Baker are just as “American” (Yes, they were born
in America. . .) as Jefferson, Washington, or Madi-
son, and as such also deserve time in American
history classes. Mr. Hewlett, I will admit to being
an ignorant cracker, as I do not know those three
illustrious ladies; nevertheless, I have a difficult
time imagining their contributions on the same
level as the Founding Fathers.

Or consider his article on the sins of the politi-
cally incorrect. Although he says he has “nothing
aglainstvthe-free discourse of ideas,” two ,sentences, 

later he states that “the bottom line is even ina free"
society people should not tolerate racial or sexual
intolerance.” So which is it, Mr. Hewlett? Are
people allowed to believe in the superiority of one
race or not? All beliefs deserve protection in a free
society, and it hardly seems fair to exclude the
racists from this free speech clique. I mean, al-
though, what they believe may seem reprehensible
and incredible, at one time the concept of a round

It is easy to condemn the poor as a
collective group, for we often unjusti-
ﬁably see them as inherently lazy, ex-
pecting everyone but themselves to do
the dirty work of getting them back on
their feet.

It is easy to see the poor in this light,
but only until we have our own per-
sonal encounter with a living, breath-
ing, and vital human being who just so
happens to be poor.

Right now I am living in a homeless
shelter in a suburb outside of the Bronx
in New York. I have come to know
many women already since I began my

“we  

volunteer work here in September and
have learned a tremendous amount
about the homeless poor.

Many have made bad decisions in
their past, but many of them were made
not out of malice, but honestly out of
ignorance. Many grew up in environ-
ments neither you nor 1 could even
begin to imagine, and dare I say that all
but one I’ve met is willing to make a
clean start.

Most admit to their bad decisions.
Most wish not to be in the predicament
they’re in, living in a shelter depending
on others for basic needs, and all want

T Interviews and Photos
. By Joe Framptom

I

w&L_“is hardly intlt't1’—flrr1,iJ,d§{,€)f';%il_’r
think his point has been made, or, rather, it was well
enough made three columns ago, and has been burnt in
the oven now. For someone who describes himself as
“an aspiring journalist,” if whatever he has to say
hasn’t been said in five columns, he should take a break
and rethink his output.

Kirk Susong, ’

TALKBACK

 

earth was considered heretical and amazing. We must
give all points of view the chance to be heard.

At any rate, I do not mean to list all of Mr. Hewlett’s
mistakes and attack them one by one. He writes nicely
and seems to attempt balanced articles. In fact, I agree
with him to a large extent. What is really mystifying,
after having read all five of his columns, is his reason
for writing them. They all revolve around, as Mr.
Nicholas Waddy wrote a few weeks ago, the “sins of
the honkies.” One would think there is a finite number
of articles he could force, upqnpus befpre_realiz,ing,th,at

:»3‘. ’ 3
ace

ll‘l

96

t . Dennard’s column rings true at shelter

a second chance. I admire their stead-
fastness. Most importantly they have
accepted their poverty and are reminded
almost daily that they may be home-
less, but are not helpless. Few need
reminding.

Thanks to Ryan for the story he
shared. May we all truly come to ac-
cept poverty as a reality and under-
stand that the poor are not those who
deserve the least, but those who need.
the most. *

Sincerely,
Stephanie Sauers, ’93

.,r‘°3féTsi»°€;7%ifii31 f

Pre-Law

The Pre-Law Society will meet
in Classroom A of Lewis Hall at 6
p.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 17, with
Susan Palmer, Assistant Dean for
Admissions, W&L School of Law,
and with members of Phi Alpha
Delta legal fraternity, for an infor-
mal pizza supper. Dean Palmer will
discuss the law school admissions
process and will respond to student
questions on that subject. All under-
graduate students considering law
school after graduation are invited
to attend. For further information,
contact Professor Lewis G. John,
Pre-Law Adviser, or -Tom Cryan,
President of the Pre-Law Society.

Internships

There will be a workshop on
“Intemships: How to Apply” on
Thursday, Nov. 17, 1993 at 4 p.m.
in Room 109 of the University Cen-
ter. All students are welcome.

SLAC

SLAC interview selections
should be available by Friday, Nov.
19. Check with the Career Devel-
opment Ofﬁce before you leave for
break to see if you have won inter-
views at any of the job fairs.

Career Test

There will be a Career Test Inter-
pretation on Thursday, Nov. 18,
1993 at 3 p.m. in Room 109 of the
University Center. All students who
have taken the career tests but have
not had their results interpreted are
encouraged to attend this session.

Health

Join the Health Education Com-
. , mittee in the Women’s Center every

_ . health issues or. call Alex Miles at
464-8783 with your questions and
suggestions.

 

Thursday 'at 6:30 p1rn'. to ‘discuss -

General Notes are compiled by Sarah Wyatt.

El Mariachi

The Film Society is pleased to
announce its next presentation will
be the quirky and action-packed El
Mariachi (USA, 1993), directed by
Richard Rodriguez. Showings will
be at 8:05 p.m. tonight and tomor-
row in the Troubadour Cinema.
There is no charge for admission.
This ﬁlm is in Spanish with English
subtitles. V

Democrats

The College Democrats will
hold elections on Sunday, Nov. 14,
1993 at 7:30 p.m. in the University
Center game room. Dues will be
collected. Any questions, call Karly
Jennings at 464-8492.

Basketball

Men’s basketball is looking for
managers. Call Coach Bill Raleigh
at 462-8691 for more information.

Study break

You’re invited to the Gaines I-Iall
study break/open house from 8:30-
9:30 p.m. on Sunday, Nov. 14. It
will take place on the first ﬂoor of
the gatehouse. There will be free
food. All freshmen and anyone else
interested are invited.

Calyx

Calyx photos will be taken next
week in Reid Hall. Freshmen: Tues-
day, Nov. 16. Sophomores, Nov.
17, and Juniors: Thursday, Nov.
18. Picture fees can be charged
home.

Mock Con

Information session for the 1996
Mock Convention will be held
Wednesday, NOV. 17, at 7:30 p.m.
in Reid Hall, room 203. Applica-
tions rat‘ th'e"Tri-Ch‘a“rim"an will be
available and are due on Friday,
Nov. 19.

Class agent finds
improvement in Phi

To the editor:

As a Class Agent, I have had a sense

of obligation to wade through TheRing-
tum Phi on a weekly basis. I am always
looking for interesting pieces on cam-
pus life that I might pirate for quarterly
class newsletters. Until this year, this
has been a laborious task.

However, I am pleased to say that
the school paper is now not only an
object of labor for me. I can surpris-
ingly assert that the Phi has become a

pleasure to read from week to week.
The copy is well formatted and the
articles carry abit of weight, with sound
writing to back them up. In addition,
you have clearly made substantial
strides in attracting new advertising
dollars. All in all, an excellent bit of
work.

Congratulations on your efforts,
Best Wishes,
Brooks Pettus, ’90

   ‘ What is the best class you’ve ever taken at Washington
  and Lee and Why did you like it?

I
Marguerite Nielsen, ’94, Nashville,
Tenn. —- “Tax Accounting because it
met at8o’clock on Tuesday and Thurs-
day.”

 

 

Ron Niebo, ’96, East Windsor, NJ.
— “Geology 101 because Kozak is
the man.”

Clyx photo
Jackie Van Vliet, ’95, London, En-
gland — “African-American politics
because the teacher and I share such
similar views.”

     

Wright Marshall, ’95, Grifﬁn, Ga.
— “Chem 100 because it was the

easiest.”

 

Felicia Middleton, ’94, Charleston,
S.C. — “Physics 15 1 because the pro-

fessor brought us Dunkin’ Donuts.”

David Lupo, ’96, Kinnelon, NJ. -
“Theories in Quantum Physics because

it was different.”

 

    

PAGE 10

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, November 12, 1993

  

0

EC heads responds to letter in W&L Law News

To the editor:
On Oct. 4, 1993, the Executive Com-
mittee discussed and voted upon the
budget for the Student Bar Associa-
tion. This meeting lasted well over two
hours and at its conclusion it was re-
solved that the SBA budget would be
set at $40,000, $5,000 less than the
amount approved at the initial budget
hearings. A few days later The Law
News printed a letter from Staci Stone
(’95L) in which she criticized Kevin
Webb, the Second Year Law Rep to the
EC, for his part in the budget process.
Several members of the EC questioned
the accuracy and veracity of her allega-
tions, and responded with letters of
their own to The Law News. Due to
space limitations The Law News did
not print these letters in its latest issue.
Because we do not wish to have Ms.
Stone’s charges go unanswered, we
have submitted our letters along with a
copy of Ms. Stone’s letter to The Ring-
tum Phi.

Sincerely,

Bob Tompkins, ’94L
Jimmy Kull, ’94
James Rambeau, ’94L

To the editor:

This letter was submitted to the Law
News three weeks ago, but because of
space limitations, it was not published.
It is a response to a letter to the editor
concerning the EC budget hearings —
specifically, Student Bar Association
(SBA) cuts. q

Ms. Staci Stone, a second year law
student, unfairly accused Kevin Webb
(2nd Year EC Law Rep) of compro-

There’s more to black people than basketball

But then I remember that girl in my senior

mising “his constituents’ interests for
personal political aspirations” by vot-
ing for a budget compromise which
reduced SBA funding by $5,000. I
wanted to offer my observations of the
night of Oct. 4, 1993, since Ms. Stone
was not present at that meeting (or any
of our budget hearings).

First, I would like to dispute Ms.
Stone’s allegation that Kevin ignored
his constituents’ interests in an effort to
woo potential undergrad voters. I know
nothing of Kevin’s future political
plans, but I do know that he was critical
in forming the eventual compromise —
which was, in my opinion, generous to
the law school.

I originally proposed to cut the SBA
budget by an additional $11,000, and I
provided detailed explanations to jus-
tify the cuts. Kevin managed to con-
vince an Executive Committee (with a
two-thirds undergraduate majority), to
reconsider the proposal in light of the
law school’s allocation last year. His
argument worked.

Second, it is a bit presumptuous for
Ms. Stone to demean the worth of
Kevin’s service to the law school —
especially when she has never attended
one of our meetings. I, however, have
worked with Kevin for over a year, and
I can promise you that he is an excel-
lent representative. It is unfortunate
that Ms. Stone appreciates neither the
countless hours Kevin invests in this
committee nor the benefits that accrue
to the entire school from his diligence.

Despite the fact that my attempt to
reduce the SBA’s budget by an addi-
tional $1 1,000 failed (mostly due to the

arguments of Kevin Webb and Bob
Tompkins — not Patty McNemey as

Ms. Stone suggests), I do not harbor
contempt toward the mostly under-
graduate committee for not agreeing
with me. I would never be so bold as to
say (as Ms. Stone accused Kevin) that
the undergraduate members were poor
representatives because they did not
vote for the plan which attempted to
bring a greater degree of equity to the
budget process.

Kevin Webb deserves more respect
than Ms. Stone grants him. Contrary to
her ill-informed opinions, I can assure
you that the members of the second law
class and the entire W&L community
are beingserved by an excellent repre-
sentative in Kevin Webb.

James F. Kull, ’94

To the editor:

I write in response to the letter sub-
mitted by Staci Stone and published in
the last issue of the W&L Law News.

Apparently she has no concept of
the issues surrounding the budgeting
of the Student Activities Fund, much
less what transpired at our meeting

Oct. 4. This is not surprising consider- ‘

ing that Ms. Stone did not bother to
attend the meeting, or make any effort
to obtain an impartial account of what
took place.

It is not Ms. Stone’s opinion on
these issues, no matter how = ill-in-
formed, that troubles me. It is her un-
founded personal attack on her Execu-
tive Committee Representative, Kevin
Webb, that I find offensive. Kevin was
a strong and effective advocate for the
SBA during our Oct. 4 meeting. In the
course of that two-and-a-half hour ses-

sion it became apparent that the $45,000
allocation voted upon tend days prior
would not pass a second vote. Vice
President Jimmy Kull had proposed a
reduction of this sum by $13,000, sup-
ported by extensive documentation
which suggested the amount should be
reduced even further. Kevin presented
a compromise which won the support
of a majority of the Committee, includ-
ing the other three law students.
Through his motion and supporting
arguments, Kevin kept the SBA bud-
get from being reduced by an even
larger sum. Tosuggest that he “com-
promised his constituents’ interests for
personal political aspirations” is in-
credible indeed. His actions were mo-
tivated by astute perception of the situ-

ation and an interest in an equitable _

solution.

Kevin and all the other members of
the Executive Committee devote a great
deal of time and energy to the effective
and responsible administration of stu-
dent government at Washington and
Lee. It is a pleasure to serve with a
group of people willing to sacrifice so
much of their personal time for the sole
interest of bettering this institution.
Little irks me more than an insolent
slur directed at any one of them and
supported only by slothful researching
of the facts. Ms. Stone’s injudicious
comments are unbecoming of any stu-
dent who has earned the right to attend
Washington and Lee.

Sincerely,
Bob Tompkins, ’90, ’94L

' President, Executive Committee of the
Student Body '

Stone calls Webb 4
on carpet

To the editor:

I am writing about the ﬁasco at
Monday’s Executive Committee
budget hearing. I call it a ﬁasco for
two reasons: first, the Student Bar
Association was allotted $5,000 less
than last year’s allotment, and sec-
ond, some of the law school’s EC
representatives actually assisted in
cutting the SBA budget.

Apparently, the undergraduates
believe that they deserve part of
each law student’s fees to provide
campus-wide activities, organiza-
tions, and services. They refuse to
acknowledge the fact that law stu-
dents’ and undergraduates’ inter-
ests seldom coincide. The campus
organizations now receiving our fees
exist only on one side of the creek.
The law school also has its own
newspaper, yearbook, and clubs. In
fact, the only organization that has
managed to bridge the gap is the
ACLU, which the EC refuses to
fund. In any event, the EC’s deci-

sion about the SBA budget is final,
and I am arguing basically a moot
point.

The real problem with the hear-
ing was the representation that the
law students received, or, more im-
portantly, did not receive. I com-
mend Patti McNemey, Ben Kalny,
Keith Benedict, and James Rambeau
for their efforts to represent effec-
tively the law school. Much less
deserving of praise is Bob
Tompkins, EC president, and Kevin
Webb, EC representative for the
second-year class. These two EC

Letter reprinted from The W&L  News.

members must have forgotten that
they are LAW students. In the hear-
ing, neither of them argued by keep-
ing the amount that the EC allotted
to the SBA last year, or any amount
close to it. Instead, they made a
motion to allot $5,000 less than the
$45,000 that the EC had agreed upon
last week. Granted, Bob probably
had j ustification for his actions since
he was elected by the entire univer-
sity and should represent interests
of both the undergraduates and the
law students.

Kevin has no such excuse for his
actions. Although he was very in-
strumental in the SBA budget’s ap- ‘
proval last year, this year he decided
to opt for what he may call “diplo-
macy” rather than to assist the other
law school EC representatives. It
seems that Kevin has compromised
his constituents’ interests for per-
sonal political aspirations. as a sec- 0
ond—year, I am appalled by such
“representation” of my class. I voted
for Kevin because he went to Wash-
ington and Lee as an undergraduate.

I ﬁgured that, as result, he could
understand better the EC and, there-
fore, represent the law school’s best .
interests. I guess that I was right in
one respect: Kevin does know how
to manipulate the EC— for his own
beneﬁt.

I hope that law students will think
about what effective representation
means when they vote in the spring. .

Staci L. Stone, ’95L

   
   
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
    
    
  
  
  
    
    
 
   
  
   
   
   
   
  

 
  
 
 
      
   
  
   
  

MY VIEW
Michael Hewlett, ’96

I remember the day I woke up. I had been
asleep for a long time. Up until that time, racism
had never been real to me. It had been real to my
grandmother and my mother, but Iwas too busy
snoring. Then, like a brick thrown to the head,
I was rudely awakened. It occurred during my
senior year of high school. I remember, waiting
with a mixture of patience and anxiety for
psychology class to end. Out of boredom, I
began to ball up paper and shoot for the trash
can. Oftentimes, I missed.

It never bothered me. I knew very well that
I was no Michael Jordan. Or Magic Johnson. Or
even Larry Bird. When I missed my third or
fourth shot, a white girl in the class said, “You
can’t play basketball. You’re not a real black

man.” I looked at her for a minute, unable to
believe she had said that. After a while, I said
something like, “Is that all you think black
people are capable of doing: singing and slam-
ming a basketball.”

How could she say something like that to
me? Doesn’t she know black people who don’t
play basketball well? But more disturbing than
what she said was the fact that she believed it.
She didn’t think she was racist. Unfortunately,
the only thing she knew about blacks was
Michael Jordan. She bought into the myth, the
myth of the natural superiority of black ath-
letes.

It shocked me. Even though I had heard
things like that before, it never hit me like it hit
me that day. After all this time, I realized that I
had lived in a vacuum. Racism had always been
something that happened to other people — not
me. I had discovered something that James
Baldwin had discovered a long time ago-“the
price of the ticket.” The price of being black in

America today.

And what is the price of being black in
America today? It means forever being re-
duced to second class citizenship. It means

forever being
judged for what

up in the morning cursing God because I am
black. I am proud to be black. I think it is truly
remarkable that Frederick Douglas and Booker
T. Washington could learn to read at a time
when it was a crime
for a slave to learn. I
think it is remarkable

otherblacks have
done. It means
having statistics
of black males
placed on your
shoulder. It
means having to
almost constantly
refute silly ste-
reotypes about
black sexuality
and athletic abil-
ity that seem to
be rooted in this society. It means trying to not
scare people or come off as another Malcolm X.

Please don’t get the wrong idea. I do not get

done.

What is the price of being
black in America today? It
means forever being reduced
to second class citizenship. It
means forever being judged
for what other blacks have

that a people who were
enslaved could sur-
vive and triumph dur-
ing a time when they
were thought of as
human chattel.
Malcolm X, Marcus
Garvey, Martin Luther

Hurston, Dorothy
Height, Nikki
Giovanni and many
others. These are the people who make me
proud to be black, proud to be a part of a great
and magnificent race.

E. Nelson St., Lexington

   

HARDWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

463-2186

IIIIIIIZIZIIIIZIIIZZZZIIIZZII

ER&S Country Crafts Craft Supplies
For the crafter and finished crafts for the craft lover.
We feature:

S ’I'I5NC I L gag‘

7 I“ by Delta

261-7441

l

  
  

4

l.

r
l

  

Americana, and other name brand craft suppliers.

“How To” Books for Craft projects
376 E. 29th Street, Buena Vista

Hours: M-Th. 2-6, Fri 2-8, Sat. 10-8, Sun. 1-6

IIIIIZIIIIIIIIIIZIIIIIZZIZIII

., Black Bean Burrito /
 Shrimp Enchilada / Chicken
E Burrito / Chicken Tostada
All dinners $5.49

 
 
 
 

 S Restaurant

at 1.8!: 1!! Truck Stop

   
  

 BREAKFAST

A BUFFET

Friday & Saturday Nights
11 p.m. to 4 a.m.

   

Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours

 

463-3478

'0

King, Jr., Zora Neale .

year, and I am jerked back into reality. I am
black. Although things are much better than 30
years ago, Istill live in a racist society, a society
that would rather exclude me than include me.
A society that would want me to assimilate and
become “white” instead of retaining my black
identity. A society that continues to marginalize
blacks to the ever present glass ceiling. A
society that refuses to see me and makes 00
effort to try to understand black culture, black
history, or black people.
What that girl said is emblematic of a much
greater problem. Too many people still cling to
their outdated myths of black people. Until
Americans begin to let go of these insulting

myths, racism will continue to spread lik9a _

disease, infecting and destroying everything in
its path. It is time to look deeply within our-
selves and purge the hate and the lies out. It’s
time to wake up. We have been sleeping for
much too long.

 

SHEAR llmlllﬁ

Hair Salon .

Perm Sale $32

(longer hair additional) 8

17 S. Randolph Street

Party Picture Photographers Needed

Must have own 35 mm equipment & car

   
 
   

SANDWICH SHOP

464-1145

463-2595

I

‘P)ecoﬂrt_ 5
Dimensions 5
E

5

Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6 I

 

Ruley Bros. playing on Friday, Nov. 12
(Bluegrass Music) 9-12 p.m. $2 cover charge#

 

   
 
   

DO YOU ENJOY

SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

Back yard skeet is fun, but compared to Sporting Clays,

it’s boring

At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot

to enjoy a round.
Call for a free brochure 463-1800

Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

Horse Boarding 

Excellent turnout with Private
Paddocks. Two miles from the
Virginia Horse Center on 39 West.
Riding lessons with Certified
Instructor. Trails, Flood-lit arena. Call
(703) 463-1636 and leave a message.

   

  
 
 
 
 

 

basketball season,
All compression

shorts $15.00  ,
Price good thru 11/30/93 

First Team Sports
115 W. Nelson St.

 
   
    
   
   

94111’ 9 am 5

In time for

 
 
   
  
 

 
  

    
   
 
 
 

    
  

I hebﬂing-tum Phi, November 12, 1993 4 S

 ~ 1   1 m GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
 A 9» . '    A ,  2 I V. _g _g  Standings as of 11/11/93

 1 S  g_   2  1 " 1 ' Football Statistics as of 11-12
 M  1 S -. 4 - Offense

Rushing: Att. ‘Yards .Y/Att. TD Kickoff Returns:
. V Mason 190 823 4.1 8 Urban 14 247 17.6 26
!QuAuTY AND'vAR|EATY.y A 2   ~~ U lI\:<S):re 75 339 4.4 1 Manternach 11 172 15.5 23
1 . .   _.    A. phson 26 125 4.8 0 Josephson 4 86 21.5 23
GQLDEN DELIGHT ’-gr"? .5. ‘J’ .3.    ’ Buckner 3 43 14.3 17
  Passing: Att. Comp. Int. Yds TD Visokey 1 11 11.0 11
. .. Fischer 144 68 11 837 8 .
Reedy 37 17 5 148 0 Scoring: TD. Extr.Pt FG Tot.
_  V .  Mason 10 1 0 62 ‘
'.53')§0""N‘,l_E V , A_ . ‘A Thomas 0 13 5 28
i11='zcHAs1s 6   _ _ Receiving: Recept. Yds Y/R Y/G TD Moore 2 1 0 14
  - ' '~ .. Moore 24 226 9.4 28.3 1 7 players With6pts
Urban 16 200 12.5 25.0 1
Hodges . 14 235 163 294 1 Punt Returns: Returns Yds Y/R Long
Mason 14 105 7.5 13.1_ 2 Mason 13 98 7.5 16
Kimball 11 161 14.6 20.1 1 Urban 8 43 5.4 12

 * 1 - Malmberg 5 ’ 28 5.6 3.5‘ 0 Josephson 1 27 27 27
. , Player: Tackles Sacks F
“M”, 1 WITH . Player. Tackles Sacks FF FR Newman 53
AD TTONAL Hull 102 10
£0 00 . . Cooper 36
PURCHASE Ph1l11ps 77
 |IIIIIlI|aIuILIBII.II .
. . 2 A u

'1!

5
0
Hogue 65 0
Chartrand 62 1
2
1
1

6. Tweardy 31

O

0

Wagner 34 0
3

Kennedy 24 0
' 0
0
0

Cox 59
Wisdom ' 57

RESH CRANBERRIES . DlE‘l' COKE OR Achee 54 . Kelleter 13
.-‘"0. R      S ‘ Interceptions: Int. Yds Y/R Long

Ball 22
Bradbury 21

cl-TOOOFHIQIQ
OOOIQOL-‘OF-‘;

Newman 2 14 7 9
Ball 2 18 9 18
Kennedy 1 0 0 0

Volleyball

Overall Season Statistics

Player Games Kills
Garrigus 78 107
Taurassi 78 42
Horan 72 86
Hull 76 , 4 .
.1 Bahn 78 140
Burns 77 150
Queen 78 1

EHARRIS 1:111:12... Low iPR|CES_AL|e.>.gAY, EVERY DAY “mg 78 “*4
“ ' ' ' ‘  ' Player Serv Att. ~Serv Acc.%

SWEET RELISH OR £35511-)fNT'5 CHOKE 2/ 99 Queen 1 246 0.951 , .
I M T O L I  DRLNKS 12 PK 12 oz CANS 3"“ 17 0941 womenf Tenms
. --------- -- - - Bahn 259 0938 Women s Cross Country

   1'/;ﬁ1e(rED, Coo1<ED 99 Garrigus 288 0.924  $538 Country

Hull 205 ' 0.917

-  .........................  ....... ..l 2 OZ Taurassi 295 ()_875 W°men’S Soccer

KEEBLER Horan 282 0.858 V°“°yb“”
1'6 oz. FAT FREE ZESTA   2/  1  

 ....... ..l4 OUNCE . Sports rniornent O’ the week___

W %iH1'5i1E§lB1sA Kfﬁycs 18”o%%’eel 499 . 6 1          3 .

‘ SWISS CHEESE .............. ..LB. 1 :. “ ’ 

SELECTED VARlETlES SELECTED VARlETlES
DEL MONTE SALON SELECTTVES
vssgmgus HAIR CARE PRODUCTS

‘  6 4-15 oz.

Player Digs Digs/Game
Garrigus 193 2.5
Bahn 171 2.2
Horan 168 2.3
Taurassi 145 1.9
Burns 107 1.4
Hull 107 1.4
Queen 103 1.3

Trademarks ®

Fall Team Records

l6 -17oz. 

: SELECTED VARIETIES
 m,,,,,mA m1-'1 111111111
1 . ORANGE u11c11 ‘MM ‘"5555

.'“°"  m°O99 

Pricsflie Through Noember 16, I993

. Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum i
- ~ ' N b 10 Th 1 d , N be l6 1993. I Lexington Stores
Prices "'oI.*1‘,'5\/'17.? Egg:/eelréegigildlzylimﬁvggoﬁglies. Néﬁigseliii Bleleiiewe Crsladly AcceplnFedero| Food Stamps. An unidentified Washington and Lee football player having trouble with his balance
' was the photogenic athlete of the week for Nov. 12, 1993.

 

  
 

Last Week:

Hopkins

X-C—Women ﬁrst, Men third at ODAC

F B——W&L 13, Guilford 14
VB—W&L 2, Emory and Henry 3
WP—defeated Trinity, Williams, Johns

3

PAGE 12

    
    
  
   

breaksfﬁse ,
tjo the’6!h.er.;te

’ Aﬁeralt; 

V have eonfere
y players "three
rowand stilt,
a 1-7 record(I-gt
Dominion‘, Athlet;
ferenjce)?,_

‘ For the be

 

  

  
 
     
 

‘ down passes, hr‘: '
season totaltoe __

foraW&__ _
j terback. « ,: f '

  
  
  
    
       
   

 to glut even 
 starved foot

, two if you coun

dent, a hot radiosh,

= WLUR_and seven, _ 

ate’ television, pub! it

, scores on Channel
fan doesn’t it ’

A, pass does notq
' asaboardingp‘ . . C
V _I’Il read aboutit‘irt_thePI:i.

  

(‘Litre ‘ﬁling-mm iﬂlri

PORTS

CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, VOLLEYBALL AND WATER POLO

Water polo successfull defends title

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The key to a successful season for any athletic team lies in how it
responds to pressure. Does the team have what it takes to rise to that
next level and not crack? .

Washington and Lee’s water polo team came through when it
counted down the stretch, both in speciﬁc games, and at the end of the
season.

After an 0-4 weekend recently, the Generals rebounded to win
seven of their last eight games, including six in a row to finish the
year.

Coach Page Remillard was happy with this year’s team

“The team had a lot of character and was very focused,” said
Remillard.

Junior captain Reuben Munger also added that the Generals had
some incredible clutch performances; they won two games this year
in which they trailed by ﬁve and seven goals in the fourth quarter.

The season capping victory came against Johns Hopkins in the
ﬁnals of the Eastern Division III Championships. The 16-11 win
gave the Generals a second straight title.

In the quarter-ﬁnals, W&L beat Trinity 27-2 with every player on
the Washington and Lee team scoring goals. The Generals defeated
Williams 12-10 in the semi’s. ‘

Coach Remillard credited the team’s success this year to outstand-
ing depth. .

Munger agreed.

“Any six guys we put out there could perform,” he said.

 *‘ ‘
as-‘  .

.»  . .. ' "W3" "

Photo by Bethany Smith. The Ring-tum Phi
Washington and Lee running back, senior Tom Mason,

carries the ball in hopes of a winning touchdown in the
Generals’ loss, 13-14, at Wilson Field Nov. 6.

 

Reuben Munger
This depth should make its presence felt next year as well with ten
returning players. With this nucleus to build on, the Generals should
maintain the same caliber of play that led them to a season that
Munger described as having gone “really well.” Munger said that he
expects continued success.

Football oh-so close, fallsto Guilford

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Last call: Air-W&L will be
boarding for Bermuda in one
week. You have one ﬁnal chance
to see the Generals unless you
plan on buying a plane ticket.

Washington and Lee wraps-
up its first three-game home-
stand in 10 years on Saturday
versus an opponent they have not
faced in that same time-span.
Catholic University (1 -8) will try
to be this week’s latest version of
“the Great Tease,” a team W&L
looks considerably better than,
yet for some unforeseen freaks
of nature, cannot beat.

Last week’s 14-13 defeat to
Guilford College was the third in
which the Generals had led go-
ing in to the fourth-quarter, and
their ﬁfth loss by eight points or
fewer. W&L’s 13-0 half-time
lead was overcome by Jeff
Hatch’s two touchdown runs for
the Quakers. The loss leaves
W&L in a fourth place tie in the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence with Guilford and
Bridgewater.

Washington and Lee (1-7)
hopes to end this “tease” with a
win over an old rival Saturday.
The Generals have faced Catho-
lic only three times (1981-83),
but the last meeting was a W&L
classic. The Generals overcame
a 21-14 deﬁcit to win on a touch-
down and a two-point-conver-
sion in the ﬁnal seconds. The
stunning 22-21 Wilson Field win
is considered one of W&L’s all-
time great ﬁnishes.

The schools renew the rivalry
in what has been a difﬁcult year
for both teams, it is almost a
relief that one of them will get a
win on Saturday.

As frustrating a year as 1993
has been for the Generals, Catho-
lic fans—or, rather, fans of Catho-
lic—have watched their team get
trounced week after week. The

Volleyball loss in quarter
ends Generals’ ’98 season

By BILL RUST
Phi Staff Writer

“I thought the season was pretty successful,”
said Bahn. “We had a slow period, but really picked
up in the end.”

The Generals started strong, opening with a
record tying four-match win streak. They fell apart

mid season, losing 11 of 16, and came together in

Last Saturday’s loss in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference quarterﬁnals put an end to the
volleyball team’s impressive, record-breaking sea-
son.

The Wasps of Emory and Henry stunned the
Lady Generals in a hard-fought, ﬁve game match.
Washington and Lee lost the ﬁrst game 11-15, but
came back to win the next two 15-6 and 15-4.

In the end, however, their efforts were not
enough; the Wasps took the ﬁnal two games 15-7
and 15-10.

The match saw four Generals earn 10 or more
kills. Freshman Virginia Yoerg lead the attack
with a season high 12.

She was followed closely by fellow freshman
Elizabeth Bahn, who had 11. Senior Tara Burns
and junior Jennifer Garrigus both added 10.

Sophomore setterCheryl Taurassi lead the team,
as always, in assists with 40.

Taurassi also made a valiant defensive effort
with 21 digs. But it was not enough in the end, and
the Lady Generals best season since 1988 came to

a close. three years.”

the end with a record smashing six-match win
streak that lasted until Saturday’s loss.

Their 15 wins were one short of their all-time
best, and they became only the second team in
W&L volleyball history to ﬁnish over .500.

The Lady Generals’ offense was lead by Burns’
150 kills. Yoerg ( 144) and Bahn (140) also contrib-
uted generously. ' .

Cheryl Taurassi’s 526 assists passed Lisa Jay’s
519 for the single season record, and Kelly Horan»’s
45 aces ﬁnished up the Generals’ attack.

Virginia Yoerg lead the teams defensive efforts
with a record-setting 91 blocks;
Garrigus contributed a team leading 193 digs.

They are a young team, and promise only to get
better. Three stars—Yoerg, Bahn, and Taurassi-
will be back for years to come.

The team’s poor showing in ODAC, however,
can also be attributed to this youth. .

“We will do better next year,” said Bahn. “When
we are better prepared for the playoff
atmosphere...we expect to get better over the next

And Jennifer

Cardinals have been outscored
243-to-82, with more than half
of their points coming in their
lone victory, 44-13 over
Gallaudet. Catholic has been
shutout three times, including
their last two games, and have
scored in double ﬁgures just
twice.

Though few of their loses have
been close, W&L head coach
Gary Fallon sees some similari-
ties between Catholic and his
Generals.

“We’re two young, struggling
teams,” said Fallon. “I think it
ought to be competitive on Sat-
urday.”

It won’t be if the Generals can
play like they did in the ﬁrst-half
versus Guilford. Freshman quar-
terback Brooks Fischer, the third-
ranked QB in ODAC, connected
on 11-of-12 passes and two
touchdowns. Although sopho-
more kicker Drew Thomas’ sec-
ond extra-point attempt was
blocked, the Generals were
staked to a 13-0 half-time lead.

The second-half, though, was
all-Quakers. Aftercompleting his
first pass attempt of the half,
Fischer and his receivers could
not connect on any of the
freshman’s ﬁnal eight. Although
he threw for 154 yards, Fischer
and sophomore Matt Reedy com-
bined for4 interceptions, one with
W&L threatening to score.
Guilford’s Drew Baker became
his schoo1’s all-time interception
leader with a late pick-off. Hatch
gained 140 rushing yards in that
half, after just 39 in the ﬁrst.

The most startling ﬁgure is
that Guilford held W&L to 86
yards rushing, 18 in the ﬁrst 30
minutes. This just a week after
seniors Tom Mason and Wilson
Moore combined for nearly 300
yards on the ground against
Bridgewater.

Mason was selected the Foot-
ball Gazette Division III football
player of the week after he set
three school single- game records

FThis Week:

FB—Catholic, 11/13
X-C—at Regional Champ. 11/ 13
Swim—at Centre 11/ 13 4,
kWrest—at VMI Invitational 11/ 13 ’

   
  
  
    
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
 
   
 
  

NOVEMBER 12, 199

“We should do really well [next year],” he said.
Remillard also said that the team was looking at a stron
recruiting class as well. 0
One of the keys to the General’s success was senior Greg Golub
The depaning senior scored four goals in the weekend triumph ove
Johns Hopkins and was credited by Remillard as being an importan
member of the squad during the course of the year.
Also during the weekend, sophomore Rich Cober threw in nin
goals, comprised of three in each contest. '
Freshman Peter Sorensen had a strong year as well, ﬁnishingavit;
a total of six goals. Sorenson scored two in the Johns Hopkins mate
and four against Trinity in W&L’s near-record drubbing.

The win against Trinity marked the largest margin of victory b
a Washington and Lee team since a 29-3 demolition of University 0
Virginia in 1986-1987. 1

Remillard also credits the team with having tremendous dedica
tion.
“Six out of the 10 returning players got right back in the water fo
swimming,” said the coach.

Remillard said W&L’s winning tradition in the sport (the Gener
als competed successfully against Division I competition befor
making the commitment to Division III) was based on commitment

In a season where, according to Remillard, “all had the same goal
in mind,” the Generals posted one of the most successful recogis 0
all fall sports. '

Plus, with what Remillard called a strong nucleus returning fo
next season, the Washington and Lee water polo team can loo «
forward to a new chapter in its tradition of success.

X-country
wins ODAC

By STEPHEN WILLIAR3
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

versus Bridgewater: rushing
yards (230), rushing touchdowns
(5), and points (32). Mason also
tied the mark for total touch-
downs in a game with his ﬁve TD
carries. Last Saturday, the senior
tri-captain had just 49 yards on
26 rushes.

“Guilford was very strong
versus the run,” Fallon said. “We
just weren’t able to capitalize on
our passing game. That was the
difference out there.”

Nonetheless, W&L still had
its chances after the Quakers took
the lead in the fourth-quarter. An
interception ended one potential
scoring drive. On their next pos-
session, Thomas missed just his
third ﬁeld-goal attempt of the
season. His 31-yard miscue was
the kicker’s ﬁrst miss from in-
side the 45-yard line this year.

W&L had another opportu-
nity in the ﬁnal minute, but could
not move back into ﬁeld-goal
range before turning the ball over
on downs.

The good news forthe Gener-
als is that sophomore Robert Hull
had another strong defensive
outing. After being limited to six
tackles against Bridgewater, the
Lexington native totaled 13 tack-
les and two sacks, tying the W&L
single-season school record for
sacks with 10. Junior Bob
Phillips, who is second to Hull in
tackles, recorded his ﬁrst sack.

on the receiving end, Moore
added four catches to up his team-
leading total to 24. Junior Hayne
Hodges picked up 66 yards re-
ceiving on three grabs, and class-
mate Jon Wagner—a starting
comerback—recorded his ﬁrst re-
ception when he snuck into of-
fense and caught a 27-yarder.

Saturday’s game will mark
the final broadcast of the season
by WLUR. Pre-game will begin
at 1:00 p.m., 30 minutes prior to
kickoff. During the post-game
show, the station will recap the
entire football season with high-
lights from each game.

When you’re hot, you’re
hot.

The Washington and Lee
women’s crosscountry team
defended its title in the Old
Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Championships, led by
sophomore Josephine
Schaeffer, who has yet to
lose a race this year, in a fast
17:36. \

Three other W&L mn-
ners ﬁnished in the top seven;
sophomore Amy Mears and
juniors Kim Herring and Sue
Duetsch.

The men ﬁnished third
overall; four W&L runners
comprised the spots 15ﬂ8
in the final standings.
Sophomore Jeff Zeiger led
the group with sophomores
Tom Fink, Brad Paye, and
senior Brian Shearer close
behind.

Freshmen Sandy Hoo er
and Alvin Townley were just
one spotbehind the pack
rounding out the Generals’
top six. This was the ﬁfth
straight time that W&L has
ﬁnished in the top three at
the ODAC championships
with four straight secdid
place ﬁnishes previously.

This weekend both teams
run in the South/Southeast
regional at Methodist Uni-
versity. The men hope to
continue their successful
season with a standout par-
formance in the meet. The
long hours of work that the
team has put in during the
year are paying off when it
counts. With three sopho-
mores and two freshmen in
the top six, the team has Ila-
son to expect a strong year
next season as well.

        
      

   
   
  
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

OLUMENo.12
1 emper
I elps
students

By DEBORAH ZOLLMANN
Phi Staff Writer

rlier this month, each mem-
ber of the freshman class found
something surprising in his post
office box... mail.

The university sent letters in-
forming the class of 1997 that
they were eligible to apply to
pa icipate in the Kemper Foun-
dat n Scholarship Program.

Ken Ruscio, associate dean
of the Commerce School and
campus coordinator of the pro-
gram, said this is a very selective

‘ program. Approximately twelve

colleges in the nation are asked
to farticipate.

John DeCourcey, director of
ﬁnancial aid, describes the pro-
gram as “_a feather in W&L’s cap

‘ that we get asked to participate

in this program.” This is W&L’s
third year of involvement.

9\pplications are available in
Room 203 of the Commerce
School and are open to all fresh-
men. Applications are reviewed
and a portion of the applicants
are chosen to be interviewed.
From this pool, three students
ardnominated by W&L as can-
didates for the Kemper Scholar-
ship. A representative from the
Kemper Foundation comes to
W&L in January to interview
these three candidatehnd make
the ﬁnal decision. The Kemper
sclplar keeps the scholarship for
his four years at W&L, provided
he remains in good academic
standing.

The recipient beneﬁts from
the scholarship in two ways.
First, there is an annual scholar-
sh'p which ranges $1,500 to
$5,000 depending on ﬁnancial
need. Second, there is a guaran-
teed summer internship at entry-
level salary with one of the
Kemper companies.

W&L has two Kemper schol-
a -in-residence. They are jun-
io eth Provanzana and sopho-
more Matt Mazzuchi.

Provanzana is an economics/
romance languages major. In
her ﬁrst summer as a Kemper
scholar, she worked in an insur-
ance ofﬁce in Denver, Colorado.
L£t summer, she worked at

Kemper’s security ﬁrm in Chi- »

cago, IL.

Mazzuchi is a business
admionistration/economics ma-
jor. Last summer, he worked in
an'auto insurance company in
Slzramento, CA. A

Ruscio, Provanzana, and
Mazzuchi all stressed that fresh-
men with even only a remote
interest in business are eligible
for this scholarship. A major in
business is not required.

.4.

LEITN, VA 94455 

itrw 1 71993‘

I tied a ribbon
because".

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

photo by Tom Hespos, The Ring-tum Phi

Chi Psi pledges provide their version of “Masterpiece Theatre,” just one of the acts
gonged fairly quickly in Kappa Alpha Theta’s Gong Show held Wednesday night in the
Pit. Beta Theta Pi walked away with the victory with their lip-synch version of “Daisy
Dukes.” Betas dressed in cut-off jean shorts and women’s clothing and makeup for the

act, which received a score of 24.6.

Don’t get gonged

By .IAY WHITE
Phi~Contributing writer

The fourth annual Kappa Alpha Theta spon-
sored Gong Show was held on Wednesday night at
7:30 in the Pit.

According to Theta President Jenn Ciocca, the
event beneﬁts their National Philanthropy. The
three dollar admission price and the$25 entrance
fee will go to the Rockbridge Area Recreation
Organization (RARO) and the Court Appointed
Special Advocates (CASA).

RARO involves area children in after school
sporting activities. CASA is instrumental in help-
ing children who come from broken homes. Frater-
nities and sororities are often contributors to the
cause, as are local businesses who contribute the
door prizes.

The judges this year were Professor Brian
Richardson of the Journalism School, Professor
Taylor Sanders of the History department, and
Professor George Bent of the Art History depart-
ment.

There were 10 entries in this year’s Gong Show.
First was Sigma Phi Epsilon . Their’ skit was not
gonged and therefore the judges decided on a
score. Sig Ep achieved an overall score of 21.643.

Next came Sigma Chi with a kazoo act. All is
said by the fact that one of the judges tried to gong
each of the Sigma Chi participants.

Phi Psi followed with their version of “Baby
Got Back”. They, too, were gonged.

Kappa Sigma performed their version of a song

room at 2 a.m.”.

by Spinal Tap next . Again, one of the judges tried
to gong each person.

Beta Theta Pi then livened up the crowded Pit
with their version of “Daisy Dukes”. The act sur-
vived the gong to boast a score of 24.6.

Pi Phi had a hard act to follow, but they at-
tempted to do so with their rendition of “Deep
Thoughts”. Much to the dismay of the crowd, they
were gonged.

Kappa Alpha and Phi Delta Theta joined to
perform a skit that was so intent in its message that
it went overthe heads of most of the audience. Even
the judges demonstrated their awe by gonging
them directly.

Chi Psi perforemd a rather racy version of
Masterpiece Theater next and met the same fate as
its predecessor. -

The last fraternity entry was from Sigma Nu.
They attempted to sweep the audience away with a
soulful blues song. It was noted that the audience
was rather anti-blues at the time, as were the
judges.

The ﬁnal act came from Kappa Alpha Theta.
Theta spiced up the song “Wipeout” with some
nifty choreography. They survived the gong and
received a score of 20.8.

Members of the audience received door prizes
ranging from a Dave Matthews CD to a manicure.
But the real prizes were given out to at the end of
the show. Phi Delt and KA got an award for the
quickest gong. Phi PSi came in second runnner-
up, Sig Ep first runner-up. The winner was Beta
Theta Pi. Beta received $100 for their
wonderful performance.

She ﬁled a report with the Lexington Police, but

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 Howison hosts

NOVEMBER 19, 1993

minority talks

By IJDURRAINE TIGAS
Phi Staff Writer

Anece McCloud, associate
dean of students, and David
Howison, dean of students, are

people ofdifferent backgrounds.”

Howison found that “each
group had a different focus,” but
the common theme was “a better
understandingoftheseissueswill
lead to a better atmosphere at

Brady points to the low num-
ber of black students in the class
of 1997 as an indication that
“more needs to be done to in-
crease minority applicants and to
keep minority students here.”

I home three times over the last

according to Howison, is “to ex-

seeking input from students on W&L,”
minority life at Washington and
Lee. .

The two deans have held dis-

cussions at Dean Howison’s

two months.

Dean Howison said the idea
came to them last spring when
theyvwere developing goals for
the coming year. .

The purpose of the meeting speak freely.
plore ways to support black stu-
dents... and to ﬁnd creative ways
to do that.”

Howison also hopes that
through these discussions, stu-
dents will learn to “deal with

Ayanna Brady,
president of the Mi-
nority Students As-
sociation at W&L
and one of the stu-
dent participants,
said the meetings had
“an informal, com-
fortable feeling” that
allowed everyone to

According
Bryan King, another
student participant,
the meetings got
“very intense at the
end,” but there was “nothing bit-
ter” in the discussions.

There will
be a fourth
meeting after
Thanksgiving
break with all
of the previous
studentpartici-
pants attend-
ing.

Howison
hopes that the
fourthmeeting
to will result in
more definite
plans, a “com-
mon purpose
between the
students,” and “some sense of
direction.”

Howison

Atkins speaks...

Dean predicts strong Greek system

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer ,

The controversial Men’s Panel sponsored its
ﬁrst speaker Monday night to speak about the
fraternity system. '

Dean of Students for Greek Affairs Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins said that the fraternities may even
grow stronger as longas the members take their
responsibilities seriously.

The Men’s Panel was “formed to preserve the
men’s heritage at W&L” and to discuss men’s
issues, said founding member Lloyd Peoples. Dean
Atkins spoke on “The Future of Men’s Fraternities
at W&L.”

Atkins said that one of the greatest dangers to
fraternities and W&L itself is that they sometimes
become so bound by tradition that they forget the
true purpose of their organizations.

W&L is unique in that over 85 percent of men
are in fraternities. Other schools rarely draw such
a percentage into their Greek systems. Atkins,
however, said that the greatest number of alumni
complaints concerned the fraternities. He said that
in the past the complaints had stemmed from the
bad appearance of and lack of respect for the
houses, and the unusual social traditions.

In the 1980s, Atkins said, universities nation-
wide were making their atmospheres inhospitable
to fraternities because of the highly negative pub-
licity that seemed to surround the organizations.
W&L, however, wanted to preserve the fraternity
system and acknowledged its debt to the fratemi-
ties.

Fraternities gave students a place to live and eat
when W&L gave up its residential buildings and
converted them into classrooms. Atkins said that
the fraternities helped and continue to help the
university to meet academic needs by decreasing

the need for school-sponsored social functions.
“lt’s not much different now in terms of social
V life,” Atkins said. “The University really does owe
the fraternities a lot.”

The fraternity system has been a hidden eco-
nomic beneﬁt to W&L for years because the frater-
nities are an external cost. They provide the basis
for W&L’s social life and some academic beneﬁts
that are paid for through tuition at other universi-
ties.

Atkins said Fraternity Renaissance is not over:
the renovations and physical improvements are
complete, but the Renaissance will continue to
promote traditional values and positive aspects of
fraternity life. Atkins noted that many of the
fraternities do not currently live up to the values
their system is based upon, especially that of aca-
demic excellence.

Atkins said to strengthen the fraternities, the
older members need to concentrate more on teach-
ing the underclassmen how to succeed academi-
cally and socially. He said brothers need to help
freshman especially “not to behave like a five-
year-old that just discovered beer.”

The W&L policies towards fraternities are con-
sistent with the national chapter policies, although
the university is moving more slowly on reforms.
For example, the nationals want to enforce the 2] -
year-old drinking age and their risk-management
policies, while the university has taken few steps in
that direction. Atkins noted that the administration
should “provide continuity and guidance.” The
administration has no plan if the fraternities be-
come vacated, and plans to continue the current
system.

Atkins said that eventually W&L will add
student facilities that will relieve some of the
pressure on fraternities to provide the social life.

I->See ATKINS, Page 2

Sexual assault hits home on _W&L’s campus

Part one ofa two part series

. By MICHELLE BRIEN

Phi News Editor

Lyrae VanClief was in her room, asleep.
There was a knock at the door. Loud, at two
in the morning. Her door was locked.

“Who is it?”

. A friend responded, a male student she had
known and trusted since she started school a
few months before. It was then the ﬁrst week in
winter term of her freshman year.

She got up and let him in.

“Hey, what’s up? How are you? What are
you doing out so late,” Lyrae asked.
“l’m ﬁne. I just thought I’d come by and

talk,” he said. V
“Are you drunk?”
“No.”

Lyrae invited him to come in. He sat down.

Then he raped her.

had, and that they had sex.

no, no, no,” Lyrae said.
been raped.

confront him.

“I got two friends to walk with me to his
fraternity. I just wanted an answer. I wanted to

know why.

head tricks with me. -

Lyrae said she talked to a girlfriend the next
day. Her friend asked her if he had come by,
saying that he had asked her for Lyrae’s room
number earlier that evening. Lyrae said that he

“I told her that we had sex, but that I kept
saying no, stop it, what about your girlfriend,

Lyrae said she couldn’t admit that she had

After talking to her girlfriend she decided to

“He tried to convince me to calm down and
go to a basketball game with him. He knew I
was in such a confused position he could play

“I didn’t realize how scared I was [of him]
until he got up and moved toward me. I was like

did not press charges.

what was wrong with him.”

“Decisions —— I wasn’t making any deci-
sions.” Lyrae said. “I just wanted to know why,

Lyrae chose to confront her attacker through

the University mediation system. She spoke
with Dean Anece McCloud, the University

mediator in cases of sexual assault, and to-

gether they faced her attacker.

“That’s all I did as far as [discipline],” she

said. “I just wanted to know what was wrong. I

talked to administration because I wanted them

to know what happened at W&L.

“He never denied it,” Lyrae said. “He would

admit it and cry. That was his whole thing. He’d

him.”

“I had no feeling he’d be dangerous. He’d
always been helpful. He was always the person
who would make sure my friends and I got
home safely (from fraternity parties). He was
the Big Brother of one of my girlfriends. A big
man on campus. He had just been elected presi-
dent of his class.

“I trusted him enough to let him into my

— ” Lyrae shuddered and made a jerking mo-
tion with her body. “I backed away from him.

“Later that night I called my mom. I wasn’t
going to tell her but she figured it out. Then all
hell broke loose.”

Lyrae decided not to bring her attacker be-
fore the Conﬁdential Review Committee, which
was the Washington and Lee judicial body for
dealing with cases ofsexual assault at that time.

call my girlfriends and cry. Once I decided on
mediation I wasn’t supposed to have contact
with him. But he got my friends to comfort

Lyrae said that he gained her friends’ sym-
pathy by calling them saying, ‘I can’t believe I
did this, I’m so sorry.’

“Everybody was like, gosh Rae. God, he’s
really sorry.”

“That made things hard for me; the fact that
they were friends with him and he was calling
[them] up being Mr. Miserable.”

He went on normally while Lyrae grew

I->See ASSAULT, Page 3

i.Vi‘8315i3.’2T8Ch.

— W hschooistrtuctt
showedzerojreports ,
" &M* .

iik ti":  capital
.1? Eamont .v.aid.j.‘."I’he »
M  eating‘? ;:';:_jZ.  3’ -
ed ha” he other schools re- -.
, _wi1ichwererep.o_rted
 police, or which .
’ ted.,she cited UVa.
_y_ sttiderits -reported
__,. tit nonereportedarape 3
 99¥i9e;;  ’ ;  ’
changed the way it re-
, _ ‘1assuaIts.Now W&L’s
n;Crtme’Awat¢nB$$fm'd'Campus '
ﬁiéctzrzty contains only ire‘ports'o’f rape “con-
: _ j  for University" judicial
"ct;ion'.,  "means that rapes reported to
 ootmselorsor to university psychia-
j_ or e*}_en;to members of the administra-
‘ ‘I ‘ hot counted in the report.

  

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

 

Bosnian Army fends off attack

The Bosnian Army Monday fought off a heavy Croat attack, one
of the heaviest to date in the war, in a small town in central Bosnia.

A U.N. peacekeeper spokesperson said the eight-hour assault
on Gornji Vakuf involved about 4,000 troops and a dozen tanks.
Snow is becoming a factor in thewar, with Sarajevo receiving its
first heavy snowfall of the season.

Puerto Rico nixes statehood

, Puerto Ricans Sunday voted to remain a U.S. Commonwealth
and to not pursue U.S. Statehood. Governor Pedro Rossello led the
campaign for statehood, which received 46.2 percent of the vote in
the first ballot on the island’s status in more than a quarter-century.
Almost 75 percent of eligible voters in Puerto Rico turned out for
the vote.

Israelis search for scrolls

The Israeli government Sunday sent 16 teams of archaeologists
to the occupied West Bank to search for additional Dead Sea
scrolls. Texts including the earliest known sections of the Bible
were found in desert caves over a 10-year period starting in 1947.
The search has been criticized because it was not discussed in
Palestinian-Israeli peace talks.

The Nation

Penn to change racial policy

 

The University of Pennsylvania racial harrassment policy used
against a student who called five black women “water buffalo” will
be revised.

The university promised Tuesday that the policy will be changed,
based on student student input. The five black students who
claimed to be harrassed dropped their charges in May. The
university’s racial policy will be replaced in June of 1994.

Airliner barely avoids crash ’

The pilot of a Continental airlines jet nearly landed his plane at
Chicago’s O’Hare International airport with the landing gear still
up. The tower alerted the crew of the plane that its landing gear was
up when the plane was a mere four feet from the runway. The plane
was able to pull up in time, slightly scraping the runway as it
aborted its takeoff. A Continental spokesman said the crew of the
airliner was not inexperienced.

Buttafuoco gets the maximum

Joey Buttafuoco was sentenced Monday to six months in prison
- the maximum- for having sex with" an underage Amy Fisher.
Prison officials are attempting to decide whether Buttafuoco can
mix with the other inmates at Nassau County jail.

Fisher is serving 15 years for shooting Buttafuoco’s wife, Mary
Jo.

The State 4:11

Bobbitt forgives his Wife

John Bobbitt said Tuesday he forgives his wife for cutting off
his penis.

Bobbitt was acquitted of marital sexual assault last week. Mrs.
Bobbitt’s malicious wounding trial is scheduled for November 29.
Sources say a temporary insanity defense isbeing considered in
the case. Mrs. Bobbitt said she cut off her husband’s penis after
he abused her and forced her to have sex.

Repair company wins ABC suit

A Falls Church repair company won a defamation lawsuit
against ABC in U.S. District Court Monday.

High Technology Electronic Services sued ABC for a segment
which ran on its newsmagazine program “PrimeTime Live,”
which dealt with fraudulent repair practices. On the show, an ABC
producer posed as a customer and brought an intentionally-
disabled compact disc player in to High Tech for repairs. The
repair company charged $224 for a defective laser, when the
problem was a disconnected plug that should have cost only a few
dollars to replace.

High Tech received $1 in damages in the suit.

Man convicted in distillery case

A federal jury convicted Paul Andrew Henson Tuesday of
running the largest moonshine operation ever raided in Virginia.
Henson was found guilty of possessing distillery equipment,
producing distilled spirits without a license and intending to
defraud the federal government of taxes. The distillery had 36
800-gallon pots, putting it ahead of the previous record-holder, a
Franklin County distillery with 24 800-gallon pots. When police
raided in early January, all the pots were full.

Justice Department condemns
VMI-Mary Baldwin plan

The Justice Department condemned Virginia Military Institute’s
plan to create a parallel programat Mary Baldwin College, saying
it was based on gender stereotypes and urging a judge to order
VMI to admit women starting next year.

The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in October of 1992
ordered VMI to admit women, go private, or start a parallel
program elsewhere in the state. The plan formulated by VMI and
Governor Douglas Wilder would have VMI subsidize the “Vir-
ginia Women’s Institute for Leadership” in part.

  

O‘

 

The Fiin -tum Phi November 19 1993

Police copter searches for runaway.

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

Anyone who was on the baseball ﬁeld Tuesday at 1.pm.
may have seen something out of the ordinary.

A Virginia State Police Helicopter landed on the ﬁeld, in
order to meet Lexington Police for a search of the city. The
search was for a runaway 16-year-old boy.

Christopher Wayne Reynolds disappeared on Sunday,
November 14. He was last seen at 10 p.m. in Lexington.
Reynolds is six foot three inches in height and weighs 145
pounds. He has brown hair and brown eyes. When last seen,
Reynolds was wearing a black jacket and jeans and was

carrying a Walkman and a backpack.

Chief Bruce Beard of the Lexington Police Department
has asked that anyone with information about Reynolds’
whereabouts please call the Lexington Police at 463-2112.

Security warns of library thefts 

. FROM STAFF Reroms

University Security wants students
to help prevent thefts in the University
Library.

According to Mike Young, director
of university security, fall term has

 

Anyone with information
as to this runaway’s

whereabouts should con-
tact the Lexington Police
Department at 463-2112. 6

0

yielded many petty thefts. Young said
money, bookbags, calculators, coats
and other similar items have been re-
ported missing. Many stolen items
have been taken from library carrels.
This is where the students come in,
according to Young. Students should
take better care of their things and keep

$fl[‘(‘

..............,.s.,g.;..,.,”“

 

Lurkers

BY KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writer

Students report seeing strangers in

the Parmly Hall computerlab, espe- '

cially late at night. '

People not afﬁliated with the Wash-
ington and Lee community have also
been sighted in the library, playing
with computers and elevators.

“They just hang out down there and
play Dungeons and Dragons on E-
Mail,” said one senior, who asked to
remain anonymous. .

“Of course, I have no idea how they
access E-Mail,” the student said.

“How did they get passwords?
That’s what I want to know,” senior
Alex Churchill said.

Churchill reported seeing several of
the same people in the Parmly lab fairly
often.

“I can see it becoming annoying if a
lot of students want to use computers
and they’re all in there,” said the se-
nior.

Professor of Physics Barlow

' 1 b

Newbolt said “it could be becoming a
problem,” and suggested that some sort
of security measures be considered.

‘‘It just seems to be becoming more
of a problem,” said an unnamed sopho-
more. “There is definitely a lot of theft
in the area.”

“I heard there were a lot of them
mnning around [the library] Saturday
night,” said freshman Jennifer
Norwood. “They come when they
know there won’t be very many people
around.” .

A Monday night check of Parmly
and all ﬁve ﬂoors of the library around
midnight found no strangers in sight.

As for the strangers themselves, at
least some are “pretty old —— in their
30s and 405,” according to another
anonymous sophomore. “Its pretty sad
that they’re that old and just playing
those video games.”

“There were two [strangers] when I
got on the elevator today,” said a stu-
dent. “They looked pretty normal.”

Others, however, described strang-
ers as “goofy,” “scruffy looking,” and
“annoying.”
Said a sophomore, “they stink.”

Fancy Dress Chairs
motivate for March

BY YABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Writer

The Fancy Dress Ball, Washington
and Lee’s biggest social event of the
year, is scheduled for March 4.

Dress has been selected Robinson and
Sibley must maintain secrecy and there-
fore are unable to enlighten us as to the
details. Robinson pointed out that the
suspense of not knowing the theme is
half the fun.

However, Robinson and Sibley did

Having been mention that
Decoration thethemefor
subchairpersons Fancy Dress
forthe past Fancy W38 Selected
Dress, Monica fI0IntheSUg-
Robinson, ‘94, gestions box
and Kendall and that the
Sibley, ‘94, ap- lucky person

plied to the Ex-
ecutive Commit-

 

will receive a
free ticket to

tee and were cho- Fancy Dress.
sen earlier this Robinson
year to serve as 8150 hinted
chairpersons. that tickets
Regardingher are going to
previous experi- be “expen-
ence Robinson s1ve.”
said, “I had a For now
good time last Robinson
year and I met a Wantspeople
lotoffun people.” to become
‘ Robinson and excited and
Sibley both admit describes her
that chairing experience
Fancy Dress as Fancy
takes a great deal \, Dress chair-.
of time and re- l personasfun
sponsibility, yet ‘- and reward-
both manage to ing. “Every-
remaino timistic - one will be
about thgir deci- Robmson p l e a s e d ”
sion. Robinson

Although the theme for the 94 Fancy

commented.

an eye on each other’s belongings.

In an effort to control who enters the
library, the back doors of the library
will be locked after break. Young said
he realizes that non-W&L students use
the library, but he said he would like to
have all library visitors enter via the
front desk, so that non-students and

townspeople entering the building can

be spotted.

Young said security patrols wiﬂ be
stepped up in the library to prevent
thefts and to make sure all doors other
than the main entrance are locked.
Young said a person working at the
library desk is like another pair of eyes.

Atkins: Greek system
will grow in future

I->ATKlNS, from page 1

He said better pledge programs and
less emphasis on alcohol will also help
Renaissance.

With regard to Rush, Atkins said
the early Rush period for W&L men
was left over from the times when the
university was not residential. Frater-
nities had to immediately choose
pledges to ﬁll their houses. The early
Rush will probably continue, because
the men would otherwise have a period
of open contact at the beginning of the
year.

Unless the houses only had dry par-
ties until Rush, the national chapters

would object to that open conﬂct.
“Rush begins as soon as the students
arrive, whether it’s ofﬁcial or not,”
Atkins said.

The future of individual fraternities ‘

especially depends upon the success of
the deferred pledgeship rules, said
Atkins. Atkins noted that if the rmes
work, there will be no reason to move
Rush, because it is in fact the pledgeship
period that is more taxing. The new

rules and earlier initiation dates would '

relieve some of the pressure on fresh-
men.

Atkins concluded that the syskm
“will be here for a long, long time and
that it will endure.”

IFC warns against «
alcohol party themes

BY ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

The Inter Fraternity Council an-
nounced Tuesday that hall crawls and
grain parties, along with other alcohol
theme parties are not permitted be-
cause they involve communal sources
of alcohol.

Under the IFC Constitution, com-
munal sources of alcohol are not per-
mitted at the fraternities. In addition,
kegs are not allowed at any fraternity
function, even at a location other than
a fraternity house. This is a rule insti-

tuted by national fraternity organiza-
tions, not just Washington and Bee.
The use of kegs leave the house ofﬁc-
ers liable, according to the IFC.

Dean of Students David Howison
said if a group of fraternity members
go somewhere together over spring
break or some other vacation, these
rules still apply. .

The IFC also purchased can crush-
ers for $1,000 each to facilitate the
recycling program at W&L. There will
be one machine per house and if they
are broken, the house will be held re-
sponsible.

0

 

 

 

      
 

‘O

DASSAULT, from page 1

I
more and more depressed.

“I broke down. I was a basket case.
My grades went to shit. It was even
worse the next year.

“I ended up getting kind of bitter.
He ended up leavingW&L—he didn’t
grzﬁuate here. He was later accused of
doing something dishonorable — I
think it was stealing from his fraternity
brothers. But his leaving wasn’t to do
with me.

“I found it astounding that he could
stay here if he raped someone but had
to éeave if he stole a check from a
fra ernity brother.

“He went on to get his undergradu-
ate degree from another school and I’m
still here in my ﬁfth year and still
struggling.”

Lyrae said the worst came after he
left school but still
cafle back to visit

 

The Rin - -tum Phi, November 19. 1993

and those friends more often comforted
him than comforted her.

“Female friends and mothers are
the most hurtful. They’re vulnerable,
too,” said Schroer-Lamont. “We
[women] feel some responsibility. We
question ourselves. We go through our
own self-blaming. To deal with that we
blame other people, [like the victim.]

“Or women [friends] will say ‘I
know him, he’s such a sweet guy. I
knew someone else that went out with
him and they had a great time. I think
something must have gone wrong that
night.’ ”

Schroer-Lamont continued that
women not only are the victims, but
they are their own harshest critics.

“Our culture has set us up to blame
ourselves, especially our mothers and
our grandmothers,” said Schroer-
Lamont. “If something bad happens
we must have been involved.”

S c h r o e r -
Lamont said that

his girlfriend. Her “I f d .t th_0seattitudesc0n-
anaCken01dhiSgir[_ oun l as- tributetothetrauma
friend that he had tounding that he fhrape ,‘;‘°‘}[“ 33:5
";‘p°ddLyTa,f’hl?"‘Sh° could stay here if he pri;);1i',Eaia aecrt i:
t . '
S ayeiw WI frlinejnds raped someone but PVC’-That trauma
dimytyturn away h d t I .f h includes a wide ar-
from him,» Lyrae a 0 cave 1 e ray of emotions and
said. “His girlfriend Stole 3 check from 3 actsesome "_f‘fVh‘°h
didn’t leave him. fraternity brother. “a” b‘ ”“S‘““""
The administration I Preiedorpassed Off

didn’t do anything
to him.”
d\fter considering all that, Lyrae sid
she could only come to one conclusion.
“Well God, Rae, there must be some-
thing wrong with you.”

What happened to Lyrae her fresh-
man year could happen to any W&L
wgman at any time. Most students,
male and female, are aware of that.

What they may not be aware of is
that acquaintance and date rape is much
more prevalent than stranger rape. Es-
pecially at a small school in a small
town , such as W&L , in which there are
piactically no strangers. :

“Society has improved in dealing
with stranger rape, but not with ac-
quaintance rape,” said Associate Dean
of Students and University Psycholo-
gist Anne Schroer-Lamont. “An ac-
quaintance rape victim gets left out in
the cold. That’s the most common.”

‘Take Lyrae’s case. The man that
raped her was popular on campus, re-
spected by his peers. Lyrae said that

3-,,ven afterlre adnr_itte‘d§o raping her, his-

position and popularity Iwereonot di-
minished. Meanwhile, Lyrae had to
struggle with seeing him on campus
eiery day. She knew that he had admit-
ted raping her to their mutual friends,

 

Next time your friend insists on driving‘ drunli,

as stress. Shroer-

Lamont said that
some of the most common emotions a
rape victim feels are shock, disbelief,
shame, powerlessness, embarrassment,
denial, disorientation, dirtiness and
numbness.

The victim may go into shock for
anywhere from a few days to a few
weeks or months. She will move in a
daze, not remembering anything she
says or does.‘

Also during those first days and
months, the victim may experience
ﬂashbacks.

“lt’s like a camera ﬂash. They see
one part of the whole assault,” said
Schroer-Lamont. “They are so terri-
fied they block the whole assault out of
their mind, but their memory allows a
picture.”

The flashbacks can also occur in
nightmares. The victim could get night-
mares every night or only occasion-
ally. They can be triggered by the ring
of a phone, a footstep in the hall, any-
thing that is a reminder of what hap-
penedor thatgsignals danger.

‘ ' Because of that, the victim could

become hypervigilant, jumping at the
slightest sound. v

“She is tuned in to danger. All the
senses are sharper —— she listens for

footsteps behind her,” said Schroer-
Lamont.

At the other extreme, the victim
may “space out”. She could be eating
dinner or sitting in class, and suddenly
wake up or snap out of it and realize
that she doesn’t remember what she
just did.

She could go on spending sprees.

“It’s like what she does doesn’t
matter anymore,” said Schroer-Lamont.

Schroer-Lamont said that self-mu-
tilation in rape victims is common.
Victims bruise themselves, bang their
heads against walls or doors, or burn or
cut themselves. Suicide and attempted
suicide occur as well.

The woman may often begin to take
tremendous risks. Surprisingly, that risk
taking extends and especially applies
to sex. Promiscuity and one night stands
can become fairly frequent.

“Women friends or sorority sisters
might ask: ‘I’m worried about your
reputation. Do you know what people
are saying about you? ’ ,” said Schroer-
Lamont. “The victims often don’t make
tne connection between the assault and
their lack of concern for their body and
health. A woman that throws herself at
men may be suffering from the after-
math of assault.”

Schroer-Lamont said that getting
rape victims on the road to recovery is
a herculean task.

“If the victim doesn’t confront this
she will likely continue to have emo-
tional problems in the future." Some
people have written in surveys and said
in counseling that they don’t call them-
selves rape victims because then they
have to deal with all the other emotions
[that rape entails].”

In order for a victim to recover and
heal from a rape, she first has to admit
that it happened. That sounds obvious,
but admitting you were raped isnt’t
easy.

Admitting rape is a three step pro-
cess, Schroer-Lamont said. She must
admit it to herself, tell someone else,
and then move to reporting the rape
and taking judicial and criminal action.
Schroer-Lamont said that not all vic-
tims go through all three stages of the
admittal process. Most women espe-
cially avoid the reporting step because
they don’t want to deal with the legal
aspect of the rape.

“[The victim feels she is] protecting
herself from legal stuff. She feels she
can’t handle anymore. The legal aspect
can make the trauma twice as bad.

“If she can assume any of the
reponsibility then she will not define
the event as rape. Responsibility means:
I was drinking too much, I shouldn’t
have walked home by myself.”

Schroer-Lamont continued that the

  @
Sexual assault victims heal in three steps

woman would also rather place the
blame on herself than get someone else
in trouble.

“One of the most common reasons
why women don’t report is that they
are afraid to get the guy in trouble.
They are afraid they might ‘ruin his
life’. It’s part of our campus culture -
‘ifl tell I’ll ruin his life so l’ll suck up
all this and his future won’t be ruined.
I’ll deal with this.” ' ,

But there’s a difference between a
mined life and severance from W&L.
Lyrae’s attacker left W&L for reasons
totally unrelated to the attack. And he
now has his degree and is living what
seems to be a normal life. His life was
anything but ruined. Meanwhile, Lyrae
is still here after five years and is strug-
gling to realize her most ferventwish. . .
to get out of here. I

“If we could get men and women to
think about that concept... it won’t

ruin the rapist’s life [if the victim re-
ports him],” said Schroer-Lamont.
Schroer-Lamont listed other com-
mon reasons why women don’t report
rape: the victim assumes responsibil-
ity; the victim is afraid of social stereo-
types; the victim is trying to protect

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 

herself from mental anguish; or she is
afraid of retribution (if she reports him
he might get off free, and then come
after her again).

But if the victim doesn’t report the
rape right away, she faces greater com-
plications and less chance of convict-
ing her attacker down the road.

“If she chooses not to report, then
she has to deal with greater skepticism
from the law if she talks about it. Law
enforcement says she must have had
some fault or she would have reported
it,” said Schroer-Lamont. “She even
faces greater skepticism from her
friends and family and even from the
medical field.”

Recovery from rape is a long and
hard road. It might take years, but the
only way to do it is to take it day-by-
day. Schroer-Lamont said the healing
process follows the three steps of the
admittal process. A woman heals more
each time she completes a step of the
process.

“You can tell a woman is healing
when she goes through the angry
stages,” said Schroer-Lamont. “She is
angry at the judicial system, the admin-
istration, at her attacker. She feels em-

mvm DOESN'T islsr KILL DRUIERS

Andrea Hurrjs, /tiller! Aug. .36, 19.9] at 6:00pm on El Caimizo [mt/'. rll(l.S‘(‘(l(/(")'(), (..'(zlg'7Emz2‘(:.
do whatever it takes to stop him. Because if he kills innocent people, how will you live with 3i'ou1'self?

grmtuns Dom LET rgirnnsnnivr DRUNK.»

    

PAGE 3

powered in talking to an attorney or
security. Some people feel stronger
talking about it. She can feel better.

“It helps if one or more family mem-
bers knows and is supportive. And
every survivor I’ve talked with has
talked about the importance of their
male friends.”

Schroer-Lamont said that recovery
groups help the survivors, too. A
woman can belong to a confidential
support group on campus, or she will
help them seek counseling or a support
group in their hometown or in the town
where they go after graduation. W&L
has a confidential support group that
meets on a weekly basis.

“It’s an opportunity for the women
to get support and work on their self-
esteem, growth, support and relation-
ship skills. The members sign an agree-
ment not to talk about anything that
happens in the group, even if they leave
or graduate,” said Schroer-Lamont.
“This is the seventh year the group has
met on a weekly basis. They initiated
the sexual assault survey; They asked
to do it. They have been instrumental in
helping women through the recovery
process.”

 

 

 

I
II,»

I tied a ribbon because I xvzxt: a3.satilt«e~:l
by my high school piircipztl.

I tied a ribbon because I was sexually
assaulted by one of my best l'i*;Zt-trtls
freshman year.

I tied a ribbon to represent the strength
and courage that persons who l.ra"ve t:‘fxp<-‘.—-
rienced sexual violence have.

I tied a ribbon for my friend wlro was
sexually assaulted in a f'ot"eigit cot-.r.,‘t.t“;,'\’
by an American.

I tied 5 ribbons... and will it-‘f;"u‘4.‘.5,' ‘«}’;=rgt.—t
the pain...

I tied 4 ribbons for the W &L women
from the Recovery Group who led tile
discussion of the Paiufztl .Erzr:m.~ ., 
program Monday night. ’i”‘han,'t~;s.

 

I tied a ribbon for-my rnother—— whowas
sexually molested by her gratnifutliet"

I tied a ribbon for J. because all nt’
this must end.

I tied a ribbon because of an assault that
took place in my home over iZl1:‘_€sttrias
two years ago.

I feel the pain of my t'riencs

I tied 2 ribbons for my friend wire was
nearly assaulted and for dIl(,‘~il2rff.‘-‘ friend

who had an abusive boyfriend.

Itied3 ribbons for my 3 closest ‘ft 
— who were assaulted. fI'f.i'Sl.Et‘l'.1’..‘.'tI’=‘   

 

I tied 4 ribbons. l for a frien'.i “x,'/lit) a.,>«_r’« ,_ _

2+ years to uI1CI€il’SI}1‘.t(l who ‘a
her. 1 who endured tv.oH.tl~ 
who will tell you she sairl flu, .. will not
say she was raped and I who pazased on:
when a boy raped her:

  
   

 

I tied 5 ribbons - 2 for J:1t7lllt’.lt"'
mine who were raped. or
freshmen - 1 for a 13 year
when I served on ajtsty tot wz ‘t~
For my Mom. 1 fora. ~
was raped and one fat
been kidnapped in . .
several VV&I_,;-nude» 3‘. W», ,
still living -~ we fear stat: tr?‘ ‘

   
    
 

I tied a ri'r>l';;m l>e:::n:-se its pztinfizll i
know that sexual assault could it
anyone.

o
at/t,w;~':: to

I tied a ribbon because I tinnigh sexual
assault/ rape was over exaggerated until.
my best friend was raped.

I tiedia ribbon for 2‘. friends who ‘r.<2v-st;
been raped.

For our sisters in ‘§{ugc»sla=ri:n..

Itied 2 ribbons for my friends w’: ll,‘ have
been so much a part of my life. My '§iiI.€il{If~}
who were date raped turd .rar:::d.

I tied a ribbon because I was as-
saulted when I was a   l'7’r:.=3n_ce.

 

I tied a. ribbon for a friend whr: was
sexually assaulted by her grandfather and
still feels the effects 20+ years later.

I tied 3 ribbons: one for my :I".=;iend
who was raped, one for my lrien-‘s ‘wait?
was sexually assaulted, are-»:l or for is y
ex-boyfriend who ‘.*.v;§'~} ntwtel-~.-';7.-~7 :9
child.

    
 

  

I tied 4 ribbons— foi‘ 17. ft iemis. \'-v‘i‘t&)- »"
sexually assaulted, I very «':los«.'t ti-
and my friend who czmlrneti 1?!) ye:i.r.«; 
rape by her father.

]_X’f
{er 2 rl,

Itied a ribbon because I was sexually
assaulted my freshrnan year at W & I...
I tied 3 i'ibbm;«s fax:  -‘ I    " M3;
raped at W&L  one fa’; git‘! 2‘::ps-:
by her boyfriend. 'l"l1.e 53 ..n ribbon I
tiedwas for a girl S63.‘-.'?il‘vt.iI_'y' .Lt.‘;Si§i1il't2"{l in

  

 

. »- it l.l°’é.""‘*lI‘i4..r: oi’

  
 

 

 

I
‘I
_..-r"

‘l

i'H?§' 33.3".’-~=..7._rs,l t'at.lrs:3r'<

I tied a ribbon for a friend back home
who was raped by her grandfather and her
b<.)yfriei::d. Let the violence stop.

I tied a ribbon fin’ all who are not

3111/?) 5"-‘Q-;

I tied 2 ribbons... l for my mother,
assaulted. as 2:. chilc by her dentist. l for my
fi.:;’rrcee, tl_£~.1;~1§1lllI.‘:al tltztring her freshman
year by my best friend. NE‘~/ER IGNORE.
H lit ’«’.ljI?. 'v‘f}l?;(}iZ'.l”.

Itied I»! 2 lllltitlilf-----3 for college friends
‘.’.!SS'.:1lllt%?(l. lit-.‘}."t‘ at W&L, I for a girl at
my lwigrll 54? vol who has the strength to
‘i =‘ ' j c' ‘old rapist to court this

srnall town where no one

       
 

 

serriiztlly

 I.‘ I3.  rl;

 

I tied 3 ribbons for 3 women who
mrry the guilt of being sexually as-
sanltetl: ‘l by a friend while she was in
tire ‘Ml: gr ode; l by her doctor, and 1 by
her tmyfriend... I tied another one for
myseT.t‘t>eeai3se my exwboyfriend felt jus-
éit'i--:»tl in .se.xtiai_‘«y assaulting and harass-
ing me when he just could not help
llln1—‘Sf.‘lfWllBl'l he was DEPRIJSSED and
when he was A.l"«l’f:'RfY at‘ me, EVEN
A.l*l_‘l’*.'1_l;~?_ we Ir.-.-Jolie up. I ‘now realize I
neither deserved to be abused, nor did
he have 9. right to hurt me like that. HE
(ifllli .1} help himself; I tiidn’t create a
rapist by széyittg-“NU” or rejecting him.
Tlrese 4 rililmrxs rle<:l:‘*r~e that my women
theriils and I are l.ll?.V.lVORS, not
wictirns, and tliey ‘r eat 4 pleas of
' HUI’ (l!lll.TY“‘ "or {‘.l}tiliii_(éY’S act of

.?,- ‘I... ,~... .. :-:.-.-g .
-‘~'vI?r..Il-‘..‘-c «.",-:'*..- if-‘ll 19.5.

 
 
 

V gr 0 1 ,
VV’ 1%}...

‘ll of? ,

lilo the I}/“
:.r~-rietgtrad in

   
     
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
 

‘. the rnajority of
. ,, . . I resent charac-
aln e. Also, I am not a
.. arr “kick-ass frater-

 

E :»..r?s.»=a 7.‘t;’:S&i,',tI the above.

ilir: :1b:>'<.'::  an unfair stereotype.

ll   ribbon for that other part of
'  ‘* ' e you went to school and
iiogof a kick-ass fraternity.

., ’n:s.:<. a lot of work to do! Start
everyone, so no one else has to
what I did!

   

I ti_r;=rl “.2 ribbons for ft'iend’s mothers
2:11:72 era; 95!! recr:.-vering emotionally.

l tier! :1 r'il;tm;3 for my four cousins who
~ tr} "ry tl:t::ir fntlier. The oldest

   
 

I tied at _l.'li)lJ0i3l for my close friend
“.';’ll4? «was rtrztllgy assatilted and thinks
it was tier" tﬁurlt. I tied a ribbon for my
t"rier:tl Mrs: was molested as a child. It
" the m<r»z=°. §'tC()])l8 I talk to, the
.. 3?:-,«« 51¢»: :« pervasive sexual

" I **’m'er‘ibba)n forme,
mrstge to be who I
at"? asp for‘ myself and other

 
   
 

     

 
  

 tor erv eryone I know who
. j ::r a:ss:.-.s.tlt<:d. I tied up eight.
I thirrl-:. that‘.’:: pretty av/l‘t1l.'l‘h()se are eight

to es t.‘:.‘=.t will ilC‘~.-‘all bi ‘Lire same.

t  T7  (Bite for myself. I
l:r.ope this week of awareness incites
'"l_";2,‘:j_3f.C‘.

I went to,
er t;ai"i of the U .S. where.-.

.:ner is now injail ~—it can be ‘

I
|_/”

' ‘ I tied a ribbon for the pain of losing the
trust in a ‘friend,

This is a good idea — it raised my
awareness!

I tied a ribbon for my two friends who
were date raped, one for my friend who
was physically and sexually abused by her
fiancee, one for my friend who was abused
by her grandfather and one for my friend
who was abused by her step—father. Fi-
nally, I tied a ribbon for my sister and me.

A.

I tied a ribbon for3 friends: one who
was attacked and raped by her ex—boy-
friend and got pregnant; one fora friend
who was raped by her boyfriend in high
school and one for a friend who was
assaulted by a stranger when she was a
child.

I tied 4 ribbons. One for a boy, one for
a girl who had her virginity taken and all
because they trusted the wrong people.
Rape is not merely a physical act, it is an
emotional /one, The raper is not looking for
a “good time,” he/she wants to reduce his/
her victim into nothing.

I tied a ribbon for those who are
afraid to talk to anyone about being
raped —— for those who g_an’_t talk to
anyone about it —— for those who fgd
th_§y_can_’_t,_g_t,um, l tied another ribbon

for those who do not understand.

I tied a ribbon because I got kicked out
of my house.

I tied 2 ribbons —— 1 for my ex-
boyfriend who saw his Mom raped by-a
burglar when he was seven years old. 1
for his Mom, a woman of enormous
strength.

I tied a ribbon for my friends who were
raped or abused. '

..L......»—

. W

I tied a ribbon, even though it alone
can’t erase being raped at 15 by my
boyfriend and then letting him abuse
me for 2 years after that. A ribbon can’t
erase the physical scars I have —— but it
does symbolize that I’ve gone on in life
to be bright and successful. To all the
women who have been raped and abused
—- FIGHT BACK! Don’t live with the
guilt —- it’s not your fault.

I tied a ribbon in support of my women
friends who have been sexually assaulted
on this campus.

I tied a ribbon for all of us who real-
ized too late we were being assaulted.

I tied 1 ribbon for all my friends who
have been raped. I tied 1 ribbon for my
sister so she won’t be raped because con-
sciousness will be raised and people will
be educated. I tied 1 ribbon for my unborn
daughter so she will never feel threatened
by a friend, a lover, a husband, or a
stranger because one day I believe this will

not be a problem anymore. I am an opti- .

mist but until that time I needed to tie 3
ribbons.

For a friend raped 3 years ago.

For those who suffer through no fault of
their own: all men and women who are
raped or sexually assaulted.

I didn’t tie a ribbon —— some things
are too painful to be reminded of all day
long. ‘

I tied a ribbon because I’ve never been
so scared in my entire life.

If I was to tie a ribbon for all the
people I know that have been scared by
sexual assault and /or rape, there would
not be enough room for all the ribbons
-- but, the one ribbon I did tie repre-
sents something positive. I am a survi-
vor! Last year I was raped on this cam-
pus and both physically and verbally
assaulted by an individual who thought
it was just rough sex, and that I enjoyed
it —— he was wrong! I am so disgusted by
him, the judicial system, and those that
supported him or covered up his ac-
tions. I will recover, but the healing
process is long and slow. I will NEXER

 
  
 

get over it, but I will soothe some of the
wounds that remain with time and pa-
~ tience. I pray that someday he recog-
nizes and is sorry for what he has done
to my life, but I also recognize that will
never happen. I am strong...he is weak!

With this ribbon I let go of the memo-
ries of last year.

I tied 6 ribbons for friends who have
had to feel the pain.

I tied 2 ribbons—— one for a friend back
home + was raped in her home by a
stranger and one for one of my sisters who
still lives with a lot of pain.

I tied a ribbon because I was date
raped and didn’t think it would ever
happen to me.

I tied 3 ribbons — one for my best
friend who was raped in high school “be-
cause she wanted it,” one for my friend
who was raped by her fiancé when she
was 17, and one for my friend who was
molested by her older brother as children.

Why did he hurt me, and tell me he
loved me? What was it about him that
made him yearn for control, to ﬁght me
till I was worn out, and gave in? Did he
really need the sex? Something tells me,
NO. He needed to feel like a dominant
person. I lost a lot of self—respect in that
relationship. How could I have missed
the cues? But I did — we all do. Who
m 
luuimnl

I have grown as a person since I
came to realize I was raped by my
boyfriend. It was a rude awakening,
but a necessary step forward to heal-
ing. Like any other injury, the scar
tissue that has formed is not like the
tissue that was damages. It is stronger,
but less ﬂexible. So am I. Now I know
who I am and,-What I want. If; ma,
can’t .respect-that, he’ doesn’t“ deed; '
my company. Surely I can find sense;

And really, I’d rather been-‘my own “

than dating someone who’d hurt me.

Elizilbeth .

I tie a ribbon for all the women at W&L
with the strength to have confronted their
assailants. I applaud them for their brav-
ery, particularly in coming forward in a
community in which the man is far more
likely to be acquitted of any wrong simply
because of his gender.

I also tie a ribbon for the many who
suffer in silence and fear. The pain which
those fear who know the scrutiny of the
society under which they would be judged
and deem them liars is overwhelming.
The anguish and pain they feel us greater
than any of can, and probably will ever
experience.

I long for the mind—set of this great

University to enter the twentieth century.
The dominance of White—Anglo males is
past its time. The men of Washington and
Lee need to recognize that their obsessive
desire for power and control. It is time for
equality and recognition of the significant
contribution of women on this campus.
The oppression must stop. Justice must
have its say.
For all this I tie a ribbon.
Matthew
(The above ribbon was tied by a male
in the Washington & Lee community who
is also a fraternity member.)

Why must there be so much pain? I
hate one individual on this earth be-
cause he hurt me, but I am a survivor
and he is the one going to hell, not me!

o I was raped as a junior in high school,
then again as a junior at W&L.

For the incredible bravery of indi-
viduals who will admit to being hurt
and that they should feel N_Q shame or
guilt.

I tie a ribbon because something has to
be done. As it stands a woman can claim
that she has been raped and can drag
someone’s have been legitimately sexu-
ally assaulted. I just feel that the current
system us prone to abuse.

I tied a ribbon for my best friend,
who was drugged and then raped by
her boyfriend and 9 of his closet friends.

. . , .,.., ._._.;. ....,,
ll 9'.-“,:»=~: Kai.’ -2' =

3
The Ring-tum Phi, November 19, 1993
—I-|.I- rm‘! /-fill. I.’-I
— / JF / 1!? v'/

  ll‘: ti. ti...-

   

I love you sweetheart. I

Humani nihil a me alienum puto

(Terence) “I think that nothing human is
foreign to me” (Terence) and these trag-
edies must stop.

A male on camﬂts

I tied a ribbon for my grandmother
I who was raped at the age of 4.. I

I tied a ribbon because I was assaultgd
(8th grade) by the boy next door. I tied one
for his healing, too. Sometimes I’m still
afraid.

Pain does not equal pleasuremwﬁy
did he think so?

I tied 2 ribbons —— one for a friend who
suffered an attempted rape, and the other
for my sister, who was raped while highpn
drugs which the rapist gave her, She never
knew she took them and could notdefend
herself.

I tied a ribbon because I’ve let go of
the pain and found the happiness I Oe-
serve.

I tied a ribbon because I was sexually
assaulted as a child.

0

I tied a ribbon for my sister who
didn’t deserve the abuse she got; I tied
one for my friend who was too little at
the time to know grown—ups shouldn’t

touch you there; I tied one for me ’ca e -

I’ve come too close too many times.

I think it’s time I tied one for myself. It
wasn’t my fault.

I
I tie a ribbon for my two year old
mrrj cg, in, tlrghope that she willneverfeel
‘:'tl‘1‘s'pajn'." ’ '”, ; r:_,~' rI:...,-,..f';=‘.“»..‘..,"

..-

.\

I

~ No means yes. ‘I A

Nice attitude jerk (to the above state-
ment). I am a male fraternity member.

People like you (above statement) $6
the reason we have these problems! Q_e_t

some education and a heart!

I tied a ribbon for a friend that was
sexually assaulted and can face the pﬁn
now and recover. Also for all those that
are still living with it.

I was raped my freshman year. It was
one of the most awful experiences of my
life, I have never felt such fear —-'— such
lack of control -_— such vulnerability. But
the worst part is now. Even 4 years later I
still have nightmares. The physical abuse
is nothing compared to the emotional scars
I must now deal with. It has changed ﬁre
ways I deal with men— not permitting me
to become intimate with men I truly care
about because of the FEAR. Bt I am a
SURVIVOR! And hope that by speak-
ing out and reaching out to other survi-
vors and other women that the ma, 0
recovery will be a little smoother. It is
time that men and women alike open
their eyes to the violence that is occur-
ring at this campus and everywhere
else. It is time that we all walk together
to put an end to this abuse. I wantgo
thank Dean Schroer—Lamont, my group
of survivors, and my male friends that
have helped me to face this trauma and
turn it into a growing experience. "I
have become a stronger woman and
hope to strengthen others around rm.
The pain will never stop if we don.’t’all
work together.

BR

Last March 14-21, the Health Educa-.
tion Committee sponsored Sexual Assault
Awareness Week. As part of the week’s
events, members of the Washington and
Lee community were asked to tie a ribbon
and help raise campus consciousness by
sharing their experiences or feelingsabout
sexual assault. Many of those who tied a
ribbon wrote an explanation on the sheets
of newsprint which covered the bulletin
boards in the University Center. The com-
ments above were all on display then and
g were on display at the beginning of the year

in the Women ’s Center.

 

 

The Ring-tum .Phi, November 19,1 993
. T

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Girls —Would you like to know what the
guys say about you after you hook-up with
them at their fiatemity parties?

uys —-Would you like to know what a
W L girl looks for in a guy?

Too bad. Neither of the sexes are telling.

Maybe it’s because romance is a touchy
subject to be quoted on. Not that romance has
anything to do with hooking-up. And what does
“hooking-up” mean, anyway? Eye contact, lip
co tact, body contact, or total contact?

or some it means a good romp in bed. For
others, it’s not sex, but it can be kind of,
um...fun.

One freshman girl thought “[Hooking-up] is
a good deep kiss with cuddling and groping.
Chains and whips if desired.”

“I think just hooking-up is fun at the time,
butﬁf you do it on a regular basis you get a
reputation as being a sleaze,” said sophomore
Jay White.

Point to ponder: Do guys get the same kind
of rep for sleeping around as girls do? (puh -
leeze!)

Although deﬁnitions for hooking-up run the

“ gaipit, general consensus seems to be that

 

/,

hooking-up can mean whatever you want.

“To me the beauty of the term ‘hooking-up’
is its ambiguity. It can mean anything from
ﬂirting to sex,” said freshman Betsy Green.

Some students scorn hooking-up altogether.
“It seems the existing archaic method of drink-
inggo excess and losing all self control is quite
desirable to the majority of our student body...l
wonder if [the girls] know what’s said about
them after the parties

  ‘I/V€’7"L ife
The art of the hook-up at W&L

An examination/lamentation of VI/&L% dating scene

like guys, for example.

“When I meet a girl that I am interested in it
does not matter to me where she goes to school.
I do not understand why W&L girls cannot
understand this and be more mature about the
situation instead of constantly cutting
on girls from down the road,”
said junior Michael Witsil.

One anonymous guy,
however, felt .differ-
ently. ’

“The road school
situation sucks. Life
would be much easier
if all the girls attended
W&L. I personally
would much rather
date someone
here,” he said.

And not all
W&L girls
knock girls
from all-
g i r l s
schools.

“[Girls
from all-
girls schools]
are not a big deal
except at date
functions...[guys] shouldn’t
be able to ask anyone from another school until
all the girls here have dates,” said freshman
Marie Lamb. .

VMI guys don’t really seem to be an issue
for anyone. So onward to the crux of the matter:
Dating vs. Hooking-up.

He’s wearing a nice tie with a nice shirt
(which doesn’t match), looking slightly un-
comfortable and smelling of Eau de Aren’t I a
Stud (available at Stores That Have These

Kinds Of Things).

attheﬁ'athouses,”said
one girl.

However, while
th - definition of
‘hooking-up’ can be
interesting, who you

Top Ten Ways To
Deal With Being In
Love

She’s got on a pretty
dress and pantyhose,
ready to have a good
time and freeze to
death. Yes, it’s a date
, and the question is,

do it with warrants how typical isthis see-
even more discussion. nario at W&L?
Thus, we arrive at the 10- Take drugs One anonymous

fun subject of: Girls

From All - Girls - guydoesn’tthinkitis.
SCIRIOIS. 8' Demal “My opinion on
I Onindthel local dia- 7. Eat and get really fat g1atin%;xtIVY&Listd11_2tgt
ect,roa c eese. - ' it suc . tis very l-

W&Lgirls, in gen- 6' Whine ””t"_Y°” no ﬁcul.ttogetadatehere~
eral,donotlookkindly IOHQST have friends because it seems that
upon road cheese. 5_ Write |oVe poetry that when you speak to a

“Road cheese sucks,”
waﬂone W&L girl’s
eloquent statement.

9. Talk to Oprah about it

will be read by unfortu
nate English students at

(and disillusioned)

girl, they assume you
are hitting on them,
when maybe you are

“Why would they just looking foracon-
[W&L guys] want to ter V9” death versation andafriend-
go outwith those girls 4. Drink ship,” he said. _
anyway? W&L 3. Put an ad in the W&‘r8i"5-*".g°"‘
women are obviously I  d eral, like dating.
supﬂrior. Are we just C ass‘ le 5 “There is no dating at

jealous of them? Yeah,
probably,” said Green.

Cutting on road
cheese isn’t cool with
all (W&L students-—

te 

2. Get a sex change
1. Join a convent/ monas

W&L. There should
be. Girls like to have
money spent on
them,” said one girl.
“Dating is fun be-

Oi hair and SIlO€S2\X/84L I[<]SIllOll

Thefiner points of the typical ‘On the

with naturally. Bobs and larger styles, with and without bangs,
all—one—length styles, are good.

For guys, hair styles are pretty much all the same-—short—
with variations based more on individual hair characteristics
than to styling. Some seem to be in perpetual need of a haircut—
especially freshmen enjoying time away from home. “You can
tell the boys who had hair lengths in their dress codes at home,”

By Kathleen Quirk

0 Hii Staff Writer

 

The fashion extravaganza continues...

Return now to a familiar theme: conservatism at Washington & Lee.

   
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
 

4/

I

r
1
/

cause you get a lot of good, expensive meals,
and you can get to know people at a more

' intimate level,” said freshman Tracy Marshall.

‘At a more intimate level’ — this seems to be
the difference between dating and hooking-up.
Hooking-up seems to consist of ideas such as:
‘random’, ‘for one night only’ and ‘Do you
even remember her name?’

Dating is obviously more romantie——dark
candlelight dinner with that “get to know me”
ambiance vs. dark fraternity party with that
“let’s get drunk and have sex” ambiance.

Dating also has its downsides. Sure, it can i

lead to a deeper, more serious relationship,
which can be good, but it also means more
commitment and less freedom.

A bad hook-up, on the other hand, can be
written off as a consequence of being too drunk
— ‘it’s a weekend thing’, ‘it’s a party thing’,
‘it’s a hook-up thing’, etc. lt’s not too hard to
deal

Still, W&L girls desire more dating. Sopho-
more Margaret Fitts said, ‘‘I would like to see
more dating on this campus—-what girl
wouldn’t?” _

W&L students’ suggest these ideas for good
dating activities:

-the zoo in Roanoke

-the library

-Blue Ridge Parkway

-the Inn at Union Run

-any Lenfest drama production

-the theater in Roanoke

-ll Pallazo

-Willson Walker

-go for a walk on the Chessie Trail

-see a movie at Hull’s Drive-In

-bowl at Fast Lanes

-anything except going to a fraternity party

Basically, any.romantic place where you
can get to know someone and become part of a
couple and live happily-ever-after is just fine.

said freshman Marie Lamb.

When dealing with hair, shoes and trends, W&L students lean toward the

tra&tional.

“Very conservative,” was junior Stacy Newlin’s opinion of W&L fashion.
Shoes for W&L men fall easily into two categories: boots and other. Rare is
the W&L student who cannot find at least one pair of boots —hiking, duck,
chukka or cowboy —— in his closet. Oxfords are also popular, especially bucks and
. saddles. Loafers and blucher moccasins are favorites as well. More casual shoes
include indoor soccer and other athletic shoes, canvas sneakers like Vans or All-
Stﬁs, and running shoes which may be even more prevalent than books. Though
winter is approaching quickly, some students are still wearing sandals like

Birkenstocks and Tevas.

Women’s shoes include all of the guys’ shoes and more (change that
elementary school playground chant to “Anything guys can wear, girls can wear

better”).

Girls’ shoes are — no surprise here — largely conservative. “No one wears
Disks,” said freshman Stephanie Falorizio, “they wear penny loafers.” _ A

Popular styles include ankle cowboy boots, woven leatherﬂats and mules, and
loafer ﬂats——especially with little brass accents. Good colors for fall and winter
are the predictable browns, blacks and bone. “I don’t think girls should wear
white shoes after Labor Day,” said freshman Gambril Corckran, “If you must
wear bone, then I guess it’s acceptable.” Brown is great with textures——mock
alligator and basketweaving in particular. Suede’s classic texture looks espe-
ciaﬂy good in black, dark brown and forest green. Pumps and ﬂats are perennial

standbys.

Why all these shoes for women? They simply need more because their shoes
are usually less versatile. W&L girls need different shoes for class, going out,

hanging out and dressing up.

Hair styles at W&L are, unbelievably, traditional. ‘‘I never see mohawks or
funky shades of hair,” said freshman Christi Wooldridge. For girls, hairstyles are
USIEII)’ simple and classic. There is virtually no “big hair,” bizarre coloring,
fun y ’80s layering, claw bangs or heavily lacquered styling. In short, nothing
highly unnatural. Hair styles generally conform to what a person’s hair looks best

“They’re growing it out and they’re all shaggy now.”

... ‘. . ._ ._
3‘? .~.. .o.- .......___ _'
_ .
'.

:4:

1' '

V, ’,.-..--

ugh.”
Ty’
\.'|5tI/l/“/
A\‘

Now to one unfortunate aspect of dating at
W&L: Long Distance Relationships.
These are not always, if ever, fairy tale
romances.
‘‘It takes a lot of effort
from both sides to keep
th_e relationship
strong,” said sopho-
more Kristen
Cavros.

One romantic
believes “[if] you
are 18-22 years of
age and enrolled
in college and can-
not commit to a
relationship...then

__ when, if ever, will
you be able to?”

Many people feel
long distance rela-

tionships rarely
work, but there

are strong people
out there that
make them
work.

“I believe that
the two of us can make it
work despite the distance. We plan
to be together for a very long time after
we graduate, and we realize that we are going to
have to get used to being apart sometimes,” said
seniorMatthew
Appel.

.’V

 

PAGE 5

much when you’re away from your beloved?
“It all depends on how much you love your long
distance [person]. lt’s the hardest, I think, on
the third party,” said freshman Vivian Stone.

Which means, yes, you can be involved in a
long distance relationship without having a
boy/girlfriend at home. You can be dating some-
one who has a boy/girlfriend at home.

“[Long distance relationships] rarely work.
They usually end up self-destructing or turning
into good friendships,” said Marie Lamb.

Even though long distance relationships may
sometimes seem like more hell than they’re
worth, strength of mind and body, can get you
through.

From hooking-up to serious relationships,
W&L has an off-balance system of romance.
But then, love is off-balance.

Juliet stabbed herself to death because of
love. Mark Anthony came to ruin out of love for
Cleopatra.

Isn’t love wonderful?

  

For fresh-
men, the long
distance rela-
tionship bit is
hard. Are you
allowed to
hook-up with
other people
when you have
aboy/girlfriend
at home? Can
you still have
fun? Some-
times the draw
of the person at
home is just too
much to ignore.

“Everyone
told me before
I left for school
that I should see
other people,
but I couldn’t
imagine either
of us with other
people,” said
f r e s h m a n
Allison Foote.
“I suggested to
him that we see
other people,

great.”

you.”

of a girl ’s shirt

but hecouldn’t fIOOr_”
handle the
thought of

that.”

Seeingother

people—how
much is too

The Good, the Bad, and the Truly
Lame Pick-Up Lines

‘‘I’m wearing bedding material, would you like
to lie on .me?” — a guy at Sigma Phi Epsi/on’s
Caveman Party who was attired in sheets

“Would you like to see the rest of the house?”

‘‘I hear the view behind the library is really

“l’ve met you before. ..it was in an erotic dream.
It was wild, it was crazy, it was incredible.” —-
said at a fraternity party (The girl responded
“Keep on dreaming. '9

“So you’re a freshman? l’ve been looking for

“You must be tired. You’ve been running
through my mind all day.” ’

“Just checking to see if you were made in
heaven.” — a guy checking the tag on the back

“I like your shirt, but it would look better on my
“Will you marry me?” .

“Come sit on me.” — Petruchio to Kate in
Shakespeare's The Taming Of the Shrew

I_]iD1C]PIl .2

Flock

 

._ 1. 9-‘, ., ._—W_~;.;.,,'yew.‘2'-a'a‘a'«b'ra'&'4.'}'3*:‘>"'.'h'

W&LIF E

 

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

  

The Rin_gﬁ-tum Phi, November 19,1393

ARE vou v*<’°>*‘-'5’ BUN”

1
ll YOU LOSER!‘
‘N By A M\l.E..

   

 

 

ATUIUC rurunr Olin MARI PAWS‘

All ngnn me

1115 POTTY TRAININC7 OF 3-olw‘ Mc£NROF

  

mm Tribune man swans. me. / Ptuqgou. inc.
Nld.

 

You're a. plugrger if you flanked. you

0“ “I3 mark , by Mark Parisi PIUQQEVS by Jeff MacNelly ‘‘ - 
ADMA new ,"0UT" ?    ll

  

 

  

I

I

  

 
 

   

  

first drivers test.

I Colonnade Crossword

   

 
    

  
   
   

        
 
  

JULIA ROBE RT5

   

    

s ‘I.
. ,
I ' I

NON LEIUITUK

BY
\Vl§3/

 

 
   

 

 1llili11iii.*lll;lll D, I,

1 “
‘ ;\\\.\:§§

 

FM; umvs ARE

 

THE CHANGE ix
VOWM N0 M93
UNVERWEAR.

 

Fl.lLL,du$1'5‘ncK  ,

  
  
 

ACROSS 1
1 Spring
5 Lady

10 Cooing creature

14 Choir voice

15 Beta! palm

16 Racetrack

17 Place for

chickens
18 City in
Oregon

19 Jumble

20 Entangle

22 One on a

pension

24 Some votes

26 Bric-a--—

27 Channel for

water

31 Cuts

35 Oklahoma city

36 Aviates

38 Conflict

39 Retail event

41 Make into law

43 Outside: pref.

44 Fake

46 Goof © 3 T ‘ ne Media Services, Inc.

48 Wallet item We Reserved 1 1/18/93
49 V"° Last week’s puzzle solved
51 Bound to 6 a man —

succeed mouse?"

53 Candid 7 Gibson or

55 Note — Blanc

56 Hot 8 Sharp tasting

59 Lost at 9 Callers

sea 10 Dwelling
63 Rara — 11 — and done
64 Audibly with
67 Glen 12 Flower holder
68 Descartes or 13 Otherwise
Coty 21 One in bondage
69 Catchword 23 Soft mineral
70 Pointed arch 25 Fishing net
71 Alphabetic 27 Speaks hoarsely
letters 28 Boise‘s state
72 Make ingress 29 Bravery
73 Wander 30 Cherished ones
32 Saguaros
DOWN 33 Chemical

1 Taﬂlflg compound 47 Tear 58 Small

2 NC_ college 34 Gleamed 50 Malign 60 Role in

3 Unit of 37 Wash 52 Intensity of Shakespeare

matter . 40 Approves feeling 61 Kind of circus
4 Cartoon sailor 42 Bullrxng 54 Man—made fiber 62 Abound
5 Garmem label Performer 56 Playground 65 Mel ol baseball
W°rd 45 Sharp cry 57 Eye pan as Indian

  

SHOE

1. I 3,; IHAVE A BRIEF
I.  Ni STATEMENT
 on 
 ’l'‘‘ D
W“

II

 

       
   

9

will

‘ 1' PEROT'5 POSITION '

100 IF I'M NOT
\\ , MISTAKEN.
>
3“): xx //
*.:T:'.,\:-5
(\(l‘.‘\'C..

 Restaurant

at LEE Ill Truck Stop

 

BUFFET
Friday & Saturday Nights
T1 p.m. to 4 a.m.
Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Route 11 North Open 24 Hours 463-3478

 

Stonewall Square snap
LeX’ngt0n,V
4 63- 98 0 0

Take the€R::O‘€ﬁl7U$tEl7[ll/l“D_§'l\g7[E_l1¥§lIElérg/Q/"7. If we don’t have it, we will

order it for you and give you $2.00 0

Noon-10 p.m.

 

Horse Boarding

Excellent turnout with Private
Paddocks. Two miles from the
Virginia Horse Center on 39 West.
Riding lessons with Certified
Instructor. Trails, Flood-lit arena. Call
(703) 463-1636 and leave a message.

 
 

 

purchase price. Guaranteed
delivery in two working days.

 inh”rivs

Bad Company - What You Hear...

Chris Walker - Sincerely Yours

Queen Latifah - Black Reign
Blur - M odern Life is Rubbish
Tom Petty & the Heartbreakers — Greatest Hits

Michael Bolton - The One Thing
Paul McCartney — Paul is Live!!

Cu.-zsemas Gare Certipicates available”
 and up.

Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri & Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m., Sun.

  

ham . .
Thanksgiving! Polﬂnt of Vlew
estcrurant

Next to Days Inn, Rt. 60 West

  

463-7797
Casual Dining
Elegant Setting

Finest Steaks - Fresh Seafood
Pork Ribs - Banquet Facilities

Wanted: Waiters & Waitresses,
part time. Call: 463-7797

'8MYAlD7DAYPEIAGu
°I5MlU!l0YACK‘l‘8lA!lG!lIG3G.5TOC3l’lE!'

CALL (800 714 - 8687

FLQ 13A KEYS

?I~'ET»i.$.i-. D: f5§“l€E}.r.,§ l’:?{I'I:\5:i

 
  
  

  

ITS A PIRATES LIFE I

   
  
   
 
        
  

 

Party Picture Photographers Needed

Must have own 35 mm equipment & car P
Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6

l__

  
 

Now Playing Through Tuesday, Nov. 23
261-7292, 2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista

" ) , Show Times
v//Al’ -J/)(’I’(’I// Dally 7:00 a. 9:15 p.m.

Sat.&Sun. 12:30, 2:35, 4:45,
7:00 & 9:_15 p.m.

STARTING WED, Nov. 24
JURASSIC PARK

..///"////'///‘(J

PG I3

  

HOW ABOUT V

      
 
 
  

    

. . '
-— +.'
.

 

All Seats$ 1 

K

 

DO YOU ENJOY
SHOOTING SKEET?

If you do, you’ll love Sporting Clays, and QUAIL
RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS is right here in Lexington.
Don’t miss out on this fun and exciting sport.

Back yard skeet is fun, but compared to Sporting Claysﬂ
it’s boring

At QUAIL RIDGE SPORTING CLAYS, you’ll shoot all
angles of birds as well as bolting clay rabbits. Sporting
Clays is for everyone, and you don’t have to be a good shot

to enjoy a round. !

Call for a free brochure 463-1800
Shooting is by appointment - Closed Tuesdays

 

T1

 

 

9 The Ring-tum Phi, November 19, 1993

3     r-Aug] ,
RICK 5 
Do  

  

AND no ANWAL FEE. rnugg) THAT  

WGHI ro MKEASE roux (ASH FLOW

»\

3‘ 3” 

 ou’r cor IT,
GU IT.”

 
   
   
 

    

PAGE 8

Clip: ﬂing-tum 15111
The Student Voice of Washington and Lee I
Founded September 18, 1897

Dance of denial  

In 1990 Congress passed the Federal Crime Aware-
ness and Campus Security Act. The law is supposed to
force colleges to be honest about crime on their cam-
puses, including sexual assault and rape. But Washing-
ton and Lee, like many universities and colleges, has ‘
managed to dance around the law.

Associate Dean of Students and University Psycholo-
gist Anne Schroer- Lamont says the law is ambiguous
and provides universities with loopholes to interpret the
law the way they see fit.

The result is that when campuses report crimes truth-
fully, they look far worse than many of their counter-
parts. In 1991, W&L reported four instances of rape and
sexual assault. That same year the University of Vir-
ginia, with a student body much larger than W&L’s,
reported no rapes or sexual assaults.

How? They only reported rapes and sexual assaults
that had been reported to local police, campus police or
were prosecuted in a court of law. Virginia Tech and
William and Mary, also larger than W&L, reported four
cases of sexual assault or rape. They used the same
criteria for reporting crimes UVa. did. W&L, on the
other hand, reported every crime the university knew
about, including crimes that had not been brought to
judicial action or convicted.

So what happened in 1992? UVa., Tech and W&M,
did not change their methods but W&L did. W&L now
reports rapes and sexual assaults that have been con-
firmed by campus or police judicial systems. The
problem with this is clear; most women that are raped do
not report it to the police and even if they do tell a
university official they do not necessarily take judicial
action. So what we are left with are campus crime
reports that are a bunch of statistical garbage, at least in
the instances of rape and sexual assault.

In fairness to W&L, the university does supply an
addendum to the campus crime report, which supplies
the number of rape or sexual assault cases reported to
official university systems, such as the Student Faculty
Hearing Board. »

The University also provides a description of the
crimes that were reported and details what judicial action
was taken or if the case was dismissed.

However, until all reports of sexual assault and rape
are reported, the addendum is still only a band-aid on a
broken limb.

F.K., N.P., M.B.

Quotes of the Week:

“And the award for the fastest dong goes to
KA and Phi Delt.”
——A Theta at the “gong” show

“What’s on your mind?”
——An audience member ’s response

“The Colonnade is a paradise for brick
fettishists.”

—English Professor George Ray

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, November 12, 1999 V

:73 '

Black Studies would debase W&L

Looking at most college catalogues you would not
notice that they fail to provide their students with a
liberal arts education.They are full of statistics on how
diverse the student body is and statements on the
institution’s commitment to multi—culturalism. These
facts, along with a lot of pretty pictures, give the
impression that the school’s “diversity,” both in its
student body and curriculum, will make its students
well rounded; liberally educated. Yet their insistence
on diversity, usually meaning
racial diversity, undermines
their ability to provide a lib-

a course of study dominated with leftist ideology.
The reason students major in it is because of its
political slant. They do not seek a “diversity” of
ideas, rather they only want more liberalism. We
might as well call it a Liberal Activist Major. “A
college experience,” Mr. Branam say “should be
expanding your horizons.” Unfortunately the only
expanding of horizons that would occur with a Black
Studies major is the expanding of the liberal position.

If Mr. Branam wants di-
versity so badly, why doesn’t
he work on getting more con-

eral education. Diversity sim-
ply means replacing ideas with
ethnicity as the cornerstone of
education. Their curriculums ,
are centered on the races of
mankind, instead of the intel-
lectual accomplishments of
mankind. Students leave such
institutions with knowledge _
usually a very politicized knowledge of the place of
race in world history, and ignorant of the great ideas

of civilization.

Washington and Lee has for the most part avoided
engaging in this debasing of liberal education. The
general education requirement helps all students to
attain, as the catalogue states, “a breadth of knowl-
edge.” And the major allows for further study into an
important category of thought. Anyone who gradu-
ates from W&L has been educated in the great ideas
of human civilization. They have been exposed to the
great ideas of not only one particular race but of all
mankind. This is what a liberal arts education is
suppose to entail, not specializing in one narrow
topic.

Recently a proposition has been put forth that
would, if successful, begin decaying W&L’s tradition
of producing liberally educated graduates. Sopho-
more John Branam has taken up the crusade to estab-
lish a Black Studies major. As reported in the Nov. 12
edition of The Ring-tum Phi, Mr. Branam believes
“there is a lack of diversity at W&L.” He proposes to
establish a Black Studies major to bring a “diversity
of thought” to W&L.

Anyone sincerely concerned with obtaining a lib-
eral arts education certainly is aware of the values of
alternative points of view, but a Black Studies major
would not bring new viewpoints to W&L. Its subject
matter is already present, though not in as narrow a
focus, in other courses, for example African Ameri-
can history is contained in American history.

A Black Studies major would only further promote
the same old liberal viewpoint that is already ad-
equately represented on campus. The only students
who would generally ﬁnd such a major of interests are
liberals. It would become just as it is at other colleges;

 

  ,%

servative faculty members?
There are plenty of liberal
and non-political professors,
but hardly any conservative
professors. Or is it that he
only wants a diversity of lib-
eralism? ,

Since Mr. Branam seems
to equate diversity of thought
with diversity of ethnicity, I would be happy to begin
work with Mr. Branam on implementing a Norwe-
gian Studies major, that is, again, if he sincerely
wants diversity. As a Norwegian-American I can
testify to how Norwegians signiﬁcantly contributed
to American history.

ANDREW
OLMEM,

There are only so many books and courses stu-
dents can absorb in four years. Therefore, the sub-
jects studied should be the most valuable ones. ¢
Black Studies major discards great works by'whi e
authors solely to “represent” black authors. Can any
one claim to be liberally educated who is unfamiliar
with the works of Shakespeare, Locke or Newton?
Too often these great books are replaced with mate-
rials, which may have some value, but do not hold
the same importance in understanding mankind’s
intellectual achievements. For example it’s safefo
say more college students read the book The Color
Purple than read TheFederalistPapers or Darwin’s
Origin of Species. The latter are important works
that any liberally education person should under-
stand. Trying to replace them with works of lesser
value, simply to have minority writers, corrodes the

ideal of liberal education. '
Those advocating diversity as a means to open
student minds to new ideas should realize that a
liberal art education achieves this goal. A curricu-
lum that exposes students to the greatest ideas in
each discipline gives them a base built on the great-
est ideas of mankind from which they can rationally
examine all other views. It develops in them frie
minds that search for knowledge, disregarding the
author’s racial views.

There is a valuable Why all the fuss
point of view that could ~ over a major that few
be obtain by studying  no students will use?
NorwegianAmericans. yone who graduate? from Allowingindividuals
St. Olaf College has a W&L has been edlmated In the to graduate ignoragrt
similar program and it great ideas of human civilization_ of many of mankind’s

enhances its curricu-
lum. By Mr. Branam’s
criteria this should
qualify as another op-
portunity to continue
crusading in the name
of diversity. While we
are at it, let’s have a
Rich Studies major.

They have been exposed tolthe,
great ideas of not only one par-
ticular race, but of all mankind.
This is what a liberal arts educa-
tion is suppose to entail, not spe-
cializing in one narrow topic.

greatest ideas deval-
And when employers

meet a W&L gradu-
ate who "5
uneducated, W&L’s
reputation dimin-
ishes. ’

The rich have had an
important, according to
some a dominate, role in world history. There is a
plethora of academic research on this group that

‘ would form the basis of such a major. It certainly

would increase the diversity of thought.

The point is that a liberal arts education examines
the contributions of all groups to the intellectual
achievements of mankind. By focusing on one group,

valuable knowledge is ignored simply because its _

originator is classiﬁed in another group. Great ideas
transcend race and wealth. Would the value of
Einstein’s ideas be different had he been black? It is
time we, and most of academia, gets beyond race and
examines what truly matters: ideas.

There are much

better ways to enrich

a W&L education

than dedicating valuable resources to a Black Silk‘-

ies Major. Allocating these resources to help s -

dents study aboard would add more to a greater
number of students’ education.

As with most important issues, the decision on a
Black Studies major will be made by the administra-
tion. Hopefully they understand the purpose of a
liberal education and will accordingly disregard the
proposals. But if they, as they so often do, tryﬂo
make W&L like other colleges by implementing it,
we shall certainly see, to paraphrase Alan Bloom,
the closing of the Washington and Lee mind.

Don’t malign Kennedy’s memory ’

_ ues a W&L diploma. ,

and other individuals ,

Tilt: iRing-tum ilﬂltt

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sport Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _.Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Managers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent. I

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views ” dolnot reflect the views of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

, The Ring-tum Phi
Post ofﬁce Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
703 462-4060

Thirty years ago Monday, one of
the greatest tragedies in American his-
tory took place in Dallas, Texas. The
nation mourned the death of the first
assassinated president in over 60 years.
Anyone who was alive then will never
forget where they were the moment
they heard President Kennedy had been
killed. My generation does not have
that burden. None of us were alive on

“real truth” about JFK. We have seen
detailed descriptions of alleged extra-
marital affairs, drug use, Mafia con-
nections, illness, and the shortcomings
of the Kennedy family. The result of
these programs has been to all but strip
away every fond memory or image we
had of John Kennedy. For those who
remember him, many have reevaluated
and lowered their former regard for

 

November22, him. For
1963, and those, like
noneofus can myself, who
remember the are not fortu-
impact John PATRICK ‘ nate enough
Kennedy’s to have
life and death MCDEMOH9 memories of
had on this ’94 his life, we
nation. All havebegunto
that we know question and
ofthismanhas disapproveof
come from what we had

history books and television specials
devoted to various aspects of the
Kennedy presidency and assassination.

Most of us have seen the home
movies of Jack and Bobby playing
touch football in Hyannisport. We have
seen the stark black and white photo-
graphs of JFK in the White House, and
we have seen the tragic Zapruder ﬁlm.
We have all been strangely fascinated
by this man. Even those of ,us who
weren’talive duringthe Kennedy years
feel an overwhelming sense of curios-
ity about the life of John Kennedy, and,
for a long time, we all had a rather
idealized image of him. We were never
shown his faults for fear of dishonorin g~
his memory. We believed he was the
idyllic ﬁgure that we saw in pctures
and movies. Recently, this has all
changed.

We have been deluged with what
seems like a never-ending stream of
media events, each one promising the

seen as a unique time in American
history. The cynics of this world have
proﬁted from our fascination with this
man and from their efforts to tarnish
his image in our minds. I cannot think
of a more despicable act.

I am very proud to say that John
Fitzgerald Kennedy is one of my he-
roes. I say this with full knowledge of
his failings and mistakes and with a
clear sense of what he meant to this
country. It was initially very difﬁcult
for me to accept the fact that my hero
was not a perfect person, that he had
done things I would not approve. But
then I realized this person was a human
being and none of us are perfect people.
What I think is important to remember
about John Kennedy is not that he
made mistakes, we all do but that he
was a man with an incredible vision for
the future of this country.

He believed in the ideals this nation
was founded on. He believed in com-

munity, in service, in equality for all
Americans, and in the basic goodness
of all citizens. He had hopes of making
the country a better place for all of its
people and for improving our relations
with the rest of the world. He was an
idealist, a visionary and ﬁlled the na-
tion with pride and hope for the future
of our country. He was the ﬁrst presi-
dent in a long time who had the ability
to inspire patriotism, not because of a
military victory, but because of the
way he could express the hopes and
beliefs of every citizen who was listen-
ing to him. He was an eloquent speaker,
anaccomplishedstatesman,andasawy
politician.

John F. Kennedy had a difﬁcult
presidency. He was confronted with
many crises and he did not always
make the right decisions. What I would
ask of those who ﬁnd iteasy to criticize

they can consider themselves to be
without failings.

The basic point is that we expect a
lot of our presidents. We want them I.)
be perfect and that is just not possible.
In President Kennedy’s case, I do not
believe we should ignore his faults and
idealize his memory but I also disap-
prove of proﬁting from its deﬁlement.
And yet, we, as Americans, seem to
have a need to hear about the scanda9s
concerning JFK. Perhaps it is our way
of dealing with the horrendous crime
that was committed against all of us
when he was taken away. Perhaps it is
the only way we know to relieve the
pain many of us still feel from his
killing. 0

If that is the case, then I think it is
one of the saddest elements of this
whole situation. We must begin to ac-
cept the various aspects of John

him, is to name . V Fitzgerald
an administra- Kennedy, for
tion that was better or fix
without ﬂaws. I worse. We
There has never am Very Proud to must accept
been one and say that John Fitzgerald thefactthathe
theie never will K d - I f was a good
be. All presi- enne y ls 0ne_0 ‘Ely man, that we
dents make mis- heroes. I say this Wlth deserve to be
tjakes and we all‘ full knowledge of his proud of hing
tsagree with . . . and that we
them from time falhngs and mlstakes should seri-
t°time- What is ‘and with a clear sense of ously ques-
im rtant to re- . tion the mo-
mepriiber is the what he meant to this tives of any-
spirit that John C0lllltl'y. onewhoseeks
Kennedy ' tocondem A
brought to the him. We nee ‘

ofﬁce of the president. To those who
question his personal behavior, I would
say that his character ﬂaws were not
unique in the history of the presidency.
I would also ask those who criticize
him to ﬁrst examine whether or not

not shy away from history or from the
personal truth entangled with the
Kennedy image. What we must do is
accept him for what he was, be proud
he was our president, and mourn the
loss that can never be forgotten.

 

     
 

§

e Ring-tum Phi, November 19, 1993

 

    
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
    
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
 

~ nos’ SPACE
Tom Hespos

Attention Spos’ Space fans -— the
fﬁcial line of Marvel Comics silk ties
s now available in town at yourfiiendly
eiéiborhood College Town Shop. Do
Iou know what this means? Does any-
’* dy truly realize the social ramiﬁca-
ons of attending a job interview with
I e Incredible Hulk plainly visible
round one’s neck? Of course not.
For those who are not familiar with
I'heKIollege Town Shop, it is located
on Nelson Street, right near The Palms.
As a slobbering fan of comic books,
Spos was pleasantly surprised to see
the shop’s window display featuring
neckties emblazoned with the likes of
Spidennan, Thor, Wolverine, Captain
Arrnrica and, of course, the Hulk. Spos
thought carefully and selected Wol-
verine. After all, Spos wanted the gen-
eral public to be awed by an image of a
crazed man with unbreakable metal
claws leaping forth from his necktie.
The possibilities are staggering:

b Interviewer: Mr. Hespos, I
can see from your choice of tie that you
have nerves of steel, not to mention
cojones of brass. Your starting salary
will be $125,000. Does that suit you?

Spos: Throw in a BMW and your
wife and I think we have a deal.
Eb Interviewer: Done.
any case, Spos would like to
suggest that everyone on campus ac-
quire a Marvel Comics tie for the sake

of making Career Development’s job a
little easier. I would also like to suggest
that everyone buy the tie when W&L
senior Kristen Moore is working at the
College Town Shop, because she prob-
ably works on commission, and she is
a very nice girl.
Speaking of superheroes, Spos’ fa-
ther made an offhanded remark in a
message on Spos’
answering ma-
chine that he had
better pass all of
his courses this
term, lest Super-
man not be able to
save his sorry butt
from a violent gory
death. It made me
think: if I could
enlist the aid of Su-
perinan, all of my
professors would
be forced to pass
me in fear that Su- ”
perman would
melt their faces off
with his heat vi-
sion. Of course, my
geology professor
would probably be
able to produce
some Kryptonite, thus ruining my plan.
But why shouldn’t W&L have its own
superhero to help the innocent students
in their everyday lives? Spos would
like to introduce... (drumroll, please)
Captain Dubyuhnell.
Real Name: Joe Duckhead
Occupation: Protector of the Cam-
pus, Advocate of the Students, Guard-

 

ian of the Beer Supply, and occasional
hotshot journalist (for thePhi, of course)

Height: 6’2” (aren’t all superheroes
this height?)

Weight: 205 lbs. on the weekdays,
216 lbs. on the weekends

Known Superhuman Powers:

no Flight (like Superman) —can ﬂy
at speeds of up to Mach 7. Useful for
shuttling drunk
students to and
from Zollman’s,
delivering impor-
tant messages to
alumni on the west
coast, and ﬂying
cute girls up to the
Blue Ridge Park-
way for amorous
encounters.

In Superhuman
strength (like the
Hulk)—can lift at
least 60 beer kegs
atonce. Usefulfor
squeezing money
out of the occa-
sional stingy alum-
nus, lifting truck-
loads of bricks for
future “construc-
tion projects” and
breaking up ﬁghts at fraternity parties.

«I» Stretchy limbs (like Plasticman)
——-Can stretch from the EC ofﬁce to
Ashby Hackney’s bedroom, to wake
him up for important EC meetings.

no Wall-crawling (like Spiderman)
—Allows Captain Dubyuhnell to climb
up the side of Newcomb Hall and wait
in hiding for the Cadaver Society, which

- bird, a plane, it’s Capt. Dubyuhnell

LETTERS

  

PAGE 9

needs some discipline (in the form of
being blasted with lasers, see next para-
graph) for spray-painting things and
leaving the campus-a mess.

no Laser Vision (like Cyclops, of
the X-Men) — Useful for incinerating
members of the Cadaver Society, which
is, of course, just ﬁne. ‘

use Big hammer (like Thor) — for
mashing R.D. Clark’s turbo golf cart
into itty-bitty pieces and exacting re-
venge on Mayor Derrick forthe cartax.

In Utility Belt (like Batman) —
contains all the necessary materials to
set up a complete wet bar. Also con-
tains various gas grenades: Lysol, for
deodorizing fraternity houses; Invis-
ibility gas, for making ugly new cam-
pus buildings disappear on Alumni
Weekend; and tear gas, for making
students more sensitive and forcing
them to cry whenever Michael Hewlett
publishes another “Sins of the Honkies”
column.

Personally, Spos thinks Captain
Dubyuhnell could make our university
among the best in the nation. Think of
the things you could tell the prospec-
tive students: “Robert E. Lee is buried
right over here, here is a statue of Cyrus
McConnick, and Captain Dubyuhnell
is over there, ﬂying to East Lex on
another beer run.”

And we won’t have to worry about
waking up in the morning to ﬁnd the
campus plastered with Cadaver signs.
We’ll just ﬁnd little puddles of goo and
burnt robes all over the place. Speak-
ing of Cadavers, there goes one now...
Zzzzzzzzzzzooooooorrrrrrrrtttttttt!
Um... actually, never mind.

 

Library

James G. Leyburn Library
Thanksgiving Hours: Friday, Nov.
19, close at 6 p.m.; Saturday, Nov.
20, open 9 a.m. — 4 p.m.; Sunday,
Nov. 21 , closed; Monday-Wednes-
day, Nov. 22-24, open 8:30 a.m. —
4:30 p.m.; Thursday-Friday, Nov.
25-26, closed; Saturday, Nov. 27,
open 9 a.m. -4 p.m.; Sunday, Nov.
28, resume 24 hour schedule at 12
noon.

Concert

“A Waltz Through the Life of
Frederic Chopin:” pianist David
Northington of the University of
Tennessee will present this “musi-
cal biography” on the Sunday Re-
cital Series on Sunday, Nov. 21, in
Francis Auditorium of Mary
Baldwin College. All 14ofChopin’s
waltzes will be played, with com-
mentary. Admission is free.

This week’s General Notes were compiled by Richard Weaver.

Letters

Letters and “My Views” may be
submitted by anyone by Tuesday at
noon. All submissions will be
printed in the order in which they
are received. They may be dropped
off in room 208 of University Cen-
ter or mailed to The Ring-tum Phi,
P.O. Box 899, Lexington, VA, '
24450.

Phl
The Ring-tum Phi is looking for
new reporters, copy editors, and
advertising people. If interested
please come to our weekly meet-

ings, Tuesdays at 7 p.m. in room
208 of University Center.

New date

The Phi will next publish on
December 3, 1993.

   

To the editor:

In his Nov. 7 Washington Post column en-
titlﬁi “The Banality Of the Murder” Edwin M. newspapers of magazines
Yoder, Jr., belittle a class of Washington and which i-eguiariy publish
Lee sophomores because not one of them re- reams of vapid puhditi-y for
sponded to him that reading the 26 volumes of the likes of Mi», Yoder _ and
the Warren Commission Report would be 8 youwillgetnocreditforyour
good way to clarify doubts about the ofﬁcial effoi-ts_ Even if you foilow
explanation ofthe Kennedy assassination raised ML Yoder’s prescription to
byﬂvatching Oliver Stone’s movie, “JFK.” I the letter you wii] find that
would venture to say that Professor Yoder’s you haveonly eamedthe con-

students aren’t as out of it as he thinlgsthgy §t_6,;__., 59$‘? ,.2appe_i%:;_tion ,_p_f ,

Infact, if they know anything at an about the :‘o“r‘:eons i ‘Cy theor

assassination, and they have just aitiriy 'Iilt?bf ‘ii-§§E”€irn5~‘ to-,'fge~,..«_:t‘,5«;b‘e ‘tgkgii 1?.

intellectual honest, most are already ahead of ’ seriously «by the syeophahtie
their esteemed professor. ’ fiatemity of modem-day
Orofessor Yoder misleads you, I think inten- scribes and phat-isees ofwhieh
tionally, by suggesting that your Stone-whetted Mi», Yoder is 3 eai-d-ean-yihg
appetite for knowledge would be best satisﬁed member_
by ﬁrst searching for and then wading into the
(purposely?) disorganizing 26 volumes of the
government brief for the posthumous prosecu-
tion of the defenseless Lee Harvey Oswald.
Yo; might eventually get to that stage, but you
should ﬁrst sample the fruits of a few of the
many ﬁne, independent minds which have pro-
duced several shelves of excellent books on the
subject.
Should you do so, the ﬁrst thing that will

for time and you are not satis-
ﬁed to let either the govern-
ment, the major news media,
Hollywood, or, heaven for-

thinking for you, you might

D

If you are really pressed '

bid, your professors do your .

just to turn to a single illustration that I have
enclosed that appears in an appendix of the
book that Mr. Yoder calls “a very persuasive

exploration of the Kennedy case,” Gerald
Posner’s Case Closed. What you will see is a
drawing’ of President
Kennedy with a head that
sprouts somewhere out of
his sternum instead of his
normal-length neck. Posner
had to have it drawn that
way so that a bullet coming
down from a sixth ﬂoorwin-
dow, entering the back about
six inches below the collar

The shattered myth
Osv.-a!d'zsoeor\dttI>Ltneﬂrsttosarie.ialheniost
czx1tectie1.I.nisvatIoI9tI:aii¢dttse'nin§c‘or‘DV3tinI'
t>izIt1byeorwtvaeymuxtns.vmoco"uA-ndttiaxrlosince
buletcc-ndmenierloinlywouuedmmnwimibsmln
necdodnermaearniu-as
netpItazne.Its:rq‘ecwry.

downward ﬂight, could

throat. If this, and much else
like it in Posner’s shameless
screed, is the sort of thing
you find persuasive then
maybe you deserve Mr.
Yoder’s contempt.

I am not a Kennedy as-
sassination buff. Trying to
inform myself about a mat-
ter of such importance to the
country. is not a hobby in
which I take pleasure.

I will confess to having read a great deal
about the subject as an obligation of citizen-

 

rrzline and -gcontinuing on its:

' er'ne‘rger‘from~ Kennedy’s~ I: ~

ship, and from my readings I am convinced that
Oliver Stone is a lot closer to the truth than is
Gerald Posner or the Warren Report. If that is
so, then exactly the wrong attitude to take is the
dismissive one of Mr. Yoder, that this is just one
of those mysteries which will never be solved.
Down that road lies tyranny.

Finally, I would like to offer an even more
efﬁcient way for a substantial percentage of
Washington and Lee’s student body to become
better informed about the Kennedy assassina-
tion. Mr. Yoder concludes his article by saying

..:that none of the critics have even disturbed the

conclusions of the Warren _Repor_t. I propose
 1/: '- K”, .5 »'

-It .

Post reader disagrees with Yoder, challenges him to JFK debate

happen is you will begin to wonder why you
never get to read any of these things in any of the

that we debate that point on campus, before as
many students as possible, at a convenient time
of his choosing.

Should he refuse this challenge I humbly
suggest that a serious student would make a
more socially constructive use of his time watch-
ing an episode of Beavis and Butthead, or
maybe, as Butthead might say, choking his
chicken than attending one of Professor Yoder’s
classes.

Sincerely,
Gary D. Martin, Ph.D.
Chantilly, Virginia

To the editor:

Co-chairmen, SDC

SDC thanks volunteers

We would like to thank all members of the Student Development Committee and
volunteercallers during this fall’s Phonathon.We received over $20,000 in pledges towards
the Annual Fund which benefits all members of the Washington and Lee community. We
look forward to an even stronger participation during the winter Phonathon. If anyone is
willing to participate in upcoming Phonathons, please leave your name with Maureen
Levey in the Development Ofﬁce at 463-8487.

Mark Crider, ’95 and Marguerite Nielson, ’94

Dennard should back up column with car tax facts

To the editor:

I read with some interest Ryan
Dennard’s column in the Nov. 12 Phi.
Inﬂearly seven years in Lexington, four
of them on the staff of this newspaper,
I have heard countless arguments for
and against the so-called-car tax.
Although Dennard offered some in-

 
 

teresting criticisms of this assessment,
I’m not sure he has found away around
it.

My understanding is that this tax is
one on personal property. As such, the
city has argued, the tax applies to cars
that are primarily parked or garaged in
Lexington.

 

Consequently, city officials have
claimed that ownership of a particular
car is irrelevant‘; what matters is the
location of the car.

If location is the issue, then
Dennard’s suggestion that students and
parents trade title to their cars on tax
day would seem to be a waste of time

and money.

Of course, I hope Dennard is right;
as someone who just last week cut a
check to Rockbridge County, I wish
there were a simple way around this
assessment.

Before I rely on your columnist,
however, I would like to know his

sources. Dennard’s column contains
no attribution, so I can only assume he
cooked his scheme up on his own.

Phi readers would be better served
if, instead of engaging in speculation,
Dennard tested his theory with a little
reporting.

Telephone calls to city ofﬁcials or a

tax lawyer might be a good way to give
your readers some more reliable ad-
vice. .

I look forward to reading these pages
in the future to see what such efforts

‘might produce. ' \

James B. Lake, ’90, ’94L

 

 

   

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

  

Jason Aiken, ’94, Atlanta, Ga. —
“Pushing my car back to Atlanta.” “Bowling, partying, and spendingtime

with my family and friends.”

  

JenniferEul, ’97, Camp Hill, Pa.-— Scott Williard, ’96, Miami Fla., and Bo M
“Buying overalls and getting laid.”

  

TALKBACK

 

   

anuel, ’96, Easton, Md. —

.How do you intend to spend your Thanksgiving break?

“Fake n’ bake.”

Kim Davis, ’96, Atlanta, Ga.

Steve Wasser, ’94, Allentown, Pa.
—“Shooting heroin and watching alot
of River Phoenix movies.”

     

  

  

PAGE 10

RACISM

EXPOSED!

An Anthology of Racial Columns

 .

W&L students salute their Homecoming queen.

Michael Hewlett

Editor ’s N ate: this book cover is a parody submitted by the authors
of this “My View.- ”

Thanks to the publishing house of Waddy
and Schneider, you can now read Michael
Hewlett’s racial columns in an accessible,
leather-bound, gold leaf edition worthy of his
prose. This collector’s edition has everything
from his highly acclaimed “There’s more to
black people than basketball” to his inspira-
tional “Dear Whoopi.” In addition, Hewlett
brilliantly uncovers and exposes racists at
W&L. You will see W&L students saluting
their Homecoming queen with a Nazi salute
(see book cover), as well as groups of prospec-
tive minority students being herded around
like “human chattel.”

“He writes nicely and seems to attempt bal-
anced articles.” —' Kirk Susong

“Before I could only read Hewlett’s columns
one at a time, but now, in Racism Exposed, I
have all his racial woes in one easy-to-read
volume.

— I.M. White, Ph.D.

“Michael includes a treasure trove of histori-
cal examples of racial oppression... You will
not come away from this book the same racist
as you are now.”

— Rockbridge County Times

“Michael’s message is unforgettable... but
just in case you begin to forget it half way,
through the book, he reminds you again and
again.”

— Roanoke Daily Press

11 S. Jefferson S ._ __ 463-2595
 THE ,
- SANDWICH SHOP

Wild Grass playing on Friday, Nov. 19

9 p.m. $2 cover charge

  
 
  
   

15 W. WASHINGTON ST.
LEXINGTON

  lll.lll.'li.'.‘.$£|'l

THE BEST SELECTION OF W&L T-SHIRTS, SWEATS
HATS AND OTHER W&L SPORTWEAR
l.EXlHGTOll'S OHLY SOURCE FOR TEVAS AHO HERRlll BOOTS

WE DO MAIL ORDER!
703 464-3000

W&L Art  

We have three

R. E. Lee

Signatures; Two are War Date.
W&L Copperplate, hand-colored

W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art

Sculpture by Ron Tunison

Mary and George Washington pieces

iiiiiiiiu ll llllﬁ
   ?::é..iéen.%2i'£.:%“rday

kk

, Just imagine... your ad
could be in this space and
both you and the Phi
would be much happier

lln case you haven't noticed, C ristmas is just aroun the corner.

50 why not make everyone happy this holiday season and get them a sub-

4 East Washin ton Street ,
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

 

OPINION

Hewlett’s columns know no bounds

MY VIEW, Nicholas Waddy, ’96 and Andrew Schneider, ’94

 %8

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 19, 1993

  

Susong should rethink his ideas

Dear Mr. Susong,

I must say that I was more than
mildly disturbed when I read your let-
ter in TheRing-tum Phi. Your response
seems emblematic of the narrow-
minded, ignorant thinking I encounter
at this school.

With all honesty, your letter scares
me because you have misunderstood
my main purpose in writing these “My
Views” —— to expose the W&L com-
munity to a different perspective, a
decidedly black perspective. I wanted
to contribute to the intellectual growth
of this campus by recounting, as writer
Jill Nelson calls it, my authentic Negro
experience. Furthermore, I wanted to
provide a forum for an honest discus-
sion about race — a topic that most
people would avoid rather than even
mention.

I take issue with your characteriza-
tion of these “My Views” as focusing
mainly on castration and the “sins of
the honkies.” They are not. If you read
them closely enough, you will realize
that they encompass more than those
two things. I have also talked with
Nicholas Waddy (I suggest that you do
the same), and he told me that his
characterization of these “My Views”
as an attack on the “sins of the honkies”
was meant to be a joke (a rather unfunny
joke, but a joke nonetheless).

You mentioned the one I wrote on
black history and categorized it as-con-
fused thinking. Well, I was rather con-

fused myself. Even though you admit
you are an “ignorant cracker” and did
not know who Ella Baker, Fannie Lou
Hamer, or Dorothy Height were, you
had “a difficult time imagining their
contributions on the same level as the
Founding Fathers.” Well, I would imag-
ine it would be rather difficult given
your obvious ignorance about black
history. My suggestion would be that
you go to the library and get some
books on these “three illustrious la-
dies” before you start comparing them
to our great Founding Fathers. For if
you had done your homework, you
would have realized these important
women breathed life into the Constitu-
tion. during the Civil Rights Move-
ment. Your statement reveals a com-
plete lack of appreciation for the his-
tory of blacks in this country which is
rather sad. And by the way, if you want
to call yourself an “ignorant cracker,”
then please feel free to do so.

You also attacked the “My View”

on political incorrectness. You could -

not understand how I could support
free speech and at the same time op-
pose racial and sexual intolerance. I’m
not saying that racists should be cen-
sored. That great philosopher, Voltaire,
once said: “I disapprove of what you
say, but I will defend to the death your
right to say it.” What I am saying is that
racist ideas should not be tolerated by
a civilized society. If you recall your
history, it was these same ideas that

Comintctions:

Friday, ]anuaiy21, 1994.

lt’s or,Ch

arity and it’s Fun!
.

  
    
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
  

caused the Nazi Holocaust, thq en
slavement of blacks, and the intermen
of Japanese-Americans during Worl
War II. So please understand if I hav
a little trouble tolerating racism an
sexism.

Finally, I have difficulty understand
ing your surprise that I had “not afﬁxe o
the initials ‘ FMC’ (Free Man of Color)’
to my name or your sarcastic renamin 
of the Civil War as “The War of North
em Aggression.” I found these remark
rather childish and immature. I woul "
greatly appreciate it if you would re
frain from such nasty slights as l.t'in
them rather offensive. They weaken
your arguments dramatically. I found
it rather hard to take your points seri-
ously. Your letter proves that W&
does have a race problem. For some-
one who calls himself a college stu-
dent, I would hope that part of our
education would be to open yours If t 0-
diverse perspectives and ideas —— rathe
than focus on yourown narrow-minde 0
ones.

But I see that you have not taken full
advantage of the W&L experience.
Obviously, I did not make my poin
clear in the previous five “My Viﬂivs.”
Maybe you should rethink some 0
your ideas and expose yourself to other
ideas. You might actually learn some
thing.

Sincerely,

Michael Hewlett, ’96
0
A

SAM5 5-’ RARA are sponsoring The Annual W&L I
Rock-a-Like LipSynch at the ever popular W&L Pavilion, '

F

SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO
FREE!!! Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus-reps.
Call 800-648-4849.

W?

\‘

HARDWARE STORES

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open, Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2186

 
 

    

   

Individuals and Student Organiza-
tions wanted to promote the Hottes
Spring Break Destinations, call the
nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
J ' Programs 1-800-327-6013. 

WHEN YDII RIDE Dﬂﬂmﬂi MDBE
FDR THE IIDAD HAVE
All EIITIBEII DIFFERENT MEANING.

. ..-INTERNATIONAL
EMPLOYMENT

Make up to $2,000-$4,000+ P91'_
month teaching basic
conversational English abroad.
Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea.
Many employers provide room
-8: board + other benefits. No
teaching background or Asian
languages required. For more

information call:
(206) 632-1146 Ext. J5342

    
  
  
   
   

 
 
  
    
    
   
   
    
  
  
    
   
    
 
   
 
   

Completely Risk Free!!

Run

and ‘.7{e5taurant

   
 
   
 
  

T}7l9\[QLf5 ﬂair safon

See Yourself With Any Hairstyle Change . . .

12 Styles on Video for only $19.99
Tuesday, November 30th ,_ V ,
Call or come by for an appointment

College Square, RT 11 N. Lexington 463-1605 .

‘4.:,x.~ A

_~. . ,s. '' ~ - .
/:01 ..-A-. ' "‘ -:.-.‘-’ ’.~=-.
.s‘.\ V n 1 I‘: °'

4:‘-,
-. --

  
  
    
   

  

r.‘-P.

   

Chef Stewart prepares aily culinary delights
Featuring Weekly -Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen,
Paella, and Homemade Tortellini.

'1' Six Room Inn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dinin ' 
' Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

   
   
   

_4._.._...... .... ._.._...

 
     
  
    
  
  
 

  

   

Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Fall / Winter Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

  
  
    
  
   

1-1:‘ 4 -I

 

Your folks are still asking you about life at school.

Schedule your holiday parties Now!
 Gift Certiﬁcates & Holiday Packages Now Available 3, _
m, Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) 
' " 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. » «
Call for reservations: 70-463-9715

...:*"“

  

:5. . 3., 1.-. , u,_,._ :4. I
3,-Q ~{.g.—_.\’-:’§-:,.,f\.¥,’;‘.-5

  

      

scription to The Ring-tum Phi .' H campus tradition for 96 years, it's
theirs for only $25. H
Now aren't your folks worth 25 bucks?
Besides, it’ll make them happy.

To subscribe, call 462-4060

\

‘I _  V.»-»..»....-..-.-...n....-..~..

 

The Hing-tum Phi, November 19, 1993

   Hams eater  
I THANSG VIN SALE

GOLDEN
DELIGHT

  POTOES

I GRADE 'A'
18-22 LB. AV

‘.—Z1,;
I‘\yx.

. \.
.;~ \.

ALL SIZES GRADE ’SELF BASTIN ‘LI  I ‘L   .  _   : I 

  sunmm ﬁg   ”“”2I;.‘cIII‘I‘uI.é2.'3IIé‘E’”5‘   3  . -  99

-TURKEY... ........... ..u3.O   ,_,._.q‘.’BEAN$', ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, “L3;
GRADE "A" ‘

HT GRADE "A" WITH POP-UP TIMER S I  I .««»«m..
GOLDEN DELl§1I:-IL‘;  PREMIUM A1 - kg,-E  FRESH, cmsp  FLORIDA NAVALm_  89
HEN TLIRI(EY..6.V.F.BA.s=iE..LB.O TURKEY ......... ..ua. 0 h LARGE CEI-ERY. EA. SIALKO ORANGES 

....... ..'§'.‘S‘....EA.

PERDUE FRESH HEN OR I 21-25 COUNT HT FRENCH OR FLAKY HERB OR CORNBREAD

JUMBO     BROWN & PEPPERIDGE EARM
TURKEY SHRIMP   SERVE ROLLS 9 ST UEEING

9 —s ~‘ 3'3
‘o:.$‘;:‘$_o‘I“f.
,i.~‘.o'."‘..-!r"o

. \ .
.:'n..‘Q

SMOKED _ HAMILTON H.?I.I;lE>L; I/3vLI-F<iEED  DEL MONTE I W GRAPE
.PICNIC ................ ......8   §'i'IE?b HAM ,,,,,,,,,,,, “.32 VEGETABLES ....... ..I6-I7OZ.O JUICE ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, "W.
. I‘/JVIPORTED COOKED

A _ 99 ELTEWING SIZE 79 SELECTED VARHE3 69  89
Hﬁivu ............... -12 oz. 2 ovsrms .................  3 'E':I‘KI:’:€EIe§.'IffI$.,o.5 OJ cuocomrs MoRssLs...n oz.E

BETTY CROCKER PRESIDENT '5 CHOICE EAGLE RIPPLES ~ DIET PEPSI OR
SUPERMOIST CAKE MIX IT'S VERY CLEAR DRINKS RIDGED CI-IIPS PEPSI COLA

. SELECTED 2 
_ VARIE S ‘
 2/ I00 5.5";

. gig OZ.

KRAFT PHILADELPHIA SELECTED VARIETIES PRE-PACK RED SKIN

CREAM mm  MILLSTONE 99 POTATO «;vﬂ§g;KERY 99 ECAAIEEWLEE 2/ 00
.¢CHEESE.....f3’7I’f’7I.aoz,o COFFEE ................. ..22oz. SALAD .................... ..LB. PUMPKIN PIE ..... ..3

7 OZ.

OCEAN smv II1"lhIR’lL(EEDYELDTAl'TflREYR HUNTER All NAWRM
cmmsmv SAUCE    99 ICE CREAM

L‘ Iv  I . I  I 1. ' . J ‘L-\'
  ”'77'.' V. ‘I  IL ,'  fa’ 4? ..   a_1o LBDl(rJ‘D‘gI:EE|g(‘:l’lLJUFL)I(EsY:
v 1 .,1. Ln‘ V '- ,  _' “ '1 -';-1.1 ' .
WHO“-’  _  I "51 f;   4. I  ' IS :8f3‘l’é$“e‘i.‘I’y$" “G
'6  A .3.-_.___ -  ,, ‘A “ -12.02. CRANBERRY RELISH
. _

SERVES 8-10

PRICES IN THIS AD EFFECTIVE WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER I7 THROUGH TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 24,1993 IN .  __, _In Lexington STORES ONLY_
WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO LIMIT QUANTITIES. NONE SOLD TO DEALERS. WE GLADLY ACCEPT FEDERAL FOOD STAMPS. ‘

O

I

  

Last Week:

FB—W&L 34, Catholic 0

X-C—women second in Regionals
Swim—men, women beat Centre
Wrest—at VMI invit., indiv. only

PAGE 12

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
 
   
 
 
    
 
 
  

Championship this weekend.

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Fling-tum Phi
Sophomore Josephine Schaeffer, practicing this week
on the Washington and Lee track, will compete along
with classmate Amy Mears in the Division III National

3

@112 rang-mm ram

PORTS

BASKETBALL, CROSS COUNTRY, FOOTBALL, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

AWAY GAMES

 

BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

hoops fans. Speaking of top 25...

one each.

games.

Wrestling

The wrestling season kicked
off last Saturday at the VMI in
their Keydet Invitational. The
match saw two Generals reached
the finals, only to finish second.

Sophomore Colin Looney, at
177, beat Keydet Matthew Stark
2-0, only to lose to Mac Smith of
Virginia Tech. Junior Adam
Williamson (142) downed two
opponents, Jun Davis and Kyle
Hathaway of Virginia Tech, be-
fore being overcome by their
teammate, Dan Austin, in a 10-7
decision.

Sophomore Cole Van Nice
(190) picked up two wins and
ﬁnished third. Freshman Steve

    
 

     

it! i0P.P°!...ll1h1lY’.'
udent‘sjto;:witness

 

College basketball begins in earnest in the next few weeks with the
pre-season National Invitational Tournament. This collection of top
25 teams promises to provide early season excitement for college

The ﬁnal pre-season polls were announced today with North
Carolina, Kentucky, and Duke topping the list. The Atlantic Coast
Conference placed ﬁve teams in the list with the aforementioned
UNC and Duke, plus Georgia Tech, Florida State, and Virginia. The
Big Ten (1 1) also made a strong showing with Michigan and Indiana
making the top 10. UNC was nearly the unanimous number one,
receiving 32 of the 34 first place votes. Duke and Kentucky received

On the professional side of basketball (unless you are a UNLV
fan), I seem to have neglected the Houston Rockets in my pre-season
analysis. The Hakeems, excuse me, Rockets, have fired out to a
resounding undefeated record so far along with the Sonics (another
team I forgot) and the Knicks (called,that one, baby). Mark my
words, this is the year of the Knicks. The Thugs stand a good chance
of holding off any challengers. It ain’t pretty, but they win basketball

With MJ out of basketball, the league scoring title is once again up
in the air (or out of it, if you prefer puns). Right now the front runners
are Mr. Wilkins from Atlanta, Mr. O’Neal from Orlando, Mr.
Olajuwon, and Jeff Konkak (well, maybe not). My pick for the now
vacant title (hell, it should be retired along with Michael. He could
win it with a missing arm or leg) is Dominique Wilkins from the

Photo by ‘Sara Gilbert Th Fling-tum Phi
Mears, center, trains with teammates, juniors Sue Deutsch and Kim Herring, before
heading to National competition Nov. 20.

College basketball explored;
Superbowl predictions made

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Sports Editor

Just when I thought she could
not possibly run any faster,
sophomore Josephine Schaeffer
once again blasted her competi-
tion out of the water and her fans
out of their seats. »

Schaeffer qualified forthe Di-
vision III National Champion-
ships, ﬁnishing first with a time
of 1 6:46 at lastweekend’s South-
Southeast Regional meet. Sopho-
more Amy Mears qualiﬁed for
national competition as well, fin-
ishing fourth with a quick 18:41.
These two finishes topped out a
day in which four Generals set
personal records, leading Wash-
ington and Lee to a second place
ﬁnish.

Those who have not been fol-
lowing cross country will not re-
alizethat Schaeffer’stimeis, rela-
tively to all other female college
cross country runners, absolutely
phenomenal. Herformerpersonal
best, a school record, was 17:25,
and this is only the second time
she has run below 17:50.

Schaeffer is, as yet,
undefeated at any meet this year,
and a win at Nationals would
make a perfect, All-American,

 

Schaeffer fastest Woman

National Championship year.

, With the best time in the na-
tion days before the champion-
ships, her coaches are predicting
a sure win. Schaeffer, however,
is still recovering from the shock.

“I was very, very surprised,”
said Schaeffer,]who added that
she never imagined running such
a quick time. “I don’t know [how
I ran that fast]—I don’t under-
stand.”

Mears was surprised with her
performance as well, a personal
best of over 40 seconds.

“I deﬁnitely wasn’t expect-
ing it,” she said. “I was excited to
make Nationals.

“[The race] felt really good;
everything just came together.”

The two sophomores head to
Grinnell, Iowa this weekend.
They will race against about 150
of the best runners in Division III
Nov. 20.

Both runners were sorry the
entire team could not qualify; a
team must place ﬁrst in the South-
Southeast region to qualify.

‘‘I wish the whole team could
go,” said Schaeffer. “It is the
greatest experience I have ever
had.”

Mears agreed.

“I wish the whole team could
have gone,” said Mears. “But it’s
still exciting.” —

They were both hesitant to
make predictions (though a coach
in the know predicted an un-
equivocal National Champion-
ship for Schaeffer), but they in-
tended to concentrate on perform-
ing their utmost.

“I just want to run as hard as I
can, and just have a good time,”
said Schaeffer.

Mears said she didn’t want to
predict, but she had some hopes.

“I’d kill to be in the top 25, but
I don’t think that is very prob-
able,” she said.

Neitherwoman had paid much
attention to the times from the
other regions, and will focus on
their own performances.

With Schaefferavirtual shoe-
in for All-American and Mears
rising quickly to a more-than-
respectable second billing (fans
must remember that National
qualiﬁcation. is no easy task),
W&L cross country can only go
up from here; but they do not
have much more roomabove their
heads.

Atlanta Hawks, because, well, he’s just cool like dat. Besides,
Wilkins usually finished in second place anyway during the Jordan
era (although Malone will give a good race).

From football, the most impressive performance of the week was
turned in by the entire Pittsburgh Steelers squad in their rout of the
Buffalo Bills. Kelly and Thurman Thomas were both shut down
throughout the game as the Steelers blasted their way to victory.

The Philadelphia Eagles continued their Randall-less collapse last

weekend, losing to the Miami Dolphins. Don Shula passed Papa Bear
George Halas on the all-time win list for National Football League
coaches as the Dolphins moved into a ﬁrst place tie with the Bills in
the AFC East. However, the Dolphins lost quarterback Scott Mitchell
for a month with a shoulder separation. Now quarterbacking for
Miami will either be Steve DeBerg (no, he hasn’t retired yet) or some
guy you’ve never heard of before.

Parting Shots-

BENGALS WATCH: (0-9) The Cincinnati Bengals continued
their pursuit of that elusive 0-16 season. These guys are the Dallas
Cowboys of losers. The mighty kittens face a deﬁnitive showdown
with the powerful New England Patriots to determine the title (and
the ﬁrst draft pick). _

The Dallas Cowboys continued to be undefeated since the return
of Emmitt Smith, winning their seventh game in a row on Sunday to
remain in first place in the NFC East. Based on the season to date,
here are my predictions for the AFC and NFC championship games:
AFC— Pittsburgh vs. Miami, NFC—— San Francisco vs. Dallas. The
Superbowl will be Dallas vs. Miami.

Why do people call the Dolphins the “fish”? Dolphins are NOT

fish!

Anyway, until next week, enjoy that wild, wacky world of sports!

J OCKSHORTS

Tye, at 150, split his four matches
to ﬁnish fourth.

Their prospects for the up-
coming season look good. “I ex-
pect to see an improvement this
year, especially in the upper
weight classes,” said junior Eric
Shirley. “A lot will depend on
the Lebanon Valley Tournament,
where we will get a better idea of
what our lineup for the weight
classes will be.”

Women’s Swimming

The W&L women’s swim
team kept pace with their male
counterpartsagainstCentre,win-
ning by almost an identical
score-134-59.

 

The Generals atoned for the
loss of multiple-record holder
Claire Dudley by increasing the
team size form eight to 14, in-
cluding four freshmen. Accord-
ing to coach Kiki Jacobs, this
makes the team strongerthan last
yeah

“We have pretty high expec-
tations for the year as long as we
stay healthy and injury free,” said
Jacobs. Also, according to coach
Jacobs the team will be relying
on sophomore Rebekah Prince,
an All-American last year for
another strong season.

In the meet against Centre,
the Generals received standout
performances from a number of
sources.

 

Men's Swimming

The debut of winter sports at
Washington and Lee was a good
one based on the finish of the
men’s swim team at Centre Col-
lege this past week.

The men opened their season
with a 137-61 victory over the
Centre College athletes. Ac-
cording to coach Page Remillard,

“The meet told us where we were V

at..” Despite the convincing tri-
umph Remillard maintained that
the team still had to maintain a
pre-season mentality because of
the down-time before the
General’s next competition.

“We’re pretty upbeat that we
know what we need to do,” said
Remillard.

This Week:

FB—vs. Georgetown at Bermuda 11/20
X-C—at Div. III Nationals Champs 11/20
MBB—Tip-off tourney 11/19-20

WBB—at Eastern Mennonite 11/19 -

NOVEMBER 19, 1993 r(

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
and Georgetown football
teams have met 24 times since
1890, but neither team has
ever had to travel this far. For
the Generals (2-7) and Hoyas
(3-5), the ﬁrst annual Ber-
muda Bowl has arrived.

While Georgetown enters
the game coming offa 19-14
loss to Canisius, W&L ﬂies
in on a winning note. The

University 34-0 last week for
their second win. The victory
margin, their largest in four
years, brought the Generals’
season point total to within
17 of their opponents’ total,
which shows how close the
team has come in several of
their losses.

Saturday, though, was
never in doubt. On the Gener-
als ﬁrst possession, senior
fullback Wilson Moore took
a carry along the near sideline
55 yards for a touchdown.
For the moment, it would be
the longest carry of the year
by a General. 1

Early in the second-quar-
ter, Moore drove across the
goal line for a one-yard TD
run, giving the Generals a 14-
0 lead. It was upped to 16-0
by the defense when junior
Jason Chartrand grabbed
Catholic quarterback Ray
Williams in the end zone for
a safety. That was one of four
W&L sacks on the day, rais-
ing their season total to an
astonishing 29.

The defense also got inter-
ceptions from sophomore
Tom Bradbury and junior Jon
Wagner, who added a fumble
recovery to his numbers.
Catholic was held to just 153
yards of total offense in their
third straight shut-out.

W&L freshman quarter-
back Brooks Fischer (10-for-
23, 116 yards) had a strong
second-half, connecting with
both sophomore Scott
Malmberg and Moore on
touchdown passes. The TD
to Moore came on a fourth-
and-one play from the Catho-
lic 11-yard line, providing
W&L with an insurmount-
able 28-0 lead.

Sophomore Brian
Manternach capped off all

, scoring late in the fourth-quar-
ter with a 65-yard run that
mirrored Moore’s carry, ex-
cept it was 10 yards longer.

For Moore, it was quite a
home-ﬁeld ﬁnale. The senior
rushed for 115 yards on just
15 carries, caught twopasses,
and scored three touchdowns.

“It was a real nice way to
ﬁnish up,” said Moore, who
timed his outstanding day to
coincide with his father’s
birthday.

Moore, a Generals’ tri-
captain, is one player head
coach Gary Fallon thinks the
team will sorely miss.

“He has added so much to
our offense,” said Fallon.
“Not only as a runner, but as
an outstanding blocker and
pass receiver.”

With one game to go,
Moore is the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference’sfourth-
Ieading receiver.

Since W&L hosted
Georgetown last season, the
Generals were due to meet
the Hoyas on the road this
year. But Bermuda?

According to Washington
and Lee athletic director Mike
Walsh, ofﬁcials from the Ber-
muda Board of Tourism ap-
proached W&L last yearwith
the idea of playing a Division
III college football game on

W&L football
blitzes Catholic

Generals romped Catholic .

I
l
3.;
.
I.

the island. Washington and
Lee brought Georgetown into
the mix,soW&Lwillbemeet-
ing the school that was their
very ﬁrst varsity football op-
ponent in 1890, when tlf
Hoyas won 11-6.

Seven Generals will be
playing their ﬁnal college
football game Saturday under
the Caribbean sun instead of
on Wilson Field.

“I didn’t believe coa h
when he told us,” said seni
defensive back John
Schindler.

Football, though, is not the
only event on tap for this his-
toric weekend. Players from
both teams will participate in
a debate on the issue of pr‘-
fessionals in the Olympics.
W&Lseniors Tom Mason and
Bob Turner will be studying
up on the matter.

“The people of Bermuda
wanted to do something
unique toemphasize [the fﬁt .
that] two schools with aca- 1
demic reputations will be ‘
competin g [athletically],” said
Walsh.

Walsh seesthis kind of em-
phasis as a strong beneﬁt of
the weekend. .

“[The trip] is a nice reward
for the players and the entire
football program,” he said.
“But the purpose was to get
involved in an athletic event
that involved more than just
the athletic competition.” .

Walsh says a large W&L
contingent of families and
alumni is expected at Ber-
muda. The game is to be
played in Bermuda National
Stadium, a soccer ﬁeld that
has been transformed fort e
football game. In fact, a p§r-
table scoreboard was shipped
down by Washington and Lee
weeks ago. _

The Bermuda media have
hyped the contest all season,
updating the two team ’
progress and even airing ga e
highlights on television. On
the mainland, the game has
gotten mention on CNN and
in Tuesday’s edition of the
New York Times. The game
will be the ﬁrst American-
style football game playetﬂn
Bermuda.

Once the game kicks off,
there is no doubt the location
will matter little to the two
teams. W&L holds a slim 13-
11 lead in the all-time series
between the two. Last yeor,
Georgetown upset the Gener-
als in Lexington 27-19. The
previous year, W&Lwent into
Washington, D.C. and
knocked off the Hoyas 27-12
for the Generals’ lone win of
the season. That game mgre
than likely kept the Hoyas out
of their conference playoffs.

Freshman quarterback Bill
Ring and seniorrunnin g backs
Paul Uppole and Rob Sgarlata
will try to end a Georgetown
two—game losing streak. .

For the Generals, a win
would well ease the frustra-
tions they have suffered in
losing ﬁve times by eight
points or fewer.

“We’re all frustrated,” said
Schindler. “But we know hgw
close we were a few times.”

For Moore, the calls and
breaks that have gone the other
way have marred the season,
yet it was certainly not a com-
plete loss.

“It was a building year for
us, with just seven seniorsQ>n
the team,” he said. “It was a
good year, though, in that we
all had a real good time.”

Undoubtedly, this week-
end will add on to that. As
coach Fallon says, “There
aren’t many colleges arotmd
that wouldn’t want to be in
our shoes.”

 

 

 
 

 

’ LEINGTON, VA 244:9

Ho! Ho! Ho!  
Lexington dresses up
for the holidays

DEC 0 6 1993

 

9

Women’s Basketball
debuts at W&L
with heartbreaking loss

 

he ifting-tum lﬂhi  

VOLUME 93, NO. 13

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

  

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring—tum Phi

A student looks at AIDS prevention information during the candlelight vigil, Wednesday.

- AIDS awareness

Students inform students about dangers, myths

0 By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee AIDS Educa-
tion Project helped students observe World
AIDS Day on December 1.

Members of the project put up posters of
1&1 ribbons on white backgrounds around
campus to increase awareness. At an infor-
mation table in front of the co-op, they dis-
tributed information and red ribbons.

“Some students have been really positive,

but when we asked people to wear red rib-I

)1)

bons, many just said ‘No thanks , said mem-
lyr Meriwether Nichols.
The information distributed included the

phone number of the AIDS Hotline, 464-
AIDS (2437). In addition, TV movies And
the Band Played On and Common Threads
played on a VCR were part of the display.

Luminaries placed outside the Leyburn
Library marked the beginning of a candle-
light vigil held at 7 p.m. Students were
encouraged to light candles to show aware-
ness.

Members of the project played public
service announcements about HIV and AIDS,
and continued to distribute information and
ribbons.

Senior Patrick McDerrnott founded the
AIDS Education Project last year.

“My intention was to increase the levels
of education, awareness, and compassion for

people living with AIDS,” he said. “I felt the
issue was too big to be included in the mul-
titude of issues the Health Education Com-
mittee had to deal with. I thought it deserved
a committee or project of its own.”

According to McDermott, the‘Centers for
Disease Control ranked women, heterosexu-
als, college-age students and Southerners as
groups with the fastest spreading rates for
HIV.

“That puts W & L in the crosshairs of this
plague,” said McDermott.

The project has been met with a positive
response from the W&L community.

“We’ve received tremendous support from
the faculty, staff, and students,” said
McDerrnott.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

DECEMBER 3, 1993

Vandals trash

campus, town

By Mrcrnaus BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Not everyone went on vacation last week ———the
Lexington Police and Washington and Lee Secu-
rity were working hard

Nov. 19, the Friday break began, someone broke
over 30 windows on W&L’s campus, continuing a
streak of destruction that started downtown and
continued to VMI.

Head of University Security Mike Young said
someone broke windows in Washington Hall, Howe
Hall and the Howe annex. The windows in Wash-
ington Hall broke when the vandal pulled two air
conditioners out of the windows that ﬂank the rear
entrance to the hall. Young said the vandal prob-
ably broke the other windows with a stick or a
baseball bat in a period of about 20 minutes.

“We found glass inside the class rooms about 20
feet from the windows,” Young said, indicating the
glass had been struck quite hard. Security did not
find any blood, indicating that the vandal did not
smash the windows with his fist.

The windows have already been replaced by
W&L carpenters_. Young said the glass damages
were probably between $300 and $400.

A professor who was working late called secu-
rity at about three a.m., saying that he heard a
strange noise, Young said. At first, security only

found an overtumed trash can, but soon discovered ’

thejbroken windows. Security then called the Lex-
ington Police at 3:16 a.m.

Lexington Police Lieutenant S.E. Crowder said
a vandal also broke the glass door of Wendell’s
barbershop on Jefferson St., and the windshield of
senior Anthony Catalano’s car, which was parked
on Washington St. the same night. r

Crowder said the police suspected VlVlI cadets
of causing the damage. However, a police inter-
view with the suspected cadets proved that they
were innocent. The police investigation is continu-
mg.
VMI Public Relations Representative Colonel
Mike Strickler said that one house on the VMI post

and the guardroom on VMI’s campus had win- I

dows broken_. Strickler said post police left the
investigation to the Lexington Police. Strickler did
not know about the cadets under investigation.
According to Crowder, a vandal also damaged
two businesses in Lexington later in the week, in

ur See VANDALS, page 4

Chi Psi handed
social probation

‘By NIELISSA sAwYE'1z' ‘

t;¢.-.....,time.to_get.i.t.sione.:t2y.stbe,next.

especiallyzhig parties.

Phi Staff Writer

Rape reports drop

By MICHEi..i..E BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Rape and sexual assault edu-
cation programs at Washington
dld Lee may finally be gettingthe
message across to students.

For the last four years, Asso-
ciate Dean of Students and Coun-
seling Psychologist Anne
Schroer-Lamont has conducted
a sexual assault and rape survey

of freshman women.

Of last year’s freshman class
of 155 women, 124 responded to
the survey; an 80 percent re-
sponse rate. The percentage of
responses has been fairly consis-
tent in the four years of the sur-
vey.

Eight women of the 124 who
participated reported they had
been sexually assaulted or raped
after coming to W&L. Two re-
ported they were assaulted at

another school while attending
W&L. That means one out of 15
freshman women was raped or
assaulted.

In the first and second years
of the survey, that number was
one out of seven. In the third
year, there was a decrease to one
out of nine. This year’s number
is the lowest in the history of the
survey.

“That’s progress,” said
Schroer-Lamont. “We did a
whole lot more education last
year than before. It would seem
reasonable to assume that stu-
dents are getting the message.”

Schroer-Lamont emphasized ‘
that the survey is confidential.
Neither victims’ names nor their
attackers’ names are listed any-
where on the survey. Nor are
specific experience descriptions
used or published anywhere other
than in the survey report.

She also stressed the survey
probably does not give a com-
plete picture of sexual assault on
campus. Not all freshman women

Chi Psi has received social
probation for the third time this
year

The fraternity received the
penalty for failing to clean their
house after pre-Thanksgiving
parties.

Chi Psi President John Hudson
said the fraternity has a hard time
getting the house cleaned, but
emphasized the penalty was not
the result of a “lodge destruc-
tion” as in the case of Phi Kap
earlier thisyear. Because Chi Psi
is not a part of the fraternity re-

_ naissance project, it doesn't have

a contract with a cleaning ser-
vice. Therefore, the responsibil-
ity of cleaning the house rests
solely with the brothers and
pledges. Hudson says this is
sometimes difficult and the mem-
bers don’t always have enough

morning (the deadline stipulated

‘by the Housing Corporation).

Hudson said the fraternity is al-
ways cleaned at least by the next
evening.

Chi Psi’s Housing Corpora-
tion President handed down the
punishment which puts them on
social probation for two weeks in
January. The penalty was origi-
nally four weeks, but the broth-
ers agreed to do some special

clean-up activitieswhich allowed ,

them to avoid the final two weeks.

Hudson said that the inspec-
tor who wrote up the report told
him the penalty was not designed
to make the house suffer, but was
handed down to make the mem-
bers get the building cleaned up
on time.

Chi Psi is due to receive a
cleaning service by September
of next year. The house cur-
rently receives cleaning services
once or twice a month before

, Photo by ethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
SAB workers outside the Co-op, selling tickets for Big Head Todd, the second annual Christmas concert.

Big Head Todd hits Pavilion tonight

Hudson blamed the problems
that have plagued Chi Psi partly
on the InterFratemity Council.
He said the IFC gave his house
the previous social probationary
period because the house had not
registered a party. Hudson, how-
ever, said many people believed
his house had received the pro-
bation because of the nature of
the party—- a hall crawl at which
a partygoer reportedly got sick.

“The IFC policy on hall crawls
is unclear,” Hudson said.

He claimed the council needs
to enforce rules and penalties
more consistently, and the coun-
cil needs to specify the offense to
allof the houses, not just the one
in question. Without consistent
enforcement, he said, the IFC
seems to be picking on certain
houses.

is See CHI PSI, page 4

participated in the survey, and of
the women who participated, not
all may have reported incidents
of rape or sexual harassment.

Only freshman women par-
ticipate in the survey, which
means the experience of
upperclass women are not calcu-
lated.

The survey includes graphic

i» see SURVEY, Page 3

ByYABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Reporter

Big Head Todd and the Monsters will
rock the Pavilion tonight at SAB’s revival of
Christmas Weekend concerts.

The Monsters with Michelle Malone will
kick—off the night at 8:30.Tickets can be
purchased in advance for $10 or at the door
for $12. The band features guitarist,
keyboardist and vocalist Todd Parker Mohr;
bassist and backup vocalist Rob Squires and

drummer and backup vocalist Brian Nevin.

According to John Kleckley, SAB
chariman, Big Head Todd was SAB’s first
choice for Christmas Weekend entertainment.
Kleckley said SAB had wanted Big Head
Todd to appear Homecoming, but due to the
band’ s busy schedule they were unable to do
so.

Among the band’s releases is their latest
CD from Giant Records,SisterSweetly, which
includes the hit “Broken Hearted Saviour.”

Earlier this year, Big Head Todd and the

Monsters appeared in the H.O.R.D.E. festi-
val (Horizons of Rock Developing Every-
where) along with Widespread Panic, Blues
Traveller, Col. Bruce Hampton and the
Aquarium Rescue Unit, Allgood and the
Samples. Sophomore Erika Van Helden saw
them.

“They’re great. I’m definitely going,”
she commented.

Sophomore Chris Scheve, who has never
heard of Big Head Todd, said “I’m going
because of Michelle Malone, she’s great.”

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

(World AIDS Day observed

Governments around the world acknowledged World AIDS
Day Thursday by calling for better education and prevention
methods. The World Health Organization has estimated that
13 million people worldwide are infected with HIV. Accord-
ing to WHO, that figure may triple in the next seven years.

The Nation

Shuttle embarks on mission to
fix disabled Hubble telescope

After a day’s worth of delays, the space shuttle Endeavor
Thursday embarked on its mission to repair the Hubble Space

 

Telescope. The shuttle carried seven astronauts and 11 new .

parts for the telescope into orbit. The astronauts are expected
to make five spacewalks to repair the telescope, which suffers
from failed gyroscopes and a defective reflecting mirror,
among other things. The shuttle’s mission will span over 11
days.

Polar bear attacks, mauls man

Those crazy polar bears are at it again.

A man who was watching television at an Air Force radar
station in Anchorage, Alaska Wednesday was rather sur-
prised when an 8-foot polar bear peered in the window. The
man, Donald Chaffm, attempted to shoo the huge beast away
with a rolled-up newspaper.

Big mistake.

The polar bear crashed through the window and attacked
Chaffin, mauling his face, neck and chest before another -man
could shoot it to death. Chaffin was listed in serious condition
at an Anchorage hospital Wednesday.

Subpoenas issued in Jackson case

’ Twelve people were subpoenaed .'l‘hursday in the Michael
Jackson sexua 4
report to police for questioning in the case. Police questioned
Ben Brown, a longtime Jackson associate, on Thursday.
Brown told reporters that he has known the J acksons for 25
years and thought Michael Jackson’s‘ close association with
children would leave him open for allegations of sexual
abuse. Brown is publishing a book on the J acksons called “In
the Eye of the Storm,” to be released next year.

Officials examine penalties for
violations of new Brady Law

Washington officials are looking into the possibility that
gun sellers may ignore the 5-day waiting period required by
the newly-enacted Brady Law. The Brady Law states that
gun sellers can lose their license for six months and be fined
up to $5,000 if they ignore the 5-day waiting period or fail to
send in background check documents on a gun purchaser.
Twenty-seven states will have to comply with the Brady Law.
The other 23 already perform background checks on gun
purchasers and are exempt. '

U.S. Senators press for violent

. video game rating system

Video games may be subject to a rating system if two
United States senators have their way. Senator Joseph
Lieberman of Connecticut and Senator Herbert Kohl of
Wisconsin voiced concerns about violent video games, par-
ticularly Mortal Kombat and Night Trap, two titles distrib-
uted by Sega. Lieberman said he preferred that Congress ban
the video games, but added that they are constitutionally
protected under the First Amendment. Bob Keeshan, a.k.a.
TV’s Captain Kangaroo, offered support of the two senators
at a press conference on Wednesday. Sega claims that it
already rates its video games.

The Statezifﬁ

Sara Lee jury duty case resolved

A federal judge Wednesday ordered the Sara Lee Corpo-
ration to reinstate an employee who claimed that he was fired
because he was assigned to a lengthy term of jury duty. U.S.

District Judge James Michael, Jr. ordered Sara Lee to pay

back wages and rehire Andrew Perkins, who was fired after
he spent five weeks on jury duty in a drug case. Federal law
prohibits an employer from ﬁring an employee on grounds
related to j ury duty. Sara Lee was also assessed a $3,000 fine
for violating the law.

Larouche to be released in Jan.

Lyndon Larouche is anxiously awaiting his release from
federal custody next month. Larouche, who has run for
president every four years since 1976, has been serving a 15-
year sentence for mail fraud and conspiracy, crimes he
committed in illegally raising campaign funds.

By ETHAN KRUPP
A Phi Staff Writer

Beta Theta Pi: Uncle Mingo at the
Boiler Room on Saturday with Phi
Delta Theta

Chi Psi: Cocktail party with faculty
on Friday afternoon. Band party with
The Purple Schoolbus on Saturday.

Delta Tau Delta: Christmas theme
cocktail and dinner party on Saturday

Kappa Alpha: Band party with the

T I
Santa brings festivities ~

Stegmonds on Saturday

Kappa Sigma: Before and after con-
cert parties on Friday

Tape party on Saturday

Lambda Chi Alpha: Tape party on
Friday

Band party with Doug Clark & the
Hot Nuts

Phi Delta Theta: Uncle Mingo at the
Boiler Room on Saturday with Beta
Theta Pi

Phi Gamma Delta: Gift exchange,

    

The Ring-tum Phl. December 3. 1993

followed by dinner and party on Satur-
day. Christmas party with Kappa for
area kids on Sunday.

Phi Kappa Psi: Band party with
New Potato Caboose on Saturday

Phi Kappa Sigma: Cocktail and din-
ner party on Saturday

Pi Kappa Alpha: Band party with
Lost in the Supermarket on Saturday

Pi Kappa Phi: Cocktail party before
concert on Friday

Cocktail and dinner party followed

by band party with On Beyond Z

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Faculty cock-
tail party on Friday

Band party with Three Gentlemen .
and a Lady on Saturday

Sigma Chi: Band party with the
Fredds on Saturday

Sigma Nu: Faculty cocktail party
on Friday

Formal party on Saturday

Sigma Phi Epsilon: Band party with '
Alchemy on Saturday

Wills speaks on Declaration

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-m

Wills speaks on the Declaration of Independence In Lee Chapel

 

By DEBORAH ZOLLMAN
Phi Contributing Writer

On Tuesday at 8 p.m., Washington
and Lee welcomed Atlanta-bom Gary
Wills, professor, writer, and lecturer to
Lee Chapel.

Wills received his Ph.D. in Classics
from Yale in 1961, wrote 17 books,

and received the Pulitzer prize for his

latest book, Lincoln at Gettysburg.
Wills began his speech asking the
audience, “Which Declaration of Inde-
pendence do we read?” He explained
there are actually three Declarations of
Independence rather than the one we
acknowledge on the Fourth of July
each year. A
Jefferson’s original draft ofthe dec-
laration was the first. This draft in-
cluded several passages on slavery that
Wills quoted, which were not included
in_ the second version of the declara-
tion. The second version of the Decla-
ration of Independence resulted when
Congress edited J efferson’s original.
Wills contended that the declara-
tion we read today is the one Lincoln
read. Lincoln’s' Gettysburg Address is

“a normative document to tell how we.
should interpret the Constitution.” Lin-
coln reread Jefferson’s declaration.
Possibly, he misread J efferson’s docu-
ment to make it more encompassing
“Political misreading is common

throughout history and often leads to .

positive results,” he said. Q

Wills said the Gettysburg Address
was “the third most important docu-
ment in our nation’s history because it
made the other two [the Declaration of
Independence and the Constitution]
more important.”

Wills continued, saying this was
not a bad thing historically. He said,
“Jefferson me ant to mean more than he
meant” when he was writing the Dec-
laration of Independence. He went on
to answer the question he began with,
stating “itis his [Lincoln’ s] declaration
that is read, because it is ours.” V

Will s remained to answer questions
from audience members. Some ques-
tions which were fielded had to do with
the relationship of Jefferson’s ideol-
ogy and John Locke’s, the nineteenth
century trend of consciousness of
progress, and the idea of an aristocratic
society embracing egalitarian ideals.

Mock Convention readies for ‘96

.moles_tatio.n case. Aiioftherlwas 'ordered to‘

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

Planning forthe 1996 Mock Convention isunder-

way.

The event, which every election yearmakes Wash-
ington and Lee the focus of national political and
media attention, is designed to accurately predict the
presidential candidate of the opposition party.

The Washington and Lee Mock Convention is the
most accurate of its- kind. Out of the past twenty
conventions, the studentsof W&L' have accurately

predicted the nominee fifteen times. The event is a ‘

$250,000 production attended by news broadcasters
such as NBC, CBS, CNN, and The McNeil-Lehrer
Report.

The first meeting for the 1996 Republican Con-
vention was held on Wednesday, Nov. 17. More
than100 students attended this informational session

where they were shown footage of past conventions
and given applications for the three major positions
on the Mock Convention Committee: General Chair-
man, Political Chairman and Personnel Chairman.
The tri-chair applications were due on Friday,
Nov. 19. Ted Elliot, one of the selection committee
members, cautioned potential applicants.
“I wasn’t even a tri-chair, and I spent about 35—
hours a week working on the convention,”he warned.
Sarah Butler, also a selection committee member,
added the planning process is also “lots of fun.”
The first round oftri -‘chair candidates were chosen

over Thanksgiving Break. The‘ final selection will be i

made after an extensive interview process culminat-
ing next term.

Another selection committee member, Tim
Moorhead, said the 1996 convention will be as differ-
ent from past conventions in as much as the tri-chairs
want it to be. He said, however, “it will be the first

Republican convention in sixteen years.”

Moorhead expects student interest to be greatef
because the student body is predominantly Republi-
can.
Moorhead said there are opportunities for leader-
ship for both sophomores and freshmen. At the
informational meeting, however, Elliot discouraged
freshmen from applying for the tri-chair positions.
He said freshmen would be unlikely to fulfill th!
requirements of those positions: full-time commit-
ment to the committee, aworking knowledge of
Republican politics and viable connections within ‘
the ‘party, as well as’ excellent communication, mana-
gerial, and writing skills. Elliot added that nearly
every student participates in some way.

One task of the tri-chairs is to secure speakers fo’
the event. Past conventions have hosted such speak-
ers as Tip O’Neill, Michael Dukakis, Mario Cuomo,
Jimmy Carter, Richard Nixon, and Barry Goldwater.

Publicity Photo

Director Roseanne Combrooks (‘94) makes a last-minute adjustment to Jason Shaffer’s ('97) costume prior to rehearsal. The
Lady's Not for Burning will show December 3-8. Call the Lenfest Center Box Office for ticket information: 463-8000.

Lenfest Center to host witch hunt t

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Most seniors slave over papers for
their senior research projects, but not
senior Roseanne Combrooks.

Combrooks has been slaving over
The Lady’s Not For Burning for her
senior thesis project. Combrooks is an
English and theatre major. _

The play, put on by the Washington
and Lee Theatre Department, was writ-
ten by Christopher Fry.

“We think he’s still alive,” said
Combrooks.

Fry often wrote about the darker
side of life, but tempered his writing
with humor and wit.

The play, a romance/comedy, is set
in the fifteenth century when Thomas
Mendip (played by senior Jeff Mikita),
a young man who has been fighting in
Flanders for seven years, is discharged
from the army and goes to the town of

Cool Clary.

Upon arriving in town, he goes to a
pub where he hears about a witch hunt.
Thomas decides to intervene and save
the witch,whom he has not met. When
he does meet her, he is struck by the
beautiful accused witch Jennet
Jourdemayne (played by sophomore
Jeanne Dillon).

Although Thomas starts out as a
disillusioned soldier, he ends up fall-
ing for (surprise!) Jennet.

The play, however, does not totally
center around Jennet and Thomas.

“It’s very much an ensemble piece,”
said Combrooks.

Lady takes place in the rooms of
Mayor Hebble Tyson (James Scales,
‘93L), who has two nephews, Nicolas
(Denis Riva, ‘97) and Humphrey (Brian
McClung, ‘95). The nephews along
with the clerk, Richard (John Boyd,
‘96) all fall in love Alizon (Dana
Lawrence, ‘94).

Together the characters bring the
play together in funny antics, while the
play explores life’s meanings on a
deeper level.

‘‘I’ve learned a lot,” said Combrooks
of her project.

Senior Jeff Mlkita and Sophomore Jeanne Dlllon In costume j

Performance dates for The Lady’s

Not For Burning are December 3, 4, 6

and 8’ at 8:00 p.m.; and December 4 at
2:00 p.m. Tickets are on sale at the
Lenfest Box Office (463-8000).

 

Publicity Photo

I

 

0
AGE3

The Rlng-tum Phl, December 3, 1993

I’ eporting rape can be traumatic too

RAPE, from page 1

Everyone encourages victims of
. apnand sexual assault to report what
1 appened to them to the police or cam-
us judicial bodies.
But it’s not hard to understand why
ot many do.
Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard
. aid the police complaint process takes
bout two hours. Although the police
ry to make the process as easy and as
- nsitive as possible, the very nature of
he crime calls for the police to ask
some difficult, graphic questions.
Beard explained the process a rape
ictim undergoes at the police station
he%Vshe comes in to report a rape.
“ e try to calm the victim as much
as possible and then we try to get a
epresentative of the Rockbridge Area
Coalition Against Sexual Assault to
ome in and sit with the woman.
“We also like for the victim to come
'n with a close friend or relative. We
1 ave to file a report, and if it’s possible
e have our female officer take the
I eport,” said Beard.
“It’s a rather detailed report. The
ictim has to be examined by a doctor.
ey gather evidence (such as semen
nd blood samples) that has to be sent
awaf [to be analyzed]. We keep the
ictim’s underclothing. If there is a
uspect we’ll call him in and take evi-
ence from him, and keep his under-
lothing. I’m sure that’s embarrassing
: or the victim to have to go through.
“We have to ask some embarassing
o uemions. That’s why we try to get the
emale officer to take the report. We
I ave to ask if penetration took place;

that’s one of the main questions.We
also have to ask if she resisted and
advised him that she didn’t want to
participate,” he said.

Beard said the woman will spend at
least an hour at the hospital and at least
an hour at the police station. And that is
at the beginning of a long trial process.

If the police can get probable cause
on a suspect when the report is made,
they get a warrant through the magis-
trate and arrest the man as soon as
possible.

Beard said the time from the arrest
to the actual trial date varies from case
to case. _

“It depends on how many witnesses
you have to subpoena and how long it
takes to get the lab results back, and
how many times the defendant asks for
a continuation,” Beard said.

“The attorney tries to dig up new
evidence —he’ll do everything he can
to get the defendant off. Maybe a wit-
ness will perjure him/herself with an
alibi. There may be some tests that the
defense conducts that take some time
to get results back,” he said.

Beard added the trial almost always
depends on attorneys and not the wit-
nesses.

“They’ll do everything they can to
get the victim upset and confused,”
Beard said. He said he thought women
judges and lawyers would probably be
more understanding.

“ [The woman] becomes a victim in
two ways,” Beard said, “through the
attacker and through the judicial sys-
tem. I’m not saying the judicial system
iswrong, but it needs to be overhauled.”

Washington and Lee also offers sev-

5

I Cases of rape reported to Lexington police in the past 10 yeari]

PC

eral options for rape victims who re-
port their attackers.

The first step is to go to Associate
Dean of Students and University Me-
diator Anece McCloud. McCloud ex-
plains the possible options to the vic-
tims. Victims can go to the police or
ask to be referred to the Student Fac-
ulty Hearing Board. If the victim is not
ready to move to either of those steps,
McCloud offers them the options of
mediation or simply not doing any-
thing.

If the victim wants to go to the
police, she follows the procedure Beard
outlined above.

If the victim decides to go to the

Student denied abuse

By MIGIELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Rape and sexual assault appear to be crimes that are
egsily definable. Surely, a woman would immediately
know if she were being sexually assaulted or raped.

Not necessarily.

Take the case of Elizabeth. (She requested only her
first name be used.) During her freshman year, she dated
a Virginia Military Institute cadet for a period of four
months. In that time, her boyfriend manipulated her
emotionally in order to gain sex from her.

“He was very abusive in subtle ways,” Elizabeth said.
“He was manipulative and aggressive, but not physically

violent.

“It wasn’t something that happened right as we started
dating. It was a long time brewing,” she said.
She explained her boyfriend also used scare tactics to

gain sex from her.

“He used to argue me around and around. He used to
stare me down, 15 to 20 minutes just staring at me. After
hours and hours of arguing I would do anything to be
back to normal. That’s what he used—my need for peace
and quiet. To get back to normal, we had to have sex.

“I remember being bruised after having sex with him.

court.

program.

another ’ 5.

There would be [black and blue] finger marks on my
ribcage where he had held me,” Elizabeth said.

She said she knew she wasn’t happy in the relation-
ship, and the two fought constantly. But she said it was
not until her gender roles class discussed date rape that
she realized what had happened to her. «

“It was like a car accident [I was in], ” Elizabeth said.
“As long as the car stopped moving; anything to make it
stop. For me, that was sex.”

Elizabeth admitted her case would be hard to prove in

“I don’t have anything that I could use [in my de-
fense],” Elizabeth said. “No pictures, no evidence, no
witnesses, nothing.”

But she does have the emotional evidence of abuse.

“It’s hard to deal with,” she said. “I certainly denied
it. Even when I knew what it was called I denied it. I had
a physiological response: migraines. I didn’t start coun-
seling until months later.” ‘

Elizabeth also joined a confidential group counseling

Her case exemplifies why so many women are afraid
to go to the police or to University systems to report their
attackers —— it’s simply one person’s word against

is Christmas
Week-end

Reservations not accepted
Walk-ins Welcome

NEW!

Group Take-out Dinners -
You can serve your own dinner,
complete with Salad, Garlic Bread &
Dessert. You can feed a group of your
friends for as low as $5.00 a person.
Call us at least 24 hours in advance,
and see what we can do for you.

Run

and ‘.7(e.staurant

 /

- Chef Stewart prepares daily culinary delights  4
‘: Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen, ° ‘
Paella, and Homemade Tortellini. ‘“

Room ﬁlled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”
Special Fall / Winter Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00

Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

Schedule your holiday parties Now!
_. Giﬁ Certiﬁcates & Holiday Packages Now Available . _
' ' Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) H i
5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. ‘
Call fo reservations: 703-463-9715

SFHB, she fills out a Form for Report-
ing of Sexual Misconduct. The woman
is asked to give the name of the attacker
and the type of sexual misconduct. She
is then asked to desribe what happened
and list witnesses ifpossible. Then the
accused is asked to come to McCloud’ s
office. McCloud explains to the ac-
eused’what the charge is against him
and tells him the case is going before
the SFHB.

After that she prepares a memoran-
dum and sends it to the SFHB.

Fromtherethe SFHBhandlesthings.

Cecile West-Settle, who heads the
SFHB, said after the committee re-
ceives the accuser’s written complaint,
the committee appoints coordinators
who contact the accused. The coordi-
nators help both the complainant and
the accused to contact advisers. Advis-
ers can be any student within the W&L
community, and are usually law stu-
dents. The accused then has 48—hours
to prepare his statement and to submit
a witness list to the committee.

After the accused has submitted his
report, the parties swap statements. The
complainant then has 48—hours to ad-
just her list of witnesses in accordance
with the accused’s statement. After
everybody is done revising, witness
lists are exchanged. The SFHB then
chooses which witnesses will testify
and a trial date is set. Character wit-
nesses are excluded from the hearing
and only those witnesses who can tes-
tify as to the actual event are asked to
come. The accused and the complain-
ant cannot talk to each other’s wit-
nesses before the trial.

“This is to ensure due process,” said
West-Settle. “We are not a vigilante
squad. Our role is to assure that when
there is a hearing involving sexual mis-
conduct that we be fair to both parties
involved.”

McCloud emphasized that the pro-
ceedings are confidential. All parties
involved are advised that discussing

E. Nelson St., Lexington

7/Ede‘?/aéce

HARDWARE STORES 9’

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

463-2186

Carava

Virginia Beach

Lexington

Norfolk

the complaint or the names of wit-
nesses is a violation of the harassment
policy. Section 5 j. of that policy states
students violating that policy may be
sanctioned by the SFHB. McCloud
added that no action is taken beyond
what the accuser requests, so the SFHB
could never bring someone to a pro-
ceeding of its own accord.

Both West-Settle and McCloud
stressed that the University procedure
does not determine criminal guilt or
innocence. Only the court system can
do that. The SFHB hearing is to deter-
mine if the accused broke the behavior
codes of the university, and if so, what
action should be taken. The SFHB can
impose punishments including but not
limited to counseling, probation, sus-
pension or dismissal.

Decisions can be appealed by deliv-
ering a written appeal to the Appeals
Board. The Board consists of the Dean
of Students, the president of the Execu-
tive Committee, and the senior faculty
member of the Student Affairs Com-
mittee. The accused has 72—hours after
the SFHB decision to deliver his ap-
peal to the Dean of Students. Grounds
for appeal include: penalty too harsh,
new information, or lack of due pro-
cess.

McCloud and West-Settle also noted
that victims of sexual assault who at-
tend other schools but are assaulted at
W&L can also use the W&L judiciary
system. However, members of the
W&L community who are assaulted
on other campuses cannot. So, for ex-
ample, if a woman from Sweet Briar
were assaulted by a W&L male she
could try him through the W&L sys-
tem. But if a W&L woman were sexu-
ally assaulted by a University of Vir-
ginia male, she could not try him
through W&L. She would have to go
through UVa systems.

The University also offers several
counseling options for rape or sexual
assault victims. The University hastwo
professional counselingpsychologists:
James Worth and Associate Dean of
Students Anne Schroer-I..amont. Peer
counselors are available anytime and
their names are on posters around cam-
pus. The University also has a confi-
dential support group for victims of
rape and sexual assault. Lexington and
Rockbridge County also offer support
for victims through organizations like
Rockbridge Area Coalition Against
Sexual Assault (RACASA) and Project
Horizon, a support group for victims of
domestic violence and assault.

to SURVEY, from page 1

definitions of rape and sexual as-
saultderived fromthe criminal code
of Virginia. Rape isdefined as sexual
intercourse without consent by use
of threat, force, intimidation or due
to physical helplessness or mental
incapacity of victim in which pen-
etration occurs. Sexual assault is
defined as touching intimate parts
or clothing covering intimate parts
(genitalia, anus, groin, breast, but-
tocks) by use of threat, force or
intimidation or due to mental inca-
pacity or helplessness of victim or
forcing the victim to touch intimate
parts of the accused offender.
Schroer-Lamont said using the
state definitions of rape and sexual
assault helps to give substance and
credibility to the survey. She said
researchers should always use the _
legal definition of rape and sexual
assault. The survey has used the
state definitions all four years that it
has run, helping to keep inconsis-
tencies, due to differently phrased
questions, out of the survey.
Schroer-Lamont said using the
state definitions of rape and sexual
assault from the state legal code can
help a woman identify what hap-
pened. She explained a woman may

Campus rapes drop

feel something wrong or bad hap-
pened to her, but might not know
how to define it.

“Most 18 or 19-year-old women
won’t be familiar with the law in
their own state,” said Schroer-
Lamont.

Seven women who responded to
the survey said they had been raped
before coming to. W&L. However,
two of those seven incidents oc-
curred while the women visited
W&L as prospective students.

“That landed in the column for
[assaults that happened] prior to
W&L, but it was W&L men who
did it,” said Schroer-Lamont.

Seventeen women reported they
had been sexually assaulted prior to
coming to W&L. That number is a
large increase from previous years.
Only six respondents reported as-
saults before coming to W&L in the
first and second years of the survey,
and llrreported incidents prior to
coming to W&L in the third year.

“We can conclude that sexual
assault has moved down into the
high schools and the junior highs
and that reporting incidents has be-
come more acceptable,” said
Schroer-Lamont.

Of the 17 reported incidents,
eight occurred during childhood at
the age of 12 or younger.

Horse Boarding

Excellent turnout with Private
Paddocks. Two miles from the
Virginia Horse Center on 39 West.
Riding lessons with Certified
Instructor. Trails, Flood-lit arena. Call
(703) 463-1636 and leave a message.

FREE!!!

SELL TRIPS, EARN CASH & G0
Student Travel Services
is now hiring campus reps.

‘ Call 800-648-4849. I

I0:

Merrg Christmas and
a ‘Happg blew year
from the gang at the
Palms!

101 W. Nelson
465-7911
Open: Mon. - Fri. 11:50 am. ~ 12:50 am.
’ Sat. 12 - 1 Sun. 12 - 10:50

  

PAGE 4

Vandals

damage

W&L and VMI

DVANDALS, from page 1

what was possibly a related incident.
On the night of Nov. 23, both the
Willson-Walker House and Sunday’s
Child on Main Street were vandalized.
The vandal damaged the menu chalk-
board in front of Willson-Wal ker House
and flower pots in front of Sunday’s
Child.

Crowder said that the vandalism of
Lee Chapel in which toilet paper was
wrapped around the Chapel’s doors
and surroundin g trees was not reported
to police.

In other police news, the cops did
have a bit of good luck while we were
gone.

Police arrested a thief who stole
compact disks from W&L students’
cars earlier this term.

According to W&L Head of Secu-
rity Mike Young, the cops nabbed the
thief thanks to information provided
by W&L Security Officer Larry
Stewart. The Lexington Police officer
who handled the case, Gary Coleman,
had not responded to six phone calls at
press time.

The Lexigton Police also reported
the return of the runaway child they
searched for just before Thanksgiving
break. The boy came back to his par-
ents’ house at about 8: 15 a.m. on Nov.
18. The boy told his father he had been
hiding in a clump of pine trees. Crowder
said there is a dense clump ofpine trees

near the Lime Kiln Area where the
police made their helicopter search.
Police couldn’t see him from the heli-
copter because the trees blocked their
view.

In county police news, one W&L
student returned home from break to
find to local youths had illegaly en-
tered his house.

Senior Jeb Tilly said he returned to
Lexingtonaday earlyfrombreak.When
he got to his Rte. 1 home, he discovered
someone had broken down the door.
He heard something moving around
upstairs and decided to investigate.

“I walked up the stairs and flicked
on the light,” Tilly said. “I saw a girl
hiding in the closet. That’s when a guy
who had been hiding behind the door
bolted.

“I fought with him for about ten
minutes as I was trying to keep him
from escaping,” Tilly said. “Then, as I
was trying to open my room up to call
the police, he attacked me. He pulled a
ﬂashlight out ofhis coat, ran at me and
tried to hit me. But before he could hit
me I grabbed the flashlight out of his
hand and beat him five or six times
over the head with his own flashlight.
But while Ihad him bent over he hit me
in the nuts and ran out the door. I threw
the ﬂashlight at him but I missed.”

Tilly said he filed a report with the
county police. The sheriffs finger-
printed and took photographs.

The county police did not respond
to six phone calls made to the sheriffs’
office as of press time.

Faculty to vote
on mid-fall break

BY THOMAS Haspos
Phi News Editor

What would you do with a four-day
break from classes in the middle of
October?

Well start thinking.

“The Faculty Executive
Committee...voted to implement a Fall
break,” said Dean of Students David
Howison.

According to Howison, the Faculty
EC voted in favor of a break from
classes on a Thursday and Friday in
October, thus giving students a four-

11S. Jefferson S

Kitchen Lizards playing on Friday, Dec. 3
9 p.m. $3 cover charge

day long weekend. The additional break
wouldrrot take time away from other
breaks. The Faculty EC’s recommen-
dation will go before the entire faculty
on Monday.

The break has been approved in
principle, but now must meet the ap-
proval of the faculty when they meet
on Monday.

“The faculty must approve any
changes in calendar,” said Howison.

Howison said a three-day weekend
was voted down last year by the fac-
ulty, but this year’s proposal showed
“strong support in the Faculty EC.”

463-2595

THE
SANDWICH SHOP

EMPLOYMENT

OPPORTUNITY

ALASKA SUMMER
EMPLOYMENT
FISHERIES - Students Needed! Many
earn 52,000+/mo. in canneries or
$3,000-56,000+/mo. on fishing
vessels. Many employers provide
room I: board 4: transportation.
Over 8,000 openings. No exp.
necessary! Male or Female. Get the
necessary head start on next
summer. For more information call:
1-206-545-4155 ext. A5342
Student Employment Services

    

- .- INTERNATIONAL .

  

EMPLOYMENT . '
Make up to $2,000-$4,000+ per
month teaching basic
conversational English abroad.
Japan, Taiwan, and S. Korea.
Many employers provide room
8: board + other benefits. No
teaching background or Asian
languages required. For more

information call:
(206) 632-1 146 Ext. J5342

 

pen ‘til Midnight
7 days a week

Get a lot at a prlce that's not.

 

«.~.w.~ IVVVVVVV w.~.~.. <n~v.~v AAAAAAA

gr.

-$JAAAA

Buy one 12" sub and get a 6" sub of equal
or lesser value Free. Otter good thru Dec. 17th -
Just In tlme time for those long study nlghts.
503 E. Nelson St., Lexlngton, Va. 463-3322

mlt: One coupon per customer per vlslt Not good with any other offer. 

 
 
 

l
I
l
E

. ...r

  

The Hing-tum Phl, December 3, 1993

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi;

New-fangled Christmas decorations

Chi Psi ,
gets third
probation

I->CHl PSI, frompage 1 ’

Chi Psi has been cited for three
violations so far this year. Hudson said
that while the house’s location and
proximity to campus is certainly a fac-
tor, few IFC members’ houses seem to
have received similar penaltiOs.
Hudson said “people are still breaking
the rules. We just seem to get caught
more often.”

IFCVice PresidentRyan Donaldson
said certain houses consistently don't
register their parties.

“The IFC does not try to target ﬁe-
cific houses,” he said.

Donaldson said the IFC members
just want to do their job.

“I don’t think they play favorites,”
he said.

Donaldson said the IFC did try to
cut the houses some slack in regardsto
party registrations.

Hudson said the IFC seems to en-
force hazing violations in a similarly
sporadic way.

“People are always getting away
with stuff,” he said. “Some houses
have reduced hazing in the last three
years, but people are still breakingghe
rules.” '

Atan IFCmeetingonTuesday night,
however, the council emphasized that
the rules prohibiting fraternities from
having kegswill beenforced, aswell as
the deferred pledgeship mles. The coun-
cil asked the fraternities’ represeQta—
tives to comment on the enforcement
procedures for violations. Nobody re-
sponded.

Dean of Students for Greek Affairs
Leroy “Buddy” Atkins said Christmas
weekend is traditionally an especially
hard time for pledges, and that the rﬂles
would be enforced. Atkins‘ empha-
sized that some of the traditional ac-
tivities like scavenger hunts and Christ-
mas tree patrols should not be encour-
aged, because they encourage honor
violations and criminal behavior. The /
brothers “should be providing supeUvi-

 

Lee Chapel found itself decorated for the holidays in ribbons of toilet paper. The paper was said-
wrapped around the Chapel doors and nearby trees late Sunday night. Lexington Police said
that no complaints have been filed. Police added that since the Chapel was not actually
damaged, they could only file a complaint without taking any action.

sion and guidance to the pledges,” he

as the GPA requirement for fraternity
membership and the submission of
written pledge programs would also
stringently enforced. .

EIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE

‘  TRIPS AND MONEY!! A 5 ~ =

.lndividuals and Student Organiza- EBEACH Spnngbreak Promoter’;

, tions wanted to promote the Hottes [3 Small 01' large groups. E
Spring Break Destinations, call the E - E
nation’s leader. Inter-Campus E S8z(i)I(1)d CASH! E

Pro rarns 1-800-327-6013. « E 8 - -423-5264 E

g I ﬁlllIIIIIIllIllllllllIIIllIIIIIIIIllllllllllllllIllllllllllllllllllll-IE

Stonewall Jackson Museum Shop will
be open Wednesday night,
December 8, from 4-8 p.m. for your
shopping convenience.

 

Stonewall Jackson House Museum Shop
8 East Washington Street

#—-t IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

- Q Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing,
Accessories

  

Lois of
New  
Holidau
Dresses!

appugoilllo»

23 N. Main St. Lexington, VA
Mon. - Sat. 10 - 5:30 463-5988

 

What To Get M om, Dad, or Aunt Suzie for Christmas?

Personalized Note Cards with Matching Envelopes - $25.00
Also, let us custom design party invitations for your holiday affairs.
Come See Us — We'll Make You Look Good!

3 PHONE: 463- 1712 - FAX: (703) 463 -6918
125 W. NELSON STREET - LEXINGTON - ACROSS FROMTI-EEPOSTOFFICE .

  

 

W&L Bookstore
Moonlight Madness Sale!

Wednesday, Dec. 8
7-10 p.m.

20% Off ALMOST Everything j

(except music, textbooks, film 8: sundries)

DOOR PRIZES! FUN!
Daylight Madness (20% Off all daylong)

Marlene’s

Let us give you Beautiful hair & nails for
» the Holiday Season.

Acrylic nails — full set - $40
Silk Wraps - full set - $35
French manicure - $15
Regular manicure - $12

 

Mar1ene’s is the only shop in the area that does
weaves! Starting at $50.

25 N. Main St. 463-6003

O0OOOOOOOOOOOOFOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

Monday, Dec. 20 4

Join us for dinner Christmas

9

 
   
  

WILLSON- __
WALKER
HOUSE

Restaurant

30 N. Main Street, Lexington, Virginia
Reservations recommended. Call 463-3020 s

 

  

Atkins stated that other rules, such "

The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1993 2 4 E ‘ PAGE 5

It’s: 61 wonderful Lexington

   

l

Development group brings holiday cheer to downtown

    

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

.
_ ‘ Photo courtesy of Francesca Kefalas, The Ring-tum P/1i
Detember nights on Main Street mean brightly lit trees and street lamps ringed with wreaths. Some dowtown businesses are also offering special discounts as part of the Lexington holiday spirit.

   

The Christmas season is only one of

By DEBORAH ZOLLMANN the times when the LDDA is highly
Phi C°“"lb“‘l“g w"l‘°’ noticable in Lexington. Other events
which they sponsor include the Hal-
_ _ loween trick-or-treating for the chil-
BY thls “me y°“’Ve Probably 110' dren, an employee appreciation day in
‘iced l-he Wreaths and llghts deooratlng the winter, an Easter Workshop at the
downtown L°Xln810n- If You,“ like library for children, a Fourth of July

most Studems at W&L thouﬁha YOU,” parade, a summer concert series, and
probably unaware of where these deco— an August sidewalk Sa1e_

rations are coming from. The Lexing-
ton Downtown Development Associa-
tion is responsible.

During this holiday season a lot
more is planned for Lexington than
white lights and Christmas wreaths.
Beginning this Friday at 5:00, there
will hardly be a dull moment. The
following events are planned for the
next month.

Friday, December 3, at 5:00 there
will be a’ tree-lighting ceremony at
Hopkins Green. The VMI and W&L
Glee Clubs will be performing for the
event.

Saturday, December 4, there will be
a parade through town at 1:00.

Wednesday, December 8, there will
be student and cadet shopping discounts
at local stores, which will stay open
until eight.

Saturday, December 11, there will
be a Cookie Cottage Workshop at the
library for Lexington’schildren. There
will also be carolling from 11:00 to
2:30 in downtown Lexington.

Sunday, December 12, there will be
Open Houses at area shops for the
twelth hour of the twelfth day of the
twelfth month. There will be 12%
discounts at some stores and special
brunch menus.

Wednesday, December 15, there
will be a Ladies Night. Free babysitting
will be provided and women can regis-
ter so their husbands or boyfriends can
pick up theirpurchases on Stag Night.

Saturday, December 18, there will
be a story hour with Mrs. Claus for
Lexington children atthe library. Punch
and cookies will be served and door
prizes will be awarded.

Wednesday, December 22, there
will be a Stag Night. Men can go to
pick up their wives’ purchases.

The LDDAwas established in 1985
to keep existing businesses viable, to
promote new businesses, and to pro-
tect the architecture of the historical
downtown part of Lexington. The

Photo by Bethany Smith, TheRing—tum Phi LDDA deals only with the historical L A l i ' Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-mm Phi
Decked out with wreaths and lights, Main Street flaunts its yearly Christmas outfit —— compli- parts of town. The LDDA is funded Along with several student decorations on campus, Washington
ments of the Lexington Dowtown Development Association. primarily by the downtownmerchants. Hall joins in the festivities with its own set of wreaths.

O

 

PAGE 6

o
The Ring-tum Phi, December 3,1993

W&LIF E

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

Pluggers

 

Colonnade Crossword

   

b Jeff MacNe1ly

   
 

'L‘A‘AvAvg- -...-_,
_‘v¢v.v.vAv-~--. . .

      
  

Dave by David Miller

wow, PEOPLE EXPECT so MuCH OF ME...l’/Vt FINDING
iT lNc¢EA9iNc-iLY DiFFIcuL1' To LIVE LIP To T HE“:
ExPECrATioN9./ rrls JUST Too MucH PRE4-suite

HEY!
You THINK You

 

     
 

  

DON'T EVEN GET
ME QTARTEP.’

    
   
 
 

   

You know you're

   

Sea

. a. plug; r when your-

wifg borrows your‘ jacke , your daughter‘

borrows your shirtand your son lcoz-rows
war money.

53

I."
C’
/44-"'/; °.‘;’.°.’»°.,..."“‘ “'......“" ‘s"..'i’.".'2.’i3.‘.""“

 

  0 iii

—"_/»

 

        

 

   
   
 

 

AC_Fl_OSS _ i 2 3 4 is s 1 s 9 10 ii 12 13 14 014-13 WHNHOH E561’ ‘NRn’=Rs ORA)? 
1 Shining brightly
8 Goblet 15 *5

15 Summer drink ‘a

16 Turns in ‘7 » .
17 M st ,

urspalatable 19 2° 21 2: J’!///MI’ '
18 With 3 leg on 23 14 25 25 ;  it
each side  “till 

19 Serf of old 27 2: 29 so 31 32 A as 34 35

zzzzzrm as a7 3. as «o  l 

23 Map abbr. 42 ‘3 4‘     -

25 Gas tor signs ‘ -
27 Buddy ‘ ,5 45 4, ..... 'T\—\E COMMUTER § o
gg3g';§gp°°s° \V“""'-—}/ DEC\;\ON-N\N<\NG
36 odor 48 49 50 51 52 q<."'

38 William 53 54 55 55

40 gggasrg in_,, 57 so 59 so 61 52 53 so 65 .____~_ ' ‘ " ‘—‘

t 4" °-'- W" A(317JALL‘i’ll-I5
..2s'.:*:.k.,,.s as er so «s :</ l
accessory 

45 Follow 7° 7‘ ' ﬁn  W

46 Pipe 12 73 /2 I 

47 -- iirma ’- 
éﬁﬁiiiziztm © :i:,:?:a::::c;iS:"*°°‘» 12/03/93 n . OFAMWAY -ggwmzg

J

52 Psychic ability 9 ed 2 N

53 Poker stake 13 Yield Last week 5 puzzle 5°"    '
55 Done -— turn 14 Dir. letters ' J ’
'57 Fastener 21 Peerless

60 Mine entrance 24 Split '

62 Fellows 26 Sweanrvord 2

66 Cockpit 27 Treaty . _

occupant 28 Operatic songs \‘-'\ x
:33"-*°:= §‘a’§i.°“i°“'°". d ’ -‘
no as an is an

71 Juicy fruits 33 Competent , ‘_ ‘W, ‘ __

72 3".'°‘*" 34 "'"‘Y .°"3P'a‘" ' ' I'LL HAVE THE "\‘§N““’\5‘ '3)‘ ‘ " ‘~ ‘- . FRIED IN BACON

73 59'5"" 35 ‘;‘g°c‘{fj;:g °“"‘° S H 0 E . VEGGIE wizosiz, ' ’   .-V FAT FOR ABOUT

DOWN 37 Masculine ‘ I @555“ _ ' ‘ ~  _ W0 """5~
1 Get up 39 Elaborate party V '\ \ '
2 Behaves 41 Capture I '
3 College VIP 43 “East of —"
4 Lazy one 44 Preminger
5 Dined _ _ 49 City in Italy
6 Put one within 51 Clothing
another 54 Spud
7 Good-bye! 56 — provocateur
3$"‘."” §2I‘.:“°°'.§‘“¥
a e ones ar en 0 a
10 Go to church 63 Press 66 Bounder
11 Money in Milan 59 Roosts 64 River in France 67 Mine's output
12 A flower 61 Graven image 65 Meeting: abbr. 69 Cistern

   

Party Picture Photographers Needed

Must have own 35 mm equipment & car
Call 1-800-235-5101 between 10 and 6

41

 Restaurant

at 1.3! II! Truck Stop

  

MARIE’S
29 North Main Street
. Lexington, Va. 24450 .

463-9588 Kim

W&L Art

We have three

R. E. Lee

Signatures; Two are War Date.

    

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and RE. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

 imiiiiiiiuiiiis
Friday & Saturday Nights '
7,1 p.m. to 4 a.m. '  ‘13(I)’*;{‘n11"'1‘fn5‘f§3(’) ':I‘;‘1f“Fday :
Sundays 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. Open Sunday 11-4

‘Route 11 North Open 24 Hours-

 
     
   
    
     
       
    

’ .9   BREAKFAST  

463-3478

ck /J

   

J

ﬁTHEATRE

AT WASHINGTON AND LEE

Tﬂe Lacfyis Not for ﬂurning

‘Tis the Season To Save at:

TGIF

CATALOG OUTLETS 

  

Directed Ey Rosanne Ca1n5rooE§
Famous catalog and brand name  “senior W513 prwfuétion
Clothing for men and Women 9/699’ " A  Clirist0P/ier 9771/'5 exitﬁeranti
5 0 8 0 7 romantic comedy in wliicli a
% ' 1 0 group of young peopfe confront
spring, love, cfeatﬂ, and tlie
OFF EVERYDAY "waning offiﬁz.

30 S. Main St. Lexington, Va. 24450
463-9730 Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30

 

_ _ - Dec. 3, 4, 6, & 8 - 8:00 p.m. Johnson Theatre
Dec. 6 18 10% off with student I. D. Dec. 7 - 9:00 p.m Call 463-8000
Also in: SmithMt. Lake, Lynchburg, Dec. 4 - 2:00 p.m to reserve your ticket

Chapel Hill, N. C., Farmville

The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1993

CLOSE

yous

ccouu  
TH me

mun or
      mm.

0W» S0 YOVRE Nor mar
ENDENTLY WLAL11-1y

“"7 Y0” (AM at :ur>LrLm>m
A Y0” 6” A #1,

WITH l>lS(0V£l{® (Am;
coo (KENT LINE, N0 ANNUAL 1-‘£5

AND WE DON’T (AKL WHAT T
 YOU (yfjf 

IF «boa/‘T cor ur,  
GU IT.” ~

  

PAGE 8

 

OPINION

    

o
The Rinﬂlm Phi, December 3, 1993

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬁlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

’Tis the season

The Holiday season has arrived, and we at the Phi are
in the gift giving mood. We can’t afford to give everyone
on our a list an actual gift, so we decided to go with a
more thoughtful list.

If we forgot you, don’t worry. Santa will be here soon,
and Mom and Dad will probably buy you a couple of
things too.

We hope everyone will get what they wish for this
Christmas.

Niall MacKenzie — United States citizenship
Ashby Hackney —— An alarm clock automatically set
for Mondays at 7:25 p.m.
Executive Committee — $3847.96
The Spectator staff — a monthly deadline
TheACLU — what we gave the E.C. ? .......nah.
Dean Howison—a Nerf bocci set and all the hecklin g
he desires
Dean Schroer-Lamont —— a pill that will give every-
one “the message”
Dean Atkins —— Fraternities that can manage to stay
out of trouble
Dean Manning — an upperclass dorm that everyone
wants to live in
Freshmen — the knowledge that finals will be harder
than APs, and the courage to go on after you get Fall
Term grades .
Sophomores — a major, and the memory that you
were once freshmen too ’
Juniors — gummi bears
Seniors — a job, a graduate school acceptance, a
future
Gummy — dentures
Financial aid office/John DeCourcy — more funds
so he can put financial aid money where his mouth his
Ladies in the registrars’ office — bright cheery
smiles and lots of patience
White Book Review Committee -— an interested
student body
President Wilson — a time machine to take you back
to the century of your choice .
Brian E. Richardson —— a salary to go along with
your deity status among J—majors
Hampden H. Smith III— a pinky ring with his name
on it
Edwin Yoder — divine knowledge of what really
happened to JFK
George Ray —— a contract to write his memoirs
David Novack —— a fun time hunting for antiques in
London
John Jennings .— permission to have J—law twice a
week on Tuesday and Thursday so he can finish the book
in one semester
Steven Desjardins — the bong on Mike Young’s
desk
Melissa Cox——recognition of the ultimate power she
already has
Carol Calkins —— an office that doesn’t look like an
airline ticket window
W&L Security — more Suzuki Samurais to patrol
the parking lots
B&G — a brand—new shiny lawn mower
R.D. Clark— something better to do than chasing the
W&L mail truck
The Lexington Fire Department — a fire truck the

‘IRE BRADY BILL com-'.s To LExING1'oNf '

Sexual issues stance accuses unfairly

I want to sound a note of caution
about the way we look at rape. I do
want to stress at the outset that rape is
a terrible thing. I know people who

to treat the event as one of fact, absent
such a legal detennination, was a seri-
ous error. While one may contend the
facts were undisputed in this particular

 

have been case, even
raped, and the the com-
consequences bined words
are both long- of the vic-
lasting and se- RYAN rim, a uni.
vere. In my versity dean,
0pin_ion,rape is DENNARD, and the
acnme worse ,94 victim's
than murder, friends are
and should be not enough
punished ac- to estab-
cordingly. lish an

Perhaps it is my strong feelings about
this crime that make me so disturbed at
the way this newspaper handled the
subject in its last issue. This paper
failed to recognize rape is first and
foremost a crime, and should be treated
as such. Second, the incidence of rape
will be higher in certain environments;
it isnaive to think we can prevent rape
and sexual assault while promoting the
environments in which they thrive.

A front page feature article pre-
sented in great detail the events sur-
rounding a rape that allegedly occurred
on campus a few years ago. I use the
term “allegedly” not as a suggestion
that the event did not occur, but be-
cause, as with all crimes, we must as-
sume that it did not occur. Our liberal
democratic society requires a presump-
tion of innocence unless guilt is proven
in a court of law. This paper’s decision

individual’s guilt; a court of law has to
decide the issue. Until that happens,
journalists should avoid trying. people
in the court of public opinion.

The article in question contained
only one sentence referring to the legal
issues involved: “[The accuser] filed a
report with the Lexington police, but
did not press charges.” Pressing charges
in a rape case can be a traumatic expe-
rience, one which many women under-
standably choose not to pursue. None-
theless, potential distress for the victim
does not justify public condemnation
of the accused.The article treated the
legal issues as if they were unimpor-
tant, focusing instead on the university
mediation system.While that system
may have its virtues, its judgment is not
authoritative with respect to society; it
does not justify the paper’s decision to
treat the rape accusation as fact.

The second error of judgement in
the article was even more egregious.
The story presented several significant
details about the accused man. I will
not compound the mistake by repeat-
ing them, but given the information
provided in the article and a couple of
old Calyxes, I have little doubt that I
could deduce his identity in less than
an hour. I hope no one will choose to do
that, but the potential for personal dam-
age to’ him exists. While the details
given in the story may have been rel-
evant to presenting an accurate picture
of the situation, this man, who has
never been
charged with a
crime, is now ex-
posed to public

While one may con-

too drunk— ‘it’s aweekendthing’, ‘it’s
a party thing,’ ‘it’s a hook-up thing,’
etc. It’s not too hard to deal.”

The author and the paper as a whole
seemed to miss the fact that these kiiﬂs
of situations actually promote sexual
assault. That is not to say that women
are responsible because they put them-
selves in these situations or, altema-
tively, that this provides an excuse for
men. But it is foolish to ignore the fact
that casual sex or even casual S6Xl,dl
activity makes sexual assault more
likely. Women who have experienced
rape during “a hook-up thing” prob-
ably feel like
it is im-
mensely “hard
to deal.” I50

condemnation. matter how
Finally, I was tend, that “I? fafls were many people
struckbytheother undisputed 111 thls par- are “aware” of
 ticular case,  a court of zztfgalassaulta
, . ng asaca-
After reading the law has t0_declde the sual sexual en-
apicle on ratile and lssue, Untll that hap- vironment-¢t-
gancingatt e ist - - ists, so will
of statements on pen?’ -lournahsts sh",“ld this problem.
sexual assault, I avoid trying people in If the uni-

noticed a story
titled “The art of

the hook-up at ion-

the court of public opin-

versity com-
munity is go-

W&L.” In its de-
scription of W&L
dating it noted: “...[dating] means more
commitment and less freedom. A bad
hook-up, on the other hand, can be
written off as a consequence of being

ing to think
aboutrapeagd
sexual assault,
let’s think about them intelligently. It
is surely possible to discuss this very
serious issue without running
roughshod over common sense.

city actually paid for
Mayor Derrick — a solution to Lexington’s tax
problem that doesn’t involve W&L students
Ourselves —— t1ap—time.
Happy Holidays to everyone! See ya in 1994!

Quote of the Week

“Umm... whuch if these buttons locks the

door?”
—A W&L student unexpectedly ﬁnding
himself in Harlem
V‘
" 4: , o
@112 4 mg-tum ht
Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sport Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee

_[.vv;~§1A01IlU11rv\. -v«1x--rvaz1v-
,, . . . .

Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

» t is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

t The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
703 462-4060

City curfew laws miss the point ‘

The Lexington police have been busy lately. How
busy? They have been keeping our streets free from
teenagers under the age of 17 who hang out past their
bedtime (11 p.m., that is). Just two weeks ago, a
police officer stopped a car of suspicious looking
passengers driving through the streets of Lexington at
3 a.m. After discovering they were all 16-year-old
Lexington residents, the of-
ﬁcer waited for backup and
then brought these curfew

from real crime prevention programs and mask the
underlying causes of crime.

Brian Shaw, a Lexington city councilman and
W&L director of communications supports the cur-
few, even though he concedes it is an easy target for
civil libertarians. When asked whether his motive for
supporting the law was to look tough on crime, he
laughed, shook his fist in the
air and grunted sarcastically
“yah, I’m tough on crime!”

rebels to police headquar-

More seriously, he denied hav-

I€fS- ANDREW ing any such motive pointing

Actually these teenagers to the fact that he plans to
were not rebels at all. They SCHNEIDER0 leave politics once his term is
were coming home from a ’94 up. Shaw supports the curfew

Nirvana concert in
Williamsburg and had re-

 

because he says it helps the
police to do their job.

ceived parental permission
to be out that night. In fact,
one of their parents had even gone to the concert with
them but drove back separately. The curfew law
makes exceptions for minors “on an emergency er-
rand or specific business or activity directed or per-
mitted by [their] parents...”

Despite their innocence, the teenagers were kept
in police custody for an hour until each of their
parents could be awakened, notiﬁed and summoned
to pick their child up at police headquarters.

The Lexington curfew law has been around for a
long time but was revised by the city council last
spring in order to cut down on the noise generated by
popular hangouts such as Sharks. The law makes it a
crime for teenagers under the age of 1 7 to be out on the
streets of Lexington between the hours of 11 p.m. and
6 a.m. without an adult. The ﬁrst violation of the
curfew is punishable by detention at the police depart-
ment until the parents of the minor can pick him/her
up. On the second and subsequent detentions of the
minor, the parents are charged with willfully contrib-
uting to, encouraging, or causing a violation of the
curfew — a Class 2 misdemeanor.

The curfew, traditionally a tool of martial law and
commonly associated with authoritarian governments
such as China (in suppressing the pro-democracy
students), must appear to some as a little out of place
in a largely peaceful and sleepy Lexington.

Lexington is one of a growing number of cities in
the U.S. that have adopted curfew laws. Most have
been adopted as a means of halting the rampant
violence and drug trafficking that have plagued our
cities. However, studies have shown that curfew laws
have very little effect, if any, on the crime rate.
Curfews are nothing more than tough sounding do-
nothing solutions that divert the public’s attention

This assertion is at best a

shaky one because it would

seem that enforcing the curfew law would actually

hinder the police from doing their job. If police are

busy checking IDs of every teenager walking the dog

after midnight, their energies are diverted from solv-
ing real crimes like murder, rape, and robbery.

The most serious problem with curfew laws is that
they are unconstitutional. The right to come and go as
we please without government permission or inter-
ference is a fundamental right in a free society. The

their children are home by 11 p.m.

Even though most children probably ought to be
home by 11 p.m., that decision belongs to parents,
not police officers or politicians. While attempting
to strengthen parental authority, curfews ha!/e
usurped parental perogatives.

Curfew laws are also prone to discriminatory
enforcement. Studies have found that curfew re-
strictions are disproportionately enforced in minor-
ity communities and against individuals perceived
as “different” from the norm.

Lexington police lieutenant Crouder belieﬁs
that the curfew law is useful in preventing tragedies
from happening. His favorite hypthetical example is
a 14-year-old girl, built like a 20-year-old, who
insists on staying out late at night and her parents
could care less. This girl, Lieutenant Crouder in-
sists, is a sitting target for some pervert to pick up
and rape. Crouder adds that the curfew law enabks
police to prevent this situation from happening.

The problem with Crouder’s logic is that his
hypothetical tragedy could take place at any time to
women of any age. Perhaps having a 24 hour curfew
for everyone of all ages would be a better safeguard
against that hypothetical situation from ever
occuring. Wouldn’t life be happy, safe and fin
then?!?

The point is that even though we have serious

FirstAmendmentofour problems with
COHSIIIUIIOH guarantees crime today, allow-
IO everyonethe freedom ing ourselves orour
°f “SS°mb‘Y- Curfew If police are busy checking IDs children to be Put
lawscriminalizenormal . under house arr ti
and otherwise lawful       is not a practical or
behavior. such as stand- after midnight, their energies are justifiable solution.
ing onastreet corner or  from Solving real crimes That would be a
80mg for 3 Walk . sign that ourlaw en-
Another majorprob- like murder, rape, and robbery. forcemem had 105:
lem Will‘ bexlnglolfs the war on crime.
CUI'fCW law IS that  VlO- Curfgws infrin e

lates the due process
rights of teenagers. If you have parental permission to
be out late at night, which is legal under the curfew,
you can still be apprehended by the police and serve
the penalty of the law (detention at police headquar-
ters) until the police can get your parents to come get
you and verify your innocence. Under this law, you
are guilty until proven innocent and the police get to
be the judge, the jury, and the prosecution.
Lexington City“ Councilman and local NAACP
head, Jim Harris, supports the curfew. He brushes off
the unconstitutional aspects of the law as “technicali-
ties.” Harris believes the curfew law gives parents
extra comfort in knowing the police will make sure

. on the basic libe -
ties of all people while trying to prevent the unlaw-
ful conduct of a few.

While the Lexington police and city council are
well intentioned in their attempt to prevent crime,
cut down on noise at night, and make sure minors are
safe at home before midnight, their strategy ‘s
misguided. Law enforcement and government céi
address most of these problems more creatively
without curfews and the price paid in liberty. The
right of Lexington teenagers to come home from a
Nirvana concert without being detained by police
for an hour is a most cherished freedom and one that
should not have to be sacriﬁced!

.0

 

    

Q

The Ring-tum Phi, December 3, 1993

OPINION

PAGE 9

A.P.B.: Avoid the state of Georgia

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

I had been looking forward to relax-
ing overThanksgiving break about 900
miles south of W&L in my home town
of Vero Beach, Florida (motto: “Where
Plre Excitement Never Started”). As
you can probably imagine, it didn’t
work out exactly as I imagined.

My friend Ben and I left Lexington
the Friday vacation began. Most of the
14 hour trip went ﬁne, except when we
went through that little stretch of back-
\%)ods south Georgia known as McIn-
tosh County.

Not that I care to get speciﬁc about
the city (DARIEN) or the name of the
Mclntosh City Sheriff’s Deputy
(STEVE WILLIAMS), but SOME-
HOW a deputy saw ﬁt to pull me over
aid give me a speeding ticket for going
15 miles per hour over the limit. I now
realize at that time I should have voiced
my theory that one should be able to
speed if one has been driving for over
12 hours (the speeding would be sort of
a “treat” from all of that hard work
dﬁving under 65) and if the area you
were driving in was really inbred. I’m
sure Officer Williams would have
agreed.

After checking my license and reg-
istration, Ofﬁcer Williams handed me
my ticket (with the words
“ IOLATOR’S COPY” on it) and
as ed me if I would like to attend a
court date (at the posh Mclntosh County
State Court). When I declined the invi-
tation, he gave me information on how

to mail in my ﬁne. I, as an insurance
company-fearing citizen will do so,
though as a protest to my entrapment
I’m considering paying my ticket in
pennies. Or Mexican pesos.

lt’s now time to announce my theory
on “Darien” and “McIntosh County.”
Both of these entities are approximately
1 square foot
large and exist

xnu-an 

 

&0&A
oratory "rune auvroll. Iuuuloll. Acprmmou rvuuua

weather expert, my mother, the 85 De-
gree Prime Beach Weather disappeared
the day I arrived.

I had had plans of returning to W&L
with a dark bronze tan (so I wouldn’t
get lost in the snow), but I had to settle
for the glow of the television. Lots of
television. I felt like hooking my head
up directly
with the cath-

   
 

solelyasanex- —,..--—._,~_;,-_— -~;;-,:- ..T§._3__§3:5_ ode tube so I
cuse for ,._A,j:;j'_'°"_°,:°"_,';Y s":?‘:::3-°"""}§"-7. 3 .. could absorb it
sheriff ’s depu— :_'?;:,?g T>z7.‘;S'r:,>‘E"-:-,'-.?_—#i(~f—-_naA_ll_-..f.;:‘-_‘7'.£.(_’._ all and make up
ties to make :_‘y-_§-:;;‘°"€,  "7  ‘T for what I
money off of °~4,4.{-:*,49L-u- ----- —- missed sincel
travelers who  - leftforcollege.

are headed to

 

There is some-

real cities.
M y a nger
over my ticket

  

rmnaoucvggnm-~.-a.-.

Chitin»-uuucnnanuuulntlt-vtnonornulaob-‘pi,

thingtobesaid
for an after-
noon spent

   

is partially

watching CNN

consoled by

News Hour,

Phi Managing
Editor Nancy

the Real World

It

" I
= 5 on MTV, BET

 I

 
  

    

Pavlovic’srev- Video Soul,
elationthatshe and E! Talk
was caught Soup all in a
speeding at __ N row with the
101 m. .h. in ::~.-:-—- ':f“-"Z-:”*‘=-“-Z‘-.._____£°° onl break be-
south Gpeorgia  ing)trips to the

'-37-‘-1  °'”"'”" fridge. In fact,

':.‘:""‘....,"""
$-43 1;’ I, ’

and had to
spend 3 hours 

'.‘7<.2-34.. .,,. 1'!

"‘ I think the uni-

1.»... ...........,.,
.......a....... -

in jail before
herbail money *'  ‘
arrived by Western Union. We have
decided to form a support group for all
of those persecuted in “The Peanut
State.”

Anyway, after we sped off, leaving
a cloud of dust in our wake, we headed
home to sunny south Florida. Except it
wasn’t sunny. According to a local

versity should
give one aca-
demic credit to those people who stud-
ied examples of American culture
(those TV programs) over the Thanks-
giving break.

After a while, I decided it was time
for a visit to the old alma mater: Saint
Edward’s School in Vero Beach. Lo-
cated on the shore of the Indian River,

r‘:-'3. on->-5 :.r;:-.

St. Ed’s was my school for 13 years; it
nurtured me and made me into the
caring, considerate, and thoughtful per-
son I am today. Wait a minute... no it
didn’t; and look where it got me.

Walking through the halls I was
amazed by how young the kids were.
Most of them wore the expression,
“Who in the world are you?” and for
the ones who did know my name,
“Don’t you have anything better to
do?” Then there were some kids who
didn’t say anything and just shot spit-
balls at me.

I said hello to my old teachers. For
the most part it was good to see them,
but there are deﬁnitely a few teachers
that would benefit from
“Dubyuhnellization.” I think all ofus
have a fantasy about taking the most
out-of-touch high school teacher, the
one who made a big deal about chew-
ing gum or passing notes in class, and
placing them in an environment they
simply could not mentally handle and
then their brains would explode.

I can just picture Mr. Redpath going
through fraternity rush, having his shirt
ripped off, and then going to a eight-
fraternity party at Zollman’s featuring
goldﬁsh eating and Doug Clark and the
Hot Nuts Plus A Couple of Vandellas.
Imagine if some freshmen saw Mr.
Redpath there and taunted him because
of his pants and then they introduced
him to Tom Hespos, and then he would
try to assign them a 1,000 word paper
as punishment and then they would
steal his pants... You ﬁll in the rest at
home.

Maybe I spent a few too many hours
in the front of the TV this break.

State violates promise of justice

lower court.

MY VIEW

. Jerry William Joseph, Sr.

How can this be justice? Surely the lowercourts do
not think us so naive that we are to believe that the
police are incapable of unconscionable acts against
mankind, for they are only human and subject to

People of the United States, I come to you now to
voice the injustice done to me by the Virginia state
police and the county of Hanover, Virginia. Let it be
krpwn by all that the police and lower courts do not
respect the rights pledged us by the forefathers of this
country in the United Stated Constitution.

It is the judgment of the lower courts that if your
constitutional rights are violated that you have a right F
to appeal so why not send you to prison so you can do
“some” time before your appeal comes up for trial.

ll, here is one man that would rather turn his life
over to the Lord by death than lose all livelihood
spending years in prison ﬁghting for the rights already
won in blood and death by our forefathers that are so
obviously not recognized by the lower courts of this
country. The police are allowed by the lower courts
to manipulate law in the name of justice. When the
le lity of a search is disputed all the police have to
sa?is that you gave consent and your constitutional
rights are gone, even if there is not a witness to the
consent, or a signature on a consent form or even if a
consent deﬁed all logic and it is just one man’s word
against another man’s word, the word of the police,
right or wrong, will always prevail in the eyes of the

0

true. If only the people
of this country could
know how easy it is to
lose your constitutional
rights and the cost fac-
tor to the public in the
form of taxes each time
a violation of constitu-
tional rights is appealed
in court, they would
surely force the govem-
ment to pass a simple
law to make it manda-
tory that a consent form
be ﬁlled out when a per-
son waives a constitu-
tional right. So little, to

inﬂuence as any other human being. All we have to
do is pick up any newspaper in any city to see this is

save so much, I can not understand why it has not been
done already. Most people are not even aware some
issues of constitutional law can not even be appealed
in federal court such as Fourth Amendment rights to
privacy. If a person is from out of state, as in my case,
all matters of court became just a formality.

How can there be justice when my court appointed

LETTERS

lawyer is not keeping with the standards of a pri-

vately paid lawyer by failing to research and con-
duct an independent investigation on the issue of an
illegal search 1 presented him on the day of his
appointment to me. His intent of not having contact
with me and his non—actions forced me to research
laws of this state and file my own motions in court

in order to insure that
the Fourth Amend-
ment issue of illegal

Most people are not even
aware some issues of constitu-
tional law can not even be ap-
pealed in federal court such as
Fourth Amendment rights to
privacy. If a person is from out of
state, as in my case, all matters of
court became just a formality.

search was presented
to the court. This is
an issue that should
" have been presenter’

to the court in the be-

ginning stages to in-
sure the protection of
people’s constitu-
tional rights. The
rights of an individual
should always be ﬁrst
and foremost in the

children.

eyes of the court, if
we are to enjoy true

freedom in this country. Let us not lose the rights
our forefathers died for.

Let my death be the signal for the people of this
country to stand up and be heard. If you believe in
preserving your constitutional rights, now is the
time to act, for your sake and the sake of your

McDermott confuses meaning of equality

To the editor:

would like to correct an egregious error that
Patrick McDermott made in his article, “Don’t malign

Kennedy’s memory” (Nov. 12)

He asserted that one of this nation’s fundamental
ideals (and Kennedy’s as well) was a belief in the
equality for all Americans. Although Jack Kennedy
rna.y have espoused this as one of his administration’s

cornerstones, I can assure you that the Founding
Fathers did not. The framers of our nation, however,
did promote the ideas or equal opportunity, and they
believed that all men were created equal — but these
are very different than “equality for all.”

Mr. McDermott rightly associated “equality for
all” with a nation, but he simply picked the wrong one.
The roots of his wrongly-credited belief are located in

fnterviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

 

Melissa Wolf, ’95, Rose Valley, Pa.
—.“‘Flowers’ on my desk.”

TALKBACK

 

the ashes of the former Soviet Union. It is the
premise of communism — not republicanism - that
begins with social egalitarianism. It was neither
Jefferson nor Madison who wanted “equality for
all;” rather, it was Marx and Lenin. Please do not get
them confused.

Jimmy Kull, ’94

Pub Board

There will be a Pub Board meet-
ing on Monday, Dec. 6 at 8 p.m. in
the The Ring-tum P/ii Office, room
208 of the University Center.

Found

Found: Ablack, green, and gold
lighter with the initials DTL en-
graved on it. Call 463-5295.

Oxford

Washington and Lee is one of
six area schools that sponsor a sum-
mer program of study at St. Anne’s
College, Oxford, England. The
Virginia Program at Oxford fol-
lows the English tutorial system
and studies the subject areas of lit-
erature and history of Tudor-Stuart
England. Dates are June 27 to Aug.
6, 1994. Application deadline is
March 1, 1994. There is some schol-
arship available. See Prof. Pamela
Simpson in the Art Department for
more information.

Ballet

The Rockbridge Concert The-
atre Series is presenting the
Eglevsky Ballet; Michael Vernon,
Artistic Director; Founded by Andre
Eglevsky, in the holiday classic
“The Nutcracker.” Performances
will be held in Lexington at the
Keller Theatre of the Lenfest Cen-
ter for the Performing Arts on Sun-
day, Dec. 5 at 3 p.m. and 7:30 p.m.
Tickets may be purchased at Qual-
ity Quick Print, 214 South Main
Street, from Nov. 22 to Dec. 3.
There will be no reserve seating.
Formore information call 463-5360.

Resumes

There will be a Resume Work-
shop on Wed., Dec. 8, at 11 a.m. in
room 109 of the University Center.

 

All students are welcome to attend. ~.= lish on Jan.‘6,‘ 1994.

This       

Tests

There will be a test interpreta-
tion session on Thursday, Dec. 10,
in room 109. All seniors planning
to participate in the SLAC job fairs
should plan to attend this brief ori-
entation meeting.

Golf

Give your favorite golfer free
greens fees thisholiday season with
the American Lung Association of
Virginia (ALAV) 1994 Mid-Atlan-
tic Golf Privilege Card. For $35 the
Golf Privilege Card offers free golf
at over 150 of the region’s top
courses The card is available by
calling the ALAV Northwest Area
Office at (703) 434-5864 or (800)
LUNG-USA. ALAV accepts cash,
checks, MasterCard, and Visa.

Indochine

The Film Society will present
Indochine tonight and Saturday
night in the Troubadour Theatre at
8:05 p.m. Admission is free.

Letters

Letters and “My Views” may be
submitted by anyone by Tuesday at
noon. All submissions must be
signed and they will be printed in
the order in which they were re-
ceived.

Phi

TIzeRing-tum Phiwill next pub-

AIDS education
coordinator thanks W&L

To the editor:

I am writing to congratulate and
thank the members of the Washington
and Lee University AIDS Education
Project for the overwhelming success
ofthis year’sWorld AIDS Day Events.
The students who make up the core of
the project worked tirelessly during an
already stressful time of the year to
assure that their message was received
by the W&L community. You are a
great group, and judging from the feed-
back I have received thus far, you ac-
complished your goal.

I would also like to thank the non-
student members of the campus com-
munity who supported this event in a
number of important ways. Thank you
to all of the faculty and staff members
who wore red ribbons to classes and at
their desks, your concern for the well
being of the students on this campus is
extraordinary and very much appreci-
ated.

A few special thank yous: to the

W&L Security team who performed
with their usual professionalism in as-
sisting the members of the AIDS
Project, to Jim Johndrow and the folks
at University Services who provided
much warmth (literally) for the project
members, to the staff of the Bookstore
for their help during the day, to Mary
Woodson for designing our Red Rib-
bon Campaign Posters, to Larry
Broomall for his help in finalizing the
planning of the day’s events, and to
Carol Calkins for her year-round sup-
port. Finally, “Thanks,” to the folks I
forgot to mention. I hope there aren't
too many!

I compliment the Washington and
Lee community for its continued gen-
erosity and compassion. With your help,
we can and will end this plague.

Sincerely yours,

Pat McDermott '94
Coordinator

W&L AIDS Education Project

If you were Bill Clinton, What Would  
  you Want for Christmas?

R. P. Dickerson, ’96, Atlanta, Ga. —
“A new wife.”

Damien Del Russo, ’95, Highlands, NJ and Assia Georgieva, ’95, Soﬁa,

Bulgaria —— “A Republican joke book.”

 

Robert Covington, ’97, Atlanta, Ga.

— “A Mexican immigrant.”

 

Lisa Greenhouse, ’96, Towson, Md.

— “A cheaper haircut.”

 

PAGE 10

  
 

QUALITY AND VARIETY

II.S.D.A. CHOICE WHOLE
BEEF l'ENDElI|.O|N

99

FAMILY PACK BEEF  

CUBED

MEANS iow ES

5TEAK.._............i.-2.

  Harrisfeeter

   
 

GOLDEN RIPE
BANANAS

9

  
 

LB.

 
 

\-

    

HARR

 

 

 

srrrr CROCKER
S U PE RM OIS T
CAKE MIX

I8" 
OZ.

   

ALL PURPOSE VAC. PAK
H T

COFFEE

0

DIET COKE OR
COCA COLA

   

2 LTR.

Trademarks®

    

The Ring-tum PM, December 3 1993

IS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE

FT 2/ O0
DRINKS ................................ ..2 LTR.
IgPAO'R(TED, COOKED 
HAM ................................. ..1 6 oz. 3

NABISCO

OREO

T ............................ ..LB.
5”

SELECTED VARIETIES
3 WHITE RAIN
HAIR CARE PRODUCTS

4'  Ozo

   

   

 

   
 
  
   
  
     

2"  
COOKIES ................... ..1<s oz.

IN THE DELI-BAKERY SUCED
HONEY TURKEY TO ORDER
BREA5

HT
ORANGE JUICE

109

64 OZ.

HT
  aurrrn OUARTER5

M115

 

   
 

Prices Effective Throu h December 7, 1993

Prices In This Ad Eltective Wednesday, December I Through uesday, December 7,l 993.
Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Glodly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

In Lexington stores

 
  
   

  

  
 
 
 

 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

 
 

  

   
 
  

     
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 

Callbacks wit! be on Friday, Dec. 10.

Parts available for this ingenious,
whimsical, and improbable farce which concerns a
novelist whose second marriage is troubled by the
ghost. of the first---wife that is.

December9 0 7:00 p.m. 0 Auditions
December 10 - 7:00 p.m. 0 Callbacks
Iohnson Theatre ° Lenfest Center

 

0
GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Schedules for Winter, 1993-94
Men’s Basketball Swimming

Dec. 4 at Guilford 2:00 Dec. 3 Sweet Briar( 7:00

Dec. 8 Emory & Henry 7:30 Dec. 4-5 at UVa Invitational (M&W) 2
Jan. 2 Amherst 7:30 Dec. 7 Randolph-Macon ( 7:00

Jan. 4 Virginia Wesleyan 7:30 Jan. 12 Buffalo State (M& 7:00

Jan. 8 Roanoke 7:30 Jan. 15 V at Catholic (M&W 2:00

Jan 10 at Mary Washington 8:00 Jan. 22 Emory, Johns Hop ins 10:00

Jan. 12 at Lynchbur 7:30 at North Carolina (M&W)

Jan. 15 Randolph- acon 3:00 Jan. 30 Franklin & Marshall 2:00 _
Jan. 19 at Emory & Henry 7:30 M&W) 9
Jan. 21 Bridgewater 7:30 Feb. 3 ollins Q15]/) 7:00

Jan. 23 Catholic 3:00 Feb. 5 at Mary ashington 2:00

Jan. 26 Ham den-Sydney 7:30 (M&

Jan. 29 Guil ord 2:00 Feb. 12 at Rad ord M&W) 1:00

Feb. 2 at Virginia Wesleyan 7:30 Feb. 18-20 at Atlantic tates/

Feb. 5 Eastern Mennonite 7:30 ODAC Championships (M)

Feb. 9 Lynchburg 7:30 at Southern State 9
Feb. 12 at Roanoke 7:30 Championships (W)

Feb. 16 at Eastern Mennonite 7:30 Mar. 10-12 at NCAA Championships(\]V)

Feb. 19 at Randol h-Macon 3:00 Mar. 17-20 at NCAA Champtionsh1ps( )

Feb. 23-26 Old Dominion Athletic

Conference Tournament
in Salem, Va. 7
I’
Women’s Basketball Wrestling

Dec. 4 at St. Mary’s 2:00 Dec. 3-4 ' at Lebanon Valley Tournament .
Dec. 6 Wesley Colle e 7:30 Jan. 8 at Western Maryland Quad. b
Jan. 8 at Wesley Co le e 2:00 (iphns Hopkins, Messiah,

Jan. 9 at Virginia Wes eyan 2:00 . Maryland) 1:00

Jan.11 Univ. of the South 7 :30 Jan. 15 W&L Tri. Davidson,

Jan. 13 at Sweet Briar College 7:00 Pensacola hristian 1:00

Jan. 15 at Mary Washington 6:00 Jan. 22 W&L Invitational ( avidsoii,

Jan. 19 Mary Baldwin College 7:00 Haverford, LaSalle, Longwood,

Jan. 21 Meredith College 5:00 Newport News, Pensacola 3
Jan. 29 at Davidson College 3:00 Christian, Washington &

Feb. 2 at Mary Baldwin 7200 Jefferson) 9:30

Feb. 5 Midway College 1:00 Jan. 29 at Gallaudet Invitational 11:00

Feb. 9 at Hollins College 7:00 Feb. 5 at Apprentice Inviational

Feb. 13 Hollins Colle e 2:00 Feb. 13 at Virginia State Toum. 9:00

Feb. 17-19 at Women’s éollege Feb. 25-26 at NCAA Regional Tournament

Tournament Mar. 3-5 at NCAA Championships 9
at Meredith College ' .
Washington and Lee I
_ Team Records
Track and Field (Indoor) (as of 12/02/93)
Jan. 15 Lynchburg Invitational (M&W) Men’s Swimming 1-0-0
Jan. 21-22 Virginia Tech Invitational Women’s Swimming 1-0-0
M&W) Men’s Basketball 1-4-0
Feb. 5 MI.Relays (M) Women’s Basketball 0-3-0 .
Pepsi Invitational at VPI (W) Wrestling 0-0-0
Feb. 12 Virginia Tech Invitational (M)
Feb. 26 ODAC Championshi s overall 3-7-0
at Lynchburg (M&
b V .
EXTRA INCOME NOWI   . .
:,~_:s;<;:,=_§,*;*;;',;°‘-3°°°-~°°-~~~~* Alvin-Dennis, Inc. I
I 102 w. Washington St. 3
1
Ih'is_ﬂeeIsZs_§ne<;iaI .
I Outerwear and Dress Top Coats 20% Off
-Duckhead -W&L Belts, Ties, ‘
-Red Wing Boots Dog Collars
-Ray Bans -Xmas Ties & Boxers
—Shoes by Bass & -Flannel Shirts
Walkover -Tuxedos ,
-Cotton Sweaters -Flasks
oi?
‘at I °
FREE GIFT WRAPPING &
CALL (500) 71 4 _ 868? GIFT CERTIFICATES AVAILABLE I
FLO IDA KEYS 433-3333
' ‘I '0 '  " ‘ '  VISA MASTERCARD STUDENT CHARGE .
IT'S A PIIIAITB Hm I
. _ ii .
for 
Noel Coward's 
Bl’ h S ' ‘t 
it e pin  .
You must sign up for a Thursday audition 
slot with the Theatre Department secretary. 
She will provide you with a script.  .

  
  

GE 11

 

phomore Josephine Schaeffer heads down the W&L cross
- ungry course. Her season culminated with All-American honors.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

“If she stays interested, her poten-
tial is virtually unlimited.”

That is how women ’s cross-country
coach Jim Phemister sees the future of
his star runner, sophomore-sensation
Josephine Schaeffer.

Schaeffer just completed a near-
perfect All-American season, suffer-
ing her only loss at the Division III
NCAA Championships. At that No-
vember 20th meet in Grinnell, Iowa,
her eighth place time of 18:04 in the 5K
race was just 15 seconds off the win-
ningmark.

Schaeffer, who ran under 18 min-
utes four times this fall, blamed her
time on being too excited. She went out
in a first-mile time of 5:05, her fastest
ever.

Schaeffer was pleased that she
moved up four places from last year’s
finish. She may not have been thrilled
with her race time, but more impor-
tantly, she had “a good time.”

“[The meet] was very exciting. Very
intense, too,” Schaeffer said.

The two-time cross-country All-
American may not have gone
~ undefeated, but Schaeffer can find so-
lace in her selection as the WLUR-
Ring-tum Phi Athlete of the Month for
November.

The sophomore follows Corinda
Hankins (women’s soccer) and Robert
Hull (football) in receiving the Major
General Award.

It has been a record-after-record
two years at Washington and Lee for
the Memphis native.

sion III scene by, literally, mnning
away with seven of nine races as a
freshman. Her only defeats were in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championships—where she lost a con-
siderable lead by running off course-
and the nationals, a 12th place finish.
Schaeffer moved on to track and
wasted no time -leaving her mark there.
She placed second at the NCAA Divi-
sion HI Outdoor Track championships
to again earn All-American honors.
Her 1993 cross-country season was
highlighted by winnin g the ODACtitle
and the South-Southeast Regional
championship. Schaeffer led four Gen-
erals who placed in the top seven at the
ODAC’s as the team claimed the con-

 

File photo

F

1

  

Ajg-—

lo

' nrnrt rruruo

17 S. Randolph Street
Lexington, Va. 24450

463-1145

_ The 
Point of View

Restaurant

Next to Days Inn, Rt. 60 West
463-7797

Casual Dining

Elegant Setting

Finest Steaks - Fresh Seafood
Pork Ribs - Banquet Facilities

 

Wanted: Waiters & Waitresses,
pan time. Call: 463-7797

chaeffer JOIIIS Major General list

Schaeffer stormed the 1992 Divi-A

 

K

 

 

Gain the Competitive Edge for a Career in Finance with

 

     

GW’s Master

A Focused Degree

The intensive MSF program builds upon prior
degrees in business, economics and other
quantitative disciplines. With its different focus
MSF students gain more in-depth specialization
in ﬁnancial theory and management than is
typically available through MBA programs.

A Fast Track

You can complete your degree in one
calendar year full-time or two years part-time.

A Key Location
GW’s School of Business and Public

Management is located next door to the
World Bank and International Monetary
Fund, and close to the Federal Reserve,

the U.S. Treasury Department and major

ﬁnancial market regulatory agencies.

GW’s MSF Prepares You for a Career in:

I Investment Banking
Financial Institution Management
Financial Market Regulation

Early admission decisions will be made March 1, 1993.
Remaining admission is on a rolling basis.

Students are advised to apply early.

For more information on GW’s Master of Science in Finance,

call (202)994-5996.

Cl Please send me more information on GW’s MSF program.
Cl I would like to arrange an informational interview.
D Please also send me information on GW’s MBA program.

M?

{Z

J

of Science in Finance

Advanced Curriculum .

The challenging curriculum covers all major areas of

ﬁnance, with an emphasis on applied research and
: modeling, as well as international and regulatory
dimensions. Courses are taught by internationally rec-
ognized full-time faculty.

A Valuable Network of Peers

Many students in the MSF program are already suc-
cessful professionals who work in prominent national
and international organizations.

«A Convenient Schedule

MSF classes are held on Thursday, Friday and
Saturday, so you have the option of seeking an intem—
ship or working while you study. Faculty are available
to assist you in identifying professional opportunities.

Intemational Finance
Portfolio Management
Financial Consulting

Corporate Finance
Financial Research and Modeling

The
1' C

as 11
 Y4GTON1DC

Or complete and return the coupon, below:

Nam _ _ Mail this cou on to:
College/UHIVGFSIIYI Professor Ted B '

School Address: IT)lirector MSF Prl<:lgnraIn

re George Was ' gton University
D f F‘
School Phone: ( ) epmmem 0 mance

Permanent Address:

Permanent Phone: ( )

Washington, D.'C. 20052
Or Fax it to:
(202)994-5014

The Rlng-tum Phl, December 3, 1993

 

Josephine Schaeffer

ference championship for the second-

straight year.

W&L failed to qualify as a team for
the NCAAs; the team finished second
in the Regionals. However, Schaeffer
was accompanied to Iowa by team-
mate Amy Mears, who had run a quali-
fying time of 18:41.

Among Schaeffer’s best perfor-
mances of the season were a then-
school-record 17:25, a 17:36 at the
ODACs (a minute-and-a-half ahead of
second place), and—to put it mildly—an

unbelievable 16:46 finish in the re-
gional championships. ’

“It was very surprising. I don’t re-
ally know where it came from,” she
said of the now-school record time of
16:46.

Schaeffer seems as if she could not
be happier with her season. By staying
injury-free, running consistently around
or under 18 minutes, and having fun
with her teammates she has met all of
her goals for the year.

“I want to continue to have fun,”

  

said Schaeffer. “That’s one of the rea-
sons I wanted to run Division III. I
didn’t want the pressures of a Division
I school.”

Schaeffer, whose father is a W&L
alum, does hope to continue her im-
provement. Coach Phemister doesn’t
see much of a problem for that happen-
mg.
“She’ll continue to make progress.
She’s so dedicated and so willing to
work,” said the coach, who was named
ODAC coach-of-the-year in 1993 for
the fourth straight year.

Pherni ster said Schaeffer has already
taken a minute off her high school
times and has the potential to knock
another 60 seconds off before graduat-
mg.
In the long run (no pun intended),
Phemister believes Schaeffer has the
raw natural talent to be a national-
caliber runner. This would suggest that
the runner, who is still in her develop-
mental stage, could ultimately be com-
petitive among runners of all levels.

Fornow, she’ll justhave to settle for
being a record setting, three-time All-
American, nationally recognized Ma-
jor General.

  
  

c7I»\.e ’\)\)Jt;u12.Qtm_.,..tuw. ‘FDR;
/W\G}$1' General QVVGYJ

¢¢ 

seam./a./a 

ﬁoloém

await a aai/4/a.za.//

z/V ‘i

cjke /maior General is ckasew wsewtkly lay serials Giuaert avul Kcitk GVGWE

F wtemax on 9‘
C 261-7292
2275 BcecI’iAve., Buena-\4ata-(Behind Pizza Hut)

$1.50 ANY SHOW

Now Showing

JUPASSIC PAPK

Rated PG-13
Daily 6:50
Sat. & Sun. 1:10, 4:00 & 6:50

:6/Z0 ¢“3ecWe/(/ 
Rated PG
Daily 9:45

     
     

“All You Can Eat"
BOTTOMLESS BUCKET

Q300 OF POPCORN $3.9

unu‘ii‘l‘uIs°»'li‘l'I‘m
THE Again our HAVE

ENTIRELY
DIFFERENT MEANING.

Alcohol quickly affects your judgment, 

balance, and coordination. Don’t

drink and ride. Or your last
drink might be your last drinkv
MOTOIIOVOLE SAFETY FOUNDATION (9
r

  
  

December 8th
5 ‘til 8 p.m. H,
For all your Christmas " '9 '
Sports needs —

15% off all regular  in
price merchandise if" ’

int gsam 

     

 ‘I.';\;§§’§

115 W. Nelson St.

Stonewall Square Shatzplng Center

Waywe.

LexIngtan,V
463-9800

Wafawar/ff:/_

' Maﬁa k/we mo/need

0/came/5'0 éooﬁa mace’ °
cmwét o/i/‘mild//e Moaeﬂm//gy l-mam.’-

72r<£r<£ri‘rA Gift Certificateﬁﬁﬁﬁ

($5.00 and up) .

»

—We specialize in great music and movies-

Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. l0a.m.-ll 

I..
M5743-I "95 1

Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

p% @e/4”

. ..
_ _ .‘,.‘_<~"',\“".\5'_€

  

Last Week:

FB—W&L 14, Georgetown 17
WBB—W&L 57, Catholic 59
MBB—W&L 48, Hampden-Sydney 90

PAGE 12

  3

(‘Litre ‘filing-tttm iﬂlii

PORTS e

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

This Week:

MBB—at Guilford 12/04

WBB—at St. Mary’s 12/04
Wrest—at Lebanon Valley 12/O3-04
Swim—UVa invitational 12/04

DECEMBER 3, 1993

Women make Doremus debut’

so.

By BILL Rusr
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
women’sbasketball team opened
their first season as a Varsity
team Nov. 19, and brought the
game home for the W&L debut
match Dec. 1.

A handful of students were on
hand to watch a breathtaking
game which came down to the
final shot, as the home team was

' V narrowly beaten in a battle with

Catholic University 59-59.

    
 

The team started slowly, but

      

picked up the pace late in the
first half. With aggressive play
and great defense, they led by as
much as seven in the first half.
At half-time, W&L found itself
down by three points, 34-31.
The second half proved to be
more exciting than the first.
The Lady Generals lost the
lead on a penalty shot with less

’ than twominutes to go. Catholic

barely managed to keepvthe Gen-
erals at bay, and beat the buzzer.

Wednesday, senior Karen
Stutzman led the team with 14
points. junior Amy Vogt was
second with 12, and sophomore

Allison Hull scored 10. Stutzman
also lead with 8 steals. Hull and
senior Mary Tankard both m9n-
aged a team high five rebounds.

Thelosswasthe third oneina
row for W&L. The most recent
loss came last week against
Emory and Henry. They were
crushed 77-37. Stutzman and
sophomore Sandra Holmes min-
aged to score in double digits in
that match, with 12 and 10 re-
spectively.

The Generals’ record now
stands at 0-3. Next week, the
team will face St. Mary’s and
Wellesley College. .

snag

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Fiing-tum Phi
Senior Karen Stutzman puts the moves on her Catholic defender as the Lady
Generals lost a heartbreaker, 59-57, in the opening game Dec. 1.

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Senior Nikki Mayfield jurnps for the ball against her Catholic opponent in the Generals’ .

first-ever home game.

Men’s basketball, 1-4

slowly begins season  

By STEPHEN WILLIARD _
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The 1993-1994 men’s basketball team has be-
gun the new season with mixed results. Following
a hard-fought holiday tournament that left the
Generals on the short end, the team responded by
defeating Emory in Atlanta.

Against Bridgewater, the Generals led at half-
time, but eventual] y fell to the Eagles. OnWednes-
day against the Hampden-Sydney Tigers the Gen-
erals led at one point in the first half 10-4 before
succumbing to the Tigers 90-48 in a game that got

away from the W&L squad.

In the Hampden-Sydney the Generals were led
by 14 points from Cam Dyer, their leading scorer
on the season.

In Atlanta, Washington and Lee had four play-
ers score in double figures and two with double
doubles in the win over Emory.

The Generals have opened the year with a 1-4
record and an 0-2 Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence record. The Generals hope to improve on last
year’s 5-19 campaign.

W&L will next play at home on December 8th
against Emory and Henry. The Generals will be
looking to take a turn in the winning direction
before break.

 

M\<Blflf\V
‘C|h|rli§l[|[Tl€iI§«9
~G~ein«eiraillsI!  

 

November snow in Texas, .
Lett’s heroics shock Steve

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILUARD

, Just when you were starting
to lose interest in the football
season, the games actually be-
gin to get fun. After last week-
end, the playoffs will seem like
an afterthought.

How often does Dallas get
snow in November? Better still,
how many people remember
Leon Lett? Well, the wild and
crazy Superbowl hero came
through again for the Dallas
Cowboys on Thanksgiving.
Following a stunning Steve
DeBerg led Dolphinsdrive, Pete
Stoyanovich entered the scene
to attempt a game winning field
goal. The Cowboys blocked
the kick to win the game, or at
least they should have won the

game.
Lett came slidinginto the pic-
ture at the last second to touch
the ball (which otherwise would
have been dead) and the Dol-
phins recovered to kick a field
goal as time expired and win 16-
14. I would just like to say that
Lett has just joined the ranks of
Fred Merkle, Roy Riegels, and
Bill Buckner (do I get any votes
for Mitch Williams?) with his
boner on national television.
Inotheraction,West Virginia
defeated Boston College 17-14
in a thriller to finish the regular
season undefeated . However, the
Mountaineers will not have a
shot at the national title because
of Florida State beat Florida and
Nebraska defeated Oklahoma.
That brings me to the topic of
the day: who should play for the
national title? Both Nebraska
and West Virginia finished the

regular season undefeated
and untied (as did the Au‘
burn Tigers who are on pro-
bation and thus, out of the
picture), but Florida St., who
finished with one loss,
played a much harder sched-
ule (including wins over
North Carolina, Florida, Vir-
ginia, and Miami—all nation.-
ally ranked teams).

I think that the best team
should be national cham-
pion, and without a playoff
system, we are left at the
mercy of the poll balloters to
decide that fact. At leas’
with the bowl coalition, a 1
vs. 2 game is all but guaran-
teed.

Unfortunately, this sea-
son, three teams stand very
close in ability and record.
West Virginia had the mis9
fortune of beginningthe year
out of the top 15 and didn’t
have their impressive wins
(Miami, Boston College)
until the end of the year. As
far asI’m concerned,Florida
State deserves a shot (mp
God, their only setback was
atthe hands of an undefeated
Notre Dame team and they
crushed Miami and North
Carolina and Florida!).

I predict that Florida St.
A will defeat Nebraska and neg
Bobby Bowden his ﬁrstever
national title. ‘
' Parting Shots-

How did North Carolina
lose to UMassin basketball?
What’s up with that?

The BENGAL$
WATCH is OVER! Yes,
that’srightladies and gentle-
men, the proud pussycats
won last weekend! Bring on
the Superbowl, the AFC has
a contender this year.

To all Houston Rocket.
fans: I’m sorry, but 82-0 is
impossible. Just thought
you’d like to know.

Anyway, that is all the
space for this week. Until
later, enjoy the games.

 

 

 
   
    

Weekend Weather

‘riday: 80 percent chance of rain
dfreezingirain, low 35

turday: Scattered showers,
urries, breezy, mid~30S

imday: Mostly sunny, mid—20s

  

V/77

  The Year in Review
W&Life takes a look at

 

  

K .

., l

‘MEN'S iioors lllTSi
ll0T STliEAlt

he ﬂing-tum Iﬂlii

  

I <4’

- 0

VOLUME 93, NO. 14

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

 

 

 

Baby, It’s Cold Outside

. .
Everyone had to shovel something this week. Rain tonight could turn into snow and cause dangerous driving
conditions. Temperatures all weekend will keep the roads and sidewalks icy.

File Photo

Peek appeal delayed

Committee to

By N \\.m l’x\\l.(Jv|(

. P/ll Managiiig liditoi‘

llhrce moiitlis. two weeks and still wait-

mg

l'hat‘s how long Assistant Professor of
ltnglish Dcmaree (I Peck has been waiting
for her appeal to be heard by the Prcsident’s
Advisory (fommittee. Peck filed an appeal
challenging the English department’s deci-
sion to not renew her contract on Sept. 24.

“I submitted my petition in late Septem-
ber and I still haven’t heard anything from
the Advisory (‘ommittee," Peck said. “This
entire process has been marred by secrecy
and obfuscation."

Pcckwhojoined the faculty in l988as an
instructor in English, began a four—year pro-
bationary period fora tenure track position in
the department the following fall. Candi-

 

 

dates for a tenured position must complete a
six-year probationary period before being
considered for tenure. Peck would have been
considered fora tenured position in 1994-95.

However on May l4, i993, the eight ten-
ured meinbers of the English department
informed Peck oftheir decision to not renew
her contract after evaluating a portfolio of
materials which included studentevaluations,
reviews by faculty who had visited her class,
letters solicited by the department from all
her former students as well as three articles
she has had published and several chapters
from her book on Willa Cather.

“They have tried to make an issue of my
teaching abilities,” Peck said. “Yet my rec-
ommendations and course evaluations were
consistently good.”

Peck decided to file the appeal after learn-
ing the American Association of University
Professors [the AAUP] stipulates a commit-

: 2-. 

4'

  

 

, Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-mm Phi"
Professor Demaree Peck awaits the decision of the President’s Advisory

Committee, which is scheduled to issue a report within three weeks.
0

issue report in a few weeks

tee composed of elected faculty members
should hear cases in which a “faculty mem-
ber challenges negative decisions because of
inadequate consideration or more substan-
tial considerations such as discrimination or
denial ofacademic freedom.” The President’s
Advisory Committee was chosen since Wash-
ington and Lee does not have such a standing
committee and is the only W&L committee
which resembles the one recommended.

The President’s Advisory Committee,
which is composed of six elected faculty
members and three deans, did not actually
read the petition until after they were for-
mally charged by President Wilson to hear
the appeal. The three deans will not take part
in deciding the appeal. Before deliberations
could begin, a sixth member had to be elected
to replace Bruce H. Herrick, professor of
economics, who is on leave. The election,
which was originally slated for the first fac-
ulty meeting in October, was postponed until
November when Professor Robert A. Strong
was elected.

While waiting to hear from the Advisory
Committee, Peck filed a discrimination
charge against the university with the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission in
early November. Under EEOC guidelines,
charges must be filed within 180 days ofthc
grievance’s occurrence. The university re-
ceived a copy of her formal charge from the
EEOC which will conduct an investigation
into the allegation.

“I would have preferred to resolve the
issue internally, but I had no confidence that
the issue would be resolved,” Peck said.
“After the sixth member was elected, I ex-
pected to hear from the Advisory Committee
about some kind of time table, but I still
haven‘t heard anything.”

Because the President’s Advisory Com-

iv See PECK, page 8

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 7, 1994

Howison tries
o halt hazing

By lVIl:l.lSS/\ S/\\NYI‘,R
Phi Staff Writer

Dean of Students David
Howison recently held meetings
with fraternity presidents,pledge
trainers, and pledge class presi-
dents to discuss hazing.

Howison said he is particu-
larly concerned with two aspects
of hazing on campus: activities
involving forced alcohol con-
sumption and those involving
physical abuse of pledges.

“I want to make these a prior-
ity for me this year." he said.

Hazing is outlawed by Vir-
ginia law and the national frater-
nity chaplers. as well as by W&L
rules and by the individual fra-
icriiitics. By 'l‘ucsday’s ll“(‘
meeting, howcvcnonlythree fra-
ternities had submitted the re-
quired hazing agreements, and
many fraternities still had not
submitted the pledge programs
they need to have a formally rec-
ognized pledge program.

“There’s no place for hazing
on this campus.” Howison said.

Sigma Phi Epsilon Pledge
Trainer Ray Peeler said the
administration’s policy could be
in ctiirilrct with that ofthcaluirini.

"in all of the houses, things
used to be a whole lot harder, and
whenthe alumnicome back they
are upset that traditions are up-
set. Andthe alumni mean money
to the university,” he said.

Students admit that hazing is
a tradition of Greek life, and a
tradition on this campus. Junior
Dave Marsh, an indcpendent,said
“Its a tradition that has been
around for a hundred years—it’s
not going to stop.”

Marsh added that hazing was
not an issue in his deciding not to
pledge.

Curt Smith, IFC president,
said Howison's proactive stance
towards hazing is a good thing.

“It will help," he said. “Dean
Atkins and Dean Manning and
the IFC deal with [the hazing
issue] the most. but it will help
the situation”

Howison said the presence of
the pledge class presidents at the
meeting was important. He said
in general the group seemed at-
tentive, although there was not a
lot ofdiscussion.

“I think they appreciate my
perspective.” Howison said.

Many freshman pledges,
when contacted were unwilling

" to answer any questions involv-

ing the issue. Peeler said some
freshmen feel more comfortable
discussing the issue with the ad-
ministration while “others may
want to keep it in the house.”

Peeler said he thought
Howison had based his stance on
pledges and parents of pledges
coming to him with complaints.

“Some people would associ-
ate the [pledge trainer] with the
house and would feel more com-
fortable going to the administra-
tion,” he said.

While hazing is not an issue
exclusive to fraternities, sorority
members were not included in
Howison’s meetings. Howison
said his general impression is
that hazing is more ofa fraternity
tradition, and that the issue is
more immediate for fraternities.
He said, however, that “sorori-
ties are subject to the same regu-
lations as fraternities.”

The administration and the
IFC have penalties for hazing
violations. The council recently
passed new deferred pledgeship
penalties. The punishments for
violating the guidelines increase
in severity depending on the fre-
quency of offense, the most se-

I» See HAZING, page 8 ‘E

Heatley lawsuit
alleges slander

By 'l‘iioMAs Hl:Sl’t)S
I’/ii News lidiior

“Mr. Wheeler is alleged to have circulated a

statement to th
ment with the

A Washington and Lee faculty member asked to

resign by the administration last
another faculty member for alleged
slander.

Nathan Rick Heatley. associate
dean of students and director of ca-
reer development and placement
from I987 to June, I993, filed a
lawsuit in Rockbridge County Cir-
cuit Court in October against W&L
Professor of Accounting Lyn
Wheeler for $()()(),()()(l in total dam-
ages.

In his motion forjudgcment dated
October 20. W93. Heatley alleges
that Wheeler slandered him “by
openly accusing the plaintiff of
sexual misconduct in the perfor-
mance of his job duties.“

$35t).ll(ltl in coinpcnsatory damages and $35(),()()()
in punitive dainages. interest and court costs.

Fall Term Report Card

Chi-O

All Sorority
KKG

Pi Beta Phi
Theta

All Females
Non-Sorority
KA
Jon-Fraternity
PiKA
Lambda Chi
All Students
SAE

Sig Ep
Sigma Chi
Kappa Sig
All Males
Phi Deli

Phi Psi

(Ihi Psi

All Fraternity
FIJI

Pi Phi

Beta

Phi Kap
Sigma Nu
Delt

e effect that Mr. Heatley’s employ-
university was terminated because

of sexual harassment,” said Roberts Moore of

May is suing

 

Heatley

Heatley is asking for

Gentry, Locke, Rakes and Moore of Roanoke, the
firm representing Heatley. “These statements are

highly slanderous and very very
damaging to his reputation and have
caused him a lot of grief and
problems...[Heatley] is a man who
is attempting to obtain employment
in a very sensitive area and forthose
kinds of claims and charges to be
ﬂoating around unsubstantiated are
very damaging.”

Wheeler’s Grounds of Defense,
filed on November 29, i993, states
that Wheeler denied circulating any
such rumors.

One of Wheeler’s lawyers, Tho-
mas P. McPherson of Nelson,
McPherson, Summers and Santos

he See HEATLEY, page 8

2.5

3

3.1

.12

3 3.5

 

 

The Nation

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World  

Israel, PLO to resume talks

 

Israel and the PLO will resume talks negotiating the implemen-
taton of Palestinian autonomy. The talks halted when the two
nations could notagree on the control of crossings between Jordan
and Jericho, and ligypt and Gaza. Both sides accepted as the basis
for continued negotiation agreements reached in Cairo that put the
crossings under" dual control. No date has been announced for the
resumption of talks.

POW gravesites to be excavated

The United States will exliurrie the remains of seven gravesites
in Vietrrarii where American prisoners ofwar are believed buried.
The excavation will begin Thursday and take several weeks,
involving 84 American specialists. According to the Vietnamese,
although the POW’s died in captivity. they had been unable to
account for some because they lost track of burial sites.

 

O’Neill dies of heart attack

Former Speaker of the House Thomas P. “Tip” O’Neill, famous
for his belief that “all politics is local” died Wednesday at 81.

O’Neill died ofa heart attack at Brigham and Women’s Hospital
in Boston, where he had gone for a checkup. O’Neill was famous
for trarisforrriing the House speakership into a powerful position,
frorri which he often criticized President Ronald Reagan. Reagan,
in a statement, called O’Neill “one of our nation’s most distin-
guished legislators.“

Sheen, Peters hired hookers,
says, Hollywood madam

Hollywood Madam Heidi Fleiss has named Charlie Sheen and
Jon Peters as two of the well-known entertainment figures who
hired her high-priced hookers. Fleiss said Sheen often hired a
blonde dressed as a cheerleader who pretended she had a big game
the following day. Sheen had no comment.

Packwood answers allegations

Senator Bob Packwood responded to allegations of sexual
misconduct in his first detailed statement.Gena Hutton, a Packwood
volunteer, claims the Oregon senator grabbed her, kissed her, and
invited her to his hotel room in 1980. Packwood said Tuesday that
Hutton kissed him the next day and on numerous other occasions.
llutton says she does not remember kissing Packwood.

Princeton students galavant
nude in winter weather

What do America's lvy-Leaguers do when the weather turns
freezing and snow starts falling‘? They get naked. Wearing only
shoes, socks, hats, and gloves, some 300 Princeton students ran
across the campus, celebrating the first snowfall in what has come
to be known as the Nude Olympics. Two students later visited the
campus clinic, one for scraped knees obtained during the scramble,
and the other for intoxication.

Citadel must admit Women

The 4th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals Wednesday denied the
Citadel ’s request for a rehearing of its order requiring the military

academy to admit women. Starting next week, Shannon Faulkner, ~

an 18-year-old South Carolinian, can legally attend classes at the
Citadel. one of the two remaining all male state—funded military
colleges in the nation. A district judge ruled last August that
liaulkner could attend classes, btrt must abstain from military
training, while her law-suit contesting the college‘s all—male
adriiissioris policy is heard. Faulkner will be the first female cadet
at the Citadel in 151 years.

Government considers lifting
ban on marijuana as medication

The Clinton Administration is considering lifting the ban on the
use of marijuana for medicinal purposes. In 1976, the government
allowed those with painful or terminal diseases who had not found
relief in legal medications to apply to the Food and Drug Admin-
istration for permission to use marijuana. Advocates cite the
drug’s ability to ease nausea and pain and promote appetites as
beneficial to AIDS or cancer patients. The program ended in 1992
when officials in the Bush administration said marijuana could do
more harm than good for those patients.

The State

  Amnesty claims signs are moral

According to Amnesty International, the anti—death penalty ads
it is placing on Virginia buses are not political in nature, but moral.
Directors of Pentran, the area’s public bus service, did not agree to
reject the ads. Those opposed to the ads cited the company’s policy
about not running ads concerning political issues. The ad reads:
“OOPS. In the United States 139 innocent people have been
sentenced to death. Abolish capital punishment.” The number is
based on a 1987 study published in the Stanford Law Review.
According to the study, of those convicted from 1900 through
1985, 22 people were executed and later proven innocent.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is edited by Emily Baker.

 

Th

 

  

0
eﬂin -umP iJanua 71994

Robertson gives scholarship

By BUNNY WoNc.
Phi Staff Writer

In 1960, Marion G. “Pat” Robertson
gave to television his Christian Broad-
casting Network. This year, he gave
Washington and Lee $324,000.

Robertson, who graduated from
W&L in 1950, gave the money in
memory of his father and mother. the
Honorable A. Willis Robertson and

Gladys Churchill Willis Robertson. A.
Willis Robertson was a U.S. "senator
for the Commonwealth of Virginia.
"I feel very honored to be able to
establish an honor scholarship at Wash-
ington and Lee in memory ofmy mother
and father,” Robertson said. “They
were great people and wonderful par-
ents, and they influenced so many
lives—and none more than mine.”
According to William Paxton, as-
sistant directorof major gifts, Robertson

had “an interest in creating a scholar-
ship” for about a year. -

Besides honoring his father, the
gift was also given to attract prospec-
tive W&L students.

The Robertson Honor Scholarship
will be given to incoming freshmen
with high academic, public service,
and leadership achievements, along
with excellent character.

“A gift of this magnitude will
brighten the education and lives of

students for generations to come,” said
Farris Hotchkiss, vice president for
university relations.

The scholarship will pay for four
years of tuition with an additional sti-
pend included for living costs, gro-
vided the student recipient maintains a

satisfactory academic and personal

record.

Born in Lexington, Robertson now

lives in Virginia Beach. He founded
Regent University in 1977.

GHRC focuses on sorority suites.

File Photo

The Gaines Hall Revitalization Committee has been examining
ways to make Gaines Hall more attractive as a housing option.

No MTV, but Lip Synch goes on

By LOURRAINE TI(iAs
Phi Staff Writer-

The Gaines Hall Revitalization
Committee has recommended a pro-
posal for lounges in Gaines.

The committee is proposing the cre-
ation of a lounge for each of the four
sororities and the Women’s Forum that
would act as a meeting room, office
and storage facility. "The organizations
could usetheloungesinstead ofreserv-
ing rooms in academic buildings or the
University Center.

Laura Clark, a GHRC member, cited
an advantage of the lounges.

“Sororities won’t have to move
around,” she said. "[lt will] give them
a sense of permanence,”

According to David Howison. dean
of students, the loft suites in Gaines
were chosen for the lounges. Howison
said these rooms may be renovated at a

moderate cost and, if necessary, may ”

easily be converted back.

According to Howison, the real loss
of space in Gaines will be modest.
Housing for students will be reduced
by 30 spaces. Since Gaines has not
been full since its construction. the
occupancy number has been lowered
over the years. Many doubles were

convened to singles. Afterthe renova-
tion, the original occupancy numbw of
200 occupants will return as next year’s
occupancy goal. 5

Howison believes freshman women
are the committee’s priority. Accord-
ing to Howison, half of the freshman
women last year had signed up for off-
campus housing before Decem er.
According to Howison, this year is
different, as women are waiting longer
to decide where to live.

Howison saiditis“greatthatthey’re
waiting to decide” and that each fresh-
man woman “should at least go through
Rush before deciding where to live.”

Howison emphasizedthatthereQvill
be no specific areas reserved for groups
in the Gaines suites. Gaines will “main—
tain a coed character with a focus on
women’s organizations,” he said.

All current Gaines residents are
guaranteed priority housing for next
year. ‘ I

The committee is also discussing,
but has not ﬁnalized, a GHQ meal
option in the evening for Gaines resi-
dents and expansion of kitchen facili-
ties in the building. All changes must
be approved by the Board of Trustees.

Howison said he remains “Cau-
tiously optimistic” about the
committee’s plans. ‘

By MICHAEL HEwr.Err
Phi Staff Writer

Don’t have anything to do on a Friday night?
Desperately seeking an aversion to a dull night of
studying? Well, the 8th annual SAMS/ RARA Lip
Synch Contest will be held on January 21 at 9 p.m. in
the Pavilion and will be hostedby juniors John
rnmer and Drew D_én.b9Ir’  ‘

Students Against Multiple  Beth-

Provaiiiziania said the contest helps to raise money for
multiple sclerosis. She said last year some of the
money was also given to the Rockbridge Area Relief
Organization to help repair the new food bank.

Gerald Darrell, faculty sponsor and director of
food services, said the lip synch raised $3800 last
year and $3400 the year before. Lawson Brice, ‘95.
who is in charge of recruiting acts, said the goal this
year is $4000.

ln the past, MTV has worked with SAMS, but

Campaignclosing
in on $127 million
donation goal

By JAY WHITE
Phi’Staff Writer

soliciting donations from the alumni
and the public.
The other major part of the

Provanzana said that this year, MTV chose to not be
involved.

“l don’t think that MTV had the response from
schools they wanted to have in the last few years,”
said Provanzana.

Provanzana said any group who wants to partici-
pate can sign up in front of the Co-op from December
12 to December 20. She said there will be a charge of

$30 and a maximum of six people caiibe in aigroupu
Brice said‘ the number of'acts,,h21.S,.1>l55,¢;tf;"gt(,),Y{lng7
every year. He estimated that about 20 actsiper-_’,

formed last year. Brice said he wants as many stu-
dents and faculty to participate as possible. There
will be no cutoff number. He said he will be sending
out 60 letters to various clubs and organizations,
encouraging them to participate in this year’s event.
Also, he said he has made preliminary contacts with
the faculty in order to encourage them to perform in
the lip synch, but the tendency has been toward
donations rather than actual performances.

For those 21 and over, Provanzana said there will

u

be a Beer Garden set up at the Pavilion. Although she
admits that there is not much she can do about groups

who consume alcohol before arriving at the Pavilion, .

she said all acts that are noticeably intoxicated will
not be allowed to perfonii.

“We encourage people to perform sober,” gaid '

Provanzana.

Admission will be $3 at the door. Last year, there
was a controversy over peoplesneaking" into the lip
synch, but Provanzana-said she f(>feseos~nt9'pioble3iis

"this year. Although nothing has been finalized,‘ she

has been working with security to insure that nothing
goes wrong and noted that sneaking into the‘ lip
synch without paying is a Honor Violation.
Although the choices for faculty judges have not
been ﬁnalized, Provanzana said the criteria the judges
will look for are choreography, actual lip-synching,
costumes, and timing. Provanzana said first and
second prize winners will receive free Fancy Dress
Tickets and a cash prize while third place winners
will receive a smaller cash prize. 9

The Washington and Lee Capital
Campaign fund-raising drive is cur-
rently in its final 18 months, with its
completion date set for June 1995.
Ninety-two mil- ‘
lion of the pro-
posed$127million
have been raised so
far and according
to Farris
Hotchkiss, vice
president for uni-
versity relations,
the numberis right
on target.

“We have to
average raising
about two million
dollarspermonth,"
said Hotchkiss.
Hotchkiss said the
prospects for rais-
ing thc remaining
$35 million were
quite good. With
donations from
alumni, friends of
the University.
parents. and more
selectively. from
foundation_s. the
capitalcampaigns
goal should be re-
alized.

There are two
major parts in the
general structure
of the fundraising
campaign. The ,
first is the annual ftrnd which includes
he workofclassagents.Phone~a—tlions
‘_\ students and alumni. anddircct mail

F ON THE
SHOULDERS
. <>:Gt:AN3‘.s  

ll ll l‘: (1 '\‘\l l’r’\ l ('3 V l‘ UR
l-Vasitingtrin and Lev

fundraising is capital gifts. In this as-
pect of fundraising, area campaigns are
set up across the country to concentrate
primarily on gifts for Washington and
Lee’sendowmentand construction. The
next area campaigns are planned for

February in Florida

and in Houston,
.- Texas later in the
same month.

A final aspect of
< the capital gifts fund
is the activity of the
Board of Trustees, the
campaign staff in
Lexington, and vol-
unteers in holding
conversations with
individuals who may
wish to contribute to
the capitalcampaign.
The remaining
important areas
where the funds real-
ized from the capital
campaign will be uti-
lized are the proposed
multi-million dollar
science building.
completion of schol-
arships and student
financial aid.cndow-
merits for faculty
salaries. and endow-
ments to support the

  

library. _
According to
Hotchkiss. the next
meeting of the
Board of Trustees is
planned for lure
February. The (‘aprtal (ariipaign
Steering (‘ommittec will also meet
at that time.

on of wainer Robins,
_i>a.

Founder’s Day honors Lee,

Honor session planned

By EMILY BAKER
.P/ii Staff Writer

Founder's Day, January 19, traces
its history to the time when Washing-
ton and Lee still called itselfWashing-
ton College.

"The Board ofTrustees. when Rob-
ert E. Lee died, told the college they
ought to in some way recognize him."
said Ken Ruscio.-associate dean ofthe
(‘ommerce School. “They chose Janu-
ary 19. his birthday."

According to Ruscio. Founders
Day provides the opportunity for
“faculty and students [to] review the
traditions of the college."

The keynote speaker this year. A.
Stevens Miles ‘.51. university rector.

will address the topic of the search for I

President Wi|son’s successor and the
future of leadership at W&L.

“We’re planning on having a ses-
sion that c vcning on the Honor‘ Sys-
tem. in conjunction with the White
Book Review Comrnittee." s’aid
Ruscio.

It will be a panel of faculty. stu-
dents. and alumni."

Ruscio added that he hopes stu-
dents will attend the days events.

Miles will also announce the
presidential search committee dur9ng
Founders l)a_\'. according to Wil-
liam Watt. professor of chemistry.

The |'lCV\ members of Omicron
Delta Kappa. a national
ety. are also traditiorially announced
during Founder‘s Day.

0

 

honor soci- '

 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, January 7, 1994

' brief W&L hislor

J anuag

A man visited the homes of W&L women soliciting pantyhose.
that the purchaser is responsible for preventing underage drinking.
amendment process.

Rockbridge Symphony Orchestra.

Hornets.
George Will addressed Convocation.
Twenty-two men depledged fraternities, a W&L record.
President Wilson celebrated the 10th year of his presidency.

The lFC proposed new procedures and schedules for Rush.

ciation won with.their rendition of “Baby_’s Got Back.”
Generals wrestling placed 5th in the W&L lnvitational.

Februagx

The EC denied the ACLU funding for Winter ’93.

In Talkback, Jane Finney, ’95, and Francie Cohen, ’95, suggested “Pants
down parties” as a possible improvement to the W&L social scene.

Jason and Martin Dunn started organizing the Preston Society to improve
W&L-VMl relations.

Generals swimming stroked to a 7 - 0 record
Championship.

Students decorated campus with posters and staged a sit—in in front of Payne
Hall to protest the English Department decision not to grant tenure for English
instructor John Lynch.

Sharks pool hall opened.

Bob Tompkins wins EC President. Jimmy Kull wins -Vice President and
Ashby Hackney wins Secretary.

Former Planned Parenthood Federation President Faye Wattleton delivers a
pro-choice message in Lee Chapel as part of Black History Month.

New dorm phone system announced allowing students to access University
computing resources.

Filming of The Foreign Student was officially announced at W&L.

Generals swimmers Rebekah Prince. Claire Dudley, Craig Sears, Andrew
Pearson and John Rowe qualified for NCAA National Meet.

and headed for the NCAA

Photo by Bethany'Smith. The Rirzg—tum Phi’
President Wilson accepts a $25,000 check during Homecoming.

  

Playfair encouraged
O



J ‘r r  _  _ _ File Photo
Freshman bonding in the Pavilion. «

Sep tember

Freshman arrived on campus and attend Playfair.

Watson Pavilion opened.

Members of Phi Delta Theta and VMl cadets brawled.

President Wilson announceed his retirement in June of 1995.

W&L students wounded in racially motivated assault.

U.S. News and World Report ranked W&L 20th in the National Liberal Art

College category.
They Might Be Giants played the Pavilion.

d

*Qiiiiiiiitiifiiiiiiiiiiiititiiii i

T ‘I/l/c’7’Li e

ABC began requiring purchasers of kegs to register their location and states
The EC created a committee to review the Honor System and White Book
Alexei Gulyanitsky, a Ukrainian conductor performed with the University-

Men’s Basketball broke seven game losing streak by swatting the Lynchburg

The EC scheduled private, closed meetings to discuss White Book revisions.

Fourty students crashed the Lip Synch contest. The Minority Student Asso-

October

' File Photo‘
Assistant Professor of English Demaree Peck ﬁled an appeal requesting a The Phi D9" h0USe 33V,V its Share Of attention dU"in9 1993-
.review‘ofthe English Department’s May decision to terminate her contract. ‘ . .
Three W&L students’ ears were burglarized by thieves.
Josephine Schaeffer won at the NCAA State Division ll — lll Championship
cross country meet.
The Ring-tum Phi defeated The Trident 18 — l in Dean Howison’s Bocci
Tournament.
The Connells and Cracker played Homecoming Weekend.
. Heather Aussiker was crowned 1993 Homecoming Queen.
Thirty-Eighter Alligators donated $25.()00 to W&L during the halftime
Homecoming Ceremony. '
EC Vice President Jimmy Kull unsuccessfully moved to cut the Student
Bar Association by $l3.()0().
FBI agents arrived at VMl to investigate alleged racial threats
Six rushees were hurt on Tear Night as 340 men pledged fraternities.
Phi Delt members smeared chocolate syrup. shaving cream. and cereal
‘throughout their kitchen and dining room. SAC put Phi Delt on Critical
Probation. .
The Mozart Orchestra of Hamburg played at Lenfest Center.
Men’s Soccer pummels Guilford to break 21-1 game losing streak.
The EC heard the first report of the White Book Review Committee.
Alvin Townley was elected Freshman Class President. Sasha Hartman was

elected Vice President. and Marcus Rayner was elected EC Representative.
0

Photos cine stories
compiteb 69
David \\7it'mington
cm6_

Etlicm J\rupp

Phi Features Editors ’

 

November

to

Several students lied to enter a Halloween party at Zollman’s.

The 'lFC votes to pass deferred pledgeship policies to place restrictions on
pledge activities. '

Women’s soccer loses to Roanoke in ODAC Semi-Finals to finish with a 6-
1-1 record. '

Tom Mason set a W&L record with 5 touchdowns in a single game against
B‘ridgewater in Generals first win of the season.

The Preston Society sponsored the first ever W&L and VMl Mixer at
Zollman’s featuring Lost in the Supermarket.

Water Polo defeated John Hopkins towin second straight title at Eastern
Division lll Championship. _ _ _

Dean of Students David Howison hosted talks to assess minority experience
at W&L. _

in Talkback, sieve wasscr. ‘Q5. said he plans to spend Thanksgiving Break
“Shooting heroin and watching a lot of River Phoenix movies.”

Josephine Schaeffer continued her undefeated streak with the best time in the
nation for cross country and headed to the Division lll National Championship.

0..
as

    
    

Men’s lacrosse earned its third trip to the NCAA Division Ill Tournament in W&L history.

PAGE 3

  of 1993

      

' oto J Okenfels

They Might Be Giants invaded the Pavilion last September.

March

Madelaine White. ‘)6. revealed her expectations of Fancy Dress as
“Drunkenness. gluttony. and debauchery,” in Talkback. J

Women’s Lacrosse spanked the Guilford Quakers 20 — 6.

Five hundred people showed up for an extras casting call for The Foreign
Studem.

Julian Lloyd Webber and the Reduced Shakespeare Companyappeared
at the Lenfest Center.

The EC approves a ballot for constitutional amendments.

/\bllZ;/.2tl'(l dumped l 7 inches ofsnow on Lexington. stranding prospectives
for two extra days.

Apr'l

Law Students Jay Sterne and Shelley Walters fell victim to theft in Law
Library

Tl‘-.-3 ¥?..'tven and (‘row ii restaurant and pub geared up for opening.

LA Police Chief Darryl Gates and ACLU National President Nadine
Strossen debated in Lee Chapel.

The EC canceled the closed White Book retreat. ‘

The ll-'(‘ tiiianimoiisl_\ adopted new Rush plan including later Formal
Rush and iiiorc casual contact.

The /‘ru/tzm began publishing

May

Bad business caused managers to close the Pit for dinner.

SAC officials called-for a review of Beta Theta Pi due to “a pattern of
unacceptablebehavior inthe house. particularly concerning house damage.”
' Men’s Lacrosse secured third trip to NCAA Division lll Tournament.

Freshman Josephine Schaeffer became the first W&L Woman to be a two
sport All American.

 "7 ‘ File Photo
The Watson Pavilion opened to display ancient Chinese art.

. . u-,..iIx.«.. . 4-mt.

Fil Photo

December

Chi Psi received its third social probation of ‘93 for failing to clean up the
house after Thanksgiving parties.

Vandals broke windows at W&L. VMl, and throughout Lexington.

Josephine Schacffcr placed eighth at Nationals and was chosen as an All-
American.

Womeiiis Basketball lost to Catholic University in Doremus Gym in their
debut as a Varsity Team.

 

 

5

W The Ring-tum Phi, January 7,1994

Singing gumshoes at   nfest-

 

a

By Denis Riva

Phi Contributing Writer

 

Get ready W&L. The Tony Award-
winning Broadway show City 0fAn-
gels kicks off its national tour at the
Lenfest Center this weekend. Praised
by critics for its wit and style, City of
Angels was named Best Musical by the
NY Drama Critics, OuterCritics Circle
and Drama Desk. The show, written by
M*A*S*H creator Larry Gelbart with
music by Cy Coleman and David
Zippel, also received the 1989-90Tony
Award for Best Musical.

Set inthe world of1940’s film noire,
the musical manages to slam everyone
from private eyes to movie moguls.

The plot tellstwo different, yet ironi-
cally parallel stories which contain each
other. The lead character, Stine, is try-
ing to turn his mystery novel into a
screenplay without selling out to the
movie industry. The detective in the
mystery novel, Stone, is presented as a
living extension of Stine himself. The
action splits itself between the black-
and-white world of Stone and the bril-
liant Technicolor of Stine’s life.

Frank Rich, the Broadway critic for
the New York Times wrote, “How long
has it been since a musical was brought
to a halt by riotousjokes?” Rich, who’s
reviews are said to have the power to

make or break a show, calls Coleman’s
score “a delirious celebration of jazz
and pop styles sumptuously orches-
trated by Billy Byers.” He offers fur-
ther praise by quoting from the show.
“‘Only the ﬂoor kept her from going on
forever. ’ With lines like that, l, for one,
would have been happy if City of An-
gels had gone on just as long.”

Songs to watch for are: “The Tennis
Song” because of it’s innuendo value
and the revealingly seductive “Lost
and Found.”

This presentation is sponsored and
funded in part by the Washington and
Lee Class of 1964 Performing Arts
Fund.Tickets are on sale at the Lenfest
box office for shows on Saturday at 2
pm. and 8 p.m.

Jimmy Powers records his hit song “Stay with Me” with the Angel City 4.

"x.,"'

Publicity Photos

    

   

‘U?

'~.a,<,..

'lvIv



Cream: of “W *3‘*i*I"

wamv .

DAVID Zl

._ A y
4 --—. .4. _ ~ 1 , -, ._> I . — - u~ _ I V - 3 -4 . p 4
in

  BuyaMacint_osh nowandyou can   * 
  organize your time, stra ten out your ~

ances or go comple lyballistic. l

 

..- ._...~..,.,_.,;,—._-.-.-_--..--...--_

   

1
cl
Mac,'mo5b1,c52o5/30 Macintosh [C 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus ‘ App1eP0wer30°k145B4/80-
intema1AppleCD" 300:‘ cmeozu om, 14'DivpIay. Apple Keyboard 1’ and ""W- 0"’J’ 51:204-
Apple Keyboard 11 and max. Only 519196 4
Only 51,596.

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize
select Macintoshi or PowerBook‘“’ computer, you’ll also receive seven your time and money. And some programs iust for fun. So, why buy
software programs. It’s all included in one low price. And the software ‘ an Apple‘"’ computer? It does more. It costs less. it’s that simple. , y

package alone has a combined SRP value of $596’? It was designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal 

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information.
For further information visit University Computing in B .
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud or call 463-8844

fP_rice does not include sales tax

©1993 Aﬂ/I/t’ Cunipn/pr. /mi All rig»/2/.v re.\'er1'et1. Apple. //1eA/2/)le logo. rllaciiz/orb and Pouw-Boo/e cry rvgirlered Irrzrlemz/rk_v q/ .1/1/2‘/e Comyw/w: Im: ._l/2/7Ie(,‘I) is 11 /rmlumarl» o/Apply (Joni/m/er: Inc.
‘Brim! on /be ronibiiier/5'11/ilievled I(eIui1Prices(.$'I(l’} of/be/’“”/[M i” The C”'"P"-" 50/7W"’ W./0" '”‘/“””0*"/’ "X ’?/ 0"/"b" /' N93

 

  

 

lhe nintuim Phi, January 7,1994 W  4 PAGE

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

    
      
   

 

    

 
   
   

  

  

 

 

 

   

    

‘ ~ Plu ers b Jeff MacNe1l
- off the mark, by M5"“’a"5' .,e / ,, Y . Y
:’/////’Z;:i-’—-73:." ":4
/,:'.:-=._-';; ,_A PEPPERMINT PA9TA :3
C'M0N ‘/00 1-” 745 CR“E77N§’ _;~_ "2: WITH ANALMONI7 PEéT0,r 5;
MY D£ADLiN£ /s ALMOST //1:’/?E - ’ -.-—::- 9uN-Vg5gEGRAF’EFW' :-
QU\Ci<.' Do SOMETHING FUNNY... M‘ A
fumqy I TELL you]! it ‘
;?
 E
ii A i h‘ ’
Ex \ '2 . .
23 /N  ~ , Dave by David Miller
as A _ V‘   WHEN IWA9 A KID, IT WAS 9iM?LE. THERE HERE EN iwAs You:
.R\\ \\\,.V\ .   _'; y N" \\.x._\‘ No NEw9 BKEAK6, INTERVIEWG, GPORTS SEQMENTS, AG; MTV WA; Jugr
  ‘: ‘ ~:\,_, “‘\j§\\“~\\~\§ _ FAsHioN REPORT9, Movie zEv_iEw6, DOCUMENTARIE9, MUSIC VlDE0S.’
' 5525: j.,... - 1.,“  \\ \ _\\‘_.-  COMEDY air; or: GAME «snows!
"W":  ‘I-5 i . \ \.\~..s-:‘l\\‘\‘.‘A‘ .“‘.“\\‘» u.‘.'i’ul
‘,4 . ll
" ..:2::» . ' Fluggers know that “special 0 L
« " - * ti .'
-ms DARK SECRETBEHIND iri£i=miL~/ciizcus doesnt alwaysmean be er 
. Si
'9’
Colonnade Crossword
ACROSS
1 Shot in billiards P ‘   TLXE \’Q(C\-\\C
6Applaud 16
12 gszprts  A‘ Yes” CL0ELE9>"_
15 A Chaplin .No...‘(E9-.-Now
16 Stop DON'T KN°‘N..
17 c t t l '*
. 18 Mlotglsan ang e X55”

19 Kind of code

20 Silver type

22 Gobbler -

24 Narrow beds  '

25 Elephant feature

26 Tubes for \V r--'

sipping l -....y
29 Boring
' 33 gﬁaféi game \\/lL:%m4 ‘NP~’>l—\N(§\‘oN asrweiizws
I e

35 Damage

36 “I smell —"

37 Angers

38 In this place

39 Was in charge

40 High

temperature 1
. 41 Witchcraft .

23 sagrgils ta 9;;:?Su%:ge;1LadServices. Inc. 01/07/94

45 Noticed Last week’s puzzle solved

46 Detergent 12 Toward shelter

47Kindo1bul|et 13 Remain R A D I A N T C H A L l C E

glzconéter §:13‘F‘D—~aboy!" ICEDTEA RETIRES

-' ‘ ‘|Y STALEST ASTHIDE
x 55 Ser iopera reviojus
‘ . 5; Sie(:rrreaa:,a)/Africa 25 Si/tciieen helper E S N E T I A 3 E 0 5 A S E 

5 Pace 26 8 ‘m h t

59 Assistant iioﬂiowl O P A l E D A M A D A P T

60Barlega|ly 27—R‘s AROMA TAFT BAIT

61 “Citizen —" 28 Enjoysabook C I G A R E T T E H 0 L D E R

(Orson Welles) 29 Stories 1' A 1 L 9 U c 1' 1' E 3 R A
62 V|lla|n'$l0Ok 30 Greek letter s  E N E H E A T E S P 
63 Frets 31 Roger of A N T E T 0 A
ll,
DOWN 32 Sfjﬁba °”°e H A s P A D I T 0 u Y s b.V~/9”M3CN9//.V
. 1Taxis 34DavidofoId COPILOT DIVERSE
2He'Pind_ yglmgk AUSTERE ORANGES
wron oin et ac
3Wandgerab%ut as Mostjoytul D R E S S E R L E T T E R S
4 Gloomy 40 Gratis
5 Becomes gentle 41 Childhood
6 Quarters, e.g. disease
7 Yearn 43 Get away 48 Coolidge or 52 Plenty, to
8 Jillian of TV 44 Howard or Hayworth poets
9 Meadows Ely 49 “—— of thieves" 53 Opponents of
Q 10 Hammerheads 46 Planter 50 Cipher Dems.
11 Playground 47 Job 51 Be overly fond 56 Ascot

 

 

 

   

     
    

: Part-Time Help Wanted  7- 1/ Apartments for rent on Washington St -
f : Valley ﬁgs E  Above Univ. Sportswear and
: Work approximately 20 hrs. per week _ : ‘ I LeX_ prescription Center
:Opp°."““ity.t° Cam $400 ' $800 per momh Stamngi Hardware, Paint, and Related Items A Also Available : One bedroom houses in
: immediately — College Students Welcome _ 1 4 the East Lax Area
:9 can 463-1676 I Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. A Call 463-2823
'. n IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII: E‘NelS0nSt°’I"eXingtOn  ‘—7
— — ————————————————————— — —I glllllllll|||l|||||||||||||||'|||"|||“|l""H"|""""""'"""'Eé A
i,  f A n : ,( ”“"«'““/6)"?/3 §BEA§,:I,ﬁp(::I;§::a;§;E:]0ter‘E KFOI‘ Sale: Brother Word Processor , I
i y l _ Now showing _  FREE trips and CASH!  Brand New and Price Negotiable:
I ‘  ~ - - - 
E P ll  I1 a S e   II‘ R wc’   gmiiIﬁiiiiiiihiilhliiiiiiiiiﬁﬂiiijiﬁiiiigﬁﬁhiiiiliiii K  
.| . l Dinosaurs :Sto’ry:15; A  I N
, Tins Ad ,   r .
I
» - wcoviii C t fAn ls
:‘§NicH'i* OWL MUSIC (:03 :    1 0 e
A I ' ?,3.§,’§,,'§, E33  The Tony Award-winning musical
9 25 S. Jefferson 464-4050 I , t t ~ ,
, _ , I you won t wan 0 miss.
I Open ll a.m. til 7 p.m. Monday - Frlday, | y
i Saturday 11 a‘"" ' 5 ‘’‘m' | “Exhilarating-The funniest

  
 

261 -7292

75 Beech Ave., Buena Vista American musical in years.”

New York Times

6

  

GROLTXLEADERS WANTED !

 “A Miracle! An American musical,

* with American jazz rhythms,
American wisecracks, and an
original American script.”
Newsweek

“Wonderful, Racy, Witty,

Hilarious. Easily one of the most
dazzling new shows on Broadway.”
WPlX- TV & CBS Radio

 

January 8 at 2:00 8i 8:00 p.rn.
Lenfest Center—Tlckets now on sale
(463-8000)

 
 

'$DAYAlD7DAYPACImI8

30-50% WINTER SALE
. Don’t You Dare Go Bare ..,,..i........m...,..,........

  if   A  — ﬂ ENFEST ERIES
 FLQ  K 4 Wm am ,1’ iiwlsmemsiss

IT'S A PIRATES LIFE !

  
.3 :1
-3’
,4
'%
»' '\

 

r
l
l
l

r

    

PAGE 6

@112 Ring-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Renaissance
needs a sequel

This month marks three years since the houses in the first
phase of Fraternity Renaissance were completed. The deal

I , was simple. Fraternity house corporations would turn over

the deeds to their respective fraternity housesin exchange
for renovation and restoration of those houses, in order to
comply with the university’s standards for fraternities.
The ultimate vision for both the fraternities and the admin-
istration was a rebirth for the fraternities on all levels 
physical, mental and philosophical.

Many fraternity members thought this was a good deal,
and many were pleased by the new appearances of their
houses, but later the beauty was found to be only skin deep.
Along with the new “renovations” came newproblems
with which to contend.

The shoddy workmanship of the renaissance contractors
is becoming evident after just a few years of use. Cracks
in the walls, leaky shower fixtures, erratic heating systems
and careless patchwork are just a few examples of cutting
corners. In addition, Buildings and Grounds personnel add
to their workload by fixing things that are nonessential and
trivial in comparison to the needed repairs.

One fraternity discovered, after arriving back at school
from summer break, that all the mattresses in the house had
been unneccesarily taken to the dump and replaced with
new ones. The reason: the mattresses had small spots on
them. They were perfectly good mattresses —- less than a
year and a half old. The fraternity members weren’t given
notice or a choice in the matter. They were simply given
a bill.

Take the case of another fraternity on campus. The
housemother’s suite, located directly above the house’s
party room, was never soundproofed during renovation.
Another house complained that their bathroom stalls were
falling apart. And all of this pales in comparison to another
house where a poorly-built brick wall fell over. It seems
every house has its horror stories.

Is this type of waste what the architects of renaissance
intended? It’s certainly not what the fraternities intended.

In order for the university to restore the fraternities’
confidence in the program, the priorities of Fraternity
Renaissance need to be reexamined. Problems with the
houses illustrate a simple case of misdirected priorities. A
fraternity house is not going to revertto its p,re-renaissance,

— . condition if .a chipped pieceof furniture is noteimmediatelyi
- fixed or replaced. . I . 2.7. * I

Instead of worrying about spots on mattresses and day-
old party decorations, B&G and the Hill shouldbe worried
about leaky pipes and cracked walls. Renaissance has
become an exercise in nit-picking. Fraternities now see it
as an endless bureaucracy that will not listen to reason.

The Hill has only addressed the physical aspects of
Fraternity Renaissance. The renaissance in the everyday
appraoch to dealing with fraternities has yet to begin.

— RW,-TH

Quote of the Week

“There are no ladies here — I can tell the smutty
stories of history now.”

— a professor of history upon realizing that his
class was all—male.

@112 ‘filing;-tum lﬂhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . -. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .' .Stephen Williard

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I . . . . . . . . .David Wilmington, Ethan Krupp

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi

OPINION

 
   

ll?

/////e

3; HINK 1: Com)
D0 e2E.Ar THwtrs
Fora THl$ Co-UNIX

LEARN TO -KEEP

  

I COULD ONL

The Riqg-tum Phi, January 7, 1995

Dennard trivializes sexual assault

In his column before Christmas break, Ryan
Dennard offered a critique of the Phi’s recent two-
part series on sexual assault on campus. Speciﬁcally,
Mr. Dennard chose to question the validity of the
opening story in which Lyrae Van Clief described her
campus assault. This incident took place her fresh-
man year and was commit-
ted by a student she knew.

Mr. Dennard’s initial

his guilt. In this way her case is quite unique. Most
accused-rapists do not admit their crimes, and many
rape victims do not have the strength to go through a
lengthy court process in order to get a guilty verdict.

This brings me to my next problem with Mr.
Dennard’s views. He criticizes the Phi for not focus-
ing on the criminal aspects of
the sexual assault issue, but
instead pursuing _a campus-

concern is with the Phi’s
assumption of guilt on the
part of the accused. He
states that since the rape
was not tried in a court of
law and the accused was
not found guilty, “we must
assume it did not occur.”

 

oriented approach, discussing
the judicial process that is in

PATRICK place. The Phi rightly focused
MCDERMOIT on the campus services that
’ are available because that is

’94 where most women go first.

In addition, emphasis was

He is also ‘concerned that _ »
the'P‘h’i"w‘as not ‘as 'careful”"‘ ' ‘ ' M  , A '
as it should have been in disguising the identity of the
accused.

My only conclusion after reading both of these
critiques is that Mr. Dennard did not read the article
very well. The article I read stated very clearly that the
accused openly admitted his guilt to several of Ms.
Van Clief’s friends, as well as to other members of
this community. These actions on the pan of the
accused, I believe, preclude what would have been
the Phi’s usual concern of conﬁdentiality.

More importantly, though, is Mr. Dennard’s as-
sumption that this rape “did not occur.” This state-
ment evidently stems from our legal system’s credo
of“innocent until proven guilty.” I would not think of
questioning a legal standard that has guided this
country’ssystem ofjustice so long. I would, however,
point out that rape is more than a criminal offense, and
we as a university community are not a court of law.
I am certainly not suggesting that we assume guilt in
cases of rape and sexual assault. What I am saying is
that in cases such as these, we must assume nothing.
To assume guilt is to be unfair to the accused, to
assume that nothing happened is to be unfair to the
victim who, as Mr. Dennard points out, is going
through a “long-lasting” and painful process.

We, as a university, are not bound by the restric-
tions of a courtroom, and can therefore be more
accepting ofboth sides in our mediation process. Our
standard response should be that a situation exists in
which two people have conﬂicting stories and we
search to find the truth. . -

However, as noted, in Ms. Van Clief’s case none
of this was necessary because the accused admitted

..i z,.

most,likelylplaced on the cam-
. .p.I.i.S. $y;$tem. l29<s8’Iis.e, many
a‘ ' , ‘ of"usfeel'it,needstobechanged
or augmented. Personally”, I would like to‘see a system
that includes sexual assault or rape as an honor viola-
tion. I find it offensive that a student at this university
can be expelled for stealing a pencil, but that same
student can rape someone, admit it publicly and still
graduate from Washington and Lee. Is this the kind of
person we want represent-
ing this institution as a
graduate? For those who
believethisto be an exag-
geration, who feel that
someone like that could
never stay on campus, I
would point out that the
“gentleman” who raped
Ms. Van Clief not only
stayed on campus, but al-
most became a dorm
counselor. Is that the kind
of gentlemanly behavior
that General Lee stood
for? Would he have al-
lowed such a person to
graduate from his school?
These are questions be-
fore us. Hopefully they will be asked during the
meetings of the White Book Review Committee.
But this is not solely a student issue. In order to
have a fully effective policy for handling sexual
assault, we must have an administration that is sup-
portive of such a program and that will actively seek
out solutions to the problem. ,
Unfortunately that is not what we have now. Two

I would like to see a system that
includes sexual assault or rape as
an honor violation. I find it offen-
sive that a student at this univer- v
sity can be expelled for stealing a
pencil, but that same student can
go out and rape someone, admit it
publicly and still graduate from
Washington and Lee.

years ago, when a freshman woman was assaultid
in her dorm room, President Wilson wrote a letter to
the university community expressing his sorrow
over the fact that the problem of sexual assault had
finally reached our campus. He seemed to believe
this to be the first time in our school’s lengthy
history that a woman was raped. He and every
administrator on this campus knows that thatﬁs
simply not true. They have all seen the reports and
surveys of women stating that they were assaulted
on this campus. They have seen these reports and
they have chosen to set them aside in hopes of
avoiding the public relations difficulties involved in
admitting to a sexual assault problem.

They are desperately afraid that alumni agd
perspective parents and students would see the
universitynas unsafe and flawed. The fact is that no
cairipus: is safe from sexual assault, and_when,ot_ie

‘finds a campus that doesn’t talk about or list ‘its
‘ problems with sexual assault and rape doesn’t mean

that one has finally found a safe-haven. On the
contrary, one has found a campus that is simﬁy
avoiding the problem. It is on that kind of campus,
a campus like W&L, that women are in the greatest
danger.

So, rather than
critici2ingthePhi’s
recent articleonthis
issue, I ccznplimsnt
the staff for a thor-
ough discussion of
an important topic.
I sincerely hope that
the university’s ad-
ministration will
take this newly
awakened disc9s—
sion as a sign that
they would attack
this problem with
the same energy
with which they
have run the Capi-
tal Campaign. O_

After all, what good are new buildings if stu-
dents aren‘t safe in them’? Just as we have stood “On
The Shoulders ofGiants,” we should rise above the
problemsoffallingendowmentsandabadeconomy
and let us work to prevent situations like thatwhich
happened to Lyrae Van Clief. I cannot think of
anything more in line with the traditions ofour own
two founding generals.

Press patronizes us with review

A new year begins again. It seems,
like those in the past, that the airwaves
of radio and television, and the printed
pages of newspapers and journals are
filled with vari-
ous “Year in

year-end programs are too appealing,
for reporters and audiences alike. After
all, it does present a full year’s news into
a one-hour, easily consumable product.
A In fact, we

need not keep

Review” fea-

 

up with cur-

tures_ rent events

The articles C.F. during the
and programs yearwhenwe
focusonthebad KUCEE’  can simply
and the good, turn: On
both events of C 0 n n i 6
joy for the Chung in late
worldandthose December.
of sorrow; and And ' why

these programs undoubtedly end with
a New Year prognosis: “And what

should Peter Jennings be forced to re-
port the news daily when-he can wait

free... punch and cookies. Before then
stood in line for matriculation, shook
Dean Manning’s hand, and well, we
were in. The year proceeded with more
rush,thebeginningsofpledgeship,mid-
terms, Thanksgiving break, Christmas
Weekend, finals, and finally, Christ-
mas recess.

On second thought, maybe I
shouldn’t have given it a try; now even
I don’t care.

On a serious note, however, it is
important to
remember the
year that pre-
ceded 1994.
This remem-
brance should

whenthey talked with Amy,Joey,Jobn,
and Michael (Jackson that is). What
these year-end programs do is not re-
mind us, but insult us. They begin with
the premise that we are too stupid or
uncompassionate to pay attention dur-
ing the year, so they take it upon them-
selves to broadcast and print, and ge-
broadcast, and reprint these programs
and articles. While I was on break,
flippingthroughthe channelsforsome-

thing mindless to watch, I found it; in '

ssss m (6

Do people in our
country have nothing

fact, three such
programs "were
being aired.

As for .ie
New Year prog-
nosis, what do

comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee

Publications Board electsthe executive editorand business manager, butTheRing-tumPhi will bethe evenlslhat Stirus in 1994?” um” the end of the year, and give l_~t t9 us take place in better to d0  their the news reponr
. . . . ’ asked one television newscaster? The all at once? Perhaps, in fact, this IS a the home. , ers knowthe rest
'5 otherwm mdependem answer: who caresl! media trend I should try. . I though. and well'de-gerved hohday Of "5 d0” ll?

Letters andlother submissions must be in_ the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and My

Dopeopleinourcountry have noth- For those of you who slept through should deal Have they been

vacations than to sit

Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂecl the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current

court definitions oflibel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

ing better to do with their well-de-‘

served holiday vacations than to sit
about and recount how wonderful or
crappy the year was? Must they be
continually subjected to the horrors of
the past year (most still ongoing) such
as Somalia, Bosnia, and the Clinton
Administration? Must they relive ev-
ery moment of John Bobbitt’s lost
penis incident, or the pre—adult sexual
exploits ofAmy Fisher with Joey B...
need I use the name again‘?

Perhaps, however, these types of

the 1993 fall term at W&L (especially
freshpersons), here is all the news that’s
new and improved, in a simple‘-to-un-
derstand year-in-review package. As a
freshman (excuse me. .. “freshperson”)
I started out the year with orientation,
and oh what fun it was. Our dose of
political correctness (PC) was adminis-
tered at Playfair, an event that even
some sophomores remember fondly.
Then fraternity rush began, and contin-
ued (a time that will be remembered
fondly; we now long for the days of

with the thing
that touched
the lives of in-.
dividuals. We
all remember
the horror of
U.S. soldiers
being dragged
through the streets of Somalia, and the
picturesotthe war hospitals in Bosnia
remain etched in our collective con-
science.

We all watched Donahue and Oprah

year was?

about and recount how
wonderful or crappy the

given some Qirt
of Godly insight
that has not been
. granted to the
rest of us‘? This
just goes to show
the arrogance
withwhichthose
reporters operate. Concerning the rest
ofus, mostjust hope to make it through
the next year successfully. For me. that
means escaping this year’s 1994 Year
in Review.

 

w

    

The Ring-tum Phi, January 7, 1994

OPINION

Spos rings in another year at W&L

Spos’ SPACE
' Tom Hnespos

Welcome back! Seniors take note:
we have entered 1994, the year of our
graduation. Just think, in just a few
months the senior class will set forth
into the real world with enough youth-

ul optimism to believe it can affect
some kind of positive change on the
world. Realize, of course, that this
optimism will be completely obliter-
ated when at least half of the senior
class falls victim to a ﬂoundering job
énarket and ‘ends up ﬂipping burgers at
‘Hardee’s” or something.
Butenough ofthistalkofthe future,
let’s discuss the Holiday Break. 1 hope
Santa Claus or Hanukkah Harry (or
whoever) brought everybody what they
wanted. Personally, Spos received a
few kooky gifts from friends and fam-
Hy, the primary example being a clay
‘bust of Mark Twain enscribed with the
words “Spos’ Space Literary Award”--
Thanks, Dad.
Spos was also surprised to receive a
Christmas card from the alternative
rock group Toad the Wet Sprocket. It

Was addressed to a certain Thomas F. "

Hegpog, who evidently shares a post
office box with Spos’ alter ego, the
mild-mannered news editor Tom
Hespos. In any case,Toad is doing fine
a_nd they promise a new album soon.

0

But back to the lecture at hand.
Spos has heard the mumblings of
students in the Co-op, complaining
about the various pains associated
with being home with their parents
for an extended period of time. Of
course, this behavior is consistent
with Spos Postulate #339, which

friends is not an option. Mothers ask,
“Where are you going?” and you can’t
exactly tell them that you’re going out

' to melt a couple thousand brain cells

with a few ofyour buddies. ln any case,
your motherwants you to lingeraround
the house during the holidays and watch
“The Transformers Christmas Carol”

states that with your 2-
whenacol- year-old
lege student _—.———. C C T... cousin. So
returnsto his ' you stay
0; he? Plafce Spos Postulate #339 :9dme and
o origin or l e your
,, honday, states that when a college time um“ me
he/she will student returns to his or new semester
want to turn ' ° starts and
around and herplace ofonguffora freedom is
head back to holiday, he/she Wlll want once again
Zilgoftl aftses to turn around and head grail/ied» S,“
ycou I
min u t e s.  to School after about Julie, who at-
Parents get minutes, t e n d s
tobequitea Moravian
chafe at College, ex-
times. Not pressed much
to say that the same feel-

they aren’t nice people, but think
about it.

After college releases the student
from the shackles offamily responsi-
bility, a visit home will imprison the
student once again. Upon returning
home, a student is faced with the
notion that leaving one’s domicile at
two in the morning on a Tuesday
night to go out drinking with one’s

LETTERS

ing when the holidays brought us to-
gether. She maintains that one gets
usedtotheideaofdoingthingswithout
telling anyone where you’re going or
answering to anyone. To her, college
is freedom. lncidentally, l should men-
tion that Julie is currently in some kind
of legal trouble after an incident in
which the police raided her sorority
house. Perhaps those parents are

needed after all.

Spos’ break was even more frustrat-
ing after a hellacious knee operation,
apparently a Christmas gift from Mom
and Dad. Most seniors experience some-
thing like this after a parent expresses
that “we should get everything taken
care ofwhile you’restillunderourmedi-
cal plan.” Of course, most seniors just
have their wisdom teeth pulled or some-
thing, but Spos’ parents insisted that a
nagging knee injury be fully checked
out, which resulted in Spos’ falling un-
der the surgeon’s knife over Christmas
break.

The subsequent recuperation has
been no fun at all, but at least it’s not
keeping me out ofthe bars. lfany of you
faithful Spos’ Space readers happen to
be cute females, please approach me on
the hill and offer to carry my books or
give me a sympathetic kiss on the fore-
head — I could use the emotional support
after being cooped up with my folks and
my sister for extended periods of time.
Damn, it’s good to be back.

In conclusion, as a service to the
Washington and Lee community, Spos
will be offering a gift exchange. Come
to The Ring-tum Phi office anytime on
Thursday, January 13 and bring that
ugly sweater that your Aunt Gertrude
gave you this Christmas (you know, the
one with the little blue fish embroidered
on it). Exchange it for other people’s
kooky gifts. For example, we have a
slightly used bust of Mark Twain...

. Post reader chastises Yoder, “darkness” of media

Editor ’s Note: Professor Yoder verbally declined
a challenge to debate that was made in Mr. Martin ’s
previous letter.

0 the editor: 7

So, the suspense is over. Professor Yoder has
made his choice. He will not debate. He will not stand
up on his home turf and defend publicly his wanton,
nationally-syndicated attacks upon the motives, and
even the sanity, of the courageous critics of the
government’s JFK single-assassin theory.

Why should we not be surprised? Yoder is simply
sﬁowing himself to be no less lucifugous than the
news organization with which he is affiliated, The
Washington Post. After all, I wrote to you in the first
place because .I knew from sad experience that there
wasn’t a chance that the Post would print my rebuttal
letter to Yoder’s column on the Kennedy assassina-
tion, no matter how short and stylish l might have
iﬁde it. This is how they like to stack the deck.

A good example of the Post at work was on
display on November 18, 1993, when it reported on
the congressional committee hearings on the imple-
mentation of the Oliver Stone-inspired legislation
requiring the expeditious release of all government
documents related to the assassination. There was
®orge‘Lardner’s article on page A4, surrounded by

the usual ladies’ luxury apparel ads. According to
testimony, he reported, in spite of the orgy of self-
congratulation and the blizzard of smug conclusions
that have already been drawn, no more than ten to
twenty percent of the documents have been released
so far and none of them came from the main investi-
gator, the FBI.

The law’s violators already are legion, led by
President Clinton with his indefensible delay in
nominating the five-person board which would re-
view the “most sensitive” (read “most important” or
“most incriminating”) documents. No mention was
made of such bombshells as the testimony that,
according to newly available documents, the House
Assassinations Committee was told by radiologist

~ Dr. John Ebersol'e,.on.duty in the autopsy room that

fateful night in the Bethesda Naval Hospital, that
Kennedy’s neck had a wound that had been sutured
and the back of his head was missing.

Even so, the judgment was apparently made at a
high level that Lardner had inadvertently exposed
too much of the government’s plan to stonewall yet
another attempt to get at the truth. ln the later editions
that same morning, the ones that those inside the
Beltway get to read, Lardner’s article had been
completely excised andreplaced withacompendium
of routine wire service reports from around the

country. Some things, it had been decided, the
American public is better off just not knowing.

My undergraduate institution, Davidson Col-
lege, and my graduate institution, the University of
North Carolina, have the following Latin mottos,
respectively: ALENDA LUX UB1 ORTA
LIBERTAS and LUX LIBERTAS. Each of them,
the former more explicitly than the latter, makes a
connection between light and liberty. It is a con-
nection which I believe even the most benighted
among us can appreciate. It therefore ill-becomes
any citizen of our nominally free republic, espe-
cially a journalist, a newspaper editor, and what
appears to be the entire U.S. media establishment,
to demonstrate a clear preference for darkness. To
put it bluntly, such behaviorvthreatens thecountry ’s
very foundation. , " ' _ , 

Finally, for those who would question motives,
l refer to the currently unfashionable, but truly
timeless, words of Jesus of Nazareth: “For every-
one practicing evil hates the light and does not
come to the light, lest his deeds should be exposed”
John 3:20.

Sincerely,
Gary D. Martin
Chantilly, Virginia

Counselor thanks W&L student volunteers :

To the editor: _

‘The parents, teachers, and especially
the students of Central School would
like to thank the following W&L stu-
dents who have volunteered this year
to act as Big Brothers and Big Sisters
for our kids:

Sally Obermueller. Sarah Wyatt,
Bart Sterling, Ashlie Kaufman, Justine
King, Will Graham, Miriam Neel, Amy
Rash, Rob Carter, Julia Podlas. Billy
Aiken, Elizabeth Carson. Allison
Oneacre, Justin Youngblood,

Mariecken Verspoor, Nicole Bryant,
Jen Norwood, Claudia Bowen, Jenni-
fer Roscoe, Amy Jones, Theras Jones,
Kelly Eagan, Alex Russell, Chad
Sartini, Ann Van Auker, Shannon Fos-
ter, Anna Starling, John Tissue, Ken
Zelenak, Margaret Hawn, Susie
Stowell, Brandy Henderson, Liza
Gallardo, Schuyler Jones, Stacey
Colfry, and Jenni Robinson.

We have the largest group ofvolun-
teers ever (37) and the first thirteen
names are students serving for the sec-

ond or third year.

This is not an easy job. Many ofour
students live far out in the county and
Brothers and Sisters have to provide
transportation. Some kids don’t know
how to express thanks or appreciation.
Some kids are afraid to get too close or
care too much for their Brothers or
Sisters for fear of getting hurt when
they are gone.

Some kids are shy or bossy or down-
right hard to manage. But every child is
changed by their association with a

40

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom.
0

If classes were cancelled because of snow,

  

Joe Ruwe, ’97, Ellsworth, Me. —
“Get wasted at my fraternity house.”

Greg Tully, ’95, Towson, Md. —
“Sleeping.”

TALKBACK

 

Brother or Sister.

Every child learns by being helped,
being forgiven, being treated with re-
spect, and by being loved by someone
who chose them.

To bring peace to the world you
must start with just one person. Thank
you Big Brothers and Big Sisters for
starting here.

Margorie Page
Guidance Counselor
Central School

Volunteers

The Parent Empowerment
Project is looking for student vol-
unteers to teach small classes for at-
risk youth. We provide eight hours
of training and extensive volunteer
support. If you would like more
information please call John White
at 464-8560 or 377-2225. Volun-
teer training starts on Jan. 15.

Columnists

The Phiislookingforabiweekly
liberal political columnist. lf you
are interested please call Richard at
464-8675.

Spring term

Applications for the Washing-
ton Term Program are now avail-
able from Professor Connelly, C-
school room 108. The Washington
Term Program is held during the

’ six-week spring semester and com-
bines a Washington, D.C. intern-
ship with a weekly class session.
The six—credit program is open to
all majors and all classes. Deadline
for receipt of applications is Jan.
14.

Film Society

The Film Society’s next presen-
tation will be the mysterious drama
Olivier, Olivier (Poland/France,
’1993) Showings will be at 8:05 p.m.
on Friday, Jan. 14 and Saturday,
Jan. 15. There is no charge for ad-
mission. The film is in French, with
English subtitles.

 

This week’s general notes were compiled by Richard Weaver.

PAGE 7

Figaro

Open auditions for the W&L
production of the Marriage of
Figaro will be held on Jan. 20-21 at
6:30 p.m.andJan.23 at2p.m.atthe
Lenfest Center. Anyone interested
in auditioning may pick up sheet
music from the W&L Music De-
partment at 463-8852. Parts avail-
able for women include four sopra-
nos and one mezzo soprano; parts
for men include two tenors, three
basses and one baritone.

Self Defense

Southern Virginia College for
Women is offering The RAPE Ag-
gression Defense System to teach
self-defense tactics for women. A
$10 registration fee includes a
manual and workbook. For more
information please call Susan Sisler,
261-8402.

SAMS

On Friday, Jan. 21, the 8th an-
nual SAMS Lip Sync Contest will
take place in the Pavilion to benefit
the Multiple Sclerosis Foundation
and RARA, the Rockbridge Area
Relief Association. Sign ups will
be from Wednesdays, Jan. 12 until
Thursday, Jan. 20 in front of the
Co-op. Formore information, please
call Beth Provenzana, 1994 SAMS
Chair, at 462-4855.

NRA member finds fault
with cartoon

To the editor:

1 know it is a moot point, but in the
Phi issued on December 3, 1993, the
political cartoon was incorrect. Yes,
the Brady Bill did pass and President
Clinton did sign it into a law, but Vir-
ginia is exempted.

This is because Virginia already has

an insta-check system in place. So
people do not have to wait the five days
given in the -bill in Virginia. 1 appreci-
ate satire, but you must have the basic
facts right and your’s are wrong.

NRA member and voter,
Charles Walters, ’95

W&L’s reputation
extends to UNC, Spain

To the editor:

At the start of a recent European
holiday, l magnanimously offered to
buy “gelato for all” at the first sighting
of one of our family’s alma mater —
W&L (son, ’96), Miami of Ohio, Or-
egon State, and Drake, while in ltaly
and Spain.

For two weeks there were no
sightings. We were in need of
confectionary delights.

Then. while sitting in a cervezaria
in Sevilla,Spain,alasl lspottedayoung
woman in a W&L sweatshirt.

“Hola,"lsaid,exhaustingmy entire
Spanish vocabulary.

“Hello,” she fortunately replied.

“Do you attend W&L?” I asked.

“No, sir,” she responded.

“l attend the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill. I was accepted
at W&L and in many ways l wish I’d
gone there. I wish we had an honor
code at UNC like W&L. .. sir.”

There we were, in a briefconversa-
tion in Spain, talking about something
— a code — whose impact obviously
extends well beyond Lexington, Vir-
ginia.

l was pleased and proud to satisfy
our craving.

Sincerely,
Ronald R. Read

Rebekah Prince, ’96, Dallas, Tx., Marguerite Nielsen, ’94, Nashville, Tenn., and Kendall Sibley, ’94, Atlanta, Ga.

how Wuld you spnd the da?

— “We’d go down to the Kappa house and drink beer withour sisters and then have a snowball fight.”

  

Shelby Lamar, ’96, Charlottesville,
Va. —— “l’d spend it in bed."

 

121"?‘ I-'.r4¢.ri~ 3.‘ "ions .t'¢~‘u<n-It-.\-re ~£r' -' . -

 

  

3.1 .\ ~73-.:: 5-.

PAGE 8

Peek questions the

DPECK, from page 1

mittee has never before handled an
appeal case like this, the process is new
to all participants. The committee was
to base its conduct on that outlined for
the standing committee by the AAUP.

“Ifthere are any rules, the people in
power are making them up as they go
along,” Peck said.

English Department Head Edwin
D. Craun also seemed to be unaware
what the Advisory Committee has done
thus far. ‘

“The deliberations of the commit-
tee were confidential,” Craun said. “I
haven’t received a copy oftheir report.
I know no more than that.”

According to Physics Professor H.
Thomas Williams, Jr.. chair of the
President’s Advisory Committee, the
committee began meeting two days
after Strong’s election and has been
meeting frequently since.

“Presently we are working on the
final versions of the report,” Williams
said. “With the wind behind us, we
should have a report to present to Presi-
dent Wilson and to Professor Peck
within the next few weeks.”

Williams, however. would notcom-

ment on the procedure the committee
has used or whether anything besides
the appeal was considered in arriving
at their decision. Neither Williams nor
Craun would say ifthe English depart-
ment had submitted any response to
Peck’s appeal.

The charge before the EEOC, un-
like the appeal before the Advisory

‘ Committee which claims defective pro-

cedures in her evaluation, is based on
gender discrimination.

“I ﬁled [with the EEOC] because I
believe I have been discriminated
against because of'my sex,” said Peck.

Although EEOC guidelines allow
the individual to sue for discrimination
and a lawsuit may be pending, Peck
says she has not hired a lawyer.

“I would like to negotiate a settle-
ment with the university so I can drop
thechargeswiththe EEOC,”Peck said.
“Nobody wants a lawsuit. I just want
my job back.”

Peck also filed a request with the‘

Advisory Committee to see any
counter—charges filed but her request
was denied.

“Conducting my appeal this fall has
been like playing a game of cards in
which my opponents can see the cards
in my hands but I have not been al-

in Lee Chapel.

Harvard Divinity School.

Pro ct or t lecture
Samuel D. Proctor, professor emeritus at Rutgers University and pastor

emeritus of the Abyssinian Baptist Church of New york City, will deliver
the Martin Luther King, Jr. memorial lecture on Thursday, Jan. 13, at 8 p.m.

Proctor, a native of Norfolk, is an alumnus of Virginia Union Univer-
sity, Crozer Theological Seminary, and Boston University, where he
earned the Doctor of Theology degree in 1950.

Currently, Proctor servesas adjunct professor at. the United Theologi-
cal Seminary in Dayton, Ohio; the School of Theology at both Boston
University and Virginia Union University; and in 1990-91 as visiting
professor, the Divinity School, Vanderbilt University. In 1990, he was the
Lyman Beecher Lecturer at Yale Divinity Sbliooi.

He is a member of the governing boards of the United Negro College
Fund, Col gate-Rochester-CrozerTheological Seminary, Union Theologi-
cal Seminary of New York, and the Overseers’ Visiting Committee for

lowed to see the other’s hands,” Peck
said.

While the Committee has been look-
ing through Peck’s 67—page appeal,
students have begun to voice theiropin-
ion on what ought to be the outcome of
the appeal.

“She’s really important to W&L
and she’s a great teacher,” sophomore
John Branam said.

He and senior Allison Lewis went
to see President John D. Wilson during
exam week in order to present the stu-
dent voice.

“We wanted to give the student per-
spective and emphasize while it may
be a bureaucratic decision, the students
are also concerned with the future of
W&L,” Branam said.

Several other students called to ar-
range a meeting with Wilson but only
Branam and Lewis were able to meet
with him.

Both Branam and Lewis had just
completed Peck’s African American
Literature and decided to go to Wilson
with their concerns.

“We talked to Wilson for about an
hour but there seemed to be some in-
consistencies in what he was saying,”
Branam said. “He does have to play the
politician but he should be more candid

“rules”

than he was. He seemed to be walking
a very fine line for a president.”

According to Branam, beginning
next week there will be a petition out-‘
side of the Co-op which students can
sign to show their support.

“All her former students still at W&L
will be e-mailed,” Branam said. “Her
three classes from last term have al-
ready signed a petition.” '

Peck said the students should let
their voices be heard and ought to be
counted.

“Student opinions count a lot since
they have made an issue of my teach-
ing abilities,” Peck said.

Despite the long silence from the
committee, Peck remains hopeful"
things will be resolved while shedding
needed light on the experience of fe-
male professors at Washington and Lee.
She is on leave this term so she may
take her son for therapeutic assistance
in Rochester, NY.

“I think ifthis experience has taught
me anything it’s that there’s a double
standard for the sexes. If a man dis-
agrees, he is viewed as being strong
and assertive. But ifa woman expresses
a dissenting view, she is regarded as
being disruptive, strident, whining and
unprofessional.” .

Profs battle in court

D HEATLEY, from page l

of Staunton, filed a list of interrogato-
ries on December 17, 1993, asking
Heatley for details on several aspects
of the case. including any specific in-
stances in which Heatley claimed to
have heard the alleged rumors. Ac-
cordingtothe submission, Heatley must
respond to the interrogatories within
2l days of receiving them.

Recently. ProfessorofPolitics John
Handelman was subpoenaed as a wit-
ness and must give zl deposition later
this month. Handelman refused to
comment on the case.

According to Moore. Heatley was
askedto resign due toconflicts with his

co-workers. _

“[Heatley] has been told it had some-
thing to do with an inability to get
along with the other people that he was
working with,” Moore said. “[lt was]
just a difference in philosophy in deal-
ing with other people."

Moore said Heatley had been as-
sured by administrators that his dis-
missal was not due to any kind of
misconduct. -

A September 3. I993 memo from
Dean ofStudents David Howison to all
department heads stated that Heatley
had resigned his position in June and
would remain at W&L as an adjunct
Associate Professor of Classics for
I993-94.

L

For Sale

Large Wooden Bookcase $50 or best offer
Good Entertainment Center — holds up to 21" T.V.
and all stereo equipment - $75 or best offer.
Please Call 464- 9163

 
 
  

SUPE

DRUG STORES

     

Apartment for Rent
4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, washer & dryer, some utilities included.
2 1/2 miles west of town. Only $175 per bedroom.
Inquire at Kelly’s Comer 463-5452

‘BIELC-.OlVdE 

BACK!

The Flingtum Phi, January 7, 1994

Some students believe alumni feel that tear night is just the first step gn
becoming a brother that also involves hazing.

Howison promotes
hazing policy '

he HAZING, from page 1

vere punishmentcomingafterthethird
offense: usually referral to the Student
Affairs Committee.

John Hudson, 21 Chi Psi, said that
such rules have been characterized by
ambiguous enforcement in their appli-
cation. '

“People are always getting away
with stuff,” Hudson said.

Smith said the severity ofthe viola-
tion would factor into the punishment.
despite the clarified guidelines.

“We have to look at each thing—if
it involved something serious, we
would refer them to the IFC, but for
something less serious then we would
deal with it differently,” he said.

Howison said there have been no
formal and completedjudicial proceed-
ings involving hazing violations dur-
0

ing his tenure as Dean of Students over
the last three and a half years. He said
that Lewis John, who preceded hi as
Dean of Students, also could not cite’
any instances of completed judicial
proceedings in the last twenty-one
years.

Early on Wednesday. however,
Howison said a fraternity on campus
was being investigated for a haz"ng
violation.

Howison wouldgivenodetailsabout
the investigation, and would not name
the house that allegedly violated haz-
ing regulations. He said the IFC was
currently conducting an inquiry, and
that the Student Affairs Committee
would hold a hearing on the alleged
violation today.

The IFC would not give any details
about the investigation. and closed the
press from the second halfof its meet-

"K

Open 7 Days
A Week

      
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
  
    

 

Rmclmcn: All mains-1 item 5 an requm [0 be ml:
wc ism me ngnl I17 llml

  
 

-alanle Ill out mm. ll in mi our 47! an adv9r|rsu1l|Im.ynu may noon 1 mmlnnnlu nranmvmtn m
rIDlI$. No sales menus. suqqoaun mm Pncr may not on in: anew ll -mal lhl pmnua is qonuzly sour. Onty MI nmoi mpo

rum. DI : mnaonor omen mun: you In wtalasa
it wil nu

  
    
 
  
  

mung: ll-in aim aavcmua .
Imam nu Jbtntu mupun(n)mluuu tn an,

Lexington   .
US Hwy. 11, Rt. 7 Phone: 463-7126

Varner & Pole

Furniture‘ &Shades
19 S. Randolph St.

ew Location!

Specializing in Unfurnished

Lexin ton, VA 463-2742

nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-800-327-6013.

¥CR,U‘|SE JOBS

Students Needed!
Earn $2,000+ per month + world
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the
Caribbean, etc.) working for
Cruise Ships or Tour Companies.
Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time
employment available.

     

For
employment program call:

Cruise Employment Services
(206) 634-0468 ext.C5342

Winter
Nferehandise
on Sale

  ot>ponaQ9o

Lexington Shop

for Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

. . Accessories

Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. — Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

 
  
 

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Organiza-
, tions wanted to promote the Hottest
Spring Break Destinations, call the

  
  
  
  
  
 
  

  

  

(K

W&L Art

We have three

R. E. Lee 0

Signatures; Two are War Date.
W&L Copperplate, hand-colored I
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art

Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

llllllllllﬁ
lilllllllll

ing on Tuesday.

4 East Wash1n' on Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464 .

Open Monday - Saturday
10 a.m. — 5:30 p.m.

Rt. 11 North

 

.. / V . ~ Kb
/
Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes
Daily Specrals- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

Breakfast Buffet

 

Friday and Saturday Nights l1p.m.- 4 a.m.
Sunday 9 a.m.- 2 p.m.
463-3478

Open 24 Hours

 
  

‘L

Qﬁe [fin

4

.
‘:11
-5.; '

and Restaurant

- ~.~..f 
Ail’-"f"" P

  
 
  

 ﬂit ‘Union 

Chef Stewart prepares daily culinary delights.’ 
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen, 
Paella, and Homemade Tortellini. 

setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

   
   
    

Q///A /'  2 

 

 

   
  

  

   
  
  

 
   
  
  
 

Call to

-..

Tuesdays- International Menu Night 
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine ' 
Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle” :-
Special Winter Package 

.,.

Tuesday, Wednesday. & Thursday Only 

Jacuzzi Room $95.00 - Carriage House $85.00 
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two ' 
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays) 
Remember to make reservations for your formals for 
the upcoming month. Gift Certiﬁcates Now Available. fr’;-:.;

 Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) ,~"""»
-’ 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.

  
   
 

  

  
 
 
 

 

PAGE9

 

  
     
   
   
  
 

    

The Fling-tum Phi, January 7, 1994 ‘

     
  

    
 
  

 
 

 

 

1 g GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
 A  l Standings as of 12/01/93
I’  Menvs Basketbau Torsten Chase Swimming
_ , gi Qlan (éhristensen Soccer
' :1 Le. d’ S » cott ovey Track
E; " mg “We” Grant Cowell Track
V ~,i pi-dye, pm pfg El.'1flSIC).DlZ(l.II0Il lqiootball
' ii Cam Dyer Nil 1 .4 1m ‘C 1'50“ Clmls

lg Mark C nnell 1 7( 9.5 Ca") D)/er F00tb3ll

. ll Chris (‘iiuzen y (X: 8.3 Graig Famuzzi Baseball

- ‘rl Man Newmn go 7.4 Barton _Forman Soccer
1‘ Derek Curler 58 7.3 l}’l?l‘GG}PfTl3" (Bjﬂsebacll
. 2 R )b rl M" ' .- Sr 7.0 ~ ~ H In ross ountry,
REDUCED PRICES i ii. €‘i>t't'nli%i%‘m sei 6.8 C . d H k. §Vr6SI1ing
FRESH 93 % l-EAN ’ . cir’§i§‘srZ irZ?r ‘"” v‘ffri’§'bair
 Leading Rebounders Byandi Hgnderson Swingning
 Player Reb Avg Kim Herring r(FZrosls( Country,
, rac
  Er:':f€:i;:i, 22 3:’ ggbgn 
- - , n ra Holmes Basketball,Track
5 Robert Miggins 44 5.5 K H H
Cain Dyer 37 5 3 e y Oran Volleyball
' Betty Huynh Cross Country
Jon Coffman 20 2.5 W1” rd B b 11
I-Be Chris Couzen 17 2.1 I 0 an ase a
Loren Kessler C C t
Matt Newton 13 1.6 Jimmy Ku” G3? 0"“ ry
Holly Layman Tennis
Allison Lewis Soccer
" Free-throw Standings  Looney W'°S.m”g
y MacNaughton Tennis
1 Melissa Malone Tennis
PI’ ' . - -
" " Deiéekr Carter Ilétl//Flt:  /Iiuiirla Maﬁha“ 11- Swlmmmg
GRADE A y Chris Couzen 21/27 .778 S5; ,\‘3,’;Ee,,"}g‘,’,’° ’ Eggfjggglack
I I    £{"”bC‘:I&l.‘”",   Dane Merkel Water Polo
o er I .' . . . - ,,
ECONOMY J Matt Newtgotiilm 15) 25 .500 Cdthy Mem" Cm” C°‘”“’y’
JUMBO PACK M’ k (‘ ll min 606 Tlad‘
‘Jr ‘mm y "‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ N_3I M€SSm0r_€ Cross Country
|_|M|1' 2 Wm-1 Richard Million Golf
10.00 PURCHASE Eaulgné IR//lllta ‘LA:/1crosf)el
eu en unger ater o 0
~ . Team Records 3I'I'lC ' IC CFC! CTOSSC
,,,,,m|_B, (updated for 01/07/94) E%srlIi)i1;1l:t)srcS111(<: Ecgcsilitgilall
v womerrs Swjmm’ 3-0 Jenny Queen Volleyball
~ . Low piuciss Men’s Swimmin mg 1-0 Dan Rhodes Soccer
4 1, Men’s Basketbal 4-5 Clay Richards Tennis

 _ ' CALIFORNIA GREEN 2/99 womeiifs Basketball (2)-?)  Iiacrosse

. 2 rest in - ~ acrosse

p . _  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  O g  Russell Football

ffggis 119     5:::‘;§ii:;“ 
................. ..EA. Sarah smith Lacrosse
SNO-WHITE SLICED 39 gstigstsphanon Track .
 l: ‘ _ avi Stillman Swimming
. . . . . . . . . .8 OZ. 1 : Washington and Lee SCIl()I3l'-ALIIICLC Shelley Sunderman Tennls
     H000!‘ ROI éohhn SluTrface V. I3/ootball
. 1 .  7 _ ‘ _ _ V ery aurassi olleyball,
 16 OZ. BAG i Julie Ayers Tennis Lacrosse
la :liz.2ibeBthkIj3ahn [Volleyball Stephanie Terwell Soccer
5 . usan a win ..acrosse R b [T ~ 1? b 1]
g  l-ilizabelh Berkheiiner [football (mgr) Diiafrre Vgirnzrrgdaie Bigébii]
~ I A . l l:FTT_W!d0 BTW” SOCCCT Marina Vasilara Swimming

-  3 ,5}‘?l?'“|¢ BMW" Track Aaron Wilkinson Football

_ 5 «rr; 0  ’l‘0dd Burkcy Track James Wilson Baseball

__ ' “ 1  lara_ Burns Volleyball Reese Winpenny Football

~ , y . . I . , . , . _, ; ,_Aii i<;iC=ir,..rIngt9_n , soccer, Lacrosse Bunny Wong Track
 _ ‘ . l H6 5" Chandler TCHINS Jeff Zeiger Cross Country, .
_'  ' Track ‘
I.B.. ‘Jr |'—--.
LOW PRICES V ’ GREAT VALUE
I54 SQ. FT. PLUSH WHITE DIET COKE OR V V}

COCA COLA

 I ~;"”"""'l,“. .43-'.!r  _
Stonewall uare Shaizilng Center

CH

E5

  
  

    

-4 ROLL
PACK 6 PACK ‘°1‘é's'5’533bV
20 01. NR 72r$“r7i‘s'72rJanuary Specialsfrfriﬁrfr

 

99¢ Rentals in Foreign and Hunting

Sections
frﬁﬁikﬁﬁikikskﬁﬁﬁfr
A Wide Selection of Cassette Singles $1.00 Off or $2.49 each
- ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁfrﬁﬁﬁskﬁrkﬁ
Buy any iull-length CD and get $2.00 off each consecutive one
or V
Buy any full-length cassette and get $1.00 off each consecutive
one.
ﬁﬁﬁikﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁfrﬁ

Buy 3 comic books and get 4th one Free

Open Mon;-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m..
Sun. Noon-10 p.m. -

‘i

i-‘I

E WEELY SPECIAL FRESH FROM A E DELI-BAKERY

17' SLICED TO ORDER

MOORE'S ALPINE LACE
‘POTATO CHIPS SWISS CHEESE

our our  499  

 ‘6 OZGET ONE

eiiirirré FREE
HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY
e

  REGULAR OR LIGHT
ICE CREAM ”A""°"

YOGIIRT
  .5 369
  °r‘»ill“

 

L.j

Gel B0111’ “III. Together

The
Point of View

Restaurant

Lip Egan i5 here

FrIilngClnn.Zl,1ElEll-I

Elluilrnt Fnuugn
Ragistfﬁtiﬂn Dggins
3113 etlneﬁdag Jan. I3
lllsillt the E9-9p
Flllll Pi-iiiiead Go to

Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing (about 9 pm.)

$2 off any pasta dinner with
student I.D.

ROCl<bRIdur AREA RElii_=F Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn
ASS()(TlAIlON K J

31 100

I 994

l I994. ln gm“ Stores
ers. We G udly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

 

S I uclrm I 5 Ac.AiNsi l\/IUITIDIE
SCIFROSIS

Prices Efecfive Through Januaroyl I,

P’ l.Th‘AdEli l’ Wed d,J ’ 5TIi hWed sd J I
mes O1nlyl\sNe Reseafvi;/The Riggi(ilsT<()l)lin(iiI%(DJiri><Iinliliels(.)U one Solllleloolgeciclnuory

O

  

Last Week:

MBB—W&L 70, Amherst 64
W&L 70, Va. Wesleyan 66

PAGE 10

Academic
All-Stars
grown here

SARAH ON SPORTS
BY SARAHGILBERT

  

For the first time since
the Scholar-Athlete Honor
Roll was established in
1986,73 athletes managed
to make a 3.5 or better
grade point average for fall
term.

This brings into ques-
tion the age-old theory that
all “jocks” are close to il-
literate and notoriously
slow in academic situa-
tions.

Obviously, mere ac-
ceptance to Washington
and Lee gives one _the‘dis-
tinction of being an aca-

demic cut above the -rest, -

but the myth still remains.
At every school (W&L is
no exception), some ex-
ceptional athletes who are
borderline in the admis-
sions office are given the
benefit of the doubt and
given admittance.

Many who are close to
the athletic world believe

that sports actually pro- '

mote academic excel-
lence. One coach coni-
mentcd that athletes give
up social time, not study
time, to participate in
sports. A compelling ar-
gument at a school whose
social structure is notori-
ous.
is this true at W&L?

Do athletes really give up .

their social time to run,
jump and dribble?

In some cases, perhaps
social time is decreased,
but for some reason, many
top athlete-scholars at
Washingtonand Lee seem
to be able to juggle it all:
school, sports, parties and
more.

My personal theory is
that the physical demands
and the regimen of daily
practices and re gularcom—
petitions help students to
structure their ‘time, to
eliminatethosc things that
no one thinks about but
waste so much time: soap
operas, video games,
hanging out at the Co-op.

The theory also pro-
pounded by many detrac-
tors from athletic intelli-
gence is the “easy-A” idea,
the concept that athletes
somehow choose easier
majors, schedules and
teachers with the help of
their coaches so they will
have more time to devote
to their sport.

W&L, however, has
many notable scholars on
the honor roll who show
the lie of that idea. Biol-
03)/, chemistry and his-
tory, some of the most dif-
ficult majors here, all have
members among the
Scholar—Athlete list.

Of course, athletes are
not the only ones at Wash-
ington and Lee to make
the honor roll, but I be-
lieve they are on to some-
thing. Bither the very pres-
ence of the demanding
regimen is helpful to the
scholar, or the person who
has the dedication to par-
ticipate in athletics at a
difficult school such as this
has an inherent ability to
apply himself that tran-
scends sports.

Admittedly, athletes
who could not even make
a 3.0 are on the rosters of
some teams. But statistics

like that of the women’s
cross-country team, which
achieved an average GPA
of3.570,andthewomen’s
lacrosse team, which
placed nine members on
the Dean’s List, prove that
academic/athletic success
is no ﬂuke.
Congratulations to the
athletesatwashington and
Lee.

 

  3

@112 itting-tum ilﬂht

PORTS  

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

This Week:

MBB—Roanoke 01/08

WBB—at Wesley 01/08, at Va.
Wesleyan 01/09

Wrest—at West. Maryland 01/08

JANUARY 7, 1994

asketball surprises with streak’

Sophomore Cam Dyer shoots over his Virginia
Wesleyan opponents in the Generals’ upset Dec. 4.

 

Wrestling

Washington and Lee wrestling
is gearing up for the second half
ofthe season by preparing forthc
Western Maryland Quadrangu-

lar. Thc mcct
marks the first

J OCKSHORTS

Scholar-Athletes

Seventy-three Washington
and Lee athletes achieved grade
point averages of3.5 or more for
the 1993 fall semester, the most

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team won for the third
straight time Tuesday, beating defending Old Dominion Athletic
Conference champion Virginia Wesleyan, 70-66. The victory gave
the Generals their first three-game winning streak since early last
season.

W&L’s Warner Center has been the site of all three wins, each one
considered an upset. Sunday, the Generals topped Amherst, 70-64.

Amherst came to Lexington at 8-0 and ranked second in the
Northeast. Twenty-ﬁve days earlier, W&L beat Emory and Henry
before breaking forfall exams.

lfthe Generals (4-5, 2-3 ODAC) are to make it four in a row, it will
have to be four big upsets in a row. Archrival Roanoke College (10-
1, 4-1 ODAC) visits the Warner Center on Saturday carrying a six-
game winning streak. Since the Maroons’ lone defeat,'a 101-96
shoot—out at Emory and Henry, they have beaten their last six
opponents by an average of 20 points.

Virginia Wesleyan entered the game versus the Generalsjust 2-6
for the season, but had two-time all-conference center Rick Chalk
back from a knee injury. Chalk totaled 19 points and 5 rebounds for
the game, but it was not enough for the Marlins.

W&L held a 31-25 lead after 20 minutes, inspiring nearly all ofthe
375 supporters in attendance to stick around for the second half.
Virginia Wesleyan then took advantage of some officiating calls
against W&L and went on a 15-3 run.

The Generals fought back and regained the lead following a
technical foul call on the Marlins coach. After the lead swung back
to Virginia Wesleyan, sophomore Derek_Carter (12 points, four
rebounds) connected on one of his two three-pointers and put the
Generals on top to stay. ~ _ ‘

Sophomore guard Jon Coffman hit 4-of-5,foul shots in the final 25
seconds to ice the win. Coffman, who scored all ofhis 1 7 points from
the foul line (5-of-6) and three-point arc (4-for-5), was joined in
double figures by Carter and senior guard Matt Newton (13 points).
Sophomore Cam Dyer and freshman Chris Couzen added nine points
each.

The Marlins became the seventh consecutive team that Washing-

ton and Lee has held below 50 percent shooting. Although the
Generals shot well below that mark Tuesday, they connected on 8-of-

14 three-pointers as a team. They will likely need more ofthe same ’

from downtown if they are to upset Roanoke on Saturday. 0

The seven-time ODAC champions are anchored this year by 6’5"
senior Hillary Scott. Scott, like Chalk, was a first-team all ODAC
pick last season when he averaged 20.5 points, seven rebounds, and
shot 56 percent from the field. This season, Scott_’s numbers are down
slightly to 17.8 points-per-game and 50 percent shooting, but senior
Kevin Martin andjunior Bryant Lee are contributing a combined 26
points-per-contest. g

Saturday’s game will be the 81st between the two rivals. Roanoke
has won the last five, but the Generals have plenty of reasons to be
optimistic. They defeated the only team to beat Roanoke (E&H) and
their four-point win over Virginia Wesleyan matched the margin of
Roanoke’s victory against the Marlins. Aside from the three-game
winning streak, they have won back-to-back ODAC games for I‘
first time since 1990-91. So perhaps Saturday the W&L faithfuldw
be able to p-.-.t aside their “That’s all right, that’s okay...” chants.

Sophomore Jonathan Coffman jukes his defender,
helping to lead the Generals to a 70-66 win.

orees were senior lohn Surface,
two-time all-conference football
lineman; senior Corinda Hankins,
all-region women’s soccer
player; and the leading scorer of
each basketball team, sopho-

mores Cam

AwAv GAMES
BY STEPHEN W1LL1.ARD

competition for
the Generals
sinccplzicingtliin
Iccnlh at the
Lebanon Valley
lnvilationalzillIhc
way back on Dec
4.

/\l this
wcckcndfs [our-

Dyer and

S a-n d r a _

Holmes‘ Well. hopctully everyone
The high_ had a great break and is thrilled

estteam hOn_ to be back in that hotbed of

0,5 were Cap_ cullurc known as Lexington.

lured by the Virginia. Llnfortunaic|_v. the

sports news recently has been
dominated by tragedy oncc
again.lustwhcnwcthoughtthc
Monica Sclcs incident was be-

w o m e n ’ 5
cross country
team, which
earned an av-

,1-,,,n¢m‘[iw Vt/&|, “age of hind us’. anotlicr athlcic W'2l.\‘11l~
‘quad Wm Cm“. 3570‘ me lucked lliursday.‘ A

pc[C,,g,,,',Nj(,h,,, only mam to lhc lalcsl victim of an ax-
H(,pk;n, and Score Over siiull was chziinpionship figurc
M C 5 5 i L, h _ 3.5_Thehigh_ skater Nancy lxcrrigan. Whilc
\}\/hcmcl [ht M1,. est GPA for a coming oil the ice in a practice

oil" will affect the
team remains to
be seen as the
Generals look to
improve the win-
ning mark set by
this year’s winter
sports (10-8, 65-
63-1 overall).

rink in Detroit. Kcrrigan was
attacked by an unknown assail-
amwithabillyclubtypc object
inthc backofihc legs. The man
escaped through ii Plexiglas

men’s team
was the 3.176
of the men’s
cross country

team. _ _ ,
other no_ door into the crowd follownig

table teams ”l°}‘”‘‘C_k-_ ‘ , I _

included the The assault puts Kcrrigan s

womenrs ja_ Olympic hopes in jeopardy as

This yemis Crosse team, the final competition ‘Will be
wrestling [cam is winners of l‘Fld2{)/. Kcrrigan musttinish in
jedmme moment two ODAC the top two to advance to the
by sopummc Champiom winter Olympics in
(‘me Van Nice Ships in the Lillihammcr. Previously, she
with d 5.} record past two was viewed as the favorite to
on [he Season, years, which winlhcDetroitcompetitionand

Van Nicc placed
fourth in lhc 191)

lb. weight clzissal the Lebanon
VallcymccI.(‘olin l.ooncy(177)
and Adam Brzinson (1 18) placed

cighlh loi lllL‘UCl1Clill.\.

Basketball adds players,
comes back with two Wins

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely

athletes to make the honor roll

since the Scholar-Athlete honor

roll was established in 1986.
Notable among the list ofhon-

zilrczidy ownsa bronze Olympic
medal.

lliiloriunalcly. two assaults
have been the catalyst for in-
crcascd security for sports cc-
lcbriiics. There have bccnclosc
calls in Ilic past. howcvcr. First
baseman Wally Joy nci riarrowly
avoided scvcrc injury when it
fun Ihrcv» 2ll(l1ll.Clil'Ol'1'lIl'lC stands
in Anaheim Stadium in (‘alifor—
nia. Also.2iftcrthc 1981 World
Series. Davc Winfield of the
New York Yankees wore a bul-
lci-proofvcst during 21 parade in
New York after the Yankees

claimed nine
. members of
the Scholar-Athlete list, includ-
ing all three captains, seniors
Angie Carrington, Pauline Mita
and Sarah Smith.

By BILL RUST
Phi Staff Writer

lost the Series.
Finis in professional sports
have unparalleled access to the

The women‘s basketball team pulled out of a three game skid with two victories before break. The
Lady Generals overcame St. Marys, 60-57. and crushed Wesley, 55-22.

The Wesley Wolverines could not get a shot off against the Generals shootingjust 15.9 percent (10
for 63). in the Dec. 6 victory.

Wasliingioii and Lee had only 21 six point lead at the half (20-14), but soon went on a 15-minute
shooting spree in which they outscored the hapless Wolverines 25-2. '

Sophomore Sandra Holmes led W&L to victory with 17 points, 12 boards, and five assists. She now
lcuds the team in pk>l1ll.\—pC1’-géllllc (9.8). assists (1 1), and rcbounds—pcr-game (6.2). Freshman Virginia
Yocrg chippcd in with 13 points. and senior Nicky May/field had eight points and nine rebounds.

Wesley will have its chzincc in revenge against the Generals this Saturday in Dover Delaware.

In £1 slightly more suspciisetul game. W&L mounted a comc-from-behind victory over St. Mary’s
(M1)) on Dcc. 3. Junior Amy Vogi scored late in the second half to give the Lady Generalsa 57-55 lead,
\\ hich was secured \\l1t:11.\<.‘1llU1' l\'iiicn Siuizman stole the inbounds pass and scored two free throws.

Both Siuiznian and Holmes turned in outstziiiding performances. with 15 points each. Freshman

\’l1'gllll21 Yocrg led lhc Iciini with ninc rebounds.
lhc \ icior) wiistliclcziiiifs 1‘ii‘sI.v;ii‘sily win.

Wiiiier break brought changes to the 1,.ad_\ Gciicrals roster. Amy Vogt, the hero of the team’s first

\ iciory. left for lhc wiiiier term to study in l‘l2ll1Cc. She was replaced by junior Sarah Aschenbach, and

junior transfer student Amy Mihal.
9 A'schciib:ich) was one of the top scorers on last ycar’s club team, and is member ofthe lacrosse team.
M ihail comes to W&L from Randolph Macon Womcn’s College. She played for the club team when she

was attending W&L as part of an exchange program.

The iC1l111 11C.‘<lpld_V.\'ll1lS Saturdziy. .1

Wesleyan.

an. 8. against Wesley. and this Sunday. Jan. 9, against Virginia

players (How many recall at
least one incident of a fan run-
ning out onto the field at an
cvcnt. and what about Charles
B2irklcy‘s numerous hcck|crs-
lhcy were closc cnough for him
to spll all’). 11 is sad that lhc
world of sports has bcconic ll
diiiigcrous world for lhc zilli-

lclcs.
On 11 lighter iiolc. lhc Na-
lionul1-ooibzilllczigiicplayolils

M Violent, fanatic spectators ,
bring new meaning to “fan”

  §l£QlllE lfniglt. Em

begin this weekend. This is one
prediction that l’ll eat: Sorry,
Dolphins fans, I thought so too,
ifthat’s any consolation. Ycah,l
know 1 said that they would rep-
resent the American Football
(‘onferciicc in the Superbowl,
and I am now being flogged by 21
Houston fan and a Buffalo fan
simultaneously for that predic-
tion. For those of you who were
in a stupor all during break. the
"Dolphins didn’t even make the
playoffcut after :1 9-2 start to the
season. The Updated prediction be emotional about leaving
is l)allas (at least the Cowboys the Dallas Mavericks?
havc come through for me.) vs. Maybe you were thinking
Houston in an all Texas about the possible poin
Superbowl (Hey Mark, don‘t spreads on games after your
hosc your shorts yet, dude. the departure.
Giants. 49ers, and Bills might On a final note, 1 would
have something to say about that like to go on the record not-
match-up.) ing that the Atlantic Coast
Parting Shots— Conference has the number
1-et"s root forthe Bills. After two and three teams in thC
allnoimanyteams haveachance nation (Duke and North
to lose FOUR times in a row. Carolina). and that the best
Also, ‘maybe then people would basketball in the nation is
quit comparing the Braves and played inthe red clay ofNC.
Bills. 1 mean, come on, the Auf Wiedersehen!

Braves have only lost three
years in a row. Braves in ’94,
baby! .

Hopefully, the
Superbowl will be a winner
this year. Can we PLEASE
have a close game’? The last
few games have strongly re-
sembled certain pledge-ac-
tive football contests wit
the possible exception that
the AFC team DID score in
the Superbowls.

Derek. HOW could you

rrnlsl '

 

 

 

 
 

   
  

" 0‘-"=»LEYE',» -I 
WASHlNGTON a ti?” UB'qA"”

      

E "“~llVEFa¢‘-t‘: 
A 244.59

 

Two local hatngouts

close: The Bone and
Frank’s Sandwich

Men's 2- 0

Women’s 4 — 0

Generals Swim Teams
Undefeated:

E...

Shoppe

Chi: ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

‘ OLUME 93, NO. 15

 
  
   
 
   
    
  
  
   
    
  

I “ 5 By NANCY PAv1.ovtc
Phi Managing Editor

. The verdict is in and both sides are
-}aiming at least a partial victory.
The President’s Advisory Commit-
ee issued its report on Assistant Pro-
fessﬁ of English Demaree C. Peck’s
J Appeal Friday, Jan. 7, more than three
months after she ﬁled her appeal op-
osing the English department’s deci-
1. ion not to renew her contract.
“We have won an unprecedented
victory, although it is less than I had
anﬂd,” Peck said. “Despite the ques-
ions that remain about due process and
rofessional judgement, this is an im-
ortant step in unpeeling what hap-
erred in the English department.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Craun, however, claimed “the basic
finding was to exonerate the depart-
ment completely from all ﬁndings of
inadequate consideration.”

The committee, as charged by Presi-
dent John D. Wilson, was to determine
whetherornotthe procedures followed
by the English department were ad-
equate. They were not to address issues
of fairness or academic freedom. The
committee’s decision is two-fold; while
claiming the process was not inad-
equate, they also unanimously recom-
mended the English department ex-
plain fully their decision to not renew
Peck’s contract to her.

“The committee was charged to see
if the procedures had been carried
through and not to address questions of
fairness,” said Professor H. Thomas
Williams, Jr., chair of the President’s

Advisory Committee. “The
committee’s decision was not to imply
that something was wrong with the
English department’s decision.”

Copies ofthe committee’s ﬁndings
were sent to Peck and Wilson. To date,
Craun and the English department have
not seen the report.

“We have just been generally in-
formed by the administration of the
general findings of the committee,”
Craun said. “I would like to be free to
comment on it but I just don’t have
enough knowledge. I have been told to
refer all inquiries to the president.”

According to Wilson, the commit-
tee found “that there was no inadequate
consideration” and suggested “the de-
partment consider providing a more
elaborate explanation to Ms. Peek in
the spirit of collegiality.”

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

“The formal inquiry was to deter-
mine whether the provisions in the
decision to evaluate for
reappointment were ad-
equate,” Wilson said.
“The department was not
at fault.”

Peck, who joined the
faculty in 1988 as an in-
structor in English, be-
gan a four-year proba-
tionary period for a ten-
ure track position in the
department thefollowing
fall. Candidates for a ten-
ured position must com-
plete a six-year proba-
tionary period before be-
ing considered for ten-
ure. Peck would have been considered
for tenurein 1994-95.

Wilson

 

However, the English department
decided in May of 1993 to cut short her

probationary period af-
ter reviewing a portfo-
lio of materials which
included student evalu-
ations, reviews by fac-
ulty who had visited her
class, 21 letters which
were solicited by the de-
partment from 111
former students, as well
as three published ar-
ticles and several chap-
ters from her book on
Willa Cather.

“When I was in-
formed of my dismissal
back in May, I asked to

know the reasons why and was told

JANUARY 14, 1994

Committee decides Peck appeal

that ‘We don’t have to tell you any-
thing.’,” Peck said. “If I had been pro-
vided with a satisfactory explanation
for my non-renewal, I could have ac-
cepted it. A university of all places
ought to be a place where reason and
explanations can 've found when asked
for. But the view that such things hap-
pen because ‘ it is just so,’ is not rational
and not worthy of the tradition of honor
at Washington and Lee.

“One of the greatest ironies of this
wholething isthe English department’s
refusal to give me reasons in order to
protect my privacy.”

Peck said the English department
has attempted to “make an issue of my
teaching abilities.” Yet, she said 96

it See PECK page 7

English department head Edwin D.

  

I

   
 

‘TU

Sing us a song

 

Photo by Richard Weaver, The Ring—tum Phi

Sorority Rush week included nights of singing, smiling, and lots of small talk. 173 women signed up to rush
in the fall. Sorority members transformed rooms in the University Center this week with decorations for the
Rush parties. Freshman women will receive bids from a sorority tonight.

SAC to hear FIJI
hazing charges

By E. LEE DAUGHERTY
Phi Contributing Writer

Phi Gamma Delta fraternity has been charged
with violating the university’s hazing policy and
will go before the §_t_u_dent Affairs Committee on
"Friday, January‘ I4. '

According to Dean of Students David Howison,
the charges included in the report are systematic
drinking and physical abuse of pledges.

Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life Dennis
Manning communicated the charges to SAC and
also‘ to the Interfratemity Council which reviewed
the case Tuesday night at a closed meeting.

“My understanding is that [the IFC] took the
report very seriously and handled the case respon-
sibly,” Howison said.

According to Interfratemity Council President
Curt Smith, the IFC heard the case and handed
down a verdict Tuesday night. The IFC verdict
itself will not be disclosed until after the SAC
reviews the case on Friday.

Smith said the IFC will report their actions to
SAC and offer suggestions for action they believe
the committee should take, but said SAC operates
under different rules from those of the IFC. The

IFC verdict is enforceable, regardless of the out-
come of SAC meeting.

Manning’s report was ﬁled on the basis of
information given to him by freshman John K.
“Jay” Taggart, a former FIJI pledge. Taggart him-
self has not filed any charges against the fraternity.

Taggart has declined to comment until the SAC
hearing is over. ,

“We have informed the national fraternity,”
Howison said. “So far they’ve taken no action.”

FIJI President Ralph “Moke” Wolfe said he had
been directed by the IFC to not discuss the case.

The SAC is a committee made up of four faculty
members, six students, and two members of the
administration. Howison said the job of the com-
mittee will be to determine whether the hazing
policy was violated and, if so, what action should
be taken.

Howison said SAC can do one of four things: 1)
put the house on critical probation, 2) suspend the
fraternity for up to ﬁve years, 3) expel the fratemity
from campus, or 4) take no action.

Any action taken by SAC or the IFC can be
appealed. SAC’s decisions are appealable to Presi-
dent John Wilson and IFC appeals are made to the
Dean of Students and heard by the Board of Ap-
peals according to the IFC Constitution.

Whitney dies at 60

Professor noted for dedication

Sophomore charged with theft

tudent claims case of mistaken identity

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Washington and Lee sophomore Mary
I lizibeth Flowers has been charged with
‘hoplifting and is scheduled to appear in
‘ourt on March 29.

Sunday’s Child employee Leslie Hoke

,aid that on December 13, she stopped a
erson leaving the store when the point-
check security system went off. Hoke said
he dtsked to carry the person’s bookbag
hrough the antenna bars in the front of the
tore. The alarm did not sound. Hoke said she
hen ZISl-(C-fl for the person’s coat.

"The person turned away to unzip the
at ket, and said I could ﬁnish helping another
ustomer,” said Hoke. When Hoke refused
rid demanded the coat, the person admitted

 

stealing two packages of glow-in-the-dark
star stickers and a laser-disk spinning top.

“I called my boss and she said to call the
police,” said Hoke. “The individual waited
and said ‘please don’t call the police’.”

Hoke said the person offered to pay for the
items, crying and begging her not to call the
police.

Hoke said during that time the person
said her name and said she was 16 years old.
Shop-owner Lucia Owens said the name given
was Mary Stuart.

Owens arrived in the store shortly after
Hoke phoned her. Hoke went to call the
police while Owens talked to the woman.
While Hoke was on the phone. the woman
fled the store.

Owens chased her, but lost her in the area
of St. Patrick’s Church.

On December 17. police issued a sum-

mons to Flowers charging her with shoplift-
mg.
But Flowers said she is not the woman
who attempted to shoplift from Sunday’s
Child.

Flowers said she was sick that day, and
was in the infirmary waiting to see the doctor
when the incident occurred.

“I was at home in bed,” said Flowers. “My
roommates left the room at 1:30. I talked to
my brother on the phone at 2:30 or 3:00. ”

Flower’s roommate, sophomore Colleen
Thompson, said Flowers was in their Gaines
suite when she returned from herexam around
3:15.

“We waited around to go to the infir-
mary,” said Thompson.

Flowers said she talked to her mother on

U» See THEFT page 4

By PHIL CARROTI‘
Phi Staff Writer

Professor of Chemistry
George S. Whitney, known for

‘ his energy and dedication to his

students and organic chemistry,
died Tuesday evening.

Whitney had been battling
prostate cancer for some time,
but his love for teaching kept him
going until September, when he
made the decision he could no
longer continue teaching.

Junior John Cox, who took
organic chemistry last year, said
“[Whitney] was so excited about
[organic chemistry], even if he
couldn’t stand up for the entire
lecture, he brought energy to it
when you knew he had no physi-

cal energy whatsoever.”

Whitney came to Washing-
ton and Lee in 1962 after receiv-
ing his Ph.D. from Northwestern
University. He became a full pro-
fessor in 1973.

“He was very worried if his
illness might affect how his stu-
dents were taught, he felt that
when he had gotten to the point
where his health was such that he
couldn’t teach as effectively as
he wanted to, he put the interests
of his students first and did what
had to be done,” said Erich
Uffleman, Whitney’s replace-
ment for the year. “It took tre-
mendous courage to teach as long
as he did and tremendous cour-
age to stop when he did.”

The department is now in the
process of hiring a permanent
organic chemistry professor.

Cox added, “I don’t know if

people understand how a class
like organic works  the class
became a family because of the
way it was taught by professor
Whitney. He thoughtorganic was
the neatest thing in the world.”
Whitney taught organic chem-
istry in one form or another since
he came to W&L. “He taught 
the ﬁrst of the chemistry [general

education requirements]. He tried
to reach out to kids that were not
chemists,” said chemistry pro-
fessor Mike Pleva. “He included
organic and the kids who took
that course learned how to make
nylon. It was known as the nylon
class.’’ " .

bsee WHITNEY page 4

Whitney

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World  

Mexican rebellion continues

Indian rebels in Mexico bombed electric towers and shot
up a military base Sunday. The rebels are seeking to further
the rights of Mayan peasants. Four bombs exploded in
Mexico City Saturday. The rebellion began January 1, with
the capture of several towns in South Mexico. Since then,
over 105 people have died, most of them Indian rebels.

Oil spill makes a big mess

An oil barge spilled 750,000 gallons of oil after colliding
with a coral reef last Friday off the coast of San Juan, Puerto
Rico. The barge hit the reef after its towline snapped. Rough
seas have slowed efforts to stem the flow of oil still spilling
from the barge.

Neo-Nazis spread violence

Neo-Nazis in Germany carved a swastika on the face of a
girl in a wheelchair after she refused to repeat fascist slogans
including “Gas the cripples.” The attack has caused a
nationwide manhunt for the suspects. Eighty handicapped
people reported attacks from extremists last year and the year
before. Since 1990, neo-Nazi violence has killed 30 people.

The Nation

Branch Davidian trial begins

A jury was seated Wednesday for the trial of 1 1 survivors
of the Branch Davidian compound near Waco, Texas. The
members will be tried for murdering four agents of the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, which raided the

- compound in February. The defense will try to show that the
cult members acted in self-defense. If convicted, the 1 1
defendants could get life in prison without parole.

 

Scientists to examine radioac-
tivity experiments

A panel of scientists will review government records on
human radioactive experiments to determine if ethical stan-
dards were violated. The Department of Energy has inter-
viewed 4000 people, one—fifth of whom claim to have been
improperly exposed to radiation during experiments begin-
ning in the l940’s.

Last Iwo J ima serviceman dies

The last surviving serviceman shown raising the U.S. ﬂag
on Iwo J ima in the famous World War II photo died Tuesday
of a stroke. John Bradley was 70. He and five other Marines
raised the first American ﬂag to ﬂy over Japanese territory.

The State

Wilder won’t run for Senate

Virginia Gov. Douglas L. Wilder unexpectedly withdrew
from the U.S. Senate race Thursday night. Wilder made the
announcement at the end of his last State of the Common-
wealth address Thursday. Wilder’s withdrawal was a sur-
prise, and means that there will be no November ﬁreworks
between Wilder and his longtime archrival, incumbent Demo-
crat Charles Robb. Oliver North is also contending for the
office.

Bobbitt trial in fourth day

Witnesses at Lorena Bobbitt’s malicious wounding trial
said John Bobbitt liked rough sex and slapped his wife around
in front of others. The defense will try to show that Mr.
Bobbitt subjected his wife to sexual, physical, and mental
abuse for years, prompting her to cut off her husband’s penis
on June 23.

Sports

Harding bodyguard, husband

questioned in Kerrigan attack

The FBI is investigating the husband and bodyguard of
U.S. national figure skating champion Tonya Harding as
suspects in last week’s attack on Nancy Kerrigan, last year’s
champion. FBI agents were pursuing leads in several cities,
but no arrests had been made as of Wednesday afternoon.
Detroit FBI spokesman Hank Glasbie said Wednesday night
that two investigaitons were ongoing. One is in Detroit, the
scene of the attack, and the other is a federal investigation.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily Baker

By THOMAS Hasros
Phi News Editor

The Executive Committee had some suggestions
for the Committee to Review Coeducation at their
regular meeting Monday night.

“If you get the campus leaders together... they’ll
go back and tell their groups what you’re all about,”
said EC President Bob Tompkins to members of the
coeducation committee.

Members of the EC gave suggestions to the presi-
dentially-chartered group about how it might be
more effective at soliciting the opinions of students
about coeducation.

EC Vice President Jimmy Kull and Secretary
Ashby Hackney suggested that the opinions of men’s
groups might help the committee.

“Have you thought of going to the IFC?” asked
Kull.

Coeducation committee member Frankie Jones
said the group is not yet up to that stage.

By YABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Writer

To show or not to show.

Late last year, Washington and Lee
students overwhelmingly chose not to
show up for their Calyx pictures.

According to senior Anthony
Catalano, co-editor of the Calyx, less
than a third of all freshmen, sopho-
mores andjuniors attended the picture-
taking sessions despite the many mea-
sures taken to increase the consistently
poor turnout.

“We moved the location from the
University Center to Reid Hall and
advertised extensively hoping that
things would be different,” Catalano
said

“In the past, some students simply
did not want to pay the $15 setting fee
charged by Andres Studios. Now they
could have charged it home,” Catalano
added.

Catalano blames the attitude of the
students for the low turnout. He stated
that many students do not show up
because they think it is not the “cool
thing” to do.

“This is the students’ yearbook, their
history. lt is here so that 20 years from
now they can remember each other and
share their memories with their loved
ones,” he said.

cult.

He also commented that the low
turnout make the staff’s job more diffi-

“I didn’t go because I had a bad hair
day and I knew they would have makeup
days,” said one junior.

According to Catalano, that makeup
day will most likely be February 2.

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

A word to the would be crank-caller—Washing—
ton and Lee’s sophisticated telecommunications
system can now monitor crank calls.

“lt’s not a trace. We can manipulate the [tele-
communications] software,” said Jim Johndrow,
director of university services.

W&L has had a high number of reported crank
calls this term and last, according to Johndrow.
Between eight and 12 people have reported the
calls. I

“We’ve recommended that they (people receiv-
ingthe calls) go tothe police,” said Johndrow. Only
one student has gone to the police so far. After
someone reports to the police, the matter is taken
out of their hands.

The calls have consisted of vulgar language,

'   — 5:55. pm.

EC aids co-ed committee

“Campus life is such a big part... that we haven’t
got around to all of [the campus groups],” said Jones.

The coeducation committee has 12 members:
three students and nine professors and members of
the administration. They are scheduled to report to
the president of the university in August.

Hackney said he was concerned that some of the
professors on the committee who were hired after
coeducation began at Washington & Lee would not
be able to compare the all-male W&L with the co-ed
W&L.

“A lot of these professors (on the committee) are
recent professors,” he said.

Coeducation committee member Daniel Felton
assured Hackney that some of the professors on the
committee were able to provide that perspective.

Junior EC Representative Alex Cross inquired
about the results of attempts by the committee to
solicit opinion through The Ring-tum Phi and The
Trident.

‘‘[It was] not as much as we had hoped,” said
Felton.

Calyx turnout lower than ‘9, 1

Calyx editors Sarah Butler and Anthony Catalano prepare a mailing for the senior class.

ture in the Calyx.

Phone system thwarts crank calls

although no actual threats were made. Some of the

recipients were faculty members.

“We’ve changed a couple of phone num-
bers,” said Dana Camper, W&L’s telecom-
munications service manager.

Telecommunications has been working
with university services and will be talking
to the Executive Committee.

ln addition to crank calls, many stu-
dents’ phone boxes have been locked.

Crank calls aside, however, some stu-
dents may be unwittingly leaving nasty
messages on other’s machines.

When students record obscene or un-
caring messages instead of their name into
their phones, that message automatically
replays to the recipient.

“The one thing we'd like would be for people to
put their original name and last name. It makes it hard

for other people if you don’t,” said Camper.

 

 
 

    

Senior picture sign-ups will be in the
Co-op starting January 17 and ending
on January 21. The seniors will be
taking group pictures with Taylor
Crothers, ’93, or they can submit their
own. A $20 processing fee will be
charged to all seniors publishing a pic-

 

Johndrow

  
 
    
        
 
   
  
   
   
    
      
  
      
    
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
    

Th Flln-tu Phl Janua 14: -I

Felton said the effect of the letter given to th
campus newspapers was blunted by The Tride.
because the newspaper printed an incomplete ve
sion of the letter that omitted the mission statement 0
the group.

Junior EC Representative Carol Pierce, 50
member of the coeducation committee, said the co
mittee would attempt to gather student suggestion
from 10 members of each class that would be selecte
at random.

Other suggestions included distribution c
questionnaires, utilizing the Greek system an
distribution of the committee’s mission statCmer
through electronic mail.

The EC also set dates for theBig Four election

_ for March 7, with runoffs on March 10. Cla
elections, according to Tompkins, will be held “
couple of weeks after that.”

Tompkins said the EC will expect to hear from th
White Book Review Committee at its meetﬁg 0
January 17 to report on the results ofits survey ofth
student body.

Photo By Michelle Brien, 

  
   
  
    
    
 
    
 
  
  
    
  
    
    
   

O

A mailing was sent earlier this wet
to all seniors, explaining the proces
Catalano said the turnout for these pi
ture sessions is much higher.

“We have thought about making .v
the student pictures like the senior
but most students are against H, pz
ticularly the upperclassmen.”

Johndrow said that apart from the carnk cal
telecommunications has been having a good ye
with the new phone system.

“There has been a better flow
information,” said Johndrow.

“You can come in and talk ﬂith
[anytime you have a problem]; We
help you work it out,” said Campe

Both Camper and Johndrow a
eager for input from students.

“We have to have input. We w
use the ideas you give us. We wou
love to hear from students.” sa
Johndrow. “I enjoy this. We in
students and get to talk to them. it
really the fun part of working at t
university.”

Camper agrees.

“Everything has its faults,” she said, “but l
work with anybody [to get the problem fixgd].”

VMI poster
recalled '

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

     
  
      
    
 
   
  

   
  
  
 
  

0

Two enterprising VMI 2nd classmen caused cont
versy and made the state news with a poster they sold
a fund—raiser. '

The poster, sold to raise money for the junior cl.
ring dance, features a model in military dress with t
jacket unbuttoned to her waist. The caption above 1
model reads, “Women out of uniform... A gmifyi
spectacle.”

The 2nd classmen sold the posters in the barracks a
in town beginning in September. Fantasies on Nels
Street started to sell the posters in early November.

“We never put them in the window,” said one e
ployee. “We just sold them by word of mouth and
only sold 10 until it hit the newspapers.” . _

According to VMI Public Relations Director Co
nel Mike Strickler, the Rockbridge Advocate had p
tures of the poster in an early November issue.
Richmond Times—Dispatch ran a story on Decem
15.

  
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   

Once the story came out and the VMI administrati
heard of the poster, VMI Commandant Colonel l\./lich
Bissell recalled it.

“I did not think it was in good taste,” said Bissell

The cadets received a verbal reprimand and an on
to remove the posters from the barracks.

After the story ran in the Richmond Times-Dispat
poster sales skyrocketed.

“Within the first two days once it hit the new\sé)ap
we got the confiscated ones and we sold 500 ithi
couple of days,” said the Fantasies employee.

Fantasies is currently sold out of the poster, bu
expecting a new shipment soon.

“l‘ve got orders for about 1400 more,” said the
ployee.

Fantasies is selling the poster for $9.95.

 
   
  
  
    
  
   
 
  
  

6

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi,January 14, 1994
—o

   
  
   
    
   
   
   
   
 
   
  

0

By RICHARD WEAVER
' Phi Staff Writer

Women’s rush wraps up a week’s

orth of activities today with the dis-
ribution of bids to join W&L ’s four
ororities.
Sorority Rush began last Friday with
o peilhouses for all four sororities.Skit
ight followed on Sunday and Sister-
ood Night on Tuesday. Yesterday was
‘Pref” night, where the freshmen
omen indicate their choice. Bids were
issued today.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy
. “ﬁuddy” Atkins II is pleased with
his year’s Rush. 173 women signed up

0

 

to Rush in the fall.

“Things are going well as far as I
can tell. I don’t have a lot of involve-
ment in sorority Rush though until Fri-
day morning when I supervise the issu-
ing of bids, ” Atkins said.

Panhellenic Council President Laura
Clark refused to answer any questions
concerning sorority Rush, citing an
agreement with the Panhellenic Coun-
cil not to release information until Rush
is over.

This year’s sorority Rush has had
fans and detractors. Freshman Ashley
La Forge likes the timing of the rush
schedule, but does note some draw-
backs.

“It’s really good that they space it
(the four nights) out, but it is still really

Macintosh IL’ 520 5/80,
internal AppleCD " 3001' CD-ROM Drive,
Apple Keyboard 11 and max.
only $1,596.

Photo by Richard Weaver, The Ring-tum Phi
Freshmen women and sorority members get to know one another during sisterhood night.

Women tackle Rush

Bid night ends Rush process on Friday

hard to get your work done,” La Forge
said.

This year the sororities have tried to
eliminate dissatisfaction that resulted
from last year’s Rush.

The sororities were also asked to
take a harder look at minority mem-
bers.

“There is an emphasis this year on

keeping in mind that'W&L is a small

community and it is not in the best
interests of the sororities to be as exclu-
sive. Because there are fewer of them
than the fraternities this means that a
lot of girls who don’t ideally fit a
sorority’s character could potentially
be left out, like last year,” said a soror-
ity member who requested her name
not be used.

Buy a Macintosh
organize your time,
finances or go comple

Dean search continues

By LOURRAINE TioAs
Phi Staff Writer

Randall P. Bezanson, Dean of the
Law School and Professor of Law, is
leaving his position as dean at the end
of this year.

A search committee consisting of
eight members of the Law School fac-
ulty and chaired by Washington and
Lee President John D. Wilson will rec-
ommend a replacement. Wilson will
make the ﬁnal decision. The commit-

tee has also consulted some ‘students
and alumni, according to Bezanson.

One member of the search commit-
tee, Associate Dean of the Law School
and Professor of Law Mark H.
Grunewald, said “the process is still
quite fluid. Even within the last several
weeks, new candidates have been en-
tered.”

Grunewald expects the candidate
pool to narrow and interviewing to take
place in February, with the ﬁnal deci-
sion to be made in mid- to late March.

.,
This is Bezanson’s sixth year at
W&Las dean of the Law School. Be-
fore coming to W&L, he taught at the
University of Iowa Law School.

Bezanson said he will teach next
year at the University of Iowa Law
School and “will presumably return”
to teach at W&L Law School the fol-
lowing year.

“It is the custom to leave for one
year so that the new dean will feel free
to propose changes or other new direc-
tions,” said Bezanson.

Local restaurants close doors

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee students look-
ing for live music and food now have
two less options.

Both The Bone and The Sandwich
Shoppe have closed, leavingThe Raven
& Crown the only restaurant in town
with live music on weekends.

“The W&L community. has been
real good to me,” said The Sandwich
Shoppe owner Frank Stinson.

Stinson said he had a group of 10 to
20 people, including both students and
locals, who frequented the restaurant
up until the end.

Business was good until two-and-a-
half years ago, said Stinson. When
Harb’s and City Steaks & Subs opened,
however, his proﬁts fell by more than
50 percent. He brought in live music
on the weekends, trying to cultivate a
crowd that would come in for lunch
during the week as well. ,

“I was the vessel through which the
music was distributed to the public,”
he said.

But when Stinson could not meet
his January rent and yearly license re-
newals at the end ofl993, he decided to
close. The 20-year-old business closed
December 31.

W&L senior Alex Haw said he will
miss the restaurant and its owner.

“It was the cultural center of the
entire town,” said Haw. “Frank was a
nice guy.”

Haw said he liked how Stinson al-
ways sat down and talked with his
customers, making it a down-to-earth
environment. He said he will miss the
R&B and old—time music and the veg-
etable soup, which he said was the best.

While Stinson closed for ﬁnancial
reasons, The Bone co-owners Neil
Arnold and Paul Bowen decided they
did not have the time to devote to the
business to make it as successful as
they wished. They closed January 9.

The business "grew by 17 percent in
1993, said Arnold, but “it’s a collective
decision on part of my partner and
myself to discontinue this business on
the basis of economic forecasts and
long—terrn development of the assets.”

Arnold lives in Virginia Beach, and
the demands of the business were tir-
ing, he said.

“I tried to stay absentee. I tried
bringing managers in,” he said, but
business was better when he was in the
restaurant.

After opening in July of 1991 , The
Bone had the largest capacity for bands
of any Lexington restaurant and at-
tracted both students and locals.

Arnold‘ booked the live music on
weekend nights with with the help of
Night Owl Music owner Wayne
Raynal.

lnthe future, Raynal will book bands
for The Raven & Crown, said The
Raven & Crown’s co-owner Chris
Gorman. In fact, the two bands booked
for The Bone on January 13 and 14
have been rescheduled to play at the
Raven & Crown.

“I ’m not glad the otherplaces closed,
because it’s good to have a variety of
places to go,” said Gorman.

However, he said he does think the
restaurant will have an advantage now
that it did not have before.

 

fr.“ W3 

IIOW an

Macintosh [C 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus
I4"Di'splay, Apple Keyboard I! and mouse.
Only 51,196.

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any
select Macintoshi or PowerBook"’computer, you’ll also receive seven
‘ software programs. It’s all included in one low price.And the software

package alone has a combined SRP value of $596? It was designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal

give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize
your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy
an Apple® computer? It does more. It costs less. It’s that simple. ,

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information. , ~ .
For further information visit University Computing in
'Ii1cker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud or call 463-8844

*Price does not include sales tax

1Y

ﬁg‘), _.‘l'\‘~’;."'«~' ;!.‘I.

,...», -. .

. you can
Sl1‘2l1%)l€Il out y

ballistic.  

 

Apple PowerBoole 1458 4/80.
Only $1,204.

©1993 Apple (fonzpu/er. Inc. All rights reserved. Apple, I/Je Apple logo, Macintosh and I’owerBaale 4 re regir/ered /rzzdemarlar of Apple C mpuler, Inc. /1ppleCD is a trademark of Apple Com/)uter, Inc.
‘Based on I/ye combined Suggested Relax‘! Prices (SRP) of/be products in ’/lie (Imnpus Soﬂzrare Se!’/or .'rIac1‘n/orb as 0/ Oclaber 1, 1993.

0111‘

.@

 

 

 

PAGE 4

Student charged
with shoplifting

i>THEFl', from page one

the phone around 4:30 that day, and
then went to the infirmary just before
5:00.

A nurse at the infirmary said she
could not release the names of patients
or at what time they came in. She
would not verify that Flowers had been
in the infirmary that day without an in-
person request from Flowers.

Owens said she called local high
school principals looking for Mary
Stuart. but no one of that name was
registered at any high schools in the
area.

Owens said a W&L student called
her later, saying he had seen what hap-
pened and could identify the woman in
the store. He asked to remain anony-
mous.

“We called the police with that in-
formation." said Owens. "We [Owens
and Hoke] identiﬁed her from old news-
paper photos.“

“ Last week someone else who had
also been in the sto_r§ during the inci-

WIIER YOII RIOE ORIIR ONE MORE
FOR THE ROAD 0 HAVE

   

dent identiﬁed the person,”said Owens.

“I have also been interviewed by the
Honor Court,” said Owens. “l have
refused to testify until the individual
has the right to go to trial.”

“In this type of situation where the
individual is going to college we don’t
want them to be kicked out of school,"
said Owens. “We would prefer the
people not to have shoplifting on their
record, but have to do community ser-
vice and go to the high schools and
middle schools and explain how they
almost ruined their lives. We don’t
want them to lose their educational
opportunity.”

Flowers said Thompson would tes-
tify for her in court. She also said she
talked to her mother and her brother on
the telephone during that time.

“I was in my room the whole day,
tryingto study for an exam.” said Flow-
ers. “The fact is that it rests on what
somebody says about me. Its my word
against theirs.”

“If I get charged with that I get
kicked out of school. I don't think
that’s fair.”

Professor dies at 60 _

I->WHlTNEY, from page 1

Whitney was said to be someone
that could talk to anyone for hours.

“I don’t know anything that George
Whitney wasn’t interested in; he was
the last of a breed and that breed was
the Renaissance man,” said language
professor Robert Youngblood.

Perhaps the people that he touched
most were those that went through his
class. They were probably the people
he cared for most as well.

“He was the most genuinely con-
cerned professor I’ve ever had. He will
be sorely missed,” said senior Jon
Yeargan.

Junior Mike Witsil said “he cared
more about teaching than any profes-

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1994

sor I have had here...I have learned
more outside the classroom in his class
than I have learned inside the class-
room with any other professor.“

When it came to grading quizzes in
Whitney’s class, he would be very le-
nient if you thought you understood the
problem and give you credit, but if you
failed to attend the event at Lenfest the
night before you lost a point. Witsil
remembered a phrase Whitney would
use when a student had a test and
couldn’t attend a music recital —
“Don’t let your schooling get in the
way of your education.”

Youngblood said Whitney “can
serve as a beacon for W&L students;
they can have a strict ﬁeld of study, but
also enjoy a lot more in life.”

Lisa Alty,the otherorganic chemis-

\

try professor in the department told of .
something Whitney said when he was ,

diagnosed as terminally ill. “‘I feel like

a guy who jumps out of an airplane and,

pulls the ripcord but the parachute
doesn’t open, I try the safety chute nd
it doesn’t open either. I can enjoy the.
view or I can scream the rest of the way
down.”’

Professor of Biology Thomas Nye
said “I could always count on him for
something unusual to be added to my
life.”

Whitney is survived by two soﬁs, a
daughter and a grand child.

A graveside service will take place
Monday, January 17 at 12 p.m. at Stone-

wall Jackson Cemetary. A memorial

service will follow at 1 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. _.

Snagged!

Photo by Tom Hespos. The Ring—tum Phi

Lexington Police Officer R.D. Clark deals with a student and his illegally parked vehicle as another student looks on.

3

Seasonal employment available as a whitewater raft guide
in W.Va. Experience not required. Must be 19 years old,
have current CPR and first aid. Contact North American
River Runners, P.O. Box 81 Hico, WV 25854
1-800-950-2585 EOE

Apartment for Rent
4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, washer & dryer, some utilities included.
2 1/2 miles west of town. Only $175 per bedroom. 7
Inquire» at ,Im(J)elly_.’s §Q§nQ[,463_a5452 .

All ERTIRELY DIFFERENT MEANING.

 

 

ALL SENIORS INTERESTED INA CAREER IN
CONSUMER OR COMMERCIAL BANKING

Founders ’ Day/ o
ODK Convocation

FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK .

GUEST SPEAKER:
CORDIALLYINVITES YOU TOATTEND -. ,

A RECEPTION TO LEARN MORE ABOUT

 

CAREER OPPOR TUNITES IN THE BANKING
INDUSTRY
TUESDAK JANUARY 18, 1994
AL UMNI HOUSE
7.-00 - 9:00 P.M. -
REcToR, W&L BOARD or TRUSTEES .
T IT L E ;
“FUTURE LEADERSHIP AT
WASHINGTON AND LEE”

Wednesday, January 19, 1994
11:30 a.m. - Lee Chapel

%. Jo

 

  
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
 
    
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
   

The Rin-tum Phi January 14. 1994

I

By David Wilmington
Phi Features Editor

lt’s not every day you get to hear a musical genius
logged by another genius.

Trumpeter Miles Davis died in 1991 after being in the
refront of jazz and popular music for almost 40 years.
turally, his death was followed by a number of reissued
leases from various record companies. Miles Davis an-
logies and personal eulogies from anyone who ever
ssed him on the street. Joe Henderson, a tenor sax player
d co league of Davis, chose to pay his respects in a more
ani gful manner — he recorded his interpretations of
vis’ own music.

Henderson’s 1993 release, so near, so far, is subtitled
/lusings For Miles” and features music written or made
pular by Davis. Co-producer Richard Seidel writes in the
er notes, “lt struck me that there was a whole group of
lly interesting compositions that had been written and/or
rodﬂzed by Davis but which were rarely, if ever, recorded
performed again after their initial appearance. We de-
ed to explore that repertoire on this album.” That’s not to
; these are obscure or inferior tunes. ln fact, four of them
~ conﬁrmed jazz classics. The original performances by
l vis and his assorted side men were probably intimidating
ough to discourage faint—hearted musicians from offering
msﬂves for comparison.

Joining Henderson on this album are drummer Al Foster,
ssist Dave Holland, and guitarist John Scofield. All four
n worked with Davis at different times but have never
iyed together as a band. Foster was very close to Davis and
yed in his bands during the early 70s and early 80s.
)ll3l'ld and Scofield were each with Davis for three years,
t Hepderson was only in the band fora month. Henderson’s
iliarity with the repertoire more than makes up for any
k of personal experience with Davis’ band.

The first notesofthe album make itobvious Henderson’s
nd is as mellow and rich as any in the history of the
trument . The opening composition, “Miles Ahead,”
ws Henderson to demonstrate the absolute evenness of
tong while creating a playful, energetic solo. The slow
e of the melody combined with the initial sparse instru-
ntation is reminiscent of Henderson’s last album, Lush
E.

The beginning of the solo chorus on “Joshua” provides
example of Henderson’s new melodic vocabulary. He

Bu Deborah Zollman
Phi Contributing Writer ond

After two hundred forty five years,
ces of Washington and Lee history
tinue to resurface and make their
y back to Lexington.
In November of 1993, W&L ac-
ted ﬁre donation of a letter written
Robert E. Lee from members of the
shington, D.C. law firm, Mason,
wick, and Lawrence. The letter,
tten in Lexington while Lee was
sident of W&L, was unusual be-
se he granted the law ﬁnn use of his ,
e a an endorsement.
Alth ugh Lee usually denied such
uests, he stated in this letter, “l
J not refuse an endorsement to a firm,
- of whose members is my friend
I classmate, Judge Charles Mason.”
rles Mason attended West Point

h Le: Mason finished first in the Leybum Libra;-y_

&L receives gift

class of 1829, with Lee finishing com-
petitively close in the position of sec-

Mason, Fenwick, and Lawrence, a
prominent national and international
law finn in the field of intellectual
property law, displayed the letter for
years on the office wall until a staff
memberpointedouttheletterwasfairly
valuable and could easily be taken. It
was then transferred to a safety deposit
box where it remained for several years.

That is, until partner Dale Hogue
came to W&L to visit his son, Stuart,
now a sophomore. Realizing W&L is
the repository for Lee’s letters written

_ during his presidency, Hogue discussed
the donation with other ﬁrm members.
After the members agreed, the letter,
which Hogue called “a point of pride
for the firm,” was presented to W&L.

Students wishing to view the letter
may see it in the climate—controlled
archives located on the first floor of

W&L ife

seems to have the drums
created an en- and the two
tirely new se- play off
ries of person— each other
ally recogniz- for the rest
able phrases in of the $010.

the last six or The im-
seven years. mediate
lt’s possible classic On
that some are the record-
unfamiliar be- ing is
c a u s e Davis’most
Henderson has elegant bal-
been ex- lad, “Fla-
t r e m e l y m e n c o
underrecorded Sketches.”
for a player of This com-
his ability. position
Nonetheless, a was first re-
live recording corded on
made at the thenowleg-
Village Van- e n d a r y

guard in 1985 Kind of
is noticeably Blue al-
different be- bum, a re-
cause of the cordingthat
absence of his seemstoof—
current -phrase fer new lev-
vocabulary. els of per-

“Pfrancing fectionwith

(No Blues)” repeated
was originally listening.

recorded in Asthe liner
1961 and isthe notes to
most widely Kind of

played ofthe compositions on the album. This performance
is one of the highlights of the album due to its rhythmic
intensity and blues jubilance. Henderson’s solo is a 1993
statement of blues tenor sax characterized by flights of
dissonant harmony resolving into laid back blues riffs. He
swings gracefully on top of Holland’s sustained quarter note
bass line and Scoﬁeld‘s short, plucky guitar accompani-
ment. Scofield’sspacy.colorfullydissonantchordingseems
to drive Henderson into a kind of frenzy at the end of his
solo.

Holland starts his solo by cooling things off with mea-
sure-long blues phrases. He sits on the last notes of these
phrases as ifsavoring the sound and listening for inspiration
(which he receives. in part. from Henderson, who you can
hear commenting in the background). As Holland relaxes
into longer phrases. Foster starts reacting and responding on

    
   

“./z""2 g4  s
-‘  4%. 1 AA;/Abccoa ’
¢v%h,4.A.:  /5 at. , fl-1.4
at N-¢~u4/$1.4/I 
_ ;,"}n.u[L.- , .44  
'   LL,

  f/((1.44/u ,JI/¢r.(,¢/lz/(.»A_,.r.L -Oc...,.4,,.,.44

  
ﬁg !L< Z/«um/ﬁ%p1  ,£4.«(,-$__J

. zilvvy /M a..o.c~L..)u.r at 44%¢.«Ivo-(JJ .614.
‘)4/141.! (14.44.-{/L..J 7  £7 114-‘ ' '4 *‘°‘‘‘’J
‘ .

  World renowned quinlel lo plau Lenfesl
Brass group performs Baroque, Classical and Jazz J

thy Gaylard. Concert Guild hosts two or more visiting

 '
434-11 Vfxl. 41:“ c(_, 4.. 

ﬂ7’Ia,44xvL_.. ,

yd“.  "4 )
41/Ly Aer./7}’ 7 moi l'[a:...//

Blue explained, “ ‘Flamenco Sketches‘ is a series of five
scales, each to be played as long as the soloist wishes until
he has completed the series." Henderson uses this extremely
open structure to create a kaleidoscope of musical impres-
sions. Where the original “Flamenco Sketches”solossounded
like three different expressions of endless longing,
Henderson’s solo feels like a whirlpool of emotions churn-
ing inside a single person. He manages to evoke memories
of saxophonists John Coltrane and Cannonball Adderly in
his solo. Pan of his final statement of the melody is an
invocation of Davis himself. Scofield manages to make one
of the most famous piano accompaniments sound as if it
were written for guitar and Foster is able make brushes on
a snare drum sound like the distant maracas of a carnival.
The piece ends with Henderson is last notes fading like sighs
into the sound of his breath over the reed.

14/[4/L4...)

 

From Staff Reports

 

PAGE 5

axophone great pays tribute

enderson remembers Miles Davis in ’93 Jazz release

Both “Teo” and “Milestones” are good examples of the
group’s ability to interact melodically and rhythmically
while swinging together at different tempos. “Sidecar”
touches on Davis’ rock inﬂuenced sounds of the late 60s and
early 70s. While the rhythm section lays down a plodding,
almost rap-like, backbeat, Henderson manages to swing
even better than Davis did on this type of tune.

The only shaky element on the album, as heard in
“Circle,” is Scofield’s ability to swing. The ballad is one of
Davis’ most interesting pieces because of the way the
harmony, melody and rhythm seem to push everything
forward while constantly tying each other up. Scofield’s
playing is hannonically fascinating, but doesn’t seem to

‘swing — especially when playing with Henderson and

Foster who can swing using a single note. The only tune
where Scofield seems to let loose and swing is, appropri-
ately, “Swing Spring.” Here, he manages to keep his adven-
turous harmonic and rhythmic identity while maintaining a
relaxed swing during his solo.

so hear, so far is the second in a series ofjazz composer
songbooks Henderson is recording for Verve records. In the
tradition ofthe great Ella Fitzgerald songbooks, Henderson
and his producers pick a specific composer and record an
album focusing on a specific era or form of that composer’s
works. Henderson’s first songbook recording, Lush Life.‘
TheMusic ofBilly Strayhorn, was released in 1992 to almost
universal critical acclaim. His popularity has continued to
grow as shown by numerous “Jazz Artist of the Year”
honors in various magazines. Listeners are realizing why
Henderson is revered by the new generation ofjazz musi-
cians: he encompasses and filters the tenor sound of older
masters while fluently speaking and creating with modern
harmony.

As this kind of popularity usually creates an interest in
artists’ older work. here are some suggestions for those who
wish to investigate Joe Henderson. Two classic recordings
from the 60s, when Henderson was considered a product of
the Detroit jazz scene, are Page I and Mode For Joe. Both
albums feature outstanding sidemen and excellent writing.
Recent albums include The State ofthe Tenor: Live at the
Village Vanguard (Volumes 1 and 2) and Soul Gestures in
Southern Blue: (Volume 1) Thick in the South. The latter
recording was made with Wynton Marsalis’ band and guest
drummer Elvin Jones. Thick in the South is destined to
become one of those albums people kick themselves for not
paying attention to sooner. The compositions are the most
elegant statements of modern blues conception and
Henderson’s playing is nothing short of legendary.

Needless to say. ifyou get the chance to see him live. Joe
Henderson is. to quote an old saxophone teacher, "one of
those cats you sell your car to go see.“

Photo by Lincoln Rssel

The Empire Brass quintet will play in the Lenfest Center this Tuesday at 8 p.m. as part of the Concert Guild music series.

legendary string group Beaux-Arts Trio on March

performers or groups during Fall and Winter Terms. 9.

featuring heavy metal...so to speak.

Andrew Lloyd Webber.

 

Photo courtesy of Barbara Brown
- rt E. Lee’s letter to former classmate at a D.C. law firm.

 

of Zurich, Switzerland.

The Lenfest Center is about to host its first concert

Telarc records artist Empire Brass will open the
Concert Guild winter term season this Tuesday at 8
p.m. The brass quintet performs and records music
from such diverse sources as Bach, Shostakovich,
Stravinsky, Richard Rodgers, Duke Ellington and

The concert is one of 100 the ensemble gives each
yearthroughout the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan and
Russia. While in North America, the quintet has been
featured with highly acclaimed groups such as the
Chicago Symphony, the New York Philharmonic,
the National Symphony, the Philadelphia Orchestra
and the Toronto Symphony Orchestra. The Empire
Brass has also appeared with the Tonhalle Orchestra

The W&L Concert Guild consists of a student
board led by Associate Professor of Music Dr. Timo-

tra of Hamburg and Chanticleer.

Recent performers have included The Mozart Orches-

The final Concert Guild presentation will be the

Reservations can be made by calling 463-8000
between noon and 4 p.m. Mon. - Fri. or by stopping
by the Lenfest Center Box Office.

 

 

W The Ringum Phi, January 14,1993

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

 

0“ “I3 mark by Mark Parisi - Pluggers by Jeff MacNe11y
W

     
    

',s_v_v

_ \ _ — _——.—-m ‘ ‘.;..:
~\‘ t§ .~_.

\\§§§{{§‘i§'\s:‘>:-:-
THE NEW GU"\’ SURE \\ V5" ‘‘
KNOWS HI9 STUFF,

BUT HE WEQWT
TALK MUCH.

  
  
 
    
   
  

  
  
 
 

 
 

 

 

Dave by David Miner

I I
.-I
,— .
4’-nI"’—
I
Inc/PIQ;1!UI¢

   
  
   
 
  
    
        
    
     
    
   
  
  

 

     
 

   

  

    

 

 

 

 

I \ 16
%1‘ ii ;, ’    , g {vim W ow ii:[ iavfﬁwsgz  %‘i’;‘.*‘.'iEi'2'iE“éZéi‘E“.iw”.”2$‘
.  , / , I‘ «'3; . . ’ _ '
i » .,//»/.Wgi):i,' . iii
 We ~.'.~ m i ' /A / K  Q: o
§  Pluggers can work with just about anyone.
nW~KMl6l ‘
Colonnade Crossword F ' ‘ 1 ,
1éCRO:S 1 p ‘:  ‘ V; ;—.
uppo .f  . =:»' .:
i     i  i;\i2\< é\NCE HE \\F-L\>\=.D

ii; "’   ; _ 1 lift‘:   a gram: us 1° Fo\\R-éTkR

15 ‘v.1/gar down ‘ r ‘. ‘  I \ {    

16 A;,g;;.=. .~ .1 l  ,; \Né?\3.CV°R; c_:roi>i>Ei>

17 Patron ,_ .  rinoiixb Rim‘ N \*E‘~?“—- ,
£3 ghimneyldirt VI NE Qgﬁ kL_,K\kl(7 WNXT

21 F;‘.’.‘f.3°JJ§’i{‘i.g New NO WE

ggih/Avgging bird BY E°\)\LLlx8i\\é€;E

26 Straps - -_-_-_-

3; §’3I§‘i?.Zii  L.-: '

30 Orngrisis. for .

siéiiid.   «

rincip es

 /manner 9°°c‘,3f‘g5'“,,5,,¢',°T

39 Legislative  TD

wgggggrs 3( AMQMORE.

41 Nest egg letters by Mike Peters

:3 E223:    "W/94 3

45 :::,:‘ten 9 Used to be Last week’s puzzle solved ip

48 Permit 10 Zipper

49 American poet 11 Seething

50 Where 12 Perch

Islamabad is 13 Deadens the

52 Eye part sound of

53 New: abbr. 18 — chance!

54 Like a tence- 22 Endures

sitter 23 Breaks all of a

58 Pro —- sudden

23  Iish school  17V-oljlcagses 0 / I

61 Latg. abbr. performer I

62 2s:~.*;2.:*;*;,2;;i.. ":*“°“*%:°

. exo ic crea ures
63 $'.‘3¥’.iY°“' 5 3% E§§?§d indigenous to .
34 Items for Alaska. <'
DOWN angling % E
1 Apron part 35 Brainy g 0 I
 =;Z.a';*.*.i°:.‘::.::"° ca  -4-1” , 3
4 Genuflects 40 Kitchgn device )  ‘ \  I -“
5 Ground grain 43 Mars. e.g. 47 Japanese city 55 Gabor I\\ I  // , ‘  , i 
6 Circle part 44 Comesto pass 49 Calendar abbr. 56 Otto — , \g_ _—E5.w i _ 3
7 Dwelling 45 Seed kin 51 Ends Bismarck it I91.‘ _ 2 _l\_, / \
3 Makes beautiful 46 Gem weight 52 Frosted 57 Dir. letters  i  V Egg  {E
‘i. _ . . n./4 ‘wxixx-we \ i - A\\\\' ixxvrrci
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
'-' . I
E Pa“”T‘m"' Help Wanted 5 Evans Dining Hall 1S now
E Work approximately 20 hrs. per week 5 - aCCCpt1llg Appl1Cat1OHS fOl .
:Opportunity. to earn $400 - $800 per month starting: Hardware, Paint, and Related Items thg PQSiti()n of Studﬁnt
: immediately — College Students Welcome : - . k 1
C3114634675 2 Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. Llnewor er? to app y? S66
I I
I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I : E.  St.’  V      ’
I I I I I I I I I I, _ ,_ -
ylllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE - _
§BEACH Springbreak Promoter. § _ D 
S OMETHING T()  smau oi iaige groups.  Deadline Monday 1/1 7/94
§ FREE trips and CASH! §
FIT ANY SIZE 
illlIIIIIllIIIII|l|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIE

 

AP N I I E Kerr’s Creek House For Rent

Clean, 4 Bedroom, 2 1/2 ,.

bath, $800/mo. Available d

June 1st. 8 min from W&L
Call Tom 464-8628

 

SPRINGBREAK
packages. PROMOTE on
campus or SIGN UP for
’°°"§i'2§ay‘§“a» %‘“*“““   ~     .   i  
City an up. ancun.   ;: ,3 
’ ” Stonewall Square Shopping Center
h d Lexingggggl
Rig tnow, your a 463- _ '-’
could be in this <£r<£ri‘ri£rJanuary Specialsﬁrikﬁrik
Space’ “"3 See" by Buy 5 comic books and get 4th one Free
hundreds of We carry all major comic distributors 81 independents such as
potential customers. Mat;-veL DC, Image, Valliany, . . .
Ca11462_4059 ikﬁrikﬁrikfrikikikfrskvkik
Buy any full-length CD and get $2.00 off each

 

consecutive one

    

CRUISE JOBS or
Students Needed!

Em WW permommwoﬂd Buy any full length cassette and get $1.00 off each
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the consecutive one.
Caribbean, etc.) working for ﬂ * 71:‘, ﬁ ﬂ ﬂ ﬂ ﬁ, * ﬂ * * 7}
C i Shi T c a ‘es. _ _ , _
ii:ii:.y, SIi)iSni)r:ieiﬁ:1i\dOl:1nilIl)-'lr'uirne 99¢ Rentals in Foreign and Hunting Sections

W emP1°Y“‘°“‘ 3"“”“"1°- F°‘ Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. 10a.m.-ll p.m.,

453 E. Nelson St. ernp}oymentPr°sram¢a11= _ sum Noonqo p_n\,
463-3322 o.m......,i.........,.... ‘ C'{§‘5§,Eé§‘§.'3¥é§eZ§5E’é"§Z”§ L1 Jr‘

 

 

 
 

PAGE 7

O

B PECK, from page 1

percent of all her student evaluations were
overwhelmingly positive and if obvious gender
bias was discounted, 98 percent were positive.

ﬂStudents have consistently praised many
strengths such as enthusiasm, imagination and
the ability to facilitate an open and animated
discussion,” Peck said. “As a female professor
who welcomes a variety of materials and per-
spectives, Irhave been particularly important to
the women and minority students.”

Many students did not respond to the
department’s request for a letter because of a
growing cynicism about the department, Peck
said.

After the department’s decision was made,
16 additional letters were sent in. In addition,
sophomore John Branam circulated a petition
Wdnesday, Jan. 12, which garnered more than
80 signatures showing student support for Peck.

“Many students have told me they were
cynical about the English department’s process

Rlamifications of Pe

after what happened to John Lynch and did not
believe student opinion would be considered,”
Peck said. “The English department is ignoring
the student voice which is strongly supportive.
I believe the charge of teaching inadequacies is
a pretext for other motives.”

Late last spring, following the denial of two
separate requests for reconsideration and writ-
ten reasons for dismissal, Peck began looking
into other options open to her. She opted to file
the appeal after learning the American Asso-
ciation of University Professors (AAUP) stipu-
lates a committee composed of elected faculty
members should hear cases in which a “faculty
member challenges negatives decisions because
of inadequate considerations or more substan-
tial considerations such as discrimination or
denial of academic freedom.”

The only such committee at Washington
and Lee, the President’s Advisory Committee,
was chosen to hear the appeal. The six elected
faculty members began reading Peck’s 67—page
petition in early November.

The committee was to base its conduct on

that outlined for the standing committee by the
AAUP.

In reaching its decision, however, the com-
mittee based its judgment on university guide-
lines regarding the process of renewal and
tenure decisions as set forth in the Faculty
Handbook.

“A process, that in our judgment was not
ﬂawed, still needs to be explained fully to
Professor Peck,” Williams said. “If a more
complete explanation of their decision is given,
it will certainly allow her to make more in-
formed decision as to what her next step will
be.”

However, the committee’s recommendation
to the English department to provide a detailed
letter explaining their decision, is - for Peck -
indicative of a major flaw in the department’s
considerations.

“According to the Faculty Handbook, the
candidate must receive a letter of evaluation
and the AAUP says you are to be given specific
reasons for dismissal; the English department
did not do that,” Peck said. “Now, the English

department will have to be accountable for their
decision. They will have to provide principled
reasons for my non-renewal which are consis-
tent with the factual record.”

Although the committee has reached a deci-
sion, there isThere is some debate as to whether
the English department will have to follow their
recommendations.

“It [the committee’s report] certainly doesn’t
end the issue one way or another,” Williams
said. “Another decision has to be made and the
next step will be his [Wilson]”

Peck said the committee’s decision poten-
tially provides a means of reopening negotia-
tions between the English department and her-
self although a mediator may prove to be nec-
essary since “the English department has proven
themselves to not be impartial.”

Branam said the findings of the committee
provide W&L with an interesting opportunity.

“The most valuable piece of this whole
situation is justice. The process that has gone on
with Professor Peck is wrong and correcting
that process is most important,” Branam said.

  

The Ring-tum Phi. January 14, 1994

ck decision still unclear

“This isn’t just a Professor Peck situation. It’s
a vehicle through which W&L can improve its
bad habit of narrow-mindedness and prove
itself a just institution.”

Despite the findings of the committee, the
sex discrimination charge filed against the uni-
versity with the Equal Employment Opportu-
nity Commission (EEOC) still stands.

“I don’t think the ﬁght is over. lt’s just one
step in a larger process,” Peck said.

Although she views the findings of the com-
mittee as a victory, Peck nevertheless remains
concerned about the procedure and the ability
to make “power serve principle.”

“Perhaps it is only because the President’s
Advisory Committee did not consider issues of
fairness and objective professional judgment
based on the evidence, that they were able to
conclude there was adequate consideration,”
Peck said.

“They only considered the barest formali-
ties of procedures. I still have many questions
about the fairness of the English department’s
process.”

VMI still searching for solution

Strickler said he is not worried about the implications of the recent

By MICHEAL Hrswu-:1'r
Phi Staff Writer

A VMI proposal to start a parallel program for women at Mary
Baldwin College may still be alive.

On February 9, the Federal District Court in Roanoke will begin to
analyze Virginia Military Institute’s proposal to establish a similar
leadership program for women at Mary Baldwin. V

According to VMI Public Relations Director Colonel Mike Strickler,
the case will be presided over by Judge Jackson Kiser, the same judge
who ruled in VMI’s favor in 1991 in the United States 4th Circuit Court
of Appeals. '

Last June the Supreme Court refused to hear the case and sent it back
to a lower court.

Stricklersaid Kiser ruled that VMI had four options: become private,
create a parallel program for women, accept women, or propose other
creative alternatives.

VMI proposed that a Virginia Leadership Institute for Women be
established at Mary Baldwin College with one difference—-no rigorous
training program for first-year cadets.

Strickler said the Federal District Court will decide on the consti-

ruling by the Circuit Court, which said that the school must admit
women. Strickler noted that only one woman would be taking classes
and would be exempt from the school’s more stringent physical require-
ments.

He added that VMI has been struggling over this issue far longer than
the all-male Citadel.

“I think that ours [case] would have more of an effect on them than
theirs would have on us, ” said Strickler.

Anne Marie Whittemore, a lawyer with McGuire, Woods, Battle &
Booth in Richmond, said that VMI’s proposal satisfies the conditions
mandated by the Circuit Court.

Whittemore said she sees no conﬂicts with the Brown vs. Board of
Education decision, which dictated that separate but equal is inherently
unequal.

“We believe there are gender differences that would justify single-
sex [education],” she said.

Whittemore said the president and dean of Mary Baldwin will testify
along with various expert witnesses. According to Whittemore, Dr.
David Reisman, professor of sociology at Harvard University, will
testify that the program at Mary Baldwin will achieve some type of
leadership for women similar to VMI and that it is a unique and

tutionality of the proposal.

innovative program.

0

O

Or

this wag.

 HCU VOU!

Thanh You for diverting gour attention

We at the Phi would line to extend aninvitation to god.
Now that god have made it past Fall Term gou’re on a
‘roll and readg to add some excitement to gour life. well,
we thinh we can help gou out. Come work for us. After
all we’re the onlg newspaper in town with a real comics

section and a singing computer.

can thinh of.

it gou’re interested, we’re interested in reporters, Copg editors,
photographers, artists, advertising assistants, or angthing else gou

So come on pg or give us a call at 464-4060.

 

    

PAGE 3

@112 '4'.Ring-tum lﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Favorite Prof
Passes Away

Washington and Lee is known for professors who care
about their students and take the extra, intangible step to help
us in our education. Even among a faculty known for its
dedication, George Steven Whitney stood out.

Professor Whitney gave his students more than book
knowled e. He gavethem his love and ener y. He pushed his
students t at one extra step, but Professor itney was a man
that was willin to go that extra step with them.

Professor itney’s students and colleagues have said
the will miss him. But anyone who has heard someone speak
of rofessor Whitne knows his inﬂuence will reach farther
than what he accomp ished in his lifetime. Professor Whitney
was notfjlust a professor and a collea ue. He was the kind of
person I at has the ability to change lives. Professor Whitney
will be missed, but he will not soon be forgotten.

Who Asked You? R

How would you like it if someone came into your home
and com letely remodeled it without first asking you what
you wou d like to have done?

You probably would not like it at all, but that is essentially
what the university is oing to do to the residents of Gaines 1
Hall. The Gaines Hall Revitalization Committee has been
meetin all school year to try and make Gaines a more
desirab e place to live — no small undertaking. But the
committee has practically i nored the current residents of
Gaines, or at least that is w at any casual observer would
believe.

Gaines residents have been iven one survey, which can be
called simplistic at best, and a lank piece of paper on which
each individual was su posed to write down what they liked
best about livin in aines. The survey left no room for
comment and ju ged answers on a numeric scale. As for the
blank piece of paper, more than a few residents were given the
imgression that it was not somethin to be taken seriously,
an they shouldn’t give the reason t ey picked the answer
the ha .

The revitalization committee’s intention may have been
good when devising their system, but it seems their execution

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phl, January 15, 1994

U.S. has nuclear double standard ,

The news is full of the signing of the accord
between the United States, Russia, and Ukraine to
dismantle Ukraine’s nuclear arsenal. Ukraine seems
worlds away from Lexington, but what goes on in the

world.

weapons, which are more suited to peace in today’s

The second argument is economic. I am not an
economist so I will simply state two facts. First, for

ODS.

we have when it comes to who has nuclear weap-

To those hawks who would call this stupid and
naive: it might be naive but not stupid. It is human

nature to want what others have, some sort of
equality in status, as long as we have weapons
everyone else is going to want them too. In addition, 6

every $1 billion spent on de-
fense, 25,000 jobs are cre-
ated; for every $1 billion spent

world affects us, even in Lex-
ington. While I am sure ev-

was flawed. Surveys often can be the best way to gauge
6 eryone agrees there are major

attitudes, but in this case the survey only scratched t
surface. Simply asking someone if the use one of the two

‘<i‘°““=" ‘a°“‘““ ‘" Gen.“ *5 "°‘ mug if ‘he PW“ ‘S W ‘.’§.'3.?§§i.§°J§“iiI£“i{¥.’.§ii“!§§ NOVA 2?e§i'§§”§Z23?.3i’°.?‘i335’“‘i§° fi”§}'e‘n§’é’i’ii.°.§ §3£i;a“!‘;§‘:”°n§‘g“°’ "“°’”‘°S f°'
given the Chance [0 explain why they-do Or do not The Survey double standard when itoomes the Center for Defense lrifor): The other area of the cifuble standard could be
would have been a ood startin point if the committee had 1 ES . H CLARKE, . f d h b 1. . 1 db d. h “d d ,,
then taken the res” ts and use them to determine further to nuc ear arms. sentia y, , matron oun t at y e 1mi- so ve yen ingt e oas we say, not as we .0
the belief seems to be that  nating nuclearweapons from standard of American conduct. Last year as China

questions. But they didn’t, and the residents of Gaines really

on,‘ know what is going on. thenucleararsena1,wewould

save $31 million a year.

Americans should have
nuclear arms and test them

was getting ready to start nuclear testing, President
Clinton announced if China resumed testing so .

 

If the committee had consulted with Gaines residents they
might not have recommended the conversion of loft suites to
meeting facilities for the sororities and the Women’s Forum.
Anyone who lives in Gaines knows those suites arethe most
desirable places to live. There are less than 15 loft suites in
all of Gaines. The onl thing changing ﬁve loft suites does is
take away five desira le living spaces.

The sororities and Women’s Forum deserve their own
spaces. But is this solution the best? There are many other

while the rest of the world
should not.

The U.S. is currently engaged in two public rela-
tions campaigns‘, one abroad in Ukraine and one here.
The one abroad is simple: convince the Rada (Ukrai-
nian parliament) that they would be better off without
all the nuclear anns on their land. President Clinton is
helpingeverybody else by treating President Kravchuk

sure of safety would

safety and reliability comes
up. Under the Nuclear Testing Moratorium Act, only
15 tests for safety are allowed by 1996. This is 15 too
many, considering safety tests don’t test the stability
of a weapon; they test the power of a weapon after
safety features have been added. I think a truer mea-

Finally, the argument of

torium.

would we. However, at the same time, we expected
everyone else in the world to maintain their mora-

We tend to ignore what our allies do with their
arms while hounding our non-allies. For example
the case of Mordechai Vanunu, the person who
revealed that Israel had nuclear capabilities. He’s

serving his seventh

Theloftswesaretheiargestsuites»butthey i.:::;°.:::i:;:::::..”::t:,‘;'ti:::?..t::*;3:i....  i:a;:t.:2.‘,8i.::3::2*
t t h 60 t' h . . . ‘ . ‘ ‘ -————-———— ‘
:§:(,E]t(i)n;2_1rﬁe€jf;:)ré(S)[l]lgt11SeCf):m()1li(1|j(eU1‘:ggllggggignlgigggggvgggﬁ ttossﬁampﬁégmtlhwhple-heartedlyﬁgreetgipt Ukraine Qhose ywdhomliil/‘Jed V meilitd llf he had ‘re-
suites benefits anyone except the university,which has effec- '5 C er 0 W‘ O" W°aP°"S: '3 Pm em. "mes °“’“‘”"‘ 9 ° .8" Th 1, 1' b h V“ e. .r.aq S_ “C ea‘
~ « - when you compare that campaign to the public rela- vada test site or in e e lefseems to e t at capabilities v/ewould
tivel dodged the question ofsorority housing and a house for . . . . . . . ’ .
the Oments Forum. tionscartipaign withindthe U.S. which seems bent on thhe Marfshall lslalnds Amencans Should have nuclear ha\;edhhailedbatnd pro- ’
. convincing us we nee nuc ear arms. ow sa e a nuc ear dt t th '  th t tec e im, u since it
We have all heard the arguments for arms and explosion is. arnls an es em W l e e res waslsrael’sarsenal he
continued testin : we need arms for deterrence. In Now, ou ma be 0 the WOI'ld Sh0llld 7101. revealed, W6 i HOFC
8 Y Y 8
some way, shape, or form cutting nuclear weapons wondering aboutthe him.
will hurt the economy. And, as stated by Admiral point of my giving   l would like to
W.G. Ellis of the Department of Energy, “Nuclear all these facts. The leave you withaquote
    testing must be carried out to assure the safety and treaty with Ukraine from the man my
reliability of each nuclear weapon in the stockpile.” is admittedly a historical one; however, the United grandfather served under in World War ll: “The ‘
“ , ” Let’s evaluate these three statements. First, we States has the ability to take even more dramatic and world in arms is not spending money alone. It is
1 VC S€€n  need weapons to deter potential aggressors. Even if important steps. With the upcoming Non-Prolifera- spending the sweat ofits laborers, the genius ofits
this is true we hardly need the thousands ofwarheads tionTreaty Extension Review Committee in l995,the scientists, the hopes of its children... This is not a
_ a w&L male /',',,d,’,1g ;,,',,,5e[/',‘,, a soromy ms}, eVenl_ we have when a couple hundred would be sufficient U.S. has a chance to take a bold step toward non- way oflife at all in any true sense. Under the cloud
to destro most life on Earth. The Cold War is over roliferation, the chance to agree to dismantle its of threatening war, it is humanity han in from a
Y . P . . . . . 3 3
and we have military capabilities, beyond nuclear nuclear arsenal, and to eliminate the double standard cross of iron,” — Dwight D. Eisenhower.
0
66
There are lots of femfondlers and U S Af .  needs chan e
tree huggers in the world.” 0 0   g
_" W&L Pmfesso’ Once upon a time, in the British destiny it is to subjugate lesser people, mately to give, his lirfle in sprvice to lo_s1tl?l:Ne of the de1yellopel:1d lvlvorld are
colony of Nyasaland in Africa, there and teachthemthewaysofwhatpasses others—others unlike imsel .In spite sti t e ones who 0 d a t e power,
lived a boy named Hastings Kamuzu as civilization. of his context of overlordship (or per- just as much as before. The difference .
" " * Banda. It has come down to us that But I have another anecdote that haps because of it), Broughton felt a is that, by breaking the formal ties of
I B ‘  In I Hastings would sometimes stand out- may give us pause in our judgments. sense of responsibility for his African colonialism, we were able to convince
side of the local whites-only tennis At aboutthesame time young Hastings charges; he translated that sense into ourselves that we no longer had any
Executive Ennn, , , _ _ , _ _ _ , , , , , , , _ _ _ _ _ , _ , , , , _ _ _ , _ , , _ _ , , , , ,_p,ancesca Kefalas club, watching his colonial masters was serving as an unpaid ball boy in concrete andynoble action. pbligations to the people we made
Managing Editor ........................................ . . Nancy Pavlovic hone their net Nyasaland, We Americans, however. have had free; theS_0m_a11s are an Independent
1 _’ News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos games against my great enough of Somalia._It Just isn’t worth people, again, In the_ f0l'm31 S_€nS6_, 50

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Richard Weaver the backdrop u n c l e , risking American lives, we say. We any aid Westerners give them isakind- .

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilben of a green Rift Broughton went initially to keep order and distrib- ness and not a duty. The idea of colo-

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Stephen Williard Vaney land- Waddy, was ute food; we are not leaving because nialism, however, was based loosely

Features Editors. - - - - - - - ~ - - - . - - - - ~ - - - - ~ - - ~ - ~ - --David Wilmington: Ethan KnI_PP scape. NICHOLAS L, serving as a those needs no longer exist — we are (and imperfectly) on the age-old prin-

Ph°‘°8“*PhY E“"°" - ‘ ‘ - - - - - ~ - - - - - ' ~ ~ - ~ ' - - - - ~ - - - - - - - - - ' - - ' ' ' - - -B°”""‘Y S"“"‘ The injus- doctorforthe leaving because we don’t choose to ciple of vassalage; the mother country

A" Di’°°‘°' ‘ ' ' ‘ ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ’ ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ‘ ' ' ‘ ‘ ‘ ’ ‘ ' Pb" C‘“"°“ ticeof it allwas WADDY, ’96 British Oolo- face the risk and sacrifices involved in would protect and look after the sub-

y_,.5df‘°"‘:31C°"°°“i-°{‘ - ~ ' ‘ ‘ - - - - ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ‘ ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' "jeb Tiny a little lost on riial Office in meeting them. Here is the most telling ject country, and the subject country

’.~Ed"°"“' Page Ass'S“'" ' ' ' ‘ ' ‘ ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ‘ ' ‘ ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ’ ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ "Sm" Wya“ y o u n g the west Af- scandal of all: in the supposedly en- would in turn obey. The end of colo— .
5- , . H a st i n g s rican Gold lightened moral calculus ofthe 1990’s, nialism was a brilliant deal for us: we
3 M . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .K Rodd ’ . . . .

y  Bﬁgangegs Manager _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ . _ _ _ A _ _ _ _ . . V ‘Allen Fucking”, Rcavnlgom Jags however, as he Coast. 1 To half a milllion S_oin2ti_lis saved frorrdi star- kept thglpower and forfeited any ac-

’ IAdvertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Sally Obennueller would Pa‘ _ . make 3 0n_g vane" pa em_S'gm lcancetotwo Olen couma 1 lty‘ , _ -

glnivenising Assistant , _ _ , , , _ _ _ , , _ , , _ , _ _ _ , , , , _ , _ _ _ , , _ _ , , _ _ _ , , , , Brian widene, tiently wait for a Briton to hit the ball story short, l3roughton pouredout his dead American So, if the Afn—

Icncniniion Manager , , , , , , , , , _ _ , , , , _ , , , _ , , , _ , _ , , , , , , , _ _ _ . . ,,i3nan Carpenter over the fence, so he could dutifully life, quite liberally, combating the soldiers. We cans are ev_er_to
 throw it back. Fate has been kind to scourge of river blindness, in so doing chide our fo.re- ______ C c ____ betreated within-
me R.-,,g.n,,,, pm‘ is Pnnnsnen pndays dun-ng the nnnengmdnnie scnoni yen, at Hastingsin the intervening years; he is making it possible forthousands to see bears for treating . tegnty, it seems

Wvashington and Lee University. Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-[um phi now president of the African nation of all the beauties of this world who oth- the Africans like We chlde 0“,-forebears we have two op- Q
1.‘? . . . . . . Th Washin um and Lee Malawi.The few remainingwhiteland— erwise could not have done so. Even- underlings, but for treatin the Afﬁcans tions. Either they
}:¢°m°_s p_"manly from advemsmg ind su,bs°"p"°" revenues‘ e g , _ owners are, at least technically, his tually,Broughton Waddy would dieof we treatthem like .  should be given a
r;?l.lbIlC3Il0nS Boardelectstheexecutive editorand business manager, butTheRmS‘tumPhi Subjects. a disease he contracted while working chaff. Just how llke undefllngs; but we truer equality, an
 °'h¢TWi5¢ i“d°P°“d€m- The great changes that have oc- as a doctor in the Gold Coast. far has the West treat them  chaff actual equality,or
. ,3; Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi‘ office, room 208 of the University curred in Mr. Banda’s life over the, ltwouldybe much too bold of me to come from the h ha h ‘W their inferiority
y }'.5(;,n.,,_ by noon on Tuesday in app”, in ihaiweekvs ednion Lenm, connnns, and «My say, 50 years are indicative of similar suggest which of these two anecdotes dark . days . of Just 0W far S I e est slﬁoulg ‘be en-

 ; -':Yiews” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does Zgufts _‘hlr_0ugil‘]0ut Af"‘‘:ja' 1:18 |Agfe of glfvzzla Cizzfirsergplat/urelgfttti‘: g:,e,:::e de‘a_u‘l'_1nr‘nS,§'C“/1:; Conle fr0"l the dark days :0:_:r::f relgi Srgglﬁ Q
3   '°ﬂ°°‘ 'h° °Pi"i°_" of The R""g"f”" PM or “S Sim‘ This newspaper observes Cum"! lh(;(;2:i1§ni1nalal;l!l)l:isI?l'tl:g Einnlerayeririocrii (liave bait “better-<(>)flf” had the ‘Euro? Eoiifil lsossibly be of chauvinistic impeﬁal' relationship), like
°°“" d°ﬁ""i°"5 °f "b" 3"“ °b5°°""y' independent and ostensibly self-deter- peans never come? Did the West, in more chauvinis- ism  c o l 0 n i a l i s m .
miningAfrica_n nation-states.Thestock the end, teach them more about war tic than to tacitly Whatever the
The Ring-rum Phi reaction to this turn of events is, of and oppression than it did about jus— assume that an choice we cannot
pos, Office Box 899 course, positive; it upsets today’s |ib- tice and charity? Who knows. American life is worth, at least, 20,000 pretend that thetweaker nations of the

Lexmgmn‘ Virginia erated conceptions ofhuman dignity to But, as U.S. forcesslink away from times as much as a Somali life? world can and should “take care of 5
74450 suggest that one nation could jLlSllfl- Somalia, one thing is clear: enlight— I suspect the truth lS this: Western- themselves. . lfyou are magnanimous

' ably keep another in the bondage of ened thinkers of the post—colonial era ersdid not close outthe eraofcolonial- enough to give Mr. Banda his tennis N,
T°'°Ph°”° (703) 4624060 colonial servitude. There are. to this could still learn a thing or two from ism because ofsome new moral vision; court, then you had better be willing to
F3X(703)453'405° modern way of thinking, no “mother men like Broughton Waddy. He, at it was done out of fatigue and eco- play his game with him on an equal
countries," no favored races whose least, was willing to risk, and ulti- nomicself-interest.Afterall.what was footing.

 

 

 

 

we Ring-tum Phi, January 15, 1994

OPINION

Save the planet, adopt a driver

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

We have got to do something about
this problem with people who do not
know how to drive. In the past month I
have encountered people who have I)
driven directly at me in my lane, 2)
tried to back up onto freeways, and 3)
p$sed me, pulled in front of me, slowed
down, and then waved to me, in that
order. I think you’ll agree this madness

‘ has got to stop.

Instead of doing homework, I have
spent the past week designing the per-
fect plan to reform this nation’s driv-
es. But before I unveil it, here is some
relevant background information.

For Christmas my cousin Jenni re-
ceived a wolf (really, this is relevant).
My other cousin Cindi found some
organization that deals with such things
and adopted a wolf for Jenni from a
pwk that roams Montana.

Apparently, for a fee, one may adopt
a wolf (or a whole pack) and receive
updates on where the wolf is roaming,
its family tree, as well as a picture. I
understand that you can even write
your wolf letters. The adoption fee
stwposedly goes toward the preserva-
tion of endangered species in the wild.
There are similar programs for blue
whales, eagles, The Trident, etc.

The adoption of random things such
as the above has inspired the perfect
solution to the aforementioned prob-

lem: there should be an Adopt-A-Driver
program. Before a license is issued,
new drivers would be required to find
a person who would be accountable for
any obnoxious driving the new driver
may commit.

For example, let’s say Robert E.
Student is driving along Henry Street
and he speeds up and pulls into the last
parking space, just as you are about to
pull into it. Instead ofbecoming sense-
lessly angry,

of resolving motoring disputes?” I
would then answer, “Because I com-
pleted Coach Jones’ Driver’s Educa-
tion Program,” and I am now omni-
scient.

When I was fifteen I took a driver’s
“education” course so that the insur-
ance company wouldrelease my mother
and simply charge us exorbitant rates
for our cars to be insured. My instruc-
tor for this course was Coach Jones of

the armored car

you may simply division of Vero
call in his li- ___m. j? Beach High
cense plate ‘ ‘ School, and he

number to the
Richard Weaver
Driver Com-
mand Center,
receive the
o f fe n d e r ’ s
sponsor’s ad-
dress, drive to
Lee Avenue,
and slug Tom
Hespos in the
stomach (this is
assuming Tom
is the driver’s
sponsor). Tom would then relay the
message to his adopted driver not to do
something so stupid again. Another
traffic problem: solved.

Now, you may be asking yourself,
in these exact words, “Richard, what
gives you the authority to pompously
stand in judgment of other peoples’
driving abilities and to go so far as to
suggestpremeditated violence asaway

0V3)’.

One of Coach Jones’
first acts as my driving
instructor was to point
out that our car had
yellow government
plates; therefore, no
policeman could pull us

molded me into
the Supreme
Driving Au-
thority I am to-
day.

For the
course, the
school pro-
vided us with
Chevrolet Ca-
price station
wagons the size
of two Hondas
and a Hyundai
welded together. One of Coach Jones’
first acts as my driving instructor was
to point out our car had yellow govern-
ment plates; therefore, no policeman
could pull us over.

At this pointl should mention Coach
Jones was a connoisseur of fine rap
music. In fact. his driver’s ed course
required rap music, specifically M.C.
Hammer, be played atexcessively high

volume whenever we were driving.
His driving philosophy was something
like “Check your rear view mirror one
time for every bass beat.” This trans-
lated into his yelling “CHECK YOUR
REAR VIEW MIRROR ONE TIME
FOR EVERY BASS BEAT,” to which
I would respond, “WHAT? I CAN ’T
HEAR YOU!” Coach Jones would then
nod his head and look out the window.

When we drove around town Coach
Jones offered a running commentary
about 1) how stupid people are and 2)
his ex-wife. Coach Jones was also a big
fan of testing the time it took to get
from 0-60 m.p.h. in one of the station
wagons (11.8 seconds). I learned a lot
of stuff you can’t learn in a classroom
from Coach Jones.

I don’t think I need to say anything
further about my qualifications as Su-
preme Driving Authority. But I will
take the opportunity to add that we
could even involve W&L Security and
TheirTow-Truck Friends in the Adopt-
A-Driverprogram. If an adopted driver
messed up, we could have Tom Hespos’
car towed away. The possibilities for
driver improvement are limitless.

Please express your support for the
Adopt-A-Driver program today by
making a gift to the Richard Weaver
Driver Command Center, c/o The Ring-
tum Phi, University Center. Don’t you
want to make this country ’s roads safer?

I said, “DON’T YOU WANT TO
MAKE THIS COUNTRY’S ROADS
SAFER?” TURN THAT STEREO
DOWN.

Clinton’s gay policy falls short

MY VIEW

the new policy, he replied: ‘‘I said I thought [gays]
should all be lined up and shot.” Someone with so
much fear and hatred for a particular group is not to be
assuaged by the knowledge that his homosexual co-

Melissa Sawyer, ’97

President Clinton’s new policy on gays in the
military is really nothing new — and as far as
pglicymaking goes, it is marred by ambiguity. The
policy permits homosexuals to “enlist,” but prohibits
“homosexual conduct.” This standard meets neither
the demands of the gay-rights activists, not those of
the opposition. Furthennore, it fails to fulfill either of
its two goals: that military morale be preserved while
the equal rights of homosexuals are enhanced.

The foundation of the Pentagon ’s consistent oppo-
sihon to allowing homosexuals in the military has
been forwarded by repeated official statements. The
basis of these has been that allowing gays in the
military at this time would undoubtedly lower the
morale and disrupt the cohesiveness of that particular
body. The military has justified its special policy on
homosexuals for years by declaring the military to be
ahody unlike any other, governed by certain neces-
sary infringements of personal conduct, and not sub-
ject to the same doctrines of equality the general

public has come to expect.

The new policy does little to protect this “military
morale.” Homosexuals will now be allowed to de-
clare their sexuality, as long as they do not participate
inﬁny conduct to express their lifestyle. For example,
a serviceman may not be dismissed for attending a gay

bar or subscribing to gay literature.

He may, however, be subject to review ifhe is seen
engaging in any physical acts - from holding hands
with a person of the same sex to sodomy. Wouldn’t
however the mere knowledge that a fellow service-
rrgn was homosexual have a morale-lowering effect
among his homophobic peers‘? Those who fear show-
ering with homosexuals will not be spared that —
indeed, they will be more likely to know the exact

identities of their gay peers.

One serviceman, recently quoted in The New York
Times, said when he was asked what he thought about

might allay this effect.

and absolute secrecy.

workers will never openly participate in any activities
related to their orientation. There is little incentive in
the new policy for improvement of the relationship
between hetero- and homosexual servicemen that

The Clinton policy is equally unsuccessful in meet-
ing the goals of the gay-rights activist — namely, that
homosexuals in the military be permitted to openly
express their orientation. Nominally these activists
have gained some ground in that recruits can now join
the services without lying about their sexuality. They
need no longer pretend to date members of the oppo-
site sex in order to “prove” themselves, or make
clandestine visits to gay bars. These advances are
largelyinsignificant, however. It is unlikely that more,
people will feel comfortable declaring their orienta-‘'
tion, fearing they will almost certainly become the
targets of their watchful and brutal peers. The fact that
the Pentagon (under judicial, executive, and public
pressure) will now openly allow homosexuals to
serve does not ensure an end to the physical and
emotional harassment of gays by their peers.

Furthermore, the policy does not satisfy the gay-
rights activists’ desire to subject the military to those
liberties and equalities guaranteed by the Constitution
and reaffirmed repeatedly by the courts. Certainly, the
homosexuals’ right to free speech is better protected
in that they may now declare their orientation. With-
out the right to express this sexuality, however, they
are not afforded the equal protection granted to het-
erosexuals. What serviceman would be willing to
declare his homosexuality, thereby opening himself
to attacks from his peers, without being able to partici-
pate in activities related to his chosen lifestyle that
would make the declaration worthwhile?

This policy then creates a de facto silence that
varies little from the former policy of an outright ban

Enforcement ofthe new policy is problematic, and
depends specifically upon the individual officers. An

officer that is anti-gay is more likely to actively
investigate and effect the prosecution of conduct
violations, while a more liberal officer may chose to
overlook some minor violations. The rules govem-
ing conduct are further complicated by their scope:
they extend into the servicemen’s behavior both on
and off the base, thereby giving the enforcement
officers jurisdiction over every aspect of the

servicemen ’s sexual behavior and family life. Mean-

lifestyle.

83)’-

while, gay soldiers who have infringed upon the
rules and committed conduct violations are easy
prey for vengeful or blackmailing peers.

Finally, in a stroke damaging to both the activ-
ists and the opposition, the policy contains no
requirements for education, either about homo-
sexuality itself or the common fears related to that
For example, many of the prejudices
against homosexuality stem from a fear of AIDS.
Servicemen citing their fearof the disease as an
element to their homophobia continue tomistak-» .- -
enly label AIDS a gay disease -— when-in fact I
heterosexuals are equally liable to become infected.

Recent interviews of servicemen revealed they
feared transmission of the virus from their gay
colleagues through their soap or towels.
possibility is refuted by almost all of the leading
scientists in the world. Beyond the fear of AIDS,
there is a fear that homosexuality itself is a conta-
gious ailment, and the presence of gays in close
military quarters mights inﬂuence others to “turn”

This

Recent genetic research, however, has shown
homosexuality is not merely a behavioral choice —
there is a growing consensus among scientists that
our sexual orientation is inherent at birth and un-
changeable. Separatism then is not the answer to
those who fear homosexuality.

The new policy’s only major success is in that it
furthers Clinton’s political goals. It isa compro-
mise that has neither fully alienated the religious
right nor closed the door upon further pro-equality

changes. This policy then, which is acceptable to

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

How does Women’s Rush compare to men’s Rush

 

Greg Hunt, ’97, Langhome, Pa. —
“Men have more fraternities to choose
from so it takes longer and is more

eomplicated.”

Nick Polizzi, ’96, Fairfax, Va. and Phil Carrott, ’96, Kansas City, Mo. ——
“It would be nice to have girls sing to us but we’d rather have free beer for four

weeks.”

TALKBACK

 

none of the people, is acceptable to almost all ofthe
politicians.

FD date

Worried about finding an FD
date‘? Then sign up to be a contes-
tant on the Cable 2 dating game.
Sign up will be next Wednesday.
Januaryl9, and Thursday, January
20 outside the Co-op.

Lacrosse

Anyone interested in being a
manager,statisticianorcameraman
for the men’s lacrosse team this
season, please call head coach Jim
Stagnitta at 463-8678.

Calyx

Students whodid not receivetheir
Calyx in the matriculation line may
pick up their copy in Carol Calkins
office in University Center next
week, 9 am. to noon and l to 4 p.m.

Seniors

Seniors may sign up for their
(‘alyx group photos at the Co-op
next week,Jan. l7, l8,20,2l,from
I0 a.m. to 2 p.m. Any questions?
Call Sarah Butler at 463-5377 or
Anthony Catalano at 464-8814.

Health

The first meeting of the Health
Education Committee for winter
term will be Thursday, Jan. 20, at
4:30 p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center. New members are
encouragd to attend. Questions? Call
Carol Calkins at 463-8590.

Short?

Short person organizational
meetingat7p.m.onThursday,Jan.
20. For more information please

 

call Doug.Kaut'man2,at.463-79364..‘» .

This week’s General Notes were compiled by Richard Weaver.

PAGE 9 L

MLK Day

The Black Law Students Asso-
ciation invites you to participate in
the recognition of Dr. Martin Luther
King,Jr.’s birthday on Sunday,Jan.
I6, I994, at 6 p.m. Please assemble
in the main lobby entrance of Lewis
Hall at 5:50 pm. The group will
proceed to Lee Chapel by candelight
and in song for a brief program in
recognition of the holiday.

DC’s, RA’s

The deadline for dorm counse-
lor and resident assistant applica-
tions is Friday, Jan. 14. Applica-
tions should be turned in to Dean
Manning.

Film Society

The Film Society will present
Olivier, Olivier tonight and Satur-
day night at 8 p.m. in the Trouba-
dourCinema. The public is invited.
There is no admission charge.

Filmfest  

There will be an International
Filmfest on Sunday, Jan. 16 in
Northen Auditorium. The films
begin at 2 p.m. and are sponsored
by the International Club.

Rush

Alpha Phi Omega service fra-
ternity begins Rush next week. For
more information please call
Heather at 462-4392.

Open House

The International Club will host
an open house on Sunday, Jan. 15 ,
from. 2.;5:p.m.-. » .- 'H = a

.- ti»; ‘ z,‘

LDDA thanks students
for their patronage

To the editor:

We at the Lexington Downtown
Development Association (LDDA)
would like to thank the students of
Washington and Lee for making the
l2/l 2/1 2/1 2 shopping Sunday and the
other shopping days in December such
2| success. The student presence at these
Merry Lexington events were greatly
appreciated. Congratulations to sopho-
more Robin King for winningour $400

Downtown Gift Certificate.

Our additional thanks goes to the
fraternities that decorated their houses
with the many white lights, thereby‘
contributing to the traditional festive
holiday appearence of the Downtown
Lexington community. "

Sincerely,
Woodson A. Sadler
Executive Director

 

Jamie Hardman, ’94, Spencer, W.Va., and Katie Tollison, ’94, Riner, Va.
— “They’re totally opposite but we get new shirts on bid day instead of taking

them off.”

..?.|1-A

»

-.

'3
¥
4,

Kristen Berg, ’95, Marietta, Ga. ;
“Women have better singing voices."

.,i.
W
-t l

 

.-‘H

.

 

!_.

GI.‘

av‘-.

55  A A VIL 
2?». IBUPROFEN so cr.

PAGE 10

 
    
  
  
    
  
  

Hams Teeter  
MEANS IW PICES

REDUCED PRICES

BACDII-I OR
SAUSAGE

12 Oz. Reg. or Thin HT Bacon or
16 Oz. Hot or Mild HT Sausage A

 

4»

U.S.D.A. CHOICE __/

LoNno 

LIMIT 2 WITH
ADDITIONAL
PURCHASE

OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOLBO

  
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 

  
 

LOW PRICES

FLORIDA “£241” 3/ 9
GRAPEFRIIIT ........ ..EACH 0

JUICY I99
CANTALOIIPE ......... ..EA.
79
99

IMPORTED I
PEACHES.  . . . . .LB.

 FLORIDA 4
I  14 LB. BAG

DIET PEPSI OR

  
   
    

irks-:It‘J .‘l‘ﬂ Ir.‘ n‘A:l'J‘l C'ﬂ'ﬂ"l‘I' u'A’.I‘1.‘5‘h‘-'1‘n'A'lr‘l qr; ran n.-

 

16-1 7
°YELLOW CUNG oFRUIT W-°" -PEAR t;"i‘€‘°"
T’-1-1--
H'I' H'I'
: HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY
|.|1' HT ORANGE
IcE CREAM 
 10.75 oz. 0

mscurrs 

. CAPLETS OR TABLETS
COMIEARE ro

HT
CAN N E D mu IT
2 LTR. 5
OZ.
PEACHES $55“ COCKTAIL HALVES
amen APPLE JUICE
LIMIT 2 WITH

SELECTED VARIETIES  16 9
J I! ICE «>4 oz-

HT .
 ‘ii°i‘iiit‘v’§°‘“ 59 9

2/ atgiﬁtéi
oz. O “

REG. OR FAT FREE PREMIUM

'I/2
,BlII'TER-IllE-N015 2/‘I00 gl T°MAT° 2/ 
ROAST BEEF LB.

.
.‘

 
:5 Prices Effective Through .lanuaryI8, 1994

Prices In ThisiAd Eiiectivﬁ WeclnescIay,J_anuary  Through Tuesday
Only.We Reserve T

Januaryl8,l'5r9 In Our.iLJix1n ton Stores

. g . .
e Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We G aciiy Accept Federal Food Stamps.

SPORTS

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 199:

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Standings as of 01/10/94

Men’s Basketball
Leading Scorers
Player Pts
Cam Dyer 125
Matt Newton 88
Jon Cotifman 82
Derek Carter 82
Mark Connelly 81
Chris Couzen ‘ 7‘)

Robert Miggins 67

Leading Rebounders

Player Reb
Robert Miggins 56
Derek Carter 54
Mark Connelly 49
Cam Dyer 44
Jon Coffman 26
Chris Couzen 24
Matt Newton 18
F ree-throw Standings
Player Ft/Fta
Derek Carter 18/20
Jon Coffman 21/27
Chris Couzen 23/33
Robert Miggins 21/32
Mark Connelly 21/35
Matt Newton 21/39
Cam Dyer 18/35
Women’s Basketball
Leading Scorers
Player Pts
Sandra Holmes 60
Karen Stutzmann 54
Virginia Yoerg 54
Sarah Aschenbach 7
Nicky Mayfield 47
Amy Vogt 26
Mary Tankard 32
Stacy Williams 19
Allison Hull 23

Leading Rebounders‘;

Player Reb S

Virginia Yoerg 41
Nicky Mayfield 39
Sandra Holmes 38
Mary Tankard 29
Allison Hull 24
Karen Stutzman 22
Amy Vogt 19

i—'[\)l\J-£>«bUiU1> 
. . . . . . . < \,C_NNoc.
oo4>ox~c»o4>o~0° ova

Av

.90

.778
.697
.656
.600
.539
.514

g»g.og»_4>jJmjJwjm> 5*’P‘.4>§".°‘.\‘.\‘.\‘.°°-E
oo,_.A___go.\o0§ ozoco\ro\ic\i\iox(,¢

Free-throw Standings

Player Ft/Fta Avg
Stacy Williams 5/7 .714
Karen Stutzmann 8/12 .667
Amy Vogt 4/6 .667
Virginia oerg 10/15 .667
Sarah Aschenbach 3/5 .600
Sandra Holmes 12/21 .571
Mary Tankard . 6/11 .546
Wrestling
Records
Player Record Wt.
Adam Branson 4-4 118, 126
Anthony Raﬂa 1-2 126
Eric Shirley 3-4 134, 126
Rob de Clerk 1-2 134
Adam Williams 4-4. 142
Cary Hansel 1-2 142
Steve Tye 4-5 150
Owen Smith 3-6 158
Lea Abercrombie 2-3 167
Colin Loomey 4-6 177
Cole Van Nice 6-5 190
Records

Player Tkdwns Reversals
Adam Branson 6/10 2/4
Anthony Rafla 1/6 1/2
Eric Shirley 3/10 1/0
Rob de Clerk 6/3 0/1
Adam Williams 11/20 2/1
Cary Hansel 0/1 1 3/0
Steve Tye 7/18 5/2
Owen Smith 12/10 2/8
Lea Abercrombie 1/6 1/3
Colin Loomey 9/11 1/1
Cole Van Nice 12/7 4/10

Men’s and Women’s Basketball
Attendance Statistics

Men
Team Record 4-6
Cumulative Attendance 3683
Home 2285
Away 1398
Total Average Attendance 386
Women
Team Record 3-4
Cumulative Attendance 972
Home 325
Away 647
Total Average Attendance 139

-Washington and Lee
Team Records
(updated for 01/14/94)

Women’s Swimming
Men’s Swimming
Men’s Basketball
Women’s Basketball
Wrestling

Overall 17-13

Sports moment 0’ the week...

Photo by Sarah Gilbert. The Ring-tum Phi

This swimmer unadvertantly caught throwing her weight around won the award for the

photogenic athlete of the week for Jan. 14, 1994.

 

  

9l'he Ring-tum Phi, January 14, 1994

‘More ice follies; nothing
happens fast in football

PAGE 11'

B-ball over Lynchburg;
equals ’92-’93 win total

day, the Giants did their job and put the well.
AWAY GAMES Vikings out of their misery. Maybe this yearthe Superbowl will White made a foul shot for the ﬁnal mar in after W&L
9 BY STEPHEN WILUARD On the other end of the playoff actually be interesting. After all, how 4 By KEITH GRANF g

Thanks to the wonders of the Na-
zional Football League scheduling (and
noney grubbing), we were treated to a
series of games this past weekend that
have no bearing on the playoffs what-
soever. Those Raiders are a real pow-
erhouse, just ask Cincinnati (for those
of you who were not keeping track, the
Raiders ended the BENGALS WATCH
this year by losing to the vaunted cats
for the Bengals’ first win). Also, the
National Football Conference has

Himed out a Superbowl winner, but the
’85 Bears remain the only NFC Central
team to accomplish that feat in the last
20-or-so years.

At least Green Bay and Detroit
mercifully played each other. That
way, at least one Central team was

(lliminated right off the bat. The next

spectrum, the American Football Con-
ference title game should pit the Buf-
falo Bills against the Houston Oileis in
a rematch of last year’s strange game.
To win the Superbowl, the Oilers will
have to equal the longest winning streak
in NFL history with 14 wins. The
Houston team has something to prove
after last year’s ﬁasco (the Oilers blew
a 35-3 second-half lead).

The NFC (besides, of course, what
Chris Bennan calls the NFC Norris
division) should once again provide
some interesting games.

The 49ers have one of the most
potent offenses in the game with QB
Steve Young, wide outs Jerry Rice,
John Taylor, et al., and the Cowboys
have Emmitt Smith, enough said. New
York gave Dallas all they could handle
in the last game ofthe regular season as

 

 

\ o \ ‘o‘t\'o'n‘o‘n'o'A\'¢'I\'o'A\'o'A

long can the AFC continue to lose?

So that this does not get too terribly
monotonous, I will move to the realm
of college basketball.

This past week saw the top ﬁve in
the polls completely re-worked. Ar-
kansas somehow managed to lose to
Alabama, Kentucky lost to Georgia,
and North Carolina lost to Georgia
Tech.

The Duke Blue Devils would have
become the next number one team if
they could have beaten Wake Forest
last night. The Devils lost on a bizarre
three point basket at the end of the
game. Clinging to a 68-66 lead,
Randolph Childress shot what appeared
to be a three point basket. The signal
from the referees was unsure at best,
and the scoreboard did not change.
Duke coach Mike Kryzewski, thinking
that the score was tied, did not call a
time-out and a Grant Hilljumper at the
buzzer rimmed out.

The Devils have responded to the
loss of Bobby Hurley and Thomas Hill
by bringing in Eric Capel and Greg
Newton as freshmen. Cherokee Parks
is finally living up to the his initial
expectations. The Devils should con-
tinue to put together a solid season.

Parting Shots-

How did Carolina manage to lose to
Georgia Tech by 20 points? l know GT
is good, but still, what happened?

University of Maryland freshman
Joe Smith is in the top five in the nation
in scoring among freshmen, yet was
barely mentioned in pre-season Atlan-
tic Coast Conference freshman of the
year polls. Maybe the guy’s trying to
prove a point‘?

else to write about so I’m going to end
with that. Oh. by the way. the moral for
the week. is: if youre going to knock
21 competitor out of the competition.
don’t get caught.
Au revolt...

Phi Staff Writer

The welcome sign at the Lynchburg city limits will
likely soon read “Generals Go Home.”

For the third year in a row, Washington and Lee
claimed the rights to the Turner Gymnasium with a
victory that stunned the home Lynchburg College fans.
The win is a key one in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference standings for W&L (5-7, 3-4 ODAC).

W&L defeated the Hornets 70-67 Wednesday night in
a game in which the Generals trailed by eight with three
minutes left. A vision of senior Robert Miggins will now
haunt Turner Gym along with those of previous Hornet-
killers Bob Ehret and junior Mark Connelly.

Miggins scored four of his 15 points in the final 29
seconds to lift the Generals to the victory
that matches the team’s overall and con-
ference win totals of last season. Sopho-
more Cam Dyer had a game-high 20
points while the team held Lynchburg’s
top scorer, Anthony Cummings, to just
10 points.

“lt’s always big to win one on the
road, especially a conference game,”
said head coach Verne Canfield.

Washington and Lee had suffered
back-to-back defeats to Roanoke and
Mary Washington before beating
Lynchburg. The Generals’ 73-66 loss
versus Roanoke on Saturday, Jan. 8,
ended a three-game winning streak by
W&L. The Generals gave the confer-
ence-leading Maroons a run for their
money by fighting back from 10- and l l-point deficits in
that game to pull within two late in the game.

Although it was a loss, the Roanoke game was the
fourth consecutive strong performance by W& L, a streak
that ended Monday, Jan. 10, at Mary Washington.

The Eagles entered that game 1-5 on the season, with
their lone win coming against Shenendoah. However,
Mary Washington was fired up for the Generals and

W&L rally eventually evened the score at 57 in the final
minute, but with the game-clock at l 4 and the shot-clock
about to hit zero. the Eagles’ Jeremy White nailed a
three-point shot to bring the capacity crowd to its feet.

 

CAM DYER

failed on a three-point try. He had a game-high 14
points.

One factor that hurt the Generals was an off-night by
leading scorer Dyer. The sophomore was held without
a point in the ﬁrst-half. Although he made some tough
baskets during the Generals comeback, he finished
with a four-of-13 shooting night.

“Cam has stepped up nicely as a sophomore,” said
Canfield. “He has to realize, though, that as a team’s
leading scorer, defenses will step up against him.”

Dyer was obviously not discouraged by the Mary
Washington game, though. He attempted 21 shots from
the field in his 20-point, six-rebound effort. Miggins
grabbed nine rebounds and has 19 points, 19 boards,
and ﬁve blocked shots in the last two games.

The W&L—Lynchburg affair was tied at half-time at
Turner Gym. The Hornets came
out buzzing and looked as though
they had finally broken the home-
court General-Ginx. [The previ-
ous two W&L visits to Lynchburg
resulted in buzzer-beating, game-
winning Generals’ baskets.]
Lynchburg led by as many as nine
and had an eight-point advantage
with three minutes remaining.
That’s about when the Generals
must have said “Oh, are we play-
ing in Lynchburg?" Two minutes
later, the contest was tied and
WLUR announcer Brian Logue
(who is the W&L Sports Informa-
tion Directorin hissparetime)was
having flashbacks to the previous
two trips to Lynchburg College.

The Hornets’ Wilbert Steppe, an 89 percent free
throw shooter, missed on two foul shots with 49 sec-
onds left. Twenty seconds later, Miggins drove from
the top ofthe key and made the lay-up for a two-point
Generals lead.

Lynchburg point-guard Jay Gentry then threw the
ball out of bounds and Miggins followed with two free

p Sfvemed ‘0 Conslslemly 0Ul‘"3b0U“d and 0Ul‘hU5“e 3 throwsforafour-pointlead.AfteraCummings basket.
f ""PP°“"”‘*.“”‘j Swmeastem Con‘ team ‘hat W35 qulckl)’ becoming lal“°“5 ml husll‘? W&L’effective|y moved the ball around to prevent the
 Coach Canfield Said the players went ll'llO the game as If HQ[ne[s from being able [0 Stop [he Clock  a fgul
‘ . . . the)’ expected ‘0 bl0W'0”‘ the Eagle-55 until there was only one second left. Freshman Chris
undefeated m Corlferellce play‘ Thmgs “What 0”’ guys dldnll realize ‘"35 ‘hat 0”’ big game Couzen hit one-of-two free throws for the three-point
375” ‘eX3C”)’~g“'"8 615 eXPeC‘°d 3‘ “"5 was against Roanoke. but Mary Washington’s big game victory margin
POT;/’ Tlhg H I , h. k f h. W33 US,” ll‘? 5359- i The Generals will next host Randolph—Macon Col-
‘ C ‘ e ‘ can It In 0 any‘ mg Mar)’ washmglo” led bl’ 35 m3”.V 35 l4 befme 3 la“? lege Saturday afternoon in the Warner Center at 3:00.

The Yellow-Jackets feature the ODAC’s top three-
point threat but have been struggling some this season.
The WLUR broadcast of the game will be carried only
over Cable Two.

.. .. .. ..

   
  
  
  

 

    

 

      

 
  

    
  
    

  
  

 
 

   

  

 

    
   
  
  

 

 
  

  

 r _ \ i----SUNSET SPECIAL COUPON--—.
A1V1n-Denr11s, Inc, For Sale. Brother Word Processor . , We cordially invite you to try our I
102 W. Washington St. > Brand New and Price Negotiable : _ ,,Wir_2t_er Sunset .Special_Ent_r_ees  N 
:3, ; :5 Call 4624869 _ I Buy 1 Sunset,»Special Entree, Get 1 I
g1§¢ﬂ¢WINTER SALE IN PRoGREss:>I<=  L r 2 . FREE! ,
" 4  &   or : %*;.::::£f;33.*t:::~.$,°rZ.:‘:.4;;.':‘;..15‘:,::;;?.::: :
Sweatcrs 20% Off  '¢ I Soap or Salad, Selection of 3 entrees, fresh vegetable, I
DFCSS Pa11tS_20‘5Q% Off I Ch0lC€ of rice or potato, wheat rolls, homemade muffins |
Rugby & Chamois Shirts 30% Off 2345a‘!/ldltt I and beverage. . |
Spbrtshirts   " I Take advantage of our ex;,err:1de,t:l) gagaagymsunset Special Hours 5:30 I
DICSS T01) COINS    : (Reservations Requested) I
Outerwear Jackets 20% Off --  , 1  on God for U to 6 co ,6 :
GlOV€S & Scarves 30% Off ha” /i /' | This coupoiinotgvalid withpany oFt)hei)coupon. I 
Saturday Morning- All U Can Eat Pancakes I Expires: I/31/94 ;
100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos.For Sale Daily Specials- 24 Hour—A—Day Breakfast T our Wednesda Aﬁemoon Tea 3_5 m
Cummerbunds, Jewelry, Tux Shirts & Flasks Meals That Cater to Big Appetites W “V - P’ '
Breakfast Buffet   special Group Rates
Visa MC Student Charge Friday and Saturday Nights 11p.m.- 4 a.m. WI LLSO N~ Iiiil Em Ii“ Casual Dress
463-5383 Sunday 9 a.m.- 2 p.m. W A L K E R h   4633020
 Rt. 11 North 463-3478 Open 24 Hours  l‘‘=!i!”''''!i! 30 N- M646
V at
Point of VW Rweﬁve
. . . €€
 Signatures; Two are War Date. ’
. W&L c 1 t , h d- 1 d 5
Restaurant plus light lounge menu W&L andoI§.Il2:3e.rII.)eae iimifeld efiirigfr art ;
, , Sculpture by Ron Tuntson ;
‘ Open 4 p.m. until closing May and Gecrge Washington pieces :‘
$2 off any pasta dinner with V‘, @ ' ' E
 %   4 East Washln on Street 
student I.D. I:  Lexmgton. vA 4450 ::
«- Don’t You Dare Go Bare (766) 464-6464 3
Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn   i)c‘>"2rr.1rr1i’.I‘3r%d;§¥i ifrfriurday 
K  , aravans K. 
o rC”“‘'’'"“’ 6%) 3 I #T T ' l I 3 ii EZ.:(;ARD- ‘Box. T-631-6 A'l“-L;1;"I‘1-K’.-(ETA-3-();2-1.’.%"
_ Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards. , - - -.
—_ NOW Showing 1 Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  l VISA’, 3‘ Cred“ 1: 
WE'RE BACK: accepted credit cards In the world...VIsa0 and Mastercarde I g “"“" MAS’ ‘Wm’ ;; 
A Dinosaurs story crcdltC(:g:|Sﬁ:'ln EVEN i£DYggwA!iq2%gFEg2Ig : Caidsappmved immediately. 1oo% GUARANTEED! A 3..
O!‘ IURN I , 7
‘ Sat., Sun;?1:t45,::30, 5:15; VISA!’ and MasterCard0 the credit cards you I ; 
3 ed deserve and need for—— ID-—B0OKS—DEPANR!;‘EL:1r!}2rl\fl‘ | NAME 6, pa
. STORES-—1UlTlON—ENTl-ZRTAI — . 3. jlj.
My Llfe  - 46664686 2-:
Daily 7:00 a. 9:30 REPAlRS—AND TO Btnw your: CREDIT RATING! I CITY STATE _ZIP = 
“ale” “"3 : STUDENT? Yes No 553! ; 3':
g g No turn downs! _ '1"
Gg§I”‘::“c§F9 No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE ':
gulls“. M‘: No security deposit! ' mm Masteicud Isa registered uuderrnnruruazerurd lntcmatloml. Inc. 4
. “G”, 50“ ‘'6 I Visa is . registered tndcnmk dV|SA USA. Inc. and VISA inuemuorai I .~
261-7292 ' Si-:un THE coupon room | 't-I
275 BeechAve., Buenavista YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE HAITING! L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _§-4.

 

  

Last Week:

VWBB—W&L 66, Sweetbriar 2'0
MBB—W&L 70, Lynchburg 67

Swim—M&W defeat

Buffalo St.

Wr_est—beat West. Md., lose two

V PAGE 12

.\‘,,_.\,~.,‘.,.,-.....---.-----—..».-

Bundle up
this Winter

 on SPORTS
er SARAH Gnasgr

 

 


‘ ing unusually cold "arr_d_
snowy, ‘ this week the

    

winter. sport . options. ‘lI1._ j
the area. 
Rockbtidge County
is not exactly a haven for
thosehopingto getaway
from the tiresome sun of
Miami Beach, or a con-
sideration for the ’98
Winter Olympics site
(too bad, because i bet
there are hundreds. of
local residents who
would probably have
agreed to bash
someone’s legs for a
minimum amount of
money, maybe even a
free pitcher of beer. it ‘
could have been excit- — 1
ing.), but the diligent. - v
may be able totrack ’
down some viable fop- f
tiorls. : ’ S
siding. ‘ t 1  
~U'n‘6eknow.nSt to‘
many:i.nexperiencecIs_ki‘- , _
ers, Washington a‘nd;Lee * ‘ ‘
has a lovely little pro-
gram in which students
pay $78 to-go skiingsix
timesforcredit.'Fhiscost
includes lessons, lift
tickets and ski rental.
This is a good deal.
If you-do not believe
me, check out the prices
forjust one outing with-
out the lovely little pack-
age deal; it could run you
more than half of that
fee just for one day of
fun in the snow. '
Of course, the dead-
line for addingcourses
has passed, buta. simple
, $25feewi1toonvinc.ethe

-lovely. «.1a.d2ijes 1 in - the
registra.r’s.o£f"1ce to fork
over the credit, and you
still‘ are getting a bar-
gain. '

   

 E fma'rid'atory "for-
 .‘1.¢_lIlg'f11'!‘§S and mid-
» _ tit‘ walks whenwthe
_ meTrc<rry“isapi>r0a<:hiI1’g
‘ zero, as -it might do‘thi:s.
’weekend.
it may be better to
confine one’sexercise to
wgeights and squash; if
you must run, Virginia
Military institute has an
indoor track.
Btmdic up, Generals.
it is cold out there.

 

S

@112 ﬁling-mm Iﬁhi

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

This Week:

MBB-Randolph-Macon 01/ 15
WBB—at Mary Washington 01/ 15
Swim—at Catholic 01/ 15 0*
Track—at Lynchburg 01/ 15

JANUARY 14, 1994

Women shoot toward win column

By BILL RUST
Phi Staff Writer

The women’s basketball team
has won three of its last four
games to bring the record to a
strong 5-4.

Thursday night, the Generals
demolished the sorry Sweetbriar
Vixens, 66-20.

Freshman Virginia Yoerg led
the way, scoring more than one-
third ofthe team’s points with 23
and 14 in the first half.

However, the win was re-
markably balanced, in that every
General but one scored in the
game.

Yoerg now leads the Gener-
als with 86 points.

Sophomore Sandra Holmes,

and senior Karen Stutzman lead
the team in its 43-41 upset of
Sewanee last Tuesday. Holmes
scored 10, and led the team in
rebounds with 10, while

Stutzman scored a team high 14
points.

The Lady Generals were
down, 33-35, with seven min-
utes to go, when Holmes hit two
important free throws to tie the

score at 35-all.

Washington and Lee, with the
helpofasix-pointshootingspree,
held on to defeat Sewanee 43-
41.

The Lady Generals had an
easier time last Saturday against
the Wesley Wolverines. The team
made the long trek to Dover,
Delaware well worth it with a48-
38 win.

The Wolverines came within
two in the second half, but sopho-
more Stacy Williams scored three
to solidify the Generals’ lead.

Yoerg led the team with nine
points, and senior Mary Tankard
led with 10 boards.

W&L had four players score
eight points or more in that con-
test. Holmes, Tankard, Williams

and Yoerg all had a hand in scor-

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Fling-tum Phi

A member of the women’ s swimming team, which is currently undefeated, swims the path of greatest resistance in the Cy Twombly pool this
week. The Generals will seek to continue their streak at Catholic Jan. 15.

By 5'll-.l’lll-..N Wll,l.|.1\l{l)

I’/vi Assitun1Sporis Editor

Dedication is often what sepa-
rates the great uthlclc from the
average athlete. With the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s and
women’s swim teams, dedica-
tion is what keeps them ahead of
the opposition.

Bothsquads keptuptheirwin-
ning ways on Wednesday night
with wins against Buffalo State.
With the wins, W&L swimmers
remained undefeated on the year
(men- 2-0, women- 4-0). Coach
Paige Remillard saidthattheteam
should continue to improve as
the season wears on.

Both swim teams have put in
Ircmcndous amounts of work
during rhc course of the season.
“l’m very impressed with their
cffort, " said Remillard as he
described the training practices
of the two teams. According to

the mcn‘s coach, the swimmers
worked harder over break than
they do during school.

Coach Remillard especially
praised swimmer Tony Diedrich
for his recent performances.

“He is the consensus most-
improved,” said Remillard ofthe
streaking swimmer. Diedrich
recently set 21 lifetime best in a
meet, an unusual feat fora swim-
mer in January.

The men’s team has suc-
ceeded despite a series of inju-
ries. Junior co-captain Grant
Holickey went down to a pos-
sibleseason-ending shoulderin-
jury recently.

Also, DavidStillmanand.lohn
Rowe have succumbed to viruses.
“Without a senior class, losses
affect the team more dramati-
cally,” said Remillard.

Coach Remillard praised the
commitment of both teams by
alluding to the fact that the ath-
letes often missed breaks due to

training and meets. “The sacri-
ficc is rewarded by relationships
and experience,” said the coach.
Remillard said that since sports
compete with so many other
things, it is sometimes difficult
to maintain focus.

Success has been the story for
both teams this year. The
women’s team has won 18 con-
secutive Old Dominion Athletic
Conference meets over the past
few years.

Last year, the women won
every event they entered in the
conference meet, but because of
a lack of numbers, were not able
to claim victory as a team.

This year, the women have
added much needed depth and
are the early favorites to take the
conference title.

Coach Remillard was quick
to complement the women.

“The women are my favor-
ites to win the conference. l
believe that they will dominate

the top spots,” said coach
Remillard. Whenthe final tallies

Swimmers remain undefeated;
women’s ODAC streak at 18

are taken, both squads should be
at or near the top of the heap.

    

>2

Photo by Sarah Gilbert, The Hing-tum Phi

Both men and women swimmers were working hard
this week to continue in their winning ways.

Washington and /Lee
Team Records

Women’s Swimming
Men’s Swimming
Men’s Basketball
Women’s Basketball
Wrestling
Overaﬂ

ing big for the win.

The team did not fare so well
on its trip to Virginia Beach. Tﬁe
Generals lost to Virginia
Wesleyan 80-33.

On the up side, junior Sarah
Aschenbach led W&Lwith seven
points in her Generals debut.

The Lady Generals travel to
Mary Washington this Saturday
for their next contest.

Wrestlers
struggle, ..
win once

By STEPHEN WlLLlARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

 

Returning from break can
sometimes mean a letdown in
performance, but the Washing-
ton and Lee wrestling team over-
came the letdown this past week-
end in the Western Maryland
Quadrangular. 0

During the weekend, junior
Eric Shirley contributed three
wins as W&L posted its first win
of the season against Western
Maryland.

Lea Abercrombie also en-
tered in a key 4-3 victory in [re
match.

in the other two matches, the
Generals lost to Johns Hopkins
24-16 and to Messiah 31-9.
Against Hopkins, Shirley, Rob

de Clerk, Adam Williams. Owen '

Smith, and Colin Looney all won.
According to Rob de Clerk.
“There were a lotofclose matches
that could have gone eitherway."
The Generals look forward to
a home meet this weekend against
Davidson and Pensacola Chris-
tian in the W&L Triangular. .

“We feel like we had a good
week of practice and will do well
this weekend,” said junior wres-
tler Eric Shirley.

Washington and Lee has
shown great depth in the middle-
weight division so far this sQa-
son. The team is young (there are
only three juniors on the team)
and expects to improve.

“We’re pretty young and
should improve as the season
moves on,” said sophomore Rob
de Clerk. g

When asked, both do Clerk
and Shirley said that they expect
the team to improve as the season
moves along.

The W&Lwrestling squad has
put forth the dedication that is
necessary to produce a winning
performance. This team shou d
be competitive throughout the
season.

J OCKSHORTS

 

Track & Field

Both the men and the women
indoor track and field teams be-
- gin their seasons this weekend as
they travel to Lynchburg for an
open, unscored meet. .

This meet, Jan. 15, will be the
first step as the Generals quest
for the indoor Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Champion-
ship.

The men placed third last year,
and will be led by captains Scﬁtt
Covey, Todd Burkey and John
Robinson, all seniors.

Sophomore Dax Mahoney,
however, won the highest honors
last year as he was awarded the
Outstanding Performer honor at
the 1993 outdoor ODAC Cham-
pionship.

The woman’s team is at an
unusual place; the Generals are
still struggling with an unofficial
ODAC sport. though Washing-
ton and Lee routinely captures
the unofficial indoor champio3-
ship.

The women are led this year
by captains, senior Wendy Neel
andjunior Kim Herring. Sopho-
more Josephine Schaefferiscom-
ing off an All-American season
in cross country and hopes 0
repeat her trip to Nationals in
track last year. where she was
awarded All-American honors
with a second place finish in the
l0.0()()-meter run.

A strong class of freshmen
and the return ofall of last year’s
school-record-holders shou d
guarantee the Generals a repeat
of last year‘s unofficial indoor
championship.

This ycar‘s indoor ODAC
Championships will be held Feb.
26 at L} nchhurg.

Q

 

 

Ring-111 i

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA.

JANUARY 18, 1994

-SAC suspends FIJI

By Michelle Brien
I’/1i News Editor

0
The Student Affairs Committee voted
Friday to suspend Phi Gamma Delta frater-
nity for 18 months for violation ofthe univer-
sity hazing policy.

SAC voted 11-0 with one abstention to
suspend FIJI. The person abstaining wanted

Ina harsher penalty for the fraternity, said Dean
of Students and SAC Chairman David
Howison. ‘'

FIJI suspension stems from an official
charge of hazing filed by Dean oI‘Freshmen
and Resident Life Dennis Manning.

Ilowison said FIJI can appeal the deci-

osion by submitting a written appeal to Presi-
dent Jolm D. Wilson within II) days. The last
day for I’lJl to file an appeal is Jan. 27.

Ralph “Moke” Wolfe, president of FIJI,
said they will appeal the decision.

“We are appealing because we think the
punishment should fit the crime,” said Wolfe.

(‘The incident did involve hazing, but it was
minor. [SAC] walked in there wanting to
throw a fraternity off campus.”

The suspension means FIJI will not be
permitted to participate in any function as a
fraternity until the end of the 1994-95 aca-
demie year, Howison said. The FIJI fraternity

O house will be closed to all fraternity members

exceptthose currently Iivingthere. FIJI mem-
bers will be allowed to attend other fraterni-
ties’ parties, but will not be allowed to hold
parties at the FIJI house itself or at any other
location.

The hazing charges concern two events

Cwhich allegedly occurred during fall term.

Manning questioned freshman Jay Taggart
abouthazingafterTaggart missed Manning’s
English 105 class forthe fourth time. A fourth
cut from the class meant automatic failure.
Taggart said Manning asked if he had
been at the FIJI house the night before and if

0 there had been a keg present.

“Because of personal convictions I was
not going to lie for the house,” said Taggart.
“I was not mad at anyone in the house, but I

Calyx Photo

FIJI brothers pose for their 1992-93 Calyx Photo. Unless FIJI has a sucessful
appeal they will not be able to gather as a fraternity until July of 1995.

was not going to lie.”

Taggart said the first incident took place
the Monday after Thanksgiving break, Nov.
29. FIJI pledges were asked to report to the
fraternity house at midnight. Taggart said
they were told to lay on the floor ofa down-
stairs room with the lights off. The pledges
were then taken upstairs to the laundry room,
where they knelt facing the wall.

Taggart said they were forced to drink
from a cup of alcohol, and were doused with
beer. Pledges were then taken to the upstairs
bathrooms, told to stand in the showers and
forced to chug cups ofbeer. Then the pledges
went back downstairs to do push-ups in uni-
son.

Taggart said the second incident oc-
curred on the Friday night after the Big Head
Todd concert. Taggart said pledges were
called to the FIJI house at about 1:30 a.m.
They were forced to do “keg shots” for failure
to correctly answer trivia questions about

house history. Taggart said they were also
forced to do push-ups and wall stands. He
said he returned to his room at about 6 a.m.

The Student Conduct Committee is set
to review a case of harassing phone calls in
connection with the incident next week, SCC
President Reggie Aggarwal said. Taggart al-
legedlyreceivedthreatening phonecallsfrom
a member of FIJI. Aggarwal could not give
any further explanation ofthe case because of
SCC confidentiality clauses.

Taggart said he has only commented to
clarify the situation, and he has no hard feel-
ings against FIJI.

“lt wasn’t a vendetta,” Taggart said. “I
didn’t go afterthe house. I didn’t file charges.
Dean Manning never used the fact that I
might fail my class or use the Honor System
[against me].”

“The house got caught for doing some-
thing that’s against Virginia state law and the
policy of the school.”

 
  

Washington and Lee
is a peronalid place

 

 V v..-gig-‘ ;

.‘~:x1:.'T‘r~'i, ‘ox’.-"=\_ T-*zL'i~f3't'5

-  1,9919

Men

 
 

x

3 wrestling pins
Pensacola  
in dual meet

 
 

Q-3

 

U112 Einngrtum lﬂlii

UME 93, NO. 16

  
 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Classes iced

    
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 21, 1994

or two days

 

 

 

By EMILY BAKER, YAI3Iz SEDGHI

AND BUNNY WONG
Of thePhi Staff

Washington and Lee shut
down Wednesday and Thursday
for the first time in over 30 years
as a result of bad weather.

“We canceled because of a
combination of concerns about
safety and conserving as much

energy as we can,” said Brian
Shaw, Director of Communica-
tions and Public Relations.

Icy roads and walkways Tues-
day made getting to classes diffi-
cult. Wednesday, University
Presidentlohn D. Wilson decided
thatwasenoughtocancelclasses.

“There’s ice on all the sec-
ondary roads,” said Wilson. “Fac-
ulty and students were having
trouble getting in.”

In addition todangeroustravel
conditions, the university expe-
rienced electrical problems.

“We’re trying to minimize
electricity usage,” said Shaw.
Virginia Power asked all major

- | customers to cut down on elec-

tricity usage. Canceling classes
conserved energy from both light-
ing and heating. To minimize
electricity usage, Evans Dining
Hall operated only during day-
light hours to conserve energy
consumed by electric lighting.
The dining hall used disposable
dishes and utensils to reduce
W€‘§l‘iYl8.:,.

'  I‘ri§pi'te"oftheseefforts,W&L
students and Lexington residents
still experienced power outages.
Virginia Power tried to keep out-
ages down to 30 minute incre-
ments, rotating the outages be-

  

tween blocks of 10,000 people

Photo by Ethan Krupp, The Ring-tum Phi

. l‘he Colonnade looks like an icy ghost town with very few students, faculty or staff members venturing on to the Hill during the two day snow break.
' ower problems and frigid weather teamed up to give students their first snow days in about 30 years. But ice alone is not enough to close W&L for
a third straight day. Light snow last night covered the ice and made walking and driving conditions even more treacherous than they had been in
1 few days. But Virginia Power said normal power use was again possible and classes resumed today.

  
 
 
  

every two to three hours.
Virginia Power takes several
steps before resorting to power
outages to conserve energy, said
spokeswoman Karen Russell.

First, the company reduces the
customers’ voltage by three to
five percent. The decrease is
minimal enough that it “is not
noticeable to customers,” said
Russell.

The company then appeals to
the community as a whole to
reduce its power consumption.
After that, it asks speciﬁc public
volunteers to cut consumption,
as it did W&L. If this still does
not reduce power usage ad-
equately, the company then turns
to the power outages.

Virginia is using record-
breaking amounts of power this
winter, said Russell.

“Although we have no num-
bers yet,” said Russell, “the power
consumed Saturday, January 15
broke all previous existing
records.”

The power situation is im-
proving, said Russell. After ro-
tating the power outages among
blocks of 10,000 people every
two hours, the company was able
to reduce the blocks to 3,000
people every eight hours.

Shaw said he did not know
whether upcoming vacations
would be affected by the two-
day cancellation.

The weather has also post-
poned the Founders Day-ODK
Convocation. The speakers had
not made it into town before the
university shut down.

“We caught them all before
they got on their planes,” said
Shaw. “We haven’t rescheduled
the convocation yet. We’re still
trying to get back to those
people.”

Both the Leyburn Library and
the law Library opened from 8
a.m. to 5 p.m. Wednesday.
Leyburn had the same shortened
hours Thursday, while the Law

Library was shut down, accord-

B See ICE, page 10

   
 
 
   
  
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
  

By MELIssA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

Last weekend was another of drunken brawls and
‘ate-night arrests for several Washington and Lee stu-
cuts.

Recording to a Sigma Nu brother, a conﬂict at the
Sigma Nu fraternity house around 3 a.m. Sunday resulted
in a broken window and the arrest of a junior Phi Delta
Theta member. The Phi Delt had been asked to leave the

i unior Sigma Nu member, who asked not to be identified,
went outside the house and the two began to shove and
_)unQh each other.

Several members of the Phi Delt house tried to inter-
./ene. The Phi Delt house is currently on critical proba-
tion due to an incident that occurred earlier in the year.

The Phi Delt broke free from his brothers and punched
.hrough the bedroom window of Sigma Nu house mother

Sigma Nu house following a party. When he refused, a ~

Fights result
I three

arrests

“I was awake and I looked out the window to see what was
happening,” Coxey said. “Glass fell all over the chair where I
sit. If I hadn’t been in bed I would have been in that chair.”

Coxey said she decided not to intervene in the ﬁght at first.
After the window was broken, however, she called the Lexing-
ton Police Department and W&L Security. ,

“I wanted to press charges, but the police and W&L Security
just wouldn’t do anything,” Coxey said.

Coxey said she had asked the police to serve a warrant to the
Phi Delt offender.

“Generally we let the property ownerdo that (press charges),”
said Lexington Chief of Police Bruce M. Beard, Jr.

Beard said in this case, police decided to let W&L Security
handle the matter.

“It involved university property,” Beard said.

Coxey said she was not sure who would pay for the repair of
the window. She said the Phi Delt came Wednesday to
apologize to her and to patch up the window.

b See FIGHTS, page 10

The two sides of
the Honor System

By MICHELLE BRIEN, THOMAS HESPOS AND FRANCESCA KEFALAS
of the Phi Staff

On May 1], 1992, Washington
and Lee junior Cynthia Kowalyk saw
what she thought was a breach of the
Honor System in her French 213
class.

Freshman Elizabeth McCord had
just told Professor Russell Knudson
she had completed a lab assignment.
Her paper showed she had marked
each segment complete.

But Kowalyk and the rest of the
class knew that the tape they had
been assigned to listen to had seg-
ments missing. McCord could not
have done all the segments she said

ON MY HONOR I HAVE
NEITHER GIVEN NOR

  RECEIVED ANY
UNACKNOWLEDGED AID...

Beverly Coxey.

  

    
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
 

  

 

File Art

   

The FIJI owl.

 
 

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

It ain’t over ’til it’s over.

Or at least not until President John
Wilson reviews the appeal.

Phi Gamma Delta fraternity’s sus-
pension by the Student Affairs Com-
mittee was effective immediately after
SAC’s Monday decision and is set to
last 18 months. But there is still a
chance that Wilson will return the case
to SAC for review, said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison.

“An appeal is not a rehearing of the
case,” said Howison. Howison said the
fraternity must have grounds for an
appeal.

FIJI President Ralph “Moke” Wolfe
said the fraternity plans to appeal on
the grounds that the punishment was
too harsh.

  

   

FIJ I plans appeal to Wilson

“We’re appealing because we think
the punishment should fit the crime,”
Wolfe said. “It was hazing, but it was
minor. Given the severity of the lFC’s
penalty, we thought suspension was
too severe.”

Interfraternity Council President
Curt Smith would not say what the
IFC’s punishment was, but said that it
was “similar to that of SAC.”

“The less we say the fairer it is to
them,” said Smith.

Wolfe also cited the danger to the
fraternity’s existence at Washington
and Lee if the sentence is upheld.

“We won’t be able to rush until
1995,” Wolfe said. “Then we will only
have 12 members if everyone stays.
it’s too expensive to maintain a house
with only 12 members paying dues.”

D See FIJI, page 10

she had.

Kowalyk was left with a couple of
difficult questions: Did McCord’s
actions constitute an Honor Viola-
tion? Should she be reported to the
Executive Committee?

“I thought about it,” said Kowalyk.
“I consulted with friends of mine.
They said it was my responsibility to
at least tell someone. So I did decide
to do it.”

“They said if there was no wrong-
doing she would never even know of
it being reported,” she said.

One week later, McCord got a call
from EC Secretary Caroline Wight.
The EC asked McCord to come to a
meeting that Thursday, and assigned
her two law student advocates.

“They told me, ‘Don’t worry, this
is merely a fact-finding,” said
McCord. “But that was it for me right
there.”

At the end of a four-hour closed
hearing, McCord was found guilty of
an Honor Violation and told to with-
draw from the university.

“I found out she was found guilty

the next day when I saw her with her
parents,” said Kowalyk. “I assumed
she was saying good-bye.”

But McCord opted to appeal the
decision in an open trial.

“My first reaction was that I was
not strong enough to take it to an
open hearing,” said McCord. “But I
thought‘lcan’tjustletthisdie,know-
ingthat I never intended to do wrong.’
Sol thought ifl walk away knowing
that, I might as well fight it.”

“A few days later, I was contacted
about the open trial,” said Kowalyk.
“They called me into look over my
testimony, and asked if I remem-
bered anything else. It happened
quickly.There was an announcement
the next day on the Contact board.”

McCord was again found guilty
in the open trial and was expelled
from the university.

McCord’s case illustrates that
W&L’sHonorSystem—whatmany
say is the university’s foundation ——

 

is suffering some cracks. Some think
she is the victim of an unfair system
— particularly members of
McCord’s family, who have strong
ties to W&L.

Others, including Kowalyk, say
McCord’s case illustrates that the
Honor System works. To them, pres-
sures on the Honor System are the
result of students who simply don’t
take it seriously enough.

As a result of the controversy
surrounding McCord’sdismissal,the
Executive Committee is reviewing
the Honor System this year. The re-
view is expected to focus on what
some say are the system’s weak-
nesses:

O W&L has no clear definition of
honor or breach of honor.

OAccording to honor trial law
advocates, W&L has the only judi-
cial system in the country in which

DSee EC, page 7

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World  

Neo-Nazis convicted

Two neo-Nazis were convicted of and sentenced for
aggravated assault Tuesday. They attacked a United States
Olympic luge team member after yelling racial slurs at his
black teammate. The two “skinheads” are the first of seven
defendants to be tried in the Oct. 29 incident.

Relief plane shot

A plane bringing food, medicine and other relief sup-
plies to war-torn Sarajevo was shot at twice Thursday. The
German plane was hit about two miles from the airport. No
one was injured in the incident. It is not known who shot at
the plane.

The Nation

Quake rocks California

Aftershocks continue to rock the San Fernando Valley
following Monday’s earthquake. The quake, which mea-
sured 6.6 on the Richter scale, hit at 4:31 a.m. Pacific time.
Reports count 44 people dead and 3,762 injured. The quake
collapsed buildings, snapped freeways, damaged gas lines
and disrupted utility service as far north as Canada. South-
ern California has been declared a disaster area.

  

Iran-Contra report impli-
cates Reagan, Bush

A seven—year investigation into the Iran-Contra scandal
revealed that although former President Ronald Reagan
may not have violated any law, he did make it simpler for
others to conduct illegal activities. The two-volume report
declared Reagan’s aides withheld information about the
scandal. The report suggests the congressional commit-
tees investigating the affair should have considered im-
peaching Reagan. Reagan, former Attorney General Edwin
Meese, former President Bush have denied the allega-
tions.

Faulkner to attend Citadel

Shannon Faulkner became the first woman to attend
day classes at the all-male Citadel military college in
Charleston, S.C., Thursday. Chief Justice William
Rhenquist lifted an order which prevented her from at-
tending classes while her lawsuit is pending. The Citadel
claims her presence will destroy the 151-year-old college’s
military environment and educational mission.

Inman gives up nomination

Former CIA deputy director Bobby Inman withdrew as
President Clinton’s nominee for defense secretary Tues-
day. Inman chose to withdraw his name because of alleged
attempts to distort his record, character and reputation.
Senate hearings were set to begin next week. I

Cold paralyzes nation

Snow, sleet and freezing cold have ravaged the nation
since last weekend. The cold snap has left 15 people dead
nationwide and caused hundreds of highway accidents
and power and water outages. Frigid conditions and snows
are expected to continue through next weekend. Minne-
sota and North Dakota are fighting temperatures of 32
degrees below zero and 92 degrees below zero without
wind-chill. Temperatures in areas of New Hampshire
have plummeted to 100 degrees below zero.

The State

Knick lawsuit rejected

The civil rights lawsuit filed against Lexington and
Police Chief Bruce Beard over a policeman’s fatal shoot-
ing of his wife was rejected by the U.S. Supreme Court.
Lisa Knick’s brother filed the suit on behalf of her estate
and her two children. She was killed by her husband,
former Lexington police officer Jerry Knick, at home
while he was on duty Sept. 29, 1990. Knick was convicted
of second-degree murder and sentenced to 10 years in
prison.

Sports

Gillooly arrested in
Kerrigan case

Tonya Harding’s ex-husband, Jeff Gillooly, was ar-
rested Thursday and charged with conspiracy in the Jan. 6
attack on Nancy Kerrigan. Harding’s bodyguard, Shawn
Eric Eckardt, and alleged attacker Shane Minoaka Stant
and Derrick Smith have already been charged in the case.
Harding was questioned by the FBI and maintains her
innocence, although an affidavit given by Eckardt has
linked her to the alleged plot.

 

  

Sorority Rush nets 108 Wome  

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

One hundred and eight women
pledged a sorority last Friday after a
week’s worth of Rush activities.

Panhellenic Council President Laura
Clark had mixed feelings about this
year’s Rush. .

After Preference Night Thursday,
Jan. 13, the Panhellenic Council set a
quota of 29 bids per sorority. The origi-
nal quota was 28 bids per sorority, but
the number was changed at the last
minute to 29. Incoming Council Presi-
dent Lise Brown said the number was
increased so some women would not
“fall through the cracks.”

Kappa Kappa Gamma, Chi Omega,
and Kappa Alpha Theta each received
29 pledges, while Pi Beta Phi received
22

.“We were all disappointed with Pi

Phi not doing as well as they would '

have liked, but as a whole I feel every-
one did a good job and there was a lot
of cooperation among sororities,” said
Clark.

Pi Phi President Christine
Grandinetti said the sorority’s relatively
short time on campus (three years) may
have had some effect on the pledge
numbers.

“We attribute the low number to
concerns the freshmen may have had
about Pi Phi’s newness,” Grandinetti
said. “They may look and see that other

The Rinr -tum Phi Janu

sororities have been here longer and
are more established.”

Sororities that don’t meet the quota
have two options: they can offer “snap
bids” or they can go through continu-
ous open bidding. Snap bids can be
extended to anyone on that sorority’s
bid list who did not accept a bid else-
where. Continuous bidding is used to
extend bids to women who were not
originally on that sorority ’s bid list and
who did not accept a bid elsewhere.

Freshman Erin Dougheity would
like to see a change in the structure of
sorority Rush next year.

“l wish it (sorority Rush) was more
like the guy’s Rush, where you got
several bids,” said Dougherty. ‘‘I didn’t
like the sorority Pref Night, where you

     
   
    
  
   
  
   
  

21 "

ranked your choices and then you.
only one bid. With the current wa
seems you either get all or nothin

Brown is looking to the sor
governing body as a way of bols'
the current system. ’

“lthinkweshouldfocusonst n
ening our Panhellenic system,” Br
said. “We want to make it more
leadership body for the sororitie

Clark said no other national s
ties are currently considering -
zation of W&L, nor are any so
being sought out.

“Our top priorities are to work
the problems with the sororities
have now,” Clark said. “We w
everyone getting full quota bef
we expand.”

 

Machines to
sell stamps

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Soon Washington and Lee students will not have
to hike to the Post Office for stamps.

A stamp machine outside Fairfax Lounge in the
University Center will sell a number of mailing prod-
ucts, such as stamps, envelopes, and post cards. The
machine has been there for about a month.

Director of University Services Jim Johndrow said
Buildings and Grounds has to install electricity before
the machine can start vending. B&G however, has
their hands full making pathways safe after the recent
storm left inches of ice on the ground.

“Our B&G people have to put electricity in,” said
Johndrow. “As soon as they do, we’ll let the Post
Office know.”

Once electricity is installed, the Post Office will
stock the machine. Johndrow warned against putting
bills larger than $5 in the machine.

“The machine will only make change for a $5 bill.
People should make sure they put in nothing larger
than a $5 bill, or they will not get the correct change,”
he said.

An additional machine was placed in the co—op but
was later removed.

“We originally wanted to put another machine in
the bookstore/co-op area, but there wasn’t enough
room,” said Johndrow. “The machine was bigger
than we thought.”

Students will have to make do with the lone ma-
chine in the University Center, which, for many
people, is still closer than the Post Office.

Freshman to
start program

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

Freshman class president Alvin Townley is tired of
seeing trash cans overflowing with newspapers and
cans.

That is why he wants to organize a recycling
program for the freshman dorms and Gaines.

He said recycling makes sense and all major uni-
versities across the country have such programs.
Virginia state colleges are required by law to have a
recycling program.

He said that the recycling program he envi-
sions would require minimal effort from the student
body.

“I think everyone realizes the need to recycle,”
said Townley. “lt wouldn’t require a great deal of
effort from anybody.”

Townley said he met with Dean of Students David
Howison and Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life
Dennis Manning. He said he felt encouraged by their
enthusiasm and their willingness to help. ‘

Townley said the cost of the recycling program
will be low, and there will be no outside organizations
involved.

Townley said he sees tremendous support from
students for the recycling program.

“They want something done, about it,” said
Townley.

Randolph Hare, assistant supervisor of Buildings
and Grounds, said he met with Townley, Howison
and Manning. He said they agreed that B&G does not
have the resources to pick up containers in the dorms.

Hare said B&G will provide recycling containers
with the proper logo telling what goes in them.

Townley said he has been working on the recy-
cling program since October and predicts it will be
ready in mid—February.

“Recycling is not a liberal idea or a conservative
idea,” said Townley. “lt’s just something that makes
sense and requires no great effort to do.”

By JAY WHITE
Phi Staff Writer

“The Dating Game” has
touched down at Washington
and Lee.

Junior Chris Albert is the
mastermind behind the produc-
tion and said over 100 people
signed up for the television
event

“The Dating Game” is to be
a bi-monthly feature on Cable
2. It will be filmed alternating
weeks and will air on Wednes-
day, Thursday, and Friday.

Albert and a production team
consisting of juniors Stacy
Bogert, Becky Crow, Trisha
Coughlin, Pina Benincasa, and
Cathy Gartin also produce
W&L’s “Entertainment Spot-

Game”.

partment.

Find your dream
date on Cable 2 J

light” every other week in the
same time slot as “The Dating

Albert, who is the host and
producer of the Dating Game,
raised money for the program
by getting sponsors from local
businesses and the W&L Din-
ing Service. Albert is doingthe
show as an independent study
project for the Journalism De-

This week’s show was taped
Sunday and featured senior
Doug Kaufman, sophomore
Cole Constanzo, and sopho-
more Shelby Lamar vying for a
date with senior Heather
Aussiker. The show was taped
in front ofa live audience.

“No laugh track was used. It
was the real thing,” said Albert.

Aussiker asked the bachelor
a series ofquestions , includin
how they would go about r‘
joying her if she were an i 4
cream sundae.

Kaufman responded is
there a cherry involved?”

Aussiker chose Shelby
Lamar as her date for a candlelit
steak dinner on the balcony of
the Dining Hall, complete with
a waiter. -

Albert said the show’s r-
pose is to increase Cable 2’s
viewership and to involve more
of the W&L student body and
the Lexington community.

lf you would like to be a
contestant on “The Dating
Game” call Stacy Bogert at 4&2-
4149 or Chris Albert at 462-
4117.

City has financial woes

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Contributing Writer

Lexington is known for its wealth, but beneath
the facade of a quaint college town lies an economi-
cally strapped city.

Of Virginia’s 136 cities and counties, Lexington
ranks 17th*on the fiscal stress index and 107th in

. median household income, reports a recent study by

the United States Census Bureau and the Virginia
Commission on Local Government.

“That’s why we’re always looing for some other
revenue source,” said City Manager John Ellestad,
whether it be a new business or personal property
tax. Lexington is not in bad shape, he said, but it does
have a very tight budget. The loss of one revenue
source affects the city greatly.

The fiscal stress index is determined by resi-
dents’ incomes, the locality’s true real estate values,
taxation and borrowing power. The more a locality
lacks these things, the higher it ranks on the index.

Lexington’s real estate values and borrowing
power are healthy, but its residents’ incomes and
ability to tax city property severely limit the city’s
revenue thus heightening its fiscal stress.

Virginia’s median household income is $33,328,
according to 1990 data. The median income in
Lexington is $21,361, and is $24,955 in Rockbridge
County. While both are below the state average,
Lexington’s was higher than the county‘s until re-
cently. For years, the afﬂuent lived within the city
limits, while the poor lived in the county. As suburbs
have sprouted beyond city parameters, Lexington
has lost many middle- and upper-class families to
the hilltops and has lost their tax dollars to the
county.

The city is further hampered by its inability to
annex, or absorb, county property into the city
limits. in 1985, the city forever waived its right to
annex county land undera state agreement.

At the time, said Ellestad, Lexington was looking
to expand both north and south. The county was
prepared to ﬁght. in the face of a long, expensive
annexation battle with no guarantees, the city en-
tered into an agreement with the county. Lexington
can not annex, and the county makes a financial
payment to the city each year based on tax rates and
the county’s tax revenue.

The agreement does not generate as much in-
come for Lexington as the fast-food restaurants;
Wal-Mart and upper income families would if were
they were inside city limits, but the yearly payment
is crucial to Lexington’s budget. Last year’s $543,000

contribution comprised one-tenth of the general fun
budget, said Ellestad.

City Commissioner of Revenue Courtney Bak
thinks this payment is fair.

“Obviously all those things are on the pararﬂete»
of Lexington, because Lexington is here,” she sai

She and Ellestad both said the city deserves t
compensation for the services it provides to t
county. The revenue helps the city to maintain itsel »

“We are always coincerned about the revenue i
Lexington,” said Baker. “We are always watchf
and very concerned that we able to maintaﬁ o

locality, the services we provide, and the good schoo "A-

we have.” z

The yearly county payment helps to offset th
money Lexington loses with its inability totax Wash
ington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute prop
erty. Lexington is 2.5 square miles. Fifty-eight pe
cent of city land is tax—exempt property. ad 4
percent of that land belogs to the two colleges. Th
other nine percent belongs to the city, churches, o
other tax—exempt organizations. From its 42 perce
of taxable land, Lexington brings in approximate].
$1.6 million in revenue. Were the city able to doubl
this amount with revenue from the school propertie
said Ellestad, Lexington’s financial troubles woulr
be over. '

W&L and VMI do make yearly grant paymentst
the city, known as PILOT, or payment lieu of taxe »
W&L contributed around $100,000 last year, sai
UniversityTreasurer Lawrence Broomall.The scho »
bases its grant on a flat amount of $40,000, th
estimated property tax on its fraternity houses, an
one-half the estimated property tax on faculty an
staff housing.

Broomall said if the university acquires any cit
property in the future, the university will grant 10
percent of the property tax to the city each year.

Ellestad said he hopes the schools won’t buy an
more city property.

“We don’t want them buying up more city gro
erty because it takes it off the tax roles,” he said.

The loss of a revenue source threatens Lexongton’.
well-being.

Meanwhile, the city is trying to make the most 0
the property it has The Lexington Downtown Devel
opment Association, said Ellestad, is helping to at
tract both local business patrons and tourists. .

“We’re just trying to maximize the economi
potential downtown,” he said. “LDDA is the ke_
component ofthat. Our philosophy is that business
men know the best way to try to promote and expan
business. We let them take the lead.”

 

Sledding, anyone?

 

A blanket of snow covers the lawn in front of Morris House, making students nostalgic for their Flexible Flyers.

1;...“

 

  
   

Students show school spirit and inginuitg in
personalized license plates around Campus

‘Bl
'ETlIAN ‘ll. ‘liilUl’l’
TIII TEATUKES ‘EDITOR

Any possible way to display school spirit on your license plate is fair game
at Washington and Lee University.

Some V of the 600,000 vanity plates on the road in Virginia are here in
Lexington, F "" ‘ , _._

Since personalized plateswere-~intr6'd1tced in Virginia in 198'} , many-"students
have takenadvantage of‘the program for only $10 above the cost of're‘gistration.

In addition to letters and numbers, people may select a dash, a space, or an
ampersand, which is a very popular symbol on W&L plates.

Some students choose a plate with the W&L crest instead of a seventh letter
on their plates.. This option costs an additional $25 a year.

Sean Garrity of the Public Information Office of the Virginia Department of
Motor Vehicles said after “I000 of the crest plates are sold, ﬁfteen dollars of the
twenty-ﬁve will go to the school.”

Garrity said the crest plates are available for most Virginia schools and some
out-of-state schools if the demand is great enough.

“There is one for Penn State,” said Garrity.

Out—of-state schools do not receive any money from the cost of the plates.

Of course, some people choose to simply use their vanity plates to express
something personal about themselves , such as their intials, their name, or just
some off—the-wall ironic comment about the conditions surrounding them.

So, when you get you own car, go ahead and spend the extra few dollars and
show your creative way of expressing Washington and Lee University in seven
letters or less.

All photos by
Ethan H. Krupp

.1;

»1t;;!t")v‘J l«<';.'

I

PAGE 4

 

The Cassatt String Quartet will perform during Sonoklect this year.
This year Sonoklect is commemorating the 75th birthday of Leonard
Berstein. It will also feature “Recitatives and Ariosos” by Henryk
Gorecki. Several other guest performers will also play.

One Acoustic Evening supports charities at Lenfest arday°

From Staff Reports

Local musicians will present a benefit concert called
“One Acoustic Evening” on Saturday, Jan. 22 at 7:30 pm in
Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts.

Catholic Campus Ministry sponsors the event to raise
money for the Rockbridge Area Relief Association and
Total Action Against Poverty’s “Christmas in April” com-
munity service project. Donations of $5, $3 for students,
will be collected in the lobby and turned over to these

W&LIF E

  

By Hillary Olson
Phi Assitant Features Editor

The fourth annual Sonoklect festival of new
music, a four-day event featuring prominent
guest composers and artists, will be on campus
January 26-29. The festival, organized by mu-
sic professor Paul Brantley, Artistic Director of
the program, includes the prominent Cassatt
Quartet, considered one ofthe best string quar-
tets in the world.

This year’s performances commemorate the
75th birthday season of world-famous com-
poser and conductor of Leonard
Bernstein, composer of such
works as “West Side Story,” who
died in 1990. Brantley actually
studied music with Bernstein,
and he said that for him the com-
memoration holds special mean-
ing.

Brantley has either direct or
indirect relationships with all of
this year’s artists and he said
their “totality represents a spe-
cial type of esprit” that is domi-
nating contemporary music.
Brantley said in the new music
world “up is down and down is
up” as different genres mix and
experiment with each other. He
said the result is a fun and eclectic, “more hip”
style of music that he hopes to capture in this
year’s Sonoklect.

The festival will be different this year, said
Brantley who replaces Dr. Margaret Bouwer as
director, because it is geared more to the stu-
dents than the community.

The name “Sonoklect” was an invention of
past director Brouwer, and combines the words
“sonic” and “eclectic” to capture the spirit of
the annual festival. The subtitle of this year’s

 

tf

Highlighting this year’s lineup is Vicki Pratt Keating
from Charlottesville, winner of two Washington Area Mu-
sic Awards for “Best Female Vocalist” and “Best Album”
(Blue Apples). The guitarist/singer has been gaining recog-
nition in the Washington Post and Austin Chronicle for her
self-styled music and lyrics. She blends avant folk and pop
original music in her England, Scotland and Ireland tour in
April and May.

Bill McCorkle, director of the Rockbridge Chorus and
music minister for the Lexington Presbyterian Chorus, will
perform on piano.

positions on guitar.

 

Brantley

’96 from Berwyn, PA will perform together original com-

Associate Pastor of Lexington Presbyterian Church Lee
Zehmer will sing original songs accompanied by his guitar.

“Strumming Dick” Sessoms, who works in the Develop-
ment Office, will sing songs he learned while traveling
through Ireland and rural America.

After a brief intermission, James and Carol Elizabeth
Leva will sing Appalachian ballads with guitar and fiddle
accompaniment. Leva served as music director of the Lime
Kiln Theater, where the couple has performed. Both are

Sonoklect plays Lenfest

Theannual festival of musical boundaries returns

concert, added by Brantley, is “Musical
Mandalas.” A mandala, he said, is a Hindu
word meaning “magic circle,” used in contem-
porary language to signify the full and com-
plete self. Brantley chose the title because he
said it communicated the intensely personal
and magical new expressive type of music that
he hopes will permeate “Musical Mandalas.”

The main attraction, the all-female Cassatt
Quartet, which takes its name after the Ameri-
can painter Mary Stevenson Cassatt, has rela-
tionships with all three of this year’s guest
composers, Tina Davidson, Eleanor Hovda and
Andrew Waggoner.

The first event, to be held on
Wednesday, January 26 at 4 pm is
an informal meeting at the Lenfest
Center to greet the composers.
The group will play a little musicas
well, said Brantley. Brantley em-
phasized the rare opportunity the
community would have at this
event to “ask the living and breath-
ing composers what makes them
tick.”

Thursday, January 27 at 10 am
is an open rehearsal with the guest

composers and the Cassatt Quar-
tet in DuPont Auditorium.
Brantley said the rehearsal would
give the public the chance to see
the interaction between compos-
ers and the performers of their music. He said,
“Imagine having the chance to sit down with
Bach or Beethoven and discuss their music
with them.” He said the open rehearsal is a rare
opportunity for both performer and composer.

That night at 8 pm is the quartet’s concert
featuring the music of Davidson, Hovda,
Waggoner as well as Brantley in the Lenfest
Center.

On Friday, January 28 at 8 pm is another
concert featuring the music of guest compos-

Bill Schieken, law student from Richmond, will perforrri
some original rock anthems, accompanied by fellow la ‘
students Eric “Tiny E” Reeves on piano, Mark Cath 0
guitar and Brad Rolston on cello.

Leslie Tucker will sing with Jim Brown on guitar ant
Lee Sauder on blues harp.

The concert will conclude with the Greenhouse Defect
a regional peppy band which performs swing, traditiona
and “Dawg music.” Lew Prichard from Lewisburg wil
perform on vocals and mandolin, Lee Sauder will pla\
harmonica, Dart Newhall will be on bass, and Burr DatQwil

    
  
  
  
   
   
 
    
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   

9

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21,199

ers, this time performed by members cf th
quartet with guest artists Deborah Chodacki o
clarinet, Steven Heyman and Arlene Shrut o
piano. Chodacki teaches at the Julian School 0
Music. Heyman is a highly acclaimed pianis 
who lives in Syrcause, NY. Shrut’s piano ac
companiment was heard in Lenfest earlier thi
year when she performed with Brantlﬁy o
cello at his recital in September. _
The final event will be Saturday, January 2
at 8 pm with a concert commemoratin
Bernstein and featuring the “Recitatives an
Ariosos” of Henryk Gorecki in the Lenfes
Center for the Performing Arts.

Right:
Deborah
Chodackion
will play the
clarinet with
the Cassatt
Quartet on
Friday night
at the
Lenfest
Center for
the Perform-
ing Arts.

    
  

Left:
Steve
Heyman wi
play the
piano with
the Cassatt
Quartet on
Friday ngh
as part of
Sonoklect at
the Lenfest
Center for
the Perform-
ing Arts .

O

     
    
 
 

  
 
 
 

   
      
  
   
   
   
   
 

  

organizations. Tom Mason, ’94, from Pittsburgh, PA, and Andy Rice, well—known in old-time music circles. accompany on guitar.

Apartment for Rent
4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, washer & dryer, some utilities included.
2 1/2 miles west of town. Only $175 per bedroom.

Kerr ’s Creek House For Rent
Clean, 4 Bedroom, 2 1/2
bath, $800/mo. Available

June 1st. 8 min from W&L

' l ’ C 463-5452 0
Call Tom 464-8628 mqulre ﬁe‘ y S Omer
., if
Varner & Pole
Specializing in Unfurnished .

Furniture &Shades '

 

19 S. Randolph St.
Lexin ton, VA 463-2742
ew Location!

1 994 Chi Omega pledge class

 

 RUISE-JOBS ,2:
Students Needed!
Earn 552,000+ per month + world
- travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the
Caribbean, etc.) working for

Cmise Ships or Tour Companies.
Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time
employment available.

  
  

 

,si<-43% 3..

30-50% WINTER SALE.
Don’t You Dare Go Bare

Molly Lawson
Holly Layman

Ashley Amini
Elizabeth Bahn

For

—»q--..+p-w..,——;,._,..--- - »

 

Susan Baldwin Laura Marshall g‘“n§j?§j“,;;$;§’;;§,j:jf,“;’j;U
Stephanie DallVechia Bridget McCoy ‘M’ ““‘°“8 “M53”  .
Stephanie Fabrizio Susan McMurry
Megan F lohr Sadaf Moradi -if .- . _. L‘
Allison F oote Kelly Naro 5 J "  A
Sasha Hartman Kathleen Quirk .1) '-
Alicia Hazlehurst Becky Rowe
Callie James Nicole St. Martin . ;
Shannon jamieson Melissa Sawyer   11- ..
Amy Jones Emily gmith Stonewall .';"t£L)rtial;5tggﬂZ|ping Center
Olga Kryuchenkova Joanna Soto 463-9800

ﬁrikfrﬁrdanuary Specialsikfrfrfr

Cassette Singles - $2.49 each, large selection "'
ikikikfrﬁikrkrkﬁfrfrikrk
All T-Shirts - $2 off as marked
7i‘t'72r7.“s'7i‘r<.“4'7.“t'72i'7’,‘t'i‘r7ﬁ'7k‘£‘4'7.“r
Buy any full-length CD and get $2.00 off each F‘
consecutive one
Or
Buy any full-length cassette and get $1.00 off each
consecutive one.
rkikikrkﬂrrkikikfrﬁskﬁik

99¢ Rentals in Foreign and Hunting Sections
Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m.,
Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

Ashley La Forge Erika Van Helden

Lindsay Wills

[_‘,‘.l

 

 

Th! Ring-tum Phi, January 21,1994

W&LIF E

Want to travel and ciiscuss  as a job?

Then Work for the Admisssons Office like recent alumni

By
Kathleen Quirk
Phi Staff Writer

§ome seniors, finding it too diffi-
cult to leave Lexington, simply stay
another year or two. They aren’t trying
to finish P.E. requirements —- they are
going to work for Washington and Lee
admissions.

Julia Kozak, Associate Director of
Adﬁissions, calls the alumni, “a im-
portant arm of the admissions office.”
She says they usually have one or two
graduating seniors as Admissions

V Counselors.

Currently Bill Avoli and Phil Spears,
both ’93 graduates, work in admis-
siorj Avoli applied for the job be-
cause he had been a tour guide with the

Student Recruitment Committee and
had friends working in the office. ‘‘I
was looking for something to do for a
year or two before grad school,” he
says. “I had a good experience here,
and I like talking to the juniors and
seniors in high school, letting them
know about it and trying to get them
interested in W&L.”

Spears says he took the job because,
“I love W&L and Lexington, I knew
people in the ofﬁce, that it would be a
fun place to work, and exciting travel
was involved.” He says his work in
admissions is a stepping stone for later
work in education.

Admissions counselors spend the
summer conducting interviews. In fall,
they also travel on recruitment trips,
visiting high schools and hosting
eveningprogramswithregional alumni.
Spears says the travel is his favorite
part f the job. “I give it a thumbs up.
The travel really was fantastic. There
are a lot ofinteresting people out there,

and they’re very generous and hospi-
table.”

In the winter, the admissions coun-
selors read applicant’s ﬁles. “Reading
a couple thousand applications is
tough,” said Spears. “It’s really hard to
"pick the top thirty percent.”

“The best part about the job is that
we’re involved in the process almost as
much as anybody else,” said Avoli.
“We’re thrown in pretty quickly with
much responsibility.”

“You kind ofwonder what your ﬁle
and [recommendations] said, and how
the school liked your application,” said
Spears. Both he and Avoli said they
have seen themselves in applicants.

According to Kozak, the students
they hire to usually stay about two
years . Spears said, “There is a good
chance I’ll be here another year unless
an excellent job offer comes up.” But
Rob Aliff, ’91, is in his third year
working with admissions. He started
working as an Admission Counselor,

but is now Assistant Director of Ad-
missions, in charge of the Honor Schol-
arship and other special recruitment
weekends. “I do enjoy working here
very, very much,” he says. “I really
enjoy meeting prospective students,
introducing people to Washington and
Lee. You can almost see it in their eyes
when the realize what a special place it
is. It would be difficult to be an admis-
sions counselor at any other school I
wouldn’t know so well.”

Since he recently married, he may
stay another year or so, or he may move
on to graduate school. This year’s se-
niors were freshman when he was a
senior, and he notices that, “The longer
I stay, the farther I get from student
life — I’m almost more of a townie
now.”

But apparently these recent alumni
succeed in their jobs. According to
Kozak, “They are quite good. We get
rave reviews from othercolleges about
the effectiveness of our alumni.”

I. .5
itBMlSSl’3.*iS
artist

The Gilliam House, home of the Admissions Office.

about Washington and Lee and win FD tickets

.“ ,“,’._‘ p ‘_ p
 ‘ at

'5‘

5'5

By
Ethan H. Krupp
Phi Features Editor

Horse” Lee.

The Dining Hall staff gave away a pair of
Fancy Dress tickets for free this week. On
Wednesday, January 19, Betsy Green, ’97,
won a free pair of Fancy Dress tickets for being
the student with the most correct answers in the
Dining Hall Founders Day Trivia Contest. Green
answered 17 of the 20 questions correctly.

The questions, compiled by University His-
torian and professor of history 1. Taylor Sand-
ers, asked for obscure bits of information about
Robert E. Lee and his family.

Robert E. Lee married Mary Anna

Randolph Custis.

Lee’s was born in the Stratford House in
Westmoreland County of Virginia.
Lee’s father was nicknamed “White Horse”

1 he Lee House, built during Lee’s Presidency

Harry Lee.

Lee’s brother was

of his life.

Lucy Long was Lee’s second horse. His first
was Traveller.

The most famous biographer
of Lee was Douglas Freemans
who wrote a four volume history

Confederate Army, but he never wore more

than two stars, the rank of Major General.

Stephen Vincent Benet was the first to call

Lee’s son, George Washing-

Mildred.

West Point.

size shoe.

nicknamed “Black

Lee died in 1870.
Lee was second in his class at

In modern shoe sizes, Lee would wear a 6.5
Two buildings were built durng Lee’s ten-

ure. They were Lee Chapel, and the Lee House.
Lee was the General of the Army for the

ton Custis Lee, succeeded Lee as
President of the Univesity.

Lee attended church at Grace
Episcopal Church opposite the
University Center is today.

The sculpter of the Recumbent
Statue was Edward Valentine.

Lee had four daughters. They
were Mary, Agnes, Amy, and

RE. Lee

Lee “The Marble Man.”

Professor Johnston was the pro-
fessor hired by Lee to be first pro-
fessor of history and English.

Lee did not require students to
attend any chapel services.

On the eve of the Civil War,
Lee lived in Arlington.

The Lee family’s favorite por-
trait of General Lee was painted
by Pine in 1903.

According to Green, it took
about three and a half hours to find
the answers to all the questions
and invloved searching through
numerous books in the rare books
section of the Leyburn Library.

However, all this work was

worth the effort because it saved Green from

having to wait for someone to ask her to Fancy

Dress Ball.
“Within five minutes of being told that I had
won, I had an FD date,” said Green.

Buy a Macintosh now and you can

organiz your time,

straiggiten out your
ﬁnances or go comple

lyballisti .

Apple Powerlioole 1458 4/80.
Only 51,204.

Macintosh LC 475 4/80, Apple Color Plus
r‘nlemaIAppleCD"‘ 300:" CD-ROM Drive, I4'Di2Dlay, Apple Keyboard 1! and mouse-
Apple Keyboard 11 and mouse. Only $1, 196.

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal. Now, when you buy any give you the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize
select Macintoshi or PowerBook® computer, you’ll also receive seven your time and money. And some programs just for fun. So, why buy
software programs. It’s all included in one low price. And the software an Applei computer? It does more. It costs less. its that simple. ,

package alone has a combined SRP value of $596 It was designed to Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal 

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information.
For further information visit University Computing in
Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud or call 463-8844

*Price does not include sales tax

Macintosh LC 520 5/80,

©1993 A/2/2/e (.'m2//in/er. Im: ,-ill rig!/Jls I‘t’.\‘t’I‘!’e(/. Apple. Ibe Apple logo. rilucmlorb and P011 'erBoolz (. re Ivgisterezl /raderm/rl=.i 0/ Apple Conipuleit Inc. Ap/2leCD Li‘ :1 Imzlemarle D//i[)[)[£’ Crim/m/er: /nc.
‘Bum! rm /lie combined Sizggat/ed Relax‘! Prices (SRP) of/be prorlm-ix‘ in The Cmn/mi‘ Srytznire Se! for .rIIaci'i1IciilJ as of Oaabrr I. 1993.

 

The Rin -tum Phi, January 21,1.99 -*
W&LlF E 4

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

 

      
 

 

     

  
 
 

   
  

   

    

   

   

  

    

  
   
 

0“ "I3 mark by Mark Parisi Pluggers by Jeff MacNel1y V SP 3
ACE ’ RS
so/v, vourz MOTHER ANDI CAN . ~ _ Q
,3 ACCEPT YOUR ALTERNATIVE ‘ ’ g 4 L, l
‘ LIFESTYLE, BUT WE CAN’T

9‘ UNDERSTAND 

3 

I; 5‘

  Dave by David Miller 9

5' 

 l>ARLA'9 Co/v\MuNlCATiol\J ‘ DAVE'9 COMMUNICATION 0

. '_ _ €i<lLL§ €l<iLL§
ll, \,
 W ‘ -‘E’  LISTEN wm ‘r
' ”’ ‘~'¢""' L H R
 "  r + 1,»; ( STOP; MEDV|I’:‘l21uTH 
l; 171 are have ways to eal wi.h gj
3: _,h ugg writere block. I TALK ;‘B°"TMYsELF it _
‘I  [.9 Amurri:=mut=5o~9v1MA=.r-«=s- J 1 p  £3
-1 
1 Colonnade Crossword ¥_——___.__——— §

3(

  1 30% etlggoﬂctt %  wt ---~=<=~«-v w-««-6 ‘*‘°i’\\/ll_EV

v); ma EClN 9 ' r

 .3P.°.*::... NON ll0lllTUll ewvev gem 

'g1 13 gm/t;1e(t)it:s fabric

__ 1 love 9

17 Soon
18 Grocery
" 19 Unctuous
.. 20 Song for one
:;:.°.;:.,:::.°°°* BY
25 "—- the -in-——
2. :,::53.:.i;, M E
players
29 Belief

34 Pan name kin

 

 

 

 

35 Wipe the board .

36 Parseghian * ":.\A

37 Close-mouthed ~ §\_
one ‘ ..\ \

38 Tee off

39 Singer Burl

40 Coal weight

41 Make amends © 4 T ' ne Media Services. lnc. 01/21/94

42 Related on ‘*9 R°5°"°d

43 ,',“£;”;;:‘:'g° 5 Defeats Last week’s puzzle solved

45 Seethed 6 A Shaw

46 Groom's 7 Wade through
response 8 Ripped

47 Mailed 9 Waist _

48 Celebrity's John 10 Reg ~ ' \ .\
Hancock 11 ardner _ , ‘ ,

52 News tidbit 12 Manner \. 5, .  _‘ r 2 

56 Smallest of the 15 Tidiest \ . .. .-7 A  /44¢-
litter 22 Neap or ebgl

57 Very strange 24 “— Misera es" 4,, I ‘

58 Singer Guthrie 26 Agreements NTL _ ’  \

59 Luncheon 27 Dole out ‘{“§EEF%§,E ‘Q - 50 YOU RE / _ s‘ \5\\\\ ~\
ending 28 Singer Ross UITTLE MOSEV LOOKlNG FOR 2 IM LOOKING FOR A ;j$~:§\: \\ 

60 Lifts anchor 29 Hoisting device  A GOOD TAX 2/ , GOOD TAX CAVE; —: 2: §§§\\:\.‘

61 Minus 30 Seldom seen 5HELTER--- 54’ §\

62 Entrance 31 Of shipping C = / V,

63 Soda fountain 32 Greek island  ~ / 
treat 33 Relieved : ~ 1  ‘_ / p _

V 64 Chair V 1 35 English school _ _ . —, ,  ._ .,   , J: . I 1»  ' $3‘?! ?\ § ' -‘~ ‘ ’ ~
 " ‘ " Z ’ 38 Cur|y.'Larry and ‘ _ ' W ,, , ', ,  ,_~ I. . J - Eff? _ , § ' . ‘ ‘ :  W I H *4/V 3‘
it DOWN‘ - ‘ 1‘Mo'e “' “     '   ~ ' /-H? \ a V J
1 1 Bikini tops 39 Shortened John 45 Command 51 Melody ' « 1 / A d {H I ‘V
2 Slots spot Hancock 47 Overturn 53 Cedar. e.g. S H 0 E V _ , 3  ’ ?\5 \
3 Pop star 41 Actor Ray 48 Sedanl  ‘X/ILanchester /1,,  \__\q\‘ :  ég , ~ A6 _ X 41
4 Abbreviated 42 Lon time 49 Biblica word ajority “ \. _ -—; ~ ,_ \_ ._V~§/* \~.\\' -—;.:.— ‘—”
John Hancock 44 Wasgie material 50 Paper measure 56 Danger color  Jeff \K’5 . _-T‘ E  / i L
s \ 2, V ‘Z! 2. /

      

Valley  Part—Time Help Wanted 
HARDWARE STORES : Work approximately 20 hrs. per week : ' ‘
Hardware, Paint, and Related Items EOppOrtunity to earn $400 - $800 per month startingi P  
: immediately - College Students Welcome : Restaurant

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. I C311 463-1676 I ..
E   Restaurampiusngmloungemenu 1

Open 4 p.m. until closing

‘ aﬁﬂimw”
L a=me/¢   -  $2 Oﬁ‘ any pasta dinner with’

 Are you looking for an exciting and rewarding summer job?

   
  

 

 
         

   The A Bar A Guest Ranch is on 140,000 private acres of southern Wyoming, d
at   ,v‘ I‘ surrounded b national forest and wilderness area. We have 0 nin s in all areas   ID-
ﬂ . , 1 3 V Y P9 8
. .   ,. of guest services. If you are available from approx. June 1 to early Or late Scpt.,
2:  V ~-~«;._~_»’"$ __ we would like to talk with you about the possibility of working with us this .
 _ J '*""~"m'§“"' " summer. Bob Howe will be interviewing on campus February 2. TO arrange an g Route   . 111 fI'OI1t Of Days Inn .
am Q /" " 4‘ interview time, sign up at the Careers Office in the University Center.   J
Saturda Momin - All U Can Eat Pancakes Questions? can (303) 6704323 K
y g V

Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

 LBJlﬁﬂ   r . , .
Friday and Saturday Nights 11p.m.- 4 a.m. C0UNSELORS3CamP Wayne for Glrls
Sunday 9 a-mr 2 pm. brother/sister camp in Northeastern Pennsylvania.
Rt. 11 North 463-3478 Open 24 Hours June 23 through August 21, 1994‘ HAVE THE
C G MOST MEMORABLE SUMMER OF YOUR
F( V LIFE {GREAT OPPORTUNITY FOR GROWTH
W&L Art IN PERSONAL, PROFESSIONALAND
We have three 0  PARENTING SKILLS. Positions include: Tennis, Swim
(W.S.I. preferned), Waterskiing, Sailing, Basketball,

R. E. Lee

. ° - Vllbll,Sftbll,S ,G ', o
: Signatures: Two are War Date.     Dance/Cﬁeﬁilezding, A:mbi:Cs,c]‘;[i-a11i]::,nlI::)S[i:acss, Guitar;

: w.%t&;.§°Pr’r::t;:a:‘:.d.:.‘::?;:d... St N““'.“’C“‘“*"“g’"*f“"’S?“""“"°"3°‘“‘“‘°S"’*“““"g’
. Sculpture by Ron Tunison Sllkscreens Drawmga Vldeographya Phmographya

, Mary and George Washington Pieces Famous M e n, S & WOmen,S Apparel and Shoes Self-Defense, Other staﬂ‘: Group Leaders, General, Nurses,‘
3 from America’s Finest Catalog Mail Order Driver/Video or Photo (21+).

! ﬂ - ~ Companies. New Shipments Every Week. ff On campus interviews 1
3 E “J U  3 East Washm ton street EXP6‘1egggggljgrggiggssagggrgmg 80% 0 Iheday, February 1, 1994. 11 a.m.-3p.m. in

' t . VA 4450 ' '

‘ (7<=(>)<§r)1§“<3>f11_6464 the University Center. If you need more

; Open Monday _ Saturday Information, call 1-800-756-CAMP, 516-889-3217 "
Z 10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m. H M S 9 3 or write

: Ours: . - . : - : - ,

, K 0" 3- 0 5 30 463 973° 12 Allevard St.,L1do Beach, NY 11561.

, L /J .

 

  

The Rinﬁtum Phi, January 21,

1994

.EC members stand by trial procedures

5 EC from page 1

the penalty for a guilty verdict in an
Q open trial is stiffer than the penalty for
a guilty verdict in a closed hearing.

0 Two members of the EC partici-
pate in the investigation of a student
and later sit as members of the jury.

O The EC decides guilt by a two-
thirds vote, while most other college

. honor systems use a unanimous or 80
percent vote.

0 There is no specific intent re-
quirement in deﬁning an Honor Viola-
tion.

Others say a review of the Honor
System should address more funda-

. mental questions.

Elizabeth McCord’s mother,
Suzanne McCord, has been one of the
most vocal critics of the Honor System
in the year and a half since her daughter
was dismissed.

‘‘I think an honor system is wonder-
ful,” said Suzanne McCord. “But I feel

5 there are some double standards at
W&L”

While students who violate the
Honor System on campus are dismissed
from the university, dishonorable con-
duct off campus is routinely winked at,
she said. (See related story.) Worse,

0 students say, individual professors have

an Honor Violation.

“I think it needs to be made clear
that there ’s an overriding presumption,
and I think its stated pretty clearly in
the White Book, that all work is con-
sidered pledged” said EC President
Robert Tompkins. “Frankly, I don’t
buy Liz McCord’s argument at all. I
think she said she did something that
she hadn’t done.”

Even professors admit to some
fuzziness about the Honor System. Pro-
fessor Russell Knudson, McCord’s
French Professor, said the Honor Sys-
tem is cut and dry, but the way it is
administered hinges on human deci-
sions.

“It’s a sharp-edged code applied to
human beings — we apply it to each
and every one of our acts,” said
Knudson. “But I have a feeling that the
sharp edges are somewhat tempered by
human beings. An individual may blur
the sharp edge.”

To Elizabeth McCord, there was no
Honor Violation because she did not
intend to mislead Knudson. She ac-
knowledges she signed a pledge for
work she had not completed, but she
had an explanation.

“It was an ungraded homework as-
signment,” McCord said. “By signing
the pledge I thought ‘I’m under the
Honor System and l’ll go back and do

‘‘I didn’t doubt my integrity or hon-
esty. It was W&L’s Honor System that
was the problem -— not me.”

Kowalyk saw the situation differ-
ently.

“To my recollection, the teacher
asked her directly how she could have
done [the exercises]. It seemed to him
she wasn’t telling the truth,” Kowalyk
said. “I am comforted by the fact that if
I had been wrong or ifl am wrong there
were points where other people could
have stopped the process. I didn’t set
out to convict her, I didn’t convict her,
I didn’t convict her again.”

“Like they said when we first got
here— if you don’t cheat, you won’t be
brought to trial.”

*******

The 1988 Princeton Conference on
Honor Systems provides a compara-
tive analysis of honor systems at col-
leges nationwide. Compared to honor
systems at 38 other colleges, W&L’s
Honor System is comparatively vague
and provides little protection for the
accused.

Of the 38 colleges reviewed, only
W&L and the military academies have
honor systems that go beyond the class-
room.

Tompkins said although W&L’s
Honor System extends into the social
realm, academic Honor Violations and

different standards for what constitutes

it right after class.

social Honor Violations are treated

Students take honor p
less seriosly off the Hill

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

. The White Book defines an Honor Violation as dis-
honorable conduct. When it comes to honor trials, that
usually means lying, cheating or stealing on campus.

Although the Honor System remains sacred on the
Hill, its critics wonder what happens when an Honor
Violation occurs elsewhere.

Take the case of Blake Comer. Comer, a W&L junior
at the time, hit and killed freshman Mary Ashley
Scarborough while driving drunk the night of March 16,
1989. Although several of his fraternity brothers knew
Comer hit Scarborough, none of them reported the inci-
dent to police or to the Executive Committee.

Two years later, Marcus Miller, then a W&Ljunior,
was charged with breaking into a W&L student’s apart-
ment with intent to commit sexual assault. Miller, who
eventually pleaded guilty to trespassing, was never re-.

 : ported to the‘ EC. ‘ Finally, after a woman complainedof

-sexual harassment by Miller in 1992, the Student Con-
duct Committee dismissed Miller from the university.

Last winter, six Phi Delta Theta fraternity pledges
chopped down a bamboo tree in a VMI professor’s back
yard to use as a decoration for a party. The Phi Delt
pledges were sentenced in Lexington City Court to
community service work. But their actions went unpun-
ished by the EC. No one ever reported their actions as
Honor Violations. And the EC does not have the power
to investigate unreported Honor Violations.

“Things outside academic violations are a lot harder
to pinpoint,” said 1992-93 Executive Committee Presi-
dent Josh MacFarland. “We don’t go looking for things
[to prosecute].”

Then there’s the case of Elizabeth McCord. McCord
acknowledged that she signed a pledge in a French
course for work she didn’t do. But, she claims, she
intended to do the work and never knowingly violated the
Honor System.

McCord, whose transgression occurred on the Hill,
was expelled from the university.

To Elizabeth’s mother, Suzanne McCord, this is a
massive cleft in the Honor System.

“The Honor System is very militaristic on the Hill and

very permissive on the social scene,” Suzanne McCord
said. “lfyou’re going to have this incredibly rigid Honor
System, it has to be in all aspects of your college life.”

Others say an Honor Violation is an Honor Violation,
no matter where it occurs or how insigniﬁcant it seems.
One of them is McCord’s accuser, Cindy Kowalyk, ’93

“Other people have said I acted incorrectly [when I
turned Elizabeth McCord in],” Kowalyk said. “But I
don’t feel that way. Sitting in class that day, it seemed a
blatant offense. If enough people had felt as strongly that
such a small offense shouldn’t be turned in, that it wasn’t
in the spirit of the Honor System, Elizabeth wouldn’t
have been convicted.”

MacFarland agreed.

“Everyone knows, or ought to know, the Honor Sys-
tem encompasses all aspects of life at W&L,” he said.

But MacFarland acknowledged that the EC usually
doesn’t handle cases of socially dishonorable conduct.

EC President Robert Tompkins agreed.

“I guess in the academic setting, you tend to have rules
that are more clear-cut, such as you are not allowed to
copy another person’s exam,” Tompkins said. “There’s
more sort of wiggle room for people in the social setting
a lot of the time to say ‘Well, I didn’t understand what
was going on...’ And that happens in academic things
too, but you see it more in the social setting”

“Also, people come up with what they think are things
which might excuse their culpability, like being drunk or
being under some social pressure to do something,” he
said.

MacFarland said conduct problems shouldn’t be un-
der the Honor System.

“You don’t want an absolutely perfect student body
running around,” he said. “It’s college, and sometimes
people screw up and get out of hand. I think [the EC] is
hearing the right types of cases. The things that are
brought to the Student Conduct Committee and the
Student Faculty Hearing Board are of a different nature.”

But some people say that does not justify the apparent
double nature of the Honor System.

“I have a hard time with the extremes in the Honor
System,” Suzanne McCord said. “There are boys who
commit rape and graduate from W&L, but my daughter
won’t.”

“That’s a real hard thing for me to accept.”

~./'§/

 

IIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllIIIIIIIlllllIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

EXCELLENT

 

‘E BEACH Springbreak Promoter.

_ EXTRA INCOME NOW!

ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week -

Free Details: SASE to
International Inc.

1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230

 

Small or large groups.
FREE trips and CASH!
Call CMI 1-800-423-5264

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIlllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Seasonal employment available as a whitewater raft guide
in W.Va. Experience not required. Must be 19 years old,
have current CPR and first aid. Contact North American
River Runners, P.O. Box 81 Hico, WV 25854

1-800-950-2585 EOE

FREE TRIPS AND MONEY!!
Individuals and Student Organiza-
tions wanted to promote the Hottest
Spring Break Destinations, call the

nation’s leader. Inter-Campus
Programs 1-800-327-6013. 1

o ' For Sale: Brother Word Processor

Brand New and Price Negotiable
Call 462-4869

SPRINGBREAK
packages. PROMOTE on
campus or SIGN UP for
rooms. Daytona, Panama

City $129 and up. Cancun.

quite differently.

“[Social Honor Violations] are
tougher to pinpoint because I think
people tend to be a little more cavalier
with the system offthe Hill in the social
context and in the fraternity context
and that’s troubling,” he said. “It’s
hard to tell how widespread that is
because I think there’s sort of a general
acceptance among a large portion of
the student body that it’s okay to do
certain things in a social setting that
might otherwise present a problem with
the [Honor System].”

W&L’s Honor System defines an
Honor Violation as anything the cur-
rent student body deems dishonorable.
Lying, cheating, and stealing are ex-
amples of dishonorable conduct. The
other schools limit their definition to
academic dishonesty, such as cheating
or plagiarism.

“The system puts the principle above
all else,” said Tompkins, “and that prin-
ciple is to behave [like gentlemen]. I
don’t think you’ll ever have a clear
deﬁnition of what honor is or what it
involves. It’s always going to be open
to some interpretation. 1 think that
lying, cheating and stealing are as ex-
plicit as we need to be.”

W&L also appears to be in the mi-
nority as a single-sanction system.
Vanderbilt, Wake Forest, The College
of William and Mary, Gettysburg,
Smith, Princeton University, The Air
Force Academy, Duke and Haverford
all have multi-sanction systems, with
punishments ranging from letters of
reprimand to failure in the course to
dismissal from school.

At W&L, a guilty verdict in a closed
hearing results in the student’s forced
withdrawal from the university, while
a guilty verdict in an open trial results
in dismissal.

Tompkins said this is not much dif-
ferent from our court system in the
United States.

“I think even in the criminal justice
system, there’s an incentive given to
defendants to plead guilty and if they
don’t and in fact exercise their rights to
trial, they get a stiffer sentence and I
think that’s fairly commonplace,” he
said. “I also think that the appellate
process that we use is a completely
new hearing-——you start from scratch
with a new jury and you present the
entire case. When you have an appeal
in the criminal system, you don’t get
that. You appeal a point of law or a
particular aspect of the trial, but you
don’t get to start from scratch.”

The University_ of Virginia., the
Virginia .Military.Institute, Princeton,
Haverford, Gettysburg and W&M all
require that 80 percent or more of the
jury find the accused person guilty.
Rice demandsaunanimous decision of
guilt. W&L only requires that 67 per-
cent of the jury find the defendant
guilty.

W&L has relatively few safeguards
to ensure a fair trial. Rice University
has an impartial student observer sit in
on the trial to ensure fairness. At
Haverford, the accused is allowed to
remove three members of the jury. At
UVa., Vanderbilt, Sewanee, Princeton,
Smith,The AirForceAcademy,W&M,
and VMI, the investigators of the
charges cannot serve on the jury. But at
W&L, two EC members take part in
the investigation of the accused and
later sit on the accused’s jury.

‘‘I think there is a tendency to take
‘investigator’ as synonymous with
‘prosecutor’,” said Tompkins. “A lot
of times I think people confuse the
roles of people in the EC process with

Winter
Merchandise
on Sale

appogomzoi

Lexington Shop

for Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

Accessories

     
   
       
        
       
      

   

       
       
   

Hours: 10 — 5:30
Mon. — Sat.
23 N. Main St.

   
    

roles of people in the judicial system.
When we send out an investigative
team, we ask them to look at all aspects
of the case and they can do everything
short of talking to the accused. So
they’re not there to prove a crime.
They’re there to gather as many facts
as they can.”

“And the purpose of a closed hear-
ing as stated in the White Book... is to
ascertain more facts if we feel that the
only way to really understand the case
is to talk to the accused person and tell
them what we understand the facts to
be and see what their response is,” he
said.

Also at U.Va, Vanderbilt, Sewanee,
Princeton, Smith, The Air Force Acad-
emy, W&M and VMI, the accused
knows that an investigation is proceed-
ing against him.

At W&L, the student does not know
an investigation has taken place until
he is brought to closed trial. The inves-
tigators do not hear the accused’s side
of the story until the trial.

Honor trial procedures at most other
schools provide a support group for the
accused, or at least allow them to seek
advice and comfort. For example, at
W&M the student is allowed to have
the support of parents, teachers, and
spiritual advisors. At UVa., the student
is appointed both legal and emotional
counsel. At Gettysburg, the accused

 I 7171
ﬂlt ‘Union-

Run

and Restaurant

Chef Stewart prepares daily culinary delights

and accuser are allowed to seek the
counsel of any student, faculty or staff
member.

But at W&L, the student must keep
the case secret, speaking only to the EC
and to appointed legal counsel. W&L
even prohibits telling parents about
honor trials.

Elizabeth McCord maintains she
never intended to commit an Honor
Violation. Yet she was dismissed from
the university. The Air Force Acad-
emy, Rice, UVa., and VMI all require
that the accused student must intend to
commit an Honor Violation before he
can be found guilty. ,

“I think that intent is an important
part of the three things that are enumer-
ated in the White Book—lying, cheat-
ing and stealing,” said Tompkins. “I
think there is an intent requirement tied
up in the definition of all those terms
and perhaps we should be more ex-
plicit about that.”

“But intent in and of itself is some-
thing that you have to sort of under-
stand from the circumstances because
it’s hard to actually prove intent. And
the way I’ve seen the system operate
and the way honor has been interpreted
by the committee, there’s always been
a regard for the intent of the person. If

0 See EC page 10

 

    

  

 

Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen,
Paella, and Homemade Tortellini.

Six Room.lnn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dining
Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Winter Package

Tuesday, Wednesday. & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two

463-5988

(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

        
 
    
 
  

    

 

 

' Do You Want VISA & MasterGard Credit Cards? , 82 <=ARD- B0‘ 165% ATLANTA- GA 30-2 ,
Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  VISA’/MASIERCARDQ Cmd“ '

accepted credit cards In the world...VIsa® and Master&rd0 U . “mm 3

__ - __ credit cards.."ln your name.“ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN | camsappmved gmmcdratcty, 1ooq/. ougngutsam I

I NOW Showing CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BENDREI ' |
. GCTOHIITIO VISAS and MasterCard® the credlt cards you I I
Daily 7:00 p_m_ deserve and need for-— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT 3 NAME I

Sat. & Sun. 4:30 & 7:00 p.m. STOREs—TLm10N—ENTERTNNMENT"' I I

_ EMERGENCY OQSH-—TICKETS—RESTAURAN'I$—  '

Rated PG 13 H0.'I‘ELS—MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENI‘ALS— '

REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD vourz car-zorr RATING! | CITY STATE __ ZIP :

"V I-"9 : STUDENT? _Y£§__§o_ s_s_# I

0 Daily 9:35 pm. ‘ngiﬂ "0 t“"' d°‘m5! . '

Sat. 3. sun, 2:20 3. 9:35 pm g\|K,“s‘£“cI“° No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE

nated n “5gfl|5‘“_o 6:‘ no security deposit! ' NOIE: Ma.stuCnrd is. registered tredennrk d’ Mamani International. Inc. '

Ggelahi I’ I Visa Is a registered tradermrk ofVISA usa. Inc. and VISA tmamauonai I

251-7292 35"” ""5 °°""°" T09" I '
\g275BeechAve., Buenavistaj Youn CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING! L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _|

 

PAGE 8

    

@112 ilting-tum {ﬂirt

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

It’s your system

“A state without the means of some change is without the means of its
conservation.” —Edmund Burke

Washington and Lee University is proud of its Honor System. If you ask
W&L students what brought them to this small liberal arts school in southern
Virginia, many ofthem will tell youthe Honor System played a role in their
decision. These students live under the system every day. It governs their
lives. But what governs the system?

The White Book states that the Executive Committee enforces the notion
of honorable conduct of W&L students. Since “honorable conduct” is a
vague term, the White Book maintains “the system applies to any conduct
considered dishonorable by the student generation involved.”

“But wait,” you are probably saying to yourself. “When do I get my
chance to let people know what I think is dishonorable?”

The answer is: NOW.

Ames Hutton, chairman of the White Book Review Committee, said at
last week’s EC meeting he is desperately seeking student input for the
WBRC’s suggestions for White Book revisions. Give him what he wants,
because the WBRC’s March I deadline is drawing close. You may have to
wait quite a while for another chance.

Last spring term, Phi Executive Editor Francesca Kefalas and Phi News
Editors Michelle Brien and Tom Hespos decided to do their own examina-
tion of Honor System issues for their Public Affairs Reporting class. The
article was undertaken because they felt the Honor System deserved the
attention. The article uses the only open honor hearing that has occurred in
the last four years as an example.

The story was not written to retry the Elizabeth McCord case, or to judge
McCord. The article was written to show how the Honor System works with
real people. The article was written to provide students with information they
never had before, because people were not willing to talk about the honor
system in an open way.

The article will bring up some issues that may get you thinking about what

K A changes you would like to see in the Honor System. Or you may decide it

doesn’t need to be changed. In any case, read the story. Let Ames (or any
of the other WBRC members, for that matter) know what you want. After
all, the Honor System will govern your life for the rest of your career at
Washington and Lee. And if it has taught us anything, it will stay with us for
the rest of our lives.

 you better wear a
jhat an earmuffs, too

VI

The weather folks say it will be warming up this weekend. The high is
expected to be in the 40s. Now, some of us might be tempted to break out the
shorts and T-shirts. After all, 40 will feel a whole lot warmer than -20.

We can’t help but believe the snow, ice and sub-zero temperatures will be
back soon. Rumor has it the Farmers/tlmanac predicted this winter to be one
of the coldest winters ever. We haven’t read the Farmers/llmanac , but so far
it’s right on target. So, since a few of us are damn yankees and have grown
up with the stuff, we decided we might impart some information about how
to deal with the cold and especially the ice.

First, we heard plenty of stories of people taking spills and how embar-
rassed they were. Don’t be embarrassed.‘ The conditions onthis campus are
treacherous and were f0_1‘, ‘W9 days b.efOl?€ thélﬁlilléfﬁily  ’closied.‘Buil'ding’S.
and Grounds has not exactly been efficient in clearing paths. In fact, we’ve
seen state road crews with higher efficiency. The university doesn’t want to
ruin the bricks by throwing salt on them, which is understandable. But for
those little gray stones to work at all, there should be more than a sprinkling
of them. So don’t feel bad if you fell — a lot of people did.

Since B&G hasn’t managed to get rid of the ice or to cover it up properly,
students do have to walk on the ice. If something looks like water, don’t step
on it. Chances are it is still ice and the slipperiest kind at that. Your best bet
is to walk on the ice that is clumpy and partially broken. It will give you more
traction. It will take you longer to get from place to place, but it’s worth it,
considering the end result could be worse than a bruised ego if you do fall.

The cold alone makes it dangerous outside. We’re sure you can all hear
your mother’s voice saying ‘now, bundle up.’ But mom was right. Frostnip
and frostbite are not pleasant. The best way to avoid them is to layer your
clothing. It really does work. Also, keep your ears, hands, nose and especially
your head covered.

You may have noticed that it hurts to breathe when it gets cold. The best

 way to stop that is to cover your nose and mouth with a scarf when it’s cold.

The scarfwill warm the aira little before it gets to your lungs, and it won’t hurt
to breathe.
Please be careful out there. Mother Nature can be really mean.

lQuote of the week:

“It’s a #@*! winter wonderland out there.”

- a W&L student commenting on the
tropical weather

-.—u—-—

(I112 ‘tiling-111111 Iﬂlti

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Hillary Olson

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

An Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-mm Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and My
Views do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1994 ‘

 

   
 
     

A WINK
W 115 Dow

00 Atrl‘ T

ME
gt!
)»/,t1,tN’ 35:40:67

New
see»! NOTHIH‘ yer!

  
   
  

AIDS activists misplace emphasis’

Just before leaving for Christmas break, W&L
witnessed something now inevitable on college cam-

puses. The candles of the
AIDS vigil were burning

brightly as I approached
the library; and I asked a
question that perhaps es-
caped the planners and sup-
porters of this event, no
matter how well
intentioned they are. What

 
   



A

C.F.
KUCERA,
’97

good will this do?
People are dying from
AIDS-related illnesses ev-

eryday, the activists are eager to tell you “we must do
something;” who can argue against doing something?
However, the something being done is to make the
AIDS activist pleased with themselves; that some-
thing doesn’t help a single AIDS victim. The candles
are a nice gesture, and the red ribbons sure do stand

- 35 out nicely on an outfit. Again, what do these efforts
~ ‘do? The answer: -nothing.
If one is not wearing one of these neatly folded red
ribbons, they are immediately labeled by some as
‘uncaring’ and ‘uncompassionate.’ These ribbons
seem to scream out “Look at me, I care.” For ex-
ample, one needs only to look at the entertainment
industry; at any given Emmy Awards, or other such
self-congratulatory programs, it is nearly impossible
to see a celeb without one of these ribbons. They’re
usually not even ribbons. They’rejewelry glittering in
the footlights for all to see. How much do these pieces
of feel-good jewelry cost, one wonders? Could that
money not be spent to do some good for AIDS

victims?

these people light
candles and wear rib-
bons, have they forgot-
ten about. cancer and
heart disease? I ’m sure
they haven’t, but the
absence of a cancer rib-
bon or heart disease rib-
bon on their clothing
surewouldn’tconvince
me.
The supporters of
the vigil may think my
comments unfair. As I
heard one supporter,

In fact, it is the AIDS victim that are being forgot-
ten in this race to see who cares more. How much
money was spent on planning
and executing this candlelight
vigil that could have gone to
AIDS, cancer, and other re-
search? Not a huge sum, but
howeversmall, it certainly would
have done more good than a
group of people who now feel
good about themselves, lighting
candles and wearing ribbons.

What is it exactly these people
want? Currently we spend more
on AIDS research than we do on a host of diseases and
viruses which are responsible for yearly death rates
for surpassing that of AIDS-related deaths. While

The candles area nice gesture,
and the red ribbons sure do stand

out nicely on an outfit. Again,
what do these efforts do? The

wearing a red ribbon, say, “but AIDS doesn’t dis-
criminate, anyone can get it.” Well, that’s true, any-
one can get it. Some are less likely, however. One

answer: nothing.

shouldn’t panic if you’re not an intravenous drug
user, or engaged in risky sexual habits. Take pre-
cautions, but don’t panic. AIDS is not the bubonic
plague. You’re not going to contract it sitting in.
your armchair watching a Sunday afternoon foot-
ball game. And, besides that point, did this person
suggest that cancer and heart disease do discrimi-
nate? I’m sure far more of us know someone who
has been the victim of cancer, or heart disease than
know someone dying from AIDS.

I feel it necessary to cushion my blows, how-.
ever. I do not mean to say AIDS is not a terrible
disease, nor is it not responsible for the life of many
who did little harm to others. All I ask is that people
start being realistic about just how much of an
epidemic this disease is. Certainly those at the
forefront of AIDS activism want people to think of

AIDS as the next Black
Death. If people believe
their calls of hysteria, it
means more power and
money. These people are
not those running the
candlelight vigil in front
of the Leyburn Library,
but they’re just as guilty
of feeling good about
themselves for wearing
red ribbons and lighting
candles but in many cases
doing little else.

If people continue to

say “Look at me, I care because I’m wearing a rec’
ribbon; where’s your’s?” I may have to drag out my
deficit reduction ribbon; it means I care.

Peck report skirts the issues

When I begin thinking about what
I am going to write my column on, I
tend to look for issues on campus first.
If I am unable to find something inter-
esting, I move on to national issues.
For the past few months, I have been
skipping an otherwise important issue

department’s decision. However, rather
than admitting to the possibility of a
faulty decision and reevaluating, the
department “dug in its heels” and placed
the administration in an awkward posi-
tion. Their only choice was to support
an obviously ﬂawed and potentially il-

 

that has been legal deci-
present on cam- sion, or to
pus.Ihavecho— puglicly
sen to ignore it em arrass
in hopes that the PATRICK some of the
administration most re-
ofthisuniversity MCDERMOPF, s p e ct e d
would correct , members
what seems to '  of the fac-
me to be a rather ulty by re-
simple mistake. v c r s i n g
As usual, I have their action

been disappointed by our leadership,
and now feel I must address the dis-
missal of Professor Demaree Peck.

I would like to preface this column
by saying I do not know Professor
Peck personally and I have not had a
class with her. What I know of her
work I have learned through various
reports of her teaching style and
through the reports in this newspaper.
This was another reason for my hesi-
tation in writing this column. How-
ever, I feel Professor Peck’s position
on campus has moved beyond the
point ofbeing an issue solely for those
who have a personal connection with
her. Peck’s situation is forcing us to
question the way in which our faculty
governs itself as well as the qualities
we as Washington and Lee students
respect in our professors.

As a spectator in this situation, it
has occurred to me the English depart-
ment, while being an impressive col-
lection of scholars, is not a perfect
body. They make mistakes just like
the rest of us, and they have clearly
made one in their decision not to re-
new Professor Peck’s contract. That
decision, when initially reported, was
based on vague characterizations about
Professor Peck’s scholarship and
classroom effectiveness. Since that
time, evidence has been presented by
Professor Peck and by a large number
of her students that seems to contra-
dict the reasons for the English

and reinstating Professor Peck.

True to form, the administration fol-
lowed “the boys” and has systemati-
cally opposed all attempts at investiga-
tion. The recent report filed by the
President’s Advisory Committee would
never have been written had Professor
Peck not forced an appeal through the
regulations of one of the University’s
accrediting institutions. Ironically, now
that the report has finally been written it
does not do what it should have done.
Rather than reporting their colleagues’
flawed decision and advising the presi-
dent to overturn it, the report fails to
address the real issue, and instead at-
tempts in some way to make everybody
happy. This is neither possible nor de-
sired. What was desired was for the
faculty to stand up against an injustice,
to demand adetailed explanation. I guess
that was too much to ask!

I must admit I am personally grow-
ing quite tired of writing letters and
columns in support of the rights of fe-
male professors to have a place on this
campus. Last year I wrote a similar
letter informing the university of the
appalling treatment received by Profes-
sor Valerie Hedquist, who left at the end

'of the year after being repeatedly ver-

bally battered for her alternative view-
points. Certain members of this com-
munity become terribly upset when oth-
ers express such views, especially — it
seems — when the source is a woman.
Why is that? Why is it that the men on

this campus can basically say whatever
they feel like, both in and outside the
classroom. But when one of our few
women professors says something or
acts in away not in line with the general
conservative views of the campus she
is all but carried off‘?

We have male professors on this
campus who make clearly bigoted com-
ments to their classes. We have others
who openly discourage women from
taking their classes and then blatantly
lower the grades of those who dare to
go against their wishes. We even have
male professors who skirt the edges of
sexual harassment with both their male
and female students. All of this is com-
mon knowledge to students, faculty,
and administrators, and yet nothing is
done to these fixtures of our campus.
The minute a woman presents views
that are considered alternative, how-
everbenign they may be, she is marked.
If she doesn’t have tenure when this
takes place, chances are she never will.
This is, I suspect, precisely what hap-
pened within the inner-sanctum of the
English department. “The boys” felt

both in and out of the department, are
clearly not pleased with these actions,
but the faculty members seem to be
very determined in their effort to clean
up the department. How ironic this is
—— It seems to me rather than strength-
ening both the image and effectiveness‘
of the department, they are weakening
it, more and more every day. They are
confirming the suspicions of many their
only desire is for a faculty made up of
white, conservative, men.

Finally, all ofthis stops at the desk
of the president of the university, whd
does not seem to have a very strong
retention rate, given the fact that he has
reportedly been trying to improve the
diversity of our faculty. Normally, the
excuse we hear for the low number of
women and minorities is that they are
hard to attract to a conservative cam‘
pus like ours. When they leave we hear
that they didn’t feel they could get
along with the students and their atti-
tudes. Here we have a professor who is
not only willingto stay,butwho clearly
has the support of students.

The decision that is left for Presi-

threatened and dent Wilson
invented rea- willnodoubt
sonsforProfes- .....:__.  _j...._ be difficult
sor Peck’s dis- for him. He
missal. As I We have male pr0fes- has to take a
said,atra ic, if - side. He has
not totallgi ac- Sors on tfus campus who to escape the
cidental, hu- openly discourage quagmire o

man mistake.
The prob-
lem is this par-

women from taking their
classes and then bla-

n e u t ral i t y
that seems to
plague every

ticular woman tantly lower the grades of action he
did not go qui- those who dare to 0 takes and
etly. She de- g once and for

cided to fight
and almost cer-

against their wishes.

allusehispo-.
sition to do

tainly caused

those respon- A

sible for the decision to become even
more disturbed. Next, their own stu-
dents began to turn against them. It
seems the English department has built
itself quite a reputation over the past
year or two for not being very accept-
ing of new professors who rival their
own popularity. Last year they “fired”
John Lynch and now they are desperate
to remove Professor Peck. Students,

what is right.

lfhe doesn’t,
he will have not only a guilty con-
science, but more seriously, a possible
sex equity investigation by the Justice
Department and a lawsuit that has the!
potential of taking a significant chunk
out of the Capital Campaign. Either
way, the president is faced with an
unpleasant situation,only one ofwhich
will allow him the confidence of hav-
ing “done the right thing.”

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1994

OPINION

PAGE 9

Fraternities need to come together

. Spos’ SPACE

Tom Hespos

“The search goes on. The more I
look, my world keeps getting smaller.”
— Van Halen, Mine All Mine.

D These wise words echoed in my

mind last weekend when I took a look
at the general attitude of some of our
fraternity men. Being of the mindset
that the fraternity system should oper-
ate as one cohesive unit until everyone
on campus is drunk and/or having a

0 good time, Spos realized how far we

were from this idealistic view.

There have always been fraternity
rivalries on this campus. Alumni come
back to school on alumni and Home-
coming Weekends and tell all of the
old stories.

You know, that one guy in Sigma

‘ Nu who shot ﬂaming arrows at Phi
Delt, the Phi Kappa Psi brothers of
some years ago that used a giant sling-
shot to shoot pool balls at rival frater-
nities. The list goes on.

Of course, alumni tend to exagger-
ate quite a bit, as demonstrated by the

‘following statement, which was prob-
ably never said by any alumnus, but is
indicative ofthe kind of stuff you usu-
ally hear:

“Back when I was in school, we

didn’t have any beer in fancy alumi-
num cans. We just ran around with
wooden kegs strapped to our backs and
when we’d fall over, we couldn’t get
back up again. And sometimes we’d
drink Sterno until we couldn’t see any-
more. And then we’d go light the
(insert rival fraternity here) house on
fire... (groans from surrounding
undergrads)”

This is not the mindset we should
accept. Spos
w i t n e s s e d
several acts of
random fra-
ternity vio-
lence this past
weekend and
later heard of
two more in-
cidents that
prompted in-
volvement on
the part ofthe
LexingtonPo-
lice. Stuff like this leads to intense
rivalry and the “I’m-not-going-to-let-
you-into—our-party-next-weekend-if-
you—don’t-let-me—into-your-party”
frame of mind.

Rather, we should all follow the
example of Mr. Doug Kaufman. Last
Saturday night, Mr. Kaufman waltzed
right in the front door of my fraternity
house with several of his friends and

at best.

It seems the general at-
titude of fraternity males

towards people in other
houses has been militant,

said, “Hey — I heard that there was a
party here. What’s going on?”

This is what Spos likes to see.
Equally cool was the attitude of Mr.
Joel Honts, who pulled me aside as my
brothers and I were leaving the Sigma
Nu house as their Saturday night party
came to a close.‘

“It was nice to see you guys again,”
he said. “Come back anytime.”

This sharply contrasts with the atti-
tude Spos usu-
ally sees at par-
ties around
campus. An
example fol-
lows:

Partygoer:
Um, can I
come in?

D o 0 r -
worker: How
many brothers
do you know?

Partygoer:
Uh, five or six. l’m friends with Joe
Frat.

Door-worker: Oh, really? Where
does he live? What’s his shoe size?
What’s the PIN number on his money
card? Where does he shop for power
tools?

Partygoer: Um, nevermind.

Door-worker: Thanks for playing.

See where this leads? Equally an-

noyingisthe followingsituation,which
actually occurred last weekend.

Door-worker: (to crowd of frater-
nity guys) Uh, sorry guys. We’re not
letting anyone else in. The party’s get-
ting too crowded. (Lets an entire
busload of road-school girls into the
party approximately halfway through
his statement).

This school is too small for that kind
of crap.Thisis not to suggest that every
party should be open, but it seems the
general attitude of fraternity males to-
wards people in other houses has been
militant, at best.

What we really need is one huge
party. Everyone is invited: the Alphas,
the Betas, the Deltas, the Chi-O’s, the
independents, the road-school girls, the
Swedish Bikini Team, the Flat Earth
Society and anyone else we can think
of (even Richard Weaver). No ﬁght-
ing, no sneering, no bird-flipping, no
malicious goring with pointy instru-
ments and no spitting (with exceptions
for chewing tobacco, which is encour-
aged).

The Princeton Review consistently
ranks W&L’s Greek system among
the top in the nation each year. Perhaps
if we cooperate a little and keep the
rivalries on the intramural sports fields,
we can secure that number-one spot for
next year.

Hope to see you next weekend.

‘Preserve the speaking tradition

MY VIEW

- Kimberly A. Peterson

students of W&L.

When I went through the Honor System Orienta-
tion, I distinctly recall one of the speakers mentioning
the speaking tradition which existed on campus. He
explained that this tradition creates a friendly atmo-

Osphere that students at Washington and Lee want to

maintain.

This tradition sets Washington and Lee students
apart from many other small colleges and universi-

ties. Although all students do not know each other on
a first-name basis, they wish to acknowledge the
friendliness and respect which each student holds for
another because of the mutual bonds shared by the

General Lee took the time to learn the name of each
student of Washington College. In everyday passing,
Lee would greet every young man by his first name.
He even knew where the student was from and how he
was progressing in school.

General Lee’s effort should convey a message to
every student here — this campus will suffer greatly

look away or stare blindly at your feet. Raise your
head and greet that person with afriendly “hello” or
“good afternoon.”

Why do students appear embarrassed when pass-

ing another student? I personally do not understand

nation.

this reaction. Why should one be embarrassed to
say hello to a colleague? There is no logical expla-

I encourage each student to strive to rejuvenate

the speaking tradition at W&L and to pass it down

if students abandon the speaking tradition at Wash-

ington and Lee.

Next time you pass someone on campus, don’t

to the next generations. I believe General Lee
would agree with me.

Kimberly Peterson is a junior at Mary Baldwin

LETTERS

who is studyin g for the year at Washington and Lee.

Support

A counseling/support group for
women students with eating and/or
compulsive exercise problems will
meet on Tuesday afternoons begin-
ning January 25. Call the Counsel-
ing Service at extension 8590 or the
Health Center at ext. 8401 to sign up
and receive additional information.

Calyx

Students who did not receive their
Calyx in the matriculation line may
pick up their copy in Carol Calkins
office in Unversity Center from 9
a.m. to noon and I to 4 p.m.

Short?

If you are interested in joining a
short person’s organization, please
call Doug Kaufman for more infor-
mation at 463-9364.

 

Notes

Put your organization’s news in
front of 2,000+ readers —— put a
general note in the folder outside
the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 ofthe Uni-
versity Center. General Notes are
due on Tuesdays at noon.

Lacrosse

Anyone interested in being a
manager,statistician,orcomeraman
for the men’s lacrosse team this
season, please call head coach Jim
Stagnitta at 463-8678.

Tickets

Anyone holding tickets for the
cancelled brass concert this past
weekend may return them or mail
them to the Lenfest Center by Feb-
ruary 4 for a full refund.

IFC plans to follow up
on FIJI judgment

To the editor:

Last Tuesday, the Interfraternity
Council found Phi Gamma Delta guilty
of hazing. Hazing is detrimental to the
fraternity system and the university
and will not be tolerated. _

The IFC understands that Phi
Gamma Delta plans to appeal the pun-
ishment set forth by the Student Affairs
Committee. We intend to take an ac-
tive role in the appellate process and
hope to represent the best interests of

the fraternity system and Washington
and Lee.

Considering the gravity of the haz-
ing violation, as well as the complexity
of the judicial process, the IFC antici-
pates questions regarding both its deci-
sions as well as the findings of the
SAC. The IFC will be prepared to
answer these questions as soon as ap-
propriate.

The Interfratemity Council

Gaines Committee recommends lsororityadditions to the residence hall

To the editor:

This fall, a student committee has
been discussing ways to create in
Gaines Hall a vibrant residential com-
munity for Washington and Lee stu-
dents with a special emphasis on the
needs and interests of women students.
One important element of the review
has been the status of sororities.

Now in its sixth year, the sorority
system at Washington and Lee has

grown to include four national sorori-
ties involving over 65 percent of all
women at Washington and Lee. Eighty-
five percent of the women in the Class
of 1997 signed up for sorority Rush in
January. Plans are being formulated
for the addition of more sororities in
the future to accommodate the large
number of women who want a Greek
experience.

Within this context, the Gaines

Committee has recommended the cre-
ation of sorority meeting/office/lounge
space in Gaines Hall. These lounges
would be designed for each sorority (an
additional lounge would be provided
for Women’s Forum) and would pro-
vide a location where each sorority could
conduct meetings and Rush activities,
host parents and guests, store materials,
and have office accommodations.

If approved for 1994, these lounges

would replace the present arrangement
where sororities use public spaces
(Fairfax Lounge, TroubadourTheater,
Commerce School) and would provide
space for exclusive use for each soror-
1ty.

We see this as a reasonable and
effective step at this step at this stage in
the evolution of sororities at Washing-
ton and Lee.

In the long run, the Panhellenic

Council is considering University
lodges for each sorority which would
include meeting space, kitchen facili-
ties and a guest suite.

lnthe spring, the Panhellenic Coun-
cil plans to survey all members of the
sorority system to gain more specific
information concerning housing and
related sorority issues.

We do not believe that the creation
of the sorority lounges in Gaines Hall

at this time would compromise the
future residential needs of sorority
women at Washington Hall.

Sincerely,
Laura E. Clark
President of Panhellenic Council

David L. Howison
Dean of Students

SDC asks for student volunteers for Winter Phonathon

‘To the editor:

Beginning the night of January 26, the Stu-
dent Development Committee will be conduct-
ing the Annual Fund’s Winter Phonathon in the
Military Science Building. The Phonathon will
continue through the night of January 27 and the
nights of January 30 through February 3.

O SDC members and volunteers will be calling
alumni and asking for donations. All students
who participate in the Winter Phonathon will

receive free food, a free T-shirt (For A Good
Time Call 1-900-PHONATHON) and a free long
distance phone call for their much-appreciated
efforts. During the two weeks leading up to the
Winter Phonathon, flyers will be posted listing
phone numbers to call for information on how to
volunteer, and a meeting will be held this week
before the Phonathon to show volunteers how the
Phonathon operates and to provide some useful
tips on how to start a conversation, how to re-

spond to the top ten reasons for not giving and
how to handle different situations that might
arise. The meeting for volunteers and the Winter
Phonathon will take place in the Military Science
Building which has conference rooms and work
stations equipped with telephones.

Last term, over 425 students participated in
the Fall Phonathon, raising over $20,552 in
pledges. The money raised went to the Annual
Fund which helps to cover university expenses.

I

This money in turn keeps tuition costs down and
serves as a “hidden scholarship” for all Washing-
ton and Lee students. Without the work of the
students who volunteer for the Phonathons and
the hard work done by the members of the SDC,
tuition costs would be comparable to those of
more expensive universities. Consequently when
one volunteers to help the Phonathon, one is in
turn actually helping keep one’s own tuition
costs down.

For more information, interested stu-
dents can call their class representatives
at the following numbers: Freshmen —
John Bator, 462-4565, Sophomores -
Kristin Lawrence, 464-8794, Juniors —
Lise Brown, 462-4478, and Seniors ——
Joanna Love, 463-7476.

Paul D. Saboe
SDC Public Relations Director

TALKBACK

  

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

ever caught a Washin

 

F’

  

 

As a security guard, What’s the funniest thing you’ve 

 

gto and Lee student doing.”

 

  

4
4 l

A] Tkacik, Seven-month veteran — “I got a
Call that there was a six-foot elf with pointy
shoes, a pointy hat, and tights passed out in the
Corral. Sure enough, there was a six-foot elf
who was a fraternity pledge and soon two
other elves came over to assist him in getting
back into the fraternity.”

Larry Stuart, Nine-year veteran — “These
students were on the footbridge and they were
urinating off of it.”

Thomas “Bauer” Bane, 21-year veteran  ti
“Seven years ago l caught a football player}
climbing around on the ledge above the secu-fl
rity office trying to look in the window at this';i
boy and girl in the dorm.” i'

Fred Coffee, 18-year veteran ~— “A female
taking a shower in the sauna.”

Steve Tomlinson, 11-year veteran —— “Guys
making out with their girlfriends in the fresh-
man lot and soaping cars at Halloween.”

 

 

ll-T-
HI
I.
‘. I
I
I

I
I
I
.1
'1
I
t

  

PAGE 10

Wather, po

   

 

themselves stuck somewhere else.

it FIGHTS, from page 1

, According to police reports, a see-
I  ond fight occurred on Saturday night——
i‘: this one outside the Chi Psi fraternity
i‘ house. Lexington police made two ar-
rests. Junior Nicholas T. Kyriakidis
and Sophomore Michael S. Carterwere
arrested for public intoxication. Carter
was also charged with resisting arrest.

In an official statement, Chi Psi
Secretary Phil McKoy said the inci-
dent involved a verbal argument be-
<1 tween two pledges inside the house.

“It was not a fight,” he said.

McKoy said several Chi Psis took
Carter outside in order to send him
home.

“He took a chair off the porch and
[I threw it on the lawn,” McKoy said.
 “The cops were driving by and they
saw Mike trying to go back into the
house from the bottom of the steps.”

McKoy said a policeman ap-

Students who were lucky enough to get their cars moving sometimes found

Three students
 arrested

proached the house without identify-
ing himself and took Carter by the
shoulder.

“He (the policeman) put Mike on
the floor inside the house and pepper-
gassed him,” McKoy said. “It was
only after he pepper—gassed [Carter]
that he identified himself.”

W&L Security and more police cars
arrived, McKoy said, and Kyriakidis
was arrested shortly afterward. McKoy
said Kyriakidis was calm and not dis-
orderly.

He was arrested for being drunk in
public.

“He asked for a breathalizer or a
drug test but they wouldn’t give him
one,” McKoy said.

Kyriakidis refused to comment.

The police report contained no
record of the alleged pepper-gassing or
the police’s alleged refusal to give
Kyriakidis a test for blood-alchohol
level.

 FIJI plans appeal

6 FIJI, from page 1

Photo by Ethan Krupp. The Ring-mm Phi

D ICE from page 1

ing to one student.

“The whole place is closed.”

conserve power.
with more than the power.

with water pipes around campus.

to asses the damage.”

Thursday, ﬂooding rooms with water.

water everywhere.”

“There’s nobody here,” said the student.

Administrative and academic computer sys-
tems were shut down in an additional effort to

But the cold weather has caused problems
Shaw said there have been some problems
“There were frozen water lines in the dining
hall and some problems with the heatlines in
Woods Creek, but they have been corrected”
Shaw said. “For noe there are no ajor problems,
but we have to wait until the weather inproves

A pipe at the Pi Kappa Alpha house burst

“We first noticed when a light ﬁxture burst
that was full of water,” said one brother. “There’s

the pantry, water in the ducts, water in my
apartment.”

Buildings and Grounds said it is not sure
exactly what the problem is, but has people
working on it.

“They told us they’ll work through the night
and everything should be normal by tomor-
row,” said Simmons.

Superintendent of buildings and grounds
JamesAr1hursaidB&Ghasbeentryingminmize
any problems the cold weather and power short-
ages might cause.

“There is a crew of 50 people who are
working very hard to remedy the situation,”
Arthur said.

Some students had problems negotiating
campus on Monday and Tuesday. Senior
Maurice Cole said he fell Tuesday afternoon in
the Graham-Lees archway.

“There was no gravel where I slipped.” Cole

said. “I ended up bruising my ego and twisting .

my wrist. I could sit, there was so much pain in
my lower back. I had to take a pillow to work.”

    

O
The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1994

wer wreak havoc on campus life .

does not use salt or sand on the ice. He said he
called B&G last year to complain about thre ice
and was told B&G did have salt but does not use
it becasue it would damage the bricks.

‘‘It was frustrating to think the preservation
of bricks was more important than that of hi’-
man bones,” Cole said. “I thought about start-
ing a petition this year, but I think Godheard my
prayers and decided to cancel classes. However
I don’t see why more isn’t being done to clean
up the ice in these two days.”

Sophmore Phaedrea Cianciulli said she was
upset with the way the university dealt with th
ice as well.

“I fell down the stairs by the gym on Tues-
day afternoon.” Cianciulli said. “They should
have had gravel there by that time. Buildings
and Grounds needs a more effective way of
dealing with the ice then Ieeting itjust melat and
refreeze.” 6

But not everyone thought the university
needed to cancel classes.

“I don’t think that classes should have been

“Right now we just have heat, but no elec-
tricity,” said House Mother Pauline Simmons.
“There are five W&L people working on the
pipe. There’s water in the party room, water in

“I’m very glad that they canceled classes,”
Colesaid. ”I thought that no one cared that
people were falling.”

Cole said he can not understand why B&G

Wilson will review the appeal, which must be presented to him in writing by
Jan. 27, 10 days after SAC’s original decision. He will then decide whether the

“The president has wide jurisdiction

appeal
Wolfe said he hopes the presentation

would be eliminated.

who has done a study about what should
contribute positively.”

appeal should fare well with Wilson.

~o~¢~.

appeal is valid. lfso, he will express his opinion and return the appeal to SAC.

in how he chooses to respond,” said

Howison. “Then SAC takes up the position he presents to us. ”

“There is a precedent with [Delta Tau Delta],” Howison said. “They appealed
and SAC modified its original position.”

Delt was originally sentenced to five years suspension for destruction of its
fraternity house, but the sentence was reduced to 18 months suspension after an

FIJI made to SAC during the original

hearing will act in their favor. Wolfe said that FIJI House Corporation President
Ed Bishop worked with the house to revamp their pledge program so that hazing

“Bishop’s plan is to get the nationals involved and have the alumns control the
chapter,” said Wolfe. “We would come up with a pledge program with no hazing
that would be a model for other fraternities.”

Bishop said the plan would involve an examination ofthe problem.

“I commissioned them to study the problem,” said Bishop. “There is no one
be required for initiation into a Greek .
letter society. Rationally, pledge training is really needed, but hazing doesn’t

3.» Wolfe said FIJI will file the appeal next week, and he said he believes their

“There’s a pretty wide base ofsupport for us from our alumni and from alumni
1." of other houses,” Wolfe said.

 r
it

,.I

. I

I.  
, I

4»

:1

cu

t‘l

.,~_

.h.

.

...

‘ill

.r

I

I.

Q’

 

Slippery When Icy

Phot by Joe Frampton, The Ring-tu P

   

. .
hi

A student holds on to the railng for dear life. Many Students
were faced with the dilemma of whether to chance the stairs
or try and walk up one of W&L’s many slopping surfaces. Last
night’s snow will make walking around campus the worst it
has been all week. The thin covering of snow will hide the ice,
but will not be enough to provide more traction. Some of the
snow and ice should melt this weekend when temperatures
rise to the 40s.

canceled,” said one sophmore. “The university
could have operated sucessfully. Virginia Power
just made everything to be a lot worse than it
really was.” .

EC considers intent

IID EC, from page 7

somebody’s done something by mis-
take, and they’ve truly done it by mis-
take, they’ll find themselves being ac-
quitted.”

Rice and UVa. require guilt to be
proved beyond reasonable doubt.
W&L’s White Book does not specify
any standards that must be met before
guilt can be determined.

Elizabeth McCord applied to Wake
Forest, Vanderbilt, and the University
of Texas after herdismissal from W&L.
Wake Forest and Vanderbilt both have
Honor Systems similar to W&L’s.

Elizabeth enrolled at Vanderbilt af-
ter leaving W&L, where the honor sys-
tem is as strict as at W&L. It prohibits
cheating, plagiarism, or otherwise fal-
sifying academic work. But unlike
W&L, at Vanderbilt failure to turn in a
possible Honor Violation is a breach of
the Honor Code.

The investigators at Vanderbilt do
not act as jury members in the hearing.
Once an investigation beings, the ac-
cused is told of the charges and given a
copy of all available evidence in the
case, a copy of the student handbook,
and a copy of the list of advisors, and is

informed of all developments in the »

investigation. The investigators ask the
accused to tell his or her side» of the
story. The accused has at least 72 hours
to prepare for the trial.

At W&L, two members of the EC
investigate the charges and later sit on
thejury. The accused does not know an
investigation has taken place until the
EC is ready to hold a closed hearing,
and does not see the evidence against
him. Then the accused has only 48
hours after notification to prepare for
the trial. Many at W&Lfeel the EC has
made up its collective mind before the
accused actually comes to trial.

“That’s an offsided concern with
that,” said Tompkins, “and I question
the legitimacy of it and just in watching
it in practice, I’ve noticed no differ-
ence in the way the investigators treat
the ease as opposed to other members
of the committee, either in the hearing
or in deliberations.”

At Vanderbilt I2 members adjudi-
cate the honor trial and 10 must give
guilty votes to convict a student of an
Honor Violation. Ifthe accused is found
guilty, punishment ranges from failure
in the class to expulsion.

lilﬂll LIP SYNIIHI
3 P.M.!

Just $3 at the door, its for charity and

it’ll be fun. At the Pavilion.

Elizabeth McCord ignored the se-
crecy stipulation during her honor trial
and told her parents. She says tlﬁt
without their support she would not
have survived the honor trial or had the
strength to appeal the decision to an
open trial.

Suzanne McCord said her daughter
began to doubt herself during the honor
process.

“Elizabeth is a strong individuaf,”
Suzanne McCord said. “But the open
trial is really damaging to your psyche.
Many times she thought ‘maybe I am a
bad person, maybe I did do something
wrong, maybe I did have bad inten-
tions.”’ -

1992-93 EC President Josh
MacFarland, who had served on the
EC for three years and was one of the
prosecutors at McCord’s trial, stood
firmly behind the system.

“I really think it works the way it is.

We’re obviously not out to get som‘e— ‘

one,” said MacFarland.

“For the most part, we stay to being
a fact-ﬁnding, not a prosecutorial, body.
We’re just as screwed up as any court
system in the country.”

Charles McCord, Elizabeth’s father

—— an alumnus and former EC member A

— sees it differently. 0

“I don’t believe the EC really un-
derstands the consequences of the pun-
ishment they are inﬂicting onstudents
when the infraction is as minor (as
Elizabeth’s ) was; I know I didn’t until
this event occurred,” he said.

“There was even greater dismayat
how students who stand up to the Honor
System, because oftheir belief in their
own innocence, are subjected to the
worst kind of ostracism and are forced
to pay the penalty of finding it almost
impossible to gain admission to many
other institutions.” .

Elizabeth McCord said the experi-
ence has changed her life forever.

“I think of myself and everybody
else with respect to the Honor System.
It’s one of the reasons I went to W&L.
I lived under an honor system at St.
John’s (her high school),” McCord said.
“But after the trial I realized I didn’t
know as much about the Honor System
as I thought. No one realizes the conse-
quences of an honor trial — being
kicked out. This has rerouted my entire

life. The EC doesn’t realize the power I

they have.” —

“I don’t think I understood wﬂat I

had so much respect for.”

3

9%

9.

tr

 

0
PAGE 11 The Ring-tum Phi, January 21, 1994
‘ % SPORTS

 

      
     
 
   
     

 

  

     

  

 

' GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Standings as of 01/20/94
Men’s Basketball Women’s Basketball
O
Leading SCOTCFS Leading Scorers
Player Pts Ppg p]- p p

Cam Dye’ 1;: 14-5 Vi‘i}gTrr1ia Yoerg 9t2S 

.;;';}.'£9‘ I ' 1: ‘f_T ~%-., -~' 3 4‘  .4 ‘ _. ” _ 1 Mat} NCWWY1 1 9-4 Sandra Holmes 85 8.5

Rspucip pmczs f  "I.-.~ .».: '*“-‘ii-t’«if.+«.._j.. Chris Couzen 104 8-0 Karen Stutzmann 77 7.7

an ' ‘*3~"~- ‘*3?  ' 1“  ‘  gm Ckogmtan (1)23  Sarah Aschenbach 7 7.0

‘L . 1,;  . ~~   .4“ ‘ ere ar er . ' ‘

U-S-D-A    -' ’.  ' Robert Miggins 98 7.5 iﬁﬁyvhgg/fleld  
BONELESS  Mark Connelly 91 7-0 Mary Tankard 45 4.5

  Stacy Williams 27 

Allison Hull 32 .
Leading Rebounders
0
Player Reb Avg
Robert Miggins 82 6.3
Cam D er 63 5.3 Leading Rebounders
Derek arter 62 5.2
S Mark Connelly 51 3.9 Player Reb Avg

Chris Couzen 34 2,6 Sandra Holmes 63 6.3

' Cl-,,C‘,:_er‘. Breast ‘ Jon Coffman 31 2.4 Virginia Yoerg 56 5.6
QW,._C...; »  H   Matt Newton 23 1.8  Tl‘:/ilnkzgrcild 38 2.3

. . —.. "’.f?".7CLl;'..--.n  T9” ‘C 3' 33’ 1° -

«   -7"" ~**'~‘-”~ A  “'  ‘ ‘ Allison Hull 31 3.1
Karen Stutzmann 30 3.0

TYSON FRESH FRYER-GRADE ”A” Fm_t,,mwStandingS /s§31cyy3y)igiiiams 43 3.;

. gayekr Carter  
ere . .
Jon Coffman 25/31 .807 F'°°'“"°W S‘a"d"'8S
i_|Mrr 2 wim Robert Miggins 32/45 .711 ,
‘ ADD|'|'|oNA|_ Cl'lI'lS Couzen 32/46 .696 lgiggerwilliams ta 
‘ PURCHASE Mark Connelly 25/40 .625 . Y . -

Matt Newton   Vlrgmla Yoerg  

'°"“'" ‘ ' am yer ' Sarah Aschenbach 3/5 .600

4 V _ , , ‘_ _ _ g _ ‘ iandrasllolmes 1.2/32 .594

 ‘  Mary Tankard 7/16 .438

’ . at  I 0 Nicky Mayfield 14/33 .424

, TANGERINES ......... ..EACH or Wrestling
  Records Men’s and Women’s Basketball
FRUIT ............... ..EACH . . A**e"da;;§nS*a*-Sm
 ~. P
   .4341‘: Branson 5‘-(Sand 11%?/t1‘26
  RADISHES ...... ..o 02. PKGC Anthony Raﬂa 1-2 126 Team R°.°°‘d 5‘8

  V Eric Shirley 5_4 134 126 Cumulative Attendance 4483

' " * ‘ FRESH '19 Rob de Clerk 1-4 134 HO“ 2485
MUSHROOMS ...... ..s 02. Adam Williams 6-4 142 $“jaf’A A“ d 13:58

Cary Hansel 1-3 142 ° 3 ‘’‘’”‘g“ C“ 3”“
Steve Tye 4-7 150 Women
Owen Smith 5-6 158
Lea Abercrombie 3-4 167 Tﬁam R900“! 5‘5
Colin Loomey 6-6 177 Cumulative Attendance 1327
‘ Cole Van Nice 9-5 190 gems 491%;
way
, _ Total Average Attendance 133
Player Tkdwns Reversals
. E  BFEHSEH   Washington and Lee
_ 011)’ 3 3 Team Records
Egg Sglglféyk %0  (updated for 01/20/94)
r
  GREAT VALUE édamHWillilams 3/11/go  Women’s Swimming 4-1
all’ 31156 4 Men’s Swimming 2-1
DECORATED OR pEs|(;NER DIET PEPSI OR Steve Tye_ 10/23 5/2 Wrestling 3-2
V Owen Smlth _ 14/13 2/8 Men’s Basketball 5-8
V T Lea'Abercromb1e 1/8 1/4 Women’s Basketball 5-5
_ Colin Loomey 9/11 2/1
79 Cole Van Nice 15/7 5/10 Overall 19-1,’
' 79 SQ.
FEET 24 PACK S orts mom t ’th
P en 0 e week...
12 OZ.
‘ CANS -J

O

WEEKLY SPECIAL WEEKLY SPECIAL

  MORE VALUE
_ Mum" MIX MACARONI &

CHEESE
D 8.5
01-  UMIT 76%  LIMIT
4 4

«- HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERY DAY
Al-L NATURAL FLOR|DA’S NATURAL
HUNTERICE 2/ 00 game; 199
.. CREAM es.~:5<.2%E~  JUICE «oz.
ti‘u‘ii’i£‘i‘“iKi“ii‘lE" -'39 é'iliti‘i?é‘é’i‘i't‘s‘ 2 /99
.. MILK SOUP “:55. 0
1121114 "i'ii‘i'En 19 

_wIi>£s  COOKIES  

 

   

o 0 Ph , _ _
P!‘ E I‘ h Y /‘ E  The mere act of walking around campus without falling was the)trciit:sEtt:lai'if}i<aliiFl:,Jgzirfhiim Pm
Prices |n This Ad Effective Wedn sday January 19 Through W nesday,Janua 25,1994. In Lexington Stores Week: Jan- 21: 1994-

On|y.We Reserve The Rig t To imit Quantities. None So d To Dealers. ‘%e_Glad|y Accept Federal tood'Stamps'.

 

  

 

Last Week:

MBB-Rand.-Macon 69, W&L 65
WBB—Mary Wash.71, W&L 29
Swim—Catholic defeats M&W
Wrest—defeats Davidson, Pensacola

PAGE 12

 
 

 "athletes’ha_,vet .
_i. sonal ’rnedi_a3 rejp

   

 ftive. And 2 pgofessronal 
 sp0rts.c91umnists,whoiset 
1_ihc.bjenet*t . ad I
E; «public spok per

  

     
   
  
  
   

         

_  YouAsee‘,w;hat[l~A rnre
. ally envious ofj_' the iii 5
2 "names, ,that..:sa.vvy ,.n_iefdia— : 
 typescome pttliithtopre

 

   

.A; But»7w~ait_l .IA=a'r‘n asavvy.
7 Arnedia type, ’right?v.I.<caAmAAe : '
"upon the only possiblelvseé  
» ‘lutiori. ‘ ’ ‘ 
lmust create rr‘iy}’own_ A
5 nicknames: the ;w_ofArl"d'_‘§»
waits for my genius. ‘5  I
I Sowe can call... ,
A Sarah " “6’0””
‘A Aschenbachl , I A
' AFo,rsome reason, lwheri
a sportswriter wh,o,will,re-'
} main unnamed‘.-,...puts, 1

 

   

 . . .'°3¢.li¢hé‘: . »
 ’Neww;n‘ aI.w.a.ySf(alm¢StaI~’
A wayS)iS<’«6¥n$toc0nﬁ¢¢tf¢rl’1 ~.
. ' the ‘important bucket from *
- .way.o_ut where beyond the 7 A
 three-point -:line when; itgf
» Ire‘all.y‘ 7_cou’rit’s.-; I.;ast,.weel<; - 
 he-5scoredi<fé>uif.trays’-1,ih¥ a f
- single game»,-not bad fora =
. vguy“‘w1ios‘e points~per'-T5
* A game avera'ge:'_is 9.8..  A
 . .1 .i‘osephine"‘;Howi‘.far_‘.?‘." 

   

 

gotern A arrcAlry.etloo1; Alve-
tlt_;iril<-—1lie_,.:l;eeps7f’liis’: curly ‘A  

   
  
 
  
 
 

  

 

 

3” _,I..atoy‘a;. ‘ tcl.’l-arework,-' "
ing en.o,riego£~those sports

;forecastingltotlines, where  .
A .A.. .  _eAmA

 

 
 

think I will call‘ it 1‘-900-” 
 Wzhat...d0A  _

      
 
     
 

S

(1112 ﬂing-mm iﬂlii

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

This Week:

MBB—Bridgewater 0 1/21
WBB—Meredith 0 1/2 1
Wrest—W&L invitational 01/22

Swim—at North Carolina 01/22

JANUARY 21, 1994

rt ake Ovvonents

File photo

Members of the Washington and Lee wrestling team execute drills in the A. E. Mathis Wrestling Room.

Randolph-Macon b-ball
squeaks past Generals

By Ki-:iTH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

With the Jan. 19 game at Emory and Henry
postponed, the men’s basketball team has had their
attention focused on the Jan. 21 meeting at the
Warner Center with Bridgewater.

When they last met nearly two months ago, the
Eagles registered a 24-point home-court victory.
The Generals, though, know they are a much-
improved team since that loss.

“We’ve definitely come a long way since the
last [game against Bridgewater],” said sophomore
Derek Carter. “Our confidence is much higher
now, as well as our aggressiveness and intensity.”

Washington and Lee is 5-8 overall and 3-5 in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference. The Generals
have lost three of their last four games, including
the Jan. 15 69-65 home defeat to Randolph-Macon
College. Yellow-Jacket guard Kurt Axe scored a
game-high 29 points to help fight off a strong late
rally by the Generals.

Randolph-Macon led by as many as 18 in the
second half, but the Generals managed to pull
within two in the final minute and had a chance to
tie the game. Senior Matt Newton, who connected
on a career-high four three-point shots in the game,
elected to try for the win and put up a three-pointer
with 10 seconds left. He missed the shot and the
Yellow-Jackets were able to grab the rebound and
close out the contest with a pair of free-throws.

Newton finished with 16 points, while sopho-
more Cam Dyer added 17 to go with his eight
rebounds. Dyer is now averaging a team-high 14.5
points-per-game. The 6’7” forward has been a
large factor in the team’s turnaround from a 1-5
start. Dyer leads seven Generals who are averaging
at least seven points-per-game.

“Our offense has improved a lot,” said Carter,

who has been shooting better than 65 percent from
the field in the new year. “[Thursday] we watched
the tape of the loss to Bridgewater. We have made
a lot of improvements since then.”

A number of players attribute some of the credit
for the turnaround to head coach Verne Canfield
and his staff.

“Some credit definitely goes to the coaches,”
said seniorco—captain Robert Miggins. “We change
our offenses and defenses quite a bit to keep the
other teams off guard.”

Miggins, himself, deserves some credit forturn-
ing up his own game. His scoring and rebounding
statistics have steadily improved to up his averages
to betterthan seven points and six rebounds. Miggins
also moved into third place on the all—time W&L
blocked shot list on Saturday with 49, three ahead
of Chris Jacobs ’91. The track team high-jumper
has blocked six shots in the last three games.

Canfield believes Miggins has had some quick-
ness the senior was not fully aware of. Miggins is
now utilizing that quickness more to create his own
scores.

‘‘I’m definitely trying to be more aggressive,”
Miggins said. “I wasn’t looking to create by driving
to the basket earlier [this season], but now I’m not
passing up those opportunities.”

Another player who has contributed strongly to
the recent stretch of play that has seen the Generals
win four of seven and play consistently well is
freshman Chris Couzen. The graduate of Seton
Hall Prep, a two-time New Jersey state basketball
champion, is third on W&L in scoring at eight
points-per-game and has been a key factor on
offense and defense.

“Chris has done a great job,” said Carter. “He is
always hustling on the court.”

Couzen has won overthe conﬁdence of Canfield.
The Generals run of improved play has coincided
with Couzen’s insertion into the starting lineup.
Versus R-MC, Canfield showed just how confident

he is ofthe 6’1” freshman
by matching him up

against the YelIow-Jack-
ets 6’6” Dan Prescott.
Prescott was subsequently
limited to well below his
shooting and scoring av-‘
erages by Couzen. '

,AIn spite of the cool he

displays on the court,
Couzen admits to some
difficulties in adjusting to
college ball.

“The competition is
much better. You have to
be mentally prepared for
every game,” he said.
“There have been some
ups and downs so far. I

want to get my play on an
even level.” /,3
Like/his ammates,

Couzen believest eGen-
erals are a much different
team than the one that suf-
fered a 74-50 loss to
Bridgewateﬁ the last time
they met. ‘

“If we can play the
game we’re capable of
playing,” said Couzen,
“we can beat them.”

File photo

Senior Matt Newton is averaging 9.4 points-per-game for the

Generals, the second-leading scorer.

 

Women’s Basketball

The women’s basketball team fell to the Mary Washington Eagles last Saturday, 71-29. The Lady
Generals could not recover from a first half, 20-point, shooting spree by the Eagles. A

Freshman Virginia Yoerg scored nine to lead the team, and four Generals led with five boards each.
As of Thursday, Yoerg led the team in points with A A

Compounding the defeat was the team’s loss 0f]Ul'llOr Sarah Aschenbach due to a shoulder injury.
Aschenbach led the Generals in scoring in her only game this season (shejoined the team after Christmas

Break).

Washington and Lee’s record now stands at 5-5. The team’s next game comes tonight versus

Meredith at Warner Center.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

On the strength of last
weekend’s performance, the
Washington and Lee wrestling
teambecameoneofW&L’swin-
ning squads with a 3-2 record.

The Generals responded to the
challengewith animpressiveper-
formance in two dual meets. In
the 28-22 win over Pensacola
Christianjunior Eric Shirley and
Cole Van Nice led the team with
6-0 and 11-1 wins, respectively.

Against Davidson, Adam
Williams notched eight
takedowns to move his season
total to 21. This total leads the
team for the season. Cole Van
Nice leads the team with nine
wins on the year after registering
two more wins in last weekend’s
meet.

‘Both Eric Shirley and Rob
DeClerk prophetically said that
they expected the team to im-

prove as the season wore on and
predicted that the team would do

well last weekend. According to g

DeClerk, the team is fairly young
and will improve as they gain
experience.

The inexperience was no-
where in evidence last weekend
as five Generals scored two wins,

and against Davidson, Owen g

Smith and Cole Van Nice both
won by pin. The Generals will
have a chance to continue their
winning ways with the annual
W&L invitational coming up
this weekend.

The Generals have won three
straight dual meets this season.
The team has put together an
impressive start to the season,
and hopes to continue their suc-
cesses in front of the home crowd
this weekend.

The success of this year’s team
is somewhat surprising since the‘
wrestlers have no seniors on the
team and only a handful ofjun-
iors. As DeCIerk said, the team
is moving to overcome this.

Steve turns from predictions,
heads toward cheap shots

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

OK, so Joe Montana is still
the master of come-from-be-
hind, playoff victories. The
Houston Oilers rediscovered
that fact last Sunday in a 28-20
loss to the Kansas City Chiefs.
At this point, considering my
success rate with predicting the
American Football Conference,
I will hang it up and wish both
KC and Buffalo the best (even
though I cannot help but pull
forthe Bills, I mean as I’ve said
so many times before, they are
such lovable losers).

The National Football Con-
ference has turned out exactly
as expected with San Francisco
and Dallas vying for the Con-
ference Championship and a
trip to Atlanta. Come on, did
anyone really think the NFC
Central would still have a team
inthe runningatthispoint?The
49er’s put on a clinic against
the New York Giants in their
44-3 rout. The question of the
week is whetheror not the Steve
Young, Jerry Rice led Niners
can come up withthe sametype
of performance two games in a
row. .

Dallas looked a little shaky
in their win over Green Bay.
The Cowboys face a tough chal-
lenge against the Niners. Either
way, the game should be memo-
rable. Here is where I go out on
a limb and stick to my guns.

Dallas should be the NFC repre-
sentative in the Georgia Dome.

Once again, the week was a
topsy-turvy one in college bas-
ketball. Arkansas, Kentucky,
Kansas, and North Carolina all
suffered defeats.

Right now the top two spots
look to be UCLA and Duke come
Monday, but after the way things
have gone so far, one can really
never be sure.

Falling under the topic of

“completely unrelated stuff,” I
wouldjust like to complain about
the radio stations here. In North
Carolina, we at least pick up UNC
and Wake Forest on the radio.
On the other hand, when I was in
the office writing this stupid col-
umn, I was forced to listen to a
VMI game (for those of you liv-
ing in a hole far away from Phi
Delt, VMI stands for Virginia
Military Institute).

I don’t want to knock VMI
(chuckle), but they arejust not a
powerhouse basketball team.
However, for those of us seeking
a higher level of competition,
there are always those local high
school games.

Sort-of-pseudocommissioner
Bud Selig has agreed to the pro-
posed expanded playoff system
in major league baseball. The
system will be composed ofthree
division champions andtwowild
card teams.

That means next year we
might have the good fortune to
see baseball’s equivalent of the
NFC Norris division (for those
of you not paying attention last

week,that’sthepowerhouse 5
NFC Central division in foot-
ball.). Oh, we can only
dream.

Parting Shots-

Buffalo is a step away.
my friends.

I personally think Tonya P
Harding had to have some-
thing to do with it, Sarah,
even if she is from Portland.

The number one ranking
seems to have the same af-
fect on teams this year as the
Sports Illustrated cover. As Q
soon as a team is elevated to
that lofty height, they crash
and burn.

On a happy note, spring
training starts in about a
month. Then baseball sea-
son will have officially be- A
gun.

As ifthe talent pool is not
dilutedenough,majorleague
baseball is considering ex-
panding again. Ifanyone still
entertains ideas that expan-
sion is a good thing, just
repeat after me~Me.s, Pa- '
dres, Rockies. As the talent
pool becomes more diluted,
we’ll see more teams with
110 losses, and teams with
110 wins. To me, that re-
moves a lot of the interest
from the game. ‘

Anyway, that concludes
my tirade for the week.
Hopefully, next week, I’ll
be in a better mood and actu-
ally write something pleas-
ant about someone. Nah, that
wouldn’t be any fun. 

Swimmers drop two,
fall to Catholic Univ. '

 

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

All good things must eventually come to an end.
This apparently was also the case for the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s and women’s swi teams this
past weekend as the Generals suffered losses to
Catholic.

On the men’s side, the Generals were in the
midst of a I6-meet win streak prior to Saturday‘s
loss. Catholic was also the last team to defeat the
Generals prior to the start of the win streak. The
l17.5—86.5 score did leave some room for solid
individual performances, though.

Junior Tony Diederich won the 200-yard
freestyle and sophomore David Stillman won the
50 yard freestyle. Stillman’s time in the 50-free
was W&L’s top time in that event on the year.

The Generals visit Chapel Hill this weekend to
compete against Johns Hopkins and Emory. The
W&L swimmers will try to begin a new streak at
the Chapel Hill meet.

The women narrowly missed victory, losing by
the score of 106—99 to Catholic for their first loss
of the season. Staci Bertelli and Rebekah Prince
each contributed two wins forthe Generals. Against
Buffalo State earlier, seven different swimmers
won races in a 121-57 rout. Bertelli set W&L
season bests in the 500-yard freestyle and the 200
-ard ﬂy.

The women had a home meet against Mary
Baldwin canceled this week. Washington and Lee
carries an 18-meet conference winning streak into
their next conference meet. Like the men, the
women will be traveling to the University of North
Carolina this weekend. Following this weekend,

I the Generals have two more home meets on the

schedule, versus Franklin and Marshall and Hollins.

Both squads are shooting for strong ﬁnishes this
year. With the focus of both teams, and the stead’
improvement shown so far, the two teams can’! be
far from their goal.

Photo b Sarah Gilbert, The Fl/ng-rum Phi
Junior Susan Fisher grins as she pre-
pares to extend the Generals’ confer-
ence streak in Saturday's meet.

 

 

  

  
  

«- AM}-Irﬁl G.

L’. ,,,, (‘N

.4.-.4‘

6. L5,".

    
   

L’«:‘l’B.t_.?‘.'«lr‘~f :'_sn:,= -  ,
' '  U'l\.Wf;.
‘.7’/I‘. 

'-'I\L.)1l  

Sig Eps synch their
way to the top  

Q ‘I H   E?‘

‘Wt

$6

omit fil  l99‘r

Women's basketball

stomps Mary Baldwin and

3” ‘"5 3%  g Sweet Briarq 

U112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

Smoking
policy
proposed

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

Attention smokers: your days
0 njoying cigarettes in the Co-
op may be numbered.

Gerry Darrell, Washington
and Lee’s director of food ser-
vice, asked the Executive Com-
mittee for advice Monday on a
proposed change in the smoking
p<!icy for campus food service
buildings. The proposed change
in policy would ban smoking in
the Dining Hall, Co-op and the
GHQ.

“People who are allergic to
smoke... know it’s there,” said
Dﬁrell.

Darrell said he received a pc-
tition signed by 70 law students
proposing a smoking ban for the
campus eating establishments.

Darrell
said Direc-
tor of Per-
s o n n e I
Services
R o b e rt
Fox re-
cently sent
a recom-
mendation
from the
S t u d e n t
H e a I t h
Commit-
tee to the
Student Affairs Committee for
cogsideration.

Patrick McDermott, who
serves on both the Student Health
Committee and the Health Edu-
cation Committee, said a smok-
ing survey was taken in front of
the Co—op in November. He said
th?survey indicated that a sig-
ni icant number of students

    

Dell

II>See SMOKE, page 3

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

et yo actvigther

Photo by Ethan Krupp,(The—R'ing-tum Phi

Junior John Tnmer announces the next act at Lip S
acts entered the contest this year. Lip Synch raised 3000 for SAMS and RARA.

ch last week. Twenty-five

SEE STORY PAGE 4

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

JANUARY 28, 1994

Wilson extends
FIJI deadline

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Phi Gamma Delta fraternity
has been granted a one week ex-
tension on their appeal, making
the new deadline Friday, Febru-
ary 4.

President John D. Wilson said
he granted the extension due to
the gravity of FIJl’s situation.

The Student Affairs Commit-
tee suspended FIJI until July 1995
in an 11-0-1 decision Monday,
Jan. 17. FlJI’s original deadline
to ﬁle a written appeal of the
decision was yesterday.

Wilson met with FIJI House

Corporation President Ed Bishop
and FIJI House Corporation
Member Jack Norberg Monday.
Wilson said Bishop and Norberg
“came to acquaint me with the
fact that they would ﬁle an ap-
peal. They also wanted to know
if I had any special instructions.”

Bishop said he will be writing
the appeal on behalf of FIJI and
the FIJI house corporation this
weekend.

FIJI president Ralph “Moke”
Wolfe said FlJl’s appeal will be
based on fourcriteria: lack of due
process, false information in the
letter to the SAC from Dean of
Freshmen and Residence Life

Dennis Manning in which he
charged FIJI with hazing, too
harsh a penalty, and “the wrong
guys being punished.”

“We were convicted and sen-
tenced before we even got to the
hearing,” said Wolfe.

Dean of Students and SAC
Chair David Howison disagreed.

“SAC was very open-
minded,” Howison said. “We
began deliberations Friday and
then continued until Monday to
be absolutelyicertain in our deci-
sion. The case was decided fairly
and open-mindedly.” ‘

i>See FIJI, page 3

 

Thieves swipe Sega

SAE house loses game, VCR

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Thieves stole $320 worth of

; television and game equipment

from the Sigma Alpha Epsilon

' fraternity housethe nightofJanu-
-‘ ary 20.

AE member Malcolm Burke

i reported a Sharp VCR, a Sega
_ Genesis, a Sega game and a tele-

;phone as stolen to Lexington
Police at 11:30 that night.
Investigating Officer Gary
Coleman said he does have a
rsuﬁect, but can not release any
_ information because the suspect
:' is a minor.

‘‘I’m trying to wait around
and come up with the stuf ,”
Coleman said. “I have a suspect,
but I haven’t set up an interview.
If I bring him in now all he’s
going to do is lie to me. But ifl
have the stuff to show him, then
he can’t lie.”

Coleman said sources outside
the police department are help-
ing him with the investigation.

“I have people who are talk-
ing to me,” Coleman said.

Burke said he noticed. two
unfamiliar people in the house
around 10:30 p.m., but did not
know if they were responsible
for the theft.

“l was downstairs in the
kitchen of the house about 10:30,”

Burke said. “Twovguys were there
who said they were DJs looking
for work. It seemed odd for them
to be walking around in the fra-
ternity house on a Thursday
night.” .

Burke said the thieves prob-
ably entered through the unlocked
basement door.

“The doors are always open,’
Burke said.

Burke also said the house
probably will not replace the
items, at least not right away.

“The Sega was one of the fra-
ternity brother’s. The VCR and
phone belonged to the house,”
Burke said.

“The Sega will be missed,
though. We used it quite a bit.”

)

 Wear?

Friends help senior Heather Aussikel-I prepares for her Dating Game-arranged
date with sophomore Shelby LaMar. Aussiker and LaMar won an all-expenses

  

paid candlelit steak dinner at Evans Dining Hall.

I 0 b Is, The Ring-tum Phi

? ‘«.«§,..»‘'

1 

 

Cadet dies in crash

By E. LEE DAUGHERTY
Phi Staff Writer

Flags ﬂew at half-staff over Virginia Military
lnstitute’s parade groundsJan. 14 as cadets mourned
the death of freshman William Alexander “Alex”
Herbert.

Herbert was killed when his car hit a tree and ‘

burst into ﬂames near his home in northern Virginia
on Jan. 13.

Fairfax County Accident Reconstruction Unit
Officer J .D. Bean said Herbert was traveling on an
icy two-lane country road about 12:30 a.m. Thurs-
day, Jan. 13 when his car skidded out of control.

Neighbors called police when they heard the
car’s tires explode from the heat of the ﬁre, Bean
said. ‘

VMI Public Relations Director Colonol Michael
Strickler said police had trouble identifying Herbert
because his body was badly burned.

Bean said in order to identify Herbert police
took his carapart and found what is known as a “con
vin”, or concealed vehicle identification number.
But he said police were not able to get the car apart
to find the number until 10 a.m., nearly 10 hours
after the accident occurred. Bean said once police
found the con vin they were able to trace Herbert’s
identify through it.

Strickler said Herbert’s parents did not realize
until later Thursday morning that he had not come

home. They contacted VMI, thinking he had re-
turned to school early in order to prepare to march
in Governor George Allen’s inaugural parade Sat-
urday. They Ieamed of their son’s death later from
police.

Strickler said at the time of the accident Herbert
was headed to his home in Hemdon after visiting
his girlfriend who lived 15 minutes away from his
home.

Strickler said Herbert was a history major.
Fellow cadet Chris Doyle said Herbert was VMI ’s
best golfer and an avid Notre Dame football fan.

Doyle said Herbert’s mother came to Lexing-
ton in the fall and got a hotel room so she and
Herbert could watch Notre Dame play A Florida
State. I I

“He was really thankful his mom did that for
him,” Doyle said.

Doyle said tragedies like this bring people
together. He said Herbert’s classmates are plan-
ning to do something for Herbert’s parents, but
nothing speciﬁc has been decided.

4 “People feel for the parent’s,” Doyle said.

Funeral services were scheduled held at 12:45
p.m. Thursday, January 20, at Fort Meyer Chapel,
with graveside service at Arlington National Cem-
etery, both in Arlington, Virginia.

, In lieu of flowers, the family requested that
donations be made to the American Heart Asso-
ciation in memory of Alex.

 

Photo by Joe Framptom, The Ring-tum Phi

A Live Drive van sits idle, as it has for many weekends this year. Due to lack of drivers and decreased usage,
Live Drive has been available only rarely.

Live Drive hits the skids

By YABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Writer

Live Drive, the Washington and Lee orga-
nization providing transportation to key des-
tinations on weekends, is in serious jeopardy.

“There are simply not enough people us-
ing it. No one calls anymore, there seems to
be a lack of need for the organization,” said
President Rebecca “Binky” Parkins.

“We had planned to start operating only
on ‘big party’ weekends, but it did not work.
The fraternities did not want to get involved.
They did not tell us their plans,” said Parkins.

According to Parkins, the demand for
Live Drive is limited because the fraternities
are required to have sober drivers.

“I think it is great that they have sober
drivers. They should be held responsible,”
added Parkins. “The sororities are also really
good about providing drivers, they always
take care of it.”

‘‘I’m sure the demand for Live Drive is
going to increase as more things start hap-
pening at places like Zollman’s. At the same
time, I think the organization should be used
sparingly,” said Pi Kappa Alpha President
John Paul Lunn.

‘‘I used Live Drive last year. I have not
this year because it has not been as noticeable
and there have not been as many parties,”
said one junior.

“We have also had problems with student
recruitment,” said Parkins.

In the past, the Student Conduct Commitee
assigned hours in Live Drive as disciplinary
action, he said.

“Live Drive is a very important part of
this community and-it has my full support,
but it is not a wise policy to require students
to work there. The organization should be
strong enough to support itself,” said Dean of
Students David Howison.

“Requiring students to work increases our
liability. It takes a lot of responsibility to
work for an organization like Live Drive,”

said Parkins. -

“Our main problem is lack of drivers.
Most of the volunteers are seniors; we have
no underclassmen support,” said Parkins.

“The number of female volunteers is
usually higher because they are required to
fulfill community service hours. Also, most
guys would volunteer at their own fraternity
if they wanted to be a sober driver,” said
Parkins.

“Money is not a problem. The Executive
Committee provides us with quite a bit of
money and we use most of it.”

“We used to have two vans, but since the
Outing Club van was trashed recently, we
only have one now. The van was donated
to the organization,” said Parkins.

“We are presently thinking about re-
structuring the organization to provide a
shuttle service,” added Parkins.

For now, Live Drive will be operating on
Saturdays between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m.

For those needing transportation, the
number to call is 463-8947.

 

The State

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World  

Muslims raid food convoys

    

Muslim civilians in the Bosnian village of Ticici Wednes-
day mobbed a food convoy. Six police officers were shot and
wounded while escorting the trucks. Several hundred people
in the same village mobbed another food convoy Tuesday,
and beat itspolice escorts. Civilians in Ticici believe they are
being denied a fair share of U.N. food aid.

Calcutta Coal mine fire kills 40

A coal mining accident in Calcutta, India is believed to
have killed over 40 mine workers. Toxic fumes from an
underground fire cutoff the escape route for the miners. The

cause of the fire is unknown.
as 4*
 ‘ "I, .

  

The Nation

Jackson settles suit with boy

 

Michael Jackson agreed to settle his sexual molestation _

case out of court. Jackson agreed to pay the 14-year old boy
suing him at least $ 10 million. Jackson has denied allegations
that he sexually molested the boy, who sued him in Septem-
ber.

Clinton gives State of the Union

President Bill Clinton gave the State of the Union speech
Tuesday night. He addressed the domestic issues of crime
legislation, welfare reform and health care, as well as his
hopes for dealing with other nations in the future. The
audience interrupted him with applause 60 times during his
speech.

Lunar exploration underway

Spacecraft Clementine I lifted off Tuesday for the first
lunar exploration since 1972. During its seven month jour-
ney, Clementine will test five “Star Wars” sensors designed
to detect missiles. After accomplishing its mission, the space-
craft will be abandoned in space.

Gillooly ready to implicate ex-
wife Harding in conspiracy

Jeff Gillooly is prepared to implicate ex-wife Tonya Harding
in the J an. 6 attack on Nancy Kerrigan. Gillooly and Harding ’s
bodyguard, along with two other men, have been charged
with conspiracy to injure Kerrigan. The attack nearly knocked
Kerrigan out of the Olympics. '

 

William and Mary grants
benefits to same-sex partners

The College of William and Mary faculty is seeking a
statewide policy granting health care benefits to same-sex
partners of college employees. The Faculty Assembly voted
in October to grant health-care benefits to the same-sex
companions of its own faculty and staff. The Assembly then
asked the Faculty Senate of Virginia to pass a similar state-
wide resolution. The Faculty Senate can make recommenda-
tions to the General Assembly, which will not vote on the
issue until next year.

Virginia officials express sup-
port for VMI/MBC program

Virginia officials filed a report outlining their support for
Virginia Military Institute’s plan to create a leadership pro-
gram at Mary Baldwin College instead of admitting women
to VMI. Governor George Allen, Attorney General James
Gilmore and Lieutenant Governor Donald Beyer filed the
statement in U.S. District Court Wednesday. A judge will
hear arguments February 9 - 11 on the constitutionality of the
plan. ’

North kicks off campaign

Republican Oliver North announced his bid for the U.S.
Senate during an interview on the Larry King Live Show.
North defended his involvement in the Iran-Contra scandal
on the show. North will run for Democrat Charles S. Robb’s
seat.

Committee to investigate
Virginia Power, blackouts

The State Corporation Committee will investigate Vir-
ginia Power’s use of rolling blackouts last week. To prevent
overloading its electric power system, Virginia Power used
the blackouts for the first time in 17 years. The SCC says it
will investigate in order to try and improve the system.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily Baker

L

The Rin -tum Phi Janu 28 19991

 

Students decide on housing‘

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

lt’s the time of year for students to search for
places to live next year.

Dean of Students David Howison said approxi-
mately 40 percent of students live off campus while
60 percent choose on campus housing, including
fraternity houses.

Upperclass housing consists of Gaines Hall and
Woods Creek Apartments. Howison said Woods
Creek has three sections and provides space for law
and undergraduate students.

Howison said there will be a lottery for rooms in
Gaines. He said Dean of Freshmen and Residence
Life Dennis Manning is coordinating the lottery. It
will be limited to those students who are not cur-
rently residents in‘Gaines.

Howison said there are plans to renovate both
Gaines and Woods Creek Apartments. The Gaines
Revitalization Committee is considering sugges-
tions for improving Gaines, including the possibil-
ity of reserving five lofts for sororities and the
Women’s Forum. This would leave 11 lofts outof 16

for housing. He said he supports this idea because it will
attract more residents.

Howison said his recommendation must first go
through the budget process before being decided on
March 1.

Some students, such as freshman Tara Hebert, are
already attracted to Gaines. She said she plans to apply
for one of the four rooms which has only single-occu-
pancy rooms. '

“We don’t want to have to deal with an apartment,”
she said. “We want to be close to campus because we’re
lazy.”

Freshman Rachel Wright said she likes having easy
access to the campus and free cable. 1

“[Gaines is] not as bad as it seems,” said Wright.

Other students opt to live off campus. Freshman
Jenning Tran has begun looking for an apartment.

“I think living off campus would mean more freedom
and would be less expensive,” said Tran.

Roger Koehler, owner of Sweet Things Ice Cream
Shoppe, has two apartments above the store. He said the
two apartments weren't rented for next school year until
December. One apartment costs $450 a month while the
other costs $430 per month.

For fraternity men, there is another option for
housing——-the fraternity houses. Usually, sopho-
more fraternity members live in fraternity houses.

lambda Chi Alpha president Robert Ferris said
sophomores are assigned to the house and then a
lottery is held to select upperclassmen to live therg.
Ferris said four sophomores and six upperclass-
men live there now. .. A » 2

Sigma Alpha Epsilon President Jeff Laborde
said the house will have 16sophomores, one junior
and two seniors next year. He said the president
and the vice president have first choice and then
selection goes by class. 5

Sigma Chi president Richard Barksdale said
the selection process is determined by first term
GPA, which must be at least 1.9.

Kappa Sigma President William Aiken said
officers have first choice of housing and then
rooms go by class and GPA. He said the house
president and one other officer have to live there.
He said next year there will be 9 sophomores add
8 juniors.

According to a source in Manning’s office,

available for student residency.

Howison said he believes this arrangement to be
fair-, and he emphasized there will be adequate room

Keep off
the grass

FROM STAFF REi>oR1s

Students, faculty members, admin-
istrators and other visitors to campus
may have noticed that ropes restricting

. pedestrian traffic on the front lawn

have gone up once again.

The harsh winter weather Wash-
ington and Lee has recently experi-
enced is taking its toll on the front
lawn, according to Jim Arthur, super-
intendent of Buildings and Grounds,
and everyone is asked to stay off the
lawn until the weather breaks.

“The grass that was planted after the
irrigation system was installed this sum-
mer is very susceptible to damage as a
result of the bad weather we’ve had,”
Arthur said. “If we stay off the grass
until the weather breaks normal activ-
ity should resume in the early spring.”

Arthur urged pedestrians to use the
footpaths and to stay off the historic
front lawn.

“We really need everyone’s help on
this,” Arthur said. “If the grass remains
healthy through this bad weather, it
will come back fine in the spring. Then
it will be frisbees and football as usual.”

Mock Con
chairs
selected

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Mock Convention has selected three
designates as tri-chairs for the 1996
Mock Convention.

Pending confirmation by the Ex-
ecutive Committee of the Student Body,
sophomore Courtney Tucker will per-
form the duties of personnel chair,
sophomore Bob Ross will be political
chair and sophomore David Stewart
will be administrative chair.

“We’ve gone through an interview
process and we selected these three as
designates,” said Mock Convention
member Ted Elliot.

Elliot said the three tri-chair desig-
nates will present the plans for the
1996 convention to the EC, assuming
they are confirmed.

Koehler said people usually ﬁnd out about apart-
ments by word of mouth and fouror five people asked for
the apartment before it was rented.

there are 60 applications for Gaines, 5 for Woods

Creek and one application for the Outing Club
house. Applications are available in Payne 4 and
are due on Friday, January 28.

\&

rs» . - . ~ . -
Photo by Joe Framptom, The Rmg—tum Phi

About $25 of every students activity fee goes to pay-off the Pavilion each year.

Pavilion to get new ﬂoor
University allots $47,000 for project ‘

By PHIL CARROTI‘

Phi Staff Writer

aquiring a glaze on it and was proving to be too fast for

tennis. None of theproblems were apparent at the begin-

ning.”

The Pavilion is getting a face lift — of sorts. _
The ﬂoor of the infamous site of concerts and sporting

activities is getting replaced.

O’Connell agreed. .
“When they first put the surface down, it met the needs
then, but increased use has taken its toll,” said O’Connell.

“It could have been remediedlwhen built; it is a construction

“The old one had gotten into a state of disrepair and was

becoming a problem as far as social use,” said Assistant
Athletic»Director George C. “Chuck” O’Connell. “When we
tore the ﬂoor up, we found that water vapor was coming up

and condensing.”

The floor in the Pavilion consisted of hard rubber cover-
ing a concrete base. When the building was used for certain
athletic events, a carpet covering was placed on top of the
rubber. The rubber portion of the ﬂoor was beginning to
bubble and separate from the concrete base.

The carpet is currently covering the concrete for both
social and athletic activity until the ﬂoor is replaced some-

time this spring or summer.

The Pavilion was constructed in 1984 to meet the needs

of the Student-Activities Board and the athletic department.

O'Connell

Capital Planning Coordinator Frank Parsons said “[the

Pavilion] had a strong appeal to President Wilson. He hoped
that concerts and student body dances could be held there,
relieving wear and tear on the Warner center, Doremus, and
Evans. He hoped fraternities would have joint parties there
and relieve some of the wear and tear on the fraternity

houses.”

The athletic department requested the replacement of the

ﬂoor.

Parsons said the ﬂoor “had a tacky surface that was

 

problem.”

O’Connellsaidintercollegiate
tennis and soccer use the Pavil-
ion for practice and, all outdoor
sports have the option to prac ice
there during inclement weather.
Intramurals and P.E. classes also
use the Pavilion.

“The problem is ﬁnding a ﬂoor
that is useful for athletic and so-
cial activities,” O’Connell said.

O’Connell and SuperintOn-

' dent of Buildings and Grounds
James Arthur are still looking at
possible floors.

“[The Pavilion] is a compro-

mise. It isn’t ideal for everything,” said Associate Dean of
Students Leroy “Buddy” Atkins. ‘‘I’d like to see us have
something in there where we can have people plajdng
tennis, soccer, or volleyball without having to take up the
floor for social events.”

O’Connell said the ﬂoor“should have been in now. It has

been delayed until spring or early summer because of

problems finding the right ﬂoor.”

Parsons said $47,000 is budgeted for the new floor.

0

Youth services program in danger
W&L MSA worked closely with Offices on Youth '

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

Minority Student Association mem-
bers who volunteer with Lexington’s
Office on Youth program might need a
new organization to serve next year.

The state-bud-
geted program is not
in Virginia’s Fiscal
Years 1995-1997
budget, and Lexing-
ton would have to
spend another
$28,000 per year to
maintain the pro-
gram.

Sophomore Kyna
Bryant hopes the af-
ter-school and sum-
mer care programs
that the Office on
Youth supports sur-
vive.

“I just think a lot

 

Virginia’s 15-year-old Offices on
Youth program is funded primarily by
the state Department of Youth and Fam-
ily Services. The state’s 50 indepen-
dent programs serve 60 localities, and
the localities fund what the state does
not. Each is structured according to
local youths’ needs and is supervised

by a local citizens’
board.

The main services
that Lexington’s Of-
fice on Youth pro-
gram provides are the
after-school and sum-
mer care programs.
Director Tammy

' Merchant supervises
the two programs and
also addresses many
other needs of Lex-
ington youth. She
works closely with the
schools and other
youth—service agen-
cies in establishing

of the kids need a
place to go after
school,” said Bryant.
“We’re good role models, because the
kids get to see people who are in col-
lege. It gives_ them an incentive to do
better.”

Bryant

programs to prevent
juvenile delinquency,
substance, abuse,
dropouts and teenage pregnancy. Mer-
chant schedules guest speakers and puts
together pamphlets for area students.
She also serves on numerous local

boards representing the city’s young
people.

Despite its attributes, the state thinks
it can no longer maintain the program.
The state established Offices on Youth
in 1979 but has cut the program’s bud-
get in every year except 1993. Former
Governor Doug Wilder finally pro-
posed elimination of the $2 million per
year project in December.

‘.‘They just had to cut back, and that
was one ofthe things to be eliminated,”
said Merchant. “We’ve been threat-
ened with that ever since I started (in
1989).”

Merchant said she would hate for
Lexington kids to lose the program and
its volunteers. She agreed with Bryant
that the MSA members and Virginia
Military Institute cadets provide posi-
tive role models.

VMl’s Promaji clubasked the MSA
to begin volunteering with the Office
on Youth last fall. Through the term,
five to seven W&L students volun-
teered with the kids each day from 3 to
5 p.m.

“Just in the time we’ve been there,
we’ve seen a lot ofchange in the kids,”
said Bryant.

She said they play games fairly now
rather than cheating.

Although MSA has been active in

the program only since September, the

Office on Youth opened its doors in the .

Lylburn-Downing Community Center
in October 1989.

City manager Jon Ellestad said.’if
the program is cut, Lexington will lose
a lot.

“The things missed the greatest
would be the after-school and summer
programs for the youth,” said Ellestad.

He said if eliminated, he doesn ’t see
how the city could pick up the costsmf
the entire program. But, Ellestad said,
he hopes that enough money could be
funded to maintain the after-school and
summer programs. .

The after school program is free and
open to all school-age children. On the
average, 25 kids attend the program On
school days. The eight-week summer
program, however, has limited enroll-
ment and there is a $30 weekly fee.

Program coordinators throughout
the state are urging people to write
letters to Governor George Allen and
their state delegates. The support the
program is receiving from delegates is
strong, said Merchant, and she is de-
pending on Governor Allen.

“The people in the state level are
really positive that he’s going to rein-
state the funds,”she said, “I hope they’re
right.” .

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, Jnauary 28, 1994

0

Buckley, Chavis
to speak at W&L

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

. Washington and Lee’s Stnall SiZ_6
has not prevented it from bringing in
big-name speakers. _

Contact, a student-run organization,
is bringing several famous speakers to
W & L this year. NAACP President

enjamin Chavis and conservative col-
umnist William F. Buckley are sched-
uled to speak. Chavis is scheduled to
speak March 16, and Buckley s date
has not yet been set.

Eleven members approved by the
Executive Committee constitute Con-
tact, which holds meetings on Sun-

ys. . V '

“Our main goal is to provide speak-
ers for the W&L community, said
senior Matt Jackson, who presides Over
the organization with senior Andrew
Schneider.

The speakers must be “of contem-
ﬁirary interest, provacative, and pro-
vide dialog which is beyond the normal
scope,” said Jackson. _

The E.C. funds Contact’s entire
$38,000 budget, $8000 of which comes
from a speaker’s fund for the Minority
Students’s Association, Women 5 F0-

rum, and the Graham—Lee Washington
Literary Society.

“These groups give us requests and
we try to help them,” said Jackson.
Representatives of the groups attend
Contact meetings.

With a $38,000 budget, Contact can
not afford all speakers.

“The budget has limited us,” said
Jackson. “Some speakers are over our
entire budget.” Jackson mentioned Lee
Iacocca and Donald Trump as two who
will not be coming to W&L because of
cost.

Two other speakers are scheduled
for the next few'weeks. Thursday,
January 27, Mac Crawford of the Char-
ter Medical Corporation will speak on
“The Political and Business Implica-
tions of the Clinton Health Care Plan”.
Charter Medical Corporation is a group
of 80-90 hospitals, most of them psy-
chiatric. Crawford will speak at 8:00 in
room 327 of the C-School.

Thursday, February 3, Jeffrey Hart,
the Senior Editor of the National Re-
view , will give a speech entitled “The
University: Where We Are Now.”
Hart, a retired professor of English at
Dartmouth, will address his experi-
ence with the university and how to get
th_e best education possible.

‘Smoking ban
‘discussed by EC

D SMOKE, from page 1

would favor a ban.
McDennott said the Co-op is too
small for it to have a smoking section.
A “Generally, I think we’re all deal-
ing with the same problem,” he said.
“[The Co-op] is too small. It’s not fair
to the people who work there and the
people who have to go in there and pay
for their food.”

Darrell said, at present, smoking is
permitted in the Co-op, the GHQ and in
the Dining Hall. '

“We don’t put out ashtrays (in the
Dining Hall),” said Darrell.

The EC gave mixed advice on the
proposed ban.

“It seems like the people in the Co-
0

op go in there to sit down, have a
cigarette and talk to people,” said EC
Secretary Ashby Hackney. “l have a
feeling that if smoking is banned, there ’s
going to be some kind of resistance.”

Junior EC Rep Alex Cross said a
smoking ban would “ruffle some feath-
ers.”

“I’m personally against it,” he said.

Second-year Law Rep Kevin Webb
and Junior EC Rep Carol Pierce said
they supported the proposed ban and
EC President Robert Tompkins said
the argument ‘against smoking in the
Co-op is a valid one.

“It is offensive to have to sit there
and smell the smoke while you’re eat-
ing your meal,” said Tompkins, “but I
hesitate to speak on behalf of the stu-
dent body.” »

PAGE 3

 Tot

  

‘sis. 

e.. I‘

  E31
  may

.92..-2 '

 

Sig To Me

Photo By Ethan Krupp, The Ring-tum P/ii

W V II ball performed at the Lip Synch last Friday night. Fro more on the action packed night see the story on page 4.
omen’s o ey '

FIJI asks Wilson for appeal extension

D FIJI, from page 1

Wolfe said Manning’s letterto SAC
contained misinformation and false-
hoods.

Wolfe would not identify the in-
correct portions of the letter. Howison
said he did not know of any inaccura-
cies in Manning’s letter.

Manning said the source of all in-
formation in the letter was former FIJI
pledge Jay Taggart.

“I put in writing what was told to
me,” said Manning.

Wolfe said FIJI believes the penalty
was too harsh because the incident
involved was minor.

“The pledges weren’t intoxicated
and they were not in any physical dan-
ger,” said Wolfe.

FIJI pledges will suffer the most
from the suspension, Wolfe said.

“The sophomores won’t have a
house. That’s generally one highlight
of sophomore year. They make the
transition, get out of the dorms and live
in the house. They all want to live here

and now they can’t.”
Wolfe said FIJI pledges could

depledge and pledge again at another
fraternity.

“But they’re all committed,” Wolfe
said. Under SAC’s suspension, FIJI
would not be able to hold Rush again
until fall 1995.Bishop said FlJI’s ap-
peal will be centered on inaccuracies in
Manning’s letter.

“There are substantive gaps between
the document and what we believe to
be the truth,” Bishop said. “Since there’s
only one truth, someone is wrong. And
truth has important implications, espe-
cially at W&L.”

Bishop said the house corporation

had already imposed sanctions on the
FIJI house when SAC made its deci-
sion. The house corporation put FIJI on
social probation until April and fined
the house over $5000 from their social
budget. The house corporation also in-
validated F IJ I’s officer elections.

“The people elected helped to pre-
cipitate the problem,” Bishop said.
“They shouldn’t be in a leadership po-
sition.”

Bishop said the house corporation
now controls the FIJI chapter, and has
the power to throw people out of the
fraternity.

‘T

~ Buya
organiz

Macintosh LC 520 5/80.
iruemal AppleCD "‘ 3001’ CD-ROM Drive,
Apple Keyboard 11 and mouse.
only 51,596.

For further information visit University

ces or go comple 1}’ ballist

Macintosh LC 475 4/80. Apple 6010' PM
14~D,'5p1ay, Apple Keyboard II and mouse.

Only $1.196.

select Macintosh"“’ or PowerBook“’ computer, you’ll also receive seven ®
software programs. It’s all included in one low price.And the software an Apple compute
package alone has a combined SRP value of $596’? It was designed to

 

ten out

r? It does more. It costs

Macintosh nowand you can
your time, strai

 

Apple PowerBooIe 1458 4/80.
Only 51,204.

. _ h b ' the kinds of programs you need most. Programs to organize
Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal Now, w en you uy any gpiery/t(i)l1fJne and money. And some program just for fun. SO, Why buy
less. It’s that simple. ,

 

Introducing the Great Apple Campus Deal

 

Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more information.

Computing in

Tucker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud or call 463-8844

*Price does not include sales tax

. - ‘ trademark of Apple Com/mler. 1716.
V) , _ - . ., , , 1 , ti - I ‘/J (IP01 erliook are regislered Imdemarlar of Apple C , uter, Inc. ApﬂleCD 15 0
©1993 /W/’¢ W’?/”""’ i M“ $3 Sgllllz’) of/Z9 pmdur/5 in 7719 Cmripiis So/Zuwre Se! for Macimoxb as 0/0C10bé’Y 1- 1993-

your
1 .

‘$9

 

PAGE 4

 ‘-

 

By JAY WHITE
Phi Staff Writer

Sigma Phi Epsilon is back in the top
seat after Saturday night’s Lip Synch
contest.

Sig Ep pledges billedas “Tool & the
Gang” won the 1994 Lip Synch with
their version of Kool & the Gang’s
“Celebration.”

Sig Ep took away the top spot, after
beating the Minority Student Associa-
tion, last year’s winners.

The 1994 Lip Synch competition
was held last Saturday at the Washing-
ton and Lee Pavilion.

Twenty-five acts were entered in
the event with prizes given out to the
top three groups. Receiving the third
prize of $50 was the Chi Omega Se-
niors with their version of “If” by Janet
Jackson.

Second place, a Fancy Dress ticket
and$50, was taken by the Minority
Student Association and their rendi-
tion of the hit “Whoot, there it is!”

As the winners of the 1994 Lip
Synch competition, the Sig Ep pledge
class won $100 and two Fancy Dress

Sig-Ep, MSA and Chi-O take Lip Synch top spots

tickets. .

Other acts that participated included
Sigma Chidoingtheirimitationof Blind
Melon and the “Bee Girl,” Pi Beta Phi
sorority doing “Wang Chung,” the
material girls of the Chi Omega pledge
class imitating Madonna.

According to Sophomore Susanna
Craib-Cox, “The highlight of the
evening was Doug Kaufman getting up
on stage and making a fool of himself.”

According to Lip Synch Chair-
woman Beth Provanzana, the event is
sponsored by a group of students every
year along with Gerry Darrell of Wash-
ington and Lee Dining Services.

The proceeds go to the Rockbridge
Area Relief Association, which dis-
tributes the ﬁnds to various causes
around the country. Money is also do-
nated to the local Multiple Sclerosis
Chapter.

Provanzana said none of last year’s
problems of people sneaking in and
backstage drinking occurred. There
were no complaints from the security
officers on duty.

Provanzana also thanked the volun-
teer staff that helped make the 1994
Lip Synch go so well.

   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1994
I

    

ALL PHOTOS
BY ETHAN KRUPP
or THE RING- TUM PHI

The Chi Omega seniors, lead by Becca Reed, took third place with
their version of Janet Jackson’s “If.” 'I\ivo freshman Chi-O groups
also performed in the Lip Synch.

Jack Thorn and Kyna Bryant perform in MSA’s rendition of
“Whoot There It Is.” MSA took home $50 and an FD ticket.

      
   

,. .

Sigma Phi Epsilon freshmen Alex Kostera and Matt Bradshaw, members of Tool and The Gang, took The Preston Street Social Club lip-synched “Informer” and waved a FIJI sign as some of the per-
first place with their perfromance of “Celebration.” Sig-Ep won two Fancy Dress Tickets and $100.

at

formers did push-ups. The group did not win a prize but they did recieve cheers from the crowd.

  
  

Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx.
2000 sq. ft. 4 bedrooms — can hold up to 6
guys. Fireplace, wood stove, refrigerator,
C€1l1I1g fans, and huge bar. Secluded location
about 3 miles from town. Rent about $1000/
month. Beautiful view. Large yard — with ball
field. Call Nate or Lewis for more info,
463-6337

 

Are you looking for an exciting and rewarding summer job?
The A Bar A Guest Ranch is on 140,000 private acres of southern Wyoming,
surrounded by national forest and wilderness area. We have openings in all areas
of guest services. If you are available from approx. June 1 to early or late Sept.,
we would like to talk with you about the possibility of working with us this
summer. Bob Howe will be interviewing on campus February 2. To arrange an
interview time, sign up at the Careers Office in the University Center.

Questions? Call (303) 670-1323

F _ N
‘ﬁn ‘ﬂfialf to Remember
<§Dﬁ'r>8 and éummer 1994-
Bridal Fair and Exhibition

  Featuring Rockbridge Countijs
Fmeet Merchants and

Vendor écrvicgzs

1200 ~ 5.00 p.m.
‘Holidag Inn
L»exington, Virginia

 

  
  

Get ready Now for FancyDress-
'  Ballroom Dance Class  1
Frank Roupas

F ox Trot, Waltz, Swing

6 p.m. - 7 or 8 pm.
’ $5 per person
Come with or without a partner
(703) 344-2114

   

   
  
 
 

 

    
 

IT’S oUR PARTY ,
AND WE’LL BUY
IF WE WANT To.

One Day Only .
January 28th, 1994*

10 21.111. I0  (or until we run out of fresh-baked bread)

lt’s our anniversary, but you get the gift.
Buy your favorite footlong Subway sub

and we’ll give you a second one - FREE.

At Subway, we really know how to party.

       
  

. .1 ¢'.< '-'
a ‘:~ 
I 3‘. at

I BUY ANY REGULAR 

: FOOTLONG SUB, GET  g. ;
. ONE or EQUAL VALUE id  
I ‘ A it
.FREE* 
:453 E. Nelson St., Lexington

    

 ‘Second :(:(S):0l‘l A:/ib  be](;f
<§alU"d39~ ljflbmarg 5» 1994 -Wed. Feb 2 [Open ‘til Midnigh Zi‘,3§,'..Z’..'.;..'..i’.§:.;‘,;'..L;£fN..

good in combination with any other I
offer. Good only Jan. 28, 1994

    
 
 

I7 Days A Week! .

  
    

as  

 

J -----an-in -----Am-‘(J

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? ',' AZ-CARE BOX 165"» ATLANTA» GA 30321 :

0? Now you an have two of the most recognized and ' . '

' _ 9. accepted credit cards In the world...VIsa0 and MasterCard‘\'9 ' ! l“’a"tVlsA°/MASTERCARD” Cred“ I
— Now Showing —- °'°d"C‘f{,'§§:',"" ’,’,°,‘,‘\§E";3’g§;,EVE” :_fDY%“,‘r’}'E3'[f:’l_ﬁ;"!’('[_:"' I Cardsappioved Immediately. 100% GUARANTEED! I
or TURN . ' . I

Batman VISA!’ and MasterCard0 the credit cards you I I

561- 8;Sun- deserve and need for—- lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT | NAME |

1230, 3:15 5:00 p.m. Sl0RES—TUlTl0N—ENTERTAlNMEN'I‘—— ' Q '

R t a PG EMERGENCY CASH——TlCKETS—RESTAURAN'I'S— RES
—~—-—-—” Am-es*ARREm~5— 1233 5 STATE ZIP :
T0 __
Earnest mass BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! ' 7 N '
' _ #

Agaln me“ "0 t|"‘n downs i . STUD1.;1JT I 11§__0_ S.S. .

Daily 7:00 8: 9:15 P-m- ¢usI*s“_“cuI° No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE . '
Rated PG “5m|:‘“_g :3‘ lo security deposit! ' non: Ihstercnrd Is a registered trademark d uasiaani International. Inc. '

gut” 0,5,1 ‘ I Vlsa Is a registered trademark ofVlSA uszu Inc. and VlSAlntErnat1onaJ I

251-7292 “ SEND THE coupon romw

tgys Beech Ave Buena Vista) ca . , I '
-s I,.¢I»p_f Your: CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING. L__________________.______!

 

 

0 Kansas City Chiefs, 30-13) '

Q fourth consecutive time they

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1994 - i e

Super Sunday is here!
Battle of the fans and their plans

BY BUNNY WONG
PHI STAFF WRITER

Tagged by some as the most important day of the year,

Super Bowl Sunday kicks in on the 30th.

Many W&Lstudents, however, aren’t that
enthused about the game.

“l could care less,” said freshman
Allison Foote, who will probably be
doing her homework Sunday.

For the uninitiated, the 1994
game will be the first in Super
Bowl history with a back-to-
back rematch.

The Buffalo Bills (who
won playoff games against

go up against the Dallas
Cowboys (who won a play-
off games against the San
Francisco 49ers, 38-21 ), just
‘ like last year.
Forthe Bills, it will be the '

made it to the Super Bowl. _
The last three times they’ve '
lost.
Freshman Jenny Walton, _
from New York, hopes this ' '
won’t be a repeat of the last three

. years. _  V
“All I have to say is that at least Buffalo can make
it to the Super Bowl four times, even ifthey don’t win,”

she said.

Freshman Will Hill said he doesn't want either team to

win or lose.

"I want the Bills to lose to shut up all ofthe Bills fans, and
I want Dallas to lose because they're the favorites," he said.
Hill said he would rather be watching a movie than the

1 Superbowl on Sunday.

Another freshman, Neil Kelleter, said it has been a

 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
   
  

mu.

Dome.

tradition since he was five to watch the game.

Spirited as always, Evans Dining Hall is having a Dining
Service-USA Today Souper Bowl Contest. The D-Hall is
giving out contest forms with five questions. The contest is
being held both at the Co-op and the D-Hall.

Winners will receive a free bowl ofsoup every day forthe
following week. D-Hall winners will receive a $25 gift
certiﬁcate for the W&L bookstore, said Jerry Darrell, Direc-
tor of University Dining Services.

The five questions are:
1. Who will be the first player to
complete a pass?

player to catch a pass?

ing six points for a quarter-
 back throwing a touchdown
' pass)?

the food out ofthe D-Hall to go watch the game. The game,
which begins at 6 p.m.. will be held in Atlanta at the Georgia

2. Who will be the first the Super Bowl,
3. Who will be the
first player to kick a
field goal or get
an extra point?

The Bills lost to
the Cowboys, 17-
52 last year. Per-

4- W110 Wlll haps this year
get the H1051 theycanmake
Yards TUSl1- itmoreinter-

ing? esting for. ‘

 5 students

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  

In addition, the D- Football League
Hall is having ( N F L )
33.UP6f champs.

BOW] They

beat the

d 8 y Kansas
din— C i t y
H 6 F , Chiefs,
from 5- the Amen‘-
6 P.m- can Foot-
SlUd€n1S ball Confer-
, Will be ence (AFC)
able tobring

Coliseum.

Gaines Housing is also hosting activities on the 30th,
including a pre-Super Bowl party with food in the fourth
floor lounge, said Katie Tollison.

“Everyone is welcome,” she said.

Most ofthe fraternities are having theirown parties, with
typical Super Bowl food — pizza, subs, beer. Some frater-
nity members were surprised to hear the Super Bowl was
coming up on the 30th.

' Freshman Amanda Gresens had more ofa clue.

“I get really nervous,” said Gresens,
who is the type of person whojumps
up and screams when watching
Another
New York girl, Gresens
is rooting for the Bills.

2' Who Will watching
 get the Super
., .  — " m 0 S t Bowl Trivia ‘ ‘
P0intS SCOf€d (iI1ClUd- The first Super Bowl was

won by the Green Bay Pack-
ers (under coach Vince
Lombardi), the National

 

champs, 35- 10 before a crowd of63, 035 in the Los Angeles

_ That was January 1967. making the 1994 Super Bowl
America’s 28th Super Bowl.

~Blithe Spirits haunt the Lenfest Center

 
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 

PAGE .

Super Sunday:

without the game

The following is a list, in no paticular order, ofthe man‘
other activities for the disinterested portion of lh(

W&L student body.

1. One could get up early, watc :
Sunday morning cartoons, an n:
then return to one’s bed. This

the onslaught of peopl
around the television and
the refrigerator.

2. A trip to Wzil-Mart.
for the essentials that you
need because the stock-
pile accumulated during
your parents’ last visit
ran out last week, is ari-
other option.

3. The Intramural
aerobics program takes
place on Sunday nights in
Doremus Gym. This is a
good way to ensure your

fitting into your dress or
tuxedo for Fancy Dress,
which is only five weeks away.
4. Bowling is another possiblity. The waiting

period for a free lane is likely to be short.
5. Studying is an option popular with the professors.
By studying, you can improve your grade point average.

Besides, you can always get the score from your friends
who did watch the game.

Phi Features Editor and Assistant Editor

List compiled by
Ethan Krupp and Melissa Sawyer

Noel Coward’s hilarious comedy of sophisticated wit and effects

By Melissa Sawyer
Phi Assistant Features Editor

lt’s not for Fancy Dress and it’s not a.seven-
ties party, but students have gone back in time
for another production. The Washington and
Lee production of Blithe Spirit opens on
February 4th for a seven day run.

The Noel Coward play was a hit of the
London and Broadway stages in the 1940s.
This popular farce is the story of Charles
Condomine, a widowed novelist in the post-
war era. Condomine, on a trip to his country
home with his second wife, hires a psychic to
. learn about the occult. The psychic contacts

Condomine’s first wife, who wants to be re-
united with him. After a series of mishaps,
Condomine’s second wife Ruth is killed in his
place in an automobile accident. The two wives
then return to haunt Condomine, and the way in
which he extricates himself from these two
“blithe spirits” forms the subsequent plot.

Guest Director Colleen Kelly is currently
associate head of acting and head of movement
and dance at the University of Virginia in
Charlottesville. She is no stranger to the W&L
stage however. She choreographed A Funny
Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum and
Evita, as well as the opening scenes for Romeo

. and Juliet.

Kelly’s work has not been limited to univer-
sity productions. She has choreographed fight
scenes for the New York Shakespeare Festival ’s
‘Tis a Pity She’s a Whore (1992), as well as for

the films Sommersby (1992) and Everybody ’s
All-American (1989). ,
C Senior Heather Aussiker plays Ruth,

Condomine’s second wife. Elvira, his first
wife, is played by junior Noelle Parrott, and
senior Jeff Mikita plays Charles Condomine.
Alison MacDonald, an exchange student from

‘Oxford University in England, plays the psy-
chic, Madame Arcati.

. The production involves several unusual
special effects, like the appearance of self-
moving furniture. Aussiker, who has appeared
in several other W&L productions including
The Flies andA F urmy Thing Happened on the
Way to the Forum, said the demanding style has

_ presented a challenge to her.

‘ ‘‘We’re using a lot of trick props and break-
able stuff,” she said. “lt’s a lot like learning to
dance and then adding voices and lines,” she
said.

Heather Leonard, the lighting designer for"
the show, said the play has been challenging.
“The play’s a little more difficult than I’m

1 used to with lighting,” she said. “The audience
is on three sides of the stage.”

Mikita, who played the lead in last term’s
production of The Lady ’s Notfor Burning and

' of the supernatural hits Lenfest February 4 through 10

publicity photo

Noel Coward’s play Blithe Spirit is the next play in the Theatre Series. Pictured are Jeff Mikita, ’94, as Charles Condomine, Heather Aussiker, ’94, as Ruth
Condomine, and Noelle Parrott, ’95, as Elvira, the first wife of Charles. The play pokes fun at the high society of the 1930s. Numerous special effects complement
the humor of Coward’s plot, similar to those special effects of the orginal 1940s movie. The production opens on Feb. 4 at the Lenfest Center.

is directing a show for the upcoming One Acts,
said he “found it challenging for the first week
or so,” because he hadn’t done the acting style
before.

All of the actors play older, middle-aged
characters of the very upper-class, intellectual
set.

“You can’t move like you would normally
move,” Mikita. ‘‘I developed a learned tense-
ness. Once you have it down, you have to

remember not to fall into a relaxed state.”

MacDonald said she has little stage experi-
ence. She said she was persuaded by a friend to
try-out because she already has a British accent.
However, she said most of her character re-
volves around special effects.

“lt’s a question of energy more than any-
thing else really,” MacDonald said.

Coward’s characters each use very distinc-
tive language. Therefore, despite the play’s

many physical aspects, the actor’s speaking
remains an important element.

“You don’t play emotions — you play the
language,” Mikita said.

Mikita added he likes the rapid pace Coward
established.

This comedy dramatizes the high society of
the 1930s. Coward became successful for his
parodies of the establishment — the cocktail
party, cigarette-holder set.

Aussiker said it was hard to copy the Cow-
ard-produced 1946 film version of the play.
She said the cast and crew were limited by
having fewer sets.

“It has been very creative, blocking wise."
she said.

Blithe Spirit will be presented at Lenfest on
Feb. 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 10 at 8 pm. and on Feb. (:
at 2 p.m. For tickets call the Lenfest Box Office

‘at (703) 463-8000.

way one can effectively avoi .

W&LIFE

Richmond Ballet’s Rodeo-

Classic music and dance

The Rirggtum Phi, January 28, 1994;

 

Photo by Suzanne Grandis

The Richmond Ballet will perform Rodeo at the Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts on Feb. 1
and 2 as part of the Lenfest Series of Events. Rodeo is set to the music of Aaron Copeland and
choreographed by Agnes De Mille. The Ballet will perform two other pieces in addition to Rodeo.
These pieces are Other Places and Apollo. Tickets are now available for the 8 p.1n. shows. For
tickets please call the Lenfest Center box office at (703) 463-8000.

;.,ar***Hm+**»+********

gees raeeea
QEEEEEEEEEE

is accepting
applications for
Secretary and
Treasurer. The
deadline is
February 4.
Pick-up
applications from
  Carol Calkins’
office in the
University

+<

+<

+<

+<

+<

+<

an

+<

+<

4»:

+<

+<

+<

+<

+<

+<

+<

+<

+<

+<

+<

+<

an

+<

+<

+<

+<

«K  
1 Center.
+<

2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
2+
4*

¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥

BY ETHAN H. KRUPP
Pm FEATURES EDITOR

The American southwest arrives in Lexington this com-
ing week.

On Feb. 1 and 2 at the Lenfest Center for the Performing
Arts the Richmond Balletwill perform Rodeo, The Courting
at Burnt Branch.

The Richmond Ballet is celebrating it’s 10th anniversary
with Agnes De Mille’s famous piece Rodeo.

Rodeo is set to the lively and upbeat music of Aaron
Copeland. It captures the traditional Sunday afternoon when
the ranch hands gather to show off their roping, riding, and
throwing ability to their neighbors and the “womenfolk.”

Afterthe exhibition, everyone attends the evening dance,
where the cowboys ﬂirt all night.

Stoner Winslett, artistic director for the Richmond Ballet
said, “The theme of the ballet is pretty basic. It deals with the
problem that has confronted all American women and
which has never ceased to occupy them throughout the

. history of building our country: how to get a suitable man!”

The ballet is a favorite with the company because it is

Campus Paperback Bestsellers

1. The Days Are Just Packed, by Bill Watterson.
(Andrews and McMeel, $12.95.) More “Calvin and Hobbes”
cartoons.

2. The Joy Luck Club, by Amy Tan. (Ivy, $5.99.)
Destinies of Chinese immigrant women and their Chinese-
American daughters.

3. The Age of Innocence, by Edith Wharton. (Co11ier/
Macmillan, $5.99.) New York society life in the late 19th
Century.

4. The Way Things Ought To Be, by Rush Limbaugh.
(Pocket Star, $6.50.) Controversial issues—-—that’s Limbaugh
territory.

5. Mixed Blessing, by Danielle Steel. (Dell, $6.99.)
Having children creates tense relationships.

6. Seven Habits of Highly Effective People, by Steven
R. Covey. (Fireside, $9.95.) Guide to personal fulfillment.

7. The Chickens are Restless, by Gary Larson. (Andrews

& McMee|, $8.95.) New collection of cartoons.

8. Rare Air, by Michael Jordan. (Harper Collins,

     
 
 

c”-‘°"&

Just do it!

SUMMER
OPPORTUNITIES
DAY t 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 1994 I

more relaxed and as Brett Bonda, who has been with the
company for over nine years, said, ‘‘It is one of the few roles
where I can wear jeans and cowboy boots.”

Rodeo also allows Bonda to show off his tap-dancing
skills. Bonda appears in the ballet as the Champion Roper.

In addition to Rodeo, the Richmond Ballet will perforrr;

two other spectacular pieces.

Other Places is a dreamy, expressive piece written for
six couples. It was choreographed by Stoner Winslett in
1990 through an AT&T Foundation Grant. Other Places is
set to the lushy and romantic score of Dvoak’s Serenade for
Strings, Op 22. The actors will be wearing hand-painted silk
costumes designed by A. Christina Giannini.

The third piece is George Balanchine’sApollo. Apollo Q
the story of the god’s awkward beginnings and his develop-
ment into a perfect and graceful god, when Zeus then calls
him to Olympus.

The piece is known for its technical clarity and choreo-
graphic purity. When it was first performed in 1928, it was
considered revolutionary.

Performances of the Richmond Ballet are made possibb
in part by a grant from the Virginia Commission for the Arts.
Tickets are on sale now at the Lenfest Box Office (463-
8000) from 12 p.m. to 4 pm. Monday through Friday, and
hours before each performance.

Best books of the month .
Calvin and Hobbes are at the top of list

$25.00.) Autobiography by the retired basketball superstar.
9. The‘Pelican Brief, by John Grisham. (Dell, $6.99§)
Law student finds herself on the run from killers of two
Supreme Court justices.
10. The Killer Angels, by Michael Shaara. (Ballantine,
$5.99.) Dramatic recreation of The Battle of Gettysburg.

New & Recommended
. 0

Anatomy of Love, Helen Fisher, Ph.D. (Fawcett, $12.50.)
The mysteries of mating, marriage, and why we stray —~
explaining it all in this four miIlion—year history of the
human species.

Rediscoveries: American Short Stories by Women:
1832-1916, by Barbara Solomon. (Mentor, $5.99.) Unique
anthology by 21 American women writers encompassirg
the entire 19th century.

The 100 Best Companies to Work for in America, by
Robert Levering. (Plume, $12.95.) Up-to—date reference

source for anyone in pursuit of that rare commodity: the
ideal job.

  
    

9°‘?

11:00 A.M. UNTIL 3:00 P.M.
‘UNIVERSITY CENTER

Quit/t (md ectsy. @-

\(eﬁ A-Bar-.-1 Ranch - tljrorning 00
Camp Bethel -l‘r‘m.rlle, tit » "0

The Camp & Cottages ' (’i:arlollesr'ille. VA

Camp Carolina - Brerard. .\‘C

Camp Fritmlship » Palmyra. 111 J’

,5. Camp Horizons ' Harrlsorrlmrg. ill
Camp Merrie lt'oodt- - Sapphire. .\‘C

Camp Rim Rock -1'z=lloir$pring, W /I.

Careline Furnace Lutheran C amp ~ Fort Valley, 1'24

°”b

Camp Virginia Jarret - Blue Ridge. lit
Camp Walden ~ Denmark. .ll£ 0%

0 .\. Camp \l’:rrne « Lido Bmclr. .\’l' "
\\' s ” 1 Easter Sta! VA - Roarmle. lit
lnt'l Fuunrlatiozt «.\'r:ri.nr:u~-fate l.(Jl‘ll1l0lz‘S
Kerurrrl) rt t'2tmp.~: - Saqtlrl. Ct
The Southwestern Company - .\’aslm'tIe, T.\’
Y.)-{CA Camps Seatareri'Sea_gull *.it'tIp(1lt0€,:\"C
YMCA Camps Thunderhird ' Latte ti}-lie, SC
W&L Special Programs - Le.ringt0n_. VA
Roanoke City Parks ~ Roauolre, VA
Camp Paddy Run - liinclzester. til

Tﬂt

ESCAPE THE ICE AND SNOW!!!

Sponsored by

THE CAREER DEVELOPME.\'T
AND Pl,ACEM'Er\‘T OFFICE
WASHINGTON AND LEE U.\‘IVERSITY

I 

 

     

PAGE 7

 8.1994 W &LIFE

Off ‘"12 mark by Mark Parisi Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers
by Jeff MacNe11y r.l!r.r‘."‘5:\VS!l'£'W/z»"‘\\‘ till i 7

     
  

.m.cw.;.t..,........,s: Pluggers

      
     
         
      
  

REX N\ARK§
Hi6 TERRITORY

   
 
    

 

    
    
    
 
 
  
 
 
  

   

 

VIETNAM, wo0l76TocK, FREE LOVE
AND HENDRIX,’ (T wA-; A TLJlZNlN£-;
l70lNT IN MY LlFE... THEY CALLED
lT THE "ea/vimarz 0F Love?

<% ,- 1%  ~ ‘
~ = . To a plugger “politically correct" means
SKUNK PHILOSOPHY /OI   Wing *°°t*05“’ea“'**¥°”“5”e’““‘e“*

in public .

  

HEY. n’ WAS A PKOFOUND -rims
IN MY PEVELOFMENT, T 00... I CALL
IT THE ‘9uMMErz 0F PoTrY-TizAiNi~qf/

      
 

 

  

IT CHANGED
ME FOREVER.’

  
 

 
 

I

 
  

u-v-run-u An.-gnxm-v-n\_
lubunoMoaI5u-vur.lI.|rvc ,
\\ \_

__.#

 i

 L,

  

o mu.
on

. Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 Carry on
5 “I smell —-l"
, 9 Painter Frans
13 "I cannot
tell —"
14 Eminent
16 Egg on
Q7 Dawdle
19 Appeal
20 Remnant
21 Drum or mark

KEEWNG U? 
ill ‘WE N\\~lc‘='Y\Eém

    
     
    
          
     
  

Mo lF ANYONE
Aéké, Jllcr 4.t>‘<
we cm; OUR
CAMERA (RF-‘N

  

start
22 Lewdness
24 Did business
(with)
26 — time
7 More greasy
‘* Fresh, pure air
34 Place for a
mural
37 Navy title: abbr.
38 Former French

BY

NON ﬁﬂllﬂﬂ

ITH COLl7...l'M FREETHIMG OH WELL m AT
AND W ‘TONGUE l‘ll-l LEATH THINGTH

     

 

colony in
Canada IH I  TD   
39 Adams son 71
40 Dries   .
[2 Howard and Ely @1994 Tribune Me Services. lnc , -1
:g1N:;;:Wp$:f5m A" R9” me" Last week’s puzzle solved
46 Mild oath 7 Ocean: abbr.
47 Parties for men 8 Bank employee
only 9 At random
48 Dog house 10 Competent
50 Horatio —- 11 Eye amorously
52 Orbit 12 Remain
56 Damn 15 Fabric colorer
O9 Sentimental 18 Abominable
drivel snowman

61 Danger color 23 Gator's kin

62 Buy —— in a poke 25 Wasted time
63 Proclaiming 26 Siren

66 — Ruth 28 Ground cover
67 Pavarotti, e.g. 29 — Amin

58 French friend 31 Fragrance

 
 
 

' . HEY, M-lEFZE ARE ‘
vouz GLASSES?

       

   
 

   

 

   

69 Coaster 32 Columbus’ ship
0 Kin of umps 33 Orient
Care for 34 Army distaft
members ’§
DOWN 35 Blind as — ,§
1 Walked through 36.Horne of ., :.,»,z$9_‘Co,ll. subj.” g  .57 Gem 3.
. water   W  , song " 51 Midge 58 scan at _,  
92 Dress sn‘ép1e"’ 38 B — boy 53 Unlawful 59 Blunder 3}.
3 Ms Radner 41 Fishing bird activity 60 Possessive : ;
4 Conger ‘ 44 European 54 Russian ruler pronoun  ' .~7.h_,f_:.,,~..--
5 Forever — da capital 55 Nosed out 64 Comp. dir. ‘ _  ./'~_, W
Q Bellow Y /38 More piercing 56 Tiny amounts 65 House pet    ) / ,    E
2,  ./1’/A55‘-.- .- 

Apartment for Rent
4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, washer & dryer, some utilities included.
21 2 '1 f .O l 175 b d . .
/ m1 es west 0 town 11 y$ per e room Pocono Mountalns’

Inquire at Kelly’s Comer 463-5452 Pennsylvania. Excellent

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII.IIIIIIIIIIIII  
summer camp. Wanted: —
carin counselors. Must
like c ildren. Seekin people
. to teach mountain bi es, cooking, dance, video,
Work approxlmately 20 hrs-.136‘ Week drama, all land sports, waterfront, pools, ropes
Opportunity to earn $400 - $800 per month starting: course, climbing wall and more, Summer
immediately — College Students Welcome : S6aS0n2 6/ 21 through 8/19. Call 800-832-8228,
or stop by and see us at your summer job fair.

Camp Canadensis,

u  '4

Qedztcuozaxt
I

an   

/
Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes
Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

Breakfast Buffet
. Friday and Saturday Nights 11p.m.- 4 a.m.

    

Part—Time Help Wanted

 

   
 
  
 
 

 

C 11463-1676 '
Rt. 11 North Sund:639-2?4I;18: 2 pm. Open 24 Hours a E Stop by and see us on February 1'
F. L...
Ladies’ Shoes,
A    .    Clothing,
St I 5 5h '
E °"'~’W'?l L“!_,‘,'(*,i',fg“,,,f’gl"’"-‘I '5‘-W‘-” Accessories
463-9800 .
New Releases Semi—AnnuaI sale
Country- John Michael Montgomery Collin Raye, Boy Howdy
E Rock- Counting Crows, Alice in Chains, ZZ Top    -
Heavy Metal- Meat Puppets, Entombed, Prong   n’[Cr
R8lB- Domino, Father, Freddie Jackson, Cece Penniston   nd 
I1‘ CD’s — Cassettes — Cassingles
. 50% off.
Speclal Orders — $1 off cassettes,
E :52 off cos
~ . 23 N. l‘1ainSl. Lexington, VA
°"°“ ”‘°‘“'“‘“" ‘gjmmggoﬁa :1“ 5“ ‘°““'“ "“‘~ _ Mon. - Sal. I0 - 5:30 463-5956
" "J .5 - __l

 

-«-. - -.~.-. '. .- ~,-.-. -. -.-:-.1:-_-. -;-..-..-_.-.-.-.--\;

 

  

E’
E
E
i:

 
  
  
  
 

  

PAGE 8

Ellie ifting-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Live Drive Anyone?

Hey mom, I’m going out drinking with my friends tonight. Can
you or dad come get me?

Sorry dear, we’re just too busy. You’ll just have to wing it and
hope you find a ride. 8

Sounds like the most obnoxious parent on the planet, doesn’t it.
You also have to wonder how long it will be before that kid decides
to take a chance and try driving after having a few drinks.

Most people would be appalled if they heard an actual interac-
tion between a parent and child like the fictitious one above. But

. you would think it was less of a problem if you heard two college

students have a similar discussion. But, the effect is the same;
someone will go out drinking and because that person does not
have an assured sober driver they may take the chance of driving
themselves or getting in a car with another driverwho is not sober.
What is truly scary is that this is what we are doing to one another
right here at W&L.

Live Drive is in trouble. No one is volunteering. It once
operated every Friday and Saturday night and other big party
nights on request. Now Live Drive only operates on Saturday
nights. Seniors know Live Drive is something you. can take for
granted. Who needs to worry about how you’re going to get to
Zollman’s or how you’re getting back? Live Drive will take care
of it all. But we can’t just assume Live Drive will be there
anymore.

We have heard a lot of reasons for lack of Live Drive volunteers.
Students are just apathetic. They never posted any recruiting signs,
The fraternities do their own sober driving. Whatever the reasons
are, they shouldn’t matter. As a university community we need
Live Drive. It doesn’t matter if fraternities or sororities provide
their own sober drivers. Not everyone is comfortable asking a
fraternity or sorority ‘member for a ride, and besides, they only
provide sober drivers for their own members and guests. The need
for Live Drive still exists. It’s the lack of volunteers that are the

 problem.

So here’s your chance. We, just like most of the campus, took
Live Drive for granted. We will be the first to tell you none of us
have volunteered Live Drive. But, we would much rather take out
some time and volunteer than have to report a drunk driving
accident in any future edition of the Phi. So, we’re going to call
and volunteer. You should too. We’re only five people and won’t
make much of a difference without other volunteers.

Call Live Drive at 463-8947. There are no excuses.

Pavilion Renaissance?

Capital Planning Assistant Frank Parsons once said the casual
observer would not realize just how much went into the creation
of the Student Activities Pavilion, and he was right.

The Pavilion cost $677,000 to build and every year the student
body pays a portion of that debt, which will not be paid-off until
2003. Well, W&L is about to spend $47,000 more on the building.
Call it Pavilion Renaissance.

It seems the ﬂoor is bubbling and messing with the athletic

‘activity that takes place in the pavilion. It’s good W&L caresiso

‘ I ‘much’about-ath1etics;tliatiitéis‘willingitoreplaeea-floor th'at’s only

about a decade old." But $47,000? ‘ Honestly we don’t‘ ‘knew
enough about -floors to question whether the University is wasting
money or not, but that is a lot of money. When you walk on the
Pavilion ﬂoor it seems like just another gray ﬂoor. We assume the
next ﬂoor will look like a regular gray ﬂoor too. But we are told
it will be a better ﬂoor, and we believe it.

We have one request while the University is renovating the
Pavilion ﬂoor. Could they please renovate the acoustics of the
building too? After all, the Pavilion is supposed to be for both
athletic and social events. True, the acoustics are not as obvious
a bubbling ﬂoor, but students constantly complain about how bad
the sound is. Perhaps attendance at concerts and social events
would go up if the sound were better. Attending a concert in the
Pavilion is like visiting the Luray Caverns — you have to pay to
get in and things echo a lot. As a member of a band once told a Phi
staff member, “playing in the Pavilion is like playing in a tin can..”
After all, ﬂat metal surfaces tend to reﬂect sound and make sonic
diarrhea out of what would normally sound very pleasant. So, let’s
not end the Pavilion Renaissance at the ﬂoor. Fix the sound too.

Quote of the Week:

“Please do not put signs on box.”

—A sign on the soda cooler in the Co-op.

f'An Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

 Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

. Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation,Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

 Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi

._-* is otherwise independent.

‘ ~""Cerrter, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week 's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My

@112 iﬂing-tum iﬁlii

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor. . . .' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Hillary Olson

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

The Ring-mm Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at

comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-rum Phi

Letter‘: and other submissions must be invite rm orrioe, morn zoemite University 

Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

 

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28,

 
   

O

(,M>(r$TA
ZAPPEZ AND V00
cevys are’ TH!’

cops I KILL T3
PROVE I'M

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

We must preserve Roe v. Wade '

January 22 marked the 21st anniversary of Roe v.
Wade, perhaps one of the most controversial cases in
Supreme Court history. The decision has had an
impact on many fundamental aspects of American

‘ life, such as freedom of speech and privacy.

Before I discuss any of
the above, I would just like

to clear-up a pet peeve I
have with Pro-Lifers. The
appropriate title for those
who favor a woman’s right
to choose is Pro-Choice,
NOT Pro-Abortion. The use
of theterm Pro-Abortion
distorts what the Pro-
€hoi‘ée'ri‘lo‘vfeme‘nt is about.
Pro-Choicers can be those

against abortion personally, those who support it
unconditionally, or those who support it only in cer-
tain cases such as rape or incest; what all these people
have in common is the belief that a woman is the only
one who can decide what to do with her body.

Now that I have that off my chest, we can progress
to fundamental questions. One question is, of course,
who has jurisdiction, and to what extent, over a
woman’s body. Pro-Lifers say that the law has full
jurisdiction over a woman’s uterus. Pro-Choicers
would say no one has any jurisdiction over a woman’s
body. However, if we go a little further, Pro-
Lifers decide that theychave no responsibility to the
baby after it is born or to the mother who is forced to

carry it.

I have a few problems with this approach. First, it
is generally accepted in the medical profession that
proper nutrition, good emotional health of the mother,
and pre-natal care are necessary to produce healthy
babies. Often the people who seek abortions at free
clinics may not have access to information about
proper nutrition or to pre-natal care. As for emotional

health that is up in the air.

Imagine if you were a teenage girl and you had to
tell your parents you were pregnant. I don ’t think your

emotional state would be too great.

That is part of my second point: what happens to

 

The lower courts have
split on this question,
so obviously both sides
havesomevalidpoints.
I personally look at
these buffer zones as
similar to the ones
around polling places
during elections.
There is no cam-
paigning within a cer-
tain distance of the
building and the same
should be held true for
abortion clinics.

It might seem that

these mothers? The Pro-Lifers are certainly not look-
ing after them. Suppose the mother carries the baby to
term without proper nutrition or pre-natal care, the
baby is likely to be physically and/or emotionally
‘handicapped. Who is going to want to adopt these
babies? Certainly not the Pro-
Lifers. So these babies become
wards of the state without
homes, families, and for all in-
tents and purposes, a life. If any
Pro-Lifer can tell me how this
can be avoided, I would be glad
to listen to them. , , ,
. , Thenpthere ,is_the otheras; _.
pect of the abortion debateffree
speech."Pro-Lifer_'s' (and I real:
ize not all of you are part of
Operation Rescue) want to protest at abortion clinics.
This is fine if you don’t block people going into the
clinics and basically deprive them of their rights. The
Supreme Court in Madsen v. Women ’s Health Clinic
will decide the legality of buffer zones around clinics.

this column is a little irrelevant, considering the
anniversary was last week; however, abortion will be
in the news for a while longer. There is the decision
that must be reached in Madsen and in another case
detennining whether federal racketeering laws can
apply to clinic violence. There is also the FDA’s

cess to pre-natal care.

testing of RU 486, the French abortion pill, to
it can be legalized in the U.S. Finally, and pe
most importantly, abortion will be part of the h
care debate.
The health care debate will need to d
whether abortion will be covered under a h
plan or only in some cases, such as rape or i
will it be covered. There is also a questi
whether regulations or the national health car
will take supremacy over state laws. The healt .
debate will not yield a final answer on atsrtio
perhaps it will assist in answering some re
problems. These could include the availa
Qﬁbirth control; andwidespread access to
 Triataljcare.

0

Abortion was around long before Roe v. ll
During its history thousands of women died h .t
abortions illegally. Women still do today Te
ers who can’t bear to tell their parents the

pregnant have back-alley abortions to evade p
tal notification laws. Women who cannot affo
cross the state twice in a four day period so that

cc +—-——
The health care debate will not
yield a ﬁnal answer on abortion
but perhaps it will assist in answer-
ing some related problems. These
could include the availability of
birth control and widespread ac-

can obey the two or I
day waiting period
up having illegal c
tions and possibly d_
If Roe v. Wade
overturned, the nu
of women dying -w
skyrocket. Some pe
seem to think that if .4
tion is outlawed it
end; it won’t. rﬂwiii
ply become more da .
ous. Population A
International report
September that as n
as 200,000 women

each year as a result of illegal abortions, mo.
them in developing countries.

I want to close with one of my favorite q
which I believe could be applied to many m
Congress: “lf men could get pregnant, aboi
would be a sacrament” —— Florynce Kennedy.

Morality extends beyond office‘

I write this article to oppose an
opinion that seems all too common
among my peers: that the moral con-
duct of public officials should not con-

given, may do anything with the power
he has.

What is more important, the people
themselves will be not inclined to re-

 
 
   

cem us unless Spec! Such a
it has a “direct man, a_ndthe
effect”ontheir machinery
ability to per- Of g0V€fn-
form in office. melt! —
Thisatempting NICHOLAS L. which <16-
doctrine in the , Pendsonlhis
contextofcow- WADDY9 96 respect and
ardly relativ- the Obedi-
ism in which ence it gen-
we find our- Grates —
selves today, may break

but, for numerous reasons, which I
shall shortly give, it is an idea wholly
out of touch with political realities,
and, more importantly, one which can
only lead to the destruction of what-
ever public virtue exists in the
United States.

 First, the idea that an ofﬁcial’s per-
".??="sorraI conduct is irrelevant to his politi-

cal role is — apart from morality ——
factually absurd. In government, no
less than in civilized society, nothing
works outside of an atmosphere of trust.
The leaders of our government are ex-
pected to perform certain functions in
certain ways, and by accepting high
office they undertake to follow through
in this. If they lack integrity, then we
can never be sure that their work will
live up to our expectations. A man who
lies habitually, or who does not under-
stand the solemn trust that he has been

down in times of extreme stress. This
often happens in many Third World
countries, where the national leader-
ship is less admired (usuallyjustiﬁably
so) than it is here in the United
States. There can be no leadership with-
out trust.

Second, not only do corrupt prin-
ciples in the magistrate invite the col-
lapse of obedience and order, but they
also make inevitable an overall reduc-
tion in the moral soundness of society.
High officials, contrary to the notions
of many, are not merely functionaries
entrusted with the execution of a myriad
of practical tasks; they are also father-
figures, moral examples, and ambas-
sadors of the culture and nation they
claim to be a part of and to lead. In
Europe, recently, a government minis-
ter has become embroiled in a well-
publicized sex scandal, the result of his

having fathered an illegitimate child. *
The act in itself may or may not be
grounds for dismissal, but the situation
is complicated by the fact that the min-
ister in question has been an ardent
exponent of his party’s campaign in
support of “family values.” How can
such a campaign be respected by the
public if its proponents violate the very
principles they would have others ac-
cept? How can society respect itself, or
claim to have any integrity, when one
of its highest offices is held by such a
hypocrite? If a high official claims a
moral issue as important, then he surely
should be required to practice what he

preaches. but also
Thus we P _, judgment.
see that the --——-—-  --T proftiss
moral conduct agree; we
of an official - - - our leade
is only irrel- If“ mg?‘ "mew! ?l“""S bedecisivt
evantifmoral- (1 moral lSSll€ (IS impor- , bold in pi
"Y ‘I35 "0 tant, then he surely should ‘"3 3 V.‘5‘
place in gov- . . what is r
ernment. This be requlred to practlce Somgtir
is another what he preag-he5_ what is ri
tempting fall- not justaq
back position   ‘ion Ofnu
for today’s in- crunching

tellectual élite, but I believe it to be
false. All important questions before
the government (abortion, income se-
curity, and crime, just to name a few)
involve value judgments that have to
be made; it is pure folly to insist that the
government can be run without refer-
ence to moral principles. Men like

George Washington and Robert E.
it goes without saying, were no
respected for what they did, but al
who they were, for “the content of
characters.” And in an age. suc
ours, when the ability of institut
such as the church, to provide
answers has been greatly redt
moral leadership on a national
must come from somewhere. A
grettable as it may seem, that le'
ship will probably have to c&ne
politicians in Washington.
Edmund Burke stressed that it i
politician’s duty notjust to make a
able to the public his technical s

political calculation — sometim
involves making tough choices 0
emotional and moral plane. Whe .

leaders make such choices, we sh-

be able to trust them; if their heart
not in the right place to begin with,
the policies they enact probably
will be either.

 

  

O

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1994

OPINION .

_Trek to Miniature Graceland

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

3 How does one deﬁne the word “dis-
turbing?” I thought about this for a
while and decided the only way to ﬁnd
out the answer was to continue the
Dream Land World Tour and investi-
gate Miniature Graceland in Roanoke.

That’s right, Miniature Graceland.
in 1986, Kim and Don Epperly turned
the yard next to their home in
residential Roanoke into a shrine to
Elvis Presley.

Jon, Rich, Andy, and I arrived on
the scene at Miniature Graceland last
weekend. We knocked on the front
door and listened to the Elvis Presley
songs that were playing over a loud-
speaker outside until Mrs. Epperly,
dressed in a T-shirt that said “I Miss
Elvis” opened the door and greeted us.
She said that Elvis songs play continu-
ously in her yard seven days a week.
gm Sundays Elvis’ gospel songs

e played.)

Miniature Graceland has 10,000 .

visitors a year, according to Mrs.
Epperly. The complex includes a min-
iature version of Elvis’ Graceland
home, the house he was born in, his
boyhood church, the museum of Elvis’

rs, his father’s house, and most
oddly, a miniature of the Roanoke
Civic Center.

Apparently Elvis performed in the
Roanoke Civic Center three times, and
in the miniature Roanoke Civic Center
there is a miniature Elvis dressed in a
rﬂiniature jumpsuit. Mrs. Epperly says
the miniature Elvis’ clothes are changed
almost every day, weather permitting.
The brochure says the miniature Elvis

is “playing, as always, to a full house”
in the miniature civic center. He is
surrounded by miniature band
members, “The Sweet Inspirations,”
all of which look like miniature
Tom Hesposes.

The Elvis miniature looked suspi-
ciously like a Ken doll which had some
sort of sidebum transplant. This re-
minds me: all of
M i n i a t u r e
Graceland looked
suspiciously like
convened Barbie
Dream Houses. If
that is true, one has
to wonder what
the Epperlys are

songs. And let’s not forget about the
new airport.” ‘

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT E.
GRADUATE: “Sorry, we’re Wayne
Newton fans. Got anything with a lot of
flashing lights and neon? And what’s
that about an airport?”

Mrs. Epperly told us of her plans to
add a miniature airport to Miniature
Graceland soon.
Her brochure says
that Elvis did not
actually have an
airport, but he did
own three air-
planes: Hound
Dog I, Hound Dog
11, and the Lisa

doing with large Marie. She
numbers of pointed tothe min-
children’s toys. iature Lisa Marie,
NOT THAT which is currently
THERE IS ANY- suspended by wire
THING WRONG over the miniature
WITH KEN AND car museum. It is

BARBIE. Except
when, and here is
where I explain
what I mean by
“disturbing:” they
are publicly dis-
played in the yard.
What do these
peoples’ neighbors think?
trying to sell a house in
neighborhood:

MR. AND MRS. ROBERT E.
GRADUATE: We’re looking for a
ﬁrst home with three bedrooms, two
baths, and a large kitchen.

. REALESTATEAGENT: “Well,
I have a lovely house with all that, plus
a swimming pool and a view of a yard
full of Elvis artifacts and houses and
within earshot of 24-hour a day Elvis

Imagine
that

 

LETTERS

definitely in a
“holding pattern,”
waiting to land.
“Buckle your
seatbelts, we’re
headed for Mem-
phis,”thebrochure
says about the up-
coming airport.

Mrs. Epperly did not speciﬁcally
mention any plans to establish a land-
ing pad for alien spacecraft for her
Martian friends.

Mrs. Epperly also told us about the
mayor of Roanoke’s recent proclama-
tion of “Elvis Presley Days” in honor
of the King’s birthday. The mayor ap-
parently attended a recent candlelight
service at Miniature Graceland in honor
of Elvis’ birthday. Doesn’t the mayor

of Roanoke have anything better to do, i

like perhaps, ﬁx the city’s chronic lack
of interesting things to do for people
under age 60? Anyway, Mrs. Epperly
said the mayor visited Miniature
Graceland even before he was elected,
so we can pretty much disregard the
theory that showing up was a cynical
attempt to gain popularity among the
inﬂuential Fans of Elvis voting group.

Andy asked Mrs. Epperly her opin-
ion on the whole Elvis U.S. postage
stamp controversy, and she really had
no preference between the fat or the
thin Elvis design. She also made
CLEAR to all of us that she believed
Elvis was not alive now. She said that
no member of the Presley family had
visited Miniature Graceland but
Graceland (I guess, more speciﬁcally,
“The Mother Graceland,” in Memphis)
was aware of its existence. Point of
Information: Mrs. Epperly has been to
the real Graceland 14 times.

It is once again time to postulate a
new theory, and here it is: Mr. and Mrs.
Epperly can make a lot of money by
licensing a chain of Miniature
Graceland franchises, sort of like
McDonald’s franchises. l’Il bet the city
of Lexington could make a killing for
installing a Miniature Graceland at the
city limits near the Virginia Horse
Center. Then a miniature Elvis could
buy miniature horses to give to people,
instead of giving Cadillacs. Then the
city could tax horses, instead of cars!

I’m looking for new destinations
for the Dream Land World Tour; if you
know of an unusual (or even better,
disturbing) place nearby I can investi-
gate, please call me at Phi World Head-
quarters at 462-4060. If you would like
to visit Miniature Graceland, call (703)
342-6025 for more infonnation.

A fifth sorority would help the system

To the editor:

I was appalled by the recent articles in the Phi and
Tie Trident on sorority Rush. It is unfortunate that Pi
Phi did not fulﬁll their quote; however, this indicates
to me that perhaps another sorority is needed.

There is a large number of W&L women who were

. released last year and this year. A number dropped
out, some did indeed“ fall through the cracks,” but the
majority were simply rejected from further consider-
aﬁon. The numbers which were quoted in The Trident
should reveal that another sorority is needed. If 163
women are rushing, with an acceptance of 108, that
leaves over 50 women in the cold. A ﬁfth sorority‘
would allow these women to join a sorority, even
‘though some will inevitably be released or will decide

to drop out.

gThese women now have the pleasure of watching
their friends and hall-mates being part of something
which they are not. I am uninfonned as to the condi-
tion of the freshman dorms this year, as I no longer

live there. However, if the door decorations which are
used this year are similar to the ones used last year, I
shudder at the lack of tact and thought that went into

making them.

_ must feel.

fulﬁll their quota.

I cannot describe how it felt last year to walk down
the halls to go to classes or see a friend and see that
while sororities loved a number of my friends, they
were indifferent to myself. If decorations are needed
to identify pledges or to make them feel special, ﬁne.
However, there should be some consideration of
women who are denied this attention and how they

, I am not bitter, about being released two years”,
“ruhning; I regretonly the wasted time, as Rush does ’
takeup a lot of time. I am appalled to see that more
women must be rejected because one sorority cannot

More freshmen and sophomores will have to go
A through Rush, thinking how wonderful it will be to
meet upperclass girls, the standard line fed out by Rho

Chis. They little realize that they will be attending
the longest, most uninteresting most important cock-
tail party of their life at W&L.

It is not the end of the world when you are

rejected from further consideration because your
clothes were wrong, or you didn’t meet enough
women, or because you weren’t making scintillat-
ing conversation because you already said your
name and where you were from 50 times to 50 girls.
It just feels like that, especially when you are
faced with your friends who were accepted. One
goes through Rush in order to get intoa sorority, .
..~..a.f.t.r.~*..r.-’..::.1l’..:.»...._.. .. .  ..   . , .
Upper-‘class women will know theirpledge class I
very well, but they probably won’t remember all the ‘
girls who went through Rush. Girls who are re-

leased can meet upper-class women through a vari-

ety of means. Rush is not one of them.

Susanna Craib—Cox

AIDS Project members disagree with Kucera

Tgthe editor:

As members of the Washington
and Lee University AIDS Education
Project we are bothered by the com-
ments of C.F. Kucera in the Jan. 21
edition of The Ring-tum Phi criticiz-
in the activities held in commemora-
ti ' of World AIDS Day. We began
this effort in an attempt to provide the
W&L community with critical infor-
mation for its health and future, as
well as to express our support and
compassion for members of the uni-
versity who have been personally af-
feaed by AIDS and HIV. Our activi-
ties on World AIDS Day were a ful-

ﬁllment of that mission.

Mr. Kucera questions our motives
for the Red Ribbon Drive and the Candle-
light Vigil held outside the Leybum Li-
brary. We question his understanding of
how deeply AIDS has affected this com-
munity. Many of the people involved
with the days activities, everything from
setting up displays and hanging posters
to wearing a ribbon and lighting acandle,
have lost people close to them at the
hands of this syndrome.

Equally important was the involve-
ment of those who have yet to be so
closely affected. Anyone on the campus
could participate in these reminders be-

cause AIDS is an issue that reaches all
of us. Rather than being an occasion
for “self-congratulation,” as Mr.
Kucera asserts, these activities served
as an excellent opportunity for the
AIDS project to commemorate and
inform. We achieved this through time
volunteered by students, and at mini-
mal cost (less than $25).

We believe that it was inappropri-
ate for Mr. Kucera to make assump-
tions concerning our personal motives
and group objectives, especially
since he has made no outward
attempt to gather information about
the AIDS Project.

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

9

Katherine Sawyer,‘ ’97, Ellsworth,
Me. — “I‘d like to watch the game but

Iiiave too much work to do.”

Andy Holden, ’96, Greenville, S.C.
— “Wishing somebody other than the

Bills and the Cowboys were in it.”

Jennifer “Goose” Garrigus, ’95,
Atlanta, Ga. — “Going to ‘The Dat-

an

ing Game .

TALKBACK

 

We encourage Mr. Kucera and other
concerned members of the community
to attend our meetings or to approach
any of us to Ieam more about our
efforts or to present an alternative point
of view.

Sincerely,

Bevan Owens
Kathy Savory

Kim Stoner

Dorian Lucas
Meriwether Nichols
Pat McDermott
Nova Clarke

Karly Jennings

Steph Cobrin, ’96, Wayne, Pa. — .
“Supporting Goose at ‘The Dating Mass.—“Watchingfigure skating. I
hate both of the teams.”

9”

Game .

 

Seniors

You can still sign up for senior
pictures for the Calyx! Sign-up
sheets are in front of Carol Calkins
ofﬁce in the University Center. Any
questions? Call the Calyx ofﬁce at
462-4046.

Pizza

Women’s Forum has resched-
uled its second annual post-rush
pizza party for Monday, Jan. 31 at
5:30 p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center. All are invited for free pizza
and movies.

Poetry

This week’s Women’s Forum
meeting will feature poetry read-
ings from W&L students Elise
Hagensen, Ashlie Kauffman, and
Lyrae Van Clief. Refreshments will
be served. The meeting will be held
on Sunday, Jan. 30 at 6:30 p.m. in
the Arlington Women’s Center. I

MLK

There will be a Martin Luther
King, Jr. Celebration sponsored by
the Minority Student Association at
the First Baptist Church in Lexing-
ton on Feb. 1, 1994 at 8 p.m.

Lost

Lost: Politics 103 Statistics Text
and Burgandy Ladies Cross pen. If
found, please call Christine at 462-
4106.

8921 for information on availability
of applications. Deadlines for sub-

Opportunities Day on Tuesday, Feb.

University Center.

women students who are recovering
from sexual assault, dating violence
orchildhoodabusewillmeetweekly.
Call the Counseling Service at ext.
8590 or the University Health Ser-
vice at ext. 8401 for time and place.
If you have additional questions
contact Dr. Schroer-Lamont at ext.
8750.

PAGE 9

JMU

James Madison University an-
nounces the opening of recruitment
for the Fall 1994 and Spring 1995
International Internship positions.
Interested students may request in-
formation directly from Judy Cohen,
Program Coordinator, at Paul Street
House, James Madison University,
Harrisonburg, VA 22807, phone
(703)568-6979, or fax (703) 568-
3310. The deadline for applications
for both semesters is March 14.

Leaders

Sponsors of a national leader-
ship conference to be held in Wash-
ington, D.C. are seeking outstand-
ing women to participate in the
1994 “Women as Leaders” program.
Women students may call (800) 486-

mitting applications is February 15.

J obs

Meet employers at the Summer

1, from 11 a.m. until 3 pm in the

Support

A‘ counseling/support group for

Student Body Notices

1) A member of the Student Body has been found guilty of a violation
of the Honor System in that the student copied the work of a classmate,
without that classmate’s permission or knowledge, and submitted that

work as his own.

,  .2) The.Stude.nt.ConductCommittee imposed-sanct.ions.,on four indi-
 jviduals who did not complete the community service hours "imposed on

them last semester.

A) Due to uncompromising obstacles which hindered her ability to
ﬁnish her hours and her extreme effort to complete her sentence, a
freshman woman was given three weeks to complete her remaining

service hours.

B) A freshman male was given an additional 15 hours of community

service to be completed by April 1.

C) A freshman male was given an additional 10 hours of community

service to be completed by April 1.

D) Asenior male was given an additional 15 hours of community
service to be completed by the end ofthe term.

3) A senior male was found in violation of university standards for
indecent exposure at a fraternity party. The Student Conduct Committee
placed conduct probation on this individual, after considering the satisfac-
tory sanctions imposed on him by his fraternity, including removal from
ofﬁce and suspension from the fraternity.

4) A sophomore male was found in violation of university standards for
making obscene and threatening phone calls to a freshman male. The
Student Conduct Committee imposed the following:

1) 20 hours of community service

2) a letter of apology to all parties involved.

3) conduct probation

How do you intend to spend Super Bowl Sunday?

 

Willie Polaskl, ’96, West Groton,

Robert Hull, ’96, Lexington, Va. —
“l‘ll probably be at the D-Hall enjoy-
ing the fantastic Super Bowl Taco
Bar.”

 

   
 

E PAGE 10, , The Ring-tum Phi, January 23, 15:94
Men’s basketball falls Men lose twice

all, we were expecting to do a little

drained a three—point shot with just under 10 minutes left, giving the Generals a By STEPHEN WILUARD bit better.” On the upcoming meet,
BY K37“ GRANT 1. 56-54 lead. The Tigers, though, turned loose a 10-4 run of their own to regain the Phi AS55513“! SPOTS Editor this weekend, Sears said, ‘‘l mini?
Phi Staff Writer lead for good. we’ll be alright. I’d say we’ll prob-
The biggest factor in the Generals’ loss was the discrepancy in foul-shooting Travelling can be a harrowing ably win the meet.”

Following a disheartening Warner Center loss to Hampden-Sydney Wednes- attempts. Hampden-Sydney attempted 29 free throws for the game, including 23 thing, especially when you’re a According to Sears, the season
day, the Washington and Lee men’s basketball team finds itself facing a big test in the second half, and made 25 of them. The Generals were six-for-nine for the W&L swimmer and the teams you has been a difficult one. ‘‘I think

Saturday versus Guilford College. game from the foul line, thus nullifying their .579 to .431 field-goal percentage are to face are Emory and Johns it’s been a difficult season so far
“This one is very important,” said junior Mark Connelly. “lt’ll be a key game advantage. Hopkins. The Generals had an ex— because our numbers have gone,
in the conference standings.” W&L even out-rebounded the Tigers 37-29, but they could not overcome the ceptional weekend of performances down, but the people who havé
The Quakers defeated the Generals in early December, 66-58, a loss that then Tigers’ free throw edge and their own 31 turnovers. but could not overtake Emory or stuck with it will have a great end
gave W&L a 1-5 overall record. The Generals have gone 6-5 since that loss and Sophomore Cam Dyer once again turned in the Generals’ top offensive JHU. of the year,” said Sears. Remillard
are within a game of Guilford in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference performance with a team—high 18 points (8-of-16 shooting) and six rebounds. Despite the losses, Coach alsosaid ofhis swimmers, “They’re
standings. . Dyer has averaged 18 points over the last six games and has upped his team— Remillard called the meet “one of a pretty tough, determined lot.”
“it’s definitely a game we can win ifwe play the way we’re capable of,” said leading scoring average to 15.3. the best swim meets we’ve had in a ' Following the Franklin and
Connelly, who had a team—high eight rebounds in the last contest with Guilford. Newton (13 points, seven assists), sophomore Derek Carter (12 points, eight few years.” The Generals, like their Marshall meet, the generals have a
W&L (7-10, 4-7 ODAC) has seven conference games remaining and appears rebounds), and Connelly also reached double-ﬁgures versus Hampden-Sydney. female counterparts, set numerous hard meet against Mary Washing!
to hold a good chance of qualifying for the ODAC Tournament for the first time Dyer, who averaged nine points—per—game as a freshman, scored a career-high personal, season, and even a few ton at Mary Washington,
in three years. A win Saturday against the team immediately ahead of the 24 on Sunday in the Generals’ 86-67 rout of Catholic University and added a lifetime bests in the meet.
Generals could go a long way toward reaching that goal. dozen in Monday night’s ODAC win at Emory and Henry, an important The top performers for the W&L
ln Wednesday’s 85-77 loss, the Generals showed yet again how much they conference win and their second road ODAC victory this season. squad were Frank Braden, Nathan

have progressed this season. Hampden-Sydney had clobbered the Generals in The Generals led Emory and Henry by 12 at half-time and fought off astrong Hottle, Craig sears, and David
their last meeting, out-rebounding W&L 50-26 and outscoring them 90-48. The second half charge by the Wasps for the 76-72 win.,Coffman connected on a Stillman. Braden won the 200-
eight-point defeat Wednesday matched the most W&L has been outscored since three-pointer with seven seconds left~to break a 72-all tie, then iced the game with freestyle in a season best time.

 

that first Hampden-Sydney game. a free-throw with two seconds to go, giving W&L its first sweep of Emory and Hottle, Sears, and Stillman all took
The Generals trailed just 37-32 at half-time at the Warner Center, but had Henry in five season. second place finishes.
committed an alarming 16turnoversthrough 20 minutes ofplay.The Tigers 5’5” Coffman (8.2 scoring average) matched Dyer and freshman Chris Couzen Next week’s meet against
point-guard Tee Jennings did most of the damage, shooting six-of-six for 13 with 12 points, while senior Robert Miggins scored 16 and grabbed eight Franklin and Marshallwillbeatough
points in the first half, most coming off steals in the W&L backcourt. Although rebounds. one for the Generals, and one where
his second-half scoring was limited to two points, his game-high eight steals (two ln the victories over Catholic and the Wasps, W&L totaled an 86-46 rebound— there is some pride at stake. The
more than W&L as a team) was a large factor in the Tiger win. The 125-pound ing edge. Through their 6-5 stretch, the Generals have lifted their rebounding Generals barely beat F&M last year
junior repeatedly harassed W&L guards Matt Newton, Jon Coffman, and Tyler average to that of their opponents, 34-per-game. Connelly says that is due largely accordingto coach Remillard. Also,
Dnva1]_ . to the team’s overall turn-around in attitude. a win this weekend would mark
Hampden-Sydney (12-2, 7-1 ODAC) appeared to be pulling away courtesy of “The last two years seemed like loss after loss,” Said “W l““l0T> Who Pulled three straight years (since Novem-
their pressure-defense in the second half as they opened up a 48-39 lead. down 13 rebounds versus Catholic. “This yeaf, We expect to “’i“- We d0n’t g0 ber of 1991) since the men’s swim-
However, Connelly keyed an 8-0 run that brought the Generals back within one onto the court just trying not to lose. We’re much more aggressive.” mers have lost Cy Twombly pool.
point. Connelly scored six in that stretch and would finish with 11 for the game, Following Saturday’s meeting with Guilford, W&L’s next contest will be a Sophomore Craig Sears ex-
along with seven rebounds, road trip to Virginia Wesleyan, one of the Generals’ three ODAC victims. They pressed some disappointment with
The Tigers clungtoasmall lead until W&Lsophomore Coffman (eight points) then host Eastern Mennonite and Lynchburg before playing exclusively on the the Chapel Hill performance, ‘‘Over- , ‘-

road for the Washington Holiday.

Cjllxe January /VV\aT}O1" General “

will loe tteatm-ea in

vxexli weelegs issue.

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination.
Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only.

Within walking distance from campus.
Call 463-3835.

 

 

For Sale: Brother Word Processor
Brand New and Price Negotiable ,
Call 462-4869 '

Q  

 Sat.-7¢c'cé7m.e’¢«&

.......“”“.‘fZf,.... few M - $1 em
9
V V

W&L Art

We have three

R. E. Lee

  - 99
Signatures: Two are War Date.  In wlth the New .‘

W&L Copperplate, hand-co1ored - ~: * S   

W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art  ‘ ' '
Sculpture by Ron Tunison . ”   % Off all regularly

Mary and George Washington pieces " -, priced Basketball Shoes
20% off all Baseball/
Softball Shoes ,_

 [I] U  3, East Washin on Street 9 , l. in i. A
(7e5‘§.,’,‘%,‘§,§‘;6‘f§34 4450   First Team Sports
B“  Open Monday - Saturday   W. N€lSOIl St.
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

x... _

      
       
       
        

Superbowl '
S ecial

2 Large Cheese Pizzas
for $9. 99

afczzz

Group Take-out Dinners —
You can serve your own dinner,
complete with Salad, Garlic Bread &
Dessert. You can feed a group of your
friends for as low as $5.00 a person. .
Call us at least 24 hours in advance,

N and see what we can do foryou.

L\A§_O.A....- A .

 
  
 

ck J;
COUNSELORS:Camp Wayne‘ for Girls EXTRA-INCOME NOW! - -
brother/sister camp in Northeastern Pennsylvania. l::q°\:E'’L'Ei:l=?E£;FEm: " $600 ' momyweek Summer Jobs at Washlngton and Lee

International Inc.

June 23 through August 21, 1994. HAVE 'I‘HE was com um Ave."

Brooklvn. New York 11230

MOST MEMORABLE SUMMER or YOUR WHEN You Rm - Counselors for Summer Scholars June 29 - July 31, 1994
LIFE!GREAT OPPORTUNITY-F OR GROWTH  K . . 0
IN PERSONAL, PROFESSIONALAND   ! 0 Summer Scholars is a four-week program for 100 rising high school senoirs.
PARENTING SKILLS_ Positions indude,TenniS, Swim  B R Eachcounselor serves as a resident advisor for 10 students in Graham-Lees
(w.s.1. preferred), Waterskiing, Sailing, Basketball, GA" HAVE AN d°mm°ry'
Volleyball, Softb 11, S , G ti , . . . . T ,
D,,,,ce/Chee,,ead,ng, A:mb,;'s°’°,°,:a,,fa':';',‘:,Spe: Guitar, ENTIRE” - Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 13 - August 2'
Nature/Camping,B tik,Sc l tu C ’ ,P ' tin , 1-

silkscreen, Drawing, Vi:e:g,.?hyfl1::::sgm::y, g  The OfflC€ of Special Programs employs 4 W&L students to serve as

l ' hosts/hostesses for a, wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni

Self-Defense, Other staff‘: Group Leaders, General, Nurses,
Driver/Video or Photo (21+).

On campus interviews
Ihesday, February 1, 1994. ll n.m.-3p.m. in
the University Center. If you need more
Information, call 1-800-756-CAMP, 516-889-3217

Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities
management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation.

Application deadline, February 28, 1993.

 

For further information, please contact Office of the Special Programs, Howard,

 

' ‘ Alcohol quickly affects }'OllI'_ll1(lgli1€l1l, HOUSC 
or wnte . ~_ .. .1 balance. and coortlination. Don"t ’ N
12 Allevard St., Lido Beach, NY 11561. <l““k W‘ W‘-91‘3'011"l351
drink might be _\'Olll' last tliink
. I N

 

 

   
  
   
  
   
   
    
     
      
  
 
 
 
  
   

The Ring-tum Phi, January 28, 1994 SPORTS p ‘ PAEE 11

     
  
  

     
 

 
 
  
 
  
   

 

   
  

  1 GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
- Standings as of 01/25/94
97 A - Leading Scorers - Leading Scorers
Player Pts P p] pt p

A ‘ p . ‘ . ‘ _ _ ‘ Cam DY" . 214  Viziéirliia Yoerg 1081 

A A ‘ Mal} N€Wt0n 134 ' 8-9 Sandra Holmes 97 8.8

 ~”  -‘   % .. v_ V §3hr1(s:Cf(f>uzen   ﬁaren Stutzfmann  7.4

» " .~ .   '  on o man - icky Ma ield 7.1

REDUCED PRICES V‘   - ~ . ‘ . .. _ Il\)4erekkCCarter"   Sarah Asc enbach 7 7.0

' ' ' ET 011116 - Am V 26 5.2

 Robert Miggiris 107 7.1  T‘;§}...,.,  :3

tacy Williams .9

R0 A ' Allison Hull 32 2.9

Leading Rebounders Leading Rebounders
'-3- 1811.%.m11
Player Reb Av P] R b A

PURCHASE Robert Miggins 90 6.1% Saziiiicrrzi Holmes 738 6.v6g

Cam D 6! 76 5-4 Virginia Yoerg 60 5.5

. Derek arter 69 4.9 Mary Tankard 54 
gdﬁizk gonnelly 3‘; 3-? Eicky g/Iayﬁeld 53 4.8

e ‘ US 0112?-n - aren tutzmann 7 3.4

'   . 1. ’  Jon Coffman 31 2.1 Anison Hun 33 3_()

" “ Matt Newton 27 1.8 Stacy Williams 24 2.7

- N.
\‘*t. Am v t 19 3.8
U.S.D.A. CHOICE ,  5 ’ °g
 H a  Free-throw Standings Free-throw Standings
LIMIT 1 WITH

ApDmoNAL Player Ft/Fta Avg Player Ft/Fta Avg

PURCHASE Derek Carter 25/27 .926 Stacy Williams 5/7 .714

{an Ccgfmann  .229 Virginia Yoerg 27/40 .675

- °°--°°°°°l.-B° ' C133; Cgﬂlzfny ‘ 33i49 I673 €aii!zi’hY\0s%:tlienbach gig I236

,  _ ,, Robert Miggins 35/50 .700 Sandra Holmes 19/32 .594

 ,..  ~ 2 .1  .- LOW PRICES Cam Byer 37/£9 .627 Karen Stutzmann 15/26 .577

'   '-,    Matt ewton 1 1 .608 Nicky Ma field 18/39 .462

._.  ;.__- ,-......"".  ~—  :.-» S|lREﬂ‘iG‘|'EE£llPLE 5/ 00 Mary Tan ard 9/20 .450

 “-'    1   ............ ..EACH ' .
 ' '5  -   ‘ CoA'ﬂ|'°0"|'iN|A GREEN 2/ 
a A 9 .   ......... ..BUNCHC
 3 _       FRESH PO|l1'ABEl.l.A 219
,  .  _ MLl5HRO°M5.....o oz. PKG. Wrestling
 I‘ V  n A FRESH  ‘ Records
_. " .. E " I‘ _ ' -  . . . . . . . . . . . 16 OZ. I washington and Lee
 \  ,  Player Record Wt. T R rd
   ' _ . _ . , . __ g_ Adam Branson 8-6 118, 126 “Tr 9312;“
2   as  "  Anthony Raﬂa 3-2 126 _ (“P““‘° 0' / / )
F - 1  ‘ " ‘ ‘   13' Sh 1 8-4 134,126 .
' “‘ ~*='~’  R26 del(r3l?ik 1-6 134 W’°5‘““,8 . . 3'2
- Adam Williams 8-6 142 W°‘“°“ 5 5W““"‘"‘ ‘ 4'3
1 Women’s Basketbal 7-6
I Cary Hansel 1-5 142 ,
Steve Tye 6-7 igo _. 6  . 55130
1 ,  . 3.: . Owen Smith 4-9 1 8  . _   1 r - = .  w .'w_ _. ,
Lea Abercrombie 4-6 167 ’ _ ‘ "
Cole Van ice 1 -6 1 0
’ BUNCH
R”   Conn Loogey 8-7 137 i 8 Overau L 22-24
:    GREAT VALUE -

SELECTED VARIETIES °'“ c°"E °R

  OCEAN smv JUICE   COKE

    

‘ -«ewe-W*.°~ea1..
‘Y 3{.eFFicIeN‘l‘ uguﬁusl
‘.3 M“_.;,..: tons 0F sut.§w_

The

 

       
 

     

     

 
    

 

 
 

_  Point of View 
8 2 HR’ Restaurant "§$“3'3§:sd3:5iYu:i$§'

64 01- 6 “‘$Z.L‘:fEf§§;‘.‘1‘3'.i°‘*

“ Restaurant plus light lounge menu 
V Open 4 p.m. until closing "1 ’
  1 1   T1;tWE|:‘K|-YSPECIAL $2 17 I (1. .th 9
. 0 an (IS a lI’ll’l€7' Wl

Buy on; 55.5 oz, 3A5 BUY ONE 16 oz. ANY 3’ P     .
STYLE MEAT OR BEEF student I.D. EXCELLENT

EAGLE RIPPLES BA“ PARK 7 E’“§f‘§I?.f..‘3£"§§f?ZZi. .

  5 Route 60  f;t;1;t7of Days Inn 51'.‘1‘$...§..s:::£E;mw.|qc‘ ....y W...

Aup an on; 3“; 0   - 1   .........y...°.'$3Z."y'.‘;?.:‘1"1'z‘g.o
. AND on 0111 16 oz. LIKE 11:11 k:,mIi%Rhf8¥E . .
A A ":,,°,,,,,*f,‘_:f;,, Sm .,,.f;’,'‘ 1994 Miss All-American
a.;"1:-.';:1.*.11‘:;."8:::::. Teen D-_C, Pageant-
 W& Come and _]O1n the fun and

     
     

 
       

  

  
   
  

    
 
  
  

 

HARRISLTEETER... Low PRICES ALL AY, EVERY DAY Kg’,;Saf’:e§;{3;g;,Fg'1*};“* excitement;
  "7 “ENC” A J““‘* 15" 8 mi“ f’°“‘ W“ a e. You ma 5 have the chance to
RE$|DENl"$ 0101:: 00 ONION 2/  g . $5003 ,, h, 1,.
: 2 FREE TRIPS AND MONEY" ' W111‘ an Sc 0 ars [P
’ QDA 2 ‘""‘ / DIP 3 °Z' " money a 14K gold crown ring -
tions wanted to promote the Hottesi ’ . .
e For more information call
 A‘  32 OZ.   1° 02- Seasonal employment ~
available as a whitewater A _  
. E|_Ec1'Ep vAR|EnE5 IN THE DELI-BAKERY-SLICED TO ORDER raft guide in W.Va. .

bath, $800/mo. Available Teens between 14 and 19 years of
ELECTED VARIETIES
Individuals and Student Organiza-
ELECTED VARIETIES A SELECTED VARIETIES S'’’‘"‘.‘ B.’‘’'‘‘'‘ ”°"‘“““‘f“" °‘*" "‘
um“ FARMS  SUNSHINE 2/300   "1-‘::;.:,L:“$f;;,:.?';;fzo":§‘.“ 1   1-800-887-7008
0 .—__ "__'——"‘"_
. ILLETTE SERIES  EIIIRGMINIA BAKED  E"P°"°“°°“°"°‘l“i“"‘- Four 3-bedroom apartments with
LB.

    
 

 

1’ RODUCTS 2.25-9 oz. ri:’I1ilrS1't<:i31fC1II9’RIezilIi:i’)iIiis,tl2]i;i<‘i.e washer/dryer, dishwasher; within
‘ , . C?"“‘°‘ N°""' A"‘°"°“" walking distance of WSLL.
Prices Effective Through February 1, 1994 R’; 55% ‘§'§'5.'.’° For information, can 453-7690

     

P"“8:./‘wS£S.E§s:;‘1 ..Vlt?§‘t?fiE’,‘il;.’.%i’%5‘J.§’.1?1?eI."t’4".3i’."Jéif #:6521122? 261331; 18.35?-1126198.. s.....,...5*°'“ 1-80°-95°-2585 EOE

 

     

  

Last Week:

WBB—-won vs. Sweet Briar, Baldwin
MBB-—Hampden-Sydney 88, W&L 75
Wrest—Third in W&L Invitational

Swim—M&W lose to Emory, Hopkins

PAGE 12

Versity of ‘Portland 21 it
her'relative~innoce_ .  .
Yes, she. may ghav‘
known that her ex-hush _
was planning this=*l1'0:fror‘ " A
‘of a'botcl1ed‘assa_uj1t."  ’=
No, Tonya Harding-; '
not a -debutante; I
(In fact, she has_sor_ne‘ I
'_deep-rooted prob
' ’ sternmingfrom a
‘ fami1y,life.)f,  ,
But I refuseft ’
’ A that she had aahand in
— ‘ting'agai,iist-tier _
vtor.jf  J‘
 .‘Il-must.-adrnit_
 I 'my‘7husban‘d told‘
 his p1atis’.t.oF‘be
I : °0mP¥itit9f,  5W
havet0Id.... ‘P10’
you? Thisisa»
claimed to lo
beensleepingwit
eral years. It kinda
spires loyalty. ,
My legal source
form,’ me that you are,
legally required to incritm
nate your spouse in a.couit'; 
oflaw. .0, .
So, how dQ»1',.knowtha ;
she did not want...I§Ia‘n’cI '0
Kerrigan bruised and I
ing in Detroit? . 
Becauseeveryone
_ hasbeen quotjiedi in
I media as;l<;nowingvHa‘r

 

  
  
 

 

   
    
  
   
    
    
  
    
  
   
  
   
 
    
    
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
  

S

(I112 Bing-mm ilﬂhi

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

D

This Week:

MBB—Guilford 01/29

WBB—at Davidson 01/29

Wrest—at Gallaudet Valley 01/29
Swim—Franklin & Marshall 01/30 9

JANUARY 28, 1994

Wrestlers third at invitational’

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Wrestling is the arch-typical
individual sport. A team’s suc-
cess depends upon how each in-
dividual performs.

Last weekend, the Generals
faced ﬁve other teams in the
Washington and Lee Invitational
and wound up third.

Despite weather conditions
that prevented Haverford and

LaSalle from making it to Lex-
ington, the tournament included
six squads. The Generals had
two individual champions for the
first time since 1989.

Junior Eric Shriley won his
eighth-straight match in the 126-
class and sophomore Anthony
Raﬂa won the 134-pound title.

“We were pleasantly surprised
to have two champions,” said
head coach Gary Franke.

Eric Shirley was also pleased.
“That’s the best we’ve done

       

since l’ve been here,” he said.

Rafla’s victory was espe-
cially surprising, considering he
was originally not designated as
a starter.

To win the title he pinned
both of the top two seeds, and his
second pin came just 58 seconds
into the match.

The tragic fact, as far as the
Generals were concerned, was
that Raﬂa’s championship did
not net the team any points. Start-
ers must be declared in order to

score points, and Raﬂa was not
designated in time.

The championships were not
the only important matches of the
tournament, according to Franke.

“In a tournament like that, all
places are important for points,”
said Franke.

Steve Tye and Cole Van Nice
turned in second-place finishes
in the tournament. Adam Branson
and Colin Looney placed third in
the tournament for the Generals.

Eric Shirley started off the year

Senior Karen Stutzmann jukes her opponent in a contest at Doremus Gymnasium. The Washington and Lee University women’s
basketball team, with two wins over Sweet Briar and Mary Baldwin, have brought their record to 7-6.

with losses in his first four
matches, but has rebounded af-
ter moving down from 134 to
126 pounds.

“I really didn’t have the time
to cut wait during the fall,”
Shirley said.

Shirley has rebounded by put-
tingtogetheraneight-matchwin-
ning streak.

The next challenge for the
Generals comes this weekend in
a quadrangular against York,
Gallaudet, and Gettysburg.

  

1p oto

 

Women head toward win column

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

New sports often do not get
the recognition that they deserve.
Often they are less than competi-
tive against more established
competitors.

In the case of the Washington
and Lee women’s basketball
team, however, this stereotype

ﬂies out the window.

The W&L women have
opened the year with a 7-6 record,
including wins in their last two
games against Mary Baldwin and
Sweet Briar.

In the Sweet Briar game on
Wednesday, the Generals held
the Vixens to 22 points on 22.6%
shooting from the ﬁeld.

The Generals did not fair much
better, shooting under 30% from

the ﬁeld themselves. However,
Washington and Lee forced 53
turnovers and out rebounded the
Vixens 51-37.

W&L placed three scorers in
double figures. Freshman Vir-
ginia Yoerg, the Generals lead-
ing scorer for the year, had 20
while Sandra Holmes and Nicky
Mayﬁeld contributed 12 and 10
respectively.

Yoerg was pleased with the

team}s performance thus far this
season.

“The season has been going
ﬁne,” said Yoerg.

The freshman has scored 20
points for the second consecutive
game against Sweetbriar.

Yoerg voiced respect for her
teammates.

“We don’t have the numbers
in terms of players, but we make
up for it with heart, and by work-

ing hard,” she said.

The next opponent in line for
the Generals is Davidson on Sat-
urday.

W&L could put themselves
two games over .500 for the year

* with a victory against the Wild-

cats of Davidson, which would
be quite an accomplishment for
a first year varsity sport.

Phi staffwriterBill Rust con-
tributed to this story.

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

The Superslaughter is upon
us yet again. To further hype
the hype, the Dallas Cowboys
and Buffalo Bills are playing a
rematch of last year’s torment-
ing 55-17 rout. My dream has
almost been realized: the Bills
are on the verge of immortality.

There is a catch point. In
recent memory (and with
Superslaughters, recent
memory goes back to the last
American Football Conference
victory; OK, so maybe not quite
that far.), therehave been few
instances of close, hard fought
games. In fact there have been
two. The 49ers beat the
Cincinnatti Bengals on a last
minute drive, and Scott
Norwood’s wide right field goal
cost Buffalo on its ﬁrst trip to
the Big Game. Coincidentally,
these were the only two games
played with only one week’s
break between the Conference
Championship and the
SuperS1aughter. Anyway, the
point is, maybe there will be a
close contestthis year. One can
always dream.

Basically, the premise be-
hind the week-off deal is this:
each team stays in its nonnal
mode. There is not the ex-
tended opportunity to allow the
media blitz to get to you (an 0-

fer by your conference in the past
several years certainly puts added
pressure on the AFC entry). With
the two week system, a team that
falls behind is quickly deﬂated,
providing the memorable blow-
outs of recent memory (with the
possible exception of that Bears-
Patriots game; the Bears would
have destroyed the Patriots at any
point in the season that year by
about the same score).

Out of all this comes the long-
awaited prediction. Given my
previous comments, most of you
already have some idea of what
the prophetic word will be. Here
you have it: Dallas by 35 in a
tight one. Ok, really I think that
there is just too much pressure on
the Bills, and Dallas is just play-
ing too well: Dallas by seven. I
do think that the Bills have the
potential to make a game out of it,
after their solid performance
against Kansas City. Onthe other
hand, didn’t the Bills beat the
Raiders 51-3 in a playoff game in
1991 ? Also, I thinkthatthe Cow-
boys are a little stronger than the
Chiefs.

Yes, there are other sports
going on right now. College bas-
ketball has a new target at num-
ber one this week with the Uni-
versity of Southern California at
Los Angeles Bruins making their
first appearance in that position
since 1983. Duke garnered the
number two spot and the number
one spot in the Atlantic Coast
Conference by defeating the Uni-

versity of Virginia and Florida
State. UCLA put in an impres-
sive performance against Arizona
to make it’s case for the number
one spot.

In the National Basketball
Association,things happened. It’s
just not quite as interesting with-
out Mr. Jordan there to rewrite
the highlight ﬁlms every couple
of games.

Parting Shots-

Leon Lett: Try bringing your
brain to the game this time. Maybe

Long-awaited ‘Superslaughter’ pick

the Dolphins game taught you
something. Nah, that would
involve some sort of organized
thought.

The Buffalo rallyingcrythus
far has been, “Let’s p*** em
off.” That’s great, and I wish
the best of luck to the team, but
everyone else IS going to be
pretty p****d off if you guys
lose one more time. «

In the Austrailian open,
Steffi Graf has been winning
everything in sight. You know,

for the sake of competition, it
would be interesting to see
her lose every once in awhile.
Monica come back!

Also in the Down Under
Grand Slam,butonthe men’s
side, things seem to be mov-
ing once again towards a
Sampras- Courierﬁnal. Once
again, haven’t we seen this
show before?

My ﬁnal message goes out
to Mr. Jordan: DON’T TRY
TOPLAY BASEBALLIII!

Franke reports that his team is
showing wear.

“We’re a little banged up right
now,” said the coach.

In fact, the Generals have suf-
fered injuries to captain Adam
Williams (will not participate this
weekend because of a broken
thumb) and sophomore Cole Van
Nice (questionable with a re-ig-
jured knee). According to
Shirley, however, Van Nice will
probably be back in action this
weekend for the quad-meet.

Swimmers
drop two
difﬁcult

meets

BY STEPHAN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor 9

Sometimes there is a limit to
everything.

The Washington and Lee
swim team might have stretched
their limits last Saturday, Jaﬂ.
22, against Johns Hopkins and
Emory University in Chapel Hill,
North Carolina.

The Generals lost to two of
the strongerteams in Division III
during the day’s competition.

Coach Kiki Jacobs said tlt:
competition was unusuallytough.

“Emory and Henry and Johns
Hopkins, for women, usually
place in the top eight in nation-
als,” she said.

She also said that the team
performed better than in they 
in the same meet last year.

Travelling time did not seem
to be a problem for the Generals.

Actually, accordingto sopho-
more Rebekah Prince, the away
meets are beneficial.

“It’s actually kind of nice‘o
get a change of scenery for a
while,” she said.

Despite the distance and the
somewhat disparaging results,
the team members had one of
the better meets of the year, set-
ting numerous season and pgr-
sonal bests.

Washington and Lee also got
two individual wins from fresh-
man Staci Bertelli in the 100 and
200 butterfly. Thevictories were
the only two individual wins for
the Generals.

The team faces what .lac&)s
called “the most competitive
meet ofthe year” this weekend
against Franklin and Marshall.

Prince said she is looking for-
ward to next wcekend’s meet.

‘‘I’m really excited about this
weekend,” said Prince. 0

The Generals are preparing
for a meet that, according to
Jacobs, could go either way.

The following weekend sees
the Generals facing a Mary Wash-
ington squad that placed fourth
in nationals last year. The lvhry
Washington team is bringing in
a strong freshman class. Con-
ference meets begin again early
in Febraury, starting with
Hollins College.

“So far, the season has gone
really well,” said Jacobs. 0

The team has returned from
a 25th place finish at last
year’s nationals.

Prince, an All-Amwrican,
has been one ofthe teams lead-
ers this season despite being
under the weather for mos,t.of
the season.

“To come in as a freshman
and be an All-American and
come back the next year is really
hard,” said Prince.

The Generals carry an air of
deserved confidence conce;n-
ing their conference meets, de-
spite last weekend's losses out
of conference.

When mentioning the upcom-
ing Hollins meet, coach Jacobs
was positive.

“ We shouldn’t have a pr‘3b- »

lem with it,” she said.
Prince was also confident.
“If we don’t win l’ll be sur-
prised,” she said of the confer-
ence meet against Hollins.
The Generals have three more
meets this term before the ld
Dominion Athletic Conference
Championships Feb. 18-20.
These will be combined with the
-Atlantic States Championships,
at the Southern States Champi-
onships.

 

 

 

  Southern Virginia College
for Women gets a financial
boost from bond issue

iMens and womens
swimming out-splash

opponents

 

U112 ilting-tum lﬂlii

VOLUME 93, NO. 18

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 4, 1994

Deadly bacteria infect student

to By SARAH GILBERT,
FRANCESCA KEFALAS,
AND STEVEN WILLIARD
of The Ring-tum Phi staff

Washington and Lee junior
TylerDuvallwas rushed to Stone-
wﬂl Jackson Hospital’s emer-
gency room Wednesday with a
meningococcal infection.

Duvall was first diagnosed as
having the bacterial infection at
the Student Health Center. Phy-
sicians at Stonewall Jackson con-
firmed the diagnosis. Duvall has
since been transferred to the Uni-
versity of Virginia Hospital,
where he was listed in serious but
stable condition at press time.

Duvall, a 21-year-old transfer
student from Colby University,
is a guard on the men’s basket-
ball team. Duvall visited the
inﬁrrnary Tuesday. According
to trainer Melanie Middleton,
head basketball coach Verne
Canﬁeld has a policy of follow-
ing up with athletes whenever
they miss practice for illness.

“We called Tyler between
8:30 and 9:00 AM and he said he
couldn’t get to the inﬁrmary, [be-
cause he was not strong enough
to get out ofbed]” said Middleton.
“It’s kind of scary to think about
what could have happened.”

The Generals had already ar-
rived at Norfolk for their game
against Virginia Wesleyan when

the team was notiﬁed of Tyler’s
diagnosis. “I walked into the
locker room and the athletic di-
rector from Virginia Wesleyan
told me,” said Coach Canﬁeld.
“That was at 7:00, and we were
dressed and on the bus within 10
minutes.”

Dr. Jane Horton, university
physician, said the meningococ-
cal infection can be spread to
anyone who has had close per-
sonal contact with Duvall. Horton
said close personal contact is
more than spending a brief pe-
riod with a contagious person.
She said someone who has spent
more than four hours at a time
during the past ﬁve to seven
days with Duvall should contact

the Inﬁrmary.

Maryanne Simurda, assistant
professor of biology, added that
being at the same party as an
infected person would not cause
infection.

“Only if I had been at a party
of just me and [the infected per-
son], would I be at risk of getting
infected,” she said.

Brian Shaw, university direc-
tor of communications and pub-
lic "relations, said people who
have had casual contact with
Duvall should not be concerned.

“Simply being in the room
with Tyler is not enough,” Shaw
said. “Sitting next to him in class
is probably not a problem.”

Horton said people who have

the infection is

had close contact with people
who are currently receiving pre-
ventive treatment
for meningococ-
cal infection
should not be wor-
ried. Horton said

transmitted much
the same way
colds are.

The meningo-
coccal bacteria
are carried in the
mouth and throat
and can be trans-
mitted through
coughing, sneez-
ing and sharing food and drink.

However, Simurda added, the

 

Duvall

meningococcal bacteria is a hu-
man pathogen, and cannot “hang
' out” on a glass or
desk forany period
_ of time. Immedi-
ate human contact
is the only way the
bacteria can be
transmitted.
Another factor
in determining
likelihood of trans-
mission is the
variation with re-
gard to the strain
of the bacteria,
Simurda said.
“About 10 per-
cent of all healthy people carry
the meningococcal bacteria, but

the disease incidence is not 10
percent,” she said. “Only a very
virulent or pathogenic extreme
of the bacteria could cause ill-
ness.”

“There are a lot of variables
when you’re talking about infec-
tious disease,” Simurda said.
“How healthy you are, how sus-
ceptible your body is to the bac-
teria, whether or not you are tak-
ing antibiotics, and how virulent
is the organism can all be fac-
tors.”

Someone could carrying the
bacteria but not get sick, Horton
said.

i>See DUVALL, page 4

Fire damages 3
students’ home

By MICHELLE BRIEN

Phi News Editor

out of the Palms.
Purcell said their kitten, Malcom, was not

an

harmed in the ﬁre.

Fire damaged two rooms and a hallway at the
home three of Washington and Lee students. No
one was hurt in the the Wednesday afternoon ﬁre.

The ﬁre occurred at 310 Myers
St., the home of W&L seniors Ivy

.. Johnson and ..Laura Purcell and

W&L law student Kristopher
Ahrend.

Johnson was the ﬁrst to dis-
cover the ﬁre. She called the Lex-

' ington Fire Department at 4:25

p.m., and ﬁreﬁghters were at the
house by 4:30, according to Lex-
ington Volunteer Fire Chief Ken-
neth Hall. Firefighters had the
ﬂames under control in about 10
minutes, but had to cut out por-
tions of the floor and carry them
outside so that the ﬂames would
not spring up again.

“We took it outside and cut it

up so we didn’t create water damage within the

house,” said Hall.

Hall said damages to the house are estimated at
$10,000 to $15,000. The kitchen, living room, and
hallway of the house were damaged.
said she and her housemates won’t
know how much property they lost until they can
get in the house again, but added the living room

Purcell

Hall said he thinks the ﬁre began in the base-
ment near the water heater exhaust pipe. However, _
Hall said the fire department will not make an
ofﬁcial statement about the cause of the ﬁre until

the property owner’s insurance in-

  

 

Purcell

spector comes to examine the house
Feb. 9. .

Hall said all utilities to the house

were cut off, and the house will be
boarded up until the insurance in-
spector comes. He said the heat from
the ﬁre melted the wall thermostat
that controlled the furnace and blew
fuses.

Dean of Freshmen and Residence

Life Dennis Manning said the uni-
versity has offered the three an apart-
ment in Woods Creek.

‘‘I got a call from Samantha
Holloman,” said Manning. “She lives

two or three doors down [on Myers
Street]. She called to let me know

there was a house on fire that three W&L students
were renting.”

Manning said he and Dean of Students David
Howison went to the house to make sure everyone
was okay and to offer them a place to live.

“The University was great,” said Purcell. “I
really want to get across that they were helpful.
The small town and the small school atmosphere

was destroyed as well as the kitchen stove and
possibly the microwave. She said they were al-
lowed to enter after the ﬁre was extinguished to
get their clothes, and then they left.

“My clothes smelled horrible,” Purcell said..

really held up.”

Purcell said they will probably live in Woods
Creek for the remainder of the year.

Hall said 19 ﬁrefighters and two engines re-
sponded to the call, and the Buena Vista’Fire

Photo by Betsy Green, The Rlng-tum Phi

University Rector A. Stevens Miles said his speech at the ODK Coiivocation Monday was the official
beginning of the presidential search. The Presidential Search Advisory Committee  the Board of
Trustees now will begin looking for a replacement for Umversity President John D. Wilson, who will

retire in June 1995.

ODK inducts 26students

By LOURRAINE TIGAS
Phi Staff Writer

‘The Omicron Delta Kappa Convocation,
postponed due to last week’s bad weather,
was held in Lee Chapel on Monday, Jan. 31.

Twenty—six students were initiated into
the society’s Alpha Circle. The featured
speaker was University‘ Rector A. Stevens
hﬁles Jr. with a speech entitled “Future Lead-
e ship at Washington and Lee”.

Miles spoke about leadership in general
and at the university. “Washington and Lee
has had the good fortune to enjoy brilliant
leadership in times of need,” he said, citing
George Washington and Robert E. Lee as
examples.

* Miles said the biggest challenge since

Robert E. Lee’s presidency has been the shift ‘

to coeducation. He stated the university’s
problems are “much more manageable” due
to “the superior job done by President Wil-
son.” ,

Miles declared his speech the ofﬁcial be-
gﬂining of the search for the next president.

He described the formation of the Presidential
Search Advisory Committee, which will
present a list of ten candidates to the Board of
Trustees. The search will begin in March, and
a list should be completed by November, said
Miles. Interviews will be held in December
and January, and the ﬁnal list will be pre-
sented in February to the Board, which will
make the ﬁnal decision.

Miles expressed a desire to see in the future
an increase in ﬁnancial aid, maintenance of a
low tuition, a continuance with the capital
campaign, encouragement of diversity, and a
priority on the Honor System.

Miles, a 1951 graduate of Washington and
Lee and a member of the Board of Trustees,
resides in Louisville, Kentucky, and has had a
long career in banking. He retired in 1990 and
has been active in civic affairs, particularly
scouting.

President John D. Wilson gave the open-
ing remarks, honoring “the past, present, and
future leaders of Washington and Lee.” Wil-
son also gave a brief history of the settlement
of the Shenandoah Valley in commemoration
of the 123rd Founder’s Day, which was Jan.

19, the date originally scheduled for the
convocation.

Matthew Jackson, class of 1994 and
president of the ODK Alpha Circle, led the
initiation, or “tapping,” of the students and
Miles, an honorary initiate. Five additional
alumni will be initiated during Alumni
Weekend in May.

The ODK Alpha Circle initiates of 1994
are:
HONORARY INITIATES:

A.S. Miles Jr. ‘51

Will be initiated in May: I

W.F. Barron ‘52 H.C.V. Smith ‘73
G.E. Calvert ‘44 W.E. Smith Jr. ‘63

D. Herrick

STUDENT INITIATES:

Law School:

C.F. Castner P.F. Kirgis
K.A. Hardin J.B. Lake

R.F. Hartman A.M. Wensinger

I->See ODK, page 4

“I thought, ‘Oh my God, I smell like I walked

department stood by while Lexington responded.

DUI limit may go to .08

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

On a weekend night in Octo-
ber, 1991 , a Washington and Lee
student blew a .08 on a
breathalizer test when a Lexing-
ton policeman pulled him over
for running a stop sign.

Then he drove home.

Under Virginia state law, he
wasn’t legally drunk, because his
blood alcohol content was below
.10.

Soon, however, a driver who
blows a .08 in Virginia may be
riding to jail instead of driving
home.

Several bills before the 1994 I

General Assembly propose to
lowerthedrunkdrivinglimitfrom
.10 to .08 and to stiffen the pen-
alties for DUI offenders.

Under current laws, blowing
a .05 to .09 can result in a DUI
conviction if a driver is also
charged with- reckless driving or
fails ﬁeld tests, such as walking a
straight line.

The minimum penalty for a
first-time offender is a ﬁne of at
least $200. A second conviction
within ﬁve years is punishable
by the same ﬁne and at least one
month, in jail. However, a judge
may waive all but two days ofthe
jail sentence. A third conviction
within ﬁve years results in a fine
of at least $500 and a mandatory
30-day jail term. The penalties
vary for juveniles.

If all of the bills pass, they
will lower the legal limit and
increase the ﬁnes.

They will require a six-month
license suspension for drunk driv-
ers under 21 and a seven-day
license suspension for all drunk
drivers.

They will also require a one-
year prison term fora drunk driver

convicted of involuntary man-
slaughter.

The General Assembly con-
sidered similar proposals in its‘
last session but voted them down.
Lexington Police Sergeant Rick
Sutton thinks there is a better
chance for passage in 1994.

II» See DUI, page 4

«R

A 0 File photol
A lower legal drimkenness limit of .08 instead of
.10 could mean fewer trips to East Lex.

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

 

South Korean farmers protest

Police in South Korea prevented more than 20,000 protest-
ing farmers from marching on the U.S. Embassy. The
farmers were angry over the opening of South Korea’s
markets to foreign rice. Rice is the main source of income for
the country’s 6 million farmers. The farmers say they cannot
compete against the imports.

Palestinian/Israeli peace
agreement close to final terms

Palestinians and Israelis say that an agreement is close on
the final terms for Israeli withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and
the West Bank of Jericho. Peace talks resumed Tuesday in
Cairo. One source suggested the agreement could be signed
as early as next week. ~

The Nation

Breakthrough in Harding case

 

The FBI is examining pieces of paper found in a Portland
restaurant dumpster that could implicate Tonya Harding in
the Jan. 6 attack on Nancy Kerrigan. Harding’s ex-husband
Jeff Gillooly pleaded guilty to racketeering charges Tuesday.
A committee of the U.S Figure Skating Association will
recommend whether Harding should be thrown off the U.S.
Olympic Team.

Discovery carries first Russian
Cosmonaut to ﬂy on U.S. shuttle

Space Shuttle Discovery blasted off today carrying five
Americans and the first Russian to ﬂy on a U.S. shuttle. The
crew left at sunrise for an eight-day science mission, the first
time both astronauts and cosmonauts have been launched in
the same spaceship.

, Rodent predicts cold weather

l

71-»-v‘-,

 Punxsggﬁjyney Phil saw his shadow Wednesday, predat-
‘fing six more-iweeks of winter. The groundhog predicted cold
weather f3“'r’ the 98th year out of 108. The forecast is actually
drafted days in advance by the Inner Circle club that stages

the Groundhog Day events.

New cable system can block out
unwanted charmels, shows

The cable industry Tuesday announced a system that
would alert parents to upcoming violent shows and allow
them to be blocked. The system is the result of an effort to
prevent congressional efforts to mandate a reduction in
television violence. Major cable networks endorsed the
system, including MTV, HBO, and CNN.

New smoking study reveals link
to colon, rectal cancer

Studies involving more than 165,000 people show evi-
dence that cigarette smoking can lead to colon and rectal
cancer in both men and women. A tendency towards colorectal
cancer can be set for life by early smoking, even if the habit
is later stopped, although quitting at any age does lower the
risk of other diseases such as lung cancer and heart disease.

Congressional hearings to
investigate Clinton dealings

Congressional hearings will soon be scheduled to look into
the Clinton Arkansas business dealings. The hearings will
examine whether government-insured depositor’s money
was diverted illegally from Madison Guarantee Savings &
Loan to Whitewater Development Corp, half of which was
owned by President Clinton and Hillary Clinton.

The State

Battlefield raceway gets OK

 

The Culpeper County Board of Supervisors voted Tues-
day to permit a $10 million motor raceway to be built atop a
Civil War battlefield. Preservation groups and landowners
have fought for years on this issue. The proposed site for the
motor way, Brandy Station, was the Civil War’s largest
cavalry engagement. One hundred thirty-eight died there.

Poll shows North lacks support

A new poll shows that almost any Democrat could defeat
Oliver North in the race for a U.S. Senate seat. The poll found
that North is favored to win the Republican nomination, but
lacks the support to win the general election. Charles S. Robb
is favored to win the Democratic nomination.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily Baker

 

The Rin -tum Phi Febru 4 1994

 

MSA $1,500 request granted

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

As the Executive Committee found out Monday,
you can’t ask campus groups to share a signiﬁcant
sum of money.

The EC heard from the Minority Students Asso-
ciation and Contact with regard to a conflict over how
to use the $8,000 in Contact’s “speaker fund,” a fund
designed by the EC to provide certain groups on
campus with money to bring speakers to Washington
and Lee. MSA has access to the fund, but there was
not enough money left in the fund to bring Patricia
Russel McCloud, a renowned black speaker, to cam-
pus for Black History Month.

“There’s no money left for us,” said MSA Presi-
dent Ayanna Brady.

Contact Co-Chair Matt Jackson said much of the
speaker fund money was spent in bringing speakers
like Bill Buckley and Tom Wolfe to campus.

But there was some confusion over how money
from the speaker fund was to be appropriated. EC
President Robert Tompkins said the money was
meant to be used on a first come, first served basis.

“The point of the speaker fund was to encourage

competition,” said EC Secretary Ashby Hackney.

Jackson said Contact had voted to give MSA $2,000
to bring McCloud to campus. That still
left MSA with over $1,500 to come up
with. Brady and other MSA members
asked the EC for the extra $1,500.

Jackson said MSA had already used
money from the speaker fund when
they allegedly agreed to cosponsor Ben
Chavis of the NAACP for this March.
But Brady and other MSA members
said they did not agree to fund the
Chavis event, as he would not be able to
speak for Black History Month in
February.

“There’s a difference between fund-
ing and cosponsoring,” said Jackson. “I
thought we had your support on that
(the Chavis event).”

“I think that Contact assumed... that ‘MSA was I

sponsoring Ben Chavis,” said MSA member Maurice
Cole.

Jackson said the speaker
Contact’s budget, so the amount of money spent out
of the speaker fund for each event cannot be
precisely determined.

 

Jackson

fund is a part of

“It seems that perhaps it was unclear that the

speaker fund was a separate account or whether it

was partof Contact’s budget,” said.
Cole.

The EC agreed to grant MSA
$1,500 to fund the McCloud speech
by a vote of 9-2. EC members said the
MSA should appeal to other sources
of revenue in order to give the EC the
$1,500 back before the end of the
year. ‘

“We would have no problem mak-
ing up the difference... once we know
how much other departments are will-
ing to give,” said Hackney.

Tompkins said he would like to
see Contact “set up a full process for
scheduling events” that are paid foP
with speaker fund money.

“Maybe the members of Contact don’t realize
that they are the trustees of that $8,000,” said Senior
EC Rep Alison Lewis.

Jackson said Contact was not out to control the
entirety of the speaker fund money.

“We didn’t have a set idea as far as using up this
speaker fund [right away].”

Strange calls bafﬂe students_

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

On Jan. 26. Washington and Lee
senior Pearce Smithwick got two voice
mail messages: his credit card payment
was late, and he needed to call two 1-
800 numbers to clear up the problem.

Smithwick doesn’t own a credit
card. He sat down and dialed the num-
bers, determined to set the matter
straight. When a phone sex service
answered each time, Smithwick hung
up.
The next night, Smithwick received
a phone call.

“HelloPearce,”asultry female voice
purred. “This is Kitty. You’ve won
three minutes of free phone sex.”

“As soon as I heard that, I just hung
up,” said Smithwick. “ljust didn’twant
to deal with it.”

Whether “it” was a prank or illegal
soliciting by a phone sex service
Smithwick doesn’t know.

Neither do local officials. Centel
has not had any similar complaints,
said Supervisor Thomas Cavanaugh.
W&L Security and the Telecommuni-
cations Office said the same.

But at least two more W&L stu-
dents say they’ve gotten similar calls.

SeniorTed Elliott received one simi-
lar phone call that night, and freshman
Brooks Harper got three.

,“l said no. Thanks anyway. And I
hung up,” said Elliott.

Hooper said he hung up the first
time Kitty called. She called twice more

within an hour. Freshman Keith Howell
chatted briefly with the woman the
second time she called, said Hooper.
He said she told them Hooper won the
phone sex through a credit card draw-
ing. But Hooper doesn’t have a credit
card either.

The third time Kitty called, Hooper
didn’t answer.

On his voice mail she said, “Brooks,
this is Kitty, and l’ve had fun talking to
you. Please call me back, Brooks, at 1-
800...”

The voice broke into laughter, and
another woman could be heard laugh-
ing in the background.

The only link among the three stu-
dents is the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.
Smithwick and Elliott are brothers, and
Hooper is a pledge.

They discussed what happened and
think it was a prank. They don’t know
of anyone else who received phone
calls from Kitty.

Smithwick doesn’t know yet
whether he was charged for the two
phone calls he made. Some 1-800 nunu
bers roll over to 1-900 phone sex ex-
tensions with huge surcharges, said
W&L Telecommunications Manager
Dana Camper.

IfSmithwickischargedforthecalls,
said Cavanaugh, the person who gave
him the number is guilty of phon5
fraud.

The Telecommunications Office
and W&L Security urge on-campus
students to call them if they receive any
similar calls. Off-campus students
should call the police or Centel.

Martin Luther King celebrated

Postponed event draws crowd to honor black leader.

By DAVID WILMINGTON
Phi Staffiwriter I '

. .\’ _., .'...:/:1

The Minority Student Association presented their
tribute to Martin Luther King Tuesday night at the

First Baptist Church.

The program, titled “A Celebration For the Life of

Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,”
consisted almost entirely of student presentations.
Poetry readings were given by Maurice Cole ‘94,
John Rogers ‘95, and Mary Flowers ‘96. MSA Presi-
dent Ayanna Brady ‘95 and Elise Hagensen ‘94 read
original material combined with other poems. Kyna
Bryant ‘96 read a short story by Langston Hughes.
Speeches were given by Michael Hewlett ‘96 and

   

 



 

Jack Thorne ‘96.

The event was sponsored by the MSA with help

from the Board of Christian Education and the VMI

Promaji Club.

 

Promaji Club President Jamel Lynch, a first
classman at VMI, also spoke at the event. Lynch said
the name of the club is Swahili for “bringing people

together.”

One W&L student had a different method for
expressing her sentiments. Tamara Watkins ‘96 sang

h>See KING, page 4

Language Lab
gets 3-year grant

By JAY WHITE
Phi Staff Writer

A $178,000 grant has been awarded
to the Washington and Lee Language
Lab by the directors of the Charles E.
Culpeper Foundation, an organization
interested in technology and language
teaching.

The three-year grant will serve three

purposes: it will provide ﬁnancial sup- .

port for multimedia equipment and in-
stallation costs, faculty and staff devel-
opment stipends, and a collaborative
conference program on language and
technology to be held at W&L upon
conclusion of the grant period.

The grant money will enable the
university’s language instruction pro-
gram to take the next step forward in
multimedia language instruction.

The language lab is under the direc-
tion of P. Richard Kuettner who has
already made the Language Laba leader
amongthe facilities at other liberal arts
colleges. With the new technology,
Kuettner expects to be able to take the
lab into the distant future, as far as
facilities and tools for the education of
students.

“The use of multimedia really makes
the learning of a foreign language an
experience just short of virtual real-
ity,” Kuettner said.

Kuettner also stressed the degree to
which the facilities will be utilized in
the future.

“For many institutions, the equip-
ment isjust a pretty thing to show the
alumni; we actually use it and appreci-

ate it,” he said.

“Washington and Lee has for years
now recognized the essential impor-
tance of computers and advanced video
technology in second language instruc-
tion,” said Dean of the College John
Elrod. “Thanks to the generosity of the
Culpeper Foundation, W&L is ready
to take the next step in the development
of video and audio interactive pro-
gramming.”

The grant advances the work made
possible by earlier grants from the Pew
Charitable Trust and the Mellon Foun-
dation. lt provides equipment and
money for course development. En-
hancement of the consoles with over-
head projection systems and providing
opportunities to do much more with
visual work ratherthan audio work will
be the focus of much of the project.

“As the faculty develop their own
expertise, that strengthens the teaching
program, ” Elrod said. -

The Culpeper Foundation was es-
tablished in 1940 under the will of
Charles E. Culpeper, a pioneer in the
marketing and bottling of Coca-Cola.
The foundation disburses approxi-
mately $6 million a year to activities in
health, education, arts and culture, and
theadministration ofjustice.

This grant will benefit over 45 per-
cent of the student body who use the
Language Lab on a weekly basis. The
Language lab in Tucker Hall is second
only to the Leyburn Library as the most
used undergraduate academic facility
on campus. Plans for the upgrading are
in progress and the work will be com-
pleted over a three year period.

Photo by David Wilmington, The Ring-tum Phi
Jack Thorn speaks at the First Baptist Church in honor of Martin Luther King.

Students raise funds

By BUNNY WoNo
Phi Staff Writer

Students have been helping W&L
by picking up the phone and dialing.

Dialing alumni, that is, for the
university’s Phone-a-thon.

Roughly, $35,000 ub pledges was
raised from three nights of Phone-a-
thon calling during the week of Phone-
a-thon calling during the week of Jan.
24.

That money goes to the university ’s
Annual Fund. Money forthe Fund goes
toward operating expenses, student tu-

 

ition, and other miscellaneous en
penses, according to Maureen Levy,
class of ‘93 Annual Fund Staff Associ-
ate.

So far, $1.6 million has been raised
"forthe fund. The goal is $2.6 million by
June 30.

Phone-a—thon volunteers call alumrﬁ
four weeks out of the year, once in the
fall, twice in the winter, and once in the
spring, according to senior Marguerite
Nielsen, co—chairman of the Student
Development Committee.

Nielsen feels there has “definitely”
been an increase in Phone-a—thon vok
unteers this year.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

  
  

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1994

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

C

Seventeen new students will have the op-
portunity to graduate as University Scholars.
Last year, they might not have had that chance.

An ad-hoc committee chaired by Art Pro-
fessor Pamela Simpson studied and compiled
an 80 page report on the University Sch_olars

‘r PR)gram. The issue was discussed in May ‘93
, and in October ‘93.

Simpson said the program was started in the

:‘ early 80’s when Washington and Lee was all-

male. She said the school had problems attract-
ing and keeping highly motivated students. She

., said the University Scholars program was de-
, signed to keep students at W&L.

She said the program has been successful in

I keeping bright students andin providing a

chance to network with similar students. She
said another benefit of the program has been the
introduction of interdisciplinary studies. She
said the program also led to the development of

‘ Hmors Thesis programs in all departments.

_ She said the question the committee faced
was whether the school still needed an Univer-

sity Scholar program.

“We did agree that it probably wasn’t as
necessary as it had been,” said Simpson.

Professor James Warren, director of Uni—
versity Scholars, said the faculty felt the pro-
gram was no longer needed because each suc-
ceeding class has gotten better academically.

However, he said the committee felt that the
two essential features of the program, which
were networking and the introduction of inter-
disciplinary studies, should be continued and
promoted.

Professor Steve Desjardins, a member of the
ad-hoc committee and a current member of the
standing committee, said there were practical
problems with the program. Desjardins said the
science and math majors have highly structured
curricula, which makes it difficult for a profes-
sor to not offer a course. He said professors had
to teach a University Scholar seminar in addi-
tion to their normal teaching load.

He said the science department also ob-
jected to the name “Honors,” being attached to
science courses because they weren’t really
high—level courses. I

“You weren’t getting a super chemistry
course, just a super non-major chemistry course,

” Desjardins said.

 

Desjardins said most of the objections
stemmed from a perception that the University
Scholars program was biased toward the hu-
manities and social sciences. He said science
majors are not encouraged to
be verbally aggressive which

“We don’t want to let this get out of hand,”
said Desjardins.
Desjardins said the name “Honors” will be
dropped from the program, and seminars will
be created’ from existing sci-
ence courses.

PUTS them at a disadvantage Simpson Said the program
regardingthe University Schol- will be open for more S0phQ_
ars Program mores, and students who make

He said the major problem
the science and math depart-
ments have with the program
stems from philosophical dif-
ferences between the humani-
ties and the sciences.

Hesaidtheadvantagetothe
program is that it provides pro-
fessors with a chance to try
radically different ways to
teach science to people who
are not going to be scientists.

The committee suggested
some changes. Simpson said a
faculty member could determine who got into
the courses, whereas before only University
Scholars were allowed into the seminars.
Desjardins said preference, however, is still

' given to University Scholars.

 

 

 
 
  
  

 

 ta. i1§Ri.. 

 

By DEBORAH ZOLLMAN
Phi Staff Writer

  

 ..§*’a%..~“ii 

Thought you had seen the last of the
controversial Virginia Military Insti-
tute poster “Women out of Uniform”?

Our neighbors in Lexington aren’t
done yet. Their latest pro-male para-
phernalia includes window decals and
bumper stickers.

According to Mike Strickler, head

of public relations at VMI, the bumper
sticker, which reads “Save the Males”,
began at the Citadel and was created by
the wife of an alumnus. The bumper
sticker is not being sold by the cadets,
but is available at Fantasies in Lexing-
ton. The decal, which reads “VMI” and
has the female symbol with a red slash
through it, was created and sold by a
second class cadet. Its distribution was
immediately halted by the administra-
tion and a stiff penalty was imposed
upon the offending cadet.

Left: Second class Cadets produced this poster to raise money for
the junior class ring dance. The poster was recalled by VMI
officials, but is still available in local stores. Right: VMI Cadets
have added more anti-coeducation paraphernalia to their prod-

.. uct line, includingitihe shirt sho
buy bumper stickers. ' -

stickers and decals.

remain anonymous.

them.”

ers don’t.”

here.”

   

Photos by Betsy Green, The Ring—tum Phi.

 

Warren

Cadets voiced similar views about
the new paraphernalia, but all asked to

One cadet said, “I would say that
most people are in favor of them. I like

“It’s the way people are raising
money,” said another. Another com-
mented, “I don’t really pay that much
attention to them; some cadets do, oth-

One cadet got to the heart of the
reason for the stickers, stating, “I can
give you an opinion that everyone has

, “ For over 150 years, this has been

an all-male institution and I think it
should stay that way.”

wn. Anyone interested can also

at least a B+ in two University
Scholar seminars will be eli-
gible for the program.

Furthermore, Desjardins
said it will possible for a stu-
dent to become a University
Scholar and not do an Honors
thesis within his or her major.
He said students will still have
to do a senior thesis.

‘ Warren said there will be a
student interview as well as a
faculty interview.

He said the requirements
for becoming a University Scholar haven’t
changed much. The interviewers look for a
student who will participate in discussion, and
who is good at listening and engaging people in
conversation. He said the student should be

  

PAGE 3 '

University scholars receive new life

able to build ideas in groups and should be
highly motivated and self-disciplined.

“We tend to look for students who have
diverse intellectual interests and who are not
too focused on a particular branch of study,” he
said.

Warren said currently, there are 43 students
in the University Scholars program. He said 46
students applied this year. He also said he sent
out 150 invitations to freshmen who made a
GPA of 3.25 and sophomores who had a GPA
of 3.5 in the preceding term. To remain in the
program, he said all scholars must maintain a
GPA of 3.25.

, He said he has great conﬁdence in the pro-
gram.

“I think the program has a great deal of
potential to foster interdisciplinary education
on campus, “ he said. “The current members of
the program are enthusiastic and are beginning
to reform the program from the inside and make
it their own, which is the key to the growth of
the program.”

He said the program creates a sense of com-
munity and common interests which helps the
program become successful.

“If the students take the program over, the
program will go and go far, “he said.

 

The posters were a fund-raiser for
the second-class Ring Figure Dance.
Cadet Mark Kinser, vice-president of
the second-class and spokesman for
the posters, said that the second-class
has nothing to do with the bumper

I Cadets create paraphernalia, controversy

   

 
 

The 

  

Point of View

Restaurant

   
  
  
 

sh

 

Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing

$2 oﬁf any pasta dinner with
° student I.D. 9

Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn
463-7797

rﬁ

  

L

J

- ritﬁﬁrmuirs

W&L Art

We have three

R. E. Lee

Signatures; Two are War Date.

W&L Copperplate, hand—colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

(703) 464-6464

lilllllllll

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington. VA 4450

Open Monday — Saturday
10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

«um um

     
   
    
   
   
    
    
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
    
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
   

    

    
    
   

an

     
 
   
  

Dublications Board llnterviews

for

The Ring-tum Phi Editor
The Ring-tum Phi Business
hdanager  

Resume and Cover Letters
Due February 25, 1994
to Carol Calkins, University

Center

llnterviews March 7, 1994

   
   
  

  
 

   
  
    

  

 

  
  
    
   
   
  

 

 

INTERNATIONAL
EMPLOYMENT-

Make up to $2,000-$4,000+

per month teaching basic
conversational English
abroad. Japan, Taiwan,
and S. Korea. Many
employers provide room 5:
board + other beneﬁts. No
teaching background or
Asian languages required.
For more information call:
(206) 632-1146
Ext. J S 3 4 2

Lexington
Shop for
Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,

Clothing, and
Accessories

oppugomo

Hours: 10 - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.
463-5988

\\  
 Alvin—Denn1s, Inc. 
~‘  ’ 23:3
  102 W. Washington St. 
 3“33
gg>I¢>I¢?>I¢i>I<=WINTER CLEARANCE=>I¢32I¢>I¢=>I‘ég§§§
 Suits & Sportcoats 20-50% Off :§"§:
 Rugby & Chamois Shirts 50% Off  
 Top Coats & Outerwear 30% Off 
 Gloves & Sweaters 30% Off E333}
 Rent or Buy your tuxedo for Fancy Dress! 
  Rentals need to be ordered. New 100% Worsted f.‘;§
 = Wool Tuxedos for sale are in stock! 
 Also in stock Fancy Cummerbunds, Jewelry, 
 Tux Shirts & Lots of Flasks! 
 Visa MC Student Charge 
 463-5383 
K}  rec:rtauI54Lyiéuéii§4i?:n£u§u§,.§,,§ ;J“.£: ;: £2‘ 4

 
 

  

    
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
 

 

For Rent‘

Four 3-bedroom apartments with
washer/dryer, dishwasher; within
walking distance of W&L.
For information, call 463-7690

 

   
      
       
    

The

 
 
   

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIL

  

 

WILLSON-
WA L KB R
HOUSE

R es I: :4 II n I
I
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII .

‘IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII V I

Fancy Dress is a memorable
event, so dine at a
memorable restaurant!

The Willson-Walker House
30 N. Main Street
463-3020

Reservations now being accepted for
' unch and Dinner! Make your reservations
early and avoid the last minute rush!

    
 
 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

PAGE 4

A name change was not enough to rej

College for Women.

 
   

 
 

‘$9

uvenate Southern Virginia

svcw gets  
financial help

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

Southern Virginia College for
Women employees, who weathered a
15 percent pay-cut last August, could
have that money restored within two
weeks.

The Board of Trustees of SVCW
last week approved a possible bond
issue that would provide $3.7 million
that could be used to restore cut sala-
ries and benefits.

In another effort to revive the ﬁnan-
cially—strapped two-yearwomen’scol-
lege, SVCW will attempt to increase
its enrollment 30 percent as soon as
next fall.

Under the terms of this bond issue
the bond underwriter, Carter Kaplan &
Co., will lend money to SVCW and sell
bonds for that amount. SVCW will pay
back the money over the course of the
next 15 years. In addition, SVCW will
put up their property as equity for the
loan and pay an equity contribution of
$285,000. The bond issue is still sub-
ject to a current appraisal and survey of
the college’s property and an environ-
mental assessment.

The money from the bond issue
would also be used to pay off long-
term debt and provide additional oper-

 

ating capital over the next three years.

SVCW’s “Campaign for the Fu-
ture” has raised $385,481 in gifts and
pledges toward its goal of $1.25 mil-
lion since it began in October.

“We are turning over every stone to
put Southern Virginia on solid finan-
cial footing,” Chairman of the SVCW
Board Otis Mead said in a press re-
lease. “We want to proceed with chart-
ing an exciting future for the college.”

Public Relations Director Grace
Sarber said over the last 20 years the
college has operated almost entirely on
revenues from tuition, room and board,
which totals $15,600 per student.

The college will try to increase en-
rollment from 190 to 250 students in
the fall of 1994 in order to bring in
more money and expand the future
alumnae base from which the college
can raise money.

“The money from tuition would help
a lot,” Sarber said.

SVCW President Col. John W.
Ripley emphasized the bond issue will
not end the “Campaign for the Future.”

“This only puts our current capital
campaign in the limelight, as it now
becomes essential for the college to be
able to put up the funds required for the
equity contribution, as well as have the
funds required for the current budget,”
Ripley said.

bDUI, from page 1

“l think it’s got a good shot this time
because we’ve got a new group of
people in there,” said Sutton. “And I
thinkit’swhatthecommunities andthe
voters want.”

Sutton hopes the drunk driving limit
is lowered to .08. So do Lexington
Police Chief Bruce Beard and
Rockbridge County Sheriff R. W. Day.

“Naturally I’m going to say I think
it’s good,” said Beard.

The main purpose in lowering the
limit, he said, is to make people aware
of how much they are drinking before
they become intoxicated. He said he
hopes it will encourage people with a

Students honor King’s memory

in» MLK, from page 2

a gospel-style solo with accompa-
niment by the First Baptist Church
pianist.

The only non-student presentation
was by the First Baptist Church Choir.
The program began and ended with
musical selections performed by the
choir.

MSA Vice President Coleen
Thompson organized the program and
arranged for the use of the church.
Events were originally scheduled for
l(ing’s birthday, Monday, January 19,
but were changed due to extremely
cold weather.

Thompson said the program is com-
pletely determined by the student par-
ticipants.

“The program is based on a group

DUI penalities could increase.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4,1994’

lower alcohol tolerance to think twice
before they drive.

Lexington Police Officer G.B.
Coleman said that, on average, two
beers within one hour will raise a 120-
pound person’s blood alcohol level to
.1. Three beers within an hour, said
Coleman, will cause a 160-pound per-
son to blow a .1.

He emphasized, however, that it
varies from person to person, and the
percentage of alcohol in different types
of beer also varies.

Beard said his officers get a lot of
.08 and .09 breathalizer results, and he
thinks there will be a significant in-
crease in drunk driving arrests if the
bills pass. I

In 1992, there were 125 DUI arrests

effort,” said Thompson, ‘‘I don’t have
to approve anything.”

A variety of Lexington inhabitants
attend the annual tribute.

8 ‘‘There’s a lot of students and com-
munity people and a whole lot of pro-
fessors because we give out invita-
tions,” said Thompson. “There’s usu-
ally a big turnout. It was real good last

_ year.”

The attendance was down from last
year but Brady was still pleased. “Con-
sidering that we had to reschedule, I
understand why there were fewer
people.”

Thompson expressed concern that
not everyone realizes the program is
intended for all members of the Lex-
ington community—regardlessof race.

“A student asked me, ‘It’s only for
black people, right?’ Most people get
the wrong perceptions.”

W&L law school
ranks in top 20

From Staff Reports

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity School of Law has been ranked
19th among the most selective law
schools in the country, according to the
1994 edition of the Princeton Review
StudentAccess Guide to The Best Law
Schools.

The rankings were calculated by
combining average LSAT scores and
GPAs of entering students. The five
top-rated schools were Yale, Harvard,
University of Chicago, Stanford and
Duke. '

Washington and Lee’s high rankings
were attributed to the combination of
W&L’s 13-to-1 student-faculty ratio
and the “enormous accessibility of the
faculty.” ,

According to the guide, “those who
enroll are among the most enthusiasti-
cally satisﬁed law students in America.”

The guide presents a number of
categories in which the schools were
ranked. in the “Quality of Life” cat-

egory, Washington and Lee was ranked
second, after Yale, where favorable
student responses gave W&L high
marks for the “degree of competitive-
ness among students, the ‘sense of com-
munity’ among students and the qual-
ity of relations between students and
faculty.”

The W&L law school was also re'- A

cenily ranked as one of the top 25 law
schools in The Best Law Schools, a
Prentice Hall publication.

The criteria for that ranking were
selectivity, reputation and placement
success.

“It is nice that the law school has
received national attention for its qual-
ity, and especially nice that the atten-
tion is focused on our student/faculty
ratio, the quality and accessibility of
the faculty, our selectivity, and the
quality of life for students,” said Randall
P. Bezanson, dean of the W&L law
school.

“It is, after all, the quality of what
we do, not how we rank, that matters
most.”

at UVA for gifted students 6/19-8/6/94.
State of VA application req. - refer to Job

Counselors for residential summer program

in Rockbridge County and 172 in the
City of Lexington. The city made 150
arrests in 1993. The county number is
not yet available.

Neither Beard nor Day knew how
many of those arrests involved W&L
students. Day said he thought the num-
ber was insignificant. Beard’s estimate
was 25 percent.

Both men attributed the low num-
bers to education, designated drivers
and W&L’s Live Drive program.

Area law enforcement officials may
think that lowering the drunk driving
limit is a good idea, but some students
think it is unnecessary and even unfair.

The same W&L student who was
stopped in October was stopped again
a month later. He blew a .2 this time.

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

He was convicted, fined $250 and he
lost his driving privileges in Virginia
for six months.

He preferred to remain anonymous,
but he admitted to being drunk and
lacking good judgement. ‘

“It was ignorant. Totally. There’s
no excuse,” he said.

But he insisted that was not the case
when he blew a .08.

“l was fine,” he said. “l think you’re
still okay at that point.”

‘‘I don’t think you should (lowerthg
limit).”

Junior Dana Cornell agreed.

“I don’t see a big difference be-
tween .08 and .1,” said Cornell, “ex-
cept that we’ll be seeing a lot more
DUIs.’

I

  
   

Students determined the program for King’s celebration.

ODK honors
students

to ODK, from page 1

Senior Class:
J .J . Ciocca J .N. Hardman
A.B. Cohrs L.C. Howell IV

S.A. Colfrey N.M. Magaziner
R.B. Cornbrooks T.R. Mason

S.L. Crabbe V.M. Shannon
K.S. Dickinson J .L. Townsend
J .D. Guerin L.E. Voekel

A.R. Hackney D.M. Wilmington
Junior Class:
.«L.M. Cavatt
' B.E.’ Henderson

K.A. Herring
P.E. Wright

Simpson to
lecture

Pamela H. Simpson, Ernest Wil-
liams ll Professorof Art at Washington
and Lee University, will deliver this
year’s first in a series of inaugural
lectures.

Simpson’s lecture, “Cheap, Quick
and Easy: imitative Architectural Ma-
terials at the Turn of the Century,” will
be presented Wednesday, Feb. 9, at
7:30 p.m. in the Leyburn Library’s
Northen Auditorium.

Illness -
serious

to Meningitis, from page 1

. ‘c.- I
Symptoms for meningococcal in- ‘

fection are similar to those of the flu:
cough, sore throat, muscle and joint
aches, fever, cold chills and headaches.

A distinguishing symptom of the in- .
- fection is a rash. Horton said they do

not know from whom or how Du all
may have caught the bacteria. is
usually difficult, and often impossible,
to pinpoint the origins and spreading
points of the infection. Shaw said be-
cause the origins of the infection are

difficult to trace, anyone who exhibits I

the symptoms should go to the Health
Center immediately. The Stuiﬂent
Health Center is open 24 hours a day
and can be reached at 462-8401.
Shaw said the infirmary has treated

‘ 35 people with a preventive antibiotic

as of press time. Howison and Shaw
both said the treatment is precaution-
ary and no one else has been diagnCsed
with meningococcal infection.

Horton said Duvall’s infection is
not the same as meningitis, but it is
very serious.

“This is an illness with a high mor-
tality rate,” Horton said. “[Duvzill] is
not out of the woods yet.” .

3.
F

  
     
  
  
        
       
   

  

Catagory Code Ql8AB & return Io UVA by
5:00 p.m. 3/l/94. Apply to UVA Dept. of

Institute of Philosophy

I have to Wear A TUX?

 
 

  
 

  
     
 
     
    
   
   

Katholieke Universiteit Leuven Human Resources, 914 Emmet St., POBox .
F 9007, Charlottesville VA 22906. For more
ounded 1425 info call 804/924-3182. EEO/AA.
FRFIE-TE_._TRlPS:V AND MONEY!! 5 5
write: , individuals and Student Organiza- ' ' ‘N0 pr 0,
p,,m¢i_., P. crawlcyl Director tions wanted to promote the Hottes *
Intcrnatjona] pmgrams Spring Break Destinations, call the .
Iti {Phil t"Id.I -Ca ' '
 "?»§3;‘.2m‘?ﬁ§oo‘i‘;’£7-,,";‘;“S University Cleaners
Kardinaal Mercierplein 2, bus sn . ._ ._ ._ ._ .. ,_ _.' I
B-3000 Le , Bel ‘ ' ‘
Fax: 32-itfgs 53 ginim Seasonal employment Has a Wlde Selectlon of
available as a whitewater Tuxedos for rent
raft guide in W.Va. .

Experience not required.
Must be 19 years old, hav
current CPR and first aid.
Contact North American
River Runners, P.O. Box
81 Hico, WV 25854
1-800-950-2585 EOE

  

$45

FD Special -

A world renowned center for international education in philosophy offerin
complete Bachelors, Masters, and Ph.D. programs. The Institute of Philosophy no
only teaches the history of philosophy, it is a part or’ that history. Located only 25
kilometers from Brussels, the capital of Europe, this is the center of European
philosophy. The lnstitute of Philosophy houses centers of excellence in
piieiioi.1ciioio§y, pa;-’cl‘.oa.':al;~‘:is, ;hiles:phy of language, ancient and
medieval philosophy. Tuition waivers allow students to enroll for a full academic
year for only 17,200 Belgian francs ( 1 S 500). US and Canadian Government
Student Loans available. Courses also available in other subjects to complement
the needs of the Junior Year Abroad Student.

    
   

    
     
  
     
   
     

an d

  

   

      
   
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

| EZ—CARD, BOX 16516, ATLANTA. GA 3032 : I
$15"/x Sh : Q '
. ny OW Now you an have two of the most recognized ring '  IwamvIsA°/MASTERCARDQ Cred“ . 1.
_ NOW Showin __ accepted credit cards in the world...VIsa0 and Mastcrard O I
9 credit cards..“in your name.“ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cardsappmved immediately. 100% GUARANTEED!
Gettysburg carznrr or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! . . :.
S t & 33")’   VISAO and Mast.-:rCard® the credit cards you I
5“ “Q-atéd PG ' P-'“- deserve and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPAR‘I‘MENT | NAME I
S'I‘0Rl:‘.S—TUITlON—EN'I'ERTAlNMEN'l‘— I I
Rud *="E“°....W.es"-T.e._*ae~..s:;t:“.i~e-..a - ADDRESS I
Daily 7:oo & ego p.m. Ri-:r>AiliiRs‘—ANn ivooggiw voua CREDIT RATING! : CITY STATE _ ZIP :
Satig oS;né_:13 31:, :15, N t d ' ' ' STUDENT? Yes No s_s_# ‘
Rated PG. ' EM ° ""' °"""5' -11 RE i
No" ofhrlnu 2 Audltoﬂum. '0'    :  ¥qM?sla&m is I registered trademark cl Mastcrcud lntcmniloml. Inc. '
ya" chum. Ex”"°n°'m" V\5‘.'”iI““° get‘ _ - ' ' I Visa is a registered tradeimrk olVlSA USA. Inc. and visA lntcnational I
261-7292 SEND THE coupon room; . I
\g275BeechAve.,Buenavisy YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING. L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _g

 

O

. i    
The Riggtum Phi, February 4, 1994 .

_ ho keeps the fraternity ouse in order?

BY KATHLEEN QUIRK
AND

JESSICA ANTONICH
of the Phi staff

At one time or another everyone catches a
limpse of a fraternity ’s housemother. But what
xactl are her responsibili-
es?‘ ow do such friendly

Delta house director Helen Starrett, “and I have
to keep everyone happy.”

Many of ihe housemothers feel they are
getting the best of both worlds. Lambda Chi
Alpha housemother Charlotte Moore said, “You
can act out your motherly instincts without
having to take responsibility. I’m sort of a
motherly friend.”

“They consider me their morn away from
home,” said Crouch. “They treat me really nice,
with a lot of respect—a lot of friendships have

developed. I have two grown
sons, and now I feel like I

dies fit into the fraternity
ene? Through interviews
ith six of the campus’
usemothers (or house di-
.ctors as some prefer to be
"- lled) the mystery sur-
uncﬁng thisjob has ﬁnally
en diminished.

According to Sigma Al-

ha Epsilon house director
atty Crouch, the first house-
iother hired in the
nivei'sity’s fraternity re-
. iSS‘lCC said, house directors first became
iandatory during this renaissance. Since SAE
'as one of the first to renovate, before students
.n uld move in they had to have a house director,
id Crouch.

House directors are seen as an important
cans of support, control and organization for
e h ses. Primary responsibilities of house

irectors include setting-up menus, overseeing
itchen staff and coordinating the maintenance
f the house.

Chi Psi house director Beverly Peters said,
I plan meals, order food and try to stay on top
f maintenance. And if they need guidance, I’m

ere or them.”
“lt s a management/ PRjob,” said Delta Tau

Thomas

have 70 more.”

Starrett and Peters also
talk proudly of their young
men. I

“We do have rules here,
and the fellas are following
them. I‘m very proud of
them. They have an awful lot
going for them,” said Starrett.

“They’re really nice, con-
siderate gentlemen,” said Pe-
ters. “They’re great to be
around.”

\ Pi Kappa Phi housemother Nancy Thomas
notes some of the motherly aspects of the job.
“Many times you have to remind them to hang
up their coats or take their basketball outside-
typical mother things,” she said.

How does one get the position of house-
mother? Starrett summed up the major qualifi-
cations for the job.

“I came from a strong business background,
but the prerequisite is that you have to have
been a mother.”

A highlight of Moore’s interview was when
asked what she would do if a woman was
leaving one ofthe brother’s rooms at 2 a.m., she
replied, “I ’d ask myselfwhat I was doing awake
at 2 am.”

Be

Photo by Betsy Green for the Ring-tu Pi in

Theta Pi Housemother Martha Haley manages to keep up with the

brothers’ antics through the thin walls of her apartment in the house.

PAGE 5

Poto by Betsy Green for th Ring-rum Phi

Sigma Alpha Epsilon housemother Patty Crouch was the first housemother hired underthe Fraternity
Renaissance program. She is pictured here with the SAE house piano, which is useful in calming things
around the house when they start to get out of control. The brothers play it in the evenings, said Crouch.

‘‘It keeps you young at
heart to be with the college-
age kids. I really enjoy
them,” said Peters.

Crouch agreed. “The best
part is working with young
people. It’s very rewarding
to hear from the students
later when they still keep in
touch.”

“It’s a most rewarding
position, just being on cam-

On making the switch Peters
said, “I like it — it’s a very
relaxed atmosphere. I think
youngwomen have entirely
different temperrnents than
young men.”

“It has been a major
change,” said Starrett. “I like
the boys much better; they’re
easier to get along with. No
girl wants to be too much like
her mother, so you get all

pus,” said Starrett. “The ’
perks that every house-
mother has — sporting
events, cultural events, everything is worth-
while.” -

When asked about the worst part of the job,

Beta Theta Pi’s .housemother.Martha, Haley.

immediately-responded it wasthe lack of sleep.
She explains that on party nights it is difficult to
get any sleep since her room happens to be
above the party room. “My walls are also very
thin —- maybe for a reason,” she said. That way
she says she can keep up with the brothers’
antics.

Moore said one of the worst parts of the job
is that it is rather confining. “You always need
to be there. You always have to be available.”

Both Starrett and Peters recently came from
sorority housemother positions at other schools.

Peters

' coming what she has seen at

these girls with conﬂicts with
their mothers and then throw
a housemother in there ——
things can get tense.”

- Starrett credits the Washington and Lee Fra-
ternity Renaissance for keep-

party, I go downstairs and see what the band is
wearing —— they’re always odd. I listen to the
band for a few minutes before I go upstairs.”

Housemothers, through their years of expe-
rience, also have some interesting stories to
recount. Starrett says that at a party not too long
ago she heard a stereo booming away down-
stairs. It was getting late so she started playing
the piano very loudly and within minutes ev-
erything was quiet. She told this to another
housemother who said, “I’m getting a piano.”

Haley tells of an interesting Christmas Week-
end Santa Claus freshman. She looked outside
to see an intoxicated Santa trying to play bas-
ketball without aball and playing Mary Poppins
with his umbrella.

The role of housemother is a rather impor-
tant one.

ing fraternities here from be-

other schools, “one big
mess.” She said she would
like to see similar programs
to preserve and overhaul
Greek systems in other
schools across the country.
The job of housemother,
however, is not all work.
Moore likes to dance at the
band parties. Peters agrees.
“When there’s a band

Starrett

“Although the responsi-
bilitiesofhousemothersvary
from house to house, we
mainly want to be liked and
respected,” Moore said.

Haley says that herjob is
certainly not for everyone.
Perhaps Pi Phi’s house-
mother Nancy Thomas sums
it up best when explaining a
badge she owns which reads,
“I’m smiling because I have
no idea what’s going on.”

Lost In The Supermarket rules campus music scene

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

1992 after his graduation. Drum-
mer Ted Dumas and guitar player
Christopher Holmes joined in June
1993. Holmes is aVW & L senior.
Dumas, who graduated from Uni-
versity of Connecticut and is in

Washington and Lee’s most famous rock band is ready
for bigger and better things.

Lost in the Supennarket is one of the few college bands
that survives graduation. After several lineup changes, Lost
in the Supermarket is ready to move beyond college cam-
pus9s and cover tunes.

Guitar player Dave Klabo, the sole remaining original
member, explained the group’s origin.

‘‘It all got started because the chapter of Amnesty
International here wanted to have a concert outside Lee
Chapel in the spring of ’88. It was a concert featuring bands
made up ofW & L students,” he said. A group of KA’s got
a bzﬁd together, but they needed a guitar player,” and Klabo
helped them out.

“We played for that Amnesty International concert.
Right afterwards, some PiKA’s came up and signed us.
They had us come back to their house later that night and we

played. That was our first professional gig.”
'I'he band decided on the name “Dost in the Supermar-

' et,7bthe title of an old Clash song. “The old lead singer was
ooking through his records for names and decided on that
ne,” said Klabo.

Bryan Patterson, a ’9l graduate, replaced the original
ead singer in 1990. The band settled in Charlottesville
c uring the summer of ’9l. Bassist Andrew Kellerjoined in

File Photo

Lost In The Supermarket band member
Andrew Keller, third from right, sang with
Southern Comfort while he was a student

here at W&L.
O

graduate school at the University
of Virginia, is the only band mem-
ber not to graduate from W & L.

“The more personnel changes
the band made, the more the band
rocked,” said Patterson.

After playing at W & L parties,
the band branched out and played
for other area schools. Lost in the
Supermarket played its first club
after two and a half years of play-
ing at parties.

‘‘It was kind of scary,” said
Klabo. “It’s different from frater-
nity parties. At clubs, you have to
get used to the fact that there may
not be lots of people there, but it’s
not your fault. They may not be as

friendly, either.” _
ine oano that started with a

handful of students has since re-
leased a self-titled compact disc,
which sold out, and a tape, “Ra-
dio,” which is on sale at the W
& L bookstore.

“We recorded ‘Radio’ this sum-
mer. It took us several months to
get it out,” said Patterson. ,

“The name ‘Radio’ came from
when we were in the studio,” ex-
plained Keller. “When we would
rewind the tape, it made the sound
of white noise...We thought if we could put the white noise
in between the song it would sound like switching radio
stations.”

Since its beginning, the band has increased its following,
playing at schools and clubs around the country from
Atlanta to New York City. Touring does have it’s low
points, however.

“The drive to Ohio sucks,” said Dumas.

Touring can at times prove difficult for Holmes, who is
still in school.

“It makes me organize my time better,” said Holmes. “It
hasn’t been too bad. [The other band members] help me out
a lot.”

W & L groupies will be disappointed with the band’s
recent decrease of local performances.

“As far as W & L, we’re not trying to avoid it, but we

Lost In The Supermarket, has been a
Patterson and Dave Klabo playing in the Generals’ Headquarters.

don’t want to play here as much as we did in the fall,” said
Patterson. “We love to play W & L," said Keller, “butthere’s
no point in saturating any market. I don’t necessarily mean
this on business terms. Peoplejust get tired of hearing us all
the time. But we’ve never turned down a gig here.”

Lost in the Supermarket will play at W & L during FD
weekend. The band is currently making the difficult transi-
tion from playing mostly parties to clubs.

“The norm in a club is to hear more originals, so it’s
easier to play,” said Patterson. “At a frat, you can play some,
but it’s expected that you play covers.” They cover main-
stream alternative songs, but not by choice.

“We don’t like to play cover songs. but we have to,” said
Patterson. “If it were possible, we’d play all originals.”

With the tape in the bookstore. the band hopes to get more
exposure for its originals. '

party favorite since 1991. Pictured from left to right are Bryan

File Photo
They now play more clubs than parties.

“You’re not going to be dying to hear our new material
if you don’t know it,” said Patterson.

Holmes explained the song writing process. “Generally,
somebody will come in with a whole song already written.
We’ll work out the ﬁner points. Everybody inputs into it, so
it’s more of the band’s than the individual’s.”

So far there are no deﬁnite plans for a new CD. For now,
the band keeps playing the club circuit.

“It would be nice to have our own record deal and be in
a more secure position,” said Patterson. _

“I’d love to be doing this, for more people, playing all
original music, and making a lot more money,” said Keller.
“Notthat money’s important. I’d rather be makingjust good
music.”

The others have more lofty aspirations.

“We want U2 opening for us.”

    

PAGE 6

Superdance rocks Pavilion

David Allan Coe headlines the show

By HlLLARY OLSON
Phi Asistant Features Editor

front of the Co-op and at Night Owl Music beginning
Wednesday. All tickets cost $10, and as usual, positive
identiﬁcation is required at the beer garden.

W&LIF E

  

0
The Ring-tum Phi, February 4,1994

Country singer David Allan Coe will highlight the17th
annual Washington and Lee Superdance, sponsored nation-
wide by the Muscular Dystrophy Association, this Saturday
at the Student Pavilion. Doors will open at 8 pm.

This singer of “You Never Even Called Me By My
Name,” his first big hit, and “Take This Job and Shove It,’’
is now 52 and has been without a major record label for
nearly five years. He said, however, “We have a wide range
of an audience, doctors and lawyers and college kids. We’re
getting a lot of younger kids these days.”

Back in the late 1960’s at the beginning of his singing
career, Coe used to perform on stage as a masked man. He
called himself the Mysterious Rhinestone Cowboy and his
real name was unknown. “Nobody knew what I looked like,
but what I looked like didn’t matter. It was the music that
counted,” he said.

Coe ﬁnally removed his mask for the first time after
about two years, while performing with his friend Willie
Nelson.

Coe claims 43 albums to his name, and estimates he has
appeared on about 74.

Coe has made appearances in several movies, including
“Stagecoach” and “The Last Days of Frank and Jesse
James” with Willie Nelson, Johnny Cash and Kris
Kristofferson.

He also appeared as himself in several low-budget mov-
ies on the life of Elvis Presley including “The Living
Legend” and “Lady Grey.”

Commenting on his hell-raising image of long ago, Coe
said, “One, l’ve never been a drinker. I have taken a few
drinks in life, but I don’t drink at all now. l’ve never been a
dope user. When I first started in country music, 1 had long
hair and a beard.”

Coe believes he has made an historical impact on country
music. “I think a lot of people today in country music have
been influenced by David Allan Coe,” he said.

Senior Joanna Love, one of the major organizers of this
Superdance, said the monetary goal for the evening is “is to
raise as much money as we possibly can. If we raise over
$20,000, we will be recognized at the next MDA telethon.”

Love said locals from Buena Vista and surrounding areas
have already called to see about ordering tickets. She said
she would be very surprised if the concert sold out, but pre-
sales will ensure W&L students tickets if they want them.
The Pavilion, with a beer garden, has a 1500 person limit,
she said. ’

Webb Wilder will open for Coe. Tickets will be sold in

 

D

with special guest  M

David Allan Coe, a country and musical
rebel, will perform for Superdance on
Saturday at the Pavilion. Coe wrote “’I‘ake
This Job and Shove It.”

Webb Wilder will
open for David A
Allan Coe at the
Pavilion this
weekend for
Superdance.
Proceeds will
benefit Muscular
Dystrophy
Association.
Tickets are
available at the
door or by
presale at the
Co-op or Night
Owl Music in
Lexington.

 

The Haunting of Lenfest begins tonight

Noel Coward's Blithe Spirit, a whimsical, improbable farce of sophisticated wit and
supernatural effects about novelist Charles Condomine whose second marriage is
troubled by the ghost of his first wife. The show runs from tonight until Feb. 10.
Tickets are available at the Lenfest Center box office at (703) 463-8000.

publicity photo

On January 15, 1944 The Columns reported that the
University would be offering to the freshman class of
1944 a quarterly system, which included a six-week
summer session. The new system would also offer gradu-
ation in three years if a student decide to attend the
University only taking the week break at the end of every
quarter, totaling 183 quarter hours.

On January 17, 1969 the Phi ’s .top story was the W&L
basketball team and their win over Navy and their loss to
Florida Presbyterian. W&L’s win over Navy was the first
since 1936. W&L was 12-3, losing only to Randolph-
Macon, Baltimore, and Florida Presbyterian. '

For The W&L Record

Compiled by JAY WHITE of the Phi Staff‘

On January 26, 1984, the Phi demonstrated the W&L
student body’s reaction to coeducation. With 59 percent
of the 798 undergraduate student body voting, 61.3
percent were opposed to coeducation while 36.3 percent 0
said that they would favor it.

On January 19, 1989 the Phi’s top story was the
annual report of the Registrar. The University’s enroll-
ment increased 3.5 percent to 1,990. The report said 67
percent of all undergraduate grades were either an A or
a B, while failing grades accounted for 2.4 percent, a 24— 9
year low. Chinese provided the most A+’s, 28.1 percent,
Russian gave out F’s 10 percent of the time.

 

MPDA Su

perdance

presents

 

{ZOE

Saturday,

W

Dﬁors

Beer

Advance

3

Garden

&L Stude

Open

P

0 S

salesF 1

nd

1'

NightOw.l

February

nt

at

00 p

D

10

day at th

Music

V I B   A,  L  A

Pavilion

B

 

I11

10

requ

Co 0

 

 

O

The Ring-tum Phi, February 4,1994 W  ' PAGE 7

off the mark by Mark Parisi

RATS; I SPLASHED WATER on Piuggers by JeffMa°N¢11y

MY PANTS.’ PEOPLE WILL ‘l}llNl< I... /liiléill ‘
OH, WEl_L...TLL'JUST LAY LOLJ UNTIL ..

    
    

   
   
 
      
    
 
      
 
 
    
      
     

;.—ANO w£'u. §PLiT 

1 we "§3"—90FF PAKT"

_ WHAT'S rue Bic.
\ ' DEAL 2/ Just TELL
ii ‘. -.  2 »Y0ul1 Boss You . X
 ‘r  »_ 6 ‘ ~  oar LOST.’ g
V / \i ,‘ I”,

   

o 2994 ‘lnliunn Mnaia soevims. Inc /rviirwms, inc
1.:

Butt mu. 4.: myiu r...~.:i"’ “‘
“#90 “dill SIIVCII, IIIC

You're a. plwgger if your country has 2.

20 Social insect
21 Attention-getter
22 Cleared the tape

BY

24 Like some teas

©"77/ 444?/(34217//' Winter Olympics team but no winter. is
o 
Colonnade Crossword ’
ACROSS 1 2 "
_ lieu To TELL 11'; DEFINITELY 
1 Robert De -

 NON llllllllll Eire rotate W cm 
.15 Aroma ‘Z
16 Christmas %
17 Game of hare 3 . r_
and hounds. 

19 Advertising light ﬁ‘~'
-.3

3‘

1%

  

 
     
  

 

025 Bridge coup --
26 -— Lloyd . 
Webber __
‘29 Pretentious Z 5 \Vll.=."=
language
33 Uncovered
34 Wharves
35 Period of
note
.36 Surrounded by
37 House feature
38 H1e;1s Sonny in 
“ e
G0df3lh8T" © 4 Tribune Media Services, Inc.  K 
39 Spelling -— I Rights Reserved  
40 sanctum or Last week’s puzzle solved
circle 7 Sewing line 
41 Fountain treats 8 Nav. off. 7
_ 42 Varied 9 Pittsburgh team 
I 44 Head protection 10 Energetic one
45 Twine 11 is sorry
46 Wander 12 Succulent plant
47 Secret 13 Repair
50 A Connery 18 Tore
51 TV alien 23 Charlie Brown
54 Dove sounds expletive
55 Powerhouse in 24 Enraged in
58 :§;’i';f;n°Q'.V_  2§§’,2aﬂ°“‘  rue IT'S A _ = HE'S THE our wuo
‘ 59 Ring stones 27 Nominates ‘ *1 ‘5 RALPH LAUREN’ DESIGN LOOKS Ml 
so Neck hair 28 Wipes l  FAMlllAR- ’
61 Declare untrue 29 Split .
62 Verb form 30 Kingdom
6 63 Urge 31 Miffed
32 Biblical verb
DOWN 34 Like windows

1 Cal. wine valley 37 Warehouse
2 Persian Gulf 38 Serene

me r.~.i.r.r Menu 5(.’\r:Cts :.-.-. Ali P..;:l< iuervu

. country 40 Press 47 Made high 51 Lab gel
3 Fascinated 41 intended marks 52 Comic Jay
4 Grand ——- Opry 43 Playwright Sean 48 Memory 52 A Flintstone
5 Shun 44 Raspy 49 Cereal plant 5 Simian
6 Yearned 46 Film spools 50 Bridge 57 Rascal   1_

 

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination.
Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only.
Within walking distance from campus.
Call 463-3835.

1994 Miss All-American
Teen D.C. Pageant-

Come and join the fun and
excitement;
Teens between 14 and 19 years of

gmég '4

Peazfawzemc

* ii...-'-=}.m

    
  

 
 

,'{_..

LL "*4,"-3
,..:,¥'m;a‘,\\' IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 
   

» /N ~ I” E . :
Saturday Moming- All  Can Eat/Pancakes : Part Tlme  Wanted 5 age°_ You may have the Change to
Dally Specia1s- 24 Hour—A-Day Breakfast : . - win: $5000 and scholarship
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites . Wgrk appmxlmately 20 hrs- per Week : In 1 Id 11 ﬁn _
" Brgakfast Buffet :Opportunity to earn $400 — $800 per month starting: Oney’ a . go Cnfw g
Friday and Saturday Nights 11p_m_- 4 am, : immediately — College Students Welcome ' For more lnformatlon Ca“
r Sunday 9 a.m.- 2 p.m. I C 1] 463.1676 : _ _ _
Rt. 11 North 463-3478 Open 24 Hours 2 ‘ 3 I -_- 1 .800 887 7008
- ’ H i  6 Girl looking for snowjob. Are you the one? Meet me at
_} 6 __ g pi "—--i S V c£:lEi1‘Zl'il:,e1i‘n81z}l:ole_ h d Massanutten! There’s more snowmaking, and more
_ . .   pe ’Furnit7t§*e &$r1;;:i1§S 6 night skiing for those very, very romantic evenings on
‘19 S. Randolph St. the slopes.
V \ LGXII1 ton, VA 5163-2742
is  ,2 fewiLocaja_ion.'
an  6    Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee
E‘   CEIIIET
,_ex,ngmn,wf 9 - Counselors for Summer Scholars June 29 - July 31, 1994
463-9800
Summer Scholars is a four-week program for 100 rising high school senoirs.
I,   Each counselor serves as a resident advisor for 10 students in Graham-Lees
,3 _ orrnitory. .
Comic Books - Buy 5 get a 4th FREE 3 /
, - Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 13 - August 2
sections e A      
V The Office of Special Pro ams em 10 s 4 W&L students to se
a 1 -g‘~ 1”. .—”“S
western   ~ lC1:(())s1tls/hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni
R t - » eges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities
en 3 super nlntendo or Sega games for only management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation.
$6.00 re ulairl $7.50.
3 ’ g ' y Application deadline, February 28,1993.
Rent 3 regular mntendo $3.00.
Open M0n__Thm_s_ lo a_m_10 p_m__ Fri gl sat 1oa_m__u pm’ glzruggnltigaiggggmation, please contact Office of the Special Programs, Howard
Sun. Noon-10 p.m. ’ .
l"

 

 

PAGE 8

    

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

The real W&L

community

This week three Washington and Lee students had their
house burn down and another student contracted an infection
that could kill him. Both of these situations are the kinds of
things which happen suddenly and completely disrupt lives.
They may not be as devastating to an entire community as the
earthquakes in Los Angeles, but often they have the same
effect. Members of the W&L community are going to rally
around their friends who have become victims of the abso-
lutely unexpectable.

The situtation revolving around Tyler Duvall’s illness has
caused many students to realize how closely our lives over-
lap. Even if you do not know Tyler, you may have been
affected by his illness. Most of us, if not all, know someone
who has had to receive preventative ntibiotic treatments. If
you sit down and think about it, it’s eerie how something that
has happened to someone you don’t know can affect your life.

If anything can be learned from these events, it’s how
important it is for us to realize we are a community in every
sense of the word. But sometimes we function more as
individuals without regard to the larger social organization.
This is where the roots of our apathy can be found. When we
believe we are only individuals and not members of a group
it’s easy to say, “if I don’t do this, it won’t matter to anyone
but me.”

Hopefully, Tyler has shown us how much what happens to
us and what we do can affect others in the community.

The mail snail
strikes again

Once again we are at the point in the year when the Post
Office decides it’s not necessary for them to do their jobs in
any semblence of a timely fashion.

Plenty of students are complaining about how long it’s
taking their mail to get here or go somewhere else. The Post
Office is the epitome of everything negative we have come to
expect from bureaucracies. Every time they raise the price of
a stamp they tell us how much it will improve our service.
Yeah, and next month the Brooklyn Bridge is going on sale
for just $19.95. Do they think all of us are ignoramuses?

Well, if it’s any consolation, we’_ve,had a few ,pro_blem_s, __ ._

with the Post Office ourselves. We don’t know how to fixthe
situation, but we figure there’s only one answer; call to
complain over and over again. Seriously, call the Lexington
Postmaster, call the folks over at Charlottesville, since all our
mail goes through there. Hey, why stop there? Call the federal
government. If enough people complain often enough they
might actually do something.

Maybe it’s all a pipe dream, but we won’t ever know unless
we try. After all, mail should not take as long to get from here
to Texas as it does to go to Beijing and back.

Quotes of the Week:

“Nothing is true just because you believe it to be, and nothing
is true just because you feel good about it.”

—Professor Louis Hodges applies the “John Stuart Mill
Test” to refute the personal philosophies of Peter Pan

“Friends don’t let friends do 90210.”

———a message board in Gaines

..
J‘

Ellis Ewing-him lﬂlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . L . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Hillary Olson

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

_ Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

1~ Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

 Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

H Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

5 Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at

if Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi

comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee

= Publications Board elects the executive editorand business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
'_ is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University

 Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My

 Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does

A: not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observescurrenl
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
. Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

9

The Rigg-tum Phi, February 4, 1994

 
  
      

39:15,’ THEY M051’
Wt SPEIJT

or Mot-IEY ONAIW
SAY, D065 W D
KINDA Fort»! t
t-intro

  

  

Don’t vote for North’s opportunism

Last Thursday Lt. Col. Oliver North entered the
race for Virginia’s United States Senate Seat. This
action ended over a year of speculation by observers
that North was preparing to run for political office.

Now the questions turn to his
chances of both winning the
nomination of his party and

the seat itself, presently held
by Democrat Chuck Robb.
North has already at-
tracted heavy criticism from
members of his own. party .
for entering the race. The
GOP is rightly concerned that

 

PATRICK
McDERMorr'r
’94 I

North’s background and ex-
treme views have the poten-

tial of severely damaging the credibility of the party
as a whole, much like the candidacy of David Duke
(former grand wizard in the Ku Klux Klan) for gover-
nor of Louisiana. Both David Duke and Oliver North
carry the kind of baggage any party, especially one
that is seeking to recapture the White House, would be

more than eager to avoid.

Without going into the complexities that surround
his case, North served as a key member of and was
indicted for his involvement in the Reagan
Administration’s lran Contra Scandal. He has openly
admitted his role in the illegal diversion offunds, from
the sale of arms to Iran to the Contras of Nicaragua.
North also admits later lying to Congress when ques-

tioned about the situation.

All ofthis hurled the former Marine into the media
spotlight, gripping the nation with days oflive nation-
ally broadcast hearings before a special congressional
committee. Since that time, North has found a new
home for himselfas the darling ofthe ultra-right wing
of the Republican Party, touring the country giving
speeches and forming a coalition of support. Now he

wants to be a United States senator.

In an intriguing twist to North’s announcement,
conservatives have been mounting an impressive
effort to ensure his defeat in the Republican primary.
John Warner, Republican Senator from Virginia and

considerable economic
base (he has already
raised well over $2
million) and his fright-
ening level of support
from the ultra-right
wing ofthe GOP, he is
positioned for a win, at
the very least, on the
primary level. This
should be a disturbing
realization both to citi-
zensofthisstate aswell
as to those of us who
are “just visiting.” Af-
ter all, if North were to
win the Senate race, his

American citizen.

W&L Class of 1949, railed against North last week,
calling him a “criminal” and noting that the only
reason his conviction on the charge of “lying to
Congress” was overturned was because of a “techni-
cality.” Additionally, con-
servativesineditorialsacross
the. state have denounced
North as being unfit for the
office he seeks. Matthew
Franck, a Fellow with the
Conservative “think-tank,”
The Heritage Foundation,
decries North as, “a political
privateer who proﬁteered. . .a
deceiver...(a) muddle headed
intelligenceoperative...(and)
a coward.” Not exactly ringing endorsements from
two fellow conservatives.

An editorial I recently read warned readers to
beware a candidate whose slogan seems to be “Vote
for Me — My Convictions Were Overturned.” And
yet, political analysts tell us that due to Mr. North’s

is seeking an office.

the reasonable members of the Grand Old Party see .
Mr. North much as I do, not as the voice of their
party but as a political opportunist. I have faith that
they realize as I do that anyone who has shown such
a blatant disregard for the laws and Constitution of
this country has no business serving as a United
States Senator. I have faith that they will not even
allow him to move into the general election, but,
will instead cast their votes for Jim Miller, who can
at least take pride in the fact that he has never been
convicted of lying to the very institution in which he

Perhaps it is a sad example of our media domi-
nated society that two people can be seeking to
represent their country in the same week and have
such totally different outcomes, despite their situa-
tions being remarkably similar. We have all watched

with dismay and horror (and a little annoyance at

the repetition of our media) as the Tonya Harding
scandal has unfolded this week. Ms. Harding has
not even been charged with a crime, and yet her
chances of skating for her country in the Olympics

seem slim. Americans

decisions would have an effect on the lives of every

Despite this possibility, I remain optimistic. Al-
though I am a “die-hard” Democrat, l have faith that

Although I am a “die-har ”
Democrat, I have faith that the
reasonable members of the Grand
Old Party see Mr. North much as I
do, not as the voice of their party
but as a political opportunist.

are rightly outraged at
the fact that she was,
in any way, involved
in a criminal action
and now seeks to wear
our flag in the Olym-
pics. Pollsters have re-
soundingly reported
the feelings of the na-
tion that Ms. Harding
does not belong on the
Olympic Team. And
yet Mr. North, a con-
victed criminal, is hav-
ing relative success in
the early stages of his

run for the United States Senate.

I cannot help but wonder if Tonya might be

considering giving it all up and running for the U.S.
Senate, after all, it seems to be working for Ollie.

Smoke-In to protect our rights

There is a certain group in the
United States that is the victim of
unjust discrimination: that group
is smokers.

Nationwide smokers have been

The question has still not been an-
swered: why are smokers given the cold
shoulder nationwide? The only reason I
can think of is that it is bad for them. As
if smokers don’t realize that smoking,

 

thrown out of even when
airplanes, res- they Started,
taurants, and was bad for
offices; and them. This,
before you C'F' notwithstand-
non-smokers KUCERA, mg, political
cheer, think , correctness
about if some 97 has become
other group the rule ofthe
was barred dayandsmok—

from hundreds

of establishments, simply because
of their lifestyle, a lifestyle that
includes smoking.

What has spurred this backlash
against smokers? Certainly with non-
smoking sections there is no serious
health risk. So what else could cause
such a public outcry to stop smoking
nearly everywhere?

The most recent rally—cry for the
non-smoking advocates is the immi-
nent danger posed by second—hand
smoke. For the sake of argument, let
us suppose that second-hand smoke is
the greatest danger posed to the West-
ern world (though its health impact
has not been conclusively proven): so
what? That is part of the reason non-
smoking sections were established.
For non-smokers the smell can be
offensive. Smokers are constantly rel-
egated to the proverbial “back of the
bus;” if only Rosa Parks smoked.

ing doesn’t fit
into the acceptable behavior handbook;
thus, according to the health Nazis,
smoking must be stamped out. These
people have taken it upon themselves to
deem for us what is health and what is
not, and once that decision is made, that
which is not must be stopped at all costs.

Forquite awhile W&Lstudents were
safe from this health persecution. This
may not be the case any longer though.
Last week, as reported in The Ring-
tum Phi, a recommendation was sent
from the Student Health Committee to
the ‘Student Affairs Committee to
change the smoking policy in campus
eateries. The biggest impact of this
proposal will be the complete ban on
smoking in the Co-op.

If passed. this ban will not only be
unjust, but perhaps even more impor-
tantly, will completely change the at-
mosphere of the Co-op from one where

‘ the air, though filled sometimes with

smoke, is clear with the freedom to live
one’s life the way one wishes to one
where the air is filled with subjugation
of the Student Health Committee.
This proposal was spurred by a pe-
tition signed by 70 law students. This
hardly represents the whole W&Lcom—
munity; besides that, how often does
one see law students in the Co-op? The
plan is then backed-up by a survey
conducted in November. I personally
don’t remember such a survey, and I
wonder how scientiﬁc it is, and what
the response rate was? Consid-
ering the success
of surveys at
W&L, I doubt the
findings represent

time to contract lung cancer from sec-
ond-hand smoke. The proposed ban
then isclearly a measure aimed at bring-
ing political correctness to W&L and
imposing the will of a select group
which seems to know much more about
what is good for me than I do. it’s time
to stop the paternalistic attitude of the

‘ Student Health Committee.

So the question comes down to who
is with us and who is against us? Those
who are not in favor of protecting the
rights of smokers on the Washington
and Lee campus are against us. This is
a campus which
places a high
value on personal
and intellectual

9

the whole of freedom. Let us
w&LvS opinion The proposed ban then not let {hag slip
Let us look at is clearlyameasure aimed from °Urﬁngers-
the realit of the - - - - . lnthe interest
C0_OpSmf’aﬁ0nf0r at bringing political cor- Ofpersonal free_
amoment.There is I'€CtTl€SS t0  IVS time dom I Urge all
3 "°"'S‘“°k‘“g to stop the paternalistic at- W&L S‘“d°"‘S’ ‘
section in the Co- . Whether you
0p,]a1-geen0ugh,[ tltude Of the Student smokecjgaj-cues’

would think, to ac-
commodate the

students who abso-
lutely detest
smoke.

The length ofany one trip to the Co-
op rarely exceeds 30 minutes. The C0-
op is not a full-service restaurant; stu-
dents go in to grab a soda and a sand-
wich or a bag of chips. This length of
time, even over a four to five year
tenure at W&L, is not nearly enough

Health Committee.

cigars, pipes, or
nothing at all, to
join the Smoke-
ln today in the
Co-op. This
project, led by Donald J. Skelly, Jr.,
will demonstrate that W&L students
do not want a band on smoking in the
Co-op.

The Smoke-ln will begin this
afternoon at 4 and end when smoking
will not.

 

    

  

0

‘he Ring-tum Phi, February 4,

1994

   
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
    
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
 

Pos’ SPACE
‘ Tom Hespos

- Just when you thought it was safe
~ throw a random Saturday night
ind party...

Two weeks ago, Spos outlined the

ivarﬂages of having a single, cohe-
ve Greek system with free beer for
1. Last weekend, free beer and asense
unity among the fraternities at Delta
au Delta’s Mekong Delt party were
aquestionably advanced to the fullest
gree. If we could have only done
meghing about those Lexington Po-
ce officers.
Lost in the Supermarket played un-
I about 2:30 a.m. That was when the
en in blue decided to make their
pearance to shut the party down and
ake the usual arrests for D.l.P. and
.l.P,— you know the routine. But it
idn’t stop there.

Officer F.W. Smith decided that he
idn’t particularly like Delt’s taste in
arty-room decor (yellow cinderblock
centuated by hanging road signs). In
ny case, the fuzz came in and conﬁs-
ated a bunch of traffic signs that had
een.procured” by Delt pledges be-
re Spos even decided to come to
' &L. The cache of signs included one
at prominently displayed “Southern
eminary Junior College” in attractive
flective letters. For obvious rea-

sons, this is a collector’s item and can-
not be replaced.

As Spos understands it, several other
fraternities on campus have had to deal
with the same embarrassing situation
— having their old road signs pilfered
(or re—pi1fered, as the case may be) by
the local law enforcement. This prac-

“offending” fraternity.

This purpose was evidently sewed,
as several of the partygoers report-
edly heard F.W. Smith exclaim
“Woo Hoo! We got ’em!!!” as he was
leaving the party. Thanks, F.W. —
from the bottom of Spos’ heart. As
a token of my undying gratitude,

tice is nothing F-W- Smith, 1
short of fascist hereby bestow
B.S. and j?"-"  -——:— upon you the
should not be official “Spos’
tolerated Several other fraterni- Space lfgn0r:-

“But S os,” - mus 0 t e
you are grob- tles on campus have  Month Awar .”
ably asking to deal with havmgthezr Congratulations,

yourself, “isn’t
stealing road
signs aviolation
of the Honor
System?”

The answer
to the above
question is a re-
sounding “yes.”
However, the
signs taken from
Delt were sev-
eral years old,
having been. swiped by Delt alumni at
some point in their undergraduate ca-
reers.

The point is this: once the signs
have been taken and have been
serving as decorations for years on
end, the only purpose served by
confiscating them is to tick off the

 
   
    
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
    
   
 
    
    
     
    
   
  
    
    
  

V 0 the editor:

nwanted children — in fact, Catholic

regnant women.

hoice to have a child easier to make.

" o the editor:

Sincere appreciation and thanks are
-xtended to all who participated in the
' 994 Lip Synch Contest.

To the members ofthe 25 acts who
)erformcd, the student volunteers who
avorkzd security, made decorations,
_ orked concessions, provided public-
ty, worked the spotlight and acted as
oster child — thank you.

Thanks to the judges who hung in

I ﬂould like to respond to Ms. Clarke’s opinions
xpressed in last week’s column because I believe
1 at some of her ideas were misinformed, and some
ere arguments without any basis in fact.

She states that Pro-Lifers are not looking after

oanoke has a backlog of couples who are trying to
.dopIchildren. Part of the frustration in the adoption
rocess as regulated by the federal government is the
ed-tape and waiting period for childless couples.
4 hen the private sector is involved, the process is
treamlined, and couples are put in contact with

The adoptive couple is able, as much as possible,
o assist a woman financially and emotionally, through-
ut the pregnancy. Any mother giving her child away
‘an be comforted knowing that her child will find a
ving and caring home. The real problem is that
tpinions like Ms. Clarke’s are given more attention
han the reality of an organization trying to allow the

Ngrturing Network is another alternative to abor-
ion. Any pregnant woman, who wishes to carry her
regnancy to term, will be financially, emotionally,
nd medically supported until the birth of her child.
f. Patrick’s Church in Lexington, for example, hosted
t woman two years ago —- she was given a home to
ive in, a temporary job, doctor’s examinations and
)re- A tal care until she gave birth and gave the child
0 Catholic Charities’ Adoptive Services.

To give another example, ifa W&L woman found
erself pregnant, wanted to give her child up for
doption, did not want to remain in Lexington, and

Charities in

American community.

1960]:949).

there duringalong evening, to Randolf
Hare, Bobby Davis and theircrew from
B&G, to Mike Young and his security
staff, Bob Dunlap and his conces-
sions staff and certainly the enthusias-
tic spectators who came out in droves,
we couldn’t have succeeded without
all of you.

Greg Lynch filmed the show and
will soon have tapes available for sale,
with all proceeds going to RARA/MS.

old road signs pilfered
(or re-pilfered, as the
case may be) by the local
law enforcement. This
practice is nothing short
of fascist B.S. and should
not be tolerated.

LETTERS

Rethink the consequences of Roe v. Wade

wanted to continue her education, arrangements are
already in place for her to transfer to Davidson Col-
lege until she feels capable of returning to Lexington.

“Choice” is a word used repeatedly in the discus-
sion of abortion, and there are two: to choose life or
death, blessing or curse. (Dt. 30:19)
individual’s right to choose what to do with their
bodies, as Roe v. Wade and others proclaim, then I
don’t for the life of me, understand how the public
should have to pay for the individual’s choice, which
is the logic being considered in the Clinton health
plan. When abortion is used as a birth control method,
to eliminate an inconvenient pregnancy, or because
amniocentesis indicates the presence of XY chromo-
somes, such a decision affects all aspects of the

There are no statistics regarding the number of
deaths which had resulted from back-alley abortions
prior to Roe v. Wade. For decades priorto its legaliza-
tion, “90%-of abortions were done by physicians in
their offices” (American Journal of Health 50 [July

Because the procedure was illegal, doctors didn’t
report deaths from abortion. Statistics are also mis-
leading today because women continue to die from
abortion — maybe they don’t die “on the table,” but
some do die from hemorrhages, hepatitis, and other
complications which result from the operation. There
are suppositions and fantasies that many women
would die as a result of tighter restrictions on the
availability of abortions, but that has not proven true
in Pennsylvania, for example, in which the Casey
decision was significantly restrained.

One factor which really has not been given much

big guy.

1 Now that the
road sign issue
is out of the
way, we can talk
about the pleas-
ant details of
Mekong Delt:

Top Ten
Cool? Things
That Happened
Last Weekend:

1) Teemu
Selanne of the Winnipeg Jets tore up
his Achilles tendon and won’t be play-
ing hockey for a while. Actually, this
isn’t funny and it didn’t happen last
weekend, but it’s worthy of mention.

2) Spos jammed with Last in the
Supermarket.

3) LI TSM guitarist Chris Holmes, in

L‘ ‘ex cops cap off a great weekend

PAGE 9

a questionable state of mind at the time,
left his very expensive Les Paul on the
stage after the party. This was quickly
whisked upstairs.

(Chris — come by anytime after
5 to pick it up. Don’t worry —
it’s safe.)

4) Girls from Mary Baldwin drank
something Spos concocted known as
“Agent Orange punch.” People keep
asking me what I put in it, but l’ll never
tell. (Heh-heh)

5) One fraternity brother threw up
on his bed and decided to sleep in the
mess after throwing some clothes on
top of it.

6) Another passed out on the toilet
and had to be carried to bed after an
impromptu photography session. M

7) Mark Van Deusen was there.

8) One Delt dressed completely in
black and covered himself so thor-
oughly in camouflage makeup that
when standing in the darkness, he
could be identified only by the glow of
his cigarette.

9) Spos went to Lee-Hi at 3 a.m.
with some of his fellow Phi editors and
another friend,just for the unparalleled
experience of the $4.99 Cholesterol
Buffet Special.

10) A 31-year-old captain from VMI
got hauled off for public drunkenness.
(Actually,'this isn’t cool, but it’s damn
funny.)

Until next time, may yourbeer never
go ﬂat.

If it is an

the U.S.

media or local attention is the emotional health of a
woman afterthe abortion, or “post—abortion trauma.”
There are many carrying the baggage of emotional
scars as a result of aborting a child -— somewhere
deep in their conscience, the reality about the pro-
cedure of the suction, scraping or other abortive
techniques can be profoundly disturbing. Last
year, a week after an abortion, a fine young woman
called me in tears and cried, “What did I do to my
baby?!” Despite my attempts at consolation, she is
still upset when she sees babies on commercials or
in movies. Women Exploited By Abortion (WEBA)
has 30,000 members in more than 200 chapters in

Project Rachel is another therapeutic group, and

is located in Roanoke. If abortion is only a medical

procedure, like a root canal or a tonsillectomy, I
wonder why there are no ongoing support groups
for those “surgery survivors?” Could it be that
abortion takes a toll on women. that other surgeries
do not? Could it be that other surgeries do not stop

a beating heart?

MC John Turner was great, kept the
show moving along as well as kept the
crowd ﬁred up.

Most importantly, however, “put
your hands together” for 1994 Lip Synch
Chair Beth Provenzana and her com-
mittee of Lawson Brice and Kit Dodds.

These folks worked diligently, be-
ginning last spring, in planning this

'year’s event.

The show went off absolutely with-

 

Interviews and Photos
By Betsy Green

Sincerely,
William C. “Burr” Datz', ’75
Catholic Campus Minister

TALKBACK

 

Abortion is too often presented as a quick fix to
an inconvenient situation — the real problem with
much of our modern society is the difficulty we
have with the consequences of some of our deci-
sions. Abortion is a tragedy and a national disgrace.
It is time that we face up to reality, statistics and
facts, and reconsider the far—reaching implications
of Roe v.‘ Wade.

, SAMS advisor thanks Lip Synch volunteers

out a hitch, due in no small part to their
efforts. Everybody had a great time.

All proceeds will be donated to the
Rockbridge Area Relief Association
(RARA) and the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society.

Sincerely,
Jerry Darrell
SAMS Advisor

Manager

Needed ASAP: Manager for the
1994 Women’s Lacrosse Team. If
interested, please contact Jan
Hathorn at ext. 8668 or Sue Behme
at ext. 8679.

Alumni

Applications from members of
the class of 1994 who wish to be
considered for the Alumni Staff
Associate position for the 1994-95
academic year are due by Monday,
Feb. 28. Graduating seniors should
submit a letter of application and
resume to Alumni Secretary Jim
Farrar at the Alumni House. The
Staff Associate position becomes
available July 1, 1994. Personal in-
terviews will be scheduled upon
receipt of applications.

Pictures

Seniors: You can still sign up for
senior pictures for The Calyx! Si gn-
up sheets are in front of Carol
Calkins office in the University
Center. Any questions? Call The
Calyx office at 464-4046.

Ariel

The Ariel literary magazine is
now accepting submissions for the
1994 issue. Literary submissions
may be dropped off in envelopes in
Payne Hall, the Leybum Library
and the University Center. Any vi-
sual art submissions should be left
forTemple Cone, c/o Carol Caulkins
in the University Center. Deadline
for submissions is March 11.

 

Kathekon

Applications for Kathekon will
be available in front of Carol
Caulkins’ office in the University
Center beginning Monday, Feb. 7.
All rising juniors and seniors are
encouraged to submit an applica-
tion and sign up for an interview.
Deadline forturningin applications
is March 1. Interviews will be held
March 8-10. For more information,
pick up a packet in the University
Center.

Support

A confidential counseling/sup-
port group for women students with
eating and/or compulsive exercise
problems will meet on Tuesday af-
ternoons beginning Feb. 8. Call the
Counseling Service at ext. 8590 or
the Health Center at ext. 8401 to
sign up and receive additional in-
formation.

Ride

Goingto Columbia, South Caro-
lina on Feb. 10 or 11? Call Ralf
Thiele at 462-4713. Will pay for
gas.

Leaders

Sponsors of a national leader-
ship conference to be held in Wash-
ington, D.C. are seeking outstand-
ing women to participate in the
1994 “Women as Leaders” pro-
gram. Women students may call
(800)486-8921 for information on
availability of applications. The
deadlineforsubmittingapplications
is Feb. 15,

letter of apology.

4) Conduct probation.

Student Body Notice

The Student Conduct Committee found a male senior in violation of
_ university standardsfot making threateningphone calls‘.t'o the fraternity
house mother and general disorderly conduct for urinating on the door of
another fraternity house. The following sanctions were imposed:
1) $25 ﬁne for not showing up to the original hearing.
2) 25 hours of community service for the phone call as well as a formal

3) $25 fine and 6 hours of community service for urinating on the
fraternity house, as well as a formal letter of apology to the fraternity.

, Coeducation Review
Committee seeks ideas,

To the editor:

The Coeducation Review Commit-
tee requests for the third (and last) time
comments about problems or concerns
related to coeducating and ideas for
improving the environment on
campus.

If you have had experiences that
you think should be known, or if you
have concerns that you would like con-
sidered, PLEASE send your signed (or
anonymous) comments to: Prof. Nancy

Margand, Dept. of Psychologyy

nmargand@wlu.edu; Prof. Tom Will-
iams, Dept. of Physics:
williams.ht@wlu.edu; or Dan Felton,
’95, 464-5297: dfelton@wlu.edu.

The committee is looking at admis-
sions issues, campus life, athletics, aca-
demic programs, and faculty and staff
issues.

Please remember, if you do not share
your ideas, they may not be repre-
sented by others. Thank you.

The Coeducation Review Committee

Layout By
Joe Framptom 

What qualities would you like your first
  Fancy Dress date to have‘?

Steven Frame, ’97, Atlanta, Ga. —
“Somebody who can spit farther than

I can.”

 

 

anything.”

 

Kaj Kirkman,’97,Greensboro,N.C. Roderick Carmody, ’97, Tampa,
— “Physically attractive and muscu-
lar, but he doesn’t have to be Arnold or

New Orleans, Chi-O.”

Fla. —“Blonde hair, green eyes, from

up on the dance floor.”

 

Alison Simmons, ’97, Memphis,
Tenn. — “A hot stud who can shake it

attractive.”

 

Joel Symonds, ’97, Princeton,
W. Va. —“She should be fun and

half a week.”

gr

 

Amy Jones, ’97, Richmond, Va. 
“Someone who’s fun to be around for‘;

9

SP The Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1994. .

 Hamsieerer 
Standings as of 01/31/94 A A . ‘
Leading Scorers I  _

    

PAGE 10

Leading Scorers

  

  
 
 
 
  
  
   

 

   

Player Pts P

Player P“ P Vir ‘n’ Y 151 18%

Cam Dyer 258 15% san%‘m‘i4o?.§2gs 139 933 . REDUCED PRICES 9
Mat.‘ Newton 155 3-5 Nicky Mayfield 108 7 2

£12.31: Ezziiiiy 1:13 3:3 §g"a‘“§f°{‘e"ba°h 93 40 HOUSE OF RAEFORD

Derek Carter 136 8.0 Ma:r:,nTa;11kZaI,I:1ann 79    7

Jon Coffman 141 7.8 Stac will-am 69 5'3   .. .. » 1

Robert Miggins 137 7.6 AmyyVOgt1 S 26 5.2     r ’

Allison Hull 49 323   ' 2 . 9
4o       5“  
oz.    4' 4' -2 ~
Leading Rebouﬂders Leading Rebounders  In I  ‘ ‘ ' ‘'

Player  Avg  R b A   ‘  '/,,‘,l%-'L ., I I‘. V , ’ ‘ I .
Robert Miggins 112 6.2 Sa2T1);1erIa Holmes 187 7V1g %  I . » "i . .~~

Cami? er 90 5.3 Nicky Ma field 89 5'9 1  - ’ ' * ' -.

Derek arter 87 5.1 Mary Tan am 30 5:3   ix. - I  L ' ;

g‘har‘i’; ggﬂgjffy 2? ‘$5 Xifégﬁaﬂﬁfrg Z3  _ HOUSE OF RAEFORD ‘.27. I «r~

J0nC0ffman 38 2.1 Stacywilljams 43 3-3 GRADE ”A” SELF-BASTING .

M3“ Newton 34 1-9 Karen Stutzmann 42 3:2 T

LIMIT 2 WITH

ADDITIONAL
F"ee'thr°W Stimdings Free-throw Standings PURCHASE
Player Ft/F ta AV Player Ft/F ta Av

    
 

  
    
  

  
    
 
  
 

 

      
 

    

 

       

 
      

   

 
  
 
 

Derek Carter 26/29 .89 Virginia Yoerg 43/64 .67

Jon Coffman 37/48 .771 Amy Vogt 4/6 .667

Egb_ertCMiggins 37/53 .698 Sarah Aschenbach 3/5 .600 ~ .. . .  

ris ouzen 39/57 .684   ,  ’
Mark comeny as/59   .644 §:’;;“v%‘::i:.".:.:““ 13/32 :28?  A    » A » »  ., msii TEMPLE 5/ 100
I<\3/Iaarﬁ Ilglgvrton =31};/gg  E/¢i1ndraFH<i(Im§‘s 25/42 .581 ..._ -* “.1 ORANGES ............. ..EACH
' “V 3“ 3‘ 13/28 -464 RED on BLACK SEEDLESS -
- Nicky Mayfield 24/57 .421 ‘ ' ' 5
  GRAPES ................ .18.‘
8't'i.‘tttttttt‘E"  14°
. . . . . . . . . . ..U3.
4 . .. -‘   BIUEBERRIIS BIIICKBEIIIIIES 9'
Wrestling “    "     I .     I/2 PINT
Records ., __ _.  V   _“,_‘._  , .,:m_..:-. 
W h. d Le ..  z.-‘:' . :1. ‘-'4 , .  *-">._‘AL  '.

/1:\l(2I2)1/r‘i1rBranson 11113-C6Ord 11§Yt126 a';e:‘lI§t1(i:°2:’lI’d5 e   . 9
Anthony Raﬂa 3-2 126 (updated for 02/03/94) -

Eric Shirley 10-5 134, 126 , . .

Rob de Clerk 2-8 134 W°m°“,5 Swimmm 5-3

Adam winiams 8-6 . 142 Women s Basketbal 8-7 '

giary gansei 3-6 142 miséllgg, ; 31-431

t 7_9 wimmin -

052:, sgith 5_11  Men’s Basketbal 7-11 6   D Q
Lea Abercrombie 5-8 167

Colin Loomey 9-9 . 177 Overall 27"-28 0

Cole Van Nice 14 ‘

  TN GREAT VALUE
. GREEN GIANT DIET COKE OR
VEGETABLES   COKE '
CELLENT I ‘ _
EXTRA INCOME NOW!    ready or Fancy Dr
.::E;::::2:.:‘::: -‘  -      4  Ballroom Dance Class  A
...'2‘2;".:f;°.::;;".°;.... I with   2 “R ‘
Brooklyn, New York 11230
Frank Roupas  °
. . /  .
in Fairfax Lounge 3 » -.
' . I , ,
G R E E K S 8, CLUBS I F 4 T W I 5 A §t?c"£.‘{étt'ét¥i‘ -
‘ ox rot a tz win ..
EARN $5o—$25o ’ ’ g WEEKLY SPECIAL . ‘WEEKLY SPECIAL A
 Wed. Feb 9   ———————————-— —-——-~——-—*
nlus 6 _ 7 8 ANGEL SOFT SPARKLE DESIGNER
aiscr costs nothing
 A P“ 0’ Pm BATH rIssuE PAPER rowEi.s~
and lasts one week.  per  I
Call now and receive , ,
..miz.. 4 Come with or without a partner
1-800-932-0528E L65.
‘ (703) 344-2114 5137i; 2
4 tax.’ 61.8 "  
SQ. Fl’.

 

17 S. Main St. Lexington, Va. 24450

463%, Mm _ Sat 9.30 _ 5.30 HARRIS TEETER... LOW PRICES ALL DAY, EVERYDAY

After Inventor Sale _ , A
y iiisibiiii's°€ii5icr 'I"5'IE”"° “E” 49
S O N J

   

Sweaters $7 and up DRINK cREAM I 2 mm
Men’s Pants $999’ Reg. $60 4 HT SELECTED VARIETI/ES
Knit tops $3 and UP   ORANGE ‘'09 QUAKER INSTANT 225
Ladies pants 8: shirts $5 and up JUICE 6402. OATMEAL u,.‘2’bz. "
Plus 30 - 75% off our already low prices Rssuum oR COOL MINT mm:ow-BAKERY-siicivio ORDER

- - - - 97 DOMESTIC SWISS 75
Arriving this week - Swim Wear! 6  323% 3 E B.

S 0 O if $0   if BE 22“
Zwmg 72$ § @TZf@2ZZpg:/y @ (Wm @ Prices Effective Through February 8, I994

Prices in This Ad Ettective Wednesdoy,Februory_2_ Through Tue day ,Februory 8, 1994 In Our Lexin ton Stores
Oniy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None SOI To Dealers. We Glodly Accept e era food stamps. .



  

    
 

  

‘he Ring-tum Phi, February 4, 1994 _  S PAGE 11

' II’ gnu hnutn Fnugritt sp9rt5- Sophomore Pyer named‘
wriltrﬂthlﬁl   January ‘Major General’

  

. I
if gnu renllg cnre .       t t
‘ ""' ""' ‘ ' By KEITH GRANT . , ~ ' n . _ V ‘ ,— t
P/iiStaffWriter — V ‘ G _‘ '  
nliout MEL nthLEtE3 .   A       
' " 1 ‘ " 1' Among the Washington and Lee
men’s basketball team’s many prob-
. lems last season was consistent scor-

in .

The 1992-93 Generals’ scoring
leader wound up the season with a
scoring average of 10.6, the lowest
average for the Generals’ team leader
since records first were kept in 1948.

This season, a sophomore from Tega
City, SC, has solved that problem. With
six regular season games remaining,
Cam Dyer holds a 15.2 points-per-
game average, tenth—best in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

’ In January alone, Dyer averaged 16
points and 5.6 rebounds. In doing so,
the 6’7” forward earned the WLUR—
Ring-tum Phi Major—General Award
for being W&L’s athlete ofthe month.

Anyone who has attended a General
contest this season has witnessed the
sweet 15-foot baseline jumpers which

-ll’ gnu kllQlll lllhQl_E1ll ﬂlcindnr is ‘yP¥t.?t:;’:t:t"L:

him from his All-State days at Provi-

°IF gnu Finil gnu kngii mgr: than  
Egsins EIQES.

    

- dence Day High School in Charlotte,
      N.C.ThechangeinDyer’sperformance
' "' ' ‘ ' ' this season is his aggressiveness.

Some added bulk and the type of
.  aggressiveness that the entire team has

_ J displayed shows in the increase in
Dyer’s rebounding.

As a freshman, Dyer pulled down
an average of fewer than four rebounds
per~game, not what everyone might
expect from the team’s second-tallest

«I99 3ll9l_1l[l DE writing spgrts in‘ he

year’s team.
- “lt’s been a lot more fun playing on
‘I-hf  the team this year,” he said. “lt’sagood

team feeling; last year, there just wasn’t
the feeling that we have now.”
. ’ The sophomore went on to express

his satisfaction with the team’s togeth-
erness.

u “We’ve got a lot of chemistry, and
H]    - it’s the kind of chemistry we need to
‘ " ' ‘ ‘ ‘ finish strong,” he said.

Through 17 games played, Dyer

D . mt ranks second for the Generals in re- in — A A _ V

. $1”  ‘ Q‘ bounding at 5.3. He grabbed a season- -' -~ '    “ 
high nine rebounds to go with 1 8 points

in the first game of the new year, an

 .. -,_,,-_,-.  .2...   -3...... ”p5°"“"" °"e’ Amherst‘ Sophomore Qam Dyer reaches toward thebasket in one of his many leading moments on the . ..

“seen aftéf, th“é”‘s'6phomore had’ a‘ , ~  v -— -   - - . ‘ ...-I. 1!}; A»  ,5
foupgame Stretch in which he aVer_ Generals basketball team. He has been chosen as the January Major General. 5 N ‘ .

. 0 ' Uf 0 fl 0 i‘ ?§i‘3..‘.f"§’ "?.L“if Z“"3Ji§2”2‘”'?°.§fn'l
C-"fl"-'.   I-E  galine vgrsuls Li/nihtburg and 2122-Eoint - q’ ke /W 1‘? U 12 _ Q  (D 

0 . performance against Catholic, both
ncpwjy W&L victories. _
‘ ' " ‘ Dyer,whose fatherand grandfather   avva-VA

File photo

-,1:

attended W&L, closed out January
shooting 61 percent for the last four_
«J games, raising his overall shooting per-'
centage to one.of the conference’s best
. ‘( at .505. That’s quite an improvement
 from last year’s .423 percentage, when
. ' he averaged 8.7 points.
Half Salon As the team approaches the end of
' the season, Dyer voiced his opinion of
the team’s chances.

  
  

.¢o/ma/nvlm
go/M374/a e/M Jﬁzm//724.4, mm
fﬂdoér/o

  

.../..... _ 4 -

cuts -tl;l§ll‘lilIl‘gh-ts - lII(la-nicllres .. 9 3 awzyre trying to turn the program W /4? 
.  ma e “P _ . around from the way it’s been the last 0/up/17/’ /5 1
Expert braiding (french twist, three years,” Dyer said. “We’re pretty ( , -
' '“ fishbone, etc.) happy withthe strides we’ve taken this /(zdﬂﬂ/0%’?/6 W].  (/I/044 
V year, but we’re by no means satisfied.”
Q FD Tanning Special . Asthe Generals enterthe stretch run anua
A . 10 for $30 in the race for berths into the ODAC _ 0
T , D H b H d ,/
zororsso A..‘:.*:;":.'%::";...y$t;..:..::;..:.::3 W"/‘M93 Jim ‘"~W*‘"”
high-arcingjump-shot against W&L’s_
I 7 S. Randolph Street, Lexington conference foes. Fortunately, it seems,
464-1145 DYCVS level Of Play is Peaking at the “Ike /Yv\a}ev' Gum.-..t is clsoscvx wxovstkly lay S.-at. Gain-t ma l'<.¢tt:k Grant

most crucial time for the Generals.

 

    
       

, SPRINGBREAK Groups! Clubs!
we g  packages’ PROMOTE 0“ Raise up to $500 to $1500 in less
campus 01‘ SIGN UP for than a week. Plus win a trip to MTV  T V 
‘7éwz¢.- zawlcw Ewe rooms. Daytona, Panama 5prinsTi_$|?rr‘«iaret=l]<l;:;%fe‘=,r:«1c3«l=-it"; FREE Y law 8’
;,> 7”’- 7466“ gwwﬁ saadw City $129 and up. Cancun. 1_8o0_950_1039 ext. 65 HARDWARE smnes

    

Sat: 7am zeepaatda.

,,5,.,8",,.,.4 ,4gg 54,,“ In 3 at Earn is 500 - $1000'weekly stuffing Kmss creek House For Rent Hardware: Paint: and.Related"1tenlS;
. . 9%.“ $3 my: ggessé gar details - RUSH $1.00 Clean, 4 Bedroom,  1/2
7t«W= '6 4“ M ‘‘’‘‘°’ ‘‘‘‘”'7‘’ ' GROUP FNE Jgflteh-1§t8(;,0I/Tlnflj-ffgvrflllg/b&;fL Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. sun. 1-5 p.m.
57 GreentreeDlZr:\ép’, §Eiit1e9.’38z can Tom 464_8628 E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

Overl00 . 9 M S _ 4 ix
Valentine Cords  11711071 ,. i .. ‘ . . f -, . .
* it - “Out with the old -

    

 

Voodoo Dolls 
to Cost 0 Spell Run ;  In with the New”
New Silver Eorrin s - .  . ' ‘ ’
Wind-UD g giriuisﬁesurltumnt .5 ‘i _l' I 0 id rht  a I e
. e tewa prepares aiycuinary eig s   A.
Valentine TOYS Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef llouladen, g g *5‘ 20% Off all regularly \ 
Massage 0“ R lPaell]a,dant<i Hjomemaﬁle TF0flt€:'|'l'- Fm Dmg , priced Basketball Shoes
5' n , incu cs wo acuzzi sui cs. u s rvice 1 1 I _
Candles D;{O(C))l'(I)1n}ll.l€[:l with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect 2 1  Off all BaSeball/
setting for Holidays, Luncheons. Special Occasions. > 1  Shoes /.

Tuesdays- International Menu Night

Q i . I Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine ' S .
 %  Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle” : it ‘ First Team Sports
Special Winter Package A _ 115 W. Nelson St.

Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00

 Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol. Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

1
m

 

  

Last Week:

WBB-—W&L 80, Mary Baldwin 22
MBB—W&L 76, Emory & Henry 72
Wrest-Def. Gallaudet, lost two
Swim-M&W def. Franklin&Marsha1l

PAGE 12

  
 
  
 
    
    
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
    
 
    
     
 
   
   
   
     
    
    
 
    
 
  
 
 
     
  
    

S

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

action.

points.

outcome of the meet.

      
    
  
  

    
  

meet as well.

Both swim teams rebounded from losses the previous weekend to
post convincing victories against Franklin and Marshall in dual meet

The Washington and Lee men defeated F&M, and continued their
home winning streak, by the score of 141-49. The score was
surprising in that the Generals won the meet last yearby a meager five

Washington and Lee coach Page Remillard was pleased with the

“We swam the way we thought we would, and they didn’t swim
the way we thought they would,” said Remillard.

Remillard was ambivalent when asked about the lopsided score.

“The problem is you can never predict what’s going to happen,”
he said. The Franklin and Marshall squad swam the day before the

Freshman Nathan Hottle swam two season best times in his two

@112. ilting-tum Iﬂlﬁ

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

  

Emo

   

File photo

Senior Robert Miggins lays one up against conference rival Roanoke. The Generals are oh-so-‘close to
qualifying for post-season play after failing to qualify last year. However, Washington and Lee has
already won more games this season than the team won all last year.

wins in the 200—breast and the 200—lM. Sophomore David Stillman
also posted two wins in the 50- and 100-free. Overall, the Generals
set ﬁve season bests in winning all eleven events.

The women also turned in a strong meet, and were aided by the
absence of a national qualiﬁer on the F&M side. A number of
Generals contributed lifetime bests in the meet. Jill Sheets had three
lifetime best times, and Anne Spencer, Marina Vasilara, and Susan
Fisher all had two as the team won eight of eleven events.

Rebekah Prince, Staci Bertelli, and Jen Miller won two events
each for the Generals. Prince’s two wins (in the 1000-free and the
200-back) came in season best times. Jill Sheets’ time in the 200-
breast was also a season best for the generals.

Despite the recent success forthe Generals time-wise, coach Kiki
Jacobs was not concerned with peaking to early.

“With tapering, they should be very well rested by the end ofthe
year,” said the women’s coach.

The Lady Generals also ﬁnished a weekday meet against confer-
ence rival Hollins last night. The Generals dominated the meet,
winning 167-84. The W&L team closes out their home season on
Tuesday against Mary Baldwin.

  
    
   

This Week:

MBB—Eastern Mennonite 02/O5
WBB—Midway, 02/05

Wrest—at Apprentice Invit. 02/05
Swim—at Mary Washington 02/05

FEBRUARY 4, 1994

ry Henry

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor 9

 

The line between success and failure is sometimes little more than
a few games, as the Washington and Lee men’s basketball team has
discovered during a recent slump. The Generals hope to qualify for
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament for the first 'me
since 1990-91 . They will be doing that with teammate Tyler Duvall
off the court for now, but certainly on their minds (see page one).

The Generals are scheduled to host Eastern Mennonite Saturday
night, Feb. 5, at the Warner Center in a crucial conference game. The
Royals are still winless in ODAC play (0-11) and are currently the
only team trailing W&L in the standings.

The postponement of Wednesday’s game at Virginia Wesle an
leaves the Generals’ mark at 4-8 in conference play, 7-11 overall.
Fortunately, the two teams resting ahead of W&L are teams the
Generals have beaten and have a game remaining against. Lynchburg
(5-6) stands one-and-a-half games ahead of the Generals, while
Virginia Wesleyan is merely one game in front of W&L.

Roanoke (10-1) was overtaken in the standings this week by
Hampden-Sydney (11-1) as those two continue to dominate the
conference. 0

Oddly, only three games separate third from ninth place in the
ODAC.

Whereas last season only ﬁve conference wins were needed to
qualify for the post-season tournament, a minimum of six and
possibly seven victories will be necessary this year with so many
teams bunched together.

ln W&L’s favor, the team has a total of two games versus Eabtern
Mennonite ahead, in addition to the contests with Lynchburg and
Virginia Wesleyan.

The Generals have not played since last Saturday, Jan. 29, when
they were defeated at home by Guilford College (6-8 ODAC). The
79-68 loss was their second straight defeat following a key win at
Emory and Henry (6-7 ODAC), 76-72.

The losses came in spite of some recent big-play by the sqi§id’s'
big—men.

Junior forward Mark Connelly had a team—high 18 points in the
loss to Guilford. Connelly, sophomore Cam Dyer (see related story),
and senior Robert Miggins have stepped up their play as the team hits
the stretch run. Miggins has blocked at least one shot in each of the
last 10 games, while Dyer has shot 61 percent from the field over the
last four. .

Washington and Lee as a team has out—rebounded its last four
opponents by a 15-rebound-per-game average. The three big—men
are a key reason for that.

in games last week, Connelly, Dyer, and Miggins combined to
average 38 points and 19 rebounds, up considerably from previous
action.

Following the Eastern Mennonite contest, the Generals are sched-
uled to host Lynchburg Wednesday, Feb. 9, at the Warner Ce ter.
They close out the regular season on the road during the school’s
February recess. -

  
  

   
 

   
  
 
     

  
 

     
    

J OCKSHORTS

Men’s, women’s swimming Victorious _

/ﬂﬁ

    
   

Wrestling

    
    
  
    
   
 
      
  

The Washington and Le
wrestlers suffered two heart
breaking losses at the Gallaude
Quadrangular last weekeiﬂ.

The Generals lost to York an
Gettysburg before picking up
win against Gallaudet.

The losses to York an
Gettysburg were by the scores 0
27-21 and 26-18 respectively.

In the Gettysburg med, th
Generals trailed only by tw
points before losing the fin
match, and against York the
were tied at 21 before forfeitin
the heavyweight match.

Sophomore Cole Van Nic
and freshman Adam Bransan fi -.
ished the day with 3-0 marks.

All three ofVan Nice’s VlCt(.

  

  
  

    
      
 
    

  

/7///

    
  

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHENWILLIARD

The Super bowl is now be-
hind us, and unfortunately, this
one ended much the same as the
last ten: with the National Foot-
ball Conference on top. The
game was notwithout high-
lights, however.

My favorite moment of the
game came when NBC went to
an aerial view from the airship.
One must remember that the
game was being played in the
Georgia DOME. I did see a
very attractive roof, at least.

The award for best commer-
cial of the game goes, hands
down, to Nike.

The shoe mogul enlisted
Steve Martin, Michael Jordan
(surprise), Bulls coach Phil
Jackson, and Charlotte Hornets
center Alonzo Mourning in a
Geraldo Rivera style discus-
sion. The topic? Did Michael
Jordan fake his retirement. At
least I had something to laugh
about each quarter as 1 failed to
win any money in my betting
pool.

Coming in a close second in
the ad contest was the “Dan
Quayle” commercial for Lays
potato(e) chips. There is just
something touching about see-
ingtheex-Vice Presidenthawk-
ing rufﬂed potato chips.

In the actual game, Buffalo

 
  
 
  

matched the Cowboys play for
play for a half and led 13-6 at the
break. Dallas stormed back with
a fumble recovery for a touch-
down and never looked back,
winning (in case you were on
Mars and don’t know the score)
30-13.

Don Bebe showed once again
that he plays with more heart
than probably anyone else in foot-
ball. The Bills wide-out on two
different occasions almost turned
public sentiment in favor of his
team. On a Jim Kelly pass that
was overthrown, Bebe dove out
for the ball, and missing, landed
on the Astroturf, ﬁnally getting
up with bloodied arms from the
impact.

On another play, Bebe caught
the pass, then took a tremendous
hit from’ a Cowboys defensive
player as well as some trash-
talking.’ Bebe made no response
except to head back to the huddle.

Emmitt Smith also deserves a
hats-off for his Most Valuable
Player performance. Smith has
played his last four games with a
separated shoulder. Despite the
injury,Smith rushedforwellover

100 yards and contributed two
touchdowns.

Now, forthe most second most
important sports event of the
year—the Duke vs. North Caro-
lina basketball game in Chapel
Hill (fortunately, unlike the Su-
perbowl,thisoneis usually close,
and happens twice a year, some-
times three times).

   
   

ries came via the pin.

CaryHansel,fillinginforca
tain Adam Williams, gave th
Generals a boost with a wi
against Gettysburg.

‘SuperSlaughter’ ends up as re-run

This one was taken by the Tar
Heels 89-78. The Devils led 40-
38 at the half before UNC, play-
ing once again without leading
scorer Donald Williams, took
over and played up to their pre-
season expectations. Basically,
UNC must have cheated some-
where, I’m sure.

Parting Shots-

By the way, in case you were
wondering, the most important
event of the year is the Atlantic
Coast Conference tournament.

YES! Tell me NOW that
Tonya Harding is not guilty,
Sarah!

For a swim meet that was sup-
posed to be close, the W&L vs’.
Franklin and Marshall contest
was, well, interesting. Both the
men and the women beat F&M
like narcs at a biker rally.

Just in case you’re wonder-
ing, spring training for baseball
is just around the corner (right
after the national championship
preview in the ACC tourney).

The Houston Rockets have
begun their fade to the ﬁnish in
recent weeks with a losing record
since opening the season with a
22-1 mark.

Once again, MICHAEL
DON’T PLAY BASEBALLHI!

Edit0r’s note—T0nya
Harding ’s accusers have yet to
bring anything but circumstan-
tial evidence against her, and the
United States Constitution gnar-
antees citizens innocence until
proven guilty.

 
  

Adam Williams is out forth
year with a broken wrist. Wil
Iiams suffered the injury in th
Washington and Lee lnvitationa

Eric Shirley ran his win strea
to nine matches before losin
against Gettysburg. ‘ .

Also, Van Nice,with histhre
pins has garnered eight for th
yean

Van Nice’s eight, leads th
team in that department by thre
over Adam Branson. Van Nic
also leads the team in wins wit
14. '

     
   

      
 

  
   
   
 
    
 
  

 
 

  
       
   
 
     
   
     
   
       
          
 
       
    
       
    
   
    
 
     
     
   

 

%(my/mltIﬁz-
ﬂu/mt [0 (game.
 (2/J/m
"}’//ad/21/'2/Iy//1‘:/1*et
mm’ (Z20 fam-
ﬁetfa//l(a(z12tz«, .
 A///c;/'01

(, .
>9/(mt!/((1//M1)
17701/I//ﬂ  .

(7(tnt(a/eg/.
ewkaae tee

-We/» /were / {-

 

  

 

 
  
 

   

   

riaa r  199:;

“The Foreign Student” W&L Basketball
set to open in spring drops game to

Lynchburg

5. ". /3 :«"‘»’r\*3{3

 

   

VOLUME 93, NO. 19

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

The. Smoke Gets in Your Eyes

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FIJI Writes
two appeals

FEBRUARY 11, 1994

The Student Affairs Committee voted to S...-.-;

 

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Phi Gamma Delta fraternity Friday handed in
not one, but two appeals to President John D.
Wilson.

One appeal, filed on behalf of FIJI and the
upperclass house members, came from FIJI House
Corporation President Ed Bishop. The second ap-
peal was ﬁled on behalf of the FIJI pledges by
Frank “Terry" Griffin, father of FIJI pledge
T.J.Grifﬁn.

“When he found out what happened, the events
and the circumstances of the trial, he felt some-
thing needed to be said,” Griffin said. “That’s why

pend FIJI for 18 months for hazing on Jan. 17.

Wilson gave FIJI an extension on the 10 days it had .

to file the appeal, making the new deadline Friday,
Feb. 4.

Griffin said his father appealed on the same four
grounds as the FIJI fraternity: lack of due process,
punishment too harsh, false information in the
letter to SAC from Dean of Freshmen and Resi-
dence Life Dennis Manning in which he charged
FIJI with hazing, and “the wrong guys being pun-
ished.” However, the senior Griffin appealed only
on behalf of the FIJI pledges.

“There was no coordination between us,” said

Photo By Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

he decided to get involved.”

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer
The worst is over. Following

a week of anticipation and won-
dering, Washington and bee jun-

Senior Carl Bucus and freshman C.F. Kucera participate in a Smoke-in Friday. The smoke-in was organized by
senior Donald J. Skelly, Jr. as a protest to a petiton to ban smoking in the Co-op, Evans Dining Hall and The
' General Headquarter’s. The petition was sent to Gerry Darrell, director of food services, and was signed by 70
law students. Darrell approached the Executive Committee Jan. 25 for advice on the smoking policy for campus
eating areas. The EC was split on its advise. The Health Education Committee has also proposed a ban on
smoking in campus eating areas. Some students have said cigarette smoke is offensive. Others have said it is
their right to smoke and they should not be discriminated against.

ior Tyler Duvall is out of danger.
“We’recer1ainly better a lot
better off than we were last
Wednesday,” said Tyler’s
mother, Judy Lowe.
DuvaIl,stricken|ast week with
a meningococcal infection, was
taken out of intensive care at the

Slander suit heats up

Wheeler subpoenas nine people

several University officials.

University of Virginia hospital

to See FIJI page 8

recently. Duvall will suffer no
permanent complications as a
result of the infection according
to Dr. Jane T. Horton of the Wash-
ington and Lee student health
center.

Tyler has receivedja great deal
ofattention during his stay in the
hospital. The Roanoke and
Randolph Macon basketball
teams sent cards. He has also
been visited by Scott Dittman
and trainer Melanie Middleton
and has received a card from the
Washington and Lee men’s bas-

Campus drug use rising

Duvall’s illness
under control

ketball team.

“There is no medical reason
why he can’t return this year,”
said Horton. “It’s hard for himto
talk because of a shortness of
breath,” she added.

Tyler has begun physical
therapy, but the process will be a
slow one. Duvall still suffers
from weakness, shortness of
breath, and the rash that charac-
terizes the infection. Duvall con-
tracted pneumonia while at the

it See, DUVALL page 8

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Council for Washington and Lee University
accounting professor Lyn Wheeler called for
rtords involving former Career Development and
Placement director Rick Heatley for defense in
Heatley’s civil suit against
Wheeler.

Lawyers from the firm
of Nelson, McPherson,
Summers and Santos of
Staunton, which represents
Wheeler, subpoenaed
records “having to do with

 
 

Heatley ﬁled a lawsuit in Rockbridge County in
October for $600,000 in total damages, alleging
that Wheeler slandered him by “openly accusing
the plaintiff of sexual misconduct in the perfor-
mance of his job duties.” Heatley is represented by
the firm of Gentry, Locke, Rakes and Moore of
Roanoke.

Heatley remains at W&L as Associate Professor
of Classics for 1993-94.

John Elrod, Dean of the College; Robert Fox,
director of personnel; Penny Henneman, associate
director of development; David Howison, dean of
students; Ruth Lewis, assistant director of career
development and placement; Beverly borig, asso-
ciate director of career development and place-

    

Wheeler

   

office relations or person-
nel matters...concerning
Nathan Rick Heatley” from

to See WHEELER page 8

Faculty vote for fall
break beginning in ’94

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

Seniors always miss out on

the good stuff.
0 On Monday faculty approved
a two-day mid-fall break for the
1994-1995 school year calendar.
The break would fall on October
20 and 21.

‘‘It would be a four-day week-
end called reading days,” said
Dean of Students David
Howison.

Howison said he introduced a
proposal for a mid-fall break last
year, but it was shot down by
faculty.

“This year we tried it again
md it worked. Perseverance paid
off,” Howison said.

The faculty approved the
break for the 1995-1996 calen-
dar earlier this year, but voted
Monday to start the break for the
1994-95 year.

“The logic was that if we al-
ready had it in the calendar for
’95-’96, then why not put it in for
’94-’95,” said Dean of the Com-
merce School Larry Peppers.

Peppers said Washington and
Lee usually plans its academic
calendar two years in advance.

“The faculty view this as an
experiment,” Peppers said.
“There’s a clear sense that the
faculty want this to work.”

“I hope it’s not abused and
turned into a five-day break. If
it’s abused itwillbe eliminated,”
he added

Students also want it to work.

‘‘I think it’s great,” said junior
Todd Stanton. “From Septem-
ber until November is entirely
too long to go without a break.”

Stanton was also pleased with
the length of the break.

“Two days is even better than
one day. Then people who live in
Atlanta or far away can go home,”
said Stanton.

Seniors were pleased, but
cynical.

“We won’t get to enjoy it,”
said senior Brian Carpenter.

University faculty and admin-
istration will get the long week-
end as well.

Spanish Professor Laurent
Boetsch voted against the break
at the faculty meeting.

“My view is that I don’t deny
that people get worn out, but there
are a lot of reasons why and only
one of them is academic,”
Boetsch said. ‘‘I’d rather have
two days in which we’d only
have classes — no meetings, no
dances, just classes.”

But the majority of the faculty
agreed that the break was a good
idea.

“I think it’s a great idea,” said
Music Professor Gordon Spice.

“I’ve always thought we
needed a break; both faculty and
students and staff and adminis-
tration need a break.”

Number of High
School age
users increases

By THOMAS Hssros
Phi News Editor

Last year, a non-student sold almost two pounds
of marijuana to members of the Washington and
Lee community. His base of operations —— Gaines
Hall.

“Jim” said he sold other drugs in addition to
marijuana over the course of a few months last
year. He sold psilocybin mushrooms aswell. It all
started small.

“A bunch of people I knew approached me and
asked me where they could get a bag (of mari-
juana),” he said.

“My majority of dealings was in marijuana. I
never made any real monetary profit. I just never
had to pay for any of my own drugs.”

Jim sold to several groups of people. He was
careful about his dealing. His buyers rarely dealt
with him personally.

‘‘I was real paranoid about [getting caught],” he
said. “That’s why so few people dealt with me
personally.”

Before establishing a base of operations in
Gaines last year, Jim dealt drugs around town. His
dealings were most often in marijuana, but co-
caine, mushrooms and LSD were not outside his‘
reach. Friends with connections within the W&L
community soon approached him about moving
the drugs he was bringing into the area. Jim’s
business in “hooking people up,” as he put it,
quickly made him a popular man in certain social
circles. He was reluctant, however, to turn a small
operation into a proﬁt-making machine.

“Doing it for proﬁt really made me feel kind of
bad about it,” he said.

Jim had to close up his business when he
became worried about being caught in Gaines with
the drugs. Too many people knew about his
operation, Jim said, so he got smart and left the
dormitory for good.

“Too many people were dropping my name,”
he said.

While Jim was dealing out of Gaines, however,

so See DRUGS page 5

    

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World  

Israelis, Palestinians approve
initial security agreement

Israeli and Palestinian leaders signed an initial agreement
that paves the way for an overall agreement on security issues
between the two nations. Disagreements on border security
had hindered talks between the two nations. Negotiations are
expected to extend into Thursday.

Mexico peasant revolts heat up

Peasants in Teopisca, Mexico seized city hall and blocked
the main road into town, continuing the protest begun by
rebels last month. Other communities in Mexico reported
similar protests. Peasants demanded the resignation of their
leaders and better treatment of the country’s Indian popula-
tion.

Serbs agree to withdraw
weapons from Saraj evo

Bosnian Serbs agreed Wednesday to withdraw the heavy
weaponry from the Bosnian capital of Sarajevo. NATO gave
the Serbs the option of removing the weapons or facing air

strikes. The Serbs will remove the weapons beginning at
noon Thursday and place them under U.N. control.

The Nation 

Spielberg film gets twelve
Academy Award nominations

 

Steven Spielberg’s “Schindler’s List” received 12 Acad-
emy Award nominations, including best picture and best
director. Other best picture nominees include “The Piano,”
“The Remains of the Day,” “The Fugitive,” and “In the Name
of the Father.”

Study shows women’s bones
affected by cigarette smoking

An Australian study shows that cigarette smoking in-
creases women’s risk of bone fractures by making their bones
less dense. The researchers speculate that cigarette smoking
interferes with the body’s production of estrogen.

Brando’s son questioned
in Jackson molestation case

A grand jury interviewed Marlon Brando’s son in Michael
Jackson’s molestation case. Miko Brando worked for J ack-
son as a bodyguard and a valet. A 14-year-old boy accused
the singer of sexually molesting him last year. Jackson
reached an out-of-court settlement last month in the civil
lawsuit brought by his accuser.

Last Tailhook case dismissed

A judge dismissed the last remaining case from the 1991
Tailhook naval convention. The charges of assault an ob-
struction of justice against Marine Lt. Colonel Cass D.
Howell were dropped Tuesday because of insufficient evi-
dence. Pentagon investigators concluded that 83 women
were assaulted or molested at the Tailhook convention.

The State 

VMI unveils Mary Baldwin plan
for parallel women’s program

Virginia’s plan to keep Virginia Military Institute a single-
sex college and set up a program at Mary Baldwin College

. came before a federal judge Wednesday. VMI attorneys said

the program would extend to women the benefits of a single-
sex education. Justice Department attorneys argued that the

. MBC alternative permits sexual discrimination to continue.

Reno investigates Whitewater
Development, Hillary Clinton

A law firm at which Hillary Clinton was once a partner
shredded documents related to the Whitewater Development
Corp last week, The Washington Times reported. According
to anemployee of the firm, the documents included material
proving President and Mrs. Clinton’s involvement in the
Arkansas real estate venture. A counsel appointed by Attor-
ney General Janet Reno is investigating whether funds were
inappropriately diverted from the Madison Guarantee Sav-
ings and Loan to Whitewater and the Clinton gubernatorial
campaign.

  

The Flinq-tum Phi. Februarv 11. 199%

Gallery roof needs repair.

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Portions ofthe ceiling of the Watson
Pavilion may have to be adjusted due
to slight errors in the architect’s and
contractor’s plans for expansion and
contraction.

However, the problem is not severe
and will not cost the University any-
thing, said Thomas V. Litzenburg, di-
rector of the Reeves Center and Watson
Pavilion.

“When you have a building with
such high ceilings and with a dome
with a copper roof, it is rare that you
would get it right,” Litzenburg said.

Another adjustment the staff of the
Watson Pavilion is facing is the lack of
humidity in the gallery.

When the building was designed,
the architect, John Coplin, was told
that 90 percent of the artwork would be
ceramics, which do not require humid-
ity adjustments. He decided at thattime
not to include a humidiﬁer in the cen-
tral heating and cooling system.

Now, however, more furniture has
found a home in the Watson Pavilion
and independent humidifiers must be

crack the furniture.

Litzenburg said that the adjustment
was nothing more than an annoyance.

“We’re now revisiting the question
of humidity since we want more mois-
ture in the building,” he said. “It is not
an uncommon adjustment.”

Litzenburg said the ceiling problem
would not be fixed until the summer.

“We expected that because of the
nature of the dome there would be
some movement,” he said. “We are
going to continue studying it until we
have a very good estimate of the extent
of the expansion and contraction.”

The problem will require only the
re—tapingofsome comers ofthe ceiling
where the drywall intersects, a mea-
sure which the contractor had antici-
pated.

‘‘If that’s the only problem we en-
counter with the building, we’re emi-
nently pleased,” Litzenburg said.

Overall, the staff of the Watson
Pavilion has found the building ex-
tremely well—appointed.

“As each day wears on, we’re more
and more impressed with the build-
ing,” Litzenburg said, “both with the
excellent job the contractor did, and
the subtlety ofthe design and the work

introduced, so the dryness would not

of the architect."

 

I File Photo

The roof of the Watson Pavilion will need some repair.

IFC discusses new Rush plan“

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

Plans for a deferred fall or winter Rush were
considered in Tuesday’s lnterfraternity Council
meeting.

No consensus was reached, however, and discus-
sion of the options is to continue in the next few
meetings.

The IFC for the second week in a row accepted
suggestions concerning next fall’s Rush schedule
from fraternity representatives. The council had a
preliminary proposal which includes holding Open
Houses sooner and adjusting the periods of Open
Contact, when freshmen can associate openly with

fraternity members.

Associate Dean of Students for Greek Affairs
Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins said the faculty voted last
week to add a two-day fall vacation next year. He said
this change to the calendar could give the planners
more options. Atkins said he advises the fraternity
representatives to discuss various plans with their
houses before holding an IFC vote.

One alternative Atkins proposed was a type of
deferred Rush in which the Open Houses would be
held at the beginning of the fall term, and preference
parties themselves would not be held until the fall
break. ln this plan, those students who wish to Rush
would stay in Lexington over the break.

Junior Adam Plotkin, a Sigma Nu members, said
he had developed a plan of his own, which would

involve a similar deferred Rush.

Atkins said either Rush would be shortened to
avoid the problems caused by alcohol at parties or
lengthened so it would be more casual. 6

A representative from lambda Chi Alpha said a

lengthened Rush would be a financial burden on that «

fraternity.

“We couldn’t keep up with the houses that have
ten or ﬁfteen thousand dollar social budgets,” he said.

“More than likely the current Rush procedure will
be in effect this year, but [the IFC] will consideréhe
pros and cons of the fall break,” said IFC President
Curt Smith

At the meeting Smith said he wanted IFC to work
with the Student Activities Board to have a school-
wide activity one weekend during Rush.

VMI unveils Mary Baldwin plan

Controversy could be settled if plan is accepted .

‘s’h95\'4v

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-um Phi
Cadets march in formation, sans females. If the Mary Baldwin plan is accepted, VMI may

be able to retain its all-male status by launching a parallel program at MBC.

Security system considered

By KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writer

The dorms at Washington and Lee may soon
receive card-access systems for security, which would
require anyone wanting to enter the dorms to use a
university card to unlock the
door.

W&L Director of Security
Mike Young said the system
would start with the outside
doors to the freshman dorms
and Gaines, as well as the indi-
vidual women’s halls and pos-
sibly all individual halls.

“The card access system,”
said Young, “would eliminate
anyone without a university
card from the buildings. And
it’s all on computer, so access
can be resticted even further,
such as an individual hall hav-
ingtheir’s programmed to keep
out anyone but the people who
live there for certain times of
the day.”

“So at, say, 11:00, only the
girls on the hall can unlock the
door and everyone else -

 

Young

whether it’s Ted Bundy or your boyfriend — can’t
get in. ”

“We’re talking about a lot of expensive hardware
here,” said Young. He estimated the cost forjust the
outside doors and hallways to be around $50,000,
and he said while funding has been requested, no
purchases have yet been made.

“The card-access security
system has been in my plans
for a while,” said Young. “lt’s
been a goal of mine since I
came here three years ago.
When they rewired the dorms
for cable and computers, they
put in the wiring for this kind
of system. The wiring’s all
there — we had the foresight to
do that —- we just need the
hardware.”

Young said increasing se-
curity at W&L “has been a
gradual process. When the
women first came here, noth-
ing was locked. ‘They added
locks to the hall doors, but they
weren’t used much.”

“Now we have alarms to
keepdoorsfrom being propped
open and security guards
watching things at night."

From Staff Reports

 

Virginia State Attorney General are on
opposite sides of a plan designed to
alleviate Virginia Military Institute’s
coeducation woes.
The plan, which involves the estab-
lishment of a program for women at
Mary Baldwin College, is supp rted
by the attorney general, who sai the
program could create female versions
of the male citizen-soldiers who gradu-
ate from VMI. The Justice Depart-
ment, however, maintained that the
parallel program at Mary Baldwin will
allow sexual discrimination to con-
tinue. 9
State Attorney General James
Gilmore told U.S. District Judge Jack-
son Kiser that the program would dif-
fer from the program at VMI in that it
would eliminate the combat training
and military-style atmosphere found at
VMI. But Justice Department Amor-
ney Gary Haugen said the differences
in the two programs are based on gen-
der stereotypes, which is contrary to a
4th U.S. Circuit Court ofAppeals deci-
sion on the VMI case.

Kiser ruled that VMl’s educational
experience would suffer if women were
to be admitted, but his decision ofthree
years ago was overruled by a higher
court. An attorney for VMI said the
battle to retain VMI ’s single-sex iden-
tity is a pivotal battle for all other
single-sex institutions.

I
I Justice Department lawyers argl the
l

C

 

 
    
   
  
  
  

  

The Rigg-turn Phi, February 11, 1994 2 e

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

., As we approach February Break, students are ﬁnalizing
‘A eir plans and packing their bags, while others settle in for

a bit of studying.

Many people are planning to go
home and relax over the 10-day break.

‘‘I’m going to spend a relaxing break
at home,” said freshman Brian Greeff.

Others, like freshman Dave Seidel,

ave put a twist in the plan. “I’m going
home, and then coming back on
Wednesday to go to my girlfriend’s
house.

Others are doing some really risqué
things when they go home, though.

“I’m getting my wisdom teeth pulled

jut,” said freshman Caitlyn Pendleton.

Kathy Lu, a freshman, who is going
home to Massachusetts, said, “l’m go-
ing to do a term paper.”

Aside from going home, there are
three big hot spots this year, said Leslie
Wallace of the TLC Travel Agency in
‘exington.

“Number one is Cancun, because
of the warmth. Colorado is number
two, and Mardi Gras is third,” said
Wallace.

“You can either choose warm or
cold forskiing,” said Wallace. “Mardi
Eras is also very popular because the

reak hits that perfectly.”

California.

For groups of students in search of the cold so they can
hit the slopes to enjoy some skiing, the most popular
destination is Colorado. Good skiing can also be found all
across this country in such places as Killington in Vermont

Photo by Betsy Green for The Ring-tum Phi
Students are packing their bags and getting ready to leave for the 10-
day Washington Holiday which ends Sunday, Feb. 20.

For sun, many groups of students are headed for the
Bahamas, in addition to Cancun. Other popular destinations
include Palm Springs, the Florida Keys, St. Croix, and

and Taos in New Mexico.

is the rest going to do?

the vacation spirit.

weeks.

list for you:

somewhere cool.

tan.

Essential Compact Discs for February

By BETSY GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

There is one phenomena that seems to be com-
mon among Washington and Lee students.

9 The lack of a decent radio station causes CD
collections to explode. Instead of j ust charging home
an armload of CD’s the next time you buy books,
consider a more rational approach. After all, you
can’t buy every CD that looks good. A refined
collection also demands variety. If you only buy
three CD’s this month, which should they be?

I Do yourself a favor and pick up Lyle Lovett’s
1992 releaseJoshuaJudges Ruth . You will be taken
in by the piano music and acoustic guitars. Lovett’s
-voice is like a comforting hand on your shoulderthat
warms you all day.

Joshua Judges Ruth blends songs with an amaz-
ing array of sounds. “You’ve Been So Good Up to
Now” will make you want to slow dance with
someone special. The gospel sounds of “Church”
prompt you to clap and sing along. The first wail of
sax in “All My Love Is Gone” pulls you into a
bluesy, introspective mood. Joshua Judges Ruth is
the CD that should be on your stereo the next time
you’re in a quiet, mellow mood. Make yourselfa cup

coffee, look out the window at the rain, and listen
to Lyle Lovett. Even non-country fans will realize
that Julia Roberts was the lucky one.

Every CD collection needs to be stocked with
some classic rock. Hotel California by The Eagles is
an essential. It would be impossible not to like this
CD; these are songs you forgot you know by heart.
Joe Walsh’s guitar playing is not to be missed. Don

nley’s vocals have a fascinating hint of restraint
that gives the songs and almost unreal feeling. So
many things in Hotel California have that same
intriguing mystery about them. As they sing in the
title cut,

“‘Relax’, said the night man

‘We are programmed to receive.
9 You can check out any time you like,
but you can never leave.”’

 

LYLE Lovarr

Take this CD on your next road trip. Roll down
the windows, turn the volume up, and sing along. As
you belt out “Life in the Fast Lane,” imagine all of the
people who must have done the same thing before
you, everyone from Amy Fisher and Joey Buttafuoco
to your parents.

Finally, search as hard as you have to forSmeared,
the debut album by the band Sloan. Sloan is at the
forefront of the growing music scene to the North in
Halifax, Nova Scotia, reputed to be the next Seattle.
Sloan’s sound is hard to describe. They are a bit
reminiscent of the bemonheads or Radiohead, but
with a style like nothing you have heard before.
Sloan’s lyrics are clever and will remind you of
people you know. The song “Underwhelmed,” for
example, is a hilarious description of unrequited
love.

“She skips her classes and gets good grades.

I go to my courses rain or shine.

She’s passing her classes while I attend mine.”

The vocal harmonies and irresistible drum beats
will keep you moving through the faster songs. The
rhythms will follow you for the rest of the day. Chris
Murphy’s vocals in the slower songs will be a secret
only you can hear. Next Friday as you’re getting

ready to go out, crank up Smeared and toss your hair
around. Then tell your friends that you were the first
kid on your hall to be into that cool new
Halifax scene.

 

phenomenon in Lexington.

v

D February 12, 1944, The Columns featured a story about the low registration
at W&L. As the University entered its first quarter of the new four quarter
system, it had a civilian student body of approximately 100 students, the
smallest in the Universities’ history. The total W&L student body, including
civilians and Army SpecializedTraining cadets numbered 325.

On February 1 1, 1969, the Phi reported a story concerning the invasion of

Q Lexington by unidentified ﬂying objects. On three occasions in less than a
week a red, ﬁery UFO was reported flying across the Lexington skies. The
first sighting was by residents of Taylor Street. They said that the object
stopped and hovered above the Robert E. Lee Hotel for about five minutes.
During this time it lowered a fireball to the ground. The same residents
reported a similar incident three nights later, however this time the fireball
was lowered on Stonewall Jackson hospital. The sightings were validated
3 when a Bedford County Sheriff’s Officer saw a similar occurrence the
following night in the neighboring county. A total of 20 people viewed the

For the W&L Record

Compiled by JAY wnma of the Phi Staff

On February 9, 1984, the Phi gave the annual Trustees report. The Board
of Trustees approved a $715 tuition hike, to $6515.

In the same meeting they endorsed the idea ofa student pavilion and the
proposed student tax to partially finance the project. Trustees also stated that
they would investigate thoroughly the possibility of coeducation.

On February 9, 1989, the Phi reported on various W&L and Lexington
area robberies and acts of vandalism. The previous year had seen the stealing
of approximately 100 tapes from the Bookstore and various items from
carrels in the undergraduate library. An update said many of these thieves
were apprehended and found to be local residents.

The current crime wave included the steal ing ofcash and a set ofkeys from
the C-school. One of the keys was used to open the change compartment of
a copy machine. A secretary in Tucker Hall reported that a total of$190 was
stolen from her desk. Fire extinguishers were also set off in Newcomb and
Robinson Halls. Police believe that the crimes were perpetrated by people
passing through town, not locals.

So, if majority of W&L is going to go bond with either
family or friends, either at home or someplace exotic, what

The winter sports teams are all staying to practice, except
for baseball. The baseball team will be playing in Florida.
Others arejust hanging out, catching up on work, or road
tripping to Philadelphia or D.C. for a couple of days to catch

Before you leave for break:

1. Remember that plane ticket. You
need it to get on the plane.

2. Bring money. A lot of it and pref-
erably someone elses.

3. Try not to make *he accidental turn
on to the “Quintuple Black Diamond
slope” if you are a beginner.

4. Bring your schoolbooks.

5. Don’t do your homework.

6. Notice — FD is coming up in three

7. Don’t worry about FD.

8. Try not to forget packing your tooth-
brush. lt’s the little things that count.

If you are not lucky enough to be
getting away from Lexington, here is a

1. “Borrow” a car a take a road trip to

2. Go out to dinner once in a while.
3. Don’t do your homework.
4. Lay out on the Hill and try to get a

5. Go sledding behind Leyburn Li-
brary. Try not to make an accidental turn
into any large trees.

PAGE 3

:February Plans call for sun, snow, and parties

37118343 * 3-'iil3'N t Plﬂxﬂ - ¥'1.£3’H '

You CAN do
ANGU

February 12, 1993

As low as:
$449/4 nights
$509/7 nights

Air from Dulles

, F 1
Cancun is a popular destination with the studeiiets
this year. The snow and Mardi Gras are also poular.

Photo

6. What do you mean, “There’s no snow behind Leyburn
Library?” That’s not the point. (Besides, haven’t you heard
of ice—blocking?)

7. Don’t worry about FD.

8. Use your toothbrush. lt’s the little things that count.

The Foreign Student
to arrive in theaters soon

By MELXSSA SAWYER
Phi Assistant Features Editor

Washington and Lee’s campus will
soon be displayed in movie theaters
throughout the United States and Eu-
rope.

The movie adaptation of Philippe
Labro’s The Foreign Student is due for
release this spring. Labro, an exchange
student at W&L in 1956, wrote The
Foreign Student about his experiences
at a small southern college.

For the movie, the college is called
Asheland-Stuart, a coeducational
school.

The Foreign Student which was
published in 1986, was on the French
bestseller list for 30 weeks, and won a
major literary prize. Labro is now a
renowned author in Europe, and has
had several subsequent bestsellers, in-
cluding One Summer Out West, Le
Petil , and Fifteen.

Labro is also a director,,but orginall y
had refused to direct the production of
his own novel.

After going through three produc-
ers, however, including 1954 W&L
graduate Paul Maslansky (The Police
Academy series), finally Tarak Ben
Ammar (The Color Purple) got the
filming process rolling.

French fashion andjournalism pho-
tographer Eva Sereny, winner of the
British Academy of Motion Picture
Arts and Sciences award for her short
film The Dress, agreed to work on the
film.

In December of 1992, Sereny and
her producer, Mark bombardo, were
scouting a place to film the movie.
After looking throughout the Caroli-
nas and Georgia, they saw Lexington

and decided that W&L was the perfect
location. After some initialhesitation,
the administration agreed to allow the
filming to take place on campus, start-
ing in March.

Many W&L students and alumni
were chosen to be a part of the film,
along with actress Robin Givensand
actor Marco Hofschneider (Europa,
Europa). '

Some W&L students working on
the film had speaking parts. They
received on-screen credit and the Screen
Actor’s Guild minimum daily wage
(about $460) for their work. Several
students also worked as extras for the
film.

Junior Brian McClung auditioned

in Richmond and received a speaking.

part in the film.

At the time, McClung said “lt’s a
total fluke. lt wasjust luck.”

Once the auditions were over, the
camera crews filmed the Colonnade
one day and Evans Dining Hall. the
second.

Senior Heather Aussiker, an .extra
in the film, said she was surprised the
director didn’t take more shots ofW& L.

“It would have been hard‘ for the
University to accommodate more [film-
ing], especially with all ofthe students
here,” Aussiker said. , I

Aussiker said that the scene she
worked in was the opening sequence,

in which the student first arrives on -

campus. This opening sequence ofthe
film shows the Colonnade.

“lt’s a beautiful shot. The school
looks really good,” said Aussiker

The film,with an $8 million budget,
will be released by Gramercy Films,
reportedly in March. Lornbardo said
he hopes to have the film play in at
least 250 cinemas nationwide.

 

W The Ring-tum Phi, February 1l,l9§lé

‘Off “I3 mark by Mark Paris! Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers
by Jeff MacNel1y

 

    MENS ROOM l5 Pluggers
Moving 5Moo‘n-l1_\/...NO DELAYS. HOLJEVER, . \\ - - » .\\\ \ .\ _\\, -
TRAl3FlC TO mi: LAD/ES ROOM is BACKED-UP  / \ A
BEYOND 1115 SNACK MACHlNl:’ AND INTO THE \ \\\*\\s ‘ g  -ﬁANtlO0g;5N”§§§F
FRONT L065)’. IF yourzr H£ADlNG 70 7115  ,\\~-  HAMMER5 \
LADlES ROOM, I SUGGEST Vou 'l7li<E YOUR m x . . ,

CHANCES-wn’H THE MENS Room omrzv AN
ALTERNATE RJUTE TO THE HE%[S OUT SlDE.

7

   

 

 
 
 
       
 

     
   

   
   
 

     
    
   

   
 

   
 
  
 
 

\
  . .
.1 , Dave by David Miller "
:7 THAT PCT Ké AND 1212 RED ' THWK Yaw FEE’?
I __ \ ' “ ‘ W‘ rHA~i<;,vAr<L.A,i ALOT MORE‘!-JANDY IF
ggz/211’ ..  :._  V‘ Youﬂ DiMMEl2 éwi-1214 _r THINKJD FEELHA WT You 0,9 we REP/“R; ‘/
 r ‘\ Mom’: HANDY 1F 1
'7 .- OWNED i~sreAl> OF
"’ /03 ~\ RENTED.’

Plugger hardware stores still sell
nails by the pound.

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 10 11 12 3
1Russiannews  E  ’
agency
9

BY 

\\/lL'='EV

  
    
     
  
  

OFT l W éN\
lN ‘WE l‘\\NV—3\Eé...

pile

14 Ceremony
15 Story line
16 Wooden shoe
17 Mine entrance

’ 18 Forming sticky

threads

19 Indian group
20 Relates
22 Man of the cloth
23 Protracted
24 Dime or quarter 1
25 Mother or father
28 Discretion

 
 

   

   

     
   
   

 

 

   
     

 

  
 
  

 
    

32 Con —

33 Beasnv one. , ~‘ 33.: 

32 e:;“a;':.:";29. 41f@i'«l1@l’   l @ E

36 Movesheavily   ‘ 

2; 22:32:51,. . 8! 1 1 .. , THEGATES OPEN,
39  Clem In C1894 Tribune Me Services. Inc by HM’ P"’,$ "\ . u; “E 
2? $:fy°,';ﬁs,,::;e A“ Mm Me’ Last week’s puzzle solved ﬁlly I I  
43 With less money 9 Spanning  
44 Gaelic 10 Leatherneck

45 Increased in 11 Roses love 67 I _‘_‘p A I  

jg  1: §;:::;':°“ $1 5%? ' /,5; = set BUSINESS

I ts IYEC |O|'l .0 .

53 Ex un e 21 To -n tch (.0 ca _ “ “. ' o _ ‘P;_'_"‘_
izizfziiiei 22 -*"“"‘ 3&3‘? -‘-> 2-12°‘-=*”:*--~- = i
56 Church official 24 Lacking polish “ -‘*
E);   ‘é<r)1liJerIr"ta£alin ’ .'3‘3-’——.——. ;7 My LEGS SEEM 1-0 »
s9§?;%';2?; §Zi’§l‘;;:“.iems “s*il“¢é%Ti’i£5 sii‘>‘i’é¥i.:i§‘-’rlI'oii'},i...
60 Horse lood 29 More pleasing

61 Gift o1 charity 30 Make happen

1 gOWN  Esiiigglnpart of a ‘E
2 Arsgirftant 36 Orr“dienary writing %; /L/Q‘
3 Recipe word 37 Bestowed 2 a. '
4 Ploneers. at .. _ . .abunc_1antly —§  ‘
times . 39 Certain windows 45 Enormous 49 Entreaty "E  _ ,
5 Run quickly 40 Digits 46 Forest 50 Roman tyrant  V
6 Forward 42 Sneaky one creature 51 Follow secretly § § \
7 saturates 43 Dresses with 47 A Gardner 52 Grai — 5 , \
8 Filthy place care 48 Lose color 54 —. amas. amat 3 1% \ \

-.00ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo.

O . -

: : Energetic woman caught in down hill relationship, ‘l

: : looking for guy who can show her something different. 3  A

: . Let’s meet at Snowboard Park at Massanutten this  A '
0 : Friday night when the prices start to slide! '  

, . , ..

. i 1 /\ ~.

, .

° 0 ...__  Li

. ~ - I {  ‘.-

; y y 5 Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx. LEEMHI "  _ ,1 

° ‘i 1' ‘ - 2000 sq ft 4 bedrooms - can hold u 9 " u "
. . - p to 6 .

, 1 0 . , Saturday Morning- All U Can Eat P c k

: Get your ,7 D Tux at {Totally Tarty. : people. Fireplace, wood stove, refrigerator, Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Brggkfasets

; Get aown to f]'ota((y partyfor : ceiling fans, and huge bar. Secluded location Meals That Cater to BigAppetites

; Aayour FD neeas. : about 3 miles from town. Rent $200/person _ Br akfast Buffet

; : (regardless of number of people). Beautiful Friday and Saturday Nights 11 P-m--4a-m- %
; ‘Jlixeoos start at $44.50 : view. Large yard - with ball field. Call Nate Rt 11 North S““‘:2:,,_93:;;‘;3"2 P-“‘- 0 en 24 Hours

2 Rentaf «no Consignment Dresses, too. 2 0’ LEWIS f°1' m01‘e Info, 463-6337 P - —
. I V I .

: iffaﬁtes, chairs, (men, cﬁtna, E Em $500_ $1000 Weekly Smfﬁng J, I 2 /I‘. L1
0 tents’ becorqttons, aha more] , envelopes. For details - RUSH ' - ‘ < -3
'. - $1.00 with SASE to:

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo° GTOUPFIVE
57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307
Dover, DE 19901 .. )
Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee , t   y .1 H _
V  ‘V '   ..:;" ' '

- Counselors for Summer Scholars June 29 - July 31, 1994 530"’-“W3” iggfggtgg If "'9 C9019’ .
463-980,0
Esiilmmer Sclholars is a four—week program for 100 rising high school senoirs. b g I

, ac counse or serves as a resident advisor for 10 students in Graham—Lees  . . r‘ S '

 dormitory. '   4  S

e , , _ Comic Books - Bu 3 et a 4th FREE

 - Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 13 - August 2 y g .

. seetmns is

1 The Office of Special Programs employs 4 W&L students to serve as

: lCi:os1t1s/hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni Westen QWZQTE

,, o eges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities ,

; management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation. 3 Casslngles $9-50 01' $5-49 3301\-

ti

= Application deadline, February 28, 1993. C°‘“‘t"3' 8‘ western CD5 52 Off-

3.

3 , . _ _ Cassettes $1 Off

‘ For further information, please contact Office of the Special Programs, Howard

3 House, 463_8723_ Open Mott.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 8! Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m.,

3_, Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

I..1 Jr‘

 

 

 

 

  

V

The Ring-tum Phi, February 11,1994

EMB

PAGE 5

Marijuana: W&L student’s drug of choice

‘L DRUGS, from page 1

he was able to get a realistic view of
W&L’s problems with drug abuse.

“My dealings were mostly with stu-
dents and a few employees of W&L,”
he said. “I know several people who

Oiave smoked pot in Gaines and some
who still do.”

Jim views the drug problem at W&L
as something that has decreased in in-
tensity over the past decade or so, but is
still making its presence felt.

“ [The drug problem] has decreased
over the years,” he said. “A few years
back — I knew that it was rampant.”

But national surveys contradict
Jim’s view. A recent survey of51,000
high school and eighth grade students
in more than 400 schools found that the
anti-drug message is not being listened

The University of Michigan study
found that 9 percent of eighth graders,
19 percent of 10th graders and 26 per-
cent of 12th graders admitted to using
marijuana in the past year. Compared
to an identical survey taken last year,

hese are increases of between 2 and 4
éercentage points.

Dr. James Worth, counseling psy-
chologist at W&L, said these statistics
will affect W&L’s student body soon.

“lt’s going to affect all colleges and
universities,” he said. ‘‘I don’t think
we can put our heads in the sand about

That.”

Worth said he gets information about
the drug problem at W&L from various
sources: students, other faculty mem-
bers and fellow counseling psycholo-
gist and Associate Dean of Students
Anne Schroer-Lamont, to name a few.
0 “[My information] is a little better
than what an average person might
hear out on the street because some of
it is privileged communication and
people would have no reason to lie,” he
said. “The common wisdom around
here has been ‘yes, we have alcohol
Qroblems, but we really don’t have
drug problems’ But I’m hearing that
we actually are having an increase in
the use of recreational drugs.”

A W&L senior agreed with Worth.

“I’d say [drug use] is up,” he said,
“especially with the freshmen.”

Q Worth said he is aware of which
drugs are commonly used by W&L
students: marijuana, but not heroin;
LSD, but not freebased cocaine.
Freebasing is a method in which co-
caine is put into solution and injected,
rather than snorted.

. “I understand from what l’ve been

told that marijuana usage is increasing
and is fairly widespread,” he said. “I’m
hearing that there is at least some use of
cocaine on campus, although l’ve not
heard of any crack. I hear occasionally
about LSD and mushrooms. I have not
heard of any heroin use. l’ve not heard
about freebased cocaine.”

Another senior agreed.

“Pot is definitely the main drug of
choice on campus,” he said. “LSD and
’shrooms come and go. They’re here
one day and gone the next.”

Worth said he has not heard about
the use of designer drugs, which are
substances manufactured in a labora-
tory to function like other drugs.

“Designer drugs... I haven’t heard
one way or another, but it does seem
like there’s more talk about use of
drugs now thanthree years ago,” Worth
said.

Worth said he is particularly dis-
tressed by the notion that students who
may have problems with drugs may
rule out seeking help from the
university ’s two psychologists because
they are wrongly seen as a part of the
disciplinary process at W&L.

“I am not part of the disciplinary
process in this school,” Worth said. “I
wasn’t hired for that. I don’t want the
students to think that they have to come
in and get a spanking from Dr. Worth if
they’re caught with drugs or alcohol.”

Worth stressed that he is there to
help students. A student who ap-
proaches Worth with a potential drug
or alcohol problem is guaranteed con-
fidentiality, he said.

Worth said he will give a student a
fair assessment of any problems they
might have with drugs or alcohol,
should they ask for one.

“If [a student] is addicted, he needs
to know so that he can get help. I just
don’t want the student body to think
that we (Worth and Schroer-Lamont)
are disciplinary people. It comes across
that way. I don’t know what to do
about it and it really bothers me.”

Worth said after he establishes a
rapport with a student who comes to
him for help, he can conduct an assess-
ment and a drug and alcohol history for
the student. If the student shows no
signs of addiction or strong psycho-
logical dependence, the student can be
dealt with as an ordinary student
counselee, Worth said.

“However,” said Worth, “if there is
a question of addiction or strong psy-
chological dependence, then we would
probably refer to a drug treatment cen-
ter for a second assessment to augment

our own.”

These assessments contribute to a
recommendation for the student, Worth
said.

If a student is mandated to have a
session with Worth but the Student
Conduct Committee, Worth said he
would tell the appropriate dean that the
student came to see him and what he
recommended to the student, but no
details of the conversation would be
given.

A contributor to the drug problem,
Worth said, is the strong Greek system
that provides much of the social life at
W&L.

However, the individual fraterni-
ties themselves may not be contribut-
ing to the drug problem. Rather, Worth
said, the people who take risks with
drugs are generally more gregarious,
impulsive, spontaneous and somewhat

more rebellious.

“Where do people like that usually
hang out? They’re probably not going
to be alone on a Saturday night in their
donn room,” said Worth. “They’re
probably going to be a member of a
social club or fraternity — As a group,
the kinds of characteristics that lead a
person to join a fraternity may also be
the kinds of characteristics that may
lead a person to experiment with drugs.”

This is not to say that campus Greeks
are the culprits, said Worth.

“There are people in fraternities who
have never and will never use drugs or
even alcohol,” he said.

And the social aspect of the Greek
system adds to the temptation to abuse
drugs, Worth said.

“There’s a social aspect to the use of
substances,” Worth said. “If your group
tolerates or encourages the use of mari-

. Valley

     

.7/7ue"7/z&<e

HARDWARE STORES ‘‘

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
O3 E. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2186

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII,

Fancy Dress is a memorable
event, so dine at a
memorable restaurant!

The Willson-Walker House
30 N. Main Street
463-3020

Reservations now being accepted for
Lunch and Dinner! Make your reservations
early and avoid the last minute rush!

9:
1

. IIIIIII:IIIIIIIIIII*IIIIIIIIII

The

 

HOUSE

Restaurant

*IIII'IIII IIIIIIIIIIIII

 

WlLLSON-
WAL K E R

§l

   
  
   

    

     

‘li“'I“‘l‘l‘"I‘*
:1 ii! I}:

i  FT
 ::5 l

      
   

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII;

    

  
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
     
     

u-an--—-------nnn--nu--Q-on

U ' "' I I 3 U

SPRINGBREAK packages. ' EZ CARD. BOX 16516 ATLANTA GA 30 2 '
Promote on campus or Signup | I

D N ha rih t nized d

Now for rooms! mama. ......... .:;.r;s:.. .“.:.*‘::.:._..v:..":.°:.;°°.;*§....c.“.:;. . Y ES! nwanewsao/msrmamcma-t -

Panama City, $99 and up. credit cards..“in your name." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Caidsapproved immediately. 100% GUARANTEED! I

can CMI 1_800_423_5264 CREDIT 0!‘ HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BElW)RE! ' . I

VISAG and Mastr.-rCard® the credit cards you I '

- INTERNATIONAL deserve and need Ior— ID--BOOKS—Dl-ZPARTMENT | NAME I

. EMPLOYMENT~ STORES—TUITION—ENTERTAINMENI‘— . |
Make up to $2,000$4,000+ EMERSENCY mSH—TEKmS—mST  ' ADDRESS .

P9’ "‘°““‘ .‘°“°““‘g ".“”° REPAIRS—AND iwbogsiw gun CEASDIT RATING! I CITY STATE .... ZIP I

conversational English ' '

abroad. Japan, Taiwan, STUDENT? Yes NO S s_# '

and S. Korea. Many ‘ﬁe "0 turn doﬁnsl ' _

emp1oye=sPr°Vider°°m5= coal‘ ﬁgs“ No cred it checks! ' SIGNATURE '

o b°“’d “ °“‘°’ b°“°ﬁ'5' N° 5g|0|55‘¢"g 5”‘ No security deposit! ' mm: Masiacnid Is - registered trademark d Manama Intemiiiioml. Inc. '
'e?°*‘i“8 ba°“8’°““d_ :3 ‘gukolﬁﬁq I5“ I Visa is . registered tradeimrk olVISA USA. Inc. and VISA invmnuomi I
?§l“.2.§?§?§§.‘ii§§§.‘i‘Z.u; i‘ saw me coupon mom] . '

(206) 632-1146 YouR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING. L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _|

Ext. J5342

CATALOG
OUTLET

Lexington 17 South Main St.
Famous Menfs & Women’s Apparel and Shoes
from America’s Finest Catalog Mail Order
Companies. New Shipments Every Week.
Guaranteed.

Now an additional 25 % off of any
item already on sale.

Savings of 25% to 75% off.
Hours: Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 463-9730

W&L Art

We have three

R. E. Lee

Signatures; Two are War Date.

W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
Sculpture by Ron Tunison
Mary and George Washington pieces

IWIWURHS
Blllllllll

4 East Washin ton Street
Lexington, VA 4450
(703) 464-6464

Open Monday - Saturday

10 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.

 

  
 
  
    
   
  

juana, there is going to be a tendency
for new members of that group to fol-
low the group norm.”

Students who serve as dealers or as
connections also contribute to the prob-
lem.

Worth said access to illegal drugs
factors into the problem somewhat.

“Doctors have two or three times
the addiction rate that the average popu-
lation has. Why? Because they have
access,” he said.

A W&L senior said his fraternity
connections give him access to drugs
that he wouldn’t have as an indepen-
dent

“I can get just about anything I
want,” he said. “If I can’t get it person-
ally, someone in my fraternity can get
it for me.”

Worth said increased use due to
access is indicative that drug education

is not enough. According to Worth,
some persuasion against drug abuse
must also be employed if the drug
problem is to be solved.

“Education alone doesn’t do it,” he
said. “There has to be persuasion along
with education. And where you have
access, if you don’t have education and
persuasion, you will have increased
use.”

Jim thinks this may be why some
W&L students who few people would
suspect of abusing drugs are users.

“People who they (W&L profes-
sors) consider to be their best students
— I know use drugs.”

Editors ’s note: The name Jim is a
fictitious name used to protect the
source and provide clarity in the ar-
ticle. Names were witheld to protect
the identity of the sources

‘Ii 1‘; f’\' 5

 

4 53:4 at -
-,*:5“>.‘34.-.'-‘ IR? 4.3-‘

and Restaurant

-' .»-95:15!’«:~>.;i$\$:52AJ~>
--. -.' _ »' '1 ~.- _.'

\.

' -. ' 1: ‘'1'’ ‘-r'‘..' ‘~:-
:2-v.%x*a£=*E~‘?A::-5-?!§3~‘§’#a:l?‘€:{l?"&a:{*:s~

Part-Time Help Wanted

Work approximately 20 hrs. per week 5
Opportunity to earn $400 - $800 per month starting:
immediately - College Students Welcome :
Call 463-1676 :

". A’: -‘.'.'i‘ I.‘-_.‘/‘ ‘
.

L’) -_ _
’.'-'."-'.":-'5'.’-',"‘-'-' '39 '.-’.

Chef Stewart prepares daiy culinary delights if
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen,
Paella, and Homemade Tortellini.

Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Winter Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

Gift Certificates Now Available

 Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) '5 3'
" ' 5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. -
Call for reservations: 703-463-9715

  

 

 

 

    

PAGE 6

The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1994
OPINION o

 

.. . . .. -3, rfi'.4'.-t'5e‘..:._;-,-.,7/_.$é..-g/:¢..,_..._ .J-__ .._.,u.§,.0. - .: ......

.\«35

" 1‘.

Flip: tiling-tum lﬁlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Common courtesy

Suppose you are renting an apartment from a local landlord. The
landlord wants to make some repairs to your apartment. What does
the landlord do? He makes an appointment or some kind of
arrangement with you, right?

But when Washington and Lee’s fraternity members rent prop-
erty from the university in their fraternity houses, those basic
concessions go right out the window. Many fraternity members
will tell you unfamiliar repair and maintenance people are con-
stantly walking in and out of their fraternity house without being
announced or telling anyone why they are there.

Why this invasion of privacy? Is it too inconvenient for Build-
ings and Grounds to call a fraternity house mother to set up an
appointment to make repairs? Evidently so.

Most service businesses set up an appointment with the people
who hire them. If your television set breaks, the repairman will let
you know approximately what time to expect a visit. If you have
problems with leaky pipes, you can expect the plumber to set up an
appointment rather than just “dropping by.”

Safety Officer Jim Boyd of Buildings and Grounds also likes to
make surprise visits. His inspections of fraternity houses often
come at inopportune moments, such as in the early morning after
a Wednesday night party. But regardless of when these inspections
occur, they all have one thing in common: they come without
warning. A

This doesn’t seem to make sense. Boyd inspects the fraternity
houses for damage and for cleanliness. Maybe if he gave the
fraternity house mothers some advance warning about when he
will make a visit, the brothers in the house would have a chance to
fix any damage or clean any mess that needs attention. This could
save B&G a trip and save the fraternity a bit of money.

Now let’s get back to the rental property scenario: If you were
renting an apartment from a landlord in town and an unknown
person walked in without being announced, what would you do?
Maybe you would call the police. Perhaps you might challenge the
person at the door. Maybe you might do something else. But you
would not allow the person to just walk in and out of your
apartment, would you? How does the situation change when you
rent a piece of property from the university? It doesn’t. Or at least
it shouldn’t.

The members of W&L’s fraternities, or anyone who lives in
university housing for that matter, should not tolerate this blatant
violation of their privacy. Whatever the legal implications of the
situation may be, it is rude and inconsiderate to barge into someone ’ s
private living area, regardless of the reason.

An ounce of prevention

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard would like to pass along a
few words of wisdom to those who will be leaving town for break.

He said students should lock their doors and secure their
windows before leaving. Seems obvious, doesn’t it?'Double check
to make sure you’ve locked up. Beard advises driving a nail in the
top frame of windows that don’t have a lock so the window can not
be raised.

//_,,{x\K<\

..\>*l/4.».
C

 

Cultural insecurity threatens war

It is probably trite by now to write an article on the
situation in Bosnia; most of us are tired of hearing
about the whole thing. So let me be clear that it is not

my intention to analyze the
war there in political terms

only, and to propose a set of
actions that President
Clinton, for example, should
undertake. That would be
fruitless. Instead, I will try
to analyze the war from a
more detached, historical
point of view. In short, I
shall ask: just why are these
people fighting in Bosnia,

and what does it, or should it, mean for us?

Let me preface my interpretations with this simple
reminder: there are two sides to human nature, the
social and the selfish. Different words can be used to
expressed this duality, like communal and individual-
istic, but it all amounts to the same thing. It is human

 
 
   

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

worked around, not tink-
ered with. Prejudice may
be a human imperfection,

our own paths, to establish our own unique and

personal “cultures?” Why not create a world society

based on tolerance, and not on moralism? Throw off
the shackles of tradition, in
short, and be free.

fortunately this is all non-
sense —-— abstract dreaming
worthy of the philosophes,
but not of right-thinking
people. For did we not say
that it is part of human nature
to form these attachments to
the group, even to dislike
those not in the group? Does
anyone still believe that human nature can be per-
fected, or even essentially changed? If so, they should
put off all such illusions: human nature ‘must be Cultural insecurity has never existed at the same

Tempting indeed, but un-

ideas may serve to soothe long-lasting divisions,
but in the long run they inevitably lead to a reaction,
to a reassertion of cultural differences, even by way
of force. Let us remember, frightened people are
violent people. ‘

What can be done? We must blunt the influence
of forces like relativism and individualism: th
lead to the death of culture.
moreover, as we mentioned, that culture refuses to
die — it is too embedded in our natures. When
threatened, it reacts (and strongly too). We must
provide, therefore, a vehicle for nations and ethnic
groups to feel secure in their identities, to feel that
they may stand some chance against the onslaught
of MTV and Coca—Cola, and against all the em-
blems of our valueless feel-good pop culture (most
especially Barney, the culture—destroying dinosaur).

The problem IS,

high level as it does
today, mainly because
of the dubious bless-

Beard also advised Students who are leaving town to ask nature to divide into groups, and to be suspicious of but it is alsoa humanfact. ings ofthe age of mzﬂs
Someone who is staying to look after their bejohgings while they and feel superior to those outside of one’s own par- What should it all . . communications, so
are gone. If that is not possible Beard said the best bet is a locked “cum gl°“P' m°a“l°”S’the"?“mea"S Does anyone 5”” believe that ethnic Wars Should not

’ * It is fairly obvious to me, and to most people, that thatwe should not be par- be so surprising (per-

rental space or removal of valuable items such as stereo and game
equipment, jewelry, and televisions or VCRs from the premises.

Beard also said Lexington police have a vacation property
checklist. Students should call or stop by the police station to ﬁll
out a form that lists the name and contact number of the student, and
lists valuable possessions on the property. Police will also ask if the
mail will be picked up and if the lights will be on. Police then check
the property while the resident is gone.

If all this advice seems like good old common sense, that’s
because it is. Use it.

Quote of the Week:

“Tiny bubbles...In my wine...make me happy!”

~—VMI cadets hollering cadence to an old Don Ho song

Ellie lilting-htm lﬂlii

the war in Bosnia is being fought based on social
motivations, specifically ethnic motivations. Tradi-
tional groups, like Muslims, Serbs, and Croats, dis-
trustful of each other and anxious to ensure the sur-
vival of their respective peoples and traditions, have
taken up arms in a messy civil war. You might call it
nationalism; you might call it chauvinism; you might
call it fascism — all the same, you cannot deny its

essentially collective nature.

The tempting answer to the Bosnian question,
then, is this: abolish the accursed institution of preju-
dicial nationalism. Encourage all people to think of
themselves as members of one human family. Or
better yet, why should we even feel such a need to
submerge ourselves in a group identity; why should
we not face the world as individuals ready to carve out

ticularly surprised that
Bosnian Muslims and
Serbs like to kill each
other; it is nothing new
and will probably never
change. It means that all
people crave a social and
cultural identity, even for
the purposes of making
themselves feel superior,
and that this will prob-
ably never change. It

means that the pace at which traditions and cultures
are being uprooted by the siren songs of rationalism,
materialism, and individualism emitted by the West
should concern us. In the short run, these alluring

human nature can be perfected, or
even essentially changed? I f so,
they should put off all such illu-
sions: human nature must be
worked around, not tinkered with.
Prejudice may be a human imper-
fection, but it is also a human fact.

haps the fact that they
are notacomnmnplace
yet should be). Some-
times we are not Ill
“just the same”; some-
times we cannot “just
get along.” However
unappealing a realiza-
tion it may be, people
need walls between
them: if you tear th

down, look out! They

will be built up anew, taller and thicker than before,
and scarred with the suffering caused by good
intentions. The Age of Reaction has already begun;
Bosnia is a foretaste. Bon appetit..

Recycle now, before you have to '

I have decided to write this week
about one of my favorite topics, envi-
ronmentalism. The lack of it at W&L
has been bothering me for a while now,
especially since Lexington would seem

“Seinfeld.” Hate to break this to you,
but landfills don’t stop expanding be-
cause you are watching “Seinfeld.”
Right now, sitting at home in Lexing-
ton, it seems really unlikely that a

 

to bet it wouldn’t be as much fun if it
was surrounded by concrete and in the
middle of a city. Once again a healthy
environment comes into play. As for
all of you who are hunters, you can’t

reasons for being environmentally
aware hold true for both the U.S. and
Lexington, although, for examp e,
Detroit’s natural atmosphere can’t re-
ally be compared to Lexington’s. So

Exec t’ Ed't . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .

Manajlgjg Ejifgr _ _ . _ _ . I . _ _ _ . I _ _ ‘ . . ‘ I _ . . . I _ I . _ _ .  a perfect place to teach these values. landﬁll will open in your backyard. hunt deer in a cement parking lot. let’s look at environmental politics.

News Ediwrs . . _ . _ _ . ’ . _ . _ . _ _ _ _ _ I _ . . . . _ _ _ _ ' _ . j ' Michell brie Thomas Hespos First, let me explain what I mean by However, eventually you will prob- I hope all of you now feel inspired to There are some people who would like

Edimiaj page Educ, . _ _ . . _ _ . _ _ . _ _ _ , _ _ . _ ‘ . . . . _ . . . _ . _ . . . _ _ . . _’Ric,md weaver environmentalism. It doesn’t mean eat- ably move toabiggercity where waste go out_and recycle and admire nature. to believe that environmentalists are

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert "lg nuts and bet" dlsposal may Tllere '5 3 difficulty ln lecxcllnga e5Pe' pan of some liberal fringe that wlll

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard "35 and Camp‘ beaprobleln clally for those of "5 wlllloul 035- evemually fade away-
Features Editor ............................................ . . Ethan Krupp ing out in the They may Well. for those of you on campus, the WRONG. Environmentalism ha3a
Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ Melissa Sawyer, Hillary oison woods, or giving then decide university has finally decided to take a role in most national issues. Environ-

Photography Editor . . . . .._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Bethany Smith up driving or that your forward step and institute aluminum mental issues were a key concern in

Assistant Photography Editor - . . . - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green shopping. l’Il be b a c k y a r d and perhaps newspaper recycling. This NAFTA. They will appear in discus-

A" D"°°‘°' - ~ - ~ - - - - ~ - - - » - - - - ~ - - - ~ - - - ~ - - - - - - - - - - - ~ - « - - - ~ - - - - - - -Phil Carrot! the first to admit looks like a is a first step, and I humbly suggest the sions about everything from the budget

Egllmlai g"”°::‘“l5_‘ ‘ - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ - - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ - - - - - - - - - - - - ~ « - - --5°‘) Till)’ I love to shop suitableloca- university go a bit farther and set up a to defense. Even typically conserva-

itoria age ssrstant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt and I have a tjon I for a recycling center tive groups are be-

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey :1-uge :~c-cm]:“:l,l‘a; landﬁll]. [F S otn famPuS. Mitt-Hg ginning to realle

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .AlIen Flickinger, Ransom James .lon 0 Jun a glue easier 5 a eumversl .165 __-—_-—-— ‘ C W the importance .Of

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. Sally Obermueller IS uselesf but , . . or 6.‘/eryone thatare Suffering envlmnmemal 15'

A V ~ ~ - . . that I can I throw away. So, I m not to get into the habit of recycling now from budget cuts . . sues. Recently,the
d ertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener _ . . . . . The unlversl has

Ci;-cuhtjon Manage, _ _ , _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ , _ . _ _ A . _ _ _ A . _ _ . _ _ _ . . _ _ _ _ _ _B1.ian Carpemer asking you to make drastic changes in than it will be for all of you to fight the can set up effec- ty NRA and Earth

your habits.

government 20 years from now. I real-

tive recycling

finally decided to take a

First! teamed upto

The R,-,,g_,,,,,, phi is pub,-Shed Fr-da d - th d d t h I t In fact,beingenvironmentally aware ize recycling isn’t exactly convenient programs, W&L - - save an old-growth
washingmn and Lee University uxirlwz: \l,l:rmignia CF:Edfggrior;;:[es;i:°_tZ’:a:):i can save your money so you can go in Lexington, but I will get into that surely can. -forward Step and lnstltute forest. 9
comes rim .1 f d _ , ’ d ’_ _ g ' g j 3 shopping, but only for reusable goods. later. . ' While W&L aluminum and perhaps I hope I have

P 3“ 3’ '°'“ 3 "°"'5"‘8 3“ 5“b50"Pll0n TCVCHUCS. The Wa5l“"S'°" “ml L“ Environmentalism can be turning off Believe it or not, there are some lagssadlybehind newspaper recyc-[l'ng_ opened up some

Publications Board elects the executive editorand business manager, but The Ring-rum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

the lights when you are not in a room,
not driving if you’re only going a few
blocks, recycling, and appreciating
what is around you.

Now to get down to why you should
turn off lights and save water. Well, for
those of you who pay for utilities, it
saves money. I can get you all sorts of
charts and graphs to prove thisto you —
just let me know. For those of you who
live on campus, I guess your motivation
will have to be in knowing it is the right
thing to do.

Now as for recycling, previous col-
umns have gone into why you shouldn ’t
recycle due to opportunity costs. Ifyou
go and recycle, you may end up missing

advantages to living in Lexington. One
of these is a great environment; you
don’t have to worry about smog or
noise pollution, unless you’re at a fra-
ternity party. However, even Lexing-
ton is not immune from environmental
threats. Last yearthe Maury River was
threatened and by extension, so was
Goshen Pass.

The Outing Club last year worked
on a letter-writing campaign to de-
clare the Maury exceptional water so
that during Spring Term, there would
be someplace to go after classes. Then
there is ZoIIman’s. Everyone com-
plains that you get too close to nature
when you party out there. I am willing

in recycling it is
fairly environ-
mental in other
ways. We use
china in the D-
Hall instead of
plastic or paper.
Fl u o r e s c e n t
lights, which last
longer are in
wide use, there is

white paper recycling all over campus,
and the university has not bulldozed
any ofthe trees out by the Pavilion to
build a new building.

Now let’s expand this view of recy-
cling to the U.S. Some of the same

This is a ﬁrst step, and I
humbly suggest the uni-
versity go a bit farther
and set up a recycling
center on campus.

minds and I’d like
to relate this col-
umn to last week’s
column by Mr.
C.F. Kucera, @-
fending the rights
of smokers in the
Co-op. On the sur-
face this would
seem to have noth-
ing to do with en-
vironmentalism; however, Cargl
Browner, head of the Environmental
Protection Agency recently announced
she will seek a ban on smoking in
all nonresidential buildings. IT’S
ABOUT TIME.

 

   

.6,
7 t

  

Q

The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1994

OPINION

Scenes from a coin laundromat

DREAM LAND
' Richard Weaver

Dirty laundry isabad thing, and this

, past Sunday I decided some sort of
E drastic action would be necessary to
M fix that bad thing.

QAt the same time I realized the next
logical stop for the Dream Land World
Tour would be the Lexington Coin
Laundry on Henry and Randolph
Streets.

Accompanied by trusty Phi Art
Director Phil Carrott, I carried a
m§nth’s worth of laundry down the
street to the professionals at the Lex-
ington Coin Laundry. Professional coin
rip-offs, that is.

I have been trying to do my laundry
at the Lexington Coin Laundry for the
past year. I usually run out of quarters
b ore I am through, so my clothes
don’t usually get that clean, so my
clothes don’t smell that great, so don’t
get near me if you know what’s good
for you.

But this is not the reason I frequent
the Lexington Coin Laundry. Being a
writer of imminent success and also
inﬁiedibie humility, I visit this estab-
lishment for its rich mosaic of people

' striving to ﬁnd electric-heat peace in a

cold world of frigid strife, or some-
thing like that. Also, they have the best
sign I have seen in Lexington: “Large
Capacity Warsher: $2.” That’s right,
“vﬂtrsher,” not “washer.”

Recently I was in the Lexington
Coin Laundry with my friend Melissa
when we spotted a rather large woman
doing her laundry. “Jane,” still wear-
ing her work uniform, had a can of Old

Milwaukee in one hand and a cigarette
in the other. Without warning, “Jane”
walked up to us and announced we
should never have foot surgery, be’-
cause it never heals. She then showed
us her unhealed foot. “Jane” was not
wearing shoes.

Right then and there Melissa and I
drafted a law saying A) one may not go
barefoot in a ‘
laundromat, es-
pecially if they
have nasty foot
wounds. This
law hasonly one
clause.

On this par-
ticulartriptothe
Lexington Coin
Laundry Phil
and I metavery
nice woman
named Joyce.
Joyce was using
10 washing ma-
chines at once.
When I asked
her if she liked

 

(Joyce) if she had ever seen other pets
at the laundromat, and she said that
once a student had brought his pet 3-
foot long boa constrictor. You have to
wonder if the snake laid any little boa
eggs while he was in the laundromat.
Keep those shoes on! Getting back to
the dog:

“This is Chance’s first time here,
' because if] left
him at home he
would be
lonely,” Joyce
said.

After chat-
ting with Joyce.
I met her friend-
i n - l a u n d r y ,
Ellen. Ellen was
working on five
loads of laun-
dry,butsaid she
had ‘used up to
12 machines at
once. Ellen of-
fers Washing-
ton and Lee stu-
dents a laundry

the Lexington tip: separate
Coin Laundry colors before
better than the washing.

Wash-O-Matic Ellen says
laundromat near she once saw a

Beyond Video, «
Joyce gave me the first of many anti-
Wash-O-Matic epithets I heard that
afternoon.

“l’ve only been there once, but the
machines cost more and they don’t do
a good job,” Joyce said. ‘‘I’m never
going back.” «~

On this particular trip to the Lexing-
ton Coin Laundry Joyce was accompa-
nied by her dog, Chance. I asked her

W & L male
wash an entire load ofunsorted clothes,
and when he saw the aftermath, he took
all his clothes and threw them directly
into the trash.

Ellen also did not have kind words
for Wash-O-Matic.

“They rip you off over there with
small machines and bad dryers,” Ellen
said. “I’ve only been once.”

Both Ellen and Joyce denied ever

seeing anybody taking “dryer rides” at
the Lexington Coin Laundry.

After I ﬁnished talking to Ellen, I
noticed a man who was kind of hunched
over and just staring into space with a
deranged look on his face. I thought he
might be a postal worker, so I went
over and talked to him.

“Are you Tom Hespos?” I asked.
Just kidding! I really asked him:

“What do you think about the Lex-
ington Coin Laundry?”

“It really sucks,” Gary said.

Gary was NOT happy at all with the
women whowere using many machines
at once. He’s been using the Lexington
Coin Laundry for several months now
and is just about fed up with people
who leave their clothes in the washers,
people who hog the dryers, park in the
parking lot, vote Republican, eat a lot
of fiber, etc.

“There ought toibe a law,” Gary
said. Then he wiped his nose.

When I asked Gary if he had tried
going to Wash-O-Matic, he snorted.

“I went there once and it, well, it
smelled,” he said.

I think it’s obvious that all ofthis is
leading up to a rumble between the
patrons of Wash-O-Matic and the Lex-
ington Coin Laundry. Instead of the
“Bloods” and the “Crips,” this will be
a fight between the “Slow Dryers” and
the “Broken Detergent Machines.” And
the prize will be the title of Biggest
Dirtbag Hangout in Lexington. W&L
students will be invited to watch the
action.

At the end ofthe afternoon Phil and
I left our friends at the Lexington Coin
Laundry. We’ll be back there in a few
weeks, as you probably will. Say hello
to Chance when you’re there.

TV offers good escape from work

MY VIEW

Brad Philipson, ’97

Sunday afternoons at W&L seem to be purgatory
between the grueling classes and even more grueling
wgekend parties. I, personally, refuse to leave my bed
between noon and 2:30 p.m. But, in between this
period of short-term hibernation and dinner time is a

three hour void unaccounted for.

I have developed ﬁlling these hours into an art
form. Some call me a lazy couch potato, but there is
more involved in my Sunday activity than that. There
is’ deep mind-exhausting, existential, Zen, mioggi-
istic, mental state which must be properly reached
before allowing oneself to sit mindlessly in front of
three hours of drivel on a small black box with a 13-

inch screen.

Zen thing.

a substittﬁﬁ

Well, most of it is drivel. Bud Light commercials
make an enlightening statement on the veiled genius
of our generation as we outsmart fifty—something,
arrogant, menial servants who have rationalized them-
selves into thinking they are in positions of power
(“YES, I am!”). But I digress — let’s get back to that

The first step along the path to total consciousness
does not involve the Dalai Lama and a legally retarded
greens keeper; it involves a comfortable seat. After
carefully positioning yourself within reach of the
remote, you must first ﬁnd the most brainless thing on
the air—‘-“CHiP’s” works best, but you can improvise

Watch it for at least 10 minutes and let all thoughts
of doing any work before 7 p.m. drift out of you. Next,
you must learn to be the remote. Hold it out of position
of the buttons. Above all, do not relinquish control. If
it falls into evil hands there is no measuring what
could happen: civil war could break out, lives could be
lost, empires could crumble, Erik Estrada could get

another TV show! .

I think ljust soiled myself. Anyway, after you
have bonded with the remote and are wearing clean
underwear, it is time to chose the proper subject for
the afternoon’s viewing. Football games usually
work, but the season over, mediocre late ’80s mov-

ies about high schoolers will work. The key here is

lack of superficial mental strain. Let your mind
withdraw into itself.

While your eyes are focused on large sweaty
men beating each other up for large sums ofmolney,
your subconscience can travel the globe, reaching
depths of introspection never before reached by

anyoineoutside of a poverty-stricken monk in dis-

LETTERS  

carded woman’s clothing mindlessly roaming the
streets of Istanbul in search of pocket change and a
small French poodle named Mikie.
But enough about my family. When you are
‘done, you will probably not remember what hap-
pened, but, if you are lucky, you will feel a sense of
inner peace.

Speaker

Patricia Russell McCloud, pro-
fessional orator and attorney, will
be the Black History Month key-
note speaker on February 22, 1994
at 8:00 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Recep-
tion in Chavis House will follow.

Writing

The Writing Center is open to
help students with papers and other
writing projects Sundays through
Thursdays from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m.
in Payne 2B. Most faculty mem-
bers encourage their students to
bring drafts to the Center for help
with revisions before turning the
paper in for a grade.

Manager

Needed ASAP: Manager for the
1994 Women’s Lacrosse Team. If
interested, please contact Jan
Hathorn at ext. 8668 or Sue Behme
at ext. 8679.

Alumni

Applications from members of
the class of 1994 who wish to be
considered for the Alumni Staff
Association position for the 1994-
95 academic-year are due by Mon-
day, February 28. Graduating se-
niors should submit a letter of ap-
plication and resume to Alumni Sec-
retary Jim Farrar at ‘the Alumni
House. The Staff Associate posi-
tion beoomes availableluly 1,1994.
Personal interviews will be sched-
uled upon receipt of application.

 

PAGE 7

Pictures

Seniors: You can still sign up for
senior pictures for The Calyx! Sign
up sheets are in front of Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center. Any questions? Call The
Calyx ofﬁce at 464-4046.

Ariel

The Ariel literary magazine is
now accepting submissions for the
1994 issue. Literary submissions
may be dropped off in envelopes in
Payne Hall, the Leyburn Library,
and the University Center. Any vi-
sual art submissions should be left
forTemple Cone, c/o Carol Calkins
in the University Center. Deadline
for submissions is March 11.

Kathekon

Applications for Kathekon will
be available in front of Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center beginning Monday, Feb. 7.
All rising juniors and seniors are
encouraged to submit an applica-
tion and sign up for an interview.
Deadline for turning in applications
is March 1. Interviews will be held
March 8-10. For more information,
pick up a packet in the University
Center.

Phi

The Phi will next publish on
February 25, 1994.

Correction

The article, “SVCW get ﬁnancial help,” in the February 5, 1994 issue
of The Ring-tum Phi was incorrectly attributed. The article was written by
E. Lee Daugherty. The Phi regrets the error.

Rockbridge Library staff
thanks APO volunteers

To the editor:

The staff of the Rockbridge Re-
gional Library would like to thank the
Alpha Phi Omega Fraternity for com-
ing in and shelf reading and straighten-
ing our shelves. They have been a big
help to us.

If any other group would like to
come and help us out, we would appre-
ciate it.

Lynda D. Gordon
Assistant Head of Circulation
Rockbridge Regional Library

Kathekon positions will open soon for rising juniors, seniors

To the editor:

‘Once again, Kathekon will be hold-
ing interviews to ﬁll the fourteen spots
vacated by this year’s seniors.

We will be selecting approximately

six rising seniors and eight risingjun- ~

iors. For anyone who might not be
familiar with Kathekon and what we

I d our Statement of Purpose reads as

fo ows.

The term KATHEKON comes from
the Greek phrase, “to kathekon,” which
loosely translated means that we “have
an obligation to serve and to be mind-
ful of our duty; an obligation to do that

O

which is meet and proper.” It is a word
that seems to represent General Lee’s
sense of duty. .

Founded in 1984, Kathekon is a cre-
ation of the Alumni Ofﬁce and the
Alumni Board of Directors and has a
two-fold purpose: 1) to recognize un-
dergraduates and law students as
alumni-in-residence and therefore fa-
miliarize and involve them with the
Alumni Association and its work on
behalf of the university, and 2) to work
as a civic leadership group on campus,
using its energy and inﬂuence to affect
the Washington and Lee community

positively and constructively.

From its inception Kathekon has
been involved in numerous campus
events of a public relations nature.
While remaining flexible and open to
special projects that may be appropri-
ate forthe group to undertake, Kathekon
has developed the following list of
annual projects and/or events that \it
sponsors of in which it participates:

1) Kathekon hosts the Freshmen
Orientation Barbeque sponsored by the
Alumni Association.

2) Kathekon hosts a New Faculty
Cocktail Party each Fall at the

Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

TALKBACK

 

Alumni House.

3) Kathekon sponsors the Annual
Homecoming Parade.

4) Kathekon plays an integral sup-
port role in Homecoming and the Five-
Star Generals program.

_ 5) Kathekon members write per-
sonal letters of congratulations to all
students admitted under the early deci-
sion program.

6) Kathekon plays an integral sup-
port role in the Spring Alumni Week-
end.

7) Kathekon members provide ush-
ers and other support for Parent’s Week-

' and

end and Board of Trustees meetings.

l(athekon’s Statement of Purpose
gives a good general overview of what
we do as a group, but we have also been
looking to expand the list of annual
projects and events.

Kathekon posts signs and posters in
an attempt to keep the speaking tradi-
tion alive. We are hosting a senior class
cocktail party later in March. We will
be looking into helping to build the
new playground at Brewbaker Field,
the junior members are
planning a cookout for the junior
class Spring Term.

We are looking for students who
feel they can contribute to Kathekon,
and we strongly encourage all who are
interested to apply. Applications can
be picked up outside of Carol Calkins’
ofﬁce in the University Center, and a
sign-up sheet for interview times is
also located outside Carol Calkins’ of-
fice. Applications must be returned to
the box outside of Carol Calkins ofﬁce
by March 1, and interviews will be held
on March 8-10.

Ashby R. Hackney
President of Kathekon

. What is your key to a perfect Fancy Dress Weekend?

Colleen Dunlevy, ’96, Columbus,
Ohio — “I haven’t had one yet, so I

don’t know.”

Q

David Silvester, ’95, Milwaukee,

Wis. — “Not getting arrested.”

Christina Wheeler, ’94, Austin, Texas, and Lollie Sheehan, ’94, Savannah,

Ga.—“After three Fancy Dresses, finding a date you can tolerate for

four days.”

 

Cole Costanzo, ’96, Atlanta, Ga. —

“A date.”

Jake Kimball, ’95, Palm Springs,
Calif. — “If the SAB ever picked a
decent band.”

 

 

MSA honors  
black history

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Proclaiming a goal of “empowerment,” the
Washington and Lee Minority Students Asso-
ciation began Black History Month activities
last week.

With a black-directed movie night Feb. 4
and a Black History night at the Letitia Pate
Evans Dining Hall Feb. 9, MSA president
Ayanna Brady kicked off a month she hoped
would help bring the whole community to-
gether.

“l’ve heard a lot from other students [at
W&L] that black students on campus hold
themselves separate from the rest of the student
body,” Brady said. “MSA is open to everyone
who wants to participate.”

Activities planned for the rest of the month
include the keynote speaker, attorney Patricia
Russell-McCloud, who will present a lecture in
Lee Chapel Feb. 22 and a Black History Month
party for the children in Lexington, as well as
another black movie night Feb. 25.

Brady emphasized the fact that the activities
were open to both the entire campus and the
extended Lexington community.

“The MSA goal is empowerment,” she said.
“We want to empower both Lexington and the
W&L community with understanding and di-
versity.”

The MSA will join the VMI minority asso-
ciation, Promaji, for a reception supporting the
military school’s first-ever organized Black
History Month activity, a parade on the VMI
campus. .

Brady said that many W&L students who
are not in MSA were worried about whether or
not they were welcome at Black History Month
activities.

“We want [everyone] to get involved,” Brady
said. “MSA is open to everyone who wants to
participate. We would love to have the support
and help of anyone who wants to participate.”

“V
The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1994

 
 

Joint judicial board .
lies dormant this year

By -HILLARY OLSON
Phi Staff Writer

The Judicial Board set up last academic year
by Student Conduct Committee President
Rajeev K. “Reggie” Aggarwal to investigate
incidents between Virginia Military Institute
cadets and Washington and Lee students has
been surprisingly inactive.

The organization has conducted no joint
investigations this year, as no student has turned
in any requests, said Aggarwal.

Aggarwal said he instituted the system at the
beginning of last year when three fights broke
out between cadets and W&L students in a
short period of time.

Aggarwal noticed that the Student Conduct
Committee, when hearing its cases, consis-
tently heard only one side of the story. It was
hard to reach a fair decision with only one

viewpoint. 6
Therefore, he suggested to the VMI J udical
Board that they work together on cases involv-
ing both schools.
The ad-hoc joint Judicial Board would only

be in session when called upon, said Aggarwal. _

W&L investigators could question VMI cadets
and vice—versa about the speciﬁc incident;

“The whole idea was just to set up a way to
hear both sides of the story,” Aggarwal said.

Aggarwal said the incident last fall concern-
ing cadets and students at the Phi Delta Theta
fraternity house “was not even brought to my
attention until a couple days later.”

The case went directly to Colonel Michael
Bissell, commandant of cadets, and was not
handled by cadets.

The joint committee was not notiﬁed as a
result, Aggarwal said.

“The board could_still be used in the future
if incidents are called to our attention,” he said.

Slander suit
continues

Ia» WHEELER, from page 1

ment; Vicky Saunders, administrative sec-
retary of career development and place-
ment; Anne Shroer-Lamont, associate
dean of students; and President John Wil-
son have all been sent subpoenas.

These officials were required to sub-

to FIJI, from page 1

Bishop. “We talked to each other about our
findings and wrote separate appeals.”

Griffin was away on business and could not
be contacted before press time. Griffin is a
Delta Tau Delta alumni and graduated from
W&L with Bishop in 1968.

FIJI President Ralph “Moke” Wolfe would
not comment on the contents of either appeal.

“We don’t want to do anything that will
sway President Wilson one way or the other,”
Wolfe said. “The way he handles it is up to his
discretion.”

Wolfe said he does not know how long
Wilson will take to return FIJI ’s appeal to SAC.
He will review FlJI’s appeal when he returns

from Florida where he is working on the capital '

campaign.

Wilson took over a month to return Delta
Tau Delta’s appeal of its five-year suspension
in 1992 to SAC.

FIJI pledges Neil Kelleter and Griffin said
although they could pledge elsewhere, they
have no intention of doing so. They also said
they think FIJI was treated unfairly by SAC.

“There’s no question that the facts of the
case were manipulated, there was false infor-

Photo By Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi
FIJI may not be able to have any fraternity events in their house until 1995.

FIJI makes two appeals

mation involved,” Griffin said. “One incident,
by the way, the University has defined hazing,
can be construed as hazing but there was never
any physical danger or where‘ we could harm
ourselves physically or emotionally or mess up
our grades.”

Kelleter said he was not hazed by FIJI.

“I feel as a person, a competent adult college
student, I have the capacity to determine whether
I did something against my will,” Kelleter said.
“Everyone of us had the same choice. I can’t
say I was forced because I chose to do it.”

“Ifthe University is telling me that I wasn’t
competent enough to make decisions for my-
self, then I can’t see how they can want me in
this University.”

Both freshmen said they thought the SAC
punishment could only hurt the freshmen.

“Ifthis system is supposed to protect us then
why are they destroying us?” asked Kelleter.
“We’re not going to be a fraternity until our
junior year ifthis thing sticks. We can’t inititate
until junior year. That’s not what we set out
for.”

Griffin said his father wrote the appeal be-
cause he felt the same way.

“He wrote on behalf of the pledges because
we were being taken advantage of and no one
listened to what we had to say,” he said.

mit documents by Jan. 28.

Heatley’s lawyers have sent subpoe-
nas to professors John and Gwen
Handelman. John Handelman gave his
deposition Jan. 12 and Gwen’s deposition
was subpoenaed Jan. 31. None of these
documents have been added to the public
record.

John and Gwen Handelman have both
retained W&L law professors as counsel
for their depositions.

Joan Shaughnessy, a member of the
New York bar since 1980, and James
Phemister, a member of the Ohio bar
since 1969, have both requested tempo-
rary admission to active membership in
the Virginia bar in order to represent the
two professors.

u-DUVALL, from page 1

UVa Medical Center. Accord-
ing to Lowe, this is normal.

“We think and we get the
impression that it’s not an un-
usual thing,” said Lowe.

The origin of Duvall’s in-
fection remains a mystery.
Duvallwasdiagnosed withthe
condition a day after visiting
the infirmary with ﬂu symp-

ingococcal infection have been
reported, at Washington and
Lee or at any of the schools

   

The Ring/tum Phi wishes everyone at sale and fun breal<

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination.
Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only.

Within walking distance from campus.
Call 463-3835.

 

Town-Country Cleaners
Quality Cleaning and Shirt Laundry
One—Day Service - Drive thru Window
Summit Square Shopping Center
190 Walker St. (Next to Beyond Video)

‘ 463-2261

I have to wear A TUX?
...No problems.’
University Cleaners

Has a wide selection of
Tuxedos for rent.

$45

toms. No other cases of men- _

 

FD Special

played by the W&Lbasketball
squad of which Duvall is a
member.

“Most ofthe time, it’s trans-
mitted through carriers who
don’t have the disease,” said
Horton.

Case to case transmission
ofthe disease, which is caused
by a bacteria in the blood, is
rare, and any new cases would
likely be the result ofa carrier,
and would not stem from
Duvall, said Horton. As ofyet,
no new cases have been re-
ported to the Student Health
Center. The UVa medical staff

Point of View

Restaurant

 

L

 

Duval1’s condition improves

also informed Lowe that the
disease is very aggressive and
quick moving.

“I’mconcerned,and we still
want people who show symp-
toms to come in and be evalu-
ated,” said Horton.

Horton also added that any-
one who shows symptoms over
the upcoming Washington
holiday should inform their
doctor of the increased risk of
meningococcal infection.

The Student Health Center
has put together a fact sheet on
the illness which is posted
around campus.

 

 

1994 Miss All-American
Teen D.C. Pageant-

Come and join the fun and
V excitement;
Teens between 14 and 19 years of
age. You may have the chance to
win: $5000 and scholarship
money, a 14K gold crown ring -
For more information call

1-800-887-7008

The

"Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing

$2 0]?‘ any pasta dinner with
student I.D.

 

Buildings and Grounds workers have been repainting the stairwells in Gianes for a
couple of weeks. The entire building will eventually be repainted.

Gaines gets paint job

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

 

Gaines B-wing residents
may discover some changes
when they move into their
rooms next year. ‘

Assistant Supervisor of
Building and Grounds
Randolph Hare said they are
currentlyvpaintingstairwellsin
B-wing. He said they are get-
ting a jump on renovations they
originally planned to start af-
ter graduation. He said the
stairwell B&G is currently
painting will be the last before
renovations.

Hare said the renovations

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
   

Photo By Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

are part of a three year plan to

- have a wing kept off-line each

year for refurbishment.

“We wanted to concentrate
on a specific area and get up to
our standards thatwe felt were
acceptable,” he said.

He said there was pressure
to finish in time for special
programs that are held from
the mid-June to the first of
August. He said there was
also pressure because some
students arrive early to train
for sports.

Hare said representatives
fromthe special programs
agreed to scale down the num-
ber of participants. He said
Building and Grounds would

work with the special pro-
grams’ schedules.

Hare said the renovations
are preventive measures to in-
sure the safety of the building.
He said they go through each
hallway and suite to thej§ex-
amine the carpets, plumbing,
and the heating/cooling sys—.
tems of each room.

“It gives us time to check
out the mechanical aspects of
that room,” he said.

He said the renovaﬁons
cover 25 percent to 3:’ percent
more square footage and will
be completed in the beginning
of the school year. He said
there are plans to repair the C-
wing next year.

0,

 
 

Final Ballroom Dance Class
*  before Fancy Dress-

with

Lounge

FoxiTrot, Waltz,
Wed. Feb 23

6p.m.—7or8

$5 per person
Come with or without a partner
(703) 344-2114

Frank Roupas
in Fairfax

  
  

  

    
  
 

Swing

   
  

p.m. .

   
  
 

 

Institute of Philosophy
Katholieke Universiteit Leuven

Founded 1425

Write:

Francis P. Crawley, Director
International Programs
Institute of Philosophy

I Katholieke Universiteit

Kardinal Mercierplein 2,
B-3000 Leuven, Belgium
Fax: 32-16-28 63 11 '

A world renowned center for international education in philosophy
offering complete bachelors, Masters, and Ph.D. programs. The Institute
of Philosophy not only teaches the history of philosophy, it is a part of
that history. Located only 25 kilometers from Brussels, the capital of

Europe, this is the center of European philosophy. The Institute of 9
Philosophy houses centers of excellence. in phenomology, psychoanalysis,

 

If

 
  

   
  

I.

 

Leuven
bus SN

 
 
  
    

Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn

philosophy of language, and ancient and medieval philosophy. Tuition
waivers allow students to enroll for a full academic year for only 17,200
Belgian francs (+/— $500). U.S. and Canadian Government Student Loans
available. Courses also available in other subjects to complement the
needs of the Junior Year Abroad Student.

463-7797 J

9

  

  

PAGE 9 ‘ ORTS . The Ring-tum Phi, February 11, 1994

     
      

   

           
  
  
  
   
  

  
 
 
 

   
   
  
    
   
   
   
   
    
   
    
      

  
  

 

   

 

             

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Standings as of 02/08/94
Mel1’S Basketball Women’s Basketball
Leading Scorers Leading Scorers
Player Pts P g P1 pt p
Cam Dyer 276 1&3 ViT)gTrr1ia Yoerg 1031 91.)?
Matt NeWt0n 169 8-9 Sandra Holmes 97 8.8
Derek Carter 3% 3-; Nicky Mayfield 78 7.1
rmucaonucas $125.‘: czﬁiiily 155 8.2 ,%:,::*;.'§:::‘;,:;::§“ 9: 2-2
Jon Coffman 146 7-7 Stacy Williams 77 5.5
T  Robert Miggins 141 7.4 Amy Veg; 25 5_2
 Mary Tankard 53 4.8
.  Leading Rebounders Leading Rebounders
. Player Reb Avg Player Rcb Av
Robert Miggirls 117 6-2 Sandra Holmes 109 6.8g
Derek Carter 96 5.3 Nicky Ma field 93 5.8
Cam Dyer 95 5-3 Mary Tan ard 86 5.4
Mark Connelly 92 4-8 Virginia Yoerg 82 5.5
0 Chris Ccfmzen 43 2.; Stacy Williams 50 3.6
J C f 4 2. '
GROUND FRESH .2::..§.::1:‘:. 3-   is 3;?
   Karen Stutzmann 42 3.0
MORE THAN 70% LEAN FRESH Amy Vogt 19 3-8
G  H N D “M” 5 LBS. PER Free-throw Standings Free-throw Standings
CUSTOMER Player Ft/Fta Av Player Ft/Fta Av
PLEASE Derek Carter 26/30 .86 Virginia Yoerg-V 43/64 .67
Jon Coffman 38/54 .704 Karen Stutzmann 20/32 .625
LB Robert Miggins 37/53 .698 Stacy Williarms 14/24 .583
0 0 o 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Chris Couzen 41/59 .695 Sandra Holmes 25/43 .581
Mark Connelly 43/66 .652 Mar Tankard 13/28 .464
 Matt Newton 37/58 .638 Nickyy Mayfield 28/61 .459
   A M y LOW  ‘ V i V Lam Dyer 49/79 .620
  '; * FLORIDA 9 9
' STRAWBERRIESS. . . . we
CRISP 3/ 
CUCUMBERS ..... ..EA..
ROMA 8 9 Wrestling
9  TOMATOES ....... .15. Records
., - ,7 ; ._    is V  CALIFORNIA 4/Iloo W h. d Le
; 5 1 ' ~> » 7-  «A , . . NAVEI. oltANGEs...cA. Prayer Record wt. “% “‘g‘°" 3“ °
1- 4  -, A ~  A 4 - eam Records
.\ _ ;_  ,\  \.. I. .  Adam Branson 11-6 118, 126 d d f 02 09 94
“ “  \ -.\:\ I ;.  Anthony Raﬂa 4-4 126 (up ate or / / )
4‘ A \ '4 ea  Eric Shirley 12-6 134, 126 , . . _
‘  \ N _  g ’ Rob de Clerk 2-10 134 §AV§I§‘3§‘§jViSnjVr;‘3l‘:g““8 Z3
3 - . I - E  ' / édamHWllhlams §'g  Wrestling 4-4
._    H ary anse - , _
kg _  . I \ y ,  gv’ Steve Tye 8_11 150 Women s Basketball 8 9
g ' M -g 5. \ J ,- / Owen Smith 5_11 158 Men s Basketball 8-12
   -    19.9.. 12;  
‘lo LB. Cole Van Nice 16-8 190
A 1 . ~ Low PRICES   GREAT VALUE   
DUNCAN HINES DIET PEPSI OR
, CAKE MIX PEPSI
13-25 2 LTR.
l'8.5 OZ.
9   WEEKLY SPECIAL wEEKLYsPEcIA1         . 3 0         1 A  
PE"E'L"E‘3'i’<'5i'li’A‘r‘ti'Es W"'i7i‘§"‘"§3”§"E?“‘”                  
Photo by Amy Brown, special to The Fling-tum Phi
 Junior Grant Cowell and three competitors at the Virginia Tech invitational last month put
all thoughts out of their minds to concentrate on winning the 800-meter run.
'21‘.-2%..‘-ii

WRAPPED

EHARRIS .1EE1En...Low PRICES ALL DAY,   EVERY DAY =e<cw-Err ( jmemau @140

{EXTRA INCOME NOW!

ENVELOPE srurrmc -- seoo - saoo every wee

--..-..-..-----."s
v

     EH“ Dawns: sASE|r::arnationuI inc . .

mun CHOCOLATE I9 Elllggws ICE 79.; Em-.N.:,,...,:;.,.2.$o 

M"-K   ' D . . 1 Mrs. Doubtfire
ubltcatlons Board

SELECTED VARIETIES REG. on LOW SALT SLICED Interviews R D, W_”?‘a”"’;9 _
RAGU spAG|-|E'ﬂ| 2/ 00 SM“-|.mE|_p  Th R_ for W o m .R.;$:G_1fa::y Field
 2Z5'3°-5 02-  lgK%?' e  I ‘ Sat. & 9:30 p.m.

IN THE DELI-BAKERY-SLICED TO ORDER ‘ The R 1'48-mm Phi A A190 Sf-Ming Friday 3

 

' SELECTED VARIETIES B ' — A
sA|.oN sE|.Ec1'|vEs 196 Hi ll.s.D.A. CHOICE 99 Riiiﬁfiﬁaéiéfi The ..loy Luck Club Rudy
H c     LB. Letters Defmately one for the If you love football,

    
 

I 4 A M H I Due February 25, 1994 Iadgaseténgee. you'll Igzgghgzmovie.
o T o I 3 1 ‘C0 Cam‘! C3”<in$» Daily 9:40 pm. Daily 7:00 p.m.
Pﬂces Effecﬂve rough Febfuary '5, I  university center Sat. & Sun. 3:45 & 9:40 p.m. Sat. & Sun. 1:00 & 7.-oo p.m.

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesda ,Februciry 9 Through Tuesday Februo TS, 1994 In Lexington T SW95 Inte rviews Marc '1 7,  
Onl .We Reserve The Ri hi To (imil Quantities. None Sold To 0eolers.r(Ne Glodl 'Acce l Federal 100d Stamps. 2275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista

  

 
  

Last Week:

WBB—Hollins 66, W&L 62
MBB—Lynchburg 62, W&L 57
Wrest—Sixth at Apprentice Invit.
Swim—W&L women 142, Mary B. 78

PAGE 10

S

Ellie iﬁing-tum iﬂhi

PORTS

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

 

This Week:

MBB—at Roanoke 02/12
WBB—Ho11ins, 02/13
Wrest—at Va. State Tourney 02/ 13
Swim——at Radford 02/12

 

  

FEBRUARY 11, 19 °

     



BY SARAH GILBERT “

 

 

I It is that time again...._
_ Those: heading‘ away-
from theirusual routine on‘. 
A , vacation breaks have-a'un~ 1
. canny habit ofalso depart-
ing from their accustdmedi - : ..
, ha_bits,»especiaIly those fit: ‘
‘ ness.ones.~ ‘ -  -,
The frame of, mind 
I seems tobe, if youdo not
have to go to; class, you V
.. xtakeabreakfrom conceiv-.=:.
ably stressing activities: ,
: Nutrition‘,-exercise,eyery- 5
=- thing goes to the .wind-*as_' -
. “the occasional student con-"
centrates o_n“relaxing;”Q _.
' But we must keep one-
;  thing in mind: FD. Th2\t‘s , 1.
.;i = right. iadi;<;s_;xnagents,o’njIy‘r ~
’ ne shortT»'_ve¢'k.lfi,v.e_ briefs‘ .
H ays,;afterwel.rettirn from, 
 .out...teve_ls':in cw Orleans :=
 got. the Bahamas for some _ 3 :
,= 'unspeci_fied'otherlocation, '
1the~i>aﬁi¢Wi4ékﬂetid‘W‘ill.be. .
”2upon‘us'. .We1Willj_a'l,l need}
_ ~-to be.in,our7best physicaljfi _
 .anu acstliet .S.hap€;’noi to 
V mention Vbeinge»inn-7su’fﬁyf..;
5 . .ci¢n.t1y-caimswe Of .n%iinfd:. 
V  ' ._So what can :yo1.x*do,to‘i
, .Sfa'y:.inv shape this.weeI<?. .
After all, it is too cold in
[New 5Y“ork1too, dangerous»
gill New, rOrle.a,ns;’too_
‘cramped on..the boat/too
‘ much) trouble torun. , , 
. That: mar.1r§m’ind.fa11
-5 of you .potenti_al ‘_s1ackers,.; 
'isfn"ot,a_ good excuse! Let

 _ me, tell you, why in three ‘

edoes Secsit-ups=-:9‘.
Y “Y S%!Y3{"‘StirezI‘. 

 

 Even ifjthe juice is ’
I .-mixedwith somethingcon- 5
, lsiderablyless healthy, it is
still juice.»l would‘:rather ;
_you:drink a Bloody jlvlary
.  and ascrewdnverthan two ,
 ‘,lite.beers.r It is "worth it. ,
. ,3) Takinglthe stairs V
, ‘ ~Simply‘changing-your
 mode of transportation can 3
 seriously" affect your ﬁt-
F ness lev‘el.’I_ no not you jog
to the beach or the French
, Quarter ‘while the rest of. .
‘: your friends takea taxi, ’
 but..t'a1dngthe stairstothati '
,  third-flooridance club will A
 neverhurt. ... ~» 
2. f ,Cliinbing‘ stairs is an
5 intensive.‘ and all-around
. xwork~out if you use your
1 : arrns‘; It can burn off that-
 ‘beignetl and work on those '
 all-imponant buttocks.  '
 :. Only remember that a
. vacation fronfilschooldoes _
 otinean ayacation fromr '
 In  Ofyéurbodi-”“
i In/I_n fact, thatframe of mind s
” ‘ could seﬁously jeopardize

 

 

Men’s b-ball may miss tourney

  

~ yourpost-break happiness.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Hopes of post-season play for the men’s basketball team were
dealt a severe blow Wednesday night as the team suffered a 62-57
home defeat to Lynchburg College. The loss drops the Generals to
ninth place in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

The Generals and Lynchburg entered the contest in a tie for the
eighth and final position for the ODAC Tournament. With four
games remaining, all on the road, W&L finds itself behind the
competition. Lynchburg (9-11, 6-8 ODAC) might move up as high

as sixth.

The Generals record falls to 5-9 in the conference and 8-12
overall. Should they fail to catch at least one team ahead of them in
the standings, the Generals will be kept out of post-season play for the

third consecutive season.

Chances for a season sweep of the Hornets for the third year in a
row looked bright as the Generals raced out to a 13-3 lead at the
Warner Center. Junior Cam Dyer (13 points) and sophomore Derek
Caner, who made his third start of the season, each scored four early
points to contribute to the 10-point advantage.

Lynchburg, though, was looking to avenge losses in five straight
games to W&L, games in which they had held late leads. The Hornets
took a brief 16-15 lead courtesy of eight points from freshman Otis

    

Tucker. Tucker (11 points) entered the game as the Hornets leading

scorer with an 18.4 points-per-game average.
The lead was indeed short-lived. The Generals scored seven

straight, capped off by a Carter three-pointer from the top of the key.

With 7:10 left in the half, W&L led the game 23-16. Apparently
someone forgot to tell the Generals there was time left in the half. As
Billy Joel said, “Say Go0d—bye to Hollywood.”

An Ahmad Smalls three-pointer sparked a 15-0 run by the Hornets

Photo by Betsy Green, The Fling-tum Phi
The Generals lost this game to Lynchburg, 62-57.

that eventually became a 20-2 run to close the half. Suddenly,
Lynchburg led 36-25 after 20 minutes of play. The two General points
during that stretch came on two Dyer free throws.

There was still reason to be optimistic, as the Generals have proven
to be a strong second-half team all season. Also, the team had come
from behind in each of its five consecutive wins over Lynchburg.

Junior Mark Connelly had the ﬁnal home game crowd of 225
thinking ofa comeback after draining two quick turn-aroundjumpers
early in the second half. However, Tucker and Brian Young hit
consecutive three-pointers to open up a 15-point lead. The Generals
had pulled within 10 when Lynchburg sophomore Mike Preston

connected on a wide-open three to give the Hornets a 53-39 lead with
less than 10 minutes remaining. That’s when Caner took over the ‘
ame.
g The 6’5” swing-man scored six straight points in the paint as part
of an 11-0 General run. A Connelly short jumper pulled W&L within
three with 4:27 to play. Unfortunately the Generals could get no
closer than three points and Lynchburg put it away for good on an
Anthony Cummings lay-up for a 60-52 edge with 25 seconds left.
Although freshman Chris Couzen (eight points) drilled a three-
pointer at the buzzer, the game’s exclamation point was supplied by
a Cummings dunk with two seconds to go.
With the victory, the two teams split theirseason series for the first .
time since 1985-86. Lynchburg still trails W&L in the all-time series 9
56-19. Oddly, the Hornets own an 8-4 road record this season. ‘
Cummings led the Hornets with 17 points and nine rebounds. The
Generals had held Cummings to 10 points in their ﬁrst meeting this
year, a 70-67 W&L win, after averaging 32 in the two contests vegsus
the Generals last season.
Carter ﬁnished with a game-high 18 points, to go with eight
rebounds. In his ﬁnal home game, senior point-guard Matt Newton
was shut-down by the Hornets, scoring just one basket while dishing
three assists. Newton had scored 14 in last Saturday’s 90-74 win over
Eastern Mennonite. Classmate and co-captain Robert Miggins scored ’
just four points, but grabbed a team-high nine boards and had five
steals. Miggins is W&L’s third all-time shot-blocker and is on pace
to be the first General in 24 years to lead the team in rebounds three
consecutive seasons.
To qualify for a tournament spot, the Generals need to win at least
two of their remaining four games. Saturday, the team travels down
[-81 to Roanoke to take on the ODAC leading Maroons (13-1
ODAC). They then close out the regular season campaign ith
games at Virginia Wesleyan, Eastern Mennonite, and Rando ph-
Macon.

The Washington and Lee women’s track team has competed in three indoor
meets thus far this year, and has already set several new indoor records. Fresh-
man Hollis Leddy, right, set a new 400-meter run record with a 62.7. Records were
also set by sophomore Amy Mears, 11 :16 in the 3000-meter run; and the 4x200
team of Loddy, senior Wendy Neel, junior Sarah Gilbert and freshman Megan
Hovda set an indoor record of 1:57.8.

Photo by Amy Brown, special to The Fling-tum Phi

Record-setters hit the track

    
 

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

Now that the National Foot-
ball League season is over, the
only sports left runningarebas-
ketball and hockey.

Being from North Carolina,
where hockey is just not ex-
actly the most talked about
sport, college basketball rules
the house.

What happened to UCLA?
The Bruins were number one in
the country for the grand span
of a week before dropping a
game to Jason Kidd (orthe Uni-
versity of California Golden
Bears for the uninitiated).
Within another week, the once-
mighty had fallen to Notre
Dame.

How many times does the
number-one team in the coun-
try go into a game a substantial
underdog? It happened last
week in the Duke vs. North
Carolina game. Duke, ranked
numberone,wentintothe Dean
E. Smith Center as the under-
dog to the number two ranked
Tarheels.

The National Basketball As-
sociation has almost reached
the All-Star game. The game
will feature Shaquille O’Neal
starting ahead of Patrick Ewing
at the center position for the
Eastern Conference

ln another area, having All-
Star players does not always

guarantee a winning team. Just
ask the New Jersey Nets, who,
despite guard Kenny Anderson
and forward Derrick Coleman,
have hovered around the .500
mark all year.

Speaking of All-Star games,
the American Football Confer-
ence won the Pro-Bowl.

At least we now understand
the logic behind losing the Super
Bowl. The AFC is just saving
their best performance for the
Pro-Bowl, when it really means
something.

Once again back to basket-
ball,the Chicago Bulls hayebeen
surprising everyone by proving
that they can play without God.
The Bulls now stand in the hip

pockets of the division leading

Atlanta Hawks. Now led by Scot-
tie Pippen and Horace Grant, the
Bulls have been playing excep-
tional basketball, especially at
home.

Just in case no one has been
paying attention, major league
baseball will be beginning soon.
The Atlanta Braves (yes, l’m
starting early) will be in the same
division asthe team that knocked
them out of the playoffs, the
Philadelphia Phillies. With the
New York Mets and the Colo-
rado Rockies and San Diego Pa-
dres in the National League, the
World Series is all over.

I’m going out on a limb now
and predicting the Mets to tri-
umph overthe Milwaukee Brew-
ers in a hotly-contested seven-
game series.

Parting Shots-

Tennis has continued to be
somewhat interesting lately
(which is better than its usual
state of just plain boring). Steffi
Graf defeated Martina
Navratilova in a ﬁnals match re-
cently. One wonders if Grafwill
make it through an entire year
without losing (come back
Monicall).

Seles has now dropped out of
the computer rankings used to

seed tournaments.

When she returns, she will
most likely be co-seeded at
numer one with Steffi Graf.
Maybe we will have some more
interesting tournaments from
now on.

The Tar Heels had better not
enjoy their number-one ranking
(their third one this year) for too
long.

The hot seat has been a curse
for every team to visit it this

Baseball season approaches again

season. No team has held the
ranking for more than two
weeks.

In a unprecedented deci-
sion, the NBA has decided to
award the championship this
year to the Charlotte Hornets
for being from North Caro-
lina. The move was made in
an effort to cut down the
length of the season so as not
to interfere with the televis-
ing of baseball games.

   
  
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
   
    
   
 
    
   
   
  
    
 
 
 
 
   
    

A oCKSHoRTs

Swlmmmg

The Washington and Lee
swim teams continued their suc-
cess last week. The two squads,
with records of 7-4 (women) and
4-3 (men) enjoyed solid wgks.

The W&L women suffered a
setback against Mary Washing-
ton on Saturday, losing 117-75."
In the loss, the Generals set a
season best time in the 400-med-
ley relay and got a strong perfor-
mance from freshman Laur
Marshall. ’

Jan. 8, the Generals pasted the
Mary Baldwin team in a 142-78
rout to improve their record to 7-
4 on the year. The Generals won
every race. The win extende
the W&L Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference winning sﬁea v
to 19 consecutive meets.

Nationally, the Generals have
placed a number of swimmers in
the upper echelon of nationa
times. Rebekah Prince is ranke
10th in the 200-back, 18th in th
200-IM, 20th in the 100 baci an a
26th in the 1000 free. Stac
Bcrtelli is ranked 14th in the 20
fly, 34th in the 100-ﬂy, and 46t
in the 1000 free. Brandi
Henderson is ranked 39th in the
1000 free, and Jen Miller i
ranked 50th in the 100 free;

On the men’s side, the Gener-
als have been equally successful.
In a meet labeled previously by
coach Paige Remillard as a toug
contest, the W&Lsquad defeate
Mary Washington by the scor
of 124-81. David Stillma an
Nathan Hottle each got two win
while Tony Diederich, Crai
Sears, and Frank Braden eac
contributed one win.

The men also are amply rep
resented in the list of Nationa
CollegeiateAthleticAssoci io
Division lll top times. Na ha
Hottlehasthe mostimposingcre
dentials with a ninth place rank
ing in the 200 breast, a 19th in th
400-IM, a 31st in the 100-breast
a 38th in the 200-lM, and a 41s
in the 200-back. David Stillma
is currently placed 28th in th350
free and 43rd in the 100-free.

Wrestling
Often in individual sports
there are opportunities for th
individual to steal the show. I
the Apprentice lnvitationalgjln
ior Eric Shirley contiued hi
streak of solid wrestling by tak
ing a second place finish wit
two wins.
The Generals also had sopho
more Colin Looney ﬁnish third
and Cole Van Nice and Anthon
Rafla, the super sub from a fe
weeks ago, took home fourt
place finishes. Shirley’s victo
ries give him a 12-6 record over
all, and 12-2 since droppin
weight classes. Van Nice con
tinues to lead the team witlul
wins, nine pins, and 37 takedown
)n the season. Raﬂa’s victory i
he tournament came via the pi
iis fourth of the season.
Rafla’s four ties him for thir
3n the team and means that all 0
1is wins this year have cogn
with the pin. For the year, fresh
man Adam Branson ranks se
and behind Van Nice with ﬁv
pins.
As a team, the Generals fi
ished sixth of seven teams 0
the weekend. .

 
   
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
    
   
    
     
 
    
    
  
   
    
   
   
    
    
 
   
   
    
 
 
  
     
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
   
    
   
  
   
 
   
   

      

VOLUME 93, NO. 20

EC votes
to nix
fee hike

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

‘(I

The Executive Committee
voted at an emergency meeting
on Wednesday not to recom-
mend an increase in student ac-
tivities fees to the Board of Trust-
ees for next year, in part because
it might make the committee look
bad.

“At this stage in the game, it
would make this committee look
iﬁesponsible if we hashed this
thing out three days before (the
trustees’ meeting),” said EC
President Robert Tompkins.

Tompkins also said Univer-
sity Treasurer Lawrence
Broomall had already been told
t e EC would not recommend an
increase in activity fees.

After its regular meeting on
Monday, Tompkins met with EC
Vice President Jimmy Kull and
EC representatives Keith
Benedict and Alex Cross to dis-
cuss the possibility of increasing
the fees for next year. According
to Tompkins, Cross called for
the emergency meeting to ex-
plain why he supported an in-
crease and to gather support for
his motion for an increase.

The motion came just two
cﬁys after Calyx co-editors An-
thony Catalano and Sarah Butler
appeared before the EC to update
the committee on their budget
woes. Butler said W&L’s year-
book will end the year almost
$11,000 in the red.

‘G “Our major costs are publish-
ing costs,” said Catalano.

Butler said the Calyx is locked
into a contract with their pub-
lisher for the next three years.

‘- This fixes the cost of publishing

and rules out the possibility of
tlﬁ yearbook looking forcheaper
publishing alternatives.

“The bulk of our revenues
have already come in,” said But-
ler.

Cross said the EC had an ad-
ditional $20,000 in its reserve at
thg beginning of budget hearings
this year because of money re-
turned to the EC by the now-
defunct Student Telephone
Union. Cross said he felt this
windfall would lead campus
groups to expect the same amount
0 oney next year, when the EC
wr l have less money than it had
this year. He said an increase of

II» See EC FEE, page 5

‘Whistle wile you work

Fancy Dress Construction Chairman Joe Framptom and worker Tory
Noto work on decorations for the Fancy Dress Ball. Hammers, nails and
lots of workers will be involved in the construction of FD decorations
next week. Framptom said the Constuction Committee will use over _
$6000 worth of lumber to build a variety of structures for the Ball.

I. -1 ea Ij’l*\?l"'./if i:l}}il 
 «‘~. -2-as.-.a'I

   I994‘

A Magical Carpet Ride

See our special Fancti Dress stlpplclncnl

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Francesca Kefalas, The Ring-tum Phi

Patricia Russell McCloud spoke in Lee Chapel for Black History Month.

McCloud sounds alarm  

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

An alarm clock sound symbolized the urgency
of Black History Month Speaker Patricia Russell
McCloud’s message.

McCloud spoke on the theme, “Vision 2000:
Celebrating the Differences.” The main focus of
her speech was the strong need for diversity in
higher education, workplace and one’s life.

One of her trademarks is the alarm clock sound
she makes during her speech.

“I think people need demonstrative demonstra-
tions of urgency,” she said. “Italerts them. Ithought
an alarm clock would be a good indicator for that.”

McCloud’s speech in Lee Chapel Tuesday was
sponsored by the Minority Student Association, the
Black Law Student Association and Contact.

In her speech she stressed the need to eliminate
the two “isms” in American society — racism and
sexism. She said she saw no need to be politically
correct if people are not willing to deal with the

hoto by etsy reen,

e ' ing-tum '

problems of crime, poverty and discrimination. She
said it was up to Washington and Lee students and
others to help pull someone else up.

McCloud graduated from Kentucky State Uni-
versity. She then graduated from Howard Law
School and went on to intensive law studies at
Harvard Law School. She said she practiced tele-
communications law. She said she speaks full time
as a professional orator and owns Russell McCloud
Associates.

McCloud said her mother inspired heras a speaker
by speaking well herself. She said she got her start
in the church which led to various oratorical con-
tests.

She said she decided to pursue law as a way of
helping people.

“I thought law would be a good way to help
people handle their problems,” said McCloud.

McCloud said she wants to encourage people to
develop strategies for action.

“People need to be informed with new informa-
tion and empowered to act upon it,” she said.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 25, 1994

Death shocks  
aw school

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Staff Writer

Surprised and shocked, Washington and Lee
law students remembered the “brilliant” life of
Jack Litz in a memorial service Feb. 23.

Litz, a second-year student from Kingsport,
Tenn., shot himself in his Staunton home Feb. 15.
He was 23.

His friends and professors said Litz was smart
and personable.

“I was impressed with his insight and intelli-
gence,” said Professor Louise Halper, who taught
two of Litz’s classes. “I absolutely would not have
imagined this for a moment.”

Second-year student Tom Yoder, a friend of
Litz, agreed.

“He was very intelligent,” Yoder said. “He was
just very funny, very ﬂamboyant among us. There
was no indication of this; we all got taken by
surprise.”

Even fellow students who were considerably
older than Litz held a lot of respect for him.

“‘Maturity’ or ‘common sense’ keeps coming
back to describe what I felt about him,” said
second-year student John, Loehr, who is 39. ‘‘I
talked to him more as somebody my age.”

Classmate Garret Estep said that Litz could talk

circles around fellow students.

‘‘In classes he never took notes, he’d just draw
pictures in his notebook,” Estep said. “He’d look
like he’d be asleep, and then he’d look around and
say the most intelligent things.”

Though Litz was involved in several activities,
including Habitat for Humanity, the College Demo-
crats, the Phi Alpha Delta law fraternity and his
church choir, friends said he always had time for
them.

“He was multi-talented. and he made time to do
a lot of things, like take Spanish classes,” said
Yoder. “But he always took time to sit down and
talk to us. He was pretty_close.”

Loehr said his life would be missing something
without Litz.

“He was one of the people whom I was glad l’d
met in this life,” Loehr said. ‘‘I’m sad that l’ll have
to go on without him.”

His first-semester roommate, first-year student
Preston Came, said Litz spent very little time in
their Woods Creek apartment.

“He was a wonderfully personable guy, but he
was just so busy,” said Came. “We had no indica-
tion that anything was wrong.”

Came said that Litz moved to Staunton to live

it See DEATH, page 5



new Rush plans

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

The lnterfraternity Council
continues its deliberations over
potential Rush calendars for next
year.

Two plans will be submitted
in their ﬁnal form to each frater-
nity. IFC will vote next Tuesday
on which plan will be sent on for
consideration by the Student Af-
fairs Committee.

One plan, submitted by junior
Adam Plotkin, moves all Rush
dates to the days of the new fall
vacation.

Plotkin said the plan would
have the smallest impact on both
Rushees’ and Actives’ academic
lives.

In Plotkin’s plan, informal fra-
ternity orientations would be held
before classes begin.

“They wouldn’t be open
houses in the traditional sense,”
Plotkin said. “Rush wouldn’t start
right after them.”

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

he said.

Security Officer Thomas Bane agreed.

tion.

said.

end, Young said.

and Friday’s dance.

the weekend as well.

US6 common sense.

6

Just about everyone at Washington and
Lee is preparing for next weekend’s Fancy
Dress Ball, and W&L Security is no excep-

“As faras the amount of work we have
to do, this is probably our biggest
weekend,” Security Director Mike Young

Seven additional security officers will
work long hoursthrough the four-day week-

Security’s main FD duty, he said, is to
provide a safe party atmosphere for students.
Young aims to do this by maintaining a
degree of order both at Thursdayfs concert

Security officers will be on duty the rest of

“We just want to be safe,” Young said.
“We don’t want them to go to jail. We don’t
want them to go to the hospital.”

The most common problem at FD is alco-
hol abuse, Young said. He urged students to

‘‘I know that people are going to drink.
I would like them to drink responsibly,”

their dates this year.

He saidin over21 years,
he’s seen too many men
get drunk and neglect to
see theirdates home safely.

W&L Security recom-

After this orientation, the fra-
ternities would have to abide by
regular IFC rules: only four
weekend parties and two
Wednesday parties per month.
Atkins said the fraternities could
circumvent this restriction by

having parties sponsored by more
than one house. Traditional Rush
events, such as skeet shoots and
pig roasts, would be restricted to
weekends under Plotkirt’s plan.

In» See RUSH, page 5

Below: Fraternity actives and Rushees gather

before open houses in the freshman quad.

File photo ’

Security gussies up for FD

Young boosts force’s numbers for weekend

- Leave your cigarettes at home Thurs-

mended some additional

general tips to make your

FD weekend trouble-free:

cated.
' There will

plan to drink.

be a beer
Thursday’s concert. Bring your ID if you

° Leave your alcohol at
home. lt’s not allowed in
the Pavilion or in the gym.
Any open containers or flasks will be conﬁs-

day night. They aren’t allowed in the Stu-
“I think if they would drink a little bit less, dent Activities paviii0n_ .
they’d have a world of fun,” Bane said.
He advised students to
drink more on Thursday
and Saturday if they want
to, but less on Friday night
so they can enjoy the dance.
Bane also said he would
like to see W&L men have
more consideration for

° Don’t forget your ticket. You won’t be

allowed to enter an
event without a ticket
for it.

' Get your ticket for
Thursday’s concert
early. Young said he
expects a large local
turnout and thinks the
tickets will go quickly.

' If you drink too
much and can’t find a
ride, don‘t drive. A
drunk in public charge
is better than a driving
under the influence
charge.

° “If you need some-
thing, come and ask
me,” Bane said. “I can’t

help you if you don’t ask.”
° Security will be at the front door both

Thursday and Friday evening. Their phone

garden at

extension is #8427.
° Be careful and responsible.

° Have fun.

    

 The Nation.»

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

Federal jury awards damages
to Philippine torture victims

A federal jury awarded $1.2 billion in damages to 10,000
Filipinos who were tortured during the reign of former
Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos. Marcos declared
martial law in his country from 1972 until his government
was overthrown in 1986.

CIA veteran and wife charged

with selling secrets to Soviet Union

The Justice Department Tuesday charged 31-year Central
Intelligence Agency veteran Aldrid Ames and his wife
Rosario with selling national security secrets to Moscow
starting in 1985. Officials said Ames’ alleged betrayal
resulted in the deaths of at least two Soviet officials who
spied for the U.S. According to the Justice Dept., Ames
began spying for the Soviets in 1985 as chief of the Soviet
Counterintelligence Bureau of the CIA’s Soviet-East Euro-
pean Division.

Cease-fire signed in Bosnia

Muslim and Croat leaders signed a cease-fire that shows
promise for peace in Bosnia. The cease-fire begins Friday at
noon for central Bosnia, the city of Mostar, and other areas
where Muslims and Croats have been fighting.

Rebels, Mexican government
reach agreement on Indians

Mexican rebels and the Mexican government have reached
an agreement regarding the rebels’ demands for better treat-
ment of Indians. After three days of negotiations, the two
sides reached an agreement dealing with health, housing,
education and “respect and dignity” for Indians in Mexico.
The Zapatistas seized Mexican towns beginning January 1.
After 12 days and 100 deaths, the government declared a

cease fire.
‘#3? 5*’
=-

Obese woman files discrimination
suit against movie theater

   

In a test of the Americans with Disabilities Act, Tennesseean
Deborah Birdwell went to court Thursday to try to force
theaters to accommodate obesity. Birdwell is filing a lawsuit
after a cinema manager prohibited her from bringing her own
chair into the theater. Birdwell was not able to fit into a
regular theater seat. The government declared in November
that the morbidly obese are protected from discrimination
under the act without consideration of whether their weight
stems from disease or poor diet.

Kerrigan gets deal With Walt
Disney Co. for TV story

The Walt Disney Co. has made a deal with figure skater
Nancy Kerrigan for a TV story of her life, a children’s book,
and theme park appearances. Disney officials said the deal,
which was made for an undisclosed sum, is not contingent on
her performance in the Olympics. Kerrigan is currently in
first place after Wednesday night’s women’s figure skating
technical program.

McDonalds, fast food restaurants
endorse smoking ban legislation

Fast food restaurants gave their endorsements Wednesday
for legislation banning smoking in most commercial facili-
ties, in an effort to provide customers with a smoke-free
environment. McDonald’s 1400 company-owned restau-
rants are among those that will be smoke-free. McDona1ds is
also suggesting its franchise owners adopt a smoke-free
policy in their restaurants.

The State

Virginia Tech budget cuts may
result in lost jobs

 

Virginia Tech may cut 30 jobs from its Cooperative
Extension Service. The extension service’s budget will
likely be cut by $1 million in each of the next two years. The
cuts are due to cuts in Virginia Tech’s budget made by the
General Assembly. Committees will decide how to bridge
the gaps between House and Senate versions of the state
budget next week. The General Assembly session ends on
March 12.

op ,

A " Iivvo Sundays ago. Flint lost six pints of blood and was

The Ri

 

n -tum Phi F

Colonization plans delayed,  

By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staff Writer

A ﬁfth sorority may be coming to
the Washington and Lee campus soon
— but not next year.

Dean of Students David Howison
said the Panhellenic Council voted to
not move for a ﬁfth sorority to colonize
next year. Colonization consists of the
W&L campus inviting a sorority or a
fraternity to establish a chapter here.

Howison said Rush procedures
needed to be reﬁned.

Panhellenic president Elise Brown
agreed.

“We want to work out the kinks in
our own Greek system ﬁrst,” she said.

Brown said although she was
pleased with this year’s Rush, next
year’s Rush is Panhellenic’s main con-
cern. She said they want the function-
ing chapters to be at their best level.

She said this year’s Rush had up-
dated rules on contact rules between
actives and freshman women. Thanks
to implementation of National
Panhellenic’s recommendations, she
said there will be a better clariﬁcation

of the rules for next year’s Rush.

“We’re continuing to make Rush as
inclusive as possible,” said Brown.

She said another reason Panhellenic
is not planning to colonize another
sorority is due to the Gaines Revital-
ization plan to convert loft suites for
sorority and Women’s Forum meet-
ings.

Howison said he will present the
plan to the Board of Trustees on Fri-
day, Feb. 25 at their Houston, Texas
meeting. The Board of Trustees will
then approve a budget and leave it to
the administration to implement it as

they see ﬁt.

Howison said the primary reason
for bringing another sorority to cam-
pus is the interest in another sorority
was high. He said the establishment
would give women more choices ané
would reduce the average number of
members in each sorority to a manage-
able number.

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy “Buddy” Atkins
said the average number of members in
each sorority is over 100. He said 66
percent of W&L women are in sorori-
ties.

Atkins said the goal for’ the long

Women sign up for sorority Rush. Eventually, the Panhellenic Council wants to increase

.“é:$

‘go!

the number of sororities on campus in order to give women more of a choice.

Youth stabbed in Stop-In lot-

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

A Lexington youth stabbed on Feb. 13 is expected
to leave Stonewall Jackson Hospital today.

Shawn Flint, 17, suffered a punctured diaphragm
and lung when he was stabbed twice in the abdomen

in critical condition upon arrival at the hospital.

Adam Lotts, 17, is charged with stabbing Flint. A
16-year-old juvenile is charged with being an acces-
sory to the crime. Police have not released his name
because of his age.

Flint underwent surgery after the incident and said
Wednesday he is recovering well.

“Now l’m pretty much okay,” Flint said from his
hospital room telephone.

Flint said as soon as he can stomach whole foods,
he will be released.

Flint said Lotts mistook him that Sunday after-
noon for a friend Lotts had argued with the previous

night. Flint’s friend wanted to ﬁght Lotts, Flint said,
because Lotts had beaten up his own girlfriend.

Ofﬁcials are holding Lotts and the juvenile at a
detention center, Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard
said. Lotts is charged with malicious wounding. If
convicted of the class three felony, botts faces ﬁve to
20 years in prison and up to a $100,000 ﬁne.

Stop-In Food Store officials would not comment
about the incident, which occurred near the back gas
pumps of their North Main Street store. Police said a
store clerk reported the stabbing, however.

Flint related his side of the story over the phone.

Sunday afternoon, Flint said, Lotts and the juve-
nile approached him as he exited the convenience
store.

“When I walked out, he said ‘You’re the white
boy that was talking to me last night,’ and that’s when
we got into it,” Flint said.

He said Lotts lunged at him and stabbed him once.
Flint threw four or ﬁve punches, he said, then stopped
because he couldn’t breathe. Lotts then stabbed him
once more, he said.

term would be to colonize two more
sororities. He said it would not be
feasible to colonize two sororities si-
multaneously. He said in the past, om
sorority usually succeeds and one fails.

Brown said when Panhellenic starts
its search foranother sorority, they will
focus on strong national sororities.
Brown said they will consult a variety
of sources including Atkins and will
also do research on other chapters t’:
figure out the best sororities to come
W&L. On the idea of bringing an
historically black sorority to campus,
she said they have not broached the
subject. She said the only criterion
they are considering is a strong na-
tional group.

She said the search would not ptC-
clude the possibility of an historically
black sorority. However, she said
Panhellenic wants sororities that are
competitive and on an equal level.

Melissa Byrd, Panhellenic delegate
and member of Kappa Kappa Gamma,
supports the idea of another sororhy
but not next year.

“We need to strengthen the ones we
have here,” she said. “I don’t think it (a
new sorority) would succeed if we
brought another one here next year.”
Pi Beta Phi member Julie Ayers
agreed. 6

“We need to make sure that the

I->See PANHEL, page 5

file photo

Flint said he didn’t realize what had happened
until Lotts told him.

“He said ‘I stuck you.’ That’s when I looked
down and saw blood on me,” Flint said.

Flint also had a knife. When he reached for it,«'ge
said, Lotts and his accomplice turned and ran.

While doctors attended to Flint’s wounds over the;
Hex‘ 24 ll°U,r.$..L9tts.aml.thcjuxﬁnile hid. .. ‘

They turned themselves’ in about 10 p.m. Mdn-l _

day, Beard said, and have remained in custody since
then.

Beard said the crime concerned him. .

“It’s a serious crime for the city of Lexington,” he
said. “lt’s been a good while since we’ve had a crime
of the nature reported to us.”

Chief Beard said he hopes this is an isolated
incident.

Flint wouldn’t argue with that.

He said when he grabbed his knife, he didn’t want A

to stab Lotts.
‘‘If he would’ve come back at me, yes, I would’ve,”
he said, “but I just don’t go out and stick people.”

Trustees

to meet
this week

By PHIL CARROTT
Phi Staff Writer

Right now, the Washington and Lee
Board ofTrustees is enjoying the Texas
sun in Houston at their annual Febru-
ary meeting.

Most signiﬁcantly, the trustees will
be deciding how much tuition will be
for the 1994-1995 school year. Ac-
cording to A. Stevens Miles, Univer-
sity Rector, the trustees want to “hold
tuition down to the inﬂation rate. . . and
increase financial aid while attending
to opportunities to control costs and the
possibility of using other funds for
financial aid.”

The trustees will also be deciding if
the new science facility will need to
have a bond issue. The architects are
currently ﬁnishing the plans for the
building. The bonds will cover the cost
of the building until gifts are made to
the university to pay off the bonds plus
interest.

Executive Committee President
Robert Tompkins will review the
progress of the White Book Review
committee, any honor activity up until
now, and recommend a change to the
way the IFC and the SAC are con-
nected.

“The relationship of the SAC and
the IFC is not the most beneﬁcial rela-
tionship —- it is not structured in a way
to achieve the goals of both the IFC and
the SAC. There needs to be more coop-
eration between them, their goals
should not be retribution and deterence
but rehabilitation.”

In addition, the trustees will be
briefed on the meningococcal infec-
tion on campus, will review sorority
Rush, the upcoming reunion classes,
the investment portfolio of the univer-
sity, and the Phi Gamma Delta case.

The trustees will be meeting Friday
and Saturday and again in May.

-I;

ﬁle photo »

This sketch shows what the completed science center at Washington and Lee will look
like. The Lexington City Council must give its approval before construction can begin.

Science center gets OK

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editorr

The Lexington City Planning Com-
mission voted unanimously to approve
Washington and Lee’s site plan for
renovation of Parmly and Howe Halls.

The vote came during the ice and
snow storm that hit Lexington two
weeks ago. Planning Commission
chairman James Gianniny said few
people made it to the meeting because
of the weather.

“The meeting was interesting,”
Gianniny said. “We continued, every-
thing we did because if there was any
public interest they wouldn’t have got-

ten there. Most of us [planning com-
mission members] walked.”

The plan outlines extensive exterior
and interior renovation of Parmly and
Howe Halls, including the addition of
a glass atrium that would connect the
two buildings.

An additional hearing was held
Thursday to allow a chance for com-
ments by those who couldn’t make it to
the ﬁrst meeting because of the weather.
At the Thursday meeting, the commis-
sion discussed the issue of possible
parking space problems during the con-
struction period.

Gianniny said the planning
commission’s recommendation must
now be approved by the city council

before W&L can begin construction on
the facility.
Gianniny said he did not know the

expected starting date for the construc- .

IIOD. .

W&L Coordinator of Capital Plan-
ning Frank Parsons could not be reached
by telephone calls to his ofﬁce and
home.

Gianniny added that W&Lneed only
wait for the approval of the Lexington
City Council before proceeding \-‘ith
the renovation plans.

‘‘If council approves then W&L can
go ahead,” he said.

Staﬂ Writer Michael Hewlett con-
tributed to this story.

0

 

  
 

  
 

By HILLARY OLSON
Phi Assistant Features Editor

Seventy one high school seniors will be on campus Thursday through
Saurday for the annual Honor Scholarship Weekend arranged by the Admissions
Ofﬁce to attract the most impressive prospective students from around the nation.

The prospectives will be matched with both a freshman housing host and an
upperclass student recruitment host who will eat meals with the prospectives and
entertain them between their scheduled interviews and activities.

The freshman host will house the prospective in his or her dorm room so the
_ student can get a feel for dorm life. The student recruitment host will give the
prﬁpective an older view of campus life, and spend most meal times with the
visitors.

Rob Aliff, director of the program for his third year, said 44 of the 71 students
will ﬂy into Roanoke Airport since some are arriving from as far away as
California and Nova Scotia, Canada. He said that the number of scholarships
offered to prospectives varies from year to year, but typically 15 to 20 full—tuition
honor scholarships are offered.

if he Board of Trustees, who are meeting Thursday in Houston, Texas, will
~ de rde the admissions’ budget and the amount of scholarship dollars available for
next year.

Aliff said probably numerous merit—based awards would be offered from
$2000 and up. He added many students are also possible winners of National
Merit Scholarships, which awards an additional $2750.

Most students arrive Thursday afternoon, have a tour with their hosts and
receive an official welcome "

mm Associate Director of
Admissions, Dan Murphy.
After a day of informal
panel discussions about
academic life and visits to
various classes designed
speciﬁcally for each pro-
spttive, the visitors are
scheduled to attend a cho-
ral concert in DuPont Au-
ditorium featuring South-
ern Comfort, JubiLee and
General Admission Friday
night.
€‘he weekend nights
have been consciously left
open for hosts to give the
students a true—to-life view
of social happenings at
Washington and Lee.
A day full of admis-
sicus, faculty and student
' interviews awaits the

prospectives on Saturday.
' Aliff said the inter-
views are basically the sole

the nation.

would be respectable, he said.

students to get a feel for W&L.

 

I
:2 ‘F -   ‘
- Ike Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1994 V 6 L 1 E

Scholarship finalists enjoy WSLL weekend

arrive on campus this weekend “basically with a blank slate.” He said

“Our aim is to ﬁnally meet these students who literally do it all, for it is difficult
to get any feel for them just on paper,” Aliff said.

He said the scholars will be selected when the faculty, student and admission
panels rank each student as either a one (must-have applicant), two (good, solid
possibility) or three (less competitive.)

PAGE 3

weekend fraternity parties. She said “Our room is a total mess, but we can clear;
a space for her on the floor.” She said her visit last year “did it for me. I knew‘
I wanted to come here.” 
Elizabeth Bahn said her greatest fear is her prospective “might meet some- ;
body Saturday night and miss her ﬂight back home Sunday morning.” ,
An Open House Weekend for those students who applied for honor scholar-,

Students with the most impressive overall scores, usually two one’s and a two,
are offered the largest financial awards, Aliff said.

Aliff said these students are the most difficult group to recruit
“because they can basically go anywhere they want.” He said they
probably will be offered scholarships at some of the top colleges in

If 25% of the students from this weekend return next year, that ~

Aliff said the purpose of this weekend is not only for the
university to examine and evaluate the prospectives, but also for the

Several of the freshman housing hosts named their weekend
visiting experience at W&L as the deciding factor in their decision
to attend. Most of them got a taste of Greek life during their visit.
Memories of their own prospective experiences are main reasons
for most of the housing hosts’ deciding to participate this year.

Freshman Ashley Amini said she volunteered for the program
because she wants to share her love for the school with others who
might attend. “My room will be clean by tomorrow, I promise!” she
said. Wendy Finelli plans to take her prospective student to some

ships but did not make the ﬁnal round is scheduled for March 17-20.

basis for scholarship deci-
sions among the 71 stu-
degts. He said the students

Photo By Ethan Krupp, The tn-tum Phi

Freshman Housing Host and Student Recruitment Committee members sit in duPont
Auditorium for the ﬁnal breifing before the arrival of Honor Scholarship Finalist.

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
  

’ Pho b Ethan Krupp, Th Ring-turn Phi 

Rob Aliff explains what Freshman Housing Hosts and Student Re-
cruitment Committee members can expect from the Honor Scholar-
ship Weekend. Aliff is in charge of the special recruitment weekends. 5

Campus Paperback Bestsellers ’ _ . . . .
1. The Days‘: “re Just Packed, by Bill Watterson. (Andrews &McNeel, $12.95.) More “Calvin and Hobbes” ’ ‘

cartoons.

. The Pelican Brief, by John Grisham. (Dell, $6.99.) Law student finds herself on the run from the killers of two
Supreme Court Justices.

. The Far Side Gallery 4, by Gary Larson. (Andrews &McMeel, $12.95.) Collection of cartoons.

. MTV’s Beavis and Butt-Head, by Sam Johnson and Chris Marcil. (MTV/Callaway/Pocket, $10.00.) Cartoons.

The Remains of the Day, by Kazuo lshiguro. (Vintage, $11.00.) English butler recalls his many years of service.

The Chickens are Restless, by Gary Larson. (Andrews & McMeel, $8.95.) New collection of cartoons.

Young Men and Fire, by Norman Maclean. (University of Chicago, $10.95.) Story of the catastrophic Montana

forest fire in 1949.

. The Killer Angels, by Michael Shaara. (Ballantine, $5.99.) Dramatic recreation of The Battle of Gettysburg.

. The Way Things Ought To Be, by Rush Limbaugh. (Pocket Star, $6.50.) Controversial issues-—that’s
Limbaugh territory.

10. The Joy Luck Club, by Amy Tan. (Ivy, $5.99.) Destinies of Chinese immigrant women and their Chinese-

American daughters.

:3

coo ‘_\r_os_u-aw

New & Recommended
1. The Children of Men, P.D. James (Warner, $6.50.) Orwellian tale of a world where no child can ever be born
again and the choices people make when life deprives them of hope for a future.
2. Daughters of/ifrica, by Margaret Busby, Ed.. (Balantine, $18.00.) International anthology of words and
writings by women of African descent from the ancient Egyptian to the present.
3. This Little Light of Mine, by Kay Mills. (Plume, $12.95.) Moving biography of Fannie Lou Hamer who
dedicated her life to the Civil Rights Movement. An inspiring testimony to the power of the individual.
0

On February 19, 1944, The Columns reported that the
Vagabonds were chosen as the band to play at the
Washington and Lee Spring Fromal on Saturday, March
4. The Vagabonds had played at VMl and they were
featured at the Washinton and Lee Fall Formal. That
year’s decoration motif was the color combination soft
green and white, also similar to the Fall Formal. Tickets
were on sale for $2.00 during the advance ticket drive and
$2.50 at the door.

The Ring-T um Phi reported on February 18, 1969,
that Senator George McGovern, a Democrat from South
Dakota, spoke before a crowd of more than 600 in bee
Chapel. His speech was titled “The Limitations of Power”
and it addressed, among other things, his nagative views
concerning the United State’s involvement in the Viet-
nam conﬂict. He believed that the United States should
exercise more caution in its foreign policy in the future.
McGovern also spoke of his views on the military draft.
He believed that the current recruitment system should
be made voluntary rather than the current draft system.

V’ For iJfh7eiW&1}“A 1'Re.'c"lord ” M '

On February 23, 1984, the Phi reported that John W.
Elrod, former chairman of the Department of Philosophy
at Iowa State University was named Dean of the College,
effective August 1. »

He succeeded William J. Watt who had held the
position since 1971. Elrod was chosen from amoung 200
candidates by a committee comprised of nine members
headed by President Wilson.

On February 23, 1989, the Phi announced the theme
to the 82nd annual Fancy Dress Ball. It was “An Evening
Excursion on the Orient Express.”

According to the New York Times, since 1907, the
Fancy Dress Ball has grown into “the biggest collegiate
social event in the South.” The Fabulous Waller Family
opened for B.B. King. The Student Activities Board put
over 1600 hours into preparation for the 1989 Fancy
Dress Ball which featured ﬂags from all seven countries
in which the legendary train travels, a facade of a train
station, and many other intricacies from the travels of the
Orient Express.

Compiled by JAY WHm-: of the Phi Staff

 

F.D. PROFILE #19:
THE STAG

('Badhreathisbettertbannobreath.:za1L'Q

  
   

Ah, to be under those
spotlights right now...

His dates tonight:
Kodiak. Schlitz,
and Sega.

F .D. PROFILE #2:
i THE INCOMPATIBLES

(FoLEs,thisiswhytber:aretabl¢3ind2egym.)

  

EA?!’ L-BK ts $1!-L-

3’: WON DIE IF

    
 
  
 
 
  

He hates her.
0 O
0 ‘Do 7 V She ham him.
He can ,t “O? mm-WW“ {—-——————i .
d - ~ _ She can t stop
nnkmg thinking about
why he am’:
stop dvinking.
Can you ﬁnd
thefour
"budeup" ﬂasks?
The: chair’:
gonna tip over / J
and he’: going .

to lessen eye.

 

 

 

    

E PAGE 4

0“ H12 mark by Mark Parisi

 

W&LIF E

Bound & Gagged by Dana

The Riirg-tum Phi, February 25,1

Summers

      
 

I

2 ALL RlGHT, ALL RKSHT.’

     
       
    

 omen, A MOVlE AND
3: A DOZEN ROSES... Now
 rum ME oVER.’.’

 

_.-£ﬂ‘.}Z'>’ “‘*" 

    

6109? MARK PARISV

Colonnade Crossword

Further proof of a benevolent god: Yr
teenager thinks thrift stores are cool.

by Jeff MacNe11

   
  

©1991o T.'i'a-me Mediz Services. inc. / Pkggers,  . . . .gf1ls Reserved.

 

 
 
 
  

 

    
    

X = AMouN 1:-oi:
TAKES DARLA To Zgﬁgw V 1

Y:A/v\ouNT op 17/we rr ,
TAKE9 VAVE TO DEVELOP A :
COUCH-g/L959 BALLt€TicALLt’
BAD Arriruviz. I .1

ll
,1

 

  
     

 
    
     
 
   

3 1 Kg I'M REALLY,

l,‘ /‘ﬂog ‘\‘\.\ REALLY ALMOST READY.
I REL-AT;0NSHHE? 5' l ' K?/

l ALGEBKA ; ' .

i. X Y 

l . i

 
 
    
 
 

   
 
    
     
      
      
  

   

ACROSS
1 Seaweed
5 Fancy dances
| 10 Peat —
' 14 Cornucopia
15 Benefit
16 Seed
appendage
17 Extended
narrative poem
18 Explosive stuff
19 Hackman
20 Ways
22 Got even
24 Edible bulb
26 — de cologne
27 Stand for a hot ’
 dish
30 Salve
35 Lamarr and

BY

 
  
  
  

NON ﬁﬂllﬂﬁ

   

 

/ ’ ,}/1”’ 1
-7 ,-'= -" , » . m __
\ , ‘ ere-74 wLsan.is-.’oi:i Po$'r wR.\‘\’5'i2$ G290? \\/lLEy

  
    
   
   
  
  
  

Jzouwoé NlCE‘DEN?, BUT

-« 4- AFTER ‘{o\)‘VL TAKEN @i\CK ,
 A Til? N\é\>~‘Vi \N\3.h'Y 90 YOU

LNTEND "b D0 \N\’Yl-\ n ?

’/7,. ‘yr vw, ‘ ‘ .
:7" "IV ' ‘ ‘ "‘ ll -'
'.y'rIf_/,'i:’.., 5 ,ll;'-‘ ' '

-.v .'~r

  
  
 
  

   

others

36 Knitting stitch
37 Dilatory

38 —— Baba

39 Sprightly

40 Contend

41 New Mexico city
43 Rainbow @1994 Tribune M

44 pinnacle All Rights Rese v
46 Signs of illness

48 Pestered in fun 10 Big bottles for
-19 Operated liquor

50 Port-au-Prince's 11 A state: abbr.

   

   

 

Services. Inc

     
 

02/25/94
Last week’s puzzle solved

     

 

    
      
     

GRlMM‘?, SUMO
I6 ouR,euE5'l".

we CANT LET ‘ll-H5
Kl‘l’l’4H CAT 5L£6P
ON THE FLOOR.

  
   
  
  
  

UJHERE D0 4300
‘ll-llNK H6
wow BE MORE
COMFORTABLE?

   

  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
     
    
   
     

     
       
        
   
   
    
 
     
     
 
   
  
 

  
   
  

  
  
  

 

  
  

   
   

  

   
  
  

 

 

     
   
  
 
 

 

 

 
  
            
 
     

    

SIOIIEWHII SQUETE SHOTIHQ Center
L-EXIHQIOILV
463-9800

March Specials
.: 9¢ rental sections - General (Fitness
tapes, Ski tapes). Martial Arts,
' Wrestling
L-1

  Comic Books - Buy 5 get a 4th FREE; New

  

arrivals of comic books 8! trading cards weekly.
Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m-. Fri 81 Sat 103‘m"u 93"’
Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

ll

  

  
 

ENVELOPE STUFFING -- $600 - $800 every week
Free Details: SASE to
International inc.
1356 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230
./://‘.//‘./‘./:/‘.£/:/‘.//‘./‘./:/‘.//‘.//:/://‘./:/‘./*

............I

2'" , I


N

     
 

   
    
  

   
   
 

 
  
      

< L
~..asN P"-‘OJ T5 “E _,.
,(..a‘\Er 9-2 2€»s~‘::<r»

, L» ~.;\u*<:— as <€$’c=

,/,\  1, ’\--
» 2'  o
, Ewf[_GErS1‘o17i0.
éfagr LJVS’.
mg Moqg \r~lFo2MATioN gm
{$00-$62-rlrr;P

 
  

 

. /'
Ly

52 hatrtfched  a>:sJt:rnon
56 Thinks 21 Wallet items
i_$0 Diving bird 23 Consume
M 2:13 Elunder 25 feed In
?'- 64 Cggtslg defense  Kgdadll gckes.
:2 Stir ugm t 29 Specgalilzed
A noun epoe” voca uary _ WELL SENATOR
A 37 — well that  31 Anne s _ . ' ’
 33 32s;::*’W°* ”2l.li‘?iEE5“l.‘iicé£ 
I p 33 Beta — IS LOCAL.’ ‘
9*: 1 /l3tC()WtN “ 34 L/Voolegn fabric ’ A."
:7. en lon- e er or suits ~. ,, \ 
.41; §EIaU5cYk5"l¢%, .. 3436- f$0ar|C>sr:KtJrr<taa1n1,enl-,. - ‘V ‘ v  M ,/.‘.'z.‘l  ..
35. 4 Smallilsh 39.E‘arly settlers". H '1  7' ‘ ‘\ A E I  
 3 Siégildnb 1 35 Dafhesr t t 51C i 7”“ Wt‘
Wt  45 ;;i;:;’d°'< ‘Y ° gg  2; ir::::;  SHOE   3; ~ A» «fire
I oneyin abric esign impleton Charles ‘ ’ ' \ '- i
  zzlrzzrng  :2 2.:m::i'Se 2: sea  W‘-”"""°"""”’  2% A 
:33 __
if, ---— —.._ _._....._ ___._._._
3“ 1994 Miss All Am ' -
s “gig ' 91' 19311 Apart ments for Rent
*7 3 d Teen D C Pa eant- - ’
ii gamma“; C d-_ _- th gf d Eagering to W&L students. 2 Two
_‘ .
:3 ome an ]O1Il e un an e room apartments or rent in
ii  L . . eXc1tement' downtown Lexington just a very
3 ..  J 76/ 9 9 ‘
g mu. x ~ ,. Teens between 14 and 19 years of short walk from the W&L campus.
3 Sallirday M9‘“‘“g‘ All” Can Eat Pa“°ak‘=S a e. You ma have the chance to $300 Per m0I1th One unlt; $375 Per
,1 Daily Spec1als- 24 Hour—A-Day Breakfast , _ th 1 - t,
3 Meals That Cater to BigAppetites W111:  and SCh0larShlp mon arger unl ' _
§ Br kfast B ffet money, a 14K gold crown ring - —Er°:‘1t1L‘(’j°a“°“f ,
,1 Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m. - o — an 01' a S 01‘ Water
he Sunday 9 a_m,_2 pm, For more information call includin phgt Water ’
l. Rt. 11 North 1 463-3478 Open 24 Hours 1.800.887-7003 If , d 1 g 11
;- 4" 0 mtereste p ease ca property
'1 ’ .
i 3'-. ‘f’ 3- Earn $500 - $1000 weekly stufﬁng manager, Mrs, Brown, daytlme I
; §‘1‘V§(1,°§ff,; ';:’Sd§‘:,‘.'S ' RUSH 463-3013; at night or weekends, '
l ’ ' Group FIVE
E 57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307  
3 Dover, DE 19901 i.
 EXTRAINCOME NOW! E in

     
             
    

 

WE ARE NOW OPEN FOR

    

GHQ Restaurant
announces

CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST»

Monday - Friday
8:30 a.m. — 11:00 a.m.
- Coffee - Toast _
- Tea - Bagels/ A
- Pastery Cream Cheese
- CNN Cable News

C’mon down for pre-class lift or hang-out."
and read the paper. (no smoking please.)
Also check out the new Luncheon Menu.

         
     
      
 
     
    
   
   
    

 

<._

The Rin -tum Phi Febru 25.1994 PAGE 5

,EC discusses upping student activity fees

money irresponsibly this year would receive cuts next year. “I see it as a bad precedent... to do this whenever the
He suggested that next year’s committee explainto campus Executive Committee decides it needs more money,” he
groups that the extra $20,000 the EC had this year was the said.
exception, and not the rule. EC Secretary Ashby Hackney agreed, saying an increase
“If you (Cross) are on the committee next year, you in fees would prompt campus groups to ask for more money
should say ‘we had a windfall,”’ Tompkins said. and inﬂate their budgets next year.
Benedict said asking the Board of Trustees to approve an “ [The EC just raised it two years ago,” he said. “Isn ’t that
increase without a real demand for the money would set a enough?”
bad precedent. Cross motioned for an increase from $135 to $145. The

motion failed, with only three EC members voting in favor
of the increase.

Cross said his motion to increase the fees would help
alleviate the problems the EC had with funding the Calyx
this year.

Tompkins said the EC should not increase the activity
fees without a valid reason.

“We have a responsibility to spend the students’ money
responsibly and efficiently,” he said.

IFC considers new Rush plans

“Any kind of a deferred Rush plan
would require the houses to have
trust and a sense of honor,” Atkins

UDEC FEE, from page 1

ﬁve dollars per student would recoup the loss of the STU
money. He also suggested that an increase of $10 or $15
would prevent “the problems [the EC] had this year” during
dvudget hearings.

Tompkins said the money could easily be made up next

year during budget hearings. He said groups that used their

Law student
commits suicide

said. One house representative said
Plotkin’s deferred Rush would end

Two house representatives said
their houses were opposed to any
winter Rush.

IIDRUSH, from page 1

§I>DEATH, from page 1

with his wife, Jennifer, after he was
married Jan. 1.

Becky Fairchild, of Becky’s Coun-
try Casuals in Buena Vista, sold Jenni-
fer Litz her wedding dress.

‘ “They both seemed very sweet,”
Fairchild said.

Came held the same opinion of Litz’s
wife.

“I met Jennifer a few times, and she
was very sweet,” said Came, but added
that he and Litz’s other roommate,
glichael Allen, did not have much con-

ct with him.

“Most of my conversations with
him were current-events driven,” Came
said. ‘‘I didn’t know him very well, but
from the contact I did have with him, he
was a delightful young man.”

“Saying that he was a really intelli-
gent guy isn’t enough, because there
are not a lot of stupid people in law
school,” said Loehr. ‘‘I looked forward
to knowing him for a long time.”

With his fellow students, Litz was
characterized as being helpful and
motivational.

9 “He was instrumental in setting up
a study groups for the property class I

taught,” said Halper. “Another student
told me that it soon became a tutoring
session. My impression was that he

»was very well liked by the other stu-

dents.” -

Estep remembered an incident when
one of Litz’s friends needed her hair
cut.

“He said he knew how to cut hair,
and he totally [messed] it up,” said
Estep. “That was Jack; he wasn’t afraid
to try anything. He always wanted to
do something for people.”

Students, friends and faculty said
they were saddened by the death.

“It’s a great loss to our commu-
nity,” said Halper. “I personally will
miss him.”

The memorial service was held at
St. John’s United Methodist Church in
Buena Vista, and the family asked that
condolences be sent to Jennifer Litz at
P.O. Box 2243, Staunton, VA 24401.

Loehr said he did not know until the
memorial service that Litz had such a
wide range of friends.

“I was surprised by the number of
people outside the law school who at-
tended the service,” he said.

Came said he was saddened by the
incident.

“It’s just a shame,” he said.

Panhel waits for

sororities to stabilize

Freshmen would be allowed at these
parties in limited numbers by invita-
tion only.

Under Plotkin’s plan, the official
Rush dates would be held over the
fall break (October 20th and 21st).
Freshmen would be required to have
a 1.9 grade point average at mid-
terms.

The other plan, submitted by Ryan
Donaldson, maintains a similar Rush
schedule as this year but changes the
contact periods and Open Houses.

Donaldson said it would be better
to get Rush over with as soon as
possible. His plan allows two to three
open contact periods in the middle of
the week. Rush would be completed
before Homecoming according to
Donaldson’s plan.

“It’s not that different from this
year’s Rush,” Donaldson said.

Donaldson said he would submit
a ﬁnalized proposal of his plan to
house presidents by Sunday.

The IFC decided to delay discus-
sion of a possible winter Rush. Dean
Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins said a win-
ter Rush probably could not be feasi-
bly planned for next year.

Freshmen walk to a fraternity house under the guidance of actives during Rush in the
fall. A restructuring of Rush is high on the IFC’s agenda for this year.

up being one really long fall Rush.

File Photo

SVCW and JM U may team up

From Staff Reports

IDPANHEL, from page 2

current sororities are well established before
we bring in another one,” she said.

Chi Omega President Noelle Parrott said
although she supports bringing a new sorority,
she would like to see Pi Phi fill their quota next
year...  . , ‘ .

“No sororities would want to colonize here
if the four sororities are not stable,” she said.

She said Pi Phi is a strong sorority but has the
stigma of being weak.

. She said part of the problem comes from the
freshmen women placing their hopes on only
one or two sororities.

She said freshman women should realize

V. that the four sororities are not much different
7 from each. other. r t ’

“They don’t realize thateach sorority is
great by itself,” shesaid.

Southern Virginia College for Women
may get some financial help through a
public-private venture between SVCW and
James Madison University in Harrisonburg.

Buena Vista General Assembly delegate
Lacey Putney told the News-Gazette that the

budget passed bji the Apprppriatidﬁij 

mittee of the House of Del‘egatés"int:lu”clés“‘ '
nearly $200,000 for the venture.

The Senate budget does not have the same
appropriation.

The schools would work in a partnership.
JMU turns down about 10,000 applicants a
yean

In the SVCW-J MU partnership, 50 to 60 of
those applicants could attend SVCW if they
lived within 50 miles of the Buena Vista school.
Then students w,o,ul.d..,.be. allowed to transfer
to JMU , as juniors a fter two years at

” SVCW.

SVCW showed their ﬁnancial woes last

summer when they borrowed $750,000 from
the Bank of Rockbridge, using the school’s
property as collateral. .

Last fall the college had to cut workers’
wages and benefits in an attempt save money.‘
The school began a capital campaign in Octo-
ber to raise $1.25 million. The campaign has
raised committments for $400,000 so far. In
February, the SVCW board of trustees ap-
proved the sale, of. $3.65 million in bonds to
provide the school with operating money for
the next three years. ,

/

l’RI.\'Cll’I.I’.S 0/ S()L'.\'I) R

If 'I‘ I R Ii .\I If N

UNEORTUNATEIE THIS IS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

_/~ ‘ ' ‘ ./.7‘./C/J/.7:/7‘./.‘/7./J/‘./7‘./.'/‘./7/'.7‘.£/J.‘/J‘. '

./.‘/.;'/../././.'/.././‘./‘./‘./‘./‘./‘./‘./J/‘ < ' _
urnished LlVlI1g Room/Bedroom combination.
Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only.
Within walking distance from campus.

House for Rent -

Four Bedroom, Two Bath
Located Along Rt. 11 - 7 miles south of
Lexington; available June 1. $880 per
month Call 464-4791 anytime.

Town-n-Country Cleaners
Quality Cleaning and Shirt Laundry
One-Day Service - Drive thru Window
Summit Square Shopping Center
190 Walker St. (Next to Beyond Video)

463-2261

DRUNK DRIVING DOESN’T
JUST KILL DRUNK DRIVERS.

.\'z‘cli0Zas Esposito. 1:2‘/led Oct. Is}.
1989 at 8.“.’.5p'm.

Next time your friend insists on
driving drunk, do whatever it takes to
stop him. Because if he kills innocent
people. how will you live with yourself?

ms D0ll"l’lET rmnaos omv: DRUNK.

0 I994 Track/-.r I;muwu:z an3AIuuu'!y A.r.roc1'atilan/Cnlkge Rttimnwnt  Fund

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes. They
don't take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs.
SRAs not only ease your current tax-
bite, they offer a remarkably easy way
to build retirement income-—especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security benefits may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on

your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the

money you don't send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference
in your quality oflife.

What else makes SRAs so special?

A range of allocation choices—from the
guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversified investment accounts of
CREF's variable annuity—all backed
by the nation's number one retirement
system.

Why write off the chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF
SRAS can help you enjoy many
happy returns.

Beneﬁt nawﬁmn tux de_ferral. Call our SRA hatline 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it?‘

E

CREF cerlzj/'ztu!t.r are tlirlri/min} by TI/l/l-CREF lndiv[1)ua/ um) Inﬂilulianal Servitu. Far Irwrr camp/tit infurnmnizn, [nr/udiny rbar_q:.r aml :.rp:n.r:.r,
m// I 300-342-2733, tart. 80/6 fora praxpectw. Read I5: prwpeclw carefully btfort you invert vr rent) munty.

A_

Summer Jobs at Washington and Lee

- Counselors for Summer Scholars June 29 - July 31, 1994

Summer Scholars is a four-week program for 100 rising high school senoirs.
Each counselor serves as a resident advisor for 10 students in Graham-Lees
dormitory.

- Special Programs Resident Assistants, June 13 - August 2

The Office of Special Programs employs 4 W&L students to serve as
hosts/hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni
Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities
management and housekeeping, reception, and transportation.

Application deadline, February 28, 1993.

For further information, please Contact Office of the Special Programs, Howard
House, 463-8723.

F"“""“"""""""“""“"""" “"T" ‘AT ‘T "
I

tum;
Iliiw
lixbw
.’13tll
rlriw
am.
C.-tl!

iluol
qidz
in :

'i0.'.g
rt’

(z...r.
'J|".1\'
‘.lv't'ft f

.’t:'I::".

“PAGE 6

    

Tilt}: iittng-tum lﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

A question of
consistency

The Executive Committee voted Wednesday to not rec-
ommend raising the student activities fee to the Board of
Trustees. EC president Robert Tompkins said he did not
Want the EC to seem irresponsible for throwing together a
proposal in such a short amount of time. Tompkins was
right. The EC would have been irresponsible because they
created their current budget situation.

Allocating funds to student organizations is an unenviable
job. Nevertheless, it is one the EC must do at the start of
every school year. The EC members are elected and
entrusted to oversee the students’ budget. But when faced
with a total budget about $30,000 less than last year’s, the
EC needed to cut budgets. The problem is not that they did
cut budgets, but how they did.

The EC cut the Calyx’s budget to about $6,000 less than
last year’s allocation. The problem is the Calyx went about
$6,000 in debt last year. So, when the Calyx editors went
to the EC this year, they asked for an allocation of $28,600,
which accounted for their increased costs. During the
budget hearings the EC suggested the Calyx did not do an
adequate job of raising funds and made several suggestions,
including getting more people to have their class photos
taken. Well, the Calyx has managed to increase its revenue
immensely. But guess what? It is still in the hole, which is
not surprising when you consider they were allocated about
$10,000 less than they requested. This is not to say the EC
should give every organization the funds they request. On
the contrary, the EC must and should evaluate all the budget
requests and decide whether to grant the allocation or
re uce it. The problem lies in the way the EC evaluated this
year’s requests.

The Calyx is just one example of the EC’s inconsistent
thinking. When comparing this year’s budget and last
year’s there are many interesting changes. The Student
Activities Board received a $7,000 budget increase, while
the Student Bar Association received a budget cut of
$6,000. The Rugby Club has a budget of $2,000 this year
as compared to $1,500 last year. Amnesty International fell
under the refusal to fund partisan groups olicy, but last
year they received $700. The Freshmen Orientation Com-
mittee received $2,000 last year and nothing this ear. Club
Lacrosse’s budget was more than doubled from 1,060 last
year to $2,245 this year. These are just a few of the budget
anomalies.

What is truly bothersome is the way the EC varies its
criteria from one organization to another. EC members said
throughout the budget hearings they consider how many
students the organization benefits. Well, there are not many
organizations that benefit more of the student body than the
Calyx. Every student who wants one gets one. FOC and
SBA each benefit about 400 students, and FOC has an
additional 60 or 70 students who organize orientation week.
Each benefits better than one-fifth of the student body, yet
each had its budget cut. On the other hand it is hard to
imagine that Club Rugby or Club Lacrosse benefit more
than 100 students. Certainly Club Lacrosse and Rugby
deserve funding and no one can blame them for asking for
larger allocations. But the fact that organizations benefit-
ing relatively few people got budget increases while orga-
nizations benefiting relatively more people got budget
decreases, highlights the inconsistencies of the EC’s bud-
get process.

The EC does not have a standard procedure for the
budget process, but this year’s budget problems should
suggest to them, or at least next year’s EC, that they should
develop a system for analyzing budget requests and use it
on each organization. Raising the student activities fee by
$5 or $10 is not necessarily a bad idea. But raising the fee
to solve problems the EC created is irresponsible.

Quote of the Week:

“I think I ’m going to steal something.”
— Written on a muscular dystrophy donation
shamrock at Stop-In

 

lift’
4).’! 1

(J11: ﬁtting-mm ilﬂlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Hillary Olson

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Q . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller
Advenising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener
Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

0
The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1994

   
  
     

   
 

ll FAtR[1'HEY‘r~ 
 spymer onus.

  

D
,/""7--“\,\
O
‘o
‘O
D
6

Media exaggerates drug dangers

It is reported on television news stories, it is dangers needed to be created. The newest concern
was and is that marijuana is a gateway drug, leading
to the use of more toxic and lethal drugs. To reach this
conclusion one needed only
to consult a heroin or cocaine

reported in the mainstream press, it is even reported in
The Ring-tum Phi: marijuana use, especially by the

young, is one the rise. What
should be our reaction?

Many are immediately
surprised. Many think the
anti-drug messages which we
have been exposed to would
have prevented any drug use
by college students. How-
ever, it is those very mes-

 

C.F.
KUCERA,
’97

sages, and anti-drug laws
which have caused much of
the increase in use.

As children growing up in the 1980’s, the message
was clear: use drugs, screw up your life. As many of
us matured we saw readily the effects of cocaine,
heroin, and other hard core drugs on society. What we
didn’t see, however, was any devastating effect of

marijuana.

To see this effect we would have need to visit a
research laboratory and see large doses of THC given
to laboratory rats. The effects of marijuana, ever since
. the 1920’s, have been greatly exaggerated. In 1926 a
series of articles linked marijuana with crime in New
Orleans. The blame for the increase in crime is much
more attributable to the use of alcohol than to mari-
juana. This hearsay evidence of the harmful effects of
the drug continued, and culminated in a number of
state and federal laws, many of which still stand on

the books.

The modern concerns have changed. Since we can
now blame crime on cocaine and heroin users, new

February is Black History Month in
the United States. Throughout this
month we have all seen the special
programming on television, displays in
bookstores, and events being held in
communities across the country com-
memorating the role of African-Ameri-

table question, should mari-
juana use, production, and transport be legalized? My
answer is yes. The time has come to begin treating a

CC""—-*“

Should marijuana use, produc-
tion, and transport be legalized?
My answer is yes. The time has
-come to’ begin treating a large
percentage ofAmericans who
“touch the reefer” like adults.

large percentage of
Americans who “touch
the reefer” like adults.
These people use mari-
juana as many of us use
alcohol: in a recre-
ational manner.
Cannabis has a long
history of social use,
dating backto 2737 BC.
when it was known as
the “Liberator of Sin.”
The useful effects of the
drug as a catalyst for
creativity was made fa-

mous by the patrons of the Hotel Pimodan in Paris
during the 1840’s (brought to notoriety by Gautier’s
book Le Club de Hachischins).

migrants who came to this country
with little or nothing and worked to
achieve theirdreams. This is the Ameri-
can motto: “Life, liberty, and the pur-
suit of happiness.”

What must be remembered is that
African-Americans were not raised on

 

cans in the this creed.
United States. Theirforbear-

They have ers were de-
risen from a nied these
class tanking PATRICK “self -ev i -
akin to thatof dent” truths.
farm animals MCDERMOPT9 They were
to become 994 told to work
some of the until they
most inﬂuen- died, if they
tial Ameri- didn’t, they

cans in our

history. Our nation has been impacted
by people who were brought here to
serve but who have since risen to soar.
African-Americans today hold leader-
ship positions in business, politics, the
arts, medicine, the military,and sports.
Indeed, every facet of our society that
was once closed to them has been
opened. This progression is clear and
it is continuing, and yet, we still
confront racial divisions in our
nation.

These divisions are seen in every
aspect of our society, but all too often
they disproportionately affect the most
innocent members, our children. White
children have a one in ﬁve chance of
being born into poverty, black children
have a one in two chance. Black chil-
dren and teenagers are more likely to
spend time in jail, to be killed, to drop
out of school -— put simply, they are
more likely to fail. We no longer have
to fear the possibility of creating a “per-
manent underclass” in our society. It
has occurred.

While we can all point to successful
black Americans who have overcome
these obstacles, they are by far the ex-
ception. To continue the metaphor,
while many African-Americans have
risen from serving to soaring, they still
confront those forces in our country
who would like to clip their wings. This
is not conjecture; it is statistical fact.
What we must ask ourselves is, “Why?”

Some would say that blacks bring
these problemson themselves. “If some-
one really wants to succeed, they will.”
How many times have we heard people
say things like this? As Americans, we
are descendants of sturdy people, im-

were killed. It
was just that simple.

The descendants of these enslaved
people include some of the greatest
Americans to ever live. But, their de-
scendants also include the young men
killing each other over gang colors in
Los Angeles tonight. Their descen-
dants also include the 16-year-old girl,
who has just given birth to her second
child with no father to help raise her
children and no money to feed them.
Their descendants also include the
millions of black children who walkto
school in fear only to arrive at out-
dated textbooks and metal detectors.
These are the descendants that over
200 years of racism have produced.

But slavery no longer exists and
“The Movement” was a ringing suc-
cess, right? Slavery ended but the mas-
ter-slave mentality continues. The
Movement won many victories but
stopped short of the goal. What is left
for the youth of the African-American
community is more of the same. Can
we really say the slave quarters of 200
years ago are that different from the
ghettos of today? They are both slums.
Is there really a distinction between
lynchings and drive-by shootings?
They each take the lives of innocent
people. Can we truly separate planta-
tion ownersforcingthemselvesontheir
female slaves from the unwed teen
mothers who ﬁll our hospitals? Both
were raped by a system of injustice.
All of these comparisons exist to dem-
onstrate to those of us who are not
directly affected, that racism in
America is alive and well, itjust looks
a little different than it used to.
America must recognize this, and so

addict, often their first drug
was marijuana if they were
now shooting up heroin. If
this “gateway” theory were
true, many of our professors
and those of their age would
now be on skid row.

Thus we come to the inevi-

must we at Washington and Lee.

We are, by and large, children of

privilege, going to school in what once
was the “Cradle of the Confederacy.”
While I am not about to begin to deni-
grate some of the South’s most es-
teemed historical figures, and while I

do not seek to question the traditions of

conduct and honor that have governed
day-to-day life here for centuries, I am
suggesting this university must begin
to confront racism on a personal level
if we are ever to help end racism on a
national level. We must begin by re-
evaluating our attitudes towards those
members of our community who are
African-American. We must look
within ourselves and examine how we
perceive this group of people. Are they
a part of our community, or have they
been forced into a separate but equal
section because we have been
unwilling to welcome them? I would
argue this is precisely what has
happened here at Washington and Lee.

Without question, this university
has a long way to go when it comes to
achieving diversity, but it will occur. If
those who study
the subject are
correct, if we as a
community will
not embrace di-
versity, eventu-
ally, it will em-
brace us because
it is the future.
While I have been
here at W&L I
have met and be-
friended many
people. I am
proud to say that
many of my very
best friends here
are African-
Americans, and
every day that I
know them they
teach me a little
more about what it means to “soar.”
Two of my friends have invested enor-
mous amounts of effort in pursuing
psychology majors. They set standards
for themselves and their work that
seemed unattainable, but they have at-
tained them, and now are reaping their
rewards as they are courted by some of
the top graduate programs in the coun-
try.
Another of my friends has over-

While many A frican-
Americans have risen
from serving to soaring,
they still confront those
forces in our country
who would like to clip
their wings. This is not
conjecture; it is statisti-
cal fact. What we must
ask ourselves is, “Why?”

. '0

Recently we have seen an encouraging turn of
events from both sides of the political spectrum.
From William F. Buckley as early as 1972 to

_ Surgeon General Elders this year, and the reasons
are clear. One can first start with the amount of
money thrown away on seeking out and trying
marijuana offenders.

The harmful effects of the drug, though existeht,
are far less dangerous than conventional wisdom
would have us believe. It is extremely difficult to
become addicted to marijuana, and the long term
health effects, save those caused by the smoke, are
near zero. As far as the carcinogens in marijuana
when smoked, though the levels are higher (no pun ,
intended) than those in cigarettes, the averﬁe
smokerofcannabis takes in lower levels of carcino-

gens and tar than does
a cigarette smoker
since less of the sub-
stance is smoked.

The question comes
down to this: in acorn}-
try which puts a high
premium on freedom,

do not harm society
should not be legislated
against. Pot doesn’t
harm society; pot laws
do.

Source: Drugs, So-

ciety, and Human Behavior, Ray, Oakley, Ph.D., et
al. Time/Mirror/Mosby, College Publishing,‘ St.
Louis, I 990.

Confront racism on our campus

come what seems to have been a never-
ending row of obstacles since her ar-
rival here, and has moved beyond them
to become an extraordinary writer, go
extraordinary, that success for her is
just a matter of time. Yet another friend
is planning on law school, and from the
oratorical skills he has already devel-
oped, if I ever need a lawyer, he will be
the one I call. They have all achieved
these things in spite of what th y
all agree is an unfriendly atmosphere,
at best.

For me, these people are the em-
bodiment of Black History Month. I
celebrate their accomplishments be-
cause'they, unlike the rest of us, have
had to rise above a separate set §f

Y

‘obstacles on their way to success. Th

are role models for black youth in this
community and in their own cities.
They and others like them serve to
show children of color that they can
succeed, that there is hope for them. In
their efforts, they also serve to slow]

breakdown some of the very barrie

which attempted to slow them on their

way. They are succeeding, but they
should not be alone
in their struggle.

All of us should
see it as a personal
responsibility to er!
sure that everyone
has an equal chance
to succeed. For
those of us who
have not had to
overcome racial
barriers, I can think
of no more appro-
priate way of cel-
ebrating Black His-
tory Month than to
begin to eliminate
these obstacles for
others. This ca;
start by simply re-
examining our atti-
tudesconcemingra-
cial issues and acting to make changes
in ourselves and in the institutions we
inhabit. If we all do this, we will begin
to see a change in those frightenin
statistics that began this column ang
we will enable an entire generation of
African-American youth to reach for
their dreams. If we dothis, we can be as
courageous as my friends who have
stood up to racism, refused to serve,
and risen to soar.

K

   

It

those behaviors which -

 

    

G

The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1994

OPINION

Planes, bores and automobiles

Spos’ SPACE
' Tom Hespos

I only agreed to go to Florida with
my parents because I thought I might
get a free trip to Disney World. Some-
thing about Space Mountain gives me

gt cool rush. Instead, I spent my Febru-
ary break in Stuart, Florida visiting my
grandparents and beingcooped up with
my immediate family. I think my
mother used the Disney World thing to
lure me onto the plane.

My basic thoughts about air travel
are simple. Air travel is fun, unless you

ave to deal with so-called “connect-
ing ﬂights.” Connecting flights are the
airline industry’s gift to the hotel in-
dustry. If you miss one ﬂight, your
travel plans are ditched and you end up
staying in some sleazy cockroach-in-
fested motel in Pittsburgh. Yes, of

Qzourse _ you end up staying in Pitts-
burgh. Why? Because nearly every
flight runs through there. For example,
Delta Airlines Flight #3262 — direct
service to London’s Heathrow Air-
port from Dallas-Fort Worth, with a
brief stop in Pittsburgh.

0 Fortunately, Spos was able to avoid
the Pittsburgh syndrome by ﬂying in
the opposite direction. My ﬂight to
West Palm Beach had a connection in
Raleigh-Durham. The first leg of the
ﬂight was in one of American Airlines’
smaller planes, the type commonly re-

ferred to as “puddle jumpers.” This is
where I bumped into EC Representa-
tive Alex Cross. Alex was ﬂying into
Raleigh-Durham and continuing home
via about half a dozen connecting

ﬂights. I haven’t seen him since.
Look for his obituary in the Pitts-
burgh papers.

I was actually quite surprised that
we even made it to Raleigh in that
plane. I would have felt safer riding on
the back of a pterodactyl, a la Fred
Flintsone. Before we took off, the stew-
ardess asked me to move to a seat in the
rear of the plane, citing “weight distri-
bution” as her
reason for mov-
ing me. I got to
thinking — if an

____“_____

security numbers and the PIN numbers
on their credit cards.

I tried everything. I ordered two
Bloody Marys. I tried to ignore her. I
even called my parents from the in-
ﬂight telephone at a cost of six kajillion
dollars a minute. After about four min-
utes on the phone, when I reached my
credit limit and had to hang up, she
started in with the stories again. She
said that her son
Charlie (pro-
n o u n c e d
“CholIie”) went

extra 230 pounds I love rent I ca to college and
in the rear of the a 719- switched his
plane made_a sig-  Because they give major approxi-
mficant differ- me the opportunity to do mately eight
ence, could this times.

crappy little things thatI wouldn’t “ T h a t ’ s

puddle jumper
stand up to the
likes of, say, a 30

nonnally do in my car.
For instance, I was able

nice,” I said, giv-
ing her my best
disinterested

m.p.h. gust of 0 n t h look and dump-

wind? I tried not n‘-Iyggtgrﬁuzlrivgggens ing the restof my

to think. vodka into my
The second forward at 60 m.p.h. and glass-

leg of the ﬂight Still, she per-

was worse. Al-
though I was
seated on a com-
fortable jumbo
jet, I was also put next to an irritating
old lady who told me more about her
personal life than I cared to know.
She was a fellow Long Islander, but
she was one of those people that gave
Long Island a bad name by pronounc-
ing it something like “Lawn Guyland.”
Want to know something about her
kids? I can tell you anything you might
want to know. The only things this
woman left out were her kids’ social

you shift into reverse.

sisted. I am go-
ing to hold her
personally re-
sponsible when I
am trying to remember something im-
portant about the Federalist Papers on
my next politics test and can only re-
member the story about how Chollie
fell off his bike when he was 12 and
skinned his face.

After landing in West Palm Beach,
I assumed that nothing else could go
wrong. I met some friends at the airport
and they gave me a ride to my
grandfather’s place. It was there in the

driveway that I remembered another
advantage of Florida vacations:
rental cars.

I love rental cars. Why? Because
they give me the opportunity to do
things that I wouldn’t normally do in
my car. For instance, I was able to find
out what happens when you are driving
forward at 60 m.p.h. and you shift into
reverse. The effect was very close to
what I had expected, but it was fun to
see my theories reinforced by experi-
ments in the ﬁeld.

Rental cars are also fun when you
consider the proliferation of various
Florida vermin on the state’s highways
— no need to fear the occasional alli-
gator on its daily stroll across U.S. 1.
Insurance companies are usually very
understanding about such things.
Florida is also the home of the Phi’s
own Richard Weaver. (The placement
of this factoid in the paragraph about

smashing into road vermin with your - i

rental car is not to suggest that you
should deliberately smash into Rich-
ard. At least try to make it looklike
an accident.)

So, next time you travel by air for a
vacation, remember the following
guidelines:

1) Buy up all ofthe seats around you
on the plane in order to avoid being
seated next to annoying people.

2) Always drink on airplanes be-
cause the altitude increases your buzz.

3) Never use the in-ﬂight telephone.

4) Take all of your bags on the plane
as “carry—on luggage.” Otherwise, they
will end up in Pittsburgh.

5) If you are a smoker, smoke in
your seat to avoid the fine for smoking
in the lavatory.

O

 

‘Waddy misjudges human nature

MY VIEW
, Chris Tricarick, ’95

A diversiﬁcation among human communi-
ties is essential for ...the Odyssey of the human spirit.
Other nations of different habits are not enemies: they
are godsends. Men require of their neighbours some-
thing suﬂiciently akin to be understood, something
sufficiently different to provoke attention, and some-
thing great enough to command admiration.

-.~..A- N —Whit_el1<2a<l

Violence and peace have both destroyed civiliza-
.tions; and in the long run the latter has proven the more
virulent enemy. One people may with almost entire
success extirpate another, and erase those peculiari-
ties of the other, which we call their culture, from
memory: this was the fate to which some of our own
forbears subjected the Indians, and to which Sarajevo

now seems doomed.
But again and again in human history, civilizations

‘have persisted in the face of heinous persecution.
Indian cultures have hardly disappeared altogether,
and the very old culture of hate and fear in Bosnia, of
which the present conﬂict is a manifestation, has
survived several generations of active suppression
from the communist regime.

Peaceful assimilation, on the other hand, and the
bseductive appeal of prosperity, have exerted a more
silent and thus a more fatal inﬂuence over traditional
cultures. Throughout this century, for example, the
Orthodox Church maintained significantly stronger
support from the populace during the worst days of
soviet persecution than did the state-supported Church
of England.

g Nicholas Waddy, in his column of February 11,
conﬂates the distinct if not unrelated questions of war
and cultural standardization, and precisely because I
so strongly sympathize with his plea against such
standardization do I feel compelled to extricate it
from some of the arguments with which it is mixed.

Serbia is not waging war against MTV and Coca-
Cola, and the conﬂict there does not stem from mod-
em cultural insecurities. Mr. Waddy tells us, and this
is undeniable, that “Cultural insecurity has never
existed at the same high level as it does today.” Yet
the ethnic warfare which he imputes to that insecurity
comes down to us from antiquity; the impulse behind
it appears to lie in the darkest recesses of human
nature, as he himself points out. Serbia fights not
to preserve its own threatened culture but to
destroy another.

Which brings me to another point. Mr. Waddy
throughout his column attempts to universalize the
violent warfare against other cultures which is his

 ._-°«.t.l,l>i.ec.t~.l3.y sayingthat “-:-Muslims.Serbs»-?"d.Cf°al§a

distrustful of each other and anxious to ensure the
survival of their respective peoples and traditions,
have taken up arms...” and, with his slightly macabre
humor, that “we should not be particularly surprised
that Bosnian Muslims and Serbs like to kill each
other...” he implies that the ethnic groups of the
Balkans have taken up equal arms by mutual consent.
Now to regard the world as divided neatly into perse-
cutors and victims, as dinosaurs are classified into
carnivores and herbivores, would be a gross oversim-
pliﬂcation of the picture; on the other hand, to ignore,
as does Mr. Waddy, that certain peoples have been
responsible for a great deal of historical aggression,
while others have remained relatively quiet and self-
contained, would be a violence against reality and, in
those of us who have inherited one of the most
aggressive of world cultures, a bit of bad taste.

Lastly I question Mr. Waddy ’s picture of tolerance
and moralism as mutually exclusive qualities - a
picture with which one is confronted quite frequently
of late, both from the enemies of tolerance and from
those of morality. I cannot imagine morality without
humility, and humility entails tolerance. Yet it would
appear essential to Mr. Waddy’s defense of culture
that the various cultures immolate themselves behind
intolerant walls —to use his metaphor—of prejudice
and fear.

And yet in this very scenario I see the triumph of
the mass-standardized order which I fear is in com-
mon with Mr. Waddy. For peoples divided, expend-

ing energy in conﬂict one with another, will far
more easily fall victims to that order than those
which are at relative peace. The quote with which I
have prefaced this article may suggest the means by
which such peace may be achieved; for while
superficial exposure to what is different from us
may produce hostility, a deeper exposure will pro-
duce respect. An individual, or a community, will
rise up in defense not of an abstraction, such as
culture, but of the concrete manifestations of one’s
culture — and of other cultures which one has
encountered and learned to respect.
Against worldwide assimilation into the com-
_mercial-corporate system resistance movements

 have.Sl‘rﬁng..ﬁp.¢verxivliér¢%?Qt1¢exempletevthlch

somefattentiojn hashecentlylbeen given, is the cam-
paign of President Suharto of Indonesia against
American fast food restaurants there; others might
be mentioned far closer to home, for Western civi-
lization has suffered as greatly at the hands of its
child as has any “Third World” tribe. For these
movements not to regard each other with sympathy
and support would be ludicrous.

Shelby Foote, when he visited this campus last
year, deplored the standardization of the once re-
gionally diverse United States, pointing out that, if
I recall his words correctly: “From the window of a
Howard Johnson’s one couldn’t tell if one were in
Montgomery or Minneapolis.” We now perceive a
future in which one will not be able to distinguish
Minneapolis from Madagascar, in which no green
spot on earth will remain without traces of the
factory and the machine, and in which the fevered
pace of production and consumption will leave us
without leisure for philosophy or taste for art: a
catastrophe, to which I should prefer the immediate
reversion of humankind to the darkest of the dark
ages which went before.

Whether we can avert this catastrophe, it is not
our place to inquire; but when our conviction of our
own bad human nature deters us from those tasks to
which our better nature directs us, the time will
have arrived for us to conclude our earthly history.
We must continue to labor towards civilization and
peace; and we must do so together.

 

I Interviews and Photos

, By Betsy Green

   

Symposium

The Law School chapter of the
National Lawyers Guild is sponsor-
ing a symposium on “Children and
the Law” that will be held on March
3 from 7-9 p.m. in the Moot Court
Room of Lewis Hall. Featured
speakers forthe Symposium include
Ms. Cynthia Price Cohen, Ms.
Katherine S. Holliday and Ms.
Marsha Jarrell. All interested mem-
bers of the public are encouraged to
attend. There will be a reception
immediately following the sympo-
sium.

Interns

The Virginia Governor’s Fellows
program is now accepting applica-
tions for summer of 1994 interns.
Students accepted for the program
will work with Cabinet members,
agency heads and other state gov-
ernment officials, plus attend semi-
nars designed to foster a fuller un-
derstanding of Virginia politics and
government. For more information,
see Professor Bill Connelly in C-
school room 108. Applications are
due March 7.

Film Society

The Film Society’s next presen-
tation will be Strictly Ballroom
(Australia, 1992), directed by Baz
Luhrmann. Showings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday, Feb. 25 and Satur-
day, Feb. 26 in the Troubadour Cin-
ema. There is no charge for admis-
sion.

Admissions

The Admissions Office is ac-
ceptingapplicationsforsummertour
guides. All interested candidates
should submit a letter to Mrs. Julia
Kozak, Associate Director of Ad-
missions, no later than March 5.
Interviews will be held in mid-
March.

 

Recruitment

Want to be a chairman of the
Student Recruitment Committee?
Please submit a letter of interest to
Julia Kozak in the admissions of-
fice by Friday, March 4.

Women’s Forum

On Sunday, Feb. 27, Women’s
Forum will hold an open discussion
of “Women and AIDS” — myths,
realities, questions, and answers.
All are welcome to join us at 6:30
p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center.

Calyx

If you haven’t received your
1993 Calyx (from last year), please
pick it up at Carol Calkins’ office in
the University Center during nor-
mal hours.

Seniors

Sign up for your senior picture
in front of Carol Calkins’ office
before March 4. If you are submit-
ting your own picture please bring
it by the Calyx office before March
14. Questions? Call 462-4046.

Job

If you are interested in applying
for a new student position on the
residence life staff —— Woods Creek
Resident Coordinator—please stop
by Payne Hall 4 for more informa-
tion and an application. Deadline is
March 1.

Preston Society

Join the W&L—VMI group. For
more information, call Jason Dunn
at 463-6407.

 

Trustee backs Habitat
ﬁarliunmandty

To the editor:

It warms an old trustee’s heart to
read in The Trident that Washington
and Lee students have started a chapter
ofHabitat for Humanity. I have worked
as a volunteer for the D.C. Habitat for
three years and can promise you it
will be the most rewarding thing
you’ve done.

When we did a “blitzbuild” in 1991
as the Jimmy Carter Work Project in’
Southeast Washington (behind the
Redskins’ stadium) we had over 500
volunteers come at their own expense
from all over the U.S. and as far away
as Hungary. In five days we built 10
houses from scratch —— not pre—fabs,
but boards and nails. The new owners
— required by Habitat to be working

families, paying a mortgage vithout
interest — worked side—by-side with
us as part of their 500 hour “sweat
equity” requirement. By Friday, when
the homes were finished, complete with
carpeting, major appliances, lawns,
trees and even a small garden, the
whole neighborhood had a new look
— neat and upbeat. Home ownership
brings hope as well as a sense of
responsibility.

I hope you will get your Lexington
neighbors (as well as your parents)
involved, with contributions and
skills. Your neighbors in Roanoke are
building several houses every year.
Good luck!

Virginia R. Holton

1. 4.4

TALKBACK

Joan O’Mara, professor of art — “When I

it.

Robert McAhren, professor of history —
was in Japan, I had pizza with fruit cocktail on “Seasoned tofu and imitation bacon.”

Nancy Margand, professor of psychology Barry Machado, professor of history — “I
—— “I seldom eat pizza, but when I do, I eat
pepperoni.”

don’t eat pizza.”

What is your favorite pizza topping‘? 

Darcy Russell, professor of biology —
a vegetarian, so I like green pepper and

apple.”

Layout by
Joe Framptojrn

 

¢ !

K4»———.~.—«-»2~.—..a-
D
‘P B

 

 

   

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1934

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   

. American
Red Cross

  

BE A RED CROSS VOLUNTEER

Above: A Washington
and Lee player steps
up to bat during the
Generals’ 2-2 tied with
Shenandoah Feb. 26.
The game was played
at Smith Field, the
Generals’ first home
game of the season.

Left: Sophomore Graig
Fantuzzi pitches to an
opponent, long before
the game was called
because of darkness
after nine innings.

Right: Freshman Sacha
Montas runs in after
his team comes up to
bat.

Photos by Betsy Green

Washington and Lee began its baseball season during Washington holiday,
and has amassed a 2-2-1 record. ,3
Over the break, the Generals played two double-headers at Embry-Riddle,
splitting the games with their opponent.

The team next plays Feb. 26 at Mary Washington.

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

, Point ofV"1eW

Restaurant

 

463-7797

Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing

$2 off any pasta dinner with
student I.D. O O

 W. in front of Days Inn

Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx. 2000

Fireplace, wood stove, refrigerator, ceiling fans,
and huge bar. Secluded location about 3 miles

number of people). Beautiful view. Large yard -

3''‘

sq. ft. 4 bedrooms — can hold up to 6 people.

from town. Rent $200/person (regardless of 0

with ball field. Call Nate or Lewis for more
info, 463-6337 Home (804) 886-0614

Part-Time Help Wanted

Work approximately 20 hrs. per week

Opportunity to earn $400 - $800 per month starting

immediately — College Students Welcome
Call 463-1676

HOT TUB

5' x 7' portable spa used in
private residence. $1250.
-Call 464-8533 for information

‘NEED ciumr CONTROL?

L"

use

   

YOUR HOME Oli OFFICE, TOI’ TO
BOTTOM.
‘NO JOB TOO SMALL.
703-464-Z525

"OI

      

—"— Now Showing —
,Adda.m% Family

Values
7:00 & 9:20 p.m.
un. 12:45, 2:45, 5:00,
7:00 & 9:20 .m.
Rated P

Mrs. Doubtflre
Daily 6:45 & 9:30 pm.
Sat. & Sun. 1:15, 4:00,

6:45 & 9:30 p.m.
 Rated PG-13

E2 261 -7292 :
75 Beech Ave.,: Buena Visty

Dail
Sat. &

 

  

accepted credit cards in the world...Visa® and MasterCard0
credit cards.."in your mime.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN
CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

VISA!” and Mastercarde the credit cards you
deserve and need for—— lD—BOOKS—-DEPARTMENT
STORES—TUiTlON—ENTERTAlNM ENT-
EMERGENCY CASH—TICKE'lS-RESTAURANTS-
HOfI‘ELS—MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS-—
REPAIRS-AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

Eg\ No turn downs!
Gum! “Q10 No credit checks!
“suyuagig No security deposit!
gul E '( .

SEND rm-: coupon room
Your: cneon cums ARE WAITING!

 

  
    
   
 

K J
rte .. p _ . ——- —______--_-.------Q-----:-
 > 0 Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? EZ-CARD’ 3°‘ 16515’ ‘”’L’‘"'“‘' G“ 3°”
5 OF Now you can have two of the most recognized and  IwamwsAG,MAS1-ERC-ARDQ Cred“

Cardsappmved immediately. 100% GUARANTEED!

Q

 

NAME

ADDRESS

CITY STATE _. ZIP
STUDENT? Yes No s_s_#

 

7 9
SIGNATURE :

NOTE Masterclld is a registered tmdernark d Masteroml lntemaiiornl. inc.
Visa Is a registered tradermrk OIVISA USA. Inc and VISA intemauonal

MAIL THIS NO RISK COUPON TODAY

0

 

 

‘§‘he Ring-tum Phi, February 25, 1994 
  I GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Standings as of 02/25/94

   

Cam D er 346

M€ﬂ’5 B35I‘°II’aII 1 Women’s Basketball
Final Statistics Final statistics
7 Leading Scorers Leading Scorers
I 1. _ I A 1. A Player Pts  phyer 1:15 ’

Virginia Yoerg 208

I-i
- -3%’

      

  
   

  

    

    

r W Der_ek arter 225 9-8 Sandra Holmes 205 9 3
REG SLICED §*“3.,°’o. I Chris Couzen 191 8.3 Nick Ma ﬁeld 179 3 5
. ' I: S “"5 *5.  Mark Connelly 195 8.1 Kaieii stuiyzmann 131 6:9
.. .. E .  , _
 6,0 -. 1.: _  Jon Coffman 180 7.5 Stacy Williams 119 6.6
CO .. E “W A * ;. _, ‘ Ma“ N‘=W.‘°". 179 7-5 Mary Tankard 96 4.6
4  9 .7 " ‘_  ._ Robert Miggins 173 7.2 21I1li5o£f1:ul11 2% 
" _ _. A .. ‘ y i a .
LB. :7. :3; I
BAG §g;’g,*;;g,-gg-;\,,\   .1.
 v v- ». ~  .2  7. .
‘ " ’  :-. Leading Rebounders Leading Reboundel-s
I 5"" V1“ 1'‘ I ’ I Player I . _ Reb Av3g player Reb Av
/ vi Robert Miggins 151 6. Sandra Hojmes 133 51,3
Derek Carter 135 5.9 Nicky Ma field 132 63
CamD er 124 5-4 Virginia oer 103 5.2
Mark onnelly 111 4.6 Mary Tankar 101 43
_ _ Chris Couzen 55 2.4 Amy Miha1 53 4,1
 ; ﬁinttcﬁffrriall   .§\lliso% Hull 7; 3.6
; 3 CW 011 - tacy illiams 7 4.1
JUICY ‘ . Karen Stutzmann 57 3.0
1 LARGE SHRIMP RED GRAPEFRUIT 1
Free-throw Standings Free-throw Standings
Player Ft/Fta Av Player Ft/Fta Av
_ Scott Schroeder 10/12 .83 Stacy Williams 26/39 .66
b Derek Carter 33/44 .750 Virginia Yoerg 58/90 .645
Jon Coffir_1an_ 45/62 .726 Karen Stutzmann 27/47 .575
Robert Miggms 39/55 .709 Sandra Holmes 29/53 .547
LB Chris Couzen 52/75 .693 Amy Mihal 10/19 .526
° E Cam Dyer 71/108 .657 Mary Tankard 18/35 .514
_ ar onne . .
N“‘i.“é°“"°’h 3%??? 21% ,’iii’-’‘’ “ii"ff°“‘ ‘£733 "235
  THE BEST _DELl-BAKERY GREAT SAVINGS on PEPSI Y “°“ "
wlcﬁ T0|(ﬂuiER DIET PEPSI OR .
BAKED HAM wrestling
Final Statistics
9
Player Record Wt. cam em 5
Adam Branson 11-6 118, 126 (I’I"“I "I"‘°" s°“°“ '°°°"I‘)
1 €2£“§E?J§”““ 12:36 i§2"fé‘é Women’s Swimming 8-4
y , , . .
II ' Rob dc Clerk 2-11 134 142 Me“ 5 S“’"'““"‘ 5‘3
Adam Williams 8_6 152 Women’s Basket all 11-10
13 2 I-TR- Cary Hansel 3-8 142,134 W‘°s,‘“g3 b 11 $15.
' .-.....,.(SjI.§.\/C. ]S‘ye_    .. ,. ,, ..  -M.‘?‘.‘.s .“5I‘°.‘ ‘I. . ..   .. .. '
wen mit -
Lea Abcrcrombie 6-1 1 167 Oven" . 37'36
Colin Loomey 10-11 177
Cole Van Nice 16-8 190

   

ucopon sAi.£

VALUABLE COUPON ’ VALUABLE COUPON

; WHEN PURCHASED WITH THIS COUPON WHEN PURCHASED WITH THIS COUPON I

BUY ONE I5.5 OZ. BUY ONE I4-I701. MARIE
I MARZE‘ITI’S DRESSING €ALI.ENDER’S DINNER :

I
I
AND on on: FOR I AND on one MARIE
; ¢ I CALL£NDER’$ EXTRA I
I I

    

  
  

CHEESE LASAGNA F0

3900 All-I-V .

 

 

 

  

Cl
I -= I I
§__ § __ Don't forget the Olympics!
I :— ““o2:?2f.i':"dm'"...... 005* ”“3‘‘’ I 3"” “'c::m':“aa“It!"«ﬁ°:r8."o8" "“””° I .
L3 p..%.m.3é}9iA1_.r§3.fd];;.52aCOU::<:‘DUCE I 3 PUr$<r=;e;é,f>Ih’{.f'r§°f:d]';I;P1?3COUP(F)':qOZEN The most—watched Winter
I-—___.—. . ' W1 ' .
I:-—— Vg 0-‘ 3-- Hamsreeter V_§:E_,gE GJ Olympics of years and
jj:jj1—:“': ji-ijjjjjj

VALUABLE coupon VALUABLE coupon years °°”ti““e mnigh"

I WHEN PURCHASED WITH THIS COUPON WHEN PURCHASED WITH THIS COUPON I W1 th th e grand fl nal e

In BUY ONE FRESH BAKED BUY ONE 8 OZ. MAIIRICE’$ I of the Women's figure-
I BUTTER CROISSANT GOURMET BBO I skating!

AND GET ONE FOR
36,, Jtlcwcéces “'.Wr.*§°.*-"5 I
gA.B£Et!!l3 ...... |
 '  I I WHEN YOU mm:

I
Limit One Item With  PLU 332I U  0 R u N 

 

 

 

1 Z
DDDDD

LimilOne hem With Par PLU 3325

' .5: nuroughmadu I, I994 COUPON I m TI1roughMcircI1 l, I994. COUPON I I
  —‘-— W I I  1 ONE MORE FOR
[!-—- Ilamsmerer & G " Hamsreetet M G 1
j 1 jjj j 1 j

VALUABLE coupon -- AA 0 - I THE “MD
I CAN HAVE AN

      
  

      

    

  
    

  

  
  

Vail AndAdditionaI 5 0.00 NS GROCERY Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00

Porch Oﬂur Good H: 23

CHASED wim mis coupon  if t t  _,  " ‘  
I a"i'II'"o"°II‘E‘°i”§"3if°i‘i'£ii( ” BIIWIII 14-24 ¢T- KOTIX I ENTIRELY = In“°5'{‘e59mI°¥”'r*.P*°F‘*s*"°"-.
I D I I  DOM  PAD |  Six Room Inn includes two jacuui suites with private balconies
N   I N QNRDEEI ONE UGHIDAYS OR E   Includes roomFl?rleIafl?’fals)trz?:: cIIi‘i‘iiceIi"‘i:§retwo one ni ht
AND GE’ N5 F I I N A_ I : . PANTYIJNERS ¢ N   Jacuzzi Suite $120, Carriage House Rooms $1  Bookgahead
 L  I U 3 1 I  I Chef Slewan prepanes Americanregional cuisine daily,
\I I ,.,g«: I I 3  | ' Homemade Pasta, Virginia Leg of Lamb
ﬁ1”% :mfﬂ: 1090100 I :E——:-- m co P‘ “U 8070 I  Tuesday, \N§<IIii‘E:dA‘y,SgLec1i:i|?rsday Only

==-53.-*"=‘-“‘°"'*"' “a

DLDIED

Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two

 

P
P mhuam "I" COUPON I :"" IhvougI\AMmhI,I99A. c   hlM Nigh
j‘ VALUE ___. Spec cm! is
E IIa"Is1eeIeI QJ in Hmnsteeret 295- J  Tuesdays- lntemational Cuisine
1 1 1 III -— -1- 1 1 III -I 1| I-I 1' I-I 1 1  Thursdays- Nonhem Italian Cuisine
   1 _ .  Open nan, Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday&Monday grou of 10+ *‘
P ‘ Eff 1' Th h M h I 1994 r“.°.°“‘%' 1%“‘ms:.:.‘;::;’“:%§::I:"‘1  s=oo«»«»=oo "‘ ’
I‘ Ices  We FOU arc / Dd 31“ 4”‘ “ ‘ - Call for reservations: 463-9715

. drink and ride. OI‘_\'0l1l‘ last  74 U . R Rd Le .
Pric lnThisAdEq¥‘dvve' ed: Feb.23 Throu T , rchl,l994 1I10uI‘Le>_<1I1gt0n Slows 1'1; 'r11b ' ‘is! in‘nk  , _ _ _ RE ( "'°" "" ')’ "'“g'°"
Ony.WeReserve eRigIiITo Limit uonlities. None§IoI<I1'o  We Glady AccepIFederol Food Stamps I ;“;;‘o'$‘Y%:iE scnig; Fuuinmou _-~‘~.    

 

  

Last Week:

WBB-beat Salem, R-MWC
MBB—Randolph-Macon 58, W&L 55

This Week:

MLax—St. Mary’s 02/26
Track-at ODAC Champs 02/26

 

Glhe iﬂirtg-tum iﬂhi

Swim—M. 2nd, W. 1st at Champs
Base-W&L 2, Shenandoah 2

PAGE 10

S

PORTS

Base-at Mary Washington 02/26
MTennis—at Davidson 02/26

FEBRUARY 25, 1994 A

Olympic    
Shafts   A

 

SARAH A j A
sY‘SA13Aii:Gzi.t3aaT’,‘:

 

. V While the Olympi9S.iire ; V
. still fresh on everyéhefs _
mind, I thought I Would 
diverge my attentionto‘the 3
big picture of sports which’, . -V
are not ’-included in th‘e'f,; ;.
) Olympic games. ” ‘  
‘ Many, sports whi.el1""
have found their way into“
’ 0lyrnpiccompetitionseem._:V
' something less than main~ I
stream. At the sarne—time~,-' _
though, othersVwhichlseenV_1V, _ f
to we sillyvArneriVcan‘s,jab-_ ' .
solutely necessary forthe [
continuance. of life Vas_.we_
know it, have been pain- V V
fully excluded. 1 f '
For instance, . who
would ever havecortceived ‘V .
of the _crazines_sf_of the
V .3000-meter sjhorté-track I,
speed-skatingrelay ?Wh_at’[ 
significancejdoes that have A 
on the upholding ofan hon» ’
orable,‘ upriglit life?  g 
Especiallyéwheu sports V
such as foosball have been 
9 » left out. You know, those
simple but inconceivably, V
important social sports.- ‘ ,5
Did you’ ever ask, your, {;
friends and family to join ,2 ‘
you in a little ice dancing?
(Remember, only five sec- A
onds apart at a time, ‘no "
over-the-shoulderlifts, no” '
splits). But ll-O-R-S-E
remains. in America’s
1 backyards and Saturday
open-gym days at the
 local high school.» What 1
a pity. ' » . j
0 To add insult to sequins
and lace, nations spend"
hundreds, ofthousands of
dollars to buyseven or
eight differentcolorsofice.  j
I skates for every skater but V
V  fail_to3$gQander,an Olym,-; .'
picrpennyonthe y ‘ 

    

American football. Weare 
not talking scraped chins? .

V  in-three—pIa§5es,fpig-pile;g ~

home danger::At the very
least, maybe inclusion’ in
I the Olympics .wonld_ bring . I
« some order and -integrity
to football. V j

by shooting. I-lere‘sV a real, ,

  
   
   
 
 

can youth canfrreallyi sink-4.

' their Uzisgintp. . I . .
Will we hair
until Milan or Ref
hosts thetrsummer

 

 

deVar;causes;"  . g V

 ‘ '?W9m¢n—’§.’.tﬁP1éi.fiﬁiiipfiI
‘  has ‘yetf;to_be=tadded toﬂthei‘ 

 however,;l1asbeenaround

   V. 
» tury,butsorne bright

'V';:j,tor.orlcoaV.chV' ‘ , ',
 ‘ decided fwotnen ; did [not . 2

 

§.;*.‘.th°mS¢1V°9 "ut>"..fcfi.>r hop. 
 skip,andj’urnp‘.-G   
~ This little lady from the

~ 5 World record at’; upwards‘ 
‘“ of 47‘ feet {(here.’gsr ‘a hint;  
f , most Divisionellli men xzanjfj f
‘f’ Only 'd1‘feari1_' of: anything , 
 5 abo‘/¢ ,45)'and.Vl would beg
.: ; to differ. 2 5 ~ V . ;_
" :_ ‘According7toV aTscien—,
1;; ‘lie poll of eight people"! A
j tookpin 1994,‘one of two
 people believe softball
should-be included in the ~
volyrnpics. All of the sup-.
» porters, however; were ’
 .W°m¢n-.(And you guessed
 it, thedetractors were all
0 men.) I think this indicates 1
1 . “ ad deep-rooted worldwide
» ‘ ‘bias againjst women being
.» included in sports-related
-activities. In fact, men‘ are A '

   

  
 

 semen aﬁd.‘.'W§°iﬂd-rather
*3 not validatettheir talent by "

; vlettingfuiem‘ .CV0..mpete on

. -the same‘ level.

. ' Wo_men’s triple jump in ‘ ‘ «
 ’96!;.That’sall.‘*»  

 threatening institution ofp:

V here; this is legs-broken- V »

steroid-drivenv down-‘ ’

And thentherieisdrive’-1.1» ‘

moderri,:sport that.Ameri-, 

until bocci  inching’ ark 

What kind... ’ ot_ldV;r t, 
that woII_lcl,f V _ I if 
. ing and nottbocci.
Afte I ‘ I

   

jﬁf - canniO£‘leavei‘yon without‘ V9
 plﬁgginsone.¢£cmr‘most}~ ~

le;,',:o1ys;p;c_ troster. MeVn’-s,*j?

rams‘ V 

. have ;the‘:,strength to hold): . . 

V; Ukraine,<who~'*hol‘ds the 

I .intimidated by athletic 5

BASKETBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, SWIMMING AND WRESTLING

Swimmers qualify provisionally

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

It’s one thing to swim teams
out of your league, but it’s quite
another matterentirely when you
beat them.

The Washington and Lee
men’s swim team put together
the finishing touches on one of
its strongest years with a second
place finish at the Southern States
Championships. In the field,
W&L was the only Division III
team. By comparison, VMI fin-
ished eighth. The only team to
defeat the Generals was the Col-
lege of Charleston.

Swimmer John Rowe wished
the meet had gone better.“We
would have won the meet had we
had a diving team,” he said.

Divingwas scored in the meet

Wrestlers wrap up season

along with the swimming events.

Along with the overall team
performance, Washington and
Lee had a number of swimmers
who might possibly go to nation-
als. John Rowe, Craig Sears, and
Tony Diedrich all swam consid-
eration times. Rowe, a junior,
won the 400-yard individual
medley while Sears finished sec-
ond in the 200-yard individual
medley. Diedrich swam his time
in the 200-yard freestyle.

Two relay teams also stand a
good chance of representing
W&L at nationals. The 800-
yard freestyle and the 400-yard
freestyle teams won their events
while posting qualifying times.

Coach Paige Remillard, who
posted his 100th win during the
season, summed up the meet by
saying, “We swam out of our
minds. I think we definitely rep-

 
 

 

resented W&L well.”

For the season as a whole,
Remillard was quick to praise his
athletes. The coach spoke about
the athletes, not assured of a place
in the NCAA’s, who were in the
pool training, “A high percent-
age of people can ’t mentally train
inthatcondition,butthey’ve been
doing it.”

Remillard and Rowe both
agreed it was an outstanding year
forthe team. According to Rowe,
“ lt’s been a great season.”

Remillard summed up the
year. “It was deﬁnitely a year to
remember in a coaching career.”

One of the most improtant
aspects of the men’steam lies in
the fact that everyone returns
next year. “The meet gave them
a lot of confidence. They’re very
fired up about next year,” said
Remillard. He also added the the

squad was “on the threshhold of
being a great team.”

Rowe fully agreed with
Remillard. “We’re looking for-
ward to this [past meet] being the
predecessor to another great

year,” said the All-American.

For most sports teams, the sea-
son revolves around expectations.
For the Washington and Lee
women’s swim team, the year
was about fulﬁlled expectations.

After winning 16of17 events
in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference last season and los-
ing the meet, and a four out of
five year conference meet win-
ning streak, because of a scoring
rule, the Generals entered this
year with one goal in mind: to
win it all. Washington and Lee
once again won 16of17events in
the meet, but this time took home
first place honors.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The season for the Washington and Lee wres-
tling team came to an end in the Virgina Division
Il—llI State Championship.

The Generals finished fourth in the meet,
partly because of a rash of injuries that slowed
the team at the end of the year. Cole Van Nice,
the team leader in victories, with 16, and pins,
with nine, was unable to participate because of a
recurrent knee injury. Anthony Rafla and Adam
Williams were also unable to compete due to
injury. To add to the Generals’ woes, freshman
Adam Branson failed to make weight in the 118
pound class. A

There was definitely a positive side to the
meet for W&L, however. Junior co-captain Eric
Shirley became the first wrestler to win a cham-
pionship at the meet since 1989 with a victory in
the 126 pound weight class. Also for the Gener-
als, Steve Tye and Rob DeClerk placed second in
the 156 and 134 pound weight classes respec-
tively.

The Generals also turned in three third place
ﬁnishes. Colin Looney, Lee Abercrombie, and
Owen Smith all placed third in their respective
weight classes.

“I think it was a rewarding experience this
season,” said coach Gary Franke.

The men’s team finished the year on one leg
so to speak due to injuries. Franke said, “We had
some tough breaks at the end of the year. We
were going along really well and then peoplejust
started dropping off.” .

While the end of the season was difficult for
the Generals, most of the frustration was due to

 

Washington and Lee wrestlers struggled to the fourth place at the Div.

Ice skating: is it a conspiracy?
Some other Olympic notes

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WII.LIARD

At this point, I could follow
the rest of the media blitz and
report to the public at large that
Michael Jordan made contact
with a baseball the other day.
However, I’m going to resist that
urge, as well as the urge to com-
plain about how MJ is drawing
attention awayfrom the game at
hand. Besides, I’m abigger man
than that. Let’s move on.

Think about this fact for a
minute. When was the last time
that ice skating was the hottest
story in sports for this long? Per-
sonally, I maintain that this is the
best thing that ever happened to
the most incredibly exciting sport
in the athletic pantheon. In case
you live in a hole, I’m talking
about the Kerrigan—Harding
battle royale.

Speaking of Kerrigan. That
Walt Disney-typecast-Camp-
bell’s soup kid-dream child is
beginning to get really annoying.
The whole damn incident was
one big plot to get both women
more dough (after all, ice skating
is not the highest paying of ath-
letic endeavors).

The other Main Event of the
past break was the John
Chaney—John Calipari pseudo-
brawl after the best basketball

game of the year to this point..

Chaney, after his Temple Owls
fell to the University of Massa-
chusetts Minutemen, charged
into Calipari’s press conference
and threatened Coach Calipari.
According to ESPN commenta-

tor John Miller, “ The only thing
missing from that press confer-
ence was Tonya Harding.” Fol-
lowingthe incident, Temple Uni-
versity suspended Chaney for
one game.

In the Olympics, some stuff
happened, and the United States
hockey team failed to win the
gold. Oh wel1,back to real sports.

The National Basketball As-
sociation finally replaced the
Legends game with an all-rookie
contest for All-Starweekend. At
least the players were not blow-
ing out knees and having heart
attacks and such this year.

College basketball featured a
premier series of upsets, and
amazing stories. The University
of North Carolina fell to Atlantic
Coast Conference cellar dweller
Clemson. Kansas fell to Okla-
homa State, and worst of all Lou-
isville lost to UNC Charlotte and
Tulane.

The most unbelievable story
of the week had to be the Ken-
tucky Louisiana State basketball
game. With LSU leading by the
score of 68-37 with 15 minutes
to go in the game at HOME, UK
got everythingmovinginthe right
direction. Rick Pitino’s squad
exploded for 12 three pointers as
the Wildcats went on to win the
game by the score of 99-95.

Parting Shots -

Quote of the year: from
ESPN’s Dan Patrick, “Ron
Tugnut— it makes me smilejust
to say that name - had 25 saves
in the game.” (The man with the
golden name is a National
Hockey League goalie).

How does UNC lose to

File Ph°‘° injuries. Without the misfortunes that befell the

team, the season might have ended in a much

different way.

Clemson? The Tigers have had
somethinglike one winningACC
season in the last millennium.
Note — The Atlanta Braves
will beat the ever—living fool out
ofthe Phillies during the season.
Did you know that Norway is
erecting another statue to a speed
skater (yes, they already have
one.). Does this tell you a
littlesomething about the nation

of Norway?

One good story has come out
of the Olympics at least. Dan
Jansen ﬁnally won the gold. Af-
ter so many failures, Jansen man-
aged to win the 1000m in world
record time.

Finally, I guess I’m not sure
who won the freaking Pro-Bowl.
Besides, as my lovely editor said,
“What is the Pro-Bowl anyway?”

 

The title was actually a dual
championship for the Generals.
The team won the Atlantic States
championship as well (the first
such title since 1991) as winning
the conference meet, which was
scored separately within the At-
lantic States meet.

The meet was a record breaker
in many respects for the Gener-
als. W&L set ﬁve school records
duringthe meetwith all five com-
ing from the relay teams.

Coach Kiki Jacobs said of the
meet, “Nobody had a lousy meet.
Everyone was psyched and ev-
erybody swamreally well.”
Sophomore Rebekah Prince
quliﬁcd for nationals automati-
cally in the 200—yard backstroke.
In addition, she swam consider-
ation times while winning the
200—yard IM and 100—yard back.

Prince was not the only W&L

swimmer to have an outstanding
meet. Freshman Jen Miller tﬂsd
Prince for top scoring honors and
was named swimmerofthe meet.
As a team, every swimmer swam
at least one personal best time.
As a result of W&L’s tremen-
dous performance, coach Kiki
Jacobs was named coach of die
year for Atlantic States.

The season in general was a
great one for the W&L women.
Senior captain Jeanette Burgess
said, “Over all, I think this was
the best season we’ve had.”

The increased numbcroof
swimmers greatly aided the Gen-
erals, and a strong freshman class
presents promise of future suc-
cess. According to Burgess, the
team also evolved as a unit dur-
ing this season, “We got along
really well as well as swimmgig
really fast times.”

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

For the third straight year,
the Washington and Lee men’s
basketball season ended ear-
lier than had been hoped. The
Generals failed the make the
Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Tournament when
they were defeated by
Randolph-Macon College last
Saturday in Asheville.

The 58-55 loss was a bitter
one in that the Generals held a
55-46 lead with five minutes
left, but were shutout the rest
ofthe way asthe Yellow Jack-
ets scored the final 12 points
of the game. Thus, W&L (9-
15, 6-12 ODAC) enters its
longest post-season play
drought in three decades.

Even had the Generals held
on for the crucial win, they
would have failed to qualify
for the ODAC Tournament
that began Wednesday in Sa-
lem because the team needed
Eastern Mennonite to do
something they had not done
all season—win a conference
game. The task was too much
for the Royals (0-18 ODAC)
as they fell to Emory and
Henry on Saturday.

The 1993-94 season was
still a much improved one for
W&L. Their nine wins are the
team’s most since 1990-91,
and the Generals’ six ODAC
victories are double last
season’s total.

Unfortunately, competi-
tion withinthe conference was
much tougher this season. Af-
ter the conference’s top two
squads, 17-1 Roanoke and
second place Hampden-
Sydney, the ODAC standings
were fairly well bunched. With
one week of regular season
play remaining, only three
games had separated third
place from eighth. Although
only five wins were needed to
make last year’s Tournament,
six just was not enough for
this year’s Generals.

W&L kept their fate unde-
cided until the final day, cour-
tesy oftheirmostdecisivevic—
tory, a 102-81 romping of
Eastern Mennonite last
Wednesday. The win was the
450th in the 30-year coach-
ing career of W&L’s Verne
Canfield.

Washington and Lee led
by as many as 49 points in that
contest (70-21) as six Gener-
als scored in double figures.
Sophomore Derek Carter
scored 15 first-half points and
finished with a team—high 17.
Carter ended his second sea-
son as a General with a scor-
ing-average just under 10-
per-game (9.8) and averaged
six rebounds. Carter was sec-
ond on the team in both cat-
egories, trailing classmate
Cam Dyer, whose 15.0 aver-
age was the school’s highest
in three seasons, and senior
Robert Miggins.

W&L’s defense limited
Randolph-Macon to 38 per-
cent shooting. However, the
Yellow Jackets netted 11
three-pointers. Dan Prescott
led all-scorers with 29 points
for R-MC, matching the total
of teammate Kurt Axe in the
Jackets’ four-point win over
the Generals last month at the

Basketball misses
ODAC tournament.

Warner Center.

Carter again led the Gen-
erals in scoring, recording 13
points and a team-high 10
rebounds. He was one ofmany
young stars the Generals wll
be returning next year. W&L’s
top five scorers——Dyer,
Carter, freshman Chris
Couzcn, junior Mark
Connclly,and sophomorcJon
Coffman-will all be back
next season, giving Carter ren
son to be optimistic of the
team’s potential.

‘‘I think we’ve got a real
solid core of players to build
on for next year,” said Carter.
“Our time is due. We’ve put
in the work, we’ve matured,
and we’ve really come to-
gether as a team.”

Canficld does, however,
have the unfortunate task of
having to replace the team’s
best passer, senior Matt New-
ton, and one of the school’.s
best-ever rebounders,
Miggins.

Newton (7.5 ppg this sea-
son) ends his W&L careerwith
439 points and 142 assists.
Carterthinks Newton’spoint—
guard position will be a difg-
cult one to fill.

“We’rc really goingto miss
his experience at pointguard,”
Carter said. “His composure
on the floor, and the way he
ran the offense will be sorely
missed.”

Miggins (7.2 ppg, 6.3 1Q-
bounds) became the first
W&Lplayersince Mike Neer
(1968-70) to lead the team in
rebounds three consecutive
seasons. Miggins also re-
corded 28 blocked shots this
season, the most by a Genenl
since 1980-81, and finishes
third in the W&Lrecord books
in that category. The team’s
total of 76 was the higcst for
the team in 15 years.

Despite alloftheimprove-
ments over last year’s 5-39
season, the 1993-94 Gener-
als eliminated themselves
from post-season play by fin-
ishing the season nearly the
some way they began it, drop-
ping four of five. The team
kicked-off their season dro.-
ping five of their first six.

In between, they went an
impressive 7-6. Victories ovcr
top-rated Amherst College,
pre-season ODAC favorite
Emory and Henry, defending
ODAC champion Virgin’;
Wesleyan, and home-cour't-
cursed Lynchburg made for
one of the most exciting sea-
sons the Warner Centcr had
hosted in years.

The campaign took a
swerve for the worst, thoug ,
when W&L dropped an i -
portant home game to
Lynchburg by five points just
before the February recess
from classes. While the stu-
dent body was away,the Gen-
erals lost a 74-63 thrilleridi
front of 2042 hostile fans t
Roanoke, then were blown-
outby VirginiaWes|eyan,78-»
60. That loss made a Tourna-
ment berth an improbability
despite the win at Eastern
Mennonite.

Forallbuttwo members a‘
the squad, there is a next year.
With more of the improve-
ment they showed this sea-
son, 1994-95 could be the sea-
son W&L returns to the top of

 

 

 

{ Faniy 'Dres's

 

 

 

 

  

 

o a o 3

\

DE?

9'8: Jung-mm J>at,J=e6;uarg 25. 1994 ,

Jerry Ieff unites North and South

New York-born Texan brings country rock

 
  

  
   

By BUNNY WONG
Supplement Assistant Editor

The Pavilion will twang with the strains
of country music Thursday, March 3, when
Texas country-rocker Jerry Jeff Walker and
his band, The Gonzo Compadres perform.

Composerofthe classic “Mr. Bojangles,”
Walker has produced 23 albums chroni-
cling true love, mournful loss, high living,
and fast traveling. His latest album, Hill
Country Rain, was recorded for his own
independent label, Tried & True Music,
which is Texas-based. Tried & True’s prod-
ucts are distributed internationally by
Rykodisc.

Walker’s first album, Circus Maximus,
was released in 1967 by Vanguard. One
year after his 1968 classic "Mr. Bojangles"
was produced.

“Mr. Bojangles” was inspired by hisluly
5 arrest in New Orleans for public intoxica-
tion in the French Quarter, where he met
street singer “Bojangles” in the drunk tank.

Walker started touring in 1993, to coin-
cide with the release of Hill Country Rain.
While Hill CountryRain sounds like a name
straight out of Texas, Walker was actually
born in Oneonta, New York.

Born March 16, 1942, Walker was born
with the name Ronald Clyde Crosby. In
1957 he began performing in numerous teen
combos around Oneonta. In 1963, Walker
arrived in Texas after hitchhiking to New
Orleans and street—singing in the French
Quarter. Soon after, as “Jerry Ferris,”
Walker met Babe Stovall who taught him to
play and sing.

It was in 1966 that Walker adopted his
current name and
formed the Lost Sea
Dreamers, ‘which
later became the
house band at the
Electric Circus in
New York City. In
1967 their name was
changed to Circus
Maximus. The band
split in 1968, when
Walker cut his first
solo single for Atco
Records and released
his Mr. Bojangles al-
bum.

In 1974 Walker
got married and re-
leased Walker’s Collectibles. Life was up-
hill from there, and from family life to
music, Walker was getting rave reviews.

Writes Edwin Pouncey ofWalker’s 1991
album, Navajo Rug, “Navajo Rug’ is fairly
bursting with muscular spirit and never-
say-die determination, some of which is
outrageously hilarious and full of good—old-
boy cheer.”

Bill and Hillary Clinton and Al and Tip-
per Gore agree. Writes Mary Alma Welch
in The Washington Post, “The Clinton-Gore
fab foursome created quite a stir, and a

 

standingovation,when they
dropped in at the Birchmere
in Alexandria, VA...to take
in the Jerry Jeff Walker
Show.”

From cowboys to
middle-aged desk drones,
Walker has many fans glad
to revel with him. Having
been in show business
nearly 30 years, Walker’s
old rowdiness has softened
a little.

Writes Deborah
Hopewell, Mercury News
staff writer, “Walker
doesn’t shy away from trot-
ting out his kick-butt an-
thems of old, even though
at 50 he’s a little wiser and
a lot more temperate. These
days, the reprobate themes
of good drunks and naughty
women have given way to
thoughtful reflections on
marriage, mortality and
moderation.” Hopewell
goes on to add, however,
that Walker doesn’t let that
“get in the way of having a
good time.”

Walker had a good time
in 1982 when his 40th birth-
day featured an all-day con-
cert at Town Lake with
“seemingly every band in
Austin,” according to a
press release. Other aspects
of his life were more seri-
ous and businesslike—in
1987 Tried & True Music
signed an international dis-
tribution agreement with Rykodisc.

One thing has re-
mained constant in
Walker’s singing-his
penchant for hope and
his talent for small
town charm.

Walkerreminisces
about small town life,
and the Hill Country
of Texas that he con-
siders home in a new
song:

You’ll see lots of
smiling faces

Little children run-
ning around

E v e r y b o d y ’ s
somebody “

in an old Hill Country town

Writes a CMJ Music Report, “Hill Coun-
try Rain is reminiscent of Walker’s days
with the Lost Gonzo Band, with lots of
tinkling piano, slinky dobro and his gravely
vocals. The strength of this disc is surely a
reflection of Walker’s songs...Walkerstruts
his stuff, proving once again he’s one of
Texas’ ﬁnest troubadours.”

Although Hill Country Rain might be
reminiscent of Walker’s days with the Lost
Gonzo Band, it carries the strains of modern
life. In “Time To Stay Home,” Walker

 

to FD

reminds the public that:

AIDS is to real to be foolish

It ’s changed all the rules we play by

The all-American Walker has been com-
pared to Jimmy Buffet, both having
unclassiﬁable music, mostly country, partly
county-rock, mixed in with lots of twangy
guitar and raucous jam.

Even though his music, in mirroring the
times, may seem a little more serious, he has
not lost any of his joie de vivre—:

‘Cause I got a feeling

Something that I can ’t explain
Like dancing naked
In that high hill country rain

The other musical groups to perform this
weekend in the Marshall Tucker Band open-
ing for Jerry Jeff Walker on Thursday night
in the Pavillion, the B0 Thorpe Orchestra in
the Big Gym on Friday, and the Waller
Family in the Small Gym also on Friday.
For those stories, please see the stories on
pages 14 and 15.

 

 

ffalie a ca

As intricate as the
Arabian nights them-
selves, Warner Center
0nMarch4thwillbetrans- ,
formed into a dazzling .
scene from faraway lands. '

Approaching the Warner Center, stu-
dents will encounter fountains with real
water and lights. Upon entering, students
come upon an Islamic archway with onion
domes, red carpet, and many plants.

‘‘It is going to be a 16 inch tall wooden
structure. We’ve got a big red carpet that
comes down and out the from,” said Alison
Oneacre, entrance Sub-Chairwoman.

As one follows the red carpet into the

9

By KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writerr

rpet ribe tliruf

building “the walls

will be covered

with all different col-
ors of fabric: red, green,
midnight blue, and all
with gold accents,” said
Sarah Tune, entrance Sub-Chairwoman.
“We’rejust trying to make it really colorful
and bright. You can’t put a lot in the
hallway —— just cover the walls —— because
it’s so crowded in there during Fancy Dress,
and we don’t want traffic to be a problem.”
Turn to the right and you will be in the

I See'DECOR)«.9'IONSyagel8

 

A agical Carpet Ride revisits theme of 1929

/
'7 By '_“i”;x.
Q DEBORAH ZOLLMAN 
I Phi Staff Writer

 
   

This year’s Fancy Dress theme,
“A Magical Carpet Ride,” is a new
twist on an old theme.

The Fancy Dresstheme of 1929
was “Arabian Nights.” The 1929
Ball “surpassed by far its famous
predecessors in brilliance and nov-
elty,” according to an old Ring-
tum Phi article.

Says one headline about the
1929 Fancy Dress, “Gill declares
1929 Fancy Dress Decorations to
surpass all.”

W&L’s 23rd Fancy Dress Ball
was opened with a preliminary ﬁg-
ure, or dance, led by Lewis F.
Powell, former Justice of the Su-
preme Court and Class of 1929.
Powell did a dramatic presenta-
tion ofthe Arabian Nights.

“Two pantomime ﬁgures were
conducted. Lewis Powell, Rich-
mond, and Miss Sally Barret, Rich-
mond, led the preliminary figure.
They represented the Caroline pe-
riod of American history.

Willis Van Gilbert, Athens,
Ala., and Miss Fitzie Fitzpatrick,
Washington, assisted them as visi-

tors from Spain,” says one 1929
Phi article.

Others also did “ﬁgures,” like
Miss Sophia Dunlap. Says a 1929
Phi article: “Miss Dunlap, who
will take the part of Scheherazade,
the cunning wife of the Sultan
Schahriar, will be brought in on a
gilt litter. Four freshmen have
been chosen to act as slaves, and
Miss Dunlap will take her place
beside the Sultan T. B. Gibson.

The other members of the fig-
ure will portray the characters of
the tales which Scheherazade re-
counts to the Sultan.”

Foreign dancers captivated
those in attendance. The “Thou-
sand and One” were represented
by these dancers. The Sultan and
Sultana arose at the end, leading
outthe Sultan’s court andthe char-
acters portrayed. The entire per-
formance lasted 45 minutes.

The 1929 Fancy Dress was at
the end of the hey-days of the Ball,
when thousands of people attended
and bands from all over the coun-
try, such as Duke Ellington, per-
formed.

“Between six and eight hun-
dred guests are expected to arrive
in Lexington between now and
Friday forthis gala event,” says an
article about the 1929 Ball.

Not only did students decorate

 

.Zy$\—’T‘

the gym in great splendor, but they
took great care with their dramatic
presentations, practicing over
and over.

Ted Weems and his orchestra
played for the occasion. They
were ﬁlling engagements on their
way to New York, where they were
playing in a New York musical
show. They came to Lexington
from Cincinnati.

The Arabian Nights ball was
the 7th Fancy Dress Ball directed
by Professor Carl E. Gill, associ-
ate professor of Economics and
Business Administration in the
Commerce School. He directed
the splendid and colorful costumes
and all of the decorations.

Students held Gill in high re-
spect—“Fancy Dress! Finals! And
with them is linked one name
which has done more than perhaps
any other in making them what
they have come to be known as-—
Carl E. L. Gill...he is a distinct
attribute to Washington and Lee!”

With the 1929 “Arabian Nights”
Fancy Dress, Gill had completed
seven years’ service as director of
decorations and effects of what
was then called the “Washington
and Lee mid-winter dances.”

Others schools tried to hire Gill
to decorate their dances but
he refused.

‘J'ﬁe mﬁg-tum mt. J’e6r:arg 25. 1994

 

   
     

J!‘ “"!‘.""?l".”‘!!' I "L": ..

 
 
  

. mom: ..

   

No Deposit

For your 1994 Fancy Dress TUXEDOS
-Rent for $48.00 Basic
$52.00 Full Dress

-Buy for $265

(And Never Have To Rent Again)

Charge

OLLEGE TOWN SH

111 W. Nelson St.

463-2731

Visa

Mastercard

   

     

 -ea.
§§'§~...§’  A

   

Amex

 

 

Ismgtggio-ns: V Memorabilia: “cl
“ ' a“'Derson- anessa . , _ Playbill: 3’
MacKinlay Sub-Chairperson 'SJt:m“fef°  Sub-Chairperson - Andrea Cobrin 3.’
Members-Margaret Fitts, em Méﬁssphamco '3 Cobrénz Articles - Betsy Blunt, Rachel *3;
Kara Kimzey Owe aM  Cook §
ns’ ansa r Layout - Richard Weaver 3,
Research - Maurice Cole .3.’ M
C #3 Anvertisments - Meredith E
°"‘er ‘ B Gambl P ks
Sub-Chairperson - Sally Ball mwm e ar E

Members - Chad Dobbins, Kg

Corner #4: Shannon Foster SF
Sub-Chairperson-Kris Fegenbush ‘g

Members-Tma Hand, Ann B 81 c on y:
Howard Corner #2:

Sub-Chairperson - Jennifer Queen
Members - Jess Graf, Pete
Hammond

Sub-Chairperson - Jennifer “Goose”
Garrigus
Members - Alex Cross,
Joanna Munsen

 
  
 
   

Hallway:
Sub-Chairperson - Sarah Time
Members - Kim Davis,
Jenni Robison

Corner #1:    /
Sub-Chairperson - Jennifer Jones. ‘ Doremus Gymnasium,
Members '_ M98 Kmderv Em Elﬁmfwcg Sub-Chairperson - Melissa Byrd,
Shlrley Entrance, Wendy Alexander .
Sub-Chai,-person _ Alison Oneacre Members - Todd Denbo, Kylie
Members - Margaret Cox, Edwards, Laura
res er

Warner Gymnasium: _ Drew Denbo 0
Sub-Chairperson Coordinator -

Carrie Baker ’ A e '

Construction:
Publicity; Sub-Chairperson-Joe Frampton
S“b'°h:‘1:P;;§°I;‘;:‘;‘ H“I$iet Chairperson -Monica Robinson Big G’"§'iZL';ii Keesee’ John '
ons- s en .
Moore Vice Chairperson - Kendall Sibley Balcony/Entrance-Leo
Public Relations-Meghan Auditor - Julie Townsend Decanini
Han, Ashley Simon Ceiling/Risers-Doug Burns
Publicity-Molly Apter, Bob Small Gym-Jarrod Aldon,
Belsher Tory Noto

....\.‘I
— nut-1

 

X

WEED

5'ﬁe'§tng-tum J'-W. 72::-nary 25. 1994

A magical Cc’iI‘,DC‘f ride through

       
 

  

By BUNNY WONG
Assistant Supplement Editor

With free admission and an orchestra
furnished by VMI, Washington and Lee’s
first Fancy Dress in 1907 was not quite the
gala it is now.

Annie Jo Robertson White, the college
librarian, founded FD “in order to rid her-
self of a troublesome $44,” notes a 1929 Phi
article. White had directed a student play to
raise money for a student organization. The
play netted $44 more than she had promised
to pay the organization.

White decided to use the money for a
small student dance and sent out invitations,
with the stipulation that attendees had to pay
approximately two dollars for their cos-
tumes. Those unable to afford costumes
could work for them.

While FD’s popularity escalated in the
1920s, receiving national coverage, the
“Hill” was not originally as tolerant of FD
hangovers and shenanigans.

An old Phi article notes that “the Uni-
versity gave no holiday for such useless
affairs as a Fancy Dress Ball. Students
might dance all night at the biggest ball of
the year with the understanding, however,
that they return to class at at 9 a.m. with
lessons prepared.”

An affair running from Wednesday to
Sunday morning was a notion that would
not come until later.

An early-century FD notion that was
popular earlier that is not now was costume
garb. The idea of a costume ball required

1959 FD President Murray Wadsworth escorts his date.

students to dress themselves appropriately.

ln 1907, thePhi reported, “a favorite
costume...was King Arthur’s armor-the stu-
dents coming to the dance class in steel mail
from their helmeted head to their steeled
legs. Butonce was enough. ltcramped their
style.”

Students came up with interesting cos-
tumes in 1919, including B.W. Buford as “a
Grecian Boy,” Miss Virginia Sproull of
Anniston, Alabama as the “W & L Swing,”
Miss Ada Tyler of Sweet Briar as “Balloon
Girl,” and JL. Glover as “Yama Yama.” A
“Yama Yama?” One can only wonder.

If students have trouble renting a tux
now, consider this article on Fancy Dress
from 1919: “[Participants] John A. Witt as
Oberon, King of the Faries [sic] and Miss
Cotton Timberlake as Titiana, Queen of the
Faries were dragged in on a chariot deco-
rated as a lily.

The chariot which was brilliantly lighted
by'tiny electric blubs was drawn by four
faries assisted by the court attendants. As
the chariot reached the woodland glade the
King and Queen mounted the throne which
was encirlced by court attendants and la-
dies-in—waiting with the foresters, wood
nymphs, and butterflies seated among the
cedar trees.”

By the 1920s, FD was in full force.
Thousands of people were in attendance
and newspapers from New York to Texas
commented on it. Labled by the New York
Times as “the outstanding collegiate social
event of the south,” FD was broadcasted
over national radio networks.

A 1929 Phi headline reads “Fancy Dress
Decorations To Surpass All.” Throughout
the 20s, hundreds of young women from
Baltimore, Atlanta, New Orleans, and
Charleston traveled to Lexington for FD.
Sometimes they even
rented out entire
boxcars.

Elaborate costumes
were ordered from Van
Horn’s, a company in
Philadelphia. The ball
made its debut to
America via Walter
Winchell and the Lucky
Strike Radio Network
hookup.

In accordance with
the extravagance of
Fancy Dress in the
1920s, some ofthe big-
gest orchestras and jazz
bands of the day were
contracted to play mu-
sic.
These included
Duke Ellington, Count
Basie, Bennie
Goodman, and Jimmy
Dorsey.

The Ball was oncea
series of winter and
spring dances including
aJuniorProm,aSopho-
more Cotillion, and the
Final Ball. The latter
has eclipsed its prede-
cessors, which no
longer exist.

Calyx Photo

 

2‘ ' at
Calyx Photo

Above: A group of students from the 1960 Evolution of Man Ball.
Below: The l96l’s Shakespeare in the Court of King James I.

Calyx Photo

While times have changed, one element
has remained constant throughout the years
— the contraversy swirling around Ball
organizers.

In 1936 one student wrote a letter be-
moaning the risingprice ofcostumes. Glenn
Shively, president of the Fancy Dress Com-
mittee, responded to the letter in the Phi.

“The committee felt justified in charging
the additional sixty cents to take care of
losses or damages to the costumes, and any
profit that mgiht be made was to go to the
Fancy Dress Fund,” he said. Apparently the
student had suggested that profits were be-
ing channeled elsewhere.

Although neither the national Broad-
casting Company nor the Columbia Broad-
casting System carried the dance in 1936,
there were the watchful eyes of chaperons to
keep those ﬁne young Washington and Lee
gentlemen in line.

Fancy Dress reflects the volatility of the
decades. In the 1940s and 50s, themes
revolved around light-hearted reconstruc-
tions of the lives of the rich and famous.

Examples include 1935’s “Congress of
Vienna” and 1950’s “King Arthur’s Court.”
Themes like “The Works of Shakespeare”

 

and “Mozart’s ‘Don Giovanni”’ refelected
the “high society” feel of the Ball.

Worlds of riches and merriment, how-
ever, were partially shattered by the on-
slaught of the turbulent late sixties and early
seventies.

From 1970 until 1973 there were only
concerts, and in 1971 there was no Ball.

The 1969 Ball had “psychedelic music
and a professional light show,” and it was
recommended that students go for tie-dye
instead of black tie.

Fancy Dress was temporarily suspended
in 1971 due to “a greatly reduced budget
and past history of of student disinterest.”

A disillusioned allumnus wrote “for the
old grad from General Lee’s college it is the
most shattering break with the past since the
Generals dropped out of big time football.”

The only other time Fancy Dress was not
held was when it was supended in 1945 and
1946 due to the war.

Fancy Dress did return in 1972, but in a
quiet way. “The cost is the inhibitive thing,”
said the Dance Board Chairman. ‘‘I don’t
want to spend more than $2,500 to $3,000
on the thing.”

So in 1972 students paid $5.00 to hear

 

Q

 

. traetns-«w»m.re6~«rsz5.I994 . it D 3: . . .

«:03 A M F 
L°‘_12*_‘*_**/ 5* '

  the hislorg of Fancg Dress

ShaNaNa. But Fancy Dress would become
great once more at the end of the decade,
returning to themes like “Passport to Paris”
and “Glories of Egypt.”

The dance was held in Fairfax Lounge,
Evans Dining Hall, and General headquar—
ters in 1976, “A Salute To Hollywood.”

No longer enamored of tie-dye, one stu-
dent hoped that “all gentlemen attending
will display the proper attire of place tie. If
not, the burly and altogether unpleasant
doorman may be tempted to violence.”

l976’s Ball, however, was not so formal
as to be stuffy.

Hypnotist Edwin L. Baron, director of
the Hypnotist lnsitute of Chicago, was
present to hynotize voluntary subjects into
gobbling imaginary watermelon.”

The headline gracing a 1976 edition of
the Phi read “Fancy Dress weekend arrives-
University braces for hangover.”

Now Fancy Dress has returned to the
lavish decorations characterisitic of previ-
ous decades, immersed in the spell of a
magic carpet ride.

This year, students will be able to create
their own thousand and one tales, admist
scenes of splendor and imagination.

The research of Todd Peppers for the
I 990 FD supplement contributed to the
information in this article.

ll

In 1973, Billy Preston played in concert in place in of a formal ball. Calyx Photo

Q: Why was Aiaciciin Blue?
A: Because he  not get his
FD Tux at Totauy Party!

 

Ride your magic carpet to Totally Party for all your FD needs-
Tuxedos start at $44.50
Rental and Consignment Dresses, too.

Tables, chairs, linen, china, tents, decorations, and more!
US Hwy. 11 North 464-5720 F

r
.
OCOCODQ000000O00000O0O00000000000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
C
COOOOCOCOOO0OOOOOOOO0OOOOOOO0OCOOOOOCCOCCCOOIOOOOOOOOOOO

  

 

8

Roots of Arabian
tales shrouded
in tradition,
history and culture

 
  
  

   

By BUNNY WONG
Assistant Supplement Editor

The stories of the Arabian nights are magical not only in
and of themselves but also in their origin.

While they are of various ethnic origins: lndian, Persian,
and Arabic, handed down in storytelling, a common factor
runs through all the various versions of the tales. All reﬂect
lslam's cultural and artistic history.

According to legend, the stories are told by the beautiful
Scheherazade to her husband King Shahrayar, who has a
history of killing his wives. Every day Shahrayar would
order his servants to bring him a woman, marry her, and
then order her killed the next day.

Queen Scheherazade was one of these women but
averted death by her storytelling ability and clever wit. By
putting off telling the last half of a story, Scheherazade
saves herself. Each night King Shahrayar tells himself he
will wait until the story is ﬁnished to kill her, but the clever
Queen begins yet another story each night. In the end, after
1001 tales, the King does not kill the Queen and everyone
lives happily ever after.

The tales have a fairylike kind of optimism to them:
“Scheherazade cures Shahrayar of his hatred of women,
teaches him to love, and by doing so saves her own life and
wins a good man,” writes Husain Haddawy.

In the tales themselves, characters convert, redeem, save
lives, and ﬁnd happiness. They embody the classic themes
of good and evil, intertwined with magical orientalism.
“Even angry demons are humanized and paciﬁed by a good
story,” writes Haddawy.

The first written documentation of the tales was in the

I SccTA|.f5. pagcus

irae Ring-tum Piit,Fe6rug'g 25,1994

Ruins throughout the Middle E st
of a 1001 nights. Pictured here is te Palace 0

   

€

and remindrs tolthe culture that created the
f Darius, a building used for royal functions.

  

A: .-

stories

 

Rimsky-Korsakov makes music of 1001 tales

   
    

 
 
 

By BUNNY WONG
Assistant Supplement Editor V

The magic of the Arabian nights is
embodied not only in literature but
also in music. .

Nicholas Rimsky-Korsakov, one of
the greatest Russian operatic compos-
ers, created the composition
Scheherazade in 1888.

In 1929, 41 years later,
Scheherazade was played at W&L’s
Fancy Dress ball.

“The music of Scheherazade is char-
acterized by a decorative splendor be-
fitting the fantastic wonders in the Ara-
bian tales. Oriental colors and pictur-

esque qualities are consistently sus-
tained,” writes James Baskt in A His-
tory of Soviet-Russian Music.

The musical refrain occurring in
Scheherazade’s theme in Scheherazade
underlies the fact that it is Scheherazade
who narrates the Arabian tales. The
musical episodes of Scheherazade are
based on the 1001 Nights

The first parts in the first edition of
Scheherazade are “The Sea and
Sinbad’s Ship,” “The Tale of Prince
Kalender,” “The Prince and the Prin-
cess,” “The Festival at Baghdad,” and
the “Shipwreck.”

“Disclaiming interest in the hero
and his fate, Korsakov preferred de-
scriptive and colorful musical episodes,
based on fairy tale subjects,” writes
Baskt.

Rich in tone and rejoicing in sound,

Rimsky-Korsakov’s Scheherazade is
a happy rendition of a fairy tale.
Scheherazade, like 1001 Nights is a
loose patchwork of themes, a story of
multiple stories.

Rimsky-Korsakov pivots on one or
two notes common to two chords, add-
ing to the sound of delight which runs
through his Scheherazade.

Scheherazade was not the
composer’s only oriental composi-
tion——Sadko and Le Coq d’0r also
reﬂect the Eastern bent of the Russian
composer.

One of Rimsky-Korsakov’s more
popular compositions, Scheherazade
reflects all the aspects of a mystical
carpet ride, from the harsh opening
theme associated with the harsh Sultan
Schariar, to the joyous trumpet fanfare
in the “Tsar Sultan” section.

  
 
 

3* FIN TALIAN CUISINE

ancy Dress Specials

Scampi - $11.95

Chicken Marsala - $9.25
Both Served withspaghetti, Salad & Bread

NEW!

2 Group Take-out Dinners - You can serve
your own dinner, complete with Salad,
Garlic Bread & Dessert. You can feed a

group of your friends for as low as $5.00 a
person. Call us at least 24 hours in ad-
vance, and see what we can do for you.

. A /ﬁghrimp & Scallop
gt;

Alain - lﬁmtniia

102 W. Washington

Tuxedos for Sale and Rental
Fancy Cummerbund Sets
Flasks
Ray-Bans
Redwing Boots
W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars & Leashes

Since 1963
Student Charge Accounts Available
463-5383

 
 
    

 

O

 

  
 

 
  
  

By BUNNY WONG
Assistant Supplement Editor

ln 1907, W&L Librarian Annie
Joe White and a handful of stu-

o
u
o
u
a
s
0
u
0

Annie Jo White

ot>p<>9io99:—_l

iQ}(:HECkCMﬂ'OUR
EDRESSES,
SHOES & |

ACCESSORIES .
FORIHD I

 
 

 

 

I We Ring-tum Mi, feﬁmary 25. 094 3

dents took 44 dollars left over from

’ theatre production proceeds and

created Fancy Dress. The admis-
sion was free and the costumes for
the Bal Masque were about $2.00.
An orchestra from VMI, known
for their knowledge of all the latest
two-steps, provided the music.
Originally,
White’sattempt
at an annual
“Bal Masque”
was greeted
with indiffer-
ence by W &L
students. Soon,
however, their
a t t i t u d e
changed.
White, per-
haps subcon-
sciously true to
the Fancy Dress
spirit, had a run-
in with the law
during Prohibi-
tion when she
purchased
bottles of rum
and Scotch
through the
mail. Univer-
sity President
Henry L. Smith
intervened to
prevent a grand
jury indictment.
The 1908
Calyx said of
White, “Admi-
ration of her is
stamped for-

ever on our minds; love for her is
seated deep in our hearts; respect
for her is impressed indelibly on
our souls.”

In the 1930s White was fea-
tured in Life magazine for her ac-
complishments.

W & L students were fond of
the energetic White, known as
“Miss Annie Jo.” One crew boat in
the 1890s was named Annie Jo.

White attended every FD ex-
cept one until she died.

White has been immortalized
in Leyburn Library’s computer-
ized catalog. Thus, the name
“Annie” has been attached to the
library’s catalog.

The name “Annie” was chosen
because it was “short, easy to pro-
nounce and spell, and one that had
significant Washington and Lee
connections,” said University Li-
brarian Barbara Brown.

“More importantly, it is appro-
priate that we honor a woman who
was such a friend to students,”
Brown added.

White, who retired in 1928 and
died in 1938, was appointed uni-
versity librarian in 1895.

White contributed time and en-
ergy to the library collection, cata-
loging it, increasing library hours,
and supervisingaoollection move.

Annie Jo White lives on not
only in the library’s computerized
catalog, but in the Fancy Dress
Balls that have become a part of
W&L tradition.

I 992 research on White con-
tributed to this story.

PADPAGAHO
23 N. l\/IAIN

Annie Jo White Created
FD With 44 Dollars

Calyx Photo

In 1927 the theme of a Carnival at Venicefeatured a
wide variety colorfu.l costumes, including those pic-
tured here. The decorations were designed by Carl E.
Gill, an associate professor of Economics and Business
Administration in the Commerce School. The ball in
1927 was the fifth Ball that Gill designed and directed.
The Arabian Nights Ball of 1929 was also designed by
Gill, and although other schools tired to hire him, he

refused their offers.

(96 t‘§i6;‘ $1.15:

' with this ad

Shoe Fixer

Party Shoes Cleaned -
Before and After
Satin Shoes dyed inf] hour

 

S

3 W. Nelson St. 464-6666 - S

  

‘Ste eiawof
PP .
I like to dream

yes yes

Right between the sound machine

On a cloudless sky

Adrift in the night

Anyplace it goes is ﬁne

Goes far, flies near
Get these stars away from here

Well you don’t know what we can ﬁnd
Why don’t you come with me little girl
On a magic carpet ride

You don’t" know what we can see

Why don’t you tell your dreams to me

 

\
\

P 'Ste}oeﬁwo[fe”s own Magic C'et.7i’i

I like to dream

yes yes

Right between the sound machine
On a cloudless sky

Adrift in the night

Anyplace it goes is ﬁne

Goes far, ﬂies near

Get these stars away from here

Well you don’t know what we can ﬁnd
Why don’t you come with me little girl
On a magic carpet ride

You don’t‘ know what we can see

Why don’t you tell your dreams to me

Fanstasy will set you free
Close your eyes girl

Look inside girl

Let the sound take you away

Last night I hold Aladdin’s Lamp
So I wished that I could stay
Before the thing could answer me

Well someone came and took the lamp

away
l looked around
A lousy can was all I found

Well you don’t know what we can ﬁnd

\ seszmzszseszmzmemz O

 

Why don’t you come with me little girl
On a magic carpet ride

You don’t know what we can see

Why don’t you tell your dreams to me
Fantasy will set you free

Close your eyes girl

Look inside girl

Let the sound take you away

Well you don’t know what we can find
Why don’t you come with me little girl
On a magic carpet ride

You don’t know what we can ﬁnd
Why don’t you tell your dreams to me
Fantasy will set you free

/\\\ y?

T’

‘o

 
 

{Hie Jung-tum J°ﬁi.J’e6ruury 25. 1994 -.

A look back at the spectrum of past

. - 2;.-‘i’: :2

Fr
Washington & Lee Friends:

[Fancy Dress
is approacﬁing!

20% discount on the guest
room of your choice

Znjoy a romantic evening of

fine «fining at Maple 9{a[[. I  

1789 Alexander Withrow House Lodging 463-2044 '
1809 McCampbell Inn Dining 463'-4666

 

@850 Maple Hall

AAA**

  
   
   
   
     
    

From 1907 to 1994, with the
exception of a couple of years,
Washington and Lee students have
taken carpet rides through all kinds
of Fancy Dress Balls.

The following is a listing of all
of the previous Fancy Dress Ball
themes.

Between 1907 and 1915, guests
wore costumes from Colonial
America.

1907 Bal Masque

1908 Fancy Dress

1909 Fancy Dress

1910 Bal Masque with decor
ations featuring college
and fraternity pennants.

1911 Bal Masque with deco
rations featuring hanging
Japanese parasols.

1912 Colonial America

1913 Bal Masque

1914 Bal Masque with deco-
rations featuring world
ﬂags and Japanese
parasols.

1915 Colonial America

1916 Court of Louis XIV

191 7 Ba] Masque

1918 Europe and Columbia,

. the Gem of the Ocean

1919 A Midsummer Night’s
Dream

1920 Bookland
The ball was moved to
April because of an in
ﬂuenza epidemic.

1921 The Chinese Court of
Chu Chin Chow

1922 The Scottish Highlands

1923 Le Bal des Operas

1924 My Lady of the Fan

1925 Romance of the Dance

1926 Ba] Beaux Arts

1927 Carnival of Venice

1928 Bookland

1929 1001 Nights

1930 Spanish Fiesta

1931 Robin Hood

1932 Colonial Ball

1933 Ball of the Grandees

1934 Coronation of Emperor
Alexander III

1935 Congress of Vienna

calyx photo 1936 Queen Elizabeth and

Earl of Essex

1937 Italian Renaissance

CID’s

Saturday 11 a.

 

1938
1939

1940
1941

1942
1943

Charleston, SC — On
the Eve of Secession
Knights of the Golden
Horseshoe

Kentucky Derby

King Rex and His Court
at Mardi Gras

A Night at the Monte
Carlo Casino in 1861
American Spirit

1944-1946 Fancy Dress suspended

1947
1948

1949
1950
1951
1952
1953

1954

due to WWII

Carnival at Rio
Hampton Court under
Charles II

George Washington’s
Birthday Ball in Phila-
delphia

King Arthur’s Court
Carmen

The Works of
Shakespeare

The Court of King Louis
XVI

King Rex and His Court

The

 
    

 I Calyx Photo
1935 theme was the

Congress of Vienna.

NIGHT OWL MUSIC CO.

25 S. Jefferson 464-4050

0pen ll a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday — Friday,
9 " 5

7" /7./.V.£/.€/‘.A‘/I//7.4‘/.£//7‘.A‘/‘/.7‘/Zﬂ//.7/7‘/7.A‘/‘/7./.7‘.K‘/‘./:/‘./.7‘./.7‘./..7‘./.7‘./.7.7/

 
 

..‘/.‘/.‘/‘./.7‘./."/‘/7%/./7‘./7%/77£//7£/X/Z/‘/7%//7/7%/‘./7.K/‘/XX//7/VJVA,
.

We stock Jerry
Jeff Walker and
Marshall Tucker

 

x
\
3
x
§
§
§
§
§
\
§
§
§
§
\
§
3
I

 

 
     
  
 

‘J ne mg-tum ‘n. J’-'e6ruary 25. I994 -
‘ ?' U‘ 3" - — ~ ~ ‘Q :1 Q
at Mardi Gras 1969 lnaugural,Ball bee — An Evening
1955 An Odyssey Through Along the Mississippi
Empires From 1970 until 1973 there River
1956 The Wizard of Oz were only concerts. 1984 Lost Cities of Gold
1957 Mozart’s Don Giovanni 1970 The Allman Brothers 1985 The Mink Dynasty
1958 Gilbert and Sullivan at 1971 No Fancy Dress 1986 Carnival —— A Night in
Buckingham Palace 1972 Sha-Na-Na Rio
1959 Golden Jubilee (50th 1973 Billy Preston 1987 The Dark Continent
Anniversary 1974 Mardi Gras 1988 Reconciliation Ball of
1960 The Evolution of Man 1975 ln the Mood 1941 1865
1961 Shakespeare in the Court 1976 Hurray for Hollywood! 1989 An Evening Excursion
of King James I 1977 Passport to Paris on the Orient Express
1962 High Society 1978 Glories of Egypt 1990 Gatsby’s Great Gala
1963 American Civil War 1979 A Taste of the Big Apple 1991 A Royal Festival at King ;
Centennial 1980 Monopoly: A Stroll Arthur’s Court ;
1964 Mardi Gras Around the Board 1992 A Return Voyage to the
1965 Mississippi Riverboat 1981 On Broadway Age of Exploration
1966 Derby Day Ball 1982 A Diamond Jubilee(75th 1993 Celebrating the Silver
1967 Opening Night Anniversary) Screen

1968 High Society 1983 Waiting for Robert E. 1994 A Magical Carpet Ride

   
     
  

Calyx Photo A ' Photo

In 1956, the theme was the Wizard of Oz. This theme reappered in last year’s FD. Henry Heymann was president of FD’s 1956 trip to Oz

WHEN YOU RIDE DRUNK, ONE MORE
FOR THE ROAD CAN HAVE
AN ENTIHELY DIFFERENT MEANING.

KeI|y’s Corner

On Rt. 60, 2.5 miles west of Lexington

 

All Of Your Fancy Dress
and Party Supplies

SHEAR '1'[M1N(; ""9 At The Best Prices.

Hair Salon

Alcohol quickly affects vourjutlgrnent b l d ‘ ' -
are impaired. riding l>ecomes more thaii gllifiiecual? lrCg(e)=lc(i>lrIi1aeUso(rl1awh€n u‘]eIS)e faculties
and ride. Or your last drink might be vour last drink MOTORGY?:%Er§A]1?ETY(i‘ri)ilNil1A]ii0N

    

°f'f,‘};.§‘.ff3.§‘,}i:“'}‘;‘,f,;e§a.§‘ri§i'.i-f,;°’,; (i£.'iic'i.g As Always, We Provide The
 a twist, ﬁshbone, etc) I . Best Service For The W&L Community
é  FD Tanning Special =
~ “ .- 10 for $30
20 f0r$50 Open7Days 463-5452 Mnes&sandyNye,Propnetoas

1 7 S. Randolph Street, Lexington 464-1145

 

125 W. NELSON STREET - LEXINGTON - ACROSS FROMTHE POST OFHCE

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
I I
I Small Acoustic Acts for I
I I
: \ the pre & post Fancy :
- - - I I
RESUMES COVER LETTERS QUICK COPIES FLYERS I  \\ ‘Ti DICSS functions I
LAZER PRINTED ENVELOPES - BINDING - NEWSLETTERS :  :
— Come See Us — We ll Make You Look Good! E 205 N. Main St. E
L PHONE: 463 - 1712 - FAX: (703) 463 - 6918 Q1 : 463_5455 :
I I
I

   

 

 
 

‘J'ﬁe3ing-tum ?ﬁi, fag-wry 25. I ..

Bo Thorpe Swings thru FD again

Performing everything from Gershwin to “Disco Duck Revisited,” Bo Thorpe and his orchestra
will set students’ feet moving at Washington and Lee’s 87th Fancy Dress Ball.

Students may remember his Big Band sound from last year’s Fancy Dress.

Thorpe formed his orchestra in 1978 and has released three successful albums. Born in Rocky
Mount, North Carolina, Bo Thorpe has moved around the country. He has been an investigative
reporter, soldier, and communications consultant to the United States government. Thorpe also
ran for the U.S. Congress but eventually found his calling in music.

Thorpe’s music is an eclectic blend of new and old, adding to his appeal to college campuses.
Thorpe and his orchestra have played at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the United
States Military Academy and the last four Presidential Inaugural Balls.

The Waller Fomilq

pnovicles Tempcilions.

SOLll ClilCl much FTIOPQ

 
     
 

By MELISSA SAWYER
Assistant Features Editor

Nowhere on earth has there ever been an
arabian garden filled with as much soul and
funk as the Fancy Dress Committee has
planned for Doremus Gymanesium.

The Fabulous Waller Family will return
to W&L March 4 for a FD performance.

The Waller Family’s exciting live show
will be highlighted by live brass instrumen-
tation and multiple costume changes, along
with the tight choreography customary to
their performances.

The Fabulous Waller Family is a quintet
from Richmond. The brother and sister
group performs songs from a wide range of
musical classiﬁcations, including “Top 40,”
“Soul,” and “Funk.” They will perform
selections from Earth, Wind & Fire, Gladys
Knight, Michael Jackson, Whitney Hous-
ton, Luther Vandross, Prince, Terence Trent
D’Arby, Stevie Wonder, and The Time.

The Waller Family also does an extended
medley of Motown impressions which in-
cludes the music of The Pointer Sisters, the
Temptations, Kool and the Gang, Sam and
Dave, Diana Ross and the Supremes, Huey
Lewis and the Four Tops.

The Waller Family has proclaimed itself
the “hardest working group in show busi-
ness.” The band has performed in at least 45
states, as well as in Santo Domingo and

«I» See WA££EJU"o\1Kl£9yqe I8

FD is too
special to be
taken lightly.

............_.........._-._....y......_...‘

Ask that special
person with style.

Send an English
Country Garden
in a vase
whatever it takes
to show

him / her that you
mean it.

The

 

;IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

’III‘IIII“IlIIlIIIIII|‘|IIII“‘III‘I‘III|‘IIIIIIIIIII‘

Fancy Dress is a memorable
event, so dine at a
memorable restaurant!

The Willson-Walker House
30 N. Main Street
463-3020

Reservations now being accepted for
Lunch and Dinner! Make your reservations
early and avoid the last minute rush!

WILLSON-
WALKER
HOUSE

Restaurant

 
 
 
 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

0 75¢ Ring-Rm J’-‘ﬁi.J’e6ruargC5. I994 0

 

 

Marshall Tucker rocks like Skynyrd

The carpet ride hicks-oﬁ‘ with more than 20 years southern rock

   

By BUNNY WONG 
Assistant Supplement

    

Fancy Dresst will open with a
vengeance with the Marshall
Tucker Band, March 3.

The Marshall Tucker Band first
broke through with its Southern
Rock sound in the early 1970s. In
1973 the band released its first
album, the Marshall TuckerBand,
netting gold sales status.

In 1975 and 1977 the band
reached an all-time high when
Searchin’ For A Rainbow and
Carolina Dreams reached plati-
num sales status.

The Marshall Tucker Band’s
latest album on Cabin Fever Mu-
sic, Walk Outside the Lines, is a
continuation of the original

Marshall Tucker Band sound. The
album was recorded in Nashville,
and Garth Brooks wrote the title
cut and first single release from
the new album.

The Marshall Tucker Band has
been compared to its Dixie coun-
terparts, The Allman Brothers and
Lynyrd Skynyrd.

Singer and songwriter Doug
Gray, along with Jerry Eubanks
and Tommy and Toy Caldwell
founded Marshall Tucker in 1971.
The name Marshall Tucker was
borrowed from a Spartanburg pi-
ano tuner.

After landing a record deal with
Capricorn, The Allman Brothers’
label, the band was soon opening
for the Allmans by 1973.

Marshall Tucker is noted for its
twist on country music. A delight-
ful mix of rock and roll, country,

1. Se¢‘.l'\lCJ(ERyage18

 

TG

.IUJTIL.lET

Lexington 17 South Main St.
Famous Men’s & Women’s Apparel and Shoes from
America’s Finest Catalog Mail Order Companies. New
Shipments Every Week. Guaranteed.

With a student ID take an
additional 20% off of any Swim
suit, Shorts (Mens’ & Womens’),

& Boxers.

Good through 3-5-94.
Hours: Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 463-9730

The Marshall Tucker Band will open for Jerry Jeff Walker on Thursday at the
Pavillion. The band has released 16 albums since they first appeared as a pioneering
band of the southern rock music style. Several other groups from the same period,
including The Allman Brothers and Lynyrd Skynyrd, have reuinted for reunion
albums and tours, but the Marshall Tucker Band never left the scene for long. Now,
23 years after they were formed, they will bring a bit of southern rock to FD.

. v A‘ "."‘"‘a- -.
__,.,,.,...3c§-'.3<.§-.. 4,, ‘‘ £6;

 

is proud to have supplied

T-Shirts and posters for T
the past 4 years. We wish
everyone a safe and happy

. Magical Carpet Ride

 

' //Fegwj ' ‘

L335?

‘Iﬁe Ring-tom rat, reemrg 25, 1994

Table for Two. pleose: Q guide

     
     
 

By BUNNY WONG
Assistant Supplement Editor

Time to begin thinking about restaurant
reservations!

In the southwest region of Virginia there
are many eateries that can more than ad-
equately cater to your Fancy Dress dining
needs. Tucked away in Charlottesville,
Staunton, Lexington, Lynchburg and
Roanoke are some great dining establish-
ments.

These restaurants are ideal for both din-
ner before the Ball on Friday, and on Satur-
day when it is more convienent to spend
about at least anhour driving.

This article was adapted from a similar
piece written several years ago describing
favorite restaurants of Fancy Dress dining

parties and it seems some of the oldies are
still goodies. Bon Appetit!

Charlottesville

The Boar ’s Head Inn, Route 250 W., 1.5
miles off Route 29, 804-296-2181. Located
in a posh region of Albemarle County, the
Boar’s Head Inn serves as both a 174 room
inn and a restaurant. Though the menu lacks
international ﬂare they do serve duck. The
glory of the Boar’s Inn is a solid American
cuisine prepared impeccably. Prices of en-
trees range from $15.95 to $26.95. A full
bar with a good selection of wines will
accompany a meal nicely. Reservations
and jackets for men are required.

The Ivy Inn, 2244 Old Ivy Road (across
from Ivy Gardens, one mile from Univer-
sity of Virginia), 804-977-1222.

Dine by candlelight in this restored large
house, built circa 1803. During the winter
ﬁreplaces are alight at the Ivy Inn. The
menu at the Ivy Inn varies greatly, including
chicken, beef and seafood pasta. Prices

 

range from $12.75 to $17.95. Weekday
entrees start at $9.95 The romantic atmo-
sphere requires elegant casual dress. All
spirits are served.

The C & 0 Restaurant, 515 E. Water,
804-971-7044.

This may be one of Charlottesville’s and
southwest Virginia’s, most enjoyable and
unique restaurants. At the C & O Restau-
rant, the emphasis of the dining experience
is on the food (“the focus of the senses”) and
as such the formal dining room (coat and tie
suggested) is decorated all white: white
linens, and white walls with white ﬂoors.
The French cuisine is served a la cane but
unlike European restaurants the portions
are large. Don’t pass up the opportunity to
enjoy your meal with a bottle of wine from
the C & O’s extensive wine cellar which has
been voted one of the top 100 in the nation
by Wine Spectator magazine. Entree prices
range from $18.25 to $28. There are two
seatings for dinner, the first at 6:30 and the
second at 9:30 p.m.

Roanoke

The Library, 3117 Franklin Road (in
Piccadilly Square), 985-0811.

The Library is a beautiful, quaint French
restaurant that offers continental cuisine
and an excellent atmosphere. The Library
was one of three restaurants in Virginia
given a four-diamond rating by A. The
service is perfect as is the extensive menu

A traditional gathering place for Fancy Dress
Weekend. Dinner Specials Friday and Saturday
nights. And for a great ending to an unforgettable
Weekend, join us for Sunday Brunch

starting at 12noon. 101 W. Nelson.

    

complete with seafood, beef, lamb and veal
dishes that will delight the palate of even the
pickiest eaters. If you can stand it, leave
room for the dessert tray which will both
amaze and delight. Entrees will run any-
where from $18.95 to $24.95. The Library
is possibly the finest restaurant in Roanoke
and definitely one of the ﬁnest in the state
according to Virginia: A History and Guide.

La Maison, 5732 Airport Road, 366-
2444.

The elegance of La Maison is evident
even before you enter the front door. Once
a Georgian mansion, the beautiful structure
now contains 15 dining rooms in which
delicious French cuisine is served. French
veal and lamb are generally the order of the
day but American fare of beef and seafood
are also served.

Entrees run generally between $9.95 and
$30 with $14.95 as the average. Coat and tie
suggested. Reservations are suggested.

Lexington

The Wilson-Walker House, 30 N. Main
St., Lexington 463-3020

There are several rooms which add to the
coziness of the Willson-Walker House and
eliminate much of the hustle and bustle of
large one-room restaurants. Cocktails, beer
and wine will complement you meal. The
menu is strong with beef, seafood and
chicken dishes. Entrees are prepared a
variety of different ways, includin South-

  
  

eov. MORE IMFOQMATION (bu

1-900-562-warn?

         

 

A . .-......_-.-2-'1 ~~"*"«>I5
‘ ,«-<w.m'4‘ »-m‘-* N-

   
    

   

 

 

O

 

' 75¢ Ring-tum‘?ﬁl. Feﬁruary 253994

to favorite

‘ {QT ’ °

ern American. The location is a plus and
convenience in choosing the restaurant for
its walking distance from most parts of
town. Prices range from around $10 to $17.

' Reservations are a must during Fancy Dress

and coat and tie are recommended.
Maple Hall, Route 11 and 81, Lexing-
ton, 463-4666
Maple Hall is a beautiful large country
home converted into a restaurant. There are
several small dining rooms decorated in
impeccable colonial taste. Maple Hall does
have a private room reserved for larger
parties. The menu will vary from day to day
but a patron can always count on high qual-
ity service and ﬁne country dining. Entrees
run around $18.95. Reservations are appre-
ciated.
Point of View, Rt. 60 W. just west of
Lexington, 463-7797
Point of View has casual dining in an
elegant setting. Strong menu items include
steak, Bar- B-Q Ribs, and seafood. Entrees
run from $6.75 to $13.95. Point ofView
also has a full bar. _
Hunan Garden, East Nelson Street, Lex-
ington, 463-3330
Students have varying opinions of the
establishment—some think it offers respect-
able Chinese cuisine (particularly taking
into account the fact that it is located in the
heart of the Shenandoah Valley). Hunan
offers a variety of Chinese dishes, and com-
binations, and even gives you a fortune
cookie at the end of your meal. Entrees run
around $8. They also serve mixed drinks
and several spirits. Dress is casual.
Southern Inn, 37 S. Main Lexington,
463-3612
The Southern Inn specializes in steaks,
sea food, chicken, and Greek and Italian
specialties. Entrees run around $11.
[1 Palazzo, 24 N. Main Street, Lexing-

 
 
 

.33

,. ......»»«
 .-.w-«'~*"""‘W W

.....—w-»~"""°

  

ton, 464-5800

IlPalazzooffersﬁneItalian cuisine. Open
seven days a week, the restaurant serves
dishes from pizza pie and calzones to a full
dinner menu of tempting dishes like chicken
parmesan. Wine, beer and mixed beverages
are also served. The restaurant has a charm-
ing atmosphere and its food and service
have received praise from many patrons.
Weekend reservations are appreciated.

Harb’s Bistro, 19 W. Washington St.,
Lexington, 464-1900

This establishment is a European-style
cafe which offers cappuccino and expresso,
as well as homemade bread desserts. .la7z
music is piped into the stylish restaurant to
provide a stimulated and relaxing atmo-
sphere. Harb’s also serves a full dinner
menu that varies nightly.

The Inn at Union Run, Union. Run Rd.
Route 674, 463-9715

The Inn at Union Run features weekly
special entrees such as beef rouladen, paella,
and homemade tortellini. Entrees run from
$11 to $16. Reservations are required.

The Palms, 10] W. Nelson St., Lexing-
ton, 463-7911

Hearty souls can enjoy entrees that in-
clude beef, seafood, poultry, and pasta at
The Palms. Entrees run around $9.25 to
$14.95, and there are Fancy Dress specials.
No reservations are required.

Spanky’s, 110 S. Jefferson St., Lexing-
ton, 463-3338

Specializinginaplethoraofsandwhiches,
Entrees run from $5 to $10. In addition,
Spanky’s has a full bar, and a variety of
appetizers and desserts. Spanky’s is fun
food.

Raven and the Crown, 16 Lee Ave.,
Lexington, 464-8474

The Raven and the Crown offers a re-
laxed atmosphere for FD dining. Dinner

Ly?
F D dinner locations

specials are offered daily, and include a
pasta special fo $6.95 and a chicken or beef
special for $9.95. Entrees range from $7.95
to $12.95. The bar has a wide variety of
beers and mixed drinks. In addition, if you
and your date want breakfast for dinner, you
can get it at the Raven and the Crown.
Reservations are not needed.

Staunton

Buckhorn Inn, 12 miles west of Staunton,
Route 250 W. Churchville, 337-6900

The Buckhorn In is a very casual restau-
rant connected with a 200-year old inn. lt
serves a $12.50 seafood buffet on Friday.
Enjoy beef, wine and a lot to eat between the
hours of 4 and 9p.m. Two of the restaurant’s
biggest specialties are fried oysters and pork
tenderloin. Their peanut butter pie is also
popular. Reservations are not necessary but
you may want to call ahead to be sure.

TheBelle GraeInn,515 W. Frederick St.
(Downtown), 886-5151

The Bell Grae lnn contains two dining
facilities located in the old inn. A free
selection of entrees is offered daily accord-
ing to the chef’s choices. Entrees include
prime rib, chicken, pork, seafood pasta,
duck, and lamb. Prices are $12.95 and up.
A full bar will add an additional price per
drink. Coat and tie are advised and reserva-
tions are suggested.

Lynchburg

Emil ’s, Boonsboro Shopping Center,
Route 501 North, 804-384-3311.

Emil’s is reportedly wonderful. Emil’s
serves lunch and dinner in its two dining
rooms. lts menu is varied and enticing. All
ingredients are fresh. Emil’s dining room
specialties include ﬂaming entrees, Norwe-
gian salmon, and their rack of lamb dinners
carved for two. Liquor, beer and wine are
served. Dinner prices for entrees range
from $5 to $18. There is no strict dress code
and reservations are recommended.

Sachiko ’s International Restaurant, 1 26
Old Grave Mill Road, 804-237-5655

Beef, seafood, veal, lamb and chicken
dishes all prepared in a great variety of
international styles will certainly satisfy a
number of different tastes. Prices range
from $11.95 to $25.95. Excellent service
and a full complement of spirits will help
carry the evening. Sachiko’s is an elegant
restaurant and coat and tie are suggested as
well as reservations.

Hot Springs

The Homestead, US 220, White Sulfur_

Springs, West Virginia, 703-839-5500
The Homestead is a grand ol’ Hotel and
the dining room matches its splendor. Res-
ervations are a must and so is a jacket and
tie. The menu varies each night according
to the Chef’s preferences. There is a full
bar, including a ﬁne selction of after dinner
Ports and Liquers. A full dinner at the
Homestead will be costly, about a $100 per

§Mﬂl2lf'S ¢|fIll2STYlfl2S i
OLD §Mﬁ|il STDEET Will

403-9556

$3 off haircut & style;
Tanning special $35.00, 1 month
unlimited tanning

 

Wishing gou a great Faneg ‘Dress

10% student discount - year round

University Florist - George Tolley ‘72
165 South Main Street
463-6080

  

couple, with drinks. Give yourself about an
hour and a half to get to the Homestead, and
expect a leisurely dinner. But the dining at
Homestead is something every W&L stu-
dent should experience and a good idea for
those who really want to splurge FD week-
end.

White Sulfer Springs

Green Briar Hotel, W. Main St., West
Virginia, 304-536-1110

The Green Briar is another famous grand
ol’ hotel. Like the Homestead jackets and
ties are required, as are reservations. The
dinner menu varies each night according to
the chef’s preference, but each nights menu
is assured to feature a variety of entrees
including lo calorie entrees. Save room for
desert. No matter how much you enjoy your
dinner, dessert will be better. Full dinner,
including tax and gratuity, is $ 67.05 per
person. Wine and cocktails are extra. Driv-
ing to the Green Briar should take about an
hour and diner will be leisurely. Like the
Homestead, the Green Briar might not be a
great Friday night choice, but Saturday is a
good time to take a trip to West Virginia.

 
   
       

I Q T 0

I8

lslamic tradition
unites I001 tales

fl'A.£ES.yag¢ 8

either in Syria or Egypt, was lost after it was copied nearly
a generation later.

The literary style is that ofthe Mamluk period, tinged
with an Ottoman cast. The tales ofthe Arabian nights have
four categories of folk tales-fables, fairy tales, romances,
and comic as well as historical anecdotes.

The nature of the tales has led some copyists to add
tales. One ofthese is the infamous “The Story of Aladdin
and the Magic Lamp.”

It was not among the first 11 basic stories of the
Arabian nights and appeared for the first time in Arabic in
1787.

A mixture of the supernatural and the realistic, 1001
Nights embodies Arabian enchantment:

The king was all curiosity to hear the rest of the story
and said to himself, “By God, I will not have her put to
death until I hear the rest of the story and ﬁnd out what
happened to the merchant and the demon. Then I will have
her put to death the next morning, as I did with the others.

These are the King’s thoughts on the third night. By the
end of the last tale, however:

Tradition has it that in the course of time Sheherazade
bore Shahrayear three children and that, having learned
to trust and love her, he spared her life and kept her as his
queen.

—From Husain Haddawy’s translation of the tales of the
Arabian nights

 

 

3 C Q

9'62 Ring-tum Pﬁl, .‘Fe6ruarg 25. I994

The Waller Family will perfom March 4 in the small gym.

Waller Familg plags the hits

Tucker  
starts FD is‘
Thursday
concert

fl'\lCJCER.yage I5

and jazz give the band its unique
sound.

While the band cannot be cat-
egorized, it is deﬁnitely rooted in
the South. Groups like Alabama,
Travis Tritt and Garth Brooks are
giving credit to Marshall Tucker
for inﬂuencing their music.

After pulling off such hits as
“Fire on the Mountain,” “Heard it
in a Love Song” and “Can’t You
See,” the Tucker band ran into
tragedy. ln 1980, Tommy Caldwell
died in an accident, with his brother

Publicity Photo

WA££E1R.FA.Ml£9.pageI4

Canada. They perform more than 150
one-nighters each year.

The Waller Family’s music is avail-
able from the Dynamic Artist Record
Label on their album “Love Moods.”
The album was awarded Pick Album of
the Week by Billboard Magazine, Cash

Box Magazine, Record World Magazine,
Black Radio Exclusive and Jack the Rap-
per in Orlando, Florida.

The album features the number one
single “Without You Tonight.” The song
features the falsetto of Chris Waller.

The Waller Family is also featured on
a CBS release of “Music from the Bill
Cosby Show.” This collection features
Grover Washington Jr.

Toy leaving the band soon after-
ward.

With the kind of all-American
spirit characteristic of their sound,
the band pulled itself together and
is back with a refreshed southern
rock sound.

Thursday, the Marshall Tucker
Band will start off the magic car-
pet ride with a taste of the south.

FD to supply more than carpets

DECORAtTIONs,page 3

Doremus gym, an Arabian Garden featuring the music of the
Waller family.

“There are going to be arches when you walk in,” said
Wendy Alexander, Doremus gym Sub—Chairwoman. We’ll
be in the garden at midnight, so it’ll be dark,.”

Turn to the left and you’ll be in the big gym, with a market
place, caravan, and treasure chest. On the balcony above the
gym there will be tent with a fake lake in the middle-an oasis
scene. “lt’s going to be a place for people to sit and hang out,
see all the other decorations from up above,” said balcony
sub-chairman Jennifer Queen.

Down below, facing the B0 Thorpe orchestra, will be the

market place. “We’re having large buildings with alley-
ways between them with a few clotheslines strung between

the

m and awnings and curtains on the windows,” said

Jennifer “Goose” Garrigus, corner #2 Sub—Chairwoman.

Approaching the opposite comer on the right of the big

gym, you will step in to a treasure room.

“We’re building a multi-layer structure with a staircase

up the middle that people can walk up,” said Kris F egenbush,
corner #4 Sub-Chairman. “People can walk up 20 feet high,
and we have a throne up there that they can sit on,” said
Fegenbush. “We’ll have fountain pools around the outside.”

be

ln the corner on the left of the B0 Thorpe orchestra will

a caravan.

 

‘Treat your tﬁlte to a rehzrcirtg meal
ﬁefore the 5a[[ at

‘Zﬁe

rwhllnlhﬂt

BE A RED CROSS VOLUNTEER

 

  
  

American
Red Cross

Raven (7 Crown £Pu6

 

ﬁn eating estaﬁlishment
open from morning till night.

— Reservations Recommended -
1 6 Lee ﬂloenue

Lexington, ‘Vﬂl 24450
(703) 464-8474

£ry'oy Mostly Jazz at $1-uncﬁ
Sun. March. 6, 11:00am

 

oooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo

Marlene’s Hairstylist
Tannery

Tanning beds- 10 visits/ $40
5 visits/ $20

French Manicures

Let us make your FD Weekend a little more special!
Call or stop by for an appointment

463-6003
Sat. 9-1

0000000000000000O0OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

25 N. Main St.
M-F 9-5,

Acrylic Nails
Full Service Salon

 *2°""\ P~€CYcL€Cl in

    
 

     

 
  

“I?-‘Elie, . ., 
. ‘ BWW3 §:ecYcL€.C_l;

   

9'62 Ring-tug! PHI. Feéruarg 2;). 1994

Finding a
date for the
biggest event
of the year

 
 

By BETH FORMIDONI, ’96
Special to the Phi

I had heard about Fancy Dress from the
moment I arrived at W&L, it was suppos-
edly the biggest social event of the year.

Finally February rolled around and I was
set. I had equipped myself with all the basic
necessities, a dress, shoes, and ﬁve years of
ballroom dancing classes.

There was only one thing lacking, that
mysterious and romantic man that would
escort me to this amazing function.

At first maybe I was a little idealistic in
my date quest.

For quite a few weeks I was certain that
HE was going to ask me, and just about to
reveal the fact that I was his true and only
love and Fancy Dress date.

Unfortunately, I soon discovered that I
was misled.

Through the grapevine I learned that
there was no hope, he had asked someone
from HOLLINS! That proved to be the end
of plan A.

At this point I became desperate, my
confidence was shaken and I had visions of
myself watching television at home, alone,
while everyone was dancing the night away
and having the time of their lives.

I thought about doing a little advertis-
ing. Maybe putting an ad in the Phi: “Fresh-
man girl seeks FD date, will buy tickets.”

If I got really desperate, I was planning
to recruit my thirteen year old brother, dress
him up in a tux, and pass him off as a secret
and mysterious lover from far, far away.

Then I realized this was more pathetic
than staying home and watching TV.

I decided to play it cool. I went out (at
every possible occasion), and subtly spread
the word that l was waiting for the perfect
date.

All those men I had to turn down just
weren’t up to my standards.

Finally a stroke of luck, my friend’s
date’s friend’s friend’s fraternity brother
didn’t have a date! Word quickly spread
throughout the party that there was an avail-
able date in the crowd, and my friend quickly
arranged the match.

Even though I didn’t know him that well
(I had seen him around, and I DID know his
last name) he seemed nice enough.

My first FD turned out to be great, my
date quest had resulted in a nice guy, and it
was a good time.

My only regret was that I never really got
to show off my outstanding ballroom danc-
ing abilities.

This year will be a little less hectic,
seeing as I already have a date.

Unfortunately, l’m sure he’ll insist on
wearing cowboy boots, so l’m still a little
tentative about demonstrating my waltzing
skills with him.

.i s- ' ° '- ‘
Lméitﬁsw ‘M’

ED. PROFILE #12:
THE SET-UP

(See Dean Manning can solve @ one.)

   
 

py{~;,L 1973 Mary Sweet-Macon
College for Womm ‘94.
L453, ,',,me Her grandmother
tux rgxtal. band-sewed it.
(9096 acrylic.
I/2 inc}: 
‘She has a really
50 am, for . nice personality. "
inﬁrmary vmdor.
"just in case. '

\

Two days from \

now, he’ll vow

Doc Martens:
An MS-MCI?’

necessity.

A Fancy Dress message from the president

To The Student Body:

Fancy Dress Weekend is the surest sign of the coming of spring to
Washington and Lee. All of us look forward to it for that reason and for
the infectious good fun it unfailingly brings to the university commu-
nity. This has been so for 86 years and I know it will be so in 1994 as
well.

Many people have worked hard and fruitfully to fit all the pieces of
this gigantic undertaking together. The rest of us enjoy the benefit of
that selﬂess service and I write to express our gratitude. I know it will
be yet another memorable Fancy Dress celebration and we deeply thank
all who have labored on our behalf for making it so.

John D. Wilson

The Ring-tum Phi
Fancy Dress supplement

staff

Supplement Editor ................................... ..Ethan Krupp
Assistant Supplement Editor ................... ..Bunny Wong
Front Cover Art ...................................... ..Megan Miller
Inside Art .................................................. ..Nancy Edge
FD Floor Plan ........................ ..Phil Carrot, Nancy Edge
Cartoon ............................................... ..Allen Flickinger

 
 

 

FANCY DRESS
ONCERT

Thursday, March 3, 1994
8:30 p.m. in the Pavilion

Ticket Sales:
$8 presale; $10 at the door

V (Presale is in the University Center with the FD ticket sales)

 

 

, after an IFC investigation. The

 

 

 

Big Four candidates‘
speak out

 

Women’s Track wins
fifth ODAC title

~ 0112 '4l{i1tg—t1Im Iﬂhi

VOLUME 93, NO. 21

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SAE gets
social
probation

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Writer

Sigma‘ Alpha Epsilon’s
pledges got a special treat this
weekend in the form of an early
initiation.

The fraternity took the action
in response to a breach of an
agreement with its housing cor-
poration. Curt Smith,
Int temity Council president,
sai' the housing corporation did
not think SAE was properly com-
pleting the pledge program.
Smith said the violation of their
pledge education program in-
volved keeping the pledges at the
ho e past established hours and
improperly making the pledges
participate in house clean-ups.

SAE President Richard
Sherrill said the house’s pledge
program was implemented in the
same fashion as in years past. “It
w n’t any different than any
other year, except that we had
different pledges," Sherrill said.

Smith said SAE’s housing
corporation put the house on a
special probation. Sherrill did
not conﬁnn this.

“We had an agreement with
[th9 housing corporation] to take
steps to restructure our pledge
program to comply with «IFC and ‘
national standards, and we did
not act in accordance with the
rules,” Sherrill said.

The’IFC,' acting on an anony-
mas tip, also investigated SAE’s
pledge program.

Smith said SAE was found
guilty of . violating deferred
pledgeship rules from last fall

house received two weeks of so-
ciaﬂ probation, effective after
Fancy Dress. SAE also lost two
weeks of their pledgeship pro-

Three, two, one 

Photo byBetsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

MARCH 4, 1994

Rush plan
goes to SAC

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Staff Reporter

Next year’s Rush will follow
a plan similar to this year’s after
all.

The lnterfraternity Council
voted on Tuesday to send a Rush
plan presented by senior Ryan
Donaldson to the Student Affairs
Committee.

After holding discussions in
its meetings for three weeks, fra-
ternity representatives voted
unanimously for Donaldson’s
plan, which proposes that all Rush
dates would be completed by
September 23.

~ The alternative to
Donaldson’s plan, presented by
junior Adam Plotkin, defers Rush
until fall break.

IFC President Curt Smith said
although deferred Rush would
not be considered again for next
year, discussions about a pos-
sible fall break or winter Rush
would continue in lFC this spring.

“We’re just trying to get a
general consensus of what will
work best next year,” Smith said.
“lt’s not an open and shut case.”

ln other IFC business this
week, Officer F.W. Smith of the
Lexington polioewarned the IFC
on Tuesday that up to 10 ABC
agents will be in town this week-
end, in addition to the usual six or
seven policemen and two super-
visors.

“Dress yourbeers up—this is
Fancy Dress weekend,” Smith
said.

He told students to hide alco-
holic beverages in bags and in
coolers, so they would not be
arrested for a possession viola-
tion.

gram next year, reducing it to
eight weeks. Furthermore, the
IFC notiﬁed SAE’s nationals of
its investigation and results.
mith said the early initiation
was not related to the IFC inves-

h>See SAE, page 5

Construction workers work on FD decorations in Doremus Gymnasium. The Construction Com-
mittee stored the partially-constructed decorations in the Pavilion and in the Boiler Room before
moving them to the gym this week. Fancy Dress Construction Chairman Joe Framptom, ’95, said
the construction crew will continue to work on the decorations until 6 p.m. today, just hours
before the ball. The FD Committee hoped to open the gym to the public Friday afternoon.

Smith also said fraternity
members need to monitor admit-
tance to their parties.

The Virginia Military Insti-
tute freshmen will be on leave
for the ﬁrst time all year this
weekend. Smith said he antici-
pated some problems between

Trustees raise tuition

The price of a W&L education will be $13,750

9 By PHIL CARROT!‘
Phi Staff Writer

Tuition for the 1994-95 school year will
be 4.96 percent more than the $13,100 charged
this year, which translates into an additional
$6 0. This is the smallest increase in the last
10 years.

The Board of Trustees met last Friday and
Saturday in Houston to decide, among other
things, the budget and tuition for next year.

“The [national] inﬂation rate for next year
we figured to be about 3.5 percent, but the
rate [the university] uses is the higher educa-
tioh price index rate, which is about 1 percent

higher than the the national inﬂation rate,”
said University Treasurer Lawrence
Broomall. “An awful lot [of the increase] is
devoted to updating computer equipment,
buying books for the library . . . and salary
increases for returning faculty.” A
The budget for the 1994-95 school year,
which will be ﬁnalized at the trustees’ May
meeting, totals around $40 million. Univer-
sity Rector A. Stevens Miles said the trustees
“were pleased these ﬁgures came in under
the guidelines set [at the October meeting].”
Approximately 70 percent of the budget
goes toward paying salaries. The rest is for
supplies. Broomall broke it down further into
academic departments (instruction), 55 per-

cent; academic support (deans of the college,
Commerce School, the law school, the li-
brary, computing), 10-12 percent; student
services (financial aid ofﬁce, registrar, deans
of students, freshmen, etc.), 10-11 percent;
institutional support (administration, man-
agement), 10 percent; Buildings and Grounds,
9 percent. All ﬁgures are approximations.
Financial aid was increased by 11 percent
over this year. The board wanted to have
more aid available to more students, accord-
ing to Broomall. The ﬁnancial aid budget is
just under $5 million and is taken from the
university’s endowment.
The capital campaign and annual fund are
both doing well in comparison to years past,
especially the annual

Tuition increases

fund. According to
Miles, alumni 66B-
tributing to the an-
nual fund is over 40

17610

18369

percent, compared to
around 35 percent for
past years.

In addition to in-

16601

creased giving, appli-
cations for admission

/4*’ 11608

/3’ 14595 _

to W&L are have
risen. The admis-

1 13602
/‘*7. 12325 —

sions office has re-
ceived about 3,600

§\

ICD79

10716

applications this year
for undergraduate ad-

n.
v

mission. Miles com-
mented that W&L is
“doing extremely
well against [other
liberal arts schools],
applications are way
up in the law school
as well —— both are

I3-8084-8585-06868787-8888-8989-9090-9191-9292-9393-9494-95
%increue 6.67 10.18 7.53 6.32 8.32 6.18 10.36 7.20 7.23 6.08 6.08 4.31
’ DP

running against the
national trend. The
market is telling us
we are doing O.K.”

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

 

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi
Security and fire personnel care for the woman who lost control of her car.

Woman drives over wall

son Hospital, and was treated and released.
“She was pretty spunky,” said Young. “Very
little damage was done to the car. She was probably

students because the schools have
traditionally had bad relations.

“There will be a lot of locals
around too,” Smith said.

He said fraternities holding
daytime parties on Saturday need
to be especially aware that a lot
of Lexington residents might
come to watch the students.

Theft and disturbances are a
possibility, Smith said.

Smith said fraternity men
should walk women home to
make sure they arrive safely.
“Walkthem home-—that doesn’t
mean you have to stay with them,”
he said.

Smith said studentsshoulduse
Live Drive as well.

Smith later commented on
other traditional» items of police
relations.

“Any road signs in houses will
be picked up,” he said.

He also said students should
not try to run from an officer.

He said lately the police
have had some students try to
run away during the arrest proce-
dure.

Smith said for this weekend
students would be handcuffed
and placed in a police vehicle
while being questioned.

Smith said the police are
supportive of the students this
weekend. He said the ofﬁcers
could move pany crashers dis-
creetly —— even alumni and
other students.

“You’re all tax paying citi-
zens. You call, we come.”

 

hurting the next day.”

An 84-year-old woman drove over a two-foot
wall near the Alumni House Friday, but escaped
from the accident with only a cut to the head and
some back pain.

Karen Barfoed was trying to park her car in the
Alumni House parking lot when she hit the gas
pedal instead of the brake on her Honda. Her car
went forward over the curb, sidewalk, and lawn of
the Alumni House, dropped over the wall and
landed in some bushes.

Washington and Lee Director of Security Mike
Young said Barfoed was taken to Stonewall Jack-

Young said.

Barfoed refused to comment on the accident.

Lexington Chief of Police Bruce Beard said
there was about $200 damage to Barfoed’s car, and
about $200 damage to the lawn and shrubs outside
the Alumni House.

“She’s fortunate the car didn’t roll over on her,”

Young explained the car was precariously bal-
anced, with the rear of the car resting on the wall
and the front on the ground.

“The car did rock, but it didn’t roll over.”

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World

   

4}
($2

Kerrigan rolling in the dough

Although figure skater Nancy Kerrigan took second at the
Olympics, she has come in first in ad revenue. The Olympics
proved lucrative for the silver-medal winning figure skater,
who is making appearances for Disney, Revlon, Reebok, and
Campbell’s Soup. No Excuses jeans turned down Tonya
Harding’s offer to be spokeswoman for their jeans. Nike
canceled a deal with Harding after she finished eighth in the
Olympics.

Grand jury investigates Ames

Government prosecutors say $2.7 million, Swiss bank
accounts and other perks were CIA official Aldrich Ames’
payments for double espionage. Both Ames and his wife are
accused of selling secrets to the Soviet Union and then Russia
for eight years. A grand jury will investigate the charge.

Israeli settlers fight with
soldiers in Palestinian areas

Israeli citizens clashed with Israeli soldiers Wednesday.
The soldiers disarrned the settlers and ordered others to stay
out of Palestinian areas. These latest tensions result from last
week’s massacre of 39 Muslim worshippers at a Hebron
mosque by a Jewish gunman. These incidents come right in
the middle of peace negotiations between the two factions.

The Nation

ACLU sues Virginia Bar in

mental health privacy suit

The American Civil Liberties Union is suing the Virginia
Board of Bar Examinations for invading the privacy of bar
applicants. The board requires all prospective lawyers to
reveal their mental health history. Julie Anne Clark, a gradu-
ate of the George Mason University School of Law refused
to answer questions regarding mental health on a question-
naire. After Clark did not answer the question, the board
refused to let her take the bar exam. She was permitted after
threatening the Bar with a law suit.

 

New policy on homosexuals in
military implemented by Pentagon

The Pentagon officially put its policy on homosexuals in the
military into effect with a revised set of guidelines. The
guidelines are designed to precisely define homosexual con-
duct but do not change the overall “don’t ask, don’t tell”
policy.

Bobbitt released from institution

Lorena Bobbitt is free. State doctors decided that the
woman who cutoff her husband’s penis with a kitchen knife
is no longer a threat to society. A Manassas judge agreed with
them and ordered her release from a state mental hospital.
Mrs. Bobbitt will, however, have to receive counseling once
a week.

I-LIIV-positive rapist found

‘ guilty of attempted murder

An HIV-positive man who raped a boy was found guilty of
attempted murder A Florida jury concluded his AIDS virus
was a lethal weapon. The boy has not tested positive for the
AIDS virus. His rapist was sentenced to 25 years in prison.

Branch Davidians acquitted

Jurors acquitted 11 Branch Davidians exactly one year to
the day after the ATF raided their compound in Waco, Texas.
The judge in the case instructed the jurors to consider self-
defense in their decision. Five of the 11 were convicted of a
lesser count of voluntary manslaughter and two were con-
victed of weapons charges.

Kerrigan protests Olympic"
judging in skating competition

Nancy Kerrigan protested the judging of her silver medal
performance at the Olympics, saying her silver medal perfor-
mance was “ﬂawless” while gold medalist Oksana Baiul’s
was not. Kerrigan told reporters she could not understand
what errors the judges found to deduct points for. While
Baiul ’s performance was “nice to watch,” she said, it was not
perfect. - ’ T”

The State

Layne trial prosecutors set to go

Prosecutors in the trial of William R. Layne, who is
charged with raping and killing his 11-year-old step-niece in
Rockbridge County, are hoping to convict Layne based on
scientific evidence. Layne says his memory of the weekend
during which Phadra Carter died is completely blank. The
prosecution’s case rests on tests on tire tracks, the alleged
murder weapon and DNA. The prosecutors also said their
circumstantial evidence in the case is convincing and will be
presented “like chapters in a book” to jurors.

   

TheRin-tumPhi M 1.4 a:;

Presidential search underwa

By PHIL CARROTT
Phi Staff Writer

The search for the next president of
Washington & Lee University is un-
derway.

The Presidential Search Advisory
Committee, made up of eight faculty
members, two deans, the presidents of
the Alumni Associations, and the presi-
dent of the student body will review
applications starting May 1. It will
recommend 10 - 12 people to the Board
of Trustees by November 1, 1994. The
board will make its ﬁnal decision at its

February meeting next year.

Heading the committee is Professor
of Chemistry William Watt, who is
retiring this year. Making up the rest of
the committee are Professor of Geol-
ogy Edgar Spencer, Associate Profes-
sor of Romance Languages Cecile
West-Settle, Professor of Physics Tho-
mas Williams, Professor of Psychol-
ogy Nancy Margand, Professor of R0-
mance Languages Laurent Boetsch,
Professor of Politics Robert Strong,
Professor of Law Andrew McThenia,
Professor and Dean of the Commerce
School Larry Peppers, Dean of the Law
School Randall Bezanson, Undergradu-

ate Alumni Association President Ma-
son New, Law School Alumni Asso-
ciation President Charles Tomm, and
Student Body President Robert
Tompkins.

The committee was formed simply
to narrow the ﬁeld of applicants and to
suggest to the Board of Trustees the
most qualiﬁed individuals for the posi-
tion. The board will make the ﬁnal
decision.

Watt said he wanted it made clear
that anyone employed by the univer-
sity and anyone currently attending the
university could nominate someone for
the presidency. Nominations can be

sent to Watt by the university mai
system or electronic mai
(watt.w.j@wlu.edu). The committe
has also taken out an ad in The Chronic
of Higher Education for applicaﬁons
The committee has currently receive
four nominations and one applicatio
for the presidency.

The Trustees told Watt the qualifi
cations they would most like to see i ‘
the ﬁnalists at their recent meeting
Watt could not comment on what th
trustees said.

The new president will take ofﬁ 5
in June of 1995, when President Joh
Wilson retires.

Trustees halt
flag change

A total of

deterioration

Authentic Confederate ﬂags surround the statue of General Robert E. Lee in
Lee Chapel. The Board of Trustees delayed returning the ﬂags to the Museum
of the Confederacy in Richmond in order to be sure who owns the ﬂags.

File photo

By MICHELLE BRIEN

Phi News Editorr .

Washington and Lee’s Board of Trustees post
poned the removal of eight authentic Confederat
ﬂags from Lee Chapel.

11 ﬂags were scheduled to be retume

to the‘Museum of the Confederacy in Richmond. Th
ﬂags were originally loaned to W&L by the Cogfed
eracy museum in the 1930s.

Only eight of the eleven ﬂags were on displa
around Robert E. Lee’s statue in Lee Chapel. Th
Museum of the Confederacy had concerns about th

of the flags, and had plans to restor

them. Restoration would cost $8,000 for each ﬂag.

The ﬂags were to be replaced by replicas donate -
by the United Daughters of the Confederacy. ‘

The Trustees postponed the ceremony after read
ing a newspaper article about the removal of the flag
from Lee Chapel. According to W&L Director oi
Communications Brian Shaw, the Trustees wanted I o
be absolutely sure of the ownership of the ﬂags.

Commission sees parking problems’

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee University may
be out of approximately 30 to 50 park-
ing spaces for the next four years.

Last Thursday, the Lexington Plan-
ning Commission raised concerns about
the possible loss of spaces due to the
construction of the new science center.
Commission member Camille Miller
expressed reservations about raising
those concerns to Washington and Lee
University after they had approved the
site unanimously.

“I’m not comfortable sending an-
other suggestion,” said Miller. “I can’t
back down.”

Commission member Timothy
Golden made a motion for a consensus
that there are some concerns with the
parking. The motion passed unani-
mously.

The commission also raised con-
cerns about parking for construction
workers. They estimated a net loss of
80 parking spaces for four years.

Coordinator of Capital Planning
Frank Parsons said 25 spaces behind
Howe Hall, 10 spaces by DuPont Hall
and 10 spaces in the ROTC parking lot
will be closed during the construction.
He said the parking lots will not be
closed at the same time.

Miller suggested the commission
make it a condition that construction
workers use an auxiliary parking space
provided by Washington and Lee Uni-
versity.

Washington and Lee Director of
Communications Brian Shaw, a city
council member who was absent from
the meeting, said the university shares
the commission ’s concerns about park-
ing but hopes the problem will be solved
by the time the project is completed.

“We have a lot of options for con-
struction workers,” Shaw said.

Shaw said in the past W&L has
negotiated with Virginia Military In-
stitute to provide parking space. He
said it was not unreasonable to ask the

contracting company to shuttle con- ‘

struction workers back and forth. He

said one of the possibilities might be
the parking lot on the right side of
Liberty Hall or the parking lot at the
Pavilion. He said it could be worked
into the contract with the company
paying.

Coordinator of Capital Planning
Frank Parsons said making the con-
tracting company provide shuttle buses
for construction workers is not uncom-
mon for congested areas.

Parsons said arrangements are be-
ing made with VMI to provide parking
behind Marshall Library. He said there
won’t be any access until constniction
starts.

“I anticipate them wanting satisfac-

tory answers for parking questions,”
said Parsons.

Parsons said there might be a possi-
bility of creating a temporary parking
lot from the excavated earth from build-
ing inﬁeld. He said he is investigating
the possibility with a general contrac-
tor who might be hired for the job. He
said there is also an unused parking
space by the Lenfest Center, but it
would not be convenient.

“On a campus like ours, you can’t
afford to offer everyone a parking space
30 seconds from your office,” he said.

Parsons said the planning commis-
sion does not want to tempt students
and faculty to park in city streets. L

“We’re trying to keep downtown
streets for customers,” he said.

Parsons said there is also the risk of
Special Services Officer R.D. (Bark
writing parking tickets for students and
faculty.

Shaw said he estimates the project

' will cost approximately $20 million

including renovations of Howe and
Pannly Hall. _

Shaw said construction will peb-
ably start this June. He said the project

will eventually be called the Science

Complex.

He said cost of the project comes
from donations and gifts to the capital
campaign.

Scholars get new blood ‘

By YABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Writer

As of Feb. 4, the Univer-
sity Scholars program, aimed
at highly motivated and ex-
ceptional students, has ac-
cepted 17 new members.

According to Associate
Professor of English James
Warren, currently in charge
of the program, freshmen
with Gap’s of 3.25 and
sophomores with a GPA of
3.5 or better were invited to
apply. The 46 applicants had
to write an essay of interest
and were required to submit
a letter of recommendation
from a faculty member.

“The students this year
further underwent two sets
of interviews conducted by
teams of students in the pro-
gram and by pairs of faculty
members either presently in
the University Scholars com-
mittee or who have taught in
the program in the past,” said
Warren.

“We took into consider-
ation the SAT scores and

GPA’s of these students. We
could have easily doubled
the number accepted into the
program. It was an extremely
difﬁcult and imperfect deci-

 

close. We could not do it,”
said Warren. “The selection
process was not exclusively
based on grades or scores
either. We considered how

sion mak— intellec-
ing process tually cu-
and we may rious and
h a v e commit-
missed ted these
s o in e students
people,” were.
said War- They had
ren. to be ma-

“All the t u r e
students I enough
interviewed toengage
were ex- t h e i r
tremely peersand
qualified elder
and could _ adults in
have easil conver-
been admit): vvarren sation,”
ted into the Warren

program,” added University
Scholars President Ben
Eggleston, ’94.

Out of the 18 positions
available, only 17 were
filled.

“We could have picked
any one of 10 people for that
last place. It was just too

said.

“We are extremely ex-
cited about the new mem-
bers and look forward to
working with them,” said
University Scholars Secre-
tary Allyson Gardner, ’95.

‘‘I am looking forward to
the interactive nature of the

program,” said freshman

Ko-Ming Chang.

According to Warreg, the
University Scholars pro-
gram consists of about 60
members. “The administra-
tion has approved to ﬁx up
the Red House, the former
East Asian studies building,
and it will serve as a mace
for these students to s udy,
gather and have meetings,”
continued Warren. “The
seminars are now open to
non-University Scholars and
anyone with a B+ or better
in two such courses can ap-
ply toward admission'into
the program.”

“Professor Craun will be
offering the course Pilgrim-
age in the MiddleAges as a
University Scholars course
this coming Spring term.
Christopher Baswell, Pro-
fessor of English at Bamard
College in New York and an I‘
expert in Classical Traditioni
in the Middle Ages will,
come here to teach the.‘
Aeneid for that course. He‘;
will also give a lecture ththef;

University,” added Warren;

Salerno’s opens

By JAY WHrrE
Phi Staff Writer

In the last few weeks there have
been several additions to the Lexing-
ton area restaurant circuit in the form
of the expanding of old restaurants and
the grand openings of others.

There are some erasures from the
area, however. The Bone and The Sand-
wich Shop closed their doors. The space
the Bone once occupied is now for rent
and may become office space.

One of the new restaurants is
Salerno’s, located in the old Stop-ln
convenience store on Route 11. This
Italian restaurant is owned by Joe
Graziano and has a wide variety of
foods. There are more than a dozen
types of pizzas, 18 types of hot subs,
and two dozen types of cold subs. Prices
range from $4 for a pepper and egg sub
to $14 for a Sicilian Special pizza.
Salerno’s also offers hot homemade
soup and free reﬁlls. To top it off, there

is an all-day Wednesday Special that
offers a large 16-inch pizza for $4.95.
For entertainment, there is a juke box
and video games. Delivery will be of-
fered as soon as drivers are hired.
Sweet Things Ice Cream Shoppe

has expanded into the realm of candies.
According to owner Roger Koehler,
the new addition offers a “neat variety”
of jawbreakers, gummy candies, candy
pebbles, candy shells, and many oth-
ers. Sweet Things now offers 60 differ-
ent types of bulk candies for the same
price. The candies are displayed in
bins with scoops available for self-
service. The new candy shop is located
in a portion of the former seating area.
Southern Inn is included in the list

of expansions. According to owner
Mike Zitmore, the addition is “just
basically going to be a pub.” The pub
will be attached to the restaurant and
will offer the same menu as the restau-
rant without the formal atmosphere.
“People seem to be intimidated by a
white table cloth; here they can come
in forabeer and a burger,” said Zitmore.
The pub will have a 20-foot bar, tables,
chairs, and several televisions. Zitmore
commented that the addition to the
Southern Inn would, among other

things, be a place for people to come to
when other area bars got a bit too
crowded or “rowdy.” But Zitmore said

he hoped that he won’t have to com-

pete with those establishments. Con-

struction on the pub should begin this

month, with completion in April.

EC votes to defer

committe

By THoMAs HESPOS
Phi News Editor

The Executive Committee voted
unanimously Monday to push the
scheduled March 1 report of the
White Book Review Committee to
March 7, but their vote to do so
violates the White Book itself.

“By March 1 the Review Com-
mittee shall submit to the EC a com-
prehensive report on the state of the
Honor System as well as proposals
for any changes in the White Book
the Review Committee deems ap-
propriate,” states section 11, clause
E of the process for amending the
White Book.

In order to legally alter the date
of the report, the EC must follow the
procedure for amendment outlined
in the White Book.

“The EC may adopt such an
amehdment to the White Book by a
two-thirds vote of the full commit-

‘ topics discussed were a new ap-

e report ‘ . 

tee in two successive meetings pro- ‘
vided such meetings are not less
than a week apart,” states section I
of the process for amending the
White Book. 9 1

In other EC news, the EC voted '
to hold class elections on Monday,
March 21, with runoffs on Thurs-
day, March 24.

EC President Robert Tompkins
said his meeting with the Board of
Trustees went well. Among thy

proach to hazing violations by cam-
pus Greekorganizations. Tompkins
said a “tier approach” to hazing
violations was discussed, with
“varying degrees of punishments”
for fraternities and sororities, base
on the severity of the offense.

EC Vice President Jimmy Kull
expressed concern over whetherthe
trustees would discuss the relation-
ship between IFC and SAC.

Tompkins said the EC will next
meet with the board in late May. .

, , Ll,_.___..____ «- ~ «-

 

 

O
The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1994

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Features Editor

Five months worth of work on the construc-
tion of this year’s Fancy Dress has come down
to e ﬁnal minutes.

he Fancy Dress Construction Sub—Com—
mittee began working in October of last year
when the Fancy Dress Committee decided what
the theme would be. Construction Sub—Com—
mittee Chairman Joe Framptom said he then sat
down with the Decorations Committee. They
decided on an agreeable mix of what Decora-
tiolﬂl wanted and Construction could build.
' Once the decorations were decided upon,
plans for each corner of the Warner Gymna-
‘sium, Doremus Gymnasium, the hallway, the
balcony, and the entrance were drawn up and
lists of required lumber were made. In January,
‘Framptom combined all of the lumber lists and
werﬂ to four different lumber yards to get the
best price. He ended up purchasing lumber
‘from all four yards.
i Once the lumber had been purchased, it was
assembled in the Boiler Room, where construc-
tion began. The different items are “all built
like kits so they can ﬁt through the doors,” said
Framptom. A total of 91 ﬂat platforms were
built. ‘
Work continued in the Boiler Room and
inished pieces were moved to the Pavilion for
' painting. This is different from last year, when
all construction, including the building of ﬂats
and other pieces, was moved to the Pavilion
afte several weeks in the Boiler Room.
Framptom said the construction was not moved
to the Pavilion this year because they did not
have enough floor space in the Pavilion for all
of the decorations.

On Sunday, February 27, Framptom and his
crew of four other committee members and 20
congact workers moved all of the pieces from

   
 
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
    
   
  
  
  
  
    
    
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
       
   
    
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

in the gym. They hope to finish by 6 p.m. on Friday,

the Pavilion to the Warner Center. 2 or 3 am.

They were not able to place anything on the
floor of the Warner Gymnasium until Tuesday,
March 1, three days before FD. Between Sun-
day and Tuesday, all of the decorations were
stored in the hallway and the balcony. The
construction crew has been in the Warner Cen-

ter everyday since Tuesday until at least

posed to be done.

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Construction Committee Sub-Chairperson Joe Framptom and Construction Committee
Member Tory Noto work in the Boiler Room at the beginning of the construction period.
They and other members of the committee, along with contract workers continued to
build in the Boiler Room, sending finished pieces to the Pavilion to be painted.

The firework display of past Fancy Dresses are part of Friday's festivities again this year.

Framptom said that they should finish by 6
p.m. on Friday. Last year, when Framptom was
a committee member, they were late to their
own banquet after the construction was sup-

He said the hardest parts of the job is dealing
with “the logistical nightmare” of having to

Photo by Betsy Green, e ing-tum Phi

Above: All of the ﬂats built for the corners of Warner Gymnasium and the other sections of the
Warner Center are stored in the main hallway until the Construction Committee can start to work

Right: Ashley Bell and Goose Garrigus work on painting and finishing ﬂats in the Pavilion.

move from location to location. Construction
also tends to be a bit tiring and dfﬁcult at times.
“Sometimes (the construction) is tedious ,”

said Framptom.

2000 hours.

   
   

Framptom said he expects to put in “be-
tween 350 to 400 hours” before the job is done.
He expects his crew to put in between 1500 and

 

PAGE 3

FD work can tin ues to last minute

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

The job does have its rewards, at least for
Framptom.

“Just getting to build with other people’s
lumber makes up for that,” said Framptom.

“I just like to build,” said Framptom.

In a way, the FD decorations are like term
papers. You stay up all night working and
finish three hours before they are due.

 

For the W&L Recordi

February 26, 1944 The Executive Committee an-
nounced its rules for that year’s Spring Formal:

1. No drinking shall be permitted.

2. Smoking shall be permissible in the balcony only.

3. All non-members of the W&L student body wishing to
attend the dance, except VMI cadets, must be
vouched for by a member of the student body.
Student vouchers shall be held responsible for
the actions of their vouchees.

4. Students and visitors to the dance are expected to
conduct themselves as gentlemen at all times.

5. Violations ofthe above rules shall be dealt with by the
EC and are punishable by a suspension of dance
privileges.

The problem of low income housing was addressed in
a series of The Ring—tum Phi articles starting February
28, 1969. The articles concerned the fact that VMI had
been purchasing tracts of land in the lower income
portions of Lexington with the intention of expansion.
An arising problem was that the rental property pur-
chased by VMI made the sellers have difﬁculties ﬁnding
living accommodations. Colonel J. Caner Hanes said he
would allow the people to stay in the houses for up to
three months before asking them to leave. The Rockbridge
Area Housing Corporation began to look into acquiring
federal aidto help in the construction of a new 40-unit
low-income housing facility. A perpetual problem was

Compiled by JAY WHITE of the Phi Staff

. parties designated pri.vate.without receiving an.invita-

the apathy of local rental property owners in ﬁxing up
their property since it would likely be demolished in the
future anyway.

March 1, 1984, The Phi reportedthe lnterfratemity
Council consid’ered”‘a policy for'bid’ding"independent
Washington and Lee students from attending fraternity

tion. IFC President Emery Ellinger’s primary argument
was the Virginia Alcoholic Beverage Control Board’s
prohibition of charging an admission fee to all non-
fraternity members and its added financial burden. Other
reasons Ellinger cited were the adverse effects of open-
party atmospheres, their inhibiting students’ joining of
fraternities (only 80% were afﬁliated), the existence of
an Independent Union, and the added security problems
Independents could cause. The proposal was deffered to
a subsequent IFC meeting.

February 23, 1989, the Phi reported that Rockbridge
County ’s House Mountain was put up for sale. Twoarea
conservation organizations, The Rockbridge Area Con-
servation Council and The Virginia Outdoors Founda-
tion, started a $325,000 fundraising drive to make sure
the land was kept out of the hands of developers. The two
groups were required to come up with the money by
April 8. As of press time, they had raised less
than $50,000.

Fireworks explode over Fancy Dress

 

Photo counesy of W&L Publiations office
The display begins at 1 am. and last about five minutes.

By HILLARY OLSON
Phi Assistant Features Editor

The skies above Lexington will ﬁll
with fireworks after the Fancy Dress
Ball on Friday.

With an announcement before the
ﬁreworks begin, the organizers hope to
gather a large crowd of spectators.

Due to budgetary constraints, no
fireworks exploded in the spring of
1992, but they returned last Fancy
Dress.

Students can watch the light show
from outside the gym, near the foot-
bridge, or anywhere where the sky is
clear.

Publicity Committee Sub-Chair-
woman Kim Hardie said the ﬁreworks
after the ball are a “kind of tradition for
Fancy Dress.”

They ofﬁcially end the ball and “kick
of the weekend,” said Hardie.

Hardie said the ﬁreworks cost $2300
and an additional $870 was budgeted
for insurance.

The ﬁreworks will be set off by
Bruce Bretszky, a professional pyro-
technist who has done the FD ﬁrework
displays numerous times.

The ﬁreworks will be launched from
the ﬁeld above the stadium, but stu-
dents are encouraged to stay away from
the launch area.

Hardie said that the best spot to see
them is probably right outside the
Warner Center.

“You can probably see them from
just about anywhere, though,” said
Hardie.

The display will begin at 1 a.m. and
last about ﬁve minutes. It will slowly
build to a grand ﬁnale.

 
  
  

   
     
      

 

W&LlF E

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

  
 
  

The Ring-tum Phi, March 4,1 : I:

ofﬁhe mark

00000o.’I I-IATE NHENI LAUGH
AND FOOD comes our My NOSE... ‘

by Mark Parisi

 

ACROSS
1 Renown
5 A Copperfield ‘5
9 Charlie Brown
expletive "’
13 Prolific author?
14 Hackman and
Kelly
15 African lily
16 Note
17 Army outlits
18 Window section
19 Rumor
spreader. for
one
21 Thought
23 Flower holder
24 Reels partner
25 Site
28 Abhorred
33 Winged
34 Precept
35 "Norma —"
36 Mud
37 Substantial
38 Artist Bonheur
39 Night before a

Plu. as
at  

l

Colonnade Crossword

 
 

by Jeff MacNe1l3i

  

 
   
 

 

©1994 Tri ' .

\.
. 55953; Services, Inc.
Plaggers, . Al.‘ R551

-.-.5 Reserved.

Plugger certainties: Deat, taxes, and A
dinnertime phone solicitations.

 

NON ﬁﬂlwﬂ

W

Dave by David Miller

DARLA .’ WHAT ARE YOU
DOING? PuT THOSE BACK
IN THE CART / T H045 ARE ’
MY FAVORITE QNACK '

   
  
  

DAVE, I'M
RE/-tovINe ‘I1-lg EA_1’./

  
  
  

 

IT‘? FOR Yourz
OWN 5001?...

  
     
  
      
      
 
 
 
  

  
    

KOF .
nus As A KNPER.

asrmerz FORM 09-‘
LIPo6uc1'IoN /

       

' 375 ©I€7‘i ‘Nt>6l—\\t~¥.’Y°N 3:51’ \N:i\‘ﬁR:’7 RN? 

 

eiou MA4 ea 5'lROMG,SUMO,
BUT Does CAN I>o LOTS OF

es THAT CAT5 CANT

 

,',.'.’ Nils.

     
     
       
        
  
  
    
   
  
   
 
  
         

 
 

III?-\ \
l_E0NhRD'§GI>“NL:E§RE_§§ERTYo
N LEW \;

diloogll we NW5 FOK \—\\-’-
NEW G°Nélll.TlN(7 F\\<N\-It

  

 

 

h  I: ' v .
40 Bpancged _1£“9»F1:hTgrrI1tt>stIr‘iR<:;»:t;.'V Ser Ices. Inc 
42 gtfcfkfllgngtirlents 8 Various Last weeks puzzle solved
44 Paragons 9 River hazard
45 Big bird 10 Chester —
46 Bartok or Arthur
Lugosi 11 Sound quality
47 Cottonwood 12 Rank
50 Chosen 14 Assumed
54 Stare at appearance
55 "Lorna —" 20 Masculine
57 Gate receipts 22 Longfellow, eg.
58 Observed 25 Crippled
59 Battery terminal 26 Martini garnish
60 Sign 27 insertion sign
61 Pressure 28 Removes
62 ltches 29 Author Bagnold
63 Warren Beatty 30 Treasure —
tilm . 31 Art item
32 School bigwigs
DOWN 34 Balsam
1 FDR's dog 37 "-— Night
2 Indigo dye Fever"
3 —— Lisa 38 Blue pencil
4 Weaken wielder 46 Stoops 51 Tractable
5 Compact 40 Fine cotton 47 Fashionable 52 Made do with
6 Step —! 41 Shoe part 48 Double curve little
7 No longer 43 Let up 49 Entreaty 53 Cozy retreats
working: abbr. 44 Fracas 50 Shortly 56 Count start 

 
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
   

    
 
 

INSTEAD OF ALL
THESE NEGATIVE
ATTACK5 ON YOUR
OPPONENTS~

  
 
 

  
 
 

”|}ll||l]!,I[.lil.lI'‘\''' , ~ .-, u- ‘
u\ r
 BUT IT srucx W , 4..-
p TO MY SHOE. I , .
I|"~ ' / /-

/-V ,
./avaqav./J

 
 
   
     

Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles

Domestic
For More Information
Please Call
Lorraine Alexander

464-9074
References Available

 

////'/‘/'///”

. _-v././..'././_'/./ " ‘ ' '////7/‘
ivmg Room/Bedroom combi

Low Student Rates

 

‘ntion.
only.

  

../C/}I/

   
     
   
         
      
      
    

 
 

  

Rt. 11 North

 

 

   
    
      

   
  

  

SIODEWBII 5

  
 
  
   
  
   

tapes, Ski tapes).

     

uare shopping Center
LexIngtan,V
463-9800

March Specials

-3 9¢ rental sections - General (Fitness

Wrestling
Is
Céasset-tcs. ‘
Comic Books - Buy 5 get a 4th FREE: New

arrivals of comic books 81 trading cards weekly.

Open Lion.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.n\-. Fri 31 53‘ 10‘‘-‘“-'n pm"
Sun. Noon-10 pm.

 

 

Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes
Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast

Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

ﬁre-gkfgst Buffet
Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m.

Sunday 9 a.m.-2 p.m.
463-3478

Apartment for Rent

4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, washer & dryer, some utilities included.
2 1/2 miles west of town. Only $175 per bedroom. ‘

Inquire at Kelly’s Corner 463-5452

 
  
      
    
 

 

 

Open 24 Hours

A--

Martial Arts,

       
 

   
    
    
  
 
     
  
 

um

House for Rent -

Four Bedroom, Two Bath
Located Along Rt. 11 - 7 miles south of
Lexington; available June 1. $880 per
month Call 464-4791 anytime.

 

CUISE JOBS

Students Needed!
Earn $2,000+ per month + world
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the
Caribbean, etc.) working for
Cruise Ships or Tour Companies.
Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time
employment available. For
employment program call:
Cruise Employment Services
(206) 634-0468 ext. C5342

   
 
 
 
  
    

|_

Wishing gou a great Fancg
iﬂrcss

10% student discount - year round
University Florist - George Tolley ‘72
165 South Main Street
463-6080

_  

 
   
     
 

      

   
 
 
 

RINK DIRIIDOESNIT
JUSTKILL DRUNK DRIVERS.

.\’2'cho1as Esposito. killed Oct. 1.7’.

1989 at 8.‘2.5]_)‘n2.

- FRIENDS DON'T LEI’ FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.

(703) 984-9402

   

Apartments for Rent
Catering to W&L students. 2 Two
bedroom apartments for rent in
downtown Lexington, just a very
short walk from the W&L campus.
$300 per month one unit; $375 per
month larger unit.
—Great Location
——Landlord pays for water,
including hot water

If interested, please call property
manager, Mrs. Brown, daytime
463-3013; at night or weekends,

  
      
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  

  
  

   
 

  
  
 
 

 

   

     

D

T Rin -tum Phi M

 

arch 4 1994

 

  

Big four candidates tout qualifications

 

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi News Editor

   
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
    
      
  
   
   
 

Conduct Committee Chair —

majority of the vote.
0

\

EC President

Candidates

Carol Pierce ’95

“I have a sincere inter-
est 1? the students. I’ve been
on the EC for two years
and I know what’s involved
in the job. I’ve served on
the coeducation commit-
tee and I’ve talked to stu-
dents about their experi-
encﬂ at W&L... I would
be excited about being on

participation on all Ievels.”

Webb

 

I FC hands
AE penalty

Elections for the Big Four — Executive Committee
President, Vice President and Secretary, as well as Student

will be held Monday, March

7. Candidates will give speeches on Thursday, March 3 at 4
p.m. in Room #327 of the Commerce School. Runoffs will
be held in the event that one candidate does not receive a

 

Pierce

SAC and working with the deans and encouraging student

Kevin Webb '88, 95L

“I ’ve been on the EC for
the past two years. I was an
undergraduate at W&L. I
graduated in ’88. One of
the main things you need
to have as EC President is
experience. If elected, next
year will be my third year
on the EC. In the past two
years, I’ve been through
about 18 closed hearings.
I’ve conducted about six
investigations. I’ve gone
through two budget pro-
ceedings. I’ve pretty much

a ealgwith Bob Tompkins on every issue that has crossed his

Why should the student body elect you to office?

desk as EC President. One of the jobs the president takes
beyond the hearings and the budget is also his position on

SAC.”

“I was president of my fraternity, so I have a lot of
experience in dealing with SAC and dealing with the IFC. I
think that would come into play to favor the fraternities

when things come up to
defend the fraternities and
help the administration to
understand what ’s going on
with the fraternities. If you
want to know what kind of
representative I’ve been
over the past two years and
what kind of representa-
tive I could be as EC presi-
dent, [an idea] would be to
go to the EC representa-
tives that you know and
ask them what they think. I
trust their opinion.”

Reuben Munger ’95

    

Munger

“I think the university needs strong leadership, honor and

Cross

    

integrity in the EC
presidentship. Being presi-
dent of the EC requires
leadership, commitment,
integrity and honor and I
believe that these are my
deﬁning characteristics. I
have a firm grasp of the
relationship between stu-
dentorganizationsoncam-
pus and I would be unbi-
ased in the budgeting pro-
cess.”

“ I feel that the Honor
Code is the defining aspect
of our university and that

its proper implementation and existence and understanding
by the student body is critical to maintaining what is Wash-

ington and Lee.”

EC Vice President

Alex Cross ’95

Cross is the currentJun—
ior EC representative. He
has served one year on the
EC

Cross was not available
for comment.

Curtis Joseph ’93,
’96L

“I’ve been here a good
bit. Obviously, I believe in

 

Joseph

the system, or I wouldn’t have chosen to come back here for
law school. I am very fond of the atmosphere that it creates
and I think that having gone here and then going to the law
school gives me a different perspective... Basically, I’m an
easily—approached person and I think that will give me a
sensitivity to the different needs of different people who
choose to express those needs. I am president of the first-

A King

 

year law class. I have had
experience with budgeting
on the Student Bar Asso-
ciation at the law school.
We do the budget for the
various clubs at the law
school.”

EC Secretary

Justin King

King said voter turnout
last year was “ridiculous”
and hopes more students
will vote this year.

“I think it can’t be left

unnoticed that we need more undergraduate representation
on the EC, especially come budget time next year. Three(four)
out of 15 members of the EC are law students and that’s
about 18 percent - you’re exceeding the actual ratio of law
students to students at W&L... I possess the qualities of

honor, integrity and trust-
worthiness that are neces-
sary. I know a lot of the
student body and I would
fairly represent them as EC
Secretary.”

William Toles ’92,
’95L

“I went to W&L
undergrad and I’m a sec-
ond-year law student. I feel
that in comparison to my
opponent, I have experi-
ence in dealing with the

 

 

PAGE 5

Toles

Executive Committee because I’ve served as an Honor
Advocate for a little over a year. Basically, what that entails
is representing people when they get brought up on honor
violations, so I’ve been a party to some closed hearings and
I just think I know some of the problems we’re facing as
students at Washington and Lee. I think it’s more than a
question of being an undergraduate or a law student. Having
gone to W&L as an undergrad and served in a number of
clubs, I know what it’s like to be an undergrad at W&L. The
key to remember is... the Big Three represents not only the

 

Bludworth

undergrads, but the law stu-
dents as well. I’m not go-
ing to try to overlook the
interests of the undergrads
to give a windfall to the
law students. I’m going to
try to look out for the best
interests of both parties.”

SCC Chairman

Whitney Bludworth
’95

“I’ve had two years ex-
perience on the SCC. I have
ideas for redoing the ap-
peals process. I will repre-

sent the student body fairly and I’ll be a good judge.”

  

AE, from page 1

  
  
   
 
  
   
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
 

i Kappa Phi’s this fall.

ng,” Smith said.

aid.
Smith said the IFC had no

igation or conviction. Smith would not specify
hat part of the deferred Rush program SAE
iolated. He said he wanted to emphasize that
he action was in no way related to hazing
ctivities. Smith compared SAE’s violation to

“There was nothing that constitutes haz-

Smith said there was a line-up, but that the
violation did not involve alcohol or physical
buse. Tuesday, Smith told fraternity members
hat ﬁne-ups of any kind are not permitted.
“Line-ups, even if they’re to tell them how
uch you love them, are still line—ups,” Smith

ence when it started its investigation into
AE’s alleged violation of the deferred Rush
greqnents. He said the fraternity had already
en notified that its housing corporation was
issatisﬁed with pledge time commitments.
’ hen additionally questioned by the IFC, the
ouse admitted breaking the rules, Smith said.

“Their housing corporation holds them to
igher standards,” Smith said of SAE. ‘‘I think
he agtion was appropriate though.”

conclusive evi-

Let it snow, let it snow, but not on my bike

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

  

Self Storage Now Open

Reserve your unit now for summer months

while available.

Excellent location in Downtown Lexington ——
Basement of Dominoe’s Pizza
Catering to W&L students, walk to storage from

campus in 2 minutes.
reasonable low rates, by month or year.
Open 8 a.m. -5 p.m. daily,
by appointment on Saturday.

y Sizes from 4'x8' to 8'x12'.

Call Mrs. Brown, property manager
C&I Associates - 463-3013
after 5 p.m. (703) 984-9402

Valley

Snow and rain covered the campus for the second time in two months. Weather forecasts for the next two days predict that temperatures
will climb to the mid-50s. However, it may not be in time to melt the snow before Fancy Dress evening, at least not without some ﬂooding.
Duck boots could be the most popular footwear at the Ball.

EXTRA INCOME NOW!  

ENVELOPE STUFFING -- ssoo - seoo every week $1.00 with SASE to:
Free Details: SASE to

International Inc.
1356 Conny Island Ave.

Brooklyn, New York 1 1230

7/iae"I/zﬁce

HARDWARE STORES “’-'*‘

 

Earn $500 - $1000 weekly stuffing
envelopes. For details - RUSH

Group FIVE
57 Greentree Drive, Suite 307
Dover, DE 19901

 

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

3 The

Point of View

. Restaurant

 

‘ Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing 1
$2 ojf any pasta dinner with

“ student I .D.

Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn
K 463-7797
:0

FD is too
special to be
taken lightly.

Ask that special
person with style.

Send an English
Country Garden
in a vase
whatever it takes
to show

him / her that you
mean it.

463-2186

 

 

  

Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx. 2000
sq. ft. 4 bedrooms — can hold up to 6_people.
Fireplace, wood stove, refrigerator, ceiling fans,
and huge bar. Secluded location about 3 miles
from town. Rent $200/person (regardless of
number of people). Beautiful view. Large yard -
with ball field. Call Nate or Lewis for more
info, 463-6337 Home (804) 886-0614

CATALOG

IUJTILJET

Lexington 17 South Main St.

Famous Men ’s & Women’s Apparel and Shoes from
America ’s Finest Catalog Mail Order Companies. New
Shipments Every Week. Guaranteed.

Take an additional

25% off of any item

already on sale.

Savings of 25% to 75% off.
Hours: Mon. - Sat. 9:30 - 5:30 463-9730

1

 

,.,“--..- .. ._.... -....«..., ,._. . . .

    

PAGE 6

@112 iliing-tum ilﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Vote Monday

Next week the entire student body will have a chance
to vote for four of their peers who will determine the way
the student government is run next year.

In past years there has been appalling student apathy
concerning elections. Considering how much impact the
four elected students will possibly have on your lives you

. can’t help but wonder why students don’t care more.
Maybe it’s because most students don’t have personal
contact with the Executive Committee or the Student
Conduct Committee. No matter how much personal
contact you have with either group their actions, espe-
cially the EC’s, affect your life.

The EC governs the Honor System and determines the
budgets of most student organizations. Unless you are
specifically involved with an organization’s budget or an
honor trial, you will probably have no reason to even set
foot in the EC office. Law students will tell you just how
much the EC can affect your life, and how much you
should care about who you vote for.

When the EC was giving out funds last October there
was a real possibility it was going to severely cut the
funding of the Student Bar Association, the organization
that funds all law school groups. You can bet the law
students were very aware of who was representing them
then. If the EC was threatening to cut the Student Activi-
ties Board’s funds enough to make a Thursday night
Fancy Dress band impossible to afford, you can bet
students on both sides of the campus would be outraged.

On March 7, everyone can do their part to make sure
responsible people are in charge of the student govern-
ment. You’ll be on campus anyway. It can only take a
few minutes to check off the necessary boxes. Thursday,
there were speeches by each of the candidates. Hopefully
you got to go, but considering they were poorly publi-
cized, at four in the afternoon and in the commerce
school its likely the usual 10 spectators showed. Hope-
fully that guess was far short. The facts that almost no one
attends these speeches other than the candidates and that
no one cares enough to publicize them more than a few
hours before the actual event are at the root of student
voting apathy.

How are students supposed to make informed deci-
sions about who to vote for if they have no idea of the
candiate’s position on the issues. If students don’t know
the candiadates positions, then the voting process can be
nothing more than a popularity contest. We should have
gotten 'pa'st‘that in high school; I ' P ‘ ’

No one can make students vote. But the Voting Regu-
lations Board can take a step towards informing more
people about the elections by better publicizing the
speeches and holding them in the evening. Students are
too busy in the afternoons with classes and errands.
Furthermore, if students don’t know about the speeches,
how can they attend them?

Make sure you vote on Monday. If you don’t vote you
don’t have the right to complain if your student govern-
ment does something you don’t like.

Quote of the
Week:

“We have a lot of options for construction workers.”

—— University Director of Communi cations Brian
Shaw commenting on university policies.

(J11: itiing-tum iﬂhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hillary Olson, Melissa Sawyer

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . -. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obennueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-turn Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

    

The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1994

RD. PROFILE #8:

THE FUTURE TRUSTEES
ﬂ°bowsa-iw Cariralwnraixw)

tswr Eb. iounlnuugf

1!
C
Sb¢’:ontbeSCC,
POCSACEC,
SAB.andSDC. a
I
BigDealI Daddy’:
alraudypaidtbar
mucbinpnlzing
tioéezsl
Wowwbmigtbls O
photographers’
O
'0

Limbaugh misjudges liberal values

deﬁnition, I qualify as an “environmental wacko.”
I do believe that the Earth is fragile and that man is
its greatest enemy. Rush is right when he says man
and nature have existed for thousands of ye rs
without the Earth sustaining major damage.

This week I have decided to write about someone

book, The Way Things
Ought to Be. The person

who lent me the book sug-
gested that I read Rush’s

second book before writ- NOVA
ingthiscolumn; however, I QRKE
I do not know how long it C ’

would take to bring my-
self to read another Rush
book, so I am writing the
column now.

‘I have to say that Rush raises some good points.
Before anyone beginsto imagine that I agree with
him, Rush is completely wrong in characterizing the
ideals and motivations of most liberals. There are
some people who claim to be liberals and take on
causes to promote themselves. However, for myself
and most liberals I know the goal isto help people help
themselves and to preserve things important to man,
such as the Earth. I am not going to say we do not
benefit from this; however, for most of us it is neither
a monetary beneﬁt, or a feeling of moral superiority.

Rush suggests that many liberals run foundations
purely so they can siphon off large sums of money for
themselves, while still feeling good about helping
someone. Admittedly, there are people like that, and
they are present in conservative foundations as well.
However, most liberals do not run foundations. We
donate money and are just as upset when more contri-
butions are used for administrative purposes than
actually helping someone. I have stopped contribut-
ing to groups when I discovered they were using my
hard-earned dollars to pay for direct mailing.

Rush also suggests that liberals prefer to throw
money at a problem instead of actually solving it. First
of all, this is hardly a liberal fault. Look at AIDS, the
government does put money into it, although a rela-
tively small amount; but it does not appear willing to

  
     

’96

America in high
school. But it is also
true that is it possible
to change textbooks to
more accurately re-
flect the contributions
of various ethnic
groups. Currently,
textbooksfocusonthe
actions of European
immigrants to the
United States. They
ignore the contribu-
tions of the other
groups,withoutwhom
America would not be
what it is today. To
reform the textbooks
would be to tell the
truth about our
country’s founding, it

actually get involved in eradicating the root causes of
probably familiar to many of you, the one and only the spread of the epidemic —— and this was under a
(thankfully), Rush Limbaugh. Over break I read his conservative administration. On the other hand, the
liberal community has been en-
gaged in teaching people about
means of preventing the spread
of the disease. At least we are
more willing to acknowledge the
problem.

Multiculturalism is another
area in which Rush misses the
point. Yes, we are all Americans
and when being taught history. It
is true that it would be impossible
to give a detailed history of every ethnic group in

Most liberals do not run founda-
tions. We donate money and are
just as upset when more contribu-
tions are used for administrative
purposes than actually helping
someone. I have stopped contribut-
ing to groups when I discovered

they were using my hard-earned
dollars to pay for direct mailing.

should make us ever prouder to be Americans to see
how far we’ve come as a group.

There are many, many areas in which I could
confront Rush; however, I think I will conclude with
the area that I feel strongest about. Under the Rush

It is only in the last ﬁve hundred years or so that
man has severely damaged the Earth. For thousands
of years, we did not use toxic pesticides, transport
billions of barrels of oil, cut hundreds of acres of
rainforest a day, detonate nuclear weapons, or drain
aquifers to the extent we do today. When we started
doing these things, we were hurt; schools starteﬂ to
diminish, water became harder to get, people began
to suffer from illnesses never before heard of. Yes

' Vwe arehurting the Earth. It is ironic that now some

farmers are going back
' to pre-pesticide meth-
ods of farming. They
are ﬁnding that tﬂeir
crops are healthier and
so are they themselves.
I could go on end-
lessly on this topic of
why Rush is com-
pletely wrong. Instead,
I would like to mint
out two areas where
Rush could improve.
First, stop singing your
own praises. If you are
good, people will say
so; if not, saying you’re
good will not help ou.
Second,whata ut
truth in advertising?
Change the name

for your show to something more truthful than
“Excellence in Broadcasting.”

Perhaps something like “Excellence in Promot-
ing Myself While Degrading Every Oppoirng
Viewpoint.”

U.S. can’t afford drug freedom

It is ironic that of all the columns
written this semester in the Phi , only
one written by a fellow conservative
has been able to motivate me to re-
spond. Perhaps this shouldn’t be so

actions with and without social conse-
quences, is clear (which it is not). Does
Mr. Kucera’s axiom still hold; should
there be no governmental regulation of
choices that are truly private? One of

 

surprising, the most
since all sorts popular il-
of opinions lustrations
seem to re- thatthisisnot
ceivetheawk- so involves
wardepithetof NICHOLAS L. the infamous
“conserva- seatbelt law.
tive” these WADDY, ’96 Not wear-
days. At any ing one’s
rate, I found seatbelt and
Mr. Kucera’s becoming
ideasaboutthe impaled by

legalization of marijuana, and more
importantly his ideas about the role of
government in society, distressing
enough to write a rebuttal.

The argument undergirding Mr.
Kucera’s entire case against govem-
mental restrictions on the recreational
use of marijuana, seemingly, is summed
up in this one phrase of his: “in a
country which puts a high premium on
freedom, those behaviors which do not
harm society should not be legislated
against.” In essence, Kucera restates
for us the age-old bit of liberal wisdom
that non-invasive morality (involving
moral choices that directly involveonly
the chooser, like smoking marijuana
by oneself) are the individual’s busi-
ness, and not the state’s. As Kucera
points out, such ideas are particularly
attractive in the United States, where
distrust of government runs very high
and where individualism is the central
creed of civil society. V

For argument’s sake, let us stipu-
late that the boundary between invasive
and non-invasive morality, between

one’s steering wheel, sufﬁce it to say,
seems to be a case in which one has
made a choice affecting only one’s
own life, and no one else’s. Does it
“harm society” when someone chooses
to do something stupid, and ends up
paying for it? It doesn’t seem to; it
might even provide us with good in-
centive to make our own free choices a
little better. And yet we still legally
mandate the wearing of seatbelts. Why?

The answer is quite simple really:
the leaders of the various states have
decided that they abhor hearing on the
news every night that another careless
driver has been killed because of his
unwillingness to buckle up. Perhaps
these officials and legislators have seen
pictures of just what a horrible scene
car accidents can be, and they want to
prevent them, even at the cost of re-
stricting “non-invasive morality” and
telling people what to do.

Experience has taught the politi-
cians an important lesson: freedom isn’t
always good enough. People can be
stupid, extremely stupid, and some-

times they have to be protected from
themselves. You can grandstand all
you like about the majestic virtues of
freedom and liberty, but this fact re-
mains: at least in the case of the seatbelt
law, less freedom saves lives, real hu-
man lives.

In my own view, the case of mari-
juana is similar. People may choose to
take marijuana of their own free will; it
may even be the case that they hurt no
one else by doing so (to my knowledge
this is always false, by the way, but we
will stipulate it); even so, I deny that it
should be legal. Just as we don’t allow
people to drive without seatbelts, we
should not allow people to degrade and
injure themselves by becoming slaves,

Gautier and his motley band of Pyl-
sian potheads has escaped my atten-
tion. And even if marijuana did in-
crease one’s creative abilities, I would
still oppose its legalization. How ut-
terly pathetic to think that the products
of one’s mind might be the result of
some chemical additive. Whatbeoo es
of the idea that we should ﬁght our own

battles in life? After all, if we can take '

marijuana to be “creative,” then why
not cocaine for pleasure or valium to
unwind?

In sum, it is not my opinion that
government exists only to defend t e
liberty of individuals. Of course g v-
emmental regulations can, and often
do, go too far in stipulating behavior,

either tempo- butthisisnorea-
rarily or son to ignore the
through life- essential reality
longaddiction, T  ------j that the frailties
to a meritless _ of human judg-
mind-altering Experience has taught ment occasion-
drug. Mari— ° ' ‘ ° _ ally require as-
juana, let us the plollnclqns aid: lmp.0r, sistance from
recall, unlike tant eSs0n- free om 13” t without. Do we
alctohol, ctilorlss always good enough. lréally want :3
no even 0 - we in a wor
out the possi— People can be ‘ftupldﬁ where everyoﬁe
bility of re- extremely stupid, and is “free” to take
spolpdsrble use. Sometimes they have to drugs, to their
r" 191' be protected from them mans crjmijm’
cera’s pornt ' evenast ey e-
that marijuana selves. ’ stroy their dig-
rncreases“cre- nity? Do we re-
ativity” I ﬁnd ally want to lige
absurd, totally in a world where

out-of-synch with the rest of his well-
considered arguments. I have seen no
evidence that any such increase in ar-
tistic or creative powers occurs as the
result of taking marijuana; and with all
due respect, the lasting contribution of

women, for instance, are “free” to sell
their bodies on the street comer (an-
other pet ideal of radical libertarians)?
Or is there, rather, room for a little
authority in our lives, room for a gov-
ernment that actually cares and feelg?

 

    

O

The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1994

OPINION

Everybody loves a carpet ride  

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

Once upon a time, in a land real, real
close by, there lived a magical Arabian
prince named Sinbaner. Sinbaner was
re lly bored in his magical palace, and
he was looking for a small town in the
heart of the Old South to visit and
spread mirth and joy and let’s not for-
get Arabian culture to its residents.

Sinbaner took his magic carpet up I-
81 and, looking for new members for
his harem, he exited at the sign for The
Nﬁv and Reﬁnanced Southern Vir-
ginia College for Women (or “Sem”
for short). Quickly finding no suitable
candidates, Sinbaner took Route 11 for
several miles until he heard angels sing-
ing and saw a bright light. Then he saw
the sign that says it all: “Lexington
Cigz Limits.”

Sinbaner pulled into town and
quickly saw Rockbuster record store.

“This looks like the cultural center
of this city. I think I’ll stop here and
ﬁnd out what the big commotion is this
weekend,” Sinbaner said.

£1" wo Lexington residents watched
Sinbaner as he turned into the
parking lot:

BUCK: Look at this guy here on the
ﬂying carpet. He looks Indian, like
Rajiv.

BILLY: (Billy spits).

JZUCK: Or maybe he’s Arabian. I

. wonder if he gets carpet burns on that

thing. Anyway, let’s go see if we can
lend our assistance to this visitor to our
little city.

BILLY: (Billy spits again).

BUCK: Maybe we can tax him for
something. Or sell his carpet on the
black market.

B I L L Y :
(Billy spits and
scratches his

Beatles reunion.

SINBANER: I’m going!

Sinbaner arrived at W&Land parked
his magic carpet in front of the Univer-
sity Center. The prince walked in and
bought his FD tickets. And FD shirts.
And FD posters. And FD lunchboxes.
And don ’t for-
get, FD com-
memorative

backside). j-'1 C C ‘T plates from
BuckandBilly the Franklin
‘g.“““"" 9"" ‘.° It’s the 87th annual Mi“:
inbaner smagic . Sinbaner
ca,pet_ Washington and Lee walked out-
H ISIINBIANER: Fancy Dress  side \l:Ililldl'llS
6 0, ex1ng- - - merc an ise
tonians. My name Maglcal CW?“ ‘Rule To and happened
i: Sinbaner. And The Bank To Withdraw to bump into
I IS lS my carpet. 3 Tom Hespos_
We’rewondering More Money’ And don t S i n b a n e r
what festivities forget the Thursday asked Tom

are planned for
this weekend and

night StudentActivities
Board concert: The

where was a
good place to

would it not be an find a date for
incrediblecoinci— Beatles reunion. this Fancy
dence if the theme Dress thing.

for the weekend “If the
matched me? Registrar’s

Then if I dropped by plenty of college
kids would think I was a cool prop!
BILLY: (Billy spits, scratches his
backside, and then moonwalks).
BUCK: It’s the 87th annual
Washington and Lee Fancy Dress Ball
— A Magical Carpet Ride To The
Bank To Withdraw More Money.

And don’t forget the Thursday night '

Student Activities Board concert: The

Office secretaries already have dates,
try Rockbridge County High School.
Come on, I’ll take you there,” Tom
said. I

Sinbaner thanked Tom anyway but
decided to try W&L first. Sinbaner
went back to his carpet, only to find a
new tag on it: a gift from R.D. Clark,

the dark prince of Lexington parking.

“I’ll get you my pretty R.D. And

your little dog too!” Sinbaner cackled.

Sinbaner then ﬂew over to the Reid
Hall circle and brought his carpet to a
screeching halt when he saw the most
glorious vision: a beautiful girl carry-
ing her own FD tickets, wearing a ﬂow-
ing formal dress, holding up a sign that
said “Dateless.”

“This is the girl,” Sinbaner said.
“She will be mine; oh yes, she will be
my date for Fancy Dress.”

Sinbaner stepped off his carpet and
asked Letitia to go with him, and she
said yes! Letitia climbed onto the car-
pet, and away they went, with
Steppenwolf pumping out of the car-
pet stereo.

That night Sinbaner and Letitia ar-
r_ived at the ball with a ﬂourish. They
were a beautiful couple, he with his
baby blue tux and she with her dande-
lion yellow sequined gown (with ruby
red shoesl). They danced the music of
Kool and the Gang of Supreme
Vandella Marvellettes, and posed for
pictures, and stepped over the bodies
of other FD ballgoers who didn’t make
it all the way through.

“This is great,” Sinbaner said. “And
to think, I almost went to Salem and
hung out with my parents this week-
end. I’m coming back to Fancy Dress
every year!”

The ball soon came to a close, and
Sinbaner and Letitia stepped onto their
magical carpet to leave. They ﬂew
above the ﬁreworks and yelled out
from the stars, “Happy Fancy Dress to
all, and to all a good night.”

 

9

LETTERS

Clarke misrepresents beliefs of pro-life movement

To the editor:

‘Those who have examined the abortion issue and
taken a position will rarely be persuaded to change it.
The abortion debate will always be decisive and
inﬂammatory. However, either position can be intel-
ligently articulated in a manner that promotes con-
structive dialogue and doesn’t misrepresent the op-
posing side.

‘Unfortunately, Nova Clarke’s column from before
Washington break, We Must Preserve Roe v. Wade,
did neither. Miss Clarke either doesn’t understand the
pro.-.1.ife. perspective 0ISiU1P1.Y°h95§‘9W5.9ﬁ?9.°mP‘Y
rhetoric instead.

I’d like to address these misunderstandings. Let
me begin with her “pet peeve.” Miss Clarke objected

u topeing addressed as a “pro-abort.” We pro-lifers

don’t call our opponents pro-abortion to be vindictive
or annoying. We simply want to remind them (and the
public) what the choice they are defending entails. We
object to the term “pro-choice” because it is
deceptive.

First, the term implies that pro-lifers oppose
“choice.” We are all about choice in a free society —

, tha is what democracy is all about. However, even

abortion advocates will admit that there are limits to
those choices, particularly when they may violate the
choices and rights of others. The abortion debate is not
about “choice.” If it were really about choice, Miss

. Clark would not be championing social health care.

Foitunately, in this country we women have many
chﬁices, and we ought to concentrate on exercising
those choices responsibly. According to the Centers
for Disease Control (U.S. Department of Health and
Human Services), 98% of all abortions are done for
birth control reasons. And according to the Alan
Gutmacher Institute (the research branch of Planned
Parenthood), half of all abortions are performed on
wtﬁnen who chose to use abortion as their only means

I of birth control.

If we must talk about “choice” in this debate then
perhaps we should emphasize the choice available to

‘Clarke claimed. We actually believe that no one has I

women before they become pregnant and not after-
wards when the choice is at the expense of their
children.

Which brings us to the second related objection
pro-lifers have to the term pro-choice. “Pro-choice”
effectively, but falsely, frames the debate in terms of
“choice,” thus ignoring the very concern pro-lifers
believe they are fighting for— human life. From the
pro-life perspective, the debate is about the human life
they believe is destroyed during every abortion. So it
is unfair to say that pro-lifers believe that “the law has
full jurisdiction over a woman’s uterus,” as Miss

among many, abortion counselor J oss Sawyer writes
that “adoption is a violent act” compared to the
“simply remedy of early, safe abortion.”

In reality, contrary to Miss Clarke’s accusations,
it is really the pro-lifers who are giving women the
genuine choices. Pro-lifers operate over 2,000 cri-
sis pregnancy centers which provide medical, fi-
nancial, and psychological support to women in
need. Miss Clarke claims that “the pro-lifers are
certainly not looking after [pregnant mothers.]”
Furthermore, she writes, “Who is going to want to
adopt these babies? Certainly not the pro-lifers.”
Miss Clarke is wrong to portray pro—lifei‘s.as‘,uncar-
ing and irresponsible. Let me provide a personal
example.

One woman I know has single-handedly placed
about sixteen children with adoptive parents, at
great personal expense in terms of time, money, and
emotional cost. They have all been “hard to place”
children ~— black, Hispanic, and Indian. She has
had babies in her home with malnutrition, parasites,
scabies, AIDS — some of whom stay for months.
She counsels the women, pays their doctor bills,
changes diapers, and initiates the legal procedures
for adoption. She has adopted two of these children
herself (one of whom survived her mother’s at-
tempt to abort her), both Cuna Indians from Panama.
This woman, my mother, represents the commit-
ment of pro-lifers everywhere, and I do hope Miss
Clarke will take the time to meet her when she
comes up for graduation.

Miss Clarke and I will probably never come to
an agreement on the issue of abortion, but it is
important to understand each other’s position. Even
if the abortion proponents completely disagree with
pro-lifers, they must understand that because we
believe 1.6 million children die every year as a
result of this lamentable “choice,” their battle to
“preserve Roe v. Wade” will never end.

complete jurisdiction over anyone’s body — includ-
ing those of unborn children. If I didn’t believe that a
human life was destroyed during every abortion, I
would be right next to Ms. Clarke at those NARAL
demonstrations defending a woman’s right to choose.

Third, the term implies the pro-abortion move-
ment promotes genuine choice regarding crisis preg-
nancies. If the pro-abortion side is only concerned
with providing women the option of aborting, then
why are they so hostile towards informed consent and
adoption? Informed consent is not a pro-life lecture
designed to dissuade women from having abortions.
The majority of proposed informed consent laws
require someone to tell the woman the risks of and
alternatives to abortion, the probable gestation period
of her unborn child, and the risks associated with
childbirth. The point of informed consent is to prevent
a woman from making an uninformed choice which
she may later regret.

The pro-abortion side also attacks adoption as a
choice. For example, you may be familiar with the
televised Arthur DeMoss Foundation ads (“Life ——
What a Beautiful Choice”) promoting adoption. In
response to these ads, Alexander Sanger of New York
City ’s Planned Parenthood stated, “The DeMoss Foun-
dation ads should be seen for what they are: a stealth
weapon in that Foundation’s attack on abortion. . .” To

provide another representative pro-abortion response Christine Will, ’94

Interviews and Photos

By Betsy Green

TALKBACK

 

 

W&L-VMI

Need something to do with the
hourbefore “90210?” Come meet
your neighbors at VMI with the
Preston Society. Call Lisa 462-
4189 for information.

1
.9

Fundraiser

Step into a fundraiser to help
prevent heart disease. Gather your
team of 4 “steppers” for a fun-
filled afternoon of raising funds
and heart rates. Give us a hand
with your feet on March 18. Look
for sign-up tables in front of the
Co-op.

Collecting

If you are interesting in corre-
sponding and trading postcards,
patches, lapel pins, etc., please
contact Sue Fitzpatrick, P.O. Box
2244, Saratoga, CA 95070-0244.

Calyx

If you haven’t received your
1993 Calyx (from last year) please
pick it up at Carol Calkins’ office
in the University Center during
normal hours.

Seniors

Sign up for your senior picture
in front of Carol Calkins’ office.
If you are submitting your own
picture please bring it by the Ca-
lyx office before March 14. Ques-
tions? Call 462-4046.

(Interns

The Virginia Govemor’s Fel-
lows program is now accepting
applications for summer of 1994
interns. Students accepted to the
program will work with Cabinet
members, agency heads, and other
state government officials, plus
attend seminars designed to fos-
ter a fuller understanding of Vir-
ginia politics and government. For
more information see Professor
Bill Connelly in C-school
room 108. Applications are due
March 7.

. left for Temple Cone, c/o Carol
_,,Calkins in the University Center.

Admissions

The Admissions ‘OfflC8 is ac-
cepting applications for summer
tour guides. All interested candi-
dates should submit a letter to Mrs.
Julia Kozak, Associate Director of
Admissions, no later than March 5.
Interviews will be held in mid-
March.

Recruitment

Want to be a chairman of the
Student Recruitment Committee?
Please submit a letter of interest to
Julia Kozak in the admissions of-
fice by March 4.

Writing

The Writing Center is open to
help students with papers and other
writing projects Sundays through
Thursdays from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m.
in Payne 2B. Most faculty mem-
bers encourage their students to
bring drafts to the Center for help
with revisions before turning the
paper in for a grade.

Manager

Needed ASAP: Manager for the
1994 Women’s Lacrosse Team. If
interested, please contact Jan
Hathom at ext. 8668 or Sue Behme
at ext. 8679.

Ariel

The Ariel literary magazine is
now accepting submissions for the
1994 issue. Literary submissions
may be dropped off in envelopes in
Payne Hall, the Leybum Library,
and the University Center. Any
visual art submissions should be

Deadline V
March 11.

for submissions is

Pub Board

The Pub Board will be inter-
viewing candidates for editor and
business manager of the P.':i. All
Pub Board members should attend.

Student Body Notice

Investigations:10
Withdrawal facing a closed hearing: 1
Closed hearings: 5
Withdrawals: 4
Student body hearings: 0

If you could go to FD with any celebrity,
which would you choose?

Trevor Stockinger, ’97, Littleton, CO —
“Natalie Merchant, because she’s neat.”

 

Alison Oneacre,’96, Dallas, TX, and Margaret Cox, ’96, Houston, TX —— “Les
Borden -—- he’s a dream.”

   

Chris Haden, ’97, Louisville, KY — “If
Seinfeld were a woman, I’d go with him, but
since he’s not, I’ll take Elaine.”

Dog.”

 

Kramer, ’95, Buena Vista, VA — “If dogs
could go to FD, I’d go with Jim The Wonder

 

 

OPINION

o
The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1994

Alumnus offers views on White Book revisions '

MY VIEW

Walter T. Dudley, '74, ’79L

I was invited to participate as the
alumni member of the Honor System
panel sponsored by ODK on the evening

of January 19, which was an unfor1u- ’

nate casualty of the ice storm. I harbor
no illusion that anyone was disap-
pointed not to hear from me, but I want
to take this opportunity to express some
of my own views and concerns about
the Honor System.

Although I spent four years on the V

Alumni Association Board '_,of -,Dire"c-I

tors, I have no authority to speak for all»;
alumni. I do hope that myhfrequent :

contacts with alumni and myservice as

student body president almost 20 years ’ '

ago afford me some small license to
make the following observations.

The recent cheating scandal at the
Naval Academy has brought criticism
for allegedly inadequate education of
the midshipmen about their system.
We owe it to every Washington and
Lee student to do everything possible
to make sure that he or she understands
the broad concepts of the Honor Sys-
tem and the details of how it works.
Given our small size, we can accom-
plish this task with modest effort.

There is nothing wrong with study-
ing the Honor System periodically to
make sure that it is fairly designed and
administered through the White Book.
Healthy debate about various aspects
of the Honor System has been taking
place for many years, and that is a good
sign. We should be alanned only if we
approach complacency about honor or
the Honor System so that it is rarely
discussed.

That said, I hope that we take care to

‘distinguish between those who have

genuine’ desires to improve and

1- strengthen the Honor System from

those who may campaign on that plat-
form, but whose silent agenda is to
weaken or do away with the Honor
System for some reason.

Reasonable people can disagree over
some of the issues being considered by
the White Book revision committee. It
is not difﬁcult; to understand why an
accused student may be troubled by
allowing the two members of the Ex-
ecutive Committee who participate in
the initial investigation also to vote on
guilt or innocence. Perhaps it would be
smart to remove the potential appear-
ance of;som_e’=-bias by changing this
procedure, bugwill we be happy with a

“smaller E.C. making the decision?

, Perhaps something greater than a
2/3 majority of the Executive Commit-
tee should be required for conviction.
That is also an issue on which people
who believe equally in the fundamen-
tal concept of honor can disagree.

A difficult issue is whether the no-
tation on a student’s transcript should
be different if he or she appeals the
Executive Committee conviction
through an open hearing in Lee Chapel
and is convicted. One can argue that
this punishes unfairly a student for
exhausting his or 'her"right to an, open
hearing, but we cannot ignore other
important considerations. I

Executive Committee honor hear-
ings are a demanding, time-consuming
experience for the members of the Com-
mittee. Open honor hearings in the
Chapel increase the time commitment
substantially. The open hearing is a
valuable right, but the System should
dissuade frivolous appeals which could
be pursued if there is truly nothing to
lose. Maybe the painful decision to
make the entire student body aware of

the case by pursuing an appeal is a
sufﬁcient safeguard, but I hope that we
can retain a balanced approach to this
issue.

Consideration is also being given to
whether or not a speciﬁc ﬁnding of
dishonorable intent should be added to
the White Book and required for a
conviction. This is an important con-
cept, but the absence of a written intent

what is right and wrong as a member of
the Washington and Lee community. I
am convinced that this is preferable to
a written code.

As a lawyer, I have profound re-
spect for due process and other consti-
tutional rights afforded by our criminal
justice system. That does not translate
into any belief that the Honor System
would be better or stronger if it were

requirement did morecloselypat-
not result in any terned after that
mistakes by the Ex— system.

ecutive Committee --T L C j--— Washington

of which I was a

and Lee should

member in 1978- Healthy debate (lb0llt resist any temp-
I979. In this lll- various aspects ofthe tation I0 deﬁne
stance, an unwrit— H S ha b honor violations
ten rule was a rule 0'30’. ystem S een in writing. Under
in reality. No stu- taking place for many that idea, a so-
dentwasconvicted - - called minor in-
without aclear be- years’ and that ls a good fraction mi ht
. 8

lief by two-thirds sign. We should be bring only a full
of the Executive alanned only we ap_ semestersuspen-
Committeethat the sion, and stealing
student was guilty proach complacency an exam from a
pf an honor viola- about honor or the profezsqfs off-

ron, not just an 1n- o rce e ore 1-
nocent error of Honor System so that It nals would pre-
judgment. lS rarely discussed. sumablyresultin

These Subtle iS-   expulsion'

sues of interpreta- I respectfully
tion and meaning suggestthateach

reveal an essential strength of the Wash-
ington and Lee Honor System. Not
only is it entirely administered by stu-
dents, but the “deﬁnition” of what is
and is not an honor violation is
determined by the current student
generation.

Some argue that this allows the sys-
tem to be applied unevenly, but I saw
no evidence of that as a member of the
Executive Committee. At Washington
and Lee, students are judged by fellow
students, guided by a fundamental con-
cept of honesty and their own sense of

LETTERS

of those cases can and should be dealt
with by the then-current student gen-
eration under the simple concepts of
the White Book. Listing numerous
possible offenses would not make the
system easier to administer. Any such
list will, by deﬁnition, be incomplete.
What will be done with a case that
“falls between the cracks” of the writ-
ten code? Surely there will be cries of
unfairness, lack of clarity, or a miscar-
riage of student justice when such a
system cannot ﬁnd the “right answer”
in the written code, and must exercise

judgment instead.

Two other concepts deserve atten-
tion. First is the notion that something
is wrong with our Honor System be-
cause no one else has one quite like it.
Without wanting to sound arrogant, I
think that other universities might do
well to borrow from Washington and
Lee rather than the other way around.
What is laudable about doing away
with the single sanction just because
others have seen ﬁt to do so? Were any
of those schools ever rooted quite as
deeply in the fundamental concept of
honor as the one bearing the names of
our two great founding fathers. The
fact that such a system calls upon Wash-
ington and Lee students to make difﬁ-
cult, potentially life-altering deci-
sions about their peers should not turn
us away from an Honor System
which promotes honor by discourag-
ing any meaningful compromise of
the concept.

I believe that the single sanction has
a positive impact on the administration
of the Washington and Lee Honor Sys-
tem. The severity of this punishment
surely operates as a sobering inﬂuence
which causes the Executive Commit-
tee and any student jury to think long
and hard before voting to convict a
student of an honor violation.

If time has shown that the Honor
System is not perfect, it has also shown
that the single sanction operates as a
safeguard against doubtful or errone-
ous convictions. I believe that Wash-
ington and Lee students charged with
administering this sacred trust bend
over backwards to be fair, to act in
good faith, and to reach the right result.
If lesser penalties were available, the
concept of honor would be compro-
mised and the latitude in penalties
would create a whole new set of con-
cems over whether a particular Execu-

tive Committee or student jury was too
heavy-handed or too lenient compared
with another one.

I hope that Washington and Lee will
also reject the notion that honor is olt
of date, or that the principles of the
Honor System have no relevance in
today’s world. In my opinion, nothing
could be further from the truth. Con-
sider any recent scandal or breach of
trust by a public ofﬁcial or business
person.

It seems clear that a lack of respect
for the fundamental principles of hon-
esty, trust, and honorable conduct are
at the core of many of these problems.
If that premise is correct, let us not do
anythingwhich willweakenourHonor
System, or result in lowering this projd
standard to a lower common denomi-
nator. My fervent hope is that those
students in charge of the current
study of the White Book will
recommend those charges they deem
necessary to strengthen and reaffirm
the Honor System, and re ‘st
vigorously anything which wou (1
weaken it.

Rector Steve Miles said it splen-
didly in Lee Chapel on January 31:
“We must continue to place the highest
priority on the principles of honor es-
tablished by General Lee. The Honor
System deﬁnes our institution and s
a great and ongoing inﬂuence on the
lives of all our graduates. Our resolve
to uphold the Honor System must not
weaken.”

Amen.

Dudley is an attorney with McGu9e,
Woods, Battle & Boothe in McLean,
Virginia. He was student body presi-
dent 1 978-1 979 and received the Frank
J. Gilliam award. He is the imme-
diate past president of the Alumni

Association.

0

Editorial misleads student body on EC’s budget reasoning 0

_ To the editor:

Despite what your misleading editorial of last week

suggests, the EC will administer the Student Activities

3 Fund with money to spare this year. Even after we cover

the debts of the Calyx and other Pub Board publications,

. the EC will have over $12,000 in its reserve accounts. 9
V Your simplistic notion that the sole criteria“§for-allocat- ‘- I

1 ing money should be the number of members or beneﬁcia-

-ifries an organization can claim is a completely inaccurate
representation of how the EC makes its budgetary

: decisions.

. The EC also recognizes a responsibility to the studen

1 to see that they get the most for each dollar of their student

. activities fee. This means monitoring all organizations and
providing incentives for them to operate as efﬁciently as
possible. When an organization fails to do so they should

McDermott patro

To the editor:

Once again, Patrick McDermott,
’94, has taken to The Ring-tum Phi
editorial pages to provide us with a
politically correct elixir on how to
combat the racism here at Washington
and Lee.

Usually pontiﬁcations from the po-
litically correct crowd are so self—evi—
dently stupid that any written response
is wholly unnecessary. In this case,
however, I am compelled to reply to
Mr. McDermott.

No true PC follower could write an
article on racism in the month of Feb-
ruary without fawning all over Black
History Month and Mr. McDermott is
no exception. In any event, what ex-
actly is Black History Month supposed
to accomplish? According to Mr.
McDermott the “special programming
on television, displays in bookstores,”
etc. serve to commemorate “the role of

expect to have their budget cut. Conversely, when an

African—Americans in the United
States.” As it relates to blacks, such
thinking ultimately undermines any
legitimate attempt to purge racism from
our culture. In fact, such thinking only
fosters racial division and animosity in
this country.

Perhaps Mr. McDermott, and he’s
far from alone, has forgotten what the
word racism actually means. Asl un-
derstand it, a racist act is one motivated
purely by reason of skin color. That is,
this person is unﬁt/ﬁt, bad/good, or
undesirable/desirable solely because he
was born into a particular race. As a
result, I ﬁnd it highly ironic that we as
Americans ﬁnd it desirable (maybe it’s
forced upon us) to devote an entire
month to activities which select certain
people for adulation based purely on
their race.

What could be more racist than that?
Such race-based selection is particu-

We recognized all along that the Calyx might not be

organization provides a valuable service to the university
and does so in a ﬁscally responsible manner, it should
expect the opposite treatment.

Last year the Phi and the Calyx were poorly managed
and failed to raise the revenue they should have. This year
the EC;sent thema message  off their respectiveasses. . »
arid tap the alternative sources of revenue available to
them. Your business manager, Kevin Roddey, has done a
fantastic job of generating advertisement revenue this year
. and will bring the Phi in with a proﬁt.

The Calyx has not been so successful. The C alyx’s
principal source of revenue comes from student pictures.

comes we will cover their deﬁciency.

be touched by the EC.

student’s trough this year.

successful and therefore we held sufﬁcient money in our
accounts to cover any potential shortfall. When the time

Furthermore, unlike all other organizations receiving
money from the BC, the Phi and the Calyx do not return any
budget surplus to the EC. The Pub Board has therefore,
been able to stash away up to $10,000 a year which cannot

To avoid this circumvention of accountability the EC
has decided to fund these publications to a minimum
extent possible and supplement theirbudgets as necessary.
I’m sorry you will not be able to gorge yourselves at the

Yet they only managed to convince one-third of under-
classmen to sit for their portraits this year. This is what led
to their budget difﬁculties.

larly odiousin its own right, what makes
it worse still is that the purveyors of
“black history” always seems to forget
about certain blacks of high achieve-
ment but the wrong politics such as
Clarence Thomas.

We should honor Dr. King, Rosa
Parks, or Clarence Thomas the same
way we honor Abraham Lincoln, Tho-
mas Jefferson, Thomas Edison, or Rob-
ert E. Lee: as great Americans. What
Mr. McDermott must get over, as must
many others, is that slavery and the
culture of slavery are gone. It is time to
move forward toward a color-blind
society once and for all. This will un-
doubtedly take time, but the sooner we
get started, the sooner we’ll arrive.
This obsession with skin color must
stop if we are ever to achieve a racist-
free society.

It seems that Mr. McDermott can-
not speak of the evils of racism here at

 

WE ARE NOW OPEN FOR

1 - goffee
H - Pgitry

   

GHQ Restaurantl I
announces

CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST

Monday -
8:30 a.m. - 11:00 a.m.

- Toast
- Bagelsl

- CNN Cable News

C’mon down for pre-class lift or hang-out
and read the paper. (no smoking please.)
Also check out the new Luncheon Menu.

Friday

{-

Cream Cheese

 l

   

   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

9

“CHECK our OUR
DRESSES,
SHOES &

  ACCESSORIES

PAppAGAHo
23 N. l\/IAIN

You further mislead your readers by stating in your
editorial and your front page story that the reason the EC

dictionary means racial diversity and

such limited usage exposes the hypoc-

risy of his thinking. Is the successful
measure of an institution’s diversity

measured by skin color breakdown or

by its intellectual diversity?

I hope it’s the latter because that’s
what counts. Imagine the outcry were

someone to declare that Howard Uni-

versity was intellectually bankrupt be-

cause not enough white males attended.

We should be similarly outraged when
those among us suggest that Washing-

ton and Lee “has a long way to go when

it comes to achieving diversity” when
their indicia of diversity relies purely
on skin color rather than intellect or

philosophy.

The ﬁnal part of Mr. McDerrnott’s
column demonstrates the shallowness
of his thinking. He proudly proclaims

FOR FD

did not ask for an increase in student activities fee was because
to make such a request on short notice would make us look bad
in the eyes of the Board.

In fact, the committee spent nearly an hour last Wednesday

editorial staff.

Sincerely,
Bob Tompkins, ’94L

that “many of (his) very best friends
here are African-Americans.” The last
time I heard that phrase was from the
lips of Archie Bunker. Such declara-
tions seem to indicated that Mr.
McDermott places a high priority on
skin color with respect to the people he
names as friends.

He then goes on to explain the
notable achievements of these friends
in order to pronounce what wonderful
embodiments of Black History Month
these students represent because, “un-
like the rest of us, [they] have had to
rise above a separate set of obstacles on
their way to success.” How patently
insulting!

To begin with, if these four students
are to be admired, it should be as a
result of their achievements, not be-
cause they are black and have suc-
ceeded.

Secondly,

who is Patrick

discussing the issue, and decided a further tax on students was
not necessary and would most likely lead to a less efficient
administration of funds. Therefore the Committee voted over-
whelmingly against any increased tax on students. 

I commend this year’s Phi on a better product. Further credit
is due to Kevin Roddey for his job as business manager. Appar- ‘
ently, however, Kevin’s business sense has not spread to your

President of the Executive Committee

nizes with his views on Black History Month ‘

W&L without bowing to the God of
diversity. Of course, diversity in his

McDermott to brand their obstacles as
any more or less challenging than any-
one else’s merely because they are

black? By jumping onto the “blacks are i

always victims” bandwagon, he d ni-
grates the successes of all people who
have overcome any variety of obstacles
unrelated to race.

Maybe it’s time to celebrate Great
American Month where the successes
and notable achievements of all Ameri-
cans are studied and remembered. Un-
fortunately, given the current up§de-
down thinking that has swept the domi-
nant media culture, the faculty of the
law schools, and the academic depart-
ments of the nation’s great colleges,
we will subject for years to come to the
racist ideology which permeates so
called celebrations such as Black His-
tory Month.

Chris K. Kowalczuk, ’94L

    

5 IAyloR & Ellesmd ’
Catering is still available for
Fancy Dress weekend or any h
other special occasion -
graduation, weddings, »
cocktail parties, etc.
"Zeaae tée  to a¢"l-
631 Waddell Street, Lexington
463-5004 L

 

I

 

— The Ring-tum PM, March 4, 1994

PAGE 9'

V

Graham——Lee Waehington
Literary Eoeiety

C an Honor Survive at
W& L ?

Sunday. March 13, I991
The Fit

6 p.m.

Proposition:
      Cant/16 H9719‘, System» in its Present form» Suwivelndeﬁnately?

Aﬂirmative Negatwe

6:00 — Catered Dinner — Salad, Pasta with Marinara or Alfredo, Vegatable, Dessert, etc.

7:00 ——- The History of Honor at W&L — Taylor Sanders, University Historian

The Findings of the White Book Review Committee —
Ames Hutton, Chairman of the Committee

The Debate

Audience Questions and Votes

Tickets — Only 3 bucks
can be bought the Week of March 7 - 11
outside the Co-op! Ticket Price
includes dinner and debate

 

PAGE 10

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1994

Six freshmen cosen as ‘Major Generals‘

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

For the first time since 1991, the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
women’s swimming title belongs to
Washington and Lee. The Generals
took first-place in all but one event at
last week’s Atlantic States/ODAC
Championships.

W&L posted the same number of
victories last year, but placed only third
overall because they were out—num-
bered and, thus, out-pointed by two
other squads.

What made this year any different?
In a word, freshmen. Six, to be precise.
The half-dozen’s addition to the team
not only added considerable talent, but
also the depth the Generals needed to
earn enough points to claim their first
ODAC and Atlantic States titles in
three seasons.

Therefore, WLUR and the Ring-
tum Phi have selected this exclusive
group of swimmers as the Major-Gen-
erals for the month of February.

Who are these fabulous freshmen?
The all—star list reads as follows: Staci
Bertelli, Danielle Burghardt, Maggie
George, Laura Marshall, Jen Miller,

and Anne Spencer. Head coach Kiki
Jacobs has called this group the best
freshman class she has had at W&L. It
is also, fortunately, the largest.

Despite the loss of All-American
Claire Dudley ’93, the team’s regular
season was nearly identical to last
year’s. The Generals were 8-4 overall
and won all three of their conference
meets, which extendedtheir ODAC
winning streak to 19 meets.

In conference competition, there was
little in the way of competitive worries
for W&L. Juniors Susan Fisher and
Brandi Henderson, and sophomore All-
American Rebekah Prince and class-
mate Jill Sheets paved the way as Wash-
ington and Lee crushed Sweet Briar
(175—86), Randolph-Macon Women’s
College (140-66), and Hollins (167-
84) for its regular season ODAC sweep.

However, when the Atlantic States/
ODAC Championships at Radford
came around, it was time for the fresh-
men to make waves.

Of the Generals eight All-ODAC
swimmers, four belong to our class of
Major-Generals: Bertelli, Miller,
Marshall, and Spencer.

Bertelli, an All-Ohio swimmer last
year in the 200-freestyle and 100-but-
terﬂy, took All-ODAC honors in six

events. Miller earned All-ODAC in the
50, 100, and 200-freestyles and also
was named the Swimmer of the Meet at
the Atlantic States/ODAC. Accordiﬁ
to Jacobs, these two are the best of this
outstanding class of swimmers.

“I had high expectations coming
into the season of [Bertelli and Miller],”
Jacobs said.

Bertelli and Miller both lived up to
them, as well. .While Bertelli swztn
away with a total of six victories at the
Championships, Miller ties Prince for
top scoring honors with seven titles.

Those three and Marshall form far
and away the top relay team in school
history. In fact, all five school records
that fell at Radford were broken by
W&L’s relays.

Spencer, All-ODAC in the 200-
breaststroke, may have been one of the
Generals’ biggest surprises in the ’94
season, according to Jacobs.

“Spencer and [Danielle] Burghardt
easily improved the most this seasog,”
said Jacobs.

With no seniors on the current ros-
ter, Jacobs is looking forward to con-
tinuing a winning tradition.

“We’re going to be very strong next
year,”Jacobs said. “We’ll bevery tough
to beat.” .

Freshmen Staci Bertelli, left
and Maggie George, right, are
two of this month's Major
Generals. The four other
freshmen chosen include
Danielle Burghardt, Laura
Marshall, Jen Miller and Anne
Spencer.

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely
The Washington and Lee women’s swimming team captured the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championship this year with the help of six freshmen, who have been chosen
as the WLUR—Ring-tum Phi Major Generals of the month for February, 1994. The women’s
swimming team has not won the ODAC championship since 1991.

     

 

   
   
   

 

   
 

( Wiﬂlﬂa/one E-‘i3'z—cARD, BOX 16516. ATLANTA. GA 30321 :°
55 50 OF N ha tw I th st recognized and ' S '
i 1 Any Show T 5 accepted cf,e‘:'.lftmln titre M(ir‘l’d...Vfsa":9oand MasterCard9 5 ! 'wantvIsA°/MASru2CARD° Cred“ '
__ Now Showin _ credit cards..."ln your mine." EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Cardsappmved Immediately. 100°/o GUARANTEED! I
9 cm-znn‘ or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BE!-DRE! . , I
SISECT Act 2 VISAO and MasterCard0 the credit cards you I '.
SatD8‘:“g’uZ1-°1°2‘:?’332(?2%”:i_40 deserve and need for— ID-BOOKS—DEPARTMENT I NAME I
mi & 986 p “-1 - F-M-id-Pd S'I‘ORES—TUlTlON—ENTERTAlNMENl‘— , 1
 W:.'a:g.Y._°*:.*s;;.'°._*%r';.*r:.:*.:::i*"S-..a - ADDRESS -
House Party 3 RI-:PAlRS.—AND T0 emu) YOUR CREDIT RATING! : CITY STATE _ZIP :
Daily 9:40 p.m. ated R
Sat. &Sun. 12:10, 2:05 &9:40 p.m. ‘ne "0 turn dmmsu I STUDENT? X§‘S"—’E9‘ SS’ IO
"-‘T ' | ' I
MI-s_ Doubt-"fa °“§I5s‘E“g§“£ No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE '
Dany 5;45 pm Rated pct. 13 “s‘|“.“‘_g 6:‘ No security deposit! mm Masterclrd tan registered tndenmk d’ uascacuu International. Inc. . 4' ;
Sat & sun 4:10 & 6:45 p_m_ Gggll“ 1 C‘ ‘ ‘  ‘v I was Is I registered tndenluk ofViSA USA. inc. and VISA lntrmttonal -
261 7292 " 3'5"” ""5 C0990" Tom‘! I MAIL mus No Risk coupon room '
" Youn cnemr CARDS ARE WAITING. | _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I
\aa75Bee_chAve.,BuenaVista ——-ucn-ucu-Q ‘

/ \
l’RINCll’l.l£S ' ' ‘ ‘ '

lllllt
llllil

Advance Your Career. Advance to Washington This Summer.

Spend this summer learning in the World’s most Maximize Your Career Potential with Special

UNFORTUNATEIX THIS IS WHERE
PEOPLE ARE PUTTING

stimulating city. The 1994 Summer Sessions at The summer Programs

George Washington University offer over 500 . Prevention of Terrorism . CW Madﬁd Centre
courses covering 60 different areas of study. Public Relations

0 Historical Archaeology

' . . . 0 History in the Media 0 Total Quality Management
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS E"'°" "'°-R°’°"‘°‘ °' "'° """°"" ‘W ° Sen &  Management in High“ Ed“Ca*‘°"
0 Located Just four blocks from the White Houseiand . Tropical Marine Biology 0 Information systems I‘
adjacent to the World Bank, GW’s campus 1S within 0 publication Institute 0 Legal Assistant Q

walking distance of the U.S. State Department, the 0 International Education; 0 Latin America: Cultural
Smithsonian, and many other prestigious institutions. Indonesia and Malaysia and Business E“ViF°T1m6m !

0 And Many More.’ 3
M99‘ “'9 M°"°" "ml "'9 5l'“l‘°" Choose from a Variety of Options
You’ll not only learn from The George Washington '11‘ G w I‘. U . .
University’s distinguished faculty, but will also meet a e. eorge as nah" mversﬂy
government and corporate leaders cabinet members Two mam 6-week sesslons: May 11 - June 22 and ‘

. ’ . . ’ June 27 - August 8. Plus sessions ranging from one-

heads of government agencies, Capitol Hill staffers, weekﬁe1dSessi0nst013_ k .
association directors, and corporate executives, who are . wee Semmam'
often seminar leaders, guest lecturers, and part-time F07 More lnl°"m‘m°nr Ther

money you don't send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference
in your quality oflife.

What else makes SRAs so special?
A range of allocation choices—from the
guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversified investment accounts of
CREF's variable annuity—all backed

by the nation's number one retirement

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes.They
don't take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAS.
SRAS not only case your current tax~
bite, they offer a remarkably easy way
to build retirement income—especially

for the ,.extraS., that your regular pension System. faculty. Opportunities for internships in prominent D.C. Call  e
and Social Security benefits may not Why write off the chance for a more Orgamzanons are also avallable‘ or mall or fax the S H .
cover. Because your contributions are rewarding retirement? Call today and V coupon below‘ HIV 1
made in before-tax dollars, you pay less learn more about how TlAA'CREF -31% ————————— --A —————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— -y_A_s.H_'_N.G_l.9.':_D_c _____ __
taxes now. And since all earnings on SRAS can help you enjoy many  Future Is in Washington  summef! Name D.0.B_
your SRA are tax—deferred as well, the happy returns. Please rush me the following information: Current Address

B i 1- 1 800_842_2733 _ 8016. Cl 1994 Summer Sessions Bulletin with course C} S 2-
_ i "wﬁt mwﬂmn tax deferral can our SKA but me ’ ext descriptions, special programs, Study Abroad I y tam lp .

A A programs, schedules, and registration information. Phone ( ed ‘ l
' Ensuring the future GW’s Year-round Undergraduate Programs Remm ‘ample’ arm '0.

The George Washington University, 1994- Summer Sessions
2121 Eye Street, NW, Washington, DC 20052
FAX (202)994-9133.

The George Washington University is an equal opportunity institution.

for those who shape it?‘ GW’s Year-round Graduate Programs

CREFrtr!ifia1It.r are 1}/.rIrz'i5u[:d by TI/l/I-CREF Int9ivf1}ua/ and In.r!i!uI1'ona/ StI‘Vft€J'. For mart camp/:1: infarnmliu/1, fnrludirn; r/)aI;z,'(.r um} z.rpm.r:.r,  Summer Sesslons Study Abroad Programs
call I 800-842-2753, mi. 80/6/‘or A prarpztliu. Read (6: pro!/JECIMJ mrtfu//y be/art yuu fill’!-fl 0" 1013 monry- / 1n 

DDCJ

0 I994 Tcacﬁenr In.rumIu'z and/innuily A.r.ma'a1fon/College Retirement  Fun).

* CN-SS-2/94

 

 

O
The Ring-tum Phi, March 4, 1994

L   REDTUCEPR

  

  Hams1‘eeter
Mgnusowlmcss

     
   
 

ICES

GWALTNEY
BIG 8
MEAT FRANKS

 
    
 

' ponsriz

GROUND
FRESH SEVERAL
9 TIMES DAILY 
0000000000000 0
E

  
 
  
 

   

" ‘i---".';... '.‘~"&-"§§.F.E<"i!'}..
LOW PRICES

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   

 rnasu 129

,_ I . CAIII.IELOWER.....EA.

1 FLORIDA 5 oo
ORANGES .... ..EACH

. 6 0 a , '
O «I
,.
. ‘I I’ I-
.
T ' I :.-’.II 
, . e »- ’ -, LEIIIICE ........ ..EACHO
.
.

 ~7;t?§f JUICY oo
    IONS ............. ...A‘§,5'I

   
  

‘I


. - ’~

     

 

E    GREAT VAIUE 1

DIET PEPSI OR

“;99

' WEEKLY SPECIAL

. IN THE DELI-BAKERY

PROVOLONE CHEESSE

- ORANGHE JUICE

 

WEEKLY SPECIAL

BUY ONE 6 OZ.

KEEBIER
O'BO|SES

AND GET ONE

r

ORIGINAL, SOUR CREAM 8. ONION & CHEDDAR

SUCED TO
ORDER

 

   

OSCAR MAYER 6 OZ. PKG.

PRESIDENT'S CHOICE SALE...SATISFACT|ON GUARANTEED
HEALTHY FAVORITES
' SANDWICH MEATS

149 IN THE DEU-BAKERY HAMBURGER OR
1 PLAIN

I 'ilé’£‘1"s".. .69

PEPPERONI

PAPPALO'$i ‘'99

OCEAN SPRAY RUBY RED

IN WATER CHUNK LIG T
STARKIST §/ 00 Jeaﬁirnulr

PIZZA 19.3 oz.
29
TUNA 12.5 oz. 2

Prices Effective Through March 8, I994

Prices In This Ad Eiieclive Wednesday, March 2 Through T gsda}/3 March 8 1994 In our Lexin on Stores
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Soll To ecilersi We Glodly Accept I'edero| ood Stdmps.

//

 .79

PAGE 11
GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
Standings as of 03/04/94
Washington and Lee
Team Records
F II
a Winter

Women’s Tennis A 3-0 Wrestling 3.2
Women’s Cross Country 3-1-0 W0men:S Swimmin 4-3
Men’s Cross Country 4-3-0 X/IV;’II1‘}E‘;3ESlS113£ftl):‘l’lt]I’a1 67_'16O
Water Polo 14'“ Men’s Swimming 2-3
Women’s Soccer 9-7-1

Volleyball 15—12—0 Overall 22-24
Men’s Soccer 5-13

Football 1-7 

Overall 54-54-1 Women’s Tennis 3-0

. Men’s Lacrosse 1-0
I993-94 Team Records M€I1’S Tennis 1-1
As of 03/04/94 Baseball 2-4-1
Overall 7-5-1
Fall, Winter & Spring 83-83-2

Sports Moment of the Week...

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Class of 1980 alumnus Ab Hammond gets a little exercise in the snow. Hammond
went cross-country skiing last night while the snow was at its heaviest. “These are
fabulous conditions,” Hammond said. “The snow is slick, fast and fun.” Hammond
skiied across most of the front campus before turning onto Lee Street toward the
post office. “I call it road Nordic,” Hammond said. Hammond said he recently
moved back to Lexington and is practicing orthodontry in town.

  

“Ike WM1euQ-’I2'm._.,..tum ‘FDR’.
/VV\a}ov General GVVGYA

e¢¢/"I977?/é’7t
%o/maﬁa JZ 3&1/nlv/‘m, Mccel
ﬁt:/elm
gzamz   /iarah
»./I/0/cwwoém

 eﬂli e%/we//92, mood cmmwgy

ﬂaw/am

%aw¢M0// 9? 9940/9 Jaalrefﬂall
gehua/cg

 
 
 
 

 oh% momma '

cTI~¢ /Vv\a}er Gevseral is ckesevx wxovxtkly Icy sarak Gilbert awi Keith Grant

1 medium 14" CHEESE & 2 TOPPING PIZZA
$6.49
WITH THIS COUPON
(8 slices)

01‘
2 Medium 14" CHEESE & 2 TOPPING PIZZAS
$11.99
WITH THIS COUPON
(16 slices)

30 Minute Delivery
10 Minute Pick-Up

I _ FRANK ’s PIZZA
,  463-7575

{OR MORE INFORMATION (nu
}%00—$62-HELP Hot & Cold Subs - Salads - Dinners - Beverages

.. ,sv—;;-_-_»‘,j.‘_,_;-_' Please mention this ad when calling in an order

I ...r

e we‘-

—('lEt’-‘ mucrl T \
Qa_.Ec,S.z s2e»z~»S€i?-
—r..::r o~«JK'= T“? Q9755 _

Us 5.45 wt-S LOST
, A Q,r.2‘roc~l .

— — — — — — — — — — — — — _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _...._4 

 

 

Last Week:

Track——Women 1st, Men 2nd at ODAC
Ba.se——Mary Washington 2-13, W&L 0-4
MLax—W&L 11, St. Mary’s 6
MTennis~—W&L 5, Guilford 4

        
  
 
 

_ brave .tsouijs. ar‘ secret;
rejoicing.for.theiiIt¢1§!.ﬁ
weather which mean
a choser:,;few,._  

 
      
    

j 8 cover’ th3_,tf .th‘ei17‘_°g2'}I't1.ei V
. been ,cat_rcele

 
  
   
     
        
 
          
 
    
 
   
       
      
 
   
     
   
   
     
     
   
   
     
      
    
 
     
      
   
 
     
    
   
 
     
    
 
 
    
    
     
    
  
           
        
 
         
     
  
      
     
 
     
    
 
 
  
       

   

 

S

@112 iﬂing-tum iﬁlri

PORTS

BASEBALL, INDOOR TRACK AND FIELD, LACROSSE, TENNIS

Photo by Amy Brown, special to the Phi

Freshman Stephanie Sterling clears a hurdle in the 55-m high hurdle race. Sterling's performance  the
hurdles Feb. 25 was just one highlight of the Generals’ fifth-consecutive indoor ODAC championship.

 

This Week:

Base——West Va. Tech 03/04
MLax——Hampden-Sydney, 03/05

  
 

Woe cpte fifth ODAC title

From Staff Reports

After five years, the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s track
team is still unofficial and still
unofficially the indoor champion
of the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference.

Though Lynchburg College
has topped W&L in the outdoor
championships for the past two
years, the Generals still managed
to pull out a victory, 152-132,

v and left Roanoke College, East-

ern Mennonite College and
Bridgewater College far behind.
Top performances in the meet
came from individual champi-
ons; senior Wendy Neel, 60-yard
dash, sophomore Amy Mears,
two-mile run, and freshman
Hollis Leddy, 440-yard dash. The
Generals’ mile (senior Amy
Brown, junior Kim Herring,
freshman Megan Hovda and
Leddy) and two-mile (freshmen
Heath Acuff, and Nat Messmore
junior Susan Deutsch, and) relay
teams were also champions.
Also checking in as top scorer
forthe Generals wasjunior Sarah
Gilbert, who scored in five events.

MARCH 4, 1994

    

Gilbert placed second in the9lig ~
and triple jumps, third in the
hurdles, fourth in the longjump
and ran a leg of the second-place"
4x1 10-yard relay team for a total.
of 28 points.
The men’s track team gar-
nered a second-place finisf be-
hind perennial champion
Lynchburg College.
Sophomore Dax Mahoney
once again led the Generals with
a win in the 440—yard dash and an
assist on the winning 4x110-yard
relay team. .q ,
These were the only fiist—plac
finishes forthe men; seniors Scot
Covey and John Robinson and
junior Hayne Hodges rounde
out the champion relay team. ‘
Second-place ﬁnishes cam
from junior Grant Cowell b th
880-yard run, junior Jame
Maberry in the shotput, sopho-
more Harris Morrison in the pol -
vault and the mile and two—mil
relay teams.
The Generals take a break thi ~
weekend before kicking o heir
outdoor season with two om

meets on consecutive weekends
culminating in the W&L lnvita
tional March 19.

  
  

  

    
   
   
  
      

     
      
     
    
 
 
    
 
 
      
 
 
 
    
 

     

   
  
  

    
   
  

  
   
  
  

    
 

Phi Staff Writer

By Ken}: GRANT

Thus, the team is expected to emphasize defense

more than in the past.
Coleman said her team’s strategy was concen-

    

    

  a.

 
 
     
  

a world of difference.

Coleman.

and seven assists.

goals she set in ’92.

In 1993, Washington and Lee’s women’s
lacrosse team proved that one second can make

Nicole Ripken’s famous last-second Liberty
Hall score in the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Championship sent the Generals to their
first National Collegiate Athletic Association
Tournament. This season, the women will have
to play knowing that each and every second their
opponents will be out to try to knock off the two-
time defending ODAC champions.

Nonetheless, some of the players believe
they can repeat last year’s dream season.

‘‘I think, given time, we can do just as well as
we always have done,” said junior Lindsay

Coleman, a two-year starter at center, will be
called upon to pick up much of the scoring load
lost with the graduation of 81-goal scorer Lisa
Dowling ’93. Coleman had 30 goals last season

Nonetheless, if the Generals are to three-
peat, it will likely be with considerably less
damage done to their opponents net.

With Dowling gone, the team loses W&L’s
all-time leader in goals (170), assists (60) and
points (230). Her record 81 goals last year nearly
doubled the school’s single-season mark of 45

trated on making up for graduation of key players.

“We’re really concentrating on having a strong

defense,” said Coleman. “That’s the best way to
compensate for the loss [of Dowling].”

The Generals return four defensive starters:

Niederer.

age of 7.59.

junior Sarah Aschenbach, junior Dana Cornell,
senior tri—captain Pauline Mita and junior Carrie

In addition, W&L has senior goalie Sarah Smith
back after a strong ’93 season of net-minding.
Smith, a tri—captain, posted a goals-against-aver-

This is not bad when your team averages 15
goals-per-game.

The biggest of Smith’s 131 saves came in the
final minute of the ODAC Final with Roanoke, a
save that sparked the Generals late charge that led
to Ripken’s goal. .

Returning with Ripken (37 goals) and Coleman
on offense is senior tri—captain Angie Carrington.
Carrington, who assisted on Ripken’s last-second
score versus Roanoke, netted 44 goals last season,

which was the third—highest single-season tally in

school history.

As the team, currently ranked eighth nationally
in Division III, prepares for the ’94 campaign, the
Roanoke Maroons are once again expected to be
their top competition.

The Generals have won three straight one-goal
games against their 1-8] rivals, all of which have

decided either the regular season or ODAC Tour-

nament Championship. The two schools are
scheduled to meet at the Liberty Hall Fields on
March 17. It will only be W&L’s second confer-

ence game of the season.

“l’d like to play them a little later in the
season, but it’s as early for them as it is for us,”

said Smith.

Getting in the way of the Generals’ prepara-
tion to defend their title has been (what else?)
the weather. Snow has kept the team mostly

indoors.

According to Smith, last Sunday was their
first outdoor practice on the field as a team.

“It’s been pretty chaotic, so far,” she said.
“We’re doing as much as we can.

The women’s season opens with two away
games, March 9 at Bridgewater and March 1 2 at
Salisbury State, before the Generals make their
Lexington debut against Roanoke.

The men, not to be out-done, have also gained

national respect.

Staying on top of the pack is always one of the
hardest tasks is sports, and a team that looses
four All-Americans can hardly be expected to
remain one of the best squads in the sport.

Washington and Lee’s men’s lacrosse squad
has done just that, winning their first game and
garnering a national ranking of ninth by the

USILA in Division III.

The Generals opened the season with a win
against St. Mary’s of Maryland. W&L trailed 3-
1 early before scoring five straight goals to take

control of the game.

According to coach James Stagnitta, the team

99

Lacrosse teams in top ten as ’94 season begins - 

was playing at about the right level.

“What happened Saturday was about what I
expected,” Stagnitta said.

ln the game Saturday, sophomore Russell Croft
led the Generals with three goals and two assiss.
Senior Colin Higgins also contributed three goals,
and senior goalie David Jones had 10 saves in his
first ever start. The Generals played well consid-
eringthey played without team leader Andy Dutton.

One of the strengths and weaknesses of this ;.
year’s W&L squad is its unusual youth, according

to Stagnitta.

this season.

Stagnitta said.

Assistant Sports Editor Stephen Williard also
contributed to this article. 0

“My sophomore class is about as strong.a
recruitingclass as we get,” said Stagnitta. “There’s
no substitute for experience.” . -

Seven of Washington and Lee’s 1 1 goals wer
scored by sophomores.

W&L has won 19 of its last 20 Old Dominion
Athletic Conference games. The Generals wereéo
have opened their conference season on Wedn s-
day in a game against Randolph-Macon, but the
game was postponed for obvious reasons.

The Generals are scheduled to play Hampden-
Sydney on Saturday, but that game, too is in
jeopardy due to weather.

Coach Stagnitta has high hopes for the te m

‘‘I expect to be competitive,” said the coach.
He was also optimistic about the improvement
of the team over the season.
“l hope we do [improve] ~— we have to,”

 
 
     
   
  

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

ln the spirit of Fancy Dress,
and the wonderful time that ev-
eryone is having (at least those
who don’t get arrested), 1 will
concentrate mostly on college
basketball this week.

While that might sound at first
like a random transition, con-
sider the facts. Soon after our
half-week of debauchery is
ended, every college basketball
conference in the land (except, of
course, the Pac Ten, who are just
weird) begins to play their con-
ference tournaments.

Both FD and college basket-
ball bring on wild celebrations. I
assure you that there were more
North Carolina students arrested
followingtheTime-out(Weber’s
blunder for the uninitiated) than
the worst FD your pitiful night-
mares can conjure up.

When was the last time some
crazed (insert favorite two or
three Greek letters here) threw
blue paint (pick a shade) all over
a helpless phone booth?

Also, both FD and college
basketball serve to remind us of
the wonderful upcoming spring
weather. March brings such
lovely weather to the Shenandoah
Valley every year.

In the same vein. the Final
Four always denotes the first
hurrah of spring at the end of the
dreary month of Mzfrch.

If I haven’t convinced you
thus far of the link between late
and post season college ball and
the wonderful world of FD, let

 

me give you one last compari-
son. The Duke-Carolina game
marks the true beginning of the
post season frenzy in the same
way as the Thursday night band
marks the beginning of FD (for
some). Following that is the At-
lantic Coast Conference touma-
ment, which, on a larger scale, is
comparable to the actual FD ball.
Finally, the NCAA tourna-
ment is a lot like the Saturday
night parties that close out FD.

Now, all the non-sports fans
who I told to read the column this
week can go back to their shel-
tered little worlds while I move
on to other topics, like the W&L
sidewalk skiing competition.

The candidate for game of the
week last week has to be the
Sweden—Canada Olympic ice
hockey game.

The Olympics, for all their
dreariness, managed to end on a
high note. The game went seven
shooters deep into the shoot-out
before Sweden won its first ever
hockey gold medal.

Back to college basketball,
for one score. The Duke Blue
Devils have overcome the loss of
All-America Bobby Hurley to
take the inside track for a number
one seed in the East Regional.

Now, only UNC and Mary-
land stand in their way. Duke
further secured their elite posi-
tion with their 88th consecutive
non-conference home victory
against the Temple Owls (just
for jollies, imagine how exciting
a Temple—Virginia basketball
game would be — like watching
paint dry.).

in the world of baseball (only
a month away, gliysl), the spring

Fancy Dress, March
Madness and Spring,

training speculation continues.
The Houston Astros, one of the
teams most affected by the in-
coming salary cap, have been
told that they can keep their ros-
ter intact to start the season.

The Astros have reason to give
thanks since they get to ﬁeld one‘:
of the strongest pitching staffs in J
the majors (second to Atlanta’s J
of course).

Parting Shots -

I just thought I would share t
with everyone the simple fact
that all should watch the Duke
vs. UNC basketball game.

Hats off to Oksana Bayul for
two reasons. First, she has an
incredible name. Second, she
proved to the world that there
were other country’s skaters
present at the games.

By the way, wasn’t there some

girl named Harding involved in ‘

the competition?

The Olympics have dedicated ‘

a new sport for the upcoming ’96
summer games: coach boxing.
Selected to take part in the trial
exhibition are John Chaney, John
Calipari, Buddy Ryan, and who-
ever that other Oilers coach was.

Fortunately forNASCAR, the
Daytona 500 is a thing of the
past. The good ole southern sport
isn’t doing too well lately.

There is something inherently
wrong with a sport that has people
making bets on who lives through
the season.

Finally, I leave everyone with
the wish for better weather, be-
cause it’s hard to play much of
anything in the way of sports
with mounds of freezing stuff
coming down around one’s head.
For cryingout loud, this is March!

. .»

 

Photo by Betsy Green, Ring’-tum if

  

A member of the W&L baseball team bats at the now-snow-covered Smith fiel

iBaseball suffers from snow’

Bv STEPHAN WJLLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

l
i Playing any sport can be made
I impossible by inclement weather
conditions, asthe Washington and
Lee baseball team found out this
‘ past week.

The Generalsenteredtheweek
with a 2-4-1 overall record and
have been stuck on that mark as
gameafter game has been snowed
out. Coach Mervin Stickly said
the layoff would not be as bad as
last year’s blizzard.

“We’re just going to try and
make them up. Last year it hit us
in conference games,” said
Stickley.

Prior to the layoff, the W&L
squad lost a twin bill to Mary
Washington. In the first game,
the Generals managed to scratch
out only one hit while Matt
Ermigotti and Rob Boston held

   

the Mary Washington offense to
just two unearned runs in the
game. In the second game, the
Generals committed five errors
as Mary Washington tallied 13
runs to defeat W&L 13-4.

According to coach Stickley,
the Generals are on target as far
as the season goes though,
“We’re certainly ahead of last
year. By the end of the season
we should be pretty good.”

The stars for the Generals so
far this season have been Bates
Brown on offense and Graig
Fantuzzi and Matt Ermigotti on
the mound. Brown has struck for
nine hits in his first 22 at bats
while Fantuzzi and Ermigotti
have both of W&L’s victories
and 11 strikeouts a piece.

Stickley said the team, “still
has some things to work out de-
fensively.”

Also, as a team, the Generals
are batting .180 on the season.

  

  

Stickley thinks that the team wil
improve as the season move
along, however, “we’re lookin,
at improving over last yea; an
improving this year.”

The Generals should be aide
by the return of junior co-captai,
Duane Van Arsdale. ‘

VanArsdaleplayedin hisfi »'
two games of the year again‘
Mary Washington after m'§sin
the first five games with a shou
der injury. Strikingly, one C
W&L’s most potent hitters thu
far has been pitcher Mat
Ermigotti with four hits in hi
first 13 at bats.

While W&L’s schedule p '
off due to the bad weather, th
team will have a chance to wor‘
out together and get used to eac
other. Having only one senior o
the team hurts in the area of e)
perience, but the only thing th: ‘'
will remedy that will be gam
experience.

   
   
 
  
 
  

  

   
  

     

     
  

 

 
  
  
 
   

   
 
 
 
 

 
    

 

.tlF'«l'v‘.E6 G. I.E‘r’.‘.'s‘ WEN t, :‘r/2-2 
INNS} lil‘tCl-l“C' ‘
LE)’.lNCi ll.-‘N. VA 

P-I

 
 

  

' ‘. as u-:»t,r..»>:»z dig." 

 

Bridging the (lap

MAR E ' 19919

Campus groups hope to improve race

relations with Boiler Room partu 3

\X/omeh’s LAX ahhihilates

the Competition

 

. Cline Ring-tum lﬂlti

VOLUME 93, NO. 22

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 11, 1994

Students’ rooms burglarized

By MICHELLE BRIEN
O Phi News Editor

Freshman Jay Taggart found his room in
shambles and many of his belongings stolen
when he returned from an out—of-town trip last
weekend.

Taggart, who lives in room 127 of Graham-
Lws dormitory, reported Saturday that his lap-
top computer, stereo equipment and CD changer
were stolen from his room, and his amplifier
and graphic equalizer had been vandalized.

Washington and Lee Director of Security
Michael Young said the stolen and damaged
items totaled more than $2,000.

V omeone entered Taggart’s room again on
M nday, Young said. Taggart’s clothing had
been removed from the closet and thrown around
the room.

Young said on Tuesday that a re—examina-
tion of the room turned up 20 to 25 damaged or
broken CD5. Young did not know if the damage

had been done during one of the previous en-
trances to the room or if someone had entered
Taggart’s room a third time. _

“My feeling is that someone within this
campus community knows who’s responsible,”
Young said. “I don’t believe it’s local thieves.
Anyone who saw anything unusual in or around
that room, I ask them to come forward.”

Young said Security has no suspects in the
break-ins as of yet. Young speculated that the
vandals came in through Taggart’s door. Al-
though Taggart’s room is on the first floor,
Young said it was “not likely” the vandals
entered through the window.

The first break-in occurred between 2 p.m.
and 4:30 p.m. on Friday, according to Young.
The Monday break-in occurred between 5:30
p.m. and 6:30 p.m., during the eating hours at
the dining hall.

“This is obviously directed at Jay,” said a
freshman who asked not to be identified be-
cause of possible retaliation against him from

#53? 

§ .

#4!

the perpetrators of the break-in. “It’s happened
twice already in broad daylight. It disgusts me.
I wish they’d leave him the hell alone.”

The freshman also said some ofthe damage
done to the room appeared to be a methodical
sort of destruction, not simply a trash and run
break-in.

“It took some time,” he said. “The CDs were
not just scratched, but scratched with a distinct
pattern.”

“I can understand how they probably got
away with it——— it happened in the afternoon. He
was out of town. Somehow they knew when
he’s not there. [It happened Monday] during
dinner time. They knew he would be away.” he
said.

Taggart could not be reached for comment
after several messages were left on his answer-
ing machine and with his friends.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard said
police are working with security on the case. He
said the police have no leads in the case.

“This hasn’t been the best year for him,” the
freshman who wished to remain anonymous
said. “On top of all that, this pesky stuff, too.
It’s ridiculous.”

The freshman referred to Taggart’s involve-
ment in the Phi Gamma Delta hazing case
earlier this year. The report which Dean Of
Freshman and Residence Life Dennis Manning
made to the Student Affairs Committee and
which ultimately led to FIJl’s suspension was
based on a conversation between Manning and
Taggart.

Young said anyone with information about
the break-ins could make a report in the security
office in the Graham-Lees dorm, or could call
security at 462-8999.

“This is the kind ofstuffthat simply doesn’t
happen at Washington and Lee,” Young said.

There was also a theft in Gaines Hall during
the Fancy Dress weekend.

One hundred fifty dollars in cash was stolen
from Gaines Suite I44.

Sophomore Stephanie DallVechia said the
money was taken from her purse, which she left
in her room while she was at the Fancy Dress
Ball Friday night. DallVechia said no one was
in the suite and the door was unlocked at the
time of the theft.

Young and Beard said police and security
have no suspects.

“I lock my door now,” said DallVechia.

Also in police stories, 11 W&L students
were arrested during Fancy Dress weekend,
most for alcohol related offenses such as under-
age possession of alcohol and drunkenness in
public.

Beard said he thought the weekend went
well overall. ,

“Eleven arrests is about normal for FD week-
end. I’d like to see it lower, but all in all it was
a good weekend.”

Young agreed. -

‘‘I didn’t see the amount of staggering, fall-
ing down drunks [that I usually do at FD].”

 

Photo by W. Patrick Hinely, special to the Phi

ﬁt‘

Ballgoers dance to the music of the B0 Thorpe Orchestra at this year’s Fancy Dress. The “Magical Carpet Ride” theme was
accentuated by belly dancers, a live camel and a gymful of decorations, including a ﬂying carpet hanging from the gym ceiling.

FD experiences revenue loss

 

  Revisions
submitted

By THOMAS HESPOS
Phi Executive Editor

The White Book Review
Committee Monday submitted its
proposed list of White Book re-
visions to the Executive Com-

-- mittee of the Student Body.

“The changes we are propos-
ing reﬂect our attempt to make
the Honor System more acces-
sible and more easily under-
stood,” said White Book Com-
mittee Chairman Ames Hutton
in a letter to the EC and the stu-
dent body.

“We’vefrnished ourdelibera-
tions as a committee,” said
Hutton.

Hutton said the WBRC will
meet with the EC on Monday
after the EC’s regular meeting
and possibly on Tuesday and
Wednesday to “discuss, debate,
argue... and try to sell [the revi-
sions] to the EC.”

Hutton’s letter was accompa- ‘

nied by several proposed changes
to the White Book, including a
solution to the problem of EC
investigators voting on the guilt
or innocence of a suspect in an
honor trial. The revisions also

allow for the EC to refer certain
incidents to “other disciplinary
bodies,” including the Student
Conduct Committee and the Stu-
dent-Faculty Hearing Board.

The make-up of the investi-
gative team that looks into pos-
sible honor violations is also a
proposed change. The WBRC
suggested that the team, previ-
ously comprising two members
of the EC and a member of the
-student body, be made up of one
member of the EC, an honor ad-
vocate and a student.

“The Executive Committee
member serving as investigator
shall not be counted towards this
quorum and shall not vote in sub-
sequent proceedings,” stated the
suggested revisions to Section I,
paragraph B.

Junior EC Representative and
Vice President-elect Alex Cross
said he agreed with this revision.
Cross said under the present sys-
tem, the EC members are told to
be fair and impartial in their fact-
finding during an investigation.
If EC members are supposed to
be impartial, he asked “How can
you make someone on the EC a
‘prosecutor?”’

Cross commended the WBRC
on their efforts.

“There’s a lot of really good
proposals,” he said. “I commend
them on a really good and thor-
ough job.”

Additionally, the honor advo-

i>See WBRC, page 4

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer
radition is a way of life at

Washington and Lee and Fancy

Dress weekend is probably the
ultimate tradition at the school.»

Last weekend marked the 87th
anniversary of the renowned
event. The theme for the occa-
si was “A Magical Carpet
Ride” and the ball held to that
theme in every possible manner.
A live camel, belly dancers, the
Marshall Tucker Band, and a
$76,000 budget were pan of the
extravaganza.

Because of the same inclem-

ent weather that suspended ath-
letic events for a week, the Fancy
Dress sales did not match what
was originally expected. FD au-
ditor Julie Townsend estimated
the losses will be $6,000 to
$10,000.

“We could be $3,000 under
budget and still not make up for
the revenue loss,” said Townsend.

To make up for the loss, op-
tions are being considered to cre-
ate extra revenue. The
committeee is trying to work out
a deal to sell extra T-shirts back
to the manufacturer as well as to
the W&L community in front of
the Co-op. .

“We felt good about this FD;
we’ve gotten a lot of positive
feedback,” added Townsend.

Work on Fancy Dress began
long before the actual event took
place. Actual construction began
as early as January 29 off-cam-
pus where many of the large items
were built. Work continued for
about a week and a halfon things
such as risers, flats, and other
items that had to be'mass pro-
duced.

The construction committee,
composed of Sub-Chairman Joe
Framptom, Leo Decanini, Jarrod
Aldom, Tory Noto, and Doug
Burns, was responsible for most

of the decorations at the ball.

“We worked afternoons and
some evenings every day, and on
weekends, we worked all day,”
Framptom said.

This year’s ball surpassed its
predecessor in amount of con-
struction, according to
Framptom.

“This year we had about a
third more construction,”
Framptom said. “We had more
to do; we just got it done faster
for some reason.”

“I was pretty pleased with the
way it went; it went pretty
smoothly,” Framptom added.

Forthose wondering aboutthe

$4,000 for “stumps” which was
listed in the playbill, Framptom
said Stumps is a company that
sellsdecorative paper, cardboard,
mylar, and other supplies.
Theweekend offestivitiesthat
accompanies the ball began for
some on Wednesday evening and
continued in some cases until
Sunday. According to the Lex-
ington Police, the weekend was
relatively quiet compared to past
“I’ve been involved in 25 FDS
and I tell them [the officers] each
year it gets better, but I swear I
think this one was the best one

H->See FD, page 4

By THOMAS HESPOS
6 Phi News Editor

The results of this year’s Big Four
elections are in.

Washington and Lee’s next President
of the Student Body and Executive Com-
mittee President will be Kevin Webb, ’88,
’95L. ’

‘I ’m looking forward to implementing
the changes that come from the White
Book review process,” said Webb. ‘‘I’m
also looking forward to working with the
new dean of the law school regarding how
the Honor System is perceived by the law
students and the faculty and seeing if we
cat improve on that.”

Webb said future goals of his presi-
dency include dropping the
controversial speaker fund,
maintaining the EC’s non-
partisan funding policy and
improving on the Honor
System orientation.

‘‘I’m also hoping to en-
courage some commentary
on EC decisions so that they
most reﬂect the desires of
the student body as a
whole,” he said.

Webb received 619
votesforpresident. Reuben
Munger received 236
votes, while Carol Pierce,

who dropped out of the race at the last I

 

minute, received 76. In a level.”
letter to the student body,
Pierce cited “many per-
sonal misgivings” as her
reason for departing from
the race.

“Over the past two
years, I have valued my
terms on the EC gaining
an appreciation for the
Honor Code and an es-
teem for other campus
leaders,” stated Pierce in
her letter. “Having spent

Candidates with experience dominate

continue my involvement on a higher

Pierce concluded her letter with an
endorsement for Webb.

“Best of luck to Kevin. I know he will
make an excellent leader of the student
body,” stated Pierce’s letter.

CurrcntJuniorECRepresentativeAlex
Cross won the race for Vice President
with 532 votes.
Joseph, received 423.

Cross said he would like to have a
retreat at Skylark, the university-owned
retreat, with next year’s committee to
discuss the budget.

His opponent, Curtis

my time there, a large part
of me would have liked to

bSee BIG FOUR, page 4

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

John McCardell, Jr. ’71 gives his convocation speech.

PBK snags 49

By MICHAEL HEwLErr
Phi Staff Writer

On March 10 at 12:15 p.m.,
29 seniors and I2 juniors were
initiated into Phi Beta Kappa.

The Sophomore Award for
the highest GPA in the past four
terms went to Graig Fantuzzi,
who currently has a GPA of4.28.
The Edward Penny Prize went to
seniors Benjamin Eggleston and
Matthew Jackson.

W&L alumnus John
McCardell, Jr. ’71, president of
Middlebury College and a re-
ported nominee for president of
the university, gave the convoca-
tion speech. Hetitled hisspeech,
“Vis Nova”, which means “new
force” in Latin. He took his title
from Vis Nova.‘ The Education of
Henry Adams, which he de-
scribed as a chronicle of a life-

|I>See PBK, page 4

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World 

Palestinians riot at compound

Palestinians threw stones at Jews in a Hebrew compound
in the same city where a Jewish man shot worshippers in a
mosque two weeks ago. Soldiers attempted to subdue the
Palestinians with tear gas and rubber bullets. The outburst
began after a curfew that was placed after the mosque killings
was lifted for two hours. The army lifted the curfew to allow
Palestinians to buy food.

The Nation

White House aides, Treasury
officials subpoenaed

    

White House aides and Treasury officials have been sub-
poenaed by a grand jury investigating the Whitewater affair.
The White House turned over a stack of documents related to
the incident. The grand jury is investigating the Clintons’
investment in the Arkansas land development and its rela-
tions to a failed savings and loan. In a related poll, more than
60 percent of those polled believe President Clinton has done
something illegal or unethical related to the Whitewater
affair. -

Accused spies’ assets frozen

Alleged spy Aldrich Ames and his wife R_os_ario_ are fight-
ing the government seizure of their $2.2 million in ‘alleged
spying payoffs from Russia. The Ames are claiming severe
hardship” and the dependence of their son in an attempt to
keep the money. Both are fighting charges of selling national
secrets to the Soviet Union. ‘

Mary J 0, I’m coming home

Mary J o Buttafuoco is planning a celebration for her
husband Joey’s release from jail on March 23. On the night
following Buttafuoco’s release, the Buttafuocos will host a
party for 200 guests including talk radio host Howard Stern.
Buttafuoco, who received a six-month sentence for having
sex with minor Amy Fisher, also plans a charity boxing
match with Geraldo Rivera.

Tobacco industry workers
protest cigarette tax

More than 16,000 tobacco industry workers marched from
the White House to the Capitol to protest President Clinton’s
proposal to triple the cigarette tax. Clinton has proposed his‘
tax hike to help finance his health care plan. The tobacco
industry says the rise will depress sales, costing the tobacco
industry up to 275,000 jobs. According to the Tobacco
Action Coalition, southern states will be hit 3.5 times harder
than the rest of the nation.

Cigarettes to become part
of schools’ war on drugs

The United States House of Representatives voted Wednes-
day to add cigarettes to the list of drugs that schools combat
in drug-education programs. Supporters of the amendment
said children should be educated on the dangers of tobacco as
well as alcohol and narcotics.

John Candy dies at 43

Comic actor John Candy was found dead Friday on a
movie set. Candy began his career in Second City, a Chicago
based comedy troupe. He went on to star in TV shows and
movies such as “Uncle Buck,” “Planes, Trains & Automo-
biles” and “Only The Lonely.” Candy died of a heart attack.
He was 43.

The State

Lt. Governor’s mansion
damaged by fire

A fire that broke out Wednesday caused $30,000 in dam-
age to the home of Lieutenant Governor Donald Beyer. No
one was injured in the fire, which started in a kitchen on the
second ﬂoor. -

Proposed interstate may pass
through Roanoke

The Virginia Department of Transportation is recom-
mending two options for a proposed interstate that would
run through southwest Virginia. The highway would either
follow Interstate 77 through Wytheville or create a new
route through Blacksburg, Roanoke, and Martinsville.

 

 
 

 

Duvall returns to classes

he has heard about meningitis fatalities, “even joint

By HILLARY OLSON

_ . pains aren’t bad,” he said.
Phz Staff Writer

Junior Tyler Duvall returned to campus last
week, after he was released from treatment for a
sudden development of a meningococcal infection
in early February. 0

Duvall said his ﬁrst year at Washington and Lee
since transferring from Colby College in Maine-
has “made me appreciate my health much more.
l’ve heard horrible stories about people with men-
ingitis, and so my minor pains seem like nothing.”

Duvall dropped two classes and is now taking
two. He said he probably will not need to. go to
summer school because he was three credits ahead
at Colby. _ —

He said his recovery will be slow, but his only
real pain is a swelling in his joints typical of the

after-effects of the illness. Considering the stories measures seemed like nothing,” he said.

 

Duvall said he remembers being a little scared
when he was carried to the University of Virginia
hospital after being diagnosed by the inﬁrrnary. He
said the helicopter was very small and he was strapped
in. ‘‘I didn’t really realize how serious it was,” he said.

Duvall’s parents, who live in Baltimore, MD, ar-
rived at the hospital a few hours after his arrival, and
Duvall said he was not alone in the hospital for too
long. Duvall said his parents were at ﬁrst told more
than he was told about the seriousness of his condition.

The attention he received at the hospital was reas-
suring, he said. Immediately after he arrived, eight
people were with him in Intensive Care. Duvall later year.
found out the UVa. hospital only treats about one or
two cases of meningitis a year. He said he did not mind
any of the painful treatments first administered.

“l was in so much pain anyway, the medicinal

   
 
  
    
   
  
   
 
     
  
      
   
  
  
   
   

The Rin -tum Phi

a feeding tube down my nose.”
That hurt the most, he said.

member before his illness.

loss.”

By KATHLEEN Qumx
Phi Staff Writer

nitely.

Chapel.

    

Photo by Joe Famptom, The Ring-tum Phi
The Capital Campaign’s boost was touted above the Co-op.

Campaign grows

The hardest part now, said Sessoms,
will be raising the last $27 million by
1995.

That $127 million will serve long-
term puposes for the security of the
university’s future.

The three components of the Cam-
paign are the Academic Program, the
Building Program, and the Annual Fund
Program. The Academic Program rep‘-
resents 61 percent of the $127 million.

Goals of the Academic Program
include strengthening W&L’s teach-
ing faculty, reinforcing the academic
program, funding additional student
scholarships, endowing the university ’s
libraries, and supporting the computer
center.

Goals of the Building Program in-
clude renovations on athletic ﬁelds,
the science wing, the Powell Papers
addition to Lewis Hall, and the frater-
nity Renaissance Piogram.

regiment.

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Since 1990, Washington and Lee
has been giving extra credence to its
motto, non in cautus futuri.

Not unmindful of the future, W&L
launched its Capital Campaign in 1990,
one of “the most ambitious projects
ever undertaken by the university,”
according to Dick Sessoms, Director
of Major Gifts.

After a two-year self study, the uni-
versity decided to try to raise the $127
million by June 30, 1995. The Capital
Campaign was launched in 1990 and
made public since 1992.

At last count, W&L had raised just
over $100 million, from a previous $87
million.

The boost did not come from one
particular source, said Sessoms, but
rather from a number of donors.

Concert to
benefit  
AmFar

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

On Wednesday, March 16, at 7 p.m.
there will be an AIDS beneﬁt concert
in Keller Theatre at the Lenfest Center.

The three a capella singing groups,
Jubibee, General Admission and South-
ern Comfort will perform, in addition
to a solo performance by senior Lyrae
Van Clief.

Senior Meriwether Nichols, a mem-
ber of the AIDS Education Project and
of JubiLee, organized the event.

“I wanted to do something to help
and because I’m a singer, getting the a
capella groups together seemed like
the perfect idea,” said Nichols.

Donations are being requested and The General’s Headquarters, located in the University
will go to AmFar, the American Fund Center, is now serving breakfast from 8:30 a.m. to 1 1:00 a.m.
for AIDS relief. AmFar’s president, in addition to its normal lunch hours.

Mervyn Silverman, is a 1960 Wash- “People wandering through the building would always
ington and Lee graduate. come by for a cup of coffee. Sometimes we gave it to them

Nichols said she hopes the beneﬁt for free. Other times we had to turn them away. We eventu-
will become “an annual event” and ally decided to open for breakfast because there would be no

ﬂags.

them.

said Peniston.

regiments came.

 

By YABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Writer

“will get students involved with AIDS additional labor costs,” said Jerry Darrell, head of Food _

relief and research in a way they feel Services.

comfortable.” “The GHQ used to be open for dinner, but there was not
Patrick McDermott,president of the enough revenue coming in. We were not covering our

AIDS Education Project, said Nichols expenses. As a result, we closed the GHQ for dinner and

had a “fz;nQstic idea.” extend the Co-op’s hours for any students needing dinner,”

The changing of the eight original
Confederate ﬂags hanging in Lee
Chapel has been postponed indeﬁ-

The ﬂags have hung over the statue
of General Robert E. Lee since No-
vember, 1930, when the Virginia divi-
sion of the United Daughters of the
Confederacy placed them in Lee

“Some of them date to 1861,” said
Captain Robert C. Peniston, director of
Lee Chapel. “They’ve been through a
lot—shot and shelled, carried in battle,
captured by Union Armies,” he said.

“Every one of them was carried in.
battle by the regiments of the Army of
Northern Virginia —— that’s General
Lee’s army — a ﬁrst—class ﬁghting
outfit,” Peniston said.

Peniston added that Congress
awarded two Medals of Honor for the
capture of these ﬂags, one to George
Armstrong Custer of a West Virginia their

_ Festival Flags of Richmond has
made replacements for the original

“They have a very ﬁne reputa-
tion,” said Peniston. “They can match
the colorof the originals,but of course
they can’tmatch the materi al,” of the
originals, which were hand-stitched
from wool*and cotton, probably by
the wives of the soldiers who carried

“They were the labors of love,”

The UDC received the ﬂags on
loan from the Museum of the Confed-
eracy in Richmond. According to
Peniston, in 1906, the federal govern-
ment made captured Civil War ﬂags
available to the states from which the

The ﬂags in Lee Chapel went to
the Confederate Memorial Literary
Society, which is today the Museum
of the Confederac

on the loaned ﬂags.

“We saw that their condition ha
deteriorated,” said Reed. “In the cur-
rent way they are displayed, the flag
need to ‘be removed, stabilized, and
conserved. Afterthat, we’ll seewhethe
all the ﬂags come back to Washington
and Lee. We need to keep in mind

what’s best for the ﬂag.”

year. ”

tion.”

them erode.”

originally
Board of Trustees.

in Richmond.

Students enjoy lunch in the GHQ, which has recently begun serving breakfast.

GHQ serves breakfast

said Darrell. “This year being open only for lunch, rewn
is still short. Business is great from twelve to one, but the
it dies down. The incentives we were offering after one we
not increasing revenues by the needed 30 percent margin

he said.

‘‘I am presently working with Dean of Students Davi
Howison on a Gaines Hall Plan for next year where Gaine:
residents could eat dinner at the GHQ three times a
We are also thinking about having a special dea fo
sororities and promoting individual sorority nights,” adde

Darrell.

One student said she had no idea the GHQ was i‘

financial trouble.

“I used to go to the GHQ for dinner frequently last yea‘
and was shocked to learn they were losing money.”
“They should reopen for dinner, but I do not lik3 th

idea of an exclusive sorority night,” she said.

""1"!" Iﬁﬁt}

Lip Sync

5' ‘¥°'\43*~ 3 .5

      
 

FROM STAFF REPORTS

     

' prizes.
Photo courtesy of Publications Office

Lip Synch is a fun event that raises money for charity.

Washington and Lee University’s
eighth annual “Lip Sync” contest raised
a net total of $2,500 this year, most of
which was donated to Rockbridge Area
Relief Association, or RARA. Of the
total money raised, $1,700 was con-
tributed to RARA and the remaining
amount was given to the National
Multiple Sclerosis Society. ary

Twenty-ﬁve acts entered the con-
test this year. The top three groups won

Sigma Phi Epsilon took ﬁrst place
this year, regaining the top spot. Sig-

’80s, “Celebration.”

by 95 South.

Provanzana, ’95.

“I was so glad to see them,” he said.
The team marked its shoes with Duvall’s number
in support of him, and he said he was touched by their
concern. They visited a second time more subdued,
he said, “because they were coming home from a hard
I

Duvall was given a typically painful spinal tap, but
he said thing he remembers most was when “they put

After his condition stabilized, he received a visit
from the men’s basketball team, of which he viﬁis a

Duvall said he plans to play forthe team again next '

“l was skinny before, but I’m really skinny now,”
Duvall said. He has not gone out much, he said,
“because I get tired every night at around 11:”

He did have a few beers a few nights ago, he
admitted, and “my tolerance has probably gone dime.”

Flags to stay

Plans to conserve delayed

The flags went from there to the
UDC, who gave them to Lee Chapel.
According to Robin Reed, execu-
tive director of the Museum of the
Confederacy, the question of changing
the ﬂags stems from a periodic check
I

“The ﬁrst thing we need to do is to
stabilize the ﬂags,” said Reed. “That
means they’ll have to stay in a state of
rest — lying down ﬂat — for about .

“During that time, we’ll briug i
professional conservators who will he] s
us evaluate the ﬂags’ conditions an
suggest a program for their preserva

“As far as their coming back t
Washington and Lee,that’s mostly i
[W&L’s] hands. We’lb b
meeting with them over the next yea
to discuss the future of the ﬂags.”

The trouble with leaving the ﬂag
where they have been these past 6
years is that they are decaying. ‘

“Of course, the way they’re dis
played now is most appealing,”.sai
Peniston, “but it’s irresponsible to le

Stress to the ﬂags includes hang
ing on the poles under their ow
weight, the ﬂuorescent lights shining
on them, and temperature and humid
ity changes, said Peniston.

Before 1963, Lee Chapel had n
air conditioning, said Peniston.

The removal of the ﬂags wa
delayed by the W&
The Trustee
intervened when they read in aloca
paper that the ﬂags would be re

Trustees have asked that t e re
moval be delayed until the owner
ship of the ﬂags can be fu

rocks in money for RARA    

Ep pledges performed thier renditioi
of Koo] and the Gang’s hit of the garl_

The Minority Students Associatio
walked away with second prize fo
their lip synch of “Whoot, there it is!’

Chi Omega sorority came up wit
third place for their highly chqeo
graphed lip synch of “If” by Janet Jack
son. The contest was held in late Janu

Members of the committee are Di
rector of Food Service Jerry Darrel
Kit Dodds, ’95, Lawson Brice, ’95
John Turner, ’95, and Chair Bet

ved

lly trace o‘

eek

arch 11 199

 

 
 
  
   
 
    
   
    
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
    
    
  
 
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
     
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
     
     
    

     
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
      
  
  
      
   
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
    
  
    
  
        
  

V.

     
       

   

   
     
      
     
         
     
       
   
     

    

The Ring-tum Phi. March 11. 1994

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Two Washington and Lee Uni-
versity professors have received
Outstanding Faculty Awards from
the State Council of Higher Educa-

-W&L profs
Qreceive honor

She is also the founder and direc-
tor of Sonoklect, an annual festival
of new music at W&L.

Brouwer holds a Doctor of Mu-
sic from Indiana University, Master
of Music from Michigan State, and

Faculty Awards program is one way
in which Virginia recognizes excel-
lent teaching, research, and public

0 service being performed by faculty

in Virginia colleges and universi-
ties. In addition to the prestige of the
award, each recipient receives a
prize of $5,000 and a crystal sculp-
ture specially commissioned for the
program.

Brouwer, who joined the W&L
faculty in 1988, teaches music com-
pdsition, theory, 20th century mu-
sic, and violin. Her award-winning
compositions have been recorded
by Centaur and Crystal Records and
have been performed by numerous
music ensembles and orchestras,
including the Roanoke Symphony
Orchestra. Brouwer also composed
the music to the Washington and
Lee Hymn in 1990.

From 1970 to 1984, Brouwer
was associated with the Dallas Sym-
phony and the Fort Worth Opera
Orchestra. She was also working on
her doctorate during this period.

She also served as concertmistressv
of the University-Rockbridge Sym-. .

phony Orchestra.

 

Q tion. Marg- a Bachelor of
aret L. Music from
Brouwer, Oberlin Con-
associate :1‘>1’V_3t0TY Of
professorof “SIC-
music, and M_9Th€ﬂl_3
Andrew W. received his

. McThenia, Bachelor of

‘ Jr., profes— 15-Cieﬂge and
sor of law, aw egrecs
are among from W&L.
11 faculty After private
m e m b e r s , practiceﬁof law
s e l e ct e d in Washington,
from 70 D.C., from

0 nominees, 1963 to 1967,
who were he j0lIl€d the
honoredata faculty at the
special W&L school
awards cer- of law in 1967
emony in and has beena
Richmond professor of

‘ onTuesday, lawsince1973.
March 8. In addition to

The Out- Brouwer “aching in the
s t a n d i n g areas of legis-

lation, McThenia directs the Mental
Disabilities Clinic, a legal practice
clinical program in which students
provide civil representation to pa-
tients in a state psychiatric hospital.

McThenia has also taught a semi-
nar on black lung legislation, one of
several courses developed to expose
future attorneys and legislators to
people who have been traditionally
left out of America’s legal system.
In the areas of scholarship, he has
written numerous articles 0n civil
disobedience and legal narratives
and, most recently, a collection of
essays on William Stringfellow, a
white American attorney and writer
who practiced law in East Harlem
and inﬂuenced a generation of
Americans working for social
change.

Other W&L teachers who have
previously received Outstanding
Faculty Awards include Philip Cline,
professor of administration and eco-
nomics; Leonard Jarrard, professor
of psychology; Brian Murchison,
professor of law; Sidney Coulling,

professor of.English; and Edgar W.

Spencer, professor of geology.

0 I994 Eacbmr luumnt: am?/1 nnuity A.r.i-ocialion/Ca/leg: Retirement E4u£liz.r Fund.

 

Chavis to speak at W&L

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Dr. Benjamin Chavis, J r., executive
director and chief executive officer of
the National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People
(NAACP), will speak at Washington
and Lee University on Wednesday,
March 16, at 7:30 p.m. in the
university’s Lee Chapel.

The title of Chavis’ speech is “An
Evaluation of the Clinton Administra-
tion on Civil Rights and Urban Policy.”
The speech, which is open to the pub-
lic, is sponsored by Contact, the Mi-
nority Students Association, the Black
Law Students Association, the W&L
chapter of the ACLU and the depart-

ment of politics.

An ordained minister of the United
Church of Christ,
Chavis received his
B.A. from the Uni-
versity of North
Carolina and his
M.Div. from Duke
University. He has
completed course
requirements for a
Ph.D. in systematic
theology at Union
Theological Semi-
nary in New York
City. The 45-year-
old Chavis was
elected head of the
NAACP in April,

 

1993, becoming the youngest execu-
tive director ever of the 85-year-old

organization. Prior to
his appointment, Chavis
was the executive direc-
torand CEOofthe Com-
mission for Racial Jus-
tice of the 1.7 million-
member United Church
of Christ.

Chavis developed his
leadership skills when,
in the 1960s, as a student
and labor activist, he
worked with the
NAACP, the Congress
on Racial Equality
(CORE), the Southern
Christian Leadership

Conference (SCLC), and the Ameri-
can Federation of State, County and
Municipal Employees (AFSCME) on
issues ranging from institutionalized
racism to labor issues.

As a member of the “Wilmington
Ten,” Chavis was jailed for over four
years in North Carolina when he was
convicted in a case growing out of a
civil rights demonstration on the issue
of school desegregation. In I980, the
U.S. Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals
overturned the conviction and he was
freed.

In the succeeding years, Chavis es-
tablished a reputation as a civil and
human rights leader. He is the author
of two books and a weekly syndicated
news column, “Civil Rights Journal.”

ey. . .Wait for !

   

Photo by David Wiiiningtonjspecial to The Ring-mm Phi

A lone dancer on the floor at the Fancy Dress Ball quickly slides across the floor in  attempt to catch the hired
belly dancers. Once again, the B0 Thorpe Orchestra entertained, t‘l1e:Fan g T _ g V
ballroom dancing music for thoseattending “A4M.agical Caritélt’Ride.”’lTli’éfW'aHﬁé¥  _a'1s'd‘platyed"at"tl’1e"event.

 Dresscroivvd, §e’rving aivariiieity of 9

ox/wx/*0./~ A/vs; .7 _

 
 

PRINCIPIQICS of S()L'Nl) R l£’l‘lR If _\I li.\"‘

  

  

N\’l£S'l'ING~

 
 

UNFORTUNATELX THIS IS WHERE
  PEOPLE ARE PUTTING
TOO MANY RETIREMENT DOLLARS.

very year, a lot of people make a
huge mistake on their taxes. They
don't take advantage oftax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they
could be saving for retirement.
Fortunately, that's a mistake you can
easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAS.
SRAs not only ease your current tax-
bite, they offer a remarkably easy way
to build retirement income—especially
for the "extras" that your regular pension
and Social Security benefits may not
cover. Because your contributions are
made in before—tax dollars, you pay less
taxes now. And since all earnings on
your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the

system.

Beneﬁt nmvﬁarm tax deferral. Call our SRA botline 1 800-842-2733, ext. 8016.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it?"

C R EF urliﬂmlu are c}Lr1/'1'/vuia) by TI/I/I-CREF Intfiviclual and Inilitultiznal StI‘Vflt.f. For mart romp/cl: infarlnalivn, fIll‘[llI)fIlj t/Iar_ut.r and c.r,»rri.i'r.r,
V ml! I 800-X42-2753, c.r1. 8016 for a pI'0.fpttIlU‘. Rm) Ibr pra.r;m'!u.r artfully bcfonr you mm! or rend money.

money you don't send to Washington
works even harder for you. Down the
road, that can make a dramatic difference
in your quality of life.

What else makes SRAs so special?
A range of allocation choices—from the
guaranteed security of TIAA to the
diversiﬁed investment accounts of
CREF's variable annuity—all backed
by the nation's number one retirement

Why write off the chance for a more
rewarding retirement? Call today and
learn more about how TIAA-CREF
SRAS can help you enjoy many
happy returns.

     
  
   
 
    
  
   
  
     
        

  

 

imum
a uni

llllll
llllll
lllll!

courses covering 60 (liflcrcnl areas of study.

Enioy the Resources of the Nation's Capital

Meet the Movers and the Shakers

organizations are also available.

My Future Is in Washington This Summer!

Please rush me the following information:

D 1994 Siinmier Sessions Bulletin with course
descriptions, special programs, Study Abroad

Cl GW’s Year-round Undergracliiate Programs
D GW's Year—round Cradiiate l’rograins

El 1994 Summer Sessions Study Ahroacl Prograins
in

Located just four l)loi'ks from the White House and .
adjacent to the World Bank, GW’s campus is within 0
walking distance of the US. State Department, the -
Smithsonian, and many other prestigious institutions.

You'll not only learn from The George Washington
Universily’s distinguished faculty, but will also meet
government and corporate leaders, cabinet members,
heads of government agencies, Capitol Hill staffers,

often seminar leaders, guest lecturers, andpart-time
faculty. Opportunities for internships in prominent D.C.

programs, schedules. and registration information.

A A  ge.,1lltisliiiigton.Uiiiversity’s 1994 Sun  
Advance Your Career. Advance to Washington This Summer.

pend this summer learning in the world’s most
stimulating city. The 1994 Summer Sessions at The
George Washington University offer over 500

Choose lrom ii Variety of Options

at The George Washington University

Two main 6-week sessions: May 11 - June 22 and
June 27 - August 8. Plus sessions ranging from one-
week field sessions to I3-week seminars.

For More Information,
Call 202-994-6360

association directors, and corporate executives, who are

or mail or fax the
coupon below.

ea ........................................................................................ __

Maximize Your Career Potential with Special
Summer Programs

° Prevention of Terrorism 0
0 Historical Archaeology 0
° History in the Media

0 Sport & Event Management
Tropical Marine Biology °
Publication Institute
International Education: '
Indonesia and Malaysia

 
 

me  

CW Madrid Centre

Public Relations

' Total Quality Management
in Higher Education
Information Systems

' Legal Assistant

Latin America: Cultural
and Business Environment
0 And Many More.’

The

S r E H
31
niveigify

WASHINGTON DC

Name D.O.B
Current Address

City State Zip
Phone ( )

Return completed form to:

The George Washington llniversity. 1994 Summer Sessions
2121 Eye Street. NW, Washington, DC 20052

FAX (202)994-9l 

The George Washington University is an equal opportunity inslitulinn.

CN-SS-Z/‘)1

 

 

    

PAGE 4

Big Four
Winners
emerge

DBIG FOUR, from page 1

“Hopefully this spring... I’d like to
orient [next year’s representatives] to
the budget process.”

Cross said he will be fair with re-
gard to allocating money to clubs next
year.

“I’m not going in there with a pre-
disposed notion of cutting SBA or cut-
ting the Pub Board,” he said.

William Toles, who has EC experi-
ence stemming from his service as an
honor advocate, won the race for EC
Secretary with 522 votes. Justin King,
who ran against Toles, received 403
votes.

Whitney Bludworth ran unopposed
for Chairman of the Student Conduct
Committee, winning the race with 807
votes.

Webb said during his term as EC
President, which will start this spring
when current EC President Robert
Tompkins graduates from law school,
he will concentrate on fairness in the
budget process.

“My main goal with the budget is to
do whatever is necessary to insure there
is the most equitable distribution of
funds possible,” he said.

Webb said he has an interest in
helping the Student Affairs Committee
see things from the standpoint of the
campus Greek organizations.

“I’m interested in playing a role in
the SAC decisions and discussions with
special regard to the fraternities and
their role on campus.”

English
Professor
to lecture

FROM STAFF Raroms

“Troy Goes West: Dido’s Fabrica-
tions, Aeneas’s Drapes” will be the
topic of a lecture at Washington and
Lee University by Christopher C.
Baswell at 4 p.m. Thursday, March 17,
in the University Library’s Northen
Auditorium. The lecture is open to the
public.

Baswell, who is associate professor
of English at Barnard College, is "a
fellow at the National Humanities Cen-
ter for the 1993-94 year. He is the
author of many scholarly articles on
English, French and Latin literature. In
September, his book, Virgil in Medi-
eval England: Figuring the “Aenid”
from the Twelfth Century to Chaucer,
will be published by the Cambridge
University Press.

A graduate of Oberlin College,
Baswell received his B.A. with High-
est Honors in English in 1975, and his
Ph.D. in English from Yale University
in 1983. He joined the faculty at
Barnard in 1984.

photo by Patrick Hinely
Frankie Jones ’94 and Colleen Thompson '96 participate in a children's workshop at
Chavis House. The event was part of events scheduled for Black History Month.

    

The Hing-tum Phi, March 11, 1994

FD goes over.
budget in ’94

i>FD, from page 1

and I appreciate the students’
coorperation,” said Police Chief Bruce
Beard.

The fraternity functions that accom-
pany FD gave the local police nothing
of note to report either.

“When their permit expired, we
went and gave warnings and they all
complied,” Beard said. He said one
subpoena was issued to Chris Santora
of Sigma Chi for a noise violation on
Saturday night.

Opinions on the event varied from
person to person.

“It wasn’t quite as elegant as I
thought it would be,” said freshman
Amy Bookout.

Of the week, Bookout said, “It was
a blast. Actually, I think I enjoyed
Saturday afternoon and evening the
best because they were relaxing.”

JuniorJuliaPodlassaidofthisyear’s
FD decorating effort, “Compared to
the other two FDs I’ve been to, the

Podlas did have a suggestion con-.
cerning the Thursday night bands.

“It just seems like that the last few
years the concert has been country
music. It would be nice to have some-
thing different,” she said.

Both Bookout and Podlas mentione
parts of the ball as being especially
memorable.

“I thought the fireworks were great
because they were the biggest differ-
ence between my prom and this,”
Bookout said.

Podlas thought something else wa.
more memorable than the fireworks. 1

“I thought the belly dancers were a
nice touch,” she said.

Even before the weekend was over,
the decorations had been stealthily re-
moved from the gyms.

According to Framptom, “By one
o’clock Saturday, they were mopping
the floor and everything was gone.”

By Sunday afternoon, even the die-
hard partiers had ﬁnished with the week
and the 87th Washington and Lee Fancy

decorations were great.”

Dress Ball was a thing of the past.

Phi Beta Kappa initiates 49 students

IIVPBK, from page 1

time in the pursuit of education.

He said Adams was ill-prepared to compre-
hend the new forces in his time like technology.
He related this ill—preparedness to the new ini-
tiates and other students. He said Adams repre-
sented a man who spent half of his life making a
success in the world and the last half trying to
understand it.

“Each man with self respect enough has to
account to himself, for himself, somehow,” he
said, reading a passage from the book.

He said in aworld ofmutliplicity and complex-
ity, each an every student has the obligation not to
only learn about the world but also to understand
it.

“The purpose of education is to give an ac-

WBRC submits revisions

count of yourself, for yourself, somehow,” said
McCardell to the new initiates.

He encouraged the students and the university
to use knowledge and to grow. He said the stu-
dents should draw courage and confidence from
W&L graduates who have succeeded and have
made a contribution to society. He said the world
will require leaders, and he hopes the students will
constitute the “vis nova,” or new force in society.

McCardell holds a Ph.D. in history from
Harvard University. He joined the faculty at
Middlebury in 1976 and was named president of
the college in 1992. He still teaches history at the
school.

The following seniors were initiated: Heather
Aussiker of Accokeek, Md.; Angie Carrington of
Charlottesville; Jennifer Coleman of Auburn,
N.Y.; Sharon Crabbe of Birmingham, Ala.; Ryan

Dennard of beague City,Texas; Miriam Hagensen
of Vancouver, Wash.; Robert Higginbotham of
Memphis, Tenn.; Matthew Jackson of Hanover,
Pa.; Richard Jenkins of Kansas City, Mo.; Shan-
non Jones of East Hampton, N.Y.; Christian
Keller of Carlisle, Pa.; James Kull of Dallas,
Texas; Erin Nelson of Massillion, Ohio; Justin
Peterson of Novato, Ca.; Jennifer Ray of Atlanta,
Ga.; Avery Rembowski of Hilton Head Island,
SC.; Tommy Ritter of Mountain Brook, Ala.;
Jennifer Roscoe of Glenwood, Md.; Herman
Satin of Moscow, Russia; John Schindler of
Phoenixville, Pa.; Jennifer Shaker of Macon,
Ga.; Valerie Shannon of Houston, Texas; Eliza-
beth Storey of Columbia, Md.; John Surface of
Jacksonville, Fla.; Lee Anthony of Fort Totten,
N.Y.; Sarah Wyatt of Doraville, Ga.; Sheri Wynn
of Lynchburg; Jon Yeargan of Beckley, W.Va.;

and Rachel Zloczover of Boynton Beach, Fla.
The following juniors were initiated: Kelly
Brotzman of Hamilton, Mich.; Joshua Cook of
Mars, Pa.; Matthew Ehret of Savannah, Ga.Q
Robert Eison of Bowling Green, Ky.; Assia
Georgieva of Sofia, Bulgaria; Leslie Hallet of
Lodi, N.Y.; James Johnston of Littleton, Co.;
William Shepherd of Atlanta, Ga.; Eric Shirley of
Olney, Md.; Carter Tharpe of Macon, Ga.; James
Turner of Roanoke; and Jennifer Yanulavich of
Roswell, Ga. 9
Also, the following 1993 graduates were ini-

tiated: Christine Gorman of Chapel Hill, N.C.;
Anne Redford of Richmond; Leslie Cummings
of Bettendorf. Iowa; Heather Olsen of Peekskill,
N.Y.; Jon Dixon of Plano, Texas; Mark Goglia of
Clarksville, Md.; Heather Cook of Fair Lawn,
N.J.; and James Wilson of Charleston, S.C. 5

HDWBRC, from page 1

cate defending the accused would be
able to contact the EC witnesses in-
volved in the trial, if the revisions are
passed. However, the witnesses are
under no obligation to answer ques-
tions prior to the hearing.

The number of guilty votes needed
to convict an accused student may also
be changed from eight to nine, should
the revisions pass.

Hutton said the revisions made to
the White Book will “make it more fair
to the accused student.”

The revisions will be discussed by
the EC over the course of the next few
days. The EC’s Monday discussion
will be partly open to the public. After
discussing the revisions that night, the
EC will go into executive session with

the WBRC.

Hutton said the EC may meet with
the WBRC on Tuesday and Wednes-
day night, if the meetings are needed to
discuss the revisions. These meetings
will also be closed.

Hutton said the committee mem-
bers worked “in harmony” to come up
with the revisions.

‘‘I thought it was a great honor to be
appointed to it (the WBRC)... We did
work really well together,” said Hutton.
“We mutually worked to improve the
White Book.”

The EC also heard from Tim Scott
of the Minority Students Association,
who updated the committee on the
MSA’s financial position in the wake
of the Patricia Russell-McCloud speech
for Black History Month. Scott said

nonrefundable deposits when members
of the MSA could not attend a leader-
ship conference due to inclement
weather.
back, Scott said MSA is in good finan-
cial shape.

“This year’s been going very well,”
he said. “It looks like we’ll be on target
for the rest of the year.”

Scott said the MSA will return
$1,450 to the EC for an emergency
loan taken out to entice McCloud to
speak at Washington and Lee. The EC
gave the MSA the loan when it ran into
a financial problem that left it without
money to secure a contract with
McCloud for the speech. Once the
contract was secured, the MSA was
obligated to seek out other sources of
financial assistance in order to pay the

    

the MSA lost “almost $1,000” in

EC back.

 

         
  

    
   
  
 
     
   
    
      
   
   
    
    

month larger unit.

(703) 984-9402

Apartments for Rent _
Catering to W&L students. 2 Two
bedroom apartments for rent in
downtown Lexington, just a very
short walk from the W&L campus.
$300 per month one unit; $375 per

—Great Location
—Landlord pays for water,
including hot water
If interested, please call property
manager, Mrs. Brown, daytime
463-3013; at night or weekends,

 

ﬂit ‘Union pi  



      
     
  
       

Run   

and Restaurant

Chef Stewart prepares dai
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen,

Paella, and Homemade Tortellini.

5‘ Six Room Inn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dining" 
 Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

  
     

ly culinary delights

  

       
     
    
      
 
        
       
      
   
  

adv «

  

.‘,3’;é..‘

  

   



  
  

‘:7 ~'
ti‘.

   
 

  
      
 

    

      

r ‘J? -I


  
    
   
  
 

L
 I

    

i -
/"Ya

Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Winter Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only

Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00

Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two

(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

 

Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx. 2000
sq. ft. 4 bedrooms — can hold up to 6 people.
Fireplace, wood stove, refrigerator, ceiling fans,
and huge bar. Secluded location about 3 miles

from town. Rent $200/person (regardless of ‘
number of people). Beautiful View. Large yard -
with ball field. Call Nate or Lewis for more

 

  
   

Tuesday, March 15

U
Despite this financial set-
Cl
_i _. I ' .
Photo by David ilmington, special to The Ring—tum Phi
Students gather near the fountains at Fancy Dress.

.; -.':~-,.°.q,-,':.-,.'.¢.-_- 

' .. -'\'4‘*t:'-x‘-'3"

        
   

 info, 463-6337 Home (804) 886-0614
’ P   ,   —
H available '

  

9,‘):-2_‘I-'5~re,‘i:_'.'-'}'w.,e.*:-';-",‘2:'2,‘.'-‘

    
  

 
 
  

. ‘ .-it _s -
‘fie:-.‘2<':'=

 

Cwiemaz one

 

— Now Showing —
sister Act 2
Daily 7:00 & 9:30 p.m.
Sat. & Sun. 12:15, 2:25, 4:40,
7:00 & 9:30 p.m. Rated PG

House Pa 3
Daily 9:40 p.m. ated R
Sat. & Sun. 12:10, 2:05 & 9:40 p.m.

Mrs. Doubtflro
Daily 6:45 p.m. Rated PG- 13
Sat. & Sun. 4:10 & 6:45 p.m.

261 -7292
{£275 Beech Ave., Buena Vista)

  
   

Gift Certiﬁcates Now Available

Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+) :’:."'

5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
Call for reservations: 703-463-9715

".u-g":,‘»--'.yi’_-‘.-
;-:.«~.;-'. *‘~;:.-:'

 
     
  
   

    

Now you can have two of the most recognized and
accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa@ and MasterCard@
credit cards...“ln your name.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!

desenre and need for— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT
EMERGENCY CASH—TlCKETS-—RESTAURANIS—
REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING!

‘fﬁicur OWL MUSIC co.

    
     
  

25 S. Jefferson 464-4050

0pen ll a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday,
Saturday 11 a.m. — 5 p.m.

   

  

 

 
 

' Z—CARD. BOX 16516, ATLANTA. GA 3032 '
I
I Q '
' . lwantVlSA0/MASTERCARDG Credit 3
I Cardsappmved immediately. 100% GUARANTEED! :
' .
Q
VISAG and MasterCard® the credit cards you I '
I NAME '
STORES—TUlTlON—ENTERTAlNMEN'I‘— . I
s—cARRENnus— ' Ann) '
H0.TELS—MO’I‘ELS—CA . CITY STATE __ ZIP :
: STUDENT? Z_e_§__I1<_>_ s.s.# . o
No turn downs! _ '
No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE '
No security deposit! ' NOTE MasterCard Isa registered t:adermrkd'Mmter(hrdlntema!loml.Inc.
I Visa is a registered tradennrk or VISA USA. Inc. and VISA inmmuonai I
SEND THE CW0" T°°'“,' I '
YWRWWHCMMAMHMUM.L_______________________J

 

 

The Rinitum Phi, Marchl 1, 1994

‘rh

  ‘V1/éﬂlife

9 By MICHAEL Hewuzrr
Phi Staff Writer

Just one week after Fancy Dress, Washing-
ton and Lee is having another party and every-
one is invited.

C On Friday, March 11, there will be a party in
the Boiler Room from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. to
improve race relations on campus. The party is
sponsored by the following groups, who have
raised $800 for the event: the Minority Student
Association, Panhellenic, Interfratemity Coun-
cil, Women’s Forum, the International Club,
the Freshmen Leadership Council and the Dean
of Students Office.

University Psychologist Dr. James Worth
said the idea for a party stemmed from a Peer
Counselor training session on diversity with
Dean of International and Minority Affairs
Anece McCloud.

\ “I asked if it was appropriate for the peer
counselors to consider ways to make a positive
difference in diversity,” he said.

Worth said the idea for the party came from
the students after some brainstorming. He said
he simply provided guidance for the group.

Head Peer Counselor Julia Podlas said they
dfcided to promote something social.

“We thought it would be impossible to make
a change if people don’t know each other,” said
Podlas.

Podlas said no alcohol will be served at the
party, but students are asked to bring their own
drinks.

Minority Student Association Vice-Presi-
tﬁnt Kyna Bryant said the music will be pro-
vided by Andrian Bigges, who is also known as

rowing a prty everyone can ge al

  

oto y Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

The Boiler Room is the site of an open party tonight which sponsors say will help improve race relations

DJ Def Jam. (The posters which say DJ Andre
are wrong.)

She said minority groups from other schools
will be invited, including students from the
Virginia Military Institute.

Worth said he hopes this party will at least
begin to break down racial barriers.

“I would like two things to come out of this
party: an afﬁrrnation or celebration of the di-

versity of our student body and a sense that on
an individual level we can make a difference in
terms of the climate where there are differ-
ences,” he said.

Podlas said this party will not, however,
solve all the problems of race relations she sees
on campus.

She said the party will be a step towards
students getting to know each other.

“I don’t think the school is going to change
after this, but we wanted to at least do some-
thing to make people think about what is needed
to make our campus the best it could be,” she
said.

The party will help stop people from segre-
gating themselves, Podlas said.

“I think it’stime that something really has to
be done to promote diversity and to stop people

 

PAGE 5 "

ong better

from going off into their separate groups,”
she said.

Podlas said she hopes the party will be an
annual event. She said student interest will be
needed to make the party possible in the future.

Bryant said she believes for the party to
become annual, minority participation is a must.
She said she hopes the party helps make minor-

ity students more comfortable attending uni- '

versity functions.

Peer Counselor Maurice Cole said any money ' I

left overwill be used as a fund for the next party.
President of the Interfratemity Council Cunis

Smith said this party will provide other oppor- - ‘

tunities for people besides fraternity parties.

s

Minority Student Association President

Ayanna Brady agrees.

“It is an opportunity for people to get to- *

gether,” she said.
Panhellenic president Elise Brown aid the

idea of getting people together also prompted 1 ‘

the organization to support the party.
She said the party would be a great way to

increase interaction between Greek woman and ~ 1

other organizations.

‘‘It just sounds like a fun, neat idea,” she -’

said.

to promote diversity.

“The Peer Counselors can’t do this all by
themselves, but they can stand up for some-
thing and provide an example,” he said.

“If other people see that they can contribute,

Worth said this party will lead other groups A‘

then there can be some exciting things happen- ‘

ing here.”

Brady‘ said promoting diversity can be a L’

benefit to Washington and Lee University.
‘‘It only helps make W&L stronger if we are
all aware of each other.”

Essential compact discs for the month of March

' By BETSY GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

R.E.M. has become a music classic as their music deﬁnes
the genre of college rock. If, like many people, your collec-
tion of R.E.M. CD’s consists of Automatic for the People,
Git of Time, Green, and perhapsDocument, you really need
to branch out into some of R.E.M.’s older music. Their “best
of” CD, ironically called Eponymous, is a good way to get
used to the different sound of early R.E.M. In the early years,
the music was more guitar driven. They loudly tear through
most of their songs. Michael Stipe’s lyrics are famous for
being hard to make out. Their first single, “Radio Free
Fgirope” is a prime example of this sound. This is a song that
begs to be played as loudly as your speakers can handle it.
The version of “Radio Free Europe” featured on E ponymous
has slightly different vocals than the version released on
R.E.M.’s ﬁrst full CD, Murmur. In the liner notes, Peter
Buck comments that their producer Jefferson Holt thinks,
“this one crushes the other like a grape” and it does. R.E.M.

A 0 makes some noise with the ever-popular “It’s the End
of the World as We Know It (and I Feel Fine),” “Can’t Get
There From Here,” and the bitter “The One I Love.” “The
One I Love” is deserving of a spot on Eponymous because
it marks an unusual change in R.E.M.’s style. In spite of the
fact that Michael Stipe’s vocals are more distinguishable
than usual, many people have the mistaken impression that
we One I Love” is a touching love song. This could not

‘ further from the truth. Stipe sings: This one goes out to the
one I love./ This one goes out to the one I left behind.../ A
simple prop to occupy my time/ This one goes out to the one
I love./

Eponymous. also features some wonderful ballads. “Gar-
dening at Night” has a beautiful melody that will make you
smile. “Fall On Me,” Michael Stipe’s favorite song, is like
n9thing you have heard before. Images of acid rain, weighty
decisions, and Chicken Little blend amazingly well in this
classic song fromLife ’s Rich Pageant. More irony drenched
lyrics are featured in “(Don’t Go Back To) Rockville.” The
song is about what it’s like to leave a small town and your
life there. Stipe describes leaving an old flame behind: It’s
not as though I really need you/ If you were here I ’d only
lave you./ Everybody else in town only wants to bring you
down/ And that’s not how it ought to be. / I know it might
sound strange but I believe you ’ll be coming back before

 

L For the W&L Record

In The Columns on March 3, 1944, an

too long. ‘

Eponymous is a truly worthwhile
investment. R.E.M. fanatics will enjoy
the convenience of all of these great
songs grouped together along with the
different vocals in “Radio Free Eu-
rope” and the amazing horn mix in
“Finest Worksong.” People just getting
to know R.E.M. will ﬁnd a ﬁne sample
of some of this phenomenal band’s best
music. They will then feel right at home
with all of R.E.M.’s older, more distin-
guished music.

If you buy the soundtrack to Until
the End of the World you will save
yourself the time and effort of making
a really good mix tape. This CD has ‘a
terriﬁc array of great alternative music.
The movie is director Wim Wenders’s
dream of life in 1999. The music backs
up his visions of the future. There are a
few soft, slow, pretty songs. J ulee
Cruise’s ethereal voice is amazing in
“Summer Kisses, Winter Tears.” Jane
Siberry and k.d. lang will move you
with “Calling All Angels.” The
instrumentals performed by Grame
Revell with cello solos by David Dar-
ling serve as perfect interludes between
songs. When you tire of hearing pretty
songs, Until the End of the World features some very
danceable tracks. Talking Heads perform “Sax and Violins”
with their usual humor and enthusiasm. Neneh Cherry slams
out a great dance song with “Move With Me.” Lou Reed’s
song “What’s Good” is so clever that you will find yourself
singing it for days. Reed sings: Life ’s like Minnesota/ Life ’s
like space without room/ Life ’s like bacon and ice cream/
That’s what life’s like without you.

Until the End of the World rounds up an all star cast of
alternative artists, from U2 to Depeche Mode to R.E.M. to
Elvis Costello. Wenders’s dark predictions of the world to
come give this album, even on the lighter tracks, a sense of
foreboding. “Humans From Earth” by T—Bone Burnett
describes the takeover of another planet by none other than
earthlings.

Here’s a little thing we call TV./ Do you have electric-
ity?/ We’re humans from earth.../ You have nothing at all to
fear./ We think we’re gonna like it here.

Perhaps the song that best exemplifies Until the End of

the World is “(l’ll Love You) Till The End of The World” '

by Nick Cave and the Bad Seeds. This song mixes the
imagery of a beautiful love affair with apocalypse. Nick
Cave darkly sings: And, if you can believe this/ Me, actually
praying/ Not to God up above,/ But to you.

Until the End ofthe World is a great investment. All of the
songs are great and are arranged perfectly to take you from
one to the next. This CD will introduce you to musicians that
you will regret not having listened to before.

The final essential for March is Negotiations and Love
Songs 1971-1986 by Paul Simon. This is the perfect back-
ground music to a romantic drive in the country or a pensive
evening at home. The CD takes you through every aspect of
Simon’s music, from early gospel inspired bop like “Loves
Me Like a Rock” to the world beat of “Diamonds on the
Soles of Her Shoes.” Some of the songs are depressing
beyond belief. In “Something So Right,” Simon laments:
When something goes wrong/ I ’m the first to admit it./ The
ﬁrst to admit it/ And the last one to know./ When something

§i\$a‘li""t;§.9§i
¢;"§?is'yr44r

ggg,§§§.a‘§A.»§_tt
.a¢«tv'a9¢t¥t1=4'*

3,3,5;-«,9at>stz;si
§a;.rt»;‘*’.,‘§ti*x'
gct4t:'t't§;"t.-‘t.:»‘,'°§
§g¢.:,¢¢=t*%.
§¥.t»*¥€tt4’y3§~,%iv
‘§.«.§e'*'§‘5‘§f“"§-i~@:%""
égte-V9av‘.‘§~\.9*
iii-ﬁigjlslitttti
-3$éJ:ktﬁ‘K§%""-

  
%,§‘§%%‘r;'?

goes right/ It’s like it eludes me./ It’s apt to conﬁtse me/ It’s
such an unusual sight.

Once that song brings you down, you will ﬁnd yourself
listening to “Still Crazy After All These Years” and fighting
off urges to invite your old love to slow dance with you.
Thankfully, Negotiations and Love Songs features some
love songs that are much happier so you won’t find yourself
“slip sliding” into despair. “50 Ways to Leave Your Lover”
will remind you exactly why that old love should not be slow
dancing with you. Paul Simon is equally adept at songs that
will make you happy. “Me and Julio Down By the
Schoolyard” is great for carefree moods, and nothing could
possibly top “You Can Call Me Al.” The horns and percus-
sion of this song are the perfect way to end Negotiations and
Love Songs. Paul Simon is easily one of the most talented
artists of our time. You will not regret buying this CD.

.i1tt;.;§£t.‘

 

Civil rights joiiinalist will  
speak on campus

From Staff Reports

Harry Ashmore, known for hisjournalism . :lati.» , to the
civil rights movement, will speak at Washington and Lee
this coming Monday, March 14.

Ashmore is a Pulitzer Prize winner and former editor of
The Arkansas Gazette and the Encyclopedia Britannica.

He will speak in Reid Hall at 8 p.m. on “The Brown
Decision: 40 Years After.” At 3:15 pm. on Tuesday, March
15, Ashmore will speak informally on journalism and the
civil rights movement, also in Reid Hall. Both events are
open to the public.

Ashmore, who is also a former director of the Center for
the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara,
Calif., has been an active proponent of the civil rights
throughout his public and journalistic career. He won a
Pulitzer Prize in 1958 for his editorials opposing Orval
Faubus, the Arkansas governor who tried to block the racial
integration of the Little Rock schools.

Ashmore, who has written a number of books on Ameri-
can race relations, will publish a personal memoir entitled
Civil Rights and Wrongs on May 17, the 40th anniversary of
the Supreme Court decision in Brown v. Board of Education
of Topeka, the original school desegregation decision.
Ashmore was among the first Southern journalists to ad-
dress the subject of school desegregation in his book, The
Negro and the Schools, published on the eve of the Brown
decision in May 1 954. His report was based on a foundation-
sponsored study of the prospective impact of the decision on
southern public school systems.

Following a distinguished journalistic career as editor f
the Arkansas Gazette, and before that the Charlotte News in
North Carolina, Ashmore became afﬁliated with the Center
for the Study of Democratic Institutions and other projects
launched by Robert Hutchins, fonner president of the Uni-
versity of Chicago and educational gadﬂy.

« Short Peoples’ party rocks Boiler Room

81-23 and goalie Phil Aiken had 13 saves.

open invitation to attend a dance was re-
ceived by the entire Washington and Lee
student body from the student social chair-
man at Sweet Briar College. The invitation
was left open to both freshmen and upper-
b classmen with hopes of attracting 40 to 50
young men. But the invitation met with
transportation trouble. The trip involved a
bus ride between Lexington and Amherst,
followed by anotherfrom Amherst and Sweet
Briar College. The departure times of the
two buses were staggered in such a way, that
b they were conﬂicting.

In the March 7, 1969, issue of The Ring-
tum Phi, an addition to Doremus gymnasium
was announced as being planned. President
Robert E. R. Huntley revealed the plans and
deemed them, “second to none in the way in

which [the plans] serve the needs of our stu-

Fdents, whether at an intercollegiate, intramural,
or physical education level.” The ﬁve story
addition would include a basketball court, a
swimming pool, training and locker rooms,
and faculty offices. A separate 1 ﬁeld house was
also proposed for physical education purposes
and for indoor practices of intercollegiate teams.
Theincreasingpresenceofwomenonthe Wash-
ington and Lee campus through upcoming ex-
change programs contributed to the construc-
tion plans.

The Phi published on March 8, 1984, re-
ported how the men’s lacrosse team pummeled
the Hokies of Virginia Tech 23-0 at Wilson
Field. The shut out was the team’s ﬁrst since
1954 and its most lopsided victory in school
history. The Hokies were outshot in the game

The next two matches for the Generals were
challenges. They faced Navy at Wilson Field
and Maryland away. Even though the team
trounced Virginia Tech, coach Dennis Daly
said the team would have to sharpen up to
beat Navy.

On March 9, 1989, the Phi published
Lexington’s Police Chief Bruce Beard’s
comments on Fancy Dress. Beard said he,
was very pleased with the way Washington
and Lee students handled themselves over
the course of the 1989 Fancy Dress events.
Police only made five drunk driving arrests
that were attributable to Fancy Dress . There
were seven drunk in public arrests, none
related to Fancy Dress. The wet weather and
the lack of a beer garden at the Ball were
cited for the relatively uneventful weekend.

By JAY WHITE
Phi Staff Writer

The Short Peoples’ Organization’s ﬁrst at-
tempt at breaking into the W&L party scene
met with much «approval. The Tuesday night
bash, held at the Boiler Room, was a success,
said organizer Doug “Willow” Kaufman.

Despite the inclement weather and Fancy
Dress events, over 100 people attended the
social event of the season.

The organization began in October with a
group of “vertically challenged” individuals
sitting around attempting to create a new, non-
fraternal, non-exclusive party scene. Kaufman
said a tall person walked into the room and
began joking about the height of those present.
As a joke, the shorter individuals said they
would all get together, have a party and not

invite the taller people. What began as a slight
jest turned into a wildly popular idea. Eventu-
ally people began talking and the idea snow-

ff4'«.v“-"'.-'

‘r‘a. u,v"~

s

lvl

59.93’

balled. What was initially thought to be a small ,

following turned into a major Washingon and
Lee movement of those men who are 5 feet 8
inches and shorter and those women who are 5
feet 3 inches and shorter.

The main event leading uptoTuesday night’s
festivities was the nomination and election of
the king and queen of the Short People. Party.
Cups with the names of the nomim L :s were

placed outside the co-op. Those WlSl1l1lj_{l<i\/OIC -

for their favorite short people placed -..m~.;2cy in

the cups. The winners were announce‘ Al the
party.

The reigning king and queen on ..-rti- ,
cally challenged are Pete Jail’ and

Meg Randol.

-‘£1.91’.
l

4---

kttllnlaalhl 1| I‘-'a‘A“L’A’l‘1 &l'&‘a.

I

x«- 1.-. 2.. .»,~.~.—.r-.-.«-.

, L

.anc-f‘C‘».1a.

.A.C

c

I

uI‘\|~'nI

 

    
   
 

,_ PAGE 6

 

W The Ring-tum Phi, Marchll,19!:4 L

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

 

off the mark by Mark Parisi ~ by Jeff Ma<=Ne11y

AIIANHT. IMIUM (‘I991 MINI PANSI

 

Dave by David Miller

THE M05T IMPORTANT

THlNé ABOUT BEING IN

THERAPY l9 Kwowwa
lusT WHEN...

ENOUGH I5 ENOUGH!

       
    
  
   

THAT'S IT, Doc, were Done!

H " ANY MORE Przoerzess couro <,:elzlou;LY
NO MORE COUCH Time!

JEOPAKD1ZE THE MIDLIFE CRl§l6 {vs

, O

 

IAN usrs A POPULAR METHOD To _ ,-; ' _, <
OVERCOME HI5 FEAR OF Pursue SPEAi<lN6. plugger goss_

 

Colonnade Crossword
 ‘° " NON grounur laireéilta... 

9 Scream '1\\ANKs F02 ‘(RE
13 Quickly: abbr. ' CM<C RFUPE
14 Seine city
16 Bread spread
17 Teamster‘s rig
18 Emanate
19 Plank or way

start
20 Fervor
21 Dog
23 Yard
components
25 Big —. Cal.
26 Axis‘ foe
29 Shimmers
34 Mary Tyler —
35 Creek
36 Pig
37 Dull person
38 Cereal grass
seed
39 Greek portico
40 Natives of: sufl.

 
  
        
   

l.&o<§9 $2l.=«_L\3t~l\ 1941 Ncinlvmm l1I»bl

M“ PA H/MR
“ L‘ BWOWERIII

0 . REVERF PA

     

  
 

 

by Mike Polus

     

41 Deciphers tea .r

leaves C1994 n. e Med: rvices. Inc. 93/11/94 \   V
42 Oder All Rrgh eserve '
43 Forswear
45 Gets home 6 Measure ol gold

safely fineness ;
46 Map abbr. 7 Clapton  ,
47 Den 8 Desire '
48 Place lor 9 Cultured milk ® \ \

entertainment 10 Verve (1) (ﬂ ‘~\
52 Kind of 11 Furnish _______._1— /

dance 12 Captain's
56 Baby word journal
57 Up in arms 15 Meeting
58 Same: prel. 22 Corn covering HEY THIS COFFEE

59 English river 24 Shoe width
60 Camoullage 26 Fossil resin

l5 KINDA WEAK-

I WANT STRONG,

61 Isaac's son 27 Unlettered  _ T-{IE 
62 Blanc and 28 ltaIy's Sophia ", DARK  5
Brooks 29 School mark - '

63 Get ahead of 30 Superman‘s girl
64 Landlords due 31 Chemical
compound

   

 

 

   
   
   
  

      
 
    
  

 
       

 

   

 

    
  
 

   
    
  
 

 

 

DOWN ; 32 Nary a soul 03/M/54
" 1 Sprint 33 Hits hard 44 Keyboard 50 Harvest
2 ‘l/JVHOdr((:l’sSloatndlng  Eaiiifogo by 45 gv?/gydnsnems  i\/4Ci):3a’f:lC:“Ow
i::':?:‘:m";:a::' 39 2292:, 4’ ?n‘;‘t'?3:‘:na 22 55:5?“  SHOE
5 gasden tools 3; -B-8-tile __ jg <l:l:2:i:2npiarTTage 56 \'.’r\"fal‘:er1r1rtT)1:El"?enr  Jeff
S i - Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination. I:
gag? '4  Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only. '  Storage N Ow Open .
l"f-   Within walkin distance from c R ‘ '
:4 L. _, _  g ampus. eserve your unit now for summer months
254 _,‘“"“‘  Call 463-3835. while aVai1ab1e_
  ___ . . - Excellent location in Downtown Lexington — 1
MM - ,, A¢.In.usszo'ns. Counselor Basement of Dominoe’s Pizza “
Saturday Mowing All U can Eat Pancakes Th<;o‘:V:411;:\t:i$:f;3n:J:Sngzuzizegtlggsaggliclagfpns Catering to W&L students, walk to storage from i
Dan)’ Specials‘ 24 H0ur‘A‘DaY Breakfast interested graduating senoirs should submit a cover letter and Campus In 2 minutes‘
Meals That Cater 10 Bi8APP€ti1€S resume no later than reasonable low rates, by month or year.
F ‘d d]gr  4 Monday, March 21, 1994. Open 8 a_m_ _5 pm. daily, .
tur a 1 s .m.- a.m. .
fl 3)’ an Su%I1lday9}’a.nﬁ_2 pml’ Julia M. Kozak by appointment on Saturday.
L Rt. 11 North g 463-3478 Open 24 Hours Associoalitte Direfcioir of Admission Sizes from 4'X8' to 8'x12'.
"’ “ ‘:1’ Ice 0 missions
_ V . A  V C. Call Mrs. Brown, property manager ' o 
J _ _ L" CRUISE 1J0B;S  C&I Associates - 463-3013
1  "  St dents Needed! after 5 p.m. (703) 984-9402
1 p g H g‘   Earn $:000+ per miritth + world M  J
- " I 1;- .’{’-4:)“.-:" travel (Hawaii, exico, the
t‘W«‘?Siii :::::”:;:;;::::l:”:;‘;:;:,.t::’ " I
      -    GHQ Restaurant
, .. *4 g g  I ._ g 1'. V _ ' employment program call: '
    ~~    “ass,Egzlfsrlzezitférgzr announccs
Stonewall SQUBTE Sh D lng CEDIET
LexIn9ton,VAf I} ‘£rI‘lfe7¢;lit'3r I‘
463-9800 ——~———
New Music for this Week i Shop for E W“RE”°W °"E“F°"
Gang Sm _ Hm, to M V ,3, Pappagauo E CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST IL
Elvls Costello - Brutal Youth 2:, Ladies, Shoes’ ‘K Monday _ F1-lday
Eternal - Always & Forever , ‘K 830 a m _ 11.00 a m
Nine Inch Nails - Downward Spiral :3; Clothlng, and ‘K ' ' ' ' '
David Lee Roth - Filthy Little Mouth )3, Accessories ‘:1 ' C0ffee ' T03St
Soundgarden - SuperUnknown I} ‘K - Tea - Bagels/ .
and many m°’°-' mg 05;: - Pastry Cream Cheese
, 21> up ‘i1 - CNN Cable News
Speolal : H 10 5 30 E , -
_ . _ . 9 _ - _
,¢,_ Olglrgh _ Sat- a (:1 “I30: dxln for we class hffdor halng out .I.
$  )3, 23 N Main St $1 ea e paper. (no smo ng p ease.)
Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri at Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m.. :3». 4 - 8 - <5: Also check out the new Luncheon Menu. l
Sun. Noon-10 p.m. F. )1}  $1
“-1 4' ‘ﬂrikikﬂrﬁrfrikﬂrrkii

' x

 

_f'The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1994

"0 ANA/</AL F££,
A $1,000 (KENT um;

AND LOW RArf_5_
OW» NOW mr ma BEMH!

. .2 ’.:_:;”5?'l

IF 0 I>o~’r cor IT,
oar |T.‘"

PAGE 8

 

 

Ellie iﬁing-tum ilﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

A crossroads in
W&L history

Washington and Lee historians may look back on the 1993-94
school year and see it as a great turning point in the University’s
history. The White Book Review Committee has spent months
reviewing our Honor System and has proposed changes which
range from simple style changes to thought-provoking alterations
in the administration of the Honor System. If the Executive
Committee approves any, or all, of the proposed revisions, the
Honor System and W&L will be changed at least for three years
if not permanently.

The WBRC deserves thanks from every student of Washington
and Lee, past present and future. Their task has been nothing less
than monumental and their final report is indicative of the time and
effort they put into the review. Now, the big decision is up to the
Executive Committee. Which, if any, of the proposed changes will
they approve?

Several of the proposed revisions are very interesting, but one
in particular caught our eyes. On page two of the proposed
revisions is an addition that will allow the EC to refer certain cases
to other disciplinary bodies, such as the Student Conduct Commit-
tee and the Student-Faculty Hearing Board. The proposal resulted
from concerns about the EC handling rape cases as Honor Viola-
tions. The WBRC’s report says “the recommendation is designed
to make students more aware of committees designed to handle

specific problems, yet it does not discourage students from bring- A

ing any case to the Executive Committee.” But consider the
authority the White Book carries with it. As time passes students
will not remember the purpose of this addition to the White Book.
Students may interpret this revision as suggesting the EC should
not be bothered with certain “sensitive issues.” But the EC is
charged with investigating and hearing cases involving situations
in which students believe their trust has been violated. How can
a violation of trust not be a sensitive issue?

Certainly students can be made more aware of the SFHB and
SCC in another way. If the EC puts such a statement in the White
Book they run the risk of doing far more than notifying students of
other organizations capable of handling certain situations. By
passing this proposed revision the EC may inadvertently be
creating a multi-sanction honor system.

Under the current system the EC must investigate every report
of a possible Honor Violation. The EC now has only two choices:
they must either have a hearing if there is evidence that an Honor
Violation may have occurred, or they can forget the matter. If the
l'CVlS10n is passed, the EC still must investigate all reports of a
possible Honor Violation, but it can then defer the case to another
body. What the revision creates is a loophole through the single
sanction if a future EC wishes to use it as such.

It is difficult to imagine that this is the way the WBRC intends
for the revision to.be used. They intend the revision to primarily
address the question of rape. It is true the EC has not been trained
to deal with the issue of rape. But when the BC was created and the
White Book written, rape was not a situation the campus had to
deal with. But this is a co-ed campus now and rapes do occur on
our campus. The creation of bodies such as the SFHB has removed
the EC from responsibility in dealing with “sensitive” cases, such
as rape. But what could be more dishonorable than rape?

What it all comes down to is we must decide if we want our
Honor System to remain single-sanction or begin to evolve into a
multi-sanction system. If we truly have a single-sanction honor
system then all acts that are found dishonorable should be pun-
ished in the same way. If we choose to move to a multi-sanction
system than we can no longer boast “No violation of trust is too

small to be ignored, for we understand that honor is not measured
by degree.”

Quote of the Week:

Female student: “So do you think VMI should admit women?”
Male student: “First they need to admit men.”
-—Two W&L students discussing VMI’s pending lawsuit.

E112 itiing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hillary Olson, Melissa Sawyer

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Assisant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Betsy Green

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Oberrnueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Widener

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year» at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.‘ Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁoe, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ring:t_um Phi, March 11, 1934

‘I

We must face our alcohol problem

Washington and Lee University is a unique place.
For the most part, the elements of this institution that
make it unique add to the student life and history here.
However, there are a few elements that make us
unique in a way that severely damages our students,
our traditions, and our general image.

Before anyone begins to
turn the page thinking this

recognize these warning signs seem, instead, to be
more interested in keeping our students out of the
papers and out of jail.

l was most disturbed to read in last week’s Phi that
Officer F.W. Smith of the Lexington Police Depart-
ment came to the last lFC meeting to warn the frater-

nities that the Alcoholic Bev-
erage Control (ABC) would

is another “What’s wrong
with W&L” piece, I would
like to say that I firmly be-
lieve those of us who truly
love this school and wish to
honor its traditions are not
those who prefer to simply
remember its remarkable

 

be in town over Fancy Dress
Weekend. Smith warned stu-

PATRICK 2f.I‘g‘i.‘?..‘1‘.‘.‘.‘;§ 2l.%°l:.°l‘§.'.’.°.:'
MCDERMOFF, so they would not be arrested.“
994 One would think the purpose

of the ABC was to annoy stu-

dents or to generally cause

past, but those who wish to

incorporate the great tradi-

tions of this university into an even better future. That
said, we must begin to realize that the largest obstacle
to that future is the alcohol crisis on this campus.

My purpose here is not to decry alcohol as a sinful
substance that we should all stay away from, but
rather, to focus on the fact that many of us have simply
lost perspective concerning alcohol on campus and
that still others have been purposefully ignoring what
should be an obvious problem. While alcohol is a
normal part of most people’s college experience, here
at Washington and Lee we have moved far beyond
that normality to a point where the rare non-drinker
among us is seen as a hopeless prude, a social outcast,
someone who simply doesn’t know how to have a
good time. For those among us who do not drink there
isn’t much to do in Lexington on a Friday or Saturday
night. Every message being received tells us that if we
want to have a good weekend we have to have a beer
in our hand.

As I said before, I believe that many of us have
simply lost perspective as to the drinking levels and
styles that exist here. “Us” includes not just students
but faculty, administrators, alumni, trustees, parents,
and city officials. All of these groups are responsible
for the severe drinking problem that exists on this
campus, they all enable the other, continuing a pattern
of denial. We do this because of who we are. We are
a part of this university and for many of us that means
that the use (or abuse) of alcohol on campus has
become normal.

We have all seen the warning signs that something
is terribly wrong here. Freshman pledges doings “keg
kills” at their respective houses, 18-year-old women
stumbling back to the dorms after drinking a case of
beer at a party, disturbing rises in the number of
students arrested for driving under the inﬂuence,
fraternity brothers destroying their houses in fits of
drunken rage. These are just four of the countless
examples of alcohol abuse on campus. Different mem-
bers of the community see these examples in different
ways. I believe many students see them as a normal
part of campus life. “Work hard, play hard:” that’s our
motto. This is not to excuse the actions of many
students, but to explain that this hostile environment
leaves many students with little choice. There are no
“role models” for entering freshman who do not wish
to drink or who wish to drink in moderation. What’s
worse, those among us who are supposed to be able to

disruption. While I am sure

that we as students all appre-
ciate Officer Smith’s advice, perhaps he should re-
member that possession or consumption of an alco-
holic beverage while under the age of 21 is a crime in
Virginia and that the ABC is here to enforce that law.
What on the surface seems like a kind gesture by the
local police is really nothing more than negligence, as
it is also Officer Smith’s responsibility to enforce that
law, not to point out ways of getting around it.

Lest anyone think that the Lexington police are
alone, we should remember that they give that kind of
advice under the watchful eye of the university’s
administration,whocould
not be happier that the
police are so willing to
help our drunken students
avoid arrest, and, heaven
forbid, publicity. They are
quite content to turn their
backs on what they know
to be a serious and grow-
ing problem on this cam-
pus. Unlike the students
here, the administrators of
this university are trained
to recognize this kind of
campus crisis. They are
simply choosing to ignore
the problem for fear of
the negative publicity
involved in admitting to
a ﬂaw in the W&L
tradition.

Our ever-watchful and generous alumni would be
made to feel uncomfortable if we were to admit that
this university has been generating class after class of
well-educated, successful, alcoholics for decades.
And yet, that is precisely what has been happening.
We need only look to the various alumni activities that
occur during the year, the most impprtant element of
which is always alcohol. Each May we witness hun-
dreds of alumni coming back to celebrate reunions;
they have dinners, offer large donations, and then they
go out to the frat parties and stagger back to their
hotels aftera night of “playing hard.” This is not to say
that all W&L alumni and students have drinking
problems, but one mus t admit that we far exceed
any definition 0 f normality concerning alcohol use
(and abuse).

 

While alcohol

most people ’s college experience,
here at Washington and Lee we
have moved far beyond that nor-
mality to a point where the rare
non-drinker among us is seen as a
hopeless pmde, a social outcast,
someone who simply doesn ’t know
how to have a good time.

 

This pattern is soon to be confirmed by a Dean
of Students Office survey conducted last year ?o
measure alcohol behavior on campus. The resu ts
of this long-awaited survey are both dramatic and
disturbing. They show that significant numbers of
W&L students have what could be characterized as
“drinking problems.” When the results of the sur-
vey are finally released to the university, we will
have solid evidence of a severe crisis. If t e
university can be jolted outof its painful inaction
and denial, we may ﬁnall y begin to heal our
community.

What the administration must realize is that
before students will begin to “wake-up” to the
reality of alcoholism and addiction, the university
must stop enabling student drinking. As a mem , r
of several campus health committees, l have en-
countered many students who have already realized
that alcohol became a problem for them and are
now in recovery. These students say repeatedly that
this is not an easy place to be a recovering alcoholic.
While they are seen as strange for not drinking with
the rest of their friends, they are also faced with the
burden of realizing that many of those friends aie

traveling down the same addictive road they

were on.

What is truly sickening is the fact that much of
this could be avoided by the implementation and
enforcement of campus alcohol policies that show

our students, most es-

pecially incomilg
freshman, that while
is a nomzal part of

alcohol is something
that most college stu-
dentsencounter,weas
a university are no
longer going to make
it easy to become zil-
dicted during your
four year stay. This

from an administra-

cerned with tile w0l-
fareofitsstudentsthan

checkbook. This is

certainly not what we ‘
have now, but it is an '

achievable goal. As strongly as I believe that ﬁnan-

cial reasons are to blame for our university’s ing» ‘
tion concerning this and other issues, I also believe 1
that the best of intentions are involved in the thought .

process of our administrators.

We are privileged to have a collection of fine A_
individuals working to ensure the future of this ’
university. However, these individuals, in their _

efforts to secure the financial well-being of e
institution, have lost sight of the purpose 0 a

university. Its purpose is not simply to preserve _

itself, rather, it exists for the betterment and preser-
vation of young minds.

This purpose cannot be fulfilled as long as the _

university continues to allow alcohol to weaken the
students of this institution. ‘

New president should embody W&L

type of policy initia- I
tive can only come ,

tion that is more con- ,

with the size of its ‘

John M. McCardell, Jr. has seen
some of the most sweeping changes
during his professional tenure.
McCardell is
president of
Middlebury Col-

made McCardell was the acting presi-
dent, and one year later became presi-
dent of the college. What should be the
meaning of
this for
W&L as

lege in Vermont,
a 1971 alumnus of
Washington and
Lee and a nomi-
nee for the posi-
tion of president
here at W&L.

 

the presi-
dent search
gears up?
W a s h -
ington and
Lee Uni-
versity has

\ When I heard
this 1 thought it
was good news, perhaps a W&L gradu-
ate would be chosen as president; some-
one who understands W&L. McCardell,
however, may be a wolf in sheep’s
clothing.

McCardell began at Middlebury Col-
lege as a professor of history in 1976
and since that time has moved up
through the ranks. Paralleling his rise
has been the (political) liberalizing of
the college to an amazing extend. The
most fundamental of these changes
came in 1991 at which point fraternities
at Middlebury were told to go co-ed, or
face expulsion.

What ensued was one of the largest
legal battles of fraternity v. university.
Delta Kappa Epsilon (DKE), which
owned its own house, began legal ac-
tion against the college, a battle which
has not ended.

At the time when this decision was

a long and
proud tra-
dition of fraternity life stemming back,
in fact, to the founding of the Lexing-
ton Triad: Kappa Alpha Order, Alpha
Tau Omega, and Sigma Nu. However,
with the recent politically correct re-
volt against fraternities nationwide, it
is even more clear that we must do
something to preserve this proud heri-
tage. This begins by choosing a presi-
dent who agrees that these traditions
have made W&L great, and wishes to
continue and, in fact, encourage their
growth.

President McCardell of Middlebury
College, though a W&L alumnus,
would be a dangerous man to have as
president. According to the
Middlebury College public affairs of-
fice, McCardell is in full support of the
1991 decision to, in effect, rid the
campus of fraternities.

There is much more at stake here

' liberal arts is the

than simply not having a place to drink
beer; it is a question of the right of
assembly, a right which could, and has,
been equally established for women
via sororities. President McCardell is
helping to paint the broad strokes of
political correctness which have de-
stroyed some of this country’s proud-
est institutions.

What the students of this university
must make clear to the presidential
search committee is that we do not
want just another northeastern liberal
arts college,
whose notion of

requirement of a
women’s history
course or one in
underwater bas-

When I heard this I
thought it was good news,

As a Washington and Lee student,
and (hopefully) future alumnus l im-
plore the search committee to seek out
a president who knows W&L. One
who wishes not to changes those things
which have made us great, but rather to
strengthen them. This individual need
not, necessarily, be a W&L alumnus;
he must be one who believes in what a
liberal arts education means.

Any attempt by the administration
to bring in a W&L graduate who does
not hold to the traditions of W&L would
be a great disser-
vice to the stu-
dents who will he
affected.

So when this

in print l hope

column comes out ’

ket weaving. McCardell has ’
d\h[::s:ingl(on perhaps a W&L graduate had an enjoyable
an e asc ar- -_ stay in Lexingt .
acter because of would be chosen as presl lam confidenttgalt
itsfratemitiesand dent; someone who un- his remarks to pm
nowsororities,its dc,-Stands L_ P,-est‘. Beta Kappa will

Honor System
(applicable to
both academic
and social situa-
tions), and even
the speaking tra-
dition. This is a
combination that

dent M cCardell, however;
may be a wolf in sheep’s
clothing.

be worthwhile.’
But while l am if

confident in his
abilities
thinker add
scholar, 1 do not
think W&L

should become yet

as a‘

no other school shares: a proud tradi-
tion of strong academic, and an even
stronger social life.

another northeastern liberal (arts) col-

lege. Let us build up and hold up our

ﬁne institutions, not tear them down.
0

 

0

= e Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1994

pos needs no course for golf

Pos’ SPACE
Tom Hespos

“Caddy!” I screamed at the top of
, lungs. “Where the hell is my sand

dge?”

To ask this question was somewhat
vinthss, as the only club we had was

old rusty 4-iron that we lifted from

ris’ golfbag without his knowledge.
hen the grass, snow and beer-cov-
ed club was later given back to him at
e end of the tournament, he was only
ghtly peeved.

Thc weather was quite pleasant —
nny and in the neighborhood of 65
grees. Unfortunately, the snow from
xington’s 739th snowstorm of the
ar could melt only so fast. The fair-

y was a sheet of white, which re-
cted the sun into our eyes and ampli-
.d t e post-Fancy Dress hangovers
t plagued the golfers that fine
turday.

Watson was in the damn trap again.

a ﬁt of Watsonian anger brought on
‘ a poor performance on the last hole
d several shots of Pepe Lopez the

ht, efore, he had hacked"his beer V

.n in a deep depression in the snow,
ht next to a large, scraggly bush.
male spectators from the various
rginia ﬁnishing schools applauded.
- I stepped up to the tee, brandishing
- rusty club like it came out ofa new
tof ings. Setting the empty Key-
ne n the snow, I sauntered back
; ind the can in a Payne Stewart-
~- ue fashion and lined up my tee shot.
as too bad we didn’t have that sand
dge. I needed loft in order to clear
scraggly bush to which Watson’s
n was currently uncomfortably close.

“...‘While we’re still young...”

atsonwhined. I ignored him.

I addressed the ball. The crowd
rrted getting rowdy. They lit up ciga-
_- tes and continued drinking from their

er cans, which would become Offi-
l Pro—Am Beercan Golf Balls when
e arﬂ Watson got to the next hole.

“Nnnnnnnnnnnnnoonan,” mouthed

e spectatorwho had seen Caddyshack

one too many times.

The backswing was nearly perfect.
The backswing is crucial when you are
hitting lofty shots that need to clear
scraggly bushes. I swung through the
can and watched it sail over the bush
and land next to the dumpster. I was on
the green in one. With this hole desig-
nated as a Par 5, I had a good chance for
an eagle on my next shot.

Watson swore and kicked snow at
his girlfriend, putting out her cigarette.

“Chill out, meathead,” I advised.
“Your problem is psychological. You
have to be the ball. Did you hear me?
You’re not being the ball.”

Watsonlined
up his shot,
swung, and

promptly cov-
ered everybody
in the peanut
gallery with
white slush. His
can ricocheted
off the bush,
ﬂew off in a ran-
dom direction
and came to rest
in the middle of
the street —— out
of bounds.

“I think that’s
a four-stroke
penalty,” I said,

,, , bounds.
but we re

Watson lined up his
shot, swung, and
promptly covered every-
body in the peanut gal-
lery with white slush. His
can ricocheted off the
bush, ﬂew oﬁ in a ran-
dom direction and came
to rest in the middle of
the street — out of

howled again. Ray pitched forward and
passed out in the snow face first after
mumbling something about Jimi
Hendrix and a worldwide conspiracy.

Heading into the final hole on the
tour, I was clearly comfortable with
my 32-stroke lead. As Doug stepped
up to the final tee, he was berated by the
crowd for leading off the hole when I
clearly had honors from the previous
one. His shot hooked into the road and
came to rest on the hood of an expen-
sive-looking Alfa Romeo.

Watson screamed a bad word that
started with “F” and immediately
started making excuses.

“It was
Ray’s fault,” he
complained.
“Ray ‘noon-
aned’ me.”

This was
clearly not the
case, as Ray’s
p a s s e d - o u t
form was still
laying face first
in the snow. A
little puddle of
drool had
formed in the
snow right next
to his face.
Some girls
helped him up
and steered him

clearly playing
under winter
rules, so if the
referee okays it, you can take a drop.”

We whirled our heads around and
stared earnestly at Ray, our referee. He
took a big swig of his Keystone and
sort of half-belched, half-nodded.

Watson took a drop on the edge of
the lawn right next to the walkway. His
shot was beautiful. It sailed high above
the bush and landed three feet from the
dumpster. A decent chip would give
him a triple bogey for the hole.

“Be the ball,” I slowly muttered
under my breath as I chipped up for
my eagle.

Watson easily chipped in for his
pitiful triple bogey and the spectators

in the general
direction of the
19th hole.

“I was noonanedl” Watson com-
plained.

No one really cared at that point
because they had seen the sleek form of
a Lexington Police cruiser coming
down Lee Avenue, with the equally
sleek and supple form of Officer F.W.
Smith behind the wheel. The tourna-
ment ended with everyone heading to-
ward the l9th hole before Officer Smith
could get out o fhis car and admin-
ister Rodney King-style beatings unto
us all.

At the clubhouse, the finishing
school women poured us Bloody Marys
and administered to Ray’s self-inﬂicted

wounds from his fall into the snow.

“...Choked on his own vomit, my
foot...” Ray trailed off.

The Pro—Am Tournament play was
clearly over for the day, and Watson
and I raided the Official IFC-subsi-
dized can receptacles for range balls.
Ray got some ice beer and looked out
the window at Officer Smith, who was
staring cluelessly at the Alfa, obvi-
ously looking for damage.

“Humph,” snorted Ray in disgust.

“Can’t that guy just die or some-
thing so wecan finish ourtournament?”
pleaded Watson.

Ofﬁcer Smith waltzed back to his
car, disgusted that the beer can didn’t
scratch the finish on the Alfa. He
drove off in the direction of City Subs
and Steaks.

Since Ray didn’t want to get up
from his bar stool, we elected to finish
the tournament indoors, with the post-
Renaissance renovated bathroom serv-
ing as the green and the toilet as a cup.
Watson shoved the plunger in the toi-
let, to serve as the pin. We made a
mental note to remove it after the hole
was over, so as not to cause distress
to those who do not look before they
sit down.

Watson’s drive was long. He got a
good lie on top of the drain in the
bathroom and chipped his Keystone
into the bowl for an easy birdie. Smug
and confident, he stared at my drive, a
bad one by any standard. It had trav-
elled down the hallway, hit a door, and
ricocheted into the TV room, where it
came to rest on top ofthe big cube-
like coffee table the university had
given us.

“Renaissance bites,” I said while
lining up the next shot. Just then, Ray
burst in, flipped the lights off, and
promptly ruled the match over on ac-
count of darkness.

As Watson and I headed back to the
19th, we contemplated the truly rebel-
lious, anti-Renaissance message which
beercan golf conveys. A scream broke
the silence and we cringed under the
sudden realization that we had
forgotten to remove the pin from the
18th hole.

- the editor: _ V « M
The following opinions are my own. They are" not
:ant to reflect the position of the Publications Board.
I nnot let pass unchallenged Mr. Tompkins’
an—spirited and utterly unwarranted attack on Ca-
editors Anthony Catalano and Sarah Butler and
e Ring-tum Phi staff in last week’s issue of The
A g-tum Phi. lt’s bad enough but not surprising that,
' isdealingwithcampuspublications,Mr.Tompkins
ntinues to show either a fundamental ignorance of
call us disregard for the student constitution he
k a oath to uphold. But the personal nature ofthe
ults he directed at Mr. Catalano and Ms. Butler in
rticular suggesting that the Calyx’s difficulties re-
It from their not “getting off their respective asses”
eneath contempt.
Mr. Tompkins manifests a need to try to persuade
'- student body that he and the Executive Committee
ar nC responsibility for the Calyx’s current fiscal
oblems, and he implies that campus publications
- somehow pulling a fast one by not having to return
ney to the EC. In doing so, he is ignoring the
nstitutionf
Fact: The constitution provides that the EC will
7 the student activity fee to fund student subscrip-
ns tCthe Calyx and the Phi. While the amount of
ding is discretionary, the intent is clear: students’
ney is to be used to ensure that they will get their
[and their Calyx. To the extent that the EC uses the
dent activity fee to fund such broad-based organi-
- ions as the Ice Hockey Club and underfund student
blications, it is ignoring that constitutional man-
e. Why Mr. Tompkins does not see other student
anizations who ask the EC for money as gorging
-mselves at the students’ trough, to paraphrase him,
'-eyond me.
Fact: The constitution requires student publica-
ns to return to the Publications Board any budget

LETTERS

;surplus at the-end of the year. I suspectthat the
‘ students who wrote that constitution wisely envi-

sioned the Pub Board Reserve Fund as a safeguard
against the blatant reward-your-friends-and-punish-
your-enemies political pork barrel that the student
activities fee often becomes. In returning surpluses to
the Pub Board, the editors of student publications are
showing a familiarity with the constitution that Mr.
Tompkins apparently lacks.

Fact: Mr. Catalano and Ms. Butler have increased
revenue for the Calyx from sources other than student
pictures by more than 60 percent this year. In addition,
their increased efforts to persuade students to sit for
pictures have halted a trend ofseveral year duration in
which fewer students each year had their pictures
taken. This year, the number of students having their
pictures taken stabilized. That is hardly evidence of
people who won’t “get off their... asses.”

Fact: Even ifevery student at Washington and Lee
had his or her picture taken for the Calyx — every
single one, no exceptions —— and the Calyx collected
100 percent ofthe sitting fees, that income would only
just make up this year’s shortfall. To expect 100
percent student participation and 100 percent collec-
tion is unrealistic, and Mr. Tompkins is misleading
students by implying that the problem would be
solved ifthe Calyx put the arm on more students to sit
for pictures. If Mr. Tompkins is looking to compel
student participation, I submit that that is the EC’s
responsibility.

Fact: When The Trident approached the EC for
money this year. The Trident was not in the same
position ofﬁnancial strength that Mr. Tompkins seems
to be demanding of other student publications. The
Trident was struggling. I believe that EC acted prop-
erly in showing its support for a second student
newspaper, but to fund one publication because it was
struggling and to threaten to deny funding to another

Tbmpkins presents only one side of the story

for the same reason is inconsistent andsmack-s’of
blatant favoritism. ’

Fact: The Calyx made clear to the EC its finan-
cial position at the beginning of the year. It was
locked into a multi-year contract entered into well
before Mr. Catalano’s and Ms. Butler’s steward-
ship. That ﬁxed expense is the lion’s share of the
Calyx’s debt. There was nothing the current editors
could do about it except to generate more revenue,
and they did. In my opinion, by cutting student
publications across the board, the EC either ignored
or misunderstood the Calyx’s situation.

Fact: The Phi was not poorly managed last year.
It ended the year with a surplus, which, by consti-
tutional mandate, it returned to the Pub Board. That
money was used to buy equipment that student
publication needed.

I do agree with one of Mr. Tompkins’ state-
ments. Kevin Roddey has done a superb job as
business manager ofthe Phi this year. Ad lineage is
up and so are collections, so the paper can publish
more pages and give students more information.
The Phi staff is to be commended for those im-
provements. But Mr. Roddey’s success should not
be taken to mean Mr. Catalano and Ms. Butler have
failed. It is an inappropriate comparison.

Many of the members of the EC have worked
hard to understand the importance of student pub-

" lications to the campus, and to accommodate the

need for those publications. Mr. Tompkins’ letter is
an insult to them as well as to the Calyx and Phi
staffs. His letter does, however, make obvious one
thing. As a politician-in-training, he has mastered
the basic tools: half—truths, buck passing, and petty
posturing.

Brian Richardson
Publications Board Advisor

 

I terviews and Photos
y Joe Framptom
o

tt Jackson, ’94, Hanover, Pa. —
eam of broccoli because it will

with you the rest of the day.” inside.”
0

 

TALKBACK

A column, ‘-‘Limbaugh misjudges liberal‘

Film

The Film Society presents Like
Water for Chocolate (Mexico,
1993), directed by Alfonso Arau.
Showings will be at 8:05 p.m. on
Friday, March 11 and Saturday,
March 12 in the Troubadour Cin-
ema. There is no charge for admis-
sion. The film is in Spanish with
English subtitles.

Step Up

Step into a fundraiser to help
prevent heart disease. Gather you
team of four steppers for a fun-
filled afternoon ofraising funds and
heart rates. Give us a hand with
your feeton Friday, March 18. Look
for sign-ups in front of the Co-op.

Admissions

The Admissions Office is now
accepting applications for an antici-
pated admissions counselor posi-
tion. All interested graduating se-
niors should submit a cover letter
and resume no later than Monday,
March 21, 1994 to Julia M. Kozak,
Associate Director of Admissions.

 

Hillel

Hillel is sponsoring a “Passover
Community Seder” for interested
W&L students, faculty and staff on
Tuesday, March 29 at 6:00 pm. in
the University Center, Room 114.
Call Karen Lyle at 463-8798 by
Friday, March 25.

Trip
Anyone planning on leaving for
Baltimore or Cleveland early in
exam week, please give me a call

ASAP. l’ll pay for gas. Sarah
Drain —~ 464-8690.

Big Sibling

Be a big brother or sister to an
incoming East Asian exchange stu-
dent. Please see Professor Rogers
in the East Asian language center
for details.

Party

The Peer Counselors, the Mi-
nority Students Association, the
Panhellenic Council, and the Inter-
Fraternity Council are planning a
party in the Boiler Room on Friday,
March 11, to improve race rela-
tions. Everyone’s invited.

Clarke should look over
views on Limbaugh

To the editor:

Most people would agree that the
entertainment industry and commer-
cial television do have to sell their
product to the American people, and
indeed most of the media does a good
job at making money in this way. Un-
fortunately, Nova Clarke misunder-
stands this capitalist idea in her recent

values.‘-’>’c~m~ ~‘~ 

Miss Clarke claims that “Rush is
completely wrong in characterizing the
ideals and motivations of most liber-
als,” but it is her that is wrong in
characterizing Rush Limbaugh him-
self.

Granted, Rush Limbaugh does
clothe his ideas in a language and style
that is appealingto most ofhis viewers,
but he does not characterize liberals in
the way Miss Clarke claims he does.
Moreover, Miss Clarke begins her
column on this topic, and ends in a
litany of her own political values,
using the banner of “How Rush Is
Mean” to further her own political
agenda.

Rush Limbaugh would indeed char-
acterize Miss Clarke as a liberal, but
not only politically. Rush would lump
Miss Clarke with other liberals in the
way she handled her column. Miss
Clarke started her column emotionally
and mean-spiritedly. Then, she ended
her column with a list of all the won-
derful things liberalism has to offer. It
is these things and the way they are
handled that Rush Limbaugh attacks
everyday on radio and television.

Rush agrees that many liberals do
have good intentions, but he also be-
lieves that these good intentions and
the emotions that go along with them
are the things that need to stay out of
politics. Emotional pleas for help and
understanding in politics muddy the
waters of the intellectual debates and

-73.5

deliberation that politics are all about.

Liberals claim that “we must care,”
when what we really need to do is
think. Two examples come to mind.
The “caring” liberals of the 60s created
the huge welfare state and high-rise
housing developments that perpetuate
helplessness in order to “help” the
troubled peoples of the big cities of
America: As liberals still do today, the

‘libe‘rals“’éf"t,he ‘60s ‘jiln_'1pe'd" into this

issue with emotion without thinking
about the long-term consequences.

Likewise, many liberals today refuse
to allow white parents to adopt black
babies, claiming that black babies’ “eth-
nic identities and culture” will be threat-
ened should this be allowed, but the
long-term effects of this emotional is-
sue are again ignored and not fully
thought out.

Rush would agree with many of the
liberal ends of policy; no one is for
poverty, toxic waste, or AIDS babies.
But liberals like Miss Clarke think that
only their emotional, irrational poli-
cies are the cure and that they are the
only ones that “care.”

This is the way Rush Limbaugh
characterizes liberals, not by petty con-
cerns over money and selﬁshness as
Nova Clarke suggests. “Symbolism
over substance” and “emotion over
thought” are the real concerns that Rush
has about liberals.

MissClarkeshouldrealizethatsym—
bolism and emotion are not the cure-
alls to the problems and politics of
America. Maybe she should actually
read Rush’s second book, See I Told
You S0, or listen and watch his radio
and television shows to ﬁnd Rush’s
answers before she jumps to conclu-
sions about aman that is respect by
so many Americans.

Douglas W. Thiessen
Chairman, College Republicans

 

What’s your favorite Co—op food?

Wright Marshall, ’95, Griffin, Ga. and Lauren Guthrie, ’97, Lansdale, Pa.
— “Blow-Pops because you have to suck real long and there’s a surprise

Texas —— “We like the fruit salad.”

Michael Jones, ’95, Pensacola, Fla. and Charles Ferguson, ’95, Abilene,

I

Alex Churchill, ’94, Tacoma, Wash.
— “Grilled cheese because they’re
cheap, but they really don’t have any-
thing I like.”

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 19

ﬁre Ring-tum Phi is undergoing a changing of the guard.
The graduating staff is phasing outwith the March 25
issue, and incoming executive editor, Sarah Gilbert, is
evaluating and re—assigning current staff and looking for
new talent to fill empty positions.   r
All journalism majors and interested stucents with jour— .
nalistic experience are encouraged to contact The Ring- 0
tum Phi, 462-4060 or Sarah Gilbert if they Wish to be a
part of an evolving tradition.
About to begin its 97th year, The Ring-tum Phi is one of
the oldest and best college newspapers in the country,
and your talent is vvelcomed.

Come and be a part of the university's rich

  past, changing present and bright future.
Catch The Ring-'tum Phi ever.

   The

(Pan

 

tof 1eW
. Restaurant ' .
Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing
$2 off any pasta dinner with
Student I .D. ’
Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn

Valley

7/7u5Vl&ce  

wanowme sroass “

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

 

463-7797 I

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////

INVENTORY REDUCTION

  SALE!

Now Thru March 15

RAFTS PLUS, INC.

AMES, HOBBIES & CRAFTS SUPPLIES

Everything Marked Down

20%

Trains, Games, Models, Beads, Basket Making Supplies,
Doll Parts. Much More In Craft and Hobby Supplies.

Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5

Lexington 463-3355 /
/,

\\\\\\\\r

\\\\\\\\\x\\\\\\

31 S. Main St.,

\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\

 

Attention: Fraternities, Sororities.
Club & Intramural Teams

       
 

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

 
   

(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)
(0)

Want fast service St competitive prices for m)
(3) your nexthscreen&printe1:1 order? We now 
( ) print in— ouse stoc many co ors in

(0) tees, sweats St 2 button shirts. Check us «»
(0) before your next game or party. We’d like (1')
to show you what we can do.

gizat gsam éﬁozta

115 W. Nelson St.

(0)
(0)
(0)
Lexington’s Complete Sporting Goods Store A

 
 

Vessssssssssvvvv-vv

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186
Domestic Work Wanted

L St d t R t House for Rent -

Ow u en  es Four Bedroom, Two Bath ,
For More Information r _ , .

Please can , ...ocated Along Rt. 11 - 7 miles south of
Lerrarrre Alexander Lexington; available June 1. $880 per
464-9074 month Call 464-4791 anytime.
References Available ‘ﬂ

".Zecwe tée  to ad,"

   

D‘

. I
 2;‘. TAyloR& Ellesmd

Catering is available

for Graduation or any other '7
special occasion——

graduation, weddings,

cocktail parties, etc. I

631 Waddell Street, Lexington
463-5004 1

 

A
‘l

 

  

f The Ring-tum Phi, March 11, 1994

   

         Itarnsreeter  
“MEAN”-OW PRICES

: _Q

‘ WEEKLY SPECIAL I

.
21-25 COUNT
JUMBO RAW
SHRIMP

 

   

' RMOIIR
OT DOGS .2 02.0

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

   

    
   

LOW PRICES

   

FRESH
CUCUMBERS. . . . .EACHo25

CALIFORNIA NAVEI.
ORANGES ..... ..EAcH025

EEIEIIEBINS ........ .. sAcHc25

CRISP

 . . .1 LB. BAG 

25

    

 

GEIRUII...

A   7 LOW PRICES  
TROPICANA DIET COKE oR
' ORANGE JUICE COCA-COLA

HOMESTYLE
OR CALCIUM
'64
REGULAR, 
OZ. ,
6 PACK
I2 OZ. CANS

  
   

WEEKLY SPECIAL

IN THE DEU-BAKERY ALL VARIETIES

LOW FAT MUFFINS

6 249

 

. PoIAi‘6"cHIPs

'6 OZ.

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
’ Standings as of 03/ 11/94

Top: Wilson
Field, once
home of the
Generals’
lacrosse
team.

Right: Smith
Field,
occasional
home of the
Washington
and Lee
basebaﬂ
team.
Below: The
W&L tennis
courts,
sometime-
home-field
to the
Generals’
tennis team.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 1 1

File photos
Most of the statistics compiled for the past week-and-a-half involved the words “post-
poned,” “cancelled” and “re-scheduled due to snow.” Because of the icy, snowy, rainy and
simply muddy conditions of the Generals’ respective playing fields this week, baseball,
lacrosse, and tennis teams were forced to take a break from competition.

   

25¢ SALE 25¢ SALE 25¢ SALE

 

 

HT ’ HT
souR   RED KIDNEY
UK 0 LIMIT4
 8 ouNcE  ‘3°z5_ "§':'i:’.§ﬂ:‘.‘t.‘.‘:;‘;" Q

HT
MA€ARONl&  5 iiii”“sVKiI5I‘ii‘sM'xvv§'t*§:i5=§:~?7‘Y

CHEESE DINNER 7&5 O GIIMMI SAVERS Jr. 0
HUNT’S IN THE DELl- BAKERY
TOMATOw,,m.;,;,°"a, ALI. VARIETIES

PASTE 602° DONUTS EA. 025

Prices Effective Throu h March I5, I994

Prices In Ihis Ad Eiiective W cinesdoy, March 9 Through Tue ay M rcit i5,I994 In our Lexington M Stores
On|y.We Reserve Tiie'Rig lTo Limit Quantities. None Soici To Dec ers. We Giodly Accept federal food btomps.

Congratulations
Jennifer c§ha1<er on induction
into Phi {Beta Kappa.
Mag the rest of gour gears
be as successful as gour
gears here at Wéisls.
From gour sisters at

Pi {Beta Phi

  

{Last Week:

I WLax——W&L 21, Bridgewater 2
MLax~Hampden-Sydney 12, W&L 6

Golf——1st in ODAC Invitational

PAGE 12

S

Ellie ﬁling-mm iﬂhi

PORTS

This Week:

Base—-—RandoIph-Macon (dh) 03/11 "‘3f~’7l. ’ ‘
MLax—W&L Tournament 03/ 12-13 'l*~_i*";

WLax—'at Salisbury State 03/11 .17“? .1
WTennis—Denison 03/12 l

   
   

.:"f:"»l.

5!. "LT. 5 -

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS AND TRACK AND FIELD

’se.ud to the eighth--grade 

‘ never sleep. I cannot live?

   
   

Readers 
surveyed

SARAH on 

7.‘

 

 

There comes a time in» 
every editor ’s life whenshe 
must pass on her knowl-» I.
edge and hcrbeloved com-A :.:.j
purer to a worthy soulwho 5 gl
has given his heart and his. .
Thursday nights to the un- J
selfish cause of The Rz'ng-. :
rum Phi. "

in other words, .it’s.3
Steve’s turn. “

So before I leave,xl
thought I would dipback
"into junior-high-ese. Re-=
inerrrbm those notes the .
seventh-~ grade girls would 

gt:y':s‘? You know, “I really‘  A
like you. If you like me; 
check the box A. if y ,
don’t know, check the ho
ll. If you hatelny gut‘
clicclztlie box C.” ,  A ,9
So I have created, j, jt. ‘ 
forms dedicated sportsfarji :
and aficionado of ’ “Sarah ;,  I
on Sports,” the .,first-ever’ ..
Rirsgdurn Phi sports 
reader-opinion‘ surveiy,j;=
with an adolescent twist; '9
{flip it out, if you liylte-,-.rie’,~f A
turn it to the box in-rthe 
University Center; Be.a.,‘_
pal. — .  "
1) Do you like my col-V. .

  
 

 

 

umn? Should I continue,g»;;?
it next yeareven.tl1aufgh;Iv ,
will not have time'.’?,IsTit ‘
that valuable to the'Uni- V ’
varsity community? ‘
(3 Continue it if you

File photo
Senior Pauline Mita heads up Liberty Hall Field with the ball. The Generals
won their first game against conference rival Bridgewater, 21-2, March 10.

|

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team
was supposed to open its 1994 season March 3 at
conference-rival Bridgewater College. Due to poor
field conditions in Harrisonburg, however, the Gen-
erals were given an opportunity to strut their stuff in
front of the home fans.

And strut they did. The two-time Old Dominion
Athletic Conference champions opened up the sea-
son with a 21-2 beating of the Eagles at the Liberty
Hall Fields. The win was the 16th straight for W&L
versus an ODAC opponent.

“We were deﬁnitely not expecting this [easy a
win],” said senior tri-captain Angie Carrington. “We
were hoping to pull together as a team. This was a
great surprise.”

The Generals wasted little time declaring their
intentions to three-peat in the ODAC as junior Lind-
say Coleman scored just 17 seconds into the game.
Thus, a mere 18 seconds of playing time had expired
since their last score against a conference opponent,
Nicole Ripken’s 1993 championship game-winner
versus Roanoke.

Washington and Lee took an 11-1 lead to the half,
with Coleman notching a career—best seven goals in
that time span. Coleman’s previous career-high was
five, which she reached last season in a 22-9 win at
Lynchburg. The three-year starting center netted her
eighth and ninth goals early in the second-halfbeforc
being taken out by head coach Jan Hathorn.

According to Carrington, Coleman’s tremendous
performance was much more than merely being in the
right place at the right time, but knowing when to be
there as well.

“What she did well, besides shoot, was anytime
her defender dropped off her, she knew where to be,”
said Carrington. “That’s part of being a good player.”

Coleman left the game two goals shy of Lisa
Dowling’s single-game school record of 11, set last
year versus Hollins. The nine scores brings her career
total to 53. ‘

Many players agree the greatest frustration in

without it.  
0 Keep writing it‘, if}.
you can think of any better ‘
topics than last year. But ”
stop calling attention‘ to,_itf“ 7 *
with that blatant greysfuff.
O I do not give a d
2) How 110 Y0)‘ .
the sports coverage.‘-HS
too extensive? T6011 V
row? Is there anything;
misslng?. ‘ A. ?  I
0 You are awesom’ .7:
$:,=:ah on Spons.,Te1l__S_§eye

    
  
  
    

   

Agassi,

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

to do it just like you  it..j;j§
OTry harderthansarah 
i:,i.?.r.l., Steve. Here arc‘rny‘"*
suggestions: " ,  '
C) I do not give a s-
3} Did I ever tick"
ofl‘? . i . .
lfl met you, I would: 
O pimp-slap you.  .
0 kiss you and thank. 
you for brightening my life. ; . ,.
kind of like Pol_ly_anr1a.l I A’
0 not recognize .you,}._ ».
so who gives a %$#@? ..  .
4) I like youropinions
on everything but (check 
as many as apply):
C) women’s sports.-
O men’s sports. .9
C) outdoor sports‘.
0 professional sports
C) Olympic sports. I
Osports. ’ ’_ €f};._
~ :0 Tonya Harding; ,, ,_
.3) You w0uld,‘:iltaV-9" ‘
been a real columnist-if: 7*
you had written an an 
ticle about: * ‘ c  
0 Steve.
0 rugby.
Cl co-cd naked
0 Tecmu Selanne. ,
C} Ryne Sandberg (just ‘
hit; 11 rst name, not his base- ,
ball heroics),   .... ..
O.Ron Tugnut_(N_HLj f
goalie, you sports rilliter-is -
ates. Same reason ‘as
Ryno). , 7-I . _ ,
0 Anthony Mazzerelli. _ ,,
(satire deal). I ..: ’  ’ V ’
0 Kathy lreland ‘
0 Jake Bermanfsliair.-‘ 
0 Nancy Kerrigan.,..
6) I think you are:: ;

 
  

    
   
  
   
  

  

  

 

   

It is a good thing that the
weather in other parts of the
country is not as horribleas it
is here. In Florida, Arizona,
and other such havens of
warmth, the spring training
season is in full swing and base-
ball is moving toward opening
day (fortunately, without the
threat of a lock-out, strike,
nuclear war, etc.).

On a serious note, Phillies
first baseman John Kruk sur-
vived a scare recently when he
had a testicle removed. Doc-
tors said that Kruk had a form
of cancer. Apparently, how-
ever, Kruk will recover fully.

Previous to the operation,
Kruk had been experiencing
discomfort in the groin area.
At the time, the pain was at-
tributed to an errant pick off
throw from Mitch Williams
last year.

College basketball contin-
ues to roll toward the National
Collegiate Athletic Associa-
tion tournament. Most of the
major conferences have begun
their post—season tournaments
or, like the Big Ten and the Pac
Ten are beginning to think
about why they don’t have

post-season tournaments.

If the pairings were announced
today, Duke would most likely be
the number one seed in the south-
east regional. Connecticut would
be the top seed in the east, Arkan-
sas in the midwest, and Missouri
in the west. Missouri pulled off

SteVe’s NCAA hopes, dreams;
king of swing, hooks up

Belfour’s (the goalie playing
against the Kings that night,
against whom Gretzky had never
scored) door at 4 a.m. with a bull
horn. The man was reported to
have said, “Hey you hoser, let
Gretzky break the record!”

the un— In other
thinkable s p o r t s
enrouteto  news,
a number . — A n d r c
three na- In other skating news, Agassi, the
tionalrank— - U n i I e d
ing. Norrn N Kerrlgan -Cer . States ten-
Slewafl S tamly has her priorities 2": 5"“
team ran , _ o m c —
through the m the rrght order. times) gets
5‘i§hE‘g:r: Kerrigan will not attend fﬁfte hggﬁj
undefeated the World Champion- up award.
record dur- . Agassi ’S
ing the    rccent par-
l ' mo h —
25.5011. 3 ’ Scheduled “PP€“’“"?e §e..s"loa§..-
lwillre- on Saturday N rght Live. none other
sist the t h a n
urge to B I‘ O 0 k 6
continue Shields.

rambling on about basketball es-
pecially since I did the same thing
last week. Instead, one ofthe best
stories ofthe week came from the
National Hockey League.
Wayne Gretzky has been stuck
on 798 goals now for a while in
his pursuit of Gordy Howe’s
record for career goals. Appar-
ently (according to the last report
I heard), an LA radio station con-
vinced someone to go to Ed

OK, so there’s a little bit of an
age difference, but so what?
Think about it.

Parting Shots-—

Now that Charlotte has
Alonzo Mourning back, maybe
they can start winning some
games. They got off to a good
start by defeating the Phoenix
Suns behind Mourning’s 24
points. Phoenix took out their
frustrations the next day by scor-

Men’s lacross e
loses shocker 

 
    

preparing for the season has been the 2
weather. According to senior tri-captain P3. «
Mita, the team has tried many different thing. -
get ready for play, including practicing in A.
Virginia Horse Center.

“[The weather] has been tough on morale
Mitasaid.“Wc’ve been out there attimesfort *
hours in the rain with our feet freezing.”

Ironically, the Generals have the wcatﬂer
thank for having the Bridgewater game mov ,
to Lexington. where they were able to pick upt
victory on a relatively sunny day.

The Generals, ranked eighth in the pre-st 1
son in Division III by College Sports Magazi37
and seventh by Lacrosse Magazine, got fc
goals from All-American Carrington. A plir .
freshmen, Erika Snyder (three goals) and Am
Shaw (two goals), were also key contributorst
the massacre, which pleased Carrington.

“It was so exciting to see the freshmen pla
together like that,” she said. v

Carrington scored 44 goals last year and he
73 career scores are just four away frorrgthir
place on the W&L all-time goals list. ’

Just like last season, W&L begins its seas
with an ODAC blowout and now looks ahead
Salisbury State on Saturday. The women will u
on the road for that meeting, a matchup they wo
in ’92 by a 15-5 score.

W&l.’s next action will be the much sntic
pated contest with Roanoke College. Ne -
Thursday’s game was to have been the General
home opener before theschedule change of th
Bridgewater game.

W&L has won the last three meetings, all a
which decided either the regular-season or th
ODAC Tournament championship.

Those three games and four-of the las.t fiv
between the rivals were decided by one goa
The intensity, as well as the importance, of th”
game is expected to be no different than th
previous ones.

“Roanoke is a unique team,” said Carringto,
“Its going to take mental preparation, as well 
more of the same hard work.” ‘

 
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
   
    
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
       
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
  
 

ti

1

#1 6.: '
ing 81 points in the first half
against the much-loved Wash-
ington Bullets.

John Daly has been sober
for14 months and has returned 6
to the Professional Golf Tour.

‘V
5.2 .. .
.,..c......_.....,_.

-wt r r I» -and

. V.‘-7' '

  
      
 
   
   

(Yippee, looked important
enough to put in.)

Just in case anyone cares
(and because I thought it was
cool) Ferrari has returned to
the wonderful world of inter-
national sports car racing.
That ’s even more exciting than
a Big East basketball game.

Tonya Harding continued
her reign atop the sports news
heap. Sooner or later, even
Tonya Hardingwillﬁndaway
to fade from the sports lime-
light (hopefully, may we be
quite so lucky).

In other skating news,
Nancy Kerrigan certainly has
her priorities in the right or-

. der. Kerrigan will not attend

the World Championships
because of a scheduled ap-
pcarance on Saturday Night
Live. What a gal!

Finally, Michael Jordan
made his 30th appearance on
the coverof Sports Illustrated.
Unfortunately for Jordan, this
time Jordan did not get his
normal good press, however.
The caption under the picture
read “Bag it Michael, Jordan
and the White Sox are an em-
barrassment to baseball.

 

 

   

Women’s Swimming
Sophomore Rebekah Prince, competing

O the bee’s knees ‘

O snazzy ‘ ‘

O cheesy

O ditzy

Owho? 1 :-:.=f ,

Never fear, even if I do
‘not continue my ‘column ‘ ‘
when I let Steve take over
my job, I will still have a »
few more glorious weeks ,
as your Sarah on Sports. 8

You, reader, are the true
reasoiz we do what we do
here on your most beloved
campus newspaper. Your »
opinion truly? counts." 55
Please do not:hesi ’t‘
call us with yourproblems,
t:£‘.tIlT limes, your fears; =1

r

  
 

. . c  you have
1 At.» p«..:t>;.u«: you can COUIII.
on: your fiance and your - Cone e March 18
newspaper staff.   7 ~ g ‘

  

in her second National Collegiate Athletic
Association Division III Swimming Cham-
pionships, captured honors in the opening
night of the competition.

Swimming in the 200-yard individual
medley event, Prince was named Honor-
able Mention All-American for her 15th-
placc ﬁnish with a time of 2:14.63.

Princc’s honor is a repeat of last year,
when she was also named to the first-team
All-American roster in the 100-yard IM and
the 200-yard backstroke. She will compete
in the 100- and 200-yard backstroke as well.

Men’s Swimming

Three Washington and Lee swimmers
had hoped their provisional times would be
good enough to go to the National Colle-
giate Athletic Association Division III
Championships, but only one, junior Tony
Diedcrich, will find his way to Williams

Diederich’s time of 1:43.58 in the 200-

Diederich will also

100-yard freestyle events. .

Barely missing the cut—off for Nationals
were junior John Rowe and sophomore Craig
Sears. Rowe was named an All-American last
year, and Washington and Lee has not gone
one year without an All-American swimmer

Baseball

The Washington and Lee baseball team is
resting on its 2-4-1 record for yet another
game. The team has missed six games since
its Mary Washington game Feb. 26, and can
only hope Smith Field will be firm enough on
which to play March 12.

The Generals have a scheduled double-
header versus Randolph-Macon Saturday, an
important Old Dominion Athletic Confer-

since 1975.

ence match-up.

Fortunately, only one of the Generals’

games, an ODAC

   J OCKSHORTS

yard freestyle was the 16th-fastest Division
III time in the nation this year, and his chances
of becoming an All-American are rosy (the

top 16 finishers in the championships are
named All-Americans).

compete in the 50- and

competition versus

Bridgewater, must be made up.

Track and Field

  
   
 
  
 
  
  
    
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

 
 

The men’s and women’s track teams will
compete March 11 (today) in a tri-meet
against Bridgewater and Eastern Menno-
nite. This meet is the first of the Generals’
1994 outdoor season.

The Washington and Lee golf team won
its first competition at the ODAC invita-
tional hosted by Randolph-Macon March10.
Senior Bo Williams was the co-medalist,
shooting 75 on the par—70 course.

The Generals compete next March 12 at
the James Madison Invitational.

Correction

Last week’s women’s swimming story
stated incorrectly that there were no seniors
on the team.

Captains Jeanette Burgess and Kari May
are the two seniors on the Generals’ swim-
ming team. The Phi apologizes for the error.

Golf

Tournament,

Though many of the Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse games for the past two weeks were can-
celled due to weather, the Generals did fit in a heart
breaker versus Bridgewater. In an upset, the W&L
team lost 12-6, even though W&L was ranked ninth
in the USILA Division Ill poll. W&L is now 1-1 head
ing into this weekend’s first Washington and Lee

Swarthmore and Wooster. The championship game
is scheduled for March 13 at 3 p.m. O

  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 

 
 

File pto

  
    

  
 
   
    
 
    
   
  
  
  
  

with Alfred (seventh-ranked)

   
   
 

  

    

54‘ 2;?‘

Li .1.i\‘v ¥..!BF’J‘»RY

  

WM: H-«frzt..~...'s. ;..:-.5 2.1s\ws_nsn"v

 

1

. "”\.“f}"'t.'_.*¢»l_ ‘~.'.A 34451)
i‘i:"’al'~? '1

8 1991+

   

 

Festival of 0ne—Aots Women’sLAXdrops no to
opens Wednesdaya Roanoke 15-8  

 

‘s _ . - / .
JJMCE 93, N0. 23 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA MARCH 18, 1994

   
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
  
 
   
   
  
     

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

liour members of Beta Theta Pi fra-
ity were arrested this weekend for
Jession of marijuana.

Xndrew Suthard, ’95, Christopher
.phy,’95, Garrett Bouldin, ’96, and
istopher Buford,’96, have been
“geﬁ with a Class 1 misdemeanor
‘ Jossession of marijuana. Suthard,
phy, and Bouldin declined to com-
it. Buford could not reached after
: phone calls to the Beta house and
room. A conviction for a Class 1
‘demeanor carries a maximum fine
2,530, a maximum of one year in
. or a combination of both penalties.
Lexington Police Sergeant Rick
ton had been called to the Beta

house early Sunday morning to inves-
tigate a noise violation around 2 a.m.
The noise came from a loud stereo in
Buford’s room. Lexington Police Chief
Bruce Beard said as Sutton neared the
room, there was “a strong odor of mari-
juana present outside and inside the
room.” Beard said the odor came from
Buford’s room.

Beard said police conﬁscated two
bags of what police believe to be mari-
juana. Beard explained that until lab
results come back police cannot verify
that the substance is marijuana. Each
bag contained about five grams of the
substance.

Police also conﬁscated a purple bong
and a brass pipe. Beard said the total
value of all of the confiscated items
was about $60.

Beta President Dana Arrighi said
Buford has been evicted from his room
at the Beta house.

“It violates his room lease,” Arrighi
said. “It is his responsibility not to have
[marijuana] on the premises.”

Arrighi said Suthard and Bouldin
will be permitted to live in the house
until the trial, which is set for April 12.
Arrighi said if they are convicted, they
will be evicted from the house. Murphy
is the only one of the four who does not
live in the house.

Arrighi said the house will also wait
until after the trial to evaluate the four’s
status as members of the house.

“The housing corporation is not tak-
ing action until after the court date
April 12,” Arrighi said. “Both the hous-
ing corporation and our nationals have

been notified.”

Interfraternity Council President
Curt Smith said the
charges do not fall
withinthejursidictionof
the IFC.

Associate Dean of
Students for Greek Af-
fairs Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins said although
possession of controlled
substances in the frater-
nity house does violate
IFC standards, it is up to
the individual chapter to
enforce the rules.

“The IFC needs to
take a look at how the
Betas are handling it,” Atkins said.
“The Betas are dealing with their hous-

Buford

    

ing corporation. They are making an
effort to enforce [the standards] and are

doing so relatively suc-
cessfully.”

Student Conduct
Committee Chairman
Rajeev “Reggie”
Aggarwal and incoming
chairman Whitney
Bludworth said the SCC
cannot take action on the
case unless someone re-

ports it.
Aggarwal, Atkins,
and Arrighi said the uni-

versity is not in a position
to act on the case.
Aggarwal said this has

been an unusually active year in terms
of marijuana cases. Aggarwal said the

four arrested on drug charges

SCC has heard 12cases involving mari-
juana possession or use this year, double
the usual amount of cases.

This week the SCC evicted four
freshman from the dorms and gave
them community service hours and
conduct and social probation for mari-
juana use in the dorms. The SCC also
gave that punishment in a similar case
earlier this year.

Aggarwal commented on the seri-
ousness of the punishment decided by
the SCC.

“They forfeit the money for the
dorm,” Aggarwal said in reference to
the most recent SCC case. “They’ve
paid a big penalty — 500 or 600 dol-
lars. The usual standard [for service
hours] is 30 hours, plus social proba-
tion and conduct probation.”

    

   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

 
 
 
 
 

 
  

511 hf nd r1 p}i£..

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

   

gfist of wind blows Old Glory nearly perpendicular to her ﬂagstaff. Clear but windy days like
he one pictured have been characteristic of the weather lately. But it’s better than snow.

 

 

 

By YABIZ SEDGHI
Phi Staff Writer

Dr. William J. Watt, profes-
ofghemistry at Washington
Lee University, will retire at
end of this year.
‘At Washington and Lee,
itt’s many roles included: As-
tant Dean ’66-’68, Associate
an ’68-’71, Dean of the Col-
e ’]}l-’84, Head of the Chem-
y epartment ’87-’91, Head
the Premedical Committee
-’94, Chairperson for the
sidential Search Committee
82 and ’94, and Chairperson
A the University Self Study for
‘creﬁitation ’77-’78.

Watt was awarded the Wil-
m Webb Pusey III Award for
tstanding service and dedica-
n to the university, as well as
‘ Lynchburg Citation. He has
to been a chairperson of the
itio lDean’s conference and
resident of the Conference of
:ademic Deans of the Southern
ates. He also belongs to the
cial fraternity Alpha Chi
nega, the honorary fraternity
i Eta Sigma, as well as the
ner'can Chemical Society, the
tgima Academy of Science and

  
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
  
    
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
  
  

  

the New York Academy of Sci-
ence.

Watt was born in Carbondale,
Illinois on Dec. 15, 1925. At the
age of 17, he joined the Army’s
Specialized Training Program,
aimed at promoting education.
Watt attended this program at the
University of Michigan until
1944, when the program was ter-
minated. Shortly after, Watt went
overseas to ﬁght in World War
II.

' “I never really saw the war, I
was shipped from place to place.

‘At 18, I was not worried about
my future. I kept busy with the
30 paperback books per month
that the Army supplied us, that is
how I got my education,” said
Watt.

After thewar, Watt went on to
receive his bachelor’s degree
from the University of Illinois
and his master’s and Ph.D. from
Cornell University. Before com-
ing to Washington and Lee, Watt
taught at both Davidson and
Cornell.

“As a student at Davidson, I
realized that Dr. Watt was close
friends with many of the profes-
sors I admired. Later on, I came
to View him as an ideal colleague

and a master of detail. It is amaz-
ing how much he has accom-
plished in such a short period of
time. It is really extraordinary to
see him in operation,” said col-

league Dr. Brown Goehring, pro— ‘

fessor of chemistry.

“I will not attempt to summa-
rize the contributions Dean Watt
has made to the University in the

I signiﬁcant years of his service in

Washington Hall,” said President
of the University John D. Wil-
son. “You know about these first
hand  I can testify to the univer-
sal respect he has earned for him-
self, the College, and the Univer-
sity in his work away from Lex-
ington,——in the Commonwealth
to be sure, but in national and
foreign settings as well. His un-
failing good sense and good cheer
are exceeded only by his humil-
ity and decency. We owe him
more than we can ever repay.”
Watt met his wife, Helen,

‘while working for the Univer-

sity.

“Her father had a farm out-
side Lexington. She worked at
the News Ofﬁce. Back then all
the single employees of the uni-
versity would meet for lunch in
the back room of the Co-op. I

hemistry prof set to retire

met her there and we got married ‘

at the end of that year on Sept 1,
1956,” Watt said.

Watt is a season ticket holder
at the Richmond Opera. He has
also been active in the Rockbridge
Regional Chorus and R.E. Lee
Episcopal Church. Other hob-
bies include traveling and play-
ing bridge.

Watt’s travel destinations
have included England, France,
Japan, Korea, Egypt, Turkey,
Panama, Italy, and Hong Kong.
According to the Chemistry De-
partment Head, Michael Pleva,
Watt is a “gracious, but deadly
bridge player.”

“I believe that if we lined up
all the- professors at W & L and
had them go on Jeopardy, Dr.
Watt would win. He has the
widest range of knowledge,” said
chemistry major T.R. Kinsey,

’95.

When asked the reason why
he was retiring, Watt replied “I
am tired, it is time for me to stop.
I have really enjoyed my life at
Washington and Lee. I have en-
joyed the students. I have en-
joyed Lexington. If I had to do it
over again, I would do it exactly
the same way.”

Honor System
talks underway

By THOMAS Hesros
Phi News Editor

It has been a busy week for
Washington and Lee’s Honor
System.

The week started on Sunday,
March 13 with a dinner discus-
sion on the Honor System. This
kicked off two.Exqcutive Com-
mittee Vmeetings that dealt with
the White Book Review Com-
mittee and their new proposed
revisions to the White Book.

The EC, having had one week
to review the revisions submit-
ted by Hutton and the WBRC,
Monday reviewed the changes
and tentatively approved several
of them. Changes to the White

- Book require a two-thirds vote of

the full EC on two occasions
spaced at least one week apart.
The EC‘. ’s voting on Monday com-
posed the first of those two votes.

“I think you’ve made a num-
ber of good suggestions for
changing the White Book,” said
EC President Robert Tompkins
to White Book Review Commit-
tee Chairman Ames Hutton.

Many of the changes tenta-
tively approved on Monday dealt
with stylistic changes to the White
Book. As a result, little opposi-
tion was taken to the amend-
ments and most were approved
unanimously.

Some discussion was spurred

by a proposed amendment to
paragraph I of the procedure for
an Executive Committee Hear-
ing. This section currently gives
the committee the power to stop
its proceedings at any time and
for any reason by a vote of one-
third of the members present.‘ The
proposed amendment would
change the word “stop” to “ter-

‘ minate,” which ’the"WBRC rec-

ommendations say would
“clearly delineate the end of the
proceedings.”

The amendment was passed
11-2, with representatives James
Rambeau and Keith Benedict
dissenting.

“I wish there was more of a
statement about what the presi-
dent is empowered to do (in the
proceedings),” said Rambeau.

The proposed amendment that
prompted the most discussion on
Monday was one that would
change the language regarding
what instances of conduct could

be brought under the Honor Sys- 1

tern. The proposed amendment
reads: -

“The Executive Committee
may, at its discretion, refer cer-
tain matters to other University
disciplinary bodies. University
committees such as the Student
Conduct Committee and the Stu-
dent-Faculty Hearing Board are
uniquely qualiﬁed to address spe-
ciﬁc sensitive issues. Every stu-

dent has the right, however, to
bring any suspected instance of
dishonorable conduct to the at-
tention of the Executive Com-
mittee.”

The amendment also strikes a
sentence from the White Book
that reads “Hence, there may be
many things reprehensible and
heartily condemned by the Ex-
ecutive Committee which still
cannot be brought. under the
Honor System.”

Junior EC Representative
Alex Cross said this amendment
could give the impression that
the single sanction is no longer
intact.

“It’s like saying ‘we're not a
single sanction. We’ll let you
handle it,’” Cross said.

Rambeau said the proposed
statement would make students
aware of the SCC and SFHB.

“By having this paragraph,
we make people aware of these
other bodies,” he said.

EC Secretary Ashby Hack-
ney said the new language would
not deprive students bringing rape
cases to the EC of “the right to
have the EC investigate it as a
possible honor violation.”

- The EC approved the striking
of the “Hence statement,” as it
came to be called, but refused to
adopt the new language recom-

I->See EC, page 9

    
     
       
       
      
    
     
    
     

 
  
 
   
        

  

 
  

 
 
  

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World   

Russia to decrease production
of weapons grade plutonium

Russia has agreed to decrease over several years the
production of weapons grade plutonium. An agreement
signed Wednesday by Russia and the U.S. mandated that
Russia shut down its plutonium producing reactors. Three
other countries with nuclear capabilities have stopped pro-
ducing plutonium weapons materials.

Serbs and Croats begin peace
talks Tuesday in Zagreb

Serbs and Croats have agreed to talks on ending the strife
in the Balkans. The talks will begin Tuesday in Zagreb. Serb
and Muslim officials ended the 23-month siege of Sarajevo
by signing an agreement to open roads traveling in and out of

‘ Sarajevo.

Mosque massacre may have
been committed by two people

Testimony before an Israeli commission of inquiry raised
the idea that Barush Goldstein did not act alone in massacring
worshippers at a Hebron mosque, but perhaps had an accom-
plice. Guards testified Thursday that another Israeli, who
entered after Goldstein, held the weapon.

Nine convicted and sentenced
to death in Egypt

Nine men were convicted and sentenced to death in Egypt
for trying to assassinate Egypt’s prime minister. Last No-
vember a bomb killed a 12-year-old girl but left Egypt’s
prime minister unscathed.

The Nation  

 

Tonya Harding pleads guilty

Tonya Harding pleaded guilty Wednesday to conspiring to
hinder prosecutors investigating the attack on her skating
rival Nancy Kerrigan. Harding also resigned from the U.S.
Figure Skating Association. In her plea, she admitted to
conspiring to invent a false alibi for the attack. A judge
ordered her to pay a $160,000 fine and perform 500 hours of
community service.

Space Shuttle to land Friday

Space Shuttle Columbia is scheduled to land Friday mom-
ing, ending the second-longest ﬂight in shuttle history —— 13
days, 23 hours and eight minutes. The crew of the Columbia
has been conducting space shuttle experiments. The ﬂight
will land at Florida’s Kennedy Space Center.

Marlon Brando questioned
in Michael Jackson hearing

Marlon Brando appeared before a grand jury hearing child
molestation allegations against Michael Jackson. Brando
was questioned if his son Miko, who worked as the singer’s

A bodyguard, discussed the investigation with him. The teen-

age boy who brought the charges against Jackson settled his
lawsuit for $15 million. Jackson has denied the allegations.

Jersey mob boss indicted

Reputed mob boss John Stanfa and 23 others were indicted
on racketeering charges. The indictments targeted the Phila-
delphia—south New Jersey mob. Stanfa and others are charged
with crimes ranging from murder to kidnapping and arson.

The State 

Allen declines club invitation

Governor George Allen has decided not to join the all-
male, mostly white Commonwealth Club, an exclusive so-
cial club. Allen explained that governors are held to a
different standard than is the rest of society. Allen felt that to
join would be to risk possible misinterpretation by the people
of Virginia.

J MU considers tougher policy
concerning sexual assault

Students at James Madison University protested the cam-
pus’ current sexual assault policy. Forty members of the
Student Coalition Against Rape held a sit-in in favor of a
tougher rape policy.- JMU’s Judicial Control board,'which
had been studying sexual assault policies, responded by
delaying its proposals to consider student opinions.

By JOE FRAMPTOM
Phi Staff Writer

When many Washington and Lee students return
to Lexington next September to hit the books, seniors
Julie Townsend and Jason Aiken will be hitting the
books elsewhere and putting their hard-eamed skills
to work.

Following graduation on June 3, Townsend and
Aiken will be going to work at jobs they have
received through W&L’s Career Development and
Placement office. Both students have accepted of-
fers from accounting firms in Washington, D.C.
Beverly Lorig, associate director of the CD&P
office, said she thinks the job placement program
“has gone very well this year,” even though she
cautioned “it’s too early to say.” Although on-
campus interviews are now coming to an end, Lorig
said many students are still involved in the follow-up
process that may lead them to a job offer later in the
spring.

But Lorig is confident that more students will land
jobs as graduation approaches. She said a national
survey of employers shows “this is the first year in
more than three years that there has been a positive
increase in the anticipated hiring needs” nationwide.
Compared with other four-year universities, Lorig
said W&L traditionally has been above average in
attracting student recruiters even though on-campus
student recruitment is on the decline nationwide.

That decline, however, has not kept 51 employers
from coming to campus this year to interview seniors
for openings.

“The majority of on-campus recruitment takes
place beginning in January” and “most will be over
by the end of Winter Term.” Lorig said. “What you
have in terms of the on-campus recruitment program
are those employers who have traditionally hired
large numbers for structured training programs.”

She added that these employers tend to be in the
financial services area such as banking, investment
banking, and accounting.

Townsend and Aiken said the CD&P office had
been very helpful in preparing them for their inter-
views.

“They had the whole process set up for me and the
interviewers came to me. I can’t imagine having to
set that up on my own,” Aiken said.

Aiken added that the office gave him assistance
with the preparation of his resume, and was also

helpful in preparing him for his interviews.

Aiken also said he had a taped practice interview
with people in the CD&P office. Through this
process, he could go over the tape “to help [me] learn
what [I] did right and wrong.” He added that the
practice interview was helpful because it helped him
get his answers out ﬁmily.

“Sometimes you know what you want to say but
you just don’t know how to say it,” he said.

   
 

Townsend was equally positive on W&L’s‘

The Rin -tum Phi March 18 199

CD&P offers career help-

      
 
 

II

 

Seniors land jobs thanks to job fairs, careerldays

CD&P staff members Ruth Lewis, Beverly Loring and Vicky Saunders help
many seniors face the real world by aiding in the job search.

According to Lorig, many W&L students receiv
job offers from off-campus interviews and contac
in fields such as journalism, public relations, an
advertising. .

“Employers in those particular areas do not go o
campuses to recruit because they’re not hiring i
vast numbers for training programs. They hire 
positions become available,” she said.

She said students in those areas must use
combination of resources to contact possible e

Career Development and Placement office. Townsend
said the people in the CD&P office helped her exten-
sively with her resume, and provided her with inter-
view assistance. She said she “felt really confident
about our career development department. They just
really helped me a lot.”‘

Although the on-campus interview system places
many students in financial service positions, Lorig
said “our students last year entered into sales and
teaching in greater numbers than other areas of em-
ployment,” even though these types of jobs are not

  
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
    
       
  

Fil phot

    
     

       

typically ﬁlled through on-campus interviews because
these employers don’t hire in vast numbers.

4 See CD&P, page 5

  

ng-tum Phi

    

Photo by Betsy Gree, he R1

JubiLee sings to beneﬁt AmFar, the American Fund for AIDS research. The Wednesday
night concert made over $200 dollars for the organization.

Concert benefits AIDS fund

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Staff Writer

with the turnout.” He wished to thank everyone involved
including “the groups, Ms. Van Clief, the Lenfest Staff, and
the two restaurants.”

tended.

of the AIDS Education Project and JubiLee.

On Wednesday night a benefit concert raised over $200
for AmFar, the American Foundation for AIDS Research.

The university’s three a cappella groups performed:
J ubiLee, Southern Comfort, and General Admission. Senior
Lyrae Van Clief delivered a solo performance as well.

Event organizer Meriwhether Nichols celebrated the
event as “a great success.” She said over 200 people at-

“After getting such a good reception, we hope to make
this an annual event,” Nichols added. Nichols is a member

Senior Pat McDermott, founder of the AIDS Education
Project, also hailed the event as a success. He was “shocked

Frank’s Pizza and City Subs and Steaks provided food
for the performers.

McDermott also wished to give a special congratulations
to Nichols.

“She did a tremendous job,” said McDermott, adding
that he was “grateful for everything that Ms. Nichols had
done.”

Reactions from the audience were overwhelmingly posi-
tive. All in attendance donated money which will go to
AmFar.

Freshman Denis Riva, who is a member of the AIDS
Education Project and General Admission, was “glad that
the three a cappella groups could come together for such a
good cause.”

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

Date rape, eating disorders, severe
depression, homesickness, stress —
these are some of the problems next
year’s dorm counselors and resident
assistants will be trained toaddress.

Thirty-one counselors and nine resi-
dent assistants have been picked for the
1994-95 school year. Approximately
75 to 80 people applied for the 31 dorm

 

DCs and RA   lected ornext yea

counselor positions, according to Dean
of Freshmen and Residence Life Den-
nis Manning.

While there are no assistant head
RAS, four assistant head dorm coun-
selors have been chosen: Drew
Hammond, Megan McCloskey,
Reuben Munger and Derick Thomson.

Junior Kelly Brotzman will be
W&L’s head dorm counselor next year.

“Being a dorm counselor is prob-

ably the most rewarding experience
people that do it have,” said Brotzman.

Brotzman had two interviews to
obtain the headposition. Her duties as
head dorm counselor next year include
keeping the entire dorm counselor staff
informed, keeping in close touch with
the four assistant heads and keeping up
with campus issues and disciplinary

Brotzman” I Albert

problems that may affect the freshmen.
For Brotzman, one of the hardest
things about being a dorm counselor is

ships with the freshmen while having
to enforce the rules. [One must] culti-
vate a balance of respect and friend-
ship.”

Brotzman, along with next year’s

\

 
  

“trying to develop really good friend-

Petty  
thefts hit’
law schoo

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

 
    

Washington and Lee Director 1
Security Mike Young said items we
stolen from five cartels at the law ho c
last weekend between 10 p.m. atu
day and Monday morning.

‘The items
stolen in-
clude a radio
with car-
phones, a
bookbagwith
leather trim, a
watch, an
electric ra-
zor, ciga-
rettes and a
lighter, a por-
table CD
player and
CD5, and. a
Sony Walkman. The bookbag was lat
found near the Waddell School.

Young said all the items were tak 
from the same area of carrels.

“It appears to be the work ofyou
people,” Young-said. “They are n
college-aged.”

Young also said security and t
police have no leads in the break-ins c
freshman Jay Taggart’s room duri I
Fancy Dress weekend. Young add
that nothing else has happenedgo t
room since the last break-in .
Monday, March 7.

   
   

  

   
 
     

Young

  
   

 
  
  
   
  

  
     
  
  

  
   

other 30 dorm counselors, will tte
intense training sessions one we k b
fore the freshmen arrive at W&L.
counselorswill receive training on si
ations like date rape and suicide a
will become familiar with univers
policy.

Junior Christopher Albert fro
Baltimore, MD, will be the com u
cation link between Manning a
Gaines Hall as next year’s head re
dent assistant.

“Gaines is a great place to live
said Albert.

While the resident assistants are al-
trained, they have different petﬂale I
take care of and, therefore, differe
training.
,Mf.f,S,99h9mor,es have different pm
lems," said Albert.

As head RA, Albert Will be active
involved in organizing social activiti
for Gaines and other projects. 9

   
  
   
   
    

  
  
     
  

  
   
   
     

      
     
      
      

  
  

By Ethan Krupp
Phi Features Editor
.
The new Nine Inch Nails album has ﬁnally
. arrived, only six years after the first.
The Downward Spiral is the second full-
length album, the first since the 1988 release of
Pretty Hate Machine. An EP was released in
1992, Broken, but it didn’t have the feel of an
albhm. In the six years since the release of
Pretty Hate Machine, Nine Inch Nails and the
man behind the band, Trent Reznor, have be-
‘ come the premier band of hard-core alternative
. music. The intense beats of Pretty Hate Ma-
‘ chine, when combined with the loud, white

noise sound of Broken have won many con-
" verqs.

The new album, is a blending of the previous
two, but it leans to the harder, louder side. The
first song, “Mr. Self Destruct,” starts slow and
speeds up to an intense beat that breaks into a
loud, in-your-face style of wailing guitars, drum
machines and Reznor’s vocals. As the track
pr resses, hammering in the destructive and
manipulative qualities of drugs, it suddenly
stops, opening to a almost Cure-like moody
guitar hidden in the back. Just as you rush to
crank the volume some more, the white noise

  
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  

 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

By ETHAN KRUPP and
HILLARY OLSON
. of the Phi staff

W " Four short playswill be featured in’ "
the Annual Festival of One Act .P1ays;._ -.
directed and acted by Washington and
Lee students and presented in the
I./(?1fest Center between March 23 and
3

Brilliant Traces, by Cindy Lou
Johnson, is often described as on off-
kilter dramatic work. Directed by
Megan Duncan, ’95, it deals with a
man, played by Dan Tipton, ’97, cooped
up in a lonely Alaskan cabin during a
sn wstorm. A woman dressed in full
bridal regalia trying to escape her wed-
ding, played by Elizabeth Weaver, ’95,
finds shelter in the cabin and stays
there with him. The couple alternately
. repulse and attract each other as they
7 are stranded together. They explore
together similar pasts that have left
them bitter and disenchanted about life
and they learn about themselves through
their experience together. Brilliant
Traces is to be performed March 23,
27 and 29 at 8 pm in the Johnson
Theater.

‘I/I/ea“L1:;[e

and beat return to blast you off of your feet and
drive your dorm room neighbors up the wall.
On more than on occasion, I have felt obligated
to close more door as I listen to this album
Another track on the album, “March of
the Pigs,” is set-up around a similar
pattern, but at 269 beats-per—minute it
is an intense roller coaster ride dur-
ing which you can do nothing but
hang on. The break in the song is 5
constructed to seem like the space
between two tracks on a com-
pact disc. In other words, when _ 
the song starts back up, you are ' _
caught completely off-guard. ’
The video that recently pre-
miered on MTV, mirrors the
set up of the song. The video is ,
bizarre because it is so simple ' '
that the make-up person can be
seen coming onto the stage in the
break, fixing Reznor’s make-up, _
and leaving the stage. This is a S
contrast to an entire album made
almost entirely by one man with a I
large supply of drum machines, key- 
boards, samplers, and Macintoshes to pro-
gram the music.

The main content ofthe album deals with the
lack of control we have over our lives, and in
some cases, the amount of control others have
over us. From “Ruiner,” the sixth track, “You
had all of them on your side, didn ’t you?/ You
believed in all of your lies, didn’t you? / The
runier’s got a lot to prove he ’s got nothing to
lose and nowhe made you believe / The ruiner ’s
your only friend well he ’s the living end to the
cattle he deceives / The raping of the innocent
you know the ruiner ruins everything he sees. ”

“I Do Not Want This” shows the control
others have over us. “I do not want this / Don ’I
you tell me how I feel / Don ’t you tell me how I
feel / Don ’t you tell me how I feel, ” and “You
would know, wouldn’t you? / You extend your
hand to those who suffer / to those who know

Nine Inch Nails re

what it really feels like, ” demonstrate this con-
trol.

The album does vary from the sound of
Pretty Hate Machine and Broken. The beats
tend to lay out like PrettyHateMachine, yet the
guitars and sampled noise is more melodious
than Broken ’s noise. Most of the songs have a
well defined beat as the basic foundation, upon
which numerous layers of samples, guitars,
basses, and keyboards are added. Nine Inch
Nails would not exist if not for the ability to
computerize and program music, yet this does
not make Reznor any less of a musician. He is
merely able to create sounds impossible for a

   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 

band performing live. Although he does tour
with musicians and features several guest mu-
sicians on The Downward Spiral. One of these
is Stephen Perkins on drums for “I Do Not
Want This.” Perkins was the drummer for
_ J ane’s Addiction before the group broke
V. up and is currently working with Jane’s
A Addiction founder Perry Farrell in
; Porno For Pyros. There has always
 been an interesting relationship
between Nine Inch Nails and
Jane’s Addiction since Pretty
HateMachine,where Jane’s Ad-
diction is one of the five music
— groups cited by Reznor as
sources for ideas and sounds.
The others include Public En-
. emy and Prince. Both Nine Inch
_ NailsandJane’sAddictionplayed
V the first Lollapalooza tour, and
Nine Inch Nails stole the show and
t-shirt sales from Jane’s Addiction.
. The album also has one very
1 unique piece, a three minute, 22 sec-
, ond track titled “A Warm Place” based
on a surrealistic guitar and a lack of
vocals. The piece is a contrast to the remain-

»  der of the album because very little of the loud,

angry tone is present. This piece serves to
remind us that The Downward Spiral is not all
loud, fast and intense pieces. In fact, there are
more slower pieces on this album than any
other Nine Inch Nails release. These pieces
may have some loud noise or fast parts, but the
slowness serves its purpose by luring you into
a comfortable mood and then attacking your
eardrums. “Eraser” is the perfect example of
this, especially since it follows “A Warm Place.”

The ﬁrst single off The Downward Spiral,
“March of the Pigs,” is a must if you are a
diehard Nine Inch Nails fan, and still a good
idea if you like The Downward Spiral. It has the
album version of “March of the Pigs,” along
with a unbelievable remix of “March of the
Pigs” titled “All the Pigs, All Lined Up.” It also

 

PAGE 3

turns at last

has two remixes of “Reptile” and previously
unreleased bonus track.

The entire album was recorded in the Tate
Mansion in Hollywood, Calif., where Charles
Manson and his followers murdered Sharon
Tate, which is now Reznor’s home. An inter-
esting story mention in several magazine ar-
ticles about Reznor and the album is the visit
paid to him by Tori Amos. She attempted to
cook him a chicken for dinner in the kitchen,
but for some reason, couldn’t. She reportedly
leftthe house shaken, feeling that it was haunted.
It seems like a logical recording studio and
home for someone has cited Clive Barker as a
source of musical ideas.

The origin of the name Nine Inch Nails is in
question, but the most plausible answer is that
the nails that seal a coffin shut are nine inches
in length. Other solutions are the nails driven
through Christ’s hands were nine inches long
and the fingernails of the Statue of Liberty are
nine inches long.

So if you love dancing to “Head Like A
Hole” and “Down In It” at fraternity parties and
wallowing in your rage to Broken, then The
Downward Spiral is for you.

 

filled with comedy and drama

Ingrid (Ellen Dean, ’94) waits impatiently as the Valentine Fairy (Bill Haase, ’97) sets up a
slide show of her past lovers in The Valentine Fairy directed by Jeff Mikita, ’94.

Pubicity Photo

 

ﬂ)irected by Andrew Campbell, ’94,
Sure Thing is another entirely student-
run one act play originally written by
David Ives. In this drama, a young man
_ and woman (played by Noelle Parrott,
’95, and Denis Riva, ’97) meet by
chance in a cafe. She is reading a
Failkner novel, and he desperately
searches his mind for any memories
about Fualkner in an effort to make an
acquaintance. After each attempt, a
bell rings and time hops backwards so
that he can try again after botching up
each try. In time he gets it right. Sure
T ing will be performed immediately
a er Brilliant Traces on March 23, 27
and 29 at 8 p.m.

Eleemosynary, a play by Lee Bless-
ing and directed by Mandy Irons, ’95,
deals with the delicate relationships of

  
 
  
 
   
     
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  

 

Publicity Photo

Dorian Lucas, ’94, LesleyLarsen, Jeanne Dillon, ’96, play in
Eleemosynary in the Annual Festival of One Acts this year.

three women, played by Dorian Lucas,
’95, Jeanne Dillon, ’96, and Lesley
Larsen (from a local high school.) The
grandmother Dorothea has sought to
assert her independence her whole life
through strong will and eccentricity.
Her brilliant daughter Artie flees from
the stiﬂing domination of her mother,
and Artie’s daughter Echo, an ex-
tremely sensitive young woman has
been abandoned by her mother and has
been raised by Dorothea.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

   

The three must wrestle with their
strained relationship and come to peace
with themselves and their family. In
the end, after Dorothea’s death, Artie
and Echo acknowledge their need for
each other and try to build a life to-
gether. The play will be performed‘
March 25, 28 and 30 at 8 p.m.

The Valentine Fairy, written by
Ernest Thompson , will be featured

rafter Eleemosynary on March 25, 28

and 30 at 8 p.m. Directed by Jeff deals

 
 

Publicity Photo

Denis Riva, ’97, and Noelle Parrott, ’95, during rehearsal for Sure Thing. The one act is
directed by Andrew Campbell, ’94 and written by David Ives. It is one of the four one
acts in the Annual Festival of One Acts starting on March 23.

with an unhappy woman named Ingrid,
played by Ellen Dean, ’94, who sleeps
most of the day away in her apartment
and has endured several negative rela-
tionships. Suddenly the Valentine fairy,
played by Bill Haase, ’97, appears in
her apartment and shows her slides of
her past lovers. As they examine the
past, Ingrid rediscovers her innocence.
Because this play is only a year old,
working on it has been very enjoyable,
according to Mikita.

He has also “had the pleasure of
talking with Ernest Thompson,” in
connection with the play.

Mikita said, “directing is an intel-
lectual challenge,” and he likes that.

Mikita also said that one of his fa-
vorite parts of directing is “tying all
aspects of the play together.”

  

Publi it Phot
Dan Tipton, ’97, and Elizabeth Weaver, ’95, play in Brillyiani
Traces in the W&L Annual Festival of One Acts at Lenfest.

For the W&L Record

8 On March 11, 1944, The Columns recorded the topic
for debate at the week’s Forensic meeting was the contro-
versial discussion that compulsory birth control should
be adopted by the federal government. The speaker for
the affirmative argued that forced birth control was the
only way to arrest the deterioration of the human race.
The target of the federally monitored project would be
the “degenerate peoples” of the United States. In one
generation, the speaker for the affirmative stated, 36
percent of the “ineffectives” in the American population
would be reduced. The dissenting speaker argued that
compulsory birth control was undemocratic, and it
would cause an increase in sex delinquency by interfer-
ing with the normal human habit pattern. Following the
discussion an affirmative vote supporting the argument
of compulsory birth control was recorded.

On March 15, 1969, then “Today” show host Hugh
Downs, of “20/20” fame, was announced by The Ring-
tum Phi to be the addressor at the Phi Beta Kappa
convocation in Lee Chapel on April 12. The topic of
Downs’ speech was to be “The Role of Communication
in Human Affairs” and was open to the public. After his
speech, Downs was to be initiated into W&L’s Virginia
Gamma chapter of the national honorary fraternity.

On March 15, 1984, the Phi reported the Washington
and Lee Faculty Calendar Committee voted to retain the
12-12-6 undergraduate calendar. They also voted to
extend class periods to 55 minutes each, to have a one
week vacation after six weeks of class in the fall term, and
to require returning students to register for the entire
following academic year in the preceding spring.

A student poll taken by student representatives to the
Executive Committee stated that out of 165 responses,
140 were in favor of the 12-12-6 term, 19 were opposed,
and six had no opinion.

On March 16, 1989, the Phi reported that 19-year-old
freshman Mary Ashley Scarborough of Raleigh, N.C.,
was killed in a hit-and-run accident on East Washington
Street.

Scarborough was found lying in the street in front of
the Lexington Police Department about 2:10 a.m. on the
morning of the Phi ’s release. There was some debris
from an automobile on the scene, and it was determined
the car that killed Scarborough was metallic blue in color,
but at press time, the police had no suspects. Scarborough
was a Chi Omega pledge. Her sister had been killed the
year before when the car she was a passenger in was hit
by a drunk driver.

Compiled by JAY WHITE of the Phi staff

 

PAGE 4

off the mark

 

 

by Mark Parisi

W&LIF E

  

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18,1994 ;_.

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

TH/N65 ARE some To BE so
MUCH NICER Now 7HAT w£’vE HAD

 

by Jeff MacNelly

 

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 10
1 Aquatic plant
5 Untied ‘5
10 Movie dog ,9
14 Peruse
15 Lothario
16 villainous look
17 — uncertain
terms
18 "Dallas" family
name
19 Augury
20 Comic verse
22 Dog
24 Mob or lob end
25 Lodz native
26 Perfume lrom
petals
29 Increase
31 Precious stone
34 — in (intruded)
36 Trust

 

37 Hatchet kin

38 lroquoian

39 Musical drama

41 Discharge

42 Apex

43 Ripens © 4 T a ne Media Services. Inc.  
44 Make changes “'9 “95€“'°°
46 Sault — Marie Last week’s puzzle solved
47 Tills 8 Poetic time of
49 Leases day

50 Tolerate 9 Priest's

51 Hangout neckwear

53 Overseas 10 Without help
56 Fortunate one 11 Hall: prel.

60 lncline 12 Adolescent

61 Legal right 13 Eng. composer
63 Inlormation 21 Raison d'—-

64 Whittle 23 Associate

65 Old weapon 25 Equal

66 Completed 26 Helps out

67 Excel 27 Card used in
68 Urged (with on) lortunetelllng

69 Hackman or 28 Poppycock!

 

  
  

 

   
  

 

0

rr comes win; 0‘

AN EXTENDED‘ _ ' 93’
WAKRANTK an A r I

 
    

I DOUBT ‘(OWN-
NEEV IT.

 

Dave by David Miller

  

  

 
 

I
Services, lnc_/ o
LsReserved. ’

DAKLA €EEl<§ RELATIONSHIP LINDERETANVING

  

    
 

WHY I6 HE

' @1994 Tribune Media
‘ Pluggers, Inc. All Riglt

3-re '

  

90 tr~l€EN§lTlVE To

   

I HAD To WATCH
WHAT QHE WANTED
To wATcH...FOR A
WHOLE Houl2/

BECAUSE

    
 
   
 

NO WAY.’
- LET '5 HAVE

 

ulzelxll l-\i\\<BlNé‘El<
at ;t’\<\Né...

NON (§l3QUlTUll

9* §

\VlL"=:’J/

..,—/
\\/ll:-_E}6/924 row-/=1‘-ms.-rm asr wzrrszs cease

   
      
 

   

ANOTHEK

    
 

 

N°\\‘ ‘r.—\.AT You N\ENT\ot~l \-r,
11 was \90t< ix L\'\'TLE
Lug; \_c»\)\g_T\AE—éTooL\E.,.

    

  

 
 
 
 
 
  

 

°’o'0o~

gluon...

R5MEMB5R,A'l‘l’lLA,lF slou
CANT SN? SOMETHING
MOE ABOUT someeowe... l

  
 

 

    
  

l'M GONNA TRY

THIS NEW VOiCE- <
ACTIVATED -

PHONE CARD...

 

COLLECT!

 

 
        
  
 

  

NO, I WON'T
ACCEPT THE.
Cl-lARGES._

CALL...
HOME...

  
    
 

   
 
  
 
 

 

     

    
  

Kelly 30 Extract by lorce
DOWN 3; ttjivimnv _ '

$35111???‘ °°w' §§’s‘5’.‘?n‘iL."f.1'Z§ 03/W94

3 Srir-e-etl%rroawl)on 40 :i1rFO‘lle for one 2
Z's:::l.l..  9 ﬁééiliils  :3 22:25:: 6 2?  SHO “‘°“"E“"
92§r'l§l‘§3Z'Lnangs 3§il:§3.'n§|§éa°a i'i3¥£°”"‘a'"5  iE'c’i3'Fmnara by J8/M730/V9//.V .E 

0 O C anne —- BVIS USlC0 \
1 Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination. Apartment forRent
gag? '¢ Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only. 4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, Washer & dryer, Some utilities included.
zed“ 5 Within walking distance from campus. 2 1/2 m1'1e5YVeSt0ft0W,“-only $175 Per bedroom-
_f‘ "1" call 4633835. Inquire at Kelly S Corner 463-5452
MM ’  /A Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx. 2000 i.
Saturday M0ming- Al1U Can Eat Pancakes sq. ft. 4 bedrooms - can hold up to 6 people. Valley  
Dan)’ SP°°ia1-S‘ 24 H°“"A‘DaY Breakfast Fireplace wood stove refrigerator ceiling fans HARDWARE stones 
Meal‘ Th“ Cate’ ‘O BigAPPe’i‘es ’ and huge bar. Secluded location about 3 miles 3 _
Bmaﬂastﬁuﬂet from town. Rent $200/ erson re ardless of Hardware, Paint, and Related Items 9
num er 0 peop e . eau 1 u view. arge yar —
b f 1 ) B if 1 ' gL d

 

Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m.
Sunday 9 a.m.-2 p.m.
i Rt. 11 North 463-3478 Open 24 Hours

 

employment available. For
"‘ ‘ /7 employment program call:
 . .0 ’ V g ‘ "_ ' Cruise Emplo_t/1nent Services
  I/‘§’_/:_‘_/I V (206) 634-0468 ext.C5342
-....- .— He
SIOHEWEII SQUHTE Shopping CEHIET ,
Lexlngton,VA
463-9800

New Music EOE this

Bad Company - Dangerous Age

Cell - Living Room

Motley Crue - Self Titled
Sammy Hagar - Unboxed
Muddy Waters - One More Mile
Howlin’ Wolf - Ain’t Gonna be Your Dog

and many more!



Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat 103-m--11 p-ma

Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

 

 

with ball field. Call Nate or Lewis for more
info, 463-6337 Home (804) 886-0614

     

Students Needed!
Eam 32,000+ per month + world
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the
Caribbean, etc.) working for
Cruise Ships or Tour Companies.
Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time

 

 

»  Americ an
'1  Red Cross

RE A RED CROSS VOLUNTEER

"1

 

    

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

For Rent

A 3-Bedroom a artment
with washer (1 er,

distance of WSLL. For
information, call 463-7690

dishwasher; within walking "

TIE TRAVEL

703-463-2 197

   
  
 
  
 

Come See us.
for Our Spring Break
Specials

 

16 W. Washington St.’
texinglon, VA 24450

0

  

~ - -~.- ~. 1-— ».—..«~

 

    
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  

0

UDCHAVIS, from page 1

go in the library. So I went in the
libr ry and demanded a book, and the
liblgry called the police. They also
called my parents, who stood with me.”

“On that day, the library was inte-
grated. All my friends who were stand-
ing outside, looking in the windows,
they came in and got a book also,”
Ch vis said.
fter that first step in his civil rights
career, Chavis went on to work with
the NAACP, the Congress on Racial
Equality, the Southern Christian Lead-
ership Conference, and the American
Federation of State, County, and Mu-
nici al Employers. Chavis received
his .A. from the University of North
Carolina and his M.Div. from Duke
University. Chavis is an ordained min-
ister of the United Church of Christ and
was the executive director and CEO of
the Commission for Racial Justice of
the United Church of Christ before his
NAQCP appointment.

In 1971, Chavis was wrongfully
accused of inciting a riot over a school
desegregation case in Wilmington,
North Carolina. He and nine others,
collectively the “Wilmington Ten,”
were jailed for four years until a court
ovgumed the convictions and freed
Chavis and the others. Amnesty Inter-
national called the Wilmington Ten
“the first group of political prisoners
held in the US.”

Prison only deepened Chavis’ de-
tennination.

‘What we decided was that if the
state was going to put us in prison for
ﬁghting segregation outside of prison,

 

the prison.”

“They put us in 10 different prisons.
I guess they thought that by spreading
us ‘put, we wouldn’t have contact with
on another...By spreading us out in 10
different prisons, that gave us 10 dif-
ferent places to organize,” he said.

CD&P helpsstudents with job

we would just take that fight inside of ‘

he Rirgwtum Phi, March 18, 1994

Chavis finished his master’s degree
from inside his maximum—security
prison cell.

Since his release, Chavis, in his
fight for civil rights, has broken new
ground by identifying the phenomenon
of environmental racism.

“This simply means that racial and
ethnic, particularly African-American
and Latino—American residents are dis-
proportionately exposed to environ-
mental hazards,” he said.

In 1987, Chavis commissioned a
study to examine the relationship be-
tween the race of particular areas and
toxic waste locations. After checking
every zip code, the study showed a
“direct correlation between the race of
the community and the location of toxic
waste sites...We checked for geogra-
phy, for geology, and other factors.
But race proved to be the most determi-
native factor in the location of toxic
waste sites. And that’s why we came
up with the term ‘environmental rac-
ism.”’

President Clinton has recognized
the environment as a means of possible
racial discrimination.

“Three weeks ago,” Chavis told the
audience at Lee Chapel, “President
Clinton signed an executive order on
environmental justice, the first time in
the history of the United States that the
President signed an order saying that
the rights of minorities have to be
equally enforced when it comes to en-
vironmental law.”

Chavis said he sees this as an im-
provement over civil rights policies of
past administrations.

“We could not get [the Reagan and I

Bush administrations] even to admit”
to the problems of environmental rac-
ism, Chavis said.

Chavis said he feels the Clinton
administration deserves a “B+” thus
far for its civil rights policies.

“We’re hoping to work with the
administration so that one day it can
get an ‘A.”’

NAACP head giveeech in Lee Chapel

The Re-employment Act of 1994 beoneofourtoppriorities. Twenty,30
will beastep in the right direction, said years ago, that was not the case. The

Chavis. case then was
“In our com—  political em-
munities, there is powerment, get-
3 ‘°‘ °f j°b‘°S.5‘ What we ’re concerned “"3 P“°P“"
ness. Insomec1t- _ _ elected to of-
ies, African- about today is the quality fice,” he said.
American male d . h Althoughthe
unemployment is ofe “canon t at every goalsmaydiffer,

between 60 and
70 percent. So
what happens is
the young men
wind up in jail,
the state prison
system, or in the
morgue...Wewill
support any fed-

eral programs that discrimination,”
would provide matter what ethnicity, he said. ’
jobs.” In additionto
The NAACP the economy,
applauds the   Chavis stressed

Clinton adminis-
tration for its appointment of blacks to
governmental offices.

“During 1993, the Clinton adminis-
tration appointed more African—Ameri-
cans and other minorities to cabinet-
level and sub-cabinet level positions
than any other president in the history
of the United States,” he said.

Furthermore, Chavis said, the posi-
tions filled by blacks in this adminis-
tration were not the conventional black
positions.

“Traditonally we always get HUD
or HEW. This time, the president
nominated African-Americans for sec-
retary of agriculture, secretary of com-
merce, secretary of energy, the admin-
istration of Veterans Affairs, and on
and on,” he said.

Chavis, himself in his first year of a
new position, has new goals for the
NAACP. The civil rights issues being
fought for today differ from those the
organization fought for in its early years.

“We are determined that economic
development, economic empowerment

student gets. We believe
our nation should have a
good public school system

that provides ‘the best
education to every child,
no matter what race, no

the basic objec-
tive remains the
same, said
Chavis.
“Ourmission
in 1994 is the
same as it was in
1909, and that is
to fight racial

education as a
priority of the NAACP.

“What we’re concerned about to-
day is the quality of education that
every student gets. We believe our
nation should have a good public school
system that provides the best education
to every child, no matter what race, no

- matter what ethnicity. And until we get

to that point, our society is going to be
in trouble.”

“The NAACP opposes the
privatization of schools. The reason
why we oppose it is because it will set
up...an educational apartheid where
only the privileged will get a good
education, and those that are less privi-
leged will get only a mediocre educa-
tion, and a couple won’t get an educa-
tion at all,” said Chavis.

Another objective for Chavis in-
cludes “focusing on the youth, the youth
leadership development, doing some-
thing about gangs and drugs.” Chavis
wants to attract younger members to
the NAACP.

“When I came into this job last year,

Search

the average age of an NAACP member
was 58 years old, so obviously there
was some generational gap. We are
closing that gap so it can be a much
more intergenerational organization,”
he said. '

And it’s working. Younger people
are joing the NAACP “in the tens of
thousands,” said Chavis. Overall mem-
bership has grown by 20 percent in the
past year alone. Chavis also wants to
reach out to other people of color such
as Native Americans and Latino-
Americans.

“We are having record numbers of
Latino-Americans as well as Asian
Americans as well as Native Ameri-
cans. We’re truly becoming a multi-
racial civil rights organization,” he said.

These many new aims of the
NAACP have caused Chavis’ critics to
believe he is taking on too many re-
sponsibilities. Chavis himself admits
“my plate is full,” but does not agree
with them.

“The people that say that underesti-
mate our capacity...I’m an activist.
Therefore I’m not just going to del-
egate authority. I’m going to go out
there and do it myself.”

“When I was elected last year, I told
the board of directors I was prepared to
make a lifelong commitment to the
NAACP, seven days a week, 24 hours
a day. And that’s what happened. It’s
because of our hitting the ground run-
ning that we’ve made such tremendous
progress,” he said.

Another Chavis, long ago, made it
his mission also to advance and edu-
cate African-Americans. John Chavis,
Benjamin ’s great great grandfather, was
the first black to ever graduate from
this university, then WashingtonAcad-
emy. After his graduation, John Chavis
tutored both blacks and whites. Even
when the teaching of blacks was out-
lawed, Chavis did not stop and was
murdered for his work. The Chavis
House on campus is named after him.

“Black students who come to W&L

    

PAGE 5

do not see many African-Americans in
some of the top positions,” said Chavis.
“That in itself would cause African-
Americans to unite among themselves
because they feel there is no point of
relevance in terms of the large univer-
sity.”

In an interview, Chavis addressed
the recent turmoil over Louis
Farrakhan, a prominent leader of the
Nation of Islam and member of the
NAACP, who recently caused contro-
versy with anti-semitic remarks.
Farrakhan called Judaism a “gutter
religion” and Jews “bloodsuckers.”
Chavis voiced his disapproval of
Farrakhan’s remarks.

“The movement for justice in the
United States as well as throughout the
world is based on the principles of love
and mutual respect. You can’t build a
movement on hatred and bigotry.
That’s one of the things we learned
from the civil rights movement. Even
when we had hardships, and tear gas,
dogs biting us, people spitting on us,
we knew that two wrongs don’t make a
right...We cannot tolerate violence.”

“A lot of people think that if you
join the movement, you have to break
rules, you have to break regulations,”
Chavis said in his concluding remarks
to the audience in Lee Chapel. “You
don’t have to do that...It’s how you live
your life.”

“The role of the student on a cam-
pus like Washington and Lee’s is very
important. The vitality of the move-
ment in the ’60s came from students.
The question is, as we face the 21st
century, can we depend on this genera-
tion of students to rise to the occasion,
to rally forth for justice and equality?”

“What we need to do is to learn how
to hold hands again, with one another,
going someplace. We need to...send a
message to all the forces of evil, to all
the forces of bigotry and hatred, that
they will not be tolerated, that we must
march on...until every child is treated
equally and fairly in our midst."

00000000000000000000’

Read

 

I->CDP, from page 1

ployers in their field.

“You’re not going to find these other em-
ployment sectors represented in on-campus
recruitment, [but] it is an error to draw the
coﬁtlusion to say that there aren’t jobs in those
fields,” she said.

Lorig said the CD&P office receives the
latest information from job-listing services
that show openings in other fields that are not

‘C-%l:‘l:“®@l§i.&R§ The Push.
Album (Hoist) does not
come out until Tuesday,

§Mai°eli 29th (Sorry Guys!)

represented in the on-campus interviews.

In addition, the CD&P office has informa-
tion on job fairs throughout the year that can
give students an opportunity to look at a variety
of employers quickly.

Lorig said seniors can participate in pro-
grams such as the Selective Liberal Arts Con-
sortium, or SLAC. She saidCD&Pparticipates

K and develops employer participation.

“Through that program, our students have
an opportunity to interview in locations around

5

0000090

the country with a much larger representation
of employment ﬁelds,” Loring said.

She added that each year seniors participate
in job fairs at other area institutions such as the
University of Virginia.

Lorig said traditionally “employers are ex-
tremely pleased with graduates that they get
from Washington and Lee.”

She said, however, there is a gradual shift
occurring now from on-campus recruitment to
other methods that are more efficient.

“It’s wise of us to anticipate the change in
recruitment that’s taking place and to really
plan a strategy that will address the changing
recruitment needs of employers,” she said.

She stressed the change in recruitment is
focusing on the method of recruitment and not
the hiring needs of employers.

“It will be important for our office to de-
velop a strategy to learn of openings available
to seniors and to articulate a: method by which

employers and students can come together}? .. ._
‘ -4 4 -1-ﬁg;-.. .

Kauai it It»!

{NIGHT OWL lvlilslc co?

  
  
   

 

 ,\§at11tttag- Qlgria Antenna

EEIIIIIE at tile 2lRﬁiIlIJE1III mm Qjtmllttttz
,.. Ejrilllltg- Era Aritlgltr

the

comics
  ﬁlm

'D000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000.000000000000000000000000000

11l(7 .“1l'l§l|Ill'/71;

House for Rent -
Four Bedroom, Two Bath
Located Along Rt. 11 - 7 miles south of

      

   

   

   

 

' 25 5- -ftffferson 464-4050 m_;;74 52 Emma ﬁlm-M {Em mtg-[lg lmigﬂjlt Lexington; available June 1. $880 per
Open 11 a.m. til 7 p.m. Monday — Friday, , Q , th C 11 464 4791‘ -
Saturday ll a.m. — 5 p.m. fnuhtl 15 35" N2’ 9231” =' Eﬂllllﬁlﬁ mm. & (§ﬁl'l’.. llllllgﬂgilﬁ mon a ' anyt1me°
Self Stora e N ow
Resmy ,3 f OP“? Apartments for Rent GOING OUT OF
our unl now or summer mont s
E 1 while available. 2, Bedrooms BUSINESS
9 xce lent location in Downtown Lexington —
Basement of Domino ’s Pizza   
Catering to W&L students, walk to storage from ’
 , Call 463-1521 . CRAFTS PLUS, INC.
a “"aS°“*C‘;"e 108W ratesgjby mznﬂll Or Yeah GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFTS SUPPLIES
en a.m. - . . ' ° -
by Eppoimmem OPn‘§anfr‘d§’y Domestic Work Wanted Everythmg Marked Down
Sizes from 4'X8' to 8'X12'. LOW Studefnt Rates  %
For More In ormation
I .
. Call Mrs. Brown, property manager P133153  Trains, Games, Models, Beads, Basket Making Supplies,
C&1 Associates _ 4633013 Lorraine Alexander Doll Parts. Much More In Craft and Hobby Supplies.
H after 5 p.m. (703) 934-9402 464-9074“ 0W‘ M°'"‘aY “W S“‘“"‘f‘Y “*5
. . ' . Lexington 463-3355
W References Available 31 S Ma” St’ 
I

 OVt3 . A ' 1‘:1ZZZIZ1Z11Z$ZZZZZZ$ZZZ1
C Do You Want-VlSA & MasterCard Credit Cards? : EZ-CARE BOX 16515- A'“-ANT» GA 30321 :
_ Now Showing _ ....,.....:‘:.‘:..l°.;'..‘:.‘:.'.:*:',:.“:.:.:l.$r..":.°:;:.=:.°s.'‘::°..‘:.°.:.': : YES! mmws»/msrmamc-an 1
credit cairds..“tn your mmc.” EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN I Canjsappmved |mmcd|at¢ly_ . 100% nuAnAN1'£E|)| I

" Iron&WI)ll CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! . , .
Daily 7:00 . 9:3 ‘ p.m.' “SAG d ‘Card h Rd ard ' '

8* &$:33*;%l% em  - NAME '
Rated PG EMERGENCY CASH—TlCKE-‘I-S—RESTAURAN'l‘S: : ADDRESS :

H. wayngfg Wm-|d 2 REPAlPl;ors-r-E:AINSl)_ 1}:1oog5lLl.T)_v(<:)AuSl;(c:lI2\ERoRr!r:ri’2'rAnNol : CITY STATE __ZIP :

Dally 7.15&9.40 p.m.  Yes "0 SS’

Sat.& 2:45,4:50, ‘u "0 turn dmms! ‘ : _ _____..___. . :
‘Rated     '  I registered trademark d‘ Matcioud lntcmatloml. Inc '

261 -7292 V‘;,,uIuc ,‘ ct“ SEND THE COUPON TODAY" I Visa Isl ieglstemd tiadcnnrkdvlsn USA. lnclnd VISA lntrmtlor-ial I

£2375 BeechAve-.Buena\ﬁ@ I-e|'nI'Cd|‘d- Youn CREDIT CARDS ARE llAlTlm;! : _ _ _ :

  
  
  
   

     
     
     

  
 

 

 

 

 

   
 

    

PAGE 6

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Time for a change

Last week in this space we talked about one of the White
Book Review Committee’s proposed changes to the Honor
System. This week we would like to talk about two of the
other proposed changes. Some people might say we are
harping on the proposed White Book changes, but we think
these changes are so important there could never be too much
discussion about them. ,

Last week the Executive Committee had two meetings
which revolved around the proposed changes. One of the
proposed changes that received heated debate was the sug-
gestion that would change the makeup of the investigative
team for a potential honor violation. Currently the investiga-
tive team is made up of two EC representatives and a member
of the student body at large. If passed, the proposal would
create an investigative team of one EC member, one student
from the pool of law advocates and one member of the student
body at large.

Another WBRC proposal would prevent the EC member
of the investigative team from voting in the subsequent
proceedings. In their report the WBRC says the reason for the
proposals is to boost student confidence in the Honor System.
Some members of the WBRC and the EC recognize that
students believe there is the potential for bias when an
investigator also votes on the innocence or guilt of someone ,
accused. But when EC President Robert Tompkins took an
unofficial vote (not all EC members were present at the
meeting) the proposal failed.

These proposed changes make perfect sense. By having an
EC member and someone from the advocate pool conduct the
investigation the EC would still retain the level of experience
in honor situations that the current investigative team has.
But students believe the current investigating system leaves
the door open for bias to interfere in the hearing of someone
accused of an honor violation. And they may have good
reason to feel that way. When investigators are asked to
check out the facts in a potential honor case, they are looking
for red ﬂags that indicate an honor violation has occurred.
These facts are reported back to the EC. Later on, these same
people who examine the facts of the case most likely go into
an honor trial with their minds made up. This is a major
problem students have with the Honor System. When stu-
dents see there is potential for bias in the system, they lose
faith in it.

If students do not have faith in our Honor System we might

as well not have one. If simple changes, such as these, would , ,

increase student faith in the Honor System, then the EC
should be jumping at the chance to pass them. Some EC
members will say that changing the makeup of the investiga-
tive team is not feasible. They will tell you there are not
enough law advocates to fill the increased demand. They will
tell you it might present a problem with confidentiality. They
will tell you they would rather keep it the way it is. Why? We
cannot say for sure. What is clear is this pair of amendments
to the White Book would boost confidence in the Honor
System and eliminate bias, real or imagined, from the honor
hearing process.

The EC cannot believe its members are extra-human. They
are no more capable of being perfectly objective than anyone
else. What the EC should be striving for is getting as much
subjectivity out of the honor process as possible. To do that
they need to make sure investigators do not vote in honor
hearings.

The White Book Review Committee is doing its job well.
The members are trying their best to sell the revisions to the
EC. The committee has already advised the EC that the
problem with bias in the investigative process was cited often
in their survey of the student body. In fact, it was cited more
than any other problem. The EC needs to recognize that and
correct the problem.

@112 iliiing-tum iﬁlti

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hillary Olson, Melissa Sawyer

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .Bethany Smith

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .I(evin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obermueller

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . '. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-rum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ringium Phi, March 18, 1994 3.’

   

 

   
    
  
   
   

0
yw 6Wb€'*T$ WW Eur for ‘s not’ or miss, ‘
Klrllt THE "Ab6l:l'N(r- rgog. war./6 V 50:45 hempntg-,,;,,5
lﬁflllflm N» De(,t\>é1> Tb LEA E HAVE to BE Mtbe
T‘ CW5 17°“ z»us+(Me»r or us use rue,
ggn’ °”CA”(‘r°H‘1E to Ben‘; i'I0\l$lN(r llouslw corms
“5 ‘’ ooze *
$MOKlt~l\r
DOPE . ..
I
at
l I.‘_
-Jléﬁl ‘  " P
Q

Sexism hurts practicer and victim’

In honor of Women’s History Month, the 10 year
study on women at W&L and the women who have
succeeded in the good old boys club of American
clubs of American politics, I want to dedicate this

column to sexism. I do not
want to preach to anybody

workplace. This does not

about why it is wrong to dis-

criminate against women, if
you don’t know that by now,

my saying so won’t make a

difference. Instead, I thought

I would point out some ex-

amples of sexism both in the.
real walla‘ aridat W&L 
after all awareness of the prob-

lem is’n"e‘cessary for change.

There are numerous examples of sexism in the
world-at-large. For example, some of the negative
perceptions of Hillary Clinton stem from the fact that
she is an independent, strong-willed woman. Another
example of sexism was brought to my attention about
two weeks ago. Someone I know decided to get a
tattoo. A major difficulty for her was deciding where

to put it.

In the business world a woman with a tattoo will be
discriminated against since a tattoo is not considered
proper on a woman. She decided against her ankle (it
could be seen if wearing stockings) and her shoulder
(seen if wearing some dresses). Finally she decided on
her upper thigh since that would generally eliminate
any chance of it being accidentally seen. A man would
probably not have to worry about all of that, in part
because of differences in clothing; but, also because
getting a tattoo could be considered a sign of man-
hood, sort of like the branding that some fraternities
engage in. Sexism can be seen in the first question she
was asked, “Were you drunk?” as if no rational
woman would ever get a tattoo. Obviously there is a

double standard at work here.

There are many legitimate cases of sexism in the

 

ing criminals. ,

Would it have been said she was gay if she were a
man with these same characteristics? 1 interned for
two male felony attorneys and the office atmosphere

was generally relaxed.
However, after the Will-
iam Kennedy Smith trial,
when sexual harassment
received a lot of media
coverage, the atmosphere
changed. There was more
tension in the air between
the secretaries and the law-
yers, even though nothing
that could be considered
harassment occurred.
Imagine the problems in a
place where there is ac-

hurts everybody in the office because there is more
tension in the atmosphere. During my senior year in
high school I interned at the state attomey’s office in
Miami. The state attorney at
thetime waslanet Reno, now
attorney general of the United
States. Although respected,
she was not immune from
discrimination; some people
said she was a lesbian be-
cause she was single, because
of the way she looked, and
how successful and deter-
mined she was in pursuing’
her policies and prosecut-

tual harassment or discrimination. If women were
considered equals in both thought and action this
tension might not have appeared.

So what does this have to do with W&L? When I
tell people where I go to school, I usually give them a
brief little history of the school since some of them

just hurt the victim, it also

have never heard of W&L. I include the fact that the
school was all-male until a few years ago. People
sometimes say there must be a lot of discrimination
at such a traditionally male school. Usually, I s9y
there is not a lot
except the social scene, where fraternities domi-
nate everything.

This is not to say that there are no problems. I
have been advised against taking certain profes-
sors’ classes because they discriminate against
women. Personally, I have never experienced thit,
but I know it does happen. For example, there is a
professor who when he is in office with the door
closed, if almale student comes to speak to him, he
will not even"notice whether the door is open or
closed; but, if the student is female, he will imme-

of obvious discrimination

diately prop the door open. It is these subtle actions

C(

There are many legitimate cases
of sexism in the workplace. This
does not just hurt the victim, it also
hurts everybody in the oﬂice be-
cause there is more tension in the

atmosphere.

that people would normally ignore that point out ﬁe
inequalities in estimation of men and women.
So what has been the point of these paragraphs?

It is to promote aware-
ness about the actions
that can indicate dis-
crimination and the
problems that these ge-
tions can prc duce. I
don’t think people can
be forced to change; but,
if they are aware, per-
haps they will think
twice before doing
something.Thisdoesn’t
mean we should all e-
come PC; I am certainly

not, but I still say “mankind” meaning both men
and women, instead of peoplekind, among other
PC violations.

Perhaps by realizing what sexism is, a future
politician can be prevented from becoming another
Bob Packwood. .

Don’t be quick to judge Whitewater

August 9, 1974: a day thatwill live in
infamy. Not for you? Well, if the impor-
tance of that date has slipped your mind,
allow me to refresh your memory. It was
on that day roughly 20 years ago that
President Richard Nixon, having an-

struction of the Clinton administra-
tion is highly premature. Most Ameri-
cans, indeed most journalists, have a
very tenuous grasp on even the allega-
tions involved in Whitewater. And
cases involving the misuse of inﬂu-

 
 

nounced his ence, as
decision to Watergate
resign the proved,areal-
presidency ways hard to
the day be— crack. It may
fore, boarded . even be that
his Marine ’ NICHOLAS L‘ these charges
helicopter I WADDY, ’96 are without
and ﬂew off A any reason-
(afterarather . able founda-
pathetic Vic; —— 'tion. Ju1st}t{e-
ory wave causet e e-
intothesun- publicans

set of American politics.

The reason we bring up Nixon, of
course, is because of Watergate, the
scandal —— indeed, the word “scandal”
seems inappropriate to describe such a
complex sequence of events —— that
brought him down. It is now the hope or
fear of many that the same fate might
befall the Administration of Bill Clinton.
The Whitewater scandal bears many
striking similarities to Watergate (and
I’m not just thinking of the fact that both
contain the word “water”). Probably
one of Watergate’s most defining char-
acteristics, and one which we may see
mirrored in Whitewater, is explosive
power. Watergate started small, but it
built up slowly and steadily until it
achieved its objective: the punishment
of notable wrongdoers, including the
President himself. The same thing
could be in store for President Clinton.
So goes the conventional wisdom, at
any rate.

For a number of reasons, I think this
speculation about the impending de-

seem to smell blood does not neces-
sarily mean that even they believe
deep down that Bill Clinton has done
anythinggenuinely wrong; they could
easily be using this fiasco for political
advantage only.

Additionally, even if laws were
broken in the Whitewater case, and
even if a huge and well-publicized
Congressional investigation of the
presidency is launched, the toppling
of the Clinton administration would
hardly be assured. There is‘ precedent
in Richard Nixon for the resignation
of a president, but this was (quite
obviously) an isolated case. Also re-
member that the Iran-Contra Affair
showed all the signs‘ of being an ex-
plosive, presidency-breaking scandal
at one point, but the lack ofconclusive
evidence, combined with a short at-
tention span on the part of the Ameri-
can public, insured that president

‘Reagan (like most Presidents whose

basic right to be in power comes under
question) would eventually survive

and move on. Reagan left office an
extremely popular man, much to the
chagrin of many of his opponents in the
media who tried their best to use Iran-
Contra against him.

There is another interesting ques-
tion involved in this whole business,
though. Many Americans don’t seem
to be particularly surprised at the fact
that their president is accused of using
his inﬂuence for his own personal proﬁt.
In the cynical view of many, all politi-
cians are guilty of such dishonest deal-
ings. Many seem also to reach the con-
clusion that the whole Whitewater scan-
dal is irrelevant, since we should posi-
tively expect such things to go on even

government as little more than a body
of swindlers, surely on a deeper le9el
many of us realize that many people
get into politics with a desire to serve
mankind. Perhaps their initial idealism
is often muted by the cut-and-thrust of
partisan politics, but the optimist in me
clings to the impression that even the
seemingly most pragmatic of pol!i-
cians is still moved on some level by a
desire to make the world a better place
-— not perfect, but better. If, then,
politicians are not uniformly amoral,
and I do not think that they are, then we
should feel obliged to view scandal-
mongers with some suspicion. 0
And even I, an unrepentant reac-

at the highest tionary, will
levels. Politics concede that
and lyingare in- Bill Clinton has
separable, so  his principles,
they say. . too.ldidn’tvote
h Czrtainly Even if laws were bro- for him, ancbl
t ere oesseem - - never will; but
to be quiteabit ken In the Whltgwater as for White-
of dishonesty case, and even if a huge water, I shall
‘and generally and we”_publicized C0n_ give him the

indecent con-

gressional investigation

benefit of the

duct among doubt until it is
high officialsin ofthe Presidency is conclusiv

theAdministra- I h d   proven to me
tionandinCon- aunc e 2 t etopp "lg of that he did

gress. Double-

the Clinton administra-

something

talk and “cre- ' wrong. And cer-
ative thinking” "on would hardly be tainlylshall not
are and have al- assured» fill my head with
ways been   wild dreams f

properties of

even the most

respected governments. But I think it
would be overly cynical to conclude
that expecting a little virtue in Con-
gress is unreasonable, or that politi-
cians and principles necessarily never
mix. Much as we may profess to see

impeachme t

and disgrace:
that would be as unfair as it is unrealis-
tic. We need not descend like a pack of
dogs on every politician who is ac-
cused of misdeeds; we should, in-
stead, let the machinery of justice run
its course. . '

 

Q

, he Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1994

OPINION

 allen stars give you the future

I R_EAM LAND
Richard Weaver

My fraternity brothers and I are the

-= rget of many bizarre things that come

. the mail to our house every day. The
0st disturbing thing we’ve seen in a
i ng Eme came recently, and, of course,
read it. This disturbing thing was the
pril issue of Horoscope Guide.
If you have your own subscription,
nd I have offended you, please don’t
nd the Witches of Salem Network

fter me. The witches advertise a con-

ultirg service for $3.99 a minute out
f Salem, Massachusetts in Horoscope
uide. Spokeswoman Brigitte Nielsen
~ ylvester Stallone’s very talented and
11 ex—wife) says, “Feel the POWER
the World’s Oldest and Most Gifted
sychics,” Brigitte does not say 1) She
. a wﬁch 2) She has felt the POWER of
e Witches of Salem Network 3) What
er parents must be thinking about
w, or 4) She is really embarrassed to
'nk so low to be doing this. I guess the
: swer is left for us to ask the witches

out for the very reasonable rate of $3.99
a minute also.

I have to wonder about the details of
all of these call-in psychic lines! Do
you think they give you five minutes
free for every hour you call? Or maybe,
they give you frequent calling points
that can be redeemed for a free out-of-
body trip to Hawaii? I think they should.

Now, for the discriminating cus-
tomer, Voodoo Queen Mumbasa is deﬁ-
nitely a step
up from La
Toya and
Brigitte. She
offers to cast
spells for ex-
ample for
“protection
from evil’’ and
“immediate
freedom from
pain” for a
moderate _CmW
$4.99 a » " ; m;‘m__£§’,;,.-1:312
minute.

According
to the Voodoo

Hirst Time: E

‘in x'\n'i.1;:rn‘1CI

No MQNE‘/« 1

be some pay-per-view event featuring
Brigitte Nielsen, La Toya Jackson, and
Voodoo Queen Mumbasa fighting it
out for the title of Supreme Astrology
Deity. The losers would receive lovely
sets ofluggage. Maybe they could get
Don King in on the deal and book
the event as an opening act for the
next really bad country concert at
the Pavilion.

Looking beyond the advertisements,
H 0 r 0 s c op e
Guide had
quite a bit of
useful written
material, such
as the riveting
“Don’t Turn
In—Laws Into
0 u t l a w s , ”
“Are You a
Party Per-
son?,” and the
Astrology Yel-
low Pages. Un-
f o r t u n a t e 1 y
there was no
how-to guide

Queen’s ad-

forbeing a psy-

classes and give out crystals instead of
grades. Graduates would receive a
B.B.S. — a Bachelor of B.S. degree.

We needn’t stop there in applying
psychic powers to the university. I
would advise the Presidential Search
Committee to utilize the Witches of
Salem Network to find a replacement
for President Wilson. In fact, I am
declaring publicly that I will pay for the
phone call if the committee wants me
to find out.

In the meantime, I decided to wait
no further in looking into the future of
Tom Hespos, a subject that endlessly
fascinates us all. The April issue of
Horoscope Guide features horoscopes
for all signs. Mr. Hespos’ birthday is
August 9 (write that down), which
makes him a Leo.

Checking the‘ Leo section, we ﬁnd
out that Mr. Hespos’ lucky colors for
the first week of April include Char-
treuse, Cerulean, Gamboge, Peach,
Avocado, Almond, and Silver. If you
see Mr. Hespos during the first week of
April please make sure he is wearing
the appropriate lucky color.

.hen we call.
N t to be outdone, my favorite
inger, La Toya Jackson, has her own
sychic consulting ﬁnn, Psychic Dis-
a veries. She says: “Whether You Seek
iuidance, or a Friend To Talk To, Our
orld Famous Psychics Are Avail-
ble 24 Hours a Day.” La Toya does
or say if she offers career advice or
vlastﬁ surgery advice, but you can find

vertisement, this is her first time ever in
America; she spent too much time in
the past being the “True Miracle-Maker
of the Caribbean.” I guess that is the
occupation the Voodoo Queen lists on
her tax forms, which I’m sure her up-
right and honest business pays in full
and in a timely fashion.

I would pay a lot of money, and I
would bet you would too, if there could

point.

chic, and this brings me to my next

I have to wonder: how does one
become a psychic? Is there some type
of licensing organization? Is there a
psychic competency test? Maybe we
could form a Department of Psychic
Studies here at Washington and Lee.
The department could levitate
Newcomb Hall and have telepathic

I bet you want to know your lucky
colors too. I would advise you to write
to the Leybum Library and urge them
to carry Horoscope Guide. Or better
yet, you can get your own subscription.
It really pays to get a subscription to a
magazine that lists its editors’ astro-
logical signs in the staff box. Call me if
you need the number, or better yet,
contact me telepathically.

I_.a Toya and I are waiting.

LETTERS

Kowaiczuk misses point of Black History Month

0 the editor:
I read with interest Chris Kowalczuk’s rebuttal to
atrick McDerrnott’s column in the March 4 edition
f Th Ring-tum Phi. He asks in wonder: “In any
vent, what exactly is Black History Month supposed
o accomplish?” Before I attempt to answer this
uestion, I will provide a brief history lesson for Mr.
owalczuk.

Black History Month originated from Black His-
ory Week, which was begun by Carter G. Woodson
n 1936. The purpose of this week was to celebrate the
ccomplishments and achievements of black Ameri-

ans. Eventually, the celebration was extended to a

onth, and_Feb,_ruary, was chosen to incorporate the

irthdays of Abraham Lincoln and Frederick
I ouglas.

I’m somewhat puzzled by Mr. Kowalczuk’s con-
entign that Black History Month “undermines any
egitimate attempt to purge racism from our culture.”

ow exactly does Black History Month “foster racial
ivision and animosity in this country?” The racial
trife we see in our country today has little to do with
‘lack History Month. Racism stems from hatred and
gnorance —— not from a single month. We celebrate
lac History Month because traditionally, the ac-
‘omp ishments of black Americans were excluded
rom American history texts. The names of W. E. B.
u Bois, Fannie Lou Hamer, Paul Robeson, Sojourner

l ruth and others were either left out of our textbooks
)r passed over quickly. We learned blacks were slaves
ut not inventors like Garret Morgan, Daniel Hale
illiams and Lewis Latimer. Black History Month
erveﬁ as an opportunity for people of all races to learn
2 bout the contributions blacks have made to America.

Yet, Mr. Kowalczuk finds it “highly ironic that we

s Americans find it desirable to devote an entire
onth to activities which select certain people for
adulation based purely on their race.” Mr. Kowalczuk
inds this thoroughly racist. However, Mr. Kowalczuk
ails R) understand the true meaning of racism. He is
‘orrect in stating that a “racist act is one motivated
urely by reasons of skin color.” Yet, racism goes
uch deeper than this narrow definition. Racism
stems from one race’s feeling of superiority over

another. Slavery and segregation were justified by a
belief that blacks were inferior to white people. Black
History Month says nothing about the superiority or
inferiority of any particular race. It’s simply a celebra-
tion of struggle and triumph.

The only problem I have with Black History Month
is that it is narrowed down to the shortest month of the
year. It simply gives people permission to celebrate
black culture for one month and then forget it for the
rest of the year. I find that aspect of Black History
Month insulting. Black history should be celebrated
everyday — not just for one month. Black history is
much broader than a month. It is much broader than
ideology. Mr. Kowalczuk’s idea that “purveyors of
‘black history’  forget about certain blacks of high
achievement but the wrong politics, such as Clarence
Thomas,” is wrong. If Mr. Kowalczuk would take a
serious look at black history, he would discover black
leaders often disagreed with each other about the
means of gaining freedom.

I would suggest Mr. Kowalczuk study the conﬂict
between W. E. B. du Bois and Booker T. Washington.
Washington emphasized the need for economic de-
velopment and industrial education while de-empha-
sizing the need for civil rights or equality. Du Bois,
however, stridently disagreed, as evidenced by his
bitter editorials in The Crisis. Yet, we still recognize
Washington’s remarkable achievements, particularly
the founding of Tuskegee, a historically black univer-
sity. Blacks are far from monolithic.

According to Mr. Kowalczuk, this “obsession with
skin color must stop if we are ever to achieve a racist-
free society.” I agree, but ending Black History Month
is not the way to achieve such a society. Yes, slavery
may be over, but it does not mean the racism which
justified the peculiar institution has been eradicated
from America.

We can hardly achieve a colorblind society by
pretending we already have one. To do so would be
analogous to curing a disease by pretending no dis-
ease exists. The first step in eliminating racism is to
expose it in all of its ugliness. The problem comes
when people refuse to even think about race.

Furthermore, racism can only be eliminated when

interviews and Photos
13 3: Joe Framptom

If you could give a prospective one reason Why he or she
' should come to W&L, What would it be?

- llen Flickinger, ’94, Ligonier,
l‘ enn. —- “To build loving, long-last-
ng relationships with the cheery la-
o ies in the registrar’s office.”

Tim Scott, ’95, Baltimore, Md. —
“Jim Beam.”

TALKBACK

people of all races respect different cultures and
backgrounds. Yet, Mr. Kowalczuk finds “diver-
sity” politically correct. He believes racial diversity
has no value. I believe it does.

Racial diversity and intellectual diversity should
not be separate. When you have people of different
ethnic backgrounds, there will obviously be differ-
ent points of view — even within the same ethnic or
racial background. In other words, there can be
both racial and intellectual diversity. Diversity is
simply what America has always been -— a mixture
of different ideas, cultures and peoples. Yet, Wash-
ington and Lee University is overwhelmingly domi-
nated by white males. That is no_,t.to say all white
males think alike; ‘ V ‘,  .  it

However, success in the workforce often de-
pends on how one deals with different types of
people. Meeting and interacting with people of
different backgrounds broadens rather than nar-
rows a person’s outlook on the world. I’m sure Mr.
Kowalczuk would agree that one’s education is not

' limited by the classroom. The experiences outside

of class are just as important.

Yes, Washington and Lee University “has a long
way to go when it comes to achieving diversity.”
Unlike Howard University, Washington and Lee,
for most of its history, only allowed privileged
white males to attend. Blacks were not allowed to
attend until the late ’60s. Women were not allowed
to attend W&L until 1985. Far from jumping on the
“blacks are victims” bandwagon, blacks do have a
separate set of obstacles to overcome on their way
to success — namely racism. I do not see that as
victimization but as an unfortunate aspect of
our society.

Mr. Kowalczuk, I submit that Black History
Month is not the cause of racial strife in our society.
The culture of silence and the covert racism that
permeates our society leads to racial animosity. In
order to eliminate racism, we must celebrate and
understand our differences and recognize our mu-
tual humanity.

Michael L. Hewlett, ’96

W&L-VMI

The Preston Society is a group
that helps W&L students and VMI
cadets to understand each other. We
meet at 6:55 p.m. on Wednesdays in
front of Lee Chapel and walk over to
VMI from there. Join us; all are
welcome. For more information call
Lisa Greenhouse at 462-4189 or Tom
Hespos at 464-1155.

Kids’ Place

Kids’ Place is looking for volun-
teers. Forms can be picked up and
dropped off at the Registrar’s Of-
fice. Construction begins April 20-
24. For more information, call Su-
san Dittman at 463-3488.

Envirogroup

Interested in local environmen-
tal issues? An environmental group
is forming on campus. There will be
an organizational meeting Tuesday,
March 22 at 7:30 p.m. in Howe
206B. Questions? Call Nova Clarke
at 462-4087. '

Hillel

Hillel is sponsoring a “Passover
Community Seder” for interested
W&L students, faculty, and staff on
Tuesday, March 29 at 6 p.m. in the
University Center, Room 114. Call
Karen Lyle at 463-8798 by Friday,
March 25.

0
Trip
Anyone planning on leaving for
Baltimore or Cleveland early in exam
week, please give me a call ASAP.

l’ll pay for gas. Sarah Drain — 464-
8690.

Big Sibling

Be a big brother or sister to an
incoming East Asian exchange stu-
dent. Please see Professor Rogers in
the East Asian language center for
details. " I '

' g o 1 . V
Admissions

The Admissions Office is now
accepting applications for an antici-
pated admissions counselorposition.
All interested graduating seniors
should submit a cover letter and
resume no later than Monday, March

21 to Julia M. Kozak, Associate
Director of Admissions.

"..-'r.

FD,

Forget to buy your FD shirt or
poster? Stop by the table outside the
Co-op. ‘

Calyx-

If you haven’t received your 1993
Calyx (from last year) please pick it
up at Carol Calkins’ office in the
University Center during normal
hours.

Collecting

If you are interested in corre-
sponding and trading postcards,
patches, lapel pins, etc., please con-
tact Sue Fitzpatrick, P.O. Box 2244,
Saratoga, CA 95070-0244.

. .
Ariel

The Ariel literary magazine is

now accepting submissions for the

1994 issue. Literary submissions
may be dropped off in envelopes in

Payne Hall, the Leyburn Library,

and the University Center. Any vi-
sual art submissions should be left
for Temple Cone, c/o Carol Calkins
in the University Center.

Writing

The Writing Center is open to

help students with papers and other
writing projects Sundays through
Thursday from 8-10 p.m. in Payne
2B. Most faculty members encour-
age their students to bring drafts to
the Center for help with revisions
before turning the paper in for a
grade.

Manager

Needed ASAP: Manager for the
1994 Women’s Lacrosse Team. If
interested,‘ ‘please contact Jan

~ Hathorrr at 462-8668 or\Sue Behme
. a,t4_62-8679., . ‘

Phi

The Ring—tum Phi holds its
storyboard meetings on Tuesdays
at 7 p.m. in room 208 in University
Center. All interested are invited to
attend.

Student Body Notice

The Student Conduct Committee has found four freshmen men in
violation of university standards for smoking marijuana in the dorms. The
following sanctions have been imposed on each:

1) 25 hours of community service.

2) 29 hours to the supplier of the marijuana.
3) Social probation for the rest of the semester.

4) Conduct probation.

Note: They have also been expelled from the dorms by the university.

Britt Seal, ’95, Chattanooga, Tenn. and David Fosgate, ’96, Atlanta, Ga.

—— “Big—time college football.”

Jake Blair, ’97, Woodbury, Conn.
—“You’ll come out knowing more.”

Josh Cook, ’95, Mars, Penn.—“I’m

sure they’d love the C-School.”

    

PAGE 8 :

MY VIEW

, Dennis Manning
 and Ken Ruscio

It is time to move fraternity rush
from the fall to the winter term.

Fall rush imposes too great a cost on
the university and the freshmen. It de-
stroys any sense of class unity, thereby
detracting from campus life and weak-
eningfuture ties -among alumni. It in-
terrupts the transition of freshmen to
the academic demands of Washington
and Lee. It results in too many hasty
commitments on the part of both frater-
nities and freshmen.

Washington and Lee is one of those
rare institutions which recognizes and
encourages education beyond the class-
room. But it is first and foremost an
academic institution. Our social, extra-
curricular, and co-curricular activities
must add to, not detract from, the mis-
sion of developing in our students the
“capacity anddesire to learn, to under-
stand, and to share the fruits of their
intellectual growth.” The fraternity
system has the potential to support the
mission. Fall rush does not.

We are defenders of the fraternity
system at Washington and Lee. We are
members of fraternities and serve
proudly as faculty advisers to two chap-
ters. Our call for winter rush is not
“anti-fraternity;” but we do concede
that our primary concern is the educa-
tion mission of the university and the
best interests of the freshmen.

We therefore encourage the univer-

sity community, in general, and the
Student Affairs Committee, in particu-
lar, to seriously consider a plan for
winter rush for the following reasons.

1) Having fraternity rush a matter of
days after classes commence clearly
interrupts whatever early academic
momentum freshman men might gain.
Developing a fraternity rush calendar
that advances, not impedes, freshman
academic adjustment must be the single
most important consideration in any
study or proposed change to the rush
program. The incremental changes
adopted each year by the IFC — mov-
ing rush a few days earlier or later;
expanding or limiting “no contact,”
having more or fewer open houses —
do not address the fundamental
problems.

2) Though adapting to the academic
rigor of college is the most critical
challenge for freshmen, they also con-
front other significant obstacles during
their first weeks or months on campus.
We expect freshmen to pass from ado—-
lescence into adulthood as quickly as
they step out of their parents’ loaded
station wagons on opening day; we
assume they immediately have a full
understanding of their new academic
and social world. We would contend
that the challenge of suddenly becom-
ing, or being treated as, an adult should
take precedence over — and ought to
occur without the additional encum-
brance of — going through fraternity
rush.

3) Despite attempts by the IFC to
monitor abuses of pledge “duties” dur-
ing the fall, freshmen feel they serve a
year—long pledgeship. We realize that
pledgeship by definition has its oner-
ous features, but the fact that it is ex-

tended through most of the academic
year is unreasonable and unfair to
freshmen.

4) Conducting fraternity rush a week
or two after freshmen arrive at W&L
does not provide sufficient time for
them to learn much of any substance
about the university, much less about
the intricacies of a fraternity system
with sixteen
houses scattered
about Lexington,
many of which
freshmen have
never visited. A
freshmen who

 

 
 rush would encour

cc-—

0ur social, extra-
curricular; and co-cur-

    

I

The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1994

“private” tables.

6) Many freshmen men dread re-
turning to the campus after the Christ-
mas break, knowing they face the “sec-
ond half” of pledgeship. Why not give
both freshmen men and women not
only something they will feel eager
about returning to, but also a shared
experience —-— fraternity and sorority
rush —-— for the
first half of the
winter term?
Additionally,
the early weeks
of the winter
term seem to be

de led ed ri ht one of the
P 8 8 . . . . _

after returning rzcular activities must troughs in the
from the Chrrst- add to, not detractfrom’ rhythm or cycle
mas break re— . , . , ofthe academic
cently told one of the ""5510" Ofdf-’V€l0Plng year — when
us that he la- ° “ - freshment i-

rn our stu entst e ca YP

mented the fall -  - t callyexperience
rush process. He paclty an eslre 0 their most acute
spoke excitedly learn, to understand, and casesf of
abouthavingbeen ' “trans eritis” -
to four or ﬁve fra- to S,ha_re the frults of andawinterrush
temities early in their intellectual would provide
the winter term grow; .” one of the key
thathedidn’teven activities, as
know existed in   we” as a

the fall when he
felt he had to make
a decision about which house to join.
5) When class unity and cohesive-
ness seem to be most important —-
during the first days and weeks that
freshmen are on campus — fraternity
rush splinters or fractures the class. We
have repeatedly heard freshmen ex-
press disappointment over the segre-
gating of the class, most clearly dem-

onstrated in the dining hall where '

pledge classes stake out their own

' To the editor:

Both sides of the serious and controversial subject of
drug legalization were addressed in the Phi within the past
few weeks. Both columns, however, fail to address the real
issue. Marijuana should be legalized because such a law is
clearly unjust and is certainly not in accordance with the
individual freedoms and natural rights upon which this

country was founded.

One columnist proposed the idea that drugs should
remain illegal because Americans need to be subjected to
a government that;-_i_ ,a merglwuthority ovqnthem. A; more

r&uld ‘  be rriiideévefﬁih aitotailitariaﬁ
regime. This columnist a mpted to justify this type of
“big brother” government by ‘tlrawiiirg to“- the reader’s
attention the mandatory seat belt law, saying that “people
need to be protected fromthemselves.” This columnist
boldly made this statement but failed to vindicate it with
any argument. Why? Because it is impossible to argue that
in a free society an individual should not be allowed to
engage in activities that harm no one but himself (and the
fact that it harms anyone at all is debatable). Any thinking

absurd propositio

Professor ’s attack on the EC was based on groundless assumptions

To the editor:

Despite what the latest misleading
letter suggests, this time from Publica-
tions Board Advisor Brian Richardson,
the Executive Committee will meet all
its constitutional obligations to the
Calyx and The Ring-tum Phi this year.

The basic problem seems to be this:
for the second straight year the Calyx
has only been able to get one-third of
underclassmen to sit for portraits, Mr.
Richardson thinks this is acceptable. I
do not.

The facts are as follows. The Ex-
ecutive Committee cut initial alloca-
tions to The Ring-tum Phi and the Ca-
lyx this year. The Executive Commit-
tee did so to encourage these publica-
tions to develop sources of revenue,
such as advertising, available to them.
The Ring-tum Phi responded to this
incentive and projects a tidy profit.

Unfortunately, the Calyx has not
been as successful. The C alyxstaff is to
be commended for increasing adver-
tising revenues, but their principal
source of revenue comes from student
pictures.

For the second year in a row they
only managed to convince one-third of
underclassmen to sit for their portraits.
Not only does this lead to an incom-

person would immediately ﬁnd this columnist’s statement
foolishly illogical. This columnist should have said, “My
person code of morality should be imposed on every

individual.”

harming no one.

plete yearbook, it causes a budget short-
fall as well.

As Mr. Richardson acknowledges,
if every student had his or her picture
taken it “would only just make up this
year’s shortfall” BINGO! This is ex-
actly what the Executive Committee
was encouraging the Calyx to do.

Unfortunately, Mr. Richardson’s
brief moment of lucidity quickly fades.
He fails to acknowledge that the Calyx
staff has missed a superb opportunity
to improve its publication and increase
its operating budget. He goes on to
make the ridiculous suggestion that it
should be the responsibility of the Ex-
ecutive Committee, rather than the
Calyx, to get students to sit for pictures.

We realized at the beginning of the
year that the Calyx would not be able to
raise the number of portraits to the 100
percent level. We had hoped for some
improvement, though. Nevertheless,
we will live up to our constitutional
duty and make sure the Calyx has
enough money in its account to publish
a yearbook this year.

It has always been clear that the
Executive Committee would meet this
constitutional obligation. When we
made the initial budget cuts this fall we
made it clear that any publication was

  
 

TGIF Catalog Outlet
17 S. Main St.
Lexington, VA

New Hours: 10 to 5:30, Mon. - Sat.

463-9730

   

For the sake of argument let us assume that drugs are
indeed harmful to the individual. If an individual decides
to us a legal drug, then who is harmed but the individual?
No one. Everyday in the “land of the free” innocent
individuals are thrown into prison in the name of justice for

Both columnists missed the point by arguing over the
1’ effect of ‘am-gs on the individual; It simply does not matter.
Whether or not drugs enhance creativity is"/Beside the
point, though it is hard to deny that they have the capability
to provide imaginative material. Samuel Taylor Coleridge
would agree that in some cases they do provide imagina-
tive vision that can aid creativity. Nevertheless, the effects
of drugs on the individual should be disregarded.
' The fact is that prohibition has never worked. Prohibi-
tion was tried in the 1920s, and the results were the
emergence of organized crime (gangs) and the production

K

free to request more funding from the
Executive Committee. Recently the
Calyx did just that, and the Executive
Committee did just that, and the Ex-
ecutive Committee will meet their
needs.

Perhaps if Mr. Richardson had at-
tended out meetings or contacted me
all this could have been explained to
him. Instead, he demonstrates a gross
ignorance about the intentions and ac-
tions of the Executive Committee. I
fear that this results from his reliance
on the editors of the Calyx and The
Ring-tum Phi to providehim with in-
formation. They are hardly disinter-
ested parties in this matter.

What’s more troubling about Mr.
Richardson’s letter is the baseless at-
tack he makes upon me and my mo-
tives in administering the student ac-
tivities fund this year.

He begins with the oblique conten-
tion that I have violated the constitu-
tion in some way, yet he does not put
forward one single instance of such a
violation. He does not for the simply
reason that I have followed the consti-
tution quite closely.

I am quite well aware of the special
status the constitution grants to the
Calyx and The Ring-tum Phi, and the

I The

Point of View     F

Restaurant

    

Restaurant plus light lounge menu
Open 4 p.m. until closing

$2 off any pasta dinner with
student I .D.

_ Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn
1 463-7797

LETTERS

Columnists overlook the advantages of drug legalization

of harmful, bootlegged alcohol that was cheaply made and
sold at outrageous prices. Eventually, lawmakers realized
their error and repealed the act that caused the prohibition.
The current situation in America proves that we do not
learn from our mistakes. America once again faces per-
haps its greatest internal problem to date. Contrary to the
belief of many blind Americans, this problem is not the use
of drugs. The problem is organized crime: the gangs that
are plaguing the streets as a result of prohibition.
Americans must face the fact that the drug war was
futile from the beginning and lost years ago. When drugs
are legalized, the leaders of organized crime; the real:
criminals, will be forced out of business because prices
will plummet. The government will then be able to rega-
late drug production to keep the drugs clean and free of
harmful additives.
In addition, taking drugs off the black market will allow
the government to tax their production, sale, and purchase,
and much of this revenue can be used to fund new, more
effective campaigns to discourage drug use and to pay for
better rehabilitation facilities. To put it plainly, since drugs

m u c h - n e e d e d
distraction for
freshmen.

7) Freshmen women are isolated
during fraternity rush, feeling that their
social experience is very clearly and
distinctly separate from the men’s ex-
perience; freshmen women say they
are merely set adrift, while the men, for
better or worse, are busy establishing a
social niche or identity by afﬂliating
themselves with a fraternity.

8) Since freshmen so quickly join a

fraternity, they seldom develop on their
halls the same harmony or unity — or
meaningful, lasting friendships -— that
seem to occur on many of the women’s
halls. It is not surprising to us that
freshman women’s halls seem to share
a closer bond and more meaningful and
lasting friendships since they have time
to cultivate and forge those friendships
before joining a Greek organization.

9) The current rush program en-
courages fiscal irresponsibility on the
part of fraternities; it seems that no
expense is too much during the two or
two-and-a-half week rush period with
some fraternities squandering so much
money that they have some difficulty
organizing and paying for parties dur-
ing the second half of the year. A win-
ter rush would force a kind of healthy,
natural regulation of the entire frater-
nity system, whereby no fraternity, pre-
sumably, would be able to have parties
every Wednesday, Friday, and Satur-
day night during the fall but rather each
fraternity would need to select perhaps
a handful of key nights or occasions
for parties.

We have not been persuaded by the
arguments we have heard over the years
against winter rush. It does not destroy
“tradition.” We think too highly of
Washington and Lee’s deeper tradi-
tions to believe‘ that they somehow
depend upon not giving freshmen the
time they deserve to make truly impor-
tant decisions about their friends and
the kind of social life they wish to
pursue during their four years here. If
anything, fall rush has caused us, as
Deans of Freshmen, to truncate pro-
grams designed to orient freshmen to
the most significant tradition of the
university.

age freshman class unity.

We find it ironic, too, that one of the
main arguments for fall rush is that
fraternity brothers must be protected
from themselves. The system is socom-
petitive, the argument goes, that broth-
ers will find it necessary to rush D?
excess for three months, “dirty rush”
will increase to an unmanageable de-
gree, and fraternities will spend them-
selves into bankruptcy. If true, what
does that say about the judgmentrand
values of our fraternities? We have
greater faith in our students. Let’s loci:
upon them, the freshmen, as well as the
fraternity brothers, as adults capable of

 

ll
.3.

making sensible decisions and sound f

judgments.

Nor are we persuaded by the “finan-
cial—cost-imposed-upon-the-fraterni-
ties” argument which seems to viefjv
freshmen as sources of income rather
than as future friends and members of
a large community.

In the end, however, we advocate :

winter rush not forwhat it would elimi-

nate but rather for the opportunities it ’

presents. Having a winter fratemi y
and sorority rush would permit all fres -
men — men and women — to share an
important, common social experience

that could transform in the healthiest 3
possible way the nature of the fresh- '
men experience at Washington and Lee. ?.
The university would have an oppor- ‘
tunity, at last, to build genuﬂie ~,

class

set of social offerings, and reinforce ’

its primary mission
academic institution.

215

an H

Manning has been Dean of Fresh- §
men since 1991. Ruscio is Associﬂte ;
Dean of the C 0mmerceSchool and was ‘7

Dean of Freshmen from 1 987-1 991.

requirement that theirbudget surpluses
be returned to the Pub Board, not the
Executive Committee. I acknowledge
this requirement in my March 3 letter
to The Ring-tum Phi.

I contend that this arrangement is
fundamentally flawed because it pro-
vides for virtually no independent over-
sight of the Pub Board. However, I am
forced to live with it.

The constitution puts a significant
sum of students’ money in the hands of
the editors and business managers who
comprise the Pub Board, and gives
them free-reign to spend it however
they like. The Pub Board selects its
own membership, with absolutely no
input from the student body in the
selection process. In addition, students
are required to subscribe to these
publications.

This lack independent oversight can
lead to poor products and slothful man-
agement. Indeed this tendency is re-
vealed by two of Mr. Richardson’s
arguments. First, he contends that one-
third of underclass portraits is an ac-
ceptable number. As discussed above,
the result is a poor product and a budget
deficit.

Second, he states “the Phi was not
poorly managed last year.” Is he kid-

J

  

the right hands.

are readily available on the black market, why not wipe out all
the crime caused by unjust and unproductive laws and give the
money to those who will make it productive. Since drugs are s d
anyway, the revenue from their sale should at least be placed in .

involves recreational drug use, that is fine with me. It is wrong

Tom Leggett, ’97

ding? Over the course of last year more
than half of The Ring-tum Phi editors
and regular reporters became so fed up
with the paper’s management (finan-
cial and otherwise) that they quit and
started their own paper, The Trident.

In fact, there was a serious question
as to whether The Ring-tum Phi would
even be able to put out a paper last
Spring Term. And who could forget
the absolutely‘ tasteless April Fool’s
issue?

Mr. Richardson may be willing to
accept such low standards for publica-
tions funded by the students of Wash-
ington and Lee, but I am not.

Mr. Richardson seeks to justify the
Pub Board as a “safeguard against the
blatant reward-your-friends—and-pun-
ish-your-enemies political pork barrel
that the student activities fee often be-
comes.”

If Mr. Richardson is going to make
such damning and insulting statement
I wish he would present at least some
facts to back them up. I hope this is not
an indication of the type of advice he
might be giving budding young report-
ers about their responsibilities in re-
porting the news.

The Executive Committee has taken
a thorough and open approach to the

 

month larger unit.

-———Great Location
——Landlord pays for water,
. including hot water
If interested, please call property
manager, Mrs. Brown, daytime
463-3013; at night or weekends,
(703) 984-9402
L_____

Apartments for Rent
Catering to W&L students. 2 Two
bedroom apartments for rent in
downtown Lexington, just a very
short walk from the W&L campus.
$300 per month one unit; $375 per

for other Americans to be subjected to real crimes becauslof
laws that are unjust and detrimental. The “keep things the way
they are” mentality is only hurting people.

funding of student activities this year.
We have funded those groups which

‘ we believe will use the students’ money

wisely, efficiently, and to the
university’s benefit. I hope r.
Richardson will not be too disappointed
to learn we are not the band of political
fat cats he would like us to be.

Mr. Richardson claims to have re-
vealed me as a “politician-in-training.”
Were I, I could certainly learn a reat
deal from his “half—truths, buck ss-
ing, and petty posturing.”

His letter reveals quite a bit more.
First, nobody is ever happy about hav-
ing their budget cut. Second, that his
beliefs are shaped not by an objective,
view of the facts, but an unfounded
skepticism about the student go\Qarn-
ment of Washington and Lee. Third,
that he is not afraid to base his
attacks on me and the rest of the
Executive Committee on his ground-
less assumptions.

And finally, that he is willing to
accept a much lower standard foﬂour
campus publications than I am.

Sincerely,
Bob Tompkins, ’94L
President, Executive Committee of the
Student Body
0

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

 

unity, develop a more varied Y

I have heard it said that by legalizing certain drugs the '
government would be encouraging their use. Any intelligent
person should be able to see the foolishness of such a proposi- .
tion. Does our government encourage the use of alcohol simply ,'
because it is legal? Certainly not. Does the government enc(ﬂr-

wage an individual to riskhis life by skydiving simply because '

‘7‘doing'-so is-legal? No! Ana ,icans are free to engage in these ,

activities but are in no way “ couraged to do so. 

’ i It is time that Americafts wake up and face the problem of ‘
drug prohibition. If a man’s or w_oman’s pursuit of happiness

 

Q

   
 

  

UDEC, from page 1

    
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
  
   
 

me ed by the WBRC.
fter discussing and voting on this
mendment, the EC adjourned and
cheduled the next White Book review
' eeting for Tuesday at 7 p.m.
. At Tuesday’s meeting, EC and
BRC members argued over a pro-
_os$i restructuring of the investiga-
' ive eams that look into possible honor
iolations for over an hour before
5 utton realized that no amendments
ould be approved that night. The
rocedure for amending the White
‘Book requires that the entire EC vote
0 n amendments. With James Rambeau
naﬁe to attend the Tuesday meeting,
he EC hit a brick wall.
Discussion centered around the
ake-up of the investigative team. The
BRC recommended the team be
ade up of “a member of the Execu-
ive Committee, a member of the law
chobl honor advocate pool, and a
ember of the student body.” The

he Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1994

team currently comprises two EC mem-
bers and a student.

Additionally, the WBRC suggested
that the EC member investigating a
student for a potential honor violation
should not vote on the student’s guilt or
innocence.

Hutton said an apparent bias on the
part of the two investigators that vote
on guilt or innocence under the current
system is a concern of many members
of the student body and the faculty.

“This is one of the biggest problems
that students today see with the Honor
System,” he said.

Cross said he believed the bias was
imagined and that the EC investigators
are not prosecutors.

“These representatives are not out
to fulfill that role (of prosecutor),” he
said.

Other committee members ex-
pressed concerns about having the
EC’s investigative process likened to a
court proceeding.

“One of the biggest fears I have is

turning the Executive Committee into
a courtroom,” said Senior EC Repre-
sentative Kenney Bullock.

“I think this proposal would show
every student that the EC is willing to
make the procedure as fair as pos-
sible,” said Howell.

The EC voted on this amendment,
realizing the vote could not be official
due to Rambeau’s absence. The unof-
ficial vote failed to approve this amend-
ment.

The EC went on to unofficially re-
ject several other amendments and can-
celled the scheduled Wednesday night
White Book review meeting.

Tompkins said the Wednesday
night meeting could not take place be-
cause two EC members would not be
present.

The EC will meet at its regular time
on Monday, but will not vote on any
amendments until March 28, when the
whole committee can approve or reject
the proposed amendments.

Students concerned about the White

EC, WBRC start White Book revisions

Book review had a chance to voice any
concerns Sunday at a dinner discussion
sponsored by the Graham-Lee Wash-
ington Literary Society entitled “Can
Honor Survive at W&L?” in the uni-
versity center.

University Historian Taylor Sand-
ers started off the discussion with a
speech on the history of the Honor
System. Sanders’ speech outlined sev-
eral key periods in the history of the
Honor System.

Sanders said at one point in 1911, a
student athlete was dismissed from the
university for the offense of smoking a
cigarette.

Sanders said traditionally the Honor
System has resisted codification of its
principles.

“Under Lee there was no need for a
system or code,” he said. “He trusted
them (the students).”

Matt Jackson of the G-LW society
followed up Sanders’ speech with a
message from White Book Review
Committee Chairman Ames Hutton.

Hutton was unable to speak because he
had lost his voice.

Jackson introduced four members
of the WBRC, Cameron Howell,
Ashley Rowe, Nathan Dunn and Mike
Stakes to discuss the Honor System
and field questions from the audience.

Stakes said the committee would
recommed that two essential attributes
of the Honor System would remain
intact through the review process.

“It must be student-run and it must
retain the single sanction,” he said.

Rowe and Howell stressed that a
precise definition of an honor violation
should never be codiﬁed. Howell
agreed with the current wording of the
White Book, which lists lying, cheat-
ing and stealing as examples of dishon-
orable conduct, but leaves the interpre-
tation of honor up to the current student
generation.

“I look at this statement as a kind of
elastic clause,” said Howell.

Dunn agreed.

“If one student decides that smok-

  

ing is an honor violation, turn it in,” he
said. “See what happens.”

Rowe explained the committee’s
rationale for submitting a revision that
would pennit the Executive Commit-
tee to refer matters to other campus
judicial bodies. She said many stu-
dents, especially at the law school, do
not know that the Student Conduct
Committee exists.

“There was a concern that rape
should be considered an honor viola-
tion,” said Howell.

Executive Committee President
Robert Tompkins responded from the
audience to the issue of rape as an
honor violation.

“I’d feel more comfortable with the
Student-Faculty Hearing Board (tak-
ing the case),” he said.

Sanders ended his speech with a
statement about the Honor System’s
future.

“My answer to the question of
whether honor will survive here is a
resounding ‘maybe.’”

0

. The Phi is recruiting writers.
.editors and other talented Iolles.

Hey you! ljes, you.

V you Ienow you've always wanted
 to write for the school paper.

' Deerdvwn inside. uvu’vealwm/s
.wanted the fame and recoynition

associated with

So ioin us.

the journalism profession.

(If you are interested.
call Sarah éillert

at 462-4060.
We’ll make you famous.  

 

 

PAGE 9

   
    
   

A PAGE 10

    

Baseball just 1

 

SPORTS

 

- . The Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1994

oses har

Above: Junior
Duane Van Arsdale
smashes the home
run that brought
the Generals into
the lead in the
March 17 game
against Hampden-
Sydney.

Left: Junior Bates
Brown singles a
ball. Brown had a
spectacular day,
hitting 4-6 in the
Generals’ effort.

Right: The Gener-
als’ pitcher, junior
Brett Hartman,
hurls one across
the plate at Smith
Field.

Photos by Be‘thany‘Smil:h,' Th’ Rinig-tum Phi

 game ~

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor ,

   

The key to winning baseb'all
games is getting your hitting and
pitching working together in sync.

For the Washington and Lee base— ‘
ball team, the 1994 season has been i
one of mixed fortunes. '

Early in the year, the Genesals
struggled at the plate while trying to
gain the touch at the plate.

After the recent weather delays,
the team has come out booming at
the plate, but the pitching staff has
temporarily faltered.

The Generals lost a tough one last
night 18-16 to Hampden-Sydney.

According to coach Jeff Stickley,
the team was down nine or 10 runs
and came back to even take a lead in
the game before falling to
theHampden-Sydney Tigers.

Stickley summed up the com-
petitive match-up . D

‘‘It was a hard fought game; we
fought back a couple of times,”
Stickley said.

Stickley gives the team credit for
improving in each and every game
so far this season.

“The more we play, the morowe
improve,” said the Generals’ coach.

Stickley also commended the
team’s batters’ progression.

“Hitting—wise we’ve improved
every game,” he said.

The next contest for the W&L
squad comes this Saturday aggnst .
Virginia Wesleyan. The Generals
split with Va. Wesleyan last season,
but Coach Stickley sees the game as '
being a very tough one.

“They’re one of the favorites for ,
sure,” said Stickley.

The two week break prob bly ’
hurt the team according to Stick ey.

“The only way you get better in

. baseball is to play games,” said the

coach.

The recent bad weather has
caused the Washington and Lee team ‘
to schedule a full slate of game lead-
ing up to exams. .

Stickley sees the team improving
during the year.

“Once we get it together, we’ll be
a pretty good team,” said the Gener-
als’ coach. Right now the Generals
are, according to Stickley, “praying
for warm weather.” 9

Next up for the Generals is a
double-header at Virginia Wesleyan,
March 19 at 1 p.m. -  

  
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
  

 

   

Publications Board

Interviews

For ~

     

Eﬂgie ?Ri11tg=i‘tnttti Eﬂigi

is iloolaiing item

  
      
  
  

 

an
Assistant Business

Manager

  
  
 
 

   
       
 

-Calyx Editor 55

Business Manageri .
-Journal oi Science Editor

-Ariel Editor O
-Political Review Editor

    
  
  
 

   
  
   
  

iiii interested, eailil

Ransom James

at
462-4060.

  
   
 

Cover Letters and Resumes

due in Carol Callzins ottice
at 5:00 p.m., April 11
Interviews April 25

   

 

i

he Ring-tum Phi, March 18, 1994 . PAGE 11
. . SPORTS

   

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

     Hams1 er

 
 
  
  

 

      
 
  
  
   
 
 
 

V . A A . S Standings as of 03/13/94
 . ' Baseball
. 1 Women’s Lacrosse
A 1 » Batting Leaders
‘ A « A ' A Scoring Leaders
‘ A « ' I A Player . Av HR RBI
A ,..-an-In" ‘_ -.._ Graig Fantuzzi .50 0 0 Player G A Pts
ii - .' 1 gr ~.  T. ,, A ‘ '   . Bates BTOAWAU A -407 0 2 Lindsay Coleman 9 1 10
[ ~'  3,, ' Améim ,’ Matt Ermigiotti .294 1 5 éngje can-ington 3 0 6
A  ..«,  r .-q _ A innie Logan 2 4
’  ~ ' A4 ’ 43' Pitching Leaders Am Shaw 3 0 3
._/r '  , . Susie Prevost « 0 3 3
» Player _ A _ W-L ERA K Meredith Long 1 2 3

Matt Ermigiotti 1-1 0.77 11

Brett Hartman. 1-1 2.93 2 Goaltending

& Graig Fantuzzi 1-1 3.86 11
Player SV GA SV%
Sarah Smith 21 7 .750
Men’s Lacrosse
P Scoring Leaders

player G A pts Women’s Tennis

Ande Jenkins 10 3 13 ,

Colin Hi gins 8 A 5 A 13 Singles lenders

R 11 ft * 6 5 11

 &  T;,1Si[S§,dingS) 5 2 7 lI’<liaye]r)_ k_ (5 SV 11.
I _ A B h 4 7 m 1c inson
h A dam utterwon 3 Helen Chandler((4)?) 7 1
G - Marilyn Baker 1 13 2
Oaltendmg Julie Ayers (2) 9 2
P13 6, SV GA SV7 Shelley Sunderrnan (3 7 3
' ‘ Dax)//id Jones 31 23 ._57<i) Anna 0 Connor (6) i 3
I FROZEN 
V 000000000000 0
LOW PRICES
GREEN I29
OOZ. PKG.
~ spmncri ......... ..EACH
CALIFORNIA GREEN 2/89
ONIONS ........ ..EACHO
. LIMEAS ........... ..EACHO

YELLOW
ONION$.....3 LB. BAGO99

I ’

_m 

GREAT VALUE

LOW PRICES.   V
1-ROPICANA DIET COKE OR

~ ORANGE JUICE   COCA-COLA

REGULAR,
HOMESTYLE OR
CALCIUM .

 WEEKLY SPECIAL   

POWDER DETERGENT SELECTED VARIETIES I nownyinenanvsmnh» Theninwm In

Two lacrosse players examine the ground for someone’s lost contact lens during the
su  U   B  match against Lynchburg March 16. We atathe Phi were unable to determine

‘I / whether it was the Washington and Lee player or the Lynchburg player who was
0

the guilty party, though rumors circulated that the two were parodying a Three
18 USE

Stooges routine.
42 OZ.

HARRIS TEI:'I'ER...THE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALI. ABOUT

OSCINSTANTREBATE COUPON ON EACH PKG. smcrao VARIETIES , -A  :-
CLOSE up GEL A 65 WHITE RAIN HAIR”    .\\l\Tot:Ié:To7 {Q
'I'OO'I'HPAS'l'E cm PRODUCTS 5..    it , 

POTATO/ONION OR POTATO/ CHEESE LEMON LUCULLAN DEUGHTS OR

MRS. 1'5 3/ 00 THE DECADENT 2/ 00
PIEROGIES 2.2. C"2.°.‘%*.4‘“COOKIE 

REGULAR OR LOW FAT IN THE DEL|- BAKERY 

H'I' COTTAGE I59 SELECTED VARIETIES

 

64
OZ. f

 

 

 

   

   

 
   

in   Sre-vine
‘

COFFEE CAKES EA.

c I 24 OZ.   Axiog .
~   Prices Effective Throu h March 22, I 994    in em
Prices In This Ad Eiiective V\_/ednesdoy,_ MorchA_I_6 Through T es 0 , March 22,1994 In our Lexington Stores   1-900-662‘ -Err‘?
Oniy.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Solid To Beoiers. We Giadly Accept Federal Food Stamps. A   .  _A '___A.-.‘,.‘ 

 

 

3 ; .-3.7.: wg . 'h.—'.-»._-_«,.

I-)”Ua&.:vQIna-»-<xn»<\.,~....;...__’_“,,_.,, W . G

 

 

 

K

PAGE 12

Last Week:

WLax—Roanoke 15, W&L 8
Base—Hampden-Sydney 18,W&L 16

. AgAenitalia-whackersare.ge
: ting sentences slashed;

‘‘ cure-all“ternp_orary_insAan-
_ ity” plea, itseerns A_—as' '

Tonrds  
bargain    

 

SARAHON SPORTS A
BY SARAH Gttesar  *

 

- I fully ‘realize that‘

A Tonya Harding has plead V

A guilty of obstruction of
justice,‘ just in case you
were wondering. ' 

. And. further, yes,1 still 
believe in Ms. Harding -4-  :
my original theory, thatshe ' .
"knew nothingof the incl-A .
Vdent until ’ after the fact,
has been proven in a court, A

of law. V V
If we review the whole

situation,‘pre-, during, and 
. post-Olympics, post~Sa't-"‘
urday Night Live, posi- ,

plea bargain, I think the

conclusion must . be that ‘

Tonya is the true victim.
While Nancy Kerrigan

chuckles like a nicely‘ =

carved block of wood in a

spinning tea cup Vand, _.
proves to thewhole world I

that yes, she has no p‘e‘r'-

sonality (ifyou miSS_ed.thAa_t,7 ,
episode,,takemy wordfor 
it and do not call.NBC:.fO,
ask for a copy of the  V '
V. sram).Tony==1i-istrirasglirzg 1‘ i
I with a career-ending_deci- A  AI
sion that should havebeen El‘, ,
j a simple fine. ‘ A  
Not to mentionan’ abu-5, A. .
sive, scheming ex-husband; 
who blunderingly ‘plotted 

not onlyto eliminate her

: competitions bi1t,; taming»

that, to eliminate her. (And

never forget”) the lovely 
Mommy:.Hardi11gs she off I

the fur coat);   2 .

‘In any“ cirAcfumstaAncesA: A
not connected to the United , 
States Olympic Commit- '

tee; Har<Iins.woI‘v.1_d prob}

I ably have been slapped on A
the hand; But ' Olympic ;

committees are notorious

for falling far short of a_j
Fedcralistinterpretation of A

the Constitution, re; Butch
Reynolds and_.his ‘years-

Iong battle’ over botched 

urine sampletests.

Obstruction of justice;
is nothing to write“home —
about. But it certainly ;
shouldnot be punishedin  .
such a devastating way; 
especially not in consider-_
ation of the fact that the —
perpetrator of Athefcrirne A
wasthe former husbandof I

Harding, withall the at-
tendant affection and loy-

alty of such apclose Vper- :

 sonalrelation-sh,ip.; [i .- A: ~

When rnpr‘derer_s:‘ nd
even eliminated for _t

Harding" could have,[bAar-

I . gained for something. a 
little better than »1if_e.~Iio”.; V
competitive skating.‘ ; 2   

Even! must admit,

. however, that something,
 seemsalittle strangeaboupg
: thewhole-affair.Justhours 9
‘ before. her guilty .,plAe‘a';: 
Harding was skating in; the “
 mall in frontof hundreds,
‘ of Portland fans, readying 
. herself for. the - World H ..
Championshipsflltefeistyt A
Oregonian has stood up to f 
‘ everything the law and the V
j world coulddish out for-.
' her so ‘far, and it must have
taken something ea'rth- 
shakingly significant for g
her acquiescence with her _

1awyer’s deal.  V v
The only “good” thing

A to come of the whole mess

is the offer.from_ the ‘Japa-

nese won1en’s wrestling .

federation for a rumored
$2 million contract. -No.

V word on the terms yet, but .

rumor has itshe would be
the highest-paid woman in

Japanese sports. Some-

thing to which to aspire.»
Nevertheless, the silly
world has lost a wonder-

ful, amazingly athletic

skater who deserves acco-

1adesforherheartandpro- 
fessionalism and gainedia 3
piece of wood with too 1

many teeth and the saving

grace of a_ pretty darn good, V
. costumer, ; 3 A‘ .  V.
_ ..I wnt.,.n;§ssiyon.'-Tcnyag. 
IthinlAelwot1idpassonthe‘V

Japanese wrestling,
though, child.

  
 

  S

@112 filing-tum lﬂhi

PORTS  

This Week:
M&WTennis—Kenyon, 03/18
M&WTrack—_—W&L Invite, 03/19
WLax—Guilford, 03/ 19 9
MLax—Gettysburg, 03/ 19

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK AND FIELD

 

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi

Lynchburg. The Generals were victorious.

omen’s lax falls to rival Roanoke

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

“Shell-shocked" could be one way to describe
how the Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse
players felt after a stunning 15-8 defeat to Roanoke
College Thursday on the Liberty Hall Fields.

The defeat, itself, should not be considered all
that stunning since the two Old Dominion Athletic
Conference rivals have played some of the most
intense, dramatic games in ODAC history. Yet,
coming as it did, with Roanoke scoring 10 con-
secutive goals in the first-halfto break a 2-2 tie, the
loss can be deemed a shocker to Generals‘ fans.

That game had all the drama a W&L—Roanokc
contest could want.

Both teams had opened their respective seasons
with blow-outs. Both were ranked nationally. Both
had plenty of fan support on hand. Even WLUR
choose to make this match-up the first women’s
lacrosse game to hit its airwaves.

Roanoke, ranked 14th in Division III entering
the contest, opened the scoring merely 59 seconds
into the game. W&L answered quickly as senior
Pauline Mita netted her first goal of the year a

. minute-and-a-half later.

The Maroons wasted barely a minute before
regaining a one-goal lead when Generals’ goalie
Sarah Smith was beat on a rebound. The Generals
countered, though, with a score by junior Lindsay

Coleman less than four minutes later.

At that point, the contest looked as ifit would be
no different than any recent W&L—Roanoke meet-
ing. The last three encounters have been won by
Washington and Lee by one-goal margins.

The Generals took the 1992
ODAC championship by a 10-9

MARCH 18, 1994 "

ecord'  

crosse gains speed with 4-2 r

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

seven goals, and against Alfred,
Jenkins had two goals and two
assists. Stagnitta also credits se-

Saturday’s

head coach.

onslaught that was to come.

The clock seemed to be moving in slow motion
as the score changed more often than the angle of
the sun: 16:35, 15:49, 13:40, 12:45, 11:34, 8:28,
5:43, 5:00, 3:57. It did not seem possible that this
kind of scoring outburst
could be happening to either.

overtime score when Lisa Dowling
’93 scored twice in the extra-ses-
sion. W&L had to overcome 6-3
half-time and 9-8 overtime deficits
to defeat the Maroons for the_first
time. W&Lalso won the 1993 regu-
lar season meeting 10-9 in over-
time, a game also played at
Roanoke. Finally, Washington and
Lee made it three-in-a-row over
the Maroons last May 1 when jun-
ior Nicole Ripken scored with one
second left in regulation in the
ODAC title game.

 

team, let alone the two—time
defending ODAC champi-
ons.

The replacing of Smith,
who would return for the sec-
ond-half and finish with 15
saves, with freshman goalie
Brooke Glenn could not halt
the Maroons, as they seemed
to be playing in a time—zone
where defenses were mere
obstacles on a driving test.

Coleman ended the seem-
ingly never-ending run with

March 17, Roanoke was return-
ing to the site of the crime, the
Liberty Hall Fields, in hopes of knocking off the
seventh-ranked Generals and ending W&L’s 14-
game home-field winning streak. That streak ex-
tended to the 1992 regular season meeting between
the I-81 rivals, won by the Maroons, 12-8.

The back of neither not was touched until 17:36
remained in the first-half. Roanoke regained a one-
goal lead at that time, but had shown no signs of the

Smith

W&L’s third goal 42 sec-
onds before half-time. None-
theless, Roanoke managed another score with 12
ticks left on the clock to give the visitors a 13-3 lead
after 30 minutes of one-sided play.

The apparent loss was going to be extra-bitter
for W&L to swallow as they were coming off a
disappointing 5-4 loss at Salisbury State last Satur-
day. Suddenly, the season-opening 21-2 romp of
Bridgewater seemed years ago as the team was

Sometimes a team has to stand
up and fight or lose all that they
have worked for in a season. The
Washington and Lee men’s la-
crosse team was placed in that
situation this past week.

The Generals faced a 14th
ranked Lynchburg team fresh off
a loss to top eight ranked Alfred.
Washington and Lee responded
by defeating Lynchburg. The
win sends the Generals into this
game
Gettysburg on the upswing.

. Coach James Stagnitta blamed
the early season loss to Hampden
Sydney on inexperience.

“A lot of it is that we’re young.
I knew it would be tough sled-
ding early,” said the Generals’

Stagnitta also credits the team
with making great strides during
the course of the young season.
“They ’ve taken huge steps in the
past ten days,” said Stagnitta.

The W&L squad opened the
year with a number eight ranking
nationally and a win against St.
Mary’s before the loss to
Hampden Sydney. The Generals
responded in the W&L Tourna-
ment by defeating Swarthmore
before losing to Alfred in the
final game of the tournament.

. . . . . . . In the win over Swarthmore,
Members of the Washington and Lee lacrosse team head up Wilson Field 111 thelr March 16 game agamst Sophomore Ande Jenkins tamed

nior Colin Higgins, Scott
Mackley, and Adam Butterworth
with responding for the Generals
this year.

The team has lately seen some
of the younger players steppgig
up and producing in clutch situa-
tions.

“Some people are starting to
step up and take some leader-
ship,” said Stagnitta.

He also commended his im-
proving new talent.

“These younger guys are stQrt-
ing to take it to the cage,” he said.

against

losses, to control their own des-
tiny. According to Stagnitta the
team has its back against the wall,
but definitely has the “oppo!.u-
nity to get right back in the hunt.”

He also said that the
Gettysburg game was important
because it was an out-of-confer-
ence contest with a ranked team.
Stagnitta also placed a great deal
of importance on the Roanake
contest.

The team appears to be back
on the winning track after its
early trials.’

Coach Stagnitta: credits the
team with a great deal of im-
provement and, despite some.in-
consistencies, sees the team as
being extremely competitive
down the stretch this season.

faced with falling under the .500 mark at 1-2A
overall, 1-1 ODAC. A

The second-half, however, did reveal signs of .

life in the white jerseys. Senior Angie Carrington
scored three times and Coleman added two rrbre
tallies before Roanoke could answer and, thus, cut
the lead to 13-8.

Carrington’s third goal was career score num-
ber 78, moving the All-American past Shawn Wert
’91 into third-place on Washington and Lee’s all-
time goals scored list.

Unfortunately, all of the scoring came inﬂhe
final 14 minutes of the game and did not threaten
the outcome. Maroon Jennifer Shimrak, one of
only two seniors on the squad, ended Roanoke’s
28 minute scoring drought with a goal with 2:04
remaining. Freshman stand-out Gayle Avery put
an exclamation point on the affair with 36 seconds
left in the romp. 0

Another Maroon freshman Lisa Franz}-no and
junior Liz Florence, who scored the tying-goal that
preceded Ripken’s game-winner in last year’s

VODAC final, harassed the Generals’ goal all after-
noon and showed that this will be a Roanoke team

to contend with both this year and in ’95.

W&L will have to recover quickly as they‘ake A
the two-game losing streak back onto the Liberty “

Hall Fields Saturday at 2:00 against another ODAC
foe, Guilford. The Generals then are off until next
Thursday, when they host conference opponent
Lynchburg in another WLUR broadcasted-affair.

  
   
   

 

AWAY GAMES
BY STEPHEN WILLIARD

 

The time is upon us. Once
again the National Collegiate
Atheleric Association provides
us with a definitive champion
for once.

Finally, the pairings have

opinions on whothe finalcom-
batants might be. Of course, I
have to involve myself in the

This year’s affair looks to
be one of the most exciting
tournaments in history (of
course, that being said, one of
the teams will roll through ev-
ery game by about 50 points or
something).

Many of the second round
games could provide close,
hard fought contests. Even the
first round has its share ofprom-
ising battles.

Despite a weekend when
six of the top eight teams fell,
the selection committee
emerged with roughly the same
top seeds as were expected.
Missouri, the Big Eight cham-
pion, claimcd the number one
seed in the west, while North
Carolina, Arkansas. and Purdue

Purdue team.

the Big Party.

claimed the other top spots. Duke
and Connecticut, two teams ap-
parently slated for top seeds,
lost out via the upset route (Duke
to Virginia in the Atlantic Coast
Conference, and Connecticut to
Providence in the Big East).
Long, verbose ex-
planations and argu-
merits are not worth
anyone’s time. In that

down in my pool): in
the East, the top seeds
prevail with UNC and

tions, but down the
stretch, Kentucky, and
itPAlNSmetosay this,
should streak past
Duke to meet a solid

The West region is
the consensus weak
region. Missouri and
Louisville look to be
the favorites here. The
Midwest, or Arkansas,
region is just that, all
Razorbacks. Arkansas
is nearly unbeatable in
Dallas and should do-
feat a solid, but streaky
Michigan squad.

Here it is: the Final Four. I’ll
leave everyone else to argue about

North Carolina, Purdue, Ar-
kansas, and Louisville look to
have the strongest claims right
now. Out of these, UNC and
Arkansas should meet in Char-
lotte in a pick’em game. I give
the nod to UNC for the home

March Madness, sad for Cal fans,
heads to fantabulous Charlotte, N.C.

them picked in my pool to go to
the final four, what of it? It
only hurts my standing in the
pool a little (yeah, right.)
Everyone has UNC picked
towinthe championship. Since
the games will be in the Queen
City this year (Charlotte), I’m
pulling for the.All-ACC Final
Four game between Duke and

eryone else to argue about the ins
and outs, and I’ll probably end
up dead wrong.

By the way, why couldn’t Cal
pick last year to exit the tourna-
ment this early? I know the Duke
players would have been ever so
excited.

The Tonya Harding
issue made its weekly

66

been released and the entire spirit,he_reare my Elite _ ‘
world is engaged in a betting Eightpicksforthisyear The great gods 0fSp0I‘tS
free-for-all, and everyone has (or atleastwhatlwrote

fray and call upon the great and UConn meeting in Mi-
benevolent gods of sports fore- ami. The Southeast r€- ‘
casting and throw in my lot. gion providessome 0p— one of the most beautlful

the national championship

vance I will have NO work
done on Monday.

court advantage, but this is a game

that could go either way.
Thatjust aboutcovers thc bas-

ketball. As I said, Hi leave ev-

scheduling (closely akin to the
great gods of sports forecast-
ing) have conspired to produce

occurences in recent memory.
The opening day of baseball

season falls on the same day as

game. That means I need to
warn my teachers for in ad-

A 

news appearance with UNC-
another tear-jerking
court appearance.

This time the lovely
lady of skating was

« pleading guilty. Maybe
NOW the entire story
will get some rest. By
the way, I heard that
Kerrigan sucked on Sat-
urday Night Live.

The great gods of
sports, scheduling
(closely akin to the great
gods of sports forecast-
ing) have conspired to
produce one of the most
beautiful occurences in
recent memory.

The opening day of
baseball season falls on
the same day as the na-
tional championship
game. That means I need
to warn my teachers far
in advance: I will have
NO work done on that

particular Monday.

Parting Shots-
OK, so Cal lost in the first
round. Yeah, so I originally had

Charlotte.

Maybe the Devils could put
together at least one win versus
the Heels this year.

Lord knows that NC’s not
the better team (1 hope).

I think that the Phi should
have fronted the money for me
to cover the Final Four from

‘Eng njinrta '
Ennis!

lhrrat npnnrfnni: Q
tits in algnlnrnar A
rgintr innrnnlistir
talent anti spurts A
rsqpirritisr are i
nlntilnlilr lmiitlg nu .

tutnnrtg hnlnn, nit

intrrrat far 12

They should know that lllllllllilﬂﬁ. 

would grudgingly agree to such
a torturous assignment, but in
the end, my dedication would
prevail and I would agree to go.
Then at least I would get to
witness firsthand my losing
record in the pool.
Well, that’s enough mind-
less discussion for this week.
In closing, I would like to
extend a hearty congratulations
to all the Georgia Tech fans out
‘there. There isjust something
endearing about a team that can-
not even win in the first round
of the prestigious National ln- -
vitation Tournament.
Editor’s note — Someone
spent the travelling money for
bocci uniforms. Sorry, Steve.

nrln firirnna in
lgnnr apart find.

flail Stephan.
hltllnri at to-

lilnl nn?h‘iE, v
@lr%a=ttm  
‘iﬂlgt.

 

 

The Generals stand in a posi- ,
tion, despite the early season»

By MICHELLE BRIEN
Phi News Editor

The Student Affairs Commit-
tee voted Monday to uphold the
suspension of Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity.

SAC voted on recommenda-
tions made by President John D.
Wilson after his consideration of
FIJI’s appeals. The decision was
decided by a 10 to 1 vote, with
one member absent. In his letter
to SAC, Wilson stated:

“I am convinced that SAC’s
fixed suspension of Phi Gamma
Delta fraternity through the 1994-
1995 academic year is war-
ranted.”

SAC Monday confirmed four
resolutions in response to FIJI’s
appeal.

° FIJI is suspended through
the 1994-95 school year and will
not be permitted to participate in
the fall 1994 Interfratemity Coun-
cil Rush.

' The House Corporation will
be invited to submit an action
plan to SAC by May 1, 1994
concerning the future of FIJI.

° Contingent upon a construc-
tive and workable House Corpo-
ration action plan, SAC will sup-
port the members of this year’s
FIJI pledge class living in the
fraternity house beginning in the
fall term 1994.

° SAC will review and assess
the progress of FIJI in January
1995.

Dean of Students and SAC
Chair David Howison said SAC
deliberated the case over the
weekend before making the deci-
sion Monday afternoon.

“A clear consensus emerged,"
Howison said. “Each member
came by individually and re-

0 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

viewed other documents. Then
each member individually voted.”

Recommendations to SAC
were based on the original IFC
indeﬁnite suspension ofall pledge
and house activities,Wilson said.

“My first intention was to see
if the IFC and SAC proceedings
had something in common. The
IFC proposed suspension of
pledge and house activities for
the indefinite future. The SAC
thought hazing incidents were so
blatant that [probation] would be
much too light. Yet we wanted to
give the house a fighting chance
to survive.”

Wilson said he also consid-
ered the position of the FIJI
pledges in his decision.

“There were seven pledges
who wanted to have a fraternity
experience. We can ‘t restore that.
The [suspension] can’t focus en-
tirely on them. That was a con-
sideration," he said.

Wilson said the provision for
a review of the fraternity‘s
progress in January 1995 may
give FIJI a chance to become
active again before the official
June 1995 end ofthe suspension.

FIJI President Ralph “Moke"
Wolfe saidthe decision came asa
surprise to the FIJI members and
the house corporation.

“Right now they’re kind of
stunned, as are we," Wolfe said.
“Jack Nordberg was under the
impression that it [the appeal]
would go very favorably. It has
become apparent that he [Presi-
dent Wilson] has taken the word
of one pledge over the word of
seven other students. He has made
the contention that we are cir-
cling our wagons to protect the
fraternity. That’s untrue. "

Nordberg, ’79, is FIJI's new

LEXINGTON, VA.

house corporation president.

Wolfesaid FIJIwillworkwith
the house corporation to develop
the action plan recommended by
SAC by the May 1 deadline.

Wolfe said the seven mem-
bers of FlJI’s pledge class have
rejected SAC’s offer of letting
the pledges live in FIJI’s frater-
nity house on Preston Street.

“They think it’s a slap in the
face," Wolfe said.

Although the university does
not define any method for further
appealofthedecision,Wolfe said,
the fraternity “will explore other
avenues” of reversing the sus-
pension decision.

Nordberg said the university
has departed from its own written
policy in the handling ofthe FIJI
case.

“The university has refused to
comply with its own statements
and policies in the student hand-
book,” Nordberg said. ”SAC has
acted outside its authority as a
governing body.”

“The house corporation has
conducted an extensive review
ofalluniversity documentswhich
discuss hazing —— in the White
Book, The Student Handbook—
there is only one mention of haz-
ing,” Nordberg said. “There is no
definition and no sanction. What
is clear is that suspension can
only occur if a chapter was on
critical probation or if the inci-
dent was so serious that it threat-
ened physical harm, damage of
property, or death.“

TheStuderztHandbookdefines
the punishments SAC may im-
pose on a fraternity or sorority for
violations of PanHellenic, Inter-
fratemity Council, or University
policies and guidelines.

SAC has four options after a

MARCH 22, 1994

FIJI appeal fails

hearing acase ofa possible viola-
tion. They can take no further
action, place the fraternit_v/soror-
ity on critical probation for a pe-
riod not exceeding one calendar
year, suspend the t‘raternit_v/so-
rority for a period not exceeding
five years or expel the fraternity/
sorority from the university.

The Student Handbook de-
scribesthe university‘sand lFC’s
policy and definition of hazing.

By-Law VII oftheIFC consti-
tution states in Section 3: “All
forms of hazing are strictly pro-
hibited. A serious incident, even
as a first reported offense, may be
grounds for suspension or expul-
sion of the chapter."

Section 4 ofthe by-law states:
“No initiation or pledge training
activity shallconstitute any physi-
cal or emotional hazard to the
individual. Such potential haz-
ards include: alcohol abuse, dan-
gerous physical exertion or ex-
haustion. physical or emotional
violence, paddling or other types
of abuse. No chapter will exer-
cise jurisdiction over pledges
when such activity will hinder
the pledges academic work in
any manner.

Section 6 states: “No pledg-
ing activities are to take place in
or around the freshman dormito-
ries or after 8 p.m. Pledging ac-
tivities are restricted to one night
only during the academic week."

“There is no conclusive evi-
dence that hazing took place,"
Nordberg said. “The only guide-
line the fraternity believes was
broken is the IFC guideline not to
meet after 8 p.m. It is the house
corporations statement that this
issue goes much deeper than a
fraternity of 30 or so gentlemen
being suspended."

 
       
 

xv hizhtiri 1°W.309+

  

VOLUME 93, NO. 24

  

[II
‘*6
‘.3.
3
e.
3
3?
O
3
3:!
3
9..
5
2

 

W&£ gears upfor warm      

 
 

-' -L?-%—'.

weather 9

Undefeated W omen’s Tennis
Burns Up Court to # 3

he iﬁing-tum ljﬂhi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

File Photo V

‘ The science center site plans were approved Thursday. Construction workers will park in the Lenfest Center lots- -

City approves center plan

Science center construction to begin in June

By RICAHRD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

The Lexington City Council approved the
site plan for Washington and Lee’s new $20
million science center last Thursday, but
only after W&L agreed to open the Lenfest
Center fan court to faculty parking.

The opening of the Lenfest fancourt would
help compensate for the loss of 59 parking
spaces during construction of the new sci-
ence center. W&L Capital Planning Coordi-
nator Frank Parsons also agreed to allow
faculty to park in lots currently reserved for
residents of Gaines Hall.

Approval of the plan came after council
members discussed potential parking prob-
lems with Parsons for more than an hour.
Lexington Mayor Homer “Buddy” Derrick
expressed doubts about Parsons’ initial plan
of opening up to faculty use only the Gaines
students’ lots.

Parsons cited a study by W&L Security

 

Director Mike Young, which showed that 34
spaces at the university lot on McDowell
Street were reserved for students but seldom
used by them. Parsons said those spaces
could be reclassified as faculty parking to
make up for the spaces lost to the science
center construction.

The remaining 25 lost faculty spaces would
be made up by a parking lot at Virginia
Military Institute that W& L plans to lease
during the science center construction.

Those 59 spaces weren’t enough to satisfy
city officials.

Derrick said he thought that the cars
registered but not parked in W&L lots were
parked on public streets, aggravating the
city’s shortage of parking.

“The cars [not parked in the lots] are not
ﬂoating into the sky somewhere,” Derrick
said. “They’re on Lexington streets.”

The mayor wanted to force W&L to guar-
antee university parking spaces for all stu-
dents registered in the Gaines Hall lot, as well
as for faculty who will lose spaces to the

science center construction. Derrick said that
guarantee would prevent student and faculty
cars from being forced into city parking
spaces.

City Councilman Pat Mayerchak proposed
that Washington and Lee build a new lot
under the science center or adjacent to VMI.

“We want some commitment [from Wash-
ington and Lee], not just promises,”
Mayerchak said.

As a compromise, Parsons accepted open-
ing the Lenfest fan court to parking. Parsons
initially opposed the compromise because,
he said parking cars there would probably
damage the decorative inset stones. But when
he conceded the council approved the sci-
ence center plan.

“There is a certain amount of resentment
at the city dictating to us how to use our own
parking lots,” Parsons said. “But...we’re ac-
ceptingthe [city’s] stipulations to get on with
our planning.”

Construction of the science center is sched-
uled begin in June and last four years.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 25, 1994

Law School
gets new dean

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

On July 1st, 1994, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity School of Law will have a new law dean.

Barry Sullivan, partner with the Chicago law
firm Jenner & Block, has been named law dean to
replace Randall P. Bezanson, who resigned after
six years.

Sullivan graduated cum laude with honors in
philosophy and political science from Middlebury
College in 1970. He received his Juris Doctor
degree from the University of Chicago Law School
in 1974.

In 1972, he interned at the State Department of
Educational and Cultural Services in Augusta,
Maine. During the summer of 1973, he served as a
law clerk at Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley &
Ketchum in Boston, Massachusetts. He also served
as a law clerk to the Honorable John Minor Wis-
dom, 1925 W&L graduate and U.S. Circuit Judge
for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit
in New Orleans from 1974 to 1975. Wisdom
nominated Sullivan for the position of Dean of the

He worked for Jenner & Block until 1980 when
he became assistant to the solicitor general of the
United States with the Department of Justice in

  

1

Washington, D.C. He became a partner ofJenner & I

Block in December 1981.

He taught law at Loyola University of the Chi- .

cago School of Law. Currently, Sullivan teaches
law at Northwestern University School of Law in
Chicago.

Sullivan has published and spoken on a wide
range of legal and ethical issues, most recently on
issues relating to AIDS. He is a member of the legal
review and advisory panel of the National Leader-
ship Coalition on AIDS. He is also a member ofthe

Board of Trustees of Catholic Theological Union I

and serves on the school’s academic affairs com-
mittee. He has held leadership positions in the
American Law Institute, the American Bar Asso-
ciation, and the Seventh Circuit-Bar Association.
He is a member of the Illinois State Bar Association
and the Law Club of Chicago.

President John Wilson said he was pleased
with Sul1ivan’s acceptance.

“I am delighted that he accepted our offer,”

Law School.

he said.

ar tax to get ax

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee senior
Meredith Cook’s parents hit the
ceiling last year when Lexington
sent them a tax bill for the 1986
Volkswagen Jetta that Cook
drives.

They thought it was unfair for
Lexington to tax the car, because
it is registered in Maryland. But
current Virginia law allows Lex-
ington to tax any car, regardless
of where its registered, that is
kept in Lexington for more than
half a year as long as its owner
does not pay a car tax elsewhere.

The area of Maryland in which
Cook lives does not have a car
tax, and Cook has lived in Lex-
ington year-round since her
sophomore year. By law, there-
fore, Lexington was able to tax
the Jetta.

However, the law maybe
changing. A bill the Virginia
Assembly passed two weeks ago
would make Lexington’s student
car tax on some student cars ille-
gal. The bill still allows for taxa-
tion of parent-owned cars. Of
course, the city can tax any car
registered inside of Lexington
regardless of ownership.

City Manager Jon Ellestad
said the current tax is not a popu-
lar one.

“We get a lot of nasty letters
from parents out of state,”

Ellestad said.

Ellestad said the purpose of
the tax is fair, however. Students
from both W&L and Virginia
Military Institute use city roads
and city services like the police
and fire departments, he said.

“We think the students are
residents of Lexington and should
help pay for the governmental
services,” he said.

“The total of money we’re
arguing about is less than the
amount that W&L spends on
Fancy Dress, a one weekend
party. I don’t see why it’s that big
of a deal,” he said.

The student car tax generated
about $65,000 for Lexington last
year. If Governor George Allen
signs the recent bill into law,
Ellestad said he expects the city
will lose at least half that
revenue.

Senior Jimmy Kull said he is
pleased with the assembly’s
decision.

“I had been told a couple of
years ago when I was fighting
[the student car tax] that this kind
ofbill was in the works. I’m glad
it finally passed,”.he said.

Kull said he’s been fighting
the tax since Lexington officials
got serious about collecting it
three years ago. State laws
weren ’t any different before then,
but the city did not actively col-
lect the tax.

“I think it’s kind of aslap in
the face to students who pump so

much money into the economy
through other means,” Kull said.

The city currently taxes at car
at the rate of $4.25 per $100, or
$425 per $10,000 of value.

Ellestad said Lexington can’t
tax all the eligible cars, because
W&L won’t give the city a list of
student cars. VMI has provided
the city with a list of its students’
cars he said.

Ellestad said W&L President
John Wilson is opposed to the
tax. Wilson will not hinder the
city’s attempt to collect it, he
said, but he will not help the city
collect it either.

If the bill does become law,
Ellestad said, it will be up to the
City Council to determine
whether Lexington will continue
trying to collect the tax from par-
ent-owned cars.

“It‘s a real headache to collect
to begin with,” Ellestad said.

He said it would prove even
more difficult and time-consum-
ing for the city to determine own-
ership of every car. He also said
the new law based solely on own-
ership would make the tax even
more inequitable and unfair to
students who do have to pay.

Ellestad said he would like
the laws to remain unchanged
but isn’t optimistic because the
bill is neither large nor contro-
versial on the state level.

“I’m still hoping the governor
will veto, but I suppose I
shouldn’t wish for miracles.”

 
   
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  

W&L host st aa   show

By BUNNY WONG
Phi Staff Writer

   

 
 

 
  
     

Evans Dining Hall was the place to be

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
    
  
 
  
  
   
     
  
 
   
      
       

S‘aﬂ:_Wﬁf,°"    ‘ 4' I '   I to have fun and gain weight Thursday,
1'  * '  =1   . ~    Q March 24.
.  5 gytjagk;-xetsgm Washington . Twenty-eight food manufacturers
»f,..,B‘{;feau‘Chief‘of ThelI;z>s.;4n—' showed their wares in the D-Hall from
_ _'fg_glesTi;nesandPn1itze;{§yize 11:30 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. for W&L’s first
 winnmg,.author,_ spoke abotut food show: Food for the 90s -— An Invita-
 the [ journalism of they ;i'vi1. ‘ tion to Wellness-
_ :.» Rights movement on  The University community was in-
v . gay, . ‘ ; -  I’ : vited to sample the foods, free of charge,
1 . , Nelson has covered the, and offer comments on evaluation forms
I . 7 South for'The Atlanta Jour- about the f00dS-
; ‘» naland Cdnst£tuzion,}{e—3}sQ. “I thought it was a great way for the
‘cw;-ore save;-31-books, include" students to express their opinions about
ing Terror in the-Nighg, an .  the foodsthey’d like to see in the D-Hall,”
aocountofKu Kjux Klancam- . ﬁ;sg’;adi¢g~sh_' V 1‘; said freshman Jenny Walton.
paigns against the Jewsin the not heard;‘*Tiiey . D00TP1’iZ€_Saﬂd3WaTdS3b01}I1d€d.With
_, 1960s, for which he was power she,~has.I-some four TVs being offered as prizes. along

with CD holders, boom boxes, and a
myriad of other prizes. The prizes were
supplied by the manufacturers.

Even if they didn’t get a prize, every-
one got their very own food show bag
stocked with a W&L paper cup, a health
quiz, chips and candy.

“I thought that it was a really good
idea. I really like all the foods that I tasted
and there was so much there that Icouldn’t
get around to everything,” said freshman
Wendy Finelli.

There were many well-known manu-
facturers at the food-o-rama, including

placed on J. Edgar Hoover’s- do not like thé9po.wer"she has "
, blacklist , inthe health careplan andhérif‘
. , “Once the White Knights health care plan.” f . " ,. V L V
in Mississippi realized they “'1’his';ese‘nn1j¢m is :pe1-g ,.
could not defeat the Civil petuated by"p‘r6paganda put" V
, A Rights m0‘/émeﬂt, they de~ outbytheextrerne$»vhitewing"II
I cidedtl1atJewsweretheprob- oftheconservativeparty.'Fhe- Q
' lern. Jews were the support- hatred for Ktlie: Clintons _

ers of the Civil Rights ,move- worse than the.ha_tred that was.‘

I vment; that is why they be— present for‘{Fr;3nklfiri 2. 
came the focus ofanti-Semitic Eleanor Rooseveltfhe added.
action, which included the StajfTwriterJayWhitecan-
blowing up of synagogues,” tributedigo‘ this story. ‘

  

hoto b Bets Green, The Ring—!um P i
A worker serves up healthy food choices at Washington and Lee’s first Food Show in the Dining
Hall. Thursday’s event was part of the Dining Services’ effort to serve healthier foods.
General Mills, Kelloggs, Stouffers, Pearce All the manufacturers offered healthy entered into an agreement with SYSCO
Chicken, Nestle and Quaker Oats. foods. Dining Services Director Jerry according to Darrell.

Coke and Pepsi were also present. Darrell and Executive Chef Greg Pearce SYSCO will serve as the University’
Pepsiscontractrunsouton May31, 1994. have been meeting with the Student primary supplier of food and dining hal
This puts the soda question once again up Health Committee to discuss healthy food equipment.
in the air. choices atthe three campus dining service Before, a number of companies sup

‘‘I really hope that we get Coke next locations. plied the D-Hall with its needed goods.
year. I like Coke better than Pepsi. l W&L hosted the food show along with Under SYSCO’s one-year contract, 9
know a lot of people thatvoted to have it," SYSCO Food Services of Virginia. percent of everything the Dining Servic
said Finelli. The W&L Dining Service recently buys will be supplied by SYSCO.

   
  

    
 
   

  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  

  

1>‘AGE 2

Barbeque

‘I4/e§“Lz"fe

returns to Lexington at last

By ETHAN KRUPP and STEPHEN WILLIARD
of The Ring-tum Phi staff

bLexington has been bereft of a barbecue
restaurant for most of the year since one on
Washington Street closed earlier this year.

Pete’s Barbecue Station has recently filled
that void.
The new restaurant, located where Jefferson
;Street runs into Main Street next to Stop-In,
' fﬂers a choice of pork or beef barbecue, barbe-
_;ued chicken, and ribs when available. Also
erved are hot-dogs, Polish sausages, and
frunswick Stew.

Pete’s is set up in true fonn for a relaxed,
\formal dinner. The restaurant presents a
'~me-style feeling to its customers.
‘You can get your food to go, or stay and eat

in the restaurant. The service was quick and
’ iendly. We had been told that all good barbe-
' re places must have religious pictures on the
alls, but we think this place is the exception.
esides, we found the pictures of dogs playing
.oker much more interesting, particularly “A
';iend in need,” and “His station and four aces.”
er admiring the pictures, we sat down to
* inner.

One of the more unusual items on the menu
as the barbecued potatoes which consisted of

re potatoes are one of the side orders that you

, th hushpuppies.

  

 

By KATHLEEN QUIRK
Phi Staff Writer

Photo by Bethany Smith, The Ring-tum Phi
Pete Harris, owner of Pete’s Barbeque Station, prepares some
barbeque before opening for the day. A varitey of items are offered.

The pork barbecue was served with an east-
all peeled potatoes cooked in barbecue sauce. em style, thin sauce.

While the sauce itself was disappointingly
n choose from when you order a barbecue bland, Texas Pete was provided to liven up the recommend both.
, e. The other options are baked beans, cole meal.The actual barbecue was above average.
. AW, and French fries. The plates also come We would not call it the best we have ever had,
but it was definitely worth eating.

The dessert options include homemade spice
crunch cake, brownies, and banana pudding.
We sampled the brownies and cake, and highly

The only complaint we had about the service
was we had to eat out of a take-out tray in the
restaurant, but that very well could have been a

The Ring-tum Phi, March 25, 1994

  

   

Photo by Bethany Smith, The.Ring-tri-nit Phi
Pete’s Barbeque Station is the third and most recent restaurant run by
Pete Harris, who has been making barbeque for over 20 years.

misunderstanding on our part. A special take-out menu is also available.

The price for the food was by no means On this menu, pints and quarts of barbecue can
cheap, but it was reasonable. One barbecue be purchased.
platter cost $5.45 and a brownie was 85 cents. Pete’s also does catering. They advertise
The platter did come with a great deal of food additional items are available when they cater,
for the money, however, and Pete’s deﬁnitely so Rush chairmen may want to consider using
remains on our list of places to eat out. Pete’s next year for Rush.

The hottest trends for looking
cool this springtime i Lexington

 

 

Spring is here, marking the post-velvet, pre-white-shoe
season.

Sunshine and warmer weather means that it is time for
shorts again. Natural fabrics in neutral colors like khaki,
beige, olive, gray and navy will be favorites for W&L men
and women. Everyone can wear them with bucks, sandals,
running shoes or the same boots they have been wearing all
winter.

Exercise clothes will be popular as students enjoy the
great weather outdoors and start getting in shape for spring
term fun. Any piece of W&L merchandise is a natural choice
— especially lacrosse shorts — and you can charge it home.
The bookstore also has plenty of W&L umbrellas for April ’s
showers.

But while the sun is out, sunglasses are in order. They go
nicely with and windbreakers.

For girls, it is time for ponytails and painted toenails, as
well as straw hats and sweater sets in soft spring colors.
Khaki and denim skirts are perfect choices for class or
hanging out at the Co-op. You can wear them with almost
everything—sandals, ﬂats, sneakers and any woven shoes.

Natural, ﬂowing, woven fabrics like rayon, linen, ma-
dras, and seersuckers are great for little spring dresses, long,
lean skirts and dresses, palazzo pants, short skirts and
rompers.

The traditional spring choices of ﬂorals and navy and
white look just as fresh. As every spring, it’s time for cute
straw hats again too.

For both girls and guys, t-shirts are a natural choice for
all these spring shorts. For a step dressier than polos, button-
down shirts have a classic look, whether in white, colors or
stripes — especially green and white or blue and white
oxford cloth stripes. And when the occasion calls for a tie,
shorts still make their appearance.

Top spring accessories include W&L hats, leather or
insignia belts, scrunchies for spring ponytails, Colonnade
cups, backpacks, and cheerful speaking—tradition smiles.

 
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

_I:earning to ﬂy

The second bill of one act plays in the Armual Festival of One Acts

opens tonight at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center. In Eleemosynary,

. with Jeanne Dillon, ’96, and Dorian Lucas,

‘V fragile relationships of three generations 0

The Valentine Fairy, with Ellen Dean, ’94, and Bill Haase, ’97, is

1 about a woman who is confronted by a fairy who, through the use
if slides of her many former lovers, helps Ingrid (Dean) to redis-

cover her innocence. Admission is free for students and faculty.

’94, pictured here, the
f family are dealt with.

Socks, however, are optional.

public“, photo Right: The natural colored shorts

sandals, boots, or bucks.

will do nicely.
Photos by Ethan Krupp

 

In The Columns on March 24, 1944, it was reported
that on Saturday, March 25, at noon, all the freshman who
entered Washington and Lee in February were allowed to
remove their hats. Originally, the freshman had been
scheduled to wear their caps for the entire quarter, but
they piled up a record six weeks without any freshman

being turned in for a violation of the freshman rules.

For this, an equal number of weeks were suspended
from their hat-wearing period. The freshman class had
been required to wear the hats in an attempt to curtail
mischievous behavior.

On March 21, 1969, The Ring-tum Phi reported that
WLUR—FM had become entirely student staffed due to

he leave of absence of former station manager and
Journalism professor, Charles E. Winston. A student
managerial staff assumed almost complete control of the
station’s operations. New equipment and new program-
ming was added under the new management. At the time,
the station boasted several thousand albums in its library.
The collection had everything from Shostakovick to Iron

‘Butterﬂy.

In the Phi on March 22, 1984, it was reported that the
members of the Sigma Nu fraternity had decided not to
take any further action against the Phi Delta Theta
fraternity for a recent incident. On March 3rd, an

Compiled by JAY WHITE of the Phi Staff

For The W&L Record

artillery round simulator was thrown from the Phi Delt
house, across Henry Street, and into the Sigma Nu yard.
Two Phi Delt sophomores admitted to being responsible
for the act. Sigma Nu decided not to seek any further
retribution for the act after Phi Delt was given two weeks
of social probation and each of the sophomores received
four weeks. The sophomores were also prohibited from
living in the house spring term. The Student Conduct
Committee ordered the individuals to pay for the dam-
ages to the Sigma Nu house and make personal apologies
to members of the fraternity. The simulator round was
purchased at a gun show in Texas.

The Phi of March 23, 1989 covered the surprise visit
to W&L by Donna Rice. She spoke at the 15th Annual
Journalism Ethics Institute. She requested that her
comments be kept off-the-record, but then later con-
ceded, stating she wished her comments to stay inside
the classroom. At that point, Dennis Montgomery, chief
of the Richmond Bureau of the Associated Press, walked
out. Later, according to Montgomery, he reentered at
the request of a University official. Regardless of the
request for privacy, her comments were found in article
in The Washington Post, The Washington Times, and
USA Today. Her visit took place only two months after
her affair with former Senator Gary Hart became public.

look is in for the springtime. Shoes,
if you decide to wear them, can be
running shoes as modeled here, or

Below: Teva style sandals are very popular
on the W&L campus, but just about
any kind of sandal, including
birkenstocks and woven sandals,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

‘¢_...,..«.,«v.,3’* "‘ 

PAGE 3

(I112 ifting-tum iﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

What’s oin on‘?
O

In case you were wondering what is going on, the page you are looking at
is the real editorial page of a real four page newspaper. The “second” front
page you saw was a real front page.

The outside newspaper is obviously a parody. We know it’s not April
Fool’s day, but this is the closest day to April 1 that a Phi actually will come
out. The parody issue is meant to be fun for everyone, so we hope it has, or
will, amuse you. It is truly meant in good fun.

Goodbye

The year has gone by so quickly right now it’s all a blur.

Seems like it wasn’t so long ago that we were telling you how much we
wanted to change the Phi. We think its safe to say the Phi is a lot different today
than it was a year ago. We just hope you’ve liked the changes. Anyway, its
time for a bunch of us to say bye to the paper and, in about seven weeks, to
W&L. So, ifyou will bear with us we’d like to say some goodbyes and thank-
yous.

Fran — It’s been a crazy year. I can’t think of a year in the last four that has
had as much going on consistently as this year has. From the Phi office you
get to see a lot, both literally and figuratively, that you wouldn’t otherwise.

I’ve been fortunate to have some great opportunities and to work with
wonderful people. Ifl were to thank everyone who deserved it I would take
up way too much space. I would like to say thanks to everyone who believed

‘ in t-he same things I did last spring. You knew the Phi could be a good paper

again, and I will forever be indebted to you.

To keep this short, it has been a lot of fun. But, its time to move on. So,
until graduation I will see you at Goshen and after that, who knows, but I
suspect there will be more than a few of us who meet again.

Nancy ——- Ugggggh. Craziness. Lack of Sleep. Three little sentences that
sum up the annoying aspects of nights at the Phi. But it wasn’t all insanity as
we tried to cover the ins and outs of life at W&L. Sometimes we actually had
a lot of fun doing this —— at least I did. Things sure have changed since last
spring and many of those changes were only possible because you (yes, you)
kept reading it and letting us know where to go and what to do next. But hey,
that’s what wc’re here for, right.

So little space, so many folks to thank (ok, so Fran’s right about that part).
Thanks to all the people who spent too many hours to count up here. Despite
the crankiness at 3 a.m., you were all wonderful people to work with. I must
admit, I really need to thank the two individuals who badgered me into doing
this. It was more than I bargained for but worth it. To those getting ready to

’ take over, have fun with it; there’s only 27 more wonderful issues after that

first awful week.

But for now, it’s off to Florida and Goshen where all I do is sleep, get a tan,
sleep, hang out, sleep, drink, sleep....well, you get the picture.

Shelly —— Gee, uh, well, hmmm... They said all the good stuff. How do you
repeat sincerely thank-yous and I had a great times and I couldn’t have done
it without yous? Trust me, guys. You know I mean it. Special thanks goes to
Prof. Richardson (and I believe I speak for all of us) for being teacher, adviser,
and friend. (By the way, I like the ’fro.)

It’s hard to believe it is finally over. OVER. Perhaps my profs will see me
for my final Friday morning classes. I agree with Nancy: it’s more than I
bargained for, but worth it. I got a passel of new friends, a fondness for White
Russians, the endurance of a pack-horse, and a new Phi bocci uniform. If I find
a newspaper with those kinds of benefits in the real world I’ll never leave it.

Tom— My mom tried to convince me to ditch the Phi when my GPA
started plummeting like John Wayne Bobbitt’s self-esteem. I told her I had
to stick it out. I’m glad I did. Thanks to Fran and everybody on the staff. You
guys are some of the best friends I’ve ever had.

3 Working for the1Ph,i;has been an unbelieveable experience. In the past year,
I?ve managed to tick arr most of the deans, W&L Security, certain members
of the EC and the Lex cops. But at the same time, I’ve made a lot of friends.

Sometimes, when I’m up here at the Phi ofﬁce at 6 a.m. after a full night
of editing work, I wonder why I even bother, especially when I see my
fraternity brothers using the Phi to line birdcages, wrap fish, and the like. But
I realize now why I went through hell during my year as News Editor: I love
it. What? Did you think I actually did this for fame and fortune? Did you
honestly think I did this so that one or two drunk KAs will recognize me in the
Live Drive van? Wrong.

In any case, I feel a little better than my fellow editorial board members.
By the time you read this, they will have left the paper. At least my alter-ego
Spos will stick around for six more weeks to write Spos’ Space.

These goodbyes are always hard to end, so I’ll thank Fran, Nancy, Shelly
and the rest and wish Sarah good luck. After all, it’s hard work making The
Trident look so bad.

Well, thanks for letting all of us ramble. We all wanted to wish Sarah
Gilbert and her staff the best of luck. From what we’ve heard, the campus will
be getting a great newspaper in the next year. In fact, there are so many
talented freshmen on the paper it should be great for quite a few years to come.
Thanks to everyone who worked on the paper this year. Every single person
was essential. Very many thanks to Prof. Brian Richardson for being a friend,
advisor and great role model.

Bye. /_,~-..-~-~-
Z’ ‘ . .—
,‘. ‘_/,/ .. .-
. ’ I _ ‘
 It LU" ‘ e K; ‘
‘/Lrff ‘  V?"  I\'t  "‘)':3\ ,1
« "rgv “M

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Francesca Kefalas

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Nancy Pavlovic

News Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michelle Brien, Thomas Hespos

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Sarah Gilbert

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ethan Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hillary Olson, Melissa Sawyer

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Bethany Smith

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green-

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Phil Carrott

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Wyatt

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Allen Flickinger, Ransom James

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally Obennueller

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee

' Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-mm Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does

not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ring-gtum Phi, March 25, 1994

  

Fiji House Corporation
protests unfairness

To the editor:

The following is a statement from
the House Corporation of the Zeta
Deuteron Chapter of Phi Gamma Delta
in response to the March 21, 1994
SAC sanctions conﬁrmed against the
fraternity relating to events occurring
on November 29, 1993, and Decem-
ber 4, 1993.

The Board of Directors of Zeta
Deuteron wants to express their total
disappointment and ooncem over the
sanctions imposed against our frater-
nity by the SAC. It is incorrect that
university officials and SAC commit-
tee members ignored established uni-
versity student handbook guidelines
in justifying the chapter’s suspension
through the 1994-1995 academic year.

It is also regrettable that these in-
equitable and heavy—handed sanctions
will lead to the closure of the Preston
Street facility and layoffs of all frater-
nity employees, despite SAC state-
ments reﬂecting the university’s “de-
sire to see Phi Gamma Delta returned
to a responsible place in the fraternity
system.” Our hearts go out to every-
one who is affected by this decision.

The House Corporation of Zeta
Deuteron requests that the adminis-
tration, faculty, student body, and
alumni consider what message your
university is distributing when it ig-
nores its own policy statements, un-
fairly challenges the integrity and
honor of its students, and restricts the
fundamental rights of all members of
the university community.

At what point in the metamorpho-
sis of George Washington’s and Rob-
ert E. Lee’s university did students
give up their right to confront their
accusers, present factual evidence to
their defense, and have a fair and
impartial judicial process administered
by established university guidelines?

Since no university deﬁnition or
policy exists on hazing, the Zeta Deu-
teron House Corporation resents im-
plications defining our fraternity ac-
tivities hazardous to body, mind, or
property, and is appalled that an unani-
mous statement of our innocence to
the hazing charge is disregarded as a
cover-up among the brothers and
alumni. In fact, the fraternity is out-
raged that the university has labeled
seven innocent freshmen and our up-
perclassmen as liars, forever tainting
their integrity and honor.

In summation, this decision con-
tradicts the same qualities of univer-
sity lifestyle it attempts to protect.
This decision is tainted with dishon-
esty and ignores the honorable rights
of the accused, as well as conﬂicts
with published university policy. The

The Ring-tum Phi
is looking for an
Assistant Business Manager

SAC has conducted limited due dili-
gence, restricted testimony, ignored due
process, and restricted access to formal
appeals forwarded to the university out-
lining our position. The uncontradicted
facts of the case support that it is grossly
unfair to suspend the house. The univer-
sity handbook makes it clear that this is
inappropriate.

It should be stated that the Zeta Deu-
teron chapter acknowledged breaching
IFC regulations regarding organized
pledge meetings after 8 p.m. in the win-
ter term. The House Corporation im-
posed extremely harsh sanctions on this
breach of stated university policy and
fined the fraternity $5,000, severely crip-
pling the social budget and suspending
all social activities throughout the 1993-
94 academic year. The student-run IFC
agreed with our course of action and
approved these self-administered sanc-
tions.

University “analysis” on what took
place has persuaded the SAC to impose
a suspension policy which punishes in-
nocent freshmen, who must continue to
look for housing pending an “accept-
able House Corporation action plan;”
fraternity employees, who must look
for new jobs, alumni and members of
the House Corporation who must re-
spond to this Faber College (Animal
House) proceeding.

The Zeta Deuteron chapter of Phi
Gamma Delta respectfully disagrees
with this decision, but must move for-
ward in an honorable and responsible
manner. We have accepted the fact that
we have used poor judgment and vio-
lated university rules. Regardless of the
fairness of the penalty, we will confront
this challenge with the same vigor that
spearheaded our appeal and look for-
ward to a return to the university cur-
riculum.

The House Corporation has always
opposed hazing and was the first organi-
zation to introduce anti-hazing language
into Washington and Lee chapter’ rules
and regulations. Fraternity members are
lectured each fall on the subject and
minor infractions result in fines and
social probation.

Nothing will change this unfortunate
and unfair decision for the Fiji’s. Un-
prejudiced review of this case can only
prevent a similar incident from occur-
ring on campus and silencing desperate
questions of “How could this happen at
Washington and Lee University?”

Faithfully submitted,

Zeta Deuteron chapter

Phi Gamma Delta fraternity
John H. Norberg

House Corporation President

LETTERS

Flirting

The Film Society will present
Flirting at 8:05 p.m. on Friday,
March 25 and Saturday, March 26
in the Troubadour Theatre. There is
no charge for admission.

W&L-VMI

The Preston Society is a group
that helps W&L students and VMI
cadets get to know each other. For
more information call Lisa Green-
house at 462-4189 or Tom Hespos
at 464-1 155. a

Kids’ Playce

Kids’ Playce is looking for vol-
unteers. Construction begins April
20-24. For more infonnation, call
Susan Dittman at 463-3488.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

   
  
  
   
    
 

Big Sibling  

Be a big brother or sister to an
incoming East Asian exchange stu- ’ .
dent. Please see Professor Rogers
in the East Asian language center"
for details.

Calyx

If you haven’t received yor 1993 .
Calyx (from last year) please pick it
up at Carol Calkins’ office in the
University Center during normal 
hours or in the Calyx oﬁce in Uni-
versity Center room 206.

Phi

TheRing-tum Phi will next pub-
lish on April 22, 1994.

White Book Review a ,
chairman thanks W&L, ,

To the editor:

As chairman of the White Book
Review Committee, I would like to
thank the members of the student body,
faculty, and administration who have
contributed to our efforts over the past
six months. I would like to extend a
special thanks to all of the members of
this committee, who have invested time,
hard work, and a lot of thought into our
deliberations.

We have compiled a number of pro-
posed revisions to the White Book,
which we presented to the Executive
Committee on Monday, March 7. In
addition, we began a discussion of these
proposals last week on the 14th and
15th.

The White Book Review Commit-
tee will meet again with the Executive
Committee on Monday, March 28, at
7:30 p.m. in the Executive Committee
room in the University Center.

and an

Advertising Manager.

If interested, call
Ransom James at 462-4060.

   
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
   

This meeting will be open to _z,
student body, and I would like to ~,
tend an open invitation to all stud‘
interested in attending. Discussion a_v I
be limited to members of the e
Book Review Committee and the Ex-
ecutive Committee, but the meeti -tg
will give everyone an opportunity to
see what your elected representatives
to the Executive Committee think about
the White Book and the Honor Systqn.

Thank you all once again for your
continued interest in the White Book
Review Committee and our proposals.
Please feel free to attend the meeting
next Monday, especially if you are ,
concerned with the future of the Honor‘ '

System. ,

Sincerely,

Ames Hutton, ’94,

Chairman,

White Book Review Committee

O:OOOOOOOOI.OOCOOOOO‘.OOOOOOOO0.00000000G.O

  

Last Week:

WTennis——W&L 9, Guilford 0
MTennis~—W&L 8, Mary Wash. 1
Base——Lynchburg 25, W&L 3
WLax—Lynchburg 12, W&L 11

PAGE 4

 

rt.  _
 espeare,c_a.»1640)_,
“ “Please <10n’fg

ﬂoeef New Kidslon they 
_B1°e.l$a 1939)

(inning in the face of

' ' all as popular opinion and

tonsgof fan mail the
fr} dly guy from the 1.?.ex- ,
‘I1}?ost‘Officelug’sinto.

 house everyday, I am *

s?ayirig“Sovlorig,farewell” Z

'_:.}1(JU.l‘i,€ Andrews. 1973)’. to. ' .
‘ ..:all my sports fanatics and ‘
I jgzcolumn groupies.

or Stephen.-Wiil'iard,imy

ass;istant,»i's' slated to "

me as sports e

g A, I the has not yet7de~ A
ed uporianew name-f 3} »

0.; . B
19‘ 

i'nonths‘assportseditorthat‘ ‘

yes,-.1W.a'shington and'I;e'e
’tu_del-nts do read the sports .
pagesivand» yes, Washing ,

ton and-Lee athietesvreally 

missp I

y, Hollis.

3

one itting-tum Iﬂhi

PORTS

This Week:

WLax-—Mary Washington 03/26
MLax—at Roanoke 03/26
M&WTennis—at Emory 03/26
M&WTrack——at Battleground 03/26

BASEBALL, GOLF, LACROSSE, TENNIS, TRACK AND FIELD

 

i e phot

Junior Marilyn Baker, number one player of Washington and Lee’s undefeated
women’s tennis team, hits a volley at W&L’s tennis courts.

J OCKSHORTS

 

Baseball

The Washington and Lee baseball team fell to
3-10-1 on the season after a 25-3 drubbing at the
hands of Lynchburg. The Generals fell to 1-6 in
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference with the
loss.

Earlier in the week, the team lost a double
header to Virginia Wesleyan 11-8 and 13-5. Junior
Bates Brown tied a record for doubles with his
ninth of the year against Virginia Wesleyan.

Also, since returning to the Generals lineup,
Duane Van Arsdale has rallied the team with a .385
batting avera e, A I

,ii.:.Also”‘ct5ntribiii'iiig‘for "the ‘team Was Tommy I
Esposito, who went 7-15 on the week to improve

his average to .324.
The next team on the slate for the Generals is
Emory and Henry at home on Saturday, March 26.

Men’s Lacrosse

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team
had a week off after a defeat at the hands of 5th-
ranked Gettysburg March 19.

The Generals faced the high-ranked foe at
Rockbridge County High School, but fell just short
of the powerhouse, 10-7. The Generals are cur-
rently ranked 13th in Division III.

Junior midfielder Scott Mackley was the high
scorer for the game, adding two goals and two
assists to the Generals’ effort.

Next up for the lacrosse team is a big Old
Dominion Athletic Conference match-up versus
eighth-ranked Roanoke, March 26.

Women’s Lacrosse

Women’s lacrosse at Washington and Lee suf-
fered a big conference let-down March 24, as the
Generals lost a close game, 21-11, to Lynchburg.

The women are now 1-3 for the season and 1-2
in the conference.

The Generals came from a 12-7 deficit with five
minutes left in the game and rallied to come within
one. However, Lynchburg stole the ball with seven
seconds left, preventing a tying goal by the Lady
Generals.

Senior Angie Carrington led the Generals with
five goals and two assists and Sarah Smith made 14
saves to keep Washington and Lee in the game until
the final seconds.

W&L faces Mary Washington at Liberty Hall
Field, March 26, in a non-conference game.

Track and Field

. Washington.-and ,1-.c5.<=. .h<2.s.t<id its tti,i,r.s1;.an_,n»al 5,, .
W&L Track ‘Invitational March 19, andboth the C’

men and the women had strong showings in the 12-
school field.

The men finished second with the help of four
individual champions. Sophomore Harris Morrison
set a meet record in the pole vault at l4’0”; sopho-
more Dax Mahoney also ran a meet-record time in
the 400-meter dash, 49.84.

Junior Grant Cowell ran an even two minutes in
the 800-meter run for the win and senior Scott
Covey was the 400-meter hurdle champion with a
time of 56.68.

The women were led to their fifth-place finish
in an extremely tough women’s field by sopho-
more Sandra Holmes, who broke two of her school
records.

Holmes placed second in the shot put, 37’2”,
and discus, 115’7”. Freshmen Hollis Leddy and
Erin Gnidziejko also set school records, Leddy
with a 200-meter dash of 27.84 seconds and a 400-
meter time of 1:02.35 and Gnidziejko with a 400-
meter hurdle time of 1:15.77.

The final school record for the Generals was the
4x400-meter relay team of senior Amy Brown,
junior Kim Herring and freshmen Leddy and Megan

Hovda, in a time of 4:22.1.

The Generals head to Mary Washington Col-
lege this weekend for the Battleground Relays,
March 26.

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The spring season at Washington and Lee has
been one of the strongest so far this year and the
women’s tennis team has paced the charge with a
13-0 mark.

The undefeated record has not come entirely at
the expense of pushovers either. The Generals
defeated second ranked Kenyon College to press
their case for one of the two at large team bids for
nationals from the South Region. Last year, the
Generals did not even win a match from Kenyon.

Sophomore Julie Ayers attributed the team’s
success to the experience gained last year.

“We didn’t graduate anyone. I guess we’re just
used to playing together,” Ayers said.

The match against Kenyon, last year’s Division
III national champions, saw the Generals get wins
from sophomores Kelly Sunderman and Julie Ayers,
junior Marilyn Baker and Anna O’Connor. Baker
and Ayers, and Kim Dickinson and Anna O’Connor
won in the doubles matches for a 6-3 win.

More recently, the Generals swept Guilford and
Mary Washington in back to back 9-0 contests. The
W&L squad faces a tough challenge this upcoming
weekend with back-to-back matches with ranked
teams in Emory(9) and Carleton(18).

Already the Generals have beaten three teams
they had never beaten before; Mary Washington,
Radford, and Kenyon. W&L has also never beaten
Emory either according to Ayers.

The team opened the fall season with the goal to
reach nationals as a team — something W&L has
not done in three years.

MARCH 25, 1994

I1’ ni third in nation

Now, with the recent success, some are think-
ing of expanding that target.

Junior Marilyn Baker has set a lofty goal.

“Our goal is definitely to get that brass ring for
winning nationals,” said Baker.

Coach Cinda Rankin agreed — partially. She
said that the team wanted to play “once we get
there to the best of our abilities.”

Rankin also said she thinks the team could have
gone to nationals last year.

‘‘I think we would have gone last year, but three
of the top six went abroad spring term,” said the
Generals’ head coach.

Rankin agreed that this upcoming weekend
was important.

“This is a big weekend because we play Emory
University, who is one of our rivals in the region,”
said the coach.

One factor that will be working in the Generals’
favor is the fact that the tournament has been
expanded from 12 to 14 teams this season. Each
of four regions receives two automatic bids and
the nation as a whole gets six at-large bids.

All agreed this was a special year for the team.
Ayers, after emphasizing that she did not want to
jinx the team by making predictions, said, “It’s a
really exciting year.”

Baker also was confident. She said Nationals
were within reach.

  

“I think it’s definitely an obtainable goal, but /,

it will take a lot of work, and we have to handle the
pressure,” she said.

The understatement of the season has to go to
coach Rankin however.

“We have a very good team, ” she said.

Yes, you do.

Heads up...

against Emory and Henry.

Sophomore Graig Fantuzzi pitches in the Generals’ loss. The Washington
and Lee baseball team is struggling to overcome a four-game losing streak,
and will have a good chance March 26 when they begin a double-header

File photo

No more NCAA forecasting for Steve

ﬁlth spurts

Enrol

... .-. ._. -4

 .,€1tl_e.11Cl.?1nC€; these may 110‘ for the Lakers to surge for a few Parting Shots—- Thank vou Chicago

~ . I . _ ' his will take up a lot of
 h  b -th 1 V t - 5‘°"S’l . . . . . ~
. We een e°n.Yf'“95 0 AWAY GAMES games, but 51111 fall_Sh0Fl0f1he space in the column, Wl‘llCh IS That skater girl from Portland White Sox, for mercifully  
?§f"diib"“?; Shovrfggwai BY STEPHEN WILLIARD Pl3Y0ffS- Next Year, lfthe Ullfefs always good. who beat up Nancy Kerrigan will sending Michael Jordan down
, 3? 6 ca 1 er '0 Cangrabsomepleyefsﬂhey mlghl In the National League, the just not go away. Now she is to the minors, all though he ..
S‘,eam' , h3Ve 3 Cl13T1Ce- Bravesshouldwin. Enough said. possibly going to skate profes- should probably have been   
ten$Sei":Ssaa;1i€I.lni\l7;’€r)f:te0Il1’ySv I simply refuse to make any First}; Jotllinson has tz sionally. cut entirely.
, a more NCAA predictions. The provet at e can coac Personally, I think To conclude the fun this ., .., ..
 lhmlgh the Women  Seem * ' basis for my new-found resolu- basketball, however. C é thatthatskater girl from week, andlknow this week’s  
In? §I:‘t’§)::f £8; tion comes from the fact that The other big news of Portland who beat up Phi (or whatever it is called -
' , , i _ my calls have been devastating the week came out ofthe - - - Nancy Kerrigan should for today) has provided
.year’»an allllaﬁlgg feat for the teams involved. National Football Well’ slnce:  Unlverslty of not appear in print any- plenty, I would like to thank   
S15. accofgp 13 eh‘ db ’ Well, since the University League. The league in- North Carohna [S no longer more. I’m just getting everyonewhobothers to read
Ports I I 3 mg 3’ an ‘ of North Carolina is no longer troducedthe rule changes tired of seeing her ev- this far in the paper each and

riding through the East Re- lmllmﬁﬁlf M7‘?

gion, that region is wide open

.9 en's lacrosse are action»
cked and worthwhile, as,
ell." “ V

for next year, and the
most evident change in-

riding through the East Region,
that region is wide open to any-

erywhere.
Now that the North

every week.
Your support (lack of

. .  _  -  one. I personally think that volved the introduction . Carolina Tarheels are somethingbettertodo)means   
 , If3g’“haYetgam:da‘.1y_g f0UF teams Will Win The diffel“ Oflhe ‘W0 P0lm C0nVef- t0 anyone. Ipersonally thlnk out of the tournament, a lot to me.
I 11%‘ Ommy Wen W11“ 1 ‘ d ' th ' f t . . . h 11y h A d f h
"l“mW .52 I l\..0Pc Y9‘? 9  ;Il]Y1ar1el§<lJ(llrl.S an Compnse C S10Th:ri1Lfl)e ::::0i1ntro- thatfour teams will wln the hnilycczﬁghaupsgnahlligi now trliatS)2lr:ihOli:sivntb(i/e:Cdi:)eii  mlllllﬁlnly 
take €Y.§dv1co_’aﬂd\}$I£pI:  I dog’; know who ’those duced in response to an dlfferent regions and com_ clttss work that they to better things, MY C01,-
po1't.t_e eserving . , _ . teams will be, and I don t care apparent scoring drought _ _ missed and watch the UMN GETS TO BE . if
in .And.maybe you . at this point. Let’s go, Duke! In the league last season prise the F mal Four. Duke Blue Devils play SHADED IN!!!!! 1IlllIll’B11°’JE5li Jill.’ lg
 Besides,this week, there are and in an effort to make 9 on national television. Editor ’snote—Putebase-
  ~  . .. other, more interesting topics the games more exciting. I don t know who those I know they will en- ballfans may be rather upset it “W
I ew hoursawayfrotne to discuss. Many team represen- teams  be, and I don ’t care joy that. about Michael Jordan ’s new mmlmml 5° ﬁll
_y1ng_and Q31‘ tying._cs~ -- Now that Magic Johnson is tatives Claimed that _the . . , I One of the other ma- sport, but evidently the ratio
rally during spring the new head coach ofthe Lak- rule will have no notice- at thls point. Let S g0, Dllkeo jor upsets in the tourna- of Michael Jordan fans to mwmm  
_ . ers, theteam from LAjust might able effect On the gameS- merit was the upset of pure baseballfans like Steve
_se asgthe Generals G311 . return from the depths of Hades Since the baseball sea- Kentucky by Marquette is very high; the team in v,',-.
everfhurt you(un1essy0t_1 . and move back into the NBA SOn Opens On April 4 (8 (whom Duke beat, by ginia to which Jordan has  §  
Fe Olle Of‘ 31055 5eni°r5‘—= Pla)’0ff race g°"d day l0 mark 0“ Your 03130‘ In the American League, it really the way). been relegated has already Q 1&1‘ 0

dars, by the way) and springtrain-
ing is winding down, thetime has
arrived to make pre—season pre-
dictions.

Plus, since Major League
Baseball expanded to three divi-

Then again, maybe not.

The Lakers need more than
just the Magic-Man to return
them to greatness. The National
Basketball season is too long to
ride on emotion alone. Look

What ever happened to that
wonderful Duke-Kentucky
matchup that was supposed to
materialize? And what line of
suits has signed UK coach Rick
Pitino to a sponsorship?

sold out its first month of
games.

(Reminder: This is not
even a good minor league
team and minor league teams
never sell out.)

doesn‘t matter who wins, since
they will be cannon fodder for
Atlanta in one of the shortest
World Series ever played. That
about covers the upcoming base-
ball season.

E g12 Gen. Ed. credits
t tisterin) and it could d_o.._a. v
rldiof good-to some .
elete’s failing ego. _, ’
j I will see you at the

. _ field, sports fans.

Qalﬂ Sliltljﬂllgtllt

Militias it 452-
hint

SPECIAL REPORT

Clhe iting-tum Iﬂhi

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA.

MARCH 30, 1994

°Woman reports rape

By Francesca Kefalas
Phi Executive Editor

A 21-year-old woman reported
she was raped in Graham-Lees Dor-
mitory Friday, police said.

Sgt. E.W. Straub of the Lexing-

,ton Police and Director of Washing-
ton and Lee Security Michael Young
have said the investigation is focus-
ing on a suspect who is not a student
at W&L.

“The focus is on one suspect at

rthis time,” Young said. “The focus is
leading us to a non—student."

Dean ofStudents David Howison
saidthe suspect was visitingthe cam-
pus and staying in the dorms over the
weekend. Young said he could not

‘confirm whether the suspect was a
prospective or the friend ofa student.
Young said the woman was in the
dorms selling magazine subscrip-
tions.The woman told police she was
invited into a room by the man who

"raped her.

Police said they received a call
reporting the rape from the Univer-
sity Center March 25 at 5:48 p.m.
The woman told police two women,
identified as W&L students, helped
the woman and called the police,
Young said.

The police came to the Univer-
sity Center to question the woman,
Young said.

& “When she was picked up at the

' [University] center she was very
shaken up,” Young said.

Young said after a police officer
comforted the woman she was taken

to Graham-Lees to try to identify the
room in which she was attacked.
Young met police and the woman
about 6 p.m., he said. Security and
the police have been working
together on the case since then,
Young said.

After looking inside Graham-
Lees the woman was taken to his
office and then to Stonewall Jackson
Hospital, Young said. After being
treated at the hospital, the woman
was taken back to the dormitory.

“We were looking basically for
the crime scene,” Young said.

Young said the investigation be-
gan broadly, looking throughout most
of Graham-Lees. The woman gave a
detailed description ofthe area ofthe
dorm and the room she was assaulted
in, he said.

“We were able to determine
where she had been and where she
hadn’t been,” Young said.

The investigation resumed on
Sunday, Young said, and focused on
the first floor of Graham-Lees. He
said 15 to 20 rooms were examined.

“The investigation took all week-
end,” Young said.

Young said security and police
think they have identified the crime
scene and have confiscated some
items that might serve as evidence.
He said Straub has talked with sev-
eral students about the incident, but
both police and security are focusing
on a non-student suspect.

The woman gave a detailed de-
scription of the man she said attacked
her, Young said. He said police have

not released the description of the
suspect because they do not want to
jeopardize the investigation. The
suspect is no longer in the state,
Young said, which complicates the
investigation. The suspect had not
been notified of the investigation as
ofTuesday at 4 p.m., Young said. He
said security and the police will
have to rely on help from police in
other states.

Straub said the woman, who is
not a Lexington resident, is no longer
in Lexington but is pursuing the case.

“She wishes to press charges as
soon as we arrest whoever is respon-
sible,” Straub said.

Straub said the woman examined
photos in an attempt to identify the
suspect. Young said the woman’s
description of her attacker has been
important in identifying the suspect.

Young and Straub both said they
do not know how long it will take
them to get more information. Young
said anyone who has information
about the assault should call secu-
rity at 463-8427 or the police at
463-2112.

“Our main focus is to make sure
[the woman] is taken care of and we
find this individual as soon as we
can,” Young said.

Editors Note.‘ The current policy of The
Ring-tum Phi when reporting rape cases is to
withold the names of both the accuser and the
accused until after the trial. If the accused is
found guilty the name will then be published.
In the above case neither name has been
released by the police or security. The Phi '5

policy is subject to change under each indi-
vidual editorial board.

The Ring-tum Phi, March 30, 1994

WBRC changes appr

By THOMAS HEsPos
Phi News Editor

The Executive Com-
mittee finished its first trip
through the White Book
Review Committees sug-
gested changes to the White
Book on Monday.

Some amendments
were agreed upon and
passed in two successive
meetings — these amend-
mentsareofficially ratified
and will be added to next
year’s version ofthe White
Book. Others must be ap-
proved at the EC’s next
meeting after the spring
break on Monday,April 18.

Major changes to the
White Book include:

°Changes to Paragraph
0 of the Procedure for an
Executive Committee
Hearing that allow for an
accused student to discuss
an honor situation with
family members or others
who can offer support.

Changes to Paragraph
F of the Procedure for a
Student Body Hearing that
increases the number of
guilty votes needed to con-
vict a student in an open
trial from eight to nine.

‘Changes to Paragraph
D of the Procedure for an
Executive Committee
Hearing that allow the ac-
cused to request disclosure
of the investigative team’s
report, so the accused can
enter  closed trial with a
better idea of why a par-
ticular witness has been
called by the EC. ‘

WBRC Chairman
Ames Hutton said the
changes to Paragraph 0

will allow the EC to use
discretion in punishing the
accused for breaches of
confidentiality. He said the
accused should be given the
right to discuss an honor
matter with people who
could offer advice or emo-
tional support, such as an
adviser or a parent.

“The accused could
possibly be scared by talk-
ing to parents,” said Hutton.

EC President Bob
Tompkins said the amend-
ment would, at the same
time, allow for the punish-
mentofanyoneinvolvedin
an honor trial who breaks
confidentiality in away that
harms the accuser, accused
or witnesses.

“There’s a lot of con-
cern on the part of some-
body who turns something
in that his name is not
dragged through the mud.”
said Tompkins.

The amendment to
Paragraph 0 was ap-
proved 13-0 after three
votes and minorchangesto
the language.

The EC approved
unanimously an amend-
ment that makes it tougher
for juries to convict an ac-
cused student in an open
trial. The number of guilty
votes required for convic-
tion was raised to nine
from eight.

Hutton said the amend-
ment would not change the
application of the honor
system drastically.

“There were concerns
that ‘why was it not unani-
mous?’” Hutton said.

Several EC members
agreed that conviction in

an open trial should not re-
quirea unanimous vote. EC
Law Rep. James Rambeau
saidthe change to the num-
berofguilty votes required
“would be beneficial to the
system as a whole.”

The EC also approved
a suggested
change to the
rules for disclo-
sure in a closed
hearing. WBRC
member Mike
Stakes said the
p r o p o s e d
change would
allow the inves-
tigators and ad-
vocates in-
volved in an
open trial to
clear away ex-
traneous infor-
mation. Such
inforrnation,ac-
cording to
Stakes, slows
down hearing
proceedings.
Hutton agreed.

“There is a lot of extra-
neous information that the
advocates try to get out,”
Hutton said.

The new amendment
allows the accused to re-
quest the report of the in-
vestigators which ex-
plains why individual wit-
nesses are being called to
the hearing. In this way,
the advocates representing
the accused can avoid irrel-
evant lines of questioning
and save time by “narrow-
ing issues ahead of time,"
said Stakes.

The EC approved this
amendment 11-2.

The EC also voted to

l . ’

oved

_;g_

“There’s a
lot of concern
on the part of
somebody who
turns some-
thing in thathis

name is not
d r a g g e d
through the

m ud, ”
Tompkins.

change the process of!
amending the White Book

by requiring a “quorum q
present” at two meetings at ;

least a week apart, rather .

than a vote ofthe “full com- ‘

mittee” to make changes to’_

the honor system. This also
met with
u n a n i m o u s
approval.

S€l'1l0f.'

EC Rep.
lock pro-
posed an
amendment
tonumberthe,
pages of the
White Book
in order to
make refer-
ences to the
White B0019
easier. The
motion was
approved
unanimously.

The EC
finalized alﬁ

said

stylistic and ~

grammar changes to the
White Book that were
tentatively approved in
previous meetings.
Tompkins said the EC

Kenney Bul- .

l‘

l .

11

will take up the controver- I

sial issue of the composi-
tion of the investigative
team on April 18, its first-
meeting after the under»
graduate Spring break.
Hutton said he also plan’
to submit a report anc
present “‘mt*.-Wliite Book"
concerns to the EC at
some point during Spring;
Term. The concerns deg, ._
with honor syste rn issu“
that are not codified in '
White Book, Hutton saiii

 

3a.w«?‘.'°‘l

 

‘K-1 “ I" 

' at
M ’ I‘ «"5  
 A T‘: 1‘ 

  

them: AR: No
nonm AMOLUPES

Gho

sts of ATS2 brothers aunt
train, hijack it to Sweet Briar

  

   
 

he ’4L’ting—t1Im Iﬂhi

VGLUME 93, NO. 666

 

FILLMORE AND NIXON UNIVERSITY

 

By SLIM FAST
' Phi Dietician

 
  
 

Warwick,

  

_ ‘ rﬂiracle diet, you’re wrong.

  
  
  
 
   

tghed over 250 pounds.

 
 
  
 
 

‘lk of.

 
     
    
 
 

t it works.”

 
  
 

If you think there is no such thing as the

Witness the amazing transforma-
n in Dean of Students David
-xwison. A short two years ago,
>wison was 10 pants sizes larger and

Now, he is the skinniest man we can

"lt‘s truly amazing,” Howison said.
went on a simple diet of mashed
:k bill, turnips and Spos’ back hair,
:1 I lost weight in dozens of pounds
I; r week. I don’t know how it works,

diowison discovered the weight loss

program while watching the Psychic
Channel on late night TV. Dionne

state, and she said ‘David Howison,
call in now!’ It was a religious experi-

cable
network’s
promoter,
personally
i n v i t e d
Howison to
try the diet
plan.

“ I t ’ s
amazing but
that Dionne

N» .

 

»%--.<...

is really a
psychic,”
Howison

said. “She sensed me watching the TV
in my miserable, slothful, 250 pound

Before

now she’s skinny too!”

Dr. Jane Horton, university physi-

ence. It said. “I like toadda little

turns out styling gel to the mix. It
D i o n n e makes the hair stick bet-
used to ter. It smells a little bet-
weigh over ter that way, too.”

5 0 0 The program works
p 0 u n d s , in three simple steps.
but thanks First, you send all your
to the Psy- money to the Psychic
c h i c Friends Network. See-
F r i e n d s ond, you collect some
and this mashed duck bill, some
a m a z i n g turnips, andagood-sized
weightloss handful of Spos’ back
program, hair. Third, you mix it

up and eat it.
“That’s what I love

cian, said the program really works
“Everyone should try it," Horton

best about this whole program,”
Howison said. “I can prepare every-

LEX VEGAS, VIRGINNY

thing right here in my

office.”

Even those with-
out drastic weight
problems like
Howison’s can ben-
efit from the diet.

Dean of Students
for Greek Affairs
Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins lost 20 pounds
in less than a day on
the miracle diet.

“I felt so good

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
  

 

 

Does anybody really look at the photo credits? Professor Smith?

Nhere’s reverse on this damn thing?

  

  
 
  
 
  

. Thomas A. “Baner” Bane, longtime veteran of the Washington and Lee Security force, in what could possibly be the biggest
bonehead maneuver of the year, backs into the Liberty Hall ruins and knocks down a good portion of the historical land-
mark. “My foot slipped off the clutch when I was dreaming of Nancy Pav1ovic’s sexy fingernails,” commented W&L’s favor-
ite security guard. And this guy complains because no one will let him have a 

about myself, I let all
the fraternities have
keg parties on

APRIL 1, 1994

Howison diet shrinks Waistlines

Wilson’s front lawn,” said Atkins.
“They messed up Howison’s bocci
field. That made me happy.”

Secretary to the Dean of Freshmen
Bonnie Walker lost 15 pounds in 15
minutes on the diet.

“Buddy and I even went to the.fra-
ternity party on Wilson’s front lawn,”
Walker said. “We each drank enough
to get huge beer guts and we LOST
weight! This is truly an amazing diet.
Excuse me.”

If you are interested in joining the
group of fortunate people who have '
discovered the program, just watch the '
Psychic Network late at night, prefer-
ably with a big bowl of “Cheetos.”

“They know who you are anyway,” ~
said Howison. 5

EC blows

gobs of $
on forks

By AMOS HASHBEY PIERCE III
Phi Future Congressman

 

By EM T. VEE
Phi Assistant Beekeeper

   

  

keeping pace with its new
popular game show, Channel 2 is
. adding another type of program-
ming appealing to students to-‘
day.

Music Videos will begin to
= sh w on Channel 2 tonight at

5:- p.m. "

Love Connection frontperson
. and producer Chris Albert will
- have his name all over this project
as well. .

“I’m very excited about this
wonderful project, it is so excit-
ing to produce all those great
groups, especially those fun
Southern Drunks,” said Albert.

Seven groups are kicking off
the first set of music videos with
eight great songs. W&L favor-
ites The Dave Matthew Marks
Ba9.d, lost & found in the super-
market, Big Hairy Possums;
Kappa Sigma favorite Too Much
of the Bandit Sole; and W&L

A

 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
   
 
 

   
  

  
 

singing groups Southern Drunks,
Cherries JubiLee, and General
Admission to Those Who Didn’t
Get into the Other Two Groups
will be performing one song each,
except Bandit Sole, who will per-
form two songs for the camera.

The Dave Matthew Marks
Band will be performing “Satel-
lite”, a song about a young girl
who wants a satellite of her very
own to see all the cable channels
available in Orlando, Florida.

“It’s really our favorite song
to play, although we don’t find it
as inspirational as most of our
completely brain—dead fans,” said
Marks about his song.

The Possums have found new
success lately, and are making it
much the way lost & found in the
supermarket did in 1991. They
have chosen to cover a song by
Divinyls, “I touch myself (when
I think of you).”

“It’s not one of our usual
songs, but we all like doing it,”
said lead Possum Trevor Norris.

W&L gets music station

Guitarist Joe Austin con-
curred.

“We do touch ourselves, not
usually while we’re performing,
but sometimes during practice.”

Too Much of the Bandit Sole,
a Kappa Sig regular, is doing two
in a row, beginning with their
original woeful, bluesy lament
“Why can’t we make it big?” this
is followed by another minute-
and-a-half song by the band,

. ‘‘We’ll play for fifty bucks,”

which really sounds like a cry for
help from a desperate prostitute.

Lost & found in the super-
market will go on the air with
their party favorite “Brickhouse”
by the Commodores.

“We like the song okay and
people scream for it every time
we play at W&L, so we thought
we’d do our fans and Kimberly
Peterson a favor and have it on
the t.v. all the time.” guitarist
Dave Klabo, ’89, said.

The three W&L a capella
groups round out the program

‘member Robert Eison said.

with some a capella music. South-
ern Drunks starts it off with the
Bee Gee’s hit song “More than a
Woman.”

“Everyone’s getting into the
70s nostalgia and we thought we
would, too,” Southern Drunk

Jesse Taylor, Southern Drunk
and song arranger, commented,
“It’s a good song for me to do
because sometimes I feel like
more than a woman.”

Cherries JubiLee will be de-
parting from their usual playlist
as well with an a capella version
of AC/DC’s “You shook me all
night long.” “lt’s a song most of
us like, maybe better than most-
of our other stuff,” said Jennifer
Ray of Cherries JubiLee.

General Admission for Those
Who Didn’t Get into the Other
Two Groups will begin their
video with a short rendition of
“Stairway to Heaven,” followed

bSee MTV, page 2

Fancy Dress has been can-
celled for next year.

The Executive Committee
Monday voted in favor of a plan
that would cut the Fancy Dress
budget and use 85 percent of the
money to buy plastic forks.

“If we used 85 percent of the
FD budget, we could buy enough
plastic forks to fill the Dining
Hall to a depth of nine feet,” said
EC Vice President Jimmy Kull.

EC Representatives Carol
Pierce and Alison Lewis asked
what the plastic forks could be
used for and were ignored by the
rest of the committee, but they
voted in favor of the plan any-
way.

EC Representative Alex Cross
whined that plastic fork tines
could poke his little eyes out and
voted in favor of plastic spoons.

Law School Representatives
Kevin Webb, James Rambeau

and Keith Benedictsaid they were '

concerned that the plastic forks
would not be made available to
law students. EC Grand Poobah
Robert “Studhorse” Tompkins
assured them that EC Pledge
Marcus Rayner would post signs
on the law school campus in-
forming law students about the
forks.

EC Secretary Ashby Hack-
ney was not present for the meet-
ing, but was spotted down the
block at Sweet Things eating
“Pop Rocks.”

EC Representative David
“Lumpy” Stewart drew little in-
terlocking circles on his copy of
the minutes and hummed the

Really Wacky Publicity Photo

theme from “Dragnet.”

Tompkins said the remaining 

15 percent, of the FD budget
would be used to buy concrete
lawn chickens for campus build-
ings and to purchase velvet Elvis
tapestries for every member of
the student body.

_ “Speaking for the entirety of
the student body, we were unsat-
isﬁed with the way the Fancy
Dress committee spent their
money this year,” said Tompkins.
“This is an appropriate method
of punishment.”

Michael Hewlett, Nicholas
Waddy, Niall MacKenzie, Nova
Clark, Ted Elliott, Ccttie Miles
and Professor of Journalism Brian
E. Richardson all immediately
wrote letters to TheRing-tum Phi
in protest.

After the meeting, the Publi-
cations Board announced it
would fund its own ball next year
with the $85,000 in advertising
revenue collected by Phi Busi-
ness Manager Kevin “G-Money”
Roddey over the past year.

The new ball, to be named
“The First Annual Hootenanny
Jamboree,” will have a redneck
theme, with bales of hay, a real
John Deere Tractor and a shrine
built in honor of Leigh Allen.

Students will have the oppor-
tunity to purchase memorabilia
from the event: commemorative
pouches of Red Man, jars of
moonshine and engraved silver
tire irons.

“I think it’s a wonderful thing
that Kevin was able to make so
much money for the school this
year,” said University President
John D.’ Wilson. “Now fetch me
some bourbon, Hespos.”

At Left: After
completing his
professional tour
with the Allman
Brothers last year,
Professor of
Journalism Brian
Richardson joined
up with the Jack-
son 5. Richardson
said this tour will
expand his musi-
cal horizons.
“Motown is my
new passion,” he
said. “They'll even;
let me wear my
studly brown
leather jacket that
everyone likes so
much.”

«y/2

 

 

PAGE ln(e) + 365°

 

The World, except
for Page Page,
Lesotho and parts
of New Zealand

Kerrigan guilty (guilty I say)

New evidence reveals that it was Nancy Kerrigan, and not
Tonya Harding, who arranged the attack on Kerrigan last January.
Authorities hauled a sobbing Kerrigan to jail Tuesday after learn-
ing that she and Harding’s ex-husband Jeff Gillooly (say it again...
Gilooly—Better than “Buttafuoco,” huh?) had conspired to get
Harding kicked off the U.S. Figure Skating team and thrown in jail.
Kerrigan, who has been carrying on an illicit affair with Gillooly,
said she was “sick of sharing the limelight with Tonya, and did not
want to risk my chances at the gold.” Although she lost the gold
medal anyway, Kerrigan has been enjoying the beneﬁts of playing
America’s injured sweetheart by signing lucrative deals with
Revlon, Campbell’s Soup, and Nike. Harding has been released
from her sentence of 300 hours of community service for impeding
the investigation into the affair. What does she plan to do with all
this time on her hands? “I’m going to Disneyland,” the vindicated
skater told reporters.

Penis-slicer strikes again

Lorena Bobbitt has suffered a mental relapse. Just weeks after
her release from a state mental institution, Mrs. Bobbitt (called
“The Emasculator” by her cell—mates) is being hospitalized again
after severing husband John Bobbitt’s penis a second time. Au-
thorities apprehended her after she attempted to sell the organ to a
pawn broker. “I guess I let her go too soon,” said the judge who
ordered her release. “She just wasn’t ready to face the real world.
All those men with penises out there were just too much temptation
for her.” John Bobbitt could not be reached for comment. Bobbitt
regained 75 percent use of his organ after he lost it the first time.
Doctors are operating to reattach his penis, but are not hopeful.
“We were lucky to save it the first time. After a trauma like that,
it was amazing he could use it at all. This time, he may be out of
luck.”

Rrrrrummmmmble!!!

The big one finally hit. Early Monday morning, California was
struck by an earthquake that registered 15.8 on the Richter scale.
After four minutes of being shaken by the most violent quake to
ever rock the earth, the Golden State fell off the left coast into the
Pacific Ocean. The accompanying roar was drowned out by the
deafening cheers of Califomia’s neighbors, who began a round-
the-clock celebration after the ocean swallowed the state.

Those durned hillbillies...

MTV announced it will _change its format from rock music
videos to country music. Replacing the popular “Week in Rock”
will be “Line Dancing with Dedra.” The game show “Lip Service”
will be replaced with “Name that No-Talent Blow-Dried Pretty
Boy Country Singer.” The change in format comes as a result of
financial losses the station has suffered from for the past year.
“Country music is the wave of the future,” said an MTV spokes-
person. “Rock just doesn’t have the same following.”

Smoke ’em if ya got ’em

Congress passed a law this week legalizing marijuana. Wash-
ington will see several changes due to this new legislation. Smok-
ing lounges in the Capital building will be equipped with bongs as
well as ash—trays. President Clinton announced that the Rose
Garden at the White House will be transformed into a marijuana
field that will supply Congress, White House aides, and any
foreign diplomats that may be visiting.

Nothing new here

A bunch of Shiite Muslims blew something up with a car bomb.

Help needed desperately

Hey, you! Yeah, you. I have been imprisoned by the staff of T he
Ring—tum Phi. They’ve been forcing me to write these inane
“Beyond the Blue Ridge” things for about four months now. I’M
GOING NUTS!!! Get me out of here! !! Do you have any idea how
painful it is to type “Gi1loo1y” 400 times? No, I don’t think so.
Hurry! Rescue me! Be careful, though. Kefalas has a 12-gauge.

Blatant sensationalism

A polar bear was infected by the AIDS virus when he hit a
disgruntled postal worker in Waco, Texas who was involved in the
Whitewater affair. Surprisingly, we only wrote a 4—line news brief
about the whole thing.

Notice to little kids in all areas
of the United States of’America

There is no Santa Claus. The Easter Bunny is a fake as well. So
is the Tooth Fairy. We’re sorry, but it’s our duty as journalists to
expose the truth,because lies are harmful, although sometimes
morally obligatory. We know because Professor Hodges told us so
in ethics class.

Over Yonder is compiled by My Delta Queen

By NESTLE OUIK
Phi tradition specialist

Plans for the Sorority Renaissance
renovation of Lee Chapel have received
the approval of the Board of Trustees,
and construction will begin within the
next month.

Construction will continue over the
summer, and the chapel should be fully
converted for use by next September
for a school-opening bash sponsored
by the Pan Hellenic Council. The cost
isjust under $500,000 with some labor
to be provided by the sororities them-
selves.

“Our first project is moving all the
Lee memorabilia out ofthe basement,”
said Captain Robert Peniston, Director
of Lee Chapel.

“We’ll store it in President Wilson’s
garage until the new Lee Chapel space
is ready.” _

Under a plan developed by Dean of
Students David Howison, several of
the loft suites in Gaines Hall will be
converted for the current uses of Lee
Chapel, and the recumbent statue of
Robert E. Lee will move there as well.
Howison added, though, that perma-
nent Lee Chapel housing is still a pos-
sibility for the future.

The four sororities will share the
chapel and maintain it through help
from their house corporations. The
basement will have an individual room
for each sorority, cooking facilities,
several guest suites, and a Pan Hellenic
Lounge forpromotingunity among the
sororities.

The main chapel will be used for
chapter meetings in its current state,
but transportable benches and a roll out
ﬂoor covering will let it be easily trans-
fonned into a party room, with floor.
drains and washable paint for the walls
among the additions.

The diamond window panes will be
replaced with shatter-proof glass, and
each sorority has one window for
stained glass. In addition, each sorority

The Rin -tum Phi E
Lee spins in chapel tomb

oo un withaside ordero Chinese ve etables A rill 1994

  

 

Photo by Nikon Nikon, The Ring-[um P/ii

Robert E. Lee’s recumbent statue begins to rotate near the Confederate ﬂags that sur-

round his tomb. Sororities re-decorating the Chapel took little notice.

may hang its flag.

“We had some trouble getting the
prime window,” said Chi Omega Presi-
dent Stacey Colfrey. “But we traded
our flag slot with Theta, so I think
we’ve worked everything out.”

The organ will be removed to put in
a bar, and additional light and sound
equipment will be able to accommo-
date bands for sorority functions. With
the closing of the Boiler Room, many
see the Chapel as a good replacement.

Other additions include bathrooms
near the front door, additional sound-
proofing , and aluminum can collec-
tion facilities for recycling.

After initial debate regarding the
color scheme of the main room, the
sororities chose to keep the traditional

decor.

“It seemed fairest to everyone if we
left the room neutral,” said Pi Beta Phi
Vice President of Atmosphere. “All
the different colors really clashed.”

The Jefferson florist-is currently .
reviewing its suppliers of pansies and
Carnations, while W&L Dining_Ser-
vices is meeting with each sorority to
discuss catering luncheons, banquets.
and chapter functions.

The trustees’ nearly unanimous ap-
proval at the recent meeting reflects
their interest in Greek options for
women at W&L.

As the only dissenter was carried
out of the room in a fit of anger, one
trustee commented, “I think he’ll grow
to like the idea once he gets used to it.

b .

We’re all behind this plan l()0 per-
cent."

According to Director’ of Public
Relations Brian Shaw, support has been
strong for the plan after relatively little
initial resistance. G

President Wilson admitted that
while a Renaissance of Lee Chapel was
not among his initial ideas in his plans
for admitting women to W&L or for
Fraternity Renaissance, he does like
the natural progression the two have
taken. to

“I love the idea, frankly," said Wil—,
son. “It seems the most natural course
to take, and isjust  likely a better use 3
of the space."

  

  
  
  
   
  

“K

  
  

 

   

. ._.;., 

anything there, anyway?

1 Kegs in

By BUD -DRAFT
Phi Lush

Gaines Hall will soon be the social
hot spot.

Washington and Lee administration

has decided to encourage kegs parties
in Gaines to make it more of a party
place.

“We’re going to but kegs for stu-
dents’ tuition money,” said University
President John D. Wilson.

_ Any parents worried that the money
they are shelling out is going to alcohol
should rest assured.

“Alcohol is good for you,” said
University Physician David Copeland.
“it can even improve academic perfor-
mance!”

These findings started Dean of

Freshmen and Residence Life Dennis »

Manning‘s Kegs in Gaines Project
(KIGP).

There are four divisions of hte
project:

1. Academic Division (Keg’s for
A’s): Rooms in Gaines will be set aside
for alcohol and academics. Included
will be the Screwdrivers and Sociol-
ogy Room. Kegs for Calculus Suite,
and the Absolut Accounting Area.

2. Social Division: Basically, stu-
dents can come to Gaines every night
to party. No road cheese admitted.

3. Practical Knowledge Division:
This division of KIGP will teach stu-

Journalism Department rockers John Jennings
for their first world tour. The profs have decide
midlife crises: to tour in a rock ’n’. roll band. Unfo
country. However, the group has pro
colleagues because of a conﬂict withi

Crazed fans mobbed the quartet at their recent tour-

:a

Smokin’. in that little boy’s room on the

, Ronald McDonald, Hampden Smith, and Robert DeMaria prepar
d to take a year-long sabbatical to pursue the dream of their

rtlmately, MTV won’t carry their videos because they’ve gone
ved to be a big hit in Japan. Professor Brian Richardson couldn’t join his
n the Jackson family during the 5 reunion tour.
opening performance in the Pavilion. But who can hear

Gaines!

dents how to best consume their alco-
hol and garner a higher tolerance level.
Classes include Shots for Students 201
(prerequisite: Studies in throwing Up
101) taught by Manning; Beer Games
161 taught by Wilson; and Funneling
for Fun 322, taught by W&L Director
of Security Mike Young. These classes
satidfy W&L’s general drinking edu-
cation requirements;

4. Hooking Up Division: enough
said.

The administration will be launch-
ing a huge public relations project to
get students more interested in KIGP.

Some KIGP merchandise that will
be sold soon:

1. Eau de Puke ($101.99). Sold at
Fine» Stores That Specialize In This
Type» of Stuff.

2. Gaines Shot Glasses ($178.89)

3. H ow to Improve Your GRE scores
by Drinking More. ($99).

Some students involved in the orga-
nizing of KIGP were worried that the
prices of the products were too high.

“W&Lstudents have lots of money.
Let’s drain them of all they’re worth,”
said Wilson.

Students interested in being in the
KIGP Student Commitee should pick
up applications in the University Cen-
ter. Requirements include a love of
alcohol and a high tolerance level.

“We are truly excited about this,”
said Manning.

  

fol”

 

CLARK

FOR WROIIGLY
ACCUSIIIG DOGS
OF BAD
BEHAVIOR.
CHASING MAIL
TRUCKS AND
JUST PLAIN
PUBLIC ANNOY-
ANCE

REWARD

LS5 DEAD

'2..$1O ALIVE

3.$l5' ALIVE
WITH YELLOW
CHALK III HAND

second ﬂoor of Reid I

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
 
 
  
 
  
     

   
  
    
  
  
  
 
  

W&LtvT
debuts 1
today.

from MTV, page 1

 
 

  

  

by a skit on the revisions the Wh
Book Review Committee should ma‘
to the White Book. '

“Stairway’s such a great song, Ijl
wishes I could sing it all the time.”s '
soloist S. R. Evans. “The skit’s,
makin’ the students who’re watch
the t.v. think about the Honor Syst
s’more.” 3

“Everyone here at Channel 2 is v q
excited about this wonderful ﬁoje
we can’t wait to see everyone’-s re ‘
tion,” said Albert.

Some upcoming acts for fut
shows include songs by administrat
and faculty and even some stude
They include: President Wilson w
"Take This Job and Shove It" bgDa
Allen Coe; Dean Atkins with a siirpr
Lemonheads song, “My Drug Budd
Dean Howison with Warren Zevo
“Excitable Boyg" Dr. James Worth Sir
ing "Feelings;“ Bob Tompkins w
Cream hit “Politician;” and some me
bers of Beta Theta Pi fraternity sing
Bob Dylan‘s "Subterranean Homes
Blues."

  
 
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
  
   
   

   
    
 
   

  
  
  
   
  

     

  
 
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
    
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
    
   
   
   
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
    
  
    

By BAKED FINN
“I didn't inhale”

The old South has ﬁnally won Lenfest, and
he Stars and Bars will fly proudly across the
tagﬁ
The Lenfest Center for the Performing Arts
ill proudly host the student-produced Gone
. ith the Breeze, starring Helen O’Necker as
carlett and Hohn Mikado as Rhett Butler.

The production features a full scale repre-
entation of the Tara bathroom, in which Scarlett
poﬁedly performs most of her soliloquies.

The director, Professor Hake Holden Seller,
aid although the cast and crew have never fully
n through the script, they expect the perfor-
ance to last no more than 10 hours.

“You could watch North and South, or you
ould come watch Lenfest burn to the ground in
eewment of the Atlanta project,” Seller said.

e play is expected to draw a large crowd.
“We’ve designed contemporary costumes
And sets to make it look like the South never lost
5 e war,” said co-costume designer Pat Roberts
f Frederick’s of Hollywood.

Roberts’ partner in costume design is Boy
. eor e, of Victoria’s Secret Boutique in
’oa ke. George said (s)he designed the cos-
umes for Scarlett while Roberts focused more
n Rhett’s apparel.

“I ’m not specialized in creating men’swear,”
xeorge said.

Set designer Bob Villa picked up on the
ontemporary theme and designed Tara as a
ubdﬁision of the Woods Creek Apartments.
‘resident John Wilson said he was pleased with
illa’s work.

“We’re going to ask him to submit a bid for
t e building of the new science center,” Wilson
aid. “If it turns out as well as that set, we’ll
inally be able to attract all of those real pre-

ed Qtudents.”

Villa said his crew had some difficulties in
eveloping the set.

“We couldn’t get the stucco to stick to the
hain-link, and the potted palm trees got stuck
-- the stage-left door,” Villa said.

The lighting for the production is expected
beiather traditional.

“We’ll be using candles and oil lamps in
ost of the first acts, though we might finally
e able to track the leads with a maglite,” said
‘ghting director Tommy Edisun. I.M. Bryte,
ssistant director, said he hoped he would get to
.old the maglite.

Owecker said she is excited to have such an
portant part in the play. '

“I’ve always wanted to play a prima donna,”
* c said. “Now that I ’ve got my chance. I ’m not
, re what I want to do with it.”

O’Necker said she studied for the role by
atching old movies about the South. She said
atcing the Kappas was particularly helpful
1 establishing a character type for Scarlett.

Mikado, as Rhett Butler, will have a small

Breeze fres

role in the revised performance.

“Frankly, my dear, I don’t give a banana,”
he said. Mikado said he was honored to have
been chosen to work with O’Necker and Pro-
fessor Huntley’s dog, Ollie. Ollie, who has
more speakingiparts than Mikado, plays Ralph,
barnyard dog and Atlatmrnongrsl-.. . _ .

Seller has never directed aW& , ‘pro_ducti'on_,
before. He said hefelt preparedfor‘ this under- ‘
taking though. ' _

“I’m very familiar with the culture of the
South,” he said. “You may not know this, but
I’m the one who set up the lynching scene
in Sommersby.”

Above and above right: Some of the costumes designed by Frederick’s A
of Hollywood designer Pat Roberts. These costumes will be

Worn by the minor actresses in the play.

Seller said he hoped the play would bring to

a head many of the geographical tensions in the

student body.

sublimated.

  
  
   
  
  
 
   
    
   
  
   
   
    
  
    
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
   

Q By L. I. Veisoo Ol
Phi Cool Person Who Should Write For Us More

Lexington must have some sort of charm because it’s
‘out to become the home of yet another feature ﬁlm.

This movie, under the direction of ex - MASH star Alan
da, will be entitled Bubba Get Your Gun: The Musical.
ris ' based on the best-selling novel by John Grisham
Theyudge and Jury.” Unbelievably enough, the viewing
blic will be able to see yet another untimely beating of the
v aker Oats spokesman Wilford Brimley.

The town of Lexington is very happy to see this movie
me to its door not only because of the fame it brings, but
cause approximately 100 VMI cadets will be employed.
. ouﬁtwo days ago most of the cast began arriving in town.
fortunately, the first day of rehearsal was not without its
are of problems. The lead actor, while attempting a
ouette, sprained his ankle and was rushed to Stonewall

kson Hospital. The university was also shocked to hear
a t while he was trying to catch his balance he tore several

the relic ﬂags hanging in Lee Chapel. The problems
nti, ed that day. One of the supporting actresses, upon
ing one of the VMI cadet’s haircuts, fell madly in love
th him. She then threatened to run away with him unless
e was given her own room in Graham Lees that she could
are with her new miltary love.

. Because of the unsual mixture of the military and the

  
 

   

 

 

bove: One of the dance instructors explains the arm movements to an extra before
the ﬁlming of a scene in Bubba Get Your Gun: The Musical, directed by Alan Alda.

ight: Extras mill around after reciving guns from the head prop person. They later
acted in the scene where Washington Hall is stormed and looted.

   
   

Publicity Photo

song and dance genres, rehearsals have been extensive.
Dirk Snyder, who plays Lonnie in the movie, said, “The
toughest part of the rehearsals is learning how to shoot my
gun and dance at the same time. They tell me that later on
we might have to sing too. That stinks.” Thankfully
enough, morale is much better for the other players in the
movie. Hella Brass, who plays Pat, talks about the town. “I
like to spend time here in Lexington. It’s so nice. My
favorite place to hang out is Sharks. The people there
are great!”

The plot of the movie will make the viewer laugh and cry
and even say, “This is the best movie I’ve seen since The
Karate Kid 2. The tough but sensitive soldier Lonnie falls
in love with Pat, a six foot tall, two-hundred pound ofﬁcer’s
wife. Needless to say, their love is forbidden until they
destroy the dangerous posse of fired faculty members from
a local community college. In the meantime, Pat and
Lonnie’s antics keep the crowd rolling in laughter and
wanting more. V

The cast and crew will be in town for about a month.
During this time they will be asking the students of VMI and
W&L not to mind the dancing men in camouﬂage and to
bear with some of the inconveniences. On March 30, lunch
will not be served in Evan’s Dining Hall because ascene will
be ﬁlmed there. This is a crucial scene in the movie where
Lonnie and Pat come together to finally confront the evil
posse. Not only is there food involved, but...well, maybe
you should just see the movie.

  

“We’re going to prove once and for all that
it’s easier to get into a bar without a fake I.D. in
Atlanta than in New York,” he said. “We’re
also going to raise the level of consciousness,
aboutthe-dangers of»long',,c_arpe,t_ed stairways."-
' Seller said he ‘though the true meaning be-
hind the original Gone with the Wind had been

“People think it’s supposed to be some kind
of a statement about gender relationships,” he
said. “Well, I would tell them that if that’s all

I i E PAGE um, uh, oh well. It’s not important

1‘ Lenfest Sig

y

Publicity Phoms and St. Elmo ’s Fire.

Breeze Saga: Rhett.

role of Rhett, however.

“I don’t want to be type—cast into that kind of
a role. I think I’d like to play Scarlett this time,”

Mikado said.

the pitfalls of type-casting.

good Rhett,” O’Necker said.

Gone With the Breeze will be performed
Sunday in Lenfest. Tickets are available from
the Box Office from the Dining Services, and
can be purchased with University Cards.

he singing troops descend oBi g movie filming

 

Above and top right: some of the

costumes for Rhett Butler.
they get out of it, they should go and see Dean
Schroer—Lamont. Everything, and I do mean
everything, in this play has meaning. Certainly,
for this performance we’ve changed the tradi-
tional love triangle so that we could have Nancy
Parakeet play Ashley, and we’ve located Tara
in Houston. There’s no reason to think that this
is any less a statement about the American

Conﬂict than Predator was about Vietnam."
The performance will be one of a series of
Lenfest exposes on the flammability of south-
em homes. Other performances in the series
include Backdraft, Carrie, Towering Inferno,

Next month, the Lenfest Foundation tropes
to host their own sequel to the Gone with the

Mikado said he would not audition for the

O’Neckersaid she agreed with Mikado about

‘‘I’m still going to try out for Scarletfs part
though, because I don’ think I’d make a‘ very ‘

 

9

    
 

blicity Photos

A This is one of Scarett’s costumes
designed by Boy George.

.;:n..»»_

Pulicrty Photo

In The Columns on March 21, 1944, Washington and
Lee University held a drink-off to raise money for the
war effort this past weekend. As students had previously
demonstrated no interest in planting a victory garden or
purchasing bonds, the students came up with this plan,
along with the faculty and administration to help con«
tribute to our boys oversees. The rules for the contest
stated that you must have raised at least fifteen dollars in
pledges to be eligible for the 20 keg fund raising drive.
The sophomore class recorded the greatest amount of
pledges, with over $400 raised. The senior class, sight-
ing cirrhosis of the liver as the reason, came in last, with
a mere $45. At the end of the day, all'20 kegs were
finished, as was the student body, and over $1000 was
raised for the war effort. President Roosevelt called in
his personal thanks and support later in the week.

The Ring-tum Phi, on March 22, 1969, reported a
protest to the rampant sexism faced by males on the
W&L campus by girls from the various road schools, the
campus men rallied and burned their jock straps in
protest. Though the fumes produced by the inferno
killed a migrating flock of geese, the general tone of the
rally was positive. “We merely want the girls to know
how we feel about the cheap way in which we are treated.
Men have feelings, too. We are not just sex objects,”
stated an unidentified junior. When asked to comment,
representatives from Sweet Briar, Randolph-Macon,
Hollins, and Mary Baldwin had a common response.
“They ask for it. When our girls come up for the
gatherings on weekends, they are met by scantilly clad
lushes. What are they supposed to do? Deny their
progesterone.” The rally was attended by over'4()0 men,
ranging in cup sizes from small to medium-large.

For the W&L Record

‘into the Sigma Nu yard. Two Phi Delt sophomores

Compiled by RAY BLACK of the Phi Staff

In the Phi on March 22, 1984, it was reported that the
members of the Sigma Nu fraternity had decided not to
take any further action through the, University against
the Phi Delta Theta fraternity for a recent incident.

On March 3rd, an artillery round simulator was
thrown from the Phi Delt house, across Henry Street, and

admitted to being responsible for the act. Sigma Nu
decided to seek retribution. They made a road trip to a
Texas gun show, purchased large amounts ammo and
numerous ﬁrearms before returning to Lexington. From
a position on the Sigma Nu roof, they laid down an
impressive barrage, pinning several Phi Delts in the
house. A special team of Sigma Nu commandos, lead by
“Stormin' Norman” Wolff, was able to penetrate the Phi
Delt house and capture the Santa Ciaus displayed by the
Phi Delts every year.

On March 22, 1990, the Phi covered W&L’s 200th
annual Gay Rights March. It took place this past Satur-
day and began at. the Lenfest Center ending some 10
miles away in Buena Vista. Supporters who marched
donned a simply stunning array of the latest fashions.
You could havejust died. The leaders of the march, all
wearing the latest from J. Crew and Liz Claiborne
pranced to the music of show tunes as they proceeded
down Nelson Street. At the finish line in Buena Vista,
the marchers were met by hundreds of adoring support-
ers. Peanutbutter and M&M sandwiches and spring
water (withjust a hint oflime) were offered to those who
were a bit hungry. The effort inspired national attention
when Radio Commentator Howard Stern called the
W&L campus, “The damndest.bunch of liberals I’ve
ever seen.”

  

 
 

  

PAGE 4 of 10

Ring

By AMY FISHER
Phi Psyeo Slut

  

3|-lpﬂllil

Financial problems plague you this week. First you will
accidentally put your meal card in the Crestar machine.
When you reach for the cash, you will find only Letitia Pate
Evans.Dining Hall Taco Bar rejects in the slot. Later, you
will put your bank card in a Pepsi machine. It will automati-
cally withdraw $73.42 for your can of Dr. Pepper. The soda
will be ﬂat. Aries, you never learn. Further problems ensue
when your parents ﬁgure out that those impressive book-
store bills were not for a graphic design program, but rather
for your own copy of The Beavis and Butthead Experience.
To put it bluntly, it sucks to be you. Maybe next week you
can get a job selling chili dogs at Stop-In. Lucky color:
Burnt sienna.

 

You will be awakened Friday at 4:20 a.m. by a spasm in
your left foot. You will go back to sleep, then wake up when
your alarm goes off at 9:00. The radio will be playing Tevin
Campbell. The hot water in the shower will run out just as
you are about to turn it off. You will swear and stub your big
toe on your left foot (Do you sense a left foot theme,
Taurus?) You will dress in khaki pants and a blue button
down shirt. Professor Hughes will return your politics test.
Surprise, surprise; you got a D. At lunch you will put too
much dressing on your salad, but you will sit next to the
person you wish you had gone to FD with. He or she seems
to be interested, so you will make plans to hook up —— I mean,
meet at a party later. Your afternoon will be eventful by
Lexington standards. In other words, you will get mail other
than the weekly hello note from Colombia House. The
selection of the month will not be worth ordering, but you
will keep forgetting to send the card back. At the promised
party, you and your love interest will exchange smoldering
glances over cans of Natural Light. After seeming to disap-
pear together for a few hours, the two of you will share 19
minutes of awkward silence. The person that you had
thought was so good looking will seem startlingly average
all of a sudden. He or she will awkwardly punch you on the
shoulder and say, “See you around,” and you will try to say
something funny that will .bori'ib terr’_i_bly,,Ip an aném}: to ‘ge‘t“i»

away, Ms Average will step on your left fool. Thai nightiyou 7'

will have terrifying nightmares about little corris. Lucky
color: Chartreuse.

 

You’ll probably get up or something, then go to class.
Your professor will talk for a while, then he’ll stop. Some
other stuff will happen, then you will go to sleep. Lucky
color: Clear.

 

Your best friend Donna will inform you that she is
bulimic, but don’t despair. She will be fine in an hour. Your
other best friend Kelly is happy to tell you that she has
kicked her addiction to diet pills. To celebrate, the three of
you will visit your fraternal twin brother Brandon at The
Peach Pit. Donna will eat 19 pieces of banana cream pie
before vanishing into the bathroom. You, Donna, and Kelly
will hit the mall to buy black lycra dresses. Between The
Gap and Express, you will learn a valuable lesson about
domestic violence. Evening brings a night of fun with your
platonic male friend David, who has been wearing the same
hat for six months. You will talk about music, then learn a
valuable lesson about impoverished children. You top off
the evening with a glass of milk. Lucky color:
Champagne blonde.

 

Q

Friday brings another fun night in Lexington. You will
have good intentions to spend the evening writing the seven
papers due Monday (last week), perhaps hoping to meet
someone nice on the fourth ﬂoor. Disaster occurs when a
friend, err acquaintance, err classmate, err total stranger
mentions offhand that “everyone” is going to The Palms.
You need little convincing to blow off all your work. Your
books are cheerfully tossed to the wind. You will meet a tall

‘dark'"s‘tra‘i'iger while you work your way through the alpha-‘ I
betical list of drinks on the menu. As the two,of,y.0lL_stumble ,,
ypmtenwtsthe

-

to “my place oi‘ yours” one of the friendl

plans. Lucky color: Mango.

  

- Apartments for Rent
to W&L students. 2 Two

Catering
bedroom apartments for rent

  
 

in

W&LlFE

tumPhi or

Lexington Police Department causes an abrupt change in 

Alvin-Dennis, Inc.
102 W. Washington St.

Get Ready For

9 l l . ‘
Ethan s really cool paper, The Rmg-tum Phi, April 1,1994

  

31%....

A chance meeting with an attractive Pisces proves to be
meaningless. Those who doubted you will continue to do
just that. All of the organizational problems you had when
Jupiter was in your stars will not improve. If you refuse to
give up your relentless search for a soul mate, it will make
absolutely no difference in your life. A search for creative
outlets proves fruitless. The lost item in your house will
remain lost. An Aquarius wearing blue with the letters S, T,
and J in his name will mean nothing to you. Your financial
situation will remain stagnant. No interesting long distance
phone calls will bring news. Your professional life will
remain unchanged. What begins as a dull day will turn into
a dull night. Lucky color: Beige.

 

Libras are known for their logic. Hence, you know very
well that horoscopes are nothing but meaningless drivel.
What are the chances that everyone with birthdays between
September 23 and October 22 will have the exact things
happen to them? Get real. The people who writehoroscopes
don’t believe them either; they are just trying to rip you off.
Just in case you feel a little gullible today, here is some
advice:

Don’t eat a sandwich from a gas station, and if someone
is going to take a picture of you eating some food, just hold
it next to your face and smile. Don’t actually eat it. Lucky
color: Raw Umber.

 

Your old ﬂame will call to tell you what a meaningless‘

sham life has become without you. A phone call to your
mother reveals that people who were mean to you in high
school have been sent to prison. You will find a twenty
dollar bill in the pocket of your jeans. The test you didn’t
study for is canceled. Your professor tells you that he thinks
you are an unappreciated genius. Paul McCartney asks you
to join him and the guys for the Beatles reunion. You are
visitedby the Publisher’s Clearinghouse Prize Patrol in
spiterloftthcv fact that you never 3 sent back the card. A
‘"'gorg‘e'bus“s‘l‘r?inger whisks you off to‘Mad_rid for the ultimate
cup of cafe eon leche. Best of all, it’s a good hair day. Lucky
Color: Red-Orange.

 

  
 

oscopc, just for got:

3 GONG OUT OF

downtown Lexington, just a very
short walk from the W&L campus.
$300 per month one unit; $375 per

Spring Break!

month larger unit.
—Great Location

——Landlord pays for water,

including hot water

If interested, please call property
manager, Mrs. Brown, daytime

463-3013; at night or weekends,

(703) 984-9402

Bad Company -

 

Stonewall Square Shopping Center
Lexlngton,V
463-9800

News MI;&.S§@§Q1:" thi.  Week.

-Knit Shirts
-Swim Suits

Visa MC

  

Ll

Dangerous Age

Cell - Living Room

Motley Crue - Self Titled
Sammy Hagar - Unboxed

Muddy Waters -

Howlin’ Wolf - Ain’t

33

One More Mile
Gonna be Your Dog

and many more!

(eaj jssj jejt-tej js)

@§_ii’1‘s:eﬂ

Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. 10a.m.-ll p.m.,

Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

F‘
4

 

-Duckhead Shorts —Ray

Winter Clearance Still In Progress

z?’*

44 4‘$’$’9'~V-33'-19907-¥~¥~¥

 

 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

uvu:nlIoI'I3- ,
lhccmlnrll ‘

By 9:00 Friday morning you will be wondering why you
even got out of bed. Your roommate will have used the last
of the coffee and toilet paper. Something you wear will.rip.
All of your nails will break. Your car will be stolen. You will '
fail three tests. Eighth graders with Mace will mug you and
take all of your money. Tonya Harding will beat your knee
with a collapsible metal baton while screaming, “Gilooly!” _
at the top of her lungs. And that’sjust in the morning. Lucky
color: Carnation Pink.

  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
   
   
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   

If I told you, it wouldn’t be a surprise now would it?
Lucky Color: You’ll see.

A quiet, but insistent voice in the back of your ea
convinces you to make some changes in your life. Yo
renounce all material goods and donate them to a worth
charity, such as The Ring-Tum Phi Olympic Bocci team.
The voice further urges you to shave your head, which yo
do by merely asking any barber in Lexington for a haircut
The voice prods you to sit lotus style in the middle of th
tennis courts to become more in touch with fuzzy yello
balls. The voice then convinces you to move to yoursp 'tua
homeland, Tibet. As you are happily chanting and fastin
you realize that your actions were not prompted by a littl
voice at all, but by leaving your stereo on. Lucky Color
Buddhist Monk Robe Orange. '

Focus on business. Invest in high-risk stocks and sevam
land in Florida. If it seems too good to be true, take it. If yo
are warned aboui it-by the Better Business Bureau, igno
them. Ask crack addicts to hold onto large amounts of cas

' and or credit cards for you. Sell high and buy low. Woul '
steer you wrong? Lucky-oolor: Money Green.

      
   
  
   
 
  
   

‘/

BUSINESS

SALE

Bans
-Sport Shirts
.-Sperry Cro Shoes

Student Charge

463-5383

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFTS SUPPLIES

Everything Marked Down

Trains, Games, Models, Beads, Basket Making Suppliés,
Doll Parts. Much More In Craft and Hobby Supplies.

31 S. Main St.,

 
 
   
   
    
 
 
 
  
      
  

25%

Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5

Lexington 463-3355 .
// /

~ 4-13

 

Earn $2,000+ per month + world
travel (Hawaii, Mexico, the
Caribbean, etc.) working for
Cruise Ships or Tour Companies.

Holiday, Summer, and Full-Time

employment available. For
employment program call:

Cruise Employment Services
(206) 634-0468 ext.C5342

Within walking distance

I Call after 5 p.m. 261-6478

  

edroom house for rent.

 
 

from campus.

 

aaagaaeaea
Lexington {I

Shop for

Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,
Clothing, and

Accessories

W.

“P90

*3’ Hours: 10 - 5:3
2} Mon. - Sat.
,3, 23 N. Main St.
,3, 463-5988

aaaeaaaaae

O’
O

i£r~A'7fr7“4*‘i9z*;¢ri5ri5i'7k*ﬁr*:Hl**;¢ri9i'73i*i9x'i¢r

K

  Poin

Restaurant plus light lounge menu
p Open 4'p.m. until closing

$2 off any pasta dinner with

Route 60 W. in front of Days Inn

  

   

The
t of View

Restaurant

 
    

9

student I.D.

  

463-7797

  

  

    

PAGE V

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂliill

The Beating Pulse of Washingtonand bee
Founded September 18, 1492

Bogus
Bocci
Tournamen

It has happened again.

The government has tried to flex its puny muscles in an
effort to bully the people. Yes, the Executive Committee is
up to some more shady tactics. After not bothering to show
up for their first round Bocci match, they forced their
peurile way back into the tournament by threatening to sue
the university. Surely there are laws against this type of
calumny. If only someone would bother to read the student
body constitution!

Bocci Commissioner David Howison allowed EC Czar
Bob Tompkins to push his way back into the tournament.
Why? Who knows, but we think the diet is warping his
feeble mind.

But diet or no, we cannot overlook Howison’s failure as
Bocci Comissioner. And because of that, (and a few more
reasons that we will reveal momentarily) we must sue this
university.

It is clear that the Phi Olympic calibre Bocci team was
treated unfairly. After Round One of the Bocci tournament
the Phi team was clearly the first place team. We won our
first round match by 19 points, the largest margin of victory
in the tournament. We should have been given a bye.
Instead we were made to play a team that lost in the first
round!!!

To add to the insult, we were asked to play on a blustery
day with less than poor field conditions. Our team uniform
was not designed for off-season play. Its high tech construc-
tion was created to keep Bocci players cool under the
highest heats and intensest pressures. The weather was so
unfitting for Bocci that the former Phi Bocci captain injured
her sholder so badly she was no longer able to , write
personal critiques to her staff members. Doctors say a full
rehabilitation will cost hundreds of thousands of dollars.
From the outset this match was a travesty.

But there is more. The EC team, Czar Bob and his
henchpersons David Stewart and Allison Lewis (note: only
three EC members bothered to show. An official Bocci

team. is fougmembers.) broke theiriBoc_ciple_dge. They _ V i
could —no.t isvetiz muster om. C<zh9.£<?nI.:zﬁiritlgﬁ.?>f.T.,héE1Sl¢%..- ' 
together; For someone who talks big on paper, Czar Bob. I 

sure couldn’t conjure up a decent string of insults to our
faces. Our heckles were met with stares from Tompkins and
Stewart and a few small grins from Lewis. Without an
active opponent to heckle and to be heckled by we were left
with no choice but to heckle ourselves. We suggest the EC
go take a few lessons from The Trident.

Unlike the EC The Trident managed to come out for the
Bocci Tournament in force and they were excellent heck-
lers. Certainly if the un-Bocci-like EC can be allowed back
into the tournament then The Trident deserves to return as
well. After all, Howison has decided rulesjust don’t count.

So, the only thing we can possibly do is flex our muscles
and use the power of the press to our advantage. We will not
let this insane miscarriage of bocci continue. We will not
stop whining until the proper thing is done, and we will start
law suit proceedings immediately. How does $15 million
sound? Its good for starters. The Board of Trustees will be
hearing from our lawyers shortly.

P.S. Since we lost the Bocci game, we have to change our
uniforms, so we will be spending all of our money to redo

Q them. Sorry, we can’t help out with the Calyx debt.

Those of you who read this space on
a regular basis will know of my unen-
ing talent for annoying the administra-
tion of our es.t,e_e_ni_ed. university. What

1“ . most of you probably do not_:l<.now,,i,s

that in addition to having a fan club that
includes prestigious members like Dean
Howison, President Wilson, and a fair
portion of the frat population, I am also
a lifetime member of The Psychic
Friends Network. This, of course means
that I have the ability to see into the
future, and where else would I point my
psychic vision but at my soon to be (or
maybe not, after this) alma mater. So
here they are, my predictions for where
Washington and Lee will be 10 years
from now.
— Our presidential search con-
cluded, we will have appointed our
°irst ever female president, Mimi Elrod.
vlimi will have surpassed her husband
ohn who thought “ascending to the
’residency” meant putting a ladder up

OPINION

to the second ﬂoor of Washington Hall.
— Dennis Manning has become

our new Dean of Students after club- , ,

  
 
 

Pat has seen the future; here it is

as official embassies, confirming the
long standing “no entry” rule.
f‘ Washington and Lee Security

 

 

The Iﬂzg-tum Phi Kappa Alpha Delta Theta Pi Kappa Phi Psi , April 1, 19:94

-.1 »u....

—I

got a little bogged-down.” i
— The Pavilion undergoes Qiha

[ has become an annual renovation. Th ~‘

bing Davig; ii inithe knee. officers Mike Xoung and_,S._t, ,‘  stofg '_ uildin ‘npw ha}/in reaeher
  aimulti-million ..- Qmlinson, ,hav‘ii?;g"i récentlyi,,_Té§g.i§%ll“{i§  ’uiii\if5is ty  "
dollar libel  I I sued ‘fire-" dials are reported" as saying, “The cdn“
suit against arms, acci- struction ofthe Pavilion may have bee
The Specta- d e n t a l 1 y a mistake.” ‘ A
tor, Dean shoot Tom —The Executive Committee iﬂon
A n n e PATRICK Hespos as he tinuing itsideliberations with the Whit
S c h r o e r - “ ” returns to Book Review Committee overchanges
L a In 0 n t RUSH campus for in the schools honorcode.The ten year
founds The A 1 u m n i delay has been caused by an extensive
S c h r 0 e r - MCDERMUFP9 W e e k e n d. debate over whether to insert a period
Lamont Cen- ’94 The Officers or a semicolon in one section of th
ter for the are quoted as book. 0 '
Study of s a y i n g , — The Trident has taken the plac
Women at “Payback’s a of The Ring-tum Phi as the officia
Washington Bitch.” campus newspaper after receiving de

and Lee as generations of Southern
Gentlemen spin in their graves.

—- The Lexington Police Depart-
ment in cooperation with the U.S. State
Department, has named all fraternities

— Dr. Jim Worth announces the
completion of the Campus Alcohol Sur-
vey, which he initiated in 1993. When
questioned about the ten year wait he is
quoted as saying, “OK, so maybe we

velopment grants from The National

Enquirer and The Society for Inep

Journalists (Rush Limbaugh, Found

ing Member). ‘
Happy April Fools!

;v i

‘D; A-‘-F-‘-~b~:s.g.~"s..*:‘..»‘~

-=-—.¢..4

Ellie ﬁlling-mm lﬂhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Queen

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lee Press-on

News Editors . . .‘ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sweet Thing, Sposey Hegpog

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dreamcicle

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Tl'ie Coming Queen

Assistant Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The Heartbreaker

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Hector Krupp

Assistant Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Deep Fried Sawyer, Hillary Rodham Olson

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Woman of Mystery

Art Director . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Thrill

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jebthro Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Quiet Riot Wyatt

Assistant Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Kevin ' U-ivioney” Roddey

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .F1ick and Ransom

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sally “That Girl” Oberrnueller

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Even We Don’t Know

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian “I Deliver” Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays and sometimes after strong electrical storms
during the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues and money we skim out of the Fancy Dress budget. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor, business manager and mascot, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

I Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday accompaniedby a $20 check to appear in that week’s edition.
Letters, Columns, and “My Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaperobserves current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity as well as good
fashion sense.

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

You just can’t beat change at W&  

As I look about the Washington and Lee campus,
re red bricks, the columns, the ivy; all remind me that
I&L is a school based on history and tradition. This

-.ict cannot be argued. One of these traditions, we
must not forget, is change.

When General Lee became president of the college
he implemented changes, many of which endure, to
bring then Washington College to a position of promi-
nence in American higher education. Recently, though,
I have noticed an increasing number of students who
wish to halt academic progress, rather than pursue it.

Washington and Lee needs a rebirth, again, to
bring it up to the standards of an ever-progressive
university. These new changes will not be easy; they
will meet, as many brave and different concepts often
do, with challenge upon challenge. First of these
changes should be a well-balanced school, one which
represents the world in which we live, beautiful in its
variation and differences. It would be difficult for a
school to train leaders for a world which school itself
is nothing like.

The university should encourage minority student
applications, offering incentives in the form of schol-
arships and the like. The university should operate in

a gender blind manner, allowing for near-equal ad-
mittance of fine women and men.

In a world which is becoming ever-more special-
ized, W&L must offer those programs which allow
our students to keep up with the changing world. New
programs such as Women’s, African-American,
Asian-American, Irish-

American, and Franco-
American Studies should

service or other such community-based solution.
Any speech or conduct which “expresses cia
ethnic, or religious prejudice such as slurs, jokes, , ,
taunts, and any disparaging references to racia
ethnic, or religious stereotypes” (Racial and Sexu
Harassment policy, Office of the Presiden
Middlebury College, Ver
mont). should not be tolerate
by the university or iﬁ st

be offered. Such programs

  

dents.

could only start to undo CLINTON F- In short, change is one o
the Euro-centrism which _ the most exciting of W&L

has plagued the American  '3  HERBERT traditions. Those of the pa
intellectual landscape for  ‘ WALKER KUCERA, and those listed by this auth
so long. To further right ‘  ,97 and others was and is it
these wrongs, the General I 9 change for the sake of cﬂang

Education requirements

should be changed in or-

der to rid the curriculum of European History and

other such Western imperialistic courses.
Furthermore it is antithetical to the aims of any

university that any atmosphere could exist in which

students feel uncomfortable. Thus students using of-

fensive speech should be punished with community

it is change for the bette
When one loves something,
is change for the better. When one loves somethin
as many of us love W&L, one doesn’t want to s
it change; it is for that very love, however, that
must welcome change rather than fear it.

As a T-shirt seen recently around campusrea
“Do it for W&L.”

Please forgive me: Phi framed 

I am scandalized. Over the past
months I have been done a great wrong:
through clever editing, the arch—fascist
staff of TheRing-tum Phi has made me
appear to be a conservative —although
nothing could be further from the case.
For example, in a recent article the Phi
reported me as stating that marijuana is
a “valueless, mind-altering drug.” In
reality, what I had written was “Mari-
juana is a gift from God, and I like to
share it with little children.” A bit more
reasonable, no?

In fact, to underscore my commit-
ment to left-wing ideology, I am with
this article announcing the immediate
fonnation of the People’s Revolution-
ary Party of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. I hope all liberals of good faith
will join me in advancing these impor-
tant goals:

1) The hierarchy of American soci-
ety should be immediately stripped of
all wealth and power. J. Crew and
Land’s End shall be closed. All BMWs
and Saabs shall
become com-

4) To protect our Mother Earth,
electrical power will be prohibited.
Trees will become US citizens.

5) To continue the heartening trend

a l r e a d y
evident at

 

mon property. Washing-
g) The fed- ton and

t L , ll -
$5?if°”§2"y"‘°"a NICHOLAS L- m‘1‘I' ii‘. i .22
bounty of [DE ’ sexual in-
$5,000 to all  W Y’  hibitions
“patriot moth-,  will be un-
ers” who prom— dermined
ise to have as and abol-
many children ished, by

as possible out of wedlock.

3) Black History Month shall be
renamedBlackHistoryIndeﬁniteTime
Period, and all those who criticize it
shall be publicly flogged.

beer if necessary. ,1-

6) Dr. Dre will composea new na-
tional anthem medley to the, catchy
tunes of his gangster rap repertoire.

7) Harb’s will be nationalized, and

forced to serve good proletaria.‘fa,'
franks and beans. eel  j

8) To remedy past discriminati
only_ women will be allowed to ‘V
fighters in the Air Force. Asians will»
discouraged from majoring inipath

If these demands are not met_wit I

\48 hours, I will instruct the Iﬁvol

tionary Vanguard to begin the arm
struggle. Deans, professors, and C0-
lunch ladies — as pillars of theest
lished social order— will be the firs‘,
be targeted. ‘ ~
The campaign of violence will

on unabated until bourgeois capyali.
and the fraternity system are replac
with utopian socialism. We are by
ture peaceful men (and womyn, a
androgenes, and people undergoi
hormone treatment), but injustice m
be fought!

i
\

 

O

' he Ring-tum Stickeri Bum et cetera Phi, April 1, 1994

OPINION

 i lose your eyes for the Dream

pos’ SPACE
' Tom Hespos

When one walks into Richard
’ eaver’s Central Headquarters at the
igma Nu fraternity house, one can't
elp but feel overcome. Posters of eco-
omb genius Mike Smitka grace the
alls. Motown CDs accentuate the
teful rack system on his dresser. A
4. all Betta fighting ﬁsh, aptly named
’ 'tta Theta Pi, swims lazily about in a
exagonal tank, basking in the glory
at is Dream Weaver.
We asked the Weaver of Dreams 20
ppropriate questions, to delve deeper
to the mind of one of America’s true
otnic geniuses:

SFX: (Jackson 5 singing “ABC” in
ackground)

I: Which do you prefer, ﬂame-
roiled or fried?

Weaver: I’m a vegetarian. I saw
Bambi” once and it moved me.

PHI: Who is your favorite apostle?

Weaver: John.

PHI: Are there any other Weavers

at we have to worry about?
ver: I have a younger brother,
andy.
PHI: What’s your favorite James
~ - nd movie?
Weaver: A View to a Kill. The
ason I like A View to a Kill is that it
asa reat theme song by Duran Duran.
'ud all James Bond movies by their
eme songs. I’m an 80s type guy, and

‘I uran Duran] are 805 type people and
e mesh well together. I’m like the
ird Duran.

PHI: If someone gave you free tick-

to go see ZZ Top, would you go?
ver: Yes.

PHI: How do you get water stains
ff of your coffee table?

Weaver: I’m not used to furniture,

so I don’t have any. I don’t have that
problem.

PHI: How would you describe your
perfect woman?

Weaver: Ms. Crawford and I choose
not to discuss our private lives.

PHI: What’s your favorite dirty
nursery rhyme?

Weaver: I don’t have one.

PHI: Oh, come on.

Weaver: Um... The Big Book of
Fairy Tales, by Doug Clark.

PHI: Do ‘you
ever check under
your bed for dust
bunnies?

Weaver: N 0,
but I do check for
monsters before I
go to bed. I hear
voices for a couple
of hours each day.
I think they’re
coming from under

V my bed, or they

could be inside my
head, in my teeth.
Martians have im-
planted little sig-
nals in my teeth.
They’re trying to
talk to me, mess
with my mind and
steal my secrets.
I’m not paranoid...
really.
SFX: (Bottle of
pills rattling for 5 seconds. Three gulps.)
PHI: Do you picture yourself with
hair in 20 years?
Weaver: Yes. Long, blonde hair.
PHI: If you could kill one professor
in the C-School, who would it be?
Weaver: Kill is rather a harsh word.
I’d have to say “just really hurt badly
and make him suffer.” You’ll read it in
the newspapers next week.
PHI: Have you ever considered
writing a self-help book?

Weaver: l’ve considered writing a
How To Dress book... Clothes are my
thing. People look to me to see what’s
in season. I feel I’m there for people
that way... We’re really a far_nily over
at the Phi, andl wantyou to know that
I really care about helpingthe people at
this university.

PHI: Is Frosted Flakes just a kid’s
cereal? _

Weaver: It’s really not, though. It

goes in the cat-
egory ‘of Fruit
Roll-Ups and
other stuff like
that. It’s really
bad for you, but
as a kid, you’re
restricted from
having it. So,I
think it’s not a
kid’s cereal at
all. It’s a food
for middle-aged
fat people.

S F X :

(Michael Jack-
son singing
“Beat It” in the
background.)

PHI: Do you

think '~ they
should stop
making Police
Academy mov-
ies?

Weaver: I
think they ought to merge Police Acad-
emy movies and Friday the 13th mov-
ies. They could save money that way.

PHI: That’s a good idea.

Weaver: See, I care about the
economy, too. I also care about the
environment and the rainforest and The
Trident — I want to help them all out.

PHI: Has anyone in your family
ever been diagnosed with a severe
mental illness?

Weaver: Well, when one of us has

a mental illness, we just shoot them.

PHI: That’s a lot like the ancient
Greeks. They used to leave defonned
children up on mountain tops to die.

Weaver: Luckily, I lived.

PHI: What do you think about UNC
not making it to the Sweet 16 this year?

Weaver: I really don’t follow sports.

PHI: If you could tell Elvis one
thing, what would it be?

Weaver: Get out from underneath
my bed.

PHI: Have you ever spent a Friday
night alone?

Weaver: Yes.

PHI: Care to elaborate?

Weaver: No.

PHI: Okay — then what’s your
favorite Slurpee ﬂavor? .

Weaver: I like the blueberry kind.
They have it in Florida. The 7-Eleven
I go to, right next to the beach, has it.
They get it really cold. You micro-
wave it before you take it out of the
store so you can drink it.

PHI: I never thought to do it that
way.

Weaver: (Laughs).

PHI: Can you make anything» of

. this surge of polar bears in the news

media today?

Weaver: I would prefer three-ton
whales stuck under ice, but in terms of
animals that are just suckers for public-
ity, you really have to think about el-
ephants.

They’re always complaining about
ivory and stuff. And who really cares?
I like ivory. I think we should have a lot
of ivory.

As a matter of fact, we should have
ivory-lined fraternity houses. We could
have mink fur on the walls. We should
have everything endangered possible
because we are bastions of capitalism
and debauchery. Forget what I said
about Bambi.

SFX: (Small animal
squooshed underfoot.)

being

  he man behind the space: Hespos

7-‘REAMLAND

, Richard Weaver

fuzzy feeling. It makes me reminisce. '
Q: Are you sure that feeling isn’t the belly button

pain instead?
A: No.

Of the many exciting personalities on the Wash-
tgton and Lee campus, Torn Hespos deﬁnitely has to
= nk somewhere. I’m’ not sure where, but that’s not the
I int. The point is that we should all know Tom better,
ven if anesthesia is required to get through it.
LC’s begin round one of our get-to-know you

-: ion:

Q: Exactly how much do you weigh?

A: It’s tough to say, but the last time I checked was
hen I was going through PE. 102 (Adoptive and
1 rrective Exercise) and I ﬂuctuate between 240 and

.45 pounds.
Qallow much of that do you at-
fbute to the Letitia Pate Evans Dining
all?
A: The dining hall actually contrib-
tes a lot, because I tend to get really
A asted on weekends and go there for
much the next day. The whole drink-
g-aw!-food thing makes my weight
0 through the roof.
Q: Are you planning a lawsuit?

A: Yes, I plan to sue Dean Howison. M, NEWS “mm mm “Enos

» st because everything in the world
oes through his office.

Q: Is any part of your body currently infected?
A: No, not currently. To tell the truth, though, I get
‘ is shkening sensation in my stomach when I stick

y finger in my belly button.

Q: What’s your favorite Madonna song?
A: “Like A Virgin,”because it gives me that warm,

.2

games?

Q: Should the Generals utilize voodoo in their

A: Absolutely. If they had used voodoo prior to
the Bermuda Bowl, nothing bad could have come

Q: Who would you choose as

and Lee?

the new president of Washington _

I I A: That’s a toughiefl have ‘de-
voted a lot of thought to this, but if
I had to make a judgement, I would
definitely say Moke Wolfe, because

he has the capacity to do whatever
he wants if he sets his heart to it.

“Darren?”

Q: On the TV show, Bewitched,
did you prefer the ﬁrst or second

ALTER-EGO SPOS

A: I really had

no preference, but I was kind of
offended that the TV industry would
try to putone over on me. Did they
think I wouldn’t notice? That of-
fends me.

Q: Aren’t I a cool person?

A: Richard Weaver is a very
cool person insofar as his musical
tastes are far superidhto anybody I

know.

roni?”

once in Little League.

i nterviews and Photos

4: yi Phil

Q: Should it be called “macaroni
and cheese” or “cheese and maca-

A: Deﬁnitely cheese and macaroni. If you go
through the ingredients, you can see cheese is the
larger of the two ingredients in proportion.

Q: Do you believe in voodoo?

A: To some extent. It helped me hit a curveball

family?

from it. They should have sacriﬁced
live chickens before the plane left.

‘f’: Q: "What: wouldtyou name your

 ,5-,;, -.- ;.:...  , -1- .. :..

7' ’ ‘A: My son would have to be Tho-‘
mas F. Hespos, Jr. My daughter would
be named Quasimodo Quogue. It’s a
small town on the east end of Long
Island and it’s a really cool name.
Plus that name will ensure that boys
will not want to date her when she’s
16. It will make my job a little bit
easier. And Uncle Vito’s, too.

Q: Who is your favorite member of the Jackson

A: Definitely Tito. I like him because of his hat
he wore on that Jackson 5 cartoon. I have a really

cool hat like it, but I only wear it when I’m playing

a**hole.

Q: Isn’t it hard to pronounce words with aster-
isks in them?

A: Sometimes you have to stop and look over
what the word might be.

Q: What’s your fish like?

A: He’s an African black rubber eel. His name is

Gus, because I name all my fish Gus, after this

alcoholic dude my Dad hired a couple of summers
ago. He liked to get bottles of gin during work hours
and sit in the van and talk to himself when I drove.

There, that wasn’t that painful. You may now
pick up your final exam on this material from Carol

Calkins. Good luck!

TALKBACK

Fat?

The Fat People’s Club will be
holding an organizational meeting
in Payne and Newcomb Halls on
Wednesday at 6 p.m. Comejoin the
fun.

Ride

I need a ride to Oregon on April
3. Will pay for gas, food, hotels,
nighttime entertainment, personal
masseuse, long-cut roses, etc. Call
Bill at 463-5532.

Job

Needed ASAP: person to fill the
office of President of Washington
and Lee University. No experience
required; must have good working
knowledge of bricks. Apply out-
side the Co-op.

WLUR

WLUR 91.5 will broadcast
HowardStem’smomingradioshow
from now. Complaints may be reg-
istered in Reid Hall. Or go screw
yourself.

General Notes are compiled by Vincimus 'I‘urner.

Democrats  

The College Democrats will be
conducting a seminar, “How to
Deny Just About Anything With A ’
Straight Face,” on S‘ugnd_ay at 2 pm. ’
in the Arlington Women’s Center.. ~ »
The group’s recent purchase of the
Brooklyn Bridge will also be dis-
cussed. ..

FDA:

Members of the Fancy Dress
committeewillbesellingtheirsouls
outside the Co-op on Friday. Come
by and help make up that budget
deficit!

Calyx

Come have your picture taken
forthis year’s Calyx! Please! We’ll
pay YOU. We’ll bill it home to
OUR parents! We’ll give you a
free set of Ginsu knives just for
showing up! Come to the Univer-
sity Center.

Lex/W&L

The Lexington residents/Wash-
ington and Lee students together-
ness group will meet at Sharks next
to the Mortal Kombat game on
Monday at 6 p.m.

Ed Yoder is the root of
all evil in the world

To the editor:

I am writing once again to protest
the luciferogous actions of Professor
Ed Yoder. ,

I now have conclusive proof that
Yoderwas on the grassy knoll in Dal-

las ana*'ﬁ':e‘d me‘ silver‘ brillet"V"\3hl'c§h“7'

killed JFK. Not only did’he kill JFK
and cover it up, but the evil Yoder went
on to provoke the Vietnam War in the
late 19605.

What kind of man would work to
bring down a president and then accept
underhand payments from Bill
Clinton ’s campaign? And don’t forget,
Ed Yoder shot J.R. Ewing in front of
millions of people. And how is he

rewarded? The arch-fascists of Wash-
ington and Lee University give him
office space and young people to cor-
rupt and make fun of in The Washing-
ton Post.

It’s the people like Ed Yoder who
 ﬁﬁﬁilfhe light’ ‘of trtrth, and I’ve

I decided that I am the-flashlight of jus-

tice, and I’m going to shine in on the
evil Yoder.

I hereby challenge him to a duel, to
be aired live on television.

As it is said in the movies, “I’m

gonna git you, sucka.”

Dr. Gary Martin
Sector 4, The Bermuda Triangle

Roddey thanks Bob for
advice, cash

To the editor: ‘

I’ve decided to take all of the money
The Ring-tum Phi saved up this year,
and go to Bermuda with it.

I’d like to thank Bob Tompkins for
giving me the sheer inspiration to do a
good job on the business side. If we had
more people like Bob, newspapers in
the country would be a lot better.

If I hadn’t followed his inspira-

tional financial reasoning, the Phi
would have only had enough money
for me to take off to south Georgia.

Sorry I couldn’t keep those pesky
news people at the Phi from bothering
you less, but you know how they are
sometimes.

Thanks for the spending money!

Kevin “G-Money” Roddey

How would you look with Professor Smitka’s beard?

J. D. Futch, Professor of Goslren &
ndolas — ‘‘I look like Lincoln!
is is blasphemy!"

Ashby Hackney, ’94, absentee E. C.
Secretary -— “I’d hate to think what
Professor Smitka looks like in this
thing.”

El Presidente John Wilson and Ellen Lewis, ’92 — “We couldn’t be happier

to be wearing such a great beard. Hey, bonds, Daddy!”

David Howison, Dean of Bocci —
“No sir, I don’t like it. I am not a
Smitka-beard person.”

Anne Schoer-Lamont, Dean of Re-
lations Between Opposing Genders
and Intersexual Phenomena-“This
isn’t the kind of beard I’d chose; Mine
would be a mutton chops and mus-
tache combo, original, like me. I just
gotta be me!”

  
  

  

PAGE ATE

Generals football

lost in storm
While quizzing

By SIRAH GLIBBERT
Phi Not-quite Homecoming Queen
nominee

“lt’s an ill wind that blows no one
good,” a wise man once said.

The only good Hurricane Michael
blew the Washington and Lee Gener-
als this week was a prolonged vacation
from the University —— how long the
Generals will be lost at sea is yet to be
discovered.

The Generals were on their way to a
quiz bowl in Bennuda when their char- .
tered/stolen/borrowed/beggedjet/boat/ -
raft/hang glider was crashed in the
famed Bermuda Rhombus.

Now, just imagine how amazing
this story would have been if it had
been finished before the deadline.

In fact, ﬁll in your own story. If you
like it, show it to your friend. Maybe
you will discover a hidden talent. All
because I did not finish this story be-
fore 7 a.m.

What can I say. I am a humanitarian.

{:4

E3?

    

0
The Ring-tum Phi, It’s the end of the world as we know it, but we feel ﬁne

SPORTS

| ﬁloxe /\X),L2‘\/lT—2.-’l2«'Lv\g-tuvvx. pkl’
/VV\a}ar General awarels
car tke lien sexiest, /W  Faculty

6

/) €9a/tam (go//hilon
2) ﬂat/naea Séraymtta
3) .%mm Wham
24)  Wm?/I

5) gamed 

6') gwmmd 93005405
7 ) ge// Ma;/9/%

8) (9%/heme 
.9) Qltma .0/P’/ma

/0) go/m <7/unﬂinme

gjke fmaiar Generals were clsosen lay tke wewxevx at: We ’Q«'Lv\g-iiuwx 

 

 

 

4-M

ené .-

'WEFW

1 ‘T

_‘__~.___-__—___..__---_____...____....____--__-_‘..___

   

  

12-2:30 p.m.

Our spectacular Easter Buffet will overwhelm you with
a dazzling array of entrees, fresh fruits, vegetables,
and our chef ’s luscious desserts

Sizes

Adults: $13.95
Children: $6.95 (age 10 & under)

Reservations requested, so call now,
as seating is limited!

463-3020

..--__-___-.—_‘_—____‘--—_--..__---_-‘,_——s.-‘—_---‘

‘IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

__-.__—.._.-._u.
‘--______—-.—u.‘--__.—.._‘_——‘_‘___.....—_——.-‘.___

Self Storage Now Open

Open 8 a.m. -5 p.m. daily,
by appointment on Saturday.

I

i

I

I rt. 0

E W I L LS O N _ Reserve your unit now for summer months

i w A L K E R  R   While ‘t‘V?“a."‘.e-a   . -    

: H OU SE Excellent location in Downtown Lexington —— ii to ,_

l R N M u Mr M Basement of Domino ’s Pizza 3’ '..

i 30 N. Main, Lexington 453-3020 Catering to W&L students, walk to storage from 2641:‘: 6 Fr‘  ll
5   F V campus in 2 minutes. 

l ‘w@c ‘MW  reasonable low rates, by month or year.  in I
E

I

1

Call Mrs. Brown, property manager .

       
   
    
    

  

/.
Saturday Morning-‘ All U Can Eat Pancakes
Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

Breakfast Buffet 4 i
Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m.
Sunday 9 a.m.-2 p.m.

from 4'x8' to 8'x12‘. '

    

C&I Associates - 463-3013 Rt. 11 North 463-3478. O_pen 24 Hours 4‘
after 5 P-m- (703) 934-9402 

               

     

 

or Uniforms -
Fast Service. Great
Price

     

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

—_

       

   
 

  

4 ., .( .._-
»« ... .
,:'.‘.'£".-,5

        

A s ~  ‘
.; 1)» ‘-.‘;':‘¢i}~::';.-'?'v-_‘.-'.~.-A

7/Fail/z&4e

umowaae STORES '5‘

I
I

-,n

 
 
  

 
    
   

   
 
   

  
 
   

and :7{estaurant    V_. .. ’ ' . - . .
Chef Stewart prepares daily culinary delights _,;‘:
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen, "-9

Paella, and Homemade Tortellini. 

- Six Room lnn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dininu

463-2186

."’zif

Check us for your
next screen print
  needs!

 
  

  

I
./ YES! 1 want to study in AusrRAL1Ai.

I ' I  Special Winter Package 5,
 Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only #3":
_ I Study Ahmad at I  Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00 -
3‘ }£rL1t  ieanz 5 71-1 I CURTIN UNIVERSITY I ,,§' lncludes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two "
- I  (Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays) '

. . at.‘ 1.

   Nelson St. I . Couriﬂess stu(ly.Chmces évaﬂable I  Gift Certificates Now Available _
. , , I Australian studies, Aborigmal studies and many more I -~.--,_; , , , 3,1,-,,
 Lexington S Complete Sporting Goods Store  I Programs to Asia June /Iu1y_ can for a brochure_ I ‘,3, Open Daily Dining Hoursg'"g(qe;.I-:att(.) & Monday groups of 10+) 
I ' I Call for reservations: 703-463-9715 

1- 800-245 -2575 .  ,.  _‘ . - .,. 4..     - ..,.   _._. - ..,.   ,2‘

I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ — — _ _ _ — _ ‘ 2 -E531‘*‘%f:=’-tiff!‘*3-"ﬁ%€\$‘a:-35%33é=%25§t§=’z*‘1%‘z;EE§?’££5334’-5'45""-‘1’5':3=E§"4Sﬁ“a:"'*‘%f:=ékr

 
 
  
  
   
 
  
 

   
  

5

Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.
Tuesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

      
   

,-. 

   
   
 
  
  
     
 
    
    

,l\-,:,‘._11." qt ._. x .
r‘.-3:‘ ‘a':'?;I.j£}‘éZr?"'l'g‘:§;~;.:,"i-}§2:?'ﬁ':h;.;§ii§§§"‘ ‘

V
In
.4.

    
  
 

    
  
  
    

"K. "1
'33.,
5'25. tar.‘-
:,i'l_'x 

  

     
      
 
   
      
   
 
 
 

  

 
     
    

    
   

  

    
  

   

     
   
  

 

 

5- '§z—cARD. BOX 16516, ATLANTA. GA 30321
I
Now you can have two of the most recognized and '  ‘HST CARDG
, accepted credit cards in the world...Vlsa0 and MastciQn:l0 I Q l "a"tvlSA°/ ER Gum
—— Now Showing —— credit (-ards..."in your mmc." i.-:vi:N IF You Am: NEW IN I Caidsappmved immediately. 1oo°/. GUARANTEED!
My GI" 2 CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 'iURNi:D DOWN BE!-DRE! . . .5
Daily 6:4 p.m. Rated PG VISAS and Mastcrcarde the credit cards you I , - ‘
Sat. & Sun. 1:30 & 6:45 p.m. deserve and need i’or— lD—BOOKS—DEPARTMENT | NAME
——-——-—, S'l‘ORES—TUITlON—ENTERTAlNMENT-- .
B°:$h9,‘ggg',’: and  - ADDRESS
aiy 2 : p.m. - -
Sa, 8, Sun‘ 1.00‘ 3,00, 5,00, REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD voua CREDIT RATING! I CITY STATE —ZIP
7:00 8: 9215 p.m. Rated PG-13 : STUDENT? Yes No 55! C

':""?""— No turn downs!

Da|i:P6_l4'5%?nn ﬁglegge G“3$’51EllC\B9 No credit checks! ' SIGNATURE

Sat. & Sun. 1:30 & 6:45 p.m. V\:"3‘l::.,‘.1£I.‘° 3“ No security deposit! ' Norri-; wM:sai:(;a'i:ig:l:'§::;i:d"nu;d;n‘TIg(A¢{l:!I:.Iﬂ

261-7292 . 55"” “"5 °°“*’°" ‘°"“‘,' I
{Q75 5ee¢hAve_,3uenav.sty YOUR CREDIT CARDS ARE WAITING. L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _‘_

 

 

I he Kindler, Gentler Ring-tum Phi parody issue, April 1, 1994

E us

    

REDUCED PRICES 
SELECTED VARIETIES 
HEBREW NATIONAL J‘

 

   
  
 
 
 

TYSON-HOLLY FARMS. SKINLESS

BONELESS  

   Hams Teeter  
  M

  
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

.71
 I SOOOOOOOOLBO
v . -4*--o. ':?*-.  -_
3 .3 ‘Y'\ -‘a__  ..  “_ V _
‘ “.x,, 
; ., "' .‘, _
7 .  .
’ N

 1% LOW PRICES
. , KIWI OO
  FRUIT ................ . 
"  FRESH WHOLE « I89
PINEAPPLE ..... ..EACH
~' WHITE SEEDLESS I49
GRAPES ............ ..us.
ITALIAN CREMINI 49
gMUSHROOMS 8 OZ.PKG.

ﬁ 

SELECTED VARIETIES

OCEAN SPRAY
CRANBERRY JUICE

il“

 

PEPSI OR
DIET PEPSI

 

WEEKLY SPECIAL

SELECTED VARIETIES

'M|CHEL|NA’S
    ENTREES

» 199

WEEKLY SPECIAL -

IN THE DEU-BAKERY

APPLE OR CHERRY
TURNOVERS

 

SPORTS

 

 

PAGE NUEVE

 
    
    

“T299  

   

I HARRIS TEI:TER...THE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALL ABOUT

SELECTED VARIETIES I

SALON sELEcnvEs HAIRIB9
CARE PRODUCT 

 .97
FRY

I4-I602.

OZ.
HT REGULAR, BBQ OR

HT RIPPLE I
POTATO CHIPS 82. 066

sELEcrED VARIETIES
O99
\7ERMIcELu

VI P STIR
CREAMETTE 
SPAGHETII 7oz.U59~

IN THE DELI- BAKERY
I79

 

Prices Effective Throu h

Prices In This Ad Eltective Wednesday‘ March 2_3 Through Tu s 06 March 29,1 99:! ‘In our Lexington
4 OnIy.We Reserve The Right To LlmlI Quontmes. None Sol To

NACHO
 SELECTED "I202.
March 29, I934

VARIETIES PKG-
eolers. We Glodly Accept Federal food Stamps.

BOCCI BY THE NUMBERS

Standings as of the EC’s horrendously unfair defeat of the Phi bocci team

Leading Hecklers

Player Pts lgpg
Greg Patterson 666 6
Tom Hes os 665 332.5
Spencer olladay 501 7
Fran Kefalas 117 13
Bob Tompkins 116 89
Michael Hewlett 114 99
Beth Provanzana 98 17

Leading Suers

Amount

Player L
$unspeciﬁed millions

Bob Tompkins
Fran Kefalas
(represented by
RZIJCCV “Reggie” Aggarwal
and Hampton Nager, Esqs?
$384896 milion

Bocci moment of the week...

 

This photo is lovely ; Sarah IS the one with the smaller butt.

Bob Thomkins, EC czar, and Sarah Gilbert, Ring-tum Phi queen, face off in the last bocci
‘ game. The next is March 25, _today, freshman mertiyyersus fresman. women. , 
1 9‘ “T    :_ ‘.-   f‘! V — , i .

I I I I I I I I I T I l l l I I I I I I I I I I T 1 I I J I l l I l I I I I I I II
I I I I 1 I I I I I I I I I 1 I I L I l I I l l I I I I I I I I I l l I I I I I II

LLI i 1 i i i i i i i 1 i I i I I I I nunrnr r i i i i i i i i i 1 1 i r i i i E I I 1 1 I : E I E i 1 E E i i 1 1 1 1 i u
l I l I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I E E I I I I I I I I I I I I I I l I A I I I I E I E I I I I I I I I I I l I I I T I I I I I I I [I

I
IIIILIIIILIIEIIYTIIIIIIIIIIII

IE1

Tlllllllllllll

   

IIIIIYTIII IIIIIIIIITIIIIIILLIJIIIIIIII

 

  1994-95

Z Editor for Calyx :
 Business Manager For Caylx ~
 Editor For Political Review
 Editor for Journal of Science 
I Editor for Ariel I :

Resumesand Cover Letters Due
April 1, 5 p.m.
in Carol Calkins’ O ”

Interviews April 25

IIIITTTIIITTTI

ice

 

I
: I I I I I I I I I I I T 1 1 I J l I l l I I I I l I J I I l I I I I I I I I I I IIIII l l I l I I I I IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIITTI I I I I I I l l I I I I l I I I I I I I I I I I I T l I I I I I l ll

M-aura:-v

 

 

Last Week:

THIS IS A TEST. THIS IS ONLY ATEST. IF THIS HAD BEEN A REAL ISSUE, YOU MAY NOT HAVE LAUGHED.

People at W&L ran, jumped,

threw, and played with all ‘
different sizes of balls

 

@112 ilting-tum iﬂlti

Spears

  

Next Week:

Someone will win, someone
will lose, we all will watch
them happily athleticize

PAGE 12

  .

VILBER

   
   

If I ’agilenaveinadjtiiezgtaiii‘?
1asn’.t;forher.’Shejsibeen .

 now you ‘l<n‘ow.I Arrest”

 
 

rnorei

 

 

 
   

  

innocent!  

; ~0N:*;3-SifORTS- 

Gilbert arrested in injury -

BOCCI, RUNNING, JUMPING, THROWING THINGS, PLAYING WITH BALLS

APRIL 1, 199

chaeffer Victim in horrible plot

bstruetingjnstice all-the; ;
.. ~’:‘time,—,and*you-thought» that-I 7 .
- .shewvas’sucha good.W&L; _
honor -type s'tudent.7We1l,» . I

} : 3‘Frarr!; ]3_gon-’t,vjlet he’rIsl<ate— -3:’

 

  
 
   
 
 
  
    

     

Photo by the crown prince

Junior Sarah Gilbert ﬂies through the air with the greatest of ease in her relentless pursuit of sopho-
more goddess Josephine Schaeffer. Gilbert was quoted as saying she hated Schaeffer and plotted to
overthrow her after she stole the MVP award from Gilbert in 1993.

  

SP5 "H

Nancy Kerrigan, Olympic figure skater and also victim of a clubbing attack, skates in this-life-like
drawing by artist-to-be Thomas “I think she really wants a Cherry Mentholyptus” Hespos.

W&L to become Division 

By STEPHEN WILLOOLY
Phi Breaker of Hearts

In a startling move recently,
the National Collegiate Athletic
Association recommended that
Washington and Lee move up to
Division I competition.

“The committee took all the
factors into consideration before
making this decision,” remarked
Washington and Lee athletic di-
rector Mike Walsh.

Despite statements to the con-
trary, rumors are circulating that
the Generals are soon to replace
the University of Virginia in the
Atlantic Coast Conference.

“We would be glad to have
such a stand-out addition, but I
just don’t know if we’re up to
their level of competition,” said
Duke University athletic direc-
tor Tom Butters.

“The last time we took in a
new school, Florida State
promptly embarrassed us by beat-
ing us out for second in the ACC,
" said University of North Caro-
lina Basketball coach Dean

Smith.

“I just don’t know if the con-
ference is ready for such a bas-
ketball-football powerhouse.”

Walsh declined to comment
on the issue, saying simply, “We
just want what’s best for the
school.”

Also courting the Generals are
the Big East and Southeastern
Conference.

W&L football coach Gary
Fallon relishes the challenge of
big time competition.

“It’s about time we got the
chance to play with the big boys.
We’ve been ready for this for
years in my mind,” said the W&L
head coach.

Several big-name basketball
players have been reported to be
considering transfering to W&L.
Jason Kidd of the University of
California was one of the most
notable along with Jerry
Stackhouse of UNC and Joe
Smith of Maryland.

According to Kidd, it would
be quite a privelege to play for
W&L.

“I just hope I can fit into the

amazing chemistry they have
there. I know I’ll take a cut in
playing time, but it’s worth it.”

“Yeah, I know about Kidd and
all those guys, but we would all
have to wait a year. I’m kind of

ByKElTH “RiPKEN’s LAST-SECOND GAME-WINNER” GRANT
Phi Sports poet

Lexington police have arrested the person they believe was th
ring-leader of the attack on Washington and Lee All-America
runner Josephine Schaeffer.

Sarah Gilbert, a W&L junior, has been charged with “Conspiri
to Hurt a Better Athlete Real Bad.” This is the first time the char
has been used on a non-figure skater.

Gilbert, the former sports editor of the Phi and a track teaﬁma
of Schaeffer’s, is the third suspect to be arrested.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard says Gilbert was behind t
March 13 attack that has left Schaeffer’s right leg in a brac
According to Beard, Gilbert planned the entire scheme in hopes (
replacing Schaeffer as the team’s top distance runner.

“She was a jealous bitch,” Beard said of Gilbert. “She ju
couldn’t deal with the attention that sweet, little runner was ggttin
Besides, she’s from Oregon!”

Gilbert has denied having anything to do with the assault. S
did, however, comment on Schaeffer.

“She’s nothing,” said Gilbert. “All she ever does is run, run, ru
What’s so special about that? I do every other event there is to do a
nobody ever cares!”

Investigators say Gilbert devised the plan with estranged lov
Stephan Willooly. Willooly was arrestedjust days after the ineide
along with Gilbert’s bodyguard-goon and alleged hit-man, To
EckSpos.

The night of the incident, Schaeffer was training on the W&
track when EckSpos reportedly came out from behind the stadit‘
with a lead pipe and ran towards Schaeffer. The track star failed
even notice the approaching attacker and continued running. EckSpc
unable to catch up to Schaeffer, eventually collapsed from dhau
tion and fell to the ground, causing such a tremor that Schaeffer f
sideways and injured her right knee. With several fraternity parti
having gone on that night, police failed to think anything
EckSpos’ unconscious body on the track for two days.

A fourth suspect, the alleged get-away driver, is still at lar
Police identified the suspect as Blondie Brien and say she was I
seen entering the hair and cosmetics section of K-mart four da
ago. Police have been staking out the area ever since, but say she h
yet to emerge.

Gilbert was arraigned at the Rockbridge County Courtho
yesterday while her supporters rallied outside. Gilbert was t
founder ofthe National Organization for Tonya (N.O.T.) and is mt
famous for her Ring-tum Phi weekly defenses of fellow Oregoni
Tonya Harding, who recently plea bargained her way out of; gra
jury indictment in the Nancy Kerrigan attack.

Track team head coach Jim Phemister said he is glad the wh
thing will soon be over.

“Ever since that whole Harding thing, Sarah was always walki.
around at practice with a pipe and laughing at everybody. Ever
body she competed against she’d call ‘Nancy’,” he said.

Although the team loses another great athlete, Phemisttr fe
they’ll be better off without Gilbert.

“We had suspected Sarah from the beginning,” said Phemist
“She was too competitive. If she won five events, she wanted s
And it was always beating her teammates that gave her the ma
satisfaction. Besides, she’s from Oregon!”

Schaeffer is reportedly recovering well and Phemister Leliex
she will be ready for Nationals next month. .

“What Sarah forgot is that Josephine is faster on one leg th
most of the world is on two,” he said.

Schaeffer was unavailable for comment on Gilbert’s arrest,
her agent issued a statement saying Schaeffer was relieved that t
group’s ring-leader had been arrested and the All-American sopt
more can focus on her rehabilitation and prepare for the Nationa

“Josephine is just glad the police are on top of the cage,” t
statement read. “She’s also relieved Gilbert has been implicat
Heck, she’s from Oregon!”

Schaeffer has already signed promotional contracts with Disn
Nike and Revlon, and has a music deal with Warner Brothers. l
first album will be “Duets with Barry White.”

Gilbert, meanwhile, remains in police custody. However, .
swears she will be proved innocent and believes she will be; fre
time to also compete at the Division III Nationals.

“All I want is to represent my school at Nationals,” said Gilb
“Just give me my rightful opportunity to compete and l’ll come b
with the gold. Damn you, Nancy! Damn you!"

On the football side
Florida State coach B bb
Bowden was heard saying
“Damn, and Charlie Wardjus
graduated. So much for back»
to—back titles.” ‘ ‘

Snyder was unavailable for

g comment, but one source quoted

him as saying, “Cool. bring ’em
on.”

The clock seemed to be moving
in slow motion as the score
changed more often than the
angle of the  It did not
seem possible that this kind of
scoring outburst could be hap-
pening to either team, let alone ,
the two—time defending ODAC

(6.

Champions.

Stackhouse said he feared
some players coming out for the
team after hearing of the move.

concerened about that Bryan
Snyder guy. I hear he’s pretty
strong," said the UNC freshman.

In any case, the General:
will have their long awaitec
chance at fame. Now that th
basketball and baseball tﬁam.
have improved competition
the Generals can respond t
their critics.

This has been a Choose
Your-Own Adventure epi
sodeL

If you would like to Urea
ruleswhen recruiting and sig
Kidd to a million-dollar con
tract, turn to page nueve.

If you would like to de
Cline the ACC in favor of th
Southeastern conference jus
because it has the cor
“south” in it turn to page at

If you don’t know, turn t<
page 66.

Good luck, adventurer
And remember: this is th
kindler, gentler Phi.

Happy sailirzg/ .

This remains unverified, how-
ever.

 

   

 

PAGINA 5

One day Rush... learn to love it

5

5
and puts undue pressure on both the outstanding methods used by sorori- will also provide hors d’oeuvres and decision. lthink it is the best thing that abig happy family!” concluded Smith.
By YABEEZ SEDGHUKLM-~ rushees and fraternity members. A ties in holding Rush and have decided root beer ﬂoats just in case anyone is has ever happened to the university and ‘‘I am proud to be a part of this
Phi Bocce Spectator and Falcon Trainer week is too long a period of time for to adopt their ways,” continued Smith. remotely thirsty,” Smith said. its fraternity system,” said Dean of historic moment. I believe this is, by
v _ freshmen tomake uptheirminds. They “The University Center and Evans “Anotheroverduedecision hasbeen Students for Geek Affairs Buddy far, the greatest accomplishment that
lnterfraternity Council President deserve more and less is more! Such an Dining Hall shall be converted into made. This concems our alcohol policy. Atkins. has taken place, since my reign as Presi— _
Curt Smith officially announced a one- important decision can best be handled enough rooms to house the 16 fraterni— Alcohol is a terrible thing, and it shall “My fraternity completely approves dent of the university,” said University 0
day summer Rush for the upcoming in the shortest period of time,” said ties. These rooms shallbedecorated in be tolerated no longer. Any fraternity the IFC’s new moral mandate. [have Head Honcho John D. Wilson.
year at the termination of a marathon Smith. a theme of the fratemity’s own choos- found in possession of alcohol at any talked to other Presidents and they have “It would have never taken place
seven-hour IFC meeting. “Secondly, Iwouldliketoannounce ing, for example, Elvis visits Hawaii. period shall be ﬁned and suspended indicated to me their unconditional without Smith’s capable leadership. I
“The council has unanimously de- changes to the Rush format. The coun- The rushees will be divided into differ- from campus for a period of two years. support,” said KA President Alan encourage the Presidential Search Com-
cided to hold a one day Rush in the cil wanted me to express their deeply ent groups andwill haveapproximately Pledgesshallneverbe hazed again, uh, McKnight. mittee to strongly consider Mr. Smith
summer for incoming students,” said felt sorrow and most eager apologies 25 minutes in each room and about a 5 not that they ever were. This includes “To celebratethis greatvictory, and for the position of President at Wash-
Smith. for the way Rush has been conducted minute break session in between,” he all fraternities; that means Kappa Al- to promote interfraternity bonding, we ington and Lee. I would feel so much 6
“The decision was based on several these past few years. We now realize said. pha and Sigma Alpha Epsilon!” added shall host a three-day townie duck hunt better leaving this university knowing
important factors. First of all, the coun- the error of our ways and have decided “Inside the fraternities will sing, Smith. the week before Rush. What the heck, that it would be in competent and effi-
cil felt that the current system is unfair to make amends. We have seen the clap, and dance for the rushees. They “I am in full support of the IFC’s sororities are welcome too! We are all cient hands.”
it
v I

Some tamer selections from The Ring-tum Phi 1993-94 Quote Board...

"Women shave. Tam Hespas will like you better. Pally want a
« cracker.7"—Fran ‘

"give seen Hell‘, -Qickard, acter seeing a 5OV'O1';..ty Qusk 

 

I

"There's something so sexy about a woman with a knife."—Tom to Sarah. who was wielding an X-acto
‘Tm going to stay home Friday night and shine my tools.”—Paducah Joe .
Apartment for Rent Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination. Summer Camp Staff Needed, Varner & Pole ‘

'1ded. ' _ - T‘lCDC, . ' f ‘hd
4Bi§_{i/121“/fii'f,:t£’;i,V_;,”,a(flf“fi§,‘:3,‘nfl8,°,f;iS§E§  Pra;?tif.Bath' 1.0 mO.mh lease’ Smgles °“1Y- chariougigiiie, via: Juari:P18-Sept. _ SpeC1gaiiiTiiﬁtitirén&USiii1d§iS 6
. K ii , C0 463 5452 It in walking distance from campus. 2, Monday~Friday. Room and 19 S. Randolph St.
Inqulre at e y S rner -   Board plus salary. Call Pat Charles  $0113 VA ft63"2742 i
J at (804) 293-2529 for more info. 9-e'wvL0caa0n'

 

Domestic Work Wanted   N '

 LOW Student Rates Palm E Tarot Card Headings E, Sabrina artments fo 1, Rent
2 Bedrooms

Tells the Past Present, and Futin‘e;

I For More Informatlon Gives advice on all matters of life.

Please Call

 
        

  

 

, Come see the psychic today i.
  . - . .L01'T3::I61Z1‘;LE)C7723nd31' _ 1515, main .5t_   
:5: re"-.2‘; " ’ - -; ;.-.;.3.3 :..-.'.:.*< ‘ , . —  .,t r."   T ., " .‘ ' V  -‘ I «   ~~".:-.=in~-.v{sad‘ _‘H‘»:.t).ltr.i 5
_2,5.3 r -u,. 1;, _t  . .. i-. . . _ . _. I.‘   :“" Y’ ‘ " ‘  ’ I’ I . lt‘t.vW:'.-t-.;»'‘  «.. »-.. . .. _. ‘ f :. . ',, .,
if I ’' ‘References Available ' ’ I ‘: ‘,‘,,-347,7 .    J
o
‘ll’l.liSu./S()l'.\'l)Rl£'|‘lRl-1.\ll-LN"l\ \'l£S'l‘l .\"(;
C
 ': :'.':' " 3 '  .337." ‘
nu mm Ill] W‘. 1 " '”‘" M ’
:::: ::::'.'. ., ',, I t ,‘ I t
__ _ , __. It”: m H _, 3 \ o
."“"" can
""' ’  lg:
".‘,'.§jv3, neg; state I ' §§::  . y , 
ll it one . R It“. 
.  -_ -_..——-— 0
_  u i in. '"”".T
_ l I "
 ~ ml
llllllt litéttlirte lllttsliiiiglttii lmi\'orsily's Illlll Summer Sessions 5 “
Advance Your Career. Advance to Washington This Summer.
    pend this summer learning in the W0rld’e meet Maximize Your Career Potential with Special
m Sstimulating city. The 1994 Summer Sessions at The Summer Programs .
George Washington University offer over 500 . Prevention 0fTeI_mriSm , CW Madrid Centre

PEOPLE ARE PUTTING

courses covering 60 different areas of study. public Relations

Historical Archaeology °

' . 0 ‘ o in the Media ° Total ualit'Management
TOO MANY   E'i°Y the Resuﬁes °l the Nmionls (‘FM 0  Event Management in Higgler Eilucation
Located just four blocks from the White House and . Tiopical Marine Biology 0 Information Systems
i adjacent to the World Bank, CW’s campus is within o publication Institute 0 Legal Assistant
"e'".Y yea’: 310‘ 0f Pe°Ple make a m°“°.Y .Y°“ d°"'t Send t° Wa5h'“3t°“ walking distance of the U.S. State Department, the - International Education: ° Latin America: Cultural O

and Business Environment
And Many More.’

huge mistake on their taxes.They
don't take advantage of tax deferral and
wind up sending Uncle Sam money they

‘”°'"k5 even harder for you‘ Down the Smithsonian, and many other prestigious institutions. Indonesia and Malaysia
road, that can make a dramatic difference '

in your quality of1iFe- Meet the Movers and the Shakers

rs _ i Choose from a Variety ol,0ptions
5. could be saving for retirement. What 6155 makes SRAS 5° 5PeC‘al? You’ll not only learn from The George Washington at The Gem e washin ‘on Universit
we -- A {ll ‘ h'—f tit "°“'hf1b'lll t 9 9 V
. .3 Fortunately, thats a mistake you can range 0 a ocation c oices rom e Universitys distmguis ed acu ty, ut W1 a so mee Two main 6_week SeSSiOnS_ May 11 _ June 22 and
=§ easily avoid with TIAA-CREF SRAs. guaranteed security of TIAA to the government and corporate leaders, cabinet members, June 27 _ August 8. Pius Sessions rangin" from One_ .
E SRAs not only ease your current tax- diversiﬁed investment accounts of heads of government agencies, Capitol Hill staffers, . _ . D
_ , , . . d . . . . week ﬁeld sessions to 13 week seminars.

§ bite, they offer a remarkably easy way CREF 5 variable annuity—all backe assoclatton dtrectorg, and corporate executives, who are .

'5 to build retirement income—especially by the nation's number one retirement often seminar leaders, guest lecturers, and part-time For More Information, The

§ for the "extras" that your regular pension SyStem- faculty. Opportunities for internships in prominent D.C.   1' B

E and Social Security beneﬁts may not Why write off the chance for a more organizations are also avaj13_b1e_ or mail or fax the  n
 cover.'Because your contributions are rewarding retirement? Call today and coupon below.    Q
Q made in before-tax dollars, you pay less learn more about how Tl/\A‘CREF K __________________________________________________________________ _f’_‘_5_"_'_“_°_’_"_“ﬁ _°_° _____ __

- , ' ' A h l ' _ — H. . .

'§ taxes now And since all earnings on SR s can e p you enjoy many  hmue ls m washlngion ""5 Summer! Name DOB.

E your SRA are tax-deferred as well, the happy returns. Please rush me the fonowin infomaﬁow C t Add

3 - urren ress
. E Beneﬁt nmvﬁvm tax deferral. Call our SRA hotlinel 800-842-2733, ext. 8016. Q 1994 Summer Sessions Bu11etinswiii, cogrsed City State Zip
— descriptions special programs, tu y A ma

,3 A A ’ . . . - Phone ( l

is _ Ensuring the future programs, schedules, and l‘e°lSlI'al.l0l’1 information. Rem“ mnpleted km '0: Q
5% for thosg who shape it?‘ 0 CW 5 Yeapround Undergraduate programs The George Washington University, 1994- Summer Sessions

§ 0 CW3 Ye31”'T0“nd Graduate Programs 2121 Eye Street, NW, Washington, DC 20052 _,

3 CREF czrnfirulnrurrdiv‘/riliuled /ry TI/l/l-CREF lndtvizlua/am} In.m'!uI[anaIS:rvi':e.r. Fur mart mmpkirinfurmatiun, irirlmiiny rbaryu and z.rpeIm.r, D 1994 Summer Sessions Study Abroad Programs FAX (2()2)994-9]33. 

\ call I 800-842-2735, ext. ¢l’0I6farupra.rpmu.;. Rtadlbeprarpectur carefully brfnr: you IIIVIJI or rem) numey. / in I ‘ _ _ i i _ _ i _ , irii
\ 1 —--L-j—— the (merge Washington University is an equal u|>|Ku'lUuI|_V |'|«~lI|U||0u- 5

T (I? I

£4/"—'

 

  

Mostlytfcloudy with a

   LOWS
50s..,MostIy V

6 ‘d3'f.:,Ft,iday.with a

6. 311613065/3 9f.m°1'ni¥1g
 around 60.

   

    
  
  
 

 

Pink Floyds rings in with

The Division Bell.
How does it sound?

Hampden-Sydney defeats

W&L Baseball, 14-6

he ‘ﬂing-tum lﬁlri  

0
VOLUME 93, NO. 25

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Apart. 22, 1994

Police clear only rape suspect

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

‘I

The 21-year-old woman who re-
ported she was raped in Graham-Lees
dormitory last month was unable to
identify the only suspect in the investi-
gation April 13, said Lexington Police
Chief Bruce Beard.

.Lexington police investigators trav-
eled out of Virginia April 12-13 to
pursue leads in the case and to attempt
to ﬁnd the suspect that was identified
by police two days after the March

25 incident.

However, the woman could not posi-
tively identify the suspect.

“The person has been cleared,” said
Chief Beard. “However, the incident is
still active.”

At 4:30 p.m. Thursday, Beard said
police had no other suspects or pos-
sible leads.

He said it was possible that the man
 the perpetrator, but without a posi-
tive identification, police could not
charge the man in the incident.

After the woman reported the as-
sault, she gave a detailed description of

the room in which the incident oc-
curred and the man who allegedly com-
mitted the assault.

Police said her detailed description
helped them to immediately identify
the suspect and the scene of the inci-
dent.

The woman, who is not a Virginia
resident and is no longer in Lexington,
said she was raped in a room in the ﬁrst
ﬂoor of Graham-Lees dormitory by a
man who was not a Washington and
Lee student.

The woman reported she was in the

dormitory selling magazine subscrip-

tions, when the man, who was alleg-
edly visiting the campus, asked her to
come into the room and then assaulted
and raped her.

According to Mike Young, director
of W&L security, university policies
do not allow magazine sales in univer-
sity housing.

The woman went to the University
center after the alleged assault, where
she met two Washington and Lee stu-
dents, who took her to security and
called the police.

She was then questioned by the po-
lice and W&L security before being

Who needs a spring term PE? I

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ringtum Phi 0

taken to Stonewall Jackson Hospital
for a series of tests.

The woman still wants to press
charges, according to police. Sgt. E.W.
Straub says the woman wants to con-
tinue to pursue the case.

“She wishes to press charges as
soon as we arrest whoever is respon-
sible,” said Straub.

Police say they have no leads but
they will continue the investigation as
long as possible.

“I assure you that we’re not going to
give up on this case,” said Beard. “We
will continue to pursue any leads we

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Associate Editor

Sunday’s Child store.

cided to appeal.”

ceny charge.

Washington and Lee sophomore Mary Flowers
was convicted of one count of petty larceny (theft)
Tuesday. Flowers’ attorney, David Natkin, immedi-
ately filed an appeal of the verdict.

General District Court Judge Joseph E. Hess
sentenced,F_l_owers to two days in jail, as well as a
$25 fine, after convicting her of stealing two pack-
ages of glow-in-the-dark star stickers and a laser-
disk, spinning top from the

Sunday’s Child owner Lucia
Owens was pleased with the guilty
verdict, but not with the appeal.

“We’re very glad to hear it,”
Owens said. “I thought it would
be over [now], but they have de-

Natkin repeated his belief that
his client is innocent of the lar-

“We maintain her [Flowers’]

Spring term means plenty of activity for these freshmen, following Washington and Lee
. tradition by spending all of their waking hours in the sun. But the weather will take a colder
turn this weekend, so don’t forget where you put those winter coats.

absolute innocence, and we look
forward to clearing her name,”
Natkin said.

Throughout the case Flowers
has maintained that she was sick
in the room on the day of the theft,

and did not steal the items from Sunday’s Child. She
says that she is a victim of mistaken identity.

In previous statements Sunday’s Child employee
Leslie Hoke said that when the store’s security
system went off as a woman left the store, she asked
to check the woman’s coat. She says the woman then

 

Flowers

come across.”

Young told thePhi that anyone who
has information about the alleged as-
sault should -call Washington and Lee
security at 463-8427 or Lexington po-
lice at 463-2112.

Editor ’s Note: The policy of The
Ring-tum Phi when reporting rape
cases is to withhold the names of both
the accuser and the accused until after
a trial. '

If the accused is found guilty the
name will then be published. In this
case, neither name has been released
by the police or security.

‘ Flowers convicted,
but appeals verdict

Hoke says the woman identified herself as “Mary
Stuart,” and said she was 16 years old.

As Hoke called the police, the woman ﬂed the
store and Owens chased her until she lost her near
St. Patrick’s Church.

Owens called the local high schools asking for
Mary Stuart, but was told there was no student by
that name. Owens then received a call from a W&L
student, who wished to remain anonymous, who
said she had witnessed what had happened. She
identiﬁed Flowers, and Owens and Hoke then iden-
tified Flowers from old newspaper photos as the
person who had been in the store.

Flowers’ appeal is based on a
violation_of due process; she claims
that a Sunday’s Child employee was
shown her picture before she saw a
line-up of women, which included
Flowers.

In previous statements Flowers
said she was in her room the whole
day, sick, and studying for an exam
and could not have been at
Sunday’s Child.

“The fact is that it r.sts on what
somebody says about me. It’s my
word against theirs,” she said.

When contacted after the ver-
dict, Flowers said she had been ad-
vised by her attorney not to make
any statements.

Flowers’ roommate Colleen Thompson testified

Committee rejects Peck’s appeal

P'rofessor says her “views were just too radical for the good ole boys.”

By NANCY PAVLOVIC
Special to the Phi

Eight months after not renew-
ing her contract, four months af-
ter her petition was filed, and

thirty-two days after the

President’s Advisory Commit-
tee announced its decision, En-
glish Professor Demaree Peck
ﬁryilly knew where she stood: in
the cold. .

“I realize that the wagons have
been drawn into a circle and as
much as I would like to continue

 

ations by faculty who had visited
her class, 21 letters which were
solicited by the department from
111 former students, as well as
three published articles and sev-
eral chapters from her book on
Willa Cather.

Peck decided to appeal the
decision after learning the Ameri-
can Association of University
Professors, the AAUP, stipulates

» a committee composed of elected

faculty members should hear case
in which a “faculty member chal-

lenges negative decisions be- ‘

cause of inadequate consideration

teaching at Wash- or more
ington and Lee, I substantial
re lizethatwillnot . consider-
b — ssibleby pur— ation Such
suing any internal as discrimi-
appeals,” Peck nation or
said. denial of
Peck, who academic
joined the faculty freedom.”
in 1988 as an in- T h 8
stiQictorinEnglish, President’s
began a four-year Advisory
probationary pe- Committee
riod for a tenure was chosen
track position’ in to hear the
the department the peck appeal since
following fall. it most

Cﬁididates for a tenured posi-
tion must complete a six—year
probationary period before be-
ing considered. Peck would have
been considered for a tenured
position in 1994-95.

However. the English depart-
mtnt decided May 14, 1993 to
cut short her probationary period
after reviewing a portfolio of
materials which included evalu-

closely resembles the committee

- suggested by AAUP guidelines.

The committee, composed of six
elected faculty members, reached
a decision in the case January 7.
The committee’s decision was
two-fold;while claiming the pro-
cess was not inadequate, they
also unanimously recommended
the English department explain
fully their decision to not renew

Peck’s contract to her. This an-
nouncement left both the English
department and Peck claiming
partial victories.

“Theoretically when the ad-
visory committee told the En-
glish department it had to give
me an explanation, the appeals
process could ‘still be going on,”
Peck said. “I could have asked
for reconsideration again.”

However, a week after the
committee’s decision was an-
nounced, Peck received a letter
from President John D. Wilson.
The letter, sent to her and her
legal counsel, “basically sup-
ported he English department’s
decision.” Peck said she was
surprised to receive the letter and
could not understand “on what
basis he was agreeing with the
English department since they
had not written anything.”

“The letter certainly deterio-
rated my belief in the appeals
process,” she said. “It made it
appear that it was a foregone
conclusion that the English de-
partment would be vindicated.”

Peck said the letter from Wil-
son rejected any proposals for
compromise and claimed “the
decision was fairly arrived at and
that my reappointment would not
be in the best interest of the uni-
versity or the students.”

“My voice and academic free-
dom have been violated,” Peck
said. “It seems my views were
just too radical for the good ole
boys at Washington and Lee and
that is why I have been exiled
from the kingdom.”

It would be more than3weeks
before she would hear from the
English department. Aletter from
the department, explaining the
reasons for her dismissal, arrived
on Feb. 8. Peck however was not
satisfied with the letter’s expla-
nation. ’

“It reads as an unconvincing
laundry list of vague and inco-
herent assertions without any
documented factual details, sup-
port, or apparent source,” she
said. “It is_ evident that the letter
is designed to distract from the
real reasons which are too preju-
dicial to be stated directly.”

English department head
Edwin D. Craun refused to dis-
cuss the contents of the letter or
reasons for Peck’s dismissal.

“The reasons were to be given
to her,” he said. Even the advi-
sory committee, the dean [John
W. Elrod] and the president have
not seen them. This is a private
personnel matter.”

All eight members of the En-
glish department had signed the
letter sent to Peck, Craun said but
would not comment further cit-
ing the possibility for breach of
confidentiality. English profes-
sor Robert Huntley raised con-
cerns about the manner in which
confidentiality has been used.

“The difficulty with the edict
of confidentiality is that it gets in
the way of another equally im-
portant principle, that of account-
ability,” he said.

I» See PECK page 5

admitted to stealing the items and she offered to pay
for them. Hoke then called Owens, who arrived
shortly afterwards.

V appeal.

at the trial and says she will be a part of the appeal
process.
“I still believe she is innocent,” Thompson said.
Executive Committee President Kevin Webb
declined to comment about the possible honor vio-
lation ramifications of Flowers’ conviction and

Flowers’ appeal is scheduled to be heard in

Lexington Circuit Court on May 25.

Winter Term GPAS

Chi-O
Lambda Chi
KA

All Sorority
Theta

All Women
Kappa

Pi Beta Phi
Non-Sorority
' PiKA
All Students
Sig Ep

Chi Psi
Non-Fratemity
Pi Kappa Phi
Phi Delt

All Men

All Fraternity
Kappa Sig
SAE

Phi Psi

FIJI

Sigma Chi
Sigma Nu
Phi Kap
Beta

Delt

0.5 1 1.5

3.206
3.

.135

3.117
3. 09

3 .086
3.067
3.05

988

963
93 1

928
904

2.5 3 3.5

PC

 

PAGE 2

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

The World  

Israeli militia attacked in
South Lebanon, killing 4

Muslim guerrillas attacked Israeli militia in South Leba-
non Wednesday. The battles killed three Lebanese villages

and wounded four. Hezbollah and allied Palestinian groups
have vowed the peace process between Israel and Palestine.

Israel, PLO agree to power

transfer in Gaza, Jericho

Israel and the Palestine Liberation Organization agreed
Wednesday to transfer power of the Gaza Strip and Jericho to
Palestinians. The agreement follows six months of talks
between Israel and Palestine. Leaders of both nations feel the
agreement marks the end of the peace process.

Serbs attack Gorazde, despite
truce, killing 44 people

Bosnian Serbs shelled a Gorazde hospital Wednesday.
The Serbs defied the United Nations by shelling Gorazde
after promising truces. At least 44 people were killed
Wednesday. Serb leaders claim they were responding to
Muslim attacks from Gorazde. 1

North Korea may allow nuclear
inspectors to visit reactor

North Korea may be‘ r’eady;W'ithinfweeks to remdve‘ pluto-
nium from its nuclear ieactor. ' The plutonium would be
enough to build four or five nuclear weapons. North Korea
has suggested it will permit international inspectors to moni-
tor the refueling so there is no diversion of plutonium fuel that
could go to build nuclear weapons.

The Nation

Rodney King awarded $3.8
million in police settlement

Jurors ordered the city of Los Angeles to pay Rodney King
$3.8 million in compensatory damages Tuesday. The dam-
ages include medical bills, pain and suffering, and the loss of
earnings from King’s 1991 beating by four police officers.
Starting Thursday, the jury will decide whether the police-
men involved should be ordered to pay punitive damages.

Nixon suffers stroke, partially
paralyzed and unable to speak

Former President Richard Nixon suffered a stroke Mon-
day that has left him partially paralyzed and unable to speak.
The New York hospital where Nixon is being treated has
been inundated with phone calls and well wishes from
American citizens and heads of state. Nixon has not been put
on a respirator, in accordance with his instructions.

Endeavour rerouted to landing
in Mojave Desert, California

Bad weather at Cape Canaveral, Florida, forced a detour
for the space shuttle Endeavour. The shuttle landed instead
in the Mojave Desert. The crew, over the 11-day ﬂight,
mapped 12% of the Earth’s surface. The data will be used to
create three-dimensional maps.

Testimony begins in Kevorkian
assisted-suicide trial

Testimony began Thursday in the Jack Kevorkian trial.
Kevorkian is charged with violating the ban on assisted
suicide in Michigan when he helped a man with Lou Gehrig’s
disease die last August. The retired pathologist has assisted
20 deaths since 1990, but this is the first for which he has
stood trial.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Emily Baker.

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Associate Editor

Two Virginia Military Institute ca- .

dets were arrested April 15 on one charge
of grand larceny each. The alleged theft
occurred in Blacksburg on April 11.

Cadets Erik Reynolds and Michael
Cammarasana were arrested on VMI
property by Lexington police and were
later released on a personal recogni-
zance bond, according to VMI Director
of Public Relations Mike Strickler.

Lt. Walter Mosby of the Blacksburg
Police Department said that the two

Cadets arrested, charged in theft

cadets were seen carrying a large
speaker box through a municipal park-
ing lot in downtown Blacksburg. Mosby
said that the two put down the object
when they saw the police.

According to" the police report, of-
ﬁcers then questioned the cadets about
where the speaker came from. The ca-
dets were released when the police
could not conclude if the speaker had
been stolen.

After the cadets had left, the police
determined that the speaker had been
taken from a car parked in the parking
lot. Police then obtained warrants for
the cadets’ arrest.

If convicted of the felony charges,

.3

the cadets face not less than one year
but not more than 20 in prison, or at the
discretion of the judge and jury a term
not exceeding 12 months in prison and
not more than a $2,500 fine.

Both cadets declined to comment
on the charges against them.

According to Strickler, if convicted,
the cadets could face punishment from
VMI also.

“If they were to be convicted, it is a
good chance that their cadetship would
be subject to termination,” Strickler
said. The cadets could resign from VMI,
be dismissed by the VMI honor court,
or be dismissed by VMI Superinten-
dent Gen. John W. Knapp.

Court justice to spend
week at law school

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Elizabeth B. Lacy, the first woman named to the

Gunn to
speak on
economics

in- _ ,'1

     
    
   
   
    
  
   
 
  

Both Reynolds and CammarOsan"1"7

are scheduled to appear in court 0
June 2.

In other VMI news, former cade
Michael Larry Parker was found guilt’
last Friday of attempted voluntary m = .
slaughter. »

Parker had brandished a weafmn ti
scare cadet Kevin David Price, at
party at an apartment above Domino’
pizza last July.

Partygoers, including Price, ha‘
taunted Parker during the party, and h
reacted by pulling out a .38 calibe
pistol and threatening to shoot Pgice.

Parker faces a sentence of up to fiv
years in prison and a $2,500 ﬁne.

 

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Professor John M. Gunn will deliver th

  
  

Virginia Supreme Court, will be judge-in—residence
at the law school for the week beginning Monday,
April 18.

During her residency at W&L, Justice Lacy will
meet with students in the law courses of Jurispru-
dence, The Lawyer’s Role, Criminal Procedure,
Evidence, and other classes at the law school.

Justice Lacy’s visit is sponsored by the Frances
Lewis Law Center, the research am of the law
school. The Law Center’s Judge-in-Residence Pro-
gram annually brings to the campus a prominent

jurist to interact with faculty and students. The most
recent jud ge-in-residence was Justice Leander Shaw
of the Florida Supreme Court, a former Lexington
resident. '

Justice Lacy was appointed to the Virginia Su-
preme Court in January 1989. Prior to that appoint-
ment, she was a judge on the Virginia State Corpo-
ration Commission, an independent regulatory
agency, and Deputy Attorney General in the Judi-
cial Affairs Division of the Virginia Office of the
Attorney General.

Justice Lacy was the commencement speaker
for the law school’s graduation last spring. She was
the university’s ﬁrstwoman commencement speaker
in the 139-year history of the law school.

year’s second in a series of inaugural lectur
by recently appointed endowed professors z
the university. ‘

Gunn’s lecture, “Can Economics B0 B0
Relevant and Good?” will be presented Mo
day, April 25, at 7:30 p.m. in the North
Auditorium. The lecture is open to the public.
reception will follow in the lobby.

Gunn began his undergraduate studies -
Washington and Lee.Afterserving in thearm -
forces he completed his B.S. degree at (Borg
Institute of Technology in 1949 and in 19
received an M.A. degree from Princeton U
versity. He held appointments in the interr'
tional ﬁnance section at Princeton and on t
faculty of Florida State University before jo
ing the W&L faculty in 1957.

Gunn is the co-author of two survgys «
international ﬁnance published by Princet
University Press and has testified before Co ~
gress concerning the United States balance
payments and on reform of health-care ﬁnanc

Gunn has developed a working relationsh
between the W&L economics department a

 
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
  

 

Elizabeth B. Lacy

   
  

the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmon
He is also a member of the board of dr cto

Mentally Ill.

Law school

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor '

Washington and Lee University
School of Law graced the cover of the
most recent issue of The National Ju-
rist magazine, which reported that
W&L was the first in the nation in law
student satisfaction.

A student survey conducted by the
Princeton Review and The National
Jurist , based upon the comments of
18,000 students at 165 law schools
nationwide, found that‘W&L Law
ranked in the top ﬁve for each of the
three categories.

W&L ranked first in quality of life
and third in quality of facilities and
quality of faculty.

The April/May 1994 issue of the
magazine featured a picture of an uni-
dentiﬁed women who is not a W&L
student wearing a W&L hat and W&L
Law sweatshirt under the headline,
“The Best Law Schools.”

Some law students said they did not
take the ranking seriously, partly be-
cause more prestigious schools ranked

very low. Harvard Law, a perennial _

top-five in US News & World Report,
was ranked 154th of 165 schools.

J .D. Lowry, editor of the W&LLaw
News, remarked in her editorial space
that the National Jurist was weird.

“I find the US News survey a lot
more compelling than the one in this
month’s National Jurist, one of
those...free magazines “for the Future
Lawyer” that show up around the snack
lounge from time to time,” said Lowry
in her editorial. “I heard someone char-
acterize these results as, ‘Gee, we have
the bestest faculty in the whole wide
world!’ Give me US News.”

Randall Bezanson, dean of the law
school, said that he did not discount the
survey results for what they purported
to be.

“I don’t think it isa good measure
of -academic quality or national repu-
tation,” said Bezanson. “But I think
it’s a good reﬂection of student
satisfaction.”

He added that a more accurate pic-
ture could be drawn for the prospective

_ student by combining survey results in

some form.

“The best measure of our overall
quality would be a composite of the US
News and World Report and The Na-
tional Jurist/ Princeton Review
rankings,” the dean said.

Though the law school is ranked
well nationally by more technical de-
terminants, it could not be considered
as the best in the country, Bezanson
said. I
The W&L law school was ranked
as the 19th most selective school by the
Princeton Review Student Access

1

and ofﬁcer of the National Alliance of t

1 in Jurist surve  

Guide to the BestLaw Schools, and as the
22nd best law school in the US News &
World Report issue listing “America’s
Best Graduate Schools.”

The Jurist article called W&L a “tiny
law school” and commented on the strong
sense of community and the honor sys-
tem of the law school.

The article included comments taken
from students’ questionnaires. Third year
student Patricia McNemey felt that W&L
law students were not as competitive as
at other students.

“It’s a friendly environment,”
McNemey said. ‘‘I certainly think stu-
dents want to do well  but I don’t get the
feeling they’re out to get each other.” .

The article admitted that “measuring
student satisfaction is, by nature, a sub-
jective endeavor.” It went on to deter-
mine a very technical distribution of point
totals from a base of 1 1 questions in three
categories; quality of life, faculty and
facilities.

Though the survey results are, as
Lowry commented, the “talk of the town,”
they are not being taken as the bible for
entering students who will probably never
see the survey.

“The National Jurist results are re-

markably facile,” Lowry said.

How would you rate the relations between

faculty and students?

1. Washington & Lee - 3.53

2. Washbum Univ. - 3.46
3. Vanderbilt - 3.35

How would you rate the facilities?
1. Washington & Lee - 3.67

2. Willamette Univ. - 3.61

3. Univ. of Missouri - 3.60

Q

Do you agree that there is a strong sense of
community among the students? A
1. Univ. Cal., Davis - 3.28
2. Washington & Lee - 3.20

3. Notre Dame - 3.17

Southwestern

Univ. Of Toledo

South Texas

Univ. of Washington

Yale

Brigham Young

Univ of Arkansas, Little Rock
Univ. of Wyoming

Univ. of Cincinnati

.9
.93
.6

.3

.26
.15
.73

10 .20 30 40 50

44
65

.46
1

.3

.34

99

60 70

80

Washington and Lee 4 78.37
Seton Hall 76

Notre Dame .15 75-71

Univ. of Texas .01 75.46
Washbum Univ. 1 75.17
USC 43 75.02

73.19
73.
72.
72.46
72.3
72.25

 
  
  
   

71 .75

71.66
90

  

PC

Total points gathered from 'eleven questions out of 100%, faculty (36%), facilities.
(30%), and quality of life (34%). Totals given at the end of the rows.

 

I faculty

Facilities

I Quality of life ’

 

  
   
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
  

he Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1994 Z  PAGE 3
:'

he Division Bell ushers in next wave of Pink Floyd

Barrett songs,most notably “Fat name Pink Floyd.

Old Sun” and “The Narrow The guitar work in “Lost for Words,” “Com-

Way,” as well as nearly all of ing Back to Life, “ and “Poles Apart” make

the songs off of his first two these three of the best numbers on the album.

solos and Momentary Lapse. “What Do You Want From Me” and “Take
The main thrust behind his it Back” also carry -their weight more than

new songs, though, lies clearly adequately.

within the music. The high point of the album arrives with the

show Waters that the remaining
members of the band could sell
albums without him. The record
sold like mad.
The new album, which Waters
When I first heard that Pink Floyd had a new once again has nothing to do with,
um coming out, I was more than a little projects a different message than
eptical. its predecessor.

BY MARK MCDANNALD
Special to the Phi

I didn’t know if Roger Waters would be Mason, Wright, and Gilmour The 1YTies are see°nd31'Y- last song: “High H°Pes-”
joining the crew or if David Gilmour was seemed to make this most recent AndnsWhenR°Se1’Wnterst°°k The hells atthe beginning Ofthis numbefnre
ply making his fourth solo album. album, The Division Bell, with a control after Syd Barrett could reminiscent of “Fat Old Sun” off of the 1970

no longer perform, Gilmour AtomHeartMotherandthebirdandbugsounds,
guides the band inanew direc- although nearly unnoticable, would ‘bring
tion after taking Pink Floyd memories of 1969’s Ummagumma to most true

Ncﬁv, I’m not saying that Gilmour’s music is less commercial approach than they
b-par. His first solo effort, David Gilmour, did Momentary Lapse. They re-
d his second,About Face, are quite respect- turn to their roots and make music

lelalbums. they truly want to, and the result is nnln watens-. . Fl°Yd.fnns~
His third, Momentary Lapse ofReason, has ' an exceptional album. _ The DWISIO" Be” 1s ens)’ to “High H°Pes” noes nothing but Praise the
ver found a place in my listening library. The music does not sound any- hsten t0~ _ _ former WOFKS that 1tC0mmemel'ateS.
Whether it be the two placid The Division Bell looks on the surface like

Despite the fact that this album has the thing like the mid-sixties hypnotic
me Rink Floyd on it, I would argue that it is progressions of Syd Barrett or the
solo. 1 powerfully lyrical and conceptual
Drummer Nick Mason and keyboardist Ri- late seventies/early eighties of
ard Wright had been relatively inactive mu- Roger Waters.

Gimour/Wright instrumentals an old Floyd album.

or one of the acoustically driven The cover is once again designed by Storm

pieces, the album sounds good. Thorgerson who created all but two of the
And even during the songs Floyd covers with his company, Hipgnosis.

"ally during the years since TheFinalCu1was " You’ll also find no connection powered by Gilmour’s electric Every so often, you might hear something
leased in 1983°and Wright hasn’t been with between this album and those of gnnars the album remnlns re‘ that isinhenenny F1°Yd- Bntnsawholes thisls
markably mellow. an entirely new album with a new sound.

e band since Animals in 1977. the early seventies such as Meddle,
Fo Momentary Lapse and the following Atom Heart Mother, Dark Side of
ur, ason and Wright contributed minimally. the Moon, and Wish You Were
either wrote any of the lyrics or music and the Here.

Only two of the eleven songs It is a sound, though, that has my full atten-
don’t receive recurrant air time tion.
on my stereo, one being the The hour long CD is well worth the $15,
Richard Wright piece “Wear— even to the skeptical and die hard Roger Waters

- o played only a fraction of the time. They The Division Bell truly ushers _ _

emed to be present only to legitimize the in the next wave of Floyd, the Gilmour age. average lyric writing ablility which is not en- mg the Inslde Out” and the Other, S0IneWhat fans-

me that Gilmour wanted to put on his record. As always, Gilmour’s guitar play is tirely natural but not exactly foreign. annoying “Keel? Talking-” If YOU like Gihn0llf’S Ab0llf F1109, y0u’ll
emain purpose of the album was probably to extrordinary, and he mixes this well with his He did write a small portion of the post—Svd The Test Of the Songs are deserving Of the like The Division Bell.

truction underway

BY DEBORAH ZOLLMANN
Phi Staff Writer

   'ds' Playce cons

After one and a half years of planning, the construction
of Kids’ Playce is well underway.

Judy Morgan, one of the coordinators and head of Public
Relations, says that things are going “pretty well.” More
people are needed to help keep things running smoothly and
to endure playground completion by the deadline. Ma-
chines‘ have been breaking on the site but repairs are being
made immediately.

So far $60,000 has been raised to fund the playground.
At least $15,000 more is needed. The parents of Washing-
ton and Lee students have been generous with their dona-
tions.

At a given time there have been about 50 people on the
site but hundreds more are needed. All volunteers are
welcome and encouraged to come out to Brewbaker Field to
help out. Free food will be provided for all workers.

_ 7 Kids’ Playce hassbeen added as an event to Derby Days 7
_ and will be worth 50 points to sororities." Whichever sorority
has the most service hours from Kids’ Place will earn poims.

Susan Dittman is the woman behind the new jungle gyms
and monkey bars. She says that a Kids’ Playce playground
in Alexandria, Virginia was her inspiration. She discovered
it while visiting with family and then Dittman realized that
Lexington’s playground was not sufficient and was ex-
tremely outdated.

“All I did was recognize a great idea,” she said.

   
 
   

'ds' Playce begins to take shape as Washington and Lee and VMI volunteers join to-

; ether to have fun, get exercise, get a tan, eat free food and build a playground. Volun-
eers are welcome through Sunday during 8 a.m.-12 p.m., 12:30-5 p.m. and 5:30-9 p.m. at
trewbaker Park. Childcare will be provided. ~

All photos by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

1 For the W&L Record

On April 21, 1944 The Columns reported that Wash- women as reported by the Phi on April 26, 1984. A
ington and Lee University presented degrees to 13 survey conducted by the W&L sociology department
graduating students on Commencement Day, April 29. showed that while over half the student body opposed

University President Francis Pendleton Gaines was female admission, 80% of faculty were in support of the
the featured speaker at the ceremony in Lee Chapel. prospect.

Baccalaureate Services were held the preceding Sun- Of the students polled, 34% expressed strong opposi-
day, April 23. tion to coeducation, while an additional 19% were some-

Three men graduated with a Bachelor of Law degree, what against it. 66% of the faculty were strongly in favor
six with Bachelor of Arts, three with Bachelor of Sci- of the admission of women and 17% were somewhat

 
 

Bestselling campus paperbacks

$6.99). Violence in L.A. and Montana leads to a confron- ence and one with Bachelor of Science in Commerce. supportive.
, COMPILED FROM STAFF REPORTS tation with something unearthly. TheRing—tum Phi reported on April 18, 1969 that the A participation rate of 84% from students and 85% of
—§ 6. THE TALISMAN OF SAN NARA, by Terry Brooks. Student Affairs Committee unanimously passed a mea- the faculty was noted by Professor David R. Novack and
. (Del Rey, $5.99.) Conclusion to “The Heritage of Sannara” sure permitting female visitation in all dormitories on the eight sociology students conducting the survey.
1. THE CLIENT, by John Grisham. (Island/Dell, series. week-ends. April 20, 1989 the Phi reported that the Washington
$6.99.) Young boy is privy to a lawyer’s deadly secret. 7. THE TAO OF POOH, by Benjamin Hoff. (Penguin, Each dormitory had to designate acceptable week- and Lee baseball team was in the middle of a five game
2. THE PELICAN BRIEF, by John Grishman. (Dell, $9.00) Taosim as seen through A.A. Milne ’-s characters. end hours for female visitation. winning streak, their longest since 1972.
$6.99.) Law student finds herself on the run from killers of 8. THE TEO OF PIGLET, by Benjamin Hoff. (Penguin, While the resolution also allowed liquor in the donni— 1972 was also the last season in which the Generals
two Supreme Court justices. $10.00). Aspects of Taoist philosophy though the eyes of tories, faculty approval had to be garnered for the reso- boasted a winning record.
9. SCHINDLER’S LIST, by Thomas Keneally. (Touch- piglet. lution to become official. Victories in 1989 included Emory and Henry in a
stone, $12.00.) Nazi party member recues Jews in Poland 9. THE WAY THINGS OUGHT TO BE, by Rush 53% of undergraduates opposed the admission of double-header. '
during WWII. Limbaugh. (Pocket Star, $6.50). Controversial issues.
4. JEDI SEARCH, by Kevin J. Anderson. (Spectra/ 10. YOUNG MEN AND FIRE, by Norman Maclean. . .
Bantam, $5.99.) Part one of the “Star Wars” saga. (University of Chicago, $10.95). Story of the catastrophic Complled by JAY WHITE of the Phi Staff

. 5. WINTER MOON, by Dean Koontz. (Ballantine, Montana forest ﬁre in 1949.

 

 

 

W I 9 The Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1994 3

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers
Offil1€ mark by Mark Parisi  by Jeff MacNe1l

-! ws‘
.1 .,

 

 

LEASEUS

        
  
  

EOTHERD
OOR
__::l

W 1:”  

Dave by David Miller 6

DAVE, Tl-ll‘) PLACE Mlél-«IT as i‘ A . 1
T00 TRENW F0? U9-~ AH.’ i-lea JUST A E 
S|GN oF THE ‘mes! (‘ ’  ,,

H y, ,

In-ouullbulv
-. -0.»; mm «min. is

HEB A NATURAL
A11lLETE...HE HITS
LIKE MICHAEL JORDAN.
AND DUNK6 LIKE
LEN DYK$TRA.

  
  

 
 

l9|!lVd IUVW [MIG <lUf'|lVil LMNVII

 

 

  
  
 

      
 

, WAT." You MEAN‘
THAT GuY overt THERE .
m-4 THE PONYTAIL ? t I

   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

A father is always iirst to recognize
greatness in his son. / - "l '\ '

Colonnade Crossword
ACROSS 1 2

‘ Loud noise
3 Spiritual leader 4 ‘5
1 Children
'- “Omnia 7 13

vincit —-"
' Greek epic
~‘ Boast " -
‘ Wit.*tered

Eat and eat and

eat

 
    
  

 
   
  
     
  

  
     

      

3 Cooltdge or
Gam
* Ta nled up __
J C y —-
: Word of """'
contempt
3 Pencil remnant
3 Glutted
3 Item for a
dressrnaker '
3 Thrown for —— V
1 Larcen)’   
3 Govt. org,
3. Bits oi fluff  7  
‘ A flower ‘
3 Resound by Mike Peters  
3 -‘ L7-1"-C0ln @1994 lb-une Me-.1: emces. inc.
7 Use with A" I *5 R959” Last week’s puzzle solved
another
1 Leggy creature 6 Bitter drug
 Reveal 7 Cageling , ‘r
1 Lets 8 Satchel ' ...,zmEDc°U
3 Clair de —— 9 Recognize """"unt
3 Duds cousin 10 Scours :
Slllusion 11 New: abbr.
‘ One way to 12 Part of no. ’
order dinner 13 Hit ‘ A
-3 Smell 21 Foam
 Eagles weapon 23 Eject
5 —- avis 25 Mise en —
9 — r‘a;asty (stage setting) I'LL HAVE \ g , \ Mm
3 NeV"*0-"‘ 0" 25 Die‘e”5 dish FROM MAINE THIS SOMETHING THAT ‘
Asimov 27 Form 0* MORNING. TOOK THE BUS.
1 At any time defense, in
2 A direction court E
3 Class 28 Musical sounds Q ' I
1 be rved 29 oastline ‘T
O 8 30 gacitic "3/W9‘ ‘S
DOWN 31 Laughing _, 1‘
l lgnoble 32 Retail events;{_v ;_4_\3__l_,-fted wine 51 Oh. woe‘ 
E You said it!" 34 Tantalize~ ;'-  -‘.6 Soda ’ k‘s  52‘§p.eak.w:th g
3 Standard 37 Of speech creat ' , enthusiasm .
5. Most sounds 47 Spear 53 Ash, e.g. .5;
inexperienced 38 Gets ready 48 Digging animal 54 Make E
5 Kind of wing or 40 Hit 49 Notion 57 Ha —-
angle 41 Gator relative 50 Betsy or Diana lar   .

   

   
   
 
  
   
  
  

 

   

    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    

Summreir Camp Staff Needed, L A t f R t ¢
charioiiessiiitac, 8:3 ﬁizl1n<:p1’8-Sept. 4 bath, w2iPs£i1letrII‘8:IdrO3/El, s§):ril71<; included. “((67 ea‘e”“w’ r For Rent \
2, Monday—Friday. Room and 6SW6StO t0W’Il. y p61‘ OOII1. Tw B d A rt t f W
B;1‘§‘oil“::§3:2’2§::333Zf:;E?:;;?S ‘“q““““““”C°'“°r4‘3'5‘52 —~ow snow:ng—— K ° ° r33ii‘26‘1?38'=i3»e3ft35r7°3ni°m J
ﬂ ' j . Daily 7a:2()s8ta9g5°|:|atgdsPG-13
Raad A artment fol‘ Rent S;‘?‘¢o‘f‘;°';‘;3'tl,%?'3i=,'§ffn*?’ TROY’S LAWN SERVICE: Lawn
Catering to W&L students. Two on Deadly Ground Mowing, Trimming, Hedge Cutting,
h - bedroom apartment for rent in 3:-tilY&%120F;-{£5 & gggedg Hauling Away Anything. Free
t 6 P hl, downtown Lexington, just a very T——————h‘.  ‘Up .'|.h';I_'. Estimates. Will service fraternities, J
. , short walk from the W&L campus. Daily7:00 pm. _4ge7.:_ioi(=)e AVO1d Landlord Fees. Have your lawn
It S fI'6Sh€1’, $325 per month, furnished. Sa’~&S“;:1"5_',‘;92 " "'"“ cut oveg tlﬁ §ugrg11er.6 Call Tr(1)(3; E.
nawal-’ and —Furn1shed nicely, T.V. T t32,5Bee,,,,Ave_,3ue,,avis,y B3119 (70 ) ' a-m- '_' DJ“-
f at —GreatLocat1on at
IIIOIC sa 6 y —Land10rd pays forwater, _ _ _ _
Concious including hot water Llmlted Seating Available
If interested, please call property for
than CV61‘ manager, Mrs. Brown, daytime .
befm’ iiiéigiii-3533ghtmweekends’ 
1 all 11 am ~
owls (ii ‘B One phone  to . 4
(fl &$ Cabbages & Kmgs W111 take
‘ts care of the gift, card & shipping Reserve VOUI’ ‘L
(ff (ofco1u'seifyouhaveﬁnf:eo, consjbyghgaoshop)  now!
Gift baskets, gift bags, or mugs m to 1
(individual items from s .45) C3" 463'3000
Choose one of our themes or create your own . . ,

May 18, 20, 22, & 24 at 8:00 p.m.

 

‘ Ch h H E Kit _

. Te:cI_om(,)erc.s Cy Keller Theatre - Lenfest Center

: Chef Mm‘? directed by J.D. Martinez

Mama M13 musical direction by Gordon Spice ‘ j .,

" Snacker’s Kaleidoscope 7 E. Washington St & a

‘ Garden-9143 B33 Music & Theatre M

(in the Stlxiio shop: across
 non the stonewall Jackson House) at Washington and Lee

j ,.
& "”"""l'1.-"‘

  

 

 

 

A Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1994

   
  
   
  
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
 

'6' ECK, from page 1

L’ eck said she has reason to believe
exﬂanation put forth by the En-
h department does not give the real
ons for her dismissal.

"I have good evidence that there is
ther reason. The decision was trans-
ent to me without this letter,” she
. “They fault me for not being
egiﬂ, they say I talk too much at the
lish department meetings. What
. reveals is for the English, collegi-
y comes before competence.”
Peck said her teaching ability and
port with students were also called
a question and cited as reasons for

dls issal.
“Enhlmerated in one small para-
h, they portray me as being dog-
c and close-minded in the class-
m. They claim that I do not listen to
dents with other opinions from
e,” she said. “This is in direct
ﬂict with over 90 percent of student
lluaﬁms which single out my open-

mindedness as a strength. My evalua-
tions have shown that I am an asset to
the department.”

Professors being considered for con-
tract renewal for a tenure-track posi-
tion are evaluated on several grounds,
one of which is collegiality. Academic
citizenship, in-class performance and
student evaluations also play a part in
the decision-making process. Craun
would not verify if collegiality and
student opinion were reasons cited in
the English department’s letter.

Eighteen of the 19 student evalua-
tions submitted for one of Peck’s fall
term classes were entirely positive, cit-
ing numerous strengths including open-
ness to ideas and receptiveness to stu-
dent opinions. One of the 19 evalua-
tions said Peck occasionally pushed
certain ideas. Of those 18 evaluations,
Peck consistently received the highest
marks of excellence for her abilities.
Only one of the 19 evaluations was
entirely negative and gave her average
or below average marks in all catego-
ries except ability to work with stu-

dents and involve them in the class.
The evaluation reﬂects many of the
concerns Peck claims the English de-
partment addressed in their letter of
explanation. For

-eck loses appeal; replacement delayed  

 

PAGE 5

on an appeal based on those grounds.
Peck also has an appeal pending before
the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission based on gender discrimi-

nation which _

this class alone, . she filed in
Peck’s approval early Novem-
ratin is over 94 —--'-— ber of 1993.
percen . n er
gt U d EEOC
“I thought it “They fault me for not guidelines
was really hypo- ‘ ' charges must
critical to justify bang colleglal’ they say I beﬁled within
a political deci- talk 100 much at the 1571- 180- days of
sion as student glishdepa’-t’nent’neetings_ thegrievanoe’s
opinion when occurrence.

student opinion

What this reveals is for the ,

Peck expects

had nothingtodo English, collegiality Comes an investiga-
with this, ” she » tion by the
said. “The En- befom °0’"Pet"""e' EEOC will oc-
glishdepalrtmeng pqur bybearlyé
as a lgne ovem er 0
themselves with this year. ‘

the right-winged five to 10 percent of
the students who want to see me as the
dogmatic liberal female. ”

Peck said she believes her academic
freedom was violated and is working

“The EEOC does not investigate as
a matter of course, but the investigator,
once he heard the facts, thought it ought
to be investigated,” Peck said.

The English department is not cur-

rently searching for a replacement for
Peck. Professors Severn Duvall and
Huntley are both retiring at the end of
this academic year, leaving the depart-
ment with three vacancies to fill.
Duvall’s position is the only one which
has been filled. Craun said the depart-
ment searches for one replacement a
year. All vacant positions will be ﬁlled
with temporary replacements for next
year.

“We’ll search for a replacement for
Professor Huntley next year. We have
no immediate plans to replace her
[Peck],” Craun said. “The year after,
we will search for a replacement for
Professor Peck, unless she has already
been reinstated or something by then.”

Although Peck had said Huntley
was “taking early retirement over the
whole thing,” Huntley said he became
eligible to retire last year. Craun said
Huntley had planed to teach part—time
for awhile. but decided “to retire right
out.” Huntley said his decision to retire
now and not continue teaching were
due to a change in circumstances.

“My decision to retire is in no way
related to Professor Peck’s case al-
though a lot of people have thought
that,” Huntley said. “God knows I’ve
had my differences with the depart-
ment before but it [retiring] wasn’t
over this.”

Peck said she is currently looking
into other possibilities for next year but
is not hopeful of finding a position this
late in the job search process. Peck
plans to continue teaching although
she no longer retains the salne ideals
and innocence as when she first began.

“I am not as naive as I was when I
first took this job. This process has
shown me that I believed in some myths
about academia which were not true. I
believed merit was rewarded and I with
my strong credentials and excellent
education, would be able to advance
through the system here,” she said.
“What I learned was the rewards are
not given on the basis of merit at all but
if you are in the right place at the right
time and if you court the right people in
power. ”

Bored with your classes? Looking for something to do with those five day weekends? Tired of Goshen? (Who
pould be tired of Goshen?) Well if you’re looking for some excitement in your life, come work for the Phi! We
are always looking for new reporters for sports, news and features. Call Sarah Gilbert or Phil Carrott at
462-4060 or 462-4059. Or drop by our weekly Tuesday night meeting at 7 p.m. in University Center 208.

(We’re up the stairs across from the old Sigma Chi house.)

    
   

Furnished Living Room/Bedroom combination.

Private Bath. 10-month lease. Singles only. Student RemalSAvaIlable for

1994-95 school year , .
City: 701 N. Main St. 3 Br/2 bath, $700/month I
124 N. Main St. 4 Br/2 bath, $800/month.
Country: 4 Br/2 bath, $800/month.

_Valley

7/Yaw’?/was

HARDWARE STORES 5'

Within walking‘ distance from campus.
Call 463-3835. .

     
   
  
  
   
   
    
    
   
   
    

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

For Rent: One room efficiences, downtown
Lexington - $180/ month and Brick duplex on Reed
Street 2 BR, AC, offstreet parking, walking
distance to W&L $475 a month available June.
Call 464-9218.

. W
W.  §?Rlll[lllllEl!l!  mﬂfﬂllﬁlllllli ;yy._‘_i.f§'  
 gﬂlptllmitn El![tait§t?Ehtitta * ff’

4'54--I474 .
Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes

}1'mk"ﬂ"3i" D 'l s ' 1 24H AD B kf t
_ ’ . _ _ a1 y pecla s- our- - ay rea as
Friday, Aprll 22- Eric Hemsohn Meals That Cater to BigAppetites

Saturday, April 23- Third Ear  

Call Mrs. Strecker 463-7168

Qpen Mon.— Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

 

. Apartments for Rent

2 Bedrﬁcms  
$200-$270 per”‘niorith 
' Cal 463-1521

 
  
     

 

   
  
  
  

  

   

GIVE US TIME TO REPAY Tuesday’ AP“12"' 9 0 M"“““s?.i‘.‘.l’:;’a3.f“.i%f‘aiSp1.l.""”'“‘“"’“'
Beer Tasting 7-8:30 p.m. Rt. 11 North 463-3478 On 24 Hours
 AN I \ Wednesday, April 27-Radim Zenlzi J A

Aft . t ﬂlr _ QIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIlllllllllllllllllIlllllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllllIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIE

er ]U.S 68 years 111 § , _

th‘eArmY, your college loan I  Storage NOW Opﬂll E New Releases 05

Could be a thing of the past. ‘ _ g Available Now — Neville Brothers Live, §

Under the Army's Loan Reserve your unlt now for summer months § Jackopierce Bringing 0n the Weather. E

Repayment program. each , while available.  AW“ 3? me £"'i‘0'l';'ngC0p1-ens g

ti d , , ‘ , g m en 1- x ues,

:'§§f1Zg;‘}f§$";n‘a’;f):e:i’§eS‘;%’y I Excellent location in Downtown Lexington — E s.,.;::..,,.:',.,.,'ls*,; ?:;§ﬂ]:qIg,N:'1,e___, g

. __ one-third or $1,500, whichever Basement °f Dommo S Plzza 3 Ma 3 — A11rn:: nyr-otlxr-s — Wner-e1et'Au Begins, 5

_= ‘ amount is greater, up to a Catering to W&L students, walk to storage from g y Augoml Kiowa.‘ screaming E

355900 mm‘ campus in 2 minutes. § Soulhat 60011 17» Be Gan. E

This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans E '11- =

. bl 1 t b th _ attic Far From Home. 5

an.d certain other federally insured loans which are not reason; 6 08w ra es; y men 1 or year‘ E May 10 - Indigo Girls swamp opneua, g
in default. pen a.m. - p.m. dai y, E Sonic Youth Experimental Jet Set, ,
And this is just the ﬁrst of many beneﬁts the Army by appointment on Saturday § Pretenders L85‘ Independents '

\I7{i1l givte you. Getthe whole story ﬁom yourArmy Sizes from 4,X8, to 8,X12, g G E
ecrul er. - _: g
 NIGHT OWL MUSIC CO. 5

0    3 '2 1  F Call Mrs. Brown‘, property manager g r g

. a 25 S. Jefferson 464-4050

CM ASs°°‘“‘°s ' 4633013  0114311 11 a in ‘til 7 p in Monday - Friday §

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE? anersp.m.<7os>9s4-9402  s.i...a..yn.......-a....... ’ 
alllllllllllllllllllIlllllllllllllllllIIIllllllllllllllllllﬂlllllIIIIIIIIllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIllllIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllﬂ

Wellness at W&L-
The Mood/Food/Work-out Co%nection

...-~—,, 1
. A/,' in
r’

‘ c

 
    

     
     
 

. . 
&7-a t»

Marlene Boskind-White, Ph.D.
National Expert on Eating Disorders

 
  
     

~ Materials considered by_lhe English depart-
ment included Peck‘: published work. her un-

By SARAH Gum

   
  

"“""“"*‘“  .lolmware,Ms.
an ‘M ‘member’ ‘mod “Ono mm“: me P.“ udamc ye", open mien Exercise Physiologist
~  . . .-_~ _;p 1 . I .. ......l.-
Pat Young, MS., RD.

Registered Dietician

Monday, April 25, 1994, 8 p.m.

Everyone Invited! Large Gym Everyone Invited!

    

 

      

nAGi«: 6 The Rigigium Phi, April 22, 1994: I

OPINION

@112 Bing-mm lﬂlii
The Student Voice of Washington and Lee I ‘ ‘ti.

Founded September 18, 1897

Hello...

Every ear with the beginning of sprin term, The Ring-
tum Phi c anges its staff with the seasons. he seniors have
left for care- ree Thursday nights at the Palms and we are
learning the ropes_ in the low- ressure spring term environ-
ment. you notice the sta box below, other than the
absence of the retiring seniors, little personnel change has

occured. So welcome to the new staff and we hope you

enjoy our early attempts. And please bear with us, we have

to practice sometime.

:3 rims“ 7 ‘*1
9  u

Ablow to Leeshonor , “ ,.o,..,._-.i. T’

is.“ I'M \AMr“'ir~‘¢ir

II

The recent conviction of Mary Flowers brings several . ca

r'"----—-«--—-—-4-«-«—~u.—._..~........_...-...,.--,_,_._-__, _ M___._M_____,_‘_m_,_M__ 

uneasy honor system uestions to li ht. _
’s Child store

In this issue, the w ole case of unday
against Flowers rested on the word‘ of the owner and an
em loyee, against the word of Flowers and two of her W&L
stu ent friends.

Several questions arise; firstly, can the W&L honor
s stem peacefully coexist with the Lexington legal system?

he law of the land is, of course, the last word in eve legal
sense,_ but it pains us tosee the sworn testimony 0 three
Washington and Lee students utterly disregarded in favor
of the memory an employee and the store owner have of a
certain face they saw several months ago.

The due gtrocess complications which stem «from the
anonymous &L student phone call which prompted Lucia
_Owens and Leslie Hoke to look through photographs to
identify Flowers are another matter, but they also provide
seemingly airtight appeal grounds for Flowers and her
friends. _ '

The uestion becomes, why was the word of honor of
three &L students so utterly disregarded by a Lexin ton
judge? Theoretically, Flowers’ conviction could meant ree
stu ents can now be convicted of honor violations for lying,
if the Executive Committee takes the word of a Lexington
Jucrge as law.

owever, anyone who believes in the integrity of the
W&L honor system, as we do, could only believe that
Flowers is innocent. If three students say it is so, it is so.

It does not necessarily follow, either, that the innocence
of Flowers would result in the determination that Hoke and
Owens lied; after all, they are only attemptin to recall a
face and may honestly believe Flowers is the gir who called
herself “Mary Stuart’ last December.

After Flowers’ conviction, we felt the painful realization
that the Washington and Lee honor system is not taken
serrously by the community or at least not nearly as
seri_ously as we take it. It IS in act totally disregarded in the

v To rrgr’ A
9 RE. ems

 

Spring term is essential to W&L life .

It’s Spring Term, and not a minute too soon.

We have the chance ﬁnally to wake from our
winter term hibernation to find the sun shining, only
6 credits of work, and students “sunning” on the hill.

Our thoughts now can turn to
Goshen, Zollman’s, and kegs;

where our thoughts should be.

 

long weekends and keg lines, however. It offers
Washington and Lee students a chance to get to know
each other. Not as “the guy who sits in the back of
philosophy class” but as “the guy I saw at the Dave
Matthews concert.” There is
more to this than a passing
acceptance will yield.

days the suggestion may be taken seriously. Thus
I would like to point out some of the merits of
Spring Term. Many of these have been mentioned
before, but merit further discussion.

Weekends. All of us love them and often live for
them and often don’t live through them. Simply
put, for most of us the weekends are longer; four or
ﬁve days longer for some. Goshen; need I say more.

= - - _ Every now and then, how- Spring term brings us

i-1rE)lgr(r)rnu§1(rjré(r)SOtrrSti}11Cred realm for truth and Justlce’ the Court ever, we hear this voice, C°F' closer together as a univer- The chance, perhaps, to see Professor Smitka in
of course, thereeould be other agendas present that we whether it be_from our inner KUCERA, sityedarenllrsay it, :5 a com‘; shorts alricrla tank tﬁp. Creativity. Each year stnldents
khow nothmg Of; It Could be as awful as racism (ah the self or The Trident, this voice , munity. issoun stritean mirlstrefa enget CmSC11V:lSt0Cl0mC‘t.g) wlrt new
wrthesses for the defense were black) or as Simple as facts tells us that our futures are at comy,but.think of how many an i erent,ways to te t emse ves, utt ese are

set that were not published btl either party stake and goes on and on about new and diffe\r/entpeopre you realZ((:)ll2lisses. I r h f d _ .
r T, I ‘ W&L being one of the best. met at the irginia orse man’s. ts amazing ow ast everyone rives
"N n any Case’ we feel the Onor S Stem has taken a Senous Center this Wednesday. So to get out there, and how slowly they drive back.

to." and upsetting blow. In the best 0

all possible worlds, the

0

s o honor system couldpeacefulry coexist with the lrocal: j ustice
t

‘is. 4 system, but it seems more 0

en than not we are at war.

Academics are important,

no doubt, but ‘because they are so important we
mustn’t lose sight of what spring term is all about,
having fun and drinking beer. This university knows I

much emphasis is placed on the W&L “community.”
Many say fraternities’ pull us apart‘ and immediately .
place a label on us. This may be so, but the alternative

 

 

The concept is foreign to.many of my classmates
from high school attending liberal colleges in north-
ern cities,/a barn in the middle of the country,

 that when days such as those of this past week role of reducing the signifi- surrounded by fields,
‘ . . around, students often don’t, thus they have invented cance of the fraternities ' in which bands come

i spring term. at W&L is not a pleasant to entertainuson aSun-
  Spring term, in a sense, is an appeasement by the one. ‘ C day afternoon Or a
 A far better solution, Monday night. All I

university, “Hey, if ya come to class, we’ll only give

Spring term brings us closer to-

rn o o o . ,, . . . . .
mis it a conspiracy? ¥;i“..§$52.?§f§$$f..‘T.iiT”ii§".",§‘l§J‘;1%§"ZZ§i“‘i%vh£‘§ :.:°.:.‘%::;.:.r;:::§.::::: ,, . . ,,,,,,,, ,., ::*::.:a:...“““
vhr, brings me back to my original point. ties it offers, yet these are ge er as a unfversltyf y _ ’ The Skyline Drive.
3;.” Onct; or twice ayeart‘ Washington and Lee is thrown into Spring term is good for academics because it some of the same people (IS a community. This sounds trite Aslongasypu stay out
73} the national spotlight (at least, so we hope) b those fun ftrrglvyigtrfstrggrgeerrgrttiﬁrisgtrgiffhiriighfrmore rglhrrkgghgygglyfgg and corny, but think of how many ggatiégssygcfggetjjllgrs

Kill‘

student-satisfaction rankings of the Princeton eview.
You will all recall the glorious time a year or so ago when
W&L was named in the top 10 in all sorts of fun cate ories,

Spring term classes...yes, there are some. Most of
the course offerings are meant to enrich. The spring

and World Report. len-
courage everyone this

new and different people you met at
the Virginia Horse Center this

 

its a perfect automo-
tive escape from the
hustle and bustle of

om .

i. like “Best Lookin St (1 t B d “ d “S _ terrnoffersprofessors an opportunity to stray from the spring temi to meet new

:2-iitnitpl System)’ g u en 0 y an tmngest rater norm in many cases, to offer seminars and classes people,beitatZollman’s, Wednesday’ downtownMetro_-Lex.

_;_ Pt. ow the law school is joihih in the fun with its recent which they otherwise might not getachance to teach. the front lawn, or Red An afternoon in the
in The ' In addition it gives students a chance to take these Square. There is, I m Dell at Sweet Bria!-

‘ ‘Number One ranking

ational Jurist magazine.

_i-{)g:,~_OIlC€ again, these findings are based completely upon

student opinions and co-sponsored by, you guessed it, the
Princeton Review.

_You have to wonder whether someone over there at
Princeton, or wherever they put outthose reviews, likes us.
Or maybe the writing skills and olitics of Washington and
Lee students are so advanced t at the glowing and lucid
descriptions of W_&L life we.leave on those surve s are so
rmpressive the Princeton guys cannot help but ran us first

- in everything.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 

courses, leaving them only to find a way to tell their
parents, “But these are real courses.” These are
opportunities which larger, less personal colleges and

universities don’t and can’t offer.

Spring term offers more than just different classes,

Forget Whitewater

What is the most overused word in

sure, some talk in some
university building, of

him into a tabloid figure. Leach’s rheto-

 

judgment has been totally overshad-
owed by the pure partisan politicking

This amazing transformation from

banishing spring term from the academic calendar.
Now these are probably suggestions made without
the benefit of reason or intellect, though one of these

and get towork

he was forced to admit that he had lied

now seeking to continue its reforms.

That seems like a per-
fect note to end on.

So enjoy spring term; drink some beer, meet
some new folks, and see The Dave Matthews Band
a few more times...I’ll see you there.

prosecutor and a Republican, is con-

Wh31te,Ver the Case, Congrahhatlons are in Order to Our Oh‘ Washington these days? ric, while partisan, was initially ratio— While Under 0ath- He has 8150 accepted ducting a thorough investigation of the

S0'SahShed law Students‘ “Whitewater.” The press corps has nal. However, as the issue has pro- campaign ccntributicns fr0rnir1diVidU- president and his advisors, and the

been bom- gressed, he 318 seeking appcintrncnt i0 agencies White House has been totally forth-

barding us for has steadily his Cornrnittcc 0Vcrsccs- Later, these coming with the documents and infor-

~ . the past few lost credibil-' indiVidI_lais remar_k§ib1y fcund thcm- mation thathave been requested. Rather

E 18‘ m I weeks with ity. The cli- selves in the positions they desired. than bickering about what both sides

2  In what appears P max of this Finally, D’Arnat0 Was Criticized by the agree is, at worst, poor judgment on the

to be a never- . ATRICK was his 45 Senate Ethics Comrnittcc f0r allowing part of some of the White House staff,

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert ehdihg Sc“_h' MCDERMOPP, m i h h t 6 his brother’ a _convicted felon’, to use V letis taik about the issues that concern
Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott ‘ml’ The entire 9 Speechoh the his Office Stationary for lobbymg dc’ the nation‘

Associate Editor .......................................... . . Richard Weaver issue of what 94 ﬂoor of the fense companies The president’s agenda is full and,

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ethan Krupp the president House, dur- With these two Winners On their more importantly, crucial to the future

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard or the first lady ing which he side, the Republicans have attempted prosperity of our country.

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong may havedone seemed to be to use Whitewater to stall the Instead of concocting conspiracy

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green w r o n g 0 1- ready to have president’s agenda. theories involving the Clinton’s, let’s V.

Editorial Cartccnist - - - - ~ - - - - - ~ - - - - ~ - - - - - « - - - - ~ - - - ~ ~ - » - - - - - - - ~ - - ~ ---‘eh Till)’ where they may have acted with poor the president resign on the basis of Afteratremendously sl1cccSSf|l11cg- talk about health care, crime, welfare,

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Michael Hewlett unsubstantiated rumors and ahegatiorm jslative first year, the White House is and an ofthe other social issues that are

eating away at the fabric of our natioﬂ.

B“Si_“°S5 M‘“‘,ag°' ' ‘ ' ' ‘ ‘ ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ' ' ' ‘ ' * ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ‘ ’ R“"S°m James going on in the Capitol. mild-manneredcongressmantoanear- Rather than supporting the These are the issues that the president
._ . ' ﬁgsfgrsiitnhlllsilnﬁs zianager - - - - - ~ ~ - - - - ~ » - - - - - - ' V - ' - - - ' ' ' - ' ' 'S'ai1‘;la‘(§:’)1e"r‘II:‘;:‘e°r Both the White House and most rabid paranoid is a feat truly worthy of President’s proposed legislation on is— and the first lady are working on. These
.:‘:~.i..i.......§...i....fM.;.;.;,;.;.1111111112ii1i1111i11i111111i1i11...ii.......N.i.....‘ Republicans refute any “°‘.‘°“ of 1116- th<=G0P- .  like health  the Revvblien  the andvroblemswehired

T. 4 Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter g,ahty on the pan of the presldem or the AS remarkable 38, Represehmnve m.emberS .0f the Congress have uistead them to solve‘
first lady, and yet statements by some Leach’s transformation was, it was tried to dlvcrt attcrlilon t0 n0n-ISSUCS One would have thought that the

 
 
  

  
 
 
 

t Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current

 

The Ring—tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, ‘Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

House and Senate Republicans and the

What is more interesting is that the
same «GOP legislators who railed

legislation. All of this aside, the
Republican’s choice of leadership for
their attack has been bizarre, to say the
least. Their team consists of Rep. Jim
Leach of Iowa and Senator Alfonse
D’Amato of New York. In beach, the
GOP has taken a well regarded, though
hardly exciting, legislator and turned

A nothing compared to that of his col-

even more astounding than that of Rep.
Leach given D’Amato’s history.

of supporting or being aware of the
“1% rule.”

This involved government workers
being coerced into giving 1% of their
salary to the GOP. D’Amato denied
any knowledge of the practice in 1975,
but when a letter from him on his
personal stationary was found in 1985

like Whitewater.

 

GOP had learned

 

cans who wanted
the president to

can members of the Con-

'. Ph" 'dF‘d cl’ d hl . . .
 The Rmg mm 1 is puhhshe _ H ayS_ ‘hing the im ergraduaie Sc 00 Year at media coverage they have received league inthe Senate,AlfonseD’Amato. Hopefully, from the last eled
-:.-W. Washington and he UhfVerS"y’L‘x'"?tcf"’V"g'"1a'F“”d"‘gf°'TheR'"g"“'"Ph'°°'h°S would lead one to believe a crime In the last few months, D’Amato this past W8-6k’s ‘ ‘ tion that opposi-
-‘ -. primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee Publica- of national si nificahce has has one from beih one of the most lackofwhitwater tion research does

a g g g u g u u I 56 ,9 ‘ 9 o -
tions Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi is been committed. controversial, hlghly crmclzed, and al- news . IS the Rather than Supportlng not w1n elections,
~ otherwise independent. _ Personally, I find it interesting that legedly-corrupt members of the Senate beginning of the resident gs ro osed commitment to
Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University the party of watergaiie hhd”h'ah Chhtra to 3 “5Fif_f'bhcked ethicist” _ready to the end‘ . . p . . P p . hhlpihg your coh‘
- . , . . ,, has now ‘ found religion and is at- expose ln_]llSi1CE and wrongdoingwher- After 311, It legislation on issues llke stituents does.
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week s edition. Letters, columns, and My . . . . . . h R by _
temptingto ride the high moral ground. ever he finds them. This evolution is W35 I c cpll 1- health care the Republl_ If the Repub-
)

licans who are
complaining so

don’t want to let
him do his job and
move on to doing
their own.

If the members of the GOP think the
american people can’t recognize parti-
sanship when they see it, they are sorely
mistaken. Lawrence Fiske, the special

sues like Whitewater.
 

5 court definitions of libel and obscenity. against the independent counsel law Most notable among his offenses is appoint a Special gr-ess have instead tried to loudly about
under Reagan and Bush now seem to the scandal in Nassau County, New Counsel, and now  rt tt . . W h i t e w a t e r
have found a new favorite piece of York in which D’Amato was accused that he has, thcy we a ennon to "ands" would like to stay

around to com-
plain some more,
they had better
start working on
something the people care about.

I honestly don’t know why they
haven’t realized this— maybe its some-
thing in the water!

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 22, 1994

OPINION

PAGE 1:

Dead presidents party in Daytona

SPos’ SPACE
u Tom Hespos

“Of all the presidents, you had to
pick the one that I wanted to be,”
whined one of the Daytona pilgrims.

He clearly picked the wrong mo-
ment to take a potty break. The rest of
Cur band of Spring Break pleasure-
seekers decided that we would pick our
identities for the night on the town
while he was in the can, and he seemed
ticked off that he had to settle for an
obscure president, rather than one of
the more famous ones.

0 The previous night, at a seedy reggae
bar populated entirely by sketchy
Daytona local types, we were Supreme
Court justices. The night before that,
we were philosophers. I was David
Hume, and I introduced myself as
“Dave” at another beachfront bar
qvhere the blonde beach bunnies would
stick to you like the finegrained white
sands of the Florida beach to which we
had migrated for Spring Break. On that
particular night, I had the honor of
introducing a very attractive Daytona
native named Molly to my partners in
time: John Locke, John Stuart Mill,
and Immanuel Kant, the latter assum-
ing the name“Manny,” so as to head off
any negative social consequences stem-
ming from the full name “Immanuel,”
which is just plain silly. Molly eventu-
ally ended up in our hotel room, drink-
ing Barenjager shots with Mr. Locke,
While hearing of his stance on the na-
ture of man.

Such a scam was not intended to
deceive. Rather, it was intended to
help us to sort out the intellectuals
among the beautiful college women
that had migrated to Daytona, just as
Qve had. After all, we needed to hang
with girls who were able to follow our
drunken conversations about the na-
ture of mankind. The dumb ones just
wanted to get into our wallets, so as to

mooch free drinks. So in our minds, if
we took intellectual advantage of a few
assorted ditzes and airheads, no hann
was done. In the case that we were able
to convince a young vixen that we were
Oliver Wendell Holmes or Thurgood
Marshall, we ran with the gag for ten
minutes or so, let her in on the joke, and
watched as smoke came out of her ears.

In any case,that night we were dead
presidents: Chet Arthur, Zack Taylor,
Warren Harding, Jimmy Polk, Andy
Jackson and Bill Taft. When people
asked us what we did for a living, we
would respond with outlandish stories
about law school and politics. Mr.
Jackson would inform unsuspecting
gold diggers that the majority of his
vast fortune was acquired during a brief
period during
which he grew
dope behind his
big white house

Heart dance.”
Swaggering into the hotel lobby in
the same manner as prominent dead

8 presidents, we sent “Warren Harding”

to the lobby desk in order to get the
lowdown on what was transpiring
twelve ﬂoors above us. The desk
attendent swallowed whole Harding’s
story about the fictional Secret Service
Restrictions Act of 1992, which made
hotel management staff personally li-
able in the event that they refuse to
provide escorts for prominent
political ﬁgures.

Minutes later, we were riding the
elevator in the company of two sketchy
bellhops with mirrored sunglasses and
hand-held radios. “Polk” rode out the
gag for all it was worth.

“I demand to-
tal security,” he
said in his best
mock-VlPvoice.

in D.C. ~ - - “How come ou
With little in- Wlth hm,“ Intellectual guys aren’t gar-
tellectual stimula~ stimulation gleaned from rying automatic
tion gleaned from thefemale patrons ofthe weapons? I pair
the female patrons . sue you for this!
of the reggae bar, reggae bar) we dltched The bellhops
we ditched the the place in Search of stoodﬁrrneratat-

place in search of
beach bunnies
with detectable

beach bunnies with
detachable brain waves.

tention and ad-
justed their offi-
cial Florida State

bra in waves. Trooper mirrored
Stumbling down   sunglasses, say-
the street (quite lit- ing nothing in or-

erally), we ran into
a wandering acid dealer who told us
about the redneck bar in the sky. He
pointed off into the distance, and
there it was. 1

The redneck bar in the sky was
glittering and shining like the mother
ship in “2001: A Space Odyssey” from
the top of a 12-story hotel down the
beach. It was as if God had illuminated
the place so that we would be drawn to
it. Squinting into the distance, we
could make out thelforms of several
women in country-western gear, ap-
parently doing the “Achy-Breaky

der to avoid get-
ting into any more “trouble.” Soon, the

doors opened wide and exposed

the live band and the line-dancing
women, most of whom were over 35.
Our revulsion was settled by a neon
sign proclaiming $3.50 pitchers of
Budweiser.

Four hours later, the dead presi-
dents were the only six paying custom-
ers left in the bar. We had a pile of
quarters in the middle of the table
from the change we had received from
our purchases of pitchers. “Zack Tay-
lor” counted the quarters and

divided by two.

“That makes 18 pitchers,” he pro-
claimed loudly, attracting the attention
of our waitress, who politely asked us
if we would like anything before
last call.

Zack placed one of the pitchers over
his head and demanded four more.
Meanwhile, “Bill Taft” went to go ha-
rass the band so that they would play
“Queen of my Double-Wide Trailer.”
The waitress was not amused and told
us to leave. .

“You can’t talk to me that way, I’m
Zachary Taylor,” spouted our
drunken friend.

Right then, we noticed the two
sketchy bellhops approaching us in the
company of two Florida State Troop-
ers. We didn’t plan on sticking around
long enough to find out whether we
could be arrested for impersonating
dead presidents. Even if we couldn’t,
the backward arm of the law, charac-
teristic of southern states, would pinch
us on some other bogus charge. We left
through the ﬁre door, leaving our pile
of quarters as a generous tip.

Mentally and physically taxed from
our challenging night, we headed back
to the hotel, with a brief pitstop at
“Sid’s Discount Liquor Hut” for cheap
liquor and cigarettes. I introduced
myself as Alexis de Tocqueville and
received a complimentary bottle of
Tanqueray, along with Sid’s best wishes
for luck with my contemporary study
of democracy in America. He also
gave us a little American ﬂag with a
marijuana leaf sewn on it.

Upon arrival at the hotel, we com-
menced drinking Tanqueray and
Barenjager and wondered whether we
could derive any intellectual stimula-
tion at all from our trip. Taft noted that
a sign in the lobby announced the next
day visit of a Shriner’s convention to
the hotel. .,

Oh, well, I thought to myself. At
least the possibilities for fun would be
kept alive.

Leave the fall Rush tradition alone

MY VIEW

’ Jimmy Kull, ’94

As my time remaining at °W‘&L"is°q‘uickly“ coming ’
to a close, I am sadly preparing myself to leave this
community that I first came to love in the fall of 1990.

My adoration of this school, however, has occa-
sionally been strained because of certain administra-
tive actions. One such incident is the recent dogmatic
letter of Deans Manning and Ruscio published in the
March 18th issue of the Phi in which they argued for

Winter Rush for fraternities.

To me, that letter epitomized the Washington Hall

space to delineate sufficiently the countless com-
plaints that thefratemities have with the Renaissance’s
inefficiencies, ludicrous expenses, and mind-bog-
gling bureaucratic mazes. And I will not even discuss
the blatant disregard for student governance in the
recent FIJI ﬁasco. Perhaps you can now understand

V why I fail to list all of my concerns with the Manning
and Ruscio letter —-—' it would be useless-, and despite
the administration’spretensions,
the issue is not debatable.

For the past several years it
has been an understood fact that
the administration has wanted a
winter Rush. The elected repre-
sentatives of the fraternity sys-
tem (which encompasses 85%
of all males at W&L), however,

its has been an

understood fact that the

goals: the placement of W&L in U.S. News &
World Report and the construction of countless
buildings. They have been successful in these en-
deavors, but only at the expense of neglecting the
spirit of this community. Consequently, they refuse
to believe that the Speaking Tradition is dying -— if
not dead — and the school’s once unique character
is on the verge of extinction. . »

For the past several years

W&Lischanging——aswell
it must to survive. W&L, un-
like other institutions of higher
learning, has successfully
adapted to its changing envi-
ronment for nearly 250 years.

I think our school has been
able to survive because of its
rich heritage, wonderful lead-

Resume

There will be a Resume Work-
shop on Monday, April 26 at 4 p.m.
in Room 109 of the University Cen-
ter. All students are welcome.

Health

Health Education Committee
meets Thursdays from 4:30 to 5:30
p.m. in the Arlington Women’s
Center. All students are welcome.

Keys

If you have a key to a student
organization ofﬁce or sorority of-
fice in the University Center that
you no longer need, return it to
Carol Calkins for a full refund.
Deadline to receive a cash refund is
May 18th.

Counseling

The Peer Counseling Program is
now accepting applications for
membership in the program.
Appilcations may be picked up from
Carol Calkins in the University Cen-
ter. The deadline for applying is
Friday, April 29 at 5 p.m.

Environment

The Environmental Consulting
firm “Project Performance Group”
will be conducting an’ infonnation
session for any students interested
in learning more about environmen-
tal consulting. The session will be
held on Tuesday, April 26 at 4 p.m.
All students are welcome.

 

Fishing

A basic course in ﬂy ﬁshing for
women will be offered this spring
term. Rods and reels are supplied
for the class and several trips to
Virginia streams. First meeting
today, April 22, at 3 p.m. in the
Arlington Women’s Center. For
more information, contact Dean
Schroer-Lamont, at 463-8750

Health

Diane D. Cole, M.P.H., Health
Educator for the University of Vir-
ginia Breast Resource Center will
present “Breast Health: An Issue
for Every Woman,” on Tuesday,
April 26, at 7:30 p.m. The presen-
tation will be held in the ﬁrst floor
courtroom of the Rockbridge
County Administration Building,
150 S. Main St., Lexington.

Wanted

Thinking about selling you
mountain bike? If so, call 463-
3313 and ask for Sarah.

Volunteers

The Parent Empowerment
Project is looking for volunteers
seeking experience in facilitating
and coordinating groups for at risk
youths. They offer superision and
16 hours of training with a nation-
ally known treatment programs.
Interested people should conatact
John White at 464-8560 for more
information.

Avoid unfair criticism
of Registrars office,

To the editor,

Over the course of the last two
years, the women working in the
Registrar’s Office have been mentioned
in a number of contexts (editorials,
guest articles, question of the week
interviews, etc.) intended to be humor-
ous.

Donna Hall, Jeannette Jarvis, and
Karen Plogger have very difﬁcult jobs
to do, involving many details and re-
quiring them to deal with hundreds of
requests in a day. Frequently, the “cus-

encies, those complaints should be
brought to the attention of the person
responsible — me. If my staff is not
representing me or treating you in a
manner consistent with the attitude of
service and helpfulness I have tried to
establish, then they need to be cor-
rected but not abused.

I must say‘ that I do get compliments
from faculty, students, alumni, parents
and others off campus about the re-
sponsiveness and performance of our
ofﬁce.

administration wanted a

want a fall Rush — but this fact ,
winter Rush. The elected

ership, and several fundamen-
tal truths.

qnentality that is corroding this school’s uniqueness. tomer” doesn’t want to be told “no” or

I also recognize that individually

n brief, it reeks of bureaucratic arrogance which
shuns one of the most important tenets of the W&L .
experience .—— namely, student autonomy. This is the
latest in a string of administrative policies/actions
since my arrival that have collectively convinced me
that W&L is losing its distinctiveness.

I could list numerous examples of fallacious poli-
Q:ies/actions, but that would take too long. Besides,
' there is no point in revisiting the ill-feelings that still
remain from the administration’s decision to forfeit
the final piece of land on the Colonnade to the con-
struction of an Asian art gallery. Nor should I dwell on
the general opinion toward the construction of the
.“un”friendly wall. I would never have enough time or

temity concerns.

is of small interest to Washing-
ton Hall. They want to jump
head-first into a process that has
not been properly studied, and
from their ivory towers, they
insolently belittle legitimate fra-

representives of the

a fall Rush.

It is this attitude which per-
haps best explains the problem with W&L today.
There existsa pervasive deterioration of the W&L
spirit, and I blame the administration for the disaffec-
tion that students feel toward this school. Why? Be-
cause for the past several years our Washington Hall
bureaucrats have devoted their energies toward two

‘Interviews and Photos
By Joe Framptom

~   What is your idea of a perfect hypothetical   

 

Jennifer Lynch, ’95, Medford, NJ. — “One

that doesn’t meet.”

0

thing.”

Maggie George, 597, Houston, Texas —“Ad-
vanced rope—swinging techniques or some-

fraternity , however, want

TALKBACK

 

Unfortunately, one of the
“timeless” truths that came
from General Robert E. Lee —
namely, student autonomy ——
is threatened by unsolicited,
unneeded, and unhelpful bu-
reaucraticmicro-management.

In the short-run, the rejection. of this essential
tenet will continue to frustrate and victimize the
student body. In the long run the very identity — if
not the health — of the university will be jeopar-
dized by such a blatant disrespect for
student autonomy.

“later.” Perhaps the way in which this
is communicated needs work, but re-
gardless of how pleasantly Donna,
Jeannette, and Karen might enforce
the faculty’s rules and my ofﬁce’s pro-
cedures, they on occasion will hurt
feelings or cause disappointment. Mak-
ing them scapegoats is unfair, aggra-
vates the problem without healing the
rift, and needlessly hurts the individu-
als involved.

If anyone has complaints about the
way an office —- my ofﬁce — per-
forms its duties and serves its constitu-

/

and as a group, we can always improve
both our manners and efforts to look for
ways to be helpful.

I hope your publication will refrain
from further ad hominem attacks and
that your readers will get to know the
human beings behind the counter. I, in
turn, am anxious to learn about ways I
can reﬁne our service.

Maybe we can catch more ﬂies with
sugar than with vinegar.

Scott Dittman
University Registrar

spring term class?

    

Murphy, Lakewood, NJ. — “History of the
W&L dog.”

 

Shelly Brien, ’94, Sayre, Penn. — “One that
meets once a week in the afternoon and allows

me to spend the rest of my time at Goshen.”

Virginia Yoerg, ’97, Bloomﬁeld, Micnj —
“Dog breeding.” i

    

 

  

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 22,1999

Mellrnntr in the nllanrin Zdiinmitnm fﬂﬁlllyii,       
We are iprunn itu lrriuu pun it min iuiiiturinl ﬁliitfdf innit it 
  lﬁsiin ruin ifnrras    
We are iprunit in luring pun the must nriina ulf sting
  nnihrraiitrg nrinapnprre
  We are prune in list is rmllrg ninnrueiininuinn neiunpnprr  
nit llﬂnnlliginuitun mm Eire gﬁlniheraitps
Air tine iprnnnllig runitinnr rnrr urrnnra=nllu lffiilﬁilffiﬂlﬂie

Ellie 1iinu=i‘tnrn Eﬂlyis

 

 

AI:._.5'.,«.;L > ' , ,

The dictionary has at
least three deﬁnitions for
’ So do we.  

.5 L .

“value.

     

Maa'nlas‘b Quadra' 660AV8/230, Macintosh’
Color Digolay, Apple‘ Extended Iéyboard 11 and mouse.

Only $2,103.00.

Pou/erB00lz’ I458 4/I20.

Maa'ntocb'l.C575 5/I60, t‘nternal4ppleCD'"
Only $1,404.00.

300:‘ Plus CD—ROM Drive, Apple‘ rrqboardrand mouse.
Only $1,61aoo.

 

available within your budget. Meaning you get it all. Power. Quality. And afford-
ability. It’s that simple. So, if that sounds like value

Apple‘.

Giving people more value for their money has made Macintosh’ the best—selling
personal computer on campuses and across the coun-
try for the past two years.‘ And that’s a trend that is

Affordable computers from Apple.

likely to continue. Because there are Macintosh and PowerBook° rnodels « Reseller today. And leave your dictionary at home.

to you, visit your Apple Campus

For further information visit University Computing in
iiicker Hall and ask for Mac McCloud  
or call 463-8844

*Price does not include sales tax
I‘ , ' ,Ina/1ppleCDJj@le02lorm1dAua5'o|v’kiona1v ‘ ‘

‘ "‘ac:‘rzlarbQuaa9aandPwerBoo£areregr'slerad ’ “

-mum: 1994.©1994App1ermpu«er,maAun;gb¢:;awe:va14g;pze,:aeAppzeIoga,

 

r1.;11.-,.g.1.,.,. Phi, April 22, 1994 3 SPORTS . I » A . T1"AGl53:.9;.
.

   

   
  
 
    

  
   
  
 
 
  
  

  

 
  

   
  
 
 
  
  

T I   I   . GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
% . Standings as of 04/22/94 ’
- * 1. I _ ’ ‘ T I , M 1 '8 I A 1 Baseball
. » 1 p Batting Leaders . Women’s Lacrosse
I  ' 1: _’ ~  7 Player Avg HR RBI s°°ri"g Leaders
-  I I   p Graig Fantuzzi .53 0 11 Player G A Pts
‘ I ’ ' Bates Brown .400 1 15 Angie Carrington 32 5 37
, . ' “""""  ‘"“_—: V__ ‘ Matt Ermigiotti .323 3 18 gndgaybocoleman  2 
/_, ~_ I   _, 1,. [,3 U _ » mme n ’
REDUCED Pmis A  ;,;;.;~:e-_,;::;;r¢1 .1  ,3 Pitching Leaders Erika snﬁir 11 4 15
CERTIFIED ANGUS BEEF  - - *1’ -- : .  er w_L ERA K Nicole Rlpken 10 5 15

H  Reedy 1-1 6.39 5

' Hartman 2-3 6.95 18 Player sv GA sV%

- Sarah Smith 88 57 .607
8 9 ’ Brooke Glenn 43 31 .581
I. B A\grAT|fAA:E|_§  Men’s Lacrosse
5 ' ‘ STORES _‘ Scoring Leaders
_ --'‘:'-‘5' P13 G A P15 1 Women’s Tennis
-" And enkins 23 5 28 ‘
5  Colin Higgins 16 11 27 ‘ Singles Ixaders
 4 1- - " usse rot 3Y3?
” W  I ‘ 1’ izwyiiiﬁgsr i3 $6 33 P1 w L
’ ScottM kl 15 6 21 Marilyn Baker (1 20
   HAM,     ac ey Anna .’ _onnor 6) 16 3
- Goaltending Kim D1 11S0ﬂ( ) 15 2
A ' 1 ' Ayers (2) 15 3
; Player sv GA sv% S e Icy S derman (3) 14 4
Bougd(J} e, 22  358721 Helen C dler (4) 12 4
avi o .
1. p Doubles Leaders
- a 14 4
  10 OZ? Rickhifwconnm 9 I 2
0 Su rma - handlerll 4
L  *  ‘  S .1  LOW pmcas 9°"
'. - . 1 1J ~_--- ~. '  u d
, V- . . ,1 , , ;, nan SEEDLESS 129 “ "S . T R rd
. »_  . , GRAPES ............ .111. }3_owi11iar;1ls 7  7755 “am °°° S
 ‘.1;-.\;?§;Z:.~f.f2;'" .    in ‘ Women’s Tennis 20 0
1: . . . gly 7 83.3 77 ,
. . I ,, CUCUMBERS..sAcHo Scott Robinson 6 83.8 76 g‘§1'}ST“’°“  21;
I ~ . , _ I  I i I E:  Women’s Track 8 4
' '-  V: -  J  .1602  M Men’s Lacrosse 6 4

'- .   .   i  _  ._ "1" ‘A   ‘ ’ ‘1>'IVen’s Tennis 8 8

. -.-_‘.’_   -1   ' -‘ -‘.,'_.‘}-    .    omen’s Lacrosse 6 5

 " ;_.‘-    '     IX ........... ..3 LB. BAG Bmba“ . 8 14

I ..‘""z  ..:"v>'  : I Flslro
LIMIT 24

g\'****ik**************

 

4'' PINTS
STRAWBERRIES PINT

  fGREAT vAu£

 

DI E

COCA-COLA

    ' 21111.
3 I  THE SUMMER.
‘IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILTON

11p‘°°‘pu'c.’1‘?1'1‘31§"1‘o”""‘
ﬁﬁaglgﬂggge __
- mcﬂmw LAND,“ REGULAR on BU1TERMlLK

A DOWNYFLAKE WAFI-'lE$

1902.1 . ’

HARRIS TEE1ER...THE 11551 15 WHAT wm AU. ABO
_  & CONDIHONER IN ONE2  ﬁLEﬁﬁ)E\ﬁRg$;§5B8gEmJT I 82
) PLUS  spun STICK   1-#2

SELECTED VAR|l:T|ES

I Quaker
OH’S 89 KEEBLER -Bl'l'E 69

INFORMATION
SESSION

Tuesday) April 26, 7 p.m.
C-School, Room 327

Applications for Steering
Committee positions will be

 

   

  CEREAL COOKIES
1"~‘1"3°l=1"1i’i'“  '1T‘1i3‘1§‘r"1”‘I"c‘5"11n 189 available.
I  16 oz. 0  EA-

I?

  1

, Prices Effective Through A rt’! 26, 1994 ‘K Questions?  464'8974 ’I’
”"‘o°,:1;'fw“;"1£:£*:e%1‘:eR$1:d1::?r:11 "1%£:“1z1%“sL1s1*:11eé1:':i. I$311;:;:p%::;2s1%2§1°§2.:;:re ¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥I’

I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?
I?

******‘Ar*****‘k****‘k‘k**********‘k**‘k

 

 

Last Week:

MLax—F&M 10, W&L 8‘
WLax—W&L 21, Hollins 5
Bas<.LHampden-Sydney 14, W&L 6
MTennis—-Claremont 8, W&L 1

3

PAGE 10

9

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
      
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
   
 

OIIICII

but it does not
n e c e s s a r i 1 y
have to be nega-
tive.

“Not that we mind being the

out to a 16-2 half-time lead. Jun-
ior Nicole Ripken scored four
times and junior Lindsay
Coleman added three goals and
two assists in the rout.

  
   
    
   
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
     
    
  
 
  
   
       
   
       
     
    
    
    
 
  

The Generals got two goals
apiece from senior Angie
Carrington, sophomore Cinnie
Logan, and freshmen Carrie
Borish and Amy Shaw as they
improved their conference mark

team to beat,” said Hathom, “but
it is hard to be on top.”

Although W&L’s ﬁve losses
are its most since 1991, Hathom
believes the team will respond to
the position of underdog.

With the exception of a 15-8
loss to Roanoke, the Generals
have not been beaten badly by
anyone. Three losses have been
by one goal, and the other defeat
was a 14-11 defeat at the hands
of Rowan, a top ten team.

@1112 ‘ﬂing-tum iﬁlri

PORTS

LACROSSE, TRACK, TENNIS, GOLF, BASEBALL

s lax nears playoffs .

to 4-3. Surgery Ripken made an immedia
By _KE'T“ GRANT A win in in late De- impactafterdonningtheunifo
Ph‘ Siaff Wm“ Tuesday’smatch cember to for the first time this season. S
with SweetBriar remove a scored six goals in a 17-13 w’
For the W&L fans thrilled by would send the b e n i g 11 over sweet Brian ,
last year’s Old Dominion Ath- Generals on to brain tumor Her 74 career goa-ls are ju
letic Conference women’s la- next weekend’s kept Ripken four away from moving in
crosse tournament excitement, ODAC semifi- out of fourth p1aoe on W&L’s 311-11
the Liberty Hall Fields has an- nals, hosted by school, 1is1_ Co1ernan 15 right 1,o111
other dose on the way. ’94 regular sea- Despite Ripken with 72 career scores.
WashingtonandLee’swomen son champion losing 20 “She’salot further alongth '
earned a first-round home game L y n c h b u r g. pounds dur- Ithought she’d be,” Hathon sai
versus Sweet Briar when the W&L would ing her Although Ripken’s baa. , th
Generals walloped Hollins Col- thenﬁnditselfin month-long Gerrera15 are 51111 oop1ng W11
lege 21-5 on Tuesday. a position it has stay in the injuries to other players. S0ph(
That win clinched the not been in for hospital , more Cheryl Taurassi is out f
conference’s fourth-place posi— twoyears——con- Rip kc n ’ s the season juniors Sara
tion for the two-time defending ference under- play since Aschenbaoh and Dana Como
ODAC Champs, behind d0g- her April are among several who have ho
Lynchburg, Roanoke, and Head coach llthretumto on-again,off—againinjurieQha
Randolph-Macon. Jan Hathom the team has pering their play. In fact, in t 1
Lynchburg and Roanoke are notes that there been far be. 1055 to Rowan, w&L playe
ranked seventh and eighth re— is a definite dif- yond expec- without two of its nsna1 Srnnon
spectively in Division III ference between rations, Before focusing on Tuesday
women’s lacrosse. being the favor- It has big game, the Generals will be '
W&L (6-5, 5-2 at home) ite and where taken only Frostburg State for two games-
jumped on Hollins early and shot herteam is now, five games a Friday game versus rho; no.

The Generals remain undaunted despite their fourth place entry into the
ODAC tourney.

Another reason to be optimis-
tic is the return to the lineup of
Ripken. The Baltimore native
(Baltimore? Ripken? Yes, they ’re
third cousins.) was the Generals’
second-leading scorer last year
with 37 goals and 16 assists.

 

A14-6 victory over Hampden-Sydney gives the Generals a 8-14 overall record.

Baseball learning

By PHIL CARROTI‘
Phi Steff Writer

Generals baseball may be the
only spring sport without at least
a .500 record, but that isn’t get-
ting them down.

Sophomore Graig Fantuzzi
said the team is young and still
developing.

“We need to find the right
winning attitude; it just hasn’t
mixed yet,” Fantuzzi said.

Their 14-6 loss Wednesday to
Hampden-Sydney brought their
record to 7-15-1, a .318 percent-

age. Fantuzzi said, “We should
have won that game; we were a
little ﬂat.”

Coach Jeff Stickley said when
“Good pitching, good defense,
and timely hitting come together,
when we do that, we win.”

Stickley said that the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference is
very strong in base ball this year,
but is a very even and tough
conference.. ‘

“It [ODAC] is more balanced
than in the past,” Stickley said.

Saturday, the Generals face
Guilford for a double-header and
conclude their season with a

Tuesday game against VMI.

Fantuzzi, the Generals star
batter with a .571 average, said
the team has become stronger as
the year has progressed. A

He said the number of return-
ing players should make the team
stronger next year.

Fantuzzi alsovsaid the pitch-
ing has improved over the course
of the year.

“We need more depth in the
pitching staff for next year,”
Fantuzzi said.

‘‘If we could pick up one or
two more pitchers next year, that
would add depth.’~’

Carpe Diem-

Seize the day and seize
the opportunity. Join the
Ring-tum Phi as a sports
writer: This could A be the
ultimate chance to find a
use for all that extra time
Spring Term.  
  Contact Stephen Williard
at 462-4060‘.

Men’s Tennis

While most Washington
and Lee students sat idely
through spring break, the
Mens Tennis team pulled
through a tough road trip in
California.

Although four out of their

five opponents were nation-
ally ranked, the ,Generals
managed two wins and three
losses. The team started
strong, clobbering Occiden-
tal 8-1, then lost to fourth
ranked Redlands, sixth ranked
U.C. San Deigo, and third
ranked Claremont.
A The biggest upset of the
trip was W&L’s 5-4 defeat of
ninth ranked Ponoma—Pitzer.
Chris MacNaughton upset
twety-seventh ranked Brian
Sakamoto 4-6,6-4, 6-4, while
the No. 2 doubles team of
David Shewppe and Andy
Horan clinched victory for the
Generals with their 6-4,1-6,
7-5 victory.

It was senior Robby
MacNaughton, and his 4-1
record in singles play, how-
ever, who stole the show. He
defeated ninth ranked Todd
Born of Redlands in straight
sets, and twenty-second
ranked John Cross of U.C.
San Diego in three.

In doubles play, the team
of Mac Naughton and Peter

Todd Born and Mike Mell 6-
3, 6-3, and came close to heat-
ing top-ranked Claremont.
The Generals next match

tournament.

   

Franklin and Marshall.

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
  

This Week:
Track—ODAC Championship 04/23"
MLax—at Guilford O4/23
WLax—vs. Denison (at Frostburg)
Base—at Guilford 04-23

APRIL 22, 1‘

for the junior
to jump to
fourth on the
team in scor-
ing with 14 goals and five as-

and a Saturday affair again
Denison, with whom Hatho
began her coaching career.

In her ﬁve seasons at Deniso
Hathom accumulated a 55-1

File photo

Hammond defeated the sec-.
ond ranked Redlands team of

comes today, in the ODAC

sists.
“[Having her back] has been
really important,” said Hathom.
“Aside from the obvious inspi-
ration to see her back, she’s a
solid player, a team player.”

J oCKSHoRTs

Women’s Tennis

The Generals continued their
exciting season with a victory
over 10th ranked Sewanee which
gave them the second 20 win
season in the school’s history.

In the course of the victory,
junior Marilyn Baker became
the first player in W&L history
to record three straight 20 win
seasons. The W&L standout
has posted a 20-2 record on the
year to date.

The team has shot their way
to a number two national rank-
ing and an even more remark-
able undefeated record. The
team began play in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
tournament yesterday.

The team has received con-
tributions all around. The team ’s
sixth seed has posted a formi-
dable 16-3 mark and Kim
Dickinson ’s replacement for the

ODAC tournament has posted a
6-0 mark on the year. Also, the
three doubles teams have posted
a combined record of 34-10
through the season.

Men’s Lax

The Washington and Lee
men’s lacrosse team fell to 13th
in the latest national poll after an
upset at the hands of Franklin

Marshall.

The Generals lost 10-8 on
Saturday in Lancaster, Pennsyl-
vania in a game in which the
Generals led 8-7 with 12 minutes

to go.

The W&L squad fell behind
early 4-0 before rallying to take a

7-5 lead in the third quarter.

record and five straight trips
the Division III toumameot.

For fans who can’t make it t
Tuesday’s playoff with Swc
Briar,WLUR-Lexington will -
carrying the game live.

  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  

Colin Higgins led the team
with three goals and an assist
in the contest, and senior
David Jones made eight saves
after replacing freshman I9oug
Gubner in the first quarter af-
ter Gubner was injured.

Senior midfielder Scott
Mackley has scored at least
one goal in each of his last
eight games after not scoring
in his first two contest§and
has 13 in the last six.

Ande Jenkins leads the
Generals in scoring for the
yearwith 28 points on 23 goals
and 5 assists.

Higgins trails Mackley by
a mere one point in the acor-
ing race with 27 points on 16
goals and 11 assists.

Ty Tydings is also in the
hunt with 26 points on 10 goals

and 16 assists.
W&L, now 6-4 on the sea-
son, will face Old Domﬁiion
Athletic Conference foe
Guilford tomorrow.
The Generals have two
games remaining including
the Lee-Jackson Classic
against VMI.
The upcoming me
against Washington Co lege
will also be a home contest.

    
 

 

 

The men's lacrosse team moved to 6-4 on the season with an upset los: t ~

  

  

 

  

if‘ }=.;Wm‘i:'

     

 
 

v~< W.‘ (.\_,-_h»‘.


 .VJ.:v.~

4*‘. 'u’ A

Afll   1991!

(Hit S9/1/SDOVIHG MOVIE DEVIEWED
CHECKS OUCI 5C/1//7DlfDI Q/S7

      

\X/omen Isl, men 2nd
in ODAC Champs

(E)

he ‘tiling-tum Iﬂlii

VOLUME 93, NO. 26

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

+

   

Everyone loves a carnival...

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi
What a sport! Despite numerous attempts by freshmen and dining hall employees to dunk Dean
of Freshmen and Residence Life Dennis Manning, he remained high and dry. Finally, he took
pity on their weak arms and ineptitude and jumped in by himself. Evans Dining Hall sponsored
a “Carnival Night” Thursday as a benefit for KidsPlayce. Hundreds of students attended the
event, and left full of carnival fare such as cotton candy and pretzels.

- 4 4». ..».\..

EC selects Mock 

Convention Board

 

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

The 1996 Mock Conven-
tion will not begin for another
y r or so, but plans are al-
ready underway for the tradi-
tional event. In the past, the
Washington and Lee Mock
Convention has gained a na-
tional reputation for correctly
selecting the Presidential
ngninee for the party out of
0 ice. The Convention’s pick
has gone on to be chosen by
the National convention in 10
of the last 11 election years.

Mock Convention Execu-
tive Board members have al-
r ady been chosen: Bob Ross,
P litical Chairman; David
Stewart, General Chairman;
Courtney Tucker, Personnel
Chairman; Tom Becker, Sec-
retary; and

in the winter.

Ross said the State Chairmen are
responsible for conducting research
in their state by networking and send-
ing out polls to people. The Re-
gional Chairmen work with the Po-
litical Chainnan to bring all of the
research together. Together, the five
Regional Chairs comprise the Cre-
dentials Committee, the group ulti-
mately responsible for predicting
the Republican presidential nomi-
nee. Ross said the Mock Conven-
tion primaries will be the first week-
end in March, 1996 before the real
primaries on the following Tues-
day. Ross said there will be a Spring
Kickoff in ‘95 and the Presidential
Gala in fall ‘95.

Brown said the Mock Conven-
tion will probably cost $250,000 to
$300,000. He said besides the edu-
cational budget, the Mock Conven-
tion has the largest student-run bud-

the Finance Chairman will work
in conjunction with the Alumni
Chairman to send letters to
alumni, asking for donations. He
said this usually raises $20,000.
He said the Presidential Gala
raises money for the Mock Con-
vention.

Stewart said the Mock Con-
vention has two main commit-
tees: the Executive Board and
the Steering Committee. He said
the Executive Board meets sepa-
rately from the Steering Com-
mittee.

Tucker said her main respon-
sibilities will be to coordinate
tasks for the members of the
Steering Committee and make
sure things work smoothly. She
said she works on the non-politi-
cal end.

Ross said an Advisory Board
is also being formed. He said
S e n a t o r
J ohnWamer has al-

Ronnie Brown,
Tgeasurer.
During the
Mock Conven-
tion information
session held on
Tuesday, April
26, Tucker ex-

 

ready agreed to
serve on the board,
and Ross is now in
the process of re-
cruiting William F.
Buckley, J r. as well

"plained that said the Advisory
ere were six Board is set up to
committee posi- provide advice and
tions to be filled: insight into predict-
Speakers Chair- ing the Republican
man, Media presidential nomi-

Chairman, Pub-
lic Relations
Ghairman, Fi-
nance Vice-
Chairman, So-
cial Chairman
and Alumni
Chainnan. She
said these posi-

nee. However, he
said, the board does
not predict the
nominee.

“The students
are Mock Conven-
tion—-not the old
men in D.C.,” said
Ross.

ﬁons will make
up the Steering Committee,
whose main function is to
make sure the Mock Conven-
tion goes smoothly.

She also said that positions
for five regional chairs, Plat-
ﬁirm Chairman, Journal Edi-
tors, Facilities Chairman, Ac-
commodations Chairman,
Parade Chairman, Security
Chairman and Memorabilia
Chairman will be offered next
fall. Fifty—four State Chair-
gian positions will be offered

get on campus. He said the Execu-
tive Committee allots $5,000 each
year to fund the Convention. He
said some of the finances come from
the Sumner’s fund, which was cre-
ated in the 80’s by an alumni of the
same name. He said the fund was
started with $100,000, and $150,000
more was put into the fund in ‘86-
’87. Brown said the Mock Conven-
tion staff is not allowed to touch the
fund’s capital, only the money
gained in interest, which amounts to
about $70,000. Brown said he and

He said he
wanted the Advisory Board to
also provide a basis for impor-
tant connections and networks to
promote the Convention. He said
the prestigious names on the
board will help legitimize the
Convention and attract media
coverage. '

Ross said they need all the
help they can get to make this
Mock Convention the best one
possible.

“We need every single person
on campus to help out.”

asW&Lalumni. He .

LEXINGTON,

VIRGINIA

APRIL 29, 1994

Watson Pavilion
benefactor dies

By PHIL CARROTI‘
Phi Managing Editor

pieces donated by others.
From antique Khoton rugs to Ming Dynasty lamps,

Elizabeth Otey Watson, benefactor and friend

of the university, died Saturday.

Watson spent several weeks in Lynchburg’s
Virginia Baptist Hospital before losing her battle
with a reoccurring illness, said Reeves Center

Director Thomas Litzenberg.

In 1968, Watson began to work with the
Reeves Center and the university, a relationship
that remained strong for the rest of her life.

“The loss of Elizabeth Watson is the loss of a
dear friend of this university of a quarter of a

century,” said Litzenberg.

“Her love of the university was only sur-
passed by the love of her husband and that more
than anything explains her proposal [of] a lasting
memorial in his name,” said Litzenburg.

Dr. James Whitehead, former Reeves Center

Director agreed.

“What impressed me as much as anything
about her [was that she] loved W&L,” Whitehead
said. “She was very close to the university for

many years.”

Watson would often help Whitehead identify
East Asian pieces and generally enhanced the
education of art majors here at W&L.

“She could relate to any age group . . . she was
enriched by [the students] as we were enriched

by her life,” Whitehead said.

Her contribution to the university culminated
this past fall with the opening of the Watson
Pavilion. The pavilion houses a vast collection of
East Asian art including Watson’s collection and

_,,~...'~,.,.,, 

“there’s not one [center] in this counry that can

encompass the broad range [of East Asian art] that the

said.

Watson Pavilion and Reeves Center do,” Whitehead

Her gift, dedicated in October, sparked much
controversy during its construction last year. Many
students thought the pavilion would detract from the

architectural style of the Colonnade. However, most

Watson family.

student in France.

of the controversy has died down now that people
have seen the finished product.

"The pavilion remains and will serve as a reminder
to future generations of W&L students of the great
love and devotion that the university inspired in

Watson graduated from Radcliffe with a fine arts
degree. However, her interest in East Asian art began
at an earlier age when she was a middle school

In 1946, Watson married the late William Watson,

’29 and moved with him to the Island of Shameen in

Canton, China. He was working for the Standard Oil
Company at the time.
It was there that Watson began to collect seri-

ously, furnishing their apartment with East Asian art.

Political turmoil in China in 1949 forced the
Watsons to move to Hong Kong, where her collec-
tion grew immensely, because Chinese citizens were
selling family heirlooms in order to buy food.

Watson began to build a reputation as an excellent

collector in Hong Kong.

life.”

“Anyone that was around Elizabeth Watson
learned from her great experience and knowledge,”
said Whitehead. “She shared her knowledge and her

Photo by Phil Carrott, The Ring-tum Phi

A sudden wind, rain and hail storm surprised one of the university’s athletic vans and not a few
students early Wednesday afternoon. The storm downed several trees on campus, including this
large oak. Fortunately, the crushed van was the university’s oldest. The newest van survived

unharmed nearby. Expect the weekend to bring more clouds and rain with highs in the mid 70's.

 

Publications editors chosen 5

By PHIL CARROTT
Phi Managing Editor

The University Publications

    

The publications board con-
sists of the editors of these publi-
cations and TheRing-tum Phi edi-
tors. The Caylx editors are both
excited about taking over the

Board recently position.
chose next year’s “l’m re-
editors of the Ca- ally psyched
lyx,JournalofSci- I got the
ence,PoliticalRe- job,” said
view and Ariel . Purcell.
Senior Laura She said
Purcell and fresh- she would
man Susie Stowell like to finish
will head up the theyearbook
1994-95 Caylx, earlier and
Quinn Kiley will get more 10-
edit thelournal of cal busi-
Science. Graham , nesses to ad-
Freyhasbeencho- " '0 " vertise.
sen to edit the Po- Purcell She also

litical Review and
Susan Deutsch will take over the
Ariel .

wouldlike to
include more undergraduate/law
functions in the yearbook, such

as Bridging the Gap.

“I have talked to several law
students, and I think they feel left
out because they don’t have a
yearbook,” Purcell said.

Stowell is the ad editor for

 

and a years-old contract with the
publisher.

The ﬁnances worry both edi-
tors, and both had deﬁnite ideas
about new revenue sources.

“I think the par-

this year’s ents will buy even
Caybc , and more of the congratu-
She intr0- latory ads next year,
duced senior when they see the tin-
congratula- ished product in this
tory ads year’s yearbook,”
which par- said Stowell.

ents can buy The current Caylx
for their staff is putting the ﬁn-
graduating ishing touches on this
son or year’s yearbook; the
daughter. new editors will take

T h e charge next fall.

C a ylx has The only position
been 0 n St°Wen remaining to be ﬁlled

shaky ground financially for
some time due to poor under-
graduate turnout for photographs

on the publications board is that
of the Calyx business manager,
to be chosen Monday, May 2.

 

NEWS The Ring-tum Phi, April 29, 1994

BEYOND Forget

Churchill Downs...
THE BLUE RIDGE       

~ ' >*.x‘'‘ & 3
‘st 3 ig ..I.a

      
   

 

V

The Nation

   

Ames, wife plead guilty
to espionage charges

Aldrich Ames pleaded guilty this week to being the highest
ranking Russian spy ever caught inside the CIA. Ames and
his wife Rosario signed written agreements mandating that
' Ames will spend life in prison without parole. Rosario will
spend ﬁve. She will be released after five years so she can
, raise their five-year—old son. The couple was paid at least
$2.2 million for selling secrets to Moscow.

Nixon dies after suffering
stroke, buried in Yorba Linda

Richard Nixon died last Friday after suffering a stroke. H  File photo

The 37th president of the United States was buried at his Many Washington and Lee students will trek to the Foxfield horse races in Charlottesville Saturday. The annual
boyhood home of Yorba Linda, California. The five U.S. event draws thousands of Virginia college students in a traditional rite of socializing, drinking, and watching the
presidents still living gathered, along with 4000 other moum- horses go by.

ggggggﬁrgggrgtggsrggeggeech Women learn communication;
§ TheSupremeCourtwillcastitsvotesFriday trained in assgrtiveness  '

‘ dealing with the free-speech rights of abortion protesters and
the rights of abortion clinic patients and employers to be safe

   

- - - - Wednesda for the remainder of the °Deal with atronizin and conde-
fiom ha.raSSmem.' The. Cqmpllcated Case has Justlces. adr.mt Fmm Staff Reports term at4p.rh. in theArlingtonWomen’s scending peopii: g
ting their confusion with its arguments. Though the ]1lSt1CCS Cerrrer Express anger drrecrly and horr
will vote Friday, they are not expected to announce _their The AssertiveTraining is designed, estly
decision until June, Feeling oppressed? Not expressing according to Schroer-Lamont, to help °Turn down an unwanted request
yourself with self-confidence? Per- women with several key communica- ‘Accept performance feedback from
‘' haps the Assertiveness Communica- tive skills: a professor or boss
. . tion Training for Women is for you. Enhance your self-confidence and Respond to inapproprate interview
'~_ Pllots Clalm   The training sessions were kicked self-expression questions
. o off April 27 by instructors Anne ‘Learn how to speak up and ask ‘Request emotional support from
‘_  ‘Vere Shootlng at Iraqls Schroer-Lamont, Associate Dean of questions friend or lover
M Students, and Beth Slater, M.A. °Choose what is right for you with- The training sessions are open to all

r r _ V   _  H  _ r The sessions will be held every out guilt W&L women
The AirForce‘ifighterpil_otsrwho  U;‘S:.-Black‘, ‘ to ' 9 - i ' -‘= 3 *-

Hawk helicoptersi twoweeks ago told ‘investigators they.
believed they were shooting at Iraqi helicopters that were
chasing U.S. choppers. The friendly fire incident claimed 26
lives.

The World

Rwanda fighting prevents
distribution of food, medicine

HOW TO USE
THE BATHROOM. -

 'e probably 

¢.7-.~,«

 

  
  

to yourself, anyfour-year-old  . . . . > Q
i‘ More heavy fighting in rR_wanda’s capital is_preventing knows h°“’ “O”-“the bath’ 
planeloads of food and medicine from being distributed. The Bu t kn  _
" ﬁghting among ethnic groups has persisted for weeks. The mm‘ tyoumay “O W
rr U.N. and other relief organizations are attempting to stock- that use more water in the
:, pile and distribute supplies to sieged areas. you ‘
bathroom than anyplace else in

 
  
 
  
     

your home In Fact, between the you 're shaving. And Save up to 15%

South Africans pressure r W tr
H1075 Wﬂ E1’ 7 1715 ll lﬂg

organizers to extend voting

  

      
 

  
  
  
   

0
o
0
0
0
O
O
O
O
O
O
’ toilet, the shower and the : just because your V a wezg/2Iez1j14g in your
' A  toils! tan/e.
4* sink you can use up : shower sounds 
‘ Voters in South Africa’s first all-race election pressured ° 7
-f’ election organizers this week to extend the voting period. t° 55 911°” aday‘ : like anopm  . And Oh yeah’
 But no decision has been made yet,» Voter lines stretched for Ymmldmdur Muhrpry dmby the , hall dorrt rroyou dorrr
 several miles at some polling sites, while at other sites, voters mg 30 ,0 60% o ’
.; waited in five-hour lines only to find that the poll was out of ' 1,5, w,,,r,;,y rrrrmbrr Ofhomes : reel rhr rrrrd think yOu*11
:~.: ballots. Police arrested 31 white extremists in a bombing ,5,-nga 1(,w_ﬂ,,W _
‘r-‘ spree aimed at disrupting the election. The bombing killed 21 shower head. in the wodd, and 0 to sing om nenieiiibcr
 and injured 200. '
,; that’s a lot of natural resources : Shorter songs these things, take
.°.. . . . _ _ r : r [hr tr] g
“ Israelis, Palestinians close to g°“‘g d°W“ ‘*‘“‘“““ . ““““°‘S“°““5h°W““ *“€W5P“‘P“‘W‘ V‘’“
:;j peace agreement, says Egypt Now, we’re not saying you . And for the biggest culprit or the nexmmc .V<>ug0~
' Should Stop raking Showers : them an, the rorlery try Pam-rrg FOR MORL’ INFORMA'l'I()N AND
Egypt’s prime minister predicted that the Palestinian Ac- or brushing your rrrrh 3 wrrghrrd rug rrr rhr rrrrrkr TIPS CALI. 1—i5’U()«.\ll’LSHARL]

 

cord will be signed next week. Under the agreement, control
of Jericho and Gaza goes to Palestine. Israeli and Palestinian

I _ _ _ We’re just suggesting some
* leaders have been haggling over this point for months.

It will help save water every

1, Leaders of both nations are optimistic that the peace process simple bathroom training. time you ﬂush. Plus, clorit iiirnuigtjf __
5,. is drawin to a close. yowwam' 
g For instance, when you're forget to turn out the lights wbz‘/z shaving or gr b
:,s. l brus/Jingyom' 1'
Ci‘. 0 ' ' ' b hin th, ff . wh 1 ,Y ’llbe zektanmv
Yeltsin, Zhirinovsky sign ““ g ’°”‘ ‘ea ‘“‘“ ° 3“ Y°”   ’2’r,,,,,,,,‘
     the water. Do the same when helping to conserve electricity. watrr tat}: rim".
"'7: Russian leaders, including President Boris Yeltsin and IT 5 A CONNECTED WORLD‘ DO YOUR SHARE‘  o
 nationalist leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky, signed a political r rrrrrrsewmr
truce Thursday. The Civic Accord pledges all participants to rgrrfrr The -"ub'i°a“°" . Earth Share

refrain from violence in pursuing political goals.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily Baker.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 29, 1994

Schindleris List provokes contemplation and sorrow

By KIRK SusoNo '

Phi Movie Reviewer

 

Schindler ’s List ~— Four Stars

If you are like me, you probably thought that
Schindler’s List would be a depressing and
overly long movie.

However, after it won a gizillion Oscars,
you felt you ought to see it to be a cultured
American.

Well, it turns out you were right on all three
counts.

If you haven’t seen this film, you ought to.

“But wait, Kirk —— I will not bow down to
the cultural fascists in this country who demand
that I see every sad and pretentious black-and-
white film some Hollywood author manages to

roduce.” Well, I'm not suggesting that, either.

This film is genuinely good in its own right
and seeing it would make it easier for you to
carry on a decent cocktail party conversation.

Schindler ’s List manages to bring some of
the horror, sadness and ghastliness of the Holo-
caust to the screen.

We see the camp commandant (played by
Ralph Fiennes) shoot prisoners from hundreds
of yards away with a high-powered riﬂe, ran-

 

‘I/I/c’a“L zfe

d o m 1 y o These paral-
Choosjnghis    g . lels 31'? more
E i C ‘ i m 5 Five Stars — Go buy this as soon as it comes out on video. It is an instant  3:131-degp
rom among ° cc 9 , 7 , ~ 3 ' U ey 0
the worker classic. You lllaugh, you ll cry, and maybe, justmaybe, you 11 learn something look Similar;
prisoners. ’ «':lbO11l y01lIS6lf. . . . I , . I ' ’ upon the
L. Sdvgidlers Four Stars —— Go see this film now, while it s still on the big screen. It s worth gontnmandant s
lSt OICCS 7 - ' ’ ‘ lI'S appearance,
Us to com a few Oscars and the seven, bucks you 11 pay if you see it outside Lexington. I mistook him
from the ca-_ Overall, Better than Cats. _ . _ for Schindler)
pability of Three Stars—Okay, so therehave been better films. Nevertheless, itisa good and reflect a
fPP“e“‘l1Y example of its genre, and you should probably see it on videotape, especially if $::S1;’i;)Sn° 25$‘:
6 V C - . .
headed hu_ you are a fan of the actors or director. Still, probably “Better than Cats!” ’ me real evil 0,
mans to Two Stars — It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off tomorrow s good of the Ger-
gtfoglﬁig i ‘ reading. Although your time would probably be better served on your education, "law: Seethis in
This {S a it’s free and you’re bored, so go ahead and watch It.’ _, the scenes ,e_
m o v i e One Star—-Even if it s free and your best friend said he never laughed harder, garding the
W l]: i C 1‘ trust me, this one sucks. Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t waste it on this. 
ma 6S me '
realize how (Tliere’s always MTV.) maid, forwhorn
lucky my life he has developed
has been, an affection.

Considering all our talk at this school about
rzoblesse oblige, it would be hard to find a more
moving example of that than Oskar Schindler’s
actions.

This is heightened by his emotional speech
at the end of the movie, when he finally con-
fronts and realizes what he has accomplished
(and what his fellow Gemians have done).

Schindler ’s List, however, isn’t simply a
grim statement of horror (51 la Faces of Death);
there are more intricate and interesting points
this film makes.

One of them is the inherent dichotomy of
man, manifest here in the German people.

The similarities between the camp comman-
dant and Schindler are remarkable.

Schindler hints at the commandant’s inter-
est in one scene, where Schindler kisses her on
the forehead. _

Later, we anticipate that the commandant
will kiss the maid, romantically; instead he
severely mauls her, mad that he has fallen in
love with “Jewish vermin.”

Near the movie’s end, the commandant in-

PAGE 3

tends to shoot the girl, believing this is the best
way to save her from the inferno at Auschwitz.

That a quick death in the woods is preferable
to the death camps seems reasonable (l),

‘ until Schindler presents an alternative which

allows her to live.

This is an alternative that the commandant is
reluctant to accept.

It is easy to see Schindler and the comman-
dant as two sides of the same coin; one kisses
out of love, the other hits her in an anger
inspired by such a love.

Both are initially ambivalent about the Jews,
but one falls into the side of history (and righ-
teousness) and the other into an early death in a
noose.

I began to wonder what small differences
would result in that sort of change.

Though this movie has its drawbacks (a
sleep-inducing pace, Spielberg’s penchant for
ﬂat, “wanted poster” close ups), it has many
good points, such as the fine supporting cast
and John Williams‘ sentimental score.

Certainly the central attraction of the ﬁlm is
its heartening message, though how much of
that is owed to the theme as opposed to_
Spielberg’s artful directing is questionable.

The scale of the Nazis’ evil makes one
wonder whether it would be possible tocreate
a.ﬁlm about the Holocaust which didn’t touch
the heart. I

At any rate, this film does.

  Music and theater come together in opera

 

Flickinger plays Bartolo in the opera.
,, .

dam 51' liiv-me.

COMPILED FROM STAFF REPORTS

It has been thirty years since the music and
theater departments at Washington and Lee
"have joined hands to present a fully staged
opera.

May 20 is the opening night for Wolfgang
Amadeus Mozart’s comic masterpiece, The
Marriage of Figaro.

One‘ of the reasons for putting on The
Marriage of Figaro is to showcase the abun-
dance of singing talent at W&L.

These include Jennifer Ray ’94 (Susanna),
Mandy Irons ’95 (Marcelina), Allen Flickinger
’94 (Bartolo), Michelle Brien ’94 (Barbarina)
and Meagan Miller’96 (Countess Almaviva).

“Without this kind of talent, we couldn’t
even think of producing anything as sophisti-
cated as an opera,” said Dr. Gordon Spice,

_ chairman of the music department and musi-
cal. director for Figaro; I  < -—, 1

Besides W&L voices,’ the audience will
also be hearing Larry Evans as Figaro. Evans
is a professional singer and Lexington resi-
dent and has sung over thirty operatic roles.

”Larry is a joy to work with,’ said Spice.
”He brings a professional air to this produc-
tion and his presence at rehearsals has been
inspirational to the students. He's brought
Figaro to life for them-they're seeing beyond
the notes to how the music and the drama work
together.’

The Marriage of Figaro is based on the
satirical French comedy by Beaumarchais.
The audience sees Figaro and Susanna on their
wedding day.

“It’s one of the first operas to present its
characters as normal people who experience
the same kind of emotions we do, especially
on the subject of love,” said Dr. Spice.

Opening night is May 20, featuring W&L
senior Jennifer Ray as Susanna, with addi-
tional performances on May 22 and 24.

All perfomiances begin at 8 p.m. in the
Keller Theater.

For ticket information, call the Lenfest
Box Ofﬁce at 463-8000 from noon to 4 p.m.

   
  

rt

Twenty years ago this week, the big news in The Ring-
tum Phi was Washington and Lee’s televised lacrosse win
over the “Wahoos” of UVA. The Phi reported that the
crowd of 10,000 was the largest ever to see a lacrosse game
in the state of Virginia. Saturday morning classes, how-
ever, kept some W&L fans from the first minutes of the
6 game in Charlottesville.

The International Streakers Association had an ad for
“streakers” t—shirt, but a front page story gives the details
of a W&L student’s $100 fine for indecent exposure in
Lexington.

For entertainment, the junior class was sponsoring a
dance in Red Square, “The Last Sock Hop.” Ads pro-
‘ moted “the first annual Cherry Blossom Music Festival”
in Richmond with 15 bands over two days, including the
Steve Miller band and Kool and the Gang, while the top

The W&LRecord

two movies were The Sting and Butch Cassidy and the
Sundance Kid.

Three different stories mention “town-gown” relations
between W&L and Lexington, which were apparently not
at their best.

Thirty-five years ago this week, W&Lwas preparing to
host a journalism conference for high school students,
three-fourths of whom were “members of the female
gender, a fact which has never failed to delight the Wash-
ington and Lee gentlemen” of the day.

One girl told the Phi, “I wouldn’t date aboy who drank.
I’ve heard remarks about fraternities and we’re not al-
lowed to even go near them.”

But another girl said, “Last year we didn’t meet any
boys at all, but this year we’re going to get out and meet
some boys if we have to lock our adviser in the bathroom!”

Compiled by KATHLEEN QUIRK of the Ring-tum Phi

Publicity Photo
Junior Mandy Irons gets into her part with senior Allen Flickinger during rehearsal for The Marriage of Figaro. Irons plays Marcelina and

 

Monday through Friday.
Tickets are free to W&L students, faculty
and staff.

Figaro evolves as a comic masterpiece

COMPILED FROM
STAFF REPORTS

The Marriage of Figaro
was not an opera conceived
wholly by itself.

Yes, it's true! I don't know what I'm doing!
Such a fever within me is brewing!
Every maiden I meet makes me ﬂutter,
Any fair one can set me on fire!
-CHERUBINO IN F romeo

Figaro is anxious about
the Count’s attentions on
Susanna.

From there Mozart's
comic masterpiece evolves.
Basilio teases Susanna with
scandalous insinuations

Based on Beaumarchais’
LeMariage deFigaro and its
predecessor in point of time,LeBarbier de Séville, watching
Figaro is a cultural experience in which history, literature,
music and theater are all connected.

The scene in the original Figaro is laid in a castle in Spain
where the Count and Countess reside.

The chief character are not the Count and Countess, A

however, but his valet Figaro and her maid Susanna.

about Cherubino, the Page.
‘ A popular version of The
Marriage of Figaro was prepared in 1915 by Sir Thomas
Beecham for his original Opera company in which he
readjusted certain scenes and introduced additional dia-
logue from Beaumarchais’ comedy.

This version entranced the public and The Marriage of
Figaro has become known has one of the more popular
operas for general enjoyment.

WLUR-FM rocks through spring term

By EMILY BAKER

Phi Staff Writer

 

Sounding in with spring term comes the new directors .

and assistant directors for WLUR-FM, Washington ‘and
Lee’s radio station.
W&L’s FM frequency offers something for every musi-
cal taste, including country, classical, rap, rock, and reggae.
“The most popular kind of music among the students is
alternative,” said Chief Operator Becky Crow. Though

alternative may be popular, disc jockeys can pick from any
of the selections the station owns. '

“We have a pretty extensive library,” said Becca Reed,
previous director of the dance/rap department. This variety
of music allows DJ ’s to broaden their musical horizons. ,

“Working closely with the radio has helped me keep
track of new bands,” said Crow. ‘‘I get to hear about them
before most people do.”

Radio can have other advantages, also. ‘‘If you like the
music you’re playing, you can have a lot of fun,” said Reed.
“It can be like your own dance party in the DJ booth.”

Deejaying a show, however, is not always a party. The
initial adjustment to speaking to an audience can be intimi-
dating.

“At the beginning some people are really quiet on the air
and don’t say much. But most get talkative after a while,”
said Crow.

 

W ‘ p The Rirﬁtum Phi, April 29,

Bound & Gaggeq by Dana Summers

 

off the mark by Mark Parisi

5'7

MEAL THAT comes
IWITI-I IT'S ow~ FLOSS... ,

   

Dave by David Miner
NEVER MIND t7ARLA‘S...Trlié is
oAvg’5 HORMONAL CYCLE!

 
  
   
    
 
 

HE'5\’-1» W74“  M009
GONNA gm *( Youké IN is PZOSABI-Y

K11’ AéAw,/ « HQIZIVIONAL.’

 

'l7ARLA... I waN' T
EVEK -SAY THAT

A Writer who can do Five pages
even on a bad day is a plugger.

  

Atunnc rmunz elm win: must "

« 991 hummus: ungu.....¢..¢
I lmu-4 Llmhl sown; in:
\

5
it
famous '5?laLlz\N\  nqlaniivm i.»Ii-‘<5?

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS 10 1 ‘ ’  ‘  I‘  *‘~2‘l\\lll:_"5
1Malnsai|su port ‘ I 
132g(r)ades p ‘5   FEK\AN>$ nag N\\(
14 A Gardner \N\b&\N§“oN' Doc-YORI

BUT LATELY NE
BEEN FEELING LIKE

 
   
 

15 TV's "Kate
and —" ;

 
 

16 Roman

 
 

statesman 
17 S b I I’ I ":2
18 Cteazeasn ‘a -=‘ I!I‘I\  .-

  
 

19 Made a hole in
one
20 Network feature
22 Exotic Biblical
dancer
24 Coolidge and
Ripken
25 Do office work
26 Milky Way
29 Writing paper
33 Fruit drinks
34 Mountain pools
35 “—— Life to Live"
36 Pickled item
37 Clock sounds
38 Eat elegantly

 

by Mike Paton:

    
  
   

THAT?» THE LAST “me I
GO wALl<lN6 wlTl-l

BORVER’ COLLIEIA

      

      
   

    
   

     
    

39 A ed @ .. 4 Tribune Media Services inc.

40 Sgeletal parts I Rights Reserved ’ 04/29/94

41 Participating Last week s puzzle solved

42 Limit 8 Fruit seed

44 School papers 9 Meetings -

46 Sentry‘s 10 Fish features d7

command 11 Mexican food I

47 Platform 12 Part of a list

48 Auto's place 13 Traveled ($

51 Wrong 21 Instrument for

designation Stan Getz _..1-"W

55 TV'$ "L.—" 23 “— well that *2‘

56 Macbeth's title ends  _

58 Queen of S arta 25 Table settin 54'2" ,5

59 Tender 9 items 9  ppm .1, you LIE on I swam  IT IS NOT WISE TO
60 Magnificent 26 Zsa Zsa -I’. WORTI-ILESS PILE _ YOU'LL JOIN THE 'a’/ 5 THREATEN SOMEONE WHO
61 Swerve 27 An Astaire ' / OF CHIPS... CB RADIO AND - HAS ACCESS TO VOUR
62 Listen to 28 Yorkshire city THE EIGHT-TRACK 7 CHECKING ACCOUNT.

STEREO ON THE

63 Time periods 29 Diamond feature
SCRAP I-IE1? OF

64 Sicilian mount 30 To —— phrase
31 Vex

  
    

   

 

DOWN 32 Hammer heads E

1 Blackbird 134 Colored 2

2 Space ‘ _ 37 Talcum or A ‘ ‘ V, ( ~ ‘ ‘_ §

  -;rL1]i‘nOSn“tir“$e.ai_r_   ;.~:- ..t,. ..,47   . . ..51.\r(eus‘cig1eanf;- I . . ~- .. I  ‘ —:.-~...-_ \:,..»~:-,:~ -, :~. : ;, ;,. o ,x_—.,,., ,_ 3-,: .  -,  . § ‘ ‘—*'~>j*' :'
V‘ 5 in an impulsive 40 Boast 48 Cut deeply 52 Get together S H O E 3 “gr,”

way_ ' 43 Melted V 49 Softening 53 First place 3 W

3§r'L‘§';r§i°"°" 32 §3K‘é§§5s3§,-ii? so 3%‘22§nmon 3? 823;? tool by Jeﬁua‘-‘N9/’J’ 

F   ' Summer Camp Staff Needed Va;-ner & Pole .
Trip_1eCDay Camp Specializing in Unfurnished
Two Bedroom Apartment across from W&L Cha1r‘14<:)t:16dS:l111e:,ri;’:1\J1I'{H(;?0}I*19aSI1<:«1I>t 2 Furniture & Shades ,
K 802 293 zsig f inf Lexington, VA 463-2742
at( ) ' 0-‘ more °‘ New Location!

I Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m. gm mﬂmmg Emlmmt mt HID?

    
 
  
 
  
     

zwmmmt E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 ,3‘ r? Ftiliitti nigh . J1’l2lll'g1l1III:
" ' .;___,_,  baton‘ r1 at p i —
S  it at W 1
LEE-HI   TROY’S LAWN SERVICE: Lawn WW7, 5; 133$, ipiiléw
N" » ‘i 30 -

Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes
Daily Specials- 24 Hour—A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

Mowing, Trimming, Hedge Cutting, 3¢,,,,,,,,,,3,-,,3,,,. Saturdaﬁ, Apri
Hauling Away Anything. Free a C ris An erson
Estimates. Will service fraternities,

 

. Breakfast Buffet Avoid Landlord Fees. Have your IaWIl Farm for rent (the “Taj Mahal”). Approx. 2000.
' Fmay and Saturday N‘gh‘S 11P-m-‘4a-m- cut over the summer, Call Tro E. s . ft. 4 bedrooms - can hold u to 6 eople.
Sunday 9 a.m.-2 p.m. y Firg lace wood stove refri eratldr ceiling fans
[ Rt. 11 North 463-3478 0 en 24 Hours Bane (703) 463-4391 6 a.m. - 10 p.m. amfhugé bar. Secludéd location aimut 3 miles»

from town. Rent ‘$200/person (regardless of
number of people). Beautiful view. Large yard --

A  YE A    , with ball field. Call Nate or Lewis for more
.,  f  T ‘_  . vi’    G lllf0,  Home (804) 886-0614
  ‘rs;   '_=_;" {H ‘    r____ ﬂ ‘

     

.2 '1»: -t-‘: '9‘ .- -
3":-‘~:.'-.-4.’?-:.'-?-::3~.'.'-Pt’ =?r.

   
     
   
    
 

  

_-.""' -. ‘_. 0"-3 ‘-_. - ‘_.

  

   
  
  

   
 

 
   
      
   
   
   
   
      
    
 

. . . .- -' ), . _
'.-‘.‘>n-3;°.—‘az~3.=-,'.-*.ii>I-::-9%-.e.~.,-misﬁt»

      
 

  
   
  
    
    
  
 

  
 

    
   
  
  
  

   
    

   
 

   
 

Run ~ V - . _. ’ _ _ We serve Pizza to a
 , I," 23? 1-1 , I ‘\g ‘ W . .

 .. ’  ' . .  -  Lo ‘ﬁnder the Army‘  Full Italian Dinner!

55‘ amf ﬂiestaurant A 7 " ' I F ‘ " '4 an epaymem . ‘

 _ -~_" * _ " "' ‘ program, you could get

 Chef‘ Stewart prepares daily culinary delights f .; out from under with a _ _____

 Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beet‘ Ilouladen, -l, threeyear enlistment ,  , ’

 . Pagua’ and H°me'.na‘.le T°rte“".“' . . . ' Each year you serve ’ ” L€X1ng'[OI1 S

5,}. Six Room Inn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, _Full service Fine Dmin ' . d d l ,

--’-=-’ Room ﬁlled with anti ues Full Bar Service Available Perfect on ac/ave‘ uty re uces t f

 setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions. YOUI' iI1debtedl’1e55 by 0116'  

33: 1—' . . o c - I
 ¥E§‘§3i§;T‘;§§'$£§:2“fLliiI“é.Tu‘%22  authentic

65 . 7 . .
 Satui'days- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle” up to a $55,000 ]j_mjt_ ' ‘V’ B
' Special Package The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans, ' - Northén} Itahan
 J Tusslgay, “;¢9d5I18:)d3)Ié& ffhurﬁiay 03% 00 and certain other federally insured loans, which are not ' Cu1S1I1€ ,

 acuzzi ooin .. — arriage ouse . in default

( :°G°r:::,i?y1 "f,‘;’,§’d,ys, And debt relief is just one of the many beneﬁts 24 North Main Street
 Gm Certiﬁcates Now Available you’ll earn from the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter. Lexington, VA r
$7? , .

 Open Daily Dining Hours5:Ei)e;.I-rSatt(.) (9S.33da)r/n& Monday groups of 10+) V. ‘ ' .- ___-=__ ' 

 Call for reservations; 702?-'46.3-9715 .      CAN   r   

.. . . - .. , ., .
.V“‘-2:-' ."_I _-.r'I V"
a-:—' * vi‘ ’».~.~.-\ -‘-5: ’

,1: -, ,._  .., _._ _,..I :1. 5... 5-,...
-.-5 ,,:’x'*-g;::.',-;‘;._:-«~x'.;;._\§‘,_.-;. ~.*-:»'.:-,. -.'-:-'-L

?‘

 

  

O

The Ring-tum Phi, April 29, 1994

G

ADVERTISEMENT
aha

The Graham-Lee-Washington Literary Society embodies the aspiration of Washington and Lee
students to engage in vigorous, informed, and civil discourse. The Society strives to bring students
voicing varying thoughts and representing different campus activities together in social settings to

A discuss lively issues. We aim to discuss topics relevant to a liberal arts education including those
that are social, political, philosophical, religious, economic, scientiﬁc, artistic, historic, or literary in
nature. The Washington and Lee community provides a fertile environment for these goals due to its
long-standing, revered notion of Honor that asks respect for other scholars’ views.

m-l_ee-\x/oshinqlon

Iitercw society

      

All Students are cordially invited

Friday, April 29: Applications for membership available outside
Carol Calkins’ office, University Center.

Criteria for Membership:

1. Intellectual curiosity and motivation
2. Leadership
3. Commitment to society’s principles and events

Friday, May 6: Applications due in Dean Howison’s office

Sunday, May 8: Discussion with Dr. Harlan Beckley on his
book, Passion for Iustice. 7 p.m. on the patio of the ’

Alumni House, under the tent. Refreshments Provided.

 

\
\
\
\
§
\
\
§
§
§
\
\
\
\
\
$
<
\
S
\
§
§
\
\
3
.
§
$
3
$
3
S
\
i
‘Q
§
§
\
\
\
\
$
t
\
§
§
\
\
§
§
§
§
r
$
>
§
§
§
§
x
\
§
r
>
§
§
§
§
s
3
§
§
§
§
§
§
3
§
$
3
\
§
\
E
x
3
§
\
\
\
§
§
\
§
\
\
§
\
§
§
\
§
\
\
$
§
§
\
§
§

\

///////V/////////W/////////////ﬂ/////ﬂ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////V////////////////////////// / / / // / / / ///// // / //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////1/ //////I///////////////////////////////// ///////////////////////////////////////

Tickets go on sale the week of
Monday, May 2, in front of the co-op.

For more information, call Tom Fink, Secretary, at 464-8691

/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////ZV////ﬂ/////////////////////////////////////A

////7/////////////////////////”//////////////////////////////////////////////////////// /////////0 /// / / // ’/////’/////// ///////// //// //// //////////////////////// ////’///////// ///’////////////////////// ///////////M ’///////// /////// ///////////////////////////////////////////////////Z////////////ﬂ////////////////////////W//W//////////////W

',’;,_1\« L . .-.-I.-me,-p4.~e.-9.‘-toe».-,,., -_ *

    

PAGE 6

@112 itiing-tum lﬁhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

All together now

Oh, Horrors, class registration is approaching
again... ‘

After a nightmare spring term registration, many
freshmen become apprehensive about ever getting the
classes they desire.

The lucky ones have upperclassman friends in
each department in which they wish to register, who will
give the inside info into exactly how early to get up and
which days the secretaries will allow each class to register.

Then the young registree must discover who is
qualified to sign the registration form; must one search out
the professor and skip classes to wait by his door for his
office hours, or will an initial from the department secre-
tary suffice? ~ In

We have assessed a very clear problem with Wash-
ington and Lee class registration: inconsistency.

Even if a student becomes intimately familiar with
the ins and outs of registration in his major department, he

I will have to start all over again if he ever ventures out of
J the department into the great unknown of general educa-

tion requirements and —- God forbid — electives!
Physical education registration is, if not perfect, at

 least better than anything else because the necessary
 preparation (getting up before the birds) is clearly stated

and does not change from term to term.
At such a small liberal arts university as this, it

’ would seem practical to have a universal registration

procedure, for inter-departmental fairness if nothing else.

Knowing that every department required one to
wait in the hallway before dawn, or had certain designated
days for each class, et cetera, would relieve much of the
stress of simple ignorance of departmental policy!

Even if every department published a registration
policy and stuck to it unwaveringly, things would go much
more smoothly. But, as it is, many departments give
special dispensation to majors, or advisees, or  the list
goes on. V

The only fair solution is to either establish a consis-
tent university-wide policy or to publish and conform to a
written policy in each department.

For in_s_tance, the_,,urtivegs:rty.§r;qniri:f_9lL9yyxtti.t; ex-
ample of the history department, ‘wh'ich”has“ a "unified
policy which is clearly posted each registration period.

' After all, we are not rocket scientists!

:9 Quote of the Week —

I “So, Sarah, are you the sole editor of the Phi?”

—Cottie Miles
“Yes, the sole editor.”
—-Sarah Gilbert
“That means, if you have a story about shoes, she will
make the corrections.”
—Professor Brian Richardson

g.

54‘: .1

 

E112 ikiing-tum lﬁhi

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Erin Leonard

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .- . . . . . . . . . . . .Ethan Krupp

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .'. . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . ‘. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

Ihe Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. Tire Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but TheRing-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

OPINION

The Ringium Phi, April 29, 1994

  

  

 
  
       
   
     

Party loyalty limits political protests

Since this is spring term, I guess I should be writing the middle. Neither party can really stray to far in
either direction and maintain its voting base. Then the
governing party is attacked for
being too centrist and giving
into the whims of the other party.

about something that requires no serious thought.

‘Unfortunately, I can’t
think of anything fun due
to all the work I’ve had to

do for class.

Lately, I have been
thinking about party loy-
alty (i.e. Democratic, Re-
publican, Green). Actually,
it has been a topic on an
Internet debate on whether
or not progressive groups
should stage a protest at

the 1996 Democratic convention. The consensus was
~. that thereshouldibe‘ a protest, but we disagreed on the
 extenﬁof'th6?prbtestt,Kt;‘J9...      j .
' There was indecision about whether to protest
speciﬁc policies of the Clinton administration or the

Democratic party as a whole.

Most of the participants were for the later option;
however, after thinking about it for a while, I decided
the first option was probably better. I had personal as
well as practical reasons for this decision. On a
personal level, my family are New Deal Democrats-
blue-collar unionists. My grandfather was even a
Teamster during Hoffa’s reign. I think there is some-
thing in the blood that prevents us from voting any-
thing but Democratic; so naturally, I don’t want to

turn against the party.

Now for practical reasons, I think many of the
problems the group has with the Democratic party
might not be so prevalent if there were more party
loyalty. A major complaint was about how hard it is
to distinguish between the Democratic and Republi-
can parties. That is certainly true, after all both parties
are going for the same undecided group of voters in

 
 
 

So how would increased
party loyalty change that? For
one thing, a party would de-
velop principles because they
would have a solid base of vot-
ers. I’m sure someone will raise
the objection that if there is a
solid base that follows the party
line, then there will be no de-
bate; everyone will just blindly follow the party

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

leaders. I think the oppo-

~ site is true — there will
be more debate since the
course of the party will
not immediately be clear
or obvious.

Debate will be re-
quired no mater the loy-
alty of the followers.
Think of it in more per-
sonal terms. When you
are with friends, you are
more like yourself then
when you are with a

~ group of strangers. A po-
litical party acts the same
way. With trusted mem-
bers itcan become some-

thing that has actual val- -
ues and beliefs to uphold.

, There are times when determining what position to
take to remain loyal to the party can be a problem. For

the protest.

 

———-’ Cérr I“
Actually, it has been a topic on
an Internet debate on whether or
not progressive groups should
stage a protest at the 1996 Demo-
cratic convention. The consensus
was that there should be a protest,
but we disagreed on the extent of '

5
/ ‘\
\
‘J I \ .‘:\“.\
I
4;:
./

/ If

 L ““::°2‘.L
 ’

U‘A‘l’:ON 15 ‘A5 N”

Au’) Edi’ I
9 cAp'\" V5.1:

WEK -rue W-"
U
I 0

_,_z_r‘ .3
K

\K‘ .
0

example, during the North Amercan Free Trade
Agreement debate, was one loyal if you supported
NAFTA along with the president or if you opposed
to it along with the majority of Democrats in the
House and the unions? Then there is a case of one
our own, Senator Warner, who has basically ﬁe-
fused to endorse Oliver North for the Senate. Can
he be said to be opposing the party when theparty
itself is divided. One group supporting Dan Miller,
the other, led by another alum, Pat Robertson,
backing North.

We still haven’t decided what sort of protest we
should have. It may depend on where the Conv3n-
tion is held. If it is in Chicago, we may go all out to
remember the ’68 convention and the riots and

. , beatings that tookplace
at a different Demo-
cratic convention when
a different Daley was
in office. ‘j

I rather doubt many
of you are going to go
out and organize a pro-
test, but I hope all of
you will think about
who and what you are
voting for during
the primaries.

Virginia has not yet
decided who will be the
party nominees for the
State, and the result is
bound tobe interesting.

I know it is spring

term, and summer is fast approaching (not Son

enough!) but exercise your brains a little when
you are voting.

There’s more to Nixon than Watergate

I have always admired Richard
Milhous Nixon.
Don’t get me wrong; I have never

the guilt which rightly accrues to Nixon
himself, “For that reason, I long ago
accepted overall responsibility for the

 
 
   

been the type of Watergate af-
person to be fair. What’s
seduced by more, I have
hero-worship. Paid. and am
And, along Still paying,
those lines, NICHOLAS L_ the price for
let’s say at the , it.” Even
outset that Ri- WADDY,  from beyond
chard Nixon thegrave,this
was no hero in 1881 point re-
the conven— mains true.

tional sense. Richard

He was, to be honest, a very ﬂawed
man; he could be petty, vindictive,
even criminal. .

So at the risk of undermining what
should be a sympathetic account of
Nixon’s life, let me first address the
question that begs to be asked; the
question of Watergate.

Nixon says, “What happened in
Watergate — the facts, not the myths
—— was wrong.”* Though Nixon de-
nies any prior knowledge of the break-
in at the Democratic National Conven-
tion Headquarters in June, 1972, on
the wider question of his responsibility

‘for the conduct of his officials, and of

his culpabilityin the cover-up that fol-
lowed, Nixon admits fault, ‘‘...I should
have set a higher standard for the con-
duct of the people who participated in
my campaign and in my administra-
tion. I should have established a moral
tone that would have made such ac-
tions unthinkable. I did not.”

Of course, Nixon was hardly the
first president to be involved in shady
dealings; Lyndon Johnson probably
obstructed justice ten timesbefore
breakfast. Nixon understood this, “Not
taking a higher road than my predeces-
sors and adversaries was my central
mistake.” But, of course, the excuse
that “they startedit” hardly removes

Nixon, however, is bigger than
Watergate. What, we might ask, is his
greatest legacy?

I want to suggest that it was some-
thing Nixon liked to call “practical
idealism.” Richard Nixon, more than
any other president in the post-war
period, had an ingenious grasp of the
relationship between means and ends
in politics. His end, his goal, was clear

‘enough; it was essentially anti—com-

munism. Nixon felt acutely the threat.

posed to Western freedom by commu-
nism, and his entire political career
was devoted to its defeat. This kind of
single-minded idealism would make
Nixon extremely unpopular with some
Americans, those too buried in relativ-
ism to see the threat of communism for
what it was; imperialistic tyranny of
the worst kind.

But the genius ofNixon was notjust
in realizing what the goals ofhis politi-
cal life should have been (the defeat of
communism and the expansion of free-
dom); Nixon also displayed an extraor-
dinary skill in bringing his ideals into
practice. Take his opening to China in
January, 1972 as an example. The
naive might ask how one of the West’s
greatest enemies of communism could
journey to a communist power like
China in order to improve relations.

Isn’t that hypocrisy?

The answer, of course, is that Rich-
ard Nixon did more damage to imperi-
alistic communism by shaking Chou
En-I.ai’s hand in Beijing than he could
have done by any other means. Nixon
understood the growing rift between
China and the Soviet Union for what it
was: a golden opportunity for the United
States to drive a wedge between com-
munist powers and help to ensure their
final defeat in the Cold War. This is
why we call Nixon a practical idealist:
he used practical means to achieve
idealistic ends, and he did so brilliantly.
Anyone who ap-
preciates the rela-
tive safety of free-
dom in the world
today owes Nixon
a debt of gratitude;
he did as much as

But the genius of .
Nixon was not just in

up to his own guiding principles; with
Theodore Roosevelt, Nixon believed
that f‘It is not the critic who counts; not
the man who points out where the strong
man stumbles...The credit belongs to
the man who is actually in the arena,
whose face is marred by dust and sigeat
and blood; who strives valiantly; who
errs, and comes short again and again;
because there is not effort without error
and shortcoming...who at the best
knows in the end the triumphs of high
achievement and who at the worst, if he
fails, at least fails while daring grezyly,
so that his place shall never be with
- those cold and
timid souls who
know neither
victory nor de-
feat.”

This was the
standard Nﬁon

anyone to secure it.

A few years be-
fore his death,
Nixon wrote, “I
have been on the
highest mountains
and in the deepest
valleys, but I have
never lost sight of
my destination —
a world in which
peace and freedom
can live together. I
have won some
great victories and
sufferedsome dev-
astating defeats
...Two thousand

realizing what the goals
of his political life should
have been (the defeat of
communism and the
expansion of freedom) ;
Nixon also displayed an
extraordinary skill in
bringing his ideals into
practice. Take his open-
ing to China in January,

1972 as an example.
 

set for himself;
the standard of
not just knowing
what you be-
lieve, of intellec-
tualizing right
and wrong, but
of actually step-
ping into “the
arena” and get-
ting some-
thing done.
Thisstandard
is perhaps Qhe
highest by which
men can be mea-
sured, and by it
Richard Nixon

in

years ago, the poet Sophocles wrote,
‘One must wait until the evening to see
how splendid the day has been.’ There
is still some time before the sun goes
down, but even now, I can look back
and say that the day has indeed been
splendid.” ,

This was so because Nixon had lived

‘was not just a good man, but a

great one.
His example, though far from uni-
fonnly perfect, merits our respect.
‘All quotations are from Richard
Nixon’s In the Arena: A Memoir of
Victory, Defeat and Renewal, New
York, Simon and Schuster, 1990.

 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, April 29, 1994

OPINION

Many secrets lurk at Stop-In

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

Today is April 28, and you know
what that means! It’s time for the next
stop on the Dream Land World Tour.
This week I took a Phi expense account
trQ> to the Stop-In convenience store
on Main Street to investigate the news-
worthy effects of packaged pseudo-
food on W&L students.

The Stop-In clerks,“Bill”and“Don”
were pretty informative. Among other
things they revealed to me that the
umold world famous Stop-In hot dogs
are disposed of after about two hours
on the rolling grill.

“At the end they look like shriveled
raisins,” Bill said. He did not say what
they looked like before.

According to Bill’s estimate, one
ha f of all Stop-In hot dogs are con-
verted to chili dogs by the customers
before they leave the store.

“I like the chili dogs,” said Stop-In
customer Tricia Coughlin, a broadcast
journalism major from Babson Park,
Florida. That’s T-R-I-C-I—A C-O—U-
G-H—L—I-N. Be sure to mention to her
thgt you saw this.

“She likes to get them all over her-
self,” said her friend.

Bill was not sure of the ingredients
of Stop-In chili.

“I think it’s just a concoction of

chili beans and seasoning,” Bill said.

Bill and Don were both unable to
explain the packaging of the world
famous Stop-In microwaveable cheese-
burgers. Each burger has a label that
features a line that says “Prepared by
Wayne” or “Prepared by Kathy” or
“Prepared by Robert.” Bill and Tom
did not know who

have to come over to the other burger
makers’ houses and make some idle
threats about their dog’s life if they
didn’t leave his share of the cheese-
burger business alone. Whole Stop-
In Cheeseburger Maﬁa Rings could

develop.
Putting aside the threats to the
cheeseburger free

  

    

 

these people were. ,,_.,. ,,,,,,G,,,,,,,,,,,.,,,,,,,,_,, ,3 , enterprise system,

Bill specifically one has to consider
denied knowing the theory that
them, though he Wayne, Kathy, and
theorized they were ,. Robert were the
One-Stop Deli em- ' ' ‘ names of the cows
ployees in Roanoke. 3.59 each Of the cheeseburgers
If they were, then it TWO for $‘|_19 were made of, mak-
leaves open the ques- ing the labels a po-
tion: Why aren’tthe I   BEEF Pm" WT" tentially very sick

, FIN CHEESE UN Ft

employees last ggsmqg 3559 ROLL Stop-In Corpora-
namesused?Whatis CONTRINS WP & H56. tion joke.
theStop-InCorpora- "ET '”' 3 °*" DonandBill had
tion trying to hide?  quite a bit to say
Why are they trying 3 - about Stop-In cus-
to protect their iden- ,9 - b.  tomers. Most dis-
tities? ‘ ’““ “ ‘ " ' 9'5 -‘:94 tinctive was a man

The practice of p _°°,mm“&_ 1 they call “The Ra-
putting names on the ' dio Guy.”

cheesburgers at all

could cause problems. What if Stop-In
customers only bought cheeseburgers
prepared by Wayne? The other cheese-
burger makers might get jealous and
start “playing dirty” and pump their
cheeseburgers up with extra cheese to
win over Wayne’s customers. And you
KNOW that would mean Wayne would

W&L

LETTERS

Annual Fund collection misjudges seniors,

The Radio Guy
is a Lexington resident who enjoys
music and carries a large radio with
him wherever he goes, sharing his music
with the people.

“We don’t allow him to sing in the
store,” Don said, emphatically. The
Radio Guy is sent outside to sing.

Stop-In has also served such celeb-

 

PAGE 7
rities as actors Sam Watterston and
Sam Jackson, who were making a ° 0 -
Showtime movie at VMI. Tom Hespos Senlors Inte1'V1eWlI1g

has also been sighted at Stop-In, though
rumors that he is the Radio Guy cannot
be corroborated.

I did speak with one Stop-In cus-
tomer who was not very happy.
Catherine Bassett told me that she found
Stop-In donuts to be “all sticky and
unnatural.” Catherine’s boyfriend,
Chester “Andy” Holden also com-
mented that Stop-In featured salsa in
mild and medium variations, but not
hot. I guess competition from Taco
Bell muscled out Stop-In hot salsa.

Mike Harden was impressed by
Stop-In’s selection of motor oil in the
windows. This is probably a good time
to repeat that Bill was not sure of the
ingredients of Stop-In chili.

And beyond the usual assortment of
food, drinks, cigarettes, and motor oils,
Stop-In also happens to carry toy Exxon
trucks.

“I hate those trucks,” Bill said. Ap-
parently they have not sold well. It’s
surprising that Stop-In does not carry
toy Stop-In trucks, or toy hot dogs, or
any other souvenir Stop-In items. Don
says they used to have Stop-In lighters,
but they sold out.

“Not many people ask for Stop-In
stuff,” Don said.

I strongly urge you to go down to
Stop-In and ask Don and Bill lots of
questions about the store. They like it.

° makes them less willing to give later

To the editor:

I would like to call your attention to the collection
methods currently used by those in charge of Wash- -

ington and Lee’s Annual Fund.

I recently received a letter dated March 18 from
Jghn Cleghom, vice chairman of the Annual Fund for

Young Alumni.

In his letter, Cleghom informs me that a classmate
from the Senior Pledge Project will contact me and
ask whether I will make a pledge to the

Annual Fund.

“W&L recognizes that the ability of its alumni to
kc signiﬁcant gifts increases over time,” says
Cleghom in his letter. I’m not quite sure that Mr.
Cleghom has taken an honest look at the ability of
W&L’s seniors to contribute to the fund. His request
is nothing short of rude and insensitive to the ﬁnancial

situations of the senior class.

I learned of the practice of hitting up seniors for
rfoney as a sophomore. Some of my senior friends at
the time told me that they had received similar letters
prior to graduation. I had always assumed that they
were exaggerating with regard to the content of the
letter, or that they were giving me only one side of

the story.

Now that I have a letter of my own, I realize why

my friends were upset.

these people?

bad light.

tuition bill?

I graduate?

Many seniors have not yet found their places in the
job market. Many also have student loans and other
ﬁnancial obligations that they haven’t even started to
pay off. Does it sound as if Washington and Lee’s
Annual Fund is the foremost thing in the minds of

Cleghom also uses language in-his letter that
places a refusal to give to the Annual Fund in a

“One of the school’s strongest traditions is the
Annual Fund — and you have benefitted from that
tradition for the last four years... [Y]early gifts by
W&L alumni have helped you pay the cost of your
education,” states the letter.

Am I to take it that I owe Washington and Lee for
my education even after I have paid that last

Just because W&L emphasizes alumni donations
over tuition hikes, does that mean that I am obligated
to start participating in this “tradition” even before

I have some advice for Mr. Cleghom if he wishes
to enlist my help in achieving W&L’s ﬁnancial goals:

1) Wait until I get a job. I’ll be glad to give some

money once I have some ﬁnancial independence.

2) Wait until I get out from under the piles of
bills that have accumulated during my stay at W&L.
3) Get in line. Get right in there — behind my
fraternity. I’ll be giving money to my fraternity
before I give money to W&L. At least my fraternity

has the class to wait until after I have graduated to

ask me for a ﬁnancial helping hand.
I have spoken to several fellow members of the

senior class. I have found that although my friends

realize the importance of giving money to W&L,
they disapprove of this impolite method of solicit-
ing contributions. Some of them are outright of-
fended, as am I.

Just for the record, I am not against giving
money to our fine institution. I will be-happyto
contribute in the future, when I have established

some sort of ﬁnancial independence. Until then,

Sincerely,
Thomas F. Hespos, Jr. ’94

don’t call me for contributions. As is the case with
many of my classmates, my primary ﬁnancial obli-
gations lie elsewhere.

' Square dance with Wildgrass to raise money for
Habitat for Humanity A

To the editor,

The Catholic Campus Ministry is
sponsoring a square dance on Satur-
day, April 30 at 9 p.m. in the Washing-
ton and Lee University Tavern, the
General’s Headquarters.

This fun-ﬁlled event is open to the
general public.

Becky MacKenzie will teach and
cDll all square and contra dances.

Ms. MacKenzie’s enthusiastic and

humorous style will enable everyone,
whether an awkward beginner or an
experienced dance, to learn the various
steps and moves necessary in each par-
ticular dance. She is a former Ferrum
folk-life professor and has compiled a
repertoire of over 100 dances.
Wildgrass will perform the rhyth-
mic old—timey music reminiscent of
barn dances from days gone by.
After every few dances while the

dancers are resting, they will sing and
play bluegrass favorites, in addition to
the dance music. Members of
Wildgrass include Freddy Goodhart,
Johnny Staton, Burr Datz, “Jake”
Schoﬁeld, and Dan Newhall.

There will be a $2 admission fee,
which will be donated to Washington
and Lee’s new Habitat for Humanity
Chapter, organized by Francie Cohen
and Leo Decanini.

Interviews and Photos

By Betsy Green

TALKBACK

 

“We hope to begin building some-
time in 1995,” said Decanini, “and
these funds will be very helpful in our
attempts to fund the construction costs.”

Refreshments will be sold by W&L
students.

For more information, please call
463-3533.

W.C. “Burr” Datz
Director, Catholic Campus Ministry

Seniors who ordered prints from
Taylor can pick them up in Carol
Calkins’ office in the
University Center.

Movies

On Tuesday, May 3, the Minor-
ity Student Association will spon-
sor a movie night. The movie will
be Equal But Separate. The MSA
will also have a second movie night
on Tuesday, May 10. ColorAdjust-
ment will be shown. The movies
will be in Northern Auditorium at 7
p.m. All students are welcome.

Lecture

On Wednesday, May 4, Belle
Wheeler, President, Central Virginia
Community College, will lecture
on “The Fundamentals of Educa-
tion.” The lecture will be in the
Commerce School, Room 327 at 7
p.m. Everyone is welcome.

Test Results

There are two remaining test in-
terpretation sessions this year, one
on Thursday, May 5 and one on
Thursday, May 19, at 3 p.m. in
Room 109 of the University Center.
Anyone who has taken the interest
tests and has not had their tests
interpreted is invited to attend one
of the sessions. Please notify Ms.
Saunders in the Career Develop-
ment Ofﬁce if you plan to attend.

Tests

The last day to Take the Career
Tests this year is Wednesday, May
18. If you are interested in taking
the Myers-Briggs or Strong
Campbell Interest Inventories,
please schedule an appointment with
Ms. Saunders in the Career Devel-
opment Ofﬁce.

There will be an interviewing
workshop on Tuesday, May 10, 1994
at 4 p.m. in Room 109 of the Univer-
sity Center. All students are wel-
come to attend.

Keys

Want extra cash for spring term?
If you are a student who has a key to
a student organization or sorority
ofﬁce in the University Center that
you no longer need, return it t Carol
Calkins for a full refund. Deadline
for a cash refund is May 18.

Kids

“Choices for Children — A
Family Information Fair” will be
held on Thursday, May 5, from 6:30
p.m. to 8:30 p.m., at the Maury River
Middle School in Lexington.

Over 40 area programs, agen-
cies, schools, and preschools that
provide services fro children will be
present. In addition, entertainment
will be provided, including a jug-
glcr, a magician, and a clown with
balloons. The Rockbridge Strings
Group and the Lexington School of
Dance will perform. There will be
free ice cream and drinks.

For more information, call Carol
Burke, at 464-8560.

Phi

The Ring—tum Phi holds its
storyboard meetings on 7 p.m. Tues-
days in Room 208 of the University
Center. All interested students are
welcome to attend.

” Fa¢uzTtyvsupports~sAc  
decision on FIJI  

To the editor,

At its April 4 faculty meeting, the
following resolutionwas passed by the
faculty for the intent of distribution
within the community:

“We, the members of the under-
graduate faculty of Washington and
Lee University, support the decision of
the Student Affairs Committee, as re-
viewed by the President, to suspend the
Phi Gamma Delta chapter; we afﬁrm
our conﬁdence in the process through

which the decision was reached; and
we commend the integrity and courage
of those who contributed to the pro-
cess. We hope that all members of the
Phi Gamma Delta chapter, as well as
others in the Greek system at Washing-
ton and Lee will respond positively to
this action.”

Sincerely,
Professors Thomas Williams and
Harlan Beckley

F

Write a letter to

The Ring-tum Phi.

L

Deliver letters to University Center Room 208.

Layout

By Ethan Krupp

~ What is your favorite Dining Hall food‘?

 

Ko-Ming Chang, ’97, Belle Mead,
N.J. — “Fried shrimp.”
I

Jenny Walton, ’97, Spencerport,
N.Y. -— “Chicken cordon bleu.”

Margaret Thomas, ’97, Charlottesville, Va., and Jen Norwood, ’97,
Edgewater, Md. — “Any cereal without raisins and the bread bar.”

Mike Harden, ’97, Jacksonville,
Ark. — “Crispitos.”

Susie Stowell, ’97, uston,
Texas — “Chocolate-vanilla swirl
frozen yogurt.”

 

The Ring-tum Phi, April 29, 1994

The women’s track team
captured first place in
the Old Dominion Ath-

letic Conference Champi-

onships with impressive
performances from all
athletes. The Generals
ﬁnished the meet 38
points ahead of second
place Lynchburg.

All photos by Ethan Krupp

Canton
Restaurant

is

Don’t miss the Phi news meetings everg

      
   
 
   
     
  

 
 

. .‘.“'a~'.V‘.\‘.\‘a N.) ~‘.V up» 3 ~ » o 3 1 x w n V s \ u . . .

  Tuesclag night at 7 pm. in our office in the 2172SycamoreAVe.
. . , Buena Vista, Va. (703) 261-1886
  Unrversrtg Center, up the stairs across from Wg£3;LvM13ngy;ri;1g:g§_ig3pm

Sat. & Sun. 12 - 3 p.m.

Dinner Take-Out Sun. - Thurs. 3 - 9:30 p.m.,
Fri. & Sat. 3 - 10:30 p.m.

Jain Zhong Kuang Joe, Proprietor

the old Sigma Chi house

 

Intro ducin the fastest ways
to get through college.

 

powe, Macmmbm 6100/60 I6/250 Power Maa'1ll0sb7" 7100/66 I6/250
with Soﬂlifmdows, Apple’ Color Plus I4”Digo1ay, wilb SoﬂW“md0ws, Macintorb' Color Digolay,
Appleﬂxtendedléyboardﬂandnwuse. Apple'ExtendedI@yboard1landmouse.
Only $2525.00. Only 33,363. 00.

Speed. Power. And more speed. That’s what the new Power Macintosh" is all about. It’s a like statistical analysis, multimedia, 3-D modeling and much more. So, what are you
waiting for? Visit your Apple Campus Reseller for more in-

Macintosh” with PowerPC" technology. Which makes it an _
The new P°Wer Macmmsh fmm App'e' formation and see for yourself. Now   6

incredibly fast personal computer. And the possibilities are
endless. Because now you’ll have the power you need for high—performance applications that Power Macintosh is here, college may never be the same.

For further information Visit University Computing in
TllCl{€I' Hall and ask for Mac McCloud
or call 463-8844

*Price does not include sales tax

©1994,q;pzecompmer,maAuﬁgbmmawd4;plabeAppbbgomdMadnmbmregnmadIra¢kmrksafAppkr , ‘,maAppbCDandPmvwMaa&zIwbam/mabmrts¢y'4opkComputenmaPouzrPCba* uiedunder-himvelbagfrom.

J 40/1"... ~' ' Madn‘nasf',

O‘

O

 

 

  

he'Ring-tum Phi, April 29, 1994

  
 

 M EANS {I

   

REDUCED PRICES

 

    
  
 
 

I’

MEAT
REG. BUN SIZE OR LITE

 

 
  
 
  
   
 
   

Hatnsteetet

RICES  

30°/. LEAN -L 1* r.'.‘‘ N
GROUND BEEF
PATTIES

BALLPARK
.

o 0 0 ‘U-apoozo

1: rt»

1. .
    

    
  
  
  
  

—I
O

LOW PRICES

Julcv RED 1 .

  :.:*.':'t.::t'ti.;Asi‘9

L Amou PEARs....LB.O19
FAT FREE NATURALLY 29

FRESH DRESSINGI2 oz.

LOCAL GREEN
ON|ONS...’...tAEH§£99

  
  

    

 

 
 
  

.f.._.‘.:',

 WORK AT
alts THE BEACH!

OUR MYRTLE
BEACH AND
HILTON HEAD
’ I _ LOCATIONS
‘ ARE NOW
. _  _ HIRING FOR
THE SUMMER.
IF INTERESTED, APPLY AT THE
MYRTLE BEACH AND HILTON
IOCATIONS OR MAIL
APPLICATION TO:
GREG ETHERIDGE
HARRIS TEETER INC.
LITCHFIELD LANDING
SHOPPING CENTER

' ROUTE 2, BOX 288
LITHCFIELD, S.C. 29585

Hamsteeter 

‘ A GREAT
PLACE TO
WORK!

 

 
 

1 GREAT VALUE ‘

l DIET COKE OR

COCA COLA
12 oz.

CANS

EAGLE RIPPLES
POTATO CHIPS

 

  
  

6 PK.

  

   

SELECTED VARIETIES

. HARRIS TEI:'I'ER...THE BEST IS WHAT WE'RE ALL ABOUT

i$‘E‘>‘i‘i‘|”(‘ N’ ‘c“L‘3‘§i‘i'i':"i»“ 89
 16 oz.   6'riLi3>Ez

 2/ °°e's=..'t.2.s.3/1°°
87/8" HEF1'Y IN THE DEU-BAKERY SUCED TO ORDE

. PAPER
PLATES “%'€°

.99

OMESTIC 99

Prices Effective Through Ma 3, I994

Right To Lim:

On y.We Reserve

Price? In This Ad Elleﬁieve Wednesdqy,QAJpril 27 Throug

M d M 3, l994|
onlities. None Soil logged Cy

ur In our Lexington Stores

' Iers. We Glatiiy Accept Federal rooa slumps.

SWISS CHEESE LB. I.-

PAGE 9

$150 Any Show
— Now Showing —

Ace Ventura
Daily 7:15 & 9230 Rated PG-13
Sat. & Sun. 1:10, 3:10,
5:10, 7:15 & 9:30 p.m.

My Father The Hero:

Daily 7:00 & 9:15 p.m. Rated PG
Sat. & Sun. 1:00, 3:00,
5:00, 7:00 & 9:15 p.m.

261 -7292
Q75 Beech Ave., Buena Vista J

   
 

Lexington
Shop for
Pappagallo
Ladies’ Shoes,

Clothing, and
Accessories

      
     
   
   
 
       

Hours: IO - 5:30
Mon. - Sat.
23 N. Main St.

       
    
 

atojfiiw
oi‘

‘ Tea Lover's Delight
" Chef Mom
' Mama Mia

' Gardener's Bag

F
R °SALLY MANN °SHIPWRECK PARTY
Gallery Reception/Lecture Fullstop
I 5 p.m. duPont Hall sigma Nu fraternity
D °BOB MARGOLIN & -RANDY WALKER &
A STONEWHEAT THINGS KATRINA PILLOW
Y Concert TRAX 9:30 p.m. Raven & Crown
S
A .F()xF[EL1) RACES °SHII’WRECK PARTY °ALL-AGES HEAVY
T Fgxﬁeld Racecourse, Lost In the Supermarket METAL NIGHT
U charlonesvme Sigma Nu fratemrty Hedonist Craving
R .LEX1N(;T0N SCHOOL ‘CHRIS ANDERSON Concert TRAX
OF DANCE 9:30 p.m. Raven & Crown °SQUARE DANCE
D Recital -TUCKER, BROWN & Wildgrass
A 7:30 p.m. Lenfest Center SAUDER 9 P~m~ GHQ
Y 9 p.m. Harb’s
E] -LEXINGTON SCHOOL
OF DANCE

N Recital
D 3 p.m. Lenfest Center
A
YY
M °REGISTRATION
0 Fall terrn’94
N begins today
D
A
Y
'11; °EGYPT
E Concert TRAX
S
D
A
Y

"TV
E ~MICHAEL J. EVANS ‘FUDGE & CORAL
D Endowed professorship Concert TRAX
N Inaugural lecure
E “Mathematical Life After
:3 Fermat’s Last Theorem”
A 7:30 p.m. Norten Aud.
v

E -GIBB DROLL
U Concert TRAX
R
S

   

To your body, alcohol and medicine can seem very similar. Both can affect your
balance, coordination, and ability to see accurately. Skills that are
essential to riding. After drinking or taking medication, don’t ride.
That's the best prescription for your safety. uoroncvcu sum Eouunmon ®

BY TWO BEERS
AIIO SOME OOLO MEIIIOIIIE.

‘ ’.-J...-.»'.A«~.=~‘n,m-1 .-.-E-,\..«a.«¢1«.»...1.-L....«... M »

BROUGHT TO YOU

 

' Snacker's Kaleidoscope

 

For Rent
2-Bedroom Apartment

Contact Beth Thompson at
The Best Seller
29 W. Nelson St.‘
463-4647

     
      
   

 

 

Subs 8: Pizza Deli
Wed. Special - Q‘. 
Large Cheese Pizza $4.95  A-

 

Now Delivering from 4 p.m. 
i‘3t.“;;:‘:.‘.1“:“s'.':,§:;'°“‘ 463-5757

‘Z5 One phone call to
W Cabbages & Kings will take

care of the gift, card & shipping
(of course if you have time, come by the shop)

Gift baskets, gift bags, or mugs from $5 to $50

(individual items from $ .45)

Choose one of our themes or create your own . . .
‘ Chocoholic Emergency Kit ‘

   

463-6285

 
     
    
 

  

 
 
    
   
    
   

7 E. Washington St

(in the Smdio Shops across "
from the Stonewall Jackson House)

    
 

      

 

 

 

 

(Last Week:

WLax—won vs. Sweet Briar
MLax—def Rand-Macon 18-8

Baseball—lose to VMI 9-4

K

PAGE 10

S

@112 ‘ﬁling-mm ilﬂlri

PORTS

 

This Week:

MLax—Washington 04/30
WLax—at Lynchburg (Conf. Tourn)
U

  

BASEBALL, TRACK AND FIELD, LACROSSE, TENNIS, GOLF

  

APRIL 29, 19

 
 

   

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Mo’     L
Better Ball 

......

 

  

AWAY GAMES

' S'r‘**vu"ar~r WILLIARD
. iwtball season has just» :
¢‘».::d its first month; and «
2' some trends are becorn-’ 
\'lQULS« . -
’l‘h:. American League East- ,

:‘:l‘:l tﬁivision has fully recovered :. »
f«:c=n.; its previous moniker asAL 
Least of a few years ago. At one 
 ‘- t this past week the top four , 
:~ :: in the AL were all in ‘the §

i.;l(§E.

 
 
  
 
  
  

 

Toronto, Baltimore, N6_W.=~‘

Yorlt, and Boston were all sepa"-T 
r'>~t~«l by a half game in the stand ._ 
‘ By comparison, the divi ' 
.~ sdcrin the West last weer; 
‘i:’~.r.r a less than spectacular}.-<|~O(}‘ 
’ ' ;>r.*:‘ccntage, «   
.sv.‘s domination of thcf
eaguc has come to an‘.

time being. The once)‘;
Braves have lost four at _
ir last six and, while , 
”F.g the lead in the East];
. -no longer have the best;

 us: the league. That honor i_
. .. us r~<‘>r=s to the ClI‘lCiX1I‘li1ttlRCdS9£ -V”;

 

 

  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 

..l
.\¢.

-or to a lead in the NI." “
.l (That just sounds funny}
j , i,l(]C.i.‘$ﬂ’t it?_). ' g ., ' H
."nr ‘S n Francisco Giants still I .2
' ,~ be the strongest team in I '
A “ll est, although the Dodgers: 
' 2:: b;:;n making a charge of",
The resurgent Lasordites F »
: been riding the bat of Tim 1
oh (yes, that’s right, the old *5
xpo sin ’t dead yet) and the arms: :
' bullpen led by ex-Cardinal =
{l Worrell. Suddenly, ‘the 
mo,-:t:i‘s, minus Daryi Straw-
mrry , are the contenders that they L
risers. picked to be. _ 
l“~:m.V for the Mr. April awardsfk
for performance in the season‘s_}{
i.-rat month. First, here, are thief’.
individual awards. ‘ 3 1  
The player of the month has toll? °
 Joe Carter of the Toronto Blue  _
, As far as I’m concerned,
batted in is one the most_7;_
important statistics for 3 hitter-.‘j 
iitlst-cl on that logic, it’s.hard to L;
 with Carter-’s selection. 5
The Blue Jay outfielder ‘ha
,. 5:: in a rccordrrumberofrunsig.
:’ ~r the month of April. It is no,’ 

1,? tr‘.

   
 
 

 

F.

 

 
  

   
  

    

    

 3 in the taient rich AL Eastgi I,
Bola -Tcwlrsbury and Greg? .
lvlactidux would just have to fight‘ 3-
ir 0:12 for the award for best j ’
'1/‘ll.C.ll<.‘¥,‘. Maybe both pitchers" T,
<.'%..>ultl just throw pitches until one  5
of them walked a batter (Tha
would take a while though..;) {
The ‘team trophies for the sea
son were a little more difficult V
dole out. The award forthewor,
.<.qu.'1(i goes to the Chicago Cub
The only team with a cornpa-A L
rablc pitching staff is the Colo-,3 ;f
rauo Rockies, and they have one_,;;
or the top offenses in the N1}. 
The Cubs’ pitching is so bad that
éhey CONSCI OUSLY traded for:
Anthony Young (a pitcher with
 4 ,lii’e;.time record) and mad‘ '
lT:l}Z~"l a starter. Enough saidﬁ
Choosing a best team forth
month of April was a more diffi
cult task. The recent return to-
Cafill by the Braves threw a the A
race open. Forthis ouc,Isenttlic,
honors to the American Leagu
and the New York Yanks ‘
The Yankecskeptfaith
pitching staff of lastiiyea
boosted it with the addition vo
Terry Mulholiand lathe off-s "A
son. Now, that faith‘,is;payin
off. Jim Abbott and Meiido Re
fziz-we returned to their old fo ,
and Jirnmy Key continucsto ju
win. Even Mulholland, faft
s;r:t1ggl:’ng early, has respoude
with solid pitching ofrglate. E
On the offcnsiveside,
0'N=:al and Danny Tartabuilhav
sinned to provide fptxnchi . Z
lirie-1; p that last year wasfoneof
the most productive in the game;
If the team continues;to“p"ut
gather the hitting and the; pitch», '
ing, and with the extrawild card
spot (no one is guaranteedto
the AL East) the Yankees could
be playing well into October. ‘V.
Although the new aiigninent
goes against, all baseballfradli
tions and will ultimateiy cheaper;
the playoffs to thezievciiofpihc
National Basketball Association
and the National Hockey League
the season thus far hasbcen to V
‘lively normal. _  
To all the doubters,;all1_ha,
to say is this: So what? new :-
ma ny gain  did the second place —- ,1.
tezim gainon the Bravesrecently? 
Thank you! _ 7  A A '

     
  

        
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
    
 
  
  
  

 

   

Photo by Ethan Krup H 

The Washington and Lee men’s track team finished second in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and coach Norris Aldridge earned coach of the year honors.

Women head for third championshi e

By KEITH GRANT
Phi StaffVVriter

New York Knicks coach Pat Riley
is in position to make some extra money
this weekend, and it has nothing to do
with the start of the NBA playoffs.

While coach of the LA Lakers, Riley
bought the rights to the term “Three-
peat.” Its three-peating that Washing-
ton & Lee’s women’s lacrosse team is
two wins away from achieving.

The two-time defending Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference champi-
ons face Lynchburg College in a semi-
final game Friday afternoon.

The Generals advanced to this point
with a 15-9 win Tuesday over Sweet
Briar in the ODAC Tournament’ s open-
ing round of play.

Seventh-ranked Lynchburg, a ﬁve-
time ODAC champion, won the regu-
lar season title and will host the semi-
ﬁnal and ﬁnal rounds of the tourna-
ment.

Eighth—ranked Roanoke College
faces Randolph-Macon in Friday’s
other contest, with the two victors meet-
ing on Saturday for the championship.

W&L was defeated by Lynchburg
in their regular season match, 12-11.
The Hornets held a 12-7 lead with 5:34
left in the game, but had to fight off a
furious W&L rally to hang on for the
one—goal win.

Senior Angie Carrington scored five
times in that game, including the Gen-
erals’ eleventh goal with 1:05 remain-
mg.

That comcback gives the Generals
reason to believe they can take the
Hornets on Friday. Head coach Jan

Hathom said her team lapsed for about
ten minutes against Lynchburg, but is
as good a squad as the Hornets.

“We have to play 60 minutes all the
way,” said Hathom.

Junior Dana Cornell believes the
Generals are a very different team than
they were when beaten by Lynchburg.

“We’re more experienced and more
comfortable with each other, and we
know our strengths and weaknesses,”
she said. “We’re deﬁnitely ready.”

Junior Sarah Ascenbach points to
the recent return of Nicole Ripken (19
goals in 8 games) as one reason why
the Generals are an improved team
from when they last faced Lynchburg.

“We’rc going to be a different team.
We’re playing at a much higher level
now,” Aschenbach said.

Aschenbach and sophomore Cheryl
Taurassi, both defensive starters, were
injured early against Lynchburg and
hardly saw any action. Although
Taurassi is out for the season,
Aschenbach is one of several Generals
that has recently recovered from inju-
ries and will face the Hornets Friday.

Tuesday ’s win was the ﬁfth straight
tournament win for W&L and the
team’s final game at home, where they
ended the ’94 season 6-2. W&L has
gone 37-12 at the Liberty Hall Fields
since beginning play their in 1989.

The Generals wasted only 58 sec-
onds before taking a 1-0 lead over the
Vixens on a goal by Ripken, her 100th
career point. Sweet Briar, though, net-

ted the next three scores in four min-
utes.

“We shouldn’t have been surprised
[by the early outburst],” said Hathorn.
“Sweet Briar plays tough all the time.”

Two goals in a 15 second span

File Pho

Washington and Lee’s men’s tennis team continued its
dominance of the Old Dominion Athletic Conference by
winning its tenth straight conference title.

brought W&L back into a tie.

The teams traded two goals apiece
until the midway point in the half,
when Ripken scored the ﬁrst in a 7-1
run by the Generals that lasted into the
second half. ,

Among the scores was the first of
the year by sophomore Chrissy
Donnelly, who found the not just as
ﬁrst half time expired.

“We weren’t playing poorly [to that
point], but not at our level,” Hathom
said. “After half-time [the Generals]
went out and took care of business.”

With a 12-6 lead and 28 minutes to
play, W&L seemed assured of advanc-
ing at least one more round. The Vix-
ens’ Tavi Hyland scored to cut the lead
to ﬁve with 12:48 left, but Carrington
ended any hopes Sweet Briar had of a
comeback by answering that goal with
one of her own 14 seconds later.

Carrington carried the ball virtually
untouched from midﬁeld to net her
second of three goals, the last of which
"came at the ﬁnal buzzer.

Junior Lindsay Coleman and Ripken
also scored three times for the Gener-
als, with junior Cornell adding a pair.

Washington & Lee is now 8-6 over-
all this season and is 7-3 since the loss
to Lynchburg. Friday’s game begins at
4:00, with the championship sched-
uled for 2:00 Saturday.

While the W&L and Roanoke men’s
lacrosse teams have ﬁnished one-two
in the ODAC the passed three seasons,
the ODAC women’s ﬁnal has featured
those two schools two years in a row.

It may be hard to imagine the rivalry
getting any more intense, but victories
by the Generals and Maroons Friday
will do just that, and Pat Riley couldn’t
be happier.

Baseball

Bates Brown ended his amazing
season at the plate last Saturday,
acquiring his thirty sixth hit in a 9-4
loss to VMI.

His hit broke the school record
set by Chris Cavalline in 1982.

However, the hits did not neces-
sarily bring an average record as
well. Despite his record performance
Brown came up just short.

As of April 25, Brown was hit-
ting 393, just 14 points below the
record, also set by Cavallinc, of .407.

Meanwhile, Pitcher-outfielder
Greg Fantuzzi is also had a hot sea-
son at the plate, batting .450, but fell
two at bats short of the number
needed to qualify for the record.

On the mound, Matt
Ermigiottcarried a one hitter into the
sixth in the second game against
Guilford. The Generals record now
stands at 7-18-1.

hney tkes aj or G

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

With ﬁve Washington and Lee
spring teams claiming Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference champion-
ships this week, April proved by far
to be the most successful month of
1993-94 for W&L sports.

Oddly, the WLUR-Ring-tum Phi
selection for April’s Major-General
does not come from any of those
teams.

However, the performance of
sophomore Dax Mahoney at the
men’s ODAC Track & Field Cham-
pionships last week earned the
sprinter the coveted award as W&L’s
Athlete-of-the-month.

Mahoney scored a meet-high 33
points to pace the Generals to a sec-
ond-place finish, behind champion
Lynchburg.

His point total topped the scores
of three entire teams and earned
Mahoney Outstanding Athlete of the
Meet honors.

Victorious in four events,
Mahoney won individual titles in both
the 200 and 400 meter dash, while
ﬁnishing second to teammate Hayne
Hodges in his first collegiate attempt
at the 100m. The sophomore also ran
on W&L’s winning 400 and 1600
meter relays.

Joining Mahoney and Hodges as
ODAC titlists were sophomore Har-
ris Morrison (pole vault), senior Grant
Cowell (800), and senior Scott Covey
(400 hurdles). Head coach Norris
Aldridge was named ODAC Coach

Coming up this weekend, the women’s lacrosse to n
has the chance to win its third straight Old Dominio
Athletic Conference championship.

J OCKSHORTS  

Women's Tennis

The women’s’ tennis team took
their fourth consecutive ODAC title,
winning eight of nine ﬂights. They
won the ﬁrst six singles matches,
with victories form Marilyn Baker
(1), Julie Ayers (2), Shelly Sunderrnan
(3), Hellen Chandler (4), Anna Chan-
dler (5), and Cathy Gartin (6).

The team ﬁnished with three play-
ers- Baker, Ayers, and O’Connor-
acquiring twenty wins apiece. Baker
was named ODAC player of the year.
The W&L squad is currently ranked
number two in Division III.

Based on their monster season,
the W&L tennis team will cam a trip
to the NCAA tournament for the first
time in three years.

In past years, players have trav-
elled as individuals, but the team has
not made the trip as a unit.

enera

   
  
  
  
   
    
   
  
 
    
    
    
   
   
    
   
   
    
    
     
  
   
      
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
     
      
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
    
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   

of the Year. .

While Aldridge fell short of hi.
fourth ODAC outdoor championshi
and first since ’88, Washington an
Lee’s women’s team earned coac
John Tucker his third outdoor title b
out-pointing Lynchburg by 38 points

W&L got individual victories 0
sophomore Amy Mears (15 an
3000), freshman Hollis Leddy (ODA I
record in 400), sophomore Sandr
Holmes (javelin), and junior Sara
Gilbert (high jump).

Wins in the 400 and mile relay
gave W&L seven ODAC champion
ships. The women also posteﬂ si
second-place ﬁnishes.

As for Mahoney, he earns Out
standing Athlete honors for the sec
ond straight year at the Champion
ships.

During his superb frosh campaign
the Houston native was also awjrde
that honor at both the W&L and East
ern Mennonite Invitationals. Hi
rookie season concluded with his nam:
attached to six ODAC indoor and out
door titles.

This year, Mahoney added to hi
resume two victories in the (wA
Indoor Championships, the 440-yar ’
dash and the 4x100-yard relay.

Hisoutdoorseasonwashighlighte
by a school record 22.02 200m time a
the Liberty Open, good enough fo
fourth-place at the largely Division
meet. .
Although the team fell short 0
joining the jamboree of W&L cham
pions, Mahoney’s outstanding montl
secured for himself recognition a.
April’s Major-General.

i


l
l
i
I

file Poto

D

  

, 0
Men's Tennis

The men’s Tennis team contin-
ued it’s decade of dominance of the
ODAC tournament with it’s tenth
consecutive title. The team won 6
to three in this year’s tourname .

Chris MacNaughton won t e
number two singles, David
Scweppe won number four, Andy
Horan won number five, and fresh-
man Derek Schulze won number
six to close out the Generals four
singles wins. .

The doubles team of Robbie
MacNaughton and Peter Hammond
won the number one match, and
Chris MacNaughton and Schulze
won the number three competition
to clinch the title for Washington
and Lee. C

The streak of conference tiﬁe
seasons for Washington and Lee
has, in the past, also included a
national title in 1988.

The Generals have one more
match, against Washington College,
before their season ends.

  

 
 
  

   

 

  

JAlU.E€~3 G. l,%?‘»’Bl_,-‘T5?w.’ 5.i'U’??‘.e‘::gn..’
VVASHI.“ 5 5 : ’

i.vm- I-'€%'1l'\;

Vegetarians:

Compassionate or
Poliiicallg Correct?

:¢ ‘:\

Washington (allege
lqueaks by Men’: lax

' In 0T, ll-l0

‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

O LUME 93, NO. 27

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

May 6, 1994

. etas face trial for marijuana charges

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi News Editor

Three of the four members of Beta Theta Pi
temity who were arrested for possession of
». rijuana in March went to trial in Rockbridge
un General District Court Monday.

Judge Joseph E. Hess found sufﬁcient evi-
nce to convict Andrew Suthard, ‘95, Garrett
u uldin, ‘96, and Christopher Buford, ‘96, but

did not.

Instead, Hess suspended each student’s
'ver’s license for six months, assigned them

attepd the Rockbridge County Alcohol and
bstance Abuse program and made them pay
urt costs in the amount of $196 each.

Hess took the case into advisement. A case

en into advisement is one in which no ver-

t is rendered but in which the defendant is

ordered to complete certain requirements by a
certain date.

On this date, what is called a dispositional
hearing is held. If the defendant has adhered to
the judge’s orders, the judge may drop all
charges.

The three students will appear before Hess
again on May 2, 1995.

None of the three were able to be reached for
comment.

Lexington Police also arrested Chris Murphy,
‘95, at the same time as Suthard, Bouldin and
Buford, but Murphy was not charged.

The arrests occurred when Sergeant Rick
Sutton was called to the Beta house early on a
Sunday morning to investigate a noise viola-
tion. The noise was coming from a stereo in
Buford’s room.

Police Chief Bruce Beard _said as Sutton
approached the room, he smelled marijuana

outside and inside the roorri. He found and
confiscated two bags of the substance.

Buford was evicted from his room at the
Beta house immediately, because he was in
violation of his room lease.

Former President Dana Arrighi said in an
earlier article, “It is his responsibility not to
have [marijuana] on the premises.”

Suthard and Bouldin were also living in the
house but were not evicted. Bouldin has since
moved to Woods Creek, but Suthard remains a
resident.

Beta President Jamie Cann said no decision
has been made yet regarding Suthard’s lease.
He said the Beta Judicial Committee, com-
posed of students, will meet next week and
make a recommendation to the Beta Housing
Corporation, composed of Beta alumni, during
an Alumni Meeting weekend.

“It could go either way,” said Carin.

The case is just one more in a year character-
ized by an unusually high number of cases
involving marijuana possession, Student Con-
duct Committee Chairman Reggie Aggarwal
said.

Aggarwal said he could not comment spe-
cifically on SCC cases but did say the commit-
tee held a hearing Tuesday in which four stu-
dents were found in violation of the university ’s
drug policy. The SCC put the students on con-
duct probation either until the end of spring
term or the end of next fall term. All four must
complete 25 hours of community service as
well.

Aggarwal stressed that, in making decisions
regarding punishment, the SCC takes into con-
sideration punishments by other governing bod-
ies that an accused student may be facing.

Aggarwal said the SCC has heard 13 cases
involving marijuana this year, and the number,

double that of previous years, disturbs him. He
said students are getting careless and are either
undaunted by or unaware of the penalties for
possession.

Possession of marijuana is a Class I
misdeamanor, a felony punishable by a maxi-
mum ﬁne of $2,500, a maximum of one year in
jail or a combination of the two.

Aggarwal said while SCC penalties are not
inconsequential, “SCC is slack compared to
what the judges can do to you.”

Aggarwal pointed out that a conviction in
the court system goes on a permanent record.
Convicted felons have a rap sheet, and every
time they apply to schools or for jobs, they have
to address the question of whether and why
they are a convicted felon.

Aggarwal urged students to consider before
they light a joint the consequences they face if
convicted.

,.u

S

, . . » V vvk

' in
,,.snxw
....x.sw”‘‘‘‘””

: ., l

File Photo

S. court ruled VMI's all-male admissions policy will march on.

udge approves VWIL

By RICHARD WEAVER
PHI Associate Editor

It looks like Virginia Mili-
y Institute won’t go the co-
ucatiin route of Washington
d Lee.

. Over the weekend U.S. Dis-
ct Court Judge Jackson Kiser
led that the state-supported
Jtlitary school’s plan to estab-

ii a women’s military leader-
ip ptigram at Mary Baldwin
illege in Staunton would be

' ‘fﬁcient to allow VMI to re-
lin all male.

The establishment of the
..rginia Women’s Institute for
-adership (VWIL) at Mary
tldvqln College came about
;er t e 4th Circuit Court of
apeals ordered VMI to either
mit women, become a private
ititution, or create an alterna-
e that would be acceptable to
court.

VMI Superintendent, Major
neral John W. Knapp was
ased with the court’s ruling.

“We hope, that with this lat-

and deﬁnitive ruling from
~ U.S. court, VMI and Mary
ldwin can concentrate our
ort owardfulﬁllingouredu-
ional missions,” Knapp said

a written statement.

The court battle began in

* ' I when the U.S. Justice De-
ment ﬁled suit against VMI
gender discrimination.

In 1991 Judge Kiser afﬁrmed

I’? all-male admissions

policy. The Justice Department
appealed the decision, which re-
sulted in the circuit court’s call
for VMI to take action. The Jus-
tice Department has 60 days to
appeal the latestruling.

VWIL will be funded in part
by the private VMI Foundation.
The foundation has promised
$5.4 million to start the program,
as well as $500,000 for scholar-
ships, $500,000 for new equip-
ment at Mary Baldwin College
and $500,000 for planning.

MBC President Dr. Cynthia
Tyson was pleased with Judge
Kiser’s decision.

“This is an exciting day for
Mary Baldwin College; we are
making history... we are de-
lighted that the court has affirmed
our plans...” Tyson said in a
written statement.

In accepting the VWIL plan,
Kiser cited VMI’s willingness to
fulﬁll the “creative” option of
the circuit court’s choices. He
did not agree with the Justice
Department ’s contention that the
proposed VWIL differed with
VMI in a way that denied equal
education.

“I find that the differences
between VWIL and VMI are jus-
tiﬁed pedagogically and are not
based on stereotyping,” Kiser
wrote in his 28-page opinion.

“It is sufﬁcient that the com-
monwealth provide an all-female
program that will achieve sub-
stantially similar outcomes in an
all-female environment...”
Kiser wrote.

“We allowed for the possibil-
ity that a plan could still permit
VMI to remain a state-supported,
single-sex institution, if that were
the will of Virginia, so long as
women were offered a parallel
program. The order in VMI did
not, however, direct that any par-
allel program which the state
might choose to provide be iden-
tical for both men and women,”
Kiser wrote.

Recently the Virginia Gen-
eral Assembly approved equal
state ﬁnancial support for women
in the VWIL program compared
to in-state student aid given to
VMI cadets.

Knapp pledged to fully sup-
port the Kiser-approved plan.

“We at VMI are committed to
giving Dr. Tyson, Mary Baldwin
College, and the VWIL program
any assistance that may be re-
quested of us,” Knapp said.

VMI cadets were pleased with
Kiser’s decision as well.

Second—class Geoff Taylor
said most VMI cadets applied to
the school, because they wanted
to attend an all-male college.

Taylor said he thinks the op-
tion to choose between an all-
male, an all-female or a co-ed
corps will prove the best solution
to the problem. He said Virginia
Tech provides its students with a
co-ed ROTC corps, VMI pro-
vides an all-male corps and
VWIL will provide an all-fe-
male corps.

“That’s the best solution,”
Taylor said.

Smoking policy in works

By MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Staff Writer

Smokers, beware. Your free-
dom to light up on campus may be
limited next year.

Dean of Students David
Howison will soon propose a for-
mal smoking policy to President
JohnWilson.

According to notices posted
around campus, the drafted smok-
ing policy would forbid smoking
in University public areas includ-
ing classrooms, computer rooms,
lounges, hallways and restrooms.
It would also make Evans Dining
Hall, the GHQ and the Co-op
smoke-free, as well as the gymna-
siums and locker rooms of cam-
pus athletic facilities.

Smoking would be permitted
in designated smoking areas such
as residence hall rooms, faculty
and administration offices, library
smoking lounges, or other areas
speciﬁcally designated by the ap-
propriate clean or director of the
facility.

Howison said in December of
1993, the Student Health Educa-
tion Committee voted unani-
mously to recommend a formal
policy. Howison said he had re-
ceived some complaints about
smoking from students and fac-
ulty.‘

“We had numerous individu-
als raising concerns about policy,
and the university didn’t have a
formal policy on smoking,” said
Howison.

Pat McDermott, a member of
the Student Health Education
Committee, said there were con-

JubiLee

By JENNIFER LATHAM
Pm Staff Writer

After weeks of practice,
JubiLee members trekked to the
Lenfest Center early Sunday
morning, popped Luden’s cough
drops, gulped Diet Coke and be-
gan recording the group’s ﬁrst
tape.

Their only audience in the
Keller Theater was a microphone
and Gary Humiston, technical di-
rector for Lenfest. Still, the group
rocked back and forth on their feet
and swung their arms as if enthu-
siastic spectators were watching
them perfonn.

They sang an arrangement of
10,000Maniac’s rhythmic “These

cems about students being ex-
posed to second-hand smoke,
which has been proven to be a
health hazard. He said there
could be a liability question in-
volved for the university.

“The university could be held
legally responsible for a student
contracting a disease [from sec-
ond-hand smoking],” said
McDermott.

He said bathrooms and hall-
ways were designated as non-
smoking areas in the proposed
policy, because it is impossible
for people to avoid the smoke in
these areas. He said the pro-
posal eliminates smoking in the
Co-op, because it has poor ven-
tilation. He said that the build-
ing is too small, and there is no
way of dividing space to avoid

the smoke.

Howison said the proposed
policy gives ﬂexibility to deans
and director to make decisions.

“We recognize that different
departments have different
needs,” he said, “and the policy
is reasonable.”

Howison said Dean of the
College John Elrod consulted
with the faculty on proposed
guidelines for the smoking
policy. Howison said he himself
has worked with Director of Per-
sonnel Bob Fox on the policy.

Howison said there will be an
Open Forum with students to dis-
cuss the smoking policy on May
10 at 4 p.m. in Payne 21.

The Student Health Educa-
tion Committee decided to rec-
ommend a proposal after a fall

survey in which students were
asked how they felt about smok-
ing on campus. McDermott said
a majority of students were in
favor of the smoking ban.

Survey comments com-
plained mostly about smoking in
the Co-op.

One female senior wrote, “I
never eat in the Co-op, because it
makes me smell.”

Another female senior wrote,
“The rules in the Co-op cater to
the inconsiderate smoking mi-

, pnority.”

Howison said he plans to sub-
mit the proposal to President
Wilson soon after the forum.

Howison said student re-
sponse to the proposed policy so

0-» See SMOKE, page 2

group records first tape

Are Days” with such harmony
that one might forget JubiLee’s
music is strictly a cappella.

“A lot of times when we per-
form, [the visual aspect] is al-
most as important as what you
hear,” junior Melissa Wolf, the
group’s music director said. “On
a tape, people notice [cutoffs
and dynamnies], because there’s
nothing to look at. It’s all au-
dio.”

As a result, JubiLee had to
practice following Wolf’s vi-
sual cues for changes in the
music’s tempo and volume. The
group also had the option of
looking at sheet music during
the recording session.

When the 12 singers looked
at the music they had been per-

By SARAH GILBERT
PHI Executive Editor

After Student Activities Board band
rumors as wild as the Gin Blossoms,
Charlie Daniels, Pearl J am and the Temp-
tations throughout the school year, a wild
rumor has ﬁnally been conﬁrmed: The
Wailers, formerly of the great Bob Marley
and the Wailers, will play the Washing-
ton and Lee Pavilion on Friday, May 13.

classic reggae band.

“Wow, Friday the 13th,” said Smith.
“I guess that’s pretty wierd.”

Smith said the concert will be free to
the W&L community, and Black Creek
will open at 8:30 p.m.

The Wailers werecoming through the
area, and had an engagement at the Flood
Zone in Richmond May 12, so agreed to

forming from memory for a long
time, they realized some changes
were necessary for recording.
“Usually, the music has to be
memorized [for performance],”
Wolf said. “We had to go back
over it and make sure we had
someone on every part,
because...there are several of us
that know more than one part.”
The singers rehearsed each
song at least once in the Keller
Theater before recording. After
every take, they stood motion-
less, looking up at Humiston in
the recording booth, as if waiting
for a command from God.
“That’s better than the last
one,” Humiston’s voice would
boom from a microphone above
the quiet theater, and the group

‘Wailers’ to take stage at Pavilion

SAB member Sarah Smith conﬁrmed
the rumor yesterday evening, adding that
Black Creek would be opening for the

to Motown.

come to Lexington for an evening.

The reggae band will be the highlight of
Alumni Reunion Weekend, which will also
feature performances geared towards alumni
audiences, such as Spectrum, a band which
playsooversfromeverythingfromGlennMiller

Spectrum will play for an alumni dance
May 13, to which the Class of ’94 has been
invited as well.

For other area concerts and activities, see
the calendar on page eight.

would relax.

Sophomore Frances Smith
said the group was apprehensive
afterthe ﬁrst recordingof“Sweet-
heart,”JubiLee’strademarksong.

“They invited us up to [the
booth] to hear it, and I think be-
fore he played it, every single
one of us was just cringing, be-
cause we had no idea what it was
going to sound like,” she said.
“It’s such a different sound from
recording in DuPont, and I think
we were all...amazed and
pleased.”

During previous practice re-
cordings, JubiLee merely ser-
enaded a microphone hanging
from a ceiling in DuPont Hall.

II» See JUBI, page 2

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

The World

Fay to be caned four times,
says Singapore government

Michael Fay, the American teen-ager convicted of van-
dalism in Singapore, will be lashed four times instead of
six. The government reduced Fay’s sentence Wednesday,
citing close relations to the U.S. The government has yet
to say when Fay will receive lashes from the four-foot
rattan cane.

Rabin, Arafat sign over some
Israeli land to Palestine

Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and PLO leader
Yassir Arafat signed the document Wednesday that gives
lands controlled by Israel to Palestine. In a disagreement
over the documents, Arafat walked out of the room during
the signing. He returned several minutes later and made
some notes. Both leaders signed the documents, yet
dignitaries continued to negotiate on stage while speeches
were being made. The confusion was over a map of
Jericho, the size of which is still being discussed.

North Korea refuses to allow
inspection of nuclear plants

North Korea again refused to permit inspection of its fuel
rods by U.N. inspectors, who are attempting to determine
whether the nation is making nuclear wepons. North Korea
maintains it has no plans to build nuclear weapons. North
Korea says it will proceed with its plans to change the rods
in the reactor without supervision. The spent fuel in the
reactor could make four or ﬁve nuclear weapons.

The Nation

Judge reverses law against
doctor-assisted suicide

 

A Seattle judge struck down a state law prohibiting
doctor-assisted suicide. The ruling, said the federal judge,
is equal to the right to refuse life support or choose an
abortion. The ruling came the day after a Detroit jury
acquitted Dr. Jack Kevorkian of violating a Michigan ban
on assisted suicide.

Author, illustrator Scarry
dies of heart attack at 74

Richard Scarry, the American author and illustrator of
children’s books, died Saturday of a heart attack at age 74.
Scarry’s 250 books have sold over 100 million copies.

Rollings Stones will kick off
tour behind new album

The Rolling Stones announced they will start their first
world tour in five years to promote their album “Voodoo
Lounge.” Bassist Bill Wyman, who has decided not to join
the tour, will be replaced by Darryl Jones, who has played
with Madonna and Sting. The Stones will kick off their tour
in Washington on Aug. 1.

Anti-assault weapon bill
close to passing in House

Supporters of a House of Representatives bill to ban
assault weapons are within 5 to ten votes of passing the bill.
The Clinton administration and supporters of the bill have
orchestrated media events and contacts with undecided
candidates. President Clinton calls the decision to ban
assault weapons a “no-brainer.” '

The State

Goode to challenge Robb in
Democratic senator race

State senator Virgil Goode, Jr. challenged incumbent
senator Charles Robb and other Democratic candidates to
a series of debates before the June 14 primary. The Senate
candidates say they are willing to debate, but dates and
places have not been decided.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by
Emily Baker.

The Rin-tum Phi Ma 6

   
  

0

Getting reacquainted at Alumni Weekend...

Alumni will gather next weekend for the annual pilgrimage to Lexington.
celebrations for the undergraduate and law classes of ’44, ’49, '54, ’59, ’64, ’69,
this weekend on their campus.

The Reunion Weekend this year features
’74, ’7 9, '84 and ‘89. VMI alumni will gather

 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
    

 -.~t(13«3«%-‘\- ‘....?;_...--.-I a4-=~m_,,. N- .-.. A. -

1

File Photo

Exposer sighted in Lexington agai I
police explore possibility of two me

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Staff Writer

One, or possibly two, men have tar-
geted Washington and Lee women to
expose themselves to, Lexington Police
Chief Bruce Beard said.

The most recent incident of expo-
sure occurred at 1 a.m. on April 20
when a man knocked on the front door
of a residential home on the 100 block
of Houston Street.

A female resident opened the door tow-

find the man masturbating. His pants

were around his ankles. The woman

closed the door, and the man then ran
away, Beard said.

The home is not occupied by stu-
dents but is next door to one that is.
Beard believes that the man intended to
expose himself to the students but
picked the wrong house.

A man was caught in the area shortly
afterwards. A check of his criminal
record revealed a history of sexual of-
fenses similar in nature to the incidents
reported in Lexington. However, wit-
nesses could not identify him as the
man who exposed himself, and he was

~ released. He remains a suspect in the

investigation, Beard said.

Beard believes the exposure on
Houston Street is related to three simi-
lar incidents on campus.

According to a letter from Dean of
Students David Howison which was
posted around campus, there were two
incidents on March 20 of a man expos-
ing himself.

Two women were jogging on the
Chessie Trail behind the Heating Plant
when a man exposed himself to them.
The same evening, a man exposed him-
self to a student on the fourth ﬂoor of
the library. .. . ~ *

JubiLee breaks new ground

to From JUBI, page 2

“It’s nothing compared to the sound
you get when you have a professional
working [with you],” Smith said.

Senior Jennifer Ray agreed.

“The whole thing has sounded pro-
fessional and [has been] efficient.

The tape will include songs such as
“Shenandoah,” Bonnie Raitt’s “Some-
thing to Talk About,” Madonna’s
“Rain,” the Beatles’s “O-Bla-Di” and
“The Tide is High” by Blondie. JubiLee
chose these tunes, in addition to “Tux-
edo Junction” and “Georgia on My
Mind,” because they represent the
group’s most performed songs. The
group also selected them with a particu-
lar audience in mind.

“We’re hoping that the alumni and
admissions department are going to buy
some tapes from us,” Smith said. “We

picked those audiences, because we felt
' like we were going to sell more there
‘ than we actually would on campus.”

Smith said the enthusiasm of such
audiences makes live performing more
interesting than recording.

“Since a lot of it is for alumni, it’s
really exciting and rewarding to sing for
something that helps the school,” she
said.

Smith said she remembers the thrill
of singing for the Five-Star Generals
last year during Alumni Weekend at
Lexington Country Club.

“I don’t think we’ve ever sung for a
group of people that were more excited
to hear us...clapping, videotaping us,”
she said.

“You could sort of imagine yourself
there 50 years later and how excited you
would be. I’m definitely looking for-
ward to doing that again.”

And the whole group is looking for-
ward to profits from the tape.

A lack of money is one reason why
JubiLee has never recorded a tape be-
fore this year, but they have scraped

money from different singing events to
fund their tape.

“The tape is something the seniors
really wanted to do before they left,”
senior Meriwether Nichols said.

Nichols agreed that the senior mem-
bers of Jubilee had pushed for the
recording session.

“I’d like to sing after college. I’d
like to sing a cappella again,” she said.

“But the tape...for me, it’s going to be
a memento.”

JubiLee will take orders for the five-
dollar cassette beginning Alumni
Weekend. They will be delivered over
the summer.

The group will give their final per-
formance for the year on during Alumni
Weekend in Lee Chapel. They will
perform with Southern Comfort.

fhe (I/1/ag /rom '1/l/azéhingfon anclofee
Y//nit/eréifg
/I/I/e dring you

udiofee

Singing their a capella
arrangements at gour favorite
hits including
"Shenandoah."
Something to Talk Flbout" and “O-
Bla-Di“

We/w/W%‘a”‘0t¢»’4/WWW

Smoking policy suggested

I» From SMOKE, page 1

far has been overwhelmingly positive.

As for now, Howison said, Evans Dining Hall and the
Snack Bar will continue to permit smoking.

Senior Kathy Savory, who is a smoker, said there
should be alternatives to the smoking policy in terms of
the Co-op and the GHQ, such as a smoking and a non-

smoking section.

“In banning smoking in those facilities, they’re dis- ‘
criminating against the smokers,” she said.
She said the Snack Bar and the GHQ will lose money

if the smoking policy is implemented.
“I can’t see why they can’t make alternatives such as using

the back area in the Co-op,” she said.

particular areas.

Senior Claudia Bowen supports banning smoking in only

‘‘If I were a smoker, I would think banning smoking in the
bathroom and the hallways would be unreasonable,” she said.
“As long as smoking doesn’t infringe on anybody’s personnel

well-being, it [smoking] doesn’t bother me.”

 

McDerm0tt said the policy is a good move for the university.
He said many state campuses have already banned smoking.
“I think it’s a solid policy and a good policy to put into place.

- I   ~ « « -sex‘crimesin"ge‘neral.  ‘-
That man was also masturbating.» ..
Witnesses described him as being ,

   
  
 
 
   
    
  
  
           
      
  
     
   
   
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  

,....._.

around 40—years—old, with curly br
hair and possibly a beard and
tache.

Beard said he has reason t9 bel
that there may be more than one pe»
involved in the four incidents, bu
was not willing to elaborate. He
vised anyone who sees another e
sure to call the police immedia
Beard said the person should no
approached. 0

‘‘There’s that potential for dang
Beard said, judging by the nature 01

' Beard said the police departme
investigation will continue. 

O

 
 

_ _ .  *1! W
' Bmperor(H1rohito), and p epare
ing a talk on Japanese. detective

   
 
  

 

  

  

The Rin_g-tum Phi, May 6, 1994
—u

‘I/Veal} ife 

ﬁgc arianism: An un racli ional sacrifice for hc: ’90s

    
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
    
  
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
   

By MELISSA SAWYER
Phi Features Editor

I vegetarianism the key to P.C. in the 90s?
Rising health consciousness has led many to
give up their carnivorous diets. Others, in-
spired by environmental concerns have also
taken the meat-less route.

Vegetarians come in many different shapes
and sizes, and rarely fall under any traditional
defgitions. The only standard one must meet
to assume the title of “vegetarian” is to give up
meat in some form.

Vegans are the most extreme of vegetarians.
o me eastern religions, especially Hindu sects,
promote veganism. Vegans eat nothing that
» mes from an animal, ﬁsh or bird, including
e and other dairy products.
ere are thousands of less extreme kinds of
vegetarians. The more common of these are
those that eat no read meat but eat fish and foul,
or those that eat no meat whatsoever but still eat
dairy products.

Vegetarians’ motives often vary as much as
the evels of their not eating animal products.
Mo frequently they cite moral reasons, such
as the opposition to the killing of animals under
any circumstances. Some don’t oppose the
predator-prey relationship but say they are boy-
cotting the practices used by the meat products
industry. Others cite ecological or economic
reasons for their practice. Books such as Carol
Adaﬁrs’ The Sexual Politics ofMeat and Peter
Singer’s Animal Liberation explain many of
these motives. .

Deborah Zollmann, a freshman at W&L,
said she is a vegetarian because it’s healthier.

“I like animals and
I don’t like to kill
them. I also don’t
want to destroy the
tropical rain forests by
grazing cattle on
them.”

Zollmann has been
a vegetarian for four
years.

Scientists have
cited many conﬂict-
ing ﬁgures over time
concerning the effects
of a meat-eating soci-
ety on the environ-
ment and the world
economy. In many
climates, on one acre
of fertile land, one
could grow a high-
protein plant food, like

.r.-4‘,

  

Photo by Betsy Green, The Rig-tum Phi

Noodles, rolls and and some unidentifiable foods grace a W&L
student's dining hall tray.

 

be a problem. Most
prominent in meat are
protein and iron. These,
however, can be ob-
tained in many other
kinds of foods.

Many green veg-
etables, such as spin-
ach, are high in iron.
Iron can also be found
in mineral/vitamin tab-
lets, available in most
drug stores as well as
through prescription.
Protein is available
from several sources,
dependingonone’stype
ofvegetarianism. Most
prominent in dairy
products such as eggs
and milk, it is also avail-
able in nuts and soy

grew up in a meat-and-potatoes family but
finds enough food in the dining hall.

“I like pasta bar,” she said.

At the Co-op, the vegetarian can rely on
such staples as grilled-cheese sandwiches and
bagels, mufﬁns and french fries. Fast food
dining often presents a challenge to the vegetar-
ian because most such restaurants focus their
menus around either the burger, the chicken-
sandwich, or the taco.

There are several cookbooks full of only
vegetarian recipes. Many of these include
ethnic foods or foods adapted to vegetarians by
the substitution of soy proteins for meat. Edith
Brown’s Cooking Creatively With Natural
Foods and Frances Moore Lappe’s Diet Fora
Small Planet are both available from Leybum
Library.

While vegetarianism may be a lifestyle
adopted recently by many famous ﬁgures, for
others it is only a trend that involves an
untraditional sacrifice.

peas or beans, producing between 300 and 500
pounds of protein-rich food. Plant foods on
average yield about 10 times as much food per
acre as meat does. Not all land is conducive to
such high protein crops as peas, however. Fur-
thermore, cattle—food crops require less man-
power than peas and beans. In sparsely popu-
lated rural areas, it would be difﬁcult for farrn-
ers to grow anything but cattle-feed.

Other ﬁgures used to promote vegetarian-
ism are as follows: a pound of meat requires 50
times as much water as an equivalent quantity
of wheat; in drought stricken areas such as
Texas and Oklahoma, the care of cattle often
intensiﬁes the lack of water; ﬁshing trawlers
damage the fragile ecology of the sea bed and
use up more energy (fossil fuels) than they

Some scientists have noted health advan- Products like r0f“ and

tages to vegetarianism. The heart rates of reXrUredV°g°‘ab16Pr°‘
vegetarians are an average of 25% lower than 19”! (Vegelable
non-vegetarians, and their cholesterol levels burgers)-

At W&L, the din-
ing hall salad bar is a
standard option. The
menu usually includes
several hot items that
become entrees to the
vegetarian. The din-
ing hall managers are
often willing to scav-
engerspecial food such
as cheese or yogurt if
those items are not in-
cluded on the menu.

are on the average 15% lower.

Few of the ﬁgures are veriﬁed, and many of
them represent only speciﬁc situations. Au-
thorities on the meat industry have noted many
changes over the years, since Upton Sinclair’s
The Jungle revealed many of the unappetizing
practices. Many of the new texts focus not only
the quality of the meat, but on the quality of life
of the animals sent to slaughter. One’s sensitiv-
ity to these matters is often a function of up-
bringing and one’s perception of the role of
animals on earth.

For those who have converted to vegetarian-

    

Photo by Green, The  Phi

An array of cereals offer extra options for

  

Shg also said she had environmental reasons produce in  Zollmann said she Students  in Evans  

ace Matters

ism, meeting nutritional needs can sometimes

   
  
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
 

By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staff Writer

In the midst of the recent contro-
erg over Khalid Muhammad’s anti-
Semitic statements at Kent State Uni-
versity and Howard University, it be-
comes increasingly apparent that race
does matter. In Race Matters, Come]
West, one of today’s leading black
intellectuals and currently professor of
Afr0American Studies and the Phi-
losophy of Religion at Harvard Uni-
versity, combines intellect and righ-
eousness in his discussion of a number
f topics dealing with race: “Plato’s
profound ——- yet unpersuasive — cri-
tique of Athenian democracy as inevi-
tabljpcorrupted by the ignorance and
passions of the masses posed one chal-
lenge, and Du Bois’s deep analysis of
the intransigence of white supremacy
in the American democratic experi-
ment posed another.” Invariably, West
is able to construct a conversation that
stimnlates the mind while at the same
time stirring the emotions.

The most poignant parts of the book
are those that deal with black nihilism,
the crisis of black leadership, black-
Jewish relations and the controversial
subject of black sexuality. He links
- lack nihilism with the corporate mar-
et. He argues that materialism causes
frightening hopelessness in black
erica and an undermining of tradi-
tional morals in American society in
eneral, which often surfaces in dis-
1. urbing violence in the inner-city. He
u ests some of the causes of black
" ihi sm may not all lie in social and
‘--. litical inequality but rather in a loss
of spiritual validity. Market institu-

C_orneI West discourses

tions “have helped cre-
ate a seductive way of
life, a culture of con-
sumption that capital-
izes on every opportu-
nity to make money...it
is clear that corporate
marketinstitutionshave
greatly contributed to
underminingtraditional
morality in order to stay
in business and make a
proﬁt.” West also cre-
ates a middle ground
when discussing the
crisis of black leader-
ship. He wants to de-
velop a discussion of
the issues irrespective
of party ideologies. He
putsforthsuccinctlythe
problemsandvirtuesof
both black liberalism
and conserv_atism. Al-
though he concedes
black conservatives rightly perceive
that racism is not the sole cause of
black people’s plight, he notes that
“most black people conclude that while
racial discrimination is not the sole
cause of their plight, it certainly is one
cause.” He cites this as one of the
reason why black conservatism has not
made an impasse into the black com-
munity.

Throughout the book, West tries to
see the issues from both points of view
and synthesizes them into a frequently
persuasive conclusion.

Some of his conclusions, speciﬁ-
cally about afﬁrmative action, do fall
ﬂat.

The idea of a class-based affirma-
tive action sees specious on today’s
political climate, but his critique of this

CoelWest

“As moving or any at the
sermons of the Rev. Martin
Luther King, in plolotmd

as W.E.6. Du 5ois's The
Souls of Black Folk, as ex-
hilarating in their offering
of liberation os Jenn
Baldwin’: early essays.”
—Wash(nglon Pas! Book World

racially charged issue brings together
in a coherent manner the virtues and
flaws of the system.

Whether one agrees with West or
not, he brings a reasoned and calm
voice to the conversation on race rela-
tions—a conversation too often marked
by emotionalism on both sides. He
seeks to bring the dialogue to another
level.

“We simply cannot enter the twenty-
first century at each other’s throats,
even as we acknowledge the weighty
forces of racism, patriarchy, economic
inequality, homophobia, and ecologi-
cal abuse on our necks. We are at a
crucial crossroad in the history of this
nation——-and we either hang together
by combating these forces that divide
and degrade us or we hang separately.”

 

Have you ever heard of the great
band by the name of Live ? It’s a name
that contributes to its share of confu-
sion, especially when one goes to see
them “live.” Anyway, this band, which

hails from the hallowed grounds of ;

York, PA has ﬁnally come up with its
follow-up to their ﬁrst album, “Mental
Jewelry.” It’s been about three years
since this release so Live fans have
been waiting a while for some new
songs from this band.
This second album goes
by the name “Throwing
Copper” and is well
worth the money.

Live is a band that is
known for its soft intro-
ductions that gradually
crescendo to a beat that
leaves its audience in
shreds. This album is
certainly no exception.
The song “t.b.d” epito-
mizes the Live style of
playing. It opens with a
great bass part and fan-
tastic vocals by the lead
singer, Ed Kowalczyk.
This is one of those
songs that you play re-
ally loud to hear the in-
tricate melodies only to
later be surprised by the
thunderous uproar that
results.

The ﬁrst single that
has been released off the
album, perhaps you’ve
heard it on WLUR,

“Selling the Drama,” is by no means
the best. While it’s got a good melody
and leaves you singing afterwards, it
doesn’t have the typical Live emotion
and enthusiasm. It is also unusually
foggy lyrically, but maybe that’s just
due to the deﬁciencies of the listener.

Live is a powerful band and" its
power, usually, comes from its lyrics.
The last song on the album, “White,
Discussion,” is very intriguing,

I talk of freedom

you talk of the flag

I talktof‘.r§V0l\ati0.n~; :: ;. . .. .

you’d much'rather‘brag

and as the decibels of this disen-
chanting

discourse continue to dampen the
day

The rain ﬂips again and again and

again

and again as our sanity walks away.

Another song that is musically
strong is one that you will not be hear-
ing on WLUR due to its title. “S**t
Towne” is a song the band members
reportedly wrote about their hometown,
York, Pa.

Of course, this may very well be a
vicious rumor. Regardless, this song
describes the characters one usually
sees in a town that, although small, has
been touched by its share of crime and

It also treats the frustration of the
citizens who cannot escape from its
arms.

Live has had its share of difﬁculties.
After missing its album art deadline the
release of its second album was de-
layed by almost two
months. Then their
tour in support of
the album had to be
delayed because the
bass player, Patrick
Dahlheimer, was
stricken with ap-
pendicitis.

In comparison,I
believe that this sec-
ond album is tre-
mendously better
than the ﬁrst.

The sound is
richer, fuller, and
even more emo-
tional.

I sincerely sug-
gest that you check
this album out.

And if you’ve
never heard of the
band, but like some
really great rock
music, trust me, you
won’t be disap-
pointed.

  
     

If

By KIRK Susono

Phi Movie Reviewer

The Paper — ﬁﬁﬁ

The Paper is a very confused and troubled movie— Dr.
Wdth is deﬁnitely needed here.

It has been marketed as something between a comedy
and drama (tragicomedy?), and this line-walking proves to
be one of the ﬁlm’s chief faults.

It revolves around a hectic-as-usual day at a New York
tabloid, the Sun, and the case of the moment, the wrongful
accusation of two black youths over a mob-related slaying.

We are given a host of characters to follow, primarily
Michael Keaton; along for the ride are Glenn Close as the
managing editor; Robert Duvall, the aging l’ve-got-pros-
tate-cancer chief editor; and Randy Quaid, a goofy ‘70s-
leftover columnist (he wears a cool corduroy jacket through-
out .

I)t’s also the type of movie where you say, “Hey, isn’t that
theguy from...?” For example, George from Seinfeld is the
disgraced trafﬁc commissioner and the black female chief
from Where in the World is Carmen San Diego is Keaton’s
secretary.

There are also about a million cameo appearances, from
Eric Bobsian and Kurt Loder to Bob Costas. (I think Kevin
Bacon was in there; if you saw him, call me).

Q

The Paper suffers

Basically, it is difficult for this movie to be tragedy or
comedy or anything because it virtually has no plot.

Some might argue that The Paper is meant to be simply
a slice of life piece, merely a day-in-the-life. After all, do our
days have plots?

Well, no, but this is also a movie we will go to see, so it
should be more interesting and engrossing than my life is
now, or else why would I pay money for it?

There are a number of conflicts at work, mostly revolv-
ing around the next day’s lead story and headline. That
theme is explored, but not enough.

Rather, the script touches on a number of problems:
conﬂict between Close and Keaton, between Keaton and his
wife, between Duvall and his daughter, between Close and
the paper’s owner (Jason Robards), between Keaton and his
future, etc., etc. We are given some of a young photographer’s
troubles, some of the trafﬁc commissioner’s problems, a
few moments in the life of the wrongly accused suspects,
some of this, some of that, some of everything, it seems.

Perhaps, though, this movie will be saved by its cast,
which is as full of stars as a planetarium. But it’s not.

Michael Keaton is the exact same character he is in every
movie he has ever made: the lovable class clown. Whether
he’s Beetlejuice, Batman or Mr. Mom, we always see the
same kiddish mannerism and facial expressions, the same
big heart which opens up in time of troubles.

His whole attempt at making his character stressed fails;
instead, he is comedically rushed, as if from the Spencer
Tracy movie It’s a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World. Just like
the rest of the movie, his character is caught between

from lack of plot

comedy and drama.

In fact, all the characters are lost in this way. Glenn
Close’s pathetically inane fight scenes are truly mystifying;
why would anyone script Sunny von Bulow slipping on a
banana peel?

Robert Duvall is a very mundane “old man;” his attempts
at reconciliation with his daughter are completely fake and
wouldn’t bring a tear to the eye of the most sentimental of
mothers.

At any rate, the various smaller roles are generally better
ﬁlled than the large, star roles, and it is in those lesser roles
that the acting of this movie is redeemed.

But The Paper isn't destroyed completely; it still has its
good moments.

Ron Howard’s directing is surprisingly good. Most of
the scenes are very well shot, such as the conversation
between Keaton and Duvall on the roof of the building. He
only rarely succumbs to that tendency of directors to over-
shoot (q.v. the telephones in the hospital hallway), and the
scenes are generally carried along quite briskly.

Also coming to the rescue here is the subject matter. The
world of a major daily paper is tense, stressful and nail-
biting.

The habit of deadlines and the pressure to sell papers
keeps the characters on their toes throughout. They don’t
have the time to slow down, and so they pull the movie along
with them on their daily roller coaster.

Essentially, this movie has a weak script and a generally
ineffective performance from the cast; however, the brisk
job done by Ron Howard in the inherently fast-paced world

of a daily tabloid keep ourinterest and rescue the ﬁlm from
complete schizophrenia.

The result is a movie which is not too bad, but it’s also not
the kind you drive to Roanoke to see. I give it three stars: if
you’re going to see it, wait for video, and be sure to split the
cost with a few fraternity brothers. «

The Rating Scale

ﬁﬁrfrﬁﬁ — Go buy this as soon as it comes out on
video. It is an instant classic. “You'll laugh; you'll cry;
and maybe, just maybe, you'll learn something about
yourself."

ﬁikﬁfr — Go see this ﬁlm now, while it's still on the
big screen. It's worth a few Oscars and the seven bucks
you'll pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall,
“Better than Cats!”

rkiihik — Okay, so there have been better ﬁlms.
Nevertheless, it is a good example of its genre, and you
should probably see it on videotape, especially if you are
a fan of the actors or director. Still, probably “Better than
Cats!”

skit’ —— It happens to be on HBO, and you're blowing
off tomorrow's reading. Although your time would
probably be better served on your education, it's free and
you're bored, so go ahead and watch it.

1% — Even if it's free and your best friend said he never
laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks. Don't waste your
time, or at least don't waste it on this. (There's always
MTV.)

 

 

off the mark by Mark Parisi

 
    
   
   

 

 yl/.//,»//

 «fit

.9 2 8
Y‘

PLAYING POSTOFFICE IN 7745 /9905

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS u 1 2 3

1 Graceful horse
5 Equine sound 4
10 Singer Coolidge
14 Chukker game
15 Singing voice
16 Norse god
17 Thought: pref.
18 Marble
19 Da '
20 As
22 Hav‘
24 Terr‘ ‘ .
27 Parts of ﬂowers
30 Preserve
34 Dick or Petula
35 "Don't cry over
—- milk"
36 ——M on
37 Shak .
38 Melody
39 Certain writer
40 Simian
41 Urges
43 Carried
44 What the doctor

19

detects

ordered

45 P|'OI'lIbIT€d by E1954 Yvinune Media Services Inc 
Official deuee All Flights Reserved ,

47 Secluded ~ Last week s puzzle solved
dwelln 12 Incl‘

49 West Indian 13 Grit’ or

52 Spendthrift Warhol

56 Like a bump 21 Sermon
on — 23 Member of the

57 Homeric work Iamii rcle

60 Emanation 25 Dom’ ' ns

 

61 Gentleman of 26 Resting places
rank, old style 27 Get lost!
62 Out of this world 28 Abs d
63 Evils 29 Wal back
64 Family members and forth
65 Place upright 31 —— squash
66 Dregs 32 Girl in a song
33 Famous
DOWN 35 Steam-bath

1 Neat as —— 39 Hair style

2 Used the train 41 Freight boat

3 Guinness 42 Places tor

4 Item for a reader rings

5 Steps 43 Excludes

6 Desert in Israel 45 Reflections

7 St —-sdime 46 Like some

8 Bo . gowns 51 Band instrument 55 Colleen

9 Clover 48 Huck's creator 53 G rn 58 Allow
10 Healthy 49 Kind of media 54 — anley 59 Bank account
11 Graven image 50 Melange Gardner letters

 

  
  
     
     

g.

W&LIF E

Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

 

by Jeff MacNe1l

 
 
 
  

 
 

Reurvzd.

5Ay THE.
MAGIC woiD
AND A DUCK
FLIE9 OUTTA
MY NOSE!

/ P‘.-igqcrx. Inn All Rigus

 

9
The Ring-tum Phi, May 6,1994

  

 

©1994 Tnbunz Medu Services. in;

Dave by David Miller

DARLA, i'M Sorzrwe THROUGH
éot/15 FEELlN_{-,€,..50ME OLD ir7eA§
AF>0uT RELATIONS!-liP6...lJuéT
NEEV SOME DOWNTIME To

HONOK wiisze I'M AT...I'LL
CALL You TOMORROW.

 

   
  
   
  
  
  

' ANIN BRAIN éUR(7l;<>N; Qty WEN
;\N\?LE Tlkltxlés (70 \N§oNe,_,

I 5ALLiN5_ MY
I FIANCEE./

BY

NON (zjllllllli

    

 

‘to Fl(7ORE

 

 

  

EVER4 NIGHT,

1145 OTHER VWARF5.
NEVER UIJVERSTDOD
write -n-reel WERE
ALwA<e5 ‘IHROWM
our AMP y_ewA6

ALLONEI7 72> srAIl,
56

3'.

     
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 

 

by Jeff MacM°.lly

  
   
 

  

I  ' YOU GOT A REAL

        

DID YOU JUST
GET A NEW BAD LEARNING
COMPUTER?

 

$ 5 ST he Ring-tum Phi is lool-ring for a new Circulation: 5 $ 1 
manager for the 19 94-95 school year. Keep in mind this is L

a PAID POSITION; that's right, we will pay you money to I

haul papers around the campus— What a great deal!!!

  

 

(ﬂiillfliliiiiiiig Eiiiisiit iii‘ tip

litiiieiii itiiiii ﬂriiriiiiiz

Fri., May 6 - Ruiey Bros.
Sat, May 7 - Biiischieizen
5’ Marie Cathey
Thurs, May 12 -
Eric Heinsohn

 

THIS YEAR A LOT OF COLLEGE
SENIORS WILL BE GRADUATING
INTO DEBT.

, Under the Anny’ s
A Loan Repayment
program, you could get
out from under with a
three-year enlistment
Each year you serve

on active duty reduces
your indebtedness by one
third or $1,500, Which-
ever amount is greater,

 

up to a 855,000 limit.

The offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans,
and certain other federally insured loans, which are not
in default.

And debt relief is just one of the many beneﬁts
you’11 earn ﬁ'om the Army. Ask your Army Recruiter.

(703) 463-2166
ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN 3:?

      
     
     
        

 
    
   
   
     
   
 
  

 

Subs 8:  Deli‘

 
 

Wed. Special - g. , no 
Large Cheese Pizza $4.95   
Now Delivering from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m.

800 North Main Street
(Old Stop-In Store)

463-5757

7/ GOING OUT or
BUSINESS

SALE!

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFTS SUPPLIES

Everything Marked Down

No Checks  %

NoCharge Cards
Trains, Games, Models, Beads, Basket Making Supplies,
Doll Parts. Much More In Craft and Hobby Supplies.
Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5

31 S. Main St., Lexin on 463-3355 /
/4

No Layaways
No Returns

  

   

  

For Sale ,
Two dorm—sized refrigerators,
a computer cart and other
dorm necessities. Everything is
in excellent condition. For
more information Call Fran at
462-41 63

7/Fail/a&¢e

HARDWARE STORES P

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items‘

Valley

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

8’?/16¢ '¢
zeatacazcmt
no  ii 
.....  ..-r I
I Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes

Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
I Meals That Cater to Big Appetites 0

‘-

 

Breakfast Buffet

Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m.

Sunday 9 a.m.-2 p.m.
463-3478

1M

Rt. 11 North Open 24 Hours

{M

 

  

 

rne‘mn§.:um pm. May 3, 1994

    

PAGE 5

ADVERTISEMENT

«, «r.v/-1/»,«///M///n/I>7//:/77///A4I////////////////1//////////////////MW/ﬂ/////ﬂﬂ/////Jﬂﬂ//ﬂ///ﬂy////J////#ﬂ////W/M///////ﬂ//ﬂ/////ﬂ//ﬂ////////////////////////////////////////////ﬂ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////M//////////////////ﬂ///n ’//////////////////////////#7/A-. ,, ',’//I  ,- ..,,, V ,

       
 

. , ,/, no////I2/»//,7//////////Aa///////

   

   

acter vs. Intellect

Eg

 

1,27/////////////////////////A//////////////////////////////////////ﬂ//////////7ﬂ///////////////////////////////////////////////ﬂﬂ///////////////////////////

~ Tickets go on sale the week of
Monday, May 2, in front of tneCO-Op  

    

y For more information, call Tom Fink, Secretary, at 464-8691

//////////////////////////////// // / / / I - . , . .
/ //// /////// ////////////, ///////////////////////.x<<///////.//////74'47//://7AIx////2//07///////W//////A////////////////£0/AV////////////////n7/////////////a
////////////////////////A7%%7///////////AV/A7//////z4////0///V///57///////(VA: .r974///tv1//////////AVAV/ﬁ{M////A7////V///MZV/////7//AV///////////K/t////ﬂV/////£t////V///K//A////AV//////////47///7/////////L74//////////////////////A7///////V////ﬂ//////////////////////////////ﬂ7//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

  
 

///A "//. ’///////.:92MW///////V///////0I/////J///////W////ﬂ

 

///////////////////////////ﬂ/7///////////V/ﬂ/////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////I////////////////////////4 ’///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////0f//4'7A7W '////////‘////A

 ®aham-Lee-Woshinqlon

|i’rerc:n/ society
¢ The Graham-Lee-Washington Literary Society embodies the aspiration of Washington and Lee
students to engage in vigorous, informed, and civil discourse. The Society strives to bring students
voicing varying thoughts and representing different campus activities together in social settings to
discuss lively issues. We aim to discuss topics relevant to a liberal arts education including those
that are social, political, philosophical, religious, economic, scientiﬁc, artistic, historic, or literary in
nature. The Washington and Lee community provides a fertile environment for these goals due to its
long-standing, revered notion of Honor that asks respect for other scholars’ views.

0

 

All Students are cordially invited

. Friday, April 29: Applications for membership available outside
Carol Calkins’ office, University Center.

Criteria for Membership:

. 1. Intellectual curiosity and motivation
2. Leadership
3. Commitment to society’s principles and events
Friday, May 6: Applications due in Dean Hovvison’s office
pg

Sunday, May 8: Discussion with Dr. Harlan Beckley on his
book, Passion for Iustice. 7 p.m. on the patio of the

'   Alumni House, under the tent. Refreshments Provided.

 

    

PAGE 6

Ella: ‘ﬂing-mm lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

A Dean of Fun?

Since when have we as mature men and women become

so incapable that we need someone to help us have a good time?
The Dean of Students’ ofﬁce seems to think its students are not
having a good enough time here at one of the most socially
oriented schools in the nation.

The Washington and Lee University administration
recently decided to hire an outside director for the Student
Activities Board.

Not only does this create more administration, but the
14 grand or so the person will be paid could definately be used
in many other areas around the university. Surely the dozen or
so department heads could think of something to do with 1000
dollars each.

Although we Ring-tum Phi staffers do not get out as
often as we would like (we are up here slaving away so you can
read this), when we do get out and about Lexington, there is no
shortage of A) Fun or B) People having fun.

And there are now TWO newspapers innundating the
student body with things they can do with their Wednesdays,
Thursdays, Fridays, Saturdays, Sundays, Mondays and
Tuesdays. There should be no shortage of things do in or
around Lexington.

Besides that, I should hope we are all intelligent enough
to fend for ourselves, which we will have to eventually do
anyway when we hopefully graduate and move on with our
lives. The administration should also keep in mind that around
60 to 70 percent of the campus already has some sort of social
life planned for them and will not be needing this dean.

This latest brain cloud to come out of the Dean of
Students office is yet another example of the administration
wanting to be just like every other liberal arts school in the top
25 of the U. S. News and World Report, so we can rise in the
rankings.

The “Dean of Fun” as one history professor called the
future administrator, is not needed at Washington and Lee. We
are not every other liberal arts college and we should not try

to be.

Quote of the Week...

“It really hurts that there are two teams from Texas in the

Stanley: Cup play-offs — you know, Dallas and San Jose.”

— Tory Noto, '96, discussing the

National Hockey League play-oﬂs including,

among other teams, the San Jose,
California, Sharks.

OPINION

Samba Lure wag} -
"4 DEMAND.

How Lower
‘f»m~I\< I1’ wouu>

TAKE ro Delve 17115
1’Hmtr ro RwA~bA_?

Do you

  
 
    
        

0
The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1994

Ellie Eating-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Erin Leonard

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ethan Krupp

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-nun Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring—twn Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703)462-4059

Coordinator needed, but basics first

Last week the Dean of Student’s office
announced its intention to hire a full-time Student

Activities Coordinator.

Like many new initiatives, this idea has tremen-
dous possibilities but must be carefully constructed so

that it may meet up to its
potential. The concept of a

be neglected.

position should be sure

staff member whose sole

While the new Student Activities Coordinator may
cover some of these areas, others will continue to

Those who will control the hiring process for this

entertainment or relaxation. Often these students
transfer elsewhere rather than attempting to live for

  

four years with little or no social life. This is

represents a tremendous loss to the university and

that candidates fulﬁll some
basic qualiﬁcations, includ-
ing training and experience
with health-related issues.

purpose isto coordinate non- This should be explicitly dis-
greekoaﬁtivities on-campus PATRICK cl11rss¢:il\ts:th caéididlates andhit
isag one. sou ma eceartote

We need to open more MCDEIHVIUITS person who is eventually
doors those members of our '94 hired that this position will

community who wish to ex-
plore life at W&L as an in-

 

dependent. However, we
also need to realize the po-

tential for this position to become more
-comprehensive in dealing with all aspects of

student activities.

There is no doubt that this campus is in need of a
professional who can coordinate activities, speciﬁ-
cally those activities that are non-alcohol and non-
greek or not speciﬁcally afﬁliated with a greek orga-
nization. However, it is imperative that this new
position be filled with an individual who also realizes
that a key element of all student activities is health.
While I am thrilled that this position is being estab-
lished, I am disappointed that it is being funded while

other important initiatives are not.

For example, the position of Campus Health Edu-
cator has been ﬁlled for the past few years by Jan
Kaufman, M.P.H. Despite the fact that our campus
health statistics warrant the addition of a team of
health educators to deal with our health problems, the
position remains only part-time. This is entirely inad-
equate and the Dean of Students knows it. Addition-
ally, while the need for a Student Center, where
independents and greeks can meet and experience a
social atmosphere that does not center around alcohol
is clear, the starting date for construction of this
building is not. Improvements in the Health Center, a
new Counseling Center, and expanded health educa-
tion programming in general are all desperately needed,

as well.

Pleasure: some seek it as if it were
the Holy Grail; others condemn it, tak-
ing all precautions to alleviate them-
selves from it. This is not new, plea-

include work with these is-
sues. Quite honestly, if the
Dean of Students intends this
person to spend time simply

managing student event schedules, no one will ben-
eﬁt. Students at this university do not need another

low level manager, we need leadership and energy to

help us initiate some
programs that could
entire campus.

One such idea is that
of renovating the old train
station and turning it into
a “coffeehouse” where
students could meet. The
coffeehouse would have
pool tables, video games,
occasional bands and
other performers, and
snacks. This would be an
invaluable investment in
the student body of the
university, particularly
those who are not in so-
cial organizations and/or
those who choose not to
drink. Both of these
groups are slowly tying

come to think of it President Clinton
seems to ﬁt the definition quite well.
The proposals of the Clinton family,
such s a 25 to 50 percent increase of the

 

sure seekers cigarette tax,
have been at gofarbeyond
odds with puri- a revenue en-
tan elements hancement;
since before C,F, ii} Sh<l3l’l is
an one can re- SIITIP 6 15-
mgmber; re- KUCERA9 crirnination
cently though, 997 ‘ aga1nstsmok-
the consensus 01'8-

of what plea- L _ Tile l“5‘i'
sures are toler- flcallon fol’
able and which Such 3 tax is

are not has been greatly skewed. The
culprit are those looking toward our
best interest, people like Hillary Clinton
and her health task force.

In older days the sins of pleasure
which were denounced were those such
as pre-marital sex, and its result, chil-
dren out of wedlock. Today, though,
the former activity is considered nor-
mal, the latter, applauded (see: Murphy
Brown). I don’t wish to opinion on
which of the preceding I approve of,
only to indicate that these attitudes
exist. Which activities then are to
blame for the miserable plight of hu-
man existence?

According to the president’s wife,
anyone who eats hamburgers and
French fries, and smokes an occasional
cigar is guilty of grievances far sur-
passing those of communist Russia . . .

that people who smoke will require
more health care and thus should pay
more.

Using this same justiﬁcation, those
of us who eat beef should pay more, or
those of us who drink the occasional
beer should pay more. This and other
such excise taxes do us, the consumers
and thus the tax payers, little good and
further government intrusiveness into
our lives.

Now just hold on those of you who
don’t indulge in the above pleasures
who are thinking that these taxes aren’t
such a bad idea, think about the things
you enjoy which are bad for you; a bag
of potato chips, a steak dinner, should
people who work in front of a com-
puter be taxed at a higher rate because
they have a high chance of getting a
brain tumor? The answer is no; these

of the excellent ideas and
be made available to the

ideas like the coffeehouse would help to alleviate it.

What one ﬁnds when examining the social struc-
ture here is that almost every facet of W&L student
activities is tied to several different health issues.
Those people in positions of power, the people who
will hire the new staff member need to realize this.
They should employ a professional who will be able
to adjust and to meet Washington and Lee’s unique
set of needs. We at W&L are truly approaching a
crossroads, not just in Student Health but in Student
Life, in general. In some areas we continue to excel, ,
and we approach this crossroads with anticipagon.
Our academic standards continue to rise and our
endowment is being brought to a more secure level.
The continuation of these strengths is something
that we all look forward to. But there are also
shortcomings that must be addressed.

As I have pointed out before, we are facing

to expand at W&L, but they ﬁnd heavy resistance
from a system that has been in place for too long.
Those who choose to “buck” the social norms here
often ﬁnd themselves ostracized from any form of

serious situations in dealing with alcohol on cam-

c 4 ————-
There is no doubt that this cam-
pus is in need of a professional
who can coordinate activities,
speciﬁcally those activities that are
non-alcohol and non-greek or not
speciﬁcally aﬂiliated with a

greek organization.

are the risks we take with the liberty
God has given us, we drive in cars and
take airplanes and even cross the street
. . . by doing any of these things we
assume a certain amount of risk.

This trend is even occurring here at
Washington and Lee. For example, the
recently enacted smoking ban in cam-
pus eateries despite the strong student
protest against it.

Not to beat a dead horse, but the
current ban
doesn’t protect
n o n - s m 0 k e r s
(there have been
suitable non-
smoking areas in
existence), the
only thing it does
is discriminate
against smokers.

Student Activities Coordinator. Together they and
the rest of the Dean of Students staff have the ability
to deal with these issues effectively. The question ’
that remains is, will they? .

Pleasure police take aim at smoking

Using this same justiﬁ-
cation, those of us who

eat beef should pay more,
or those of us who drink

pus, with the threit of
AlDSandotherSTD’s,
and with the issues sur-
rounding the role for
women and minorities
at this university. None
of these problems are ,-
going to go awayh

On the contrary,‘
they will continue to
fester until they are ei-
ther dealt with or ex-
plode, causing irrepa-
rable damage to this
institution. The liea
of Students needs to s -
this and so must his lat
est staff member, 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

of political correctness. Put simply, it
is the left over ideology of the ﬂower
children . . . without the fun; another
attempt by the ”boomers” to indoctri-
nate the American public to their way
of thinking. Soon we will be told that
golf is bad for us. . . after all it is played
by mainly white, upper-class males;
this sort of racist, sexist, euro-centﬁsm
just can’t continue.

What should be done then to com-
bat the “Health
Nazis”? Public
protest, a meat
eaters caucus in
Congress, ger-
haps an aggres-
sive letter to the
editorcampaign?
Her is my solu-
tion: go and get

Beforeweknowit . yourself a big
therewillbeanall- the occasional beer steak, cook igfor
vegetarian night in should pay more, about 2 1/2 min-
the D-Hall. Now utes, eat it with
don,‘ get me   Somewlneorbeer
wrong, I’m not (or whatever al-
anti-vegetarian, I cohol happens to

just don’t think it is necessary to rob
Peter in order to pay Paul . . . and if an
all-vegi night is put in place an all meat
night should follow.

As you see, it seems this quest for
health has gone far. As a society we are
no longer encouraging health behav-
ior, we are mandating it. As far as I am
concerned this is simply an extension

be around, bourbon is good), and ﬁnish —
it off with a cigar and half a pack of
cigarettes . . . there, that shcflrld
show ’em.

Oh, l forgot to mention the most
important part, invite all your liberal
friends (provided you still have any
liberal friends) and make them watch
this tirade of pleasure.

9

 

  

he.Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1994

 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
    
  
  
   
   
 
  
 

Pos’ SPACE
' Tom Hespos

Here we go again.

Earlier this week, Spos’ corruption
ensors started going off when he
iassed Payne Hall on his way back
ro a class. Further investigation
inpointed the source of the distur-
ance somewhere in Dean McCloud’s
ffrce. I’ll tell you why.

Right outside the Dean on Students’
ffice, there is posted a memorandum
'rom Dean Howison, dean of students
nd bocce commissioner. The memo
escﬁbes the purpose of the Student
aculty Hearing Board. According to
he memo, the SFHB has heard several
ases, including one case involving
acial harrassment, one involving an
ffensive phone message, and one in-
olving an offensive poem. Granted,
s pogloes not know exactly what hap-
re ned with regard to these cases, but
ells are going off in Spos’ head, much
kin to Spiderman’s “Spider Sense.”
I referred to my trusty copy of the
1994-95 Washington and Lee Catalog
or the lowdown.

“She Student-Faculty Hearing
:oard is authorized to hear and adjudi-
- ate allegations of sexual misconduct
'nvolving Washington and Lee stu-
- ents,” stated the catalog.

Okay — nothing wrong with this
policy. As Spos understands it, this is
the reason why the SFHB was set
up: to deal with the problem of
sexual misconduct.

So what the hell is this stuff
about racial discrimination and
offensive poems?

Methinks the
corruptions sen-
sors do not lie.
Please, Dean
McCloud, correct
me if I’m wrong,
but isn’t the SFHB
starting to gothe
way of the old

Sophomore Richard
Weaver was smitten
seven times yesterday
with a rattan cane for
using an unacceptable

the offending student will be clubbed,
skinned, smote about the brainpan, (etc.
etc.)”

Perhaps Spos is being a little too
paranoid about such trivial matters.
But you know how it is with these silly
three and four-letter committees. You
give them an
inch, and they
takeayard. If we
start letting the
SFHB go beyond
the realm of
sexual miscon-
duct, we will be
inviting a whole
mess of trouble.

Conﬁdential Re- _ _ _ Pretty soon,
view Committee pickup lme on a girl at we might be see-
that We all fought   ’s  V  IICWS S“)-
so hard to get . ‘ ries like the
rid of; - S htpwreck party. fonowjng;

Oh, come on. 1)50Ph0m0f8
You guys remem- Richard Weaver
ber the CRC, was smitten
don’t you? seven times yesterday with a rattan

Let me refresh your memory with cane for using an unacceptable pickup
an excerpt from the CRC’s line on a girl at Sigma Nu’s annual

mission statement:

“The purpose of the CRC is to limit
students’ personal freedom to the point
where it will not be possible to have
any fun. Its decisions are not appeal-
able. Should one student voice an
opinion that offends another in the least,
it should be reported to the CRC and

  

MY VIEW

‘David L. Howison

 
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
 

a nightmare.

versial first-round match.

H

lfbegan as a lighthearted diversion designed to
bring student organizations together for a few hours
of friendly competition. It was bocce, a low-keyed
Italian game of lawn bowling brought to Washington
and Lee by myself. But since the first match of the
1993-94 W&L Bocce Ball Tournament was held last
October on the verdant Lee-Jackson bocce
ball'field, my field of dreams has turned into

The problems started when I — who claims to
have been given his authority as Commissioner of
Bocce (“I can do whatever is in the best interest of
the game”) by a special committee of smart people —
capitulated to the powerful Executive Committee
aftebthe EC lost to the ACLU by forfeit in a contro-

Claiming a failure to follow due process, EC
president Bob Tompkins threatened to filea rest_rain— .
ing order against 'the W;8_LI;'_‘*comfrriiis‘sioi'ié;,1-.’Although
it was unclear What Howison would be“restrai'ned

Kefalas criticized my
“failure as bocci (sic)
commissioner” and
threatened legal action
claiming, among other
injustices, that the Phi ’s
new black uniforms had
not been designed to be
used in blustery
weather conditions.
Furthermore, Kefalas
claimed that I had no
righttobecommissioner
because I refuses to iden-
tify the “smart people”

identiﬁed,” I retorted.

  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 

To the editor:

Oh behalf of the Class of 1994 Se-
nior Pledge Project, we would like to
take this opportunity to respond to Tom
Hespos’ letter which appeared in the
April 29 Ring-tum Phi.

We would also like to reiterate
the critical points of the pledge

proﬁct program.

tuition was made affordable to our par-
ents and each of us is because of alumni
enerosity to the Annual Fund.

In fact, both the University and its
' lumni contributed about $8,000 per
M ersyn to tuition each year for the past
our years. Thought of anotherway,
' ver the past four years our tuition
harges have been reduced by $32,000!

We realize the primary reason our A

The Annual Fund consists of unre-
stricted gifts to the University, which
means the funds are not used for spe-
cifrc scholarships, budgets or build-
ings, but for the operating budget.

Like tuition, the operating budget
pays for faculty salaries, library and
laboratory equipment, and other essen-
tial day-to-day costs.

The spring pledge project allows
seniors to speak personally with a vol-
unteer about the Annual Fund. Since
its creation in 1990, the pledge project
provides seniors an opportunity to
“bridge the gap” into alumni years,
with an understanding of how private
educations are funded.

Typically more than seventy per-
cent of each senior class has partici-

from doing, the EC eventually was. re-instated and

proceeded to whip The Ring-tum Phi

After that match, all hell broke loose.
In a blistering editorial, Ring-tum Phi editor Fran

C C "——-—
But since the ﬁrst match of the

1993-94 W&L Bocce Ball Tourna-
ment was held last October on the
verdant Lee-Jackson bocce ball
ﬁeld, Howison ’s ﬁeld of dreams
has turned into a nightmare.

who me claims appointed commissioner.
“These people are so smart they don’t want to be

‘The protests have not been limited to the, EC and

‘ 'the‘Phi1 Foll'owing’their humiliating lossitdthe fresh-
‘ ' man women’s team, the freshman men demanded that

LETTERS

Annual Fund solicitation misunderstood

Shipwreck party. Dean McCloud was
reportedly quite pleased.

2) Senior Robert Miggins was given
six weeks of bagging groceries "and
four hefty blows with an iron war ham-
mer for throwing chicken bones at
members of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity at
Foxfield. Student Body President

16-10.

OPINION

eep the letter committees in line

PAGE 7

Kevin Webb shrugged when asked what
effect this sentence would have on
student autonomy.

My message to Dean McCloud is
the following: stick to cases of sexual
misconduct.

Anythingelseoughttobe handled
by the Student Conduct Committee or
the Executive Committee.

In other news, Spos has decided to
bestow his annual Freedom Prize for
Model Partying/Literary Award to the
members of Sigma Nu fraternity for
their excellent effort at Shipwreck this
past weekend. The Sigma Nu brothers
showed overriding concern for provid-
ing an environment in which it was not
possible to not have fun. Guys, please
send a representative to 106 Lee Av-
enue to pick up the award.

Also, the curse of 1,001 smelly gym
socks has been uttered and placed on
the unknown individual who nearly
took Spos’ head off with a ﬂying roast
beef sandwich this weekend at Foxﬁeld.
Good luck getting a date next year. The
curse is permanent and should be tak-
ing effect sometime soon. Heh-heh.

Two weeks from now, Spos will
present his final. column before he
graduates and migrates northward in
search of money, cheap pleasures, and
safe haven from the evil forces of the
SFHB. Until then, barrage the admin-
istration with nasty complaint letters.
Long live the resistance!

Bocce ball tournament turns sour

they be permitted to participate in a special “loser’s
bracket.” Women’s captain Callie James —— whose
miraculous throw of the pallina (the yellow marker
ball) produced a last-second eight point swing to
defeat the men—threat- 5

ened to boycott the tour-
nament if the men are
allowed to return.
Other protests have
reportedly been filed in-
cluding absence of a
written bocce constitu-
tion, failure to mow the
grass on the Lee-Jack-
son field, darkness, lop-
sided bocce balls, and
confusion about the
place of bocce at a dis-
tinguished liberal arts

college. Despite the escalating attacks, I remain
optimistic.

“I remain optimistic,” said the commissioner

who voxged to complete‘ the 1993-94 tournament
and cro  a bocceball charnpion-beforethesgpring
termenitf.   "

pated in this pledge project.

In its own small way, our class is
engaged in ensuring that students con-
tinue to enjoy a class with five other
students, direct contact with senior fac-
ulty, and the use of the library 24 hours
a day.

In addition to the obvious academic
benefits, we believe our efforts will
allow future generations of W&L stu-
dents to experience springtime
at Goshen and the sunset from
the Parkway.

Finally, we realize as much as our
classmates the financial pressures the
class of 1994 will face.

A $25 gift from one of us may be
more of a struggle than $2,500 from an
older alumnus.

O

 

Q

G3rdon Spice, professor of music
-— “The Glee Club gave me a foot-
long cigar for my second son’s birth
which I used to conduct them on tour.”

 

Interviews and Photos
By Ethan Krupp

TALKBACK

 

The Senior Pledge Project is con-
ducted by senior volunteers who con-
tact their classmates to ask for pledges
to next year’s Annual Fund.

No money is collected now. The
first Annual Fund year in which the
Class of 1994 would participate as
alumni begins July 1, 1994 and runs
through June 30, 1995.

We hope this letter conveys the
committee’s enthusiasm for this project,
and our belief that a small sacrifice on
behalf of W&L is a worthy investment
in the future of our alma mater.

Thank you.

Marguerite Nielsen, ’94
Jimmy Kull, ’94
1994 Class Agents

OCTAA'

The On-Campus Talking About
Alcohol program will take place on
Monday, May 16, Wednesday, May
18, and Friday,’ May 20, 10 am. to
noon each day. Attend all three
sessions to learn how to make low-
risk drinking choices in a non judge-
mental format. Call Carol Calkins
at 463-8590 to reserve your space.

Movie

On Tuesday, May 10, the
Minoriy Student Association will
host a Movie Night in Northern
Auditorium. The movie, ColorAd-
justment, will begin at 7 p.m. All
students are welcome.

Keys

Want extra cash for spring term?

If you have a key to a student orga-

nization or sorority ofﬁce in te Uni-

« versity Center that you no longer

need, return it to Carol Calkins for a

full refund. Deadline for a cash
refund is May 18.

Test Results

There is one remaining interest
test interpertation session this year
on Thursday, May 19, at 3 p.m. in
Room 109 of the University Center.
Anyone who has taken the interest
tests and not had their results inter-
preted is invited to attend this ses-
sion. Please notify Ms. Saunders in
the Career Development Office if
you plan to attend.

 

Tests

The last day to take the career
tests this year is Wednesday, May
18. If you are interested in taking
the Myers-Briggs or Strong
Campbell Interest Inventories,
please schedule an appointment with
Ms. Saunders in the Career
Developement Office.

Interviews

There will be an interviewing
workshop on Tuesday, May 10 at 4
p.m. in Room 109 of the University
Center. All students are welcome to
attend.

Pictures

Seniors who ordered prints from
Taylor should pick them up in Carol
Calkins’ office in the University
Center as soon as possible.

Phi

If you are interested in working
for The Ring-tum Phi, come to our
storyboard meetings on Tuesdays at
7 pm in the University Center,
Room 208.

Cartoons

The Phi is looking for a cartoon-
ist for the 1994-1995 school year. If
this is something you would like to
do, please contact Ethan at
462-4060.

Huntley clariﬁes his
statement on Peck

To the editor:

I would like to correct an impres-
sion which may have been raised by
the article on Professor Peck in the
April 22 edition.

In the article I am quoted as being
troubled by the principle of confidenti-
ality, most particularly when it con-
ﬂicts with the principle of accountabil-

ity-.And1_h§Q“.01ﬁ.l§:$Ub5§3miV¢lY,9Ql'7«

=rect — in this respect.

Unfortunately my. statement was
juxtaposed to Professor Craun’s un-
willingness “to discuss the contents of
the Peck letter,” something is forbid-
den to do by law. _

Only Professor Peck has a legal

right to do this.

My worry about the accountability-
confidentiality relates to the question
of whether or not a given professor
may explain how and why he or she
voted on ay given issue, if asked.

Juxtaposing my general concerns
about confidentiality with Professor
Craun’s unwillingness to release the

,spec,ifi_cs__olf‘_this particular letter, an
illegal act, as I say, creates the impres-

,:=,§ion Ivwouldthave favored its release.

This is simply untrue. No more than he
do I wish to end up in the pokey.

H. Robert Huntley
Professor of English

Student Body Notices

1) A member of the Student Body has been found guilty of a violation
of the Honor System in that the student lied to a Residence Advisor in
Gaines Hall regarding continued violations of University Housing policy
and has chosen to withdraw from the University.

2) A member of the Student Body has been found guilty of a violation
of the Honor System. in that the student plagiarized a music paper and has
chosen to withdraw from the University.

3) A junior male and three sophomore males were found in violation of
University standards for the possession and use of marijuana. Each was
given 25 hours of community service to be completed by the end of spring
term. Also, each were given conduct probation.

Layout

4 By Joe Framptom

in college or grad school‘?

George Bent, assistant professor of
art — “I went to a formal reception
hosted by the president of the college
wearing a greasy auto mechanic’s shirt

with the ‘name ‘Al’ over the pocket.”

‘Mark Rush, assistant professor of Ronald Reese, professor of physics

politics — “Got married.”

— “Took physics.”

Buddy Atkins, associate dean of stu-
dents —“Went for a ride with a room-

Whatwas the craziest thing you ever did

 

Dennis Manning, dean of freshmen
and residence life — “Tried to read

mate to take his date back after  to Moby Dick in one sitting.”

Boston.”

 

Hockey news from the edge

By TORY Noro AND JAsoN

TEETERS
Phi Staff Writers

Well, it’s 12:15 am and this article
was supposed to be written a few hours
ago. Before the editor lynches me, I
just wanted to say that I wanted to get
the most up-to-date hockey scores for
the loyal hockey fans of Washington
and Lee.

First for the local team. The Wash-
ington Capitals are getting whipped by
the Rangers. Tonight the score was a
merciful 3-0. Unfortunately, the Caps
will have to do better than cheap shot.

My fellow fan, The Ever Womiy
Teeters, is a fan of some of our neigh-
bors to the North, the Vancouver
Canucks (ever since the Flyers were
pummeled in the first round).

According to him, Pavel Bure is the
greatest player to skate (after the Great
One and the Gord). Perhaps he is right.

the Russian Rocket (Bure) take them
all the way??? Of course! They are
facing DALLAS?!

DALLAS!!! Everything in Texas
hurts....especially hockey teams, even
though they did beat the Blues.

Sadly there are two “Southern”
teams in the conference semi-finals of
a Northern sport. The other team is the
bandwagon San Jose Sharks.

They were an eight seed and beat
the first seeded Red Wings (“Everyone
plays their best against the Red
Wings”).

Now they ’re tied against the Toronto
Maple Leafs, an experienced‘ playoff
team led by Doug Gilmour.

Of course I saved the best for last.
The NEW JERSEY DEVILS had the
most exciting game of the first round
against the Buffalo Sabres. Four
overtimes!!! Even though they lost
that battle, they won the war.

Now the Devs are up against the

The Devs managed to tie the Bruins
in game two with three seconds left in
the game, but still lost in overtime.

Tonight the Devs defeated the Bru-
ins to bring the series to 2 games to 1.
Don’t worry though. W&L will be
graced once more with my jersey
(which a close friend of mine wanted to
burn more than anything else in this
life or the next one) very soon.

Lemieux, Stevens, Terreri, and
Semak will pull through. How can this
team lose? They have a guy named
Valeri Zelepukin!

Well, time to get this article in.
Before I go, at the risk of rousing the
spirit of General Lee with some North-
ern pride, most of the Southerners that
I know think that ice comes in little
cubes and is used in your favorite bev-
erages.

But there is hope! Get out and go
see the Roanoke Express. Minor league
hockey isn’t too bad.

   Ih1attE9s Haeinooo

 

The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1 ' -.

-Registration ends - Old South Party - Slackiaw
4-'30 P-"L ‘ Big Harry Posse Concert: Charlottesville
-Medical Ethics Lecture Kappa Alpha fraternity Downtown Foundation
“Controlling Aids...” ° Ruley Brothers «Truck Safety Roda,
Dr. Robert T. Schooley Raven & Crown Pub Salem Civic Center
C-school 327
° Old South Party - Ocean Blue & .Michae1 Elswick
Mother Nature Slackjaw Gathering (jazz) 9
Kappa Alpha fraternity Preston Society Hargys Bistro
-Adrian Simms Lime Kiln Theatre,7 p.m. . state Chm Cookoff
Minority Student Assoc. ~Bill Schieken & Mark Roanoke (703) 342_2028
Fairfax Lounge

Raven & Crown Pub .

-Theta Triathlon - 3-on-3 Volleyball -Michelle Shocked

Kappa Alpha Theta
Warner Center, 9:30a.m.

Outdoor Tournament

Concert, The Flood Zone
(Richmond)

FRIDAY THURSDAY WEDNESDAY TUESDAY MONDAY SUNDAY SATURDAY FRIDAY

The Canucks are facing the Dallas Boston Bruins, who are unfortunately Just for you R.P., I’m sure the At- _ 0 “The Status of theSoul” ‘T0111’ DuPont .
15335845$.'2§’t3§§Z§c§‘i?3‘§§f&§f5;3 I}§’éc°;‘2‘1'3§’§.‘"g“‘°‘“°"°°""“””"S’ ‘§i.'l§.‘igi.(‘3.‘F§‘(§‘°’,,I.".‘.'.7.3$’§,f¥%5Ei5°°° Lecture: James Cargyle Time triel _
C-school 221 Salem CLULC Center
° Color Adjustment - David Wilmington ’94 -Alma Madre
MSA Movie Night Piano Recital Concert, TRAX ‘
Northen Aud. 7 p.m. Lenfest Center 8 p.m.
-Heather Bander ° Old South Party
' Concert, Alleghany Cafe Big Harry Posse .
Radford Kappa Alpha fraternity
- Ruley Brothers
Raven & Crown Pub
- ODK Spring Initiation -Eric Heinsohn -Tim Martin '
Alumni Weekend Kickoff Raven & Crown Pub Alleghany Cafe
“0DK, Leadership, and °The Wailers (Radford)
the W&L Tradition” The Flood Zone °Welcome Reception
Lee Chapel 8:30 p.m. (Richmond) Alumni House 9 p.m.
O
oThe Wailers °Alumni Concert -Dark Child & Grip
w/ Black Creek Southern Comfort, Concert, TRAX ,
SAB concert Jubilee, Alumni 
Pavilion 8:30 p.m. Lee Chapel 8 p.m. 1
°Reunion Dance ‘Third Ear ’ 
File photo Spectrum Raven & Crown Pub “What’s Happening” I

» Warner Center 9 p_m_' is compiled by Brian McClung

to an ODAC'championship and an NCAA tournament berth.

- e Tennis gets NCAA berth

s  W&L’s women’s tennis team set a newschool record for  this year .21p_n.their way. ; ._

By Stephen Williard
Phi Sports Editor

There is such a thing as success, and
then there is such a thing as phenom-
enal achievement.

The accomplishments of the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s tennis team
clearly fall into the latter category.

The dust had not even settled from
a blemish-free 21-0 season, complete
with an Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference championship, when the W&L
squad received notice that they were
invited to the big show.

The invitation marks the first time
since 1991 that the Generals have re-
ceived a ticket to the NCAA’s as a
team.

Senior Captain Kim Dickinson is
the only player remaining who was on
that team.

For the season, the squad posted
numerous milestones. In the ODAC

championships, all six singles titles Senior captain Kim Dickinson will

went to W&L players.

The Generals also boast three 20
match singles winners with junior
Marilyn Baker, sophomore Julie Ayers,
and Anna O’Connor.

Head coach Cinda Rankin credited
the team’s immense success to the abil-
ity to focus on each match.

“Every time we had a match, we
focused on that match,” said Rankin.

Also qualifying as individuals for
the Generals were Baker and Ayers.

Baker enters the tournament ranked
second in Division III while Ayers
stands at 33. The two are ranked 11th
together in the doubles competition.

Coach Rankin was quick to praise
her athletes.

“I have a terrific group of kids to
work with,” she said. “They work
hard.”

Adding to the team’s mystique is
the fact that only one player is lost to
graduation.

be the only departing member of the
formidable squad.

According to Rankin, the already
deep squad also includes two freshmen
who have a shot at breaking into the top
six next year.

Despite the team’s success, Rankin
is approaching the tournament cau-
tiously.

“When you get down to a tourna-
ment like this, it comes down to mental
toughness,” she said. “Everybody
who’s there has a shot at winning it.”

Despite her caution, the W&Lcoach
is optimistic about the team’s chances
in Michigan.

“Skillwise we’re every bit as tal-
ented as anybody else,” said the coach.

However, Rankin continued to
maintain the importance of taking the
tournament one match at a time.

“If you start to look too far ahead,
you can stumble,” she said, “and there ’s
no room to stumble here.”

. File photo
A few industrious students have already begun preparations for the upcoming
volleyball tournament.

Rain as outside in the garden for the best

ﬂllllllﬂ SP£(.‘IM£S

in lawn!

served Mon.-Fri., 11:30-3:00
Soup or salad or deli sandwich combo

Erwfie la Canasta
5 0 in‘, tea dc Amer dc! FrD'~"

IUNACEANQESTA
LLENA DE ‘“ OR!
Para cl Dia de . ef; ’

La Madre, 8 de Mayo 

 
    
  
  
  
  

or coffee . Ocniuestreie con ﬂorcs y amori"
su apreczio per {ode lo que elk:
ha necks.) gior axstcit.

OPEN 7- DAYS A WEEK
Last Call 1 a.m.

Iuesday - Mexican flight
Wednesday - Steak Might
Thursday - I€;4JZAOI€£

101 W. nelson
463-7911

|;nrarBcxLMs

   

‘I7 florist to The Homestead

.-'A‘(-tki :'.\~:«\'~:'._'.- -\:~\'-7. "’ '\=,:¢-:¢ (<-:9’:-it:-.2.) 6: t':<-::-.17 Ir-::u'\\~:I.t-5 ‘(o:5:I2 29:-:: »::-2013.9 1"! :‘..~‘..

   

AI usr at x ‘A
Gxncd

 

 

Q

The Ring-tum Phi, May 6, 1994 PAGE 9
SPORTS

 

     
  
  

   
  

       
 
 
 
    
 

  
  

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS
. Standings as of 05/06/94
, Baseball Women’s Lacrosse
Batting Leaders Scoring Leaders
Player Avg HR RBI Player G A Pts
A Graig Fantuzzi .482 O 12 Lindsay Coleman 35 12 47
' Bates Brown .387 1 15 Angie Carrington 41 5 46
Matt Ermigiotti .316 3 19 Nicole Ripken 19 6 25
C’ ' Lo 17 6 23
' REDUCED PR|CE5 _ Pitching Leaders Eiilli1zieSny§eiil 16 6 22
1 I ' 2 ayer -
u‘5"z'L”n'o“‘L55E¢'§NA  P1 W ERA K
° 5 Matt Ermigiotti 3-3 5.40 38 Goaltending
°R'°°1-FRANK‘ i“3““.‘.‘§f“;‘." as :3: 5.. P1 SV GA 
i_  re a man - . ayer o
' , Sarah Smith 119 85 .583
Brooke Glenn 67 42 .615
Men’s Lacrosse
Scoring Leaders
Women’s Tennis
. Player G A Pts _
Colin Higgins 21 21 42 Singles leaders
Ty Tydings 16 20 36
Russell Croft 18 16 34 Play? W L
Scott Mackley 25 6 31 Mafliyn Baker 24 2
Ande Jenkins‘ 24 6 30 £l1111‘1‘—lAY§rS d g 3
_ e ey un ennan
Q    Goaltending P13316111) C1li(andler 16 4
‘m ic enson 16 2
Player sv GA sv% Anna 0’C°,Im°r 20 3
Doug Grubner 96 68 .585 Cathy Gm“ 9 0
David Jones 47 33 .588 D°“b'°S Leaders
Golf Iliickinsgoanlg-O’Connor 3 Z
yers- er 1
. . . . . . . Leaders Sunderman-Chandler 14 4
Pearce Smithwick 3 78.0 75 T9311! R€C0l‘dS
LOW PRICES Bo Williams 9 78.8 75 W T .
Tommy Dudley 6 80.3 76 °I{1°n’S enms 21 0
JUICY SWEET '49 Jimmy Kull 10 81.5 74 Men STra°k 11 1
 . ~. Mlméois _________ "EA Gam Mattingly 10 82.9 77 Golf , 32 9
- "‘v'-5    Men’s Tennis Xdvonielij Track 3 g
. « en s crosse
1.‘ '   ...... .. 16 OZ. Singles Leaders Women’s Lacrosse 8 7
'" ' 5"    Men’s Tennis 8 9
' I  ' LEAF |.E'|"I'UCE EA 079 Play“ W L Bmba" 7 18 1
5   - .,, .‘ ~ _ g  I. _- _   , 7'  .3   ' Robby MacNaughton 14 9 Men’s Tennis
_- . 9' '      ~ ' .. “V  f__‘_,_-..=     Chris MacNaughton 11 9 Doubles Leaders
~  .~._ _ ,_  ~.,  .,» 2  " .  '  g '_T MUSH|lO0Ms,,___8oz, Pete Hammond 12 11
  ~'  _ ». '  '    - -A David Schweppe 12 10 Hammond-R.MacNaughton 13 9
' -  - ’ ‘ ..    , .' " ‘ Derek Schulze , 13 8 Horen-Schweppe 9 6
. ' »   g Andy Horen 8 12 C. MacNaughton-Schulze 9 8
L    :............9...:
" ' Triple C Day Camp ' 0
Charlottesville, VA June 18-Sept. 2 : :
g Monday-Friday. Room and o o
g _ Board plus salary. Call Pat Charles : :
3t(804)293'2529f0Tm0I'€1I1f0- ooooooooooooooooom

    
     
   
  
   

       
   
       
       
        

 

  
 
  

  
  
 
   
    
   

    

.§‘é”7~’h woRK AT 4BR11/2bathv[iz‘z§i1let$Idg.(di.§o‘ii1leuti1itiesincluded.
g   '   ' 2 ,1/2 miles vsiest of town. Only $175 per bedroom.
Q9‘ w   Inquire at Kelly’s Corner 463-5452
‘\ g OURMYR1-LE   A At
 2 V BEACH AND Km’) On
  ..   — ow —
‘  * -   y  ARE NOW RQSTGUTGHT m9
;E.___   HIRING FOR 2 ‘Ace Ventura
 THE SUMMER. L111, 2172 Sycamore Ave. °a"vS§t‘~§8§3;§°1§g1§91;G-13
‘ gs‘;-:1;-gg§g,4g=,§,gYH¢{,;,H,§ . Buena Vista, Va. (703) 261-1886 meaea.m:
LOCATIONS OR MAIL Open 7 Days a week My Father The Herot
 TO:   g Lunch Take_Out Mom _ Fri. 11 a_m. _ 3 p_m_, Daily 7:00&9:15 p.m. Rated PG
GREG ETHERIDGE. . Sat. & Sun. 12 — 3 p.m. §?g—o&7§(;*(;‘g§9fé3=°°»
HARRIS TEETER INC. D1nnerTake-Out Sun. - Thurs. 3 - 9:30 p.m., ' ’ ' ' pm‘
a i'i'IiIgiETiTR%LcAE'réRETzG J ' F2r1ii6‘iS1LgS1§'a3iig i0:3(i>p'm°' tor 251 7292
a1n ll 06, I'0pl'lC -
E?<i:Jri1EI|?L’o'i%ii:.2g§75s5 F ‘3’75°°°°"‘“’°" ''’'"°"“‘’‘
S ‘_  . I , .1
.5‘u§‘c'‘e‘4‘8   
WORK! . i 1,  1 g  . 2'  
HARRIS TEETER...THE BEST 15 WHAT WE'RE ALL ABOUT 5,a,,,._.m.,,, 5L%,,ego|,/zt,,ng ,,_.,,,.._.,
§‘1‘i':‘i1"1"<"‘1?'1‘i‘s“i""Z“/"‘ oo  
N W
‘ENTRIES  cm pnonucrs o W’ ‘“‘“‘° ‘°'' W‘ “k

Traffic - Far From Home
AllmanBros.- W1xereItA1IBegan...

THIN CRUST OR ORIGINAL

MICROWAVE Dawn Penn - NO, NO, {YO
romasrona 2/ 99 SWANSON 2/89 
0 Cheap Trick - Budokan 11
and many more!

-  18.25-23.6 oz.   701-

NAaIsco okiaos on IN THE DEU-BAKERY SLICED To omen 9

noun: srurr 2/500 DOMESTIC

 

J O O

OREO5 20 oz. HAM 0- may Mmenc Snail
. _  © Rocks Aﬂitcemaitﬁsvze @5151,
Prices Effective Through May TO, T994 eesseeeee onﬁﬁi esiee es mark
Prices In This Ad Eiiective Wednesday, May 4Throu hiuesday, Ma i0 i 94 In Our |.exinf)ton Store Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 p.m., Fri 81 Sat. 10a.m.-11 p.m.,
Q On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None 50% To Deaiers. e Giadiy Accept Federa Food Stamps. Sun. Noon-10 p.m.

 

  

Last Week:

MLax—Washington C011. 11, W&L 10
WLax—Lynchburg 12, W&L 6

Base-VMI 9,W&L4 MLax—vs. VMI 05-07 ‘
MTennis—Washington C. 9, W&L 0
PAGE 10 LACROSSE, TRACK, TENNIS, GOLF, BASEBALL May 6, 1994

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Washington & Lee’s lacrosse
reign ended last Saturday with a
semiﬁnal loss in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Touma-
ment.

The Generals were defeated
by Lynchburg College for the
second time this season, falling
12-6 in Lynchburg.

Earlier this season, the Hor-
nets fought off a late W&L rally
to beat the Generals 12-11 at the
Liberty Hall Fields.

Washington & Lee ﬁnishes
the season 8-7 overall, their ﬁrst
season with fewer than ten wins
since 1989. Four of the losses
were by only one goal.

The Generals and Hornets
traded a pair of goals in the early
going and were knotted at two.
However, the Hornets opened the
ﬂoodgates and scored the next
six goals to take command of the
game.

Although W&L would climb
within 8-5, they were already de-
moralized and essentially out of
the game at that point.

Goalie Sarah Smith said the
team felt as if they might as well
have not been on the ﬁeld fol-
lowing the six goal run by the

S

Lynchburg team.

“It was hard to be motivated,”
said Smith, who stopped 13 shots
in the loss.

Lynchburg, who ultimately
lost the championship game to
Roanoke, had a similar start to
the ﬁrst meeting with the Gener-
als.

W&L managed a strong sec-
ond half, though, and cut a late
12-7 deﬁcit down to 12-11 be-
fore time expired. This time, the
Generals could not ﬁght back
into it.

“We had moments of good
play, but it was too late,” said
Smith, one of three seniors on the
team that played their last game
Saturday. Tri-captains Angie
Carrington, Pauline Mita, and
Smith end their W&L careers
with a 44-19 record and two
ODAC championships.

Junior Lindsay Coleman
scored three times versus
Lynchburg and finished the sea-
son as the team’s scoring leader
with 47 points on 35 goals and 12
assists.

She placed one point ahead of
Carrington, who ranks third on
theschool’sall-timelistsforgoals
(110), assists (30), and points
(140). She ﬁnishes behind Lisa
Dowling ‘93 and Kim Bishop
‘92 in all three categories.

@112 iﬂing-tum. iﬁhi

File photo

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team responded to its early season
critics by coming back to win the ODAC championship and narrowly miss a
berth in the NCAA tournament.

Women’s Lax Slips

Junior Nicole Ripken (19
goals, 6 assists) placed third on
the team in scoring despite play-
ing just nine games. She and
Coleman are tied for fourth on
W&L’s career goals list with 79.

Freshman Erika Snyder was
the top frosh scorer with 16 goals
and six assists and is one of the
many ﬁrst-year players that give
Smith reason to feel the season
was a successful one for a team
that is only going to get better.

“It was a good season,” she
said. “We had so many freshmen
playing impact positions and we
had a winning record.”

Still, W&Lwill certainly miss
the three captains. Smith retires
with 288 career saves, second in
the W&Lbooks to Erica Ingersoll
(1989-91).

The biggest of those stops
came in the ﬁnal minute of last
year’s ODAC title game against
Roanoke, a save that ignited the
run leading to Ripken’s last-sec-
ond game-winning goal.

Of her classmates, Carrington
and Mita, Smith’s words reveal
great respect.

“Both gave it their all,” she
said. “They’ve worked so hard
onindividualthingsandtheteam,
always motivating everyone. I’ve
watched them come so far from
freshmen year.”

File photo

The General’s golf team was helped by a late season line-up shift that
aided their charge to the ODAC championship.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Washington & Lee’s men’s
lacrosse team wraps up the 1994
season with Saturday’s Lee-Jack-
son Lacrosse Classic versus Vir-
ginia Military Institute.

The annual affair between the
Lexington rivals begins at 2:00
at W&L’s Wilson Field. The
Generals have won the last ﬁve
meetings, with last year’s game
being an 18-3 romping of the
Keydets.

Saturday’s game will be the
seventh Classic and the eighth
all-time meeting between W&L
and VMI.

Fresh off their second straight
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence title, Washington & Lee
dropped a heartbreaker to sixth-
ranked Washington College, 11-
10 in overtime, last Saturday.

The loss dropped the 13th-
ranked Generals to 8-5 overall
and ended any hopes of an Na-
tional Collegiate Athletic Asso-
ciation Tournament berth.

A win over the Shoremen
would likely have earned W&L
its second straight post season
bid.

“I think [a win] would have,”
said head coach Jim Stagnitta.
‘‘It would have given us three
wins in the top 15 [ranked team].”

Washington & Lee will be
just the third ODAC champion
not to earn a trip to the Division
III tournament.

That probably doesn’t bother
the Generals who did not appear
on their way to a championship
following their ﬁrst conference

ame.

W&L was stunned 12-6 by
Hampden—Sydney, a team that
was 4-8 in the ODAC over the
last two seasons.

This Week:

Track—(M&VV) at NC Invitational

05-07

Aware that no team had ever
won the ODAC without going
undefeated, Stagnitta saw there
would be a tough ﬁght ahead.

“At that time, we just hoped
we’d improve,” said the ODAC
Coach of the Year. “We had the
potential to be a very good team.”

Though many people wrote
the Generals off as title contend-
ers after that loss, the team felt
differently.

“We thought it would be an
uphill battle,” said junior tri-cap-
tain Scott Mackley. “But we
thought Roanoke would still be
the team to beat.”

And beat they did, in one of
the greatest games in W&L la-
crosse

history. The Generals rallied
to turn an 11-6 deﬁcit with six
minutes to play into an overtime
12-11 win.

W&L then cruised through its
remaining ODAC schedule with
blowout wins over Virginia
Wesleyan (22-3), Guilford (18-
1), and _the title clincher against
Randolph-Macon (18-8).

In the Randolph-Macon game,
Mackley racked up seven goals,
one short of the single-game
school record held by Wiemi
Douoguih ’93, who happened to
be in attendance. ,

Senior Colin Higgins also
approached a school record with
six assists, one short of that mark.

With their third ODAC cham-
pionship in four years clinched,
the Generals set their sights on
earning a trip to the NCAA Tour-
nament, a trip W&L made eight
times at the Division I level, and
three times since moving to Di-
vision III in 1987.

The Generals led the
Shoremen 9-7 early in the fourth
quarter at Wilson Field follow-
ing a score by sophomore Adam
Butterworth. Washington then

lacrosse finishes strong V

tallied two goals to tie the corﬁesto

midway through the fourth.

Mackley netted his third goal
of the game late in the quarter to
give W&La 10-9 advantage, but
again the Shoremen came back
to tie, this time with the Generals
1:03 away from victory.

In overtime, Washington Col-
lege wasted little time, taking

just35 seconds to score the game-
winner.

Freshman goalie Doug
Gubner stopped 17 shots for the
Generals, whose record fell to 8-
5, but whose ranking act lly
climbed a spot to 13.

“I thought we were the better
team,” said Mackley. “We made
some mistakes late. We are a
young team, but we won’t be
able to use that excuse next year.”

Stagnitta also thoughtﬁthe
Generals youth (they have only
two seniors) played a factor.

“We were right there,” he said.
“We lost ourcomposure at times,
but we were every bit as good as
them.”

The Generals now must focus
on extending their Lee-Jackson
winning streak to six.

Saturday, W&L will be fac-
ing a team with very similar prob-
lems to their own.

“They’re young, like us,” said
Stagnitta. “They have some gqod
athletes and continue to improve,
but they’re also inconsistent.”

The Keydets (6-6) are an-
chored by sophomore Joe
Brockman, who tallied 20 goals
through the ﬁrst ten games.

Freshman Matt McLean yas
next in scoring with 16 goals and
eight assists.

In goal, sophomore Ryan
Olson has registered a .596 save
percentage against a schedule that
included fourth-ranked North
Carolina, ﬁfth-ranked Virggiia,
and 24th-ranked Lehigh.

File photo

Women’s lacrosse missed an ODAC championship season after a 12-6 loss

to Lynchburg College.

Golf charges to title

By Stephen Williard
Phi Sports Editor

Only Rodney Dangerfield
lives like this. After winning the
Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Championship last week,
the Washington and Lee golf
team found themselves drowned
out by the din offourother spring
sport W&Lconference champion
teams.

The Generals followed up last
season’s 9-4-2 record with a 32
win, nine loss season and the
school’s ﬁrst ODAC champion-
ship since 1991.

Prior to the championships,
the Generals closed out the regu-
lar season on a high note by tak-
ing second out of six teams in a
make-up match at the

Bridgewater Invitational.

The tune-up gave coach E.G.
“Buck” Leslie a chance to work
with his lineup before ODAC’s.
After the tournament, sophomore
Scott Miller and senior Pierce
Smithwick were inserted into the
ODAC lineup in a move that
worked to the General’s advan-
tage as Miller ﬁnished ninth and
Smithwick took second.

Also ﬁnishing strong for the
Generals wasseniorBoWilliams,
who took seventh in the tourna-
ment.

Leslie was quick to credit the
team for the end-of-the-year per-
forrnance.

“I don’t think we ever lost
faith,” said the 20 year coaching
veteran. “They just kept plug-
ging at it, and it paid off.”

Coach Leslie said that the team

had fulﬁlled its three basic gols
for the season. The ﬁrst was to
play well in the tournament. The
other two were to have good in-
dividual perfonnances and a good
match record. According to
Leslie, these led up to the ulti-
mate goal of taking the confd-
ence title.

Experience also played a key
role in the team’s success ac-
cording to Leslie.

“It turned out we had a good
mixture of youth and experience
in our lineup,” commented tlﬁ
coach.

Coach Leslie was named
ODAC coach of the year for his
seventh time.

Over the course of his career,
the W&Lcoach has accumulated
261 victories and only 44 dg—
feats.

 

 
  

 

   
  

Clip: ‘ﬂing-

VOLUME 93, N0. 28

EC spends $1400 on dinner

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

‘Washington and Lee’s Executive Commit-
tee recently treated itself, the incoming EC
members, and the White Book Review Com-
mittee to a $1400 dinner paid for with student
body funds.

_ Steve Hintze of the Willson-Walker House

 

 

Tunnels explored;
secrets revealed

’74 Lacrosse team-
bcsi of the best

8

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

said the EC came with a party of approximately
30 April 28 and had dinner, wine and cocktails
for a total check of $1,390 after a 17 percent
gratuity.

“We appreciate their business,” Hintze said.
“You won’t hear anything negative from me.”

Jimmy Kull, ED treasurer, said the money
came from the Honor Reserve fund, which is
accrued from Student Activities fees.

“We took the money from the Honor Re-

serve account because of all the work the White
Book Review Committee did,” Kull said. “They
definitely deserved a dinner.”

“We put in hundreds of hours a year for the
school, and we deserve at least one dinner.”

Kevin Webb, incoming EC president, said
the EC has a custom of taking its members to
dinner once a year.

tum {ﬂirt

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

out of.” .

Kull said he did not know if the dinner was
a tradition, but it has been done in the past.

According to the Student Body Constitu-
tion, the activities fee “shall entitle the payer to
yearly subscriptions to the Ring-tum Phi (sic),
and The Calyx; to admission to all Glee Club
concerts, and all debating meets; and to all
other functions, publications, and activities as

MAY 13, 1994

The only constitutional discretionary allow-
ance which might allow the EC president to 1
justify any non-budgeted expense is Item Four ;
of Article Three, which reads, “[The president] 2
shall have power, subject to the approval of the §
Executive Committee, to do anything neces- 1
sary to promote the best interests of the Student ;
Body.” ‘

“We’ve done it every year I’ve been here,”
Webb said. “I don’t know which fund it comes

4

Kinky Reggae...

 

Publicity Photo

The Wailers are set to take center stage at the Washington and Lee Pavilion tonight, May 13,
following the performance of Black. Creek Band at 8:30 p.m. The Wailers, which consists of Earl
“Wia” Lindo, Al Anderson, Aston “FamiIyman" Barrett, Junior Marvin, Martin Battista, Irvin
“Carrot” Jarrett and Michael “Boo” Richards, originated with 1960s greats Bob Marley and the
Qilailers. The Wailers have released two albums on their own, I.D. in 1989 and their latest release.
Majestic Warriors. The free concert is sponsored by the Student Activities Board.

Man offers oral sex over phone;
harasses W&L library patrons

 

0 By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Associate Editor

When a freshman male picked
up the pay phone on the first
ﬂoorof the Leyburn Library Sun-
da night, he did not expect the
v0 ce at the end of the line to

  
  
 
 

offer oral sex.

Thecallerasked the freshman
to meet him in the fourth—ﬂoor
bathroom of the library.

The freshman then called
Washington and Lee Security and
went to the bathroom along with
a second freshman. The two
looked under the stall doors and

saw the feet of a man standing
up. The two freshmen left the
bathroom and waited nearby
outside.

A man they described as ap-
proximately 37-40 years old soon
exited the bathroom.

The freshmen watched the
man as he left.

File Photo
Washington and Lee Leyburn Library has been plagued recently with tele-

phone calls by a man who offered oral sex to male W&L students.

3

    

“He looked kind of sketchy,
and he walked fast away from
us,” the freshman who picked up
the phone said.

The two followed the man to
the third floor where he left out
of a side exit.

In the meantime security had
arrived on the first floor. The.
freshmen returned there, and then
the phone rang again. The fresh-
men picked up the phone and it
was the same caller. The fresh-
men talked to him and kept him
on the line while security noti-
fied the Lexington police, who

' traced the call.

The freshman was unable to
identify any suspects in a police

, lineup, according to Lexington

Police Chief Bruce Beard. The
freshman did describe the man in
the bathroom as being about 6
feet, 3 inches, with greying hair.

Police do not think the caller

‘ is the same person who has ex-

posed himself at least four times
on the Washington and Lee
campus, as well as at least once
in town.

- “We feel like we're looking at
two people,” Beard said.

W&L Director of Security
Mike Young said that his team
would step up patrols of the li-
brary, but that no security ofﬁcer
would be assigned to the library
itself.

The investigation continues.
If you have any information re-

' garding this incident or any other

similar to it, please notify the
Lexington police at 463-2112.

Graham-Lee-Wash. society
debates U.S. News ranking

By MICHAEL HEWLETI‘
Phi Staff Writer

Should Washington and Lee
strive to be one of the top 25
Liberal Arts colleges in the
United States?

The Graham-Lee-Washing-
ton Literary Society attempted to
answer this question when it
sponsored its Third Annual
Spring Dinner Debate on
Wednesday, May 11 in Evans
Dining Hall.

Arguing the affirmative side
were Associate Professor of Eco-
nomics Arthur Goldsmith and
junior English major Ashlie
Kauffman. Professor of History
Lamar Cecil and Executive Com-
mittee vice-presidentlimmy Kull
argued the negative side. The
debate ended in a draw.

Goldsmith said if W&L sim-
ply fulﬁlled its mission statement,
there would be no problem at-
taining the top 25 position.

“The challenge W&L faces is
an internal challenge,” Gold-
smith said. “The challenge is to
satisfy our own unique mission
statement.”

Goldsmith said there was a
desperate need for a student cen-
ter and an international center
where faculty and students from
different cultures could meet. He
said a special burden should be
placed on the administration to
fulﬁll the mission statement. He
said there should be more topic-
based courses or seminars in-
stead of discipline courses spe-

cific to the department’s major.

the Executive Committee may announce.”

Goldsmith said the most
prominent yet unspoken prob-
lem on campus is the alcohol
abuse rampant among students.
He said he blames the adminis-
tration for turning a blind eye to
the problem.

Kauffman said the 60/40 ad-
mission policy is discriminatory
and should be abolished. Noting
that female alumni generally give
more money to the institution,
she said the policy is not needed,
and its abolishment will not be
threatening to the men’s athletic
program or to the fraternities.

Kull said the people who cal-
culate the rankings of the top 25
Liberal Arts colleges do not care
about" the- "unique-‘traditions of
Washington and Lee and neither
do the students.

“We used to appreciate char-
acter, honor, and tradition,”
said Kull.

He said the two main reasons
the W&L has held steadfastly to
its traditions is because of its
Southern heritage and the fact
that it works. He said SAT scores
are overemphasized, and charac-
ter is de-emphasized.

“Character should be the mea-
suring stick of success,” said Kull.

Cecil said the U.S. News and
World Report should get out of
Washington Hall and return it-
self to the local barbershop where
it belongs. Cecil said W&L
should recognize and be proud of
its uniqueness.

“We have to come to grips
that we are a Southern institu-
tion,” said Cecil.

“We need to understand that

Bob Tompkins, EC president, could not be 
reached for comment. ‘

I
-4

we are different.”

Cecil said he is not against
change, however.

“We recognize that old bottles f
need new wine,” he said. “What ~
we do not need is pretension.” 

Goldsmith said the university j
needs more diversity in order to =
make W&L the best possible
university it can be. V

“We need to be a growing,;
evolving, diverse community,”:
he said. ;

Sophomore Nick Waddy, who ;
attended the debate, said he‘
agreed with the negative side.

“I think ultimately it’s not
SAT scores or admissions statis-
tics that induce students to come
to W&L,” said Waddy. “It’s in-
tangibles like community, tradi-
tion, and history.”

Sophomore John Branam said
he thought both sides had good
points, but the affirmative side
did a better job of presenting
their arguments more clearly.

“I think the negative side re-
lied too heavily on vague ideas
such as character and tradition,”
he said.

Branam said the affirmative
brought up important ideas like
the call for a student center, more
seminars, and a international cen-.
ter. He said the key to the affir-
mative side’s argument was the
idea that Washington and Lee
should strive to be the best leam-
ing institution as possible.

‘‘I think in general it’s a poor
excuse to say we should not be in
the top 25 percent,” he said, “be-
cause it allows us to settle for
mediocrity.”

Eating Disorders  

The
problem .

hits
home at ,
W&L, P ‘

too.

A At a school such as

the top few of .“Best
Looking Students”

V by the Princeton Review,

 

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff, Writer

Washington and Lee ’
University, ranked in y

a high premium is placed upon appearance
Many women feel that the heavy emphasis on fratemi
functions places an undue amount of pressure on W&L women to “look good.” Some even give in _
to the pressure and develop poor nutritional habits, even eating disorders. - ’ * « '  ‘
Anorexia nervosa affects many college women; 1992 statistics from the National Association ‘
of Anorexia Nervosa and Associated Disorders, 8 m
of anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa. ,
Jane (not her real name),sa W&L undergraduate, shared her story. , .
Jane’s family situation is that of the typical anorexic’s. Her family, which is an upper-class one,
was not very close. While belonging to an upper-class family is .
not an absolute characteristicof anorexics, it is a common one. -

r

it See EATING, page 9

, especially of women.

ties and being invited to their formal

illion Americans are afflicted with symptoms

0

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

U.S. to send troops to Haiti
despite nation’s military

The United States will send at least 600 troops to Haiti,
regardless of whether or not Haiti’s military leaders leave
power. The Govemor’s Island agreement, signed last year in
New York, calls for the return of ousted President Jean-
Bertrand Aristide. Officials say the Americans prefer that the
Haitian leaders leave first, but troops will go in either way to
train a new police force and reconstruct the army.

Hazelwood testifies Exxon
knew of his drinking problem

Former skipper Joseph Hazelwood testified Tuesday that
Exxon Corp. knew of his drinking problem and did nothing.
Hazelwood testified in a civil lawsuit brought against him
and Exxon Corp. for the 1989 Exxon Valdez oil spill, the
worst in U.S. history. Some 10,000 fishermen, property
owners and Alaskan natives are seeking $1.5 billion in
compensatory damages and ten times as much in punitive
damages. Hazelwood, who is appealing his conviction of
negligently discharging oil, said Exxon knew he underwent
treatment for alcohol abuse, yet did not monitor him on the
sea. -

Gaza autonomy given to
Palestinians by Israelis

Palestinian officers took control Wednesday of the Gaza,
the first area granted to them under the PLO - Israel autonomy
accord. Gaza youth stoned Israeli soldiers as they waited to
evacuate the base. If all goes according to schedule, Israeli
soldiers will be out of the autonomous areas of Gaza and the
West Bank of Jericho by Wednesday.

UN officials try to end Rwanda
fighting as rebels advance

Rebels are closer than ever to taking the Rwandan capital
of Kigali. UN officials ﬂew to Kigali Wednesday morning
to meet with government and rebel leaders to try and end the
ethnic fighting between the majority Hutus and the minority

T“‘SiS- BC‘W°°‘,1 1.99090 a“,€*,,200,:0Q9 P?9P1P‘ i‘.§.V"r . 12”“  . .
killed by the past month of violence in Rwanda, most of them ’

civilians

Mandela appoints officials for
SouthAfrica’s new government

Nelson Mandela appointed officials Wednesday to the
Cabinet of South Africa’s first post-apartheid government.
Mandela was sworn in as president Tuesday. Mandela
appointed his chief black political rival and his estranged
wife Winnie Mandela, to the Cabinet.

Goode cites Robb’s personal
scandal to boost campaign

State Sen. Virgil H. Goode, Jr. warned Democratic leaders
against nominating US. Sen Charles S. Robb for senator,
saying his candidacy could hurt their bids for re—election in
1995. Goode cited Robb’s personal scandals of attending
parties where drug use occurred and for behavior “not appro-
priate for a married man.” Goode said the Democrats need
candidates who can stand up to Oliver North in November,
and not be phased by negative publicity.

North may have jeopardized
Waite’s safety after his kidnap

The Wall Street] ournal reported that former White House
aide Oliver North leaked secret information to Iran that may
have jeopardized the safety of Terry Waite. North practically
identified Waite as an agent to Iran at the height of the arms-
for-hostages talks in 1986. Waite was later taken hostage and
held for four years by a terrorist group in Iran. North’s
comments came from a document declassified by the CIA
and obtained by the Journal

3 VMI cadets leave, 7 investi-
gated after cheating exposed

Three VMI cadets have resigned after an investigation
began into allegations of cheating at the school. At least
seven students are being investigated by the board of inquiry.
The investigation focuses on irregularities on tests taken this
spring in the Department of Economics and Business. Pro-
fessors in the department reported these irregularities last
month. The cadet Honor Court, which normally handles
matters of cheating, decided the charges were too serious for
it to handle. The investigation group was appointed to take
the place of the Honor Court.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily
Baker.

0
The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

0

Helping hands

   

Photo courtesy of Fncie Cohen

woi

Maria Harden, Julie Ann Olejniczak, Kim Freeman, Heather Lipke, and Francie Cohen, all members of the W&L chapter
of Habitat for Humanity, take a break from painting a house for the Lexington Safe and Sound program. The program
makes otherwise condemned local houses liveable. Habitat is holding a fundraiser this weekend to go towards a goal of
$20,000 for the construction of a new house. According to Habitat co-founder Francie Cohen, if the group raises $10,000,
an anonymous donor will match that amount. A raffle is being held this weekend, with a grand prize of a week for two
at the Alumni College. Tickets are $10, and are on sale next to Newcomb today from 10-6 p.m. and Saturday from 10-5 p.mb
All proceeds beneﬁt Habitat for Humanity.

Gay-Lesbian Legal Issue group,
organized in W&L law school

By MAC JENNINGS

Phi Contributing Writer
On April 18, a group of students at
the Washington and Lee law School
announced the formation of the Com-
mittee on Gay and Lesbian Legal
Issues.

After receiving funding from the
Student Bar Association earlier this year,
the group is currently organizing for
next year.

Upcoming events are to include lec-
tures from guest speakers and debates
between speakers or members of the
law faculty. Also, the committee plans
to sponsor informal discussions and
media presentations.

Thus far, a preliminary meeting has
been held and a documentary ﬁlm
shown. .

The purpose of the committee is to
establish a forum at Washington and
Lee for education and discussion about
gay and lesbian legal issues.

In addition, the committee seeks to
increase awareness of gay and lesbian
legal issues throughout the community
and to foster an atmosphere of accep-
tance and appreciation of gay men and
lesbians based on mutual respect and
dignity.

According to second-year law stu-
dents Paula Efﬂe and Steve Powell,
who together founded the group, there
are currently thirteen law students, ﬁve
members of the law faculty and one

. ‘WELCOAME
W & L
.--XLU MN-l

Photo by Betsy een, Te R

A banner day...

SPRING
1 REU.\ilONS.

..................~..

..’«’

The Washington and Lee Alumni Office had its welcom-
ing sign out early this week to help usher hundreds of
W&L alumni into town this weekend. The celebration is
in honor of the law and undergraduate classes of ’44, ’49,
’54, ’59, '64, ’69, '74, ’79, ’84 and '89. See the calendar, page
9, for a detailed list of alumni activities.

staff member sitting on the committee.

Membership is available to all stu-
dents, faculty and staff of the W&L law
school. Involvement in the group isnot
indicative of sexual orientation, ac-
cording to Efﬂe.

Efﬂe predicts that, in the future, gay
and lesbian legal issues will stretch
into every comer of the legal world,
from criminal rights to employee ben-
eﬁts to discrimination laws.

Unfortunately, according to Efﬂe,
these issue are not covered thoroughly
in the curriculum at Washington and
Lee Law.

Therefore, the committee hopes to
generate more interest in gay and les-
bian legal issues and to acknowledge
the importance of these issues.

When asked about the reaction.of
the law school community to the for-

mation of the committee, Powell noted: j
~ that the response has--been generally‘-

positive.

“There is a good deal of diversity
among the student organizations at ‘)8
law school,” he said.

“In general, there is a ‘live and let
live’ atmosphere.”

' Efﬂe agreed.

“The reaction has been good, al-

though there is a lack of knowledge
about the issues involved.”

Any member of the Washingfon
and Lee law school community who is
interested in joining the committee
should contact Paula Efﬂe for further
information.

Merhige to speak 
at law graduation

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Honorable Robert R. Merhige,
Jr., Senior Judge for the U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia, will
deliver the commencement address for
the law school on Sunday, May 22.

The commencement will begin at
2:30 p.m. in front of the Lee House.
The Warner Center is the rain site.

The university expects to award juris
doctor degrees to 113 third-year stu-
dents in the 139th graduating law class.

Judge Merhige was appointed for
life by President Lyndon B. Johnson to
term beginning August 30, 1967. '

He graduated from High Point Col-

lege, the University of Richmond
(LL.B., 1942) and the University'of
Virginia (LL.M. in Judicial Process in
1982)

He was awarded honorary degrees
from the University of Richmond in
1976 and from W&L in 1990.

During his twenty years on the
bench, Merhige heard cases involvlﬂg
such sensitive issues as school integra-
tion, industrial pollution, and the regu-
lation of sexual behavior.

He has been honored by the Ameri-
can Judicature Association, Anti-Defa-
mation League of B’nai B’rith, the
Virginia Trial Lawyers’ Associatidi,
the state and national bar associations,
and numerous other professional and
civic organizations.

Coulling speaks of alums .

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee alumus Sidney
M.B. Coulling chronicled the
University’s long history of producing
graduates who go on to bigger and
better things.

Coulling, a 1948 graduate, ofﬁcially
began the alumni weekend festivities
Thursday night in Lee Chapel with his
speech “ODK, Leadership, and the
W&L Tradition.”

The tradition Coulling spoke of be-
gan with the ﬁrst graduating class of
Liberty Hall. With that group of men,
the University began its penchant for
graduating students who become
prominent leaders in their career fields.

W&L has graduated 31 governors
of states, 2 state senators, and 63 mem-
bers of the House of Representatives.

Also among its alumni are four Su-
preme Court justices, and numerous
recognizable names in the areas of jour-

nalism, art, literature, and the sciences.

In these areas, Coulling said, “not a
week passes without the spoken or
written word of a W&L graduate.”

Coulling credited the adoption of
the Honor System with helping prm
duce such distinguished alumni.

“No single act in the history of the
University has continued so signifi-
cantly to determine the quality of its
leadership,” said Coulling.

In addition to taking pride in the
history of the University ’s alumni, sag
Coulling, “we may look also with con-
ﬁdence to the future.” He predicted a
continued tradition of excellence with
future graduates, including the induct-L
ees of Omicron Delta Kappa who were
formally initiated later that evening.

Coulling began his careerwith W&L,
faculty in 1956. He served as chairman
of the English department from 1978
until 1986. Coulling has received sev-
eral awards honoring his achievements
and service to the University. He re-
tired from teaching in 1991.

 

   

I h3Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

 

 

PAGE 3

 

  
  
  
 
 

. By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

the most of the electrical cables are not in tunnels.

Students enter the tunnels with at least some regularity
because certain areas have empty bottles and cans lying
around. In addition , the tunnels also have some graffiti left
by those who visited. According to several students who

 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 

~ ve
I unnels.

to uildings on campus. The act of going thro
's referred to as “tunneling.”

aid that tunnels have hot water and steam

Uncle Tu

   
 

When I was in Night Owl last week,
talking to Wayne about which recent
release I should review, this Uncle
Tupelo CD caught my eye.

I knew I had heard of the band
beftle when it struck me that when I
was home over break visiting my best
friend who attends Kansas State Uni-
versity, he was all psyched to see Uncle
Tupelo later that week. From his reac-
tion and the reactions of his friends
when they heard Uncle Tupelo was
coning to Manhattan, I would say
Uncle Tupelo is the Midwest equiva-
lent to The Dave Matthews Band.

As a westemer, I wanted to try to
expand the.musical experience of all
you easterners who haven’t been West
of the Mississippi.

Ute St. Louis-based band’s 1993
release, Anodyne, has a western flair
applied to an Allgood/ Soulhat sound.
What I mean by western is there is a
steel guitar in almost every song, and
an occasional ﬁddle (not violin, it’s in
the liner notes as “ﬁddle”). This com-
bingtion is very appealing and I think
would be dynamite live.

Their music is by no means country
and isn’t completely western, but just
has a hint in every song. The title-cut,

P.C. U. ﬂops as an attempted Animal House for thenineties

“Tunneling” is described by some as something you
« ust do before you graduate, while others have no clue it
oes on, and those who do, advise you to stay out of the

Underneath Washington and Lee are a series of walk-
v hough tunnels carrying heating and cooling pipes to various

According to James Arthur, the Superintendent of Build-
'ngs and Grounds, “we have walk—through tunnels that go
ronﬁhe Heating Plant to the Law School and up to the main
ampus.” Arthur said people are discouraged from going
inside the tunnels, mainly because of safety reasons. He

some low voltage wires that coordinate the bell system, but

admitted to entering the tunnels, almost every fraternity and

sorority has their letters on the walls somewhere. According

posters.

to some rumors, the Cadaver Society also meets in the
tunnels before heading out to cover the campus with their

The conditions in the tunnels, are, as one student who did

of the time.”
ugh these tunnels

not wish to be identiﬁed said, “really hot and cramped most

Other students said the same and for the most part they

had to stoop as they traveled through them.

pipes, along with the roaches are.”

t 2

The tunnels beneath Washington and Lee are filled with evidence that people have been
hanging out in them. In addition to the chair that was cart
the numerous beer cans littering the ﬂoor. . .. .

pelo

lltc Midwest equivalent of The Dave /‘taltncws Band

“Anodyne,” (if
you’ve forgot-
ten), is a slow,
winding song
much like
“Freebird” or
“Stairway to
Heaven,” with-
out the famous
band.

A n o t h e r
slow western
track, “High
Water,” la-
ments “not being able to break even
with the game” and has a melancholy
melody that sounds like a complicated
campﬁre song. The next song, “No
Sense In Loving,” has a similarly
lamenting western sound and these
tracks dominate the sound of the end of
the album.

The beginning of the album sounds
more like main-stream rock or songs
that could be put on MTV. The ﬁrst
two songs, two of the best on the al-
bum, start the album off gradually.
“Slate,” the first song, has a slower feel
and a prominent lonely fiddle sound
which moves nicely into the next song,
“Acuff—Rose.” It picks up the pace,
saying, “Everything cuts against the
tide when you’re by my side.” “The
Long Cut” sounds like a western Pearl
Jam song that is actually good. The
song advises the listener to take the

One male senior said there is “proper [tunneling] attire,”

‘‘I wouldn’t recommend it to anyone above 6’4”,” said
one male freshman. '

As far as animal life is concerned, several people said
they didn’t even see any bugs, but others said “after a certain
part, the tunnels get smaller and more moist. That’s where

   

File Photo

    
 

ed down to the tunnels, note

' I uricte TUPELO -AANODYNE V

 

long cut because “we’ll get there even-
tually,” and get out of the rut they ’re in.

The next three songs, “Give Back
the Key to My Heart,” “Chickamauga”
and “New Madrid,” work well together
as good music to kick back to.
“Chickamauga” is my favorite song off
of the album with “New Madrid” run-
ning a close second; they both have a
strong beat and the titles themselves
are very mid-western. (New Madrid is
a town in Missouri besides being the
fault line running through the south-
west corner of Missouri; and
Cickamauga could be either). The best
part about “New Madrid,” is its promi-
nent use of the banjo.

All in all it’s a good album and I
would recommend it to anyone. If you
want a scale, I say it’s a seven out of 10
(I think I’d rate Remember Two Things
a seven and a half).

meaning you are “lightly
dressed because it’s pretty
hot.”

According to one
freshman female, the
most surprising things
were “we didn’t get
caught and there’s really
nothing down there.”

She estimated the
temperature to be close to
100 degrees. This ham-
pered her enjoyment of
tunneling.

Dean of Students
David Howison had no
idea that tunneling even
occurred. Associate Dean
of Students Buddy Atkins
said he “didn’t know
people did [tunneling].”

Mike Young, Director
of Washington and Lee
Security stressed the dan-
gers of tunneling.

“There are really hot
steam lines and if you put
your hand on one, or back
up into one, or hit you
head, you can get a seri-
ous burn,” said Young.

He also said, ‘‘It is
prohibited and you could
be arrested.

Anyone one we catch,
we will send before the
Student Conduct Commit-
tee.”

BothYoungandArthur
stressed that the tunnels
are dark and ﬁlled with
potential dangers like the
hot pipes and drop-offs
that could result in a seri-

ous injury, especially since students are unfamiliar with the

layout of the tunnels.

Arthur said Buildings and Grounds attempts to keep
people out of the tunnels by locking as many‘ gates and

entrances as possible.

However, some entrances can not be locked because they
might potentially trap workers in the tunnels, creating an

emergency situation.

Wen; zfe

Tunnels oﬂer adventure and danger

File Photo

Washington and Lee's Greek system is evident in tunnel artwork.
Said one freshman female, "Basically every fraternity on campus is
equally represented by the amount of grafitti in the tunnels." So-
rorities are represented too, although they have some catching up to
do to match the huge selection of fraternity "artwork."

He also said that B&G personnel have caught people in

the tunnels and witnessed them entering or exiting the them.

When that happens, they notify W&L Security. As far
as accidents, there haven’t been any recently, “but it is a

concern,” said Arthur. .

[Editor’s note: The Ring-tum Phi does not encourage
anyone to enter the tunnels due to the tremendous safety

risks and potential for criminal and SC C prosecution. ]

Holocaustdeniersrefuted

By MICHAEL Hrzwu-:rr
Phi Staff Writer

With the popularity of Schindler’s
List, there is a greater interest in the
Nazi Holocaust. Hitler’s horrifying
and systematic extermination of Jews
has been well documented.

Yet, in Deborah Lipstandt’s new
book, Denying the Holocaust: The
Growing/Assault on Truth and Memory,
there is a movement to deny the Holo-
caust ever happened. To some people,
the idea that anyone would deny an
historical fact seems ridiculous, but as
Lipstandt said, a fringe group of ex-
tremists are beginning to move into the
mainstream, calling for open debate
about the Holocaust on various college
campuses. She notes the disturbing
trend of Holocaust deniers to send ads
to college newspapers, urging them to
print them in the name of free speech.
Lipstandt offers a fascinating look into
the thought and methodology of the
Holocaust deniers.

Holocaust denial has its roots in the
attempt by revisionist American histo-
rians who were disturbed by American
involvement in World War II. They
argued that the Allies brutal behavior
toward the Germans far surpassed the
systematically cruel treatment of the
Jews. '

Lipstandt argues Holocaust deniers
used these arguments to support their
theories. At ﬁrst, deniers trivialized
the Holocaust by comparing it to the
actions of Stalin and other massacres
throughout history. When this failed,
the deniers reverted to denying the

\ Deborah Lipstadt
Destyingtite i”lGlC9€3:i.lS

l»‘.l'V

 

Holocaust as a whole. Central to their
theories is the argument that the gas
chambers were not used for extermina-
tion. Lipstandt meticulously challenges
this and other twisted theories about
the Holocaust. However, her refuta-
tion of the deniers’ assertions some-
times borders on tedium. Much more
interesting was her discussion of the
denier’s entry in to mainstream soci-
ety. The Institute of Historical Review
has been the primary headquarters of
deniers in America. They publish a
magazine, The Journal of Historical
Review, which is deceptively designed
as a scholarly publication. Lipstandt
argues this publication and organiza-
tion are so slick that they fool even the
brightest people. She tells the story of
a senior history major at Yale who

mistakenly sent his thesis to TheJ our-
nal of Historical Review, thinking it
was legitimate publication.

Furthermore, Lipstandt is shocked
by the incredible gullibility of college
students and administrators. The idea
that students may come away thinking
there is an “other side” is “the most
frightening aspect of this entire mat-
ter.”

Bradley Smith, an avid Holocaust
denier, has sent ads entitled ‘The Ho-
locaust Story: How Much is False?
The Case for Open Debate.” Some
college newspapers have printed them,
oftentimes in the name of First Amend-
ment rights.

Lipstandt rejects this argument be-
cause there can not be “open debate”
on an historical fact: the Holocaust
happened. The controversial notion of
“political correctness” has been used
as a weapon by the deniers, something
that makes Lipstandt pessimistic. She
makes a provocative argument against
the deniers being protected by the First
Amendment, especially their activities
on college campuses.

Ultimately, Lipstandt makes a pow-
erful argument about the danger these
deniers present to the truth of the Nazi
Holocaust. She presents a thorough
examination of these Holocaust de-
niers and shows how ridiculous their
arguments are. Some parts of the books,
especially her challenges to the de-
niers’ assertions, are dry. The book is
hard to wade through at some points.
However, the message of the book is an
important one. We must not let these
deniers continue to assault the histori-
cal fact of the Holocaust.

By KIRK SUsoNG

Phi Movie Reviewer

 

P. C. U. — mick

We all fondly remember Animal House’s
grand old Faber College, that gloriously stereo-
typical institution from a mythologized 1960’s
IvﬂLeague.

Wouldn’t it be great if some enterprising
film makers decided to update that story, and in
the same wry and overstated humor depict the
Ivy League in the nineties?

The makers of P. C. U. hoped to do exactly
that; unfortunately, their movie is more in the
trﬁlition of Up the River than Animal House.

Port Chester University is certainly the mod-
em Ivy League college. The special interest
groups have run amok and have destroyed any
sense of community (or fun) among the stu-
dents.

Most students are part of some special inter-

.0

est: “womynists,” gay—rights campaigners, black
activists, academic nerds, etc. One group of
students whatever isssue is most pressing in the
news for a week, and the next week moves on
to another of the world’s problems.

A young high-school senior (played by Tim
Lawrence) is visiting the campus for a week-
end, to decide if Port Chester is the school for
him. Hls host is Droz (Jeremy Piven), who
lives in an old frat house caled “The Pit” (frater-
nities were thrown off campus in the sixties).

In the'Pit reside the last of the true college
students, those reckless sex—drugs-rock n’ roll
types that make the college years so wonderful
(and largely blacked out).

Unfortunately, at Port Chester fun is basi-
cally no longer allowed, and the entire campus
hates the inhabitants of the Pit. These fun-
loving kids often disrupt campus rallies with
clever pranks; for example, they toss the
cafeteria’s meat supply at protesting vegetar-
tans.

As a result, the president of the university is
coming down on them hard, and unless they
raise seven thousand dollars they will be thrown

out of the beloved Pit. So, they decide to throw
a glorious all-campus party to raise the money,
save “The Pit” and incense the president; even
if they don’t raise the money they will go out in
a ball of Flaming Dr. Pepper’s.

Sadly, the movie falls on its face when it
comes to the characters. the are all ﬂat and
uninteresting. Sure, Bluto was a stereotype, but
John Belushi gave him some personality, a few
habits and traits (the shifty eyebrows) which
made him distinct. We don’t laugh with this
movie’s “big, dumb guy,” nor do we cry with
him. “Gutter” (Jon Favreau) is just big and
dumb, and nothing else. We just wonder why
we should care.

It is precisely this sort of apathy which all the
characters in the ﬁlm inspire. Maybe if the
characters won’t rescue the ﬁlm, the fast-paced
and innovative directing will. But, no, that
doesn’t happen either.

The directing is brisk, but the shot selection
is mundane and unmentionable. And you will
be very happy that the ﬁlm moves so quickly
because you can’t wait to leave the theater. (At
any rate, the directing goes so briskly because

there is so little ﬁlm to direct: it’s less than
ninety minutes long.)

And, surprise, surprise, there is no salvation
for the ﬁlm in the plot. At first the trouble of an
annoying administration breathing down the
nexts of the fun-lovers seems scarily familiar
(Fraternity Renaissance, anyone?)

But exactly what we expect to happen does
happen. The pre-frosh ﬁnds love and alcohol,
the crew get to keep the Pit and the Balkanized
campus reunites in a sort of youth-of-the-world-
unite brotherhood, which is so very touching.
Really.

Basically, the creators of this film had a
good idea, to resurrect Animal House in the
nineties.

Unfortunately, the plot is predicatable, the
characters are ﬂatter than fraternity beer and
the jokes normally adolescent. '

You might see the Mudhoney single from
the soundtrack on MTV and be inspired to go
see this film. Resist that temptation. If you
really want to catch the ﬁlm’s few funny lines
or David Spade’s humorous evil preppie char-
acter, do so on HBO, where it’s free.

The Rating Scale

ﬁﬁﬁﬁﬁ — Go buy this as soon as it comes
out on video. It is an instant classic. “You'll
laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe,just maybe, you’ll
learn something about yourself."

ﬁﬁﬁrﬁ — Go see this film now, while it's
still on the bigscreen. It’s worth a few Oscars and
the seven bucks you'll pay if you see it outside
Lexington. Overall, “Better than Cats!”

ﬁﬁﬁ — Okay, so there have been better
ﬁlms. Nevertheless, it is a good example of its
genre, and you should probably see it on video-
tape, especially if you are a fan of the actors or
director. Still, probably “Better than Cats!”

ikﬁ — It happens to be on HBO, and you’re
blowing off tomorrow’s reading. Although your
time would probably be better sewed on your
education, it's free and you're bored, so go ahead
and watch it.

15' —- Even if it's free and your best friend said
he never laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks.
Don'twaste yourtime, or at least don't waste it on

this. (There's always MTV.)

I
-_..,-,-,,.,,_..,,_,——-,-._-...--,,,_,_..-.r--- ._. -.._.«._--_ - .. .-...«.-.-....-..._-..-....—.-. - ------------- --- -- ---..-- - - --------.--- ..

'-‘-'~'»'~--*-‘A--'--~'<' ' - '-"-'-*"--- v- - -----v — - - -w-.-.. ..:.~-.--—................._................................_................_......................__................................._....... I

 

  
    
   
 
      

W The Rinﬂum Phi, May 13,199

0“  mark by Mark Parisi Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers

    

PAGE 4

REMEMBERJHE LAST EMPLOYEE
T0 QUESTION My AUTHORITY FOUND
HlMSELF TRANSFERRED 72>
PRODUCT TESTING...

ACE
LAXATIVES

L.

  
 

Dave by David Miller

 L 1::

FEAR OF COMMITMENT
§TRIK‘E§ AGAIN ./

 
    
    
  
    
  
 
 

Fora HEAVEN97 6Ai<e, DAVE.’
WlLL You PLEA§E «sir DOWN.’ n"5
ONLY A HALF-Houﬁ ‘.>l—low/

 

  

in A I  lI‘\
 

.54 4 .. ---La". ..—‘

_ Among lfriends, a plugger sometimes
””‘”‘“"' plays his ball where he lies.

 

         
     
  
  

  
    
  
  
  

Colonnade Crossword ’ ‘
ACROSS 10 1 2 
9  '=~ V
4 Stand up to '- -"
5 Soul 1'

6 Flying prefix

.7 Like some
cheese

'8 Lukewarm

°l= lt~lDivlDul>_.LlT‘{ 

T
l

 

at

_ Ci ric or lac ic 16  O ,
§z3;’::;....' , NON i1:l”"Ull ‘$:BK<§l<CliJAEllR4lc:??t\:rClEéKPl;ll:I1t2\l£r

‘9 First murderer
20 Upshots

22 Kitchen item
24 Coquettish

25 A few

26 Ties

29 Favorite

31 On guard

35 One —— time
36 Long period
37 Halo

38 Film star of old
42 Places of

sacnﬁce

43 Slip up

44 Business VIP
45 Take care

46 Fruit drink @1994 run Medi ervices. inc

. o‘
BY A A U L‘ H’
. b
mi i- _ 5.1‘
n' \ ‘I
t-nut - i_ ‘ .
—: A l
:1 1 'I'
hung

N<:)f\O8‘.7 9B£'_L|2iM 199$ t¥3L¢)NllH~JM

   
  
  
  
     

  
 

YIKESNOW IM STARTINGYD
MUTATE I M‘? CELLS ARE
$PLlT‘l’lNC7 IN Two!

i'M eowa TO HAVE
HIM lN rHeRAP<.l

FOR YEARS ,’

        
  

47 Highwaymen A" “'9” 9”" Last week’s puzzle solved 1 9
James ‘ V
49 Blissful 8 Surrounded by » ‘V’
place 9 A medium
51 Disallow 10 Unmarried man

    

52 Concealment 11 Shakespearean

  
         
    
 
   
   
   
 

 
 
 
   

    

     
   
  
   
  
  
    
 
 

 

55 lvy League King a.
school 12 Opera solo
59 Mental concept 13 — Kong £  (i. 
60 Flame 21 — Angeles 1-1,...‘ L T __
62 Medley 23 Blue pigment R
63 Cultivate 26 Fernando or
64 Like an old Lorenzo Y _
woman 27 “— of Two , ‘ A
55 E*°"“"“"‘°” °’ °‘“‘*5" ‘I-I §é’8é?aW‘i‘d ﬁcivlé‘ vou MEAN \\\ YOU MAY HAVE BEEN
pain 28 Menu ROT R U \ iT'5 TORN? BORN WITHOUT ONE.
66 These can be 29 Edgar Allan — ATO CUFF’-' V
electric 30 Finished up
67 swarms 32 Clapton and
*68 Oracle " ' ~ -7 others‘- -
‘-2: ' v. -‘ -‘= ~.-"==.=w'r--.isiarr.~:w33:M&8hl&S2='5l1-3="n*rm‘»s.::¢t-ivusz   2»  ' ~‘..=;: er :— »-.-:.»~ —""-"€'.°lli
DOWN way . 46 Nobody in 53 Si r Adams
1 At a distance 34 Western lake particular 54 Cu ' le
2 Canary‘s place 36 Nav. oil. 47 Shake 55 Tiller
3 Chills 37 Berliner: abbr. 48 Di lom 56 '‘It‘s a sin to
4 Emulate Holmes 39 Some football 50 ‘liance tell —“
5 Hamburger. e.g. passes 51 Reveals 57 Mellow
6 individuals 40 Wear raduall 52 Buildin 58 Achiever
7 Edge 41 Wrathg y locatiog 61 Contend   g
‘j 

 
    
  
   
 
      
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
         
      

Varner & Pole

Specializing in Unfurnished
Furniture & Shades . 0
19 S. Randolph St

Lexington, VA 463-2742
New Location!

 . .,h
Lexington , IE

  

$ -
130 Any Show

‘ c F
E   k —- Now Showing—

  
  

RQ3l'(lUTCml' Thumbellna

   
     
  
  

    

SD?!’ giir? :4'3'&Fei34t§dg?n. El

2172 Sycamore Ave. Pcu Shop for :5

Buena Vista, Va. (703) 261-1886 Dai g=g~3g-gt-45R§tgd45PG13 .E

0 7D 1.  Pavvagallo -a

L h T {aft M ‘W: .a1‘1""’“e 3 Sat Darfgoo 3.9.5353. Ladies’ shoes Ig

unc a e- u on. — r1. a.m. - .m., .&Sun. 3: , : : pm. 1 y ’ I ,

Sat. & Sun. 12 — 3 p.m. P my .=.u.2°,5T°°..&.9 0'3...” your  hats; Clothing, and ..

' Dinner Take-Out Sun. - Thurs. 3 - 9:30 p.m., Day 7:00 spm. _Rated PG 1 A - -E
Fri. & Sat. 3 _  p_m. g at. 8: un. 7.00 p.m.  &    0‘

J ' Zh K J , P ' - "

am ong uatlg 0e —rf£)r1etor_ ‘ Q75 Begc6h1AvZ.,2B9uEna Vista J aizit g£a”2 E ii:  ) 

‘J? L.‘ I  0%

115 W. Nelson St. . _
Hours: 10 - 5:30 °
Mon. - Sat. °*°
23 N. Main St. - g
463-5988

      

Stoelnvl/all Square shagging Center I
. ‘$229522: End of School

New Movies -

Three Musketeers 81 A S I

Addams Family Values

E» 207 _ ,
r- New hlylusic for this Week 0 Off St0reW1d€ Wlth

Pretetggisc-ﬁr’-listﬁygrneuii eggiigants Student or Faculty 1. D. until

Sonic Youth - Experimental

T&2V.i’ﬂi'z‘ﬁ‘at;T°§a§°ﬁ€.I‘" . June 4. All Colleges Welcome.

Black Girl -’Trea.t U  t
Danny D &al:¢‘I1  81 Bass   
T ......... . TGIF Catalog Outlet  . 4 '
L   1  ‘ﬂﬁha A .9 - 1    
Open. Mon.-Thurs. 1()s:.:\-Iggopﬁria Fri & Sat. 10am.-ll p.m., . 17  Street . 
g "11 . . Jr‘ HOUFS2 M011. - Sat.  a£An:ocnossvo|.u31'SE:t
o

   

 
 
  

  
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
  

0
The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

RA? s?t~:Aks

. By JACK THORN

Special to the Phi

Four guys lounging in a dimly lit apartment. The breeze
from the slightly open window intensiﬁes the nostalgia.
Eric B and Rakim’sAin’t NoJ0kejust ﬁnished playing on
the Carousel, and the students start head-bobbing to KRS
ONE’s Boom Bap cd. Having guys from different parts of
the country brings on an interesting feud about the real
origins of rap.

Was it the Sugarhill Gang or Afrika Bambaata that really
instigated the rise of rap? It was agreed that Afrika deﬁ-
nitely deserves more props for his bombshell of a cut. After

him, many rappers dropped similar styles but none are as
remembered as Afrika. He alone with artists like Kool
Herc, Grandmaster Flash and Steady B gave the world a
music that still makes you want to jam. The music will
never be the same, but all true rap fans will agree that the old
school is untouchable. I mean, new rappers like Nas,
Shyheim, Snoop Doggy Dog

andOJeru Damaja are the

bomb. But they only have to

prove that they have skills.

Old school rappers had to

bring rap on the map. Now

I that it is here, it’s probably

‘agreed that it will be a while

befsre it falls off.

People who came on the
scene after the originals
started a trend that continues
3to be bested. Run-DMC was
on top for years, then L. L.
Cool J emerged as the new
ph om. Almost everyone
A loved “My Radio” and “Rock
the Bells.” Kool Moe Dee
challenged L.L.’s manhood.
Thus starting the serious rap
feuds. L.L. and K001 Dee,
L.L. and Ice T, as well as
‘UT 0 and Roxanne Shante
were a part of this rap style of
: dissing. For years, the dissing
2 rap rule: however, it wouldn’t
stay on top forever. Gangsta’
rap blew up with groups like
Ice T, Too Short, Above the
La? and NWA. NWA later
cos older America to cringe
in their rocking chairs and
steered millions of youth to
record’ stores. Their contro-
versial lyrics frightened the
FBI because they glamorized
thegives that African-Ameri-

Eliiiiil llilii. "

Hts PRU 1-H

DANCEMLE sou ND is A Music or HESSl\9ES

cans have been unfairly handed. Groups like Public Enemy
and Boogie Down Productions blatantly told white Ameri-
cans that if justice wasn’t distributed in'the black communi-
ties that they would not be able to contain all the anger. Their
predictions came to reality when blacks protested openly the
Rodney King incident. Ice Cube did likewise and plainly
said that blacks needed to be listened to, because there is
more going on than most Americans could possibly imag-
ine. More danceable music came out and is still played
today. But rap’s transition as a music of messages brings
fear and anger to radios and televisions. Not all rap dis-
cusses the injustices found in black communities, the lack of
money for education and the violence we constantly witness
in our hoods. Many rappers merely perform to raise
everyone’s spirits and get the ladies on the dance ﬂoor, to
shake what their mammas gave them. Rap has gone a long
way and continues to honor and give praise to its forefathers.
The praise is heard by dope samplings and revisions of
songs. We, four guys chillin (now listening to Dr. Dre’s The
Chronic CD), agree the way rap has pleased those who truly
love it is “all good.”

i ON THE
SHOULDERS

OF GIANTS

W&LlF E

 

PAGE 5

    

mat? S Happenin

 

9‘ ‘ “Angel at My Table” -Alumni Reunion Dance -Roger Day
4 Film Society Warner Center 9 p.m. Gaines Quad, 5p.m.
Q Troubadour 8 p.m. -The Wailers . cows in Trouble
E - Souther Comfort, w/ Black Creek Alleghany Cafe, Radford
Jubillee, Sazeracs Pavilion 8:30 p.m. -Bananas at Large
Q‘ Alumni Concert - Skunks Reggae Rumors , Lynchburg
Lee Chapel 8 p.m. Ward’s Rock Cafe, Roanoke '
-Alumni Luncheon °Blue Miracle . ‘
< Front Lawn, 12:30 p.m. Pi Kappa Phi fraternity Blzggzigzliy & the
- Lost in the Supermarket -Awareness Arts Ensemble ph' K P - -
K Al h fr t r '2: C TRAX "appa s‘f'““"""’
appa p a a e ni y oncert, .White Buffalo
-My Uncle’s Old Army - Southern Exposure Si ma Ch,-
E=‘ Buddies Harb’s Bistro . If “V
i Labd Ch'Al ' . - .°‘““"“. a‘:‘
m m a 1 pk“ fmternlty Exit 37 Sigma Phi Epsilon
Beta Theta  fraternity fraternity
: . High voltage -Midmght Movers .A1ma Madre
E Scooch’s, Roanoke Kglfpaksgmafatemiﬂ Sigma Alpha Epsilon
- ac ree -
C/J Phi Delta Theta fraternity fmtemlty
;,.. . “N - Grandeurs
§ wo,,‘.’Z,f‘»s"§.Yf;:°,$I%I',.~e Pgﬂﬁggmslm fraternity
O Troubadour, 8:30 p.m. - lg ea .
2 Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity
2 -Applied Music Recital - Seniors’ Reception .A1ma Madre
ré Lenfest Center, 3 p.m. Lee House, 5:30 p.m. Concert, TRAX
le-
E - Seniors’ Reception 0 DJ John Rogers °Jenny Jennings
8 L‘ee House, 5:§0 p.m. Sigma Nu fraternity Alleghany Cafe, Radford
E - ‘The Marriage of -Radar Rose - The Wednesday Morning
Q Figaro” Ward’s Rock Cafe, Roanoke Party
in Open Rehearsal - WLUR Radio, 6:30-9 a.m.
g Lenfest Center, 8 p.m.
E33.*;*:.““*&  '“=°si=-W
ations g ny Club, Radford Fox, 8 p.m.
"3 Concert, TRAX - .
% ‘Flying Mice Iroquois Club, Roanoke
:3 Harb’s Bistro “What's Happening”
in , is compiled by Brian McClung
3*" .
3 -Vince Drumheller - Chris Saunders -Back in Black
2 Baja Bean Co., C-ville Alleghany Cafe, Radford Tibute to AC/DC
Q‘ 'Bustop -Agents of Good Roots Scooch’s, Roanoke
Ward’s Rock Cafe Iroquois Club, Roanoke

$102 million raised

from contributions by 13,827 alumni, parents, friends,
faculty, stafﬁ corporate, and foundation donors.

$25 million to go

to reachour goal of $127 million by July 1, 1995.

We need your support.

THE CAMPAIGN FOR
l/1/ashington and Lee

 

    

PAGE 6

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

EC digs its own grave

The Washington and Lee Executive Committee recently
appropriated almost $1400 for a worthy cause.

We know you are surprised. The EC? Actually giving money
to some needy organization this late in the game? After organi-
zations which traditionally received thousands of dollars from
the EC have had their budgets slashed?

Yes, yes and yes. Which lucky organization received the
money? You ask. Was it the needy and deserving Calyx? The
Student Bar Association, in the right place at the right time
because many EC members are graduating law students and
decided to throw some money at their good buddies in the law
school for one final party? Or maybe, dare we ask, T heRing-tum
Phi?

No, no, and no. The lucky recipient of those 1400 smackers
was, surprise, surprise, the Executive Committee itself.

You see, Bob Tompkins and the rest of the good ol’ boys at
the EC got together with the White Book Review Committee
and the newly elected EC members and had themselves a little
old-fashioned Southern get-together at the Willson-Walker
House.

You know, dinner, wine and cocktails for a party of 30.

We at the Phi do not want to cast any stones. We cannot tell
a lie; we are partial to throwing parties ourselves, and have been
known to spend our money foolishly on pretzels and alcohol.

The difference here is that it is our money. Out of our own
pockets. The EC, we must admit, is also spending money out of
our pockets.

Whoops, there is the catch. The EC is wining and dining on
money out of our own pockets? Those student activities fees,
which we are more than willing to dish out so that we can have
a yearbook and FD and Mock Convention and a raquetball club,
are not designed for the EC to support its social agenda.

We agree with the SBA: a simple catered dinner by W&L
catering, a little party at Spanky’s, or a few kegs at Bob’s place
would not have;,been out of line. We might have even tried to
wangle an invite.

But $1390 is simply ridiculous. It is a blatant waste of the
student body’s money (that’s right, Bob, it belongs to the
STUDENT BODY. You are only the humble caretaker of that
money) and an abhorrent slap in the faces of all those who had
budgets cut or denied last fall.

If the EC members had any class, they would offer to pay for
the meal themselves. It is the only decent apology.

Quote of the Week...

“All I’m going to be doing this weekend is gripping and
grinning.”
———Professor Brian Richardson, discussing
his duties as chairman of the Alumni-F aculty
Relations Committee. He went on to explain,
however, that he was referring to handshakes.

Ellie Ring-tttm lﬁlri

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Erin Leonard

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ethan Krupp

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Copy Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Erin Gnidziejko

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Michael Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi
is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬂce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia

24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

. OPINION

The Rin -tum Phi, May 13, 1994

     
 

Our spritual past defines our politics

“There are no angels in America, no
spiritual past, no racial past, there’s
only the political and the decoys and

people link spirituality to; but, in a
much broader sense of ideas. I think the
spiritual past/present can be captured

  
   
 

theploystoma- by the word/
neuver around idea of free-
the inescapable dom. lt’s that
battle of poli- idea that has
tics the shifting NOVA brought so
downwards many here
and outwards CLARKE, from colonial
of political times to the
power.” present and it

The preced- is almost syn-
ing is from part onymouswith
one of Angels the U.S. Free-

in/tmerica. For those of you who have
not heard of the play, it is a Pulitizer
winning drama about AIDS in America
by Tony Kushner. When I read the
play, the above stuck with me as ex-
pressing a lot about America.

It is true there is no racial past in
America. All of us are immigrants,
some of us more recent then others. I
am only a third generation America,
my great-grandparents immigrated here
prior to World War I.

The lack of a racial past tied to
America is evident in our searching for
familial links that join us to the Old
World. Except for the Native Ameri-
cans, the branches of the tree crossed
the Atlantic within the last five hun-
dred years.

However, I do believe we have a
spiritual past. Not in the sense of orga-
nized religion, which is what most

Foreign policy daunting, yet critical

World events unfold at a confusing pace ——- civil
warin Bosnia, genocide in Rwanda, political repres-

sion in Haiti, democracy in
South Africa — so it is no

dom is hardly recognized as spiritual
now, when we hear the word freedom,
it is most often joined with politics.

Freedom is at the heart of our politi-
cal struggles —— gun control (The free-
dom to bear arms vs. the freedom of
feeling safe from these guns); abortion
(the freedom of the woman to choose
vs. the freedom of the fetus to live); the
environment (the freedom to use the
land as we please vs. preserving the
land so that all people have the chance
to freely use and appreciate it); etc. All
these questions are passionately de-
bated with both sides claiming to rep-
resent the interests of freedom.

Here at Washington and Lee the
spiritual ideal of freedom is being used
in debate. For example, the smoking
policy. By banning smoking in most
areas, are we invading the freedom of
smokers or protecting the freedom to

wonder that questions about
the appropriate role for the
United States in world affairs
are at the top of our national
agenda.

Recent criticism of the
Clinton administration’s for-
eign policy only underscores
the importance Americans
place on a consistent, bold, and

intelligent approach to foreign policy on the part of
the President. So, at the risk of rehashing a much-
discussed but little-understood issue, let us ask again:
just what is the goal of American foreign policy?

What ideals animate it?

One popular answer to this question has always
been that America is the arsenal of democracy, as it
were. It is undeniably part of the American creed to
think of democracy, free elections, etc., as elements
of an objectively superior system of government, and
to want to share the blessings of this system with
anyone we can get our hands on. And often, of
course, U.S. policy is a fair reﬂection of this demo-
cratic philosophy: U.S. pressure helped to unseat
South Africa’s minority government, for example,
and as we speak American officials are contemplat-
ing an invasion of Haiti to restore that country’s
democratically-elected leader, Father Aristide, to

power.

But is this really a complete picture of U.S.
policy? We know, for instance, that our country has
supported numerous authoritarian regimes in the

  
   

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

think, ultimately im-
practical and even de-
structive. Democracy
versus elite control is
only one paradigm
through which intema-
tional affairs can be
viewed, and it is not by
any means the only
valid one.

During the Cold
War, it was often de-
cided that democracy
would have to take a
back seat to anti—com-
munism. That was a

post-war period: Pinochet in Chile, Thieu in South
Vietnam, Batista in Cuba, and more recently the

the single goal of elective government?

I want to suggest that they are not; seeing Ameri-
can policy exclusively through the crucible of our
love for democracy is touchingly idealistic, but, I

value-judgment, a judgment of which force —
authoritarianism or communism — presented a

LETTERS

breathe clean air for the non-smokers.
The recent announcement that an ac-
tivities director is being hired seemed
to raise some fears about infringement
on our freedom, will our social lives
now be planned?

What I really wanted to talk about in
regard to the spiritual at Washington
and Lee is honor. From its founding,
there has been an almost inbred desire
to be considered honorable. Even as
we broke treaties and enslaved people,
we tried to keep up the appearance
of honor.

When I was a Summer Scholar,
there was an incident after which the
counselor talked to us about their feel-
ings about the Honor Code. That’s
what made me

realizetheimpor- m e m b e r
tance of the ‘T  Hayduhe.
Honor Code. . Hayduke is the

In the back of In the back of my mind most radical ofthe
my mind there A - group, wishing to
was a question there was quesaon about preventintrusions
about how much how much of the Honor upon the land by
of the Honor Code stays with a person anymeansandun-

Code stays with a
p e rson
graduation.
The recent re-
fusal of John

after

Warner, an alumnus, to support Oliver A

North makes me think some of it does
stay. Perhaps he remembered the Honor
Code’s refusal to accept any lying,
cheating, or stealing. The alumni who

Emir of Kuwait. Most of
this support for
authoritarianism natu-
rally took place during
the Cold War, when prag-
matism, we could say,
forced us to undertake
policies unindicative of
our deepest values. But
even with this proviso,
are U.S. intentions sufﬁ-
ciently accounted for by

Our relations with foreign gov-
ernments reﬂect our uncertainty
about what we asAmericans feel
is ultimately important: is it the

popular will?

after graduation.

greater lasting threat to the forces of “good,” conve-
niently led by ourselves. General Pinochet made a
choice for his people that communism, though in
some measure approved democratically by the Chil-
ean people, was not tolerable by some higher stan- ‘
dard; the United States concurred. The decisio of '
policy-makers are, we might conclude, more ifﬁ-
cult than would be implied in the process of applying

a single rule or principle.

Our relations with foreign governments reﬂect
our uncertainty about what we as Americans feel is
ultimately important: is it the popular will? Is it some
universal concept of “human rights” or “justice? Is
it self-deterrnination?

All of these are excellent paradigms in their own
right, but the sad truth is that they often conﬂict on a
practical level. How do we emerge, then, from this
conceptual puzzle? The sheer complexity of it all

u———-

are here this weekend are probably
able to answer this question far better
then I can.

As for the ﬁnal premise of the quote,
that power is moving outward to the
people; I think in many ways it is
Congress has begun to outlaw mahy o ‘
its former perks and many incumbents
are now ﬂeeing Washington. In other
ways it hasn’t moved outward. People
do not truly realize that they have the
power to make or break a politician.
That is why the spiritual ideas of free-
dom and politics need to be truly jcmred.

Recently, I finished reading

The Monkeywrench Gang by

Edward Abbey.
For those of you who have read it,
I’m sure you re-

willing to. be
caught or cap-
tured. He i s ato-
‘ tally free spirit.

I am not sug

gesting that we all become anarchists;

but, I would like to believe that there i
a little bit of Hayduke in all of us 3- an
unwillingness to give up our freedom
or sacrifice the spiritual.

leads us, perhaps, to fa-
vor an ad hoc approitch
_ to foreign policy — one
guessing aboutAmerican
ideals. But this ultimately
does not work; people
without clear principles
are never taken seriously,
and rightly so.

The challenge of dis-
tilling simplistic value
statements into a nuanced
conception of American
purpose is daunting, but
it is only by facing it that

America can lead effectively in international afftﬂrs
— or, for that matter, in anything else.

EC dinner smacks of hypocrisy after budget problems

To the editor:

As the academic year comes to a
close, campus organizations are
celebrating a year’s worth of
work, none more so than the
Executive Committee.

Recently, the Executive Committee
treated itself, its newly elected mem-
bers and the White Book Review Com-
mittee to a night at the Wilson Walker
House. The bill, which included food,
wine and cocktails, came to over$1300.
That money came from our student
fees. Now most of us would probably

' agree the E.C. would be justified in a

moderate end of the year celebration at
the Palm’s or Spanky’s, but $1300 at
the Wilson Walker House? and includ-
ing newly elected members who have

yet to do any work?

Last fall when E.C. budget alloca-
tions were taking place, Jimmy Kull
told the Student Bar Association that
money was tight and paying down the
debt on the Pavilion was a priority, not
to mention the need to begin saving for
Mock Convention. As a result, after
combing every expenditure in the SBA
budget, especially each keg of beer, the
SBA budget was slashed by $6,000. I
watched other organizations petition
the E.C. and subsequently be turned
down because the E.C. refused to sup-
port clubs they deemed “partisan.” In-
stead, the E.C. is willing to take that
money, that could have funded three
small SBA organizations, and spend it
on their own lavish dinners.

All of us beneﬁt from the Honor
System here at Washington and Lee.
We are fortunate to have a community
based on trust.

To date, we have entrusted the E.C.
to be fair with the allocation of money
to organizations on campus. Perhaps it
is time the same standard be applied to
all organizations on campus, including
the E.C. Perhaps the student body
should consider separating the judicial
body from the legislative body to pro-
vide some check and balance. Or per-
haps the E.C. should have as much
interest in its own coffers as a means
for trimming spending as it seems to
have when considering other organiza-
tions’ budgets. The E.C. should be
the standard for all organizations

on campus.

I have enjoyed my three years as a
law student at Washington and Lee and
much of that pleasure has been a result
of the spirit of trust the honor syst m
crates across this campus. The E. . is
entrusted with a great deal of power
and privilege at W&Land if that power
is abused the E.C. has the potential to
be a dictatorial and elitist “club.”

I certainly hope the E.C. can remain
an organization devoted to serving the
student body and maintaining the same
standards it imposes on all other groups
and individuals here at Washington
and Lee.

Patricia McNemey
President, Student Bar Association
0

 

  
    
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
   
     
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
   

which keeps people"

  
   
    
    
  
     
   
  
      
    
      
   
    
  
    
   
   
  
    
     
   
   
   
    
    
   
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   

DREAM LAND
. Richard Weaver

Well, here we are, with only two
weeks left in this school year. It’s time
to look back and think about all of the
people, places, and things that have
made our lives here in Lexington a
littlb bit better.

I have decided to commemorate this

year’s people, places, and things by
issuing the First Annual Dream Land
Awards of Achievement. These awards
were NOT decided upon lightly. lt’s
nearly an hour before my deadline that
I haye made them up.
Criteria for a Dream Land Award
(henceforth known as the “Dreammy”)
include 1) Humor Value to Me 2) Po-
tential to Profit Me Personally and 3) If
I Remember It. With those three ideas
in mind, it was still hard to narrow
dow the contestants. Luckily,
I persevered.

The first category is Best Name I
Have Encountered in Rockbridge
County; B. Eli Fishpaw, candidate for
the seat of supervisor of Buffalo Dis-
trict, wins the Dreammy. You may
remember that, unfortunately, F ishpaw
did ot win the election. But it wasn’t
due to poor political advertising —
there were some very snazzy B. Eli
Fishpaw bumper stickers I saw on cars
around town. I am offering $5 to any-
one who will give me one.

The next category is, naturally, Best
Q .

O
The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

Example of Lexington Logic. The
Dreammy goes to the local branch of
the U.S. Post Office for an event that
took place earlier this year. My mother
mailed me some cookies by two-day
express mail. The cookies took six days
to get here. I brought this to the atten-
tion of the employees.

“lt’s not guaranteed,” they said.

To this I re-
plied, “Then why
do you call it
two-day mail?”

I was very
disappointed,
and that adjec-
tive logically
leads me to the
Biggest Disap-
pointment of
the Year cat-
egory. In January
I drove on Route
11 on the way to
Natural Bridge to
visit the En-
chanted Castle
theme park. The
E n c h a n t e d
Castle was first brought to my attention
by former Phi News Editor Michelle
“Sweet Thing” Brien.

Shelly gave me a coupon for a dollar
off the Santa’s Christmas Castle dis-
play at the Enchanted Castle. The cou-
pon was very speciﬁc about who would
be allowed in: “" is here coupon al-
lows the perso' possess it (sic),
$1 off for " .ves and family

   
  

3: VIEW

Justin Peterson

    
  
     
      
    
  
    
  
   
   
  
   
  
     
   
        
    
   
    
     
   
   
   
   
   
    
   
   
    
   
     
   
    
    
  
   
   
   

ﬁce9or the ’90s by Melissa Sawyer).

- getarianism really are. .

the facts about it is just good sense.

stal

nsi

cape repulsion with such practices.

I picked up the May 6 issue of The Ring-tum Phi
- ently and spotted a headline for an article about
- getarianism (Vegetarianism: An untraditional sac-

I prepared myself to read the work of some igno-
mus deriding vegetarians as “politically correct,”
. vironmentally hypersensitive, socially deviant tree

ggers out of touch with reality. I was heartened to
e that the author treated the topic fairly, suggesting
me of the major motivations for and varieties of
gettrianism. I felt compelled to write in order to
= derscore how profound the issues surrounding

Perhaps the greatest fallacy surrounding vegetari-
ism is that its potential appeal is conﬁned to animal
htsextremists, health nuts and environmental ac-
ists. While vegetarianism is especially popular
'th tﬁese decidedly marginalized groups, the ben-
its of it are such that any person with sane levels of
pncem about their health, animal welfare and the
elfare of the environment can recognize its compel-
» g value. In short, vegetarianism for those educated

Few realize the extent and severity of the institu-
naliged torture practiced upon animals at today’s
eat and dairy factories, euphemistically referred to
their management as “farms.” Even those not in
inciple opposed to the organized slaughter of ani-
als for human consumption can be disgusted by the
dustry’s cruel practices and dedicated to halting
em. Pigs at pork factories, like veal calves which
ve déawn so much sympathy, are routinely packed

so small they cannot move. Chickens, ultra-
nsitive to the light rhythms of day and night, go
sane when confined under ultraviolet factory lights
ir entire lives and take to pecking each other to
ath. Cattle in shipment are habitually left without
0 o and water. Subjected to searing temperature, a
to a percentage die painfully of exhaustion. This is
red merely a calculated loss by cattle ship-
rs. The facts go on and are often too painful to
nfront even from a distance. To eat meat is to
pport the mechanized torture of sentient beings.
0 one who has ever owned and loved a pet can

Meat eating not only promotes cruelty to animals,

tes, hypoglycemia, MS,
ulcers, arthritis, gall-
stones, hypertension,
anemia, asthma,
salmonellosis, lung dis-
ease, osteoporosis, and 1
‘ kidney stones. '

If the facts regarding
vegetarianism are so
clear then why are
doctors not widely

urging their patients to
eat vegetarian?

Most doctors are in
the business of address-
ing symptoms of physi-
cal disorder. They
frankly don’t know much
about nutrition or even
health. Thirty years ago

our coronary occlusions.”

dairy products.

 

doctors were recommending that their patients smoke
cigarettes to relieve nervousness! Yet even the con-
servative AMA in a monumental recent study has
concluded that “a vegetarian diet can prevent 97% of

Americans remain ignorant of the facts regarding
meat and dairy consumption because the industry has
mounted a sustained compaign masquerading as a
series of public service announcements to misinform
the public about the nutritional content of meat and

They have been very successful. Americans can-
not get over the tragic myths that not eating meat and
dairy products is dangerous, that “milk does a body
good,” and that beef gives strength.

The notion that vegetarianism saps strength is a
tenacious falsehood. Research has proven that veg-

and friends who happen to be
along!” Really.

When we arrived at the Enchanted
Castle we walked in the front gate (it
was wide open) and stepped into a truly
magical world. There were weeds ev-
erywhere (tall ones), along with ran-
dom piles of dirt and plaster. We wan-
dered over to the “Jurassic Zoo” sec-
tion, which fea-
tured larger
multi-colored
dinosaurs. One
of them was
stomping a real
French Renault
car.

I was all
ready to ask the
proprietor of
the Enchanted
Castle, Mark
Kline, if he
would consider
installing one
of those dino-
saurs in the
Graham-Lees
quad, but he
was not around. Neither was any other
living creature. We had entered the set
of Deliverance.

Since there was no one around to
allow us into the indoor portion of the
Enchanted Castle, we left. To com-
plete the Deliverance imagery, our car
wouldn’t start. We considered gather-
ing firewood and arming ourselves,
but luckily the car did eventually start.

has mounted a sustained

compaign masquerading as a
series of public service announce-
ments to misinform the public
about the nutritional content of

meat and dairy products.

as well.

OPINION

This year needs another award

Someone at a nearby gas station told us
that the castle wouldn’t be open again
until spring. I hereby award the
Dreammy for Biggest Disappointment
of the Year to Mark Kline’s Enchanted
Castle.

In the category of Biggest Target I
think there’s simply no contest: Tom
Hespos wins the Dreammy hands down.
In the past yearl have compared him in
print to a WCW wrestler, an armed
thug, an overgrown bear, Elvis Presley,
a deranged postal worker, and a Stop-
In customer. It was hard finding some-
one so adaptable in terms of uncalled-
for name calling. I had wanted to make
fun of his mother, too, but I ran out
of time.

My last prize is the Best New Artist
Dreammy, which goes to Phi Photog-
raphy Editor Betsy Green. Ms. Green
has shown comedic promise as Hespos’
replacement, and this is the reason that
I will have to take her down. I’ll start
the feud now by saying that Ms. Green
is a Girl Scout Gone Bad, and she’s on
an evil mission here at W&L, and we
should all shudder at the possibility of
“Green Land,” and I like forming re-
ally long complex sentences, which is
something I bet you did not notice
before, but that’s OK.

Congratulations to all of the win-
ners. I leave you, the readers, as I found
you: in peace. May you prosper this
summer, and I will see you in the fall
with a whole new season of Dream
Land.

Oh, yes.

egetarians because it’s logical

it also poisons our bodies. For 99.9% of human
history men have eaten whatever their local habitats
provided and their health varied according to the
content of their available diet. Yet research since
World War II has conclusively proven that a vegetar-
ian diet is the healthiest possible and that meat eating
contributes to nearly every major health risk known
to man. Studies have shown that there is a direct
correlation between the amount of meat people eat
and their rates of heart disease, stroke and cancer, the
leading causes of death in America. In fact, those few
societies in the world which do not eat meat have
been found not to exhibit heart disease at all! In
addition, meat eating has been demonstrated to in-
’crease susceptibility to constipation, obesity, diabe-

etarianism, in fact, aids in both muscle and stamina
development. Dave Scott, 4-time winner of the
Ironman triathlon, is a vegetarian. As is 1980 Mr.
International Andreas Cahling, bench press record
holder Stan Price and Olympic champion Edwin
Moses! There is simply no truth to the fact that
vegetarianism prevents muscle development or that
meat builds strength. Consider the animal kingdom.
The gorilla is a vegetarian. The vulture is a carnivore.

Vegetarian eating also contributes to the preser-
vation of our imperiled environment. Few realize
how profoundly devastating is the environmental
destruction wrought by the meat industry. Meat is the
most inefficient investment conceivable of our food
resources. 90% of the protein we invest in livestock

cc-———

. Americans remain ignorant of _
the facts regarding meat and daily
consumption because the industry

is wasted. Even a 10%
reduction in America’s
meat eating would save
12 million tons of grain
annually  enough to
feed each of the some 60
million people who will
likely die of starvation
worldwide this year.
Meat production dra-
matically promotes soil
exhaustion and erosion
and contributes to the de-
struction of rain forests
at a terrifying rate. If
Central American rain
forests are destroyed for
livestock grazing at their
current rate they will be
completely eliminated

within forty years. Not only does meat production
absorb our resources, it is a tremendous polluter

As U.S. livestock produces twenty times as much

waste annually as the entire U.S. population, the meat

industry is responsible for more than three times as
much organic waste water pollution as the remainder
of national industry combined!

Vegetarianism is essentially an affirmation of
life. In deciding what you will eat the life of countless

animals facing torture, the life of our planet and the

   
   
  
  

:3 y Betsy Green

‘I don’t really have one, Actually, I
trefer inﬂatable ones.”

   

hiark Tobias, ’97, Freehold, N.J. —

1 nterviews and Photos

TALKBACK

 

quality and duration of your own life are at stake.

I urge every reader to make a commitment to
vegetarianism today.

The facts in this “My View” are drawn from John
Robbins’ Diet for a New America and Anthony
Robbins’ Unlimited Power.

OCTAA

The On—Campus Talking About
Alcohol program will take place on
Monday, May 16, Wednesday, May
18, and Friday, May 20, 10 a.m. to
noon each day. Attend all three
sessions to learn how to make low-

mental format. Call Carol Calkins
at 463-8590 to reserve your space.

Music

The Rockbridge Concert The-
atre Series is presenting “Gemini,”
San and Las, who together play
nearly a dozen instruments. The
performances will be held in Lex-
ington at the Rockbridge County
High School on Saturday, May 21,
at 3 p.m. Tickets may be purchased
at the door. For more information
call 463-5360.

Movie

Women’s Forum is presenting
NotA Love Story, a film on pomog-
raphy, on Monday, May 16, and
Tuesday, May 17, at 8:05 p.m. in
the Troubadour Theatre. Admis-
sion is free. The movie contains
explicit material.

Reception

A reception for alumni women
and undergraduate women to pro-
mote networking between women
after college will be held on Satur-
day, May 14, from 4 to 5:30 p.m. in
the Alumni House.

‘Phi

The Phi is looking for someone
to fill the paid circulation manager
position. If interested, please call
Ransom James at 462-4049.

 

risk drinking choices in a non-judg-.

Keys

Need some extra cash for this
spring term?

If you have a key to a student
organization of sorority office in
the University Center that you no
longer need, return it to Carol
Calkins for a full refund. The dead-
line to receive a cash refund is
Wednesday, May 18.

Tests

The last day to take the Career I
tests this year is Wednesday,
May 18. If you are interested in
taking the Myers-Briggs or Strong
Campbell Interest Inventories,
pleasescheduleanappointmentwith
Ms. Saunders in the Career Devel-
opment Office. '

Film Society ‘

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will close out the 1993-94
season with Angel At My Table, on
Friday, May 13, and Saturday, May
14, at 8:05 p.m. The film is in
English. There is no charge for
admission

.4...

....

‘V

Bike

A Tracker 820 mountain bike
with no identification on it is
in the Washington and Lee
Security Office. If you recognize
the bike, or know anything about it,
please contact security at 462-7800.

Hillel   ~ 

Year end meeting Sunday, May
15, at 8 p.m. in the Fairfax Lounge
of the University Center. Come
elect officers and set goals for next
year

Hespos misinformed
about SFHB hearings

To the editor:

As Chair of the Student Faculty
Hearing Board I write to deny the accu-
sations so erroneously hurled at the
SFHB in the May 6 issue of The Ring-
tum Phi.

Tom Hespos’ column “Keep the
letter committees in line” is correct in
one detail regarding SFHB; namely,
that “the SFHB set up deal with the
problem of sexual misconduct.”

In reading Dean Howison’s memo,
Mr. Hespos seems to have confused
infonnation regarding the SFHB with
information provided about cases in-
volving alleged violations of Wash-
ington and Lee’s “Statement on Per-

sonal Conduct.”

In order to clear the record I wish to
state that the SFHB has heard no case
“involving racial harassment,” no case
involving “an offensive phone mes-
sage,” and no case involving “an offen-
sive poem.”

The SFHB understands our charge
as stated in the Student Handbook and
to my knowledge has done nothing to
violate this charge or to erode the trust
which the Washington and Lee com-
munity has placed in this group of
students and faculty. *-

Cecile West-Settle
Chair, SFHB

By Joe Framptom

What is your favorite stuffed animal?

 

4-,~.y»

Lamandra Jenkins, ’97, Jackson-
ville, Fla. and her bear Cocoa —
“Cocoa is the best!”

 

 

Susan Deutsch, ’95, Smithtown, N.Y.
— “Winnie the Pooh.” '

Kim Herring, ’95, Boone, N.C. —
“Norman the cow.”

 

Layout

Amy Mears, ’96, Greensburg, Penn.

— “My stuffed bear, Edward.”

 

Denis Riva, ’97, Fairfax, Va.
panda bear I got in ltaly.”

“The .

      

    

    

PAGE 8

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 199

FIJI alumni critical of faculty for supporting SAC-

To the editor:

We were concerned to read in the
Spring 1994 Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Alumni Magazine that, at its
April meeting, the University faculty
passed a motion supporting the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee decision sus-
pending Phi Gamma Delta. ‘

It is difficult to accept that the fac-
ulty at a university which, as the Trust-
ees have stated, places emphasis on
“concepts of honor, integrity, standards
of value, leadership, good character,
respect for traditions and personal re-
sponsibility” would express its support
for a sanction which is factually insup-
portable, runs contrary to the
University’s published statements and
is fundamentally unfair.

Perhaps, we thought, the faculty
does not know that Dennis Manning’s
memorandum of January 6, 1994,
which was, in effect, the charge against
Phi Gamma Delta, is seriously ﬂawed
in important respects.

Perhaps the faculty has not read the .

Student Handbook at pages 62 and 63
where it indicates that hazing should
result in suspension only if the frater-
nity involved was on critical probation
or if the incident was very severe. (Why
else would the handbook state: “NOTE:
It is possible that a violation of policy
could result in an incident so severe,
e.g., the death of a student resulting
from hazing, that the immediate sus-
pension or expulsion would be enforced
even if the fraternity was not on critical
probation at the time of the incident.”)
Perhaps the faculty has not read the
University’s Anti-Hazing Agreement
which also suggests that for any hazing
to result in suspension, the hazing must
have been serious, e.g., must have re-
sulted in serious bodily injury.
Perhaps the faculty did not recog-
nize the deficiencies in the Student
Handbook — while it contains state-
ments of the University Policy on AIDS,

:§}F:l>~O~O~O°O~'O*O ~0~O0O.~0~O0O'~0‘O°O’~0~‘O0O:OIO-O’O‘O°O 056*-0.0260-O'#I6¢§f#IO°9:OfOvO:#Il~§ #20-0-Of#IO*O0 O09 0 660 O 000,0

   

.‘¢.gogqooqspore.-go5.9org...ogqoQoowwoooooomooooooooO-O00-Ce«OoO-Oo~Q-O~rO«DoO-O0-O09oO~9o0~Ov~O-OoQ«|'Q-O~;~O-O*0“|*9‘9"9‘9"9“""°"”

the University Policy Statement on Al-
cohol, the University Policy Statement
on the Serving of Alcohol, the Univer-
sity Policy Statement on Drugs, the
University Drug and Alcohol Policy
with respect to University Housing,
the University Policy Statement Re-
garding the Sale of Goods and Services
on Campus and a statement of the Policy
and Procedures on Sexual Misconduct,
and while it refers to “the University
Hazing Policy,” (see page 63), there is
no published University HazingPolicy.

Perhaps, the faculty did not recog-
nize that the Standards for Fraternities
does not mention the word hazing, that
there is a serious legal question about
the SAC’s jurisdiction in the matter,
and that there is even more serious
question about the SAC’s conduct in
reviewing the matter de novo and then
imposing a sanction far more harsh
than that suggested by the IFC.

Perhaps the faculty did not stop to
think of the absurdity of a sanction
which penalizes most harshly those it
is facially intended to protect —— those
pledges who were “hazed.”

Perhaps the faculty did not reflect
on how the imposition of the sanction,
under the circumstances, gives every
appearance of being a repudiation of
the principles set forth in the Board of
Trustees’ Policy Statement Relating to
Campus Life, especially the concept of
student self-govemance.

Perhaps the faculty did not under-
stand that the sanction ﬂies in the face
of the 1990 resolution of the National
lnter-Fratemity Council House of Del-
egates which states: “Restrictions on
rush when used for disciplinary pur-
poses are neither educational nor de-
velopmental and therefore are not
an acceptable sanction for
men’s fraternities.”

Just maybe, the faculty had not been
given the facts on both sides of the
issue because its vote mirrored the

administration’s view. It is not unrea-
sonable to conclude that the vote was
the result of just one more step in the
rather extraordinary efforts made
by the administration to support
its position.

The faculty owes it to itself, to the
students and to the University to be
fully informed and to carefully con-
sider the issues before taking a public
position on the subject.

The “charge” against Phi Gamma
Delta, Dennis Manning’s January 6,
1994 memorandum, recounted two
events which took
place at the Phi
Gam house. The

of anyone’s imagination can be con-
sidered an event for serious hazing.
Yet, the facts were ignored.

The second event described in Den-
nis Manning’s memorandum was a
consensual social event which took
place on Saturday, December 4, 1993
after a concert held that night.

Although John Wilson, in rejecting
our appeals, concluded that this second
event was hazing, that conclusion ﬂies
in the face of the sworn statements of
those involved.

No objectively reasonable person

consider the
i n c i d e n t
“hazing.”

 

first, was a pledge
rally which took
place between ap-
proximately 12:00
midnight and
12:45 a.m. during
the evening of
Monday, Novem-
ber 29, 1993
(morning of No-
vember 30, 1993).

D e n n i s
Manning’s recita-
tion suggests that

--—-cc

The administration
disregarded the facts,
refused to honor state-
ments made by pledges
and other members of the
fraternity and, as has
been admitted by at least
two members of the
administration, used this

John Wilson,
to some extent,
must have recog-
nized how inac-
curate Dennis
M a n n i n g ’ s
memorandum
was because,
when heafﬁrrned
the SAC deci-
sion, he empha-
sized different
grounds. The Phi
Gams had been

the session lasted
close to four hours.
It did not. It lasted
between 40 and 45
minutes. Dennis
Manning’smemo-
randum states that “the pledges were
all very drunk. The tone of this
episode. . .was abusive — massive push
ups and drinking.” That simply is not
true. It states that the pledges “were
forced to do push ups until they col-
lapsed from exhaustion.” That is not
true. We know that because we, unlike
the SAC, investigated. We talked to all
pledges involved except for Jay
Taggert. We took statements from each
of the pledges’. The rally under no stretch

situation to “send a
message to fraternities.”

tried and con-
victed on one al-
leged set of facts,
but the convic-
tion was upheld
through a slick
massaging of the circumstances.

No longer were the Phi Gams
charged with hazing in which there
was massive physical abuse and exces-
sive forced alcohol consumption. No,
now the “hazing” had become “seri-
ous,” primarily because it was
planned in advance — because it
was “premeditated.”

In short, John Wilson said the “haz-
ing” was “serious” because he said it
was. It did not matter that his definition

  SUbs(:RIbE
TO ”THE STUCIENT VOICE

OF W&L,”

of serious did not jibe with the state-
ments in the University Handbook that
“serious” or “severe” equates to seri-
ous injury.

The suspension of Phi Gamma Delta
by the SAC is troubling to us on two
levels. The first is obvious —— it is
unjust and unfair. The suspension is
not warranted by the facts and is not
supported by any University Policy
Statement or definition of hazing. Not
only is the penalty insupportable, it
penalizes most ‘harshly those whose
interests it supposedly is trying to pro-
tect — the pledges.

The second level is broader and is
related to our concern for the Univer-
sity itself and the Fraternity System.
The administration’s conduct repre-
sents a rejection of many of the values
and concepts which have made
W&L great.

While lip service has been given to
support for the Fraternity System and
concern for students, the
administration’s actions have shouted
a different story. The SAC imposed
sanction is an obvious attempt to elimi-
nate Phi Gamma Delta from Washing-
ton and Lee.

It is difficult to imagine any frater-
nity at W&Ltoday which readily could
survive the elimination of rush.

The handling of the situation also
has made a mockery of the
administration’s oft stated support for
the Honor System. The administration
disregarded the facts, refused to honor
statements made by pledges and other
members of the fraternity and, as has
been admitted by at least two members
of the administration, used this situa-
tion to “send a message to fraternities.”
The ends, therefore, justiﬁed the means.
The facts and the interests of those
involved did not matter. The original
sanction suggested by the IFC and the
extraordinary efforts of the Phi Gam
House Corporation were ignored. Self-

O60 0‘ 000 0:000 O 000 ~'3O¢O-0-‘Q°O:*.G~O'~':O*9’O‘C»O,~r.Ov-O’~0~ 009 0,006.0 0.03:6‘-O #~Q*9~0*O°O $000 ~r.Q~O'~r,

I EEp Up WITH THE wE.E|<ly
HAPPENINGS OF \>x/&L-

THE RING-TU/vi PHI

OUR AwARd-WINNING STAFF Wlll |<EEp

yOUINFORMEd.

TO sUbsCR|bE, SENCI 5930 TO

THE RING-TU/vi PHI

P. 0. BOX 899
Lexmmom, VA 244 50

(YOUR sUbsCRIpTION WITH OUR FIRST ISSUE NEXT yEAR).

3”,“ ,,.,-... .,...-._... .~..._.,...-... .,..o 0,009 «M oo-ooooboooooo-9+4-0 as-9.» coo «:0» o cots:'o:o~9Ct2o~9:o:o~b’o:¢~o:r20~9£o30-O we-9+.» «V» + 0-0 who #0» o 0-0 «wow 0-» «.0» o.
- 9
i

governance was not to be allowed. The
SAC, without any independent investi-
gation, heard the matter de novo.

That fundamental attack on the ba-
sic principles which make, and have
made, W&L special should no be toler-
ated, let alone applauded, by members
of the faculty. ’

There is not enoughtspace in this
letter to cover all aspects of this prob-
lem. For that reason, we are sending
copies of the two appeals and some of
the related and supporting correspon-
dence to both TheRing-tum Phi and the
Trident in the hope that those.publica-
tions will make them available to
whomever wishes to read them.

This is a sad chapter in the history of
Washington and Lee. How can a; ad-
ministration at Washington and Lee
ignore facts, disregard the word of stu-
dents and ignore its own publications-
and the short—comings in them? .

W&L should be better than that.

Each of us has great affection for
the University. We want W&L to re-
main the unique institution that iﬁs. It
should no be allowed to become just
another good, small college.‘

We hope that the faculty and stu-
dents of Washington and Lee agree
with us.

Phi Gamma Delta, its members, its
pledges, its alumni and the parerﬁs 0
its members have been unfairly and
improperly treated. ' i

If you agree with us, please make
your voices heard.

Edward L. Bishop, Trustee
Class of 1968 0

Frank H. Griffin, Ill, Parent
Class of 1968

John H. Norberg, President

Zeta Deuteron Chapter _
Corporation of Phi Gamma Delta
Class of 1979

.. ,,«r,,9.°..OL';.¢.°1.|..t._*.'_.9 $4.919

 

C

— 9 if . #‘
0~‘O-O'# 90 500-0 0 O-O" O-°0’#‘O-Of#IO'O'0ZO-6 50-o9_o‘Qo9’oj§.§:o;oo§ _ojQ.g:.‘¢..’.*...-‘,-

~.—

Q I
-g.g-o~o‘o‘ooo'o¢~O'0-'0'*‘**°

 



 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

W&L woman says she is too fat

losing Weight became obsession

' it From EATING, page 1

“My parents weren’t around a lot,”
said Jane. Her mother, the dominant
parent in the family, often criticized
herweight. “She always told me to lose
a couple of pounds.”

‘I was always trying to lose weight,”
said Jane. Her desire never became that
serious until she came down with mono-
nucleosis her sophomore year in high
school.

“I couldn’t eat for about two or
three weeks. I lost about 10 pounds.
Afyr that, I didn’t really eat normally.”

For the next two years, J ane ate “as
little as I could. I ate one meal a day,
like an orange and a piece of toast.” By
avoiding eating with her family when-
ever possible, Jane was able to deceive
them about her eating habits.

ane‘doesn’t blame her anorexia on
the’ waif-thin models of the fashion
industry or society’s unrealistic im-
ages of beauty.

“I don’t want to be thin because
Kate Moss is thin. That’s a load of
bullshit. I wanted to be thin because it
was something I could be good at.”

ane’s anorexia gave her a means of
control over her life.

“My mom and I don’t get along
well. We’d get in afight and I’d be like,

' ‘Fine, I just won’t eat this week.”’

Anorexia took its effects on Jane’s
body. She became “really, really tired.
I cOuldn’t do anything...I got really
sick just walking up stairs. And I was
always cold. Really cold.”

Her parents ﬁnally noticed her
weight loss.

“After I lost another 10 pounds, my
mother said, ‘You’re beginning to look

0

‘C/of/ting ﬁr [A2

THE

ante in an.J aquire our /tadif,

ll/e!!aCg'e55eJ (1/0I7’l€lI’l. s
“We/come ﬂacé ./4/urrtni./



a little skinny.’” Her parents noticed
nothing serious until Jane went to the
doctor her senior year in high school.

Jane went to the doctor to have her
medical forms signed for entrance at
W&L. He ordered her to see a coun-
selor and a nutritionist.

The counselor helped, by providing
an outlet for Jane’s feelings. The nutri-
tionist did not.

In the same way she fooled her
parents, Jane was able to fool her nutri-
tionist.

imagine wasting my life on something
like that.”

Jane slowly began eating again with
help from her friends.

“I couldn’t remember how to eat,”
she said, so she followed the eating
habits of healthier friends.

“Just by kind of watching other
peoplel trusted, they helped me out a
lot,” she said.

“I didn’t really start eating that much
until I arrived here,” said Jane. “I just

kept putting it off. I

“I had to  couldonlyeatabout
keep food dia— a meal a day when I
ries and com- _ got here. I couldn’t
pletely made I wanted t0 be thm eat three meals a
them up,” said because  was somethin day until about
Jane. g Christmas.”

“I’d write I could be good at, Jane has more
down that I ate energy now.
like two peanut   “I can do a lot

butter sand-

wiches in one meal and the nutritionist
would be like, ‘Oh, you’re doing
great,” .

Jane kept this up for eight or nine
months, doing everything in her power
to avoid food.

“I had to get weighed every Wednes-
day and drank lots of water and wore
heavy sweaters. I also put penny rolls
in my pockets. After a while, I worked
my way up to ten penny rolls,” she
laughed.

This continued until Jane’s doctor
told her he wouldn’t sign her forms to
attend college. Jane realized she had to
regain the weight.

“I have a good friend. She’s about
30 and underwent shock treatment for
anorexia,” said Jane. “She was in the
hospital for a long time. I couldn’t

    

,4, 


).;»,“¢.

463-9340 ’

/4»; €11’:  777a.4fencarJ

and Restaurant

‘ . "‘ "I s. -. - 1.. - |I.o --..
,~. -_...t-r -...A -t-...\.- ‘hf 4.-ryk-...x.»$’4_.: ‘.._u.q.'.._u.-r.':
'-. .s~.'.'~. .9-:.'-2-.'.r-~:.'-34'» , -.:-5 :.«~:.'~-.z-5.7.?-'4-I:«x'=;,_»:.

r
4-‘
§—

22. w 14.e.;.s2.   .t

Chef Stewart prepares daily vciilinary delights -.;
Featuring Weekly Special Entrees: Beef Rouladen, 3!‘

Paella, and Homemade Tortellini.

Six Room Inn, includes two Jacuzzi suites, Full service Fine Dinin T "
Room filled with antiques. Full Bar Service Available. Perfect
setting for Holidays, Luncheons, Special Occasions.

I

i.-r~_-._~ H i.
'-‘-,~.'~}"3.-'?_-.*-‘-.-:* -51:3

'I‘uesdays- International Menu Night
Thursdays- Northern Italian Cuisine

Saturdays- Live Vocalist: “Delilah Rainelle”

Special Package
Tuesday, Wednesday, & Thursday Only
Jacuzzi Room $95.00 — Carriage House $85.00
Includes Room, Dinner & Breakfast for Two
(Alcohol, Tax & Gratuity not included. Excludes Holidays)

 2 . v 1

Gift Certiﬁcates Now Available

Open Daily Dining Hours: Tues.-Sat. (Sunday & Monday groups of 10+)
5:00 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.
Call for reservations: 703-463-9715

. I‘. .; 1--. an .-_ . 1.-. 1. . ‘.
,_-.-._-*3;;;' ‘.1;-;;::.'g,g«~<~ -1:-.:r;,-:.',-_,~.,r.;.-,_.‘_-..

. s‘

Dining Services

,{3r‘‘'ua;:‘:’

- 

‘(-1 :3’. '

-v?.' I. » 4:‘-

To apply, please see
RobertDunlap,
Vera Merchant,

or T. J . Wiley

..... ’Av-)1 n-.s..,.~:w-—»,>~ M

at the 

' - -- « -“-1-1-  1- .v

E?

is currently accepting applications '

t , from W&L student workers for the .
'9 1994-95 school year. Positions
». 0 available include lineworkers,

'_checkers, .and dishroom personnel. 

more with [my
body],” she said. But she is still not
comfortable with her body.

“I still think I’m way too fat, but I
try not to think about it. If I tried to lose
weight, I would fall back in the same
thing.” At 5” 6’, Jane weighs 105 lbs.

Although she has regained weight,
Jane does not feel she is recovered.

“I think I would be recovered if I
could look at my body in the mirror and
say, ‘You look good.”’

In addition to her distorted body
image, Jane is still tempted by thoughts
of not eating.

“It starts in the morning when I’m at
breakfast and think, ‘I don’t have to
eat anything today. It’s kind of exhila-
rating. If I don’t eat anything, I’ll
think, ‘Hey, I didn’t eat today. I did
a good job.”’

PAGE 9

Alumni Weekend Calendar

Friday

9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Reunion Regis-
tration Alumni House

9 a.m. Spring meeting of the
Law Council

10 a.m. Campus Tours Alumni
House

10:45 Reunion Seminar: “An-
guish of Blood: Ethnic Conflicts
Across Eastern Europe” Modera-
tor: W. Lad Sessions, Professor of
Philosophy and Associate Dean of
the College duPont Hall, Room
102

10:45 Reunion Seminar: “Pre-
paring for the 21st Century: Three
Critical Decisions” Moderator:
Robert P. Fure, Director of Special
Programs Lewis Hall, Moot court
room

12 p.m. Luncheon Front Lawn

1:30 p.m. Reunion Seminar
“W&L Today: An Undergraduate
and Law Student Panel Discussion”
Moderator: David L. -Howison,
Dean of Students Lee Chapel

2:45 p.m. Reunion Seminar:
“Scientiﬁc Frontiers at Washing-
ton and Lee” Moderator: William
J. Watt, Professor of Chemistry
Howe Hall, Room 311

2:45 p.m. Reunion Seminar
“Prelude to Atlanta: W&L’s In-
volvement in the ’96 Olympics”
Moderator: Richard S. Sessoms,
Director of Major Gifts Commerce

School, Room 327

5:30 p.m. Cocktails with the Fac-
ulty, honoring retiring faculty mem-
bers Front Lawn

6:30 p.m. Buffet Dinner Front Lawn

8 p.m. Alumni Concert: Jubil_.ee,
Southern Comfort and Sazeracs Alumni
bee Chapel

9 p.m. Reunion Dance (informal):
SPECTRUM Warner Center

Saturday

8 a.m. Fun Run through W&L and
Lexington Doremus Gymnasium

9 a.m. - 10 a.m. Registration for late
arrivals Alumni House

9 a.m. Photos for Undergraduate
Classes of ’44, ’49, ’54, ’59, and ’64
Lee Chapel

10 a.m. Joint Annual Meeting of the
W&L Alumni and the W&L Law
Alumni Associations Lee Chapel

11 a.m. Hillel Reception Univer-
sity Center, Fairfax Lounge

11:30 a.m. Class of 1944 Class
Meeting and Graduation Lee Chapel

12:30 p.m. Luncheon with the Fac-
ulty Front Lawn

1:30 p.m. Reunion Seminar:
“Alumni College Abroad: Past and
Future” Moderated by: Robert P. Fure,
Director of Special Programs Leyburn
Library, Northen Auditorium

2p.m. Law SchoolAlumni Soft-
ball Game w/ Wildgrass Lewis
Hall

5:30 p.m. Law School Alumni
cocktails and buffet dinner at the
home of Dean and Mrs. Randall P.
Bezanson, 111 Lee Avenue

FOR THE CLASS OF ’44 6
p.m. Cocktails at the home of Tad
and Mia Humphreys, 406 S. Main
St.

FOR THE CLASS OF ’44 7:30
p.m. Banquet and Dance at Lex-
ington Golf and Country Club

FOR THE CLASS OF ’49: 6:30
p.m. Cocktails and Banquet,
Willson-Walker House

FOR THE CLASS OF ’54: 6:30
p.m. Lenfest Center

FOR THE CLASS OF ’59: 6:30
p.m. Ramada Inn

FOR THE CLASS OF ’64: 6:30
p.m. Gaines Hall Gatehouse

FOR THE CLASS OF ’69: 6:30
p.m. Summer House at Natural
Bridge

For the Undergraduate classes
’74, ’79, ’84 and ’89, 6 p.m. Old-
fashioned Barbeque Bash at
Z.ollman’s Pavilion

9:30 p.m. “In the GHQ” featur-
ing Leleune Jones. Cash bar.

Free Room in nice home two
miles from Lexington in exchange for help with
disabled woman. 1994-95 school year. Please call
for details and further information. 463-3346

Apartment for Rent
4 BR, 1 1/2 bath, washer & dryer, some utilities included.

2 1/2 miles west of town. Only $175 per bedroom.
Inquire at Kelly’s Comer 463-5452

 

     

722.51/zea.e

wmowme STORES *

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1-5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

463-2186

Wed. Special -

Large Cheese Pizza $4.95
Now Delivering from 4 p.m. to

800 North Main Street
(Old Stop-In Store)

463-5757

I'_.

Alvin -

Welcome

gméah

zeetacoumz.‘

LEE‘

Rt. 11 North

 

Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes
Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites

   . 

Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m.

Sunday 9 a.m.-2 p.m.
463-3478

/

Open 24 Hours

THE BEST IN

W&L T11‘. CAPS. SWE/ITS
AND OTHER "S7llFF'

15 W. WASHINGTON ST.

703 464-3000

800 474-0056

Bennie
Alumni!

Alumni Special
Suits and Sportcoats

20%

Off

Suits and Coats by Haspel, Oritsky, & Bowdon Ray-Ban Sunglasses
W&L Belts, Ties, Keychains, Dog Collars

Sero Shirts

Shoes by Bass, Walkover & Topsider
Knit Shirts - Izod, Cross Creek & Duckhead
Duckhead Shorts and Pants

5....~.,,“.€,.,..._u.;»;.,4,-.91. .. L ..,u_ . . . .

Red Wing Boots
Embassy Boxers
W&L Blazer Buttons
W&L Strawhats

Since 1963 .
102 W. Washin ton St.
(703) 463-5 83
9 - 5:30 Monday - Saturday
10 - 3 Sunday May 15th

MASTERCARD

STUDENT CHARGE

  

Page 10

 

9
The Ring-tum Phi, May 13, 1994

’74 LAX one of best ever at W&L

i» From LAX, page 12

goals with W&L for the ﬁrst 30 minutes and
the two went to half-time tied at 9-9.

With the game at 13-13 in the fourth-
quarter, Towson appeared on their way to
victory scoring four of the next ﬁve goals.

The ’94 Generals 12-11 comeback victory
over Roanoke, a game they trailed 11-6 in the
final minutes, reminded Farrar of the Towson
game.

“It never crossed our minds we’d lose. We
had the conﬁdence and the ability to win those
kind of games,” said Farrar.

Having pulled within 17-16, W&L took a
time-out in the ﬁnal minute to set up a play.
With the players expecting Bauer to be given
the ball to restart play, Emmer had Lichtfuss
take possession. Lichtfuss scored with 14 sec-
onds left to force overtime, and he and Bauer
each netted a goal in the extra-session for the
19-17 victory. An ill Skeet Chadwick proved
healthy enough to shut-out Towson for the
ﬁnal 16 minutes in goal.

Both Farrar and O'Connell agree that was
the toughest and the pivotal game in the sea-
son for the Generals, who improved to 10-0.

Going into the ﬁnal game of the regular
season, a showdown with Emmer’s former
Cortland State, the defending Division III
champs, 13-0 Washington & Lee was liftedto
number-2 in the national rankings. Only Mary-
land stood ahead of W&L.

The Generals responded with a 14-4 Wil-
son Field trouncing of the Red Dragons to
complete their second—straight perfect regular
season. They now seemed assured of hosting
the first two NCAA Tournament games and
would not face Maryland until the champion-
ship.

But something funny happened on the way
to the playoffs.

While W&L was pounding on a quality
opponent, number-3 Johns Hopkins beat Mary-
land.

The pollsters reacted by showing just how
much skepticism they still had of W&L’s abil-
ity. Hopkins (who had lost to two of W&L’s
victims, Navy and Virginia) was elevated to the
number-one ranking.

Maryland, despite the loss, was dropped
onlyto number-two. The Generals were, thus,
rewarded for beating Cortland State by being
dropped in the polls to number-three!

Huh?

Yes, the top-ranked team had two defeats,
the second-ranked team had one loss, and the
third-ranked team was unbeaten. '

A Baltimore Sun writer probably best
summed up the happenings: “...the establish-
ment kicked Washington and Lee and some
1,600 students in the britches.”

Emmer called the new poll “an injustice.”

“You can’t crack the lacrosse establishment
just by winning,” he said at the time. “They
can’t believe this little school in the Virginia
Valley can be any good.”

“It reﬂected that people still didn’t believe
in W&L,” said O'Connell.

Both O'Connell and Farrar feel that poll
stood between W&L and the national title.

After topping Navy, 11-9, in the ﬁrst round
of the playoffs, the Generals had to travel to
Johns Hopkins for the semiﬁnal game.

“I like our chances if we’re playing that one
at home,” Farrar said.

Added O'Connell, “If Hopkins had come to
us, we would have beat ‘em. At Wilson Field,
that comeback doesn’t happen”

What happened, though, was an 11-10
Hopkins victory that ended the season for Wash-
ington & Lee.

Tremendous defensivework by Farrar and
Rob Lindsey enabled W&L to take a 10-7 lead
into the fourth-quarter, but the Blue Jays con-
trolled faceoffs and were aided by three penal-
ties called in their favor. The winning goal
came with just 1:50 remaining.

“If we had gotten into overtime,” said Farrar,
“there’s no question in my mind we would’ve
won.”

Washington & Lee’s best assemblage of

    

4&4--H4-74

Eﬁlljliltlllltiliitilg Ellltteit at tlgr
 Eiattirtt tttttt Qrttttmz

Fri., May 13 - Third. Ear
Sat, May 14 - Ben Arthur
;{“““l‘"15I”}“"' T11urs., May 19 - Radar Rose

1 X X_H X I K K K I X K K X X X K K K K I X K K
-. . - .

ax ' ‘ ‘W,/“» "

;'PﬁnT"'-‘E

DOORS
8:

XXXKXXXI

Hours

 . 463-7969

 

talent ever was not rewarded with the national
title, eventually won by Hopkins, but they were
plentifully rewarded with post-season honors.

Emmet was named National Coach of the
Year for an unprecedented third straight‘ time,
Chadwick received the C. Markland Kelley
award as the country’s top goalie, and seven
Generals were named All-Americans. Bauer,
Chadwick, and Lichtfuss were among the
nation's eleven First Team All-Americans.

This year, Lichtfuss joined Bauer and
Chadwick in the Lacrosse Hall of Fame.

The amount of individual awards bestowed
on members of the ’74 Generals makes all the
more impressive how cohesive the team played
on the ﬁeld.

“The guys knew what had to be done,” said
O'Connell. “Egos didn’t get in the way of each
other.”

Farrar recalled how close the players were to
each other. While students were headed south
for spring break, he remembered, the team was
traveling north together for games.

“Those teams [’73 and ’74] were able to
create a chemistry that caused people to be
very, very close. We had a very tight team.”

In the twenty years since the Generals de-
manded and captured the attention of the na-
tional scene, W&L has retained a high-quality
lacrosse reputation. Farrar, though, feels that
1974 was the “high-water mark” for W&L
lacrosse, and the contrary is hard to argue.

Washington & Lee has reached the semiﬁ-
nals once in both the Division I and Division III
Tournaments since that season, but has never
chased the national title quite like 1974.

“We believed in Jack Emmer,” said Farrar
of his team, “and he believed we could do it.”

When O'Connell looks back at his time at
Washington & Lee, the football champion-
ships, the basketball titles, even the 1988 men's
tennis national championship, all don’t quite
compare with the team he helped take to as high
as the number-two ranking. This team was
different.

“I don’t think I’ve seen anything that’s out-
done that team.”

Ion-Fri!-ssatti-Noon

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIo'

Marshallville, Georgia-:
A Peach of a Town! :

Women’s Tennis

The Washington and Lee women’s ten-
nis team responded to their first loss of the
season by coming back to defeat the Univer-
sity of Califonia at Santa Cruz 6-3 in thier
next match.

The previous match saw the Generals
lose to Williams College by the score of 5-3.
The Generals gave Williams all they could
handle, as the match was tied at three apiece
following the singles competition. Wil-
liams then took both doubles matches to win
the contest.

In the win over UCSC, junior Marilyn
Bakerwon her 26th match of the year, besting
the school record for wins in a season of 25.
The old mark had stood since 1991. Baker
has amassed a 67-10 record in her three
years on the W&L team.

The Generals took ﬁve of the six singles
matches against UCSC to clinch the contest.
Ayers and Baker added to the total by chalk-
ing up their 20th win as a team on the year in
the doubles competition.

With the win, the Generals move to 22-1
on the year. The team season comes to a
close today with a match against Emory for
ﬁfth place in the tournament. Ayers and
Baker begin play in the individual tourna-
ment on Saturday.

Women’s Lax

Five W&L players earned All—Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference honors in the
most recent selection.

Senior midﬁelder Angie Carrington and
Junior defense Carrie Niederer were selected
to the ﬁrst team all-conference while juniors
Lindsay Coleman, Dana Cornell, and Nicole
Ripken were placed on the second team.

 

Ripken’s selection was all the more
impresive considering the W&L junior only
played in nine games on the season due to
surgery to remove a brain tumor.

In those nine contests, the Generals’ Star
scored 19 goals and 6 assists to ﬁnish the year
as the team’s third leading scorer.

Coleman was W&L’s leading scorer on the

 

year with 35 goals and 12 assists for 47 points.
Cornell contributed 10 goals and three as-
sists from the defensive wing position

Men’s Tennis

Senior Robby MacNaughton will com-
petein the NCAA Division III men’s tennis
championships in California later this
month. .

The senior compiled a 14-9 record as the
number one player on the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference champion Generals.
MacNaughton is ranked 15th in the country
by the most recent polls.

The trip is not an unfamiliar one for the
senior. This year marks the third appear-
ance for MacNaughton in NCAA single!
play. He, along with Peter Hammond, has
also been selected as an alternate to com-
pete in the doubles draw.

Golf

The period of anticipation has ended for
the Washington and Lee golf team.

The Generals were notiﬁed on Wednes-
day that they had not been selected to play
in the NCAA Division III Championships.

With the news, the W&L team closes
the book on a successful 32-9 campaign
that ended in an Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Championship for the team.

 

   

THE SAB PRESENTS .-

‘K

ALUMNI WEEKEND CONCERT

§§&K\\;;\E\‘i€:

WITH SPECIAL GU

V75 T5

The mack Creek Band

REE
OPEN AT
30

IXHIXIII

FRIDAY, MAY |3TH AT THE PAVILION
DMl@$lON

BEER   GARDEN :
ID REQUIRED

For Sale
Two dorm—sized refrigerators,‘
a computer cart and other
dorm necessities: Everything is
in excellent condition. For
more information Call Fran at
462-41 03

‘XXIII

  
   
   
  
  
  
  



a 
u‘.

4

I

4!

It
If

4

0 us
4

I‘.

1

'2

1

I;

I

'1
o .2
4'

'3

It

i

1. 
!

it

I l
".

3

-l

-.

- 1
'1

I‘.

"2

it

0 av‘.
‘V.

'5

'1

9.

'3

-I
‘ -1
It

3

".

-9'

l
t '1?
K
‘.
I
1
'1.
s
'15
5 If
.4
4
[i
I
I
an I
I
I‘.
id
''§

 
  
    
 
  
   
   
   
     
       

, Iﬁyng-tum Phi, May 13, 1994  A 1aAag 11
1  T   GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

1 1 4     Standings as of 05/13/94 V
 I ‘ ' '4 _. 4 A 1 A 1 Baseball Women’s Lacrosse
it ‘A _  A M h M ii A ‘ _ - S -wPlayer Avg HR RBI Player G A

Graig Fantuzzi .482 0 12 Lindsay Coleman 12
Bates Brown .387 1 15 Angie Carrington
19

35
3 41
- . .,._.;« \\\iiiii\\\\\i\\\i\ti\"‘:z_;i;. 1 Matt Ermigiotti .316 3 Nicole Ripken 19
. REDUCED PRlC,ES___ .     Cinnicmgm 17
V STATE FA|R 7  1 ' ‘ . ‘  Pitching Leaders Erika Snyder 16
:!i;i" 1  ' ‘I’ i » .
 . .9." ‘  ~ ' _Player W-L ERA '
cam DOGS  W .-  Ilirmciigiotti  5.40 Goaltendrns
.1.-.=. ‘ a ee y -
4  =.‘-7 i A Brett Hartman 2-4

Player SV GA
Sarah Smith 1 19 85
Brooke Glenn 67 42

oz. "" i  ' Men’s Lacrosse
Scoring Leaders
Player G A
_  . .. . f ,. Colin Higgins 24 21 Singles Leaders
Q  , 4 ."" .. . S ' — ,, Ty Tydings 17 22
»   ~ ‘ . ~ ‘  ‘ Russell Croft 18 16 Play“ W
7
9

Women’s Tennis

Scott Mackley 25 rlﬁglxgggker 

K / ‘  :T."‘ . \
H S V  " '  - A Ande Jenkins 28 Shelley Sunderrnan 19

'  i ' \'-"-71 ' - Helen Chandler 17
y P SV G A Svq Anna O’Connor 22
layer 109  58% Cathy Gartin 9

Doug Grubner
David Jones 47 33 .588 ”°“b1¢s Leaders

Go" Dickinson—O’Connor 9
Ayers-Baker 20
Leaders Sunderrnan-Chandler 14

cuuosuuur

Pearce Smithwick 3 . T68!!! R¢¢0l‘d8

B W11‘ 9 .
 .   I"    Tgmniylgﬁfﬂey 5 _ Women’s Tennis 22
" SPINACH ........ .. 10 02. Jimmy K1111 10 _ Men’s Track 11

Gam Mattingly 10 . €v°gIfncn,s Track 32

CUT
T’ _  Men’s Lacrosse,
 -    Menvs Tennis — Women’s Lacrosse
MIX

. Men’s Tennis
"""""""" " 70 OZ‘ Singles Leaders Baseball

 %ERli\PEFRUI'.|' 2/ Player W‘
 d """ '  Robby MacNaughton 14 Men’s Tennis

Chris MacNaughton 11 T Doubles Leaders

/1 S i ’ I  is .9’: Pete Hammond 12

'1 R  ‘  . ‘P.-2:9’ David Schweppe 12 Hammond-R; MacNaughton 13 9
 A   Derek Schulze 13 Horen-Schweppe 9 6
1 9 Andy Horen 8 C. MacNaughton-Schulze 9 8
i .

E .tXXXX::XXXXX'Z:IXXXX:"X

LOWPRICES .   
KLEENEX   cake on ;~ f
FACIAL TISSUE DIET COKE .:

or
  Alumni Weekend
 99  99    

Q ‘Q   3: . . . . . .

wamvspecm }, Suits 1- Sportcoats — 20% Off

HIGHLAND CREST p" RQA51-Ep 1‘ All Shorts - 20% Off
_ |¢E ¢REAM   A I‘ (Duckheads Included)

HAM
39   Civil War Ties —

'$iil'.: LB. sl(l)c|;.-[rue j_ American Flag Battle Ties
     5- Belts & Key Chains
; BUY ONE GET ONE FREE SALE ;~ Sun-Stopper Hats

I '3 UY ONE 5.5-6 OZ. BAG BUY ONE 20 OZ. BOX

1. AGLE THINS KE|.I.OGG'S RAISIN _ ,
HIPS err om:  BRAN on our  ’- Ladles Dept. Sprmg & Summer

uv our 16 oz. PKG. ME guy cm; 15 oz. aox -   %  ;-
  ORMEI. |.iG|'iT 8: “AN KEI.l0GG'5 RICE 3 ‘ :3
in“ FREE The College Town Shop

3 ran-
~O\lUa«b\O

-'-3-«aw-*

«.4:

 BANKS GET ONE KRISPIESGH ONE
UY ONE 4 CT. BOX SELECTED VARIETIES guy om 13 oz p|(G,
111 West Nelson Street
Founded 1926

 we in" FREE iitit3‘tt8§i“E.‘.ﬁE FREE

Prices Effech've....Throu 11 Ma 17 1994 , _ --
Pricoensl In This Ad Eiieﬁtive Wednesday, May li ThroLlgi1ST(1)l|<<eisc]ig)g3E3);Si7 1994 ¥iourLe{<ington Store . - Master Charge - VISA - UPS Shlpplng 

y.We Reserve e Right To Limit Quantities. None We Gladiy Accept tederot Food Stémps.

  
 

Last Week:

MLax—W&L 12, VMI 10
WTennis— Williams 5, W&L 3
W&L 6, UCSC 3
(NCAA Team Competition)

PAGE 12

By Ki-zmi GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

  

From the very beginning of
the 1974 season, this team was

going to be different. It was spe-

’ cial.

The players knew it. The

coaches knew it.

How many others did is ques-

tionable, and the odds are that

very few people in college la-

crosse thought that Virginia ’s tiny

Washington & Lee University

was capable of competing for a
national championship.

But compete, they did, forc-

ing the “big boys” of Navy, Johns
Hopkins, and Maryland to take

serious this new threat from the

Shenendoah.

In 1973, Washington & Lee’s
Generals marched perfect
through the regular season, accu-
mulating a 13-0 record against
the likes of Princeton, Towson
State, Virginia, and North Caro-
lina.

Ranked fourth in the nation,
the upstart Generals downed
Navy in overtime at Wilson Field
for the school ’s ﬁrst NCAA Tour-
nament victory.

Though they fell to the even-
tual champion Terrapins of Mary-
land in the semiﬁnals, a strong
returning class ensured Wash-
ington & Lee would remain on
the national scene.

F rom the beginning, this team
knew things would be different.
Practices for teams of coach J ack
Emmer were dominated by con-
ditioning. Sometimes 40 minutes
of a two-hour practice would
consist of sprints.

Assistant coach Chuck
O’Connell, now a Washington &
Lee assistant athletic director,
remembers one of the ﬁrst prac-
tices of ’74 as being a turning
point for the players.

Just completing an arduous
series of exercises consisting of

  
 
 

  
 
   
 

    
   
 
   
      
  
    
     
     
  
 
   
   
     
  
   
    
    
  
      

  

  

  
  
  

   
 

  

 
 
   
 

  
   

 
  
    

  
    
   
    
  
    
     
    
      

 
 

3

‘‘Indian sprints” and “suicides,”
the players thought their day was
done. Not so fast, thought Em-
mer, as he directed his tired troops
into another set of sprints.

“That day,” said O’Connell,
“they realized what they were
going to have to do.”

Emmer had come to W&L
prior to the ’73 season from
Cortland State, a powerful Divi-
sion III program where Emmer
had earned national Coach of the
Year honors in ’72.

“St. Jack’s” W&L squads
would record 108 wins and re-
ceive seven NCAA Tournament
bids during his eleven year ten-
ure.

However, Emmer, alone, did
not bring W&L to the fore of
college lacrosse.

His predecessor, Dick Szlasa,
deserves considerable recogni-
tion for the accomplishments of
the ’73 and ’74 Generals, as he
had recruited the individual tal-
ent that includednine different
All—Americans in those two sea-
sons.

Jim Farrar, a 2nd-team All-
American defenseman in ’74 and
now W&L’s Director of Alumni
Programs, remembers his father
and Szlasa holding a long talk
one night in Farrar’s Lexington
home in 1972. After Szlasa left,
Farrar’ s father told him the coach
was moving on to Navy.

“[Szlasa] as much as anyone
helped lay the foundation for
those teams in ’73 and ’74,”

Farrar said. “Emmer, though,
took us to a level we had not
imagined we could be taken.”

Through sheer hard work and
discipline, Farrar said, the Gen-
erals knew after the ’73 season

they could be as good as anyone.
There were no doubters in the
lockerroom, though they were
many on the outside.

Despite four returning All-
Americans and a pre-season num-

Ellie ‘ilting-tum ilﬂlii

PORTS

LACROSSE, TRACK, TENNIS, GOLF, BASEBALL

1974 Lacrosse team set st

were not ready to accept W&L as
a national championship con-
tender. Farrar believes expecta-
tions to improve on their ’73 per-
formance came only from the
team, itself.

“There were not quite so many
expectations from outside as there
were from us,” he said.

In terms of the public’s per-
ception of W&L, O'Connell
thinks Farrar is right.

“We hadn’t won anything on
the national level, yet,” he said.
“People didn’t understand how
good the team could be. The tal-
ent was there, but we were rela-
tively the new kid on the block. I
think we surprised a lot of
people.”

What was not a surprise was
the Generals ﬁrst-game romp
over Morgan State, 16-4. On the
heels of that win, however, W&L
dropped an exhibition game ver-

sus the Mt. Washington Club.
Thus, many lacrosse followers,
includingW&Lfaithful,were not
sure what kind of performance to
expect when the Generals trav-
eled to Annapolis in late March
to take on Szlasa’s fourth-ranked
Navy.

Emmer’s conditioning pro-
gram paid dividends as the Gen-

lerals out hustled and outlasted

the Midshipmen, an obviously -classic‘ _ _
we11-condiiioned group of am. the top of the national lacrosse were in attendance for the tele-
1ete5_ scene. vised contest on what was mg.

Down a goal in the third pe-
riod, W&L scored the next ﬁve
to take command of the game. To
spectators, it was obvious that
the Generals were in better physi-
cal shape than their Academy
counterparts, who were held
scoreless for a 21-minute sec-
ond-half stretch.

“Jack Emmer made sure we
would not be outrun by any team,”
said Farrar. “We could ﬂat out
run, and proved it in that game.”

With the Generals climbing a
spot to four in the poll, Washing-
ton & Lee was well on its way to

Having cruised by Denison,
Princeton (though it took a sec-
ond-half explosion to do it), C.W.
Post, Duke, and North Carolina,
a showdown was set with third-
ranked Virginia.

In ’73, W&L beat the Wa-
hoos for the first time since 1958,
a game waved off as an upset by
most lacrosse observers. This
time, UVA’s Scott Stadium was
the set of a battle between legiti-
mate national title contenders.

A state-record 10,000 fans,
about 4000 from W&L, as the

 

This Week:

Women’s Tennis— NCAA Div. III
Individual Championships
(O5-14- 05-16)

All—American middie and Lacrosse Hall of Famer Ted Bauer needed jus
nine seconds to give W&L a 1-0 lead versus Johns Hopkins in their ’74 semifin :.

hoos,” said O'Connell.

a 13-11 victory.

andard '

deemed a “perfect” afternoon.
“The game people had focused
on was beating those damn Wa-

Sure enough, the number-4
Generals would take a 10-6 lead
into the fourth quarter en route to

Surrounded by All—American
talent like Ted Bauer, Skip
Lichtfuss, and Dave Warﬁeld,
freshman Jack Dudley turned out
to be the hero, netting three goals.

“That game was a huge deal
because of the rivalry and the
rankings,” Farrar said. “It was a

 
   
    
  
   
    
 
    
   
   
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
 
    
   
   
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
     
       
      
     
      
     
         
           
  
     
   
         
       
         
       
     
        
       
          
     

ber-5 ranking, many observers

Ring-tum Phi happily reported,

File poto

After 31 years, the Generals basketball team will be repre-
sented by a new face on the sidelines as head coach Verne
Canfield calls it quits.

Canfield resigns

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

For the first time in 31 years, the
Washington and Lee men’s basketball
team will have a new head coach.

Following the coming 1994-1995
campaign, head coach Verne Canﬁeld
is retiring as the Generals’ head men’s
basketball coach. Canﬁeld will re-
main at the school as an associate
professor of physical education and as
intramural director. .

Through 30 years of coaching the
General’s front man has accumulated
450 wins against 322 defeats. In-
cluded in the success story are ﬁve
twenty win seasons and eight confer-
ence championships, the last coming
in'1980.

Upon his arrival as head coach in
1964, Canﬁeld took over a team that
had endured seven consecutive losing
seasons. In his inaugural campaign,

the new coach suffered a dismal 2-17
mark. Within three years, however,
Canﬁeld had posted the school’s ﬁrst
twenty win seasons.

During his career, the coach has
been named Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Coach of the Year three
times and NCAA Division III Regional
Coach of the year three times.

Canﬁeld has also served as chair-
man of the ODAC men’s basketball
committee. He is also on the NCAA
Division III regional advisory commit-
tee for rankings and All-America vot-
mg.

The National Association of Bas-
ketball Coaches has awarded Canﬁeld
with the Award of Merit and Award of
Honor.

No replacement has been named as
yet for the veteran coach. In his last
four seasons, Canﬁeld has suffered los-
ing records with his last 20 win year
coming in 1988-89.

By KEITH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

Scoreboard update: Lee-6, Jack-
son-1.

Washington & Lee’s men’s la-
crosse team concluded the 1994 sea-
son on a winning note, beating Vir-
ginia Military in the seventh annual
Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic by the
closest margin in ﬁve years, 12-10.

Washington & Lee (9-5) has now
won the last six cross-town Classics.
The one-sidedness of recent Lee-
Jacksons and the early threat of rain
were likely reasons the game was wit-
nessed by just 1500 fans, half of last
year’s attendance.

The mixed crowd of VMI and W&L
supporters, though, were treated to
the most exciting battle between the
Lexington rivals since W&L’s 1989
10-9 overtime win at VMl’s Alumni
Memorial Field.

“It was a shame anyone had to lose
it,” said VMI coach Doug Bartlett.
“Both teams played very well.”

Bartlett’s Keydets (6-7) jumped
ahead early on mid fielder John
Ripley’s goal four minutes into play.
David Belﬁore made it 2-0 51 seconds
later.

Last year, the Generals hit the back
of VMl’s net nine times before the
first Keydet goal. Saturday, the
Keydets let it be known early on that
this year’s game would be a much
tougher battle for the team that has
dominated the series.

“It’s a no-win situation for us,”
said Generals’ coach Jim Stagnitta.
“We’re expected to win.”

Helped by two of sophomore Ande
Jenkins’ four goals, the Generals
fought back and the ﬁrst quarter of
play ended with the teams knotted at
4-4.

Adefense-dominated second-quar-
ter concluded with W&L taking a 6-5
lead into the lockerroom. One of the
VMI heroes to that point was sopho-
more goalie Ryan Olson, who several
times had stopped point-blank W&L
shots.

“He played well,” Bartlett said.
“He’s done a good job for us all year.”

After the Keydets managed a third-
quarter tie at seven, junior Scott
Mackley fed Jenkins on a two—man
extra-man opportunity for the first of
four straight Generals’ goals, three
coming in the opening minutes of the
ﬁnal period.

“The experienced kids took over,”
said Stagnitta. “[Colin] Higgins,
Duncan [Slidell], Andy Dutton, and,

Lee-Jackson goes to W&L ,

  
  
     
   
   
     
    
        
   
 
    

C
J

MAY 13, 1’

File photo

 
    
       
 

    
 
   

hell of a game. It was reagexc

71

     
     
   
  

Alums around the nation c
ebrated the win over their are
rival as the Generals climbed
the number-3 ranking. Only
pair of College Division power
Towson State and Cortland Sta
seemed to stand betweer9W&'
and their second straig
undefeated regular season.

Towson State proved to I
the best team the Generals wou
face in the regular season. Wfi
excellent ball-handlers and ti
mendous speed, Towsoritrad

iv See LAX, page 10

   
     

 
 
 
  

   
     
 

 
 
   
   

 
    
   
 

  
 

 

E

Fiaqsht

   

Since losing the series opener to VMI, the General ha
taken the last six Lee-Jackson lacrosse games. This ye
contest was the closest in five years.

of course, Jenkins.”

At that point, the game seemed to
mirror many previous Lee-Jackson
Classics--close for 40 minutes, then
dominated by the Generals. This time,
VMI was not about to fold.

Trailing 12-8 following a Higgins
goal with 5:39 to play, VMI notched

. the next two.

When Joe Brockman beat W&L
freshman goalie Doug Gubner with
1:59 left to play, the Keydets were
within two and the crowd could sense
a great ﬁnish.

Itwas not to be, though, as the W&L
defense held off a VMI extra-man op-
portunity with a minute-and-a-half to
go and then controlled the ball until the
end.

“I had confidence we were going to
stop them [on the extra-man opportu-
nity],” Stagnitta said. ‘‘In those situa-
tions, I always think we’re going to
win.”

Stagnitta, who earned his 50th win
in his ﬁve season as W&L coach with
the victory, felt the Generals were not
at their best following the previous
week’s overtime loss to Washington
College, a defeat that kept W&L out of

the NCAA Tournament.

“I think we were a little ﬂat, ..
VMI is a much improved tea ,”
said. “We played in spurts and ere I
consistent for four quarters.”

Washington & Lee ﬁnishes the ’
season with their ﬁfth straight year
at least nine wins and a top 16 rank’
under Stagnitta. The ﬁnal USILA -
placed the Generals llth.

With Higgins and back-urﬁgo.
David Jonestheonly seniors on W& '
roster, Stagnitta is looking forwarc
next year.

“Saturday was the last time I’ll -
we’re a young team,” he said. “'
days of being a young, inexperient
team are over.” 0

While the Generals had to rep]
nine of last year’s starters this sea s
Higgins (24 goals, 21 assists) will
the lone starter leaving the team.

With a strong incoming fresh
class on the way, the Generals are
ready making post season plnns
’95

  

   
 
  
  

  

  

  

  

 
 
  

  
    

 
 

  

“We’re excited [about next seaso «
said Stagnitta. “Afterthe [VMI] ga
the kids immediately started point‘
to next year.”

  

  

  

   

OLUME 93, NO. 29
O

 5  aims/ivF%Es217Y
L.t...v..=:\=e::;r;ml. w. amen ,

my’   1994

Take a canoe trip

to Green Land

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Car wreck injures two

Photo by Ethan Krupp, The Ring-(um Phi

Rescuers treated two people Tuesday evening after this 1983 Toyota Supra smashed into a tele-
phone pole in front of the Warner Center. Samuel Molasco, 23, was driving. He and his passenger,
20-year-old Carmen Pomas-Garcia, suffered only minor bumps and bruises in the accident. Ru-
Ears ﬂooded the campus that Molasco tried to hide a case of beer and pull Pomas-Garcia into the
'ver’s seat before police arrived. Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard could not confirm these
rumors but did say Molasco was charged with driving under the inﬂuence. Both Molasco and
Pomas-Gracia are local residents. '

113 law students face future

By .lENNll-‘ER LATHAM -

Phi Staff Writer

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MAY 20, 1994

W&L Delt to
recolonize

By SARAH GILBERT
Phi Executive Editor

After a slow recovery from an 18-month sus-
pension, the Washington and Lee Delta Tau Delta
House Corporation has decided to petition the
national headquarters for permission to dissolve
the current fraternity and begin again next year
with new members.

Delt House Corporation President Geoff Stone,
‘68, was instrumental in the decision and will be
part of the discussion with Delt nationals.

“We are working to do the best we can for the
fraternity, the alumni, the university and the na-
tional corporation,” Stone said.

When the Delts returned to campus from an 18-
month suspension last fall, the house had difficulty
during Rush and only initiated two new brothers.

Economic factors, among other things, pushed
the House Corporation to rethink the structure of
W&L’s Delt organization, said Stone.

University treasurer Larry Broomall said, “We
wanted a commitment from the house that wouldn’t
force them out of the market. They agreed to phase
up to full occupancy.”

The house, when full, can hold only 19 brothers.
This year, the minimum occupancy was eight, but
the Delts exceeded the minimum.

Student

Next year, however, the minimum of 12 would
not have been met, because only 11 brothers will
return next year, two of whom have decided to live
off-campus.

Stone said a Rush team from the national orga-
nization would come to campus in the fall if they
agreed to the House Corporation’s proposal.

The team would allow the current brothers to
reapply to the fraternity but would not guarantee
them membership. The team and alumni would
work with the fraternity throughout the year to
insure the group’s strength.

“We told the brothers of the house Monday
night what the situation was,” Stone said. “They
and the university have been very cooperative.”

Associate Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy”
Atkins said that the house corporation would prob-
ably talk with the InterFraternity Council soon, but
he had no final notiﬁcation Thursday afternoon.

“lt’s a decision they have to make that’s been
driven mainly by economics,” Atkins said. “The
consideration is of keeping the house open with the
members they’ve got now.”

Broomall said the university was being as ﬂex-
ible as possible.

“The university doesn’t want to force a frater-
nity out of business,” Broomall said. “If they’re
going to go our, they’re going out for some other
reason.”

injured

Sandy Philipps, Director of Placement
at the law school, said, “It looks like
we’re having a very normal year in terms

1 3 third—year law students have only
ntil Sunday to live it up in Lexington.

With vacation behind them and gradua-

ion approaching, they once again face the

' eal world. Some will begin jobs they found

hrough the Placement Ofﬁce.

Others will take the bar exam on July 27
': nd begin their job searches after test results
in September. If job opportunities
increase as expected, 75 to 80 percent of
I ashington and Lee law graduates will be
__ mployed before summer’s end.

.,

o

S

l

of the number of people with jobs.” But
student employment records will be in-
complete until long after graduation, be-
cause many students are still interview-
ing for law jobs. Others must take the bar
exam before applying for jobs such as
district attorneys and prosecutors.
Philipps said that by the time barexam
results arrive, about 95 percent of law
school graduates usualy have jobs. That
percentage may be even higher, because
many graduates never report their job
ﬁndings to the Placement Office.

Reggie Aggarwal will have a job after
graduation, but he admits competition for
law careers is fierce.

“Even if you go to a good school,” said
Aggarwal, “you still have people who are
top in their classes who still don’t have
jobs.”

Aggarwal said limited availability of law
jobs has affected W&L law students.

“Since the market’s tighter, people are
taking...jobs they might not have taken [be-
fore],” Aggarwal said. “There’s been
a...decrease in the amount of firms recruit-

!» See LAW, page 5

ar tax eliminated by city;

in caraccident

By RICHARD WEAVER
Phi Associate Editor

Washington and Lee junior
Walker Mitchell remains in the
Neuro-Trauma Intensive Care
Ward of Roanoke Memorial Hos-
pital after a head-on wreck on
State Rt. 501 between Buena
Vista and Glasgow on May 13.

Mitchell was heading back to
Lexington after dropping his girl-
friend off in Lynchburg when he
drove through a curve and veered
into the opposite lane.

Mitchell’s car struck a
Chevrolet Blazer driven by
Buena Vista resident Michael
Wheeler,who was carrying three
passengers. The passengers in

Wheeler’s car received only mi-
nor injuries.

The Buena Vista and Glasgow
Rescue Squads used the Jaws of
Life to get Mitchell out of his
1986 Oldsmobile. Mitchell had
been trapped in his car for close
to an hour. He was then taken to
the Roanoke hospital. Mitchell
broke both arms and both legs,
and had to have his spleen re-
moved. Mitchell also suffered
brain hemorrhaging.

Mitchell’s parents, Chaio and
Walker Mitchell, Sr. , ﬂew in from
their home in Madrid, Spain,
when they learned of their son’s
accident.

Thursday afternoon Mrs.
Mitchell said her son’s condition
was improving.

“He’s following all com-
mands. This morning I asked him
to open his mouth and he did,”
Mrs. Mitchell said. “He seems
like he’s going in the right direc-
tion. Now, it’s a question of time
and patience.”

“We have faith, and we pray.
God has listened to our prayers.
I’ll stay here next to Walker until
he gets well,” she said.

“We are asking everyone to
keep praying,” she added.

Charges have not been ﬁled
in the case.

Mitchell’s friends are rally-
ing around him.

Freshman Barton Forman
said, “Everybody knows he will
come through, and we expect him
to recover soon."

ction follows state directive

Students searching for a way
0 avoid the student car tax can
reathe a sigh of relief next year.
ington City Council voted
0 eliminate the controversial
ersonal property tax in a May
1 2 budget meeting.
However, students are still
esponsible for 1 993-94 tax bills.
“This year’s still an obliga-
ion,' City Manager Jon Ellestad

. aid. “These 1993-94 bills are

alid, and we will be aggressive
n collecting them.”
The council’s decision fol-
owed a new Virginia state law
hich prohibits Lexington from
axig student-owned cars regis-
ered outside of Lexington but
till allows the city to tax parent-
)wned cars that are garaged in
ity limits for more than half a
. ear and are not taxed elsewhere.
“Basically, the state legisla-
urebaseliminated the city’s abil-
'ty to collect [only] from cars
wned by students,” Ellestad
said.
Although the city could le-
.- ally continue to tax some par-
ent-owned cars registered out-
sideérof Lexington, Ellestad said
the council decided not to for
everal reasons.
First, it took into account the
egislature’s intentions.
' “Their intention was pretty
clear that they didn’t want uni-
ers'ty communities to collect
he éersonal property tax from
5 any] students,” he explained.

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-tum Phi

Lexington will no longer tax student cars registered outside of Lexington,
thanks to a new Virginia state law and the Lexington City Council.

Second, “it’s a real headache
to collect to begin with,” he said.

For three years, the city has
taxed as many Virginia Military
institute and Washington and Lee
student cars as it could identify.
VMI has provided the city with a
list of student cars each year,
Ellestad said, but W&L has not,
largely because the university ad-
ministration is opposed to the
tax.

As a result, the city has relied
on the eyes of its officers to iden-
tify W&Lstudent cars, and many
eligible cars were not taxed.

Even when cars are identiﬁed
as belonging to W&L students,
Ellestad said, “we get a lot of
nasty letters from parents out-of-
state” who do not want to pay.

The new law would make the
tax even more difficult to collect
now, Ellestad said, because own-
ership would have to be deter-
mined before a tax could be lev-
ied.

Third, Ellestad said the coun-
cil felt to tax a car based solely on
ownership would be unfair to
students who had to pay. The
new law makes the tax inequi-

table, he said.

The city is sorry to see the tax
go, because it did generate a sig-
nificant amount of money for the
fiscally stressed city.

Last year, Ellestad said, the
city collected about $65,000 from
the tax at a rate of $4.25 per $100
of value.

But he is relieved that the con-
troversy between the city and
W&L is resolved.

Of course, the city will con-
tinue to tax all cars that are regis-
tered in Lexington regardless of
ownership.

By JENNIFER LAT'HAM
Phi Staff Writer

A man in a silk suit hurries by,
As he catches the poor old lady ’s eyes,
Just for fun he says, ‘get a job. ’

So goes Bruce Hornsby’s tune “The Way It
ls.” Has the man in the silk suit talked to you
lately?

If you are a senior, someone like him prob-
ably has. And you wish he would go away.

“l’ve been sending out graduation announce-
ments, so I’ve been talking to some relatives,”
Heather Aussiker said. “They’re like, ‘So what
are you doing?’ and I’m like, ‘Well, let me tell
you...’. [Then they say,] ‘And your parents are
going for that?’ ‘Yeah, they are.’ Sometimes
you just want to say, ‘Yeah, well, I won the
lottery. Leave me alone.”

Aussiker, like many other seniors, will not
be attending conferences or toting a briefcase
the day after graduation. Instead, she’ll be mov-
ing to New York City, where she plans to
become a bartender, work with an acting coach
and “hopefully be on a soap.”

Although Aussker’s plans differ from the
traditional graduate school/formal job applica-
tion approach, she is'not alone. Beverly Lorig,
associate director of the Career Development
and Placement Office, says the office caters to
seniors who represent every facet of the job
hunting process.

“We are seeing students who are coming to
tell us about accepting offers [and] those people
who are still actively engaged in the job
search.,.some just enjoy spring term and decide
that they’ve made a decision to delay any efforts

Seniors search for jobs

_ internship there last summer. Dominion Post's

or big decisions until later in the term,” Lorig
said.

No matter what direction seniors take, they
will compete for jobs with almost 1.2 million
other American graduates.

Have no fear, however. Last week’s issue of
Fortune magazine cited recent surveys which
showed about 80 percent of recent college gradu-
ates seeking employment get a job within six
months.

Julie Townsend is among the seniors who
discovered this optimistic trend in employment
before graduation. She begins work as a public
accountant at Deloitte & Touche in Washing-
ton, D.C. soon after graduation.

Townsend heard about the position through
the accounting department and CDP. She got an
offer after her on-campus interview with the
company.

“Accounting interviews are in the fall, and I
had accepted before December,” Townsend said.
“The interviews are very organized; it’s not like
hit-or-miss.”

Christina Wheeler also found a job through
CDP. She will work on computer projects as a
staff consultant at Andersen Consulting in
Washington, D.C.

Brennan McBride found a job under differ-
ent circumstances. He became acquainted with
the owner of Dominion Post, a production com-
pany in Arlington, Va., through his journalism

owner was a student of Professor Bob de Maria,
who advised McBride to apply for a video
editing job with the company.

Finding a journalism job is unlike finding
one in most other fields.

to See JOBS, page 5

    BEYOND
THE BLUERIDGE

 

The World '

Israelis pull out of Gaza, give
automony to Palestinians

Israeli troops pulled out of Gaza Wednesday, ending 27
years of occupation. The Palestinian autonomy came 12 days
after troops began pulling out of occupied areas due to the
Palestinian accord. The accord gave the Gaza strip and the

West Bank of Jericho to Palestine.

Marxists claim responsibility
for missile attack in Greece

November 17, a Marxist group, is claiming responsibility
for the missile attack on the offices of International Business
Machines in Greece Wednesday. The attack is the most
recent in a series over the past 45 days against foreign
companies in Greece’s capital by groups opposed to the

presence of Western interests.

The Nation

North Carolina court rules

execution may not be televised

North Carolina ’s highest court refused to let Phil Donahue
televise an execution. A justice on the North Carolina
Supreme Court decided Tuesday that neither the state nor the
U.S. Constitution gives the condemned man or Donahue the
right to tape the execution. Donahue and the condemned
man, who is scheduled to die for murdering a man during a
1980 burglary, said the broadcast would draw attention to
depression and its side effects, which the condemned man

says he suffered from.

Freeway opens after repairs
from earthquake damage

A section of the Golden State Freeway opened Tuesday,
four months after being damaged by a Los Angeles earth-
quake. The construction company that repaired the freeway
was paid $19.5 million plus a $5 million bonus for finishing
33 days early. The earthquake, which measured 6.7 on the

Richter scale, hit January 17.

Amtrak Silver Meteor wrecks,

killing one and injuring 350

In the fifth Amtrak wreck in 14 months, Amtrak’s Silver
Meteor slammed into a trailer containing cat-box litter Mon-
day before dawn in Smithville, North Carolina. All but one
of the Silver Meteor’s 19 cars derailed, killing one and
injuring 350 others. Investigators are looking into the wreck.

Judge orders trial to determine

if Bobbitt is father of child

A New York judge ordered a trial to determine if John
Bobbitt is the father of a 17-month old child in Niagara Falls.
Blood tests indicate Bobbitt is probably the father of 21-year
old Beatrice Williams’ child. Williams is suing for child
support. Bobbitt has made up to $500,000 in publicity

appearances since his wife cut off his penis.

White House to see if Clinton
can be sued for harassment

The White House has asked the Justice Department to
decide if President Clinton can be sued for allegations that
took place before he took office. The president’s lawyer said
he will block a sexual harassment suit with the defense that
a president should not be distracted in office by private legal

action. The suit is filed by a former Arkansas employee.

The State

Senate approves plan for 1800

acre national battlefield park

A Senate panel approved a proposed Shenandoah Valley
National Battlefields park that would designate 10 properties
as Civil War battlefield sites. The park will cover more than
1800 acres. Senators John Warren and Charles S. Robb

initiated the proposal last year.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by Emily

Baker.

 

SixinaRow...

The Rin ' -tum Phi Ma

   
  
  
  
   
  
  

Photo by Patrick Hinely
0

Washington and Lee Men's lacrosse captains (l-r) Colin Higgins, Scott Mackley, and Shaun McKenzie accepted the Lee-
Jackson trophy two Saturdays ago. Lexington Vice-Mayor Tim Goulden presented the trophy following the lacrosse
team’s 12-10 defeat of Virginia Military Institute in the annual city-sponsored event. .

 
 
  
  

Huntley set to retire next week

By ERIN LEONARD
Phi News Editor

English Professor Bob Huntley sat
atop the high stool in his office this
week and pondered his upcoming re-
tirement.

“I’m firmly convinced that young
people learn better from young people,”
the 65-year-old said when asked why
he has chosen now to leave.

“Their points of reference are more
apt to be like,” he explained. “In teach-
ing English, so much has to be analogi-
cal.”

So Huntley and his sheepdog Ollie
will say goodbye next week to his job,
his Payne Hall ofﬁce that overlooks the
front lawn and chapel and his students
as Huntley completes 32 years of Wash-
ington & Lee service.

His students will miss him.

“His retirement will be the biggest
loss to the English department, be-
cause he has so much student loyalty,-”
junior Kelly Brotzman said.

Brotzman has taken three classes
from Huntley, and he is her advisor as
well.

“Students are just drawn to him,”
she said. “He forces them to think about
what they’re doing besides just accept-
ing what a professor says.”

Brotzman spoke of Huntley’s kind,
gentle manner.

Students who know Huntley are
familiar with his casual dress, his gray-
ing beard and his dog Ollie.

“More students know Ollie than
know me,” he said. “l’ve had requests
to leave Ollie behind.”

An interesting fact most students

are not aware of is that Huntley was
the first bearded W&Lprofessor since
Robert E. Lee’s time. '

“An alumnus reported me and my
beard to the Board of Trustees,”
Huntley laughed. He said the issue
was dropped when then History De-
partment Chair Ollinger Crenshaw
remarked to an alum how much
Huntley resembled Lee.

“He was joking, but the alumnus
didn’t know that,” Huntley said.

Huntley also laughed as he de-
scribed how he came to W&L in 1962.

“I blundered into the place really,”
he said.

While teaching at Northern Illinois
University, he came to Virginia to
interview for a position at Hollins
College.

On his way home, he took Route 11
North through Lexington. As he drove
by what is now the Student Telecom-
munications office, he looked to his
left. The Colonnade sat before him the
hill.

‘‘‘Now that’s what a school ought to
look like,’ I thought. So I went and
proffered my services, and l’ve been
here ever since,” Huntley said.

Huntley has accomplished much
during his W&L career, but you will
not hear it from him.

“People do not realize how much
he’s done here, because he doesn’t
trumpet it. He’s too modest,” said En-
glish Professor Ed Craun, a colleague
of Huntley’s for 22 years.

He spoke of the ten or so years that
Huntley served as Dean of Freshmen.

“He was great with freshmen be-
cause above all he really knows how to
listen sympathetically and how to

Senior eludes
police after
hit-and-run

  
 

0

English professor Bob Huntley and his dog, Ollie, are enjoy-

ing their last couple of weeks at W&L

awaken them,” he said.

The same abilities that made Huntley
effective with freshmen carried over to
all students, Craun said.

“I think that students have come to
value him for the way he brings out
their abilities,” Craun said.

“You could say one thing is the way
that he understands the gentle art of
nurturing students as readers and writ-
ers,” he continued.

Junior Leslie Hallett has taken four
classes from Huntley and she agreed.

‘‘I love Professor Huntley.‘He is just
one of the most caring individuals and
one of the most interesting teachers,”
she said.

Huntley said he will miss his stu-

Mock Con committee chosen

By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staff Writer 1

FROM STAFF Rsroms

car

Washington and Lee senior Keith
Brandstedter attempted to elude police Satur-
day after he was involved in a minor car
accident with another W&L student.

Brandstedter rear-ended a car driven by
senior Michelle Brien at 1:30 a.m.in front of
First Team Sports on Nelson Street.

Lexington police officer Hugh Ferguson
arrived at the scene and asked both parties to
remain in their cars while he moved his patrol

It was then that Brandstedter started his car

Caroline Guerin.

Chairman.

The Steering Committee for the 1996 Mock Re-
publican Convention has been selected.

Nine students will compose the committee. Jeff
Zeiger will chair the Media Committee, and Loughlin
Fitzenhagen was selected as Public Relations Chair-
man. The Speakers Committee will be chaired by
Jason Bearden, and Malcolm Burke will head up the
Finance Committee. Susan Foote has command of
the Social Chair, and the Alumni Chairman will be

Additionally, three Vice—Chairman positions were
filled. Aloise Bozell will serve as Media Vice-Chair-
man, Trey Copeland as Speakers Vice-Chairrnan and
Ryan Connely will assist Burke as Finance Vice-

The Speakers Chairman is responsible for secur-
ing national speakers for various events such as the
‘95 Spring Kickoff, student body lectures and ad-
dresses throughout the convention year and for the
actual Convention in March ‘96.

and drove away. Ferguson pursued
Brandstedter. When caught, Brandstedter was
arrested and charged with driving under the
inﬂuence, hit-and-run, and attempting to elude
police. His driving privileges in the state of
Virginia were immediately revoked.

Neither student was harmed in the acci-
dent, and there was minor vehicle damage.
Brien did go to Stonewall Jackson Hospital said.
with lower back pain. She told the Phi this
week that the pain was caused by the force
with which she slammed against the seatbelt.

Brandstedter faces a preliminary court date
on July 12, and if convicted, he could receive
a maximum $2,500 fine and a year in jail for
each charge.

The Media Chairman and Vice-Chairman will
obtain national, state and local press coverage of the
Mock Convention and will disseminate information
to interested parties through news releases, pl'CSS1>l(llS
and regular briefings.

“l’ve always thought the Mock Convention was a
unique and wonderful thing about W&L,” Bozell

Zeiger said his position as Media Chairman will be
an integral part of the Mock Convention because
extensive media coverage makes it easier to get
speakers. He said he did not want to let such a
wonderful opportunity pass him by.

“The rewards and experiences of the Mock Con-
vention are unmatched by anything you get in a
classroom or anywhere,” he said.

 

Bozell said the Media Chairman position enc_om~
passes so much that there was a need for a Vice-
Chairrnan. She said this was the first year a Q’ ice
Chairmanship was offered.

The Public Relations Chairman will distribut
information about the Mock Convention on campus.
in Lexington and in Virginia. He also chairs th
Lexington Business Advisory Committee, a group o
university and city officials who meet several time
before the MC to help coordinate events. .0 .

Finance Chair and Vice-Chair will work in con
junction with the MC Treasurer Ronnie Brown i
organizing fundraisers for both the Steering Commit
tee and the State Delegations. They are responsibl
for planning mass mailings, phonathons and persona
solicitations.

The Alumni Chairman will work with the Firhanc
and Public Relations Committees in order to commu-
nicate with and incorporate alumni into the Moc
Convention.

Guerin said she applied for Alumni Chairman
because her work with the Student Development
Committeetexposed her to many alumni. She sai

there has been talk about getting together a grogp of
alumni to give advice.

She said she had always wanted to be part of Mock
Convention because it was like the real Republican
Convention. She said the Mock Convention provides
valuable experience for people her age.

The Social Chairman will plan the social aspects
of the Spring Kickoff and the Mock Convention as
well as the Presidential Gala. 9

Foote said she applied for Social Chairman be-
cause she had always wanted to be a part of the Mock
Convention.

“l have always been fascinated by the election
process and politics in general,” she said.

Foote said she was interested by the virtual re-
creation of the actual Republican Convention. 9
“lt’s just a strong part of W&L’s tradition.”

  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  

 
  
  
 

 1

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring- Phi

 
   
  
 

dents more than anything else, because?
“they keep you from realizing how ol
you are.”
But he has not considered changing
his mind. 
Huntley plans to spend the next yea‘,
at his beach house on the outer banks oi
North Carolina. ‘»
He said he will paint the house, pac
the library with books from his office“
and relax. "
After that, he will return to his small-
fann a few miles north of Lexington td
live. =
He will not teach, but he does not
want to be too far from Lexingtori
because, as he said, “it’s a good place
to have spent one’s life.” 3

 

 
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   

    
  
  
    
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  

  
   

  
  
  

    

  
 

    
 
 
 
   

  
  
  
 
  
  

  
  
 
 
   

   

 
  

   
  
  

  

  
  
  
 

 

 

I

The Ringtum Phi, May 20, 1994

The Marriage of Figaro opens tonight

Music and theater departments join forces to present a fully staged opera

0

   

joroduce a fully staged opera.

  

, medy by Beaumarchais.

edding day.

 

  

  

   

By KIRK SUsoNG

Phi Movie Reviewer

 
  

  

The Crow _ ﬁikﬁ 1/2

It’s hard to ﬁnd a good action ﬂick these
iays. They’re either pathetic sequels (Predator
’, Higilander 3, Rambo 4) or politically driven
ropaganda pieces (Stephen Segal’s latest).

So, The Crow is a welcome departure from
hat lot, providing a new star (Brandon Lee, son
-f Bruce) with a clever forum for his talent.

Lee plays Eric Draven (get it? "raven" :
crow"? clever, no?), a rock guitarist who is
illecgwith his fiancee by four gang members.
i year later, Draven returns from the cemetery
iiterally tearing up the earth to get out) to
venge their deaths.

And not only is he given a second chance to
i.ve, Draven also gets this neat power which
ill almost instantly heal any wounds he gets,
rgo, e can’t be re-killed.

Lee stalks across the scenes, casting his
rooding and painted glare at everyone (he
rears mime make-up throughout). The bad
uys are very bad, the police are tired and
isillusioned, and the city is dark and moody.
'he plot trots along, with very little to distract
s from the business of revenge (with the ex-
ptitﬁi of a silly sub-plot concerning a street
irl and her mom).

Lee gets shot often, but the audience fails to

  

  

  

  

  

    

   

    

    
 

  

   

 

. By MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Staff Writer

  

My grandmother always said that
then prayer was taken out of the
chools, the moral fiber of this country
, eakfned. Former Vice-President Dan
Quay e, using the example of Murphy
rown, suggested the “cultural elites”
1 the entertainment industry mocked
ditional family values. In The Cul-
re of Disbelieﬁ How American Law
nd Politics Trivialize Religious De-
otion, Stephen L. Carter, William
lelson Cromwell Professor of Law at
ale University, argues that American
iw and secular society deny the right
.f religiously devout people to inter-
ct theirbeliefs into the political arena.
Iarterhas a sound thesis, and he makes
veral valid points throughout the
ool(9However, his argument is ma-

  

  
 
 

   
  
 

   
 

   

 

 

By MELISSA SAWYER AND BUNNY WONG
Phi Features Editors

In an unusual joint effort the Music and Theater Depart-
I ents have teamed up to produce Mozart’s comic master-
.r- iece, TheMarriage ofFigaro. This is the first time in thirty
I ears that the departments have combined their efforts to

zart adapted his theme from the satirical French

The story is the classic tale of Figaro and Susanna’s

ligned by painful contradictions.

His conception of religion as inter-
mediaries which are resistant to the
state is flawed. To make his point, he
frequently refers to the Civil Rights
Movement and its use of religion.

While it is certainly true that King
used Christian theology to preach
against the evils of racism, Carter loses
his credibility when he stretches this
comparison to issues such as abortion,
creationism, and the Branch Davidians
in Waco, Texas.

Furthennore, he fails to create a
balance between respecting the rights
of minority religions and American
law. He is correct in arguing that mi-
nority religions need protection from a
tyranny of the majority. Yet, he fails to
realize that it would be practically im-
possible to make an exception to all
religions. He criticizes the Employ-
mentDivision v. Smith decision where
Supreme Court deemed the drug peyote

‘l/l/@".L ife

These characters, valet and maid to the Count and
Countess, plot with the neglected Countess to shame the

ﬁckle Count into mending his ways.

The Marriage ofFigaro comically plays on politics and
sex in the eighteenth century. Politically, Beaumarchais
original 1778 comedy attracted Mozart and friend Lorenzo
da Ponte. While Beaumarchais’ comedy was dangerous
because it presented society as ready for revolutionary

change, Mozart and Da Ponte seized upon it as the perfect

comic opera.

Still, it would be a controversial gesture. Joseph II of
Austria had banned Beaumarchais’ play before.

Da Ponte, however, managed to convince the Emperor
that all offending passages would be taken out. Cleverly, Da
Ponte and Mozart still managed to work in calls for social
subversion in Figaro.

These behind-the-scenes politics are comically comple-
mented by the sexual antics of the characters. Cherubino,
for example, is a women dressed as a man, and comedy

erupts when Cherubino is dressed up as a woman by the

Publicity Photo
rrayed in eighteenth century garb, Jennifer Ray '94 and Larry

vans rehearse Figaro. Ray plays the role of Susanna and Evans
‘aye Figaro. Evans is a professional singer and Lexington resident,
ho has sung over thrity operatic roles.

tire of his perpetual healing; there
is something inherently thrill-
ing in seeing the good guy con-
found his opponents, -rising just
when they think they have ﬁ-
nally beaten him (q.v. Clint
Eastwood in A Fistﬁtl of Dol-
lars).

However, the real strength of
the movie lies not in its gener-
ally predictable plot, but in the
fresh scripting. The ﬁlm is sim-
ply very pleasant to sit through;
we actually listen to what every-
one says and are rewarded with
clever yet realistic dialogue. The
characters are given witty lines,
but never deliver fake "wise-
cracks in the busy action scenes.

The one complaint I might
register with this ﬁlm (besides
the unnecessary street girl char-
acter) is that the action scenes
aren’t quite up to par. The larg-
est ﬁght scene, when Eric Draven
single-handedly takes on twenty
or more of the city ’s chief wrong-

doers, is ﬁlmed very haphazardly, and as if
under strobe lights. I got the feeling I was
watching something shot in "Confuso-vision."
After having watched many a Van Damme
action ﬂick where the characters are apparently
pulled directly from a hat, the reality and ﬂesh
these are given is quite refreshing. Top Dog, the
arch-villain, is played with just enough human-
ity to make his evil seem so much more real.

 

unsuspecting Susanna
and Countess as a
woman to go meet the
Count.

Figaro, however, is
not just a simple comedy
of sex and politics.

Love, forgiveness

and hurt all interweave
themselves into the mu-
sic, giving Mozart’s
masterpiece both direct
lightheartedness and
complex seriousness.

Many considerthe ﬁ-
nale of Act II to be the
musical triumph of

Figaro.

It chronicles the
fighting Count and
Countess with many
other complications of
plot. Even Mozart was
amazed by the brillaince
of this ﬁnale, according
to Timothy Gaylard.

Starring in Washing-
ton and Lee’s produc-
tion of Figaro are: Jen-
nifer Ray ’94 (Susanna),
Mandy Irons ’95
(Marcelina), Allen
F lickinger ’94 (Bartolo),

Michelle Brien ’94
(Barbarina), and Meagan
Miller ’96 (Countess
Almaviva), among oth-
ers.
The part of Figaro is
being played by Larry
Evans, a professional
singer and Lexington
resident who has sung in
over thirty operatic roles
withanumberofcompa-
mes.

The high concentra-

tion of vocal talent at
W&L this year contrib-
uted to the decision to
put on an opera this year,
especailly so the seniors
would be able to express
their talent to the school
one last time.

Mozart’s demanding
solos require the kind of
vocal range and endur-
ance that W&L's gifted
group ofseniors have this
year.

Dr. Gordon Spice and
Dr. J.D. Martinez made
several changes to the
opera to make the pro-
duction feasible within
the constraints of time
and money. They short-
ened the original story,
decided to sing the opera
in English, and substi-
tuted a piano for a full-
sized orchestra.

A preview show was
held on May 18.

Opening night is to-
night, Friday the 20th.
Additional perfor-
mances are on May 22
and 24.

All performances be-
gin at 8:00 p.m. in the
Keller Theater.

For ticket informa-
tion, call the Lenfest Box
Office.

   

PAGE 3

  
       
 
 
    
 
 
     
        
       
   
    
 
     
     
   
      
    
     
     
     
     
    
     
     
    
     
     
     
     
      
    
     
     
    
    
     
     
     
     
     

           
 
  

 
   

   

BRAND

Ibe CIQW

 

ON LEE

illegal as one that dismisses the beliefs
of Native Americans.

In this case, Carter’s criticism is
valid.

However, what about animal sacri-
ﬁce? Or human sacriﬁce?

Should Americans accommodate
these practices in the name of religious
freedom?

Most Americans certainly would
not.

It may have. been practiced in An-
cient Greece, but it would not be toler-
ated in America.

He further tackles the infamous 1992
Republican National Convention:
“What was wrong with the 1992 Re-
publican Convention was not the ef-
fort to link the name of God to secular
political ends. What was wrong was
the choice of secular ends to which the
name of God was linked.”

The problem stems from politics
leading faith instead of the other way

(Although the credits list Michael Wincott as
the actor who portrays Top Dog, I have sneak-
ing suspicion it is really Anthony Kiedis of the
Red Hot Chili Peppers.)

The agreeable black policeman, Albrecht, is
given life by Ernie Hudson, who does a simi-
larly excellent job of not letting his character
become so easily stereotyped. It would have
been very easy to play this role as the archetypal

 

  he Culture of Disbelief marred by contradictions

around.

Oftentimes, the “political preacher”
ﬁts his religious beliefs into his politics
which Carterconsideis morally wrong.

He also criticizes the notion of a
“Christian Nation” because it is poten-
tially dangerous, particularly in the case
of the Jews.

Ultimately, Carter offers a compel-
ling argument that religious devotion
is relegated to a second-class position
in society.

He gives a clearer deﬁnition of the
Establishment and Free Exercise Clause
in the Constitution.

However, his contradictions fre-
quently get in the way of his occasional
good points.

His concept of religion’s role in
society and the notion of trying to ac-
commodate every religion is uncon-
vincing.

He argues that the state must have a
compelling reason to intervene in the

doughnut-munching beat cop,
whose good ideas are always
ignored by his overly-tense su-
periors.

Rather, the policeman is
kept fresh and alive, typical
not as a stereotype but as a
worthy representative of his
class.

Of course, the ultimate char-
acter in the film is none other
than the Crow himself, Eric
Draven. Unfortunately, what
makes this role come through
so powerfully, what makes this
otherwise typical avengerseem
so immediate and possible is
nothing but the death of Bran-
don Lee.

Only a few days before the
end of ﬁlming, Brandon Lee
was accidentally shot on the
set.

As if the eerie parallels to his
father’s early death weren’t
enough, Lee’s striking similari-
ties to the character Eric Draven

are also troubling. Draven is shot the day before
his wedding and was an aspiring guitarist with
a bright future.

Lee was planning on marrying his girlfriend
(the "Eliza" mentioned in the credits) shortly
after the ﬁlming of the movie was completed,
and of course his own very promising movie
career was cut extremely short.

The knowledge that Lee is dead makes all of

     

his scene’s seem so much more powerful.

Essentially, The Crow is an enjoyable action
picture which should reach beyond the typical
twenty-something male audience.

It is something of a cross between Batman
and Blade Runner, a sort of higher class Under
Siege.

Although it wouldn’t lose much on the small
screen, if you’re at the theater and don’t have
your mind set on a particular ﬁlm, The Crow is
a safe bet. It rates three and one-half stars.

The Rating Scale

ikﬁﬁﬁi} —Go buy this as soon as it comes
out on video. It is an instant classic. “You’ll
laugh; you’ll cry; and maybe,just maybe, you’ll
learn something about yourself."

ﬁﬁﬁﬁ — Go see this ﬁlm now, while it's
still on the bigscreen. It’s worth a few Oscars and
the seven bucks you'll pay if you see it outside
Lexington. Overall, “Better than Cats!”

ﬁﬁﬁ —— Okay, so there have been better
films. Nevertheless, it is a good example of its
genre, and you should probably see it on video-
tape, especially if you are a fan of the actors or
director. Still, probably “Better than Cats!”

skﬁ — It happens to be on HBO, and you’re
blowing off tomorrow’s reading. Although your
time would probably be better served on your
education, it's free and you're bored, so go ahead
and watch it.

21} — Even ifit's free and your best friend said
he never laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks.
Don't waste yourtime, or at least don't waste it on

     
       
      

        
        
    

     
       
     
      
    
    
     
        
       
     

 
    
        
      
        
         
        
          
     

this. (There's always MTV.)

 

   

free exercise of
a particular reli-
gion.

Yet, he never
gives any guide-
lines by which
to judgeastate’s
request. Who
decides?

The reader is
never given a
satisfactory an-
swer.

Overall, his
ideas are imagi-
native and ‘his
subject matter
intriguing.

However,
The Culture of
Disbelief leaves
the reader feel-
ing a little frus-
trated.

  

    

 

O .-

E 7  Rig-ﬂecﬁons of an Amnnaiivé  (inky,

   
        
         
    
 

Arnerican
Law and
q Politics
Trivialize
Religious
Devotion

      
   
     
 

 
    
 
    
      
  
   
  

 
     

 

..../

    

 

 
 

 

  

 

  
     
 

€394 T.'~Z:-.2-.2 Media S¢.":;:cs Int. / Pllrggers. in; AZ R;;'r‘.s Reset‘.-ed.

Colonnade Crossword

ACROSS
1 lndignation
4 Copperfield's
wife
8 Office notes
13 Like the Gobi
14 Retired
15 Place of action
16 Precis of
religious
doctrines
18 Muster
19 Nail polish
20 Without courage
22 Dismounted
24 Singer Tennille
25 Mrs. in Sonora
28 Vientiane's land
30 Motion support
34 Crew members
36 Disappear
gradually
38 ‘'I cannot
tell —"
39 He loved an lrish
Rose
40 Monica of tennis
41 A Turner
42 Hinged fastener Last week’s puzzle solved
43 Snare

44 At no time 7 Let in it

 

@1994 Tribune Media Services. Inc.
All Flights Reserved

45 Sound system 8 Nautical ;
47 Information 9 Do away with
49 Curved letter 10 PeIl-—-
50 God of love 11 Merely
52 Young men 12 Utter
54 Crab. for one ‘I3 Tervlis serve
57 —- del Fuego 17 Cubicles
61 Tibetan monks 21 Bible name
62 Quarrel loudly 23 Eiffel —
64 Upper crust 25 Former rulers 2 5-,
65 Tree trunk 26 Capital of ‘ » ., 1 GUE55 lT'5
protuberance Morocco ll‘ Twig Fog YOUR
66 Great Lake 27 Fragrant herb ..‘ DQQFU5 pn'Cu_
67 Hold back 29 Dieter's dish l \
68 Ninnies 31 Martini item ~. v , _\ .
69 Tried for 32 Baseball teams .   *- i 4&3)
office 33 Cherished ones - —~ ’ .-kg ‘\-
V as Mildly ‘ -j‘,.!‘{/
DOWN disapprove , ' ‘ _,- ‘I /®
1 Persian Gulf 37 Katmandu's I’ ‘I’
country _ land
2 Ms Moreno 40 Send 53 Conduit 58 — avis
3 Plant swelling 44 Lowest point 54 Valley 59 Wreck H O
4 Showy flower 46 Pencil end 55 Discharge 60 Bar drink
5 Kimono sash 48 Spuds 56 Author Richard 61 Directed
6 What's left 51 Hits Henry — 63 Spigot by Jeff Maclllelly

     
   

 
  
   

V ‘hi 
' ’* -1-ll

-__.____.————-

 

A plugger tries to get it.

NON LZ§‘l:lUlTllll

Dave by David Miller

 

W The Ring-tum Phi, May 20,1 3
L 2 Bound & Gagged by Dana Summers I.
off the mark b M k P ' ' by Jeff MacNe1ly  7 U 4 A
Y ar ans:  : Q\.\ q;/ rooolt/lﬁillﬁg-\!0EB:i:lJEE
. WHAT Dovou MEAN, . ti gal 0 ,. ~ 
“w£’RE ALL lN FOR A  —-~‘  K, ‘ . i
  / Swwic-.p; _

 
 
 

 ~ 5/20

:1994.Da~dM-In ungmluorvoa
Du: Yrouuuooasovv-la: lnc

 

DAVE .CoNTlNue6 HI‘; 0NE—MAN CAMPAIGN #
TO MAKE THE WURP "CLuELeS$" A
GENDER SPECIFIC TERM.

   
  

BY
\Vl§J/

77//Nk, l>e<>l>Ll;..1llel<l; N\\l$\’ ea 0M£ oLD
W éITC0N\ u=-Fr um \\l\$t~\"l eeesl ,

meg mo l>~ N©‘llE ‘<21...
\.

   

__._.l

 

      

c‘MoN, GRlMMl.l,
GET 1145 BALL.
QET THE BALL.’
cMON,C1RlMM4’,

xeer me BALL!

  
    

A P06 ls THAT
'1-‘OU CAN NEVER CALL’
IN SICK.

    
    

 

  

THE PROBLEM wl '
same T” l

  
 
 

 

      

  
 

DOOFUS PITCH IS WHAT
_-I v THE REST OF THE LEAGUE
CALLS YOUR SLIDER.

 

 

Free Room in nice home two
miles from Lexington in exchange for help with
disabled woman. 1994-95 school year. Please call
for details and further information. 463-3346

E R Lclnton

2172 Sycamore Ave.
Buena Vista, Va. (703) 261-1886

I Open 7 Days a week

Lunch Take-Out Mon. - Fri. 11 a.m. - 3 p.m.,
Sat. & Sun. 12 - 3 p.m.
Dinner Take-Out Sun. - Thurs. 3 - 9:30 p.m.,
Fri. & Sat. 3 - 10:30 p.m.
Jain Zhong Kuang Joe, Proprietor

 when you want fresh ﬂowers,
3 professionally designed and

‘ delivered. call us! or, stop in...
we're here to serve you.

/'/m\\‘ Your
( l Professional
I \\ /‘ Florist

ﬂorlet to The Homestead

      

  

cstaurclnt ﬁg

gﬂllllrlllltutilltn Ellllltatlt at tllle \
Elﬁillllltllll mutt Qrlllllttttz

Fri., May 20 — Roger Day
Sat, May 21 - Wildgrass

 

4-E4--‘I474

3{mhn.15'I"3ﬁ,.Tl1urs., May  - Tom Goodrich
L

3 cover, starts at 9:30 J

Rider needed to carpool to

James Madison University

in the fall of 1994.
Call 463-3346

— Now Showing —-0
Bad Glrls‘

M

  

Valley

   

HARDWARE STORES

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon.- Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 41-5 p.m.

 

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

  
   

GOING OUT OF
BUSINESS

SALE!

CRAFTS PLUS, INC.

GAMES, HOBBIES & CRAFTS SUPPLIES

Everything Marked Down

A No Checks No Layaways
No Charge Cards 0 No Returns

Trains, Games, Models,
Beads, Basket Making Supplies, Doll Parts.
Much More In Craft and Hobby Supplies.

Open Monday thru Saturday 10-5
31 S. Main St. Lexin on 463-3355

Daily 7:00 & 9:20 Rated R
Sat. & Sun. 2:30, 4:40,
7:00 & 9:20 p.m.

Guarding Toss
Daily 7:15 p.m. Rated PG-13 ’
Sat. & Sun. 2:15 & 7:15 p.m.

Blue Chip:

Daily 9:30 p.m. Rated PG-13
Sat. & Sun. 4:45 & 9:30 p.m.

 

2614-7292
@275 Beech Ave., Buena Vlsta

End of School SALE!

20% Off Storewide with Student
or Faculty 1. D. until June 4.
All Colleges Welcome.
TGIF Catalog Outlet

17 South Main Street 463-9730
Hours: Mon. - Sat. 10-5:30

 

1'5’?/zé¢'¢

ﬁeatczcazanzf

I
L§_:__lll
Saturday Moming- All U Can Eat Pancakes
A Daily Specials- 24 Hour-A-Day Breakfast
Meals That Cater to Big Appetites
Breakfast Buffet

Friday and Saturday Nights 11 p.m.-4a.m.
Sunday 9 a.m.-2‘p.m.

 

Rt. 11 North 463-3478

Open 24 Hours

 

O

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1994

PAGE 5

Seniors approach job search with different ideas

In» From JOBS, page 1

“You don’t go through the same

ess as you do...working for a bank

or working for some ﬁnancial institu-
tion,” McBride said.

“A lot of it places emphasis on who
you know and who knows you and if
you can network.”

Networking and using alumni con-
t&ts has helped many seniors, Lorig
said.

“Our office is the starting point for
meeting alumni,” she said. “Most
people will ﬁnd their jobs through per-
sonal leads or referrals or direct appli-
cation, so it’s important that our stu-
Qnts use the total alumni base as an
opportunity to develop jobs.”

McBride says he owes his job offer
in part to both networking and luck.

“I just happened to be foitunate...this
kind of just fell in my lap,” he said.

I, What about those who aren’t so
liptky?

0 Commitment and persistence often
pay off in job-searching.

Grant Rea, whom Bank One of Lou-
isville, Ky., hired as a management
trainee, visited the company several

times.

. “I basically went there and spent a
day speaking with people and inter-
viewing, and I did that on four separate
occasions,” Rea said.

Wheeler got her staff consultant
position through perseverence.

“I sent my resume in, and then it V

came back, and I was an alternate,”
Wheeler said. “I called the guy and
said, ‘Look, I’m an alternate, and I
don’t want to be an alternate.’ So he
gave me an interview, and then I got an
office visit...I got the offer about two
weeks later.”

Like Wheeler, ownsend relied on
an interview to get her job. Townsend
described her pre—interview jitters.

“I was extremely nervous,” she said.
“I don ’t know why I thought they would
ask me questions that I wouldn’t know
the answers to. All they’re doing is
asking you to talk...about yourself.”

Townsend offered advice from her
experience.

“The best thing you can do is to
have conﬁdence and to show conﬁ-
dence,” she said.

Wheeler recalled one interview she
had that did not lead to an offer.

“I went into Wachovia Bank for an
ofﬁce visit, and I thought I had wow’ed
them,” she said. “I had read the paper.
I had picked up stuff on derivatives,
and I knew Wachovia did a lot of work
with derivatives. I got a letter that said
they didn’t have any openings.”

Her advice:

“Really look at your interview and
say, ‘Okay, maybe I...need to tone it
down a little bit,’” Wheeler said. “The
best thing is talking to someone...your
advisor, a professor...maybe they’ll go
through with you and help you on some
points.”

Wheeler also gave advice on inter-
view preparation.

“You just cannot be afraid of rejec-
tion. You have to be determined and
persistent. You have to go into [the
interview] and say, ‘All right, they may
say no, but I have to make them realize
that I’m the best thing that they’re
going to get.”’

The career ofﬁce continues to help
students culti-
vate that atti-
tude through
i n t e r v i e w

I wrote a follow-up letter to all those
schools and said, ‘Please send me lit-
erature on your school.’”

After getting no responses, Eastland
visited the career ofﬁce, where she was
told to send a second letter to the
schools. She expected to continue her
job hunt.

“I was very prepared to have my job
search go through the summer,” she
said. “That’s what
the placement
agency told me.
They said, ‘You

workshops will get a job if
even through you stick with it.
spring term. , Workshop ““e"‘,1“"ce If you don’t have
Lorig samba: lS lower in the sprmg a job by gradua-
workshop at- ' all and tion, don’t get
tendance is th.an dunngf th frustrated.’”
lower in the winter tennss S0 e Shortly after
flpringf ﬁhag oﬁice can give students her viii; ft_0 the 
uring a an - - - - reer ice, s e
winter terms, tnorefndlvlduallzed heard from
so the office trammg. D a r I i n g t 0 ii
can give stu- School.
dentsmorein- Although
dividualized McBride had an
training. infonnal interview and never had to

Kathleen Eastland, who will teach
French at Darlington School in Rome,
Ga., used the career ofﬁce to schedule
her interview through the Selective Lib-
eral Arts Consortium. The office staff
also encouraged her to be persistent.

“My resume probably got sent to
almost 30 schools [through SLAC and
other teacher placement agencies], and

 

9 Presidential committee to
discuss applications May 30

send 30 follow-up letters, he offered
advice to students entering the job hunt.

“Forget the summer camps and for-
get the job ﬂipping burgers or working
at the country club. If you want to work
in, say, northern Virginia or D.C., then
you ought to take an internship up there
the summer before you’re going to get
a job,” McBride said.

Manning and Howison
proscribe Gaines facelift

nance so far is too great.

Or, if you like, spend the summer
after graduation looking for a job.

That’s what Becca Reed intends to
do. She had planned to go to graduate
school but decided to begin her job
search instead. In order to avoid the
hassle of leaving W&L for interviews
and diving into corporate waters the
day after graduation, Reed will post-
pone her search.

“To me it seems like most of the
[employers] want you to stai1...right
away, and that’s why I feel more com-
fortable waiting until summer, when I
can go up for interviews whenever I
want to,” Reed said.

She said her parents would like her
to have a job before she graduates but
that they are understanding.

“They always ask me, ‘How’s your
resume coming along?’ and ‘Have you
gone to career development?’...but
they’ve been pretty good about it,”
Reed said.

ive.

“They want to see me succeed and
be happy in whatever I do,” she said.

And Aussiker admits her plans to
tend bar and act in New York are not
concrete.

“This is the plan right now at 6:10
p.m. this evening,” she said last Tues-
day. “It may change in a couple of
minutes. You never know.”

Aussiker intends to “read papers,
see what’s happening, and go to
auditions...pound the pavement.”

Aussiker’s parents are also support- I

If she ﬁnd that theateris not for her,
she may use another idea to get a job.

“Plan B is to go to grad school in
broadcast journalism and be a sports
broadcaster,” she said. “That would be
at 6:15 p.m. That’s the plan.”

Whatevertheir intentions, Lori g said
she hopes that, before they graduate,
seniors will know how to have a good
interview and how to write an effective
resume and cover letter.

Lorig also said networking skills
are important for both men and women
graduates. While W&L men have used
alumni contacts from their fraternities
for many years, the Panhellenic Coun-
cil and the Wiomen’s Forum are recog-
nizing that women need similar con-
tacts and are trying to form a similar
network.

In addition, the CDP ofﬁce will be
open throughout the summer. On June
6, the ofﬁce will move into the old
Sigma Chi house, recently named the
Mattingly House, at Washington Street
and Lee Avenue. Because of the move,
the ofﬁce’s library resources will be
limited during packing the week of
May 30. I

Lorig said graduates often return to
W&L over the summer for help from
CDP.

“We continue to work with gradu-
ates after they leave, but it would be my
hope that seniors would learn the basic
job-hunting skills before they leave so
that the transition of returning home is
not such a challenge.”

Law students
seek jobs in I

0
By PHIL CARROTT

Phi Managing Editor

The presidential search committee has
their work cut out for them. It had about 96
applications and nominations in hand at

Qpress time.

The head of the committee, Professor of
Chemistry William Watt, said he is pleased
with the number of applications recieved.
The committee met for the ﬁrst time May
15.

Watt said the committee is presently

.reading all the applications and will con-
tinue to do so over the summer.

The committee is made up of Professor
of Geology Edgar Spencer, Associate Pro-
fessor of Romance Languages Cecile West-

’ Settle, Professor of Physics Thomas Will-
iams, Professor of Psychology Nancy
“Margand, Professor of Romance Languages

Laurent Boetsch, Professor of Politics Rob-
ert Strong, Professor of Law Andrew
McThenia, Dean of the Commerce School
Larry Peppers, Dean of the Law School
Randall Bezanson, Undergraduate Alumni
Association President Mason New, Law
School Alumni Association President
Charles Tomm, and Student Body President
Robert Tompkins.

Of the applications and nominations, Watt
said about 25% were presently presidents of
other institutions and 30% are vice-presi-
dents. The rest are mixed between non-
academic deans, college professors and
people with some college work. Watt also
said about four or ﬁve alumni are included in
the pool of applications and nominations.

Although he cannot speak speciﬁcally
about the applications or nominations, Watt
said there are “some very good prospects.”

The committee will meet next on May 30
and possibly over the summer.

 

W&L Dining Service
presents. . .

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Staff Writer

The revitalization plan for Gaines Hall will
result in relatively few changes forthe residents
of Gaines.

Aside from renovations to four designated
sorority suites and a Women’s Forum suite, the
only possible change is the possible conversion
of a third floor single room near the Women’s
Forum suite to a lounge/kitchen area.

Dennis Manning, Dean of Freshmen and
Residence Life, said the room would be a
previously detached single room or Resident
Advisor’s room. The room may be “converted
into a food preparation area” available to all
residents of Gaines, Manning said.

The cinder-block walls will not be plastered

over, as previously proposed, because of  :

Plastering the walls would be “prohibitively
expensive,” Dean Manning sid. Other forms of
wall coverings are being looked into for future
years, but the cost of installation and mainte-

   
  

The loft suites for the sororities will undergo
several changes. In each suite there will be an
ofﬁce/storage space, a lounge for members to
visit, a guest room for visiting chapter consult-
ants and a bathroom. -

According to David Howison, Dean of Stu-
dents, the suites will serve as “a kind of multi-
purpose room” for programs that now take
place in the University Center. Sororities will
still have their large chapter meetings in the
University Center.

The Women’s forum has not yet conﬁrmed
what will go into its suite. The group does have
“exactly the same options as the sororities,”
Dean Howison said.

The exact number of Gaines residents for
next year is still unknown. Because of tranfer

. students and students that are even now signing
,up,'--‘»‘.tli"e numbers are still in flux,” Dean Man-

ning said.

There will probably be between 160 and 170
students living in Gaines. The dormitory has a
potential occupancyof roughly 200.

W&L Dining Service

  

I ton, D.C.,

tough market

hr From LAW, page 1

W&L.”

Aggarwal will work for Coopers and
Lybrand in Washington, D.C., doing cor-
porate tax work.

“I feel really...fortunate to have a job,
because it’s really tough out there, espe-
cially if you want to go to a big city,” he
said.

Patti McNemey, ‘94L, was also lucky
enough to get a job in a field of law that
interests her. She will work for the U.S.
Senate Committee on Foreign Relations
as a minority staff member in Washing-

“I’m startingbasically at the bottom
of the committee, but just to get on the
committee...,” McNemey said. “I kind of
feel like it’s a good starting spot.”

   
 

presents . . .

‘Iﬁe Washington Street
Supper Ctuﬁ

    

‘,Tﬁe Wasﬁington Street
Supper C tuﬁ

Sorority
Plan

Eat at the GHQ three times a week and
an occasional Monday meeting.
Wouldn’t the perfect addition to a
sorority meeting be dinner in the GHQ?

Forty-one meals are included in the i
purchase price for fall term, buffet
dinner, soup-and-saladbar and drink
included. Sign up in the Business
Office. For more information call Jerry

Darrell at 463-8596

As an added incentive, the sorority with
the highest percentage of members
signed up gets $100 worth of free long
distance compliments of W&L

telecommunications.

  ’

     
     
     
     
       
       
      

 
  
  

Independent
Plan

Eat at the GHQ three times a Week for
Fall Term and pay only $185 . . . that’s
less than $4.75 per meal.

The GHQ will be open for dinner four
nights a week (Sunday, Tuesday,
Wednesday and Thursday) from 5:30
until 7:00 p.m
The buffet—style dinners include soup

and salad bar and drink. ”

The names of students signed up for this
plan by May 27 will be drawn by lottery
to win oneof four coupons for $25 of
free long distance. Sign up in the
Business Office. For more information
call Jerry Darrell at 463-8596

  

 

    

PAGE 6

Glhl: ‘tiling-tum Iﬂlli

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

The Next President is . . .

The Presidential Search Committee is starting
the long, arduous process of finding out of almost a
hundred applications the ten most qualified people to
be president of this university. Every student on
campus, especially the freshmen should be thinking of
what they would like to see in the next president.

Think of all the changes our out- going president
has brought to this school, the next one could bring
more and they might be undesirable. So please write
letters to the Board of Trustees (who ultimately picks
the president) about what you might want to see in the
next president of Washington and Lee.

The search will continue and they will still be
taking applications and nominations until about
November, when the committee ﬁnally submits their
list of ten lucky people to the board.

This is a lot of time to write in, but the criteria are
going to be set soon. The committee has already
recieved criteria from the board were presented at the
ODK initiation ceremony earlier this year by RectorA.
Stevens Miles.

The board needs to know what the students want
in the person that will be their president after President
Wilson retires from brick-laying.

Write the Board of Trustees or the Presidential
Search Committee (Professor William Watt) and get
involved in the search.

The Weather

The only really controversy on the campus that .
1 can thi.n.1<.0f is. the Weatihet It..i§ past the 1.d¢S.;9f..M,3.X-=’:
and it is cold at night, not just chilly either, it’s been”
cold. .

It is a sad day when you go to Goshen and it is
raining or too cold; Spring term will be close to
worthless if this keeps happening. I especially want
nice weather for the big weekend at Zollman’s. Just
remember, a mini-ice age could begin any minute, then
where would we be?

Quote of the Week—

“Ptutt.”
—Approximately one half of the new IF C
oﬂicers at some point during the last meeting.

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1994 '

 

W’

ALztt:HT‘ , Look. we Au. tzeuevtaeg MHAT’ HAPreo.>er; LAST’ ycltk '
so MAKE $015 you R595»? \/mt. cooeop To -me CASHIER Ame

MA\/155 we (Apt (85? THK TH!-so uubék Twenry

Euc. Ks .

Look back on this year withfearj

The 1993-94 session of Washing-
ton and Lee University is quickly draw-
ing to a close.

In just a few short weeks W&L
students will be finishing up exams,
packing their bags, and heading else-
where for the summer recess. What has
been learned by the W&L student this

trouble seems to stem from the fact that
he really doesn’t seem to care about
foreign policy all that much. It was
reported recently that Clinton went over
a week without a meeting with his top
policy advisors, instead, he was selling
his health care “plan” to the American
public. Remember that old saying, a

 

week he entertains us with a new scan-
dal and a new crisis. When Bill Clinton
told us that he was going to revitalize
the economy, we assumed he meant
more than just the tabloid market. It
seems a bit frightening that the New
York Times is following the leads of the
National Inquirer. There is more to
this president than simple sex
scandals, however: foreign policy,
for example.

Well, perhaps foreign policy isn’t
the best example of the president’s
leadership. Inorder to lead, it is general
advisable to have some sort of policy
first; the president seems not to have
one, or at least a successful one. On the
issue of Haiti, for example, Clinton did
nothing until he was guilted into action
by Robinson’s hunger strike. CIinton’s

' year, and what good product
M has changed in sells itself; it
just one short makes me
year, and my wonder how
first, here good a prod-
at W&L? C.F' uct Mr.
In terms of ~ KUCERA, Clinton and
national news _ ‘ 997 his wife
our president _  I _ M _ a 1  V p _, . _ are peddling.
has certainly . ‘  ’  I’   A’ _._Inaway,I
giveri"u§ inuch“" "' I  V’  ' '  ‘ ' "' justdon’tfeel
to diséu‘ss.‘Each’ right criticiz-

ing the president, it’s sort of like hav-
ing an intellectual battle with an un-
armed man. Thus, I will turn to
more local news, right here in
Lexington, Va:

Our city ﬁnest give the W&L stu-
dent much to think about, usually while
spending a night at the city’s expense.
Which brings me to a poignant ques-
tion; what is the point of the drunk in
public laws? Here is a very real situa-
tion: After a few hours at the Palms or
a local party a W&L student decides to
walk home instead of driving, a re-
sponsible decision by most accounts, a
few minutes later a Lexington police
ofﬁcer picks him up and gives him a
ride  to “county.” It doesn’t seem to
make sense that students are penalized
for making a responsible decision. So

. ‘istrator to plan

much for the police being our friends
as we learned in elementary school 
protect and serve, huh?

On the Hill, W&L students learned
that being a fraternity member is not
safe. If you’re not being assailed as
racist, sexist, perpetrator of a stereo-
type, you’re being ﬁned, penalized, or
chucked off campus. What business is
it of the university, I wonder, to dictate
the social lives of its students. Fratemi-
ties are independent, autonomous, and
above all, voluntary student organiza-
tions, over which the universityshould
have little, if any, control.

The need for social control goes

‘beyond just fljatemities with the hiring ,_ I

9f a new admin: »

W&L social
events. Just what
we all know the
university needs

—— cci———

It doesn ’t seem to

know it.

I would suggest someone who has
spent as little time in academe as pos-
sible and would like to reassert my
objections to possible front runner in
the selection process, President
McCardell of Middlebury; a W&L
alumnus who apparently learned little
about Washington and bee University ’s
traditions while here, if his Middlebury
presidency is any indication. While
president there he has managed to over-
see the expulsion from campus of all
the fraternities and has embroiled Che
college in an ongoing lawsuit, just the
kind of president we need here.

a It is impossible for me to note all the
. . . significant go-
ings-on of W&L
during the past
year, let alone na-
tional and local is-
sues. I have tried,

another of, an ad- during my tenure
ministrator, and make 59”?‘ that studeilts asaPhi columnist,
not only that buta are penalized for makmg topresentissuesof

dean as well. It
seems to me that
any house social
chairman could
do what this new
dean is going to do, though I could
be wrong.

A new president; the selection pro-
cess began this year to ﬁnd a new
president for Washington and Lee. It is
important that W&L students pay at-
tention to this process for if an anti-
tradition president is selected the death
knell would sound for W&L as we

a responsible decision.

relevance to the

Washington and

Lee community.
I have failed

sometimes and

succeeded others, but all in all I hope I
have entertained, educated, and per-
haps enlightened (though I doubt
the latter). I wish all of you a good
summer, and hope to see you again
next fall. I would also like to wish the
graduating class the best of luck as they
go out into the “real world.” Until next
year, best wishes and God Bless.

(J11: ‘iﬁimg-tum Iﬂlli

Executive Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Sarah Gilbert

Managing Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Phil Carrott

Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Richard Weaver

News Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Erin Leonard

Editorial Page Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ethan Krupp

Sports Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Stephen Williard

Features Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Melissa Sawyer, Bunny Wong

Photography Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jeb Tilly

Editorial Page Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .MichaeI Hewlett

Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Ransom James

Assistant Business Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Malcolm Burke

Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Frost Bush

Advertising Assistant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Robert Nelson

Circulation Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Brian Carpenter

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editorand business manager, but The Ring-tum Phi

- is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, Columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.-Advertising does
not reflect the opinion of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes cunent
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Plu‘
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia -
24450
Telephone (703) 462-4060
Fax (703) 462-4059

Politics aside, one last “thank you” '

Well folks, this is it, the last Phi for the year and
my last column, ever.

Over this past year I have tried to use this space to
address those issues I felt
needed the most immediate

are all fantastic (with a few rare exceptions and they
know who they are!). Whether it’s Mrs. Scott in the
President’s Office or Melissa Cox in Journalism,
Mrs. Calkins in the Uni-
versity Center or Mrs. Rice
in the Dean of Students

attention at this University. I
have enjoyed writing this col-
umn and I appreciate the com-
pliments that I received
throughout the year. I know
there are a signiﬁcant number
of faculty, staff, and students
who feel, as I do, that this

 

Office, they are always

P ATRICK there to give you a paper
clip or listen to you com-

MCDERIVIUIT, plain. Each department
994 has one and the “majors”

circle around them like
second mothers. Thanks

University is facing several

critical campus issues as we

move into the next century. However, I am tired of
repeating them as I am sure that the small number of
you who actually read this are tired of hearing
about them.

Instead I am going to be a bit selﬁsh and use this
last column to say, “Thank you” to some of the folks
on campus. These are people that have helped make
my time in Lexington memorable, they are not the
only ones, but if I were to list everyone Sarah would
have to let me take over the ﬁnal issue. Anyway, here
is my list of the most memorable and least often
thanked people at W&L.

W&L SECURITY — Mike, Steve, Melvin,
Larry, Ruth, Shannon, Fred C., Fred R., AI, Joe,
Tony, “Sonny,” and Baner. Any of us who have ever:
needed a ride, had our car “T & T’d,” needed a door
opened, needed help, or even needed a good laugh
know that these are some of the very finest folks on
this campus. They always place the best interest of
the students first and they never let you forget that,
“You can’t park on the ‘yella!’” Thanks for every-
thing —— the “Commissioner.”

REGISTRAR’S OFFICE — Donna, Karen,
Miss Jarvis, and Scott. These folks have taken a lot
from everyone on this campus. They answer our
questions, they collect our forms, and they take our
grief. The next time you’re wondering why they
aren’t always smiling happily when you see them,
consider whether or not you would be smiling if you
had their workload. It’s difﬁcult and they do a hell of
a job! Next time you stop by, try smiling yourself,
then say thank you!

CAMPUS SECRETARIES —- There are too
many to mention but what’s truly amazing is that they

ladies, you’re terriﬁc.
CAREER DEVEL-
OPMENT — Beverly borig, Ruth Lewis, and Vicki
Saunders. Those of you who are not seniors will just
have to trust me that most people here, at one time or
another, probably should have offered to give these
women a small house. Imagine the stress of having to
ﬁnd employment for 400 people every year. Phe-
nomenal is the only word
that comes to mind!
LIBRARY STAFF
—- How many times
have you asked them
where to ﬁnd a book,
magazine, article, etc.?
If you’re like me, more
times than you care to
remember. Some of my
favorites: Tammy at cir-
culation, Yolanda in
Reference, and Mrs.
Brittigan —— the ILL
Queen. Thanks to
them all! I
CO-OP IADIES —
I challenge anyone to
show me a group of people who put up with more
than these women. Many of them have been working
on this campus for years and probably know a lot
more about it than most of us, and yet they rarely even
get a “thank you.” Think about that next time you’re
ordering a chicken ﬁlet. '
INFIRMARY — One last group “thanks” to this
team of professionals. Whether they are saving a life
or repairing a ﬁnger cut, they are always friendly and
always willing to discuss any problem. Working on

from the rest.

—".“*—(C

But, in general we are fortunate
to have people who make this
campus a community, they make it
a place you long to return to and a
place you hate to leave. That’s a
tradition that truly sets us apart

a college campus is not a health care professional-’s
dream, it takes commitment and dedication and these
people have both!

There are also a few folks who should be
thanked individually. ‘

Diane Johnson in thebusiness ofﬁce, always
smiling and pleasant even when you know you’re
driving her crazy. Fontanne Bostic, a genuine W&L
treasure, she has the answer to anything you ever
wanted to know about W&L, but were afraid to ask.
Agnes Gilmore, someone once described her to me
as, “the most beautiful woman on campus,” she’ is
also the most genuine soul I have met here and I am
all the better for it. Larry Broomall, the friendliest
administrator I know, always willing to listen, even
to the smallest problem. Burr Datz, I think everyone
knows and respects “the hardest working man at
Washington and Lee.” Finally, Dean Anne Schroer-
Lamont, probably the most embattled administramr
on the Hill, while also being one of the ﬁnest. She has
worked tirelessly to make this University a better
place and any true W&L
gentleman or lady would
recognize that and say
“hank you.”

All of these people
have been important to
me while I’ve been here.
I am certain that most

 

about these or the count-
less other staff and ad-

out theirown “all-stars,”

our favorites there. But,

in general we are fortu-

nate to have people who make this campus a comma-

nity, they make it a place you long to return to and a

place you hate to leave. That’s a tradition that truly
sets us apart from the rest.

There aren’t many universities where you can

come back for your 25th Reunion and be remem-

bered by the staff as you walk along the colonnade.

That’s unique and it’s one of the things l’ll cherisJ ,

after I’m gone.
Thanks for everything — I will miss it all.

 

students feel the same '

ministrators who make 1.
this place run. Of course
the faculty are not with- f

and I suppose we all have .

  

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1994

OPINION

pos philosophizes one last time

 S1>os’s SPACE

Tom Hespos

.lt’s over. This is the last one, the
absolute last time you will turn to the
editorial pages and find Spos’
Space there.

I have a replacement — Betsy
Green. Treat her nicely. She’s truly a
Girl Scout Gone Bad. Spos knows this
begause he personally shared a bottle
of Jim Beam with her and threw a TV
set off of the Footbridge. It was great.

I almost didn’t write a last column.
I thought that there were too many
topics, queries, issues and the like that
I had blown off during the course of the
las two years that I wished to discuss
;. be ore retiring. Besides, no one really
" cares anyway.

The responses to my column are
.; few and far between, which indicates
- to Spos that he is either doing an im-
peccable job of educating the W&L
I, masses, or no one is listening.
1 East night, however, I went to the
[,Palms and found there were several
‘(people there that wished to take up
’ serious discussion with me on several
 campus issues. “Spos, what do you
'* think about the Heatley case?” or “Spos,
ll what do you think of the EC dinner
pscamdal?” Spos couldn’t believe his
’ears. I came close to dismissing the
{whole thing as a alcohol ﬂashback in-
tduced by all of those bottles of MD
i 20/20 I drank as a pledge.
. ‘) Another young lady actually wanted
, to debate with me about the position I
 haw taken toward the Annual Fund. It
’ was unbelievable. She said she had a
3 great time during her four years at
W&L and that some seniors want to
1 give money to the school right after
T graduation, or even before. Did Spos
' not have a pleasant experience, she

   
  
     
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  

inquired, while a student at W&L?

Of course I did. Just ask the Lexing-
ton Police. Or my fraternity brothers.
Or come to my room at the Delt house,
where I’ll show you pictures of the
time when we ﬂooded the ﬁrst ﬂoor of
my fraternity house and turned the
kitchen into a mammoth version of
“Slip ‘N’ Slide.”

So I explained my views on the
whole Annual Fund thing, making sure
to include my personal opinion that
Mr. Columbia had taken over Wash-
ington Hall, as evidenced by the Watson
Pavilion incident,

returned to his table, had a few more
beers and left for home. Aslwalked the
brief stretch from the Palms to Delt, I
thought perhaps this column had made
some kind of animpacton some people.
I hope that I have had some impact by
calling attention to vital campus is-
sues: the incompetence of those in the
ﬁnancial aid ofﬁce, the sillinessof cam-
pus security, the mysterious “Media-
tor” who handles cases of “improper
conduct,” eventhe departure of Bubba.

It has all been so fun.
“Spos,” some people have asked
me, “will you

Fraternity Renais- write a book
sance,andseveral C ‘ like that Sbar
other things that I ‘W’ *-‘:"" guy did?”
couldn’t mention Betsy Green ’s truly a lam deﬁnitely
because of conﬁ- . not ruling out the
dentiality issues. Glrl Scout G049 Bad‘ possibility.
%Sler(il0uI§1y._ if Spos knows this because h Howevenwith
ro , owrson t e recent popu-
or Wilson knew he persona,”-V shared fl larization of
what resided up- bottle of Jim Beam with W&L: The For-
stairs in the deep- her and threw a TV set eign Student
est corners of . (bookandmovie),
Spos’ brain, they oﬁofthe F 00tbndge- Sbar’s book,

would run him out
of town to elimi-
nate the possibility of blackmail. Inci-
dentally, Howison, you are behind in
your payments —— I want the money
now, or the local press will hear of
the incident stemming from that
wild party at Lenfest’s mansion
last year.)

In any case, the young lady had
missed my column on the Mr. Colum-
bia conspiracy theory and was totally
confused. Not wanting to get into the
specifics of the whole thing, I told her
the basics about Mr. Columbia and
how he represents and is responsible
for any and all instances of corruption,
especially where obscene amounts of
money are concerned.

After our debate was over, Spos

Gj1EEN LAND

Betsy Green

like that.

It ‘all started out innocently enough. I needed to
take a Spring Term P.E. class. So did my friends.
Canoeing sounded like an easy time in the sun. What

was I thinking?

This was exactly what I was thinking when I got
up at six in the morning to stand in line to get the class.
I got to the front of the line and felt triumphant until
W&L canoeing coordinator Cinda Rankin informed
me that the:sixty~ﬁve dollars needed to pay for the
class was due right then and there or I could not sign
up. One of my silly idiosyncrasies is that I do not
carry that much cash on me at six in the morning. I
was about to punch her in the nose when Mr. J.T.
Poole kindly offered to loan me and two other hope-
ful canoers the money to take the class. If you see
J.T., give him a pat on the back for being The Man

   
    
   
  
   
    
   
    
      
  
    
    
   
    
   
   
   
    
   
   
     
   
     
   
   
 

Who Made It Possible.
canoe, which to me seemed a bit odd.

— .

asily die from hypothermia.

r polypropylene.”

My first canoein g class took place in exotic Warner
Cenﬁr. It was there that I met my instructor, Glenn
Rose. I was admittedly not to sure about Glenn at
first. He looked like he had spent his entire life in a

Glenn was intent on warning us about the dangers
of hypothermia. Hypothermia, in its most technical
eﬁnition, is when you get cold and bad things
’ appen. Glenn soberly pointed out that one can

“Most folks think cancers are more likely to die
rom drowning, but only your more experienced
anoers drown that way,” he said, “Most just die from
ypotherrnia, so be sure to wear something wool

The reality of the class began to set in. I could only
ope to one day be good enough so that my death
ould be from drowning! And where in eternal ﬁre
as I going to get a polypropylene outﬁt to wear? In
pite of this, I decided that I liked Glenn.

The canoe livery, where we were to meet for
uture classes, was in that building between Lexing-
on and Buena Vista that is shaped like a coffee pot.
 Better still, Glenn actually lives in the giant

“Start swimming!”
Watching people tip
is especially fun in rap-
ids. Last week, Glenn
informed us that the next
person to lose a paddle
would automatically fail
the class. When Jim
Felton and Kris
Fegenbush appeared to
be hurtling towards their
doom, Jim grinned big
as life and yelled, “I still
have my paddle!
(Gurgle, gurgle)” Kris,
desperately clutchingthe
canoe and trying to avoid

Actually being on the river has been interesting to
say the least. The really fun parts for me have been
watching other people tip their canoes and fall in the
river. This is especially amusing because, as of press
time, I have not tipped...yet. [Editor’s note: Ms.
Green tipped this past Tuesday, aﬂer her deadline. ]
There is nothing more amusing to me than watching
my fellow students wring out their soaking wet
polypropylene (okay, not really) outfits. The ﬁrst
time it happened was rather upsetting for me, mainly
because I hadn’t safely maneuvered that stretch of
river yet‘ and ‘wanted '-to stay dry. ‘One minute
they were fine, the next, Glenn is yelling,

hitting his head on a rock screamed, “Me, too!”
Later, as the hypothemtia set in, they were slightly
less chipper. Kris very somberly said, “Y’all, my
legs are blue. They’re not ordinarily that color.”
Canoeing has not always been so lively. Some-
times you have to make more of it. My canoeing
partner Jessica Antonich and I have decided to make
our canoe into the Bar Boat.
bartender, dipping Margarita glasses into the river to
wet the rims, salting them, and whipping up frozen
drinks in our portable blender. I will be at the bow of
the boat in a French maid outﬁt alternately rowing
and serving drinks. Whoever has most recently
fallen into the river is the ofﬁcial Hypothennia Boat.

Sommersby, and
all other movies
they ﬁlmed here in MetroLex, perhaps
the general public is getting tired of
hearing about our little college nestled
in the mountains. Besides, no one can
understand my jokes, which are based
on W&L culture. For instance, Sbar
joked about Fancy Dress. Spos would
argue that you can’t even begin to
explain FD to the general reading pub-
lic when alcohol prevents you from
even remembering the theme of
the ball.

Setting the book thing aside, I would
like to address the student body one
last time to discuss the most important
issue that has ever been taken up in this
column: the attitude of students toward
campus politics. Spos’ view on this is

simple. Read your newspapers. Get
involved. Know who is doing what and
for what reasons. Last night, someone
told me that it was okay for the EC to
spend $1400 on dinner because they
have worked extremely hard through-
out the year. I told this person that he
was an idiot and that he had missed
point, the point being that the EC had
told several campus organizations that
they were under ﬁnancial constraints
and had to cut budgets this year. You
can’t claim to have been almost broke
one day and then turn around the next
day and blow a huge wad of dough on
dinner at the most expensive restaurant
in town.

This person who upheld the tacki-
ness of the EC is probably an idiot, but
at least he is following campus politics.

Other students just sit back and
watch the administration and other or-
ganizations commitblunderafterblun-
der and they couldn’t care less.

The unenlightened follower of cam-
pus issues is better off than the guy who
never picks up a copy of the campus
newspaper. For this same reason, I
have more respect for the dingalings at
The Spectator. Although their stories
often miss the point, at least they’re
trying, for God’s sake.

l’ve been doing this for over two
years now, and I ’d like to think that my
column has had an effect on people.

Thank you all for your kind (and un- '

kind) responses over the past two-
plus years.

These past four years have been the -

best of my life (despite the fact that Mr.
Columbia is in possession of Washing-
ton Hall, even as I write this).

Please keep the faith and if you see
me in the Palms, or anywhere else for
that matter, please approach me and
speak your mind about something im-
portant, lest I dismiss you as an idiot.
I’ll even buy you a beer.

Canoeing the wild Maury rapids

coffee pot. Like most people, I would kill to live Dan Odenwald and Denis Riva have offered tobethel

First Aid Boat, which is greatly appreciated by the

Miller Time.

Jessica will be the

lection.

 
   
    
    
   

'! Cruikshank, ’94, Martinsburg,
:. — “Drinking at the Palms.”

    

Aki Nichols, ’95, Lynchburg, Va. —
“Tubing down the Maury and basking
out at Goshen.”

‘ terviews and Photos
I y Joe Framptom

Marie Lamb, ’97, Atlanta, Ga. —
“Having as much fun as possible.”

TALKBACK

 

Jessica Wolf, ’96, Baltimore, Md.
“Naked.”

Hypothermia Boat.

Jessica and I are also coordinating canoeing
themes. One week we will be a slave ship and sing
spirituals. Another week we will dress as Vikings.

Nevertheless, we all enjoy the few safe moments
of canoeing peace when faced with the dangers of
rapids. Last week Glenn had us dock our canoes to
scout out the next stretch of river we went through.
To my rather untrained eyes, it seemed_ to be a huge
waterfall, peppered with jagged rocks. We were all,
it was clear, going to die. This was what on our
minds as Glenn rather poiﬁtedly show‘edii1s’ho\“:v his‘
rescue rope worked. Jessica and I ﬁnally mustered

cc ———
The reality of the class began to
set in. I could only hope to one
day be good enough so that my
death would be from drowning!
And where in eternal ﬁre was I
going to get a polypropylene outﬁt
to wear?

up the courage to get in
our canoes and move to
our certain doom. The
waves splashed up over
our heads as we
screamed, “It’s only
worth a ﬁfth of a credit!”
We kept paddling. We
kept screaming. Amaz-
ingly, we survived...dry.

When class is ﬁnally
over every Tuesday, my
friends and I smile at each
other in exhaustion and
contentment. We even
pretend to be glad to help
Glenn’s co-worker Jerry

(who wears a belt buckle the size of my head that says
‘Bluegrass’ on it) load the canoes back onto the bus.
Another spring term adventure is complete. It’s

In a ﬁnal, completely unrelated note, I want to tell
Richard Weaver that he should‘ live in fear. Tom
Hespos has been much too easy on him. I remain
convinced that my collection of the music of Sebastian
the Crab will destroy Richard’s Jackson family col-

But wait! What if people see through my mocking
and realize that all of the insults are just a pathetic
attempt to conceal the deep lust I feel for Richard?
Nah. Spos always got away with it.

Job

Full-time summer job opportu-
nity in the Alumni Ofﬁce. Please
call Jill Straub at 463-8464 for more
information and to apply.

Auditions

Jubibee will be holding audi-
tions on Sunday, May 22 at 2 p.m.
in DuPont Hall. Music is available
on the bulletin board in DuPont.
Auditions are open to all students.
If you have questions, call Melissa
at 464-6788 or Frances at 464-8858.

Bikes

The Lexington Police Depart-
ment has recovered many stolen
bikes. If yours was stolen recently,
please call Brenda Wilson at 463-
2112 to identify your bicycle be-
fore May 31.

Seniors

All seniors are invited to Senior
Night on Wednesday, May 25, at 6
p.m. Professor Cecil will speak.
Afterwards, there will be a class
photo and dinner on the lawn
with Wildgrass.

Police

If you have a house or apartment
in town and would like the Lexing-
ton Police Department to check on it
several times over the summer, give
the dispatcher a call at 463-2112.

Play

The French Department play is
Eugene Ionesco’s Rhinoceros to be
performed on May 24, 25, 26 in
Johnson Theatre at 8 pm. It will be
performed in French. -Tickets are
free to W&L students.

EC’ alum criticizes
Willson- Walker dinner

To the editor:

I was shocked to read in the May 13
issue that the Executive Committee
had spent $1,400 on dinner for new and
old members as well as the White Book
Review Committee members at the
Willson-Walker House.

I served on the EC each of my 4
years at W&L, and I am stunned by the
audacity of this year’s committee. Let
me correct the opinion of next year’s
president, Kevin Webb.

There has never been a tradition of
such waste of the student body’s ﬁ-
nances. Bob Tompkins andlimmy Kull,
as well as this year’s committee, have
done a great injustice to the student
body and should apologize.

While the EC does make food pur-
chases for itself when it is required to

meet during mealtimes and for long
hours (I saw many sunrises from the
committee room) and has informal
gatherings at the beginning and end of
the school year, nothing occurred dur-
ing my tenure which was so disrespect-
ful of the office held.

Mr. Tompkins unwisely has served
as a bad example to next year’s presi-
dent and committee.

I only hope that members of the
student body will lay the blame of
misfeasance on the outgoing commit-
tee and will not think that all Executive
Committees have been or will be irre-
sponsible in the heat of spring term and
graduation.

Andrew Caruthers, ’87
E.C. member, ’83-’87

flbmpkins thanks the
studenflbedyt f0r.dimwr 

To the editor:

I take full responsibility for the Executive Committee’s recent dinner with the
White Book Review Committee at the Willson-Walker House.

I decided it was an appropriate reward for the countless hours of service to the
University that all those present devoted to an issue of paramount importance to

the students of Washington and Lee.

I would like to thank the student body for allowing us to serve them this year’

and for permitting us this indulgence. We had a fantastic time.

Sincerely, .
Bob Tompkins, ’94L

President, Executive Committee of the Student Body

Ariel editor apologizes
for use of artwork

To the editor:

Following the recent distribution of
the Ariel literary magazine, it was
brought to my attention that some of
the art work which was published had
not received the artists’ permission
for publication.

Due to a series of unfortunate acci-
dents at the end of the winter term, I
was unaware of this fact, until now. I
regret this error and hope that it has not
inconvenienced these artists. If this
mistake has brought them offense,

I apologize.

In spite of this incident, I hope that;
you will not forget the honor that has
been extended to you, to be
recognized as one of the best artists at
your university. 1

Please accept my apology and com-
pliments on your splendid, albeit
unsolicited, work.

My humblest regards,
Temple Cone
Ariel Editor-in-Chief

 

Jarrod Aldom, ’95, Pompton Plains,
NJ. — “Living on the edge.”

 

Joe Framptom, ’95, Paducah, Ky.
— “Working on my accent.”

- .-.<.-.~‘.-.c : .- :

 

 -.‘ -. as’; .~.~.-.-4".‘ I-.‘ .. ‘.'  2,7,}. 1.-'..'.;~..~.-.:.'..-‘.:-_*.:- .-.:.;; .2 .-=.=.:.~. :'.-,a.<.. -_

  

 

QT

 

   
      

 
   
 

.1,-/02,, 'lvs,:«:Vi‘E:s:I'l:i:!‘
Force 

 

One I“

HQIRFORCE ONE

PRESIDENT CI.INTON'S HHIR SRLON
 COMES TO LEXINGTON’!

THE HRIRCT-TRE CENTER EOR
POLITICIT-TNS WHO REHILY WRNT
I I TO LOOK GOOD

NEWLY ELECTED EC MEMBERS RND
THE WHITE BOOK REVIEW
‘COMMITTEE WELCOME

PERMS - COLOR - curs -
. STRQIGHTENING  
nu STQRTINGRT $2OO.OO

'HﬂlR FORCE ONE DOES RN OUTSTFINDING
JOB! I RECOMMEND IT TO ﬁll FUTURE EC
COMMITTEES WHO WNFIT TO HRVE NO
MONEY WITH WHICH TO FUND THE CRLYX;
THE R|NG—TUM PHL QND THE $8.52‘
-808 TOMPKINS. EC PRESIDENT

'I THINK IT HHS THE POTENTIFIL FOR
' BECOMING Fl W&L TRFIDITION'
-JIMMY KULL. EC VICE-PRESIDENT

WE ncctpi nu MQJOR
r.19ui3uc...£u.Nns....iNcL.uDINc.  
  MONEY  FROM THE
 ‘HONOR RESERVE
 nccOUNr

pg;  Qndrcw Schneider

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1994

Four years of W&L reﬂections ,

MY VIEW
Meriwether Nichols, ’94

After four years of my life and over
$80,000 of my mother’s hard-eamed
money, l feel entitled and privileged to
do a little summing up. I hope that you,
my fellow members of this unique com-
munity, will indulge me a few lines to
close this open, bleeding gestalt that
has been my college career. I hardly
want to extend that career by spending
more time on this little piece than on
my work so I’m putting brevity above
artistry and skipping the ﬂuid prose for
which The Ring-tum Phi is known. I
hope you enjoy my comments And
please let me know what you think
because I would love to hear front you.

What I will mks about W&L...

C For starters, the friendly and help-
ful graveyard shift in the library, espe-
cially the lady who sets up the coffee
stand during exams.

O The blurred red and green of the
Hill at about 5:30 am on a foggy
March morning.

O The quietude I experience in
Lee Chapel.

0 All of the bricks, even the ones
around the Corral.

O The many millions of dollars
thrown to remedy the “fraternity prob-
lem.” Is the quality of the education
here so high that we could not have
spent the money on creating more pro-
fessorship and scholarships?

C Self-scheduled and re-scheduled
exams.

C The open-door policy of profes-
sors, deans, secretaries, Miss Jarvis...

O The fact that President Wilson
knows me by name.

' 0 My University Card, eventhough
you couldn’t even tell that it’s
mine anymore.

C Bauer, who has, in his under-
standing of my Addictive Poor Parking
Disorder, torn up a multitude of tickets.

O Being able to talk to the likes of
William F. Buckley and Tip O’Neal

while drinking a Beam and coke at a
cocktail party.

C The Honor Code.

0 How pictures of the Colonnade
never get old and tiresome to me.

C The smell of stale beer in frater-
nity houses. Yes, l know I am probably
the only one who has fond memories of
this pre-Renaissance reality.

0 Holt Merchant’s affection for
crazy Southerners.

C The tunnel-like appearance that
the white columns create when one
stands at Newcomb Hall and looks
toward Tucker.

O The wonderful acoustics in the
women’s bathroom off the downstairs
lobby of the Lenfest Center. It sounds
like you’re in a cave if you sing by
the sinks.

O Smoking in the Co-op.

C The view of the Blue Ridge
from Skylark.

C Once a
month at theTrou-
badour, peaking

I will not miss...

0 Dr. Spice “grinning” the tempo
of Shenandoah to the chorus.

O The speaking tradition that spills
over from the boundaries of the
campus into the larger community
of Lexington.

O The homes along Jackson
Avenue.

Q The Dutch lnnmates, i.e. those
students who have observed the time-
honored tradition of living in the Dutch
Inn, an historic building that may just
may as well be considered part of the
W&L campus.

C Running into a startled Professor
Porter in Newcomb Hall around 3:00
am during finals week.

0 How singing a cappella at W&L
requires an open bar or at least a few
cases of beer, even it means getting
kicked out of the Homecoming
parade.

C Some of my
naive freshmen
friends who see

through the sub- me as “queen of
titles to see the _ er-four years of my the subculture.”
naked bodies of life and over $80,000 of Y’all _ there is
foreigners_doirig my mother’s ha,-d_ea,-ned no subculture. _
naughty things in . What I will
far away lands. m0_n_ey: -[feel enatlfd and not miss...
0KhakiPants, pnvlleged to do a little 0 The sea of
khaki pants - anxiousfreshmen
- ’ summing up. - .
khaki pants. guys in khaki
0 Seeing the pants and blue

lack of under-
standing in the
face of a girls’ school girl when you tell

, her you go to W&L. This happens

during one of those awkward “we’re
drunk and in line in a fraternity bath-
room, so let’s bond while we wait”
kind of moments.

C Singing the Swing at lightening
speed and managing to get out
every word.

0 The wooden desks of Robinson
Hall, not to mention Professor Vinson’s
elaborate illustrations that sometimes
grace its chalkboards.

O Professor Duvall’s voice. With
regards toDuvaII and grades, see What

blazers waiting
for the gun shots
that begins their W&L social lives.

O The fact that more thought goes
into the novel use of rebel ﬂags and
Grateful Dead symbols than into the
contemplation of the problem with rape
and sexual assault taking place on this
campus.

O The “bathrooms” at Zollman’s,
parties at Zollman’s, and Zollman’s.

CThosestrange D-halldessertscov-
ered in whipped cream, crushed oreos,
and chocolate sauce that offers no indi-
cation of what is underneath the
whipped cream.

0 Steve from security, who not

only gives me tickets but tows my car.
O The C-school (I ’ve heard there
is one).
Q My black chorus gown, which is,
incidentally, made of a wonderful fab-
ric that is water-resistant. The iﬁter

just beads off!

O A sorority system that was
supposedly going to be “different
and inclusive.”

O Drunk alumni who sleaze on co-
eds and admit support of coeducation
only when coed women flirt with tﬂam.
One drunk alumnus yelled at a Jubibee
at a party at Willson-Walker to “do the
next one topless.”

0 Being looked at like I should be
lynched for suggesting that this univer- .
sity would benefit from changing sorrre
of the traditions that might be datgl (1;
negative, or for even suggesting some
of the traditions might be less than holy
and subject to a form of review. I am
not talking about traditions like the «
Honor Code or the speaking tradition;
or even the Greek system. l am rcfer- '-
ring to such tacitly observed tradi bus’
as date rape and balling guys tha ap-‘
pear different, like maybe someone:
gay or foreign, after the first round of "\
Rush. Believe it or not, but Robert E.
Lee brought a vision of cultural diver- I
sity to this campus when he came here
after the war. Hewanted to unite differ-
ent kinds of people in an acadﬁmic
setting. It seems logical to extend that
vision through ‘expanding social, aca-
demic, and cultural opportunities.

O How Harb’s is different every

time I go in there, with the exception of ,_

the inattentive service. T.
O Expensive hiking boots thatﬁave
never hit a single trail. "
O Co-op coffee.
O The fact that the quality of hous- '

ing found in the MSA and lntemational ’ °’

Club houses pales in comparison to
that found in Red Square.

0 The antiseptic odord of
Gaines Hall.

O Professor Duvall’s quote tests.

C B-hour classes, rehearsals, or reg-
istration deadlines. ~

4_

  For Sale
I Two dorm—sized refrigerators,

a computer cart and other
dorm necessities. Everything is
in excellent condition. For
more information Call Fran at

 

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

I

462.-4103 :

' '—- :
‘ I
~ :

: - I
, I I

   :

-/~_ ~- 7 W x:  . :

Stonewall Square Shoizplng Center I

.. Lexlngton,V I
463-9800 I

~ New Video Cassettes - |
" I.

‘Look Whos Talking Now, Return to 2 Moon
Junction 81 Robocop 5
E

New Music for this Week E     l
  BIG Em) or EASON  

Violent Femmes -— New Time

Boingo ‘ - self-titled

I  0. iVan Morrison - Night i,ri_’San;F.‘r'ancisco
Temple of Boom - Ultra Cow Bass

America - Hot'rr"G1ass
Maverick - soundtrack
and many more.’-

 
    

  
 

    
   

Sun. Noon-1 pun.

     

 
  

Open Mon.-Thurs. 10 a.m-10 puna Fri & Sat. 10a.rn.-ll p.in..

LETTERS

“Baby dean” creates more trouble than it's worth

To the editor:

After speaking with several alumni this weekend,
I would once again like to voice my opposition to the
new “Baby Dean.”

First, there is nothing in this dean’s job descrip-
tionthat/justifres the hiring of a new adrninistrator.
This dean’s primary purpose is to facilitate commu-
nication and coordination between different groups
on campus. This task, however, can easily be handled
within the current administration. It is ludicrous to
suggest that the countless occupants of Washington
Hall are so busy overseeing a campus of 1,600
students that they are incapable of providing the
requisite amount of assistance to the facilitation
effort.

Second, this “dean of fun” will also create a
“master calendar” of all events occurring on campus.
I am dumbfounded as to why the current deans
cannot accomplish this most difficult task.

Third, students who support this new hiring often
cite the need of different social activities. While I
sympathize with their desires, I am dismayed at their

Keep in mind -

willingness to turn immediately to bureaucrats in
solving their problem.

Alexis de Tocqueville once commented on the
difference between his fellow Frenchmen and Ameri-
cans. Frenchmen, he said, turn to centralized govem-
ment as the ﬁrst l'CSOfl;,Al'l1CflC3H3,. however, f'ust
attempt to solve things themselves and only as a last
resort do they turn to centralized authority.

Tocqueville admired the American style, and I
think if he witnessed this debate, he would be sad-
dened at the new American approach to most prob-
lems (as fostered by W&L) — shirk individual re-
sponsibility and turn problems over to someone else
(preferably a professional bureaucrat with a
Masters degree).

As supposed educators of future generations, l
would hope that the administration would strive to

.energize the efforts of students and encourage inno-

vation. Somehow, l do not believe that this “baby
dean” will contribute to those goals.

Fourth, I would much rather see the S 15,000 spent
on hiring new faculty, providing bonuses to those

who already teach, or perhaps adding it to student
financial aid. 4.

Anyone outside of W&L’s administration -
whether that person be a student, a faculty member,
or an alum — will readily point out that the school’s
bureaucracy is becoming too large and should be
trimmed, not fattened.

My final concern is that this position is a “baby
dean.” Logically, babies become adults, and a $13,000
position in 1995 is likely to become a $40,000 one in
a few years. Our administrators disagree with this
scenario, but I see it as realistic.

This new dean will come to W&L, facilitate
communication and create a calendar, wean people
of their initiative, become a “vital” part of the social
life, and create dependence among grpups
around campus. '

By then the “baby” will have reached maturity,
and W&L will be able to welcome one more full-

fledged dean in its ever-growing ranks. ,.

Jimmy Kull, ’94

HAVE A
NICE

SUMMER

. (LOSE-OUT ALIS

Augustzzthruieptcmberio

 

 

uaxnisroii
BIOYGLE

SHOP   I
2'5-t.'.'.“§.'f?a."i.'.i

-cunt-saiuasorvieo
-mi-iipr.oonvuyAvauabin
-Jansponaaganacks
Hoursuon-Frls-ssats-Noon

 

.; . ’
' ‘K The Ring-tum Phi, May 20, 1994 ’  S

GENERALS BY THE NUMBERS

 Talee lhis paper home lo   

v HR RBI
12

  your parenls, who are      gg; ;’ 5

  surely looely people, and   
   lcll lhem lhal lhcy can
 Ieeep up wilh lhe wcele lo  ”

Ty ings
Rus ell Croft
Mackley

wcele happenings of   

Iexinglon and lhose      

Golf

issues which soinspire L;-«en 

many (if your fellow i=;t:;,";;;::,',gl, F18 3:}:

Men’s Tennis

sluclenls wilh a simple .«»...g.u.....,,

Ply W

a er
Robby MacNaughton 14
Chris MacNaughton
c e c . ' Pete Hammond

David Schweppe
Derek Schulze
Andy Horen

.7! lheuwanl lo       
  sulrscrile, which Tm sure  
 lheu will, lell lhem lo  

  seml a check for $30 lo

3 7.0. l3ox 899,
1 ﬂexinglon, Va.. 24450  
 _ . A W&L Copperplate, hand-colored
G and  will ‘ﬁn’, V c W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art
, fecieving "19  every Sculpture by Ron Tunison
  week 0?  new yeah   George Washington pieces
' Week offer Week of big
   papers full of lhe news ﬂu
 meqwanuolenoww FFIWFIMIURRS 

could be lhe lvesi clccsion  ?a’:$,’:?9*g€gz,;,?,:§"'°av
 you ever made.  

i_u
1‘!

Goaltending

/

   
    
     

Last Week: (This Week:

. (J 2 iﬂin —tum t
WTenms— Emory 5, W&L 4 . _ h 9  Men’s Tennis-— NCAA Div. III

(NCAA Team Competmon, for I Individual Championships

5th place) A (05-21- 05-23)

x

PAGE 10 LACROSSE, TRACK, TENNIS, GOLF, BASEBALL MAY 20, 19

O

akr captures Maj or General

Baker, and Anna O’Connor. ,
Ayers also entered the individual portion 0.
the tournament along with Baker. The two
played doubles together in that section as well
The grueling tournament play schedule too}!
its toll, however, as Ayers was defeated in th:

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Sports Editor

 

Usually one tries to avoid clichés in writing,
but the phrase “Saving the best for last,” con-

powerful athletic teams.

By TORY Noro AND

JASON TEETERS
Phi Contributing Writers

Before we begin, let us say
that Steve Williard is a true
“Clipper” fan. Due to technical
difficulties, we have been forced
to talk about the last two weeks
of play and combine our last
two articles into one.

Jason’s pick for the Cup ﬁ-
nals is the Vancouver Bures —
oops the Canucks. The Canucks
steamrolled through the Dallas
Stars. Despite Dallas’ superior
performance against the Blues,
led by law student/former
Gilliam Dorm Counselor Curtis
Joseph, they were no match for
the Canucks.

Trevor Linden and Pavel
Bure led the way to put the only
Texas team out of the playoffs
with a commanding 4-—1 de-
feat in the best of seven series.
The Canucks are facing the
Toronto Maple Leafs in the
Western Conference ﬁnals.

Two Thursday, nights ago,
the Maple Leafs defeated the
Sharks 3——2, in overtime. Mike
Gartner scored the winning goal
to force the decisive seventh

game on the following Satur-
day. This series was a battle of
two rising stars between the
pipes: lrbe “The Wall” and
Felix “The Cat” Potvin.

The Maple Leafs proved to
be too much for the upstart San
Jose Sharks. Tory’s pick for the
Cup ﬁnals is the New Jersey
Devils. The Devs began the
best——of—seven series by drop-
ping the ﬁrst two games to the
Boston Bruins.

Adam Oates, Cam Neely,
and Ray Bourque played well,
but Scott Stevens, Bobby Holik,
Alexander Semak, and Claude
Lemieux rallied the Devils. The
New Jersey club came together
and won the next four games.

The clinching sixth game
was two Wednesdays ago,
which gave the Devils time to
rest before opening the Eastern
Conference Finals series against
their arch-—rivals across the
Hudson River, the New York
Rangers.

The Rangers won the
President’s Cup (best regular
season record) ‘and have not
slowed down in their drive for
the Stanley

Cup. They swept their fel-

    

 

low New ‘Yorkers, the Islanders,
and they beat the Capitals hand-
tily.

With the number one and two
teams in the Eastern Conference
finals, this is a series that you
won’t want to miss as the Rang-
ers attempt to knock off their
third straight team in the com-
petitive Atlantic division.

Now onto the conference ﬁ-
nals, where 'the aforementioned
Vaiico uver Canucks and Toronto
Maple Leafs have evened their
series at one game apiece.

The ﬁrst game went to over-
time with Toronto pulling it out
on a horrible (Harding—esque)
goal. Vancouver’s goaltender,
Kirk McLean, attempted to cut
off a pass outside the crease, near
the circle, and the Toronto skater
easily pushed it pass the ﬂailing
Vancouver goaltender.

Vancouver’s Trevor Linden
scored in the last minute to send
the game to OT. Toronto was led
by Dimitri Mironov with two
goals.

Game Two was equally hard‘

fought. Feisty Jyrki Lumme
scored the game winner late in
the third period to secure
Vancouver’s victory in the see—

. FILE PHOT
Through three years, Baker has provided the punch for one of W&L’s most

last Major General.

saw battle.

So far, the battle of the super-
stars has been relatively even.
Pavel Bure scored his 10th goal
of the playoffs while Doug
Gilmour had a couple of assists
in Game 2.

The battle of goaltenders has
also been even. Kirk McLean
faced 40 shots, saving 37 while
Felix “The Cat” Potvin faced 39
shots saving 35.

This East/West battle has
Canada electrified seeing who
has the right to play for the Cup.
While two Canadian teams ﬁght
in the Western Conference ﬁ-
nals, two American teams are
skating in the “Tunnel Series”
for the Eastern Conference title.

By virtue of ending the regu-
lar season as the best team in
hockey, New York earned home
ice advantage. The Devils gave
a shocker to the Rangers by win-
ning their ﬁrst game in seven
outings in the ’93—’94 season
with a big win in Madison Square
Garden in game 1.

The Devils looked to loose
that ﬁrst game as they were down
by a goal late in the third period.
With one minute left in the game,
Coach Jacques Lemaire pulled

stantly comes to mind with respect to this year’s

Throughout the spring, junior Marilyn Baker
has methodically gone about the business of
amassing victories. Now that the dust has ﬁ-
nally settled, the standout tennis star holds a
new school record for wins in a season (28) and
is just six victories shy of the career mark. age

The W&L women’s tennis team as a unit
made itself one of the best squads at the school
as well. The women rode a wave of success to
22 victories against only two defeats, both of
those coming in the NCAA tournament. The 22
victories marked a school record for the team.

The team lost to Emory ﬁve to four in the
ﬁfth place match, but the team accomplish-
ments remain formidable. This was their first
tournament appearance since 1991 as a team.
Along with this achievement, the team could
boast three 20 match winners in Julie Ayers,

Tory and Jason return to hockey news ~

rookie goalie Martin Brodeur to
gain a sixth attacker. The plan
worked and the Devils scored
with under one minute left to
send the game into overtime. Half
way through the second OT pe-
riod the Devils scored the game
winning goal.

New Jersey’s fortunes were
quite different in game two. The
team couldn’t seem to do any-
thing right. When any team plays
as badly as the Devils did on
Tuesday, the goalie cannot hold
out forever. Chris Terreri was
shelled and the Rangers shut the
Devils out four to zero.

Last night’s game in the New
Jersey Meadowlands’ Brendan
Byme Arena went into its third
overtime period in three games.
Graves and Larmer scored for
New York, while Fetisov (his
first playoff goal) and Zelepukiri
scored for New Jersey.

Still, Martin Broduer (60
saves) and Mike Richter (35
saves) have played extremely
well by making more than their
fair share of clutch saves. As a
result, the Devils and Rangers
left regulation in a 2-2 tie.

After a scoreless first over-
time, the Rangers scored a goal

first round and Baker was eliminated in.t
second. In the doubles competition, the p
was defeated by the tournament second see

Success has followed the women’s tenrL
squads consistently through its history. In nin .

_ years of competition, the Generals have accu

mulated 130 wins and a .802 winning percen.;-

With all but one seeded player retumingftl".
Generals look to remain one of the stronge:
squads in the nation again next season.

Baker’s career mark now stands at 69-1
after this year, and she should surpass the
record for career victories early next seasor
With still another year of competition awaiting
Baker has the opportunity to etch her name am
the list of all—time great Washington and Let
athletes. It is for that reason that WLUR and th
Ring—tum Phi proudly salute Marilyn Bakt
has this month’s Major General.

in the second extra period to tak
the game 3-2.

The Devils may have lost th
game in heartbreaking fashioi
but they have the luxury of piaj
ing at home again come Satui‘
day.

We look forward to watchin;
ESPN during this coming wee.‘-
and hope you are enjoying th
conference ﬁnals as much as w
are. "
We’ll be back with anothr
article next week and remembe
“Reality bites, but it will (woulc
bite even hardef’ if John Branan
were writing editorials for botl

the Phi and the Trident.

‘DDlITlli|Dg| tip ifaillll lbelrlmz:

lilhe ll2lilrig|«-ltuilm lDlhii
lhais an lneedl ifelr slpelrlts
\wlrlilt«elrs.. llif your ltlhlilnlk
ltlhailt gvoui lhaixvee lllhe
latent
«C «D um rm lilt it lm -BID ll
wrlilbe lfolr ltlhe lDlhli..
Cfllllll §l[ll3lD|h4BlD \Wli
Ellll «exlt«elnsli«oln 4t<l><f>~l>..
lL«elt js see whailt your
«Carin <l|«o......

an ID dl
it «D

lliailrdl

ﬁle Wgallﬁl
  '/ '1 /;

q¢ 

ﬁwmaéz Jﬁm//ma, mom

mam
e/V 
ﬂmm/W

.%am,

aamz
44%

aeaaaraat/manta
gamma renew, mow-wmmy

tam/tm am M/mm

Qa/ti: g/Mwﬁmqy, hcwé -I 
g  e%’m/at, mum

J’/7w e//ﬁg/‘oz §’1’e»ne/ta/ (Z4 c/‘mien nrmo//té £3; eyﬁ/r/ten ‘WW/1'a/at/a«ro1/«Z/¢'('l/¢ ggtanl

TO

 

   
  
 
  

     
   
 

