he ‘illtng-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

45%;: .,

§‘a,‘G'.’.'_',o;.j7 -.._-p

VOLUME 103, No. 1

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY APRIL 24, 2000

Ellie lﬂht

April 24,
2000

Men’s Lacrosse
wins ODACs

Saturday’s pounding of
Hampden-Sydney sealed
the General’s victory
page 4

Eek! What to
do when your
parents come to

town

How one W&L student
deals with family stress
page 2

What draws
prospectives to
W&L?

Talkback asks the
question to accepted

students
page 2

Baseball heads
to ODACS

With the double-header
sweep of Lynchburg
W&L clinches a spot at
the ODAC tournament
this Saturday
page 4

The f-word.isn’t

a bad word

A W&L student’s
explanation on why the
word feminism is not to be
thought of as scary
page 2

“No worries!”

Learn what this means and
other fun facts about
Australia from W&L’s Wind
Ensemble
page 3

Sophomore
Sarah Schmidt
takes home 1st in
javelin ODACS
for year number
two

Find out more about the
ODAC track meet
page 4

Accepted students take over Washngton & Lee

By Alexis Yee-Garcia

NEWS EDITOR

Over 200 high school students from
all over the country descended upon
Washington and Lee on Friday for
Accepted Student Visitation Day.
Students and their families came from
as far away as California to view the
school and talk to current students and
faculty in hopes of making their college
decision easier.

Most students arrived on Thursday
evening and spent the night with a
freshman host in the dorms. President
John Elrod welcomed the prospectives
on Friday morning, describing the
many advantages of the honor system
and a W&L education.

“He talked a lot about Robert E. Lee
and gentlemanly behavior,” said
Heather Bane, a visiting senior from
Troutville, VA.

Members of the Student
Recruitment Committee also met with
the visiting seniors at a lunch held
after President Elrod’s speech.

“I can deﬁnitely say they were all
really nice and very friendly” said
Junior Nathan Urquhart, SRC
Chairman. “It was also a much more
diverse group than we usually get,
which was really good.”

Representatives from academic
departments spoke to the students as
a group and met with interested
individuals to introduce the special
programs available at W&L.

“The head of the [Shepherd]
Poverty Program met with me and told
me they even have a community
service program in Roanoke that starts
in the summer for incoming freshmen,”
said Bane.

Each visiting student had their own

personalized schedule for the day built
around their anticipated major and
potential extracurricular activities.
Students interested in playing varsity
sports at W&L had individual
meetings arranged with the coaches
to learn more about the programs
available. Lauren Taxter, a visiting
senior from Dublin, OH, met with
Coach Janine Hathorn to discuss
women’s lacrosse.

“It’s easier to get excited about
sports when you meet the coach and
they’re happy about their team and
their job,” said Taxter.

Despite having an extra person to
take care of for up to three days,
freshman hosts had no complaints
about sharing their lives and dorm
rooms with the visiting seniors.
Freshman Blake Jones, Taxter’s host,
and roommate Lee Kirven were happy
to open their room and welcome Taxter
to W&L, even though it meant Jones
had to give up her bed and sleep on
the ﬂoor in a friend’s room. Taxter
even skipped the class scheduled for
her to attend classes with Jones
instead.

“Originially she was supposed to
go to a politics class, but she didn’t
really know anyone that was going
and it wasn’t really a subject she was
interested in, so she just came with
me,” said Jones. “I think she was a
little overwhelmed [by my class] but it
turned out ﬁne.” , _

Though admissions provided a
schedule for the visiting students
during the day, the freshman hosts

. were responsible for showing off more

of the non-academic aspects of the
school. Freshmen Meredith King and
Patrice Wedderburn gave their
prospective students an insider’s tour

photo by Tiffany Freidel/Photo Editor

WHICH WAY To THE LIBRARY? Accepted students and their families roam the campus during
Accepted Students Visitation Day on Friday.

of the freshman dorms and later took
them to the MSA D.J. party in the GHQ.
Sigma Chi’s Derby Days and other
spring term festivities also provided
plenty of opportunities for visiting
students to explore the W&L social
scene. .

“Blake took her to Pole House [:1

brothers],’’ said Kirven. ‘‘I talked to
her when she got back and she said
she had a good time.”

SRC members and admissions staff
also felt that the visiting students had
a good time and considered the day to

be a success though they hope for

more involvement from the student

“What really worked well was that
a lot of students who had already
[decided to come to W &L] still came
and made it more exciting for the
students who weren’t sure,” said
Urquhart. “I think a lot of the students
who weren’t sure found out what the
real W&L was like. It was a good

country house owned by Sigma Chi bod). next ye”

Two HAND TOUCH. Senior Matt Thurlow and junior Phelps Harmon coach Kappa Delta in Wednesday’s
powderpuff football game against Theta during this year’s Derby Days activities.

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Photo Editor

Illegal drugs found in student’s room

Freshman Robert
Hanawalt faces 5

felony drug charges

Hanawalt was taken to Rockbridge Regional
Jail and was released on a $2,500 bond the same

day.

He faces ﬁve felony charges, including two
counts of distribution of an imitation substance
sold as opium, two counts of distribution of an

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

Freshman Robert Hanawalt was arrested
and charged with ﬁve felony offenses on

Friday, April 7 during exam week.

Hanawalt, from Chesapeake, Virginia, is
charged with dealing imitation opium and
marijuana from his Graharn-Lees dorm room.

According to the Rockbridge Weekly, the
Rockbridge Regional Drug Task Force
obtained a warrant to search the room two
weeks ago. The Task Force searched
Hanawalt’s room around 3 :40 a.m. that Friday.
They recovered 416.5 grams of a substance
Hanawalt was selling as opium, in addition to

a smaller amount of marijuana.

imitation substance on school property, and
one count of distribution of more than one-half
ounce, but less than ﬁve pounds, of marijuana.

W&L’s policy on illegal drugs outlined in
the Student Handbook states that, “students
are adults who are personally responsible for
conforming their behavior to federal, state and
local laws and University policy.”

In the state of Virginia, all ﬁve charges are
felonies, with possession of more than one-half
ounce but less than ﬁve pounds of marijuana
punishable with up to ten years in prison and a

$2,500 ﬁne.

imitation opium.

University administrators will not comment

The Student Handbook does not outline
state laws about possession and sale of

on the matter because it is now being
handled by the judicial system.

University policy on the sale of illegal
drugs is direct referral to the Student
Judiciary Council with the recommendation
of immediate suspension from the Dean of
Students, currently Dean Howison.

In the case of a student arrest for
violation of state and federal drug laws,
the Dean of Students is to review the case
along with the Chairman of the SJC. The
SJC can take no action, besides
suspension of the student, until the
criminal proceedings are carried through.

According to the Student Handbook,
the University, “will conduct an on-going
educational program to acquaint students
with the Commonwealth of Virginia laws
on drugs, with the health dangers of drug
abuse, and with the medical and counseling
resources available for students, [in order
to] promote personal responsibility and
accountability.”

representation of W&L.”

SAB Presents
Kevin Nealon

By Michael Crittenden

F EA TURES EDITOR

Washington and Lee students will be entertained by
the comic stylings of famed comic Kevin Nealon this
Thursday. _

Nealon, most famous for his time on NBC’s “Saturday
Night Live” sketch-comedy show, will be performing in the
Warner Center on Thursday, April 27th at 9 p.m.

The show, being put on by the Student Activities Board,
will be the board’s ﬁrst show of Spring Term. According to
SAB President Dave Levinson, student response has been
great.

“I think that a lot of people are really excited about what
this show is going to be,” Levinson said. “Nealon is a
really big name and I think turnout should be great.”

Nealon’s largest impact on the comic world was during
his time on “Saturday Night Live,” the longest running
sketch-comedy show on network television. He holds the
record for the longest running cast member in SNL history,
and worked with actors like Mike Myers, Dana Carvey,
Chris Farley, Bill Murray and Phil Hartman.

Nealon always had a knack at playing straight
characters who would surprise the audience with a bit
of lunacy or with abject cluelessness. His most well
known role is probably as the anchor for the classic
SNL skit “Weekend Update.” Nealon played the role
with a dry, sometimes sarcastic, but always funny sense
of humor that garnered him a following of loyal fans
around the country.

In addition to his time as an SNL cast member, he has
also been featured in a number of movies including “Happy
Gilmore” (1996), the
“Wedding Singer”
( I998) and “Coneheads”
(1993). He is currently
working on a new ABC
sitcom with Richard
Lewis titled “Hiller and
Diller” that is set to air
this fall.

The choice of a
comic for the SAB is a
step from the standard
SAB schedule in recent
years. Levinson said this was because the current board
wanted to switch things up a bit and do something a little
different for the student body.

“We’ve been tossing around the_ idea of bringing in a
comic for sometime now, and decided the beginning of
spring would be a great time for it,” one SAB member said.
“It will give students an alternative to the bands we always
bring in.” ‘

Tickets for Thursday’s show will be sold this week in
front of the co-op for $8, $10 at the door. Doors will open at
8 p.m. on Thursday, and after a brief opening act at 9,

http://www.capito|int.com/kevin.htm

Nealon will begin perfonning sometime after 9:30. All

students are encouraged to attend.

 

APRIL 24, 2000

Oh‘ii<i1oN

The “t”—Word

The walls didn’t crumble and there
were no protests, despite feminist and
writer Susan Faludi’s presence on cam-
pus last week. I was sure that some-
one would have had a “We still don’t
want girls at W&L unless they are for
entertainment purposes only” sign
somewhere in the audience.

Yes, I went to the speech and I was
glad I did. Faludi proved intelligent
and witty, although she covered a vast
amount of material in her speech. She

I’
spoke about what itmeant to beafemi- jail for a possession charge than for ACCEZEEED
nist nowadays, relations between men committing a crime of incredible bru- “mg

and women, and

the great American writers (even I en-
joy him) and his woman-hating ten-
dencies are overlooked seeing his con-
siderable contributions to American
literature. Yet hating men is somehow
a greater sin than hating women.
Crimes speciﬁcally against women
(like rape, spousal abuse, etc.) are gen-
erally not attacked with the same fe-

rocity in the legal system than being .

caught with an ounce of marijuana. A
man will more likely get more time in

tality and vio-

 

managed to get in
a few cracks about
the media. . The
most important
point, at least in
my opinion, was that “feminist” is not
a dirty word.

I once told my friends that I was a
feminist. They cringed in disgust.
One avidly declared that I wasn’t. He
said, “You don’t hate men!” I replied,
“No, I don’t. But I do believe in equal
wage for equal work.”

Then one of my female friends de-
clared she wasn’t a feminist, even
though she clearly enjoys all the ben-
eﬁts that the Women’s Movement in
the mid-seventies allows her, and she
attends this ﬁne institution which only
went co-ed 15 years ago. But she isn’t
a man hater and wants to start a family
one day, so she’s not a feminist, at
least in her own eyes.

Somewhere along the line, after
women ﬁnally starting climbing the
corporate ladder and making progress
towards civil equality, “feminist” be-
came synonymous with “scary militant

Coffee Talk
Heather McDonald ’01

lence against a
fellow human
being — a
crime that at-
tempts to as-
sert that he is “a man.”

Basically, the playing ﬁeld of Ameri-
can society is not level. Men still have
an upper hand and both men and
women allow the status quo to keep
moving in that direction. Millions of
men and women alike joined forces to
let the world know that just because
someone doesn’t have a penis doesn’t
mean that they aren’t smart enough to
hold certain jobs or positions in soci-
ety.

To me, being a feminist means as-
serting that I have equal civil rights to
any other citizen. Feminism means that
if I want to go out and work, I can —
and if I want to stay at home and raise
ten kids, I can do that, too. It means
that men can have those choices, too,
so that ultimately America can progress
towards a society based on freedom
and equality that our founder outlined
over 200 years ago.

 

Xx  A E as
*\ sTUoCgCml:l D M

          
   

iFiKID Y MOM

 
  

Q’
4901: Q

H 0 $'\'
QTUDENT

Yikes! Mom and dad are hereagain

Be afraid. Be VERY afraid. Even
though you are aware they are coming
to see you, they never fail to ﬁighten
you with their
ghastly loud cack-
les and other means
of harassment.

Am I talking
about the boogie man? Some cheesy
movie monster? Bed bugs? Your least
favorite member of the administration?
No, folks, whatl speak of is far scarier,

The Rambler
Mike Agnello ‘02

same questions he always does but
forgets the answers to. Little bro de-
cides to go through every cabinet in
the kitchen and ar-
range the glasses
and pots so that a
giant spaghetti pot
sits on top of three
wine glasses, breaking them all. Little
sis kindly tries to vacuum, but
winds up burning a hole in the car-
pet and causing a frightening elec-

“A big strong boy like yourself can
handle it,” she said, continuing on one
of her trademark rants. “If I can suffer
through twenty hours of excruciating
labor pains just to bring you into this
world, you can survive this weather
with short sleeves.” There’s not a
whole lot one can say to this.

After nearly going out to eat at
Salerno’s, mom suddenly remembers
that it’s Good Friday and we’re Catho-
lie, so no meat. We go to this place

woke up a sweaty mess. Because of all
the troubles I mentioned I did not get
any sleep until 6 a.m.

As soon as I open my eyes at 11,
the phone rings. I stare at it with hor-
ror, trembling with sweat. I pick it up,
and it’s dad, sounding more cheerful
than I can stand.

“Hey son! Did you get a good
night’s sleep?”

“UGGHHHHHHNOOOHISSSS [in-
sert hacking cough].’’

3.

' .” ’ H fllFld'hld h .. .. . .. . ‘t
llisblall ma." hater l dim lhate m,ell . ope ll y a u l e P6 open t e so scary thatavisit from them will d1s— trical shock when she finds that with a large seafood buffet, my least “Glad to hear it! Would you like to
(in fact, at times I ratherlike them),I m minds of those who heard her speak, . . . . . . , . . . . .
- . . . . . . rupt the very foundation of your life- nasty bit of refuse, the electriccal wire. favorite type of food. I m already sick go on a drive with the famil , travelin
I h h k h V 5
llotalesblan’ and wlllle attlllles some or at east go” emt lll mg" Wlt out our famil Mine came to see me this Morn takes it u on herself to com- from et la a cold and a sore thro t in rando d’ t' t ll
might call me scary, I’m certainly not the Feminist Movement, 40% of the y k d y" . ,  J .g’ ’ .a: . . m ,lre?),j°lls’ no rea y ever
militant W&L O ulation w0uldn,t be here wee en , and even though it s not yet pletely reorganize my clothes and andthe fried oysterslate out of polite doing anything.
What a Shame there,S no equal term That 4g%pw0rked just as hard as the’ oveXfIt’m trying to recover. _ ' books in my bedroom, throwing any- ness came back to haunt me that night. I somehow manage to tell him that I no
, 0 . er my not especially painful, if thing that has long sleeves into a box I was so sick that I didn t even have a lot of work to do and am still
for woman hater’ There 5 always the other 60%) that ls here for the W&L mundane recountin of in s rin and ta in it u announcin that this bother oin out andlwent tral ht to feelin ve in ch nde th w ther
term “misogynist,”but that isn’t com- experience. That alone should be . ’ . . g .y  g . p. g p’ g . . g g . . 5 lg g ry ll ‘u r e eai ’
. . . break in Austrailia, my family disap— will go into storage the following day. bed at 9 on a Friday night. I had a both true (so back off, EC). The point of
mollly used unless to descrlbe Emesl ellougll to make us reallze that fem‘ eared to the comers of m a artment “But mom it’s oin to be 45 de- reall sc dream in which Iwas Bill this inane rarnblin '7 Y famil l
Hemlllgway' lllsm — and eqllallty — ls not a bad gad stayed with me and aisked the grees tonight l” I sag-id g Clini/on asltiiapped to a ume and you, and thatcan Eftenibuertiie riobifd/:15 ’
Nevertheless, Hemingway is one of thing. Feminist isn’t adirty word. ’ ' g y’ P ‘
Diversit is key in the market lace of ideas
uote of the Week: . . . y P .  . I . . . *
A5 31311118 Tenn be 1115 this Yeah i look forward to an- to some recent cam us events that have reall disturbed a resident-like ﬁ ure treasurer social committee c. 11 -
8 p y i p g , , et , v
'°the1’ fl-in teilin tiiisd With students taking °ia55o5 the)’ not‘ me: the diversity/inclusion survey that a large portion ing in a former fraternity house with faculty advisers —
{( inaii)’ W01iidnlthaVo the opportunity to — lCia55o5 _iike, of the student body has “randomly” been asked to hmmm, sounds like just another fraternity to me. Of course
H Cy __ lam  I count “The Tambourine and You: A ‘HlSt0I‘lCa‘i‘ PerSpect1Ve,” take — I was immensly offended by this survey for a this one is different because it is being funded by the Uni- }
' ° °Vei')/one 5 taV011t€i1t1ht1an5iat1oh C1355, The Literature number of reasons, not just because the questions it versity so that they can bring in speakers and do service
—— Anonymous junior girl 0fEa5to1’n E111 opoan Basket WeaVing” and soianoe Classes featured were so blatantly aimed at making a student projects. Oh wait, fraternities already do community ser-
for non-masochists. . . I mean majors, like “Reactions in look like a bigot unless they were the paradigm of in- vice projects and foster a good academic environment.
X) G1a1n5 and Yeasts-” clusiveness, but also because some of the individual If the school gave a fraternity a few thousand dollars
A SP1ihg Tenn i5 ai5o a time of fun and 51111 after 311 those questions were so ridiculous. (the rumored amount the Living Learning Center is get- Q
Please Submlt Winte1 doiditiins that haVo been biinging the sohooi 1110- Most questions provided answers that forced the taker ting is $5000), I am sure they would bring in speakers,
_ . iaie d°Wn- F01 f1o5h111en 811)’5 they can once again hang to appear as if they sat on one side of the fence or the too.
Letters to the Edltﬂr out atthoi11e5PoCtiVe fiateinity h0_i15€5 aftaf haPP_Y action other on issues, where I believe most students would fall It seems to me that the only difference this new house
_ . fun time (1-"~ Piedgeship) and trying t0 raise their GPAS into a middle category that the survey didn’t allow for. has over the other fraternities on campus is that its mem-
t0 the Rlng_ tujn Phl back up the iast tWo Weeks ofiast toi1n~ My biggest problem was that bers profess to be against the dominant social scene at »‘
_ . They no longer have forced runs to Stop- space was not given for me to w&L,
Dil°P ‘iii Riioiii 208 University Center In or the pisasufos of“study hail,” the)’   justify answers that I marked, an- If they feel that strongly about how much they hate
can hang out With the guys they met M ha 1 C . d , swers that are undoubtedly go— the “dominant social scene,” I question their motives in
during fall term once again, only this C C mien en 01 ing to be looked at as racist and coming here in the ﬁrst place. Maybe it is just me, but )1
time the)’ haVo t0 Pay foi their own bigoted. One line of questions when I was choosing colleges I looked a school’s aca-
4' 0 0 beer 0nC_e in a While. The bitterncss asked if I would repeat a joke I heard defaming a certain demic and social environments and ﬁnally decided based
I B T  I is gone (111 most Cases, though 501116 seem to be €XPoCt- group of people to my friends. I said yes, but I wish I was on where Iwould ﬁt in the best on both fronts. I didn’t just
1113 Cookies 01 b1oWin65 to be baked for thonl or for able to qualify that with the stipulation “only if the joke go to a college and once there decide I hated the school
their hands to be hsid before they make their Ways back was funny.” and what is was all about and then feel the need to attem t y
P

Executive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Tara Ann Friedel
Mike Crittenden
Brendan Harrington
Heather McDonald
Tiffany Friedel

Lisa Lin

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors
Sports Editor

Copy Editor

Photo Editor
Assistant Photo,Editor

Phi office, room 208 ofthe University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@w/u.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

to the fraternity houses) and freshman guys start to
ﬂex their proverbial muscles.

For freshman girls, they spend as much time as they can
in the BDG quad and out at Goshen, and many fearfully
realize that they need to ﬁt four more trips to the Gaines
weight room in a week to be able to ﬁt into that new sundress
they bought for their sorority formal.

Spring Term is also all about the events that “every-
one” has to go to: Foxﬁeld, Buffalo Creek, Alumni Week-

 

 

“Student—faculty ratio.”
- Franklin Annand ‘O4?

“Tradition!”

Because I was not allowed to stipulate that the joke
had to be funny, my answer comes across as not under-
standing and not inclusive, and that sort of bothers me.
My biggest problem is that the survey results will un-
doubtedly be skewed and interpreted to make us all look
like a bunch of racist, backwards, PC hating, spoiled kids
who like the status quo. This will be a clarion call to put
more funding into new programs for “non-traditional”
activities, organizations and ideas. Ideas like the new

to ruin it for the rest of the students who made a good
decision for themselves.

It seems to me that there are a number of students who
came to Washington and Lee without regard for the char-
acter and history of its institutions, both social and ethical,
and who now expect the rest of us to change the Univer-
sity we love because they wanted something different out
of their college experience. I don’t think that is fair to the
rest of us.

 

 

j-Evan Osborne ’04? be here.”

“All the students are happy to

“W&L Chi-Os are the hottest
in the world!”

- -2

end io5tiVitios, as W611 a5 enough date functions and miX- “Living, Learning Environment” that is taking the place of I fully support there being a wide-range of ideas ex— A’
The Ring-W" PM is Pubiishsd Mondays during tho 615 to kiii a h015o- the Delt House next year. pressed on this campus, however, in recent months there
Undoigraduato school Yoai at Washington and L66 Spring Tenn is a time of tuna t01nto0ioi'Y and new Fo- This leads me to my second complaint: the Living Learn- seems that only ideas that are politically correct in nature
 l;ien):lal:igll0l;;0\[]nAz‘id5ll:ltlilllig f°rdThebR'"$':."m iiiaiictljs — 3 renaissance °iihe Washington and Lee 5Pi_1it- ing Center — 19 guys with a similar interests and ideals count. Even ideas that aren’t politically correct still de-
' p 3', C mg a"_ 5‘? “"9 '°“ For this reason i need to make 8 f6W Comments responding living together with a house-mom-like ﬁgure (sorry Amy), serve to be expressed in the marketplace of ideas. .I
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent. 0 0
      ALI{bak, Why are you interested in W& I J
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the .. ' ‘

 

 

APRIL 24, 2000

By Mary Woodard

vi. STAFF WRITER

Australia! Home of the salad sand-
wich, land of many boomerangs!
On Thursday, April 6, forty some-

9‘ odd students from the Washington

and Lee University Wind Ensemble
piled on to a bus in front of Dupont
Hall to begin one of the longest jour-
neys we have yet to endure. Three

hours by plane to LA, ﬁfteen hours to
Sydney, and an hour and a half ﬂight
to Melbourne.

‘ -A In Melbourne, we were greeted fan-

tastically by our respective host fami-
lies. The Australian people, on the

 

1*»,

hours by bus to D.C., ﬁve and a half '

 

whole, are a genuinely happy lot of
characters. This is even evident in their
speech. Sometimes, when saying
“goodbye”, they will replace this salu-
tation with “no worries.” It was rather
refreshing to be continually bom-
barded by happy people.

It was a bit mind-boggling at times,
but intriguing. I suppose I especially
realized the “information gap” the great
distance between our country and

» theirs has created when I was having a

conversation in Mount Beauty. If you
think Lexington is small town life, you
haven’t come close to imagining Mount
Beauty. You can walk through the cen-
ter of town in three minutes. The
nightlife consists of scooter car racing

“ MARSUPIAL ANYONE? Junior Scott Meister feeds a kangaroo
near Albury, New South Wales.

The Ultimate Internet Gamcshow

Grand Prize $5,000

High Score Month of April

«\V

  
   

photo courtesy of Mary Woodard

 ' @112 ilting-tum ﬂirts

Journey to Oz: The wind ensemble’s spring trip to Australia

and the infamous Workmen’s Club.

So much of Australia is untouched
by civilization, which is really quite
wonderful. They don’t have the great
web of highways, interstates, and
roads that unite the USA. The juxta-
position of different trees across the
grasslands, and their random place-
ments, create an entirely different en-

\ 9:-

t:%~%’§ —

Army College Fund.

Recruiter.

vironment than any country I have
ever visited. I experienced some of
the most amazing sunsets across the
water while sitting on peaceful
beaches that were seemingly un-
touched by human hands.

Life is different “down under.”
They see constellations we cannot
from our vantage point (the famous

 

WE'LL HELP YOU EARN
$50,000 FOR COLLEGE.

Now the Army can help you earn more than
ever before for college, if you qualify...up to
$50,000 with the Montgomery GI Bill plus the

And we’ll help you in other ways, too. You’ll
develop the self-conﬁdence and discipline so impor-
tant to success in college and in a career.

This could be the perfect opportunity to earn
the money you need for college and develop the
qualities that will help you succeed once you get
there. For more information, call your local Army

540-886—2651_

ARMY
BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

E

l:.o«r.’r.r:-.a-r:

Live weeknights - 9:00 p.m. est 0

Play against your friends across the country.

Top 15 players place in the money!

Most

“Southem Cross”). The toilet ﬂushes
the wrong way, even though we know
it’s not really the wrong way, just a
different way. They’re not “tired,”
they’re “stuffed.”

It’s amazing to think that while our
school is 250 years old, their country
is not yet this old. Even though there
are so many differences between the

PAGE 3

two places, they are both wonderfully
the same. I recommend that you go
and see for yourself, if you ever have
the opportunity.

Have a great spring term, mates, and
don’t forget to enjoy yourself- maybe
even “throw a few snags on the
barbie.” Or you could just grill some
hotdogs. No worries!

OC=%

Buenos Aires Lima Santiago London Dublin Paris Nice Copenhagen Stockholm Oslo Amsterdam Berlin Munich Zurich lstanbul

LOW
STUDENT
AIRFARES

Europe 0 Africa 0 Asia - South America
More Than 100 Departure Cities!
Eurailpasses - Bus Passes 0 Study Abroad

student

IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT.

www.StudentUniverse.com

800-272-9676

universe
‘COM

5U0){ 5UOH l|.l|9Q 5JflqS6UUBl.lOf‘ Al/\V]9_]_ E’UO|9OJB8 plJp9W uoqsn MOOSOW MBSJBM 9ll5EJd lsadapng BUUGM QOUSJOH 90lU9/\ SW03

3.
,-r

&L $l’ucl2hl’S  

usealcolol

Based on Wat eon: survell
tlata Irom 1998,1999

Funded IN a grant lrom

mac

Virginia Ilenartment of
Alcoholic Beverage control

 

APRIL 24, 2000

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

SPORTS  

PAGE 4

Men’s lacrosse wins secn straiht championship ’

Generals claim
sixth conference
title in ten years

By Brendan Harrington

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s la- ’

crosse team is headed back to the big
dance.

The Generals clinched their second
straight ODAC title and an automatic
bid into the NCAA tournament with
an impressive 16-2 victory over
Hampden-Sydney on Saturday after-
noon at Wilson Field.

The ﬁﬂh-ranked Generals (12-1, 5-
0 ODAC) led 6-1 at the half and
outscored the Tigers 10-1 in the sec-
ond half to cruise to their ninth straight
victory. Junior attackman Matt Dugan
tallied four goals and two assists to
lead the Generals in what was offen-
sively and defensively a dominating
performance.

“ If our offense and defense to-
gether play the way they’re capable
of playing, it’s going to be a long day
for the other team,” W&L head coach
Jim Stagnitta said. “Today is the first
day in a while that we put the offense
and defense on the same page.”

Along with Dugan, several other
W&L players had outstanding games.
Junior midﬁelders Bernie Norton and
Pope Hackney both had four points.
Norton had three goals and one assist
while Hackney tallied two goals and
two assists. Senior attackmen Chris
Brown and Colin Dougherty each had
three points. Brown had two goals
and one assist and Dougherty had one
goal and two assists.

The blow-out of the Tigers (8-6, 3-

3 ODAC) came ﬁve days after the Gen-
erals survived a scare from Whittier
College on Monday aﬁemoon in game
that was moved from Wilson Field to
the University of Virginia’ 5 artiﬁcial turf
ﬁeld because of rain. The Generals
won 7-4, but the game was tied 4-4 with
just 9:45 left in the fourth quarter.“We
were ready to play Monday against
Whittier,” Stagnitta said. “We domi-
nated 50 of the 60 minutes but we al-
lowed them to stay them in the game
by not shooting well.”

The Generals did anything but
shoot poorly against the Tigers on
Saturday. Brown, Dugan and Hack-
ney all scored goals on amazing shots
that Hampden—Sydney goalie Scott
Fava could only watch go by.

Defensively, the Generals have al-
lowed just nine goals in their last three
games. Along with solid play from the
long-stick defensemen, W&L goalie
Wes Hays has been phenomenal as of
late. In the two games this week, Hays
let in just six goals and had a save per-
centage of .800. “

Right now he’s doing the things
mechanically that he needs to do to
be a good goalie on top of seeing the
ball well,” Stagnitta said. “He’s a great
athlete, and there aren’t many goalies
who are good athletes.”

With the ODAC wrapped up and
along with it a ticket the NCAA touma-
ment, the Generals still have two regu-
lar-season games remaining. W&L
hosts VMI in the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse
Classic next Saturday before traveling
to Randolph-Macon on May 3"‘.

After defeating the Tigers for the
ODAC championship last year, the
Generals just went through thermo-
tions in their ﬁnal two games of the
regular season and were eventually
upset by Dennison in the ﬁrst round

)1

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Photo Editor

BRINGIN’ IT HOME: W&L midﬁelder Bernie Norton gets ready to rifle a shot against Hampden—Sydney. The ﬁfth-ranked Generals
destroyed the Tigers 16-2 to clinch their second straight ODAC title and an automatic bid into the NCAA tournament.

of the NCAA tournament. This year,
Stagnitta has taken a different ap-
proach to the latter half of the season.

“The history of W&L teams has
been to play well early and peak too
early in the season,” Stagnitta said.
“This year our goal is to get better as

Baseball heads to ODACs

the year goes on - and we’re doing that.
We’ve cut down on practice time, and
we’ve done a lot of things to make sure
we’re fresher at this time of the year.”
The Generals will need strong per-
fonnances in their ﬁnal two games to

’ grab one of the top four seeds in what

is now a l6—team NCAA tournament.
Keeping that‘in mind along with last
year’s playoff loss, Stagnitta thinks the
team will have no problem getting
motivated in the ﬁnal two games of
the regular season.

“ Knowing what happened to us in

the playoffs last year alone should be
enough to keep the kids focused,”
Stagnitta said. “We haven’t stepped
on the ﬁeld one day this year when the
kids weren’t excited to be out there. Our
leaders are too good for us to come out
ﬂat.”

 

Double-header sweep of‘
Lynchburg caps playoff run
. . By Mike Weil

STA FF WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball team earned the ﬁ-

S’ nal berth in the ODAC tournament aﬁer sweeping a double-

header from Lynchburg College Saturday afternoon.

Freshman Michael Hanson was the star of game one,
pitching a complete game shutout en route to a 5-0 Gen-
erals victory. »

W&L opened the scoring with two outs in the top of
the fourth, when the Lynchburg second baseman lost a
routine pop ﬂy in the sun. The Generals capitalized on
the mishap by scoring two in the frame. The Generals
would add three more insurance runs in the ﬁnal two
innings to preserve the victory.

Oﬁensively the Generals were led by freshman leﬁﬁelder
Bobby Littlehale and sophomore third baseman Matt
Kozora, each tallying three hits. Hanson struck out ﬁve
without walking a batter in earning the win. ,

Game two brought another excellent pitching perfor-

mance for the Generals, as junior David Sigler tossed an-
other complete game, helping the Generals to a 3-2 victory.

The Hornets scored a run in the bottom of the ﬁrst
inning and kept the lead until the sixth when the Generals
made their move. W&L started their rally with a single by
senior ﬁrst baseman Russell Wrenn. Senior rightﬁelder
Schuyler Marshall then blasted a triple to score pinch run-
ner Jason May, tying the game at one. Senior shortstop
David Hanson then notched an RBI single to give the Gen-
erals a 2-1 lead which they would not relinquish.

Littlehale belted his ﬁrst home run of the season to give
the Generals a 3-1 lead in the top of the seventh, before
Sigler ended a Lynchburg rally to close out the game.

The fourth-seeded Generals (20- l 3, 9-7 ODAC) will take
on ﬁrst—seeded Virginia Wesleyan on Friday at Lynchburg City
Stadium at4 p.m. The team’s 9-7 conference record is extremely
impressive considering its slow 0-4 start in the ODAC.

“As coach [Stickley] said, i doesn’t matter how you
start out, it just matters how your playing down the stretch,”
said Hanson.

‘‘I think we have a good shot against Virginia
Wesleyan. Our pitchers will be rested, and we showed
them we could beat them last week. Teams are afraid of
us now that we’re so hot.”

Schmidt Wins
ODAC javelin

By Brendan Harrington

‘ SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee sophomore Sarah Schmidt
claimed her second straight ODAC javelin champi-
onship with a conference-record toss on Saturday
afternoon at the ODAC Track and Field Champion-
ships in Harrisonburg.

Schmidt’s record throw of 1 16 feet, two inches
was 13 feet longer than any of her competitors.
Schmidt also claimed third place in the discus with a
personal-best throw of 99 feet, eight inches.

On the men’s side, W&Ljunior Marc Watson led
the way with a third-place ﬁnish in the 100-meter dash
and sophomore Mike Hegg took third-place in the
I 10-meter high hurdles.

In team scoring, the W&L men ﬁnished ﬁfth of
ﬁve teams and the W&L women ﬁnished fourth of
ﬁve teams. '

Under New
Management!

égﬁvlzﬂ

PIZZA, SUBS, PASTA, CALZONES,
SALADS, BEER 0N PREMISES

1213 N. Lee Hwy Next to Wal-Mart '

463-3399

\\\\1 MS)

547' IIV OR 

MK! 01/7'

     
     

a \ /

 

3 bedroom, 2 bath

washer/dryer

covered patio area

huge bonus room in basement
new kitchen cabinets this summer

FOR RENT

431 West Nelson Street

off street parking
2 minute walk from sorority houses

Contact Cindy at Baker Real Estate
463-7319

 

X.
The W&L Student Activities Board Presents;
ll
0 S’ \
Comedian

KE V IN NEALON *
(formerly of Saturday Night Live) ,

I

Thursday, April 27
9pm at Warner Center ,
$10 at the door
$8 in advance ‘
Tickets will be sold outside the Co-op

Tuesday-Thursday, 11am-2pm It

Iv

jt

http://www.capitolint.corn/kevin.htrn

 

 
 

‘vﬂi.-$33‘:-i'.i\'s _ "
i.)LT‘.\{x=‘\:*'3’="?N VA ..~’4'-;’:H

i  . an

    

   lie ﬂing-tum 13

VVASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsmI’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

  @113 mi  Men’s Lax:
May1»2°°0 Best in Lex

Generals defeat VMI in 13"‘

24/7% Annual Lee-Jackson Classic

*1 Alumni Weekend BY Mike H°1meS
STAFF WRITER
Prevlew VMI students marched to Wilson Field Saturday with
Everything that’s aspirations of seeing their lacrosse team take home the
; happening this week, and a Lee-Jackson Trophy, but once again the Keydets walked
look into the upcoming away empty handed as the Generals dealt them a convinc-
, , , ing 14-4 loss.

weekenws festwmes The Lee-Jackson Classic, an annual event between VMI
See Page 3 and W&L, served as a tune-up for the Generals, who rarely

" have the opportimity to face an athletic Division I oppo-
nent such as VMI. The Keydets (7-6) looked strong at the
start of the game, as their physical play helped them get
out to a quick lead when junior attackman Brad Muston
skirted by a W&L defender to score the first goal of the

A.
' ° game. VMI was encouraged early by the large assembly of
Cheerleadlng hlts students, parents and alumni that came to support them.
 Washington and Lee was stiﬂed in the first quarter as they
were unable to convert on several opportunities. The
, New Squad mrmed for Keydets kept W&L scoreless and led at the end of the first

2000-2001 sport season quarter.

See page 3 However, the odds were stacked against VMI. The Gen-
erals (13-1), who have now won twelve straight games in
e the series, regrouped and came out much stronger in the

second quarter. Junior Pope Hackney tied the game 1:42
into the second quarter and scored another goal just 49
seconds later. The Generals continued the onslaught with
goals by junior Matt Dugan, senior Chris Brown and two
,\ from senior Colin Dougheity. Washington and Lee took a

   

Tennis captures 3:23:32::.".:%.?:.§t.:.°::;::.?;—::Sz:;:€;:;::§::‘::::‘;
OD titles halftime aﬁer Pope Iiackney scored his third goal with just photo by Emily 'Bames/Executive Editor
. Men & womenss teams seven Seconds remammg 1“ the half’ KEEPING THEM AWAY. Junior midfielder Pope Hackney keeps away the VMI defense during Saturday’s Lee-
come backvictorious SEE ‘L_EE-JACKSON.’ (_)N1:-AGE2 Jackson Lacrosse Classic. The Generals won for the twlefth consecutive year 14-4.
See page 4

The- end of Spring Term, fact or fiction?

Faculty to review entire academic calendar, not just spring term in the upcoming school year

Baseball comes
short of win

The baseball team loses
3-0 to Guilford
See page 4

A Foxﬁeld is too
pretentious

Horse race tailgate
needs to be more
like Preakness
See page 2

Men’s lax rolls

over VMI

More Lee-Jackson
Lacrosse Classic
coverage
See page 4

By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

Every year, rumors about the elimi- 5

nation of spring term haunt W&L stu-
dents, but these fears may be unwar-
ranted.

The academic calendar is reviewed
every 10 years to determine whether
or not the calendar ﬁts the curriculum
objectives. The last review was dur-
ing the ‘90-‘9l school year and Dean
Boetsch is helping coordinate the re-
view process for next year.

“There’s not a lot of sitting down
to ‘do away’ with spring term, that’s
not the issue,” said Boetsch.

Boetsch said there will probably be
a committee of faculty and students
to make calendar revisions. They will
analyze previous studies of the calen-
dar, senior exit surveys and other uni-
versity wide studies to determine if the

calendar is still appropriate. They will
assess the academic value of spring
term, and alterations may be made
even if the current calendar is kept in-
tact. They will also consider altema-
tives such as a two-term calendar.

In anticipation of the upcoming re-
view, members of the class of 1999
were asked several questions about
the effectiveness of spring tent; on the
senior exit poll. The results were highly
in favor of spring term.

More than 50 percent of the stu-
dents surveyed responded that spring
term brings “many benefits.” Many
said spring term allows them to work
with professors on a more individual
basis and allows . professors to offer
more creative courses.

In addition, nearly 70 percent of the
seniors polled feel that there were many
“informal, outside-of-the-classroom
benefits.” The students also claim that

the outside-of-class benefits are in-
valuable to their college experience at
W&L. 68 percent said that spring term
is the only opportunity to take advan-
tage of non-academic activities on and
off campus.

Students polled praise spring tenn
because it enables them to study spe-
cific subjects in depth and concentrate
on only one or two classes. They also
said that spring term enables them to
take classes that would not regularly
fit into their schedules. Students cite
classes such as total theater, ﬁeld
botany, and the archaeology dig as
spring courses that they could not
have taken in a full semester. Many
students also think studying abroad
and interning during the six-week term
rather than a 12-week term is much
more practical. ‘

Those that recommend cutting the
shortened term point to poor course

selection and crammed material into a
short period as their argument.

Many complaints about the calen-
dar also have to do with fall and wiri-
ter terms. Students feel that the short-
ened 12-week terms, as opposed to the
traditional 15-week, make it too difﬁ-
cult to digest the material of a full-
length course. Another downfall of the
current calendar, according to the sur-
vey, is that professors do not use
spring term effectively.

The results of the 1999 senior exit
survey will be consulted when the
committee determines the fate of
spring term. There is support for the
current calendar among university ad-
ministrators as well as students.

“I like the pace of our calendar.
Spring term provides a different aca-
demic experience,” said Dean
Howison.

Dean Boetsch agreed that the tri-

mester calendar, “allows us, when we
do it right, to approach learning from
different ways.” Boetsch said the most
notable advantages of spring term are
opportunities for internships, interdis-
ciplinary studies and studies abroad.
The calendar also allows faculty to get
release time from teaching. to focus on
other academic pursuits.

However, there is concern among
faculty about spring terrn’s effective-
ness academically. Some fear that
spring term deters from the objectives
of the curriculum.

“Unfortunately, students feed a lot
of opposition,” said Dean Boetsch,
noting that the general perception of
spring term as a carefree time of few
academic responsibilities is the great-
est threat to its existence.

“The future of spring tenn will be
based on the strength of the academic
experience,” said Howison.

Students relocate
to go tailgating

Foxﬁeld races attract students
from all over for a good time

By Alexis Yee-Garcia

News EDITOR

Thousands of spectators, including students from

W&L, UVA, even as far away as Georgetown and UNC,
converged Saturday in the middle of a field for
Charlottesville’s annual Foxﬁeld Races.

The Foxfield races have been held annually since 1978
and usually attract about 25,000 spectators. The actual
horse races at Foxﬁeld are called steeplechases and take

Parking situation
and golf carts...

lﬁ

Parking in frosh lots or place on a grass track surrounding the plots where most

Calcutta which . ., spectators gather. ,
, Is worse . The horse races themselves are not visible from most of
See Page 2 the plots, but most college students in the main area admit

that they’re not there for the horses. Even the official
Foxﬁeld sponsors confess that the races are a “tailgating
affair.”

Those who did not wake up early enough to arrive be-
fore the gates opened at l0:30a.m. faced at least an hour of
bumper-to-bumper trafﬁc, punctuated by race pre-partiers

« Top 10 goals for

a bunch of people standing around,” said sophomore John
Creek. “But it was actually fun.”

Alumni weekend hanging out of car windows, and an occassional into-the-

woods pit stop. Despite the drive, the wait, the $20 ticket

Can you tell a difference price and the outrageous $15 parking fee, even students

' ,, between students and attending for the first time said that they would return next

Alumni? .4 Y°‘i{- . . .
See page 2 phom by Tmny Friedelmhopo Editor I thought it would be hot and boring, because rt’sjust

THERE WERE Honsi-:s? Students from Washington & Lee and other colleges have a mass tailgate, otherwise
known as Foxfield on Saturday. '

 

 

PAGE 2

O

@112 Bing-tum ilﬂhi

PINION

 

MAY 1, 2000

Race tailgates
should relax

Spring Term may be here in spirit, but the damn weather
has been doing its damnedest to keep us under lock and
key. With all the rain we got there’d better be a hell of a lot
of May ﬂowers out and about Lexington.

With the exception of those who went to Foxﬁeld
and enjoyed such a pleasant Saturday, we’ve had al-
most no nice weather to speak of. It’s been wet, cold
and unpleasant. Not to say that there hasn’t been a few
nice days, but they’ve been about as plentiful as fans
in the fourth quarter at a W&L football game. Of course,
we can al-
ways make
the best of
the said
rain and
encourage
activities
more conducive to having fun in the monsoon season we
call Spring Term.

First things ﬁrst, everyone needs to lose the uppity,
“I’m-wearing-shorts-with-a-shirt-and-tie-because-it’s-
fashionable-I-swear” spring formal wear. There’s no
point to it.

We can continue pretending that we are doing more
than drinking, but let’s be realistic. We aren’t. All we are
doing is partying the same as we did this winter, it’s just
got different names and themes. Not that I am complaining

Bad<pord1Balderdash
Michael Crittenden ’01

about that. I enjoy Spring Tenn for all its fun as much as the ,

next frat guy. I just think if we stopped being so preten-
tious it could be even more enjoyable.

Foxﬁeld is a great example. Every house buys a plot,
puts on shirts and ties and throws some bastardized ver-
sion of a tailgate. Everyone attempts to be extremely classy
and cultured amidst various people passing out, girls squat-
ting behind cars and the occasional projectile vomiting. I
compare this to the Preakness horse race up in Baltimore.
The second in horse racing’s Triple Crown, it attracts a
slightly bigger crowd than Foxﬁeld.

Like Foxﬁeld, at the Preakness you get a plot in the
inﬁeld, but that is usually accomplished by getting there
early and sprinting to a good spot. Unfortunately,
sprinting is usually hampered by the cases of beer you
are carrying. The smart group will leave the cases of
beer with the slowest male who, with the help of a dolly,
can wheel enough beer for the country of Yemen into
the inﬁeld.

The dress is fairly uniform, just like Foxﬁeld, though
a little more casual: t-shirts and shorts for men (with
jean shorts always being a viable, but fashionably un-
accepted option), and bikini tops, halters, and tank tops
for women.

The tailgate at Preakness is slightly different than at
Foxﬁeld. Though you might bring some hard liquor with
you to get you started, beer is the elixir of the day and
the popular choice of all involved. This makes sense,
since it is better to pour on the young ladies in the next
plot who decided their tops were much too restrictive,
and it goes much better with the food you cook on the
grill.

People let their hair down and enjoy themselves with-

? out having to put on a facade of pomp and circumstance.

There is still people passed out on the ground, girls
squatting behind cars and more than one instance of
projectile vomiting, but it seems a little more appropri-
ate since no one is wearing seersuckers or a ﬂaming
bow tie. Of course pretensions and ostentation don’t
go over well with 75,000 people who just like to have a
good time and have no delusions of grandeur. Just some
food for thought.

@112 iﬂing-tum iﬁhi

Executive Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Tara Ann Friedel
Mike Crittenden
Neal Willetts
Heather MacDonald
Tiffany Friedel

Lisa Lin

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editors

Copy Editor

Photo Editor
Assistant Photo Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

.. « -  ..-'~..

 :‘ ’' ,7;  —< -...~.

. r.«._:_—./. .- .'  «.
2

 

‘ ,’,l:,......._-,—;
1,... .. . __ ..
. - -g.»/-‘—_,/' ,

9
o

it we

1,001 things thatirritate

E EEPOUT

Qltt) l3cl

me:

Parking and the golf cart patrol

We are all very intelligent people — at least we were
when we got here (I will not hazard a guess as to the de-
cline in brain cells since arrival on campus) — who can
easily understand why there is a parking problem in Lex-
ington. You know, basic math: Not enough parking spots
for the number of cars. . ,

Surprisingly, I am going to begin with why the parking
situation in Lexington is a good thing.
I can name several reasons why in-
sanely ridiculous parking enforcement
is good. First, the lack of sufﬁcient
parking allows for all kinds of new
emotional experiences for W&L stu-
dents. The levels of elation felt by drivers are impossible to
duplicate when they drive around desperately before class,
looking for a place to park their SUV and then
serendipitously locate a place outside the Post Ofﬁce. Who
knew you could be so pleased to go to class, knowing that
your car is not 5 miles away in the sub-sub-freshman-sub
lot?

Second, the high probability that you will have to park
your car in Calcutta means that students here are more
likely to walk to class rather than driving aimlessly in circles
(and, what a waste, miss class) and risk extreme road rage
while driving the streets of Lexington with the don’t-break-
25mph townies on the streets. We should all be enjoying
the wonderful weather Mother Nature blessed this place
with (the recent torrential downpours are to be ignored)
and trek to class.

Finally, we should all be proud of the Lexington Police
who so graciously fund the economy of a small-to-mid
sized county with the proﬁts from the roughly 8 bazillion
parking tickets given out daily. Only the magnanimous,
hospitable Virginians would be so kind to feed the starving
children in Africa rather than use the money for their own
self-improvements. How lucky we all are!

Good points aside, I am still irritated.

I am irritated that we all run in fear from the skinny man
that drives the “parking-enforcement” vehicle around giv-
ing out tickets to those of us who park 1 1 minutes in the 10
minute spaces. I mean, who does he think he is? Um,
hello?!?! !? You drive a golf cart! Practically every boy on
this campus could mow him over in his Tahoe or 4-Runner
or toss his kayak at him.

I am irritated that people keep talking about the parking-
garage as if it will cure cancer. Well, let me be the one to tell
you that: a) it is still not ﬁnished though it was supposed
to be done in February, so how do we know if it will ever be

Ungrateful Ninja
Katy Harding ’01

complete and b) 100 new spaces is not going to solve all
the problems. One hundred spaces will barely allow the
faculty somewhere to park — much less all the sorority
inmates. Freshman will still be threatened regarding bring-
ing a car here during their ﬁrst year and students who live
in the country will still be out of luck. In fact, I pity those
of you who live in the country and have to drive to school.
Yes, you are blessed with the right
to actually drive to the Hill but you
might as well walk from wherever
in bumble Lexington you live be-
cause you aren’t going to get
much closer when you drive! If
anything, we need three parking garages to be built.

It would actually be beneﬁcial to the work environ-
ment if parking restrictions were more lax. When students
are fortunate enough to ﬁnd a space to park and the reg-
istrar women like them enough to give them a schedule
that includes a break every two-hours to move their car,
everything is peachy. However, the majority of students
have to attend class with their mind focused on whether
or not, as the professor discusses ﬁnancial analysis, Baner
is towing their car to his broth. . . I mean, to the tow place.
That type of preoccupation is not conducive to learning.

And, this two-hour time limit thing is impossible! As-
suming you are the average, country-dwelling student,
you arrive on campus at about 9:50am, stop at the Coop,
go to class for two-hours, and return to your car at 12:03 pm.
That is more than two hours. I guarantee that the little

golf-man will be ticketing your car upon your return if

Baner hasn’t already towed it.

The poor freshmen have it the worst. Not only are you
looked down upon for bringing a car to Lexington (God
forbid you wantto escape and drive away from here for a
evening), you have to park it miles away. And, unless you
are driving it home, you can’t park your car anywhere
else.

Furthermore, I do not quite understand the motivation
behind the strict parking rules. Is there a reason why we
need to force people to hike to class? If the school is
trying to promote good health then there are other sub-
stance abuse problem areasthat I feel would be more ob-
vious starting points. Does the town not suck enough
money out of the students in straight commerce and MIP’s
that there is a need to capitalize on parking? Why aren’t I
allowed to park my car on the street outside of my own
house?

None of this makes sense and that irritates me.

TEN i

GOALS FOR ALUMNI WEEKEND
P
1 0. Alumni: to hook up with an old friend.

9 . Undergrads: to hook up with an alum.

8 . Alumni: to pretend their jobs are better than ’_
everyone else’s.

7. Undergrads: to score a job for after gradu
ation.

6 . Alumni: to forget they live in the real world. it

5 . Undergrads: to ﬁnd a ﬁiend and mentor.

4 . Alumni: to relive those fraternity years get
ting drunk and breaking, well, everything. ‘

3 . Undergrads & Alumni: to streak the Colon
nade in a mixed group.

2 . Alumni: show the undergrads what W&L
party life really is. A

1 . Undergrads: to not pass out before the alumni

uote of the week:

(I ,
We’re getting out of
here before 4 a.m.

— Anonymous senior girls

2/

  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 

 

“Will they leave at halftime, too?”
- Steve Hostetler ’02

“Are the best thing that’s happened
to this school.”
-Christa Hemmings ’02

“Will give me something to look at
when I’m sitting on the bench.”
-Jude Rolfes ’02

  

ﬁ_.

“It’s about time!”
-Elizabeth Alford ’02

 

MAY 1, 2000

By Michael Crittenden
W&LIFE EDITOR

Washington and Lee football
players have long complained
that they don’t have enough
fan support during their games
because of a student body
more concerned with resting
up for that night’s parties. This
fact of life is about to change,
thanks to a dedicated group of
young ladies who have
worked to provide Washing-
ton and Lee with a new
cheerleading team.

The squad, which will per-
form at Washington and Lee
sporting events next year, was
borne through the combined ef-
forts of a group of sophomore
girls who wanted to continue
the positive experience they had
cheering in high school. Team
member Liz Nacozy said that, at
first, they didn’t know if things
would work out.

“I really wasn’t sure what
was going to happen,”
Nacozy said, “but it turned out
real well . . . and everyone was

so good.” .

The group first explored the
amount of interest among the
present student body. Seeing a
positive response from class-
mates, they went ahead and
made a proposal to the adminis-
tration, talking to deans and
twisting arms until they got a go-
ahead from school officials.
They held some informal prac-
tice sessions so that interested
students could get some extra
practice and better prepare them-

selves for the tryout session,

which was held last week.

Before the tryouts, team or-
ganizers talked to the UVA’s
cheerleading coach, who in turn
invited representatives from the
W&L squad to attend practice
sessions in Charlottesville. The
W&L representatives observed
the UVA practice and workout
schedule and developed criteria
and exercises for their own try-
outs.

Held last week, the tryouts
resulted in the naming of six
young women to the
Cheerleading Squad: Christa
Hemmings, Liz Nacozy, Brooke

Hard Work does pay off afterall:
W&L has its first cheering squad

Belasco, Tiffany Friedel,
Heather Mahaney, and Jenna
Poole.

Now that the team is formed,
they are having practices once
or twice a week in Troutville,
where Hemmings’ cousin owns
a gymnastics gym. The girls
work on tumbling, stunts and
creating new cheers.

The girls currently on the
team are working hard to create
the base for a great season
next year. Picking out uni-
forms, raising money through
a cheering clinic and car wash,
creating practice drills and
making up new cheers are all
on the agenda.

The group is also sending
out a letter inviting all incoming
freshmen to come to a tryout two
days before Freshman Orienta-
tion week that is open to all un-
dergraduate students. The pur-
pose of that tryout will be to raise
the team number to between 10
and 12. The club is also seeking
out a number of athletic young
men to help the girls with stunts
during games. Said Nacozy, that
has been hard to do.

Tuesday

7:30 p.m. - Dr. Bruce W. Hodgins (Trent University,
Petersborough, Ontario).“Canada Since
Trudeau: Changing Myths and Realities & both
Regional and National.” C-School, room 327.
7:30 p.m. - Lecture and video. “Silent Courage: Maria
von Hammerstein and Her Battle Against
Nazism,” Gottfried Paasche, York College,

Ontario. Northen Auditorium.

Wednesday

4 p.m. - Men’s lacrosse at Randolph Macon.
7 p.m. - Information session on the Watson Fellowship.

“It’s a hard sell to get guys
out there to help cheerleaders,
especially at this school,”
Nacozy said. “All they would
have to do is to help us do
stunts, they wouldn’t have to do
any tumbling or cheerleading
moves.”

The group says they have
seen some interest from gentle-
men who have been informed
about the team. The group’s first
goal, according to organizers, is
to be ready to perform at the
General’s first home football
game next year against Johns
Hopkins. They said they
would like to cheer at as many _
games as they are able to, and
to also cheer for any other in-
terested sports. Response
from the football team has been
completely positive upon the
announcement of the cheer-
leading club.

“I think it’s a really great
idea because it will hopefully en-
courage some school spirit for
once,” said John Melillo, a fresh-
man football player. “Maybe the
interest in the women will make
the frat guys stay at‘ our games.”

member of Saturday Night Live.

LIVE FROM THE WARNER CENTER. . . IT5s THURSDAY NIGHT? Students got a taste
of live comedy as they were entertained by Kevin Nealon, former cast

photo by David Hanson/contributing photographer

Science Center A214.
7 p.m. - Spring 2000 Politics Filmfest. “Jamila” (1994),
directed by Monica Teuber. In English. Room
221, Williams School.
7:30 p.m. - Dr. Bruce W. Hodgins (Trent University,
' Petersborough, Ontario). “Collating Wilderness
Canoe Trips in the Canadian North since l957.”
C-School, room 327.

Thursday

7 p.m. - Spring 2000 Politics Filmfest. “Jamila” (1994),
directed by Monica Teuber. In English. Room
221, Williams School.

-£33’/4>

iv.--1-3»: _
K?

Naturally,.tlie_.c0ur1try’s premiere leaejlership schooi

offers a renowned Vst‘a_tilt‘ oi‘ <:C»ui‘*te.r:au.s ir:i;=;tru«::t«::i‘s.

; ’ you're fr'7o1ring_fbr tiieogi. try business school. Brit 1fit3e.i'per'ienre}oi1 ir:ant,_vou'H
5 ﬁnd itJ1ere. We turn college men and ieomen into leaders. Decision niakers who
rommri d mpect. Topgrilduates who can write their men ticket in life. Like to meet

' ully? Call /-aim)-MARiNEs. Ormsit usat www.MARiNE0i‘rici:R.coM.

)'0U rant learn what we reach from :2 blackboard. The Fun: The Proud.

Based on Wal cont survev
data from 1998,1999

funded IN a grant irom

mac  

Virginia Ilenartment at
Alcoholic Beverage control

Friday
9 p.m. — SAB presents Moe & Leftover Salmon. W&L
Pavilion.

Saturday

8 p.m. - A Cappella Concert featuring Southern Comfort,
JubiLee and General Admission. Lee Chapel.
10 pm. - Snackbar Jones at Chi Psi
B, S, &M at Pika
Agents of Good Roots at Sig Ep
Boogiehawg at Lambda Chi
Dean Dollar at Pi Phi

= »l'a.m. — Late Night DJ at Chi Psi

M est Vs/&L stuclents Lave

 

PAGE 4

Eli: ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

MAY 1, 2000

, comeback fell short in the ninth in-

‘LEE-JACKSON’ from page 1

VMI midﬁelder Erik Siebert scored the first goal of
the second half, but the Generals refused to allow any
more as their defense kept VMI scoreless for the last 27
minutes of the game. Washington and Lee scored the
last seven goals to take another easy victory. The sec-
ond half was a show of strength for both the offense
and defense of Washington and Lee as the team domi-
nated every aspect of the game by minimizing mistakes.

The Generals, who have typically been recognized
for their high powered offense, also has one of the lead-
ing defenses in the country. The Generals are now sec-
ond in Division III scoring defense by giving up just
5.29 goals per game. The defensive performance was
led by goalie Wes Hays (10 saves), captain Charlie
Antrim, junior Pete Iwancio, sophomore Eric
Kontargyris, and freshman defensive midﬁelder Matt
Conners.

Lexington Mayor Buddy Derrick presented the win-
ning trophy to the W&L captains following the game.
The recipients of the Worrell-Fallon memorial award for
the most valuable player from each team were goalie
Jeff Neal, who had 16 saves for VMI, and junior Matt
Dugan, who had ﬁve goals and four assists to lead
W&L. Also leading the Generals were Pope Hackney
(3 goals, 2 assists), Colin Dougherty (3 goals), Chris
Brown (1 goal, 1 assist), and junior Tom Burke and se-
nior Andy Jones who added one goal apiece. Freshman
face-off specialist Thomas Melanson won 16 of 21 face-
offs against an athletic VMI team that typically con-
trols ground balls.

Last week the General’s clinched their second
straight ODAC championship and a berth to the NCAA
tournament by defeating Hampden-Sydney l6-2. Wash-
ington and Lee is currently ranked fifth and is striving
to grab one of the four number one seeds in the upcom-
ing tournament. The Generals hope to move up in the
polls after Washington College, whom the Generals
defeated earlier this season, upset top-ranked Salisbury
State Saturday. Washington and Lee’s only blemish on
their record was a defensive battle that they lost to
number two ranked Gettysburg College earlier this sea-
son. The Generals head to Randolph-Macon this
Wednesday to defend their ten game win streak and to
ﬁnish their regular season.

SPORTS

 

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

PLAYING TOUGH DEFENSE. Senior midﬁelder Greg Meyers switches to defense as he interferes with a VMI player’s cradling. Tough defense as
Meyers demonstrates helped W&L crush VMI in the Lee-Jackson Lacrosse Classic 14-4.

Baseball ends after two losses in ODACs

By Mike Weil

STAFF WRITER

The~Washington & Lee baseball
team suffered two tight losses in two
games, as they were ousted. in the
double elimination ODAC tourna-
ment.

Game one was extremely heart-
breaking for the Generals, as their

ning against top-seeded Virginia
Wesleyan.

The game was scoreless headed
into the bottom of the sixth, when
Virginia Wesleyan struck ﬁrst with
an RBI double by DH Roger Carpen-
ter.

The Generals responded with two
runs in the top of the seventh on a
single by freshman leﬁﬁelder Bobby
Littlehale that scored shortstop
David Hanson and DH Brian
Gladysz who singled and walked re-
spectively.

However, VWC would score twice
in both the bottom of the seventh and
eighth innings to take a seemingly
commanding 5-2 lead.

The Generals responded in the
ninth. Gladysz singled and was
pinch run for by Jason May. Senior

Andy Thompson then delivered a
clutch pinch hit double moving May
to third.

After a groundout by second
baseman Michael Hanson and a
strikeout by Littlehale, sophomore third
baseman Matt Kozora singled to center
scoring both May and Thompson.

Sophomore Todd Gosselink added
another single to advance Kozora to
second, but the game would end as
the VWC second baseman would
snare a hard hit ground ball by
Russell Wrenn and toss it to sec-
ondfor an easy force out. W&L was
led offensively by Kozora and Gladys;
who went 4-for-5 and 2-for-2 respec-
tively.

' Junior David Sigler pitched eight

innings and was charged with the
loss,ending his season with a 7-5 record.

The Generals’ bats were simply
cold in their second game, as they were
blanked by a score of 3-0 against third
seeded Guilford.

Guilford took a 2-0 lead in the bot-
tom of the fourth, on a suicide
squeeze and balk call. The Quakers
increased their lead to three in the
seventh inning on a sacrifice fly.

The Generals made things inter-
esting in the ninth inning, putting
runners on first and second with
only one out, but the Guilford hurler
was able to retire the next two bat-
ters to preserve the victory.

Wrenn had_three hits for the Gen-
erals in four at—bats, while senior

Tennis sweeps ODAC’s

Both teams beat opponents into the

By Neal Willetts

LA your & DESIGN EDITOR

An amazing comeback by Zac
Vucannon in his singles set saved the
Generals tennis team and pushed them
onto their 5th consecutive ODAC vic-
tory on Aprill 5th. 2

Meanwhile, the day aﬂer the men’s
team won their title, the women’s took
home their 10th straight ODAC title in a
crushing win over their other opponents.

While both teams won, the men’s
team won by a single point, 66, to

ground
Hampden-Sydney’s 65. The women’s
team did not give their opponents an
opportunity to gain points, destroying
their opponents utterly and completely
in both singles and doubles to come out
with 72 points against second place East-
ern Mennonite’s 33.5.

The women’s team is now basking
the the glory of their I 1th crown overall,
and the men now reign with 19 trophies
out of 24 years in the ODAC’s.

Women’s team senior Brooke Haitzell
came back to Lexington with her 2nd
consecutive player of the year award.

Schuyler Marshall went 2-for-4.
Freshman Michael Hanson took
the loss despite pitching a complete
game and giving up only three
earned runs.
“Wejust played two hard games,
and couldn’t get it done,” said

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

SwiNG BATTA, BATTA, swmc. Senior Russell Wrenn takes a swing at a fast ball during the season.

Kozora.
“We faced a really good pitcher.”
“We are going to have a really
good team next year. We’ll be young,
but good.”
And as for winning a championship?
“We might. . .wejust might.”

Fed up with the
two-party,
childish
wrangling?

Put an experienced
independent for
Virginians to
consider on the U.S.
0 Senate ballot. This is
not a debate club.
This is an active

movement.

www.wood4senate.com

01'

4 (540) 930 - 2383 _

////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

Low
student
Airfares

Euiopeiliricvlsiaisouthlmeiica
lloreThan100Deparluie Cities!
Eurailpasses«BusPassesiStudyAbioad

   

7

 

 
    

/

  
     
 
 

student
£30 universe
'3“

IT'S YOUR WORLD. EXPLORE IT.

www.StudentUniverse.com
800-272-9676

///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

   

§\ 

Women’s Lax ends

Season’s end brings in record season

ASHLAND, Va. -- Senior at-
tacker Erin Campbell (White Plains,
N.Y./Mamaroneck) scored four
goals to help lead Lynchburg Col-
lege to an 8-4 win over Washing-
ton and Lee in the semiﬁnals ofthe
ODAC Women's Lacrosse Tourna-
ment held at Randolph-Macon Col-
lege on Saturday afternoon.

The Generals_(8-5) were led by
senior attacker Katherine Riddle
(St. Clair Shores, Mich./Univer-
sity-Liggett), who tallied two
goals on the day. She ends her
career with 100 goals and 41 as-
sists for 141 points.

Sophomore attacker Emily
Owens (Waco, Texas/Episcopal)
chipped in with one goal and one
assist. Freshman attacker Leslie
Bogart (Wilton, Conn./Wilton)
claimed one assist on the day to

push her season assist total to 30,
breaking the single-season
school-record held by Erika
Snyder (29) since the 1996 season.

In addition to Campbell's ex-
ploits, Lynchburg (l4-3) received
additional offensive support from
freshman attacker Lindsay Caruso
(Darien, Conn./Darien), who tal-
lied two goals and one assist.

Senior Ginny Jernigan (Or-
lando, Fla./Dr. Phillips) made nine
saves in goal, pushing her career
total to 505 saves. She ﬁnishes her
career second in W&L history in
that category.

Sophomore Jen McHugh (Bel
Air, Md./C. Milton Wright) posted
17 saves in goal for the Hornets.
W&L outshot Lynchburg, 26-22,
in the contest. Courtesy ofSports
Information

Track simmers down

Season ends in less than stellar finish

HARRISONBURG, Va - The Wash-
ington and Lee men's and women's
track teams competed in the Eastern
Mennonite Royal Track Invitational
on Saturday afternoon in
Harrisonburg, Va. The men's team fm-
ished ﬁfth of nine teams while the
women's squad ﬁnished ﬁfth of 11
teams.

On the women's side, W&L was led
by sophomore Sarah Schmidt (Topeka,
Kan./Hayden), who claimed first place
in the javelin competition with a throw
of ll3-09. Schmidt edged out senior
teammate Meredith Mlynar (New
Fairﬁeld, Conn./New F airﬁeld), who ﬁn-
ished in second with a heave of 102-09.
Also turning in strong showings for
the Generals were freshman Burke
Duncan (Oklahoma City, Okla./Casady)
in the 3,000 meter run (3rd Place -
1 1:12.20), and seniorlill Kosch (Colum-

bus, Neb./Scotus) in the 200-meter dash
(27.34). l(osch‘s time in the 200 missed
the W&L school-record by only .22
seconds.
The men's team was led by junior
Marc Watson (Marietta, Ga./Walton),
who ﬁnished as the runner-up in the
100-meter dash. Watson's time of 1 l .09
seconds placed him just ahead of se-
nior teammate Hansell Pasco (Hilton
Head, S.C./Hilton Head), who posted
a time of l l .17. Sophomore Michael
Hegg (Seattle, Wash./Shorecrest) ﬁn-
ished second in the 400-meter hurdles
(58.95) and third in the 110-meter high
hurdles (15.90). The other highlight for
the men's squad came in the high
jump, where junior Jacek Mucha
(Houston, Texas/AWTY Interna-
tional) ﬁnished as the runner-up with
a leap of 5-8. Courtesy of Sports In-
formation

Come write for

win am

Join W&L’s oldest and most presti-
gious newspaper for the ﬁnal weeks
of spring term!

Call X4060 or email phi@wlu.edu

 

 

"1.

4

K

  

Arch
—F"3>"?8.”I55
K552.
V4533

  
 

‘.'x_/-

 

Lil” ‘.<I ,—‘-g..«..;

  new

 U112 ilitng-tum lﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNlVERSlTY’S WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

Garage opens
unofﬁcally

Despite incomplete wheelchair
lift, garage opens to trafﬁc
By Sarah Schmidt

STAFF WRITER

Just in time for Alumni Weekend trafﬁc, Lexington’s
fust parking garage had its long-awaited opening Thurs-
day.

The parking spaces are now available to students, fac-
ulty, other staff members, and visitors.

The ofﬁcial opening of the garage will not occur until
the completion of the wheelchair lift by the foobridge, which
is scheduled for May 15.

Handicapped parking spaces were added to the front
of the Security Ofﬁce in order to accommodate campus
need until the wheelchair lift is ﬁnished.

The completion date of the garage was originally sched-
uled to be in February, but has been pushed back a few
times.

The garage will provide the parking spaces necessary
for what will be a high-trafﬁc area in the near future.
The garage will compensate for the parking spaces that
will be lost with the construction of a proposed Stu-
dent Center, which will be located in place of the park-
ing lot between Doremus gymnasium and Graham-Lees
Dormitories. The parking garage will also provide park-
ing facilities for the new sorority houses when they are
completed. V

Apart from future plans for the garage’s use, students
are already seeing the positive impact despite the long
wait.

“My car is already there,” senior Sula Jacobs said. “It
will be much more convenient and help with the
[trafﬁc]congestion.”

' Students felt that the parking garage may relieve some
of the ticketing problems on campus. “I think there won’t
be as many tickets, but people will still be ﬁghting for
spots outside of D-hall and the dorms,” sophomore Sean
Rump said.

Reﬂecting the sentiment of many students, Rump noted
the annoyance of the delays, “It could have been more
helpful earlier.” Rump, a resident of Woods Creek apart-
ments, pointed to the opening of Denny Circle road as the
most convenient aspect of the garage completion. “The
opening of the street was great. I wanted to drive through
it a couple of times.”

Commuting students stand to beneﬁt the most from
the opening of the parking garage. “It will be great. There
is nowhere to park right now and it’s really tough when
you have a three hour class and there is only two hour
parking,” said Ted Adams.

The additional spaces should relieve much of the com-
petition for parking spots and the number of parking vio-
lations. “I’ll save lots of money because I’ll be paying for
fewer tickets,” Adams said.

 

  

7 pm; by-7l'KT3n7y’l7.4 r1'edel7R{ot<TEd$—

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 8, 2000

fans back
for more

ex-students experienced the.

By Mike Crittenden

F EA TURES EDITOR

Alumni Weekend at Washington and Lee, a chance
for undergrads and alums to get together for the ulti-
mate party, hit this weekend and was marked by a new
parking garage, a great concert and the invasion of all
those who once ruled the campus.

Alumni Weekend, the annual three-day celebration
of the college years of yore, saw the traditional seer-
sucker suits, crazy cocktail parties and nostagia that
has become the hallmark of Alumni Weekend.

Festivities began on Thursday evening with the tra-
ditional Opening Assembly in the Lee Chapel. Thurs-
day night also saw the first of many “Welcoming Recep-
tions” held at the Alumni House featuring plenty of re-
uniting among old friends and their acquaintances.

Friday began with President Elrod’s annual
President’s Address, also in Lee Chapel. Luer that night,
the younger alumns headed up to the Pavillion for the
.moe and Leftover Salmon concert.

After Saturday’s dinner on thefront lawn, the a
cappella concert featured Washington and Lee’s music

W&L of the new millennium

Alumni Weekend brings W&L’s greatest

A campus invasion of alumni swept over the front lawn Saturday as part of annual festivities.

talents. Following the evening’s dedication of the bridge
connecting the sorority houses to the new parking garage,
some tore up the Warner Center ﬂoor at the Reunion Dance.
Many skipped the dance to participate in the traditional
W&L Saturday night, proving that some things never
change: dancing to the music in any fraternity basement.

The weekend

offered many
activites for
everyone to
enjoy, from
the class of
‘50 _to ‘95,
including
Friday’s .moe
and Leftover
Salmon
concert (left),
and the
Renunion
Dance on

photo by David Hanson/Staff Writer

Satur'day(right). ‘

   
  

 
   

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor‘

photo by Emily Barnesl Executive Editor

“Love Letter” e—mail virus infects campus

By Alexis Yee-Garcia

NEWS EDITOR

W&L computing shut down all campus e—mail systems

, on Thursday to prevent the spread of the Love Letter com-

puter virus.

The Love Letter virus affected computer systems na-
tionwide on Thursday and Friday last week, prompting
law enforcement ofﬁcials to get involved on F riday. Ac-
cording to the New York Times, investigators have traced
the virus to the Philippines so far and are continuing to
look for the virus’s author.

The virus was a “worm virus,” meaning it did not rely
on the computer user to send a ﬁle to other users in order
to spread. The Love Letter virus and other “worm” viruses
spread through e—mail by automatically sending a mes-
sage to users in computer address books of infected sys-

‘ terns. The e—mail message read “kindly check the attached

LOVELETTER coming from me” and the virus was acti-
vated once the attachment was opened. The virus deleted
multimedia ﬁles, especially JPG or JPEG ﬁles and .MP3s.

Cliff Woolley and Charlie Hitlin of W&L computer ser-
vices shut down W&L e—mail around 2:30 p.m. on Thurs-
day and worked all day and night with other staff members

Pat Robertson returns to W&L

By Mike Agnello

STAFF WRITER

Nationally syndicated televangelist
and W&L alumnus Pat Robertson
spoke to Professor Harlan Bec‘kley‘s
poverty class on ‘Wednesday.

“The principal causerof poverty is
false ideology, either economic or spiri-
tual,” he said. - .

Robertson emphasized the increas-
ingly desperate situation of impover-
ished third world countries and the
American responsibility to help these
people. He favors capitalist economic
systems and cites the United States
as the ultimate example of free markets
bringing prosperity to its citizens.
Robertson criticized the lntemational
Monetary Fund for its excessive re-
quirements for giving out loans, be-
cause these policies force third world
governments to decrease social
spending. 

Robertson also said the American
government spends less than one per-
cent of its annual budget on intema-
tional aid, which is “ridiculous” con-
sidering our wealth. In this spirit, he
favors increased American aid to de-
veloping countries, a belief not shared
by many other political conservatives.

“America is the stingiest country
in the world,” he said.

Many in the audience were sur-
prised that Robertson, one of the lead-

ing conservatives in the country, es-
poused such compassionate views.

‘‘It was interesting to find out that
many of his viewswere considerably
further to the leﬁ than I would have
otherwise thought,” Professor
Beckley said.

Robertson also practices what he
preaches. He founded Operation
Blessing to help provide food and
medical care to poor people in impov-
erished countries. In two weeks, the
organization performed 22,000 medical

operations.

“I was really impressed with how
much he does to ﬁght international
poverty,” freshman Mary Carol Mazza
said.

Robertson also talked about the
widespread poverty in the United
States, but was quick to downplay its
signiﬁcance when compared with de-
veloping countries. He cited an in-
stance in which an American family
considered impoverished by govem-
ment standards owned a cable televi-
sion and a VCR. Mazza said she did
not think that example was illustrative.

“I’m sure there are many cases like
that, but I don’t think they’re‘ the ma-
jority either,” she said.

On domestic poverty, Robertson
sounded much more like a political
conservative, Beckley said Robertson

advocated better education and the

preservation of the traditional family
as the most important factors in avoid-
ing poverty. After high school, he

to develop a program to eliminate the virus from W&L e-mail.

“We wrote a script that would run on everyone’s com-
puter that would delete the actual virus and the affected
ﬁles,” said Hitlin.

Around 9:00p.m. Thursday night they were able to run
the program to begin removing the virus. Woolley said
they were not able to implement the program sooner be-
cause of problems with backing up Groupwise ﬁles.

“Deleting ﬁles on Groupwise is not exactly safe,” said
Woolley. “Just in case it messes up you have to back up
files before deleting and you have to shut down
[Groupwise] to get a good back up.”

While Groupwise and Pegasus were ofﬂine, about 6,000
incoming e-mails were stored on the Liberty server. Com-
puter services released the stored e—mail Friday morning
when they turned the main servers back on. The gateway
between the campus network and the intemet was also re-
opened Friday morning around 1 l:00a.m.

As a precaution, a new program called Novell Applica-
tion Launcher (NAL) will open when people log on to the
campus network.

“[NAL] allows us to push a program out to the network.
If we want to force you to run something, we can do it with
the Novell Application Launcher,” Woolley said.

Starting Friday, NAL ran a Love Letter virus detection
program every hour as a precaution. The program that
Woolley and Hitlin developed earmarks incoming e—mail
with speciﬁc subject headings. Woolley explained that com-
puter services staff can then check to make sure the e-
mails are not infected before they are sent to the individual
mail boxes. A

“That way if other versions of the virus come out, we
can stop them before they go to the mail boxes,” explained
Woolley.

Other versions of the virus have already been discov-
ered, including one with an attachment that is supposed to
be a joke instead of a love letter.

The only computer systems that will not be affected by
the virus are Macintosh or Apple systems. Hitlin ex-
plained that he tried several times to run the virus on
the Computer Services’ iMac but there were too many
features that were specifically designed for Windows
systems. Unfortunately, there are fewer than 100 iMacs
on campus.

Students and faculty who discover missing files are
advised to call the computer help desk at x4357.

“Luckily we can recover most of what was lost,” said
Hitlin. “But don’t call us for .MP3s.”

for his 50"‘

says, ﬁnding an entry-level job and
getting married will help reduce the risk
of falling below the poverty line, he
said. Sophomore Quincy Springs dis- I
agrees, saying that the low-skilled jobs
Robertson is talking about are in in-
creasingly short supply in our boom-
ing economy.

“Basically, getting a job is not as
easy as it sounds,” he says. Springs
also said that the welfare system,
which in some states pays recipients
more than if they were working, does
not provide the proper incentives to
get a job.

Robertson also says that educa-
tion, the best way to prevent poverty,
is inadequate in the United States.

“There’s hardly a school system in
America that hasn’t failed it’s children
in terms of reading and writing . . . the
level of literacy is appalling,” he said.

Robertson also said that United

@1112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlii  

OPINION:
Making money the
American way. . . suing

W&LIEE:

Two W&L seniors start
their own business

SPORTS:
1 Spring term style sports

May 8, 2000

PAGE 2

PAGE 3

PAGE 4

SEE ROBERTSON

page 3

 

 

PAGE 2

@112 itting-tum iﬁhi

PINION

 

MAY 8, 2000

Fast money — the
true American way

States Courts have decided that
Gates has too much money and now

Bored with spring tenn already?
How about suing someone?

There are a million and one lawsuits
in the news right now. Microsoft was
just broken up, MP3.com and Napster
are being sued by the Recording In-
dustry Association of America, and
those are only a few examples of
what’s going on.

I am tired of reading about lawsuits
and hearing about who’s suing whom.
I would much rather know that there is
a war in a third-world country that will
ultimately raise
imported prod-
uct prices or

he has to pay.

ing CDs.

 

Coffee Talk

how the gov— these people
emmentisﬁnd- Hather McDonald ‘()1 were able to
ing ways to capitalizeonthe
combat pov- system faster
erty. Idon’tcare than the RIAA,

Same deal goes for MP3.com and
Napster. These two sites provided
(albeit illegal) copies of songs to the
general public for free. Yes, it’s copy-
right infringement. But no one has
actually been able to prove that these
services actually take away from buy-

I will often buy a CD after I’ve
listened to clips of it on the computer

(either in MP3 or
RealAudio for-
mat). Because

that A is suing B.

Lawsuits simply prove that people
are jealous and greedy. Look at Bill
Gates. I may not like the way he runs
his business, and maybe he doesn’t
create the perfect products that the ad-
vertisements claim, but I really do ad-
mire him.

Gates is the guy from your high
school that never had a date in his life,
and now, 20 years later, he’s the rich-
est man in America —— in addition to
just about recreating the way mankind
works with computers.

I-Ie embodies the American capi-
talist dream — he worked hard and in-
vented new products, and made a lot
of money out of it. Instead of saying,
hey! The system works! The United

the RIAA got jealous and decided
they wanted some of the action too.

Most lawsuits, not necessarily all,
are manifestations of humankind’s
worst attribute —— greed. People are
encouraged to work hard, create, and
prosper-and then are punished for
doing exactly those things!

The American Way should not
contradict itself this frequently. If the
parties involved really wanted to
change the problem, then why don’t
they create a competing network or
group to challenge the offending
party?

I guess because it’s just easier to
sue instead of working hard and ﬁx-
ing the situation.

Lawsuit, anyone?

Getting bored of Goshen?
Write for the Phi!

(Remember, Journalism majors need clips
for their majors and internships!)

Submit letters to the editor to University‘
Center room 208, or contact Stephanie
Bianco at biancos@wlu.edu or Emily Barnes
at bamese@wlu.edu for more information.

CLASSES? WHAT CLASSES? Students enjoy the cool waters and warm sunshine out at Goshen Pass this week, reveling in the beauti-
ful weather characteristic of spring term. '

Flipping a canoe and getting bruises

When I realized Alumni Weekend
was approaching last week I had mixed
feelings. I was happy for same rea-
sons as many students: catching up
with old friends, more parties that one
could possibly attend in a week, much
less a weekend, and good alcohol. I
was nervous‘ that I wouldn’t be able
to last the whole weekend and be able
to live it up. Why you ask? That’s
simple: three P.E.s.

Before the gasping begins, no I am
not a senior trying to squeeze in those
graduation requirements. I decided
that Spring Tenn is traditionally gor-
geous weather and what better way
to enjoy it than to take classes out-
side and get “buff”?

Monday brought me a day of
horseback riding. After years of not
riding, I was eager to get on a horse
finally (the ﬁrst two times we didn’t even
get on the horse). It went off without a
hitch and my conﬁdence of Alumni
Weekend endurance was building.

Tuesday was a big day. I had
weight training and canoeing. Weight

training was a cinch. We met on the
track, stretched, did a run/walk for nine
minutes, and then lifted. I was in and
out in a little over an hour. Then, I went
to canoeing. I carried the 16 foot, 80
pound canoe with my partner. We
made it through '
rapids and man-
aged to do a few
eddy turns. We
controlled the

Needless to say, this shattered any
and all conﬁdence of endurance for
the big weekend.

The week continued. Weight train-
ing didn’t injure me anymore, but I was
inpainﬁomthecanoefall.IspentThurs-

boat with many -
cross-draws, J -strokes and forward
power strokes. About three and a half
hours into canoeing we were both get-
ting a bit tired. Then, it happened. We
ﬂipped; “

No details are ‘needed.

As you can imagine it wasn’t a good
time. After that, we were getting
desparate because we never thought.
we were going to make it back to BV
alive. I believe at one point I told my
bowperson that I had lost the will to
live. Surprisingly, we made it back alive
and were moaning the entire ride back
to big Lex.

and I made it all right (high ﬁve to my-
self).

I had a great Alumni Weekend and
expected no less. I went party hop-_
ping. I took advantage of the non-
Natty shindigs. I enjoyed the weather
at two aﬁemoon parties. I caught up
with some old friends and met a few
new ones. I listened to my favorite
band Saturday night. I even made it
through the hoards of people and ex-
treme heat at Chi Psi late night. It was
a successful weekend despite my tri-
als and tribulations earlier in the week.

Now Alumni Weekend has come

and gone and I am still finding more
bruises. These bruises are not shame-
ful ones. They are party injuries. They
are war wounds. They make you
proud and hold you head high be-
cause you can physically prove that,

day after- “yes - you did go out” and “yes - you

—X1___—-:':—_ eXamda.d.leGmpe noon and Fri- did have an amazing time” and “yes —
day morning you are more fun than everyone else.”

Stephanie Bianco >01 g e t t i n g They come from when you are scream-
psyched for ing for the band to play one more song.

the weekend They come from being packed in a ﬁa-

temity basement pressed against the
stage that oh-so-conveniently hits
most people mid-shin. They come from
sliding in the fraternity sludge found
on the ﬂoors of every house. They
come from other people who lack con-
trol of their limbs when they dance.
They make you smile as you piece to-
gether which incident that blue and
purple bruise on your right forearm
came from. So, I ask you now to look
around...identify the events
preceeding each bruise. . . and sit back
and laugh over another wild Alumni
Weekend.

uote of the Week:

{(

I’m here to make money,
not friends.

— Thomas “Baner” Bane to man who
told him not to tow alumni’s cars

I}

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Tara Ann Friedel
Mike Crittenden
Brendan Harrington
Heather MacDonald
Tiffany Friedel

Lisa Lin

Neal Willetts

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editors

Sports Editors

I Copy Editor

Photo Editor
Assistant Photo Editor
Layout Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the ri ‘ edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of T he Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30 »

RCHS: the next frontier for frat party dates?

W&L woman alert: There is an unnoticed group of
women in your backyard, waiting to find W&L men for
date functions. There are not just ﬁve road schools for
competition. There are Rockbridge County High School
girls.

This Saturday, while most everyone went to band par-
ties with alumni, I went undercover to the RCHS prom in
Natural Bridge. Women and men should be concerned with
this urgent message (thankfully not from University Com-
puting).

RCHS put on a decent event, complete with leftover
Fancy Dress decorations and plenty of debauchery. The
high school kiddos danced like crazy to just about any-
thing the DJ played, but they really
came alive to the school favorite —

Fancy Dress or even a band party. We would much prefer
to hire an amiable W&L security guard than the aggres-
sive police officers that RCHS hired.

If W&L gatherings are so much more party-friendly,
what would happen if the two cultures collided? I am aﬁaid
to say that the cultures did collide Saturday night. I could
not believe it when I saw it, but there actually were a num-
ber of W&L men at the prom. I will refrain from naming
people, but I am safe in saying that everyone would be
surprised to see some of these guys at RCHS.

In fact, I was amazed to see so many VMI, Harnpden-
Sydney and W&L guys Saturday night. RCHS women
invited an impressive number of road school guys, forc-
ing many of the senior guys to
ask underclassmen. My date

Rocky Top. This year, thankfully, no
one got so carried away that an ambu-
lance had to be called.

Two cultures exist so close but

left Side of the Aisle
Nathan Urquhart ’O1

supplied me with all kinds of
rumors about where RCHS
women went to meet these

never recognize each other’s pres-
ence. The RCHS students, W&L students and our alumni
had very similar goals for the evening. All groups want to
have a good time dancing and drinking the night away.
However, W&L has created a sanctuary for partying that
is the envy of most every RCHS student.

Prom-goers went to great lengths to sneak alcohol into
the prom, most attempts being successful as far as I know.
W&L students would never allow such tight security at

 

guys. We might be seeing more
RCHS women at our parties in
the future, as the women seemed very interested in where
and when we would be having our Spring Term gather-
ings.

Many prom-goers expressed interest in attending
Alumni Weekend band parties, as the unoﬁicial after-prom
party was all but guaranteed to be broken up by the po-
lice. ‘

RCHS students are very familiar with alumni who con-

tinually reappear. Many,JRCHS alumni return for the prom
so many times that they wear out their welcome, not unlike
some of the W&L alumni who return every year to restore
order to their fraternities by destroying property and leav-
ing town before the University damage bill comes.

In fact, RCHS now has a rule that dates over the age of
23 must be approved, and my sources tell me that several
approvals were made. Perhaps fraternities should consider
making criteria for which alumni can attend parties.

The primary difference between our parties and the
prom scene must be the number of ﬁghts. I have never
been amongst a group of people who threw so many
punches.

Aﬂer witnessing a couple of heated verbal arguments Z

that administrators broke up, I started asking prom-goers
about the ﬁghts. The minor of the evening was that a guy
hit his date because she did not want to go to an after-
prom party with him. Everyone claimed that they saw the

big event, yet no one had details (the assistant principal '

told me that they know nothing of this ﬁght).

Sure, there is an occasional ﬁght at a party here, but I
rarely hear of this many ﬁghts in one night, especially be-
tween dates.

Thankfully, I survived my night and lived to return to
W&L and attend some Alumni Weekend parties that night.
Mixing between the two cultures did not feel right. Judging
from the number of W&L guys at the prom, however, I think
that die this mixing may happen more than many think.

TALKb3CkI  What did you wantto be...wliat are you now?

 

“It’s not iinpfdrfafntwhaﬁwanted to be,

but I exceeded all expectations because of was a former Ring.mm Phi editor_ _ _ an imemet company _ as far 5-om
the fine, ﬁne foundations of W&L!” I’m. an episcopal bishop.” being a lawer as can be,”
-Burk Wilson ‘75 -PeterLee ‘60 -GreggAmonnet.’te ‘75

 

“i:1idii?gHt lid bile}: newspaperinan 41 I

 

l“Itl1ou(gh‘t’I"d be a lawyer. I’m now 

 

“I just wanted to graduate! I screwed
around too much in the ﬁrst two years
here, soitwasagame ofcatchupaﬁer
that.” -Craig Wadell ‘85

 

 

 

I 5 : l Elli: ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

   

 

     

4
MAY 8,  PAGE 3

“ W&L sen'ors jo' the real

‘ orld 'th onl°ne business   

it - tion caused by chlorine, sun light, salt water and laundry .

By Emlly Barnes detergents. Lefﬂer pointed out that this protection is sig-
EXECUT1 VE ED 1 TOR nificantly better than the protection provided by typical
summer tee-shirt.
Upon graduation, two seniors will launch a company “Most people think that a tee-shirt provides adequate
J“ devoted to keeping their customers in the shade. protection,” Leﬂler said. “In reality, according to the Ameri-
Senior Business Administration Majors Stephanie can Academy of Dermatology, a light colored cotton tee-
Lefﬂer and Ryan Noble are set to graduate and take on shirt only provides an SPF of 7.”
their business full-time. The company, the Sun Safe Lefﬂer turned down a job at public relations firm
4 Shop, will sell swimwear and accessories that have an Burson-Marsteller in order to take on the business with
Sun Protection Factor (SPF) of 50+ to protect skin from Noble.
the damaging effects of the sun. “I think that running my own business is the best
The company will market its products through baby’s way to learn,” she said. “I will gain more experience in this
and children’ s stores and through their web site, endeavor than I would by working in a low-level position
4 www.sunsafeshop.com. The web site provides extensive in a giant firm.”
information about the dangers associated with sun expo- Lefﬂer and Noble will share the business with Rosslyn
sure in addition to providing sun protective solutions. Cox, a senior at Adelaide University in South Australia.
The Sun Safe Shop will offer 65 products ranging Cox has experience in the industry through working for the
K «from swimwear and sunglasses to polo tops and hats. Anti-Cancer Foundation of South Australia. She has wit-
Although some sun-protective items will be available nessed the success of sun-safe clothing in Australia. Cox
for adults, the company will primarily focus on provid- will move to the United States this summer.
ing products for babies and children. The three hired Storebusters.com, a company owned
The idea for the company was born when Noble stud- by W&L graduates Gaelan Brown, Kelly Dyer, and Sean
,( ied abroad in Australia during last year’s winter and spring Cannon, to design and promote the SunSafeShop’s web
terms. site.
“Sun Protective clothing and swimwear is a relatively Lefﬂer and Noble have received help and advice
new concept in the United States,” Noble said. “When I from Professors Dennis Garvis and Kimberly Cass.‘
studied abroad in Australia, I learned about the popular Noble created the company’s business plan during

"» product and was surprised that it was not widely avaliable an independent study with Garvis. Cass is currently

in the United States.” assisting Leffler and Noble in creating an internet
“Skin Cancer is a signiﬁcant problem in the U.S,” said marketing plan.
Lefﬂer. “One in two Americans who live to age 65 will Noble and Leffler will offer internships for stu-
. contract skin cancer; 1.2 million new cases will be diag- dents interested in marketing and public relations. They
V nosed this year.” will hold an information session for students interested
The Sun Safe Shop will offer swimwear made by Aus- in full-time employment and internships Monday, May
tralian manufacturer SolarSuit. The Sun Safe Shop is 8 at 7 p.m. in University Center Room 114.
SolarSuit’s exclusive U.S. distributor. SolarSuit’s Chloresist -Additional information from a press release from Sun
4. material provides an SPF of 50+ while resisting deteriora— Safe Shop courtesy of Stephanie Leﬂler and Ryan Noble
, yp
By Kris Ponina Murphy, immersed in their own punk band, decided to join
STAFF WRITER Chris Reardon and Tony Lopacinski, who were already
playing in an indie band.
& T , Though both pairs found common ground in their mu- Stephanie Lefﬂer and Ryan Noble are ready to run their new online company, the Sun Safe Shop,
On Saturday, May 13, Earth to Andy, amajor label re- sical taste, their real nexus resided in their desire for a V after they graduate. As this model proves, the company’s product is safe and stylish too.
ording artist, Will be performing at the Sigma Nu frater- change, In addition to the skills of their production manag- ~é—-—- W   ——- V — ~———4~—-~——e———é- —— ..
ittyh. Earth to Andy has been described as “Soundgarden ers Nick Launay (Semisonic, Silverchair, Talking Heads), ‘
i the Beatles singing,” a blend of hard and modem and Chris Loyd-Alge (Everclear, Fastball, Hole, Green Day),

;. ock. The band consists of front man “Andy,” (he just Earth to Andy also can brag of their guest appearance by M O S t W & L S t U A Q h t S _ L  
oes by Andy), Kevin Murphy on the drums, bassist Chris Stone Temple Pilot’s Robert DeLeo on their CD. . '
eardon, and Tony Lopacinski playing guitar. From toursites that range from Texas to Tennessee to

The band has produced their first CD “Chronicle New Hampshire, Earth to Andy will be making their Wash-
ings,” and the single “Still After You” is already being ington andWLee debut in less than a week. The band has

* layed on more than 74 radio stations across the country. toured wiﬁ3immie’s Chicken Shack and Canada’s Joy Drop.
heir inﬂuences stem from Radiohead, Foo Fighters, Stone The Sigma Nu fraternity booked them via an alum who
emple Pilots, and Chris Cornell, combining mellow rock worked for the Phillip Morris Agency, Earth to Andy’s

V unes with complex lyrics and guitar riffs. representing agents. Matt Herman, a junior Sigma Nu,
( The buzz about the band that’s intense music has swept claims, “Earth to Andy’s music deﬁnitely could appeal to
he Eastern Seaboard began about 2 years ago in most of the student body here. I’m hoping for a big tum-
harlottesville and Washington, DC. Andy and Kevin _out this weekend.”
ROBERTSON CONT.
“— United States prisons do not do enough to educate husband walks out,” he said_
he" Prisoners. Freshman Sara Rafferty said she agrees with Robertson. 
“The rate of criminal recidivism is incredible because “Families are the central unit of love and support in 
ur prisons don’t prepare inmates for life on the outside,” society , . . staying together is paramount,” she said.

, 6 said, pointing to a prison reading program he super- Roberston graduated magna cum laude from W&L in

ises as a model for others. A ' 1950, and is in Lexington for his fiftieth reunion. He says
Robertson also says that the high number of divorces that he is enthusiastic about W&L having a poverty class. I
S the primary cause of the declining role of the family, “When I was here, we were quite frankly more con- “
hich in turn causes poverty. He favors the abolition of cerned with partying than helping the poor, so I’m glad ,
K o-fault divorce, in which a person may dissolve the mar- things have changed in fiﬁy years,” he said. 3
iage without proving adultery or abuse by their spouse. Mazza said that even though very few people at the talk 1
“S°m°b°dY in the SeV€nti€S 01109 Said that ‘any Woman agreed with all of Robertson’s ideas, most were highly irn- 
ho votes for no-fault divorce is like a turkey voting for pressed,
‘ hanksgiving,’ [and they were right], because it’s not ﬁnal “I think everyone left impressed with him as a speaker,” I
nd leaves a woman and her family in poverty while the she said_
i
A Show your WALK TALL|  
I
love... nyouwamme .
% pride that comes with ‘
‘ wearing a badge of spe-
for the  cial achievement, the
‘ Army offers you a
.  choice of eight.
‘ R  _ Infantry...Armor...
- . Artillery..Air Defense
. Arti1lery...Combat
P h 1' Engineers...A&rlS3orn<:.1..
. ,. Ran ers ...an ci
l : ' . F01-§eS_ ‘T PC Based on Wal c0BE Survev
  I These are the‘   ilatatrom 1998,1999
Interested in writing  .  ‘ Army” C°m.bat Arms_ » t
‘ = , “ ,and the S°1d1erS ‘,Vh° Funded Iiv a grant trim
for us? Please call the wear their badges are the elite among all soldiers. _ ,
Office at 4624060, and If you think you have what it takes to become
one of them, talk to your Army Recruiter.
let us know your true
1 . . - -
feelings... Virginia Ilenartment iii
ARMY BE ALL You CAN BEG Alcoholic Beverage control _
I . . .

 

 

 

PAGE4

Uh: ﬂing‘-tum lﬂht

SPORTS

 

Generals gear up forplayoffs

By Mike Holmes

STAFF WRITER

The Generals, now ranked fourth
in the country, are busy preparing to
improve on their record season.

Their only loss was to third ranked
Gettysburg earlier this season. Since
then, the Generals have won 1 1 in a row,
received a bid to the NCAA tournament,
won their second straight ODAC cham-
pionship, and tied the 1974 record of 14
regular season wins. ‘

The Generals are poised for excel-
lence in the tournament ahead. But
then again, so was last year’s team.

The 1999 lacrosse team had only
one close early season loss, went on
to win 12 in a row, the ODAC crown,
and were a favorite heading into
postseason. The Generals were busy
preparing to roll on through the tour-
nament before their season came to a
stunning halt.The Generals were
handed an upset that overshadowed

an otherwise amazing season.

The 26 returning members from the
1999 team remember the high expecta-
tions they had going into the touma-
ment, and have not forgotten the sea-
son ending upset they suffered.

Coach Stagnitta remembers last
year’s loss as a “learning experience”
and says “the whole year we’ve pre-
pared differently [for the toiu-nament].”

This year the team has had shorter,
more focussed practices, and each week
the team continues to improve.
Stagnitta, ODAC coach of the year, cred-
its his team’s “talent, leadership, experi-
ence, and ability to stay focussed on
what they set out to accomplis ” for
their success they have had so far this
year. Talent is an understatement.

Eight Generals were named first or
second team All-Conference last
week, in addition to Stagnitta’s rec-
ognition as coach of the year.

Junior attackman Matt Dugan, se-

rnior attackman Chris Brown, junior
midfielder Pope Hackney, senior

defenseman Charlie Antrim, and junior
defenseman Pete Iwancio were all
named first team All-ODAC, while se-
nior attackrnan Colin Dougherty, junior
midﬁelder Bernie Norton, and junior
goalie Wes Hays were second team .

The balance of the tearn’s oﬁ‘ense
and defense has helped the Generals
to a scoring margin of 15 goals per
game. Consistent play on both ends
will be a deciding factor on how far
the team will advance this year.

“If we play like we’re capable of
playing, the rest will take care of it-
self’ said coach Stagnitta about this
year’s tournament.

The Generals, who earned home
ﬁeld advantage for the ﬁrst game, will
face Kenyon (13-1) Wednesday after-
noon. Kenyon, who is out of the Mid-
west, is currently rarikedtwelﬁh in
Division III, losing only to Denison.

If the Generals can get by Kenyon,
they will have the opportimity for re-
venge against Gettysburg in the sec-
ond round.

Baseball

 

Salem, VA——The Old Dominion
Athletic Conference released its
postseason baseball honors last
Thursday. Washington and Lee
was honored with the placement
of Michael Hanson (Atlanta, Ga./
Pace) and Bobby Littlehale (Villa
Park, lll./Willowbrook) on the sec-
ond team.

Hanson, a freshman second-
baseman for the Generals, finished the
season with a .328 batting average and
tearn-highs in both home-rims (5) and
stolen-bases (10). Hanson was also
one of W&L’s top pitchers this past
season. For the year, he accumulated
a record of 7-3 on the mound, boast-
ing a team-best ERA of 3.63.

Littlehale was the starting leftfielder
for the Generals throughout most of
the 2000 campaign. As a freshman this
season, Littlehale led W&L in doubles

(10) and RBl’s (27), while ranking
second on the team in both batting
average (.350) and hits (43). Overthe _
course of the regular-season,
Littlehale hit at a torrid .404 clip
against ODAC competition.
Washington and Lee finished its’
year with a record of 20- 1 5 overall.
The Generals ﬁnished the regular
season at 9-7 in the ODAC, good
enough for the fourth seed in last
weekend’s ODAC Tournament.
-courtesy Sports Information

Senior Generals attacker
Katherine Riddle was named to the
All-ODAC women’s lacrosse first
team in an announcement by the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Friday.

Riddle, a four-year starter play-
ing in every game of her W&L la-
crosse career, ranks fourth on
W&L’s career-scoring list of all time
with 100 goals and 4lassists. She
led her team this year with 29 goals
and 13 assists.

After earning a second-team spot
last year, Riddle was excited to re-
ceive this year’s award to top oﬁ‘ her
career in the sport she said helped
to define her college experience.

“When I think about my experi-
ences here at W&L on the whole,
lacrosse is probably the most valu-
able thing that I’ve done,” Riddle
said. “lt’s taught me a lot about
myself and my own personal goals,
my own personal drive and ambi-
tion; that’s where I’ve learned about
who I am, on the field.”

As team captain,'Riddle attributes
the honor to the Generals’ success-
ful teamwork this season, and their
ability to step up to the challenge af-
ter losing several of last year’s start-
ing players.

“I don’t feel like anyone this year
could have done it by themselves at all.
We definitely were a team this year,”
she said. “I’m really lucky to have
ended my season like this. I’ll remem-
ber this year for a long, long time.”

Other honored team members
included sophomore defender

Riddle heads list of all-stars

Eloise Priest, who was also named to the
first team. Freshman attacker Leslie
Bogart, sophomore midﬁelder Courtenay
Fisher, and junior attacker Ellen Ritsch
earned a place on the second team.

I-
MAY 8, 2000
rt
H
.11
be
is
1»
A
>4
A
' R iphiotoicourtesrry of {refs mi;
The Generals finished their sea.-
son with an overall 8-5. .
-Courtesy of Sports Information '
with additional reporting by
Emily Barnes

Spring term sports :,An adventurer’s g

By David Hanson

STAFF WRITER

Two things change in spring at
W&L: the weather gets nice (unless
you enjoy 43 degrees and drizzling)
and students have much more free
time. These changes translate into the
opportimity to try new activities in the
outdoors. Why wouldn’t you spend
the aﬁemoon of a surmy day hiking,
canoeing, rope swinging, biking,
climbing, or launching mayonnaise-
ﬁlled balloons at coeds in the quads?
Sega or TBS’s “Silvester Stallone
Week” may keep some from getting
outside, but for those interested in
finding out what’s out there, here’s a
little something.

First, take the basics - hiking. The
only equipment necessary are shoes
and water. There are trails through-
out this area Of course, there is House
Mountain, an uphill climb on a log-
ging road that takes about 45 minutes
to reach the saddle of the mountains.
Then pick a mountain - Little or Big -
and hike on another 30 minutes or so
for views of Lexington and the whole
valley. Other hikes include numerous
trails that bisect the Blue Ridge Park-

way, speciﬁcally the Bluff Mountain
section that begins a few miles south
of the Parkway bridge where Route
60 crosses above Buena Vista. This
hike is another steady climb, but only
takes about an hour and offers grand
views of the valley. Mt. Pleasant hik-
irig area, the St. Mary’s wilderness
area, and Goshen all have plentiful
trails as well and are within a 40
minute drive. _
For the bikers in the crowd, the
roads out route 60 toward House
Mountain all seem to connect some-
how and make for a good ride. There
is actually a biking trail on the carn-
pus that begins behind the athletic
fields and ends up down by the cliﬁ‘s
along the Maury River. A little fur-
ther away are the ATV trails along
Route 52 on the way to Lynchburg.
For those who have a canoe hang-
ing up in their dorm room just waiting
to hear about places to use it, there is
the Maury, speciﬁcally Goshen for
whitewater and the kayakers. Woods
Creek is not a suitable option for ca-
rioeing. However, the James River is

‘ not too far away and swallows up the

Maury near Glasgow. This river is
much larger than the Maury River and
supposedly offers great small mouth

bass ﬁshing. .
Schuyler Marshall took advantage

-of the James Riyer for canoeing and

ﬁshing. He said of a recent trip, “the
ﬁshing was good, one rapid was big,
and the water was cold.”

Another less known activity avail-
able nearby is rock climbing. The most
accessible climbs are in Goshen, to-
ward the end, just downstream from
the swinging bridge. These are mainly
top-rope climbs of around 40 feet, but
there are numerous challenging
routes. For those without equipment,
you can always find one of the nu-
merous rock outcrops around campus
or in Goshen in order to practice your
bouldering.

Finally, after you are hot as Hades
from hiking, biking, boating, and
climbing all in the same day, you need
to ﬁnd a swimming hole or rope swing.
We have all heard of Goshen with its
water for swimming and its rocks for
sitting. But if you want to swim in
your birthday suit you may need more
privacy. Panther Falls is a great spot
in the Blue Ridge Mountains past
Buena Vista where you can jump off a
big rock and play around in a few

A natural pools. There are other places

to get wet throughout this same area,

uide

to outdoor activities

Row, ROW, ROW YOUR BOAT. Michael Hanson and Schuyler Marshall enjoy the Spring term weather»\
by canoeing down the Maury River.

all along the Pedlar River. For rope

swings you will have to consult the
speciﬁc homeowners who live near
them (“Riverhouse,” “Beans Bot-

tom”).

Of course, a great source for much
more information is the Outing Club
and its home page. For those lacking

the equipment necessary to do the
activities other than “skinny dippin”’, A
check out the Outing Club and see
what they can do to help.

601' photos you think
people should see?

Bring photo submissions for the Phi

senior issue

Friday May 19.

to the University Center by

 

 

W‘

V

WASHINC-TC]l\l 3: L.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

      

IAMIES3  L‘-’_’.r\./I as ;i- ‘N L.%:.‘«"”~‘A:??‘«‘
1: :)wVt!R:s:”W:

LEXi?\i(’$ YEN. Vﬁ "=‘¢‘5-‘I77

MA?’ ‘I 8 2000

I

U112 ifting-tum {ﬂirt

VOLUME 103, No. 4

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MAY 15, 2000

Buffalo Creek

‘set to rock

_L

A.

Zollman’s again

Music festival returns to
W&L for year number nine

By Michael Crittenden
W&LIFE EDITOR

Washington and Lee students need to grab their
tents and wash their best tie-dye in preparation for the
Buffalo Creek Music Festival.

“I am psyched,” said junior Mary Jessica Jones. “Vir-

‘ ginia Coalition and The Disco Biscuits are two of my fa-

vorite bands.”
The annual festival, held out at Zollman’s Pavillion,
returns to Lexington this weekend for another event that

Q has become a deﬁning tradition of Spring Term. The

festival, also famous for bringing a little sense of
“hippieness” to Lexington, is organized by the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon (SAE) fraternity. Though it was origi-
nally a Student Activities Board event, the SAB no
longer takes the role now ﬁlled by SAE.

“The Student Activities Board is contributing money,
but that’s the only role we’ve taken,” said SAB represen-
tative Lauren Ivanick.

This year’s band lineup is very impressive accord-

’ ing to event coordinator John Hope, a senior SAE. On

Friday May 19th, Washington and Lee favorites Baaba
Seth and The Disco Biscuits will kick offthe weekend.
Baaba Seth will start around 8 p.m., and The Disco Bis-
cuits will follow around 10.

Baaba Seth plays a brand of tropical funk described
as “awesome” by fans, while The Disco Biscuits are
more of a “jam-band” according to sophomore fan Kyle
Hankey. He became a fan after the band played what
Hankey described as about-a four-hour jam session at
last year’s show.

“I saw them for the first time last year at Buffalo Creek,”
Hankey Said. “They played a really good show — I hope
they’ll be able to do it again.”

Saturday wiil featurean extended line-up starting at I
p.m. with Boogie Solution, and local favorite Virginia Coa-
lition will follow at 3: 15. Smokin’ Grass will play at 5 :30p.m.,
then Hipbone at 8, and ﬁnally the Lake Trout band will
ﬁnish off the weekend with their performance beginning at
10:30 p.m.

“I love them because they are hot and it’s just re-
ally fun music,” said one junior girl about Virginia Coa-
lition. “They play something and you like it automati-
cally.”

The weekend is famous for the hordes of students and
locals who make a pilgrimage to Zollman’s Pavillion,
most camping out for the weekend in tents, in their SUVS
and on the ground under the stars. Students often bring
a number of lawn chairs, chaise lounges and the infa-
mous Crazy-Creek chairs.

Students never know what to expect at the event.
Freshman Katie Anlyan said that she is ready to expe-
rience her ﬁrst Buffalo Creek.

“I hear it’s a blast,” she said. “Zollman’s is a great place
for a party, and there’s always something interesting that
happens there.”

The most famous of the weekend traditions is the
annual burning of the couches on Saturday night. Se-
niors and other students bring their old couches to be
sacriﬁced to the ﬂames in a gigantic bonﬁre.

Student reaction to the band list and to the upcoming
weekend in general has been quite positive, and students
seem to be looking forward to the weekend.

“It is always such a great time; a chance for us (stu-
dents) to shed our proper facades and go out and spend a
weekend in the mud. . . listening to some good bands,”
said one junior male. “And listening to a band while sitting
in the creek drinking "a beer sure as hell beats a sweaty frat
basement.”

Second annual Nabors Service Day a Success

Students come together to
serve the community in
classmate’s honor

By Alexis Yee-Garcia

NEWS EDITOR

Almost 200 volunteers came out to help in over 15
different projects for the service day Saturday in memory
of Jonathan Nabors. Nabors and his younger sister,
Leah, died in a car crash on I-81 last year when Nabors
was returning to W&L after winter break.

“Jonathan was such a caring person, it seemed like a
service day would be an appropriate way to remember
him,” said sophomore Stacy McLoughlin of her class-
mate.

McLoughlin coordinated Saturday’s events and
helped the Freshman Leadership Council organize the
freshman service day last year.

“It was great to see so many more people this year,”
Mike Reynold, Nabors’ former roommate, said.

Jonathan’s parents, Eddie and Doris Nabors, also
came out to welcome volunteers and remember
Jonathan’s time at W&L. They have also made a com-
mitment to come out for any other service days in the
future.

“We knew at the time of the accident that something
good had to come of it,” said Eddie Nabors. “And he
was in heaven here. Before he’d even been accepted he
was wearing his W&L tie.”

This year’s service day was in part the result of grow-
ing interest in the Nabors Service League and the
Nabors Network, two groups formed to promote com-
munity service and interaction among service organiza-
tions.

“I think it’s a wonderful thing,” said freshman Becky
Johns, co-coordinator of the special projectsportion of
the Nabors Service League. “The Nabors Service League
has really helped us get organized and get together
with other service organizations.”

Students received a commemorative T-shirt in ex-
change for a suggested donation of $12 to $15. Doria-
tions for the T-shirts combined with money raised at
the service day car wash amounted to over $1,200 and
"will be donated in Jonathan’s nameitoa charity of his
parents choice.

Volunteers provided community service in everything
from painting local residents’ houses to putting on a
carnival for community Little Buddies, faculty children,
and other kids on the University Front Lawn.

Sophomore Quincy Springs gave up part of his af-

photo by Lisa Lin/Asst. Photo Editor
HELPING OUT. Freshman Emma Thomas helps
restore the Yellow Brick Road playground.

photo by Emily Bames/Ex utive- itor

FUN AND GAMES ON THE FRONT LAWN. Junior Lauren LaFauci gives a carnival attendee another
chance at winning a goldﬁsh at the Kids’ Carnival during Nabors Service Day

  

temoon to run around and get pelted with water balloons
as part of the carnival.

“I feel like a kid again,” Springs said.

The Kid Carnival was sponsored by ODK and several
ODK member:-. came out to help arrange the festivities.
Like Springs, senior ODK members Kelly Stewart and Jill
Kosch got to relive their youth, painting ﬂowers, rainbows
and stars on both the little kids and themselves.

“I guess I can sort of speak for ODK as a whole and I
think our purpose was two fold: to get us together in a fun
activity where we could make a difference,” Stewart said.

The ODK sponsored Kids’ Carnival was a perfect
example of what McLoughlin hopes the Nabors Net-
work will be able to achieve in the future; integrating
independent volunteers from the Service League with
sponsoring organizations. Interested organizations can
become part of the Nabors Network by contacting
McLoughlin and sponsoring projects. Individual stu-
dents can get involved with the Service League by ﬁll-
ing out volunteer information forms available in the
University Center or visiting the webpage at http://
volunteer.wlu.edu/nabors.css.

Memories of a close friend

Nabors’ high school
classmate shares
fond memories

S I remember bringing in the new year
of 1999 with him and a group of ﬁiends
on some middle-of-nowhere farm.

I remember driving home late that
night on the interstate, passing his car
at a high enough speed so as to get
his attention, and exhanging goodbye
waves.

Most of all, I remember thinking that
it would be the last time I’d see him for
a while, since he was driving to Vir-
ginia for his second semester at Wash-
ington and Lee in a couple of days.

Little did I know.

If you are from Virginia, chances
are you know about the massive ice
storm that hit that area during the

first few days of 1999, and maybe
you know about the 20-something
car wreck that resulted from the icy
roads there; it was a pretty big story.
Jonathan was somewhere in that
awful pileup with his younger sister
and his parents. Only the parents
survived.

It’s enough to make you wonder
what kind of God would wire workings
of the world so that a guy could die at
such a young age without ever cloud-
ing a moment of his life with the slight-
est trace of pessimism, without ever
having wasted an ounce of what gifts
he had received.

But I stop wondering when 1 real-
ize that Jonathan wouldn’t have won-
dered for a second.

Instead, I just watch the Crimson
Tide on TV and chuckle at the times
he’d tell me of his aspiration to be-

come one of the old men at U of 4

A games who arrive in RVs ﬁlled
with rolls of toilet paper and
boxes of Tide on sticks (Roll
Tide. Get it?).

I shared 13 years’ worth of
timeless experiences with
Jonathan Nabors. But amazingly,
whenever I find myselfthinking
about him —— everyday, in other
words —— the same frozen-in-time
image of him pops up in my mind
every time. It'is of him waving
goodbye as I passed him on the
way home on New Year’s, ﬂash-
ing me his trademaark disarming
smile that could have made any-
one forget about the world’s
grave injustices.

— Courtesy of Taylor Upchurch,
Washington University student
newspaper

Students, faculty end year on unifying note

By Mike Agnello

STAFF WRITER

Students and faculty are inviting the
entire W&L community’s participation
in activities to further promote cam-
pus unity.

Several students not afﬁliated with
a speciﬁc organization have arranged
a “Unity Dinner,” to be held May 16
from 5:30-6:30 pm on the Front Lawn.
Junior Anne Hazlett, one of the main
organizers of the event, said she hopes
the event will be well-attended.

“We’re just trying to end the year
on a positive note after all the nega-
tive events of this year,” Hazlett said.

“I think it’s great that students from
all cross-sections of the student body
can have an event to bring the entire
student body together,” newly-elected
MSA President Justin Arnold said
about the planned dinner.

Faculty are also making the effort
to involve the entire W&L community

in its new committee for inclusivity.

In its March 6th meeting, the fac-
ulty created the Faculty Task Force
on Inclusiveness, naming professors
Suzanne Keen and Robert McAhren
as co-chairs. According to the
committee’s report, their goal is “to
provide an immediate response to the
sexist, racist, misogynist, anti-Semitic,
and homophobic incidents of this
school year.”

Keen described the report as “ex-
traordinarily preliminary” and says
that the proposals outlined by the
committee are only recommendations.
The committee is currently request-
ing the help of all students, faculty,
and staff ﬁom both the law school and
the college to help outline speciﬁc
plans for their future actions.

“We hope to come up with more
substantive proposals, and welcome
any by students,” Keen said. “If they
just have a small idea, that would be
great.”

Keen says she is encouraged by
both the faculty and students’ efforts,
and is passionate about achieving di-
versrty.

“I have loved everything about
W&L since I came here. . . it pains me
that this experience that is so wonder-
ful for me leaves others behind,” she
said.

Keen said that the dinner and ﬁxture
efforts by students to promote unity on
campus are necessary to make the W&L
experience more enjoyable for everyone.

“We’ re very happy that those kinds
of things are happening,” she said.

Dinner organizer Thomas Field said
that the event will be a success if it al-
lows students of different backgrounds
to come together as a group and relate
on an individual basis.

“I’ve found that most people at
W&L have their heart in the right place.
. . an event like this helps actions be
more in line with values and beliefs,”
Field said.

@112 ilting-tum ilﬂlri

May 15,2000

OPINION:

“The Stepfather of Ecstasy”:
not a trip worth taking

W&LIFE:

SPORTS:

Women’s tennis and Men’s
lacrosse teams advance in
NCAA tournaments

PAGE 2

SAB Spring ﬂing is a Success AGE 3

PAGE 4

photcﬁiiﬁmy Friedel/l’lrto Editor
RACE YA. Two students climb
the rock wall last Thursday
at SAB’s Spring Fling.

 

PAGE 2

@112 itting-tum iﬂlii

  PINION

 

MAY 15, 2000

The hallucinogenic trip   

Thursday, May 11: On Monday afternoon, I ﬁrst
glimpsed the ﬂiers proclaiming “KNOWLEDGE —— Sasha
Shulgin at Washington and Lee.” The first thought that
struck me: “Who the heck is Sasha Shulgin?” Upon fur-
ther examination, I discovered that said Dr. Shulgin is also
sometimes known as “The Stepfather of Ecstasy,” whose
job description is “psychadelic chemist and author.” Oh
dear Lord, this sounded good. A ﬂood of questions
poured into my brain. First, why was he invited to speak
at W&L? What enlightenment could
he bring to the W&L community?
Most importantly, would there be any
free samples offered? I scribbled the
needed info into my notebook —
4:30p.m., the Dell, and vowed not to
let this opportimity slip into the obscure haze of apathy
into which all my other plans to attend lectures had wan-
dered.

The awaited day ﬁnally arrived, and I planted myself
on a conveniently provided chair in the Dell. Standing on
the stage was a short pudgy little man who (not so) coin-

cidentally reminded me of Jerry Garcia. Or your typical
mad scientist, take your pick. The lecture commenced.
The wild-haired Doc spoke and gestured as if he were on
crack-rock, or maybe his work with psychadelics had al-
tered his biological chemistry so that everything he does
is three times faster than the average human being. If you
didn’t already know all of the obscure nuances of
psychadelics, you probably would have been much like
me: Lost. DMDA? DMDT? I think those are both names
of drugs he made, but don’t quote me on that, I’m prob-
ably wrong. I caught maybe one word in ﬁve, and under-
stood maybe three complete ideas in the whole thing:

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

A lie cannot be believed or
aiding and abetting

Dear Editor, .

Thomas Carlyle, the great Victorian thinker, historian,
and prose prophet propounded many a silly idea and ad-
vocated many a lost cause in his years of preaching to his
fellow Englishman, but perhaps his central message was
this apparently oh-so-obvious but, nonetheless, slippery
little item, namely, my title - “A Lie Cannot Be Believed.”
Carlyle inveighed against numerous examples of society
accepting lies and living in terms of them — and raged against
that practice, proclaiming that ultimately such negligence
would lead to disaster.

It is surprising but true that we can come to live within
a lie much more easily than we might imagine; we can func-
tion happily in our willful ignorance because it is so tempt-
ing and so easy to avoid an obvious yet uncomfortable
truth. It is so pleasurable to have our cake and eat it too.
Carlyle’s assumption of the prophetic stance of denounc-
ing such behavior proved a dangerous one for him, and no

2 doubt will prove even more dangerous for me "- who pos-

sess none of his brilliance and can write with nothing of
his ﬁre. Even so I will assume such a position for just this
once - I will, for the fun of it, speak with anger and de-
nounce evil - and in this case the particular evil, the lie of
which I speak, is Spring Term.

Spring Term is a lie. It is simply not the case that the
average or typical or representative Spring Term course is
the equivalent of the average Fall of Winter course. Fur-
thermore, you the students do not want them to be. It is
thus a dishonorable, self—serving lie for Washington and
Lee officially to grant equivalent credit for courses taken
in the Spring Term. In doing so the administration and
faculty aid and abet the students in their vain desire to
“work hard and play hard.” The Spring Term is thus the

E112 itting-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Tara Ann Friedel
Mike Crittenden
Tiffany Friedcl
Lisa Lin ,

Neal Willetts

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Photo Editor
Assistant Photo_ Editor
Layout Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, ‘but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: 830

1) Dr. Shulgin played with natural chemicals like mesca-
line, which is found in a drug commonly known as peyote.
Aﬁer manipulating incomprehensible things like benzene
rings in his laboratory of happiness, he tested them. On
himself. Not a bad profession, if you ask me.

2) Sometimes you can be messed up on some chemical,
and not know you’re messed up. However, I think we all
went through those Prevention and Life Management

courses in high school where they tell us, “Even if you .,
‘ think you are ﬁne after downing a =

couple beers, don’t drive, you are

a bunch of adult-type people who

one day decided, “What the heck,
let’s try this experimental drug and see what happens.”
Sure, okay. One of the men walked into a door trying to
hook up with a sexy lady who wasn’t really there, and then
proceeded to drive home and listen to non-existent songs
by his favorite band on a radio which wasn’t turned on.
Sounds like fun, doesn’t it?

3) The third point, which I’m not really even sure was
actually a point, involved some kind of people he called
“shamanotaxonomists” who listen to plants which tell them
what happens to people if they are consumed. Riiiiight. . .

Since Dr. Shulgin had a problem coordinating and express-
ing his own thoughts, I must sadly admit that I can impart no
particular wisdom from the psychadelic experience. How-
ever, I feel that I can recommend with some certainty that if
you are good at chemistry, and like taking drugs, then maybe
you should look into becoming a psychadelic chemist and
author. Personally, I left the lecture very unfulﬁlled in my
quest for “KNOWLEDGE.” Only one out of my three ques-
tions was truly answered. No free samples, darn it all.

apotheosis of this the greatest of all lies at Washington
and Lee: the ﬁtting but grotesque institutional legitimiza-
tion of a false belief: our unique idol and one which must
be broken. Down with it!

It is, of course, foolish to imagine that students will
cease to do too much, will cease their efforts to combine in
their years at W&L the maximum amount of academic work
and social pleasure, and will, in so doing, drive themselves
too hard, drink too much, become overwhelmed by the
courses, etcetera. But it is not foolish to argue that Spring
Term, the supreme institutional instantiation of this lie, a
lie that for a time dupes students into believing they can
do it all, a lie that succeeds by regularly giving them far
more credit than is their proper due, should be done away
with - loudly and forever and with great rejoicing. Student
sometimes seem shocked that anyone would seek to do
away with Spring Term, but you all know what a lie it is.
Now let me offer just one example of a better way for W&L
still to be W&L without the dishonor of this lie.

One possible solution - Imagine all the people

Thus the question becomes - what is the best way to
deal with the W&L tradition of “work hard and play hard?”
How can the W&L calendar honor both the school’s aca-
demic seriousness and its social traditions? I have no de-
sire to eliminate the “play hard” or to touch the Fraternities
and Sororities. Indeed I prefer a system in which the stu-
dents are in charge of their own social life and only indi-
rectly beholden to deans and administrators.

Nonetheless, I strenuously oppose pandering to stu-
dents’ desire to play hard and get credit for an education
by giving them lots of credit for little work. The Spring
Tenn solution is just such an unacceptable lie. It should be
abolished. A .

Moreover, the Winter Term with its beginning burdened
by Rush; its conclusion plagued by Fancy Dress, and the
regular bale of hay, known as Mock Con, that breaks the
poor camel’s back - is severely compromised in its aca-

demic seriousness - an academic watering-down that once
;again is aided and abetted by the institution.
Now I was an undergraduate at a very similar college up
‘North. At Amherst there were two fourteen-week temis
‘with a short interterrn in January: ofﬁcially we had a 4-0-4
system: the zero referring to the January term when the
students could be on campus, could take various informal
courses but for no credit, and could socialize without anxi-
ety.
Furthermore, I attended graduate school at Yale Uni-
versity which had the wonderful practice of a two-week
break in the middle of its fourteen-week Winter/ Spring Term.
Let us imagine combining these for Washington and Lee:
two fourteen-week terms, a short January intertenn, and a
two-week Spring vacation. Rush would take place during
the January interterin and would not be imposed on the
beginning of an academic semester; Fancy Dress would
take place at the end of the two-week Spring vacation and
would not be imposed on the working term. The students

not really okay, we promise.” This '
point involved an amusing story of ;

OH WHAT A LONG, STRANGE TRIP rT’s BEEN. Students listen intently as Sasha Shulgin shares his

  

photo by Lisa Lin/Assistant'Photo Editor

experiences and knowledge of psychadelic drugs in the Dell last Thursday.

would have a longer Christmas break; they could Rush
before they got back to work; they would have an ample
Spring vacation in which to travel, relax, and have their
Fancy Dress.

Thus there would be an elimination of the intolerable
impositions on the Winter term and the priceless gain of
four solid weeks ofreal academic time. Against this gain
would be the loss of six weeks of a lie - a pleasant lie that
allows greater diversity in course offerings, but a down-
right lie in its pretension that a typical course in those six
weeks is equivalent in work to a typical course in the twelve-
week terms.

There it is - you can work hard and play hard, but W&L
would no longer so egregiously aid and abet you in your
-lie. Rush and Fancy Dress would be pushed into your
extended break time, no more institutional sanctioning of
big-ticket distractions from the academic work. When the
dust settled, we would have a solid four weeks of real
academic time to replace six weeks of lying self-deception.

Well. . . I’ll Doff the Carlylean robes, and let you return
to your studying.

Sincerely,
Edward Adams
Associate Professor of English

RCHS student responds to
prom opinion piece

Dear Editor,

My name is Tania Jacobson and I am a senior at
Rockbridge County High School. I am writing to you be-
cause I not only read the article that Nathan Urguhart wrote,
but I went to prom with him. When I ﬁrst heard rurriors of
what was written I was indeed angry, however, after I read
and reread the article on my own, I found that most of what
the RCHS students are up in arms over was all uncalled for.
I have known Nathan ever since he was a freshman, and,
for a bit of insight on his character, whenever Nathan
speaks to you he does so with courtesy and ﬂattery. How-
ever, what sets him apart from a lot of other people is that
he isn’t putting on a big show, he really means what he
says.

I read the article, and I can’t say that I am offended. He
used sarcasm and even made good points about our school.
Where he pointed out something sketchy about the high
school, he compared it to something at W&L which was at
least equally sketchy.

I know that there were plenty of people wishing to voice
their concerns on his article, but I also know that a lot of
them haven’t even read the story. From what I have seen at
the school and heard, there is a lot of word-of-mouth ver-
sions of the piece. I also am sure that there are many stu-
dents who are out to take a jab at W&L when they can, as

A’
many think W&L are out of control snobs. I happen to
know that Nathan wouldn’t intentionally print anything
that might offend someone, although his article apparently
has. If a person is predetermined to ﬁnd something insult- *
ing they can do it.

What I don’t understand about RCHS is why they are
so worried as to what a small college newspaper has to say
in an opinion article. I hope that all of this is put to rest
before anyone gets their feelings hurt too much. ,3
Sincerely,

Tania Jacobson
RCHS Class of 2000

Linux protects against viruses ,
Dear Editor,

The article on the Love Letter virus published last week
contained several minor errors. The most grievous of these
is the statement that the only users on campus safe against
this virus are Macintosh users. This statement is absurd. 3
Almost as many users on campus employ the Linux oper-
ating system as the Macintosh operating system; These
users have far better protection against viruses than
Macintosh users.

As an example, I point to the computer science
department’s ﬁle and e-mail server. While most of the carn-
pus suffered from University Computing’s panicked e-mail
blackout (for almost an entire day), computer science stu-
dents could still access their e-mail accounts on the A
department’s Linux server.

Linux has a growing presence on this campus and while it
has not been embraced by University Computing, its obvi-
ous advantages over UC’s current Netware and Microsoﬁ
servers have led some departments, faculty, and students to I'-
move important network services from LEE, CUSTIS, and the
Groupwise servers to Unix machines. The Geology and Phys-
ics departments also use Unix/Linux servers.

Linux usage by students is also increasing as the oper-
ating system becomes easier to set up, conﬁgure and un-
derstand. -

Students who use Windows would not be affected by
LoveLetter if they avoid using Microsoft Outlook and ac-
cessing ﬁles corrupted by the virus. ,

In short, readers of the Phi should be aware that there
are many alternatives to the Macintosh which will help
them avoid contamination from LoveLetter and protect their
valuable MP3s and J PGs. Readers interested in protecting
their machines should examine the web for information on P
the measures they can take to enhance the security of their
machines. A great starting website is www.linux.org.
Sincerely,

Robert Marmorstein ’0l

TALKback: What are you doing afterSpring Term?

“Going toBeimuda, then I’m working in DC-
two months of nothing and only one of a jo .”
-Stephanie Sweet ‘02

“Life after graduation is still

a mystery.”
-Steven Straub ‘00

“I’m heading out West with the
roomies for a great adventure.”
-Sharmon Bell ‘00

 

“I’m living in DC, somewhere.
Getting a job, somehow.”

—Jordan Ginsberg ‘01 F

 

 

 

MAY 15, 2000

PAGE3

Spring ﬂing:
W&L’s ﬁeld day

Last Thursday, the W&L community was invited to take
a day and enjoy the sun with Spring Fling.

Spring Fling is sponsored by the Student Activities Board
(SAB) and is an annual event. This year, it was held on the’
grassy knoll between the gym and the faculty parking lot.

At 4 p.m., Poston Brown took the stage to start off the
day. They were later followed by the Zen Tricksters. Stu-
dents and faculty took advantage of this ﬁeld day reminis-
cent of grade school. Students scaled the rock wall, fac-
ulty raced for the first down on the inﬂatable football ﬁeld,
kids did jumps and ﬂips down the mammoth size slide, and
mixed pairs went against each other in the supersized box-

“The Servant” comesto Lenfest

  

" comedic improvisation and engaging _

By Kris Pollina

STA FF WRITER

This weekend, the Washington and
Lee Theatre Department will be per-
forming “”The Servant of Two Mas-
ters,” an adaptation of an Italian play.
Written by Carlo Goldoni, the play has
been adapted by Broadway playwright 
Tom Ziegler, with the assistance of di- §_  
rector Tom Evans.

The perfonnance relies heavily on '

the audience. Goldoni’s characters have 
been moved to a more familiar location '

ing ring.

Spring Fling was a day of fun and relaxation, a perfect
event for Spring Term.

PLAYING WITH
OVERSIZED
TOYS. Senior
Brannon
Cook ﬁghts
for a first
down on the
inﬂatable
football field
(above right).
Two students
take jabs and
punches at
one another
in the boxing
ring (right).

Wanna write for the Phi?

 

Today

4:30 PM - Visiting Poet. Piotr Sommer, poet and translator,
Warsaw. Northen Auditorium. (sponsored by the
University Lecture Series, in conjunction with the
departments of Sociology and English)

7:30 PM - Abortion Debate. David Nova, president and
CEO of Plarmed Parenthood of the Blue Ridge vs.
F ionna Gibbons, spokeswoman for the Virginia
Society of Human Life. Lee Chapel.

Tuesday

8:00 PM - Senior Composition Recital. Joshua Harvey ’00.
Johnson Theatre, Lenfest Center.

8:00 PM - Lecture “Japanese Memories of War, Defeat and
Occupation,” Japan historian John Dower, M.I.T.
Northen Auditorium. Book signing to follow.

Wednesday

6:00 PM - Senior Night. Remarks by Lamar J .R. Cecil Jr.,
retiring professor of history. Lee Chapel.

7:00 PM - Spring 2000 Politics Filmfest. “King of Hearts”
(1966), directed by Philippe de Broca. In French
with English subtitles. Room 221, Williams School.

Thursday

5:30 PM - Gallery Reception. Senior Art Thesis presenta
tion by Caroline Cobb ’00. duPont Gallery.

7:00 PM - Spring 2000 Politics Fihnfest. “Fail-Safe” (1964),
directed by Sidney Lumet. In English. Room 221,
Williams School.

Friday

4:30 PM - Medical Ethics Institute Lecture. “Moral and
Social Consequences of the Genetic Revolution,”
David Magnus, Ph.D., Center for Bioethics, Uni

Call us x4060

U‘?

Educational Centers

ASSISTANT DIRECTOR

currently opcrar
across the coun ,
education tcchn

sessions to build,
enviromcnt that

SCORE.’ Dire
SCORE.’ Cent: '

0 Receive trai “i

www.score]obs.com

  
  
  
  
  
  
 
    

. nc OI’ !!’l0l‘¢

photos by Tiffany Fn'edel/ Photo Editor

in this particular adaptation: Buena
Vista. The characters include Pantalone,
the uptight merchant; Smeraldina, the
boisterous maid; Dr. Lombardi, the hu-
morous scholar; and the “servant of two
masters”- Truffaldino.

Truffaldino arrives in Venice one
day, servant of the first master, Signor
Rasponi, who is actually his own sis-
ter Beatrice in disguise.

For ambiguous, yet irrelevant rea-
sons, Beatrice comes from Milan to
ﬁnd her lover Florindo. Her disguise
interrupts the previously planned wed-
ding of Clarice and Silvio because
Clarice had been promised to
Beatrice’s brother—— who they all think
she is. They all had assumed he had
died in a duel. F lorindo arrives in Venice
soon after in search of his Beatrice.

Confusing, yes. It gets worse:
Truffaldino becomes the servant of
Master #2: Florindo. But for the entire
play Truffaldino somehow manages to
keep Beatrice and Florindo from en-

   

countering each other. To further en-
rich the play, the delightful servant
confuses their mail, mixes up their be-
longings, and convinces both of his
masters that the other is dead. By the
end of the play, he employs both of
his masters to help him win the heart
of Clarice’s maid Smeraldina.

Ziegler and Evans plan to follow
the tradition of commedia, depending
greatly on the enthusiasm of the ac-
tors and actresses. Anne Hazlett, a
junior at W&L, plays Beatrice, and
feels the play will be huge success, by
virtue of it’s comedic value and the
cast’s long hours of rehearsal. “We
practiced every weekday since the be-
ginning of the term for three hours a

IT’s ALL AN ACT. Beatrice (Anne Hazlett) and Florindo (Francis U
McWilliams) read Epistles of Love.

night. I think that it’s a really funny
play that incorporates a lot of W&L
and Lexington life. I think the audience
will ﬁnd a lot of humor in it.” The play
also stars Brian Prisco as Truffaldino
and Francis McWilliams as the other
servant.

This directing team will be joined by
Vanessa Chen (’0l) as assistant direc-
tor, William “Skip” Epperson (’ 83) as set
director, Pete Duvall (00) as lighting
designer, Brooke deRosa (’0 l ) as musi-
cal advisor, and Tom Anderson as tech-
nical director. The perfonnances will be
May 19, May 20, and May 22 at 8pm.
and a 2pm performance on May 2 I .

—Additional information courtesv
of Lenfest Press Release

rr-5 rum: wmrm. ear-Lane ff.

versity of Pennsylvania. Room A114, Science
Center.

6:00 PM — Talk by Artist. John C. Winfrey. Room 221, Will
iams School. (Ills exhibit, “Interpretations of
Nature: Landscapes from the Mountains to the
Low Country,” opens in the Williams School on
May 12.)

8:00 PM - Theatre Series. “The Servant of Two Masters”
by Carlo Goldoni. Adapted by Tom Zeigler and
guest directed by Tom Evans. Keller Theatre,
Lenfest Center. For reservations call 463-8000.

8:00 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival Kickoff. Baaba
Seth. Zollman’s. ’

10:00 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival. The Disco Bis
cuits. Zollman’s.

Saturday

1:00 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival. Boogie Solution.
Zollman’s.

3:15 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival. Virginia Coalition.
Zollman’s.

5:30 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival. Smokin’ Grass.
Zollman’s.

8:00 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival.Hipbone. Zollman’s.

8:00 PM - Theatre Series “The Servant of Two Masters” by
Carlo Goldoni. Adapted by Tom Zeigler and guest
directed by Tom Evans. Keller Theatre, Lenfest
Center. For reservations call 463-8000.

10:30 PM - Buffalo Creek Music Festival Finale. Lake Trout.
Zollman’s. 7

Sunday

2:00 PM - Theatre Series. “The Servant of Two Masters”
by Carlo Goldoni. Adapted by Tom Zeigler and
guest directed by Tom Evans. Keller Theatre,
Lenfest Center. For reservations call 463-8000.

‘3

WiWl.5Tllé9lTll.llllVBf89.BOlTl

ano-are-are

Students create “Catastrophe!”

If you are in the mood for wild
comedy, dances and music all in
one — look out for “Catastrophe!”
— a series of one act French plays
coming to the Lenfest Center. “Ca-
tastrophe!” captures the energy,

curiousity and passion of the

French Avant—garde theater.

Several Washington and Lee
students, directed by Professor
Domnica Radulescu, have devoted
their spring term to mastering eight
fast-paced one-act plays from the
Theater of the Absurd, a high point
in the history of French theater.
Scenes range from lovers quarrels
to a picnic in the middle of a battle-
ﬁeld.

“I think that there is something
in Catastrophe for everyone to
laugh about,” says senior Cavelle
Johnston.

Presented in French with En-
glish Translations, the series will
features playwritghts Arrabal,
Beckett, Ionesco, and Tardieu. The
three day series begins on May
24th thru May 26th in the Johnson
Theater at the Lenfest Center. Ad-

' mission is free to all.

— Courtesy Cavelle Johnston

photo courtesy of Cavelle Johnston
“PIQUE NIQUE EN CAMPAGNE.” Students from
Professor Radulescu’s class rehearse one
of the eight one-acts in “Catastrophe!”

s PBY ‘ ‘J’
CARLO GIOLDONI
DIRECTED BY
"TONI EVANS
A NE\V
ADAPTATION BY
T054 ZIEGILER

 

PAGE 4

E1112 iliing-tum iﬂlii

 

MAY 15, 2000

Men’s lacrosse wins
12-10 to advance

GETTYSBURG, Pa. —- Senior
attackman Colin Dougherty
(I imonium, Md./Loyola) netted two
goals and dished out four assists as
fourth-ranked Washington and Lee
used a 4-0 burst in the fourth period to
break an 8-all tie and defeat Gettysburg
12-10 in the NCAA Division III
Quarterfinals at Musselman Stadium in
Gettysburg, Pa.

With the win, the Generals advance
to face top-ranked Salisbury State in
the national semiﬁnals next weekend.
The Sea Gulls avenged their only loss of
the 2000 regular—season with a 21-9 romp
over Washington (Md.) on Sunday.

In a game that was tied at the end of
each of the first three periods, the Gen-
erals advanced to the semis with a 4-0
run over a span of seven minutes and 42
seconds in the fourth quarter. Dougherty
fed junior attackman Tom Burke
(Moorestown, NJ./Moorestown) with

12:28 left in the game to put the Generals
ahead to stay at 9-8. Junior attackman
Matt Dugan (Rockaway, NJ./Mtn.
Lakes) then scored twice in a span of
44 seconds to push the lead to 1 1-8
and help Washington and Lee (16-1) to
its school-record 16th victory while
avenging its only loss of the 2000 carn-
paign. Gettysburg downed W&L 6-4

on March 12th in Lexington. Follow-
ing Dugan’s pair of goals, freshman
attacker Will Sharp (Kensington, Md./
St. Albans) ﬁnalized the W&L scor-
ing with an EMO goal, increasing the
W&L advantage to 12-8 with 4:46 to
play. The Bullets (14,-2) responded
with an unassisted goal from Tommy
Pearce with 4: 10 to play, but the Gen-
erals clamped down on defense and
held Gettysburg off the scoreboard
until a goal by Ross Garretson with
only :10 seconds remaining.

W&L junior goalie Wes Hays
(Towson, Md./Loyola) made 12 saves
on the afternoon while Andrew Bar-
ter came up with eight stops for
Gettysburg. The Generals were led
in scoring by Dougherty with a
team-high six points. Both Dugan
and senior attackman Chris Brown
(Towsoii, Md./Towson) chipped in
with three goals and an assist. The
Bullets, who saw their season end
in the Quarterﬁnals for the third
consecutive season, were led by
Pete Milliman with two goals and
two assists, while Garretson tallied
three goals.

Both the date and time of W&L’s
contest against Salisbury State will
be announced later this week.

--Courtesy of Sports information

 

 

, position she played as a freshman to anchor this year’s

defensive unit, which allowed opponents an average of
only 7.69 goals per game. Her exploits this season helped
earn her ﬁrst-team All-ODAC honors.

Riddle makes North-South All-Star

Baltimore, Md. -- A ﬁrst-team All-ODAC selection,

SPOR

  

photo by Tiffany Friedel/Photo Editor
ON TO THE SEMIS. Sophomore midﬁelder John Moore defends the General’s lead against
Kenyon on Wednesday, which took W&L to the Gettysburg quarterﬁnals after a 22-4 win.

Antrim, Brown named to All-Star Game
Lexington, Va. -- Washington and Lee senior men’s
lacrosse players Charlie Antrim (Richmond, Va./St.
Christophers) and Chris Brown (Towson, Md./
Towsoii) have been selected to participate in the
North-South All-Star game held June 10 at the Uni-

   Women’s
 tennis

prevails

A   Team advances to

in Minnesota
By Neal Willetts

LA YOUT & DESIGN EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s women’s
tennis team gets to take an all-expense
paid trip to Minnesota for the NCAA

College in St. Peter, Minnesota.

W&L increased its record to 18-3
in Sunday’s match against Rhodes.
This is the ﬁfth consecutive appear-
ance of the women’s team in the na-
tional quarterfinals.

In doubles, Rhodes was crushed
by the infallible pairs of Erin Eggers

Melissa Hatley, and Laura Bruno and
Sallie Gray Strang. In singles, the
strongest games were played by Laura
Bruno, Brandi Jane Wedgeworth, and
Melissa Hatley, each defeating theiri
opponent in two consecutive matches.

son in a General’s uniform amassing 44 goals and 20
assists for 64 points. He ranks fifth in W&L history,,
in career goals (1 13) and 14th in career scoring (145).
Like Antrim, Brown is a two time First-Team All-
ODAC slection who earned preseason Third Team
All-America honors from Faceoff ‘O0 Men’s College

‘i

F

quarterﬁnals at Gustavus Adolphus #

and Erika Proko, Brook Hartzell and 5‘,

NCAA quarterﬁnals _

    
   

      
 

 
 
   
    

     

 
 
 
 

   
  
  

  
 
   

     
  

_ ‘ . senior Katherine Riddle has been selected to partici- Versity of Delaware. Lacrosse Magazine. *
Charl,ottesville,’Va. -- 'lwo members of Washington pate inthe1wLCA Division [11North/south women’s Antrim, a defenseman, has helped spearhead a Washington and Lee (15-1) was ranked fourth in
and Lee s women s lacrosse team have been honored Lacrosse A11-star Game on June 10 in Baltimore, MD_ W&L defensive unit that has allowed an average of the final USILA Division III lacrosse poll and played at
by being llamed 10 the 3011111 Atlafltle l_{egl0Y}211 A1l- Riddle will take partin the Division III portion ofthe Just 5.25 goals per game, the second best GAA in Gettysburg Collegeinthe quarterﬁnals ofthe NCAA Divi-
American team. Sophomore defender Eloise Priest (Al- 2000 STX Lacrosse Festival, an a11-day event on June Division III. He is a two—time First Team All-ODAC sion III Tournament yesterday afternoon at3:00 pm. ‘
;>1<ar;“drita;Va./St.h_S1tepheri s-Stt. A(gneI:)t\}i1vas.na§e;idtlo 10 at Johns Hopkins University’s 1-{omewood Field_ The honoree and was named as Honorable mention to --Courtsey of Sports Information
e irs earn, w 1 e senior a ac er a erine 1 e ‘ ' ' - ' ; _ n - ' ' _ ' - .
(St. Clair Shores, Mich./Univ. Liggett) was tabbed as a Dn:AiSi::eI:;:iinS:‘::éﬁreilgfnjiiiii i§ird‘il1:0fBiii1ishegl the :?VaeS[2\1l}l)r[:SI::S:)CIi1§(::?):11(tl0'iE:2:vI’i1nﬁii{iI?1g?l:f1a:::i::Ci?:IirgI)i Spolfts Notes must be ln.t0 t.he Phl
5e°°“_d‘team 5e1eet10n- year with a team-high 29 goals and 13 assists for a total F8C60ff‘00 Men’s College Lacrosse Magazine. (ph'@wlu'edu) for Pubhcatlon by
Pr"-35‘: 3 5°Ph0m01‘e defender, m0Ved ff0m the attack of 42 points. Brown, an attackman, has produced his finest sea- 6pm on Sunday evening, g
-lost l-A/&L stucleis’ts Lave it
Got photos you » ~
in peop e 
  tn’ k I
$.10 7 *
U I d S 8 8 .
it
Bring photo submissions for the
Phi senior issue to the University **
Center by Friday, May 1 9 .
I I

 Low  WALK TALL! -
/ Z

Z Z Ifyou want the

Z Z pride that comes with )‘

Z . Z wearing a badge of spe- ’

Z Z cial achievement, the

Z   Z  Army offers you a

Z . , _ I ChOl(Iiif(::ii1‘t3ii§I.}.l.ti‘'\rmor... ’‘

Z E"'°l’°'M"°3°A5'a°s°"th Amen“ Z Artillery...Air Defense

Z lloreThan100 Deparlureciliesl Z ,~_ 11j:~rti!1ery.--C<X{1rl13)at , _

euraiipassesoausiasses-siudyiimai  nglneers--— °m.e---     -

Z Z   ,,‘3f,“;§§;jS---a“dSPe°‘a‘ Based on Walcllllisuriieii "
Z Z  -   I I These are the B     t|ala_ir0m1998,1999

Z ¢ student Z   Army’s Combat Arms— 0

Z ’ “"!X$r.s° Z _  i _and the soldiers who ‘ Funded In: a grant from   >-

Z ".5 YOUR WORLD_ EXPLORE ”_ Z wear their badges are the elite among all soldiers. B p . ' '1 ‘ ‘X

Z Z If you think you have what it takes to become ‘ ’

Z _ Z one of them, talk to your Army Recruiter. , V
Z iiww.StudentUniverse.com Z _ _ _   , ii
= , 800-272-9676 Z 540-886-2651 ""9"“3 nenmlmem “I . V e   1 . .»= ’ ‘ 31
Z Z . Alcoholic Beverage control. ~   , .    
 Z ARMY. BE ALL You CAN BE?    e 1

1:.

 

  

 

5?)

l
4

1‘ VOLUME 103, N0. 5

 

ICaroline Cobbl

p A look back 0

(J11:
lﬁlti

Monday,
May 22, 2000

Seniors: The

ﬁnal farewell
see page 4

Sports Notes:
Coach Dadio
Campbell

resigns
see page 3

Abortion:
The great
non-issue?
see page 2

Letter to the
Editor: In
Defense of

Spring Term

see page 2

Artistic ge-
nius: ‘Josh
Harvey and

see page 3

on this year
see page 2

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Students demonstate for women’s rights

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

FIGHT FOR YoUR RIGHTS. Darlene Mitrano, Jennifer Agiesta, Lisa Chew, Nicole
Gilkeson, Melissa Sills, and Nancy Reinhart participate in Friday’s Women’s
Rights demonstration in front of the Courthouse.

Oh, the places

they’ll

go!

Graduating seniors share some of
their plans for the future

By Mary Woodard

STAFF WRITER

Work. It’s something W&L
students have been taught to do
for years. Sometimes they do it
stubbornly, but other times
work is enjoyed enough to be
done willingly.

As this year’s graduating se-
niors venture away from the
conﬁnes of Washington and
Lee, they are essentially enter-
ing into a new chapter of their
lives. Though some might title
this chapter, “Entering the Real
World,” it’ s important to realize
that the story will not be the
same for everyone. The ques-
tion “What do you want to do
when you grow up?”will be an-
swered in some interesting ways
for the soon-to-be-graduates.

Kelley Gilbert, from
Peachtree, Georgia, has always
been fascinated by the super-
natural. An X-Files guru, she
has wanted to become a FBI
agent for some time. Next year,
though she will not be entering
“the Bureau,” she will be getting
ataste of mystery in her job. Work-
ing at Cellrnark Diagnostics in
Germantown, Maryland, she will
act as a Forensic Client Service
Representative, taking calls from
the clientele, 80 percent of whom
are police officers and lawyers.

She will educate the clients
about DNA testing, and let the
caller know exactly what kind of
information they can expect to

-get from their specimen. If the

client decides to use Cellmark,
Gilbert will act as the middle-
man between the scientists
and the client for the duration
of the case.

The company has been in-
volved in several high-proﬁle
cases, including O.J. Simpson,
the Unabomber, and Jon Benet
Ramsey. Gilbert sees this job as
a great way of combining her
knowledge of science and her
fascination with the mysterious.
In the future, she hopes to earn

a combined Masters degree in
law and forensic science.

There are also those who are
less sure which direction to fol-
low when it comes to finding a
job. In elementary and middle
school, Kelly Scott considered
careers in archaeology and ar-
chitecture. It was not until high
school that she became inter-
ested in politics and really
knew that she wanted to live
in Washington, D.C. Next year,
Scott will be working for the
Thomas B. Fordham Founda-
tion in D.C., an education re-
form think tank. She will serve
as the executive assistant to
the President of the Founda-
tion, Checker Finn.

“Finn is the foremost speaker
on education reform and worked
with Bill Bennett in the educa-
tion department under Reagan,”
Scott said.

Scott’s responsibilities will
include arranging travel plans,
setting up interviews, handling
media calls, and other adminis-
trative support roles.

“They wanted someone
young and enthusiastic enough
to groom to become a leader in
education reform,” Scott said
when asked how she landed the
job.

“The effects of the educa-
tion system pervade all of so-
ciety. The lessons children
learn in school will effect their
lives and their behavior.
Therefore, everyone has an in-
terest in making sure the
schools are the best they can
possibly be,” she said.

Scott eventually wants to be-
come a legislative assistant in
Congress, but for now, she’s
happy with this current oppor-
tunity. She is also excited about
her new apartment in Arlington,
with a view of the Washington
Monument and the Capitol.
Scott is ready to enter the work
force on June 5th.

“I think I am ﬁnally prepared
for life after college,” Scott said.

Women’s groups protest
Supreme Court ruling
By Emily Bames

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Representatives of Women’s Forum held their
picketing signs high in front of the Rockbridge
County Courthouse Friday to demonstrate against
the Monday Supreme Court decision that weak-
ened the Violence Against Women Act.

In a 5-4 decision, the Supreme Court repealed
the Civil Rights Remedy Clause of the VAWA. The
decision was the result of a recent case in which a
Virginia Tech student ﬁled suit against two football
players she claimed raped her. She filed under the
remedy clause, which, according to an article in the
May 15 issue of The New York Times, was formed
by Congress “to provide an alternative avenue of
redress for victims of rape and other crimes ‘moti-
vated by gender.”’ Both her suit and the remedy

clause were determined to be unconstitutional, with »

the ruling that gender-related violence is not an in-
terstate-commerce issue and should not be handled
by the federal courts.

“This ruling is either saying that gender-based
crimes are not a matter of civil rights, as opposed to
race-based crimes, or it’s saying that the federal gov-
ernment doesn’t have the right to protect civil
rights,” Women’s Forum chair Melissa Sills said.
“Either way, it’ s a problem.” ‘

Sills said the repeal presents a step backward
in gaining both the federal govemment’s involve-
ment with the issue of rape, and the treatment of
rape as what she called a “crime of oppression.”

“The purpose of our rally was to address both
the Supreme Court decision and the issue of vio-
lence against women in general,” she said. “In this
country, every six minutes a woman is raped, every

18 seconds a woman is beaten. These are not just
crimes, they are assaults on women as a gender.”

Sills, along with several members of Women’s

 

252000

 U112 lting-tum Iﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UN1vERsmI’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

MONDAY, MAY 22, 2000

Forum, Project Horizon, and Rockbridge Valley Na-
tional Organization for Women participated in the
demonstration. Representatives of each organiza-
tion made short speeches, held amoment of silence
for rape and domestic violence victims, and ended
with a march from Main Street to the Colonnade.

“The whole [Supreme Court] decision just made
me very mad, and I wouldn’t have missed the dem-
onstration for the world,” Women’ s Forum mem-
ber Jennifer Agiesta said.

Professor of art history Pamela Simpson, presi-
dent of the Rockbridge Valley chapter of NOW,
said that she was pleased with the involvement
and enthusiasm of Women’s Forum members. i

“The students are the heart and soul of so
many things,” Simpson said. “You not only have
a group like Women’s Forum, which is concerned
with women's rights and issues . . . a lot of those
people are also volunteers for Project Horizon, so
they know firsthand what it is to be on the hotline
and to be talking to people who are victims of
sexual assault and domestic violence. That’s why
we were all out there, we feel very strongly about
those issues about violence against women.”

Simpson said she was glad to hear from faculty
members, who expressed interest in attending but
could not be at the demonstration because of classes.

Sills said that she would like to see more reac-
tion from the student body when it comes to is-
sues that go beyond the campus.

“I think there’s a lot of . . . fear and guilt sur-
rounding the issue of rape which keeps people
from taking any sort of stance on it,” Sills said.
“While I think the lack of involvement on our carn-
pus is understandable, it is not excusable.”

Simpson said that she encourages the work of
student groups to encourage students to speak
out on issues confronting college-aged adults.

“I know that silence does not help,” Simpson
said. “You need to speak out. If a climate is going
to change about attitudes toward violence, then
it’s got to be a public attitude.”

THE TEAM THAT PLAYED THEIR HEARTS OUT... W&L men’s lacrosse team (16-2) lost 10-9 in their semi-ﬁnal game
against defending national champion Salisbury State on Sunday in Maryland. After a back and forth game,
holding the Sea Gulls at a 5-5 tie at half time, a goal in the last few minutes of the game forced W&L on the
offensive. Junior Matt Dugan broke the school record for points earned in a single season. This is the
fourth lacrosse team in W&L history to make it as far as the semi-ﬁnals.

 

File photo/The Ring-Tribi

Another educator, Warren
Hedges from Knoxville, Mary-
land, hopes to be working forthe
Peace Corps in Western Russia
as an English teacher.

Hedges’s interest in Russia
stems from a week-long trip his
history class made to the coun-
try during his senior year of high
school. He said that his decision
to join the Peace Corps only
came about two months ago.

Hedges looks forward to this
experience for a few different rea-
sons. He expects this to be a cul-
tural learning experience and
hopes to gain a better under-
standing of the language. He
also sees the Peace Corps ex-
perience as a great adventure:
being forced to explore a for-
eign place on your own and
survive.

Ultimately, Hedges chose to
apply to the Peace Corps be-
cause he wanted to help other
people. He values this as an op-
portunity for him to contribute
to the education system in Rus-

sia. Hedges is also interested in
law and hopes to ﬁnd a job that
be thoroughly enjoys, leaving
him time to have a family life as
well.

KD Vo from Seattle, Washing-
ton will be in a similar situation,
participating in the JET program
teaching English in Japan.
Though V0 is a pre-med student,
teaching English while living
abroad will give him an oppor-
tunity to do something different
for a short time.

‘‘I didn’t feel like going and
studying for anotherV4 years and
med school will still be there
when I get back,” Vo said. “This . if
isn’t something I’m plarming on
doing in the long term. Plus, I
still need to decide if med school
is what I really want to do.”

Like his fellow seniors, Vo
feels W&L prepared him to en-
ter the “real world,” but that
doesn’t necessarily mean he
wants to be a part of it yet.

“I want to enjoy my youth
while I still have it,” he said.

photo by Emily Banres/Executive Editor

SENIOR NIGHT 2000. Members of the senior class pose
outside of Lee Chapel after Senior Night Wednesday,
uniting as a class one of many times before graduation.

 

PAGE 2

@112 ititng-tum iﬂlri

PIN ION

MAY 22, 2000 ,.

 

.you want, but
_ please don’t try

your moral sys-
_tem by arguing

Abortion: The
great non-issue

Last Monday, I noticed a debate would be held on the
issue of abortion. Actually, how could I not notice? I had
only been pelted with the issue by various people for the
entire week prior to the debate. After my initial reaction of
shock at being verbally attacked during dinner one night for
asking casually why someone was pro-life, annoyance set
in. What a ridiculous debate.

First of all, abortion does not make for a particularly good
dinner conversation. Secondly, give it up already. Debates

which don’t allow for a clearly neutral position are just silly. .

The only way I can express my apathy is by declaring
myself pro-choice. That’s not exactly a comfortable non-
stance. Pro-choice, pro-life. . . just eat your dinner and talk
about the meaning of life or something else more digestively
agreeable.

Believe what

 

Radically Neutral
Monica Schoenthaler ‘O2

to force me into

 

for laws which take away yet another freedom. I’ve heard the
religious argument... but let’s not fool ourselves, not every-

' one in America follows a religion which tells people “abor-

tion is EVIL! !” I personally thought that America was origi-
nally settled as neutral ground on which to express religious
freedom anyway. Maybe I’m wrong about that, my historical
fact memorization skills aren’t that great.

Also, if a woman decides to have an abortion because of
the fmancial responsibilities having children entails, or be-

. cause she doesn’t feel she is ready for parenthood emotion-
< ally or psychologically, maybe people should listen. The child
_ will probably just grow up with psychological trauma m-

ﬂicted by parents who are disgruntled at his very existence.

: Or say he is given up for adoption, even if he grows up in a

happy family, one day he will ﬁnd out. Then the child may
wonder, as many adopted children do, why his biological

A mother decided he wasn’t worth keeping. I personally can’t

imagine being too ecstatic at that thought.
Going over a few other pros and cons of the issue:
Pro—Choice:
Pros: Personal freedom, whether for abortion or against.
Cons: More of a chance of getting gunned down, blown

. up, or otherwise harmed for personal beliefs. Maybe it’s just

me, but I’ve never heard of anyone getting hurt, maimed, or

. murdered at a pro-life clinic or the equivalent...

Pro-Life: ' .
Pros: That self-righteous feeling you get from telling other

C people they’re wrong.

Cons: That self-righteous feeling you get from telling other
people they’re wrong.

Okay, so I only had one for each, but hey, that’s all the
thinking I felt like doing. It would be much easier if people
would just recognize this for the huge non-issue it is. Re-
gardless, you won’t be seeing me at an abortion clinic any-
time soon, either in protest or in need of the service. Those
places are just too dangerous.

uote of the Week:

(I

His idea of commitment is
taking me to Subway once
in a while.

-Anonymous junior girl

}}
Ellie ﬁtting-tum ilﬂlri

Executive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Tara Ann Friedel
Mike Crittenden
Tiffany Friedel
Lisa Lin

Neal Willetts

News Editor

Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor

Photo Editor
Assistant Photo Editor
Layout Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, VA. Funding for The Ring-tum
Phi comes primarily from advertising and subscription
revenues. The Washington and Lee Publications Board
elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial‘Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and_ Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Ofﬁce: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

 

photo by Tiffany Fn'edeVPhoto Editor

I’M coma T0 MISS THIS COUCH. Junior John Herbert enjoys a short afternoon nap before the festivites resumed at Zollman’s this past weekend.

A reminder of the past year, in case you forgot,

There is no such thing as the sophomore slump. It is a
rumor, created by sophomores who felt left out of the loop
during peak social hours, not knowing the who, what, when,
and where of the evenings activities. Please let me assure all
rising sophomores that this is not the case. Sophomore year
is practically freshman orientation week for thirty weeks
straight. It’s your second year of college, your second year
of trying to decide what to do with your life, your second
chance to bring up your GPA, and your fust chance to take a
class with a pre-requisite of “sophomore standing.” I, of
course, did not accomplish much as far as planning my fu-
ture is concerned. I’m actually much
more confused. As I look back on my
sophomore year I realize in the great
quest of “ﬁnding myself,” and maybe a
clue to my future, I just lost myself in a
pit of memories from great events past.

The Mock Convention added a welcome twist to the usual
tailgates, Parent’s Weekend and Homecoming fall line-up.
Not that the usual social functions aren’t exciting, but there’s
something about an_ event that happens only once every
four years. People tend to put more effort into a party that
occurs less often. Mock Con was a great experience, both
inside and outside the convention hall. There should be a
parade for Homecoming, too. (What a fantastic way to make
a mess of the Pavilion, Main Street, the Ruins, spread school
spirit, and have fim all at the same time.)

My first look at the other side of rush was quite an expe-
rience. There are a lot of things they don’t tell you when
you’re a rushee, such as, “You will be spending all year pre-

LETTER TO

Dear Editor,

Unfortunately, I (along with the rest of the student
body) was subjected to the ramblings of Professor Ed-
ward Adams in the most recent Phi, in which he ranted
against our hallowed spring term, and appropriated poor
«Thomas Carlyle’s invections against lying to do so.

Let me direct him towards another of Mr. Carlyle’s quo-
tations, which states that “with stupidity and sound di-
gestion man may front much.” Professor Adams’ gastric
capabilities must be remarkable. He believes that students
should not receive full credit for courses taken during spring
term, and that we should willingly sacriﬁce it in order to
gain “four solid weeks of real academic time.” I am certain
that, should the professor agree to teach at a reduced sal-
ary for spring term, we will in turn abandon our course
hours.

Or, barring these extreme solutions, allow me to sug-
gest that Associate Professor Adams needs to take upon
himself the responsibility of teaching a couple of extra
courses so as to provide more choices in the curriculum
for next spring.

A course on the British War Poets, for example, or a

 

Rainbow Brite

. Tiffany Friedel ’O2

 

paring for one week of rush. It will take up all of your time, so
get used to it now.” Don’t say you weren’t warned.

Now I find myself thinking about this past weekend’s
events at Buffalo Creek in awe. Sunday morning in the
Dining Hall I could not help but laugh at some people I’d
seen Saturday night and remind them of what they did
that evening just in case they forgot. That’s the best part"
about sober driving. The worst part is the drive out there.
It’s long, the roads are dark and winding, and I ended -up
doing it way too often. Five people danced to the bands,
while dozens swam in germ-infested water. Dogs ran wild
without supervision or. restriction,
as did their masters.

I understand that Buffalo Creek
is a two day event, but is it really
necessary to restrain from any form
of personal hygiene for that time?
The lack of running water (clean water, the creek not included)
and bathrooms in general makes the whole event that much
more repulsive to any person paying attention, sober or oth-
erwise.

The parking situation is a mess there, too. The only place
on Earth worse to park in is Historic Lexington. I know not
everyone wants to park in a circle out on the field, but is it
really necessary for cars to be triple-parked, blocking ev-
ery entrance and exit, and making it impossible for anyone
to get through? It did look kind of cool with the hundreds
of SUVs lined up on the field, and I was proud to have my
Jeep there on the end. I just felt sorry for the itty bitty cars
that would probably get stuck in the mud after the rain.

THE EDITOR

seminar on Walker Percy would be greatly appreciated,
and would allow for students to fulfill their English re-
quirements more quickly in their academic careers instead
of having to wait until they attain Junior or Senior status
and jump ahead in the registration order (the English De-
partment is particularly deficient in this regard). Seeing as
how, according to the registration sheet for this past se-
mester, the good professor has only been teaching one
course, this should present no problem.

Perhaps he resents this intrusion on his duty as a
professor. Similarly, I resent that he sees it as his within
his realm of responsibility to advise the student body
that we should sacrifice our breaks so as to alter the
academic year to more closely resemble those of
Amherst and Yale.

I did not choose to attend Amherst or Yale. Instead, I
decided that Washington and Lee, with all its quirks and
foibles, was a superior educational choice; and in fact, the
very institutions which Professor Adams so strenuously
objects to (i.e., winter rush, Mock Con, and Fancy Dress)
all contributed significantly to the atmosphere which en-
chanted me (and others) so much as a prospective.

One such car was double parked behind an SUV, prevent-
ing it from passing. The driver was very considerate, though,
because instead of four-wheel driving over the car, he and a
couple of his friends picked it up and moved it aside instead.

All complaints aside‘, I did enjoy my weekend. This was
the second to last weekend of my first half of college. It’s
very sad.

I have mixed feelings about the surruner. I can’t decide

whether it’s great to have an extended vacation time for ex- I

tracurricular work and play, or if it’s just a great big waste of
time. What is really accomplished over the surrirner anyway?
For those of us with sununer jobs and internships, we get a
look at the real world, the working world, and possibly a foot
in the door of our future careers. Then there’s the part of us
who still believe we are in junior high, sitting at the beach
and letting our minds waste away, losing all information pre-
viously acquired during the school year. I’d rather just get
on with school, finish in three years, and then start my life.
Wait, what am I saying? Please disregard that last sen-
tence. I don’t think I would give up a fourth Homecoming,
Parent’s Weekend, Christmas weekend, Fancy Dress Ball, or

A

A

A

year with my friends at this great institution for anything. I *

might give up rush week, though. . .

There’s no advice I have to give freshmen towards sopho-
more year. Maybe that’s because I haven’t heard any. Just
make the most of it, have a ball - you only get to be a sopho-
more once. Tliat’s what people said about my ﬁeshman year,
and I choose to carry that piece of advice with me through-
out my college career.

Exile of these events to the breaks would, at the least,
greatly decrease their attendance, and would almost cer-
tainly lead to their eventual demise. Should this occur, our

college environment would suffer a great loss in its unique ,

character, and would be that much the poorer.

Insofar as he objectsto W&L’s “work hard, play
hard” manner, no one insisted that he teach at this in-
stitution. He could teach at a “work hard. . . keep work-
ing” institution (Amherst, Yale) and leave us to our
own devices.

I am offended at the suggestion that we, as a stu-

dent body, indulge in “six weeks of lying self-decep- I

tion.” The very idea proposed by that letter was such
an overwhelming example of Ivy-League pretension and
Ivory Tower posturing (God forbid the administration
“aid and abet the students in their vain desire to “work
hard and play hard” or provide “institutional sanction-
ing of big ticket distractions from the academic work” )
that I was almost nauseated by reading it. I lack Profes-
sor Adams’ digestive strength.

Sincerely,

Brett Burns ‘03

.  What have you learned from the seniors?

 

“If you’re ever stranded in
Bolivia, hail a banana truck.”
-Claire Green ‘03

“There’s no solid reason NOT
to drink on Sunday.”

-Josh Patten ‘03 -Jeﬁ°Meriggi ‘03'

“Senior boys steal freshman girls
because they’re perverts.”

“S-C-A-N-D-A-L-0-U-S.”
-Sarah Sager ‘03

 

,1»

 

PAGE 3

W&

@112 iatng-tum lﬂhi

IFE

MAY 22, 2000

Two seniors show artistic side

Seniors Josh Harvey and Caroline Cobb display their talents

By Mike Agnello

STAFF WRITER

The great Victorian writer Oscar
Wilde once wrote, “all art is quite use-
less.” Senior Caroline Cobb disagrees.

“Art is a therapeutic thing for me,
something that visually represents
what I’m thinking about,” Cobb said.

Cobb, a senior studio art/art history/
journalism major, exhibited her paint-
ings in duPont auditorium Thursday for
her studio art senior thesis. Her works.
include several still-life oils on canvas,
as well as more abstract works using
oil on paper. She has been painting with
oils since her freshman year and said
her primary inﬂuence is Morandi, who
also painted many still-lifes.

She had plarmed to be an art history
major, but a studio art class freshman year
convinced her to continue painting.

“I had a really positive experience
[in that c1ass],”she said.

Cobb studied at the Slade School of
Fine Arts in London last year, where
she studied expressionist techniques
and color theory. Many of the paint-
ings on display in duPont were painted

   
   

in London.

Cobb said that she has no definite
plans for life after graduation, but will
try to stay involved in the art world
as a teacher or critic. Regardless of
her career path, Cobb plans to con-
tinue to paint for pleasure.

“Arthas always been part of my
life, and always will be,” she said.

* III II:

For most students, music is the
background noise for college life. For
senior Josh Harvey, it’s much more
than that.

“l’ve always taken music seriously
while having fun with it at the same
time,” Harvey said.

Harvey, a senior music composi-
tion major, gave his musical thesis
presentation Tuesday. He has been
active in music for most of his life,
starting with the tuba in ﬁfth grade,
and the piano in sixth. His father is a
local pastor, who got Harvey his first
job playing the piano. Harvey now
plays the piano for many churches.

“[Playing for other churches] is
mostly business, but I still enjoy it,”
he said.

Harvey began composing seri-
ously during his freshman year at
W&L. He has written for several
groups, including his current band,
Ring’s End, with ﬁeshman Chris Tully,

Chris Edwards ’99, and UVA student '

Rob Hubbard. The band is currently
recording a CD entitled “Vertigo” to
be released this summer.

Harvey has composed classical

pieces for ﬂute, piano and Vibraphone, 1

and piano and voice. He acknowl-
edges the differences between writ-
ing rock and classical music, but he
has no trouble making the transition.

“Composing rock songs and com-
posing classical isn’t as different as
you might think,” he said. “Aﬁer all, a
scale has only 13 possible notes.”

Musicians who have worked with
him praise his talent, personality and
style. Music Professor Terry Vosbein,
who Harvey credits with teaching him
to compose, is one such admirer.

“Josh has been a joy to have
around for four years. . . and a good
inspiration to other students around
him in his talent, hard work, and posi-
tive outlook,” said Vosbein,

photo y Emﬂy Barires/Executiveﬂlirditdr

AT THE ARTIST’S EXHIBIT. Caroline Cobb stands beside one of her many paintings on display
in duPont Gallery. Her exhibit will be on display through graduation.

Mosl W&L sluclenls

use AlcoLol

   

naseuon Walcllﬂisurvell
  tlatairom1998,1999

. F

Fllllllﬂll Ill! 8 grant lI'0lll

Virginia nellartment of
Alcoholic Beverage control

~ v‘.  ;,. ,,/y_’,,: 

ms «name: waster. ears-1.91:5 arr.  

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

WE’ LL ERASE YOUR
COLLEGE LOAN.

If you’re stuck with a (federally insured)
student loan that’s not in default, the
Army might pay it off.

If you qualify, We'll reduce your
debt—up to $65,000. Payment is
either 1/3 of the debt or $1,500
for each year of service,
whichever is greater.

You'll also have training
in a choice of skills and
enough self-assurance

to last you the rest of
your life.

Get all the details
from your Army
Recruiter.

540-886-2651

ARMY. BE ALL YOU CAN BE?

www.goarmy.com

photo counesy Jennie Parker
PIANO MAN. Josh Harvey displayed his musical talents during

his thesis performance Tuesday night.

   

Women’s Tennis
falls in NCAA

Semiﬁnals

The Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team saw its run in the NCAA
Tournament come to an end with a 6-3
loss to Trinity (Texas) in the semifmal
round.

~Courtesy Sports Information

W&L’s Dadio-

Campbell resigns

Lexington, Va. -- Washington and
lee Athletic Director Mike Walsh has
annouced that Terri Dadio Campbell,
the University’s women’s basketball
and volleyball coach for the past seven
years has resigned effective July 1.

Dadio Campbell’s husband, Shawn,
has recently been named the Associ-
ate head Coach at Temple University
following a higly successful stint as an
assistant coach a the University of Vir-
ginia. She will follow him to Philadel-
phia and begin to pursue coaching op-
portunities in the area. '

“After seven years at Washington
& lee, this was a very difficult decision,”
said Dadio Campbell. “However, Shawn
and I look forward to the upcoming
challenges and growth opportunities
as we relocate to the Philadelphia area.”

3 Dadio Campbell took over W&L’s
women’s basketball program in its fnst
varsity season and molded it into a regu-
lar in the old Dominion Athletic
Conferance Tournament. The Gener-
als finished last season with a 13- 12
overall record, 10-10 in the ODAC.

She also helped to transform the
volleyball program into a consistent
winner, posting a 159-48 (.768) record
and claiming for ODAC Champion-
ships, including the last three. She has
been named the ODAC Coach of the
Year three times and guided the Gener-
als to their ﬁrst ever NCAA tournament
berth this past season.

“ It has been a pleasure working with
both the women’s basketball and vol-
leyball programs,” commented Dadio
Campbell.

~Courte.sjy of Sports Information

Dougherty named D-
III Lax National
Player of the Week

Lexington, Va. -- W&L senior
attackman Colin Dougherty (Timonium,
Md./Loyola) has been named the Divi-
sion III National Lacrosse Player of the
Week by Inside Lacrosse Magazine.
This is the seond time he has received
the honor this year.

Dougherty led the Generals to a 2-
0 week and a trip to the NCAA Divi-
sion II Tournament Semiﬁnals by
amassing 15 points in wins over
Kenyon and Gettysburg.

In a 22-4 opening round win over
the Lords, Dougherty tallied six goals
and three assists and followed that
with a two-goal, four assist perfor-

, mance in a 12-10 win over Gettysburg.

On the season, Dougherty claims
27 goals and 33 assists for a career-
high 60 points. He is just 14 points
from breaking the W&L career scor-
ing record.

Dougherty was Second Team All-
ODAC selection this season.

-Courtesy of Sports Information

Don’t worry
loyal
readers!

I

The Ring-tum
Phi will be back
next year!

 

 

PAGE 4

TALK
BACK:

What is your best
memory of the
past four years?

“The one time I went binge

drinking on keg beer with

undergraduate coeds. ”
—- Scott LeTourneau

“I’ve enjoyed each and
every moment of my time
here at William and
Mary. ”

—— Russell Wrenn

 

“Pppfffffttzrt ”
— Childs Cantey



“Oh, it was such a hoot...I
streaked the Colonnade
— naked!”

—— Chris Stakem

 

“Our post-Bid Day
celebration in the BDG
quad during the ice storm
of ’97”

— Nancy Dixon and

Alison Ralston

“Friends, friends,
friends. ”
—— Eszter Pados

 
 

 

 

SEN1

Ellie iﬂing-tum lﬂlii

ORS

2000

Our last hurrah...

Fomer Phi editors bid farewell

I can tell you without a doubt that
I’m the wrong person to be writing
this. Any of my friends can tell you
that l’ve kept a running count of how
many weeks, days and hours were left
until graduation since about halfway
through sophomore year. If you ever
had a question about it, you just had
to ask me.

the take-the-easy-way-out aspects of
human nature. We’ve all suffered and
sacriﬁced to get to the point that we
now stand on the verge of.

lt’s not all been those sparkling
white columns that the admissions
brochures ﬂaunted. _

Yet there have been shining mo-
ments of academic inspiration, pure

It’sgettingtobeaprettysmallnurn- ‘honor-given pride, and gut-deep
ber. laughter; simple
And while human connec-
that doesn’t bode I 3111  tions that clicked
well for a fond - , almost audibly.
stroll down Polly A D Dolg (X) There were the

memory lane, I’m

not claiming to be representative of
the senior class, and memory lane is
just a cliché anyway.

Nonetheless, I am a member of this
class, and I know that it hasn’t been
easy. We’ve all seen the sun come up
after a dizzying night of writing or
cramming, complained about the less-
than-stellar social scene, had friends
who drove us crazy with that latest
crisis that kept us up into the wee
hours of the morning, run into those
professors so entrenched in the world
of academia that things like reality or
compassion were relegated to abstract
deﬁnitions in dusty books and lived
under an honor code that contradicts

instants of ec-
stasy, happiness and quiet content-
ment that helped achieve some sort of
balance. They are what have enamored
some of this place to such an extent
that they’ 11 be back for every Alumni
Weekend, Homecoming and FD for de-
cades to come. (God save me from be-
ing that alum who just won’t graduate
and leave.) And they’re what have
gotten others through to graduation,
and out on their way to the Real World.
We know this place. We’ve loved
it, we’ve hated it, and we’ve laughed
at it. But more than anything, now we
realize that we’ve lived it.
And now, my friends, we’re leavin’
it.

We came here freshman year not
even grasping what it means to attend
Washington and Lee. This is not just
a school. It is an institution, a culture
and a society unlike any other. It takes
a lot to understand. .

Freshman year, I downright de-
tested the place. The Southern way
was the right way — the only way.
Despite the fact that nearly half our
school
is from
above
the Ma-
s o n -
D ix 0 n ,
the Southern mentality overshadowed
everything. (I realize now that this is
exponentially linked to the fact that the
school is in The South). But this meant
drinking in the mornings in clothes
suitable for church, huntin’ (or at least
wearing all clothes associated with it),
and enduring a social scene more cut-
ting than strict feudalism.

Absolutely no one would participate
in class. Professors almost cried before
a comment would be made. People made
Dean’s List, but didn’t have a clue there
was a war in Kosovo. People were Re-
publicans because their parents were.

I saw hypocrisy everywhere. Some
“religious” students I knew sexed and

drank more than they churched. Rape
was considered ﬁne, while cheating
was not. Fake IDs were illegal. Under-
age drinking was encouraged.

Nothing seemed real.

Little has changed within the insti-
tution over these last four years, but
I’ve grown to love this school for many
of the things I used to hate.

Although our community may be

strange and shallow at
times, we are close. We

Not  K3-U33-5 no mo’ have become part of the
Holhster H. Hovey ’00

legacy of this school. It
has become part of us.
W&L may seem like a
country club, but at this point in my
life, I say thank God.

We face the grizzly world of nine-
to-ﬁve (or seven-to-ten if on Wall
Street), and the time when we have the
freedom and pure enjoyment of life
that we have here will probably not
ever happen again.

We are now moving on, quite pos-
sibly to the best years we’ ll ever have,
but they will come with extra respon-
sibility and consequences that we
haven’t yet begun to comprehend.

We have lived in a bubble for the
past four years, yet much of it has been
absolutely wonderful. We will miss this
place. We’ll miss it a lot.

Top stories and personal favorites

Every once in a while, actually
pretty frequently, a story comes along
that strikes us. Sometimes these sto-
ries put us to the test in our experi-
ment in student journalism, and some-
times they send an entire staﬂ rolling
on the floor in laughter before we so-
ber up and write a straight-faced
story. But if you ask a Phister why we
take the never-ending hours and criti-
cism, the answer could well be the
variety that comes our way each and
every week Here are a few of our fa-
vorites:

BYOB policy instated
September, 1997

Simultaneously, the “pretend-you-
know-a-brother” policy begins.
Student hit by car
September, 1997

Elizabeth James ’99 is charged with
a felony count of failure to stop when
she hit Dylan Walsh ’00 with her
Volkswagen Bug. According to arrest-
ing officer Michael Hess, Walsh was
walking east along West Nelson Street
when he was struck on the leﬁ leg and
thrown to the ground by a car travel-
ing in the same direction. The driver
of the car stopped, yelled “sorry” out
the window and drove off.

Faculty salaries revealed
October, I 997

In a nosy move, The Phi published
salaries of faculty members, including
the little tidbit that President Elrod
earned less money than former Law
School dean Barry Sullivan.
Student injured in car accident
Nov. 21, 1997

After breaking her spine in a car
accident on Interstate-8 1 her freshman
year, Jill Kosch ’O0 takes a semester
off. She later makes afullrecovery, physi-
cally and academically, going on to cap-
tain the women’s track team as a senior
and capturing two school records.
Butts banned in campus buildings
Jan. 12, 1998

A policy which is obeyed to the
letter in the Doig-era oﬂices of The Phi
Burst Chi Psi pipe unleashes ﬁlth
January 23, 1998

It wasn’t sewage, they swear.
Sigma Nus shorn
April, 1998

Newly anointed news editor Doig
spent an hour on the phone with dis-
traught Sweet Briar “victims,” who re-
peatedly‘ stated that they did not
shave the nether regions of three Snu
brothers. The female British exchange
student did, however, admit to not

“wearing me knickers.” Oh, dear.
Class of '73 gives largest 25th
reunion gift in history
May, 1998

More than $1 million, when all was
said and done. In a related story, the
Class of 2000 recently reached the
$6,000 mark. This is roughly one-third
of their average indebtedness.
Freshman woman arrested for DIP
May 14, 1998

Hardly news at W&L, save for the
fact that the 18-year-old Christine van
den Toom was screaming obscenities
in the freshman quad, following a
Kappa mixer at the Volcano, whose
carding practices were questioned re-
peatedly by the ABC. She was still
screaming them when W&L Security
and the LPD showed up. She contin-
ued to scream them at various Phi edi-
tors before, during and aﬁer publica-
tion of the related article. That’s prob-
ably her on the phone now. . .
VMI goes coed
August, 1998

Bald cheerleaders, need we say
more? .
Drug Task F orce founded
September, I 998

Dangerous bud-lovers beware!
Now they’re watching Goshen.

Parking garage delayed
September, I 998

The fust time.
Two students charged with car theft
Oct. 12, I998

Sophomores Stephanie Fortener
and Ellen Elliott “borrow” a few cars on
the way home from Lee-Hi, and then
2,000 copies of The Phi with the ensu-
ing story. When confronted by a some-
what emotional executive editor
Hollister Hovey, the girls stated that
they were only “borrowing a few cop-
ies for ﬁ'iends and family.” Charges for
car borrowing are subsequently
dropped, but the girls serve their com-
munity many hours for Phi-borrowing.
Rehnquist speaks ‘at commencement
May, I 999

The Chief Justice sports .a Band-
Aid on his forehead alter a vicious
game of racquetball. He reads a truly
inspiring speech on billable hours. We
sat through the whole damn thing.
Night Owl closes
March, 2000

Longtime community (music)
source Wayne Raynal finally closes
his doors.
“Idaho loses over shirts ”

March, 2000 2
You might have heard about it.

W;_1),isclosure (ti hogtopic

 
  

  “La Ba! Masque”
0. , ‘Rich Balzer ’0I‘e.xpalsr’on,

 “Signs  *Pittsburgh“P_itates,

V  eleirientary school students,  . ‘

 ~ I Mayﬂower Homefor adults.
1: Sheretums to Westfiirginiagto . * 

  

“Josumnvzse: ‘

.1 ]lAgents. . .Seep. 3,. <

    

       
     

 

MAY 22, 2000


YEARS

FRESHMAN YEAR 1996-97 A
‘ KD colonizes 0
Shepherd Poverty
Program‘ initiated .
 “Under the Big Top’?
. Jack Bowden "00 dies

SOPHOMORE max 1997-98

VMI coeducates

FD: “Flappers, Flight

2 and Jazz all night long.”

Beth Formidoni ‘’99L
. elected first female EC
president

KAisuspended for hazing

‘e~

Jwvzox YEAR 1998-99

The Staircase closes
Salerno ’s moves

Sorority houses begun
Jonathan Nabors ’02
killed in I-81 car accident

«. xv.-nan-ac-~ . J, 3."

, Cabaret‘.

 EC reform 0 A

Jeff? Cook ’0I elected first .
i jcndergraduate EC —
I president ,

The Bicenquinquagenary
I ;*Baseball' stadium opens

 ;.

, smog ma 199-9-2000.
Lisa ’s House opens
TraveIier’s Bar & Grill
épens »

Jirn McKnight charged
‘ I [with rape, then ‘acquitted, '3

iMock Con nominates
; George W. Bush ( 4,
 Fl); “Lights, luck and
 Destination

. Vegas”

“ :White Book. reviewed

9 Former Prof Holliday

5 , files suit against W&L

. Parking garage opens

   SENIOR  
.fiSTANDOUTS.° A

 Citkisrrsn BATCHELLER:

' following one of the most
. _ successful athletic careers 
seen inirecent W&L history.  
.:.;"SnANNoNvBr:1.L: _ ‘ A l A
She initiates a community
prograrn where W&L
:  help tutor local

} {and helps raise student V
“ volunteerism at the ,

 conjunction with the“ ‘
‘ 5h°9l3§?§P°V§.‘iY?i"§?f§: 

   

‘ * manages to swim and act as a

. dorm counselor-. HeL’ll attend

' , olins Hopkins med school.

 «I Heads.—1rp’St1tdents -Against
 l”Rockbridlge Area Hunger. The

J . gran.» eradicates hunger in ,
 the countytwo”yearsinarow.i' Q

-331$ musicalggerﬁns of2000.
Playsby ear, and with

 W‘msFtillbriglit ‘sheusrudy '
.3  I V
3  and trade flow at
‘; , tl1eIJi1ivetsitybfBonnnext

  

gum’  “an arm Within

 I  in/.Mexico

  

it - e
   highest I
 _QA'Es¢et3e.witha’38.He~ ,

I _,;_‘.toat’te,nwyAMeaic§tL‘~‘

 

I

.,‘

A

4

A

4

1

A

‘x

It

,1

A

 

/xrck
«e 2;.’ . 7.52::
.  .,.,.. . ‘, ...... .. . .. .. H.

’.,.
\ :-

..«.. 

yr  "' 

ii)?‘ i:" C 7!: 3.. ~

,   <15 4' c
C, I/__

I
0 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsIrY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 4, 2000

SPECIAL IssUE

. ‘E-mail General Notes to 

a

 

Plane Crashes near
Davidson Park

Last Wednesday, at 5:30 p.m. Lexington residents witnessed
an unexpected tragedy when a small airplane crashed into
the sidewalk lining Washington Street in front the Pi Kappa
Phi fraternity house. According to witnesses, the 1959 Piper
airplane lost a wing before it took a nose dive to the ground.
The two passengers died. Reumants of the plane were
scattered over four blocks surrounding the wreckage.
Residents of Davidson Park were forced to ﬁnd other
accomodations while officials from local, state and national
agencies collected the wreckage for investigation. N 0 one

[on the ground was injured, despite the plane crash’s
location in the heart of Lexington.

Historic Lexington Church Burns
Known as the city’s oldest and largest church, the Lexington
Presbyterian Church burned on July 18. The fire was started
when heat guns being used to remove paint inside the
church ignited a ﬁre that soon spread throughout the
church. Fireﬁghters from all over Rockbridge county were
called to help, but to no avail, as bystanders watched the
church become gutted by the intense ﬂames. Residents
from all of Lexington came to watch the spectacle, which
culminated with the collapse of the church’s steeple in a
ﬁrey mass.

Virginia Announces New Alcohol and
Drug Laws

The state of Virginia announced stiffer penalties for DUI
and drug offenders this summer. There is now a mandatory
ﬁve-day jail period for anyone who has a BAC (Blood
Alcohol Level) between 0.20 — 0.25, and a ten—day jail term
for a BAC over 0.25. New federal laws regarding “date-
rape” drugs have also been enhanced, with a minimum jail
term of five years. Members of the Washington and Lee
Board of Trustees have also adopted a more stringent
stance on drunk driving and illegal drug use by reaffirming
their support for Washington and Lee’s “ Policy on Drugs/
Controlled Substances.”

W&L receives $390,000 grant

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation awarded the university
with $390,000 to develop a Teaching and Resource Center.
The purpose of the Center will be to assist in the
professional development of faculty members.

This issue is a special one; next week we’ll
be back with more news 

this week‘s
evens!

 

W&L welcomes Class of 2004

New roommates Meg Franklin and Jessica Taylor sort
through their collection of CDs.

Monday
9:30 p.m.— 1:00 a.m. — Java at the GHQ,

GHQ, University Center

Tuesday

8:30 a.m. — 12:30 p.m. — Web Registration,
Faculty Advisors’ Offices

9:00 a.m. - 12: 00 p.m. — Activities Fair,
Stemmons Plaza

12:30 p.m. — Financial Aid Meeting,
Science Center A214

1:30 p.m. — 4:00 p.m. — Franny and Zooey:

Presentation and Discussions,

Lee Chapel and University classrooms

4:00 pm. — Soccer (W) Scrimmage. W&L
vs. Southern Virginia College,
Liberty Hall Field

Freshman Paul Seifert
stands as parents

boxes up the stairs of
Graham-Lees.
(right photo)

4:30 p.m. — SJC and SFHB Orientation,
Lee Chapel

5 : 30 p.m. - Big Brother/Sister Dinner,
Front Lawn

8:00 p.m. — Honor System Orientation,
Lee Chapel

Wednesday

8:30 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. — Matriculation,
Colonnade

5:00 p.m. — Fall Convocation,
Front Lawn

Thursdal

8:00 a.m. - Undergraduate classes begin
8:30 am. — Drop/Add begins

Charlotte and Ken relax
after a long day of moving

 

The college experience officially began for the 452
students of this year’s freshman class on Saturday.
Although some students arrived on campus early to
participate on sports teams and other activities, most of
the class shared in the weekend’s events of meeting a
new roommate, lugging boxes up the stairs to the top
dorm floors, and saying good-bye to parents.

In order to prepare the class for life at college before
upperclassmen arrive and classes begin, freshmen will
participate in activities organized by the Freshman
Orientation Committee throughout the first week. FOC
director Lauren LaFauci said that she is happy with the
freshman response to the program. “So far everything
has been running pretty smoothly,” laFauci said. “I
think the hard work of the entire Freshman Orientation
Committee has really paid off this week.”

New student Blair Sanzone summed up her feelings
on both upperclassmen and members of her own class.
“It’s a very friendly atmosphere,” Sanzone said. She
echoes the attitude of many other freshmen who seem to
have made the easy transition into a new world.

 

Dorm
Counselor
Heather
McDonald
meets with
the girls on
her hall.

photos by Emily
Barnes/Executive
Editor

mend‘  iii’-we‘ gotten
tajﬁrixig to rxpperc1assmen.”~‘
g P¢ter‘E.rvin ‘O4 ' ‘ 4

6:30 p.m. — Interfratemity Council (IFC) orientation,
Lee Chapel

7:30 p.m. - Panhellenic Council (PHC) orientation,
Lee Chapel

Saturday

11:00 a.m. - Soccer (M). W&L vs. Catholic Univ,
Liberty Hall Field

1200 p.m. — Football. W&L vs. Johns Hopkins,
Wilson Field

 

 

 

.  l @112 iRiII9~tum mi N
PAGE 2- ”    SEPTEMBER 4, 2000 * E

yo r_,gde to é%COA   ILL "
      

mrm Lmrrlz Numrna M In: mp (llxlﬂtﬂ 4-5] 0- 115 VV'ﬁ$'?£‘ IVTEI-$0N S"I“RiEE!'I.“

WWNTWHE 0” Tmﬁﬂﬁ ﬁnial"-' ""‘"0‘l "M058 .L:£.XiNC§'T43'N. V1.KG roomy». 24450 0
muwgm T0  our rmsn 0 0 0 ’ 0 ‘ 0

 

"7/5181'! ltd” on/(‘tie aI==.- (0l()(03 co~coa1n:—(‘//. (!'()‘I)l--

.9711‘ :6» (iﬁoco/(rte ...C{?‘ .s:—

(540) 463-43080 C-arovlyn Talley
Georgie Talley '72

rL(J2£U£2z:1£1:y 
   

3  *

‘ Q‘ . l06West Washington Street 5
Lexington, Virginia 24450 E
‘ 540—463«-6055 E !~ ‘

 2 165 South. Main Streeiz
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

  
  
 
   
   
 

ON __0  ft Msgvmiﬂﬂas , .5
““  I.-UN  " ‘ ‘ ‘ x 0‘  .  

 M   H    nousg 

.. 

   
     

   
 

     

    

0  ! .UN<:  

   
  

 

' . “‘§3"-7""'1“4\ '.=.».;'<'c;~\*,~. 7"-*2 ~* ‘

  §, ~ to. Baxéés, 3E .134; Main.Stm§:%9  esawsaanaeaoe M33,
 $2"      54.0~464~*i635
0 "WWW%W¢bf€#¥t31¥3i?.:‘?°'?!(3¢¥N3‘**&*°A*?*ii‘.033??? ~eN549~464+32%7

smztxaaw amoaiios

0eE~;;:sAN-5:39
136 Vamer Ln,
gexirzgton

j§{.3I)’DV!"b;A§;',; ...;;A1.‘z;}(:£‘P*ftf_;t§§;é¢;~z1’.$:_ _;ag:;_;;::;;,eueNx§;E::Ns0A1_. ., ,.1>x0:s::Ne1zs: 5 ,~_ 0 '0: ..

D9~'lU.~'ﬂ 

  

a Fool  II!
Catering Available

6 I 10 Smith Jefferson Street
V £41.63-3338:

 

THYFOO

xx SOUTHERN INN 8   9   10 

   sea pawwaemo
A Lexington Tradition Since 1932 ’ b

 CASUAL - UPSCALE DINING    MAW

LUNCH - DINNER    “"”‘°°°"°‘     ‘“   ---—-2

Located in the Heart of . NATURAL };(h)§)DS STORE

Downtown Lexington mz<N:1-1 rm
\ Hours: 11:30 A.M. — 10 RM. Mon.—Sat.

Lounge Open ‘Til12.-00A.M.     STUDENTMEMBER,5’"P  
Open Sundays 12:00 pm. - 8:00 Pgm. . V V ‘  Q. ENCOURAGED’ ‘
E P I-‘me Selectzon of .»a
   ‘ ‘ Fresh Local Produce
 &  ‘  Open ‘Mon.-Thurs. 9~6

Friday 9~8 I‘

 - .0 am . -
463-3612   23.. ...~ St 

W. b _ A . E A - Lxmch bar hours _
3 . . —  -  Reservations Requested t.a)(ti5r\gt;:n,VA2;;5D mondayofriday 11.23.30 Y

...-:.E,.*s--.~:;‘»«.-.¢.v-3‘,-"\,\«-._.~.~~'\'«.»~\-:.~.s:. "N :1,,,.~..;.....-.A.-.~.,-,..... 463-59 .
' ._.' _ ‘ J  ‘ ‘ . _ p 'v 110 West Washington. Street
37 SOUth Mal" St»: Lexington"  E » Lexington, Virginia 24450 .
, George & Sue Ann Huger, Proprietors . ‘ V  “

 

 

 

 

page 3

’
V F3
C

 

 

         
   

 

  M M  

 

13 %McCORKLE’S

HALLMARK SHOP
41. South Mam Skeet
463-9491

‘3.=.?i    
(spam am:1.my—z<a1tm‘da}*, 5* am: 5:31!) pm
Game 52:: mar full line of  s1az.i.onery, gift wrap,  items,
and wonderful gifts ineiudizxg Virginia  brass,
  ﬁn;  tzaiiaon bauquca, mi wmritar giﬁa

       
 

     
   
    
    

  l°"l J

  


-Inaouhdgublasalﬂ"-Friuvtiyfnvnunaunﬂo
-&uy&8alHIudcD's£Tqns-
cos?)-

clonnonsemr...  

  

cmtzszra ta) p2_%17mp1%2T13$cw.>ds ta
ﬁuvmigh y<~>ax%r-9 $«cm:°<.t:>xé*ii.y hcnzxsegl

vsiécg twgm gym-,. Lgnaagzzzt. ptxrctxm ﬁmzznces grad 1301‘-‘J!-'05: an Ezriﬂzﬁara
291315? 2:‘-v><rm::A
@
vw: :avLscv ham fiha <%~z_::£.;v2es!;. wiLe;zx.~:«t;I.r*>1;2 mi’ (‘“*::?t"IJ‘}i mad g’£A€‘f;x in
\
1.<;:xJr;><§;ts<ota,
@
’:§!.‘s*'”:f:2 Sexy fI.:-‘:1. ‘\&3t;'z‘31; mmismta txtrazxsza {::3e.~:r;a-:;2:n» ‘1(”3:av:::-%”;T::2?C'>raw_) rmd
ymrrez sure: can $‘m3.£r:£

(<33 @

R.u(*r;§\*»‘e: ‘WT’?! <“:§'-’-?- army 6:136: ftezxzu 152$; §€vtI!1'3’{!3t!YJ$¢3m$f‘X \&’I!'»’?’1 iéhlit
<*<m:.';.~"n.°')r.). (fteatxroe->:;: mum; $32!: {.‘zvr35ns:!3f;¢s<;I §"-‘m- -z.-(is:-mzxtah; 3-f:9pg~.:y
$Yzmpg:'>i3’.J5§.,i

V“:-£1-I :wsa,£ x“')rk'>$»-nr BE. S:x“’N”s

    
 

 .p "0M.E 1as;é4. £j;:i;i  -- ;,.:;;
. _ sa:':ir*‘It..:»"1,f:ar1m~»;:r*1*-:5.  _. *

  

  
1&7 ﬁy Nilutaa £’3‘$t’QM?'3§»  §'i&mi-.p2m5-'- 'l'F«vwM'l-uterus
~4{)v3?n.»~ M}-4

"W" ‘ﬁi
( "7.}£§-'f: E£’$amlm.~.a:-..

I.')i').lRR€B-X'$~fI)~(:;!K)

4:30“ rnxnt Kroodx
.§:)ia€:i‘n(2(‘:i.vo (:':asl‘x-.~x.~i.ng
]33’hmf:y K‘{.afraah.t&x9nta

3304mm’: I"§¢i.~aati .7f’x~¢-anmiuxan I315] ixxateaafen

12

 

§!I{I3‘.‘*3‘i3> Ii??? T§°IZ.S A13)  !i‘:1-I<11‘{.”f§.<“JI"’v"I.‘L
1.0% (Z3I“‘f*”  I"*’¥._3?}‘~14$;L‘..§wi.é"s. 551%:

  
 

    $40 Calpot?
2: gailcry witil.a. :: <1.iffc:.r<:11cc

: A ¢:£)ope_rat.i.v::~ of Rx:)c:kbria:.1g¢:

artistzs, smliing 3 clazzlitxg, :wray
:1)!’ b€:::1t1.tifLx‘i. art a&. <;f:rat.‘t.~wvc:»rI<
<:<)n1.p_ri:s-ixxg P;1ix1t:i,x1g:s,
Photogrzgphs», $cu.£;>t:t1:xrm ,
jttvvztlryg Cicmmiczs, P:1.int‘c:c.¥
Weamblcs, Ibczccays, Watacicrzxfts 
Art: (;'}§a.ss apt?! rnurzh n1(:xrc:!

I "West "§)§’aa'2l1i.t'2gl{';n 3551 rec: 14
(*(T:<.'>.rn*n:*x* (‘pf .M§:1i..n St.‘ )
L¢;t)<.1ngtar.;n., Vi rgi n i :3. ‘.143 -‘ii S0
’.‘;Tw§ ()~—<§Cii»:i=~.i. I -22$"?

(")_pc:1'1 1(“fl-1‘.."i 3‘§1‘t'>nc¥:sy~$::t’L:rd:1y*., '1. .!.—5v rnnst‘ 5~i:.msc.1:tys

Viiam, £'VIa:&t;¢:r£:arci ant} An-max "I»’5.«’t:I('L(i)fT!‘¢;‘f(l-

"THE BEST OF EVERYTHING"
21 som“H MAIN smsar
S40~464~91-42

WE LOOK FORWARD TO MEETNG YOUE

16

T  Salerno I{estaurant

‘I15 South Javffarson Sweat
Lexingfon. VA
540-463-~57.5'7

 

 

  ~ $2.50

we*DtinesoAv  
I-arse ﬁ- $4.95 

BEST OF LUCK 

 

 

 

\
TH: Ro\N$

ﬁkﬁb

 

F . —i
PARK\N(9 ‘ ‘ ‘
GARAGE K‘ \ \ '
DoR€MvS-
cam

 

1%

I-;|
‘ II‘
\\\\\ “"
C504
- GRQH

ll
. col.. 

N

h .
HHHL
tn Ill ~

 
   
  

REID ‘
L
H 

"Hll|*|l

E

 

(MI

i5A

....____—.._,..~.._¢

    

0 WARNER
L. at ‘
LE 5 [3
K Q 111 Co 0?
. NEWLOMB
‘GILLlAV\
GAIN ES BAKER L
__1_>_fw\.S
A C:
X‘! D-HAM
 1 /:7 Q) GHQ
; ' \).(.EN1ER r..._.. +
LE1; TEE Q '  
CHM/\$L—] “"' - V
‘E @ 1‘~ ho vst ‘Q Ezgegifggs
E,’ ‘OLGA R
* V 7:73“ 6 Wﬁ
4— *’ +—-4 TEFFE Rsow *"
4——-—- \4>.K2.

NELSOIV

@
@

\NAS\'\\N 6T0 f\/

*9‘
' _ ,-I r ‘I ‘r vi
LEJ

3 $5 ® §§%?@%
a (39%? E”E]@?1%I“ _k 
4-—'-——""2‘ F/\A“\] ’ V  Y‘/\A\NP—?
‘% *  &*® 3 7 if N?»
3; *3 V W
‘L N E3
7%‘
RANDOLPH RANDOLPH
VARN€T>\ vm-.N§P\

Q, / m<<1>

    H” &

\£X . zAE

** r»-5
<PK‘i’ ‘Co
Z<S>E E
E  ‘ E MAP B‘/I
' Renée H0uV§>€V
2000
Cszzsm E
gueNAv\STh} + *

the all-purpose %

Map of Lexington

 

./2
‘I :3,‘

 

 

/$

“ “_ \\ \\ H
“ \\ \\

X... @‘,__

 

 

  = NW OwHv\c3 Club

"* ‘ H; S Ii’c
Q‘ {(31 A8<kr®)+3 S

ﬂ‘ = 83 ‘s oAsLs

% E : Na5k'\r55\‘on $*. '-\>WVg\5oIS
‘figds: FUN(l:;c>c1:d{f E-3',_)C)Ct$$o\r'1€:$
Q‘: The EN:-\_—\Crby\

m : ?aI::\>a'~je\\o ‘(SE6 0\¢ >

T0 = Smmlexn [Jverg (ad 
  -7- S'l‘0F- ‘N

9

—

Georg

$2 It '-Pa\azzo (;..L@)

V(o(o{.\= (oco;\.“’\‘\\\ (34 
Q ‘— Sweejt Things (‘H 

E7” : WilSon W2)Kg@4@) . t-:9: MA'N(aS(:r9&S)Maﬂ<ef

»-.. C1 [PAVILION
LAW ScHooL
 Ill U1 HI W
3 E" J 1” H‘ M L ﬁx
LEYBVRN I-I5RM¢4’ scteuoe can-TEE
‘ EX. L   M  "an m
: | I | I I 1 g Q P 1 D“?°“'T G: ‘u [Ill ‘n; W U 
|:'::‘l'llll| | rﬁ  tn‘ M-UMM
. . 1 I n I 1 I WW F:§£§Mc‘:£:.£.$\D M55
9 BENT BC’rATke’rA P; TTK<,13 P.’ K3999. PM
a Q <44 ““‘
‘P '1’ . \,¢<<P"‘ X ‘F CH1 Psi 2/XE SueMAALPHAEPsu.d~I
« LEE C.HR?E\..
KA KAPPA A\x>Ha gx S\G\-4A CHI
K2 ‘KAWA S':_c3MP: g_'N gm“. NV
Q ~ GT“ 1.9%» /\XA LRMBDA CHiAl}>|n3 2<1>E .S|eI~1A.P+n EPSILDN
  39,7 Wﬂﬂ (FAQ PH: DELTA THETA xn cm OMEGA
Ekmpxw 5'" ® CIBKS“ Pm KAPPA Psi KA KAPPA DELTA
CPKEL Pm KAPPA S‘\5MA KKK‘ KAPPF KAPPA 6f\MMA
‘ TT\'<F\ ?\ KAPPA ALPHA TTB<i> ‘P1 BETA Pm

@ = ANDM %\'vdio (ad@
P V9 = SPANWS (==o‘ ©>

.: {Wt S‘Va+Q N\o\}\E "H~ea+er
MANHa+’ren -’s’co'\ D03 Co.

@=( Svnaaqs cwox 5.4

8: AR’ciS‘Ls in Cahoofs
  (=4 ®)

-ﬂ: Crossroaclﬁ (9al@)
2 H3r§\\\’fUY\ 'Rob’b'm$

(=4 > 5= ca 293
=.Sou'HA HA I  __ L_E)(lW’\0J‘\'bn I‘\f+’AGl*LLeR\/
*0 ca: ) ‘W ’ (ad @)

—- Lexinghm Eoasang co,
E_i-____@ﬂ =- Awin Devwixs. (eel 
/ : ST\n>\o E \even (as) 3

 The "Paﬂms ( 3:1 
V = Smeﬁwo [a& )

—_ Lemoymn Bme \./r\3L+%d gfsreg
% SHOP (ao\ @§> 7_Pos+al OFFICE

ﬂ = ‘,W\3?K.\NSEedS (AC1  @ ___ HeA\+(~:3 V33 MarK€+

there are MAN‘! o‘H\tr greaﬁ E.‘/1o\>$/Si§k+3
9% Ln Lexingfron... E7<PLORE§‘.

(W : -HA1-LMaRk (ad @)
E = HRS’: wow Em

Armu} 'RQCruH'-Inzﬁ

Cad )
w  P1ﬁS‘tT
%= “N Z? (3) O

R-
M-
‘/

-ea
2‘

,4

 

 

 

page 6

‘RECRUBTING FOR AsnER!(§li'S ARMY"
1 9 The Army Tour:http:IAMww.goarmy.com

U.8. ARMY REGRUWWG $'!'KﬂON LEXINGTON
OF-'F!CE (540) 433~2166/34,93
f’AX (540) 4632187 '
163 S. MAIN STREET CELL (540) 5700155
LEXtNGTON,. VA 24450 E~MAl1. joRxOcfw.oom

  

Contemporary

Photography  

  

Lexington Art Gallery.
 Ian the nu-I-.-eﬂren the Smeﬂ 
-A ~ V Y E I3 I‘. Nels Street A
22: sogmatn 81.. V » :
2 ,:
in . A RESTAURANT
 7 E " (aw; ass-.2139 . . 464-8080

20
A V A  N h Ma‘ 8 ~ You we Invited to u
speacxamzxm in max: semen.   °“ “‘ W“ ”'*""‘ '““"""'”" """"' 5

.ANN¥JAL paowoanamy     1—¢Xingt0n»VA 24450 ..,.a,_',T§.',".ﬁ‘,5‘2Z_',3,'i,,,,

COM:MERC.£AL ~ INDIE-STRIAL V . _ (5 40) 464v 1887 naalmgnng mu: um» man
'WEi)I}I.NC‘r ~ PCJRTRAITURE ~ ‘FASHION ‘ § ' ' amlii. '37 graduate:
A CUSTOM FRA;MII;NG  A A “cm at -he vied-an"
22 “Over Kali‘ it Ca:ntury- of IEx;par.iem:-:ae‘’’ '

     

 . cm: smcx svsrtms 

         

  
  

  

2* j;.~f-.. Fall   

     
 

 

E33! 

or».

C .. .3», :-:~ ‘V Jﬁéwg

3'

3 West Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 464-5677 24

    A‘   . Monday - Wednesday 11 am - 7:30 pm -’
    .  —  ..  E.  ;.;; :.   ‘ Thursday. Friday, Saturday 11 am - 9 pm

 

Alvin-ﬁennia

102 W. Washington Street
463-53 83

WELCOME STUDENTS   

- Biue Blazers
-Wooirich - Dncidlead
- Ray-Bans - Red Wing Béots
2 5 - 100% Worsted W 00! Tuxedos
- Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
- W&L Baits, Ties, Dog Coiiars
- Embassy Boxers

VISA, MASTERCA RD, STIEDEN T (.’iHAR(§ E ACCEPTED

to   Studio Eleven
Fall Art Classes 2000

é  - Oil Painting 4 with Elizabeth Sauder ,, A

i - Oil Painting 3 with Elizabeth Sauder
 $4.95 - $ 5.95
Emma" u "an .. A - Beginning Drawing 1 and I I with Agnes Carhrey  \,. 1

V  W M mg” -Intermediate Expressive Drawing 1 and II with Agnes Carhre_y
 $1.95 an: up

 
   
  

— A Fresh Approach to the Figure with Agnes Carhrey ,1, /

- Studio W7atereolor (All levels) with Brian Connihan

vb

‘   H . I . ‘ LA!“ (3 U ‘ S ‘ ‘Q E‘ For more information, contact: ’
Fina ;'r.m.. SW0 Hem ,. Q
Studio school and Gallery
- ' 11 South Jeﬂenon Street
. . Lenin , V 50

Laminar tom. ‘I/ir‘g*£u:£a 2 Av -

 

 

news no :ong;,‘;;;;;.:;:$.;‘:.“2,";?““ °°'    to Pr-°°‘?‘P‘*'" ~'°“'°*%"<= "van-=2 w=a«m=«'p;;'roo"'*<o»
[es in Pam,“ various lmemct com}::;::3 iimously ‘Can “I5 in mil"; iab,-ﬁ':y°':n“s*;v¢ M,“ “kg, cm :w“’c:“°‘§s that v £ge,;;:‘;atap,b’0tA
L ' - mm .- - « "° ‘Ward 1 -so-am‘ m - °"""'°‘ “' " e - I
“‘i“°35°S ﬁrm’! concerned with In a1r‘ecom- ‘cal: ‘h€I1:tas€'n9dayﬁ”"n5ﬁ:s?nil1?'-ﬂee-faper coujdcum “bk. t-0' use the P003? e’°’:rl2”e 8‘
. but with getting the mnsum w tthe _ _ “. V “ hiya; um those boas t get hanmh nmv labpmamw,-p #9,‘, 1900/ on
be an . er to buy mversrty. zc. esw,” be er student mcsmdmw lo, 0 db s}_

. . . ‘ties - an
munumty kn but “.3 the max: busxness. It’; a mild check  e_ me into ﬂy (Q"{;:opem4L,e fvpa

.e worri 50 I . , -
cs 3 "t "“‘''“°‘ "3" "W an b°*h“m' '1 §'‘°'"b=n arm: four w . , _ S¢tverhas-'£"”%a '° 6;°‘‘‘ to fa”
. t "Wits aspecm 421- ﬁaxem,-, this .-muanon and has °°- ” ‘Ir 1% We,
331?? "1? less when “my ‘my CDs aizley W85 b‘ "““"‘e '0 cmpﬁemimg '' ﬁ“°rui:~‘8 panic within Yet rﬁeoeilz 6%‘ 50': "W;

. . ' ' ,, _ . _ w - - ' -
mks d°n?tycl:‘;; *0 PB)’ UP_S fess, - he :h]s roie xn °" [fthey are f;n::l::Otheg-ﬁ-a1aUS€ Jefferson comp c/,3” °Iz.,,:"1d,he V190‘?
3’ P°5‘ their slnppmg .of Umver- Wemzues to go d1y}U_dB{lthomcdi- gm, .. es 0 ‘‘Pro ”I6e,3 »

he prim [wish - . 8 3* W&L .
_ .' peopl w Id - ' Who uh .. . ma-ism . _
3 cheap“ to come. in; Ntiillr  ‘tor vanous ..T:,er::V35 3 .‘°‘ °f 3°‘1°f8l dissatisfaction wnth th: 9”,
.. - memhersof admirristration for not having f°3°‘°d 5“'°“31V °“°“3h' WI)... ’ g,,._ deal, ,_,

messes have 1,, 8:5

 It’s as simple as

6 2 57--
ﬁe I -._,  -./I
5°" 9.v§:,,~4 . 3’ ‘n.,,.”'&';"”~5‘ig
av‘ $5‘ 2 172.0, ’°nq,,,, 00»-
' '\5‘ \'1\9°?. °’le.-- 05‘ '
E $°\ « D ~
 °:x= ° Wswsr
‘. 8 8 ¢\€v interesting about dll _ . I- .......u uni-IVILE5. M03‘ ‘ﬂunk m 5 sww--' "  to ‘cogs; unyu---9 -1 tn“ . _
.3”, K G Wm bf. _ e two bands is the diverse sound th ' man ‘s . woum not 5° k _ Connors. _ $9; in!
mm mm Wf°mm"°°"" ' ey " pm M933 omhe wad. netW"'.{nder fade:-a1lsw' \n<\%§¢\»“§:n\dc\\\s s\0“

'9  SAB ~ . _ «Wu, .

 bands‘ member semor Gavan Dean is familiar with 50:11 E on K: “W ' The  oompuison ' ~" __ may m'A¥;“c.m%¢,g--«vi:
M"-"' “I've seen both ofth - adthcn @1034’ " “°‘ 35 -v - sv«°\"“” Ch‘; .9"°°'Bau\\os°?“’ “'7:
; Proﬁt: C bands SIIICQ live been hernia: he “ions.  ggrin-'  cﬁgebﬂc hgéﬂ rd‘ oftesgoﬁﬂ

. 5aid.“andzhey'udeﬁn'z¢ - - . . vac
"clog sphere}, 1 lyﬁt1nwrththeSpnngTcrmanno- Hmnymousty, v V 3un\oVwad.msda _ own-mys. “id. w-“hp

tl:VitiC5  _ ‘ . 6‘ st“.

ze with mix of Eggy :‘;:]!1_0n. 3 57°11]: that Phys a self-proclaimed  Sim-ed fr, wm mot: a‘-“ac stufﬁ: . ‘O ac0\<L \ $403.0“ fwhen ti
men 1995 We album ': ::jlt.!hneSll:1_n;‘g1'aW' is most famous for its Egg: the network ve .s1£e\:\_‘k 9se¢\:::.‘m me from man ogzwmgc we
_ _ Herman andme om“ mﬁ ‘.’eLed- uy  singer vim, redbccwsg gamer ma .»§t.€eeWtO mu . us, mg‘ swap; E0}
>pru-lg. Emmi“, the band re _ strnandohn players, D,” we Wm MP3§_ Sta gunk ,., “,5 on cam?‘ moa am am \\
I said. ta,’ ﬁddle loﬁnatiﬁs 3" intrlsurng mix of acoustic gui- ' 1 E of space was lart C\\‘sc'c\%°' - ox 93°: W“ s\xﬁe!\1‘5 ¢en\s“5“, a
WV we and dmxns duo,’ th¢’,§mi::r:t:?i:7és“°:i;Vtiﬂl 8 solid bass  ssendclﬁ has SW" 3:‘ 5m¢°“‘3  k‘ E‘; ‘m;- A \m oi '\rM“‘

ha" Eimered the 0 0"’ SW30" ‘ ‘ . and-3'h“f 5“ asprtﬁi (3 gw V av - N15
etwo U -‘eds < gm“? ‘ W89 fan base throughout the P999‘ . - _pm-. inﬁ from‘ 9-,q>05.“‘ . 1‘ may  9&9“ '-dmq
‘;a‘:eS' 70':-is   who    tang. Ad   a.!:°cﬁl'VCr W  af-dnFk,s Vt‘ . x_a ‘O  ho“ W ..u.‘u1 
thali 5”‘
I ste; 60“!
1’! fe — .10‘?
31-131 7 . .-
1 to t . V959
Vashington and Lee chapters is an issue that .\9g,="*-394‘ $45“ \)\>- spw égs ~- - A  6,‘; nv-: -3, rear" w¢oK5 “ ma‘!
. . » . - , h won. the? N‘ we aw

rcstled wnh by both sndcs, At a November \e°¢ :6‘ Vs‘ 5*‘ _ .  sgd ‘ht m°,:;w<““:“Y_-mme\°5‘ we re ‘

1 Lexington, representatives from both camps ‘ “
rsity met to discuss the standoff. National 1,‘ b‘

(Vﬁ 345 8}» 90:13.“ neﬁ .. ' gent
. . . \p.°¢6‘\‘ W '\$‘$\ .Q -xwht of 5°‘ ‘é ‘he Sp-;m6!“““d‘eA' 3!°‘md’
zscntatrves _gavc a prescnmtxon of the _ben- «  0&6 ‘&\g, M on 3!, '
l-free housmg. Afterwards, representanvcs .8" .. \ 409 ~ g’ _ 90 «gr.  99*, ac‘ Cmm;_ha6m‘w‘b“‘«t\Wsam some 0'5 “yr

 ?«:i’;,, <*~n«;.{o«»~=**;%*‘,‘*°g.><»°' re <>*°@;@   w W 
The Ring-tum Phi i
original weekly student-run
  newspaper.

Become part of the tradition
Tuesday. University Center}
Room 208. 7pm.    

 
  
  
 
  

   

I39 ‘kinking I33’ 5‘““°”‘°‘.''° “"7 W aproblemofnational W5“ “ " ' ' ‘" . ' , '  ' . ' _md V " ‘

ﬂ to Washmgwn :‘n(:::1:i:1; at "' is is a national issue that is not “ﬁt years: ‘S '1n99?1rsunk:‘r: dmfmz ac- 3 ok"0:’€ c°}°" Inf myAn'W""8
The percentasc 0 5 _ . ,;mmm- gsoonf’ said ompson lc ‘ 5 ' ' . :' My ‘ _ 3,-ac ink], -.
‘rumors and Lee who d““_k.’   Bob Baney. cide!1t.llV-‘“3“h‘ 593"?“   - of‘ 

 

U112 ‘ilting-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

JAMES G.  .. .
.V.VA3HiNG’l”Ot\t 1. rahﬁiiﬁiln

L£‘:X:'\i':'i';'D°.,§‘ VI‘. 1;“;-0

 EP 1 will)

I

VoL. 103, No. 6

Commons
design selected

By Michael Crittenden

CONFRIB UTING EDITOR

With construction on the sorority houses and athletic
practice ﬁeld nearly complete, Washington and Lee ad-
ministrators focused their attentions on a new project this

summer: choosing an architect for the much-anticipated

University Commons.

The University announced VMDO architects as the
preliminary selection for the Commons project this sum-
mer, selecting the Charlottesville  from a short-list of
ﬁve national ﬁrms vying for the job. Members of the ad-
ministration met with the ﬁrms over the summer and heard
presentations and received preliminary sketches of each
ﬁim’s ideas.

David L. Howison, W&L’s Dean of Students, said the
choice was a good one for the University.

“[VMDO] took a very creative and original approach,”
Howison said. “Of the ﬁve designs we saw, they had the
most innovative.”

The University Commons project, to be located across
from Doremus Gym where faculty-staff parking currently
is located, is the next in the long-line of campus improve-
ments being made as part of the most recent University
Plan. Other projects have included the oft-delayed parking
garage, new turf practice ﬁeld and the sorority houses.
Administrators hope the Commons will ﬁll a void that has
existed for a long time at Washington and Lee.

Though the school does have a University Center, the
limited size and meeting space have rendered the U.C. fairly
powerless in fulﬁlling the needs of student groups. With
this in mind, the University set out to find an architect that
could fulfill the University’s needs. In VMDO, they think
they found one.

According to Howison, the real hook behind VMDO’s
proposal was their use of the 1909 campus plan, and its
prioritization of protecting “the Park”, otherwise known as
the wooded area between the Woods Creek Apartments
and the back Colonnade. The VMDO design makes a “pri-
ority of protecting the environment,” according to Howison,
and the VMDO designed the building to work with the
environment. The preliminary drawing administrators saw
this summer_ included an amphitheater, a movie theate , stu-
dent ofﬁces, and, of course, columns.

“I thought it looked really good,” said senior Nick
Cimino, who saw the drawings this weekend. “The Com-
mons is a much—needed improvement, and I think they are
on the right track.”

Hailing from Charlottesville, VMDO has worked on a
number of local Universities, including Radford, Sweet Biiar
and the University of Virginia. Architects from the ﬁrm are
currently meeting with students and campus employees to
form a ﬁnal design, which they will propose to the Board of
Trustees in October. At that time, the Board will vote on
whether to approve the design or to ask the firm to change
it. If approved, construction would begin soon thereafter.

Area residents

Lexington and University
communities come to terms
with twin disasters

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Lexington residents are still trying to come to terms with
the twin tragedies of a plane crash and church ﬁre, which
occurred in the space of two and a half months.

“Everyone is just so sad and upset that this happened
to us,” said Lexington resident Kathy Pfeifer. ‘‘It was bad
enough to have the ﬁre, and then the plane crash came so
soon after that.” -

The ﬁrst disaster occurred on July 18"‘ at the Lexington
Presbyterian Church, an historical and architectural state
landmark as well as the church of Confederate General
Stonewall Jackson.

Between 9 or 10 o’clock a paint stripper ignited a ﬁre
which eventually engulfed the entire body, despite the best
efforts of the Lexington and the Rockbridge County ﬁre
ﬁghters.

“This is so saddening, but it’s a blessing that no one
got hurt,” says Lexington residence Peg Maass.

“The burning of the church,” said City Manager Jon
Ellestad, “has had the biggest impact ever on the people of

Lexington. I think the people are now wondering what will

Ellie iﬁing-tum lﬂlii

September 11, 2000

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2000 A

photos by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

THE Aunrrorrs (Top): Students from all
undergraduate and law classes attended Fall
Convocation on the Front Lawn

THE ORATOR (BOTTOM): Dr. Francis Fukuyama,
author and professor, gave the address.

Fukuyama stresses social capital

By Matt McDermott

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Social capital, human—capital, and
shared values were the topics of Dr.
Francis Fukuyama’s address during
last week’s Fall Convocation on the
Front Lawn. ’

Author of the best-selling book
The End of History and the Last Man
(Avon Books, 1993), Fukuyama is the
Omer L. and Nancy Hirst Professor of
Public Policy at George Mason
University’s Institute of Public Policy.
He also serves as director of the
Institute’s lntemational Commerce and
Policy Program and as a consultant to
the RAND Corporation, a public policy
think tank.

“Social capital is the basis of social
trust. . . of keeping commitments,” said
Fukuyama in his Convocation ad-
dress. “It is common social ends met
on a voluntary basis.”

dress, Fukuyama contrasted con-
temporary American society to
post-Communist Russia and South-
ern Italy, whose epidemic corruption
is not due to “formal laws and insti-
tutions but [rather to] their lack of
social capital.”

While America possess a deep res-
ervoir of social capital, Fukuyama sees
a trend in American society stemming
back from the “Great Disruption,” the
decades of change following the
l950’s. These years, he said, beneﬁ-
cially liberalized American society but
also“/loosened the social ties that
bound Americans together.

Many Americans today, he said,
“don’t participate politically, don’t in-
form themselves about important pub-
lic issues, they sit in their gated com-
munities not talking to their neigh-
bors.”

Despite a reduction in the radius of
trust, demonstrated in part by the in-
crease in crime and the decline of tra-
ditional civic organizations, Fukuyama

believes that there is no evidence
that American society is heading
down an irreversible slope. Point-
ing to events in the past century,

he demonstrated a period of moral _

regeneration from a period where
alcohol consumption was more
than ﬁve times greater per capita
than currently.

Along with civic associations
and faith based organizations,
Fukuyama believes that many ills
of society can be healed by insti-
tutions such as Washington and
Lee, which demands “high prin-
ciples of personal behavior” and
which has “an institution of very
deep traditions and a very good
record of success.”

Fukuyama is also the author of
Trust: The Social Virtues and the
Creation of Prosperity (Free Press,
1996) and The Great Disruption:
Human Nature and the Reconsti-
tution of the Social Order (Touch-
stone Books, 2000).

During his twenty-six rriinute ad-

reﬂect on recent catastrophes

happen next.”

According to Ellestad, Lexington Presbyterian Church
has made preparations to begin rebuilding the church and
restoring it to its original condition. He said, “It will take a
couple of years, but these people have the will and the
money to make sure they build it back to its former state.

A little over a month later, on August 30, at 5:30 p.m., a

. 1959 Piper Comanche single—engine airplane dropped out

of the sky to crash onto Washington Street next to the Pi
Kappa Phi fraternity house. According to the Air Trafﬁc
Control, there were no signs of any trouble until the plane
snapped a wing and crashed, scattering debris over a
square mile of downtown Lexington.

Lexington Police Lt. Steve Crowder said that the crash
threw body and plane parts throughout the surrounding
area. The crash and resulting investigation caused resi-
dents of nearby Davidson Park to move out of their frater-
nity houses so that ofﬁcials could continue the investiga-
tion.

Among the crash debris, investigators discovered a
white, powdery substance. Contrary to wide—spread ru-
mors that circulated following the crash, the tested sub-
stance was not found to be cocaine, according to Virginia
State Police First Sgt. Joe Peters, whose department tested
the substance.

Ellestad said that the causes of the plane crash will take
time to straighten out. Investigators began moving debris
from the crash site on Thursday, August 31.

They have now relocated the majority of the wreckage
to the former Reeves Brother's Warehouse in Buena Vista,

Cat’s Corne
Plea to sophomor ‘

where the National Transportation Safety Board will re-
construct the plane in order to determine the cause of its
malfunction and crash.

According to the NSTB, they will issue a preliminary
report in a few days and a ﬁnal report in approximately six
months.

The Lexington community is still seeking closure.

“These events both really were wake-up calls for our
community. We’ve always claimed that Lexington is such
a bedroom community where nothing goes on,” said
Crowder. “[These events] really made us stop and take a
reality check.” ‘

Although residents were disturbed by the events, some
feel that they will have no long—terrn effects on the area’s
reputation. Travel Counselor Rosanna McMillan of the
Lexington Visitor Center said, “I don’t think these recent
events will have any real effects on Lexington’s tourism.”

Still, she adds, “Everyone says that bad things come in
threes, so maybe we should be prepared for more.”

Students at Washington and Lee are a little bemused
too. Alex Poor, a member of Pi Phi, commented: “It deﬁ-
nitely put a new perspective on what I’m doing here, be-
cause a few guys lost their lives and then two days later
everything went back to normal.”

, “It’s really unrealistic that these events both happened
so close together. You wouldn’t think they would happen
in Lexington.” Emily Tyson, a freshman added.

“The tragedies don’t really affect my view of W&L,”
says Joey Agaye, junior. “These things are bound to hap-
pen. It’s just an unfortunate that they had to happen.”

‘ E-mail General Notes to 
'  lu du "

W&L Raises Record Total of $48.7 Million

Washington and Lee raised a record total of $48.7
million during the last ﬁscal year, surpassing the record
of $34.5 million raised in 1995, the ﬁnal year of the “On
the Shoulder of Giants” capital campaign.

W&L’s total of $48.7 rriillion raised marks an increase
of nearly 46 percent from a year ago. W&L raised $26.3
million last year.

“It's just a testament to the support alumni and friends
have for W&L,” said Tom Jennings, director of Univer-
sity development. “It's a great vote of conﬁdence for
our future.”

Included in the total was more than $16 million of
unrestricted capital gifts and another $11 million for
scholarship endowments, all other endowments and for
plant funds. I

Additionally, a record total of $4.1 million was do-
nated to the Annual Fund, which directly supports the
operating budget of the University. A total of 10,338
alumni, parents and friends contributed to the Annual
Fund, including nearly 44 percent of all alumni and nearly
40 percent of parents of current students.

In the area of planned giving, 34 separate gifts were
made with a total of $3.2 million in assets transferred.
W&L also received just under $12 million in the gifts in
trusts held by others category from the J. Edward Lewis
'29 estate. —courtesy W&L web page

Tips for fresh My ex;   Mr. Success

tattoos

— (or how much alco-

 

PAGE 2

Cﬂhe iﬁing-tum lﬂhi

  PINION

SEPTEMBER 11, 2000

Y’all want
a Coke?

When America’s youth go away to college, an adjust-
ment to the greater workload, added freedom, and ensuing
responsibility takes place. While adjusting can be some-
what rocky at first, most incoming freshmen eventually ﬁnd
their niches on campuses throughout the nation.

As part of freshman orientation week here at Washing-
ton and Lee, my fellow classmates and I found ourselves in
our advisors’ ofﬁces, our minds set on taking our first steps
toward academia

 

ThePat1iot
lJoelPepera’04

hol was consumed
the night before,
one of the two).

Talk of classes _
and majors and professors swelled from the hallowed halls
of W&L as the class of 2004 registered for fall classes. Of
particular interest to me this week has been the University’s
foreign language requirement. As I toured the beautiful
W&L campus and continued to meet fellow freshmen, I
soon realized that I had already begun the study of alan-
guage more foreign to me than Spanish —— the unique dia-
lect of the South.

There are many words heard on campus whose mean-
ings I haven’t the slightest clue, but I am eager to learn.
Most prominently used was this strange combination of
two words, ‘‘y’all.’’ I am completely perplexed as to the mean-
ing of such a contraction. I have adjusted to the fact that
my Eastern classmates keep asking for “soda” instead of
pop, but I have yet to understand this habit of of ordering a
“Coke” when a root beer is the desired drink.

There was much, it seemed, I needed to learn. Pleased
with my newly-found academic interest, I quickly consulted
my course guide to ﬁnd such a class to fulﬁll my foreign
language requirement.

My excitement turned to disappointment, however, when
I discovered there was no department, nor a single course
in Dixie jargon. I was shocked! Where was “RDNK 101:
Introduction to Southern Speech?” Why wasn’t this a part
of the general education curriculum? I was bafﬂed. The Uni-
versity didn’t offer help to bridge the gap in dialect, so I
decided to look elsewhere.

I considered going to the Liberty Hall Volunteers for guid-
ance, but I was waryof offending anyone with that large of
an arsenal. (That reminds me — I’m not sure if word has
reached Lexington yet, but up in Michigan we heard long
ago that the war was over.) Unable to think of any further
resources of use to me, I was left with no other option than
to continue in my ignorance.

‘ Desperate for knowledge, I petition this University to
develop a curriculum to educate carpetbaggers like me in
the traditions of the South. We could participate in grammar
lessons in which we would learn that in order to make the
word “y’all” plural, you must lead with “all” to produce the
phrase “all y’all.’’

Who could question the academic merit of that? With-
out such an education, I am left alienated from my southern
classmates. I feel that my education will not be truly liberat-
ing education without it.

I ask in all sincerity that this worthy discipline be added to
the classic liberal arts curriculum that is Washington and Lee.

 

uote of the week;

  

“ It’s Security

Appreciation Day.

—Security Ofﬁcer Larry on the almost non-
existent attendance to Saturday’s SAB concert,’

one amt;-mm tam

Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Max Smith

Matt McDermott
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jacob Trotter
Jessica Jones
Tiffany Friedel
Bryan Early

Executive Editors

News Editor
Assistant News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&L1fe Editor

Sports Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor

last Word Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Pjjjublications Board elects the Executive Editor, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University Center, by noon
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
. Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wIu.edu
http://wlu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

LET THE GAMES BEGIN. . . Students wait on long

photo by Emily Bames/Executive or
lines to register their cars, check personal

information, and receive class schedules during matriculation last week.

Blocked out of English, 

It strikes me as odd, even ironic, that the one wrinkle
in an otherwise smoothly run and enjoyable Freshman
Orientation program happened to be the component with
the most bearing on what I have always considered to be
“School”: course registration.

Yes, I was somewhat nonplussed when I arrived in my
advisor’s ofﬁce at 10:30 in the morning on Tuesday to learn
that all of the courses in areas as basic and essential as
English and Physical Education (let alone presumably less
popular subjects like Philosophy, Ancient History and even
Public Speaking) were ﬁlled and deep

By contrast, the upper-level (300) English classes are
far from ﬁlled. Out of nine available classes, none have
reached the 25 student limit. In fact, there are a staggering
94 available spots in total. That’s 94 freshmen needlessly
denied access to English.

Likewise, practically every physical education class
that might be considered a “sport,” from bowling to vol-
leyball to badminton, is ﬁlled and has a sizable waiting
list. Want to try self-defense or ballet, or perhaps learn
how to rock climb? Too late, sorry.

into waiting lists.
I understand that a small univer-
sity has fewer teachers and there-

Just

Mike Press ’04

About the only PE class not
Another Frosh booked completely solid is

Therapeutic Exercise, whatever
the heck that is.

fore fewer classes; nevertheless, why ‘
the heck does the English department offer more upper-
level classes when the introductory classes are stuffed
like pillows and the advanced classes aren’t even close
to being ﬁlled?

Why not offer the courses that best reﬂect student
interest? And for that matter, why not offer more physi-
cal education classes?

It seems to me that any student interested in playing A

some sort of sport should at least be able to play at a
club level instead of having to wait and hope for better
luck in the winter registration.

An examination of the numbers exposes the current
systems ﬂaws.

As it stands, the English department offers six intro-
ductory Composition & Literature courses that altogether
can accommodate 140 freshmen. With well over 400 fresh-
men, most of whom have not satisﬁed their English Com-
position graduation requirement, simple math shows that
the majority of freshmen will be barred from English this
fall.

Indeed, the waiting lists for the six Comp. & Lit. courses
number 74 students, and chances are good that many more
freshmen would have added their names if they had thought
they stood any chance of gaining admission.

Last Monday night, the freshman class participated
in the “Campus of Difference" activity. The goal of the
activity, designed and sponsored by the Anti—Defama-
tion League, was to make freshmen more aware of the
myriad of racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic groups that
exist on campus. The program was instituted following
an uproar concerning the Idaho
delegation’s “exclusionary” Mock
Convention T-shirt. The program
was facilitated by well-trained up- I
perclassmen, who were quite
knowledgeable and eager to de-
liver a message of inclusion to the freshmen.

Unfortunately, the premise of the activity was way
off base. The ADL clings to a world-view that may have
been appropriate in 1913, but doesn’t represent the opin-
ions and prejudices of young adults in 2000. Those who
put on the program incorrectly assumed that all fresh-
men enter W&L as bigots and need to be trained to

TALKback:

   

“Getting to live with a bunch of
upperclassmen who I’ve never
gotten to live with before.”

-Claire Smith ‘03

 

“The fact that so many of us can live
.anyone in the chapter can
come over and hang out.”

together...

All in all, the PE department
has room for 1245 students this fall — which leaves'ap-
proximately 450 students without any sort of “sport,” to
use the word loosely.

Granted, many students might not want to be involved
in athletics this fall, but I would bet that number is far less
than 450 (over a quarter of the school).

Furthermore, even those students who do get to play a
sport probably will not get to play the ones they wanted to
play: 175 students signed up for 24 available spots in bowl-—
ing, l82 for 36 spots in self-defense, 152 for 36 places in golf,
and 198 for 70 positions in racquetball.

Varsity Beirut, anyone?

Of course, there are plenty of classes in plenty of
departments that aren’t as oversubscribed as English,
PE, et al. Yet I will bet I am not alone in my frustration
with the current registration process and the inevitable
disappointment it brings (except for all of you eight-
o’clockers!).

I am hardly asking for the administration to scrap
the current method of Web Registration and start anew;
rather, I simply ask that the school work harder to match
student interest — both academic and athletic — with
a fitting number of courses.

I think I’ll be getting up a little earlier next year.

The ADL drums up business

relate civilly with members of other racial and ethnic
groups. Students born in the feminist l980’s and raised in
the politically—correct l990’s have been trained for decades
to be sensitive and tolerant. In fact, the ADL, and organi-
zations like it, have been so effective at removing racism
and hate from mainstream culture that they have put them-
selves out of business.
Tragically, the liberals who run such

 Frosh organizations cannot stand to no
Brett T. Kirwan ’04

longer be in positions of power and
inﬂuence. To make up for this lack of
bigotry, the ADL sponsors activities
such as the “Campus of Difference.”

Such presentations ask students to examine artiﬁcially
the “groups” to which they belong. One speciﬁc activity
from Monday night had each student deﬁne himself with
four “descriptors.” The trick was that all the adjectives
had to describe some racial, ethnic, geographic, age re-
lated, or socioeconomic category.

Cat’s
Comer

 

By Christine Metzgcr

 

After a year away from sweet little Lexington, I have arrived
back at long last to the fanfare of my senior year. Since many of
you out there believe I am a freshman, I ﬁgured now was as
good a time as any to introduce myself. Most of my friends call
me Christine, my mom-given name, but some of them (okay,
one of them) call me Cat.

So as I mentioned I was away all last year. No, I didn’t run
away and join the circus or have a baby or live off a trust fund.
I willingly left this bucolic paradise and ventured to the other
side of the pond as a visiting student at University College,
Oxford. (You seem impressed.) All nerdiness aside, I lived in
a bustling city where I depended on my own feet for trans-
portation, had my lion’s share of pubs and clubs to choose,
felt ashamed to wear jeans, sneakers, overalls or a baseball
cap. (Children, take note: we have a lot to learn about fash-
ion here in Lex.)

You can imagine how shocking it is to come back here, land

of urban assault vehicles, khakis-and-plaid—shir1s, general ho--

mogeneity. Maybe you can’t if you and the Bubble have a too
tight relationship. Don’t get me wrong, I consider Lexington
my home more than any other place in the_ world and love it for
all of its verdant glory. There certainly were things thatl down-
right hated about Oxford — large ltmg—ﬁlling amounts of pollu-
lion, people—unﬁiendly traﬂic, a bus stop outside my window.
Things British people take as part of daily life chafed me to no end
— separate hot and cold water taps, power showers (yes, show-
ers powered by electricity), funny heating (funny meaning not
working so well). I don’t miss having to bodycheck tourists of
all nationalities at 8:45 in the morning while they’re clogging the
streets so they can photograph their day—t1ip to Ocksferd.

It’s also wearying to be a foreigner everywhere you go,
having to explain why your accent sounds the way it does,
why you’re not fat and stupid like all Americans, why it’s not

. possible to nip to Los Angeles for the weekend. (For British

people, used to living on a very compact island, their concept
of American geography is skewed at best.)

After finishing off my whirlwind year of jetsetting by
spending a month in the wilds of Alaska, I returned home.
Lexington hasn’t changed, even a smidgen. Okay, we have
a sumptuous new parking palace and ﬁve sorority houses
with lush green tennis courts for their front yards. And
Night Owl is gone-how much that loss saddens me I cannot
tell you. My other favorites are still hanging on, even with
the Wal-Monster lurking out on 11: Pappagallo’s, the Blue
Heron, Sunday’s Child, the Palms.

Something I don’t dig so much about this ﬁne university:
Being asked numerous times the ﬁrst week of school, “Are you
a freshman?” I don’t go out in herds, I can drink legally, I
haven’t hooked up in ages, I practically carry a cane and walker
I’m such an old lady. But because half of the school has never
seen me before, I apparently send out desperate freshman girl
vibes. When I am much older I can imagine I would leap with
joy if someone mistook me for a wee girl of 18. I’ve survived
enough years in the Science Center and I’m damn near done
my gen—eds and for that I think I should get some respect. I am
not alone in this sentiment which had been voiced by many of
my ﬁne fellow senior ladies. A little advice —— ask, “What year
are you?” Boys (and most of you are still boys), please stick to
scarnming on your fellow classmates. Girls, and this is mainly
the sophomores, watch who you’re trying to rush. I’m already
in a sorority, thanks. Two would simply  too much — my
hands would fall off from all the clapping.

So, kids, take a break from hooking up and talking about
what you did in high school, study my picture and the next
time you see me out (which albeit is not that often), think be-
fore aslcing “Are you a freshman?”

. . . yet again

What the ADL hasn’t yet ﬁgured out is that the world
has become that idealistic. Whether it be because of actual
social progress or just fear of litigation, bigots and racists
have been chased from the worlds of business and academia.

We have largely achieved what Dr. King so fervently de-
sired on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial nearly forty years
ago. We do judge people by the content of their character.
Such activities only retard social progress or completely turn it
around. The only possible effect of requiring that students
deﬁne each other in terms of their ethnicity is that long-forgot-
ten stereotypes rnight be remembered. That is not a rosy pros-
pect, but it is the only way the ADL will stay in business.

Without defamation, the ADL would be no more. Many
civil rights organizations have been left behind in a world
that no longer separates people into the categories they at-
tempt to destroy.

They have done their job well. The ADL and all other
similar groups should give themselves a pat on the back and
fade into history.

What’s the best thing about living in a sorority house?

to get something to eat.”

-Margaret Penn ‘O1

 

“Walking downstairs in your pajamas

-Kate Mobley ‘O2

 

 

“It’s fun and convenient to live with a
lot of friends.”

-Ernily Scale ‘02

 

 

be  WAl§l_TED:l__> _

 Strategists

 Quick Thinkers

l""”"_:“—j’j""“‘"""“"‘-"“"‘T""""

 Team Players

r————-——~— »—————~——~—————~-:-

 Achievers

Meeting our clients’ expectations todeliver innovative
  y tinancial solutions requires intuition, strategy and teamwork.
On weekends they call it court vision. What’s your game plan?

Goldman, Sachs 8: Co.
Controllers Department
Interviewing on Campus

Tuesday, 0ctober,24, 2000

Be Part of Our Team!
Submit Your Resume to the Career Services Office

by no later than:

Thursday, September 21, 2000

joldnan
L arhs

. MINDS. WIDE OPEN?”
www.gs.com

Goldman Sachs. an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws. © 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co.

:’3*.{I1§}.5>t--~.‘>'€§'o"3;’}'(.'°$H'1‘.}

PAGE 4

By Jeremy Franklin

STAFF WRITER

Washington and_ Lee put to-
gether a string of 26 unanswered
points, winning their season opener
for the first time since 1984, 32-19
over Johns Hopkins Saturday at
Wilson Field.

Bobby Littlehale completed 17—of-28
passes for 199 yards and a pair of touch-
downs in his first career start under cen-
ter for the Generals. Davis White, who
finished with eight catches for 107
yards, was on the receiving end of both
scores.

“It’s just a wonderful victory for the
program,” W&L head coach Frank
Miriello said. “It gives the kids a whole
lot more conﬁdence. They worked hard
for three weeks, and they get a pay-
check like this.”

Johns Hopkins, which hadn’t lost to
the Generals since 1962, turned the ball
over four times and ﬁnished with just
12 yards rushing.

Blue Jay head coach Jim Margraff
expected some of the miscues, espe-
cially considering the youth of his 2000
roster.

“lt’s always tough to lose, and it’s

certainly tough to open up with a loss
on the road,” Margraff said. “But
W&L played very well today, and
we’ve got a lot of question marks.
We’ve always treated (the season
opener) as a time to look at a few dif-
ferent guys and play a number of dif-
ferent players.”
. Both teams struggled early on of-
fense, as Andy Vendig kicked field
goals of 30 and 37 yards to give the
Generals a 6-0 lead less than a minute
into the second quarter.

Johns Hopkins scored on its next
two offensive series, as Rob Heleniak
connected with Zach Baylin on touch-
down strikes of 17 and 11 yards to put

the Blue Jays up 13-6 with 58 sec-
onds to play in the half.

Had Miriello trusted his first in-
stinct, that score would have re-
mained undisturbed going into the
break.

“At that point, I was thinking we
should kill the clock and go into half-
time,” Miriello said. “They said, ‘Hey,
let’s run our one-rninute drill.’ That
was a critical series, looking back on
it.”

Littlehale completed four of his
ﬁve pass attempts on the drive, in-
cluding a 31-yard touchdown to
White, as W&L knotted the game
with nine seconds to spare.

The garne-tying drive also gave
the Generals some needed momen-
tum, which they used to roll off 17
unanswered third quarter points.

“They got tired, and we put a little
more pressure on them,” Miriello said
of the Blue Jays. “Our kids were ﬁred
up coming out of the locker room.”

The Generals struck up a 17-play,
81-yard drive to open the second
half, capped off by Vendig’s 29-yard
ﬁeld goal with 6:54 to go in the quar-
ter. W&L converted on two fourth
downs during the series, including a
21-yard run by lineman Justin Holton
on a fake punt.

Johns Hopkins went three—and-
out on their ensuing offensive pos-
session, and a blocked punt put
the W&L offense deep in Blue Jay
territory. The Generals wasted little
time finding the end zone, as
Littlehale threw his second TD toss
to White less than two minutes
later.

After Matthew Stavish inter-
cepted a Heleniak pass, Marc
Watson dashed 29 yards for a score,

giving the Generals a 30-13 lead. A '

fourth quarter safety on a botched
snap would push the advantage to
32-13 before the Blue Jays scored

@112 IRing-tum iﬂhi

SPORTS

W&L wins Opener: a ﬁrst in 16

Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

THE WAY To VICTORY: Sophomore Davis White makes his way through the John Hopkins
defense to score a touchdown at the end of the second quarter of Saturday’s game.

with just over seven minutes remain-
ing on the clock.

“The second half, (W&L) did a
great job of putting the ball in the end
zone,” Margraff said. “We just got
outplayed in ‘that respect, and
outcoached too.” p

Despite the loss, Margraff was able
to pull a few positives out of the game,
including the play of Heleniak. The
junior completed 19-of-29 passes for
247 yards and three touchdowns.

“Rob did some good things-some
things that you need in game situa-
tions.” Margraff said. “Overall, I was

M051’ W&L Students
use Alcolso

and Health
Educaﬁon
Office

B.1sc(l on M/&|. (‘()Rli Survey (ldld from ‘I098, 100‘), 2000

pleased with the way he threw, and
the way he led the team. He’s just go-
ing to get better.” .

Although the Generals scored just
one rushing touchdown, the backﬁeld
racked up 180 yards on the ground.
Miriello was pleased with all aspects
of the unit’s performance.

“This was the first start for Bobby
Littlehale,” Miriello said of his quar-
terback. “That’s a lot of pressure, and
he responded very well,‘-he’s a very
poised young man.

“Marc (Watson) and Chris
(Sullivan) are two quality tailbacks. The

fullbacks-Eric Toney and Kyle
Overstreet-are coming up too, so
we’ve got a nice backﬁeld.”

The primary concern for the Gener-
als now is how they will respond to
their ﬁrst season-opening win in 16
years.

“We haven’t been here before, so
how we’ll react to this is a concern,”
Miriello said. “But this is absolutely
wonderful.”

W&L opens its 20()() Old Dominion
Athletic Conference schedule next
Saturday with a 1 pm. road contest
against Guilford College.

SEPIEMBER 11, 2000

photo by Emily Burner/Executive Editor

2000 ATHLETIC HALL or FAME INDUCTIES: The award recipients gathered to be recognized at
the football game halftime ceremony. Pictured are Buck Leslie, Jr.‘74 (accepted on behalf
of his father, Buck Leslie, Sn), Joe McCutcheon (center top), and the 1950 Football Team.

Help Wanted

University Spot-{wear

Call 464-3000

Weekends

  

Glitz Ring-tum lﬂhi 1

SPORTS

SEPIEMBER 11, 2000

 

PAGE 5

  ‘Men’s soccer steals
“win in season opener

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The W&L Men’s Soccer team
opened their season in an overtime
scorcher Saturday against Catholic
University. Coach Piranian commented
on the heat, saying “The preseason
was never this hot.” The Generals
opened the game with an aggressive

- attack that kept the action in Catholic’s

end for most of the first half. Despite
repeated efforts by the Generals’ of-
fense, however, Cardinal defenders
Keith Kappo and Adam Kuemmel and

to step up for the Generals.

The first goal came fifty—eight min-
utes into the game whe the Cardinals
scored on a header from Junior Pat
Heenan. The Generals scored ﬁfteen
minutes later with 16:26 left to play in
regulation, when Junior Andrew
Grimes put a shot past Magin. The
Generals’ offense came close yet again
with 2:13 left to play when another shot
from David Kodack went over the goal.
Both teams were playing back and forth
when the second half ended.

The ﬁrst fifteen-minute overtime
period opened with sophomore Tim
Foley in goal for the Generals. The Gen-

LET’s no rr, LADIES: Women’s volleyball team gets psyched for their Friday night

match against St. Mary’s.

Emily Bames/Executive 0 Editor

    

goal—tender Todd Magin kept the ball erals offense went in aggressively
out of the net. Magin set the tone for again, with shots from Phillip Miller and This Week '8' SC/l(’dlll(’ in GB]! (’I‘(l[ (II/I](’fl'('.\'
stingy defensive play 15 minutes into Bret Grote. Later, the Generals failed to
the game by making a save against Se— capitalize on an effort from Senior Jacek Football
L nior Jon Wilson, seeing through a Mucha and Junior Andrew Grimes. Saturday Sept. 16 at Guilford 1:00pm
screen during a free kick. The Generals Four rriinutes and thirty-four seconds
dominated in their own end, with good into the second overtime period, Men’s Soccer
passing and pressure, giving no op- Sophomore Brad Murphy picked up a Thursday Sept. 14 at Southern Virginia 4:00pm
portunity to the Cardinals’ offense. long pass, ran down the right side, and Saturday Sept. 16 Randolph-Macon 1:30pm
With the clock winding down in the drilled in a low shot to beat Magin for
ﬁnal minute of the half, the Generals the win. Murphy, who had previously Women’s Soccer
were still pouring on the offense, again, been denied by Magin said afterwards, Wednesday Sept. 13 Randolph-Macon 4:00pm
only to be thwarted by Magin. “Ryan Nelson put the ball to my foot Saturday Sept. 16 Eastern Mennonite 11:00am
The second half opened with de— and I turned around and went to the
cidedly more offensive pressure from the goal because I saw nobody coining”. Volleyball
Catholic Cardinals. The Generals retali- Said Coach Rolf Piraiiian, “We’re happy Wednesday Sept. 13 at Lynchburg 6:30 pm
ated with tight offense that came close to win. . . we’re still getting our game
several times. A kick from Jon Wilson legs.” The Generals were chosen 6th Men’s Cross Country
went wide, followed a few minutes later in the preseason Old Dominion Ath- Saturday Sept. 16 Generals Invitational 10:30am
by a shot from David Kodack that went letic Conference. Their next game is .
over the crossbar. The defense showed Thursday at Southern Virginia, after Women’s Cross Country
signs of slowing in the second half when which they return home on Saturday Saturday Sept. 16 Generals Invitational 10:00am
Senior goaltender Jordan Ginsberg had to face Randolph-Macon.

Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

THUNDERBOLT: Andrew Grimes’s punishing kick blasts by Catholic U. defenders to tie the score.

   Hundmds of New, Thousands ofd 

   

  * Trade * Special Orders

   

     

Notice to all Student Leaders 

wAsHn\IGToN AND LEE

PARENTS WEEKEND 2000

November 3 and 4

If your organization plans to sponsor a Pan-ems ‘Weekend
event which will be open. to all parents and students, please
contact Nellie Rice. Parents Weekend coordinator. Payne Hall 3.

or Tarwa Giassman, nirector of Student Activities. tmiversity center.

as soon as possible but in: later than. September 29, 2000.

Hull's

drive-in theater
4 mi Fit 11 N., Lexington 463-2621

Gate Opens 7 pm
Movies at mask
$4 per person * Great Foodi

FRI * SAT * SUN

1st FEATU FIE:

SPACE COWBOY s(PG-13)

Clint Eastwood, Tommy Lee Jones

A E  sTRiE'i‘J)gr1)utRNAi,, iBr§RRON'S 2nd FEATURE:
- man: at :: I 3!  maifiﬁmnns    (PG)
Tim Allen, Sigourney Weaver

(3921:: Everyday 9 am

www.hu||sdrive-in.com  

   

 
  
 
  

'40 .o?o‘§o §c..g'o,°...o-o,-.

 

:5 THE 2NoHANosHoié  

M '7 s. JEFFERSON ST. . we
‘ 0
:31 LE‘XiNGTONi.'VA. 24450 .. a 3:1
I .
. - * Q
zzig/0 it
‘o i ,  #21
3 ‘ ‘ I euv mo SELL {is
i.- ANTIQUES mo JUNK H
. MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS ‘ _
 1 V _ 9
t. . _ 1 o
 FREDDIEGOODHART -
it A w , C’:
o:

  

O

 

’SH0P(703)'‘4¢:i-75s9 4‘ ' ’_‘
HOME (703) 4613-5064 _w.

 

 
 
 
 

 

PAGE 6

&

@112 Ring-tum lﬁltt

IFE  

SEPTEMBER 11, 2000

Get a tattoo, go to a
drive-in. . . in Lex?

Lexington
welcomes new
body art shop

By Ashley Klimp

STAFF WRITER

Historical Lexington witnessed the
arrival of something old and something
new with the establishment of Painted
Lady Tattoos and Body Piercing and
the return of Hull’s Drive-In.

The Painted Lady, which opened
on the 13th of July, is named after its
owner, Robin Hartman. ‘The Painted
Lady’ had been her nickname for years,
stemming from her intricately drawn
tattoos, which include a ﬂowering vine
and a parrot. She and her husband Phil
Hartman own the store, where John
Alls works as a piercer and Mark
Greene works as a tattooist and piercer.

The Hartmans chose Lexington for
two reasons. First, the closest compe-
tition is in Roanoke. Second, Lexing-
ton is a college-town twice over.

Some, however, feel that the Painted
Lady is a little out of place amidst the
antique stores and quaint shops and
restaurants.

“Our biggest concern about open-
ing in Lexington was [that] it was his-
torical and more conservative than what
Harrisonburg might be,” said Hartman.
“We’ve been welcomed basically. Most
of the business people we talked to have
come by, welcomed us, and told us good
luck . . The town manager [Jon Ellestad]
who issued our business license wished
us the best of luc .”

_photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

No PAIN, NO GAIN. Co-Owner Phil Hartman displays some of the
designs available at the new tattoo and piercing shop on

Jefferson Street.

The Painted Lady features many
styles of tattooing, including the “old
school” style, with bright colors and
wide lines and the “fine line” style,
which is very detailed and intricate,
similar to a pencil drawing.

Piercing is also a complex art. Tra-
gus, Conch, Helix, and Anti-Helix are
all different areas of ear cartilage that
can be pierced, along with eyebrows,
nostrils, and septum (the cartilage wall
separating the nostrils). For the brave

of heart, there is'the Marilyn, which
is an earring placed through the cheek
much like a beauty mark. Then there
are the piercings below the belt. . .

So far, the artists at The Painted‘

Lady have mainly catered to the
needs of Virginia Militray Institute
cadets and the townspeople. Not
many Washington and Lee stu-
dents have ventured into the store.
As the year progresses, however,
that may change.

 

18 E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464-4483

PROBLEM WITH THE LOCALS .7

WERE FROM ATLANTA.

THIS WEEK AT 8.]. '5
MONDAY~ MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL PARTY

TuES'DAY- 8 ~‘BALL POOL TOURNAMENT OF
CHAMPIONS - CASH RRIZES

WEDNt:'S‘DAY~ 9-BALL POOL TOURNAMENT or
CHAMPIONS - CASH PRIZES

THURSDAY - KARAOKE wrm DARYL or ,srAg3m»_1£
FRIDAY - D. J. JOE or 0//ETQ LAw on THE MIKE
SATURDAY - FRANKIEJACKSON “ms rcrrts

MAsm2”o~ me MIKE

SUNDAY - OPEN MIKE NIGHT avouvz
CHANCE To snow vow: srurr. If You
PLAY me eurmz on me moo, SING

Drive-In revived
by donations and
Hull’s Angels

By Ashley Klimp

STAFF WRITER

Though Hull’s Drive—In is not a new

business, its retum is making waves. It A

originally opened in 1950 and operated
continually until 1997, when the drive-in
was sold to a family friend who opened
it but found it too expensive.
Concerned residents of Lexington
held a meeting to see if the drive-in’s
closing could be forestalled. A result of
that meeting was Hull’s Angels, a non-
proﬁt organization dedicated to the pres-
ervation of the drive-in. There is a ﬁve
dollar fee to join. Since its establishment
membership has grown to over 500.
The driving force behind Hull’s An-
gels are Elise and Eric Shefﬁeld, who
organized the original meeting. They

   
   

oto courtesy of Elise Shefﬁeld

Go SPEEDRACER.ThiS classic car, a 1954 Oldsmobile Rocket 88, will
be the grand prize in a raffle at Hull’s Drive-In on Sunday night.

have arranged to lease the drive—in for

two years with the intent to buy. ‘

Though now it is only a question of
when the organization will own Hull’s,
it was not always the case. At the end
of the 1998 school year, Hull’s Angels
even approached fraternities and sorori-
ties for donations. With the help of the
Washington and Lee Greek societies as
well as various donations from other in-

dividuals and organizations, Hull’s Drive-

./

8

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

TAKE ONE FOR THE TEAM. This brave reporter gets her ear pierced
at the new tattoo parlor in the name of good journalism.

  WINA TRIP
FOR TWO T0

AFRICA

This year the cast of MTV's
’T he Real World’ went to Africa.
Now you can too!

 6
€299

 

/

’¢%C%;g;lZ«/'
wondwtdovacauam
tormtossyanrolda

   

Enter For a chance to win at your
local Council Travel office or at
counciltravel.com

This trip to Africa is provided by

wrgm '
atlantlc

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..

in has been preserved.

“The great thing about Hull’s is
that it is for everybody,” Elise
Sheffield said. “It’s a common
ground, where people from all walks

of life come and have a good time to- '

gether and there’s not many places
where we can do that.”

Hull’s Angels is unique in that it
is run on a strictly non-proﬁt basis.
Putting all proﬁts right back into the
drive-in allows the business to keep
prices fairly low (only $4.00 for a
double feature). Hull’s Drive-In, one
of only nine in Virginia, was featured
in People magazine.

This coming weekend Hull’s Drive-
In will be featuring a special event Any-
one owning a classic, hot rod, or muscle
car is invited to enter a full hour early
(at 5:30) for a chance at the best park-
ing places. This presents a chance to
not only enjoy the movies, but also to
view many interesting antique cars at
no extra cost. The highlight of the week-
end will be the rafﬂing of a turquoise
and cream 1954 Oldsmobile Rocket 88
on Sunday evening.

like

W

Would you

money?

For us?

to make

OR WHAT~E\/ER THIS IS YOUR NIGHT w.."§.'.'.",’.°..'.'g.‘a'.1§.‘if‘i-i‘.‘2.'.Ig°..i’.2§‘$8i«£ﬁ’§’.§1‘.§;".§’l‘i,o The Phi is in Search
I]:      to counctltravelcom. weepstako ends 10/15/O0. of a Busggess Manager.
- ’ ‘,-a W; Intereste . Let us know. ,
16 02. T eowe STEAK wmr A BAKED POTATO Phl@Wlu-ed" x4060 A" 

counciltravelcom
1-800-2COUNCIL

 

AND MIXED GREEN SALAD  6 . 50

 

 

PAGE 8

LAS TV/Eiib

 

I SEPTEMBER 11, 2000

.7a aaa‘/p am... me an

By Bawbwa Wawtawrs

“I DRESS LIKE A MAN”

New freshmen here at
Washington and Lee have the
doubly difﬁcult task of adjusting not
only to college life, but also to the
hectic, non-stop lifestyle of the
Lexington metropolis. Freshman
John-Boy Malton from Malton
Mountain, Virginia, has been
struggling to make the transition.

RTP: What was your home-life
like?

John-Boy: I ’ve never really got
to see much of the world back at
the mountain, but I mean Ma,
Pa, Bubba, Suzy, ‘Lizbeth, and
Gran ’Pa were all I really
needed. We always pulled
together during the tough times
like when the barn burned down,
when the house got ﬂooded,
when a herd of nicotine-crazed
ground hogs ate half the tobacco
crop, and when a bear mistook
Suzy for a salmon. All those crazy
adventures made us a very close
family.

RTP: Is living here in Lexington a
big adjustment for you?

John-Boy: I worried about
coming to a cosmopolitan area
like Lexington. I thought that I ’d
be swept up in the excitement of
big city life - I mean, not only is
there a Wal-Mart, but there is
also ‘a K-Mart. Golly, two marts!
Boy, Ma and Pa won’t know

what to do with me when I come
back a “Big City Man.”

RTP: How do you like living in the
infamous W&L dorms?

John-Boy: It’s been great - I love
all the extra space I have. Back
at home I shared a bed with
Gran ’Pa and Jebidiah the Pig —
it is so nice to have a roommate
that is housebroken, unlike
Gran ’Pa. My bunk-buddy,
Maximillion G. Thurstan I K has
puzzled me a bit, though.

RTP: How so?

John-Boy: He told me that I
couldn’t stay in my dorm room
Saturday night because he was
going to bring some sort of cat
back to the room. I told him
that back at the Mountain we
had all sorts of pets and I
wouldn’t be bothered by him
bringing a cat in . . . he insisted
on my leaving, though, saying
some chicks just don ’t go for
that sorta thing. I told him I
kept some chickens back at
home and they didn’t seem mind
me . . . but I guess I just don’t
understand city folk.

RTP: Have you had any concerns
or problems thus far?

John-Boy: Well, after Suzy got
mauled, I have always kind of
been concerned about bears. So
I asked that horny, hippy
Catholic guy, Furr, if there were

any of them around here and
he told me that W&L didn’t
have any bears, but rather
something worse the
“Lexington Po-Po. ” He warned
me that if I park my Model-T
out in the street too long they
will “tow my ass in a heart
beat” and if they catch me
drinking, they will “lock me up
in the local p_ound-me-in-the-
ass penitentiary. ” I do not know
what sort of liken ’in these “Po-

. Po” have with doing things to

my ass, but frankly I don ’t like
it.

RTP: Is there anything here that
you’ve really liked?

John-Boy: Well, the girls here
do all sorts of things that
‘Lizbeth and Suzy never did
back home — like take oﬂ their
shirts if you give them beer. I
like to see boobies.

RTP: What do you plan on
majoringin?

John-Boy: Probably reading.

Already, John-Boy is beginning to
ﬁnd his niche here at W&L. He
discovered the time-honored
W&L tradition that many other
freshmen use: imbibing large
dosages of alcohol to make most
of his problems disappear - it’s
hard to feel awkward around the
opposite sex or too boring to hold a
conversation when the only thing
visible is the bottom of a toilet.

FRESH EACH MORNING

' vb
WW 9, yaw. yet“. ‘A
‘)-(0., Av» ,°’=,a,°f'~.,v

we .*"”‘”t%

ESPRESSO ° CAPPUCCINO ' FRESH ROASTED COFFEES 0 FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON .0 464-6586

   

Moran. Du:-ivy/L 07: mg I/EEK.’

This column is dedicated to continuing the Honor System ‘s legacy by challenging students to constantly think about the nuances of

gentlemanly honor, its place in the Washington and Lee Community, and individuals’ personal responsibility to uphold its high

ideals so that the University can remain an eternal pillar of integrity, high moral values, and enlightenment for another 250 years..

IF YOUR ROOMMA TE STEALS YOUR
POTSTASH, Do YOU TURN HIM IN?

V

Advantage.

Year in and year out, employees at education and ‘
research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREE.
And for good reasons:

- Easy diversification among a range of expertly
managed funds

0 A solid history of performance and exceptional
personal service I

0 A strong commitment to low expenses

0 Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options

For decades, TIAA-CREE has helped professors and staff
at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for—.
and enjoy—successfu| retirements.

Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple.
Go with the leader: TlAA-CREF.

PrETlHE'MENl INSURANIE 'MUlU/-IIEFUNIJS TRUSTSERVIHEES TUITIUNFINANEINE

Why is  the
#1 choice nationwide?

  The TIAA—CRE

 
 
   

Investment Expertise in

 
  
 

Low Expenses

Customized
Payment Options

Expert Guidance

A A

Ensuring the future

1.800.842.2776

for those who shape it.“

www.tiaa-cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully

before you invest. - TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the C REF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. 0 Teachers

Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. 0

TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. 0 IIAA-C REF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.
_ 0 Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. © 2000 TlAA~CREF 08/03

I

 

 

 

)4

    

.'/is fr *2
(R.  . »

. '?i5‘L

\..
.\,>

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsITv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 
    

. A ':'~:, ‘-./A ::»w::o

SE? 2 IZUULE

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

Cadets step off

VMI parade commemorates
eight-score years of fraternal
felicity

By Matthew McDerrnott

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The Corp of Cadets of the Virginia Military Institute pa-
raded in honor of the common history and traditions their
college shares with the University of Washington and Lee.
W&L students, alumni, faculty, and administration attended
the event, held on Friday at the parade grounds in front of
the Institute.

The cadets affixed bayonets to their riﬂes, a privilege
only afforded to combat tested infantry units. VMI cadets
have participated in every American conﬂict since the Mexi-
can War, with at one time an entire class ﬁghting as a unit.

“We take this opportunity to thank our W&L neighbors
for all the generations of friendship past,” said the an-
nouncer, “and in a fervent wish for a continuation of our
warm relationship in the future.”

Also mentioned was the “friendly but passionate” ri-
valry that hasexisted during the schools’, 161 years of,
coexistance, which still allows the schools “banding to-
gether as educated and honorable ladies and gentlemen.”

In past years students at what was then called Washing-
ton College donned uniforms to drill alongside VMI cadets,
who in turn attended the College for classes not offered at
the Institute.

Students at both schools served alongside each other
under the command of Robert E. Lee to ﬁght for Virginia
during the Civil War.

This parade was the first to be partly reviewed by a W&L
student, Chairman of the Executive Comrnitte John Comly.
VMI cadets parade 21 times a semester. .

“Sometimes its hard to keep all of these parades straight,”
admits firstclassman (senior) Matthew Frye, who with his
classmates drills several times a day.

This is the most recent parade in honor of Washington
and Lee since the one held for the reunion of the “war
classes,” those comprised of students who attended W&L
andVMIfrom 1941 to 1945.

Washington and Lee officials were eager to recognize
their ties with the Institute and pleased to have been recog-
nized by it.

The W&L community later joined VMI cadets, faculty,
and administration at a reception held in Moody Hall.

“It’s ﬂattering,” said Lawrence Betch, Dean of Washing-
ton and Lee College, “We’re glad to be here.”

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

RIGHT, LEFT, RIGHT: The VMI colorguard parades as part of the march and review that recently
honored Washington and Lee University. Over one thousand cadets, to the music of pipes, horns,
and drums preformed an exact military drill as spectators (photo above left) gaze on.

Colleges oversee the rats and the frats

By Matthew McDermott

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The Virginia Military Institute’s recent
Full Retreat Parade honored the historical
connections that the academy shares with
neighboring Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. Though numerous parallels between
the two institutions were drawn that day,
one similarity went unmentioned: the anti-
hazing policies being seperately pursued
by the new VMI Commandant and W&L’s
Interfratemity Council.

Hazing is more obvious at VMI, where
the freshmen, or rats, are traditionally sub-
ject to an intense period of initiation.

“I believe in the passage of rights,” says
Colonel Eric Hutchings, who assumed the
office of Commandant in early July, “but
[the situation] had become cancerous.”

Hutchings, recently Deputy Com-
mander of the Army Rangers, graduated
from VMI in 1997 as a Distinguished Mili-
tary Student. He has also attended the
United States AImy’s Command and Gen-
eral Staff College and holds two masters
degrees in military arts and sciences. A
qualified SCUBA diver and parachutist,

he has served in the army for 22 years.

His decorations include the Defense Meri-~

torious Service Medal. .

As Commandant, Hutchings functions
as a dean of students, overseeing the dis-
cipline and training of VMI’s student
body.

“I’m the surrogate father,” he explains.
“Parents. . . expect me to look after their
kids.”

Since his arrival, Hutchings has made
substantial changes to the Blue Book,
VMI’s code of student conduct. He has
focused on cadet appearance, resurrected
the tradition of marching to meals, and
increased participation at parades. It is
his protection of the rats, however, that
has drawn the most vocal criticism from
the upper classes.

Hutchings has, for example, ended the
shaving of rats’ heads. He has forbidden
the practice of bedding them in their gym
clothes, swathing them in blankets, and
commanding them to sleep while at atten-
tion.

Some students feel Hutchings is med-
dling with the school’s traditions.

“It’s hard to change something when

you’ve been brought up with it,”
said ‘fiistciassmeii (senior) Jim
Bourie.

His classmate Andrew Modisett
agrees, “You’ve got this constant
grudge—match going on. We want
to run the show, the Commandant
wants to limit us.”

Many seniors, however, agree
with Hutchings reforms.

“The ratline is more the way it
used to be,” said firstclassman Mat-
thew Frye. “I’ve talked to alumni
and faculty. . . and they don’t re-
member it being so rough. We’re
heading in the right direction.”

“We’re going to let the commo-
tion pass,” said first—class president
Charles Bunting. “Basically, we are
working for the same ends.”

Bunting heads the student gov-
ernment, which oversees student
conduct and decides whether to rec-
ommend disciplinary action to the
administration.

Regardless of the complaints of

SEE ‘HAZE’ ON PAGE 2

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

New club
sets SAIL

The Student Association
for International
Learning prepares for
first year

By Joel Pepera

STA FF WRITER

The Student Association for International
Learning, a new umbrella organization of

_ Washington and Lee’s international clubs,

\

seeks to use the collective resources of its
member clubs to “address intercultural and
international issues on campus,” according
to organizer Agnes Flak.

In its first year of existence at W&L,
SAIL combines new service committees with
established international organizations on
campus in an effort to draw further support
for international issues. This coalition hopes
to be especially helpful in the fundraising;
SAIL will petition the Executive Committee
on behalf of its committees.

“SAIL is the key organization in bringing
the international and globalizing trend to
W&L,” said acting secretary, Shiazi Niazi.

SAIL is comprised of ﬁve individual or-
ganizations, each its own separate entity:
Study Abroad, Model United Nations, the
International Student Alliance, the Interna-
tional Development and Relief Group, and the
Student Activities Committee (fomerly the
International Club).

While SAIL will only meet monthly, each
individual group will hold regular meetings.

The Study Abroad committee provides
information on the option of studying in a
foreign nation for students of all majors. It
plans to make .the study abroad option more
accessible to the general student population
by addressing issues ofapproachability and
fair credit transfer.

A pre-existing campus organization but
new SAIL member, Model United Nations
exposes participants to international issues
and conduct through the simulation of the
United Nations. The group plans to attend
conferences at Harvard University and the
University of Pennsylvania, as well as to de-
velop its own Security Council at Washing-
ton and Lee.

The International Student Alliance serves
the unique needs of international students
on campus. The committee will address ev-
erything from student VISA issues to obtain-
ing inexpensive flights home to dealing with
“culture shock.” The alliance is dedicated to
serving any and all of the needs of the inter-
national students at W&L.

The International Development and Re-
lief Group directs its attention to the aid and
relief of those in crisises around the globe.
Through fundraising and awareness, it looks
to improve the plight of those in need through-
out the world.

The Student Activities Committee is in-
volved in initiating and planning a variety of
activities with an international emphasis. It
aims to unite students of all cultures in vari-
ous events.

niversity officials assess impact and safety of parking garage

.\'_$

By Katie Howell

STA FF WRITER

The first full week of student parking in

the new parking garage has lead to cases
of reckless driving and improper traffic
ﬂow, according to Security Director Mike
_Young.
 Despite initial problems, officials feel
that the garage, located behind Doremus
Gymnasium, has resulted in fewer parking
violations on the streets of Lexington this
year than in previous years. ‘

In a public campus announcement last
:I'hursday, Young said, “I have been receiv-
ing daily reports of dangerous driving in
the new parking garage. I am aware that
irnany drivers have not been practicing ba-

sic safety precautions while driving in this fa-
cility.”

Young said that although the security of-
fice has not posted a speed limit, students and
visitors should drive at 10 miles per hour to
maintain the safest possible driving standards.
“People are driving too fast and not being care-
ful,” he said. “Students should slow things
down a bit and be more patient and alert, par-
ticularly around turns.”

University Security also encourages stu-
dents to pay attention to the arrows and traf-
fic ﬂow patterns posted within the garage. The
arrows will soon be painted a darker color to
be more visible to drivers.

“The garage is a nice facility,” Young said.
“It is well-lit and will have a good traffic pat-
tern once students get adjusted.”

Students are especially having difficulty
adjusting to the double-headed arrows located
at each level of the ramp, which some have
called confusing. Some think that they add to
the improper traffic ﬂow as students are unfa-
miliar with this unusual setup.

“I think going both ways is dangerous,”
said sophomore Gretchen Tenzca.

Drivers parking in the garage should ex-
pect more confusion from the garage for the
next two months while the University Physi-
cal Plant works on Phase III of the Campus
Utility Routing Project, which will completely
close off Denny Circle to traffic.

Assistant Director of the Physical Plant
Scott Rhodes said, “starting Monday the
Denny Circle entrance, which is currently the
only entrance, will be closed off. We will open

one lane for entering the garage and one lane
for exiting both at the current Nelson Street
exit and the current fourth level exit.”

Despite the garage’s problems, security
officials feel that the garage has greatly re-
lieved the strain the University previously
had accommodating all of the cars that stu-
dents, faculty, and visitors parked on carn-
pus. Prior to the construction of the garage
last spring, the location of the current garage
was a two—level, 180 space parking lot. The
new garage can hold 609 cars.

“We knew we needed at least 100 more
parking spots for the sororities,” said Young,
“and we knew that the University did not have
adequate space for the overall parking situa-
tion, so the University decided to build the
garage.

Now commuters can come to campus with-
out worrying about having to ﬁght for a park-
ing space.”

According to Trafﬁc Coordinator Thomas
“Baner” Bane, the space that the parking ga-
rage provides has decreased the number of
parking citations given both in the City of
Lexington and in unauthorized University
parking areas.

Bane said, “The garage is probably the
best thing that has happened to us in the

. past few years. [The number of parking viola-

tions this year] is down a whole lot.”

“The parking garage is a big improvement
to the previous parking situation we had on
campus,” said Young. “It is wonderful for
students to know that they have a space wait-
ing for them on campus.”

ﬁf

September 18, 2000

City: iliittg-tum iﬂlii

 

 

 
  

Generals in Overt e:
Girls soccer breaks

 

 

 

. LE‘!'Bl;’?t?*.i l_.lFs¥7./KRY
TJN it LEE Uf~!l‘v'EP.SlTY

 

@112

liking-tum iﬂlri

  NEWS

Mehul SIiVastaVa’s

World

Life outside the Bubble

Report

Indian Prime Minister on goodwill visit to the
US

The Prime Minister of India, Atal Behari Vajpayee is in
the US on a ﬁve-day goodwill visit, drumming up support
for India’s stand on global issues like the Comprehensive
Test Ban Treaty, and International terrorism.

In a reciprocal visit for President Clinton’s visit to India
earlier this year, Mr Vajpayee will go back home with over
$6 billion in power contracts and assurances from both Al
Gore and George Bush that the process of India-US high
level talks will continue, but without being able to address
the key issues that are sources of concern for both India
and the US.

There was no agreement on the issues of nuclear pro-
liferation, nor did the Americans give any assurance of
support for India’s bid for a permanent seat on the UN
Security Council.

On the other hand, there was a reiteration of the belief
that India and US are“ natural allies ” (Al Gore), and that
both countries are tied together by common beliefs like
democracy (India being the world’s largest democracy, and
the US the richest).

Another important development was the setting up of
joint working group to address terrorism as sponsored by
Islamic Fundamentalist groups operating mostly out of Af-
ghanistan, targeting both India and the US. India has faced
ongoing terrorist attacks, mostly in Kashmir, and the US
has been targeted by men like Osama Bin Laden, who in
recently called for a jehad ( holy war ) against India and
America.

Sydney 2000

The “greatest show on earth” kicked off in Sydney with
a blaze of glory. After a long and arduous journey lasting a
100 days, including an underwater swim, having changed
hands over 11,000 times, the Olympic torch arrived in
Sydney. In a rare show of Australian political correctness,
the torch was handed over to an aboriginal athlete, Cathy
Freeman, who then lit the Olympic ﬂame, which will over
the next 17 days burn over the efforts of athletes to go
higher, run faster, and be stronger.

One of the highlights of the show was North and South
Korea marching under the same ﬂag, with the 1 10,000 strong
crowd roaring its approval. The Australian Olympics com-
mittee went out of its way to create a show that would
justify the Australian reputation of being able to throw a
great party, setting a world record for the largest number of

people ever raised aloft in an aerial performance. As Greg
Norman, Australian Golﬁng legend put it, “if we see so
many people smiling, we must be doing something right.”

Petrol Crisis

In a premonition of future crises over fuel shortages,
Europe and Britain ground to a halt as people took to the
streets protesting high fuel costs. Lines for fuel pumps
snaked onto highways, as people queued up to buy petrol
for their vehicles. Most fuel pumps in Britain shut down
since protestors would not allow fuel tankers to deliver
their loads.

The protests started in rural Britain, with mostly farm-
ers protesting the high price of petrol, which is almost ﬁve
dollars for a gallon, out of which 80% is tax. Then the
protests moved towards the city, and soon there was little
or no petrol available for even school buses and ambu-
lances. Prime minister Tony Blair asked for special emer-
gency powers to keep the situation under control.

By the middle of the week, most petrol pumps in Britain
had run dry, and fuel shortages caused hospitals to cancel
operations, schools to close down, and even soccer stadi-
ums to have sparser attendance than normal.

But on Friday, the protestors, showing great political
acumen, called off the blockades. With virtually no petrol
left for sale in the country, they had proven their point.
Also, they had received an assurance from Blair that in
November, the new budget will keep their concerns in mind.

UN Millennium Summit

In what was the largest concentration of world leaders
in one place, the UN Millennium summit ended on an arnbi—
tious note of almost utopian hyperbole. They promised to
cut down poverty by half, halt the spread of aids, and
provide education for all children by 2015, a repetition of
promises past declarations have been making for almost
the entire existence of the UN. The summit was mostly a
talk-festival, providing leaders with the opportunity to meet
and mingle with the most powerful people in the world.

Yet, the more interesting events took place in the side-
lines of the summit. The Palestinians agreed to delay dec-
laration of statehood, while Fidel Castro slipped into a line
of people shaking hands with Bill Clinton, and the UN
reduced American contribution to UN funds. The summit
is signiﬁcance for the UN, which is struggling to shake off
allegations of powerlessness.

 

Class agents and reunions

Class agents, two representatives from each alumni
class in charge of fundraising for the University’s Annual
Fund, met on the campus the previous weekend to dis-
cuss means of soliciting donations from their classmates.
The Armual Fund is the collection of pledges given by
fornrcr students of Washington and Lee.

The Reunion Chairs visited campus this weekend to
discuss plans for Alumni Reunion Weekend, which will
be held this year on the weekend of May 3-5. The Univer-
sity holds a reunion for all alumni who graduated in ﬁve
year increments before the current year.

--Katie Howell
‘HAZE’

SEPTEMBER18, 2000.

Shutkin opens lecture series

Williamshutkin, founder and president of New Ecol-
ogy Inc., will be the inaugural speaker in a lecture series
at Washington and Lee University titled “Growth and
Conservation: Lessons from the Humanities.”

Shutkin will speak on Wednesday,

Sept. 20 at 7:30 p.m. in the Science Center, Room A214.

The lecture series is sponsored by the Virginia Foun-
dation for the Humanities and Public Policy and is de-
signed to help student and the local community under-
stand the challenges of reconciling growth and develop-
ment with the preservation of the local environment.

Shutkin’s recent book, The Land That Could Be: En-
vironmentalism and Democracy in the Twenty-First Cen-
tury, points the way to vibrant, sustainable communities
through four examples of civic environmentalism in ac-
tion.

Shutkin also serves as a lecturer in the department of
urban studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technol-
ogy and is an adjunct professor of law at Boston College.

--Courtesy W&L website

those he considers “out of the loop,” Hutchings believes
he has a favorable relationship with the ﬁrstclassmen. 'His
opposition to hazing remains steadfast.

“It’s malignant,” he said. “I intend to ﬁght it with a
combination of spiritual chemotherapy and ruthless sur-
gery.”

Hutchings considers the previous treatment of rats “fra-
temity-like hazing,” prompting the question of what, if any,
hazing goes on at W&L fraternities.

During their freshmen year, most students rush for fra-
ternities and sororities. Fraternity Rush in particular often
includes a series of physically and emotionally challeng-
ing tasks.

Interfratemity Council sponsor William “Burr” Datz sees
rushing a fraternity as one of the ways a boy can become
a man. So long as assigned tasks don’t injure health or
grades, he believes fraternities provide a bonding experi-
ence that teaches pledges “their Weaknesses and [that]
bonds them with their classmates.”

Mark Dalhouse, Dean of Freshmen, cautions Rush par-
ticipants to “have enough discernment to [avoid anything]
that endangers their health.” Neglecting studies can cause
“devastating consequences later in the term,” resulting in
“academic probation or worse.”

Besides imbibing drinks or avoiding books, university
ofﬁcials are concerned about the possibility of Rush haz-
ing.

“Hazing is contrary to the academic purposes of the
University,” said Mike Young, Director of University Se-
curity, who says violators will be punished according to

, FROM PAGE 2
the penalties outlined in the Student Handbook. The in-
stitution that oversees fraternity behavior is the Interfra-
temity Council, composed of fraternity members elected
by fraternity presidents. I

“It’s a mediator between the administration and the
fraternities,” said senior Qunicy Springs, a Council mem-
ber. “Whenever there’s a discrepancy or a problem or, not
even on the negative side, activities that need to be con-
ducted with fraternities, the IFCC is the one that facilitates
things.”

The IFC, which is responsible for the new house party
policies, safeguards freshmen from overly grueling rush
activities, seeking safe substitutes instead.

“Hazing by its deﬁnition isn’t tolerated by the IFC,”
said Springs. Instead, “each of the fraternities has service
oriented projects.”

Violations of rush regulations are not known. Last
year Phi Kappa Alpha ran into some difficulty during the
last week of Rush. “It’s a confidential manner,” said
Springs, “but last year Pika was found hazing. They were
found in the seventh week, so the only have one week-for
Rush.”

Fraternities found guilty of breaching IFC standards
must automatically induct all pledges and may only rush
next year for a time equal to the time remaining in the Rush
the violation occurred.

Whatever one’s opinions on fraternities, no one dis-
misses their inﬂuence. “We give our boys to fraternities
to make them men,” said Datz. “If they keep them in a
drunken adolescence, they’re not doing their job.”

 

PHI or 13 Y El
There are winners and
losers out there:
who do you want to
write for?

PHI AT WL.U.I-:Du

     
     
   
   
       

P -T EMPLOYMENT

The Stonewall Jackson House is hiring
part-time weekend guide/shop staff.
Individuals must enjoy working with the
public, possessyexcellent communication
skills and be able to convey historical and
biographical information. Applications
available at
8 E. Washington St., Lexington.

  

41

r

WANTED:
‘I Str-'a1:eegis1:s
Guick Thinkers
Téam Players

, Achievers , -

Meeting our clients’ expectations tozdeliuerrrtntioyative
tinancial solutions requires intuition, strategyand teamwork.
a On weekends they _call it court vision. What’s your game plan?

Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Controllers Department
Interviewing on Campus

Tuesday, October 24, 2000

Be Part of Our Team!
Submit Your Resume to the Career Services Office
by no later than:

Thursday, September 21, 2000

MINDS. WIDE OPEN?”
www.gs.com

Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by tederal, state or local laws. © 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co.

 

PAGE 4

O

@112 iliing-tum ilﬁlti

PINION

SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

Lilliputian constraints bind sports giant

Bob Knight was ﬁred from his post at the helm of the
Indiana University men’s basketball program September 10,
less than four months after the school announced that the be-
havior of the controversial coach would

and 1987), one more than Dean Srnith’s North Carolina
teams (1982 and 1993). The General’s career record of
763-290—including six seasons as head coach at the U.S.
Military Academy—ranks him ﬁfth

be restricted by a zero-tolerance policy.
Despite Knight’s claims in an
ESPN interview two days later, the

The ljnejudge
Jeremy S. Franklin ‘04

all time on the NCAA Division I
wins list. The Hoosiers posted a
.734 win percentage (661-240)

coach had been fully informed of the
implications of this policy by IU President Myles Brand
and athletic director Clarence Doninger. But, given Knight’s
behavior during his 29 seasons as head coach of the Hoo-
siers, what IU ofﬁcial really expected any new stipulations
to better regulate the General’s behavior?

Whether or not you like Bob Knight-and there’s a good
chance that you don’t — one thing carmot be logically
contested: that he is one of the greatest coaches in college
basketball history. Knight belongs in a very elite class of
coaches, one for which only one other current coach -
Duke’s Mike Krzyzewski-truly qualiﬁes.

Knight’s Hoosiers won three national titles (1976, 1981,

LETTERS TO
THE EDITOR

Web registration not that bad

Dear Editor:

I am writing in respose to the opinion article by Mike
Press on English and PE classes. I, too, was shut out of
English and PE fall term of my Freshman year here at Wash-
ington and Lee, BUT I had to stand in line for 1 1/2 hours to
ﬁnd that out, because it was before the ease of web regis-
tration. In fact, some of the people that lived on my hall
camped out for classes. Of course, while we were standing
in lines for these classes, the others were ﬁlling up, too. So
what? I got my English class winter term and played Varsity
Basketball that winter. It was not a big deal, I just had to
wait my turn — something I learned back in Kindergarten.

As far as the English Department offering upper level
courses that aren’t ﬁlled, I ask you how important the word
“Graduation” is to you. Many of these courses are required
for an English Major (which I am not) and are only offered
every other year due to the small staff to which you refered
in your article. In fact, the department has to hire extra part-
time staff to teach the amount of classes it does offer to
freshman. I assure you that there is plenty of interest in the
classes that are being taught even if some seats are empty.
Isn’t that why you came to a small college - so you didn’t
have to have 25 people in all of your classes?

 The PE department uses’ varsity coaches to teach PE
cilasses both when coaches are .in,,,$¢ason,,, and when
they are out of season. Offering more classes, would put a
tremendous snain on the in season coaches and would cause
them to sacrifice their commitment to their varisty team in
order to fuﬁll some freshman’s desire to have a PE course

under Knight.

“We’ve never been mediocre,” Knight told Jeremy
Schaap in the ESPN interview. “We’ve always been re-
ally good or pretty good as a team, and more than any-
thing I wanted to see us get back to being really good.”

Knight was robbed of such an opportunity by Brand’s
“zero tolerance policy.” Granted, the coach was wont to
egregious behavior, but this was no new phenomenon.
The ﬁrst public incident occurred in 1976-the season IU
ﬁnished 32-0, the last time a Division I team went unde-
feated — when the General grabbed sophomore Jim
Wisman by his jersey and threw him into a chair on the
Hoosier bench. Several similar occurrences speckled an

otherwise brilliant career for Knight. Indeed, no one ——
save a few deranged IU students, who have threatened
and burned in efﬁgy Brand and others involved in the
coach’s dismissal —— is trying to sanctify Knight as a
human being. '

Yet the Hoosiers have deprived themselves of one of
the best coaches in college basketball history.

Knight knew how to win, and just two of his four-year
players left IU without a diploma in hand-a graduation
rate of 98 percent, phenomenal for modern times.

“I am really proud of what our basketball program turned
out at Indiana,” Knight said. “I’m just so proud of the kind of
kids that we’ve turned out, and the kind of men that these
kids have developed into. We’ve kind of woven an atmo-
sphere of success academically, athletically, and after gradu-
ation that I think all of us are really proud of.”

Despite his sometimes ungentlemanly behavior, let me
be one of the only sports writers to tip my hat to Coach
Bob Knight for 29 years of success at the helm of the
Indiana University Hoosiers.

photo by MatthaEdwards/staff photographer

CHILLIN’ AT THE Co-0P. A Washington and Lee pasttime, students spend a beautiful fall day outside of
the Co-op enjoying the time before schoolwork piles up.

Student defends need for
Anti-Defamation League
activities for freshmen

right away. This is not fair to the men and women who play .

varsity sports. If you want to complain about PE, try com-
plaining about how Varisty atheletes can play four seasons in
a sport and only get two PE credits for it. . . two PE credits that
count the samearnount as someone who is taking bowling.
That, to me, is what is needs to be changed. If you want more
room for “normal” people who just want a PE, get the depart-
ment to waive some of the extra PE’s for varsity atheletes.
That would free up a lot of room for incoming Freshmen.

Many people before you have been shut out of classes
they wanted to take and many after you will be shut out as
well. It is a part of life —— you don’t always get what you
want when you want it. As you move up the totem pole and
need classes to graduate, I hope you will appreciate the
way the system works. It has worked for 250 years and it
will work in the future.
Sincerely,
Lauren Andrews ’0l

Tilt: ‘tiling-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editors

Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes

Max Smith

Matt McDermott
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Jessica Jones
Michael Crittenden
Bryan Early

News Editor
Assistant News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Contributing Editors

Last Word Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The‘ Washington and Lee
Pjjjublications Board elects the Executive Editor, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court deﬁnitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

Dear Editor,

The recent editorial, “The ADL drums up busi-
ness. . . yet again,” was a very well written article,
but I hope this fact will not mistakenly convince read-
ers of its validity. The author had a right to express
his opinion about the ADL Campus of Difference
activity he attended last week with his class. The
program is still new and perhaps this inﬂuenced fresh-
men perceptions. However, the premise behind the
article was hugely ﬂawed. I would like to clear up any
misconceptions.

First, the Campus of Difference program is not
purely reactive. Our administration had considered
utilizing it before the Idaho Delegation T—shirt inci-
dent even occurred. However, this incident certainly
exposed the need for the program.

Second, the author would have us believe that “the
world has become that idealistic” and that “we have
largely achieved what Dr. King desired. . .” Perhaps
in strongly wanting to believe in this idealism he has
been blinded to so many events that occur both on
campus and in the ‘real world.’ There is a history to
W&L beyond the current year and the “Idaho T—shirt
incident.” While much of this history is wonderful,
sadly it does include less—than-idealistic events.

Just last year, homophobic remarks appeared in a
student’s campaign slogan and were heard on an-
other student’s radio show. A Jewish student left
campus after an upperclassman made anti—Semitic
comments in his presence. Certainly not every stu-
dent, nor even the majority of them, are guilty of such
incivility. Yet, perhaps after a year at W&L, the au-
thor will notice some of the day-to-day slights minor-
ity students nonetheless experience, even if these

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

TALKback:

 

 

Brandon Waddell, because he
would add controversy and
humor to our mundane society.

—Patrick Lahan ‘04

as

“John Cornly — he is good at his
present job and could use his scare
tactics against foreign countries.”
-Carrie Graham ‘04

slights are unintended, and even if other individuals
want to remain unaware of them.

As a senior who sees the ‘real world’ looming ahead, I
am also particularly aware of non-idealistic events out-
side of the campus community. “The politically-correct
l990’s,” as the author calls them, were not so ideal as
to prevent events like the Rodney King race riots, the
brutal murder of a gay student, Matthew Shepherd, or
the Columbine shootings, in which two ostracized and
harassed students target members of other social
groups. These events are admittedly the most publi-
cized examples of recent hate crimes. It makes me even
sadder to think about all of the smaller-scale events of
which we are unaware.

Moreover, the program was not meant to “train” en-
tering students or to assume that all freshmen enter as
bigots, as the author claimed. On the contrary, it was
meant to promote openconversation on topics which,
he may soon find, people are often hesitant to talk
about. By not talking about differences, people may
never have to reflect on their own premises or precon-
ceived notions.

The exercise to which the author referred asked stu-
dents to choose “four words to describe [their] heri-
tage, background, and ethnicity” as they interpreted
them. However, the descriptors were not limited to race,
ethnicity, background, age, or socioeconomic status.
While I chose race as one of my descriptors, I also chose
“family—oriented” as an important component of my identity.

We then asked individuals to notice their common-
alities as well as the differences which make us diverse.
The exercise was not meant to erect barriers that didn’t
already exist. It encouraged self—evaluation as well as
conversation about socially-constructed barriers.

I am glad that the author feels we all judge others by
the content of their character. I hope he leads by ex-
ample. I hope that we will all strive to achieve the ideal-
ism he describes.

Sincerely,
Anne Hazlett ’01
ADL Facilitator

 

Cat’s

Corner

0, hark, all ye illicit drug—takers of Washington and Lee!
Had you previously thought your sketchy recreational ac-
tivities could prevent you from taking that fabulous
$5 shmillion a year job once you graduate from the C-School?
Were you concerned that the white powder clinging to your
nostrils wouldn’t make good interview attire? That reeking
of reefer doesn’t exactly exude eau de business? Worry
not, my little stoned friends. According to a speaker at last
week’s Career Services meeting for seniors, this is no longer
the case. The speaker, a recent graduate of this fine univer-
sity, opened her talk by saying, in more words or less, that
due to the increased number of jobs available at present, a
lot of companies are doing away with drug-testing to widen
their applicant pool.

What a strange thought -— workplaces opening their
arms to drug—users. I have no problem with most drugs, a
teetotaler I am not, but there are places where they’re ap-
propriate and places where they are not. Should we have
the same attitude toward drugs as toward alcohol? Most of
us would be disinclined to say that going to work drunk is
a good idea. I mean, a drunk hook-up is one thing but a
drunk hook-up with your boss (or your boss’s coat rack) in
broad daylight followed by some regurgitative pyrotechnics
is a completely different animal.

Although the speaker at the meeting spoke of loosened
restrictions on drug—use in the application process, I would
imagine that most employers are not psyched about the
idea of their underlings doing drugs, if only for their
company’s image. A few months ago I read an article in a
British fashion magazine about women who were recreational
drug users were found out one way or another by their
place of employment, and were fired. Does your company
have a right to say, “Toots, what you do in your own time
does affect your time here with us at Happy Company, Inc.
since you came in so bedraggled/coked up this morning, so
of course we have a right to demand urine/hair/blood tests
and to regulate your hours outside your job.” It’s a fine line,
and the hair could be split either way. On one hand, the
goody-two—shoes inside me says a rule is a rule.

 

nile to me. People might be inclined to insist that the drugs
they do do not affect their performance at work, and possi-
bly enhance it. Do companies have a right to get involved

you’re out, regarding failing drug tests?

investment bankers, rolling on ecstasy, rubbing glitter on
each other, frolicking to and fro. Ah, bliss.

My attendance at the senior meeting also made me near
jump with glee in response to knowing I will not be joining
most of my class in the workforce next year, regardless of
whether or not I could be happily toking along while I perform
my daily duties. IfI hear one more C—School major worry
about not getting a job, I’m going to crawl out of my Science
Center cave and spank them silly. (And, no, you won’t like it.)

Listen to me: You will get a job, you will work 150 hours
a week, you will get paid a million or so dollars a year plus
bonuses for signing, Christmas/Hanukah/Kwanzaa,
President’s Day, your birthday and your mother’s birthday
off of work. You will get a company car, lap—top, apartment,
credit card, and in return, they will expect you to become a
company slave. You know all this now, have known it since
freshman year; don’t act surprised.

When you say, “I don’t know what I want to do,” you
mean, “I don’t know which big, faceless megacompany I
want to work for next year.” Which is ﬁne, and I’m sure I’ve
gotten lots of you C-School types all in a huff, but your
chosen major practically guarantees you a nice cushy job,
if you want it (which most of you do). More power to you.

My major (geology) may not bring me fame and fortune
(although, folks, can you really think of a sexier job?) but
I’m incredibly passionate and excited about it and if that
means eating rice and/or beans everyday for the rest of my
life, then so be it. I will do so, by candle light, with my even
less employable friends, the English majors.

numbing job and then do drugs to make up for it.
Woo-hoo, bring on the hallucinogenics!
I’m going to the Real World!

If you break a rule, you deserve to be punished. This .,
black-and-white interpretation seems harsh and a bit juve— -

when your life infringes on their time? (And it is effectively "
their time since they do buy it from you. If they don’t like ‘
what they’re buying, it is within their power to stop buying it.) I1
Are certain drugs are okay? Only on Fridays? Three strikes, 

Close your eyes and imagine this: Gaggles of suited I

I honestly have no clue as to where I’ll be this time next f
year, but I think that’s a ﬁne place to be right now. I’d put 
my money on graduate school, but as to where and what for, '
I’m currently taking suggestions. I could even take the advice ;
gleaned from the senior meeting and get myself a job. The I
meeting didn’t make me want to work any more than I already 
didn’t, but at least now I know I could get a horrible, mind- :

Who would you pick for President, and why?

 

“Professor Futch, because he already
dreams of being a Czar—like ﬁgure.”
-Matt Herman ‘O1

“Claiborne Taylor — the head of my
Project Outreach. He is a wonderful
diplomat and organizer: he is intelli-
gent and cute as hell.”

~-Natalie Deihel 504

L341

nA:A‘AA.A‘£'¢‘n“a'AAA’i)'a.nArlnzaaAAA1.)£75)

    

 

" SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

  o

@112 iﬂing-tum iﬁhi

PINION

PAGE 5

Comedy Central’s Indecision
2000 makes light of a truism in the
Y modern presidential election. Ac-
cording to popular discourse, why
does it matter whether we vote for
Bush or Gore? Despite different ide-
ologies, they are operationally the
l‘ same.

Consistent with this philosophy,

endorse one of the candidates, but
K instead explain why so many voters
will stay home this November.

The political commentators and
talking heads on MSNBC and CNN
say a lot, but it all boils down to
‘I this: People who are more inter-
ested in politics of substance will
vote for Gore, while those who
value politics of personality will
favor Bush. Brainy monolith ver-
sus empty—headed pretty boy —
what a choice!

who votes with his wallet, Bush is
I the obvious choice. His rationale
in this area appeals to anybody
who can rub two brain cells to-
gether: The government does not
do 40 percent of your job, cook 40
percent of your meals, or pay for
ﬁve cans out of your 12-pack, so a
third of your salary seems unreason-
able. Gore’s proposed tax cuts are
R paltry by comparison. Naturally, he
points out that Bush’s tax cut is so
large that it is ﬁscally irresponsible.

Unfortunately, he’s probably
right. Bush’s mostly pasty—white-
guy constituency will not care.
They’re proud to bring the “me”
culture to its greatest

“K

. Indistinguishables extinguish interest

I will not take this opportunity to _

If you are one of those voters v

lars. Not to sound heartless, but Grarnps
could probably afford to pitch in a buck
or two his viagra.

When was the last time you saw an
elderly wino on the city streets, holding
a sign that said, “HOMELESS AND

depth yet!

ah Gore’s plan for Medi-
care would also be hor-
rendously expensive.
Though he champions
himself as defender of the elderly
(and just about every other “victim-
ized” group), Gore overlooks an im-
portant statistic: The average house-
hold net worth for Americans over
K sixty-‘ﬁve is a quarter of a million dol-

 

NEED DI-

_ ALYSIS?”
Slippery Soapbox The afore-
- » mentioned
M1keAgnel1o02 talking

heads, as
well as many of our resident political
pointy-heads at W&L, insist that the
prospective appointees of the Supreme
Court are an issue in this campaign. I
cannot help but laugh. Little change will

take place in the J ustices’s selection pro-

cess, regardless of the president-elect.
Neither Gore nor Bush has the
cahones to pick a decisively conser-
vative or liberal candidate.

Instead, we’ll see an assembly line
of uncontroversial, moderately liberal
or conservative candidates. Rest as-
sured, nobody who considers gays or
unborn children real people will oc-
cupy the highest court in the land.

So why, then, should W&L stu-
dents, a group of mostly prosperous
young people relatively unaffected by
the issues, vote at all? Good question.

Like it or not, no weasely son of
privilege is going to ﬁnd a way to get
a college freshman girl running for the
voting booth at quite the same speed

that she sprints to the fro-yo machine.
No apathetic frat boy is going to vote
.with quite the same gusto that he hits
the beer bong. W&L students, like
voters across the country this No-
vember, will stay home in record num-
bers. Why? Neither Bush nor Gore
has anything to offer in the way of
substance. Voting for either is in some
way taking a step backward, and will
only produce some different version
of nothing.

So, who’s left? Ralph Nader? Pat
Buchannan? If I want to vote for a
psycho, I’ll write in a W&L professor.
Excuse me while I take a minute to fix
my hair. . . I gotta look good before I hit
the beer bong tonight.

WIN A TRIP
FOR TWO TO

  

wortdwido vacnuom
for 18 to 35 ymroids

    

AFRICA

.3 This year the cast of MTV's
7 ’The Real World’ went to Africa.
Now you can too!

 

Enter for a chance to win at your
localiCouncil Travel office or at
counciltravel.com

This trip to Africa is provided by

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..
between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void
where prohibited.,See agency for Official Rules or go
to counciltraveI.com. Sweepstakes ends 10/15/O0.

Travel

counciltravel.com
1 -800-ZCOUNCIL

HBRUHD

with

SYRHCUSE
UNIUEBSITY

‘W Italy
virgin
atlantlc London

Spain

Hong Kong

France

what are

7

RETIREMENT INSURANCE

And for good reasons:

managed funds

personal service

Year in and year out, employees at education and
research institutions have turned to TIAA-C REF.

- Easy diversification among a range of expertly
- A solid history of performance and exceptional

- A strong commitment to low expenses
0 Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options

For decades, TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff
at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for-
and enjoy——successful retirements. "

Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple.
Go with the leader: TIAA-C REF.

It ’ s time
This November presents the vot-
ing public, and by extension the coun-
try itself, with a very important deci-
sion. For the most part, there are two
choices. One can either vote for a

to secede

subsidize child care, go into space, or
punish murderers, kidnappers, or car
thieves. Practically two-thirds of the
federal budget each year ﬁnances pro-
grams that are in direct violation of the

party that pro-
fesses belief in
the individual
and is commit-

Constitutional

Right of the aisle limitations on
, , the Congress.

Brett  Krrwan 04 All these mat_

ted to the rights

and liberties granted by our Creator
and guaranteed by our Constitution
or one can vote for a party that con-
tinues to abrogate those rights and
displays an insulting contempt for hu-
man initiative and individual respon-
sibility. The choice, for any liberty-lov-
ing American, should be clear.

What is discouraging is that one
should not have to vote to retain, let
alone regain, these rights. They are,
as the Declaration’ of Independence
states, “unalienable”. These rights
come straight from God and it
shouldn’t matter for whom one votes
or who is running the government. In
fact, the Constitution was speciﬁcally
designed to prevent g-men from in-
fringing on our life, liberty, or ability
to pursue happiness.

Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion explicitly states the 17 powers of
Congress and the Tenth Amendment
goes on to say that, without excep-
tion, the federal government may do
nothing else. That’s right, it is uncon-
stitutional for the bureaucrats in Wash-
ington to set a speed limit, regulate
greenhouse gas emissions, grant loans
to students, ban assault weapons,

 

MUTUAL FUNDS

 

Why is TIAA—CREF the
#1 choice nationwide?
The TIAA—CRE
Advantage.

TRUST SERVICES

 

ters are best
left to the states or people. When the
federal government illicitly involves
itself in local matters it suns
roughshod over the rights that it was
established to protect.

With a force as powerful as the in-
ertia of the federal bureaucracy ar-
rayed against us, what are freedom-
seeking citizens to do? It may be
time to secede.

In 1776, thirteen colonies of the
British Empire seceded because their
citizens no longer felt that the gov-
ernment was adequately protecting
its rights. Imagine what Thomas
Jefferson would have to say if he
were around today to draw up a list
of grievances.

Professor Walter Williams of
George Mason University suggested
in a recent column that Texas and Loui-
siana should be populated by people
committed to individual liberties and
then declare itself to be the indepen-
dent nation of Texiana. In our age of
an ever increasing federal government
and with so many of our fellow citi-
zens complicit in the further destruc-
tion of our basic rights, secession may
be our only option.

TUITION FINANEING

 

 

Investmeht Expeilise

 

Low Expenses

 

Payment Options

Customized

 
 

   

Expert Guidance

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa-cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully
before you invest. - TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. 0 Teachers
Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. 0
TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. 0 IIAA-CREF Trust Company, F58 provides trust services.
- Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. 9 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03

 

PAGE 6

 

W&IZ‘

Ring-tum iﬁhi

IFE

SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

Virginian son leaves English
castles for college colonnades

By Shelley Meyer

STA FF WRITER

He studied at Brown University, the
Folger Institute, Emmanuel College at
Cambridge, and Harvard University,
then returned to Brown and Harvard
as a professor. Even so, Eric Wilson,
Assistant Professor in the English De-
partment, calls himself a “rookie.”

Though he grew up in
Charlottesville, Wilson said he was
ready to get out of Virginia after high
school and was therefore drawn to
Brown. He entered Brown as a pre—med
major but then changed to English with
an emphasis on Shakespeare and Re-
naissance Literature. At Brown, Wil-
son participated in the Rose Writing
Fellows Program for three years.

“[The Rose Writing Fellows Pro-
gram] was a cross—disciplinary tutor-
ing and writing program,” he said. “It
solidified my interest in being a teacher
— being involved in teaching writing.”

During his summers, Wilson worked
as a counselor and teacher in a pro-
gram for gifted and talented students
at the University of Virginia.

“I enjoyed the range of different
kinds of experiences in teaching,” he
said.

Wilson has taught high school stu-
dents, undergraduate students and
graduate students.

“When you come down to it, stu-
dents are students,” said Wilson.
“They are all top of the league at
Brown, Harvard and W&L.”

Wilson said that though he grew
up in the “shadow of UVA,” where
both of his parents teach, it was obvi-
ous to him that W&L had advanced in
all aspects.

“It is clear to me what quantum
leaps W&L has made over the past
decade — the quality of students and
the national range of students it at-
tracts.”

HULL’

DRIVE-|I\l

FRIDAY 0 SATURDAY 0 SUNDAY
4 Miles, Route ll North Lexington

463-2621

Aolmission‘ $4/adult
Gate Opens 7pm
Movies at Dusk

X-MEN PG

   

 

A DOUBLE FEATURE A

HI-FIDELITY

www.hu||sdrivein.c0m

Wilson said that Washington and
Lee is not only a nourishing environ-
ment for students, but also for the
teachers.

“The University is committed to
supporting the faculty,” he said.

Teaching at Washington and Lee
is not just a temporary job for Wil-
son. He said that he was glad to re-
turn to Virginia and did not plan to
leave Lexington any time soon, un-
less offered his dream job: founda-
tion director at Monticello.

“Sometimes people thinkl should
be in the History Department instead
of English, but part of the draw to
English history was growing up in
Charlottesville.”

Wilson also said that academics
were not his only reason for retum—
ing.

“I was eager to come back,” he
said. “It very much feels like home —
as is the college setting. I’ve done

my time in ‘metropolis.’ It’s nice to
have a change of pace. Teaching un-
dergraduates here is the core of what
I ultimately enjoy doing.”

Wilson said he hopes to become
involved in study abroad programs in
Britain. He spent a year in London
working on his dissertation on the in-
terrelation of education and theater in
Elizabethan London.

“London is my favorite city,” Wil-
son said. “It’s an exhausting place for
all the right reasons.”

At Harvard, he advised senior hon-
ors theses and said he hoped to do so
at Washington and Lee. He said it
might even be easier here because of
the closer academic relationships.

“Harvard can be somewhat
Balkanized in its disciplines,” Wilson
said. “Part of what I feel here is the
intimacy within and between the de-
partments. I was thrilled to get a job at
W&L.”

  

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

HOME swEET HOME Virginia native Professor Eric Wilson joins the
English Department staff as an associate professor with experience
at Harvard and Brown Universities.

OQQG

   
 
 
 

R

LEXINGTON

COFEE

.(/a’o«z.i~/('¢;?.;;yu:zg/
FRESH EACH MORNING

GOURMET SPECIALTIES
STUDENT CARE PACKAGES
CREATIVE GIFT BASKETS
LAUGHTER & SMILES

540 464 4433
Order Toll Free: 877 473 4433
We Ship Anywhere!

    

1

Fun & Festive Gifts!
6 East Washington Street, Lexington

Next 7?) Stanewalljac/emn Howe

N

www.funfoOdsfor_you.com

‘Making Mealtime Memories!”

‘ 

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES - FINE TEAS
9 WEST VVASHINGT ON STREET ° LEXINGTON ° 464-6586

 

Exhibit unites architectural
past and present at W&L

By Ashley Klimp
STAFF WRITER

The duPont Hall Gallery is cur-
rently home to an atypical collec-
tion of artwork, “Reflections on
White Columns.” Focusing on the
architecture of Washington and Lee
University, the exhibit includes
photographs, drawings, water-
color, and even the plans and mod-
els of several campus buildings.

The goal of the show is to com-
bine Washington and Lee’s archi-
tectural past with its present. Many
of the photographs reflect the
changes that have occurred on
campus over the years. There are
photographs of the colonnade
showing old Tucker Hall (a Gothic
stone structure that did not match
the other buildings on the colon-
nade) that burned down in the
1930’s.

Also shown was the construc-
tion of New Tucker Hall, which was
built to match Newcomb Hall and
balance the Colonnade.

The exhibit also features the
plans, models and pictures of build-
ings that were not constructed, giv-
ing a sense of what the campus
might have looked like. These in-
clude plans for a student center that
was never built and renovations to
Lee Chapel that were never made.

During the l920’s, plans were be-
gun to replace Lee Chapel with a
church that would better match the

‘ colonnade. Simpson stated that, at

the time, some felt that Lee Chapel
was “a building that was put up
when American architecture had
reached its lowest ebb.”

The exhibit includes examples
not only of Washington and Lee’s
architectural past but its present
and future as well. The law school

    

“REFLECTIONS ON WHITE COLUMNS” Professor Pamela Simpson
presents duPont Hall’s exhibit of W&L architechtural designs.

and library reflect a period of contem-
porary modernism and the most mod-
ern buildings, such as the Lenfest Cen-
ter, combine styles of the past with a
modem ﬂair. Pictures and plans from the
newly constructed sorority houses are
also included. Plans for the new com-
mons could not be exhibited because
the trustees have not yet approved
them.

Professor Stene, another faculty
member involved in the art show, con-
tributed two pieces to the exhibit. His
drawings of the column bases were
originally done in 1985 and are based
on an entire summer’s worth of pictures
taken of the campus. Stene originally
planned to do drawings of the build-
ings in their entirety, but after looking
at his work he decided, “that’s enough.”
Stene wanted to project a “sense of
place. I think everybody feels that if you
go here.”

Simpson has personal reasons for
heading the show: this past year she
wrote an essay also called “Reﬂections
on White Columns” for the university’s

250th year anniversary book,

Came Cheer for Washington and -'
Lee. She will give a talk concem— I
ing the development of the cam- '
pus next Friday at 5 p.m. in duPont '

Gallery.

Simpson specializes in Ameri— '1
can architecture and has a per- ‘
sonal interest in the subject of this -
show. The President of the His— "
toric Lexington Foundation, she "

also co-wrote Architecture of His-

toric Lexington, which was pub— ~
lished in 1977. The book was writ- '-
ten between 1973 and 1976, with i

the aid of Lyle Roster and photog-
rapher Sally Mann.
According to coordinator Pro-

fessor Pamela Simpson, this fall 

Washington and Lee will host the
professional meeting of the South
East Society of Architectural His-
torians.

A collection Professor Stene’s
own work, consisting mainly of

digital imagery, will be the focus ’

of an upcoming gallery show.

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor :

18

 

E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464-4483

PROBLEM WITH THE LOCALS .7
wE’RE FROM ATLANTA.

3. f. ‘s OPENS MON. - FRI. AT 4:00 AND
SAT. ~ sum AT NOON

DON’T MISS OUR MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
PARTY WITH .25 CENT HOT WINQS ~ 2 FOR 1

AEEETIZEBS AND SPECIALS WE CAN’T ADVERTISE

HERE !

WHILE wE’RE ON THE SUBJECT OF FOOTBALL
WE’VE GOT THE A/Fl .5'l(/lQ4}’_72’C/CE7‘
WATCH YOUR HOME TEAM ON OuR SCREENS
WHILE ENJOYING OuR Lumen SPECIALS OR
ANY OF FuLL MENu ITEMS SUCH AS OuR

16 Oz. T~ BONE STEAK wrm A BAKED POTATO
AND MIXED GREEN SALAD ~$6.50    

FRATERNITIES AND SORORITIES HAVE YOU
SPONSORED YOUR ENTRY IN THE ﬁE[_77;lA/_)’
 LOOK-A-LRE CONTEST HOSTED ‘BY D.f
JOE’ ON SATURDAY SEPTEMBER 23 RD?!

:5 150.00 IN CASH PRIZES

H

F

+-

2»-«T-*’

--I

 

   
 

I ~
.
6
i

 

3‘ SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

S

@112 ‘ﬂing-tum jlﬂlii

PORTS

 

PAGE 7

» enerals split overtime games

By Geoff White

R SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team played consecutive over-
time contests against Old Dominion

‘ Athletic Conference opponents last
week, defeating Randolph-Macon and
losing to Eastern Mennonite by iden-
tical 2-1 scores.

Despite outshooting Randolph-
Macon 34-15 on Wednesday, the Gen-
erals could not pull off the win until
the ﬁnal minute of overtime.

On the defensive end of the ﬁeld,

4 senior goaltender Lauren Harris made
several saves, stopping early scoring
drives by Randolph-Macon.

A scoring drive early in the second

‘ half paid off when Generals freshman
Fontaine Marcoux netted an unas-
sisted goal over the head of Yellow
Jacket goaltender Ashley Seal.

Randolph—Macon tied the game

3 midway through the half, when Cheryl
Dickter scored off an assist from
Learma Van Osten following a danger-
ous kick call against Marcoux.

With 19 minutes left in regulation,
Marcoux ran the ball down the left side
of the field, but Seal managed to de-
ﬂect the shot wide. The Generals
weathered a late Yellow Jacket offen-

uk sive onslaught to force overtime.

Theplevel of physicality increased
early into overtime, as W&L sopho-

(more Jennifer Thomas was hauled

( down by Marie Rodgers.

“We have this rivalry (with
Randolph—Macon) tliat’s getting stron-
ger each year,” Harris said of the in-
tense physical play.

a With seven seconds left in the sec-
ond overtime, Marcoux scored to give
the Generals the sudden-death win.

“We were very focused and up and

‘ ready to play,” W&L coach Jan

 

CLOSE RANGE. Freshman Heather Coleman is stopped by the Eastern Mennonite goalkeeper in

the Generals’ 2-1 overtime loss Saturday.

Hathorn said of the team’s effort
against Randolph-Macon.

The Generals’ momentum carried
over into Saturday’s game against
Eastern Mennonite University, as
W&L scored 1:35 into the game against
the Royals. Jennifer Thomas rocketed
a tlirow-in to the foot of Marcoux, who
found the net for a quick 1-0 lead.

After the Marcoux goal, the teams
settled into a long period of even com-
petition. Kristin Pranke and the W&L
defense stopped several Eastern Men-

nonite offensive efforts, and the Gen-
erals were likewise thwarted by the
Royals’ defense.

However, with less than seven min-
utes remaining in the second half, East-
ern Mennonite’s Ellie Lind knotted the
match at 1-1. The Generals had to hold
back an invigorated Royals offense to
force overtime for the second time in
as many games.

With 2:25 left in the ﬁrst overtime,
Pranke was called for holding. As the
infraction occurred in the W&L pen-

_Men’s soccer takes two

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

Macon in the Generals’ first ODAC game Saturday.

“We’re really starting to play together,” Heam said.

Macon at home.

1 Thursday, the Generals beat Southern Virginia 3-2 in
the ﬁnal minute thanks to a goal from Ryan Nelson. The
Generals proceeded to win their first Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference match 2-0 over Randolph-Macon on Sat-

urday.

‘ “We came out hard for the first 15 minutes,” goal and
point leader Andrew Grimes said of the narrow win over
Southern Virginia. “When we lost our concentration, they

capitalized.”

A Grimes had two ﬁrst-half goals, one assisted by senior
Andy Crawford and the other by junior Rick Schnatz. The
Knights retaliated when Ryan Lenihan scored four rnin-
utes into the second half, followed by a goal from Ben

‘ Lingen ﬁve minutes later.
A‘.

SZIVCS.

“We got lucky,” Grimes said. “Ryan Nelson saved us.”
-‘j Sophomore goaltender Brad Heam shut out Randolph-

~’!

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team won their
second and third games of the season Thursday and Sat-
urday, beating Southern Virginia on the road and Randolph-

The ﬁnal goal came with one minute left in regulation,
when Nelson received a pass from Schnatz and drilled it in
for the win. The Generals outshot Southern Virginia 19-5
for the contest, and W&L goaltender Tim Foley made two

“This is the best game we’ve played so far.”

Coach Rolf Piranian agreed, saying, “We moved the

ball, and we defended well. I’m really pleased — this is the
best team effort we’ve had this year.”
The Generals’ first goal came 13 minutes into the first

half, when junior David Kodack passed to senior J on Wil-

son, whose shot was headed in at the goal line by Grimes.

With 18 minutes left to play in the half, Randolph—Ma-
con junior Marcus Toconita went down after being hit in
‘the throat during a play on the sidelines. He came out soon

after the hit because of breathing problems, but would

return later in the game.
Towards the end of the half, the Generals continued
their domination, as senior J acek Mucha handled’ the ball

alone in the Yellow Jackets’ end, failing only to capitalize

on a good offensive effort.

After Heam made a save against Randolph-Macon
freshman Andrew Beazly 16 rriinutes into the second half,
the Generals quickly took the ball upﬁeld. At the opposite

end, Grimes scored off a pass from freshman Bret Grote.

better.”

Heam came up big again ﬁve rriinutes later, stopping a
close-range shot from senior Josh Laux.

“It’s not the perfect game,” Piranian said of the win.
“But all the issues we’ve tried to deal with are getting

W&L next takes the ﬁeld Sept. 20 for a 4:30 p.m. home
match against Ferrum.

{Field hockey continues push

I toward full varsity status

 

.4.

By Sarah Grigg

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
ﬁeld hockey team played their way
toward Division III status this past
week during home games on Friday
and Saturday.

As the new artiﬁcial turf complex
has not ofﬁcially opened, the Gener-
,( als competed on the law school ﬁeld.

“We’re not upset,” team captain
Martha Combrooks said of starting the
sjeason on grass. “I think we’re all just
' hrilled about the opportunity to play
on the turf.”

W&L dropped Friday’s game to
Division IH Virginia Wesleyan by a 2-
0 score. The Generals played the Mar-
lins closely, keeping the ball in the
VWC defensive end for a majority of
the game.

“They were very aggressive,” Mar-
lin head coach Michelle Burt said of

the Generals. “They were constantly
moving to the ball, and they have a lot
of quick players.”

After a scoreless first half, the Gen-
erals’ offensive mentality ended up
costing them two fast—break goals.
W&L coach Laurie Stagnitta felt that
her team kept pace with the Marlins,
but made a few crucial errors.

“We outplayed them,” Stagnitta
said of her team. “Our weakness was
that our circle defense collapsed at
critical points. We had some great op-
portunities and we didn’t complete the
plays. '

“We were aggressive, competitive,
and worked hard, but we just didn’t
get the win.”

On Saturday, the Generals once
again demonstrated the ability to com-
pete, this time against Christopher
Newport University. Play was strong
on both sides, but fast breaks made
within the closing minutes of the game
by the Lady Captains produced a 2-0

CNU win.

Captain Allison MacQueen felt the
team played extremely well, consider-
ing its late start on practices.

“All these games were very com-
petitive,” MacQueen said. “If we
played them later in the season we
probably would have won or tied.”

Combrooks was pleased with the
fan support at the weekend’s contests.

“It makes such a difference when
you have people cheering you on,”
the captain said. “We were grateful for
the turnout.”

Whether the team won or lost
seems to be insubstantial in their quest
for full varsity standing, according to
the VWC coach.

“I think that, for this being only
their second game, they played very
well,” Burt said of the Generals.
“Coach Stagnitta has developed them
into a very good team. W&L’s reputa-
tion in all intercollegiate sports is very
strong.”

  

   
  

by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

alty box, a penalty kick was awarded
to Mindi Nolt. On the ensuing shot,
Nolt beat Harris to give the Royals a
2-1 victory.

Pranke wasn’t pleased with the
referee’s call.

“We were both doing our fair share
of holding,” said the junior, who de-
scribed the call as “suspect.”

The Generals’ record now stands

at 2-2, 1-1 in the ODAC. W&L next
takes the field Tuesday for a road
match against ODAC foe Bridgewater.

 

 

This week ’s schedule in General athletics...
Football
Saturday Sept. 23 at Centre College 1230 pm
Men’s Soccer
Wednesday Sept. 20 Ferrum 4:30 pm
Saturday Sept. 23 Virginia Wesleyan 1:00 pm
Women’s Soccer
Tuesday Sept. 19 at Bridgewater 4:00 pm
Saturday Sept. 23 at Randolph—Macon 2:00pm
’ Sunday Sept. 24 at Lynchburg  *- 1:00pm
Volleyball '
Tuesday Sept. 19 at Emory & Henry 6:30pm
Thursday Sept. 21 Southern Virginia 6:30 pm
Saturday Sept. 23 Bridgewater A 1:00 pm

W&Lsports roundup

By Emily Barnes

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

place. Southern Virginia College, Virginia Weslyan,
Bridgewater College, and Shenandoah University also com-

W&L women’s team slides past
Roanoke in Generals Invitational

peted in the meet.

“It was close, which was exciting,” W&L coach Emily
Pulsifer said. “It was a good practice for our team, consid-
ering that we’ll be running the same course for the (Old
Dominion Athletic Conference championships) on Octo-

The Washington and Lee women’s cross country team ber 28 ,,

edged out Roanoke by eight points Saturday, winning their
first home meet of the year and setting the precedent for

the remainder of the season.

Sophomore Burke Duncan led the way for W&L, plac-

Duncan, whose time in the race was a personal best,
was pleased with the team’s performance.

“I think our team ran really well today,” Duncan said.
“Today is an example of the promising season we will

ing second overall in the Generals Invitational with a time ,,
of 19:53 in the three-mile race. Senior Jessica Parrillo placed

third overall with a time of 20:26, and classmate Kathleen Men’s cross country takes Second

Moroney placed fifth overall at 21: 10.

The men’s cross-country team placed second in

The Generals Won with a Score of 29’ followed Closely Saturday’s Generals Invitational with a score of 61 points '
by Roanoke College, who garnered 37 points for second falling to Roanoke C0uege,s Score of 26.

by Ervily Barnes/Executive Editor

SPEED RACER. Sophomore Burke Duncan placed

Freshman Andy Schorr ﬁnished fourth overall with a
time of 28:23 for the ﬁve-mile course. Freshman Eric Witt
was the second General to cross the ﬁnish line with a time
j of 29:11, and sophomore David Hicks followed him one
second later.

W&L coach John Tucker believes that the Generals’
performance is improving, and he hopes to see that pat-
tern continue.

“We’ve got a lot of potential,” Tucker said. “We’re
definitely getting there.”

Senior team captain Zach Usher singled out the perfor-
mances of the freshmen as the standouts.

“We had some strong individual performances that
bode well for ODACs,” Usher said.

The men’s and women’s cross country teams next com-
pete Sept. 30 in the Roanoke Invitational.

Volleyball team falls to Lynchburg

Washington and Lee lost in Old Dominion Athletic
Conference regular season play for the first time in nearly
three years, falling to Lynchburg College 15-7, 15-12, 15-4
on the road Wednesday.

The Generals (3-2, 0-1 ODAC) had not fallen victim to
another conference foe in the regular season since Oct.
16, 1997 —— a four-game loss to Guilford College — a streak
of 23 victories.

Junior Lindsay Ruckert recorded eight kills and three
blocks in the losing effort, and senior Pam Saulsbury led
the Generals with 13 assists.

W&L continues ODAC play Tuesday with a road con-
test against Emory & Henry.

second overall in the Generals Invitational.

Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin also contributed to this report.

 

PAGE 8

Humor Page

AS TV/8gi15ClZ)

SEPTEMBER 18, 2000

I

F/RE-FAKER FORCES FUR/OU5

FLAP-DAGGLE

Many public school students
recall fondly the monthly
tradition of the fire drill— I am
not one of those people,
however.

I think that participating in fire
drills is a little pointless because
they are such a joke to the
participants. Being the realist
that I am, I know that in the
event of a real fire students will
absolutely notdo the following:

7. Ca/in/ygetoutofIhei'rseats,
leaving behind all personal
items — including the Britney
Spears posters ﬂhe one where
you can kinda, sorta, almost
see her nipple) that every guy
has hanging up in his locker
2. Getintoasingle file line.
3. Proceed to the previously
established Fire Exits.
4. Notgrope all the hot chicks
because itis near/yimpossib/e
to tell whois doing what in a
crowded hall when people are
fleeing fortheir/ii/es.
5 Ouietly exit the building and
walk to a safe distance away
In the event of a real fire I am
sure of two things: One, the
guys will all grab their Britney
Spears posters and two,
Darwinian evolutionary
practices will go into effect--
sorry women and children.
Now that we have established
how fire drills stand, let’s move
on to another subject that is
very near and dear to my heart:

People who pull fire alarms in
the dorms.

Let me just say that I think
you guys/gir1's,whateverthe hell
you are, are just fantastic. I
mean, boy, the creative juices
you need to work up those
complicated schemes, which
involve pulling on the levers that
say in bold letters “Don’t Pull
Unless There Is a Fire.”

That is just sheer brilliance.

I was a bit puzzled when I
arrived back to my dorm to see
a big, shiny fire truck with lots
of firemen in full garb milling.
So I walked over to some
people and asked them what
was going on. They told me
that it was a prank alarm. Bo_y
was my face red.

And then on Wednesday
when I was attempting to work
on Calculus (which I have
enough problems with already)
a sharp piercing screech fills
the ‘air and lights start like the
Commies just launched a
friggin’ missile attack.

So out I, and a hundred
others, go from our dorms to
mill around outside for half an
hour because the engineers
couldn’t get the damn thing
turned off.

Now, I’m sure at this point
whoever has been doing all
this HI-DIDDILY-ARIOUS
stuff, has been sent into a
near-coma-like-state from all
the laughing that they’ve been

by Officer MacPuff the Smoking Bear of the
International Fire Drill Prevention Agency

doing at the expense of
everyone else.

I don’t think I am missing the
mark too much that when I say
people don’t like this type of
prankster very much.

Right now, I am putting the
perpetrators of this heinous
act somewhere in between
Kathy Lee Gifford and Osama
Bin Laudin on the “People Who
Piss Me Off the Most List’ and
because I can’t do anything to
them, but I can do something
the “Fire-Faker”, I will.

So, if anyone turns in the
“Fire Faker,” the Hing-tum Phi’
will gladly reward that
individuals tattle-tailing nature
with two free Domino's pizzas
and a date with our
inadequately endowed
Assistant News Editor Matt
“Licorice Stick” McDermott.

Soto you “Fire-Faker” I say
this, your days are numbered.
You and your foul ilk are no
longer wanted here and there
will be no more tolerance of
your cruel acts against
humanity. It is high past time
that the Chains of Oppression
be thrown off and instead the
Chains of Rejoicing thrown
on. Our Chains of Rejoicing
will signal a new era in fire
safety in which all fire alarms
are real and all desperate
males will get perhaps their
only chance ever to grope
some hot chicks.*

Mom btsint oi: tin: Ii/esi<.'

IS I T UNGENTLEMANLY TO REPEA TEDLY
SEX UALLY HARASS YOURSELF?

 

Oppulent Oligczrchs Orchcstmte 

Oclzferous Olympics

It is time once again for that bi-yearly, mea’ia—
hyped event that the general public doesn ’t really
gi've a rip about. No, its no to Bill 6'/in ton scandal -
its the Olympics

The similarities in recent years be tween the two
have grown tremendously, howe ver. 30 th Clinton
and the Olympic Executive Committee were caught
with their pan ts down, bo th have been riddled with
allegations of scandal, and regardless of whatever
was found in bo th cases, nobody really seemed to
care.

The Olympics once were a cutthroat compe ti'tion
in which naked men competed in all sorts of violent
even ts to show their devotion to their pagan gods.

The winners would be feasted with wine and Gyros,
exalted as gods among men, and pleasured
frequently by Greek peasan t women. The losers on
the o ther hand would become outcasts from society,
be cast out of their families, and sent off to spend
the rest of their days in Germany. Then, several
thousand years after the Greek civilization
collapsea’, some brainiac got the idea to start up
the games again. .

Unfortunately, he forgot to put in all of the most
important parts and insteao’, had them stand for
good will, in terna tional pride, and a means to make
a quick buck. Luckily for capitalism, though, the
good—will part kind of got left behind and now all
thatis left is the hype and the corporate sponsors.
People are so desperate to get apiece of the real
"Olympic Gold” that they stoop to all sorts of moral
depravity — like city officials from Salt Lake City
purchasing prostitutes for members of the Olympic
Executive Committee to help ‘grease ” their way for
an Olympic site bio’.

Collegiate Games

r %<’

 

 

By Johan Sebastian Kach J‘

What is really funny, though, is how dramatic
the media tries to make the compe tition.
If you've seen the papers recently, then you ,
know about Marion Jones and her "epic struggle ”
to do the "impossible ” - win five gold medals. I
mean the story is laughably cliche’; it's the classic
"arrogant athlete talking big to give the media a
story that they can ﬁll up hundreds of pages I
on. ” There will be features on her childhood, her
trainers, her condition, her chances, her
aspi'ra tions, and her lucra ti've sponsorship deals
and le ts not forge t post—games ca verage including L
articles by her critiques, articles about why she
wins or loses, articles about her chances for the
next Olympic games, articles about whatshe will
do after the games, articles about her various
appearances on Leno, Letterman, and the Rosie
O'Donnell Show, and finally, articles about how
people are ti'ring of the hype surrounding here
that the media itself created
777e O/ympi'cs just aren ’t exciting for Americans g
any longer. Our professional athle tes can who/lop
any of the amateurs around the world — just look
at what NBA inclusion has done to Olympic
basketball. And with even ts such as I4/omens
Weigh t Lifting, Ping-Pong, and Synchronized 30
Swimming, the Olympics have seemingly taken a
li'ttle of the exc/usi'veness out of the whole ordeal
I mean giving away a thousand medals per session
takes away from having one. ,,
Thus, I propose that a new sort of in terna ti'ona/
form of compe ti'ti'on to be started lhese games
would go back to the roots of the original Olympic *5
games and focus on the two most important I‘
aspects: partying and impressing women.

1. Beirut - Tossing Ping Pong balls into beer filled cups to impress women
2. Synchronized Funk Getting On - Bumping and grinding against underclassmen whom are still 3

impressed by your alcohol acquisitioning talen ts

3. 50- Yard Po-Po Dash - Running from the cops who saw you relieving your beer— filled-b/adder

on my Hall

4. Projectile Vomit Distance Hurl - Seeing who can up-chuck the farthest

*The existence of “Fire-Faker” is denied by the administration. High ranking officials are holding to the claim that what happened was strictly due ‘to the presence of 21 fallen Navy weather balloon and that there were no lights seen over “Acre 54” of the W&L campus.

‘P

   
 

2’

>.. -x

the ‘ﬂing-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

can l.lE1R~\R‘/ 
LEE umvsznsn-y
3'! 20450

SPZBZMJ

VOLUME 103, No. 8

Band who gave us
“Send Me On My Way”
to rock the Pavilion
for Homecoming

By Max Smith

NEWS EDITOR

Rusted Root, a band most students re-
member from their high school days, will
bring their bongos to the Pavilion for this
year’s Homecoming concert.

The Student Activities Board signed the
band at the beginning of September, but
word of the act only recently spread around
campus.

“A lot of people on the Board wanted
Rusted Root last year, but it never worked
out,” said SAB President Crystal Simpson.
“It promises to be a fun show that will ap-
peal to a broad range of students.”

Simpson said Rusted Root came from a
short list of possible acts, including the
Meters and George Clinton and the P-Funk
All-Stars. Rusted Root’s schedule best al-
lowed them to make the Friday, Oct. 20 show.
The band’s performance will cost SAB
$28,000.

Gray Borden, who handles operations for
the SAB, said he has heard only good
things about the band’s concert perfor-
mance.

“People who’ve seen them before said

   

Rusted Root to bring some
infectious groove to Lex

SoME COOL STREET KIDS. Pittsburgh-based Rusted Root is the band that
will play the Homecoming concert on Friday," October 20.

it’s a great show to see and a lot of fun,”
Borden said. “I think this is the best band
we could’ve gotten and we’ve had a real
positive response on campus already.”

Rusted Root blared through most stu-
dents’ stereos a few years ago, speciﬁcally
when their album When I Woke went plati-
num in 1996. Most will remember songs
like “Ecstasy,” “Martyr,” “Drum Trip” and
“Send Me On My Way.”

“I’m pumped because I saw them in
Memphis two years ago and tl1ere’s a real
energetic element in their music,” said
freshman Jeremy Roberts. “It’s an eclectic
mix of music styles with a lot of good
rhythms.”

Rusted Root has opened for bands like
The Grateful Dead, Santana, Sting and The
Dave Matthews Band. They also per-
formed as part of the first Furthur Festival
in 1997. Rusted Root began playing clubs
around Pittsburgh in 1990. The band re-
leased its first independent CD, Cruel Sun,
in 1990 and sold 110,000 copies. Mercury
Records signed the group in 1994.

Rusted Root has perfonned on both
Conan O’Brien and David Letterman.

The band will stop at Ball State Univer-
sity in Muncie, Ind. the Wednesday be-
fore the show and will travel to Dickinson
College in Carlisle, Penn. the next day.

The band will bring their own opening
act, Daniel Cage, to the show.

Simpson said tickets will go on sale Oct.
9 at $14 for students and $18 for the gen-
eral public.

    
   

photo courtesy of Mercury Records

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450’

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

2

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

TE AMo. Chart-topping South American band Solazo introduces a medley of classical and contemporary Spanish
music to students as part of the concert series sponsored by the Office of International Education.

Latin band performs in Lee Chapel

The first installment in

an international series

of performing artists
By Matthew McDerrnott

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Over the years Lee Chapel has seen its
share of orientation programs, informational
meetings, and recruiting sessions. Friday
night, however, it hosted an event that sent
audience members dancing in the aisles: a hit

Latin group with Afro-Cuban rhythms and -

Andean instruments.

Solazo was the first of four groups to be
presented by the International Performing
Arts Series, a program sponsored by the Paul
and Pauline Fund for the Preforrning Arts and
the Washington and Lee Office of Intema—
tional Education.

A popular South American band, Solazo
played 16 numbers, mixing contemporary Latin

harmel Two: ready for prime time

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Charmel Two is about to launch program-
ming that‘ may become a “must-see” in stu-
dent households. Washington and Lee’s tele-
vision station will soon host a political de-
bate show, a live call-in talk show, and a pos-
sible W&L version of Survivor.

Among the first of the new shows to air on
Channel Two will be the debate show, The
Firing Line.

Each episode will consist of four panelists
(W&L students, faculty and local community
members), said freshmen Joel Pepera and John
Heath, co-producers of the show.

Panelists on the forum will discuss issues
affecting W&L students, such as drinking,
the fraternity scene, and the honor code.

The show will also cover national political
issues of student interest.

“We are planning on airing the show on
October 3,” said Heath.

The producers will broadcast the show
monthly at first, then possibly more often as
the year progresses. They also have plans for
a special election night edition of The Firing
Line.

“I came up with the idea for this show be-
cause W&L has such a political campus,”
Pepera said. “There are a lot of people here
with a lot of different views, and I thought
there would be room here for a show like that.”

According to Heath, an assistant execu-
tive director of the station, a live call-in show
similar to Larry King Live is in the works, as
is a movie preview show similar to Coming
Attractions.

“We have also had a lot of interest in a
W&L version of Survivor,” Heath said. “We
will most likely work on that show over Spring
Break with five girls and five guys in a cabin
alone in West Virginia.”

“Firing Line is a good idea,” said Pro-
fessor Robert de Maria, Channel Two ad-
visor. “The debate should show our stu-
dents’ intelligence.”

Another possibility is a dating game
show. According to Heath, Channel Two
formerly had a show of this type but dis-
continued it in past years. The station di-
rectors feel this type of show would still
raise student interest.

Heath said that they decided to add the
new programming this year “because we
knew we had the resource out there with

the TV station. It is a great opportunity to
reach both the W&L and Lexington com-
munities with quality programming on the
airwaves.”

“Theistudents have the time and energy,”
said de Maria. “They know how to do it,
how to go for it.”

While producers have scheduled The Fir-
ing Line to air in early October, the other
shows will most likely not begin until later in
the year. The producers are waiting to ﬁnd
more student help and to establish the show
guidelines.

Directors at Channel Two encourage any
and all students to come to them with ideas
for programming or to help in any aspect of
producing the shows. .

Channel Two’s shows will continue “as
long as people come up with ideas and
there’s enthusiasm,” said de Maria. When
“someone comes to me with enthusiasm,
I’m not going to rain on their parade.”

“The great thing about this station is that
you do not have to be a journalism major,”
said Heath. “You just have to be willing to
work hard and let the creative process ﬂow.”
It’s really easy here to make your dream a
reality.”

 

hits with original compositions.

At times junior Lisa Lin translated for band
members as band members explained their
songs to the audience in Spanish.

“It was a great experience,” said Lin.
“Though I didn’t know sometimes when they
wanted me to translate and when they would
start playing their music right after speaking.”

Solazo’s cultural diversity is reﬂected in
its distinctly—painted instruments, which in-
cluded an armadillo—shel1 mandolin, ram horns,
and a wide variety of precussioii instruments
with no American equivalent ._

The group’s lead singer and guitarist, Pepe
Aranda, is a native of Chile now residing in
Ecuador, where he twice placed second in the
country’s National Competition for
Songwriters. His musical training dates back
to his induction into a music conservatory
when he was seven years old.

Fellow Chileans on the band include Charry
Garcia (drums, precussion) and Kike Rodriguez
(vocals, guitar).

Argentinean Miquel Benitez, another vo-

   

‘calist, is the group’s primary bassist.

The newest member of the band, Vladrnir
Espinoza, hails from Cuba and played most of
the precussion instruments.

Before joining Solazo, all of its members
had successful musical careers in South
American bands as renowned as Barro and
Altiplano, both of which released songs that
stayed high on South American MTV’s mu-
sic charts.

Of all the Latin bands considered for this
year, Solazo “was the most exciting group we
heard,” said William Klingelhofer, Director of
International Education, who emceed the
event. “Solazo represents the best of original
and classical music."

Solazo held a salsa dance workshop in
Doremus Gymnasium before their evening
preformance.

The International Performing Arts Series’s
next presentation will be ritual Korean Bud-
dhist song and dance, “The Sound of Ectasy
and Nectar of Enlightenment,” held at Lee
Chapel on October 26.

(J11: Ring-tum lﬂlri

September 25, 2000

 

   
  

Going away to sc ever felt

- so much like

 

 

      

TIPAGE2

@112 King-tum lﬂhi

NEWS  

 

Mehul Srivastava’s

World Report

Life outside the W&L Bubble

 MI6 Headquarters targeted by terrorists
9 A This Thursday a “small” missile was ﬁred at MI6 head-
 quarters in the heart of London. The attack caused minor
,.-structural damage to a building made famous by being
._..__blown up in the recent James Bond movie. Although no
,. casualties were reported, the psychological damage caused
._ by the missile attack was tremendous.
_ g M16 is the British equivalent of the CIA, being respon-
 sible for foreign intelligence, and it closely in following
 _,the activities of terrorist organizations.
The MI6 building is supposed be one of the most
secure buildings in the United Kingdom, but this attack
._, shows how vulnerable the world still is to the attacks of
K _.terrorists.
_ Most of the building is underground, for protection
 from just this kind of attack. The government refused to
 lay the blame on any speciﬁc group, since no one has
_;come forward as of yet to claim responsibility for the at-
. , tack.
The Irish Republican Army is currently observing a
.. ‘ceaseﬁre, and most of the bomb attacks in Britain recently
 have been blamed on splinter groups that are opposed to
i_ ;.,the peace process.
_ Investigations have yet to advance beyond recover-
”._ing a small piece of the missile. It has been identiﬁed as a
.Russian anti-tank device called the RPG MK 22, which is
 ‘capable of penetrating concrete up to a meter thick.
I  In the last decade, Irish paramilitary groups have
I _*launched several bold attacks, including a mortar attack
1 ,_on the Prime Minister’s residence.
'  This is another embarrassing incident for an agency
A still finding it difﬁcult to live down the mislaid laptop
[loaded with sensitive information that was left in a taxi by
/gpadriinken ofﬁcial.

1: Twins to be seperated

' I A major moral, ethical and legal issue was laid to rest,

I ’ amidst controversy, by three British judges this week.
The Siamese twins born conjoined at the waist, Mary
and Jody, were the subject of major debate in Britain, when
1 doctors announced that only one of them would have any
chances of survival, and that after separation the other
 would die. The parents had appealed to the courts to get
‘ .' an injunction to stop the seperation, wanting, in their

:: own words, things to be left to God.

The babies are joined at the lower abdomen, and share
7, ‘ a heart and a pair of lungs. Their legs are at right angles to
77each other. Mary is totally dependent on Jodie, and as per
‘« ‘ the judgement will be separated and die. The parents had
 traveled from the Mediterranean to help their children have

a safer delivery, and have so far remained unnamed.

They now face a uphill struggle in an effort to overturn

 the recent verdict.

The three judges who debated this have been at the

‘ ‘center of public scrutiny over their decision. One even
 admitted to having had sleepless nights. They summa-
rized it best with “Say yes, and you murder Mary, say no

‘ land you murder Jodie.”

The medical question remains unresolved, with experts
 . ‘doubting that even with the experiment Jodie will have a

healthy life.

In addition, the parents have said they will appeal the
‘«='-decision. They have been offered sanctuary at specialist
1 "centers in Italy by the Vatican, as an ethical alternative.
"1 But they have yet to make up their minds.

‘Asia Floods

More than 300 people have died and millions were left
stranded by ﬂooding in India, Vietnam, and other parts of
1 Asia. In some of the worst ﬂooding this year, rescue op-
erations are still being hindered by bad weather, and, as

4’ the Red Cross puts it, “expenses.”

The Indian state of West Bengal is badly hit, with over
 168 deaths (by officials) and an almost complete break-
' ‘(down of communications. Nearly 15 million people are
stranded there, and the sheer numbers have stopped re-
1'” lief operations from having much effect.

Coming at the end of the monsoons, dams are close to
 ‘bursting, and have been forced to release water, adding
‘A further misery.

The Chief Minister of Bengal has appealed for help
f from the army to help distribute supplies. But already sto-

'ries of chaos and looting have started trickling in. Last
year, the neighboring state of Orissa was devastated by

‘,

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
     

ﬂoods, leaving over one thousand dead and close to 18
million people homeless.

Although the rain waters have started to recede, more
deaths are likely from disease and hunger.

In Vietnam, 66 people are dead, mostly children, in the
Mekong delta, washed away by the ﬂood waters, now
receding.

Korea and Cambodia are just as badly hit by typhoons.

In an almost predictable pattern, every year ﬂoods hit
these regions, and the governments learn little from the
mistakes of previous years, when botched rescue opera-
tions and also mismanaged supplies have lead to more
deaths.

Terrorist Manual

In an interesting development in the struggle against
terrorism, United States ofﬁcials have conﬁrmed that they
have in their possesion a manual distributed by Osama
Bin Laden. The book, called the Jihad encyclopaedia, has
been in distribution for quite a long time, first discovered
by the CIA ofﬁcer in Afghanistan.

The book was allegedly recovered from the militants
who have been sentenced in Jordan recently for planning
millennium attacks. Ofﬁcials downplay the signiﬁcance of
the book, saying it is not very accurate, and that more
potent information is available on the Internet.

Now available on CD-ROM, the encylopedia provides
step by step information on how to assemble bombs, re-
mote contolled detonators, and even exploding cigarettes.

Bomb experts who have looked at the book say it is
dangerous stuff and accurate as well. It also includes ad-
vice on creating diversions, and how to create a support
group for yourself in Islamic nations.

Most surprisingly, it written for people with minimal
skills, almost semi—literates.

This seems to be the latest step by Osama Bin Laden to
launch attacks on the US (as he has done in the past with
the bomb attacks on US embassies in Africa).

The Saudi billionaire, now living in exile in Afghani-
stan, has declared Jihad (holy war) against India, the US
and other allies of these countries. By distributing this
book, he can reach people and teach them the methods of
terrorism without actually coming in contact with them.

Aung San Sku Kyi Faces More Restrictions

The winner of the 1991 Nobel Peace Prize and winner of
the elections in Burma, Aung San Syu kyi had her house
arrest lifted last month, but has found to her dismay that
the ruling military government (the Junta) will not allow
her to travel out of the city.

As she tried to board a train out of Yangon, the capital
of Burma, she was told that the tickets were sold out. As
she waited for the next train, the waiting room was closed
off, and her supporters were kept watch over by police
and army ofﬁcers. In her 12 hour wait, she was made to
miss 4 trains before she headed home. Last week, her car
was stopped on the road as she attempted to leave the
city.

In 1990 she won the democratic elections in Burma, but
the military government has refused to honor the results,
and she has been kept under house arrest for long periods
of time. She was refused permission to meet her husband
as he was undergoing medical treatment, and journalists
are rarely if ever allowed to meet her alone.

Oil Relief Program Announced by Clinton

In an unprecedented move, United States President
Bill Clinton has announced a $400 million aid program to
help families meet increased heating costs this winter;
these costs are a result of the high petroleum prices in the
international market.

He also directed the Energy Secretary to release 30
million barrels of crude oil from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve to attempt to push down the high cost of petro-
leum.‘

This comes a week after protestors shut down Britain
due to the high cost of petroleum, and as the protests
spread to continental Europe, pressure has increased on
the OPEC countries to hike up the production of petro-
leum , which they refuse to do as lower petrol prices in the
past have caused their oil-bloated economies to collapse.

This is expected to be one of the most expensive win-
ters ever as heating costs will rise in proportion to this
increase in fuel cost.

   
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
 
   
 
   
  
  
  
  

  

SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

JUMP, J IVE, AND WAIL: Andrew McIntyre, a musician who has performed with the Wailers, entertains

the crowd with a mixture of reggae and rock and roll. McIntyre was invited to perform as part of

the Student Association for International Learning’s International World Music Festival, held in
the parking lot in front of Doremus Gymnasium Saturday. Also on stage Saturday were Cocktail
Mystic, an African Jazz-Rock band headed by Rigo Masiala, and the Brazilian band Djambi, a
band sharing McIntyre’s experience of playing with Bob Marley’s world-famous band.

-‘mail. General Notes to..&,
II

 

W&L Included in “The Hidden Ivies”

Washington and Lee University is one of 30 colleges
and universities included in a book titled The Hidden
Ivies. The book is written by college consultants Howard
Greene and Matthew Greene and published by Cliff Street
Brooks, an imprint of HarperCollinsPublishers.

The authors write, “The Hidden Ivies focuses on lib-
eral arts colleges and universities that are of comparable
quality to the Ivies. Based on surveys and interviews
with students as well as college presidents, deans of
faculty, and other administrators, The Hidden Ivies pre-
sents an inside perspective on thirty leading institutions
of exceptional merit. These colleges and universities pro-
vide an outstanding educational experience for the gifted

college-bound student and provide the foundation for life
after graduation.” Some of the other schools joining W&L
in the publication are Amherst College,Davidson College,
Emory University, Rice University, Swarthmore College,
Vanderbilt University and Washington University.

Guest speakers hold evening lectures

Dr. Helen Cooper, of University College, Oxford, gave
“Chaucer: A Sescentenary (600th Anniversary) Lecture,”
in N orthen Auditorium on the 20th of September. Cooper
is president of the New Chaucer Society.

Dr. Danuta Shanzer, professor of classics and director
of the Medieval Studies Program at Cornell University,
gave a lecture “Martyrdom” in Northern Auditorium on
the 21st of September. Courtesy W&L website.

Corrections. . .

Colonel Eric Hutchings graduated from VMI in 1977.
Professor Wilson is an Assistant Professor.
Quincy Springs and Gretchen Tenzca are juniors.

      
     
 
 

The Stonewall Jackson House is hiring
part-time weekend guide/shop staff.
Individuals must enjoy working with the
public, possess excellent communication
skills and be able to convey historical and
biographical information. Applications
available at
8 E. Washington St., Lexington.

    

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

   
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  

   

 

SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

Oﬂhr itiing-tum iﬂhi

PAGE 3

EC power too
concentrated  

Last week the Executive Committee of the Student Body
sent out a campus notice, asking organizations that want
funding to submit forms, and reminding them of the meet-
ings on Tuesday and Wednesday. Inevitably, some groups
will get what they wanted, and others will not. From what
I can tell, this
process is ar-
duous for all
i n v o l v e d .
This is no fault
of the EC; they are merely fulﬁlling the role gradually thrust
upon them over the years. Unforttmately, this undemo-
cratic role has gone on for too long.

The EC was created in the earlier part of the century to
administer our time-honored and much-debated honor sys-
tem. Recent cries of injustice aside, they do a ﬁne job of
this. The secretive, somewhat autocratic nature of the body
is perfectly suited for such onerous tasks as investigating
and determining what is an honor violation. However, this
same structure works miserably for budget determinations.

Only ten members, plus three ofﬁcers sit on the EC.
This small size makes it naturally unrepresentative of the
student body. How can EC members be completely unbi-
ased against certain organizations requesting funding?
They can’t, of course, because they are human. To solve
this problem, a much larger body is needed.

Many universities similar to W&L, including Vanderbilt
and Wake Forest, use student legislatures to decide fund-
ing for organizations. Wake employs a one representative
for every ﬁfty students ratio. Vanderbilt, which also has a
strong honor code, has an Honor Council and separate
Budget Committee to decide appropriations issues. At
Wake, the student legislature is further divided into com-
mittees that are in charge of handling funding for particu-
lar types of organizations, with the full body having the
ﬁnal vote. W&L could adopt a similar system, or even a
simpler one, and allow more students to have a say in how
much money their organizations receive, to say nothing
of the increased spirit that old—fashioned political combat
generates.

The legendary W&L apathy towards student govern-
ment is not the reason for the EC’s dominance, but rather
a result. More students would give a damn about student
government if they had more chance to be involved, or
even know somebody who does. Think for a second. . .
When was the last time you saw one of your EC Reps? If
you are fortunate enough to know one of them person-
ally (or even know who yours are), I doubt you spend
time talking about how much money Contact gets this
year. The pretentious, intimidating presentation that all
W&L freshmen are forced to endure in order to under-
stand the importance of the honor system creates this
aura of untouchability towards the EC. This works ﬁne
for the honor system, but fails miserably for everything
else. Unfortrmately, this apathy, a product of EC near
hegemony, will probably prevent anything serious from
being done.

uote of the weelc

(C

Students will prosti-
tute themselves for
almost anything.

— Anonymous professor on
extra credit 7 7

@112 ﬁling tum lﬂlri

Executive Editors Stephanie Bianca
Emily Barnes
Max Smith
Matt McDermott
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Jessica Jones
Michael Crittenden
Bryan Early

News Editor
Assistant News Editor
Opinions Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Contributing Editors

last Word Editor

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-
tum Phi comes primarily from advertising and
subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Pjjjublications Board elects the Executive Editor, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in that week’s edition. The Ring-
tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for content
and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect the opinion
of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising does
not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff.
This newspaper observes current court definitions of
libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
' E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

photo by Emily Barnes! Executive Editor

IT’S A BEAUTIFUL DAY. . . freshman Miri Lim studies on the Front Lawn last Thursday, the

first official day of fall.

EC upholds honor at W&L

To the common lament, “It’s not fair,” my Dad used to
say to me, “If you multiply an even number and an even
number, what do you get? An even number. If you multiply
an odd number and even number you get an even number.
Doesn’t seem fair to the odd num-

and dry set of standards, (“don’t lie, cheat, or steal”), an
equally unwavering punishment should exist. Granted, there
are differences in severity between plagiarism and sharing
D-hall meals. However, for a tradition as time-honored and

life-dictating as the honor system, the

bers, but I guess there’s nothing
they can do about it.” (Note that
the paternal pcominess is exponen-
tially increased by the fact he’s an
accounting professor.)

But he’s right. Life isn’t fair sometimes. And yet I think
everything works out for the best. Everything comes full
circle and it all evens out in the end. No system in the
entire world can account for every fallacy in the human
condition. Including our honor code.

For a system to have lasted this long, it must be doing
something right. We continue to leave our bookbags unat-
tended, laptops in our carrells, and doors unlocked. In-
deed, part of the honor system’s effectiveness might re-
side in a certain fear of punishment. But for the most part,
it simply relies heavily on trust. The professors trust we
will not crack open a text book during a take home exam, we
trust our fellow students to not claim your walkman as
their own if seen lying on the colonade. But most impor-
tantly, trust that the honor system will work.

Such a heavy burden is placed upon the honor system
that it is only ﬁtting and necessary that a strict punishment
will result from deviating from it. Furthermore, for such a cut

  

consequence should not be adjusted
to ﬁt the crime. This detracts from the
honor system’s power and would likely
result in a less “honorable” and trust-
worthy environment.

Admittedly, the executive committee does hold an in-
credible block of power, in that they can change a student’s
entire life just by saying “guilty.” However, until King
Solomon enrolls, the executive committee will continue
to limit their punishments to expulsion. They are not cast-
ing judgement on a student’s character, but on whether
or not he or she strayed from the no lying, cheating, or

stealing code. This does not require subjectivity, but
rather, a rudimentary understanding of what the honor
system entails.

Washington and Lee brims with tradition, whether it is
tailgating, rush, or Fancy Dress. The honor system sur-
passes all of these in its strength and consequence. For it
to alter in any way would mean a change in the entire
school atmosphere. It is a fair system, and in the long run,
it contributes largely to the schools appeal, character
strength of the student body, and the overall sense of
trust built amongst its community.

LETTER TO THE EDITOR

Student clarifies what the
Constitution upholds

DearEditor,

Let me begin by saying that I am relatively liberal in my
political beliefs. However. I respect anyone for what they
believe, given that they believe it for sound reasons and
can back it up with some semblance of decent support.
Such is the spirit of any good debate. However, in reading
Brett Kirwan’s editorial “It's time to secede” in last week’s
paper, I was given absolutely no reason to respect his hyper-
conservative viewpoint.

In case you missed this gem of an editorial, Kirwan made
the arguement that due to the provisions of the Constitu-
tion, the federal government has virtually no right to make
any laws at all. He writes, “Article 1, Section 8 of the Consti-
tution, explicitly states the 17 powers of Congress and the
Tenth Amendment goes on to say that, without exception,
the federal government may do nothing else." On top of
that he claims “it is unconstitutional” for the government
“to set a speed limit, regulate greenhouse gas emissions. .
. or punish murders, kidnappers, or car thieves.”

TALKback:

 

“Men’s weightlifting, because it's
funny to watch them try to walk
up to the event.”

-Ann Tompkins ‘04

    

“I like the archery, because the
Americans never win."

To anyone who has even read the Constitution,
the so—called “elastic clause,” (which ironically comes
from the very section that Kirwan cites) explicitly
states that beyond the 17 enumerated powers, the gov-
ernment may make any law which it deems “necessary
and proper.” Over the years, this clause has invariably
been interpreted as one which allows the government
to pass a wide variety of laws, even such radically
oppressive measures as the controversial bans on mur-
der and car theft that Kirwan was so quick to point out.

Despite my opposition to the rest of his article, there
is one point he makes on whihc I support him fully. He
suggests that “Texas and Louisiana should be popu-
lated by people committed to individual liberties and
then declare itself to be the independent nation of
Texiana,” and goes on to say that “secession may be
our only option.” To that, I respond with resounding
approval—let all those who feel that the complete ab-
sence of laws is the best form of government go off to
Texianarachy” and leave the rest of us here, imprisoned
in our harsh world of injustice and tyrarmy.

Perhaps we will all be the better for it.

Sincerely,
K.C. Schaefer ’04

 

By Christine Metzger

As a present for being a senior and a wonderful girl in
general, I was blessed with the privilege of taking an 8:00
physics class this term. Yes, 8 in the morning; no, that’s not
supposed to happen to seniors; yes, I do feel sorry for my-
self. Major requirement, scheduling conﬂict, etc, etc. I haven’t
had an 8:00 class since freshman year, when I actually
thought it sounded like large amounts of fun to get out bed
at 7:55 four times a week and sprint to Tucker for a little bit of
francais action, spilling coffee on myself the whole way.
How much that term taught me —I swore off any A hour
class for the rest of time. Not a problem since my department
doesn’t start cooking till 9. I can do 9. Eight hurts. Like the
raven, I swore, Nevermore.

Or so I thought. .

Eight o’clock classes blow without exception. One of the
most horrible things about them is that they present you
with the reality that people actually function at that hour.
Not only do they function but they manage to get up, run,
shower, spackle their faces with makeup, curl their hair, and get
to class, looking blissed out and refreshed. Most days, I can
manage getting up. Some days showering happens, but hey,
that’s why God invented deodorant.

In my years away from A hour and my year away from
W&L entirely, I also forgot how e ssively well—groomed
you all are. Sure, in any eight o’cl A class, there’s the requi-
site boy or two with frightening bedhead hair. (Not to be
confused with the boys who go for “that look” on purpose.)
If you’re lucky sometimes you can spot a girl or two still
wearing the sorority girl sex pants from the night before,
smelling like she slept in a keg. Which she might have done.

As a whole though, W&L students take exceptional care
to make sure they are just so. Not necessarily well-dressed
or, gasp, even stylish because obviously fashion sense and
style have no part in the reality of the Bubble. We were a
little late with the capri phenomenon, although big hoops
are certainly taking off in a big way. W&L is to Paris and
New York as Aristocrap is to Skyy vodka. “But I like Aristo-
crat,” you protest. The things we wear here are so bland,
kind of crappy, and don’t leave you wanting for more. (W &L
fashion, unlike the ‘Crat, does not come cheap, as fat cats at
J .Crew, Banana Republic, and Abercrombie could attest to.)

Okay, the small town nature of this university doesn’t
exactly foster a high—paced, eccentric designer lifestyle. We
areunlikeany otheruniversityinthatlseegirlseverymomingin
my physics class or on their way to another A hour of fun
wearing the whole W&L girl kit pearls, makeup, hairdone. Who
has time for that? Have you sold your soul to ﬁt that extra hour
a day into your schedule?

You’ve probably guessed by now I don’t really swing
with the idea of typical W&L “fashion,” mainly because I’ d
kill myself from boredom, but also because I don’t really see
the point. I try to wear real clothes (i.e., not my pajamas)
since I am trying to be a bit more of an adult these days. I
can’t understand though why you’d want to pop on some-
thing that makes you look 35. I do have a bad unfashionable
habit of strolling around campus after a geology ﬁeld lab.
covered in mud and ticks, with various bits of vegetative
debris in my hair. How hot is that? Yeah, come sit next to me
in class, baby.

But we weren’t talking about my minor imperfections.
Aside from the constant dressed—to-irnpress atmosphere, a
lot of you out there are missing the boat completely with
regards to fashion. Here’s a small amount of advice:

1. Backless shirts on the Hill in broad daylight...Just say
no, girls. You may be a stone fox (or you may not, as the case
may be) but please save it for a sweaty frat basement. It’s
more than a little alarming to see you tooting around the Co-
op with your spine on display. (“But I don’t have a spine!”
Don’t worry, we know.)

2. Capri pants...They may be in style but they are not, re-
peat not, for everyone.

3. Black pants with white shoes of any sort...come on, you
know this is wrong, who are you trying to fool?

4. (For the gents) Black socks with running shoes: Please.
Stop.

I don’t have much to say about the boys at this school
(never do) because they seem pretty attached to the mo-
nopoly they have on the plaid shirt-khaki business. I’m not
going to interrupt their groove thang because most boys
simply don’t know any better. (And you Southern boys
who try to be “wacky” by wearing pink or plaid pants, woo-
hoo, watch out!) Having lived in a country last year where
many men dressed in a stylish way that most Americans
woirld call “effeminate,” probably using more colorful words,
I know there is hope for men to achieve fashion nirvana. I
think, however, W&L boys are not the Chosen people.

I salute those of you out there with proper style. You do
exist. People who work their clothes, who look dishy with-
out looking like a suumpet, who have a wicked, irmate fash-
ion passion. Thankfully several of them are among my dear-
est friends. You give me hope.

  What is your, favorite Olympic event and why?

me of Beirut.”
-Micah Tolrnan ‘02

 

“Table tennis, because it reminds

—Tarntni Olubunrni ‘O2

 

 

“Gyrrmastics, because I like to see
little 12-year old children exploited
and starved for my viewing pleasure.”
—Brian Tinklepaugh ‘O3

 

 

O

Glitz ﬂing-tum lﬂlti

PINION

  

 

      

  

 

 

 

 

PAGE4 SEPTEMBER 25, 2000 it
M d ’ ' ' M k’ 11
0 eration 111 moderation, please a lng your CO ege 

Let me preface all of this by .
saying, “Why yes indeed, I am
a Marx—loving, Che Guevara e d 11 C  0 n p a y
adoring, New Deal—supporting 1
damn commie pinko.” (And a .
j—school major to boot!) Ipre— Don’t let Democrats diS_ The income tax is, in essence, a penalty on
fer tothinkofmyselfas simply success. The harder one works and the more
liberal, but I respond to those tract you from keeping money one earns, the more of one’s wealth is _
terms as well, In all honesty, 1 taken away. What incentive is there to be in- ’
amnot particularly po1itical_I your Inoney novative and entrepreneurial if one can an-
would never stay in on a Fri- ticipate no reward but a hefty tax bill and the
day night simply to watch a Much criticism has been directed at Governor loss of one’s estate upon one’s death? You’re
debate, nor do 1 think the George Bush throughout the campaign for his sup- right, none. What’s more, since we have our
minute—to—minute popularity posed lack of substance. In fact, another writer entire working lives ahead of us, we have -
updates by pollsters have any has suggested on this very page that only people unique incentive to vote for a candidate who’
redeeming intellectual value, interested in peisonality will vote for the Gover— will allow us to keep our money.
Yet when it comes down to nor. Unfortmately, this ignores two important Apart from the individual reasons, the
convention day, you can be points. Governor’s tax cut just makes good economic
sure I will be voting because it o . . . . V o l First, substance, or speciﬁcity, has no intrin- sense. Following the injection of capital into the
is my dutylwanttoknow that 1 D O O o . sic value. No matter how many volumes of economy, personal savings will increase, con-
Ihad my Say Concerning my ‘ O O O O policy minutiae Al Gore sumer spending will in-
rights, my society and my fu- o o o o . turns out, his ideas are  of the  crease, businesses will have
me, ' ‘ . - still the repudiated big- to hire more people to meet

This summer 1 actually - at government giveaways Brat T- Ki1'W3I1 04 the demand, and the
broke down and watched the of the old left. Icould pro- economy will grow at an
Republican convention with pose a very detailed, specific plan to convert even faster rate than it does today. Some econo-
some mutual liberal friends, we ‘ _ W&L into a combination pinball machine fac— mists have predicted that the economy will double
made popcorn, gﬂhbeddi-inks ' F c ' tory/chia pet farm. The fact that I presented a in just 15 years, resulting in more revenue for the
and proceeded to laugh our- ‘.1: ,2 “specific” plan chock full of “substance” federal government. Also, let us not forget that
selves silly at the lovefest that or 3! -,_ doesn’t make it a good idea. this tax cut lowers the marginal rate in every tax
was the convention, This point « Secondly, when it comes to the issues, the good bracket. Contrary to Al Gore’s whiny attempts at
has be reiterated by both con. , ‘- governor, regardless of what the liberal media may class warfare, this isn’t just a tax cut for the rich.
servative and liberal pundits h h ' yo. _ M do _ tell us, is beating the esteemed Vice—Perpetrator The middle 20 percent income level will have their
many times since then_ Much ‘"" “ ' like a Singaporean vandal. Nevertheless, one is- tax burden reduced by roughly 25 percent. Infact,
to my chagrin, the Democratic sue is going to win the election for Dubya. Gov. six million more Americans will pay no taxes at all
convention was justas tenible, more like the high school prom hon Cohha Affair. heS_ Bush’s proposed across—the-board tax cut is also following the implementation of Gov. Bush’s plan. :1
complete with the Clinton cir— court elections. Elections have Our government is a two- Call me idealistic, but I an excellent reason rnr all er n5 5°°n‘t°‘be em‘ New new does nns Slrnple Plan that trusts
cus. The only moment I was less to do with running the party system, so why the hell refuse to give up my belief that Pleyed to Vote for nlrn- Arnerlcans Wnnrnelr°Wnnl°neYc°n1Paret°Al
truly impressed with was country than running a public oahat We tell the two parties’ my Vote Coums_ And I do bo_ It’s really as simple as this: vote for George G0re’s “targeted tax cuts?” The man who in-
Caroline Kennedy relations campaign Instead of Candidates apart? Why have lieve that more are people out Bush and have more of your hard—earned money vented the Internet has proposed tax credits g
schlossberg’s speech (why focusing on the is sues, each pohhoal oloohohs if nothing is there who would be better oah_ in your pocket at the end of every year. Currently designed to promote behavior he deems accept.
is she not the Democratic can— party and each candidate is try— political didates for president, who will the rederal g0V€1“I1m€I1t is pI’iCe—gouging like the able. If you or your family does what Al Gore
didate? She had more sense ing to seem I anymore? not be Simply ﬁgurohoads or oil companies have never dreamed of. With ev- wants, then he’ll give you your money back.
and presence in her speech as moderate   At least robots programmed to be the ery extra tax dollar the federal government It’s a disgusting imitation of the classic carrot-
than the entire convention as possible_ Nader and most pobulah I Shudder to takes, it is stealing from the American people. on—the—stick. The last thing we should settle for "
combined) lt is as if the H€2Ih€I' McDonald 01 Buchanan think that my rights’ ouhuro’ The government is not a corporation. It is the government using our own money as a

After both conventions and two parties """"""“""“"“‘“““ h a y 6 legal system, tax money, edu_ shouldn’t be looking to turn a “profit” and the bribe to get us to attend the proper schools or
after the past few months of are morphing into one another. added some color to the cam- cation, and everything else we anrlclpaled Surplus snenld net be Vlewed as re “Se the Preper cnlldcare
mudslinging campaigns and Bush’s talk on Oprah was like baigh. They are both crazy’ but take for gmmod will be mah_ such. The government should seek to operate Come November, the choice should really be h
the political version of stupid Clinton’s stint on MTV. G01-e’s right now [would oohsidor Vot_ aged by Someone who wants at a minimum cost and therefore burden its citi- easy. Make your college education worth an
pet tricks, I am left with a very ability to raise money out of mg for Nader just because I do the job because he has no Zens as llnle as Pesslble even blgger Pay cneck- Vere rer 3 lax enr-
blad taste in my mouth. The Buddhist nuns and then dodge not want my vote going to. original ideas and is the
e ections get more boring each all consequences is just about wards nothin _which is what most moderate — not be- ,' , °
Year — they 3130‘ get P108133‘ 35 Convincing 38 Reagan’s Ifeel like I arei voting for ifl go cause he is the most capable W, lte fol the  l‘ ‘
sively less like elections and claim he knew nothing about the with one of the standard par- candidate.

V
TIJITIIJNFIP-l£tN[lNl3 *
Wh ' TIAA CREF th
y I In 0 9
#1 choice nationwide. ,

  
   

"WIN A TRIP

  

  

  
    
   

 

     
 

 

 

 

  
   

The TIAA—CREF
Advantage.

 

    
 
 

  
 
   
 

  

   
 
   
   

FOR TWO TO _»'.%l .,lTHElla?NE?t,H , ND, SHQ
’.l-'.,‘l*_»«-l1-_7«.»::_-.» :igt=:f-£iRsoNy,.s1.‘- , .. .-  I - ‘- .
A F R I CA    §’»*‘ltLE><'~<=wlr<>rsr,,lvmusoll 
Thls Year rrle Cast or Ml V ,5 I V _ _ _ _ _ Yea" '1esrulyaarnut,employeesatetltitzatlnrant:
’The Real World’ went to Africa.  i_    li.'5|‘.'4.1l|'_ll-||5l.|ll.ltUll1>f|t|‘a'3Jl.L||'l|f)Ll lu HAA t_'|<‘.l-.'*.
Now you gun foo!  Mqtioljes  ’::_‘}UIl\'Ik  .- ' 5 I AM for gnarl I1:-ar.nn¢.:
r Ilmuslcieléil-lN’stRuM6NTS  e.  » ’ .
Q. .  t  l:  ~'    --i  I ~ . I East:lwer*eitir:ati-:r1 ezrinng es rarigeotaxpertly '
ﬁg ‘E & Q fHdf14‘.l§L‘t.l l.Jfl(.l'.s
ﬁg. K I A snlir. ’1lil'-.':l}.' tr" per"nrmanre and except cm! L E
. ” pI:'t«:r'Ia| ‘..I.'rw:;u: OW xpenses h
4 A stronr; corrmitnixjrt to ow rapt:-.*:~_'.:_~s. C _ -
. _ _ . U.‘:‘l(lfTl|.£E(.l
Enter for a chance to win of your - Plm. afull ﬂange nl'l'|P.!|b|P|'eTlf9.1lP‘1l|n{t7I11P(:plOhS P ta t,
' ° _ _ :3 men |0|'lS
local CoUnc'|.Tr°ve| orrlce or or For decades,TIAA-CREFh.J:.l'e|pudlJru'u:-summit: slul 5‘ p
councl llrovel ‘com at over 4} l'I'‘'fJ ramnt -sea r-rrnsr. 1’*'tF rn-1I1tr~,ri'w=~:'tnr—- ‘.
Thus tnp to Africa '5 provlded by an 1 F il0y—'»Litn=:=liJ| retlreme-rt :
/ y Cl1<JL>srIr_.1yuLIrelirarraerizpltmprovider '.s'.:|lT|[..1l(;‘. V 
t'.n with the 2'-ad:-r' TIAA-1' RFF. [
virgin
for-18to3svt.y:;r'::: at[ant[c ‘
No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..
between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void  ' )
where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go '
to counciltravel.com. Sweepstakes ends 10/15/00. ‘ I Ensuﬂng the future _ W 1 . 8 0 O . 8 4 2 up 2 7 7 6
lorthuse who shape It. , _ , -~ --—
Travel www.t1aa—crct.01‘g ,
' he _ _ _ I I-nrrnnre rnmplrfr Infnrmntinn nn n:|r<rc|IrI1:~-.prndIIr*~._ plrntr mil 1 Rtiti H4) I Hi, ml '1iI|‘l_1-fJI‘r'I:{l:?"ul[>I't"NpI"tllN'\.Fllﬁild1l'Il‘|n(.Ift‘lllIl[a
C 0 LI n C I  I . I I I  Hp, (7.1 3463_7.5l‘59 V I'.l"frtI'I" lmu int.-rut I I:AA i-ltl-I-Ind:-)i¢1u.'1| .'Inrl Ir:-rtmltiu-1;1| "'>rrui:;~t, Inr r1i<trih|rtr~:tl:1~t' l.{|-'1' nnri TIAA Rrsztl Fatah. a/:lfIi|I|l|I :mIIuiIi:~».. 9 ‘F:'.::¢ Imp.
-, Z   _  ., _ I-‘rr-ulnar?:mr';l:irt‘i¢~rx.iu".,Irar.11i-;triI1.itr'utl1i*Perm-r::IIAnrmitii-;'.r;1rI:Ih!:~;inr1.I:Iymrnprzmrtt.mutuallurid-..mL1Iuiilitaliuviiitgs.:gmt:r'Iir:=l:..-
1 ‘  2 C O U N C I L . ' ‘ Q  ~ _ pl-_ cl”-,'ee’nT5oe". IIAJS .m:l TIM. t'.FtE|' I.lI(' lrmu.ir1n~ L'.u., Nw-1 Yuk.Mii-.-.ui*iu'.umr1<t:.:r1t| .ir1nuiIi<-5. -v 'llft.’\-C'l[|'1lu.»lCcxuu.:1rIy, [SB pron-deb uuslseiv-ta-3.
' x i 1  _ . . .,. ~ 1',  f'.- y lnﬁ-hmihnl pivduuhurp [ml Fppc i’.-mm-Lll hhiyln-N wlm-,,|.h| mo “pl hunt, Hiwwi-ilk-_.,;:rl_.g: ;1',l}(_\11p._,q f‘ﬁEF tjgmg ’ T.

 

 

 

SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

W&U

2 {Ring-tum iﬂlit

IFE

PAGE 5

Food: It’s not just for eating

By Ashley Klimp
STAFF WRITER

Students looking for a gift off
the beaten track should check out

.Fun Foods & Accessories on

Washington Street, which boasts
a bevy of interesting products that
are perfect for anyone with a
sense of humor and a hunger for
the unusual.

Though owner Victoria Pannell
and her farrrily lived in Washing-
ton, D.C. for 15 years, she says
that owning Fun Foods &
Acessories in Lexington is a dream
come true. Wanting to spend more
time with their family, she and her
husband toured towns through-
out Virginia and Maryland, search-
ing for the perfect shop location.

Her husband came across Lex-
ington in a newspaper article.

“The search was over,” said
Parmell. Though the,Pannells cur-
rently live in neighboring Bath,
they are hoping to eventually
move to Lexington.

Pannell has searched for food-
stuffs from all over the world to
stock her store. Few are ordered
from catalogs; most of her prod-

‘ ucts have been handpicked from

her travels. “I have a relationship
with 85 percent of the products
here,” said Pannell.

Parmell, an admitted chocoholic,
stocked Fun Foods & Accesso-
ries with an extensive collection
of chocolate—related products, in-
cluding Chocolate Pasta, Choc-
Bath Salts, Chocolate Bar Soap,
and Chocolate Body Frosting.

For those over 21 years of age
the store offers several different
kinds of liquor ﬂavored chocolates
including Margarita, Chambod,
and Crown Royal.

Spicier options include the

By Alexis Yee—Garcia

FEATURES EDITOR

Many students come to college
to get away from home, to expand
their intellectual horizons, and, not
least, to get away from their par-
ents. Some people ﬁnd that family
follows them, however, and for a
longer time than Parent’s Week-
end: those students whose sib-
lings are attending Washington
and Lee as freshmen this year.

When people describe the
W&L community as a family, their
description is more accurate than
they know. Over 15 freshmen stu-
dents have siblings who currently
attend or have recently graduated
from W&L. Many of these family
members concurrently attended
high school, but describe their
joint college experience as some-
thing completely different.

“In high school, our circles of
friends didn’t really overlap and,
short of school-wide functions, we
never really saw each other,” said
Bill Helander, whose sister, Emily,
is a freshman. Bill noted how dif-
ferent this is compared to being at
W&L where “my [fraternity]
brothers even put her on the phone
list.”

Senior Hillary Bryant, whose
sister," Paige is a sophomore this
year, agreed that college creates
different circumstances than high
school.

“I think college fosters more

want to pressure him,” she said

 

Hoodoo Voodoo Blackened Hot
Sauce, the Pepper Chicks J alepefio
Pretzels, and the Mexican Cactus
and Tequila Salsa.

A couple of the owner’s per-
sonal favorites are the Edible Glit-
ter Pretzel Sticks and the 23—Carat
Gold Cooking Oil.

“I wanted to use the products
to decorate with,” said Pannell.
“My mission is quality and laugh-
ter.” 0

Pannell hopes that the prod-
ucts at Fun Foods & Accessories
will be of particular interest to stu-
dents at Washington and Lee (as
well as those at the Virginia Mili-

   

Photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
PARTY FOOD: Barbecue sauces after every W&L student’s

heart for sale at Fun Foods & Accessories.

tary Institute).

For example, Fun Foods & Ac-
cessories offers customized care
packages. For exam time or late-
night homework, the store offers
sress mints, pick-up drops, and
CoffeeGo (a cup of coffee in a piece
of candy).

Pannell also hopes to get in
touch with W&L sorority repre-
sentatives to receive information
about their events, so she can 10-
cate suitable products for these oc-
casions.

In the words of their sign, Fun
Foods & Accessories is engaged
in “Making Mealtime Memories.”

I _Came here to get away. . .

' by Emily Barnes/Exe tive Editor

 

..

FAMILY TIES: Freshman Chip Saulsbury takes time out to
support his sister, senior Pam Saulsbury, at her volley-

ball game.

mature relationships,” said Hillary.
“I’ve talked to other brothers and
sisters and they’ve all said, ‘I hated
her and now we get along per-
fectly.’”

Despite the number of students
who keep the W&L experience in
the family, most agree that they
tried not to inﬂuence the collegiate
decision of their younger siblings.

“She wanted to go to William
and Mary, which I didn’t think was
very intelligent,” joked Bill. “And I
wanted her at least to apply, but I
tried to be pretty neutral.”

When her brother Chip was ac-
cepted as a member of the class of
2004, senior Pam Saulsbury tried to
remain impartial. ’

“I was really excited but I didn’t

   

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor
TOGETHER AGAIN: Bill Helander tried not to inﬂuence his
sister Emily’s decision to attend W&L...too much.

While their older siblings
struggled with being supportive
and unbiased, younger siblings
struggled with. the stigma of imita-
tion.

“I actually wasn’t even going
to apply here because he goes
here,” said Emily.

The Bryants’ father is an alum-
nus of the school, and two of the
Bryants older sisters are alumnae.

“My dad was very fair and im-
partial and encouraged us to look

I at other schools,” said Hillary.

Though the decision to attend
W&L is usually arrived at inde-
pendently, siblings who attend
W&L together retain a unique
connection.

“We’re in totally different so-
rorities but the other day we
walked out to the houses together
and then just went our separate
ways,” said Paige.

Knowing someone who is al-
ready familiar with the carnpus and
its customs is also an advantage
for younger siblings, especially in
the first weeks of school.

“It’s been helpful to know
things,” said Emily. “Having the
inside knowledge on what to wear
and stuff like that has been nice.”

Though siblings are always
available to help each other out in
a pinch and effortlessly maintain a
special relationship, having sepa-
rate lives is also a possibility.

“We can be at a school this
small and still have totally differ-
ent experiences,” said Paige.

 

y ichael Crittenen

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

For this year’s inaugural edition
of Michael’s Pub, I decided to stick
to an old favorite: Redhook ESB,
from the Redhook Brewing Com-
pany. First brewed in 1987 and mod-
eled after extra—special bitters (hence
the ESB) found in every self—re-
specting English pub, ESB is one of
Redhook’s most popular ales. A rich,
copper-colored ale, Redhook ESB is
fairly inexpensive at about $5.50 for
a six—pack, and packs quite a punch
with a 5.7% alcohol content.

Reminiscent of its British fore-
fathers and spicy Belgian ales like
Duvel, ESB has a “rich, round-
toasted malt ﬂavor followed by a
pleasant sweetness,” according to
the Redhook’s webpage. This be-
ing said, my personal opinion is
that it’s just wicked good, ayuh!

The beer has a nice hoppy taste
that reminds me of high school
parties drinking Shipyard Export
Ale (from Portland, Maine),
though not as bitter. A rich, warm
ﬂavor pervades this beer from the
first sip to the last. Not too heavy
and overbearing like some stouts
and porters, this beer is a comfort-
able amber that is perfect for grilled
meats, game or fowl. Perfect for sit-
ting around the barbecue or listen-
ing to a good bootleg with friends,
ESB is a quality brew.

Established in Seattle in 1981,
the Redhook Brewing Company is
one of a small number of national
“micro-brews” that enjoys wide-
spread popularity among beer con-
noisseurs. The company currently
has three breweries in the United
States: the original Seattle brewery,
a Woodinville, WA, brewery built
in 1994, and the newest Redhook
brewery located in Portsmouth,
N.H. (the birthplace of your

    

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

SHOPPING THE “i>UB:” Crittenden makes a careful selection
after moments of deep introspection.

— “humble” author). In addition to

ESB, Redhook features a number
of quality ales including a great
India Pale Ale, Hefe-weizen,
Doubleblack Porter (not for the
weak of heart) and the popular
Blonde Ale.

All in all I give Redhook ESB a
seven on the ten-point Crittenden
“Year 2000 Beer-O-Rama” Scale
(recognized nationally for its taste
and completely biased subj ective—
ness). The alcohol—content makes

it a practical drinking man’s beer,
and the good taste makes it a wel-
come ale to return to after too many
weeks of Natural Light. More in-
formation about Redhook and its
many beers can be found at
www.redhook.com. Next week in
Michael’s Pub we will discuss
Yuengling lager, from the oldest
brewery in the United States. Ifyou
have any suggestions or comments
for Michael’s Pub please email me
at crittendenm@ wlu.edu.

Nominations for WHO’S WHO

Anyone who wishes to nominate
a member of the current undergraduate
senior class for selection to
Who’s Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges may do
so by submitting the name and
qualifications of that student to
David L. Howison, Dean of Students,
in Payne Hall 9 by October 2, 2000.

Criteria for selection to Who’s Who
include (1) scholarship, (2) participation
and leadership in academic and
extracurricular activities, (3) citizenship
and service to Washington and Lee,
and (4) potential for future achievement.

.,..
.../.

   

The Cutting E
 I  al  
highlighng, manicuring, pedicuring, waxing

walk-ins welcome
117 W. Relson Street

Lexington, WI 24450

540463-9588

 

 

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

SPORTS
Watson, W&L trounce Centre

 

2!

PAGE 6 SEPTEMBER 25, 2000 .

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Senior Marc Watson amassed
236 all-purpose yards and three
touchdowns as Washington and
Lee improved to 3-0 for the first
time since 1963 with a45-7 win over
Centre College Saturday in
Danville, Ky.

Sophomore Bobby Littlehale
and freshman Zack McQuigg com-
bined for 203 yards passing to
complement the Generals’s running
game. Senior wide receiver Wes
Hardy caught four passes for 130
yards and two touchdowns.

“That’s definitely an advan-
tage: that the offense has great
balance,” W&L head coach Frank
Miriello said. “You kind of hope

(as a defense) that you get the of-
fense in a long—yardage situation.
When you don’t know if it’s run or
pass, it's a dilemma for the de-
fense.”

The W&L defense limited the
Colonels to just 79 yards rushing,
and picked off Centre quarterback
Drew Mildren three times on the
afternoon. Miriello, whose team
edged Centre 23-17 at home last
year, was not expecting such a wide
margin of victory for his Generals.

“I thought this would be a real
test for us, and give us an indica-

tion of what the team’s made of,”

Miriello said. "I expected it to be a
touchdown game either way. But
we had some big plays, and it got
out of control a little quickly.”
The Generals wasted little time

getting on the board, as Watson
scored on an 18-yard TD run on
W&L’s second play from scrim-
mage for a 7-0 advantage. Littlehale
connected with sophomore tight
end Davis White on a five-yard
touchdown pass to extend the lead
to 14-0 late in the first quarter.

A field goal from senior Andy
Vendig in the ﬁnal minute of the
second quarter gave the Generals
a 17-0 lead going into the break.
Any hopes that the Colonels had
of getting back into the game were
crushed when Watson returned
the opening kickoff of the second
half 88 yards for a score.

McQuigg’s ﬁrst two collegiate
touchdown passes, both to Hardy,
sandwiched a 61-yard run from
Watson and Centre’s only score

of the game — an 11-yard pass
from Mildren to Joe Guthrie — to
produce the final margin.

W&L returns home next Satiir-
day to face Old Dominion Athletic

"Conference opponent Randolph-

Macon (2-2, 1-0 ODAC). The Yel-
low Jackets defeated preseason
conference favorite Catholic 31-28
Saturday, placing even more weight
on the game for the Generals.

“We’re playing .an entirely dif-
ferent team this week,” MirieHo
said of Randolph—Macon, a team
known for its aerial attack. “Our
secondary and our linebacking
corps will be tested. Whether we
can get any pressure on the pass
rush is a big question.”

Kickoff time is set for 1 p.m. at
Wdson Field.

WHAT rr WAS wAsN"r FOOTBALL. The Washington and Lee club rugby team battled the Virginia Military Institute
Saturday at VMI’s Parade Grounds. Despite a valiant effort against the Keydets, the Generals fell 31-5.

 

by Colin Mitchell/Staff Photographer

Road trip begins for W&L

Generals lose ﬁrst of
five straight road
games, but rebound
to win the second

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team forged a split
decision in two road Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference matches
this week, losing to Biidgewater
College Tuesday, and beating
Randolph—Macon Women’s Col-
lege Saturday.

The Generals lost to Bridgewater,
1-0, despite outshooting the Eagles
23-11. Sarah Pritchett scored the
only goal of the game, ﬁnding the
net late in the first half. Goalkeeper
Julianne Blevins stopped all 14
shots on goal to ensure the win for

the Eagles.

W&L goaltender Lauren Harris
made seven saves for the Generals,
posting a respectable .875 save aver-
age for the game. Junior Kate Bidwell
led the Generals with five shots.

The Generals evened their
record with a 3-0 win against
Randolph-Macon. Freshman
Susarmah Hewlett drew ﬁrst blood
for the Generals early in the sec-
ond half on a goal assisted by
sophomore Jennifer Thomas.

Bidwell added two second half
goals for W&L — one off assists
from Hewlitt and freshman
Fontaine Marcoux, and an unas-
sisted tally with four minutes re-
maining in the game.

Harris made ﬁve saves for the
Generals to notch her second shut-
out of the season. The Generals
were 3-3, including a 2-2 mark in
the ODAC, prior to Sunday
aftemoon’s game a_tLynchburg.

 

This week ’s schedule in General athletics...
Football

Sat. September 30 Randolph—Macon 1:00 p.m.
Men ’s and Women ’s Cross Country

Sat. September 30 Roanoke Invitational 10:30 am.
Men’s Soccer

Thurs. September 28 at Hampden-Sydney 4:00 p.111.

Sat. September 30 Lynchburg 1 1:00 am
Women’s Soccer

Wed. September 27 at Sweet Briar 4:30 pm.

Sat. September 30 at Virginia Wesleyan 12:00 p.in.
Volleyball

Tues. September 26 Guilford 6:30 p.m.

Fri.-Sat. September 29-30 Emory Tournament
Water Polo

Sat.-Sun. Sept. 30-Oct. 1 Atlantic Division Tournament

HULL’

E)Rl\/E—I

FRIDAY - SATURDAY - SUNDAY

4 Miles, Route ll‘ North Lexington
463-2621 .
Admission $4/adult.

N

V’

  

  

BE A PART OF OUR TEAM...
COVER SPORTS FOR THE PHI!
CALL US AT X4060
OR EMAIL PHI @WLU.EDU

Tired of the some old food?

 

1

7‘ 5 GOURMET SPECIALTIES 

‘\.._.

Gate Opens 7pm

G STUDENT CARE PACKAGES

  

Wish there was a New Mexican, Indian. Thai,

 

M°"ie‘ °" D”5" . 0 CREATIVE GIFT BASKETS A) I . . . . . 7 "
SHAN GHAI N CON PG] 3  9 LAUGHTER & SMILES Cqlwla Canbbeam Mlddéehﬁlgliisn restaurant ".1 the area’
  ...m........c.... »
y 6 East Washington Street, Lexington - V
DOUBLE FEATUR]-Em ) Next 7i1Stonewall jar/axon Home ‘     A '.
THE TAO OF STEVE R M ,‘ . "
2000 Donal Logue, Greer Goodman J 540 464 4433 EVCI7 weekend is I tllﬁtfcli canine, so it'll‘! INVOI
Romantic Comedy T Order Toll Free: 377 473 4433 out of the county when great food is only 6 miles away?
‘it We Ship Anywhere!

September/OctoberSchedule: S ’

  29-30 Middle Eastern/6-7 Indian
Dinner S-8:30 pm.

Friday and Saturday nights only

www.funfoodsforyou.com

www.h|lsdr'ivein.com

/-E,

1 “Making Mealtime Memories”

5
at
1

 

‘R

 

SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

S

@112 ﬁling-tum Iﬁlii

PORTS

PAGE 7

Generals slide past Wesleyan, 2-

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team came into Saturday’s
home conference match with a mis-
sion — to beat Virginia Wesleyan
for the first time since 1989.

Mission accomplished, as the
Generals edged the Blue Marlins
by a 2-1 margin.

Both teams entered the game
undefeated in Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference play, and both
boasted outstanding goalkeepers.
W&L sophomore Brad Hearn had
a perfect 1.000 save percentage,
and Virginia Wesleyan’s Sean
Wheaton had not allowed a goal
in his last three games.

“This is always a huge rivalry,”
senior captain Ryan Nelson said. “We
knew it was going to be a battle.”

“We don’t like them —- not one
single bit,”coach Ro1fPi1anian added.

The game opened with early
scoring drives from both teams.
The Generals set the standard for

aggressive play with hard tackles
and solid goaltending from Hearn.
At the 13-minute mark, Hearn
wrestled the ball down, stopping
Blue Marlin freshman Chris Mills.

The Generals then established
offensive dominance, keeping the
ball in the Blue Marlins’ end for
most of the ﬁrst half. Wheaton and
the Virginia Wesleyan defense
compensated for the play of their
midfield, repeatedly stopping the
Generals from scoring.

Fortune was also with the Gen-
erals. Mills again broke free in the
Generals’ zone 24 minutes into the
game, and passed to senior Chas
Gorham, whose shot went wide.

With less than five minutes left
in the half, a comer kick in the Gen-
erals’ end was headed over the
goal. During the play, Hearn was
elbowed in the head, and came out
of the game bleeding visibly.
Sophomore Tim Foley entered the
net in relief.

“We’re fortunate that we can
interchange our goalies like that,”

    

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

MAD DASH. Freshman Bret Grote and a Virginia Wesleyan
player scramble for a loose ball in the Generals’ 2-1 win.

Nelson said of the two netminders.

Two minutes later, junior for-
ward Andrew Grimes came out of
the game with an injured leg, com-
plaining of a loss of sensation. The
half ended with the score tied at O-
0, but the Generals would appar-
ently have to play the rest of the

game without their starting
goaltender and their scoring leader.

However, Grimes reappeared on
the ﬁeld to begin the second half.
The Generals’s offense took the
initiative immediately, and nearly
scored two minutes into the half,
forcing Wheaton to make a save

on a high bounce.

The Generals did score at 54:22,
when sophomore Paul N egron ran
the ball down the right side of the
field and passed to classmate Brad
Murphy. Senior Andy Crawford
deﬂected the ball in for his first
collegiate goal.

W&L then weathered an ag-
gressive Blue Marlin offense that
would not allow them to clear for
much of the half. Despite the pres-
sure, the Generals gained a 2-0 lead
when junior David Kodack passed
to freshman Jacob Stoehr, who
fired the shot home at 71 :06.

With little over 10 minutes to
play, the Blue Marlins struck back,
when sophomore Josh Nolz beat
Foley with a header, assisted by
freshman Jamie Phelps.

“That goal was a wake-up call,”
Nelson said of the Nolz goal.

With two minutes left, the game
was still up in the air. Virginia
Wesleyan sophomore Brad Bertolet
received a red card and an automatic
ejection for elbowing at that time.

“They earned that red card,”
Piranian said of the rough play.

The game ended with the Gen-
erals holding the ball safely in the
Blue Marlins’ zone.

The win advances W&L’s
record to 5-0 overall, and 2-0 in the
ODAC. Virginia Wesleyan is 3-4-1
overall, and 3-1 in the conference.

The Generals entered Saturday’s
game coming off a 3-0 home non-
conference win against Ferrum on
Thursday. Senior Jon Wilson
scored 15 minutes into the game,
assisted by junior David Kodack.

Andrew Grimes added to his
tally halfway through the first half,
netting his sixth goal off an assist
from freshman Philip Miller.

The Generals, who outshot
Ferrum 20-2, again capitalized with
nine minutes left in the game.
Murphy stole the ball from F errum
goaltender Rod Baker to score the
final goal. '

The men’s soccer team next plays
Sept. 28 on the road against ODAC
opponent Hampden—Sydney.

Volleyball team returns to winning ways

 

Generals have little trouble in
rolling off three straight wins

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Just 10 days removed from having a 23-match Old
Dominion Athletic Conference winning streak
snapped by Lynchburg, the Washington and Lee
volleyball team capped off an undefeated week Sat-
urday with a 3-0 victory over conference foe
Bridgewater.

The Generals knocked off Emory & Henry, South-
ern Virginia, and Bridgewater without dropping a
single game to improve their record to 6-2 on the sea-
son, including a 2-1 mark in the ODAC. First—year
head coach Bryan Snyder was pleased with his team’s

play, which should get even better when one of last '

year’s stars returns from an injury.

“We’ve got Lee Charbonnet coming back from an
ankle injury, and she was a second—team a1l-confer-
ence player last year,” Snyder said of the junior out-

next weekend’s Emory Tournament. “Without her right
now, we’re still doing well, but she’ll give us a lift.”

The Generals topped conference foe Emory &
Henry 15-12, 15-10, 15-12 on the road Tuesday to
even up their ODAC record at 1-1 . Senior setter
Katherine Kline led W&L with 17 assists, junior out-
side hitter Leslie Fischbeck recorded a team-high 12
kills, and sophomore outside hitter Stacey Kimmel
tallied nine digs.

W&L stepped out of conference competition
Thursday to notch a 15-6, 15-2, 15-8 win over South-
ern Virginia. Junior middle blocker Lindsay Ruckert
recorded nine digs, seven kills, and four aces. Senior
setter Pam Saulsbury led the Generals with 13 assists,
Kimmel amassed eight kills and five digs, and
Fischbeck finished with four blocks. ‘

The Generals concluded the week with a 15-10, 15-
12, 15-6 win over Bridgewater (5-6, 2-2 ODAC). The
Eagles took a 1-0 lead to open the first game, the only
time that W&L trailed during the match.

“It’s much easier to play from ahead than to play
from behind,” Snyder said. “Volleyball’s such a game
of momentum, and a big momentum shift can really

the lead, even when they got a little momentum, it
was a lot easier on us mentally.”

Ruckert tallied ten kills and six digs, and senior
outside hitter Tori Hays contributed nine digs and
ﬁve kills against the Eagles. Saulsbury led the team
with 15 assists, and Kline added 13 more. However,
Snyder was hesitant to single out individual perfor-
mances as the key to the Generals’ victory.

“We’re playing nine players right now, and with
the substitution rules in volleyball, that’s really all
you can get away with,” the coach said. “We’re get-
ting contributions from everyone. That’s what we
need — we can’t rely on one or two people.”

Bridgewater head coach Mary Francis Heishman
was somewhat displeased with the play of her team.
Nevertheless: she credited the Generals for their ex-
ecution in the match.

“W&L played well, and I can take nothing away
from them,” Heishman said. “We didn’t play as well
as we have been playing, but there were some good
individual performances.”

The Generals host ODAC opponent Guilford Tues-
day at 6:30 p.m., and will participate in the Emory

hoto mi ames/Executive
P Y Y

ACE IN THE HOLE. Senior Katherine Kline

 

side hitter, who may be ready to return to action in

V change the ﬂow of the game. So for us to always be in

DID YOU HEAR?

...ua

Lexington Coffee won soe big ational ward as one of the
best quahty coffee houses in the whole country.

LEXINGTON

C0l?_l;‘EE

.(/1’ lI(I«\'/I'I‘l(/ (/I11)!/ill/1y

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO * BAGELS ° PASTRIES
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET - LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

Notice to all Stu.dant Leaders 

WASHIDIGTON AND LEE

PARENTS WEEKEND 2000

Novaxnbar 3 and 4

If your orga.uiza.t.iun plans to sponsor a .Pa;rant.s Weekend
event ‘which will be open to all parents and studants, please
contact Nellie nice, Parents Weekend Goordina1:ar,'Payna Hall a,
or Teresa Glas-amtan. Director of student. Auctivities. Uni.versi't°y center.
as soon as possible bust no later than September 29, 2006.

Tournament Sept. 29 and 30.

and Health
Education 1‘
Office

Q

serves against Southern Virginia.

Based on W&L CORE Survey data from 1998, 1999, 2000

 

 

3?

L   @1112 ﬁling-tum lﬁhi . L
AS! ORD ~
PAGE 8 SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

FMPHC develops new food program Weekend Beety Call Break-DOW“ ~

Dear Freshmen, tan area. The freshmen eating addic- even the early—in—the—freaking-mom-
As you dined in the GHQ, you tion has driven them to purchase non— ing meals.
might have heard the discontented university sanctioned edible goods 3. Freshmen must line up a1pha- ’
murmurings of the upperclassmen — such as ice cream, granola, and pizza. betically in the BDG Quad and march p assed _o ut A uto—e fOli C

 
 
  

soon; however, that murmur shall turn Places such as the local provider of the VMI style to the refractory. d expe [1 e nce

into a deafening cacophony. Iam the pizza pies, Domino’s, the sandwich 4. Freshmen must sit in their as- , _ an 89/

newly appointed Chairman of the maker, Spanky’s, and the Italian pasta signed seats according to their think/hope O

Freshmen Meal Plan Hearing Commit- procurer, Salerno’s, have been as- weight and sexual appeal. they had sex

tee and it is my job to give the pro- saulted en masse by unruly freshmen. 24%

verbial “bitch-slap” to the freshmen Domino’s has been the hardest hit Some member of the committee

for their insubordination. of all the local merchants v— the felt that a Scarlet F should be pinned

Several sophomores have testified Dominian Delivery Professionals have onto your shirts and tank tops. Luck— V M | G uys

that delinquent members of the fresh- home the brunt of the battering. ily cooler heads prevailed, and it has with D runk e n
men class have had the gall to dine Driver Billy Cohanas testified at the been decided that instead every

once a week in the very bastion of hearing, “I can’t take it much longer . . freshmen should have electronic bar ho rmo nal F reshme n
upperclassmen victuals, the GHQ. . these damn kids call me out in the codes grafted onto his forehead. im baia “C93 52%
One need not harken back far to the middle of the night to bring them food Following Tuesday’s breakfast, 3%

past to recall that freshmen once did like I’m their personal servant. . . I classes will be suspended so that all ' |_ong-Hau|

not have the option to eat the GHQ’s haven’t had a date the month since freshmen can attend the mandatory Booty C a"

moderately over—priced, average fare. school got back. My friend Chuck says Grafting Session at the W&L inﬁr-

Originally, the very purpose of the that it’s because I’m ugly, but I think mary at9arn. Coincidently, offended (3 hours or
GHQ was to provide sustenance for it’s becausel smell like pepperoni. They sophomores will be holding an im— more)
sophomores who were much too cool have just got to be stopped or I’ll never promptu paddling free-for—a1l on 1 3%

to show their faces in the cafeteria. get laid.” your behinds outside of the inﬁrmaiy
In fact, the presence of freshmen in Thus, the Freshmen Meal Plan Hear- at 9am too.

the GHQ has decreased the ESCM ing Committee has formulated this plan On Behalf of the FMPHC, I hope
(Eastern Standard Cool Measure— to prevent you punk freshmen from tear- that these new rules and regulations
merit) down from the already negli— ing down the very pillars of make our dining experience more
gible rating of 5.7 to the unaccept- Lexingtonian and Washington and enjoyable. If you have any ques-

   

able level of 3.24 —— which barely Leeian tradition. tions or comments, feel free to eat ‘
edges out the cafeteria. sh*t, as long as it’s in the cafeteria.
Not only are the freshmen abus— 1. Freshmen may only eat in the
ing the GHQ, they are also pro1iferat- Evans Dining Hall. Sincerely,
ing out into the Lexington metropoli- 2. Freshmen must eat every meal— Samuel H. Deficolon ,
Mom. Z3115/W14/L 07: 77%? WEEK. ,
7¢c'2!oLozéaoza/zac'aZctz'c'cao¢z'a¢clc;a/ac/rzecaolwééle
mama  , agwéde-doom 944 mow? ,
  0 0 ,
6'5"! 00 S
A
. . .BGOalISB SIIIIIBIIIIIES IIIBSIIEMIG EIIIIIIII
Uh-
uh...I
don’t
think
so. u 1
is E. NELSON st. (540 ) 464-4483‘
PROBLEM wmé THE LOCALS .7 i
WE’RE FROM ATLANTA.
3. J. '5 opens MON. ~ FRI. AT 4:00 AND ,
. _ SAT. - SUN AT NOON
Not bloody likely -- try again.
Bruce, M/23/Soph/ZEE/MI/Und. Eiffanv F/gt?/Juln/EYK/CA/ﬁrt H_ist- DON’T MISS OUR MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
' ; '- ' ' nos: eerea in, sopmg,
ia.'.‘,“.‘;'..".‘i.'§:a3E',"c.'.‘c".liT.-..‘?.’533$: ardnuien rrat orgies. aa-ices. swimming ’’’‘R" “W” '25 CENTLL-—-ﬁ*5"T WI” . ' 2 Fm 1 L‘
Lacrosse, and barbeques. Dislikes: it With VMI QUYS: 90SSiPi"9: bikini  AND SPECIAL-S WE CAN TADVERTISE
Sobriety, hangovers, and pants. Ext. Waxesrand M3|‘9a|‘ii53S- Dislikes: 5m€iiY: 1.55131.‘ _y
9375 gross, and sick things. Ext. 2668 V‘
Maxamillion w., M/19/SophIPElI/ Rvu M/19/50Ph/'6AII/ Jap_an/Int_- WHILE WFRE 0“ WE 5LLi3JECT Oi: FOOTBALL
MA/Econ. Enjoys: Money, golf, Eek E:J'ovsf=f_P9ketmon, Kabuki, iyshl. w£’VE GOT THE _/\_I£Z .52!/\/23:1)’ 7YC1(£'7'
R br h t ' I t ff (1. ' | arao e, e Icien cars, corpora ions,
e|eeppuha|.::ta5': I-i:p?,:lgc .,s.,"D:m:c",'a"::_ Nintendo, American women with the WATCH Youiz HOME TEAM 0N ouﬂ SCREENS L‘
Dislikes: Clinton, poor people, and fake b°5°m5- Disiikesi Ta" P1‘-'0Pie: WHILE ENIOYING OUR LUNCH SEECIALS OR
Cath0|ics_ Ext_ 1275 Sp0I‘tS, restricted trade. EXt.          _
Mary-Margaret F/2I/Jun/Ind./MO/ “3i9" Tex M/23/5e|'|IX0K/TX/Psych. * ”
Rel. Enjoys: Bible. Billveraham. Eniev-°~= Beef: death Penakvr "_'eX-<=an- 16 oz. T~ BONE STEAK wmt A BAKED POTATO
virginity, Sundays, sing-alongs and 9_|‘0i;me€i"ti3W:|S, C0U:;|'Vf mtlilfilclr Eutstii *
I I I I I I I I  a I u _
E’.t'.:":'.‘i:'..'Z'.i.'.'.Y"..‘.'..‘;‘-:‘.§.‘."l:7L".;."é?.;?i1:’.; ‘|c_i~'i'=i'Ias_—"°oi§§'-‘{«';'s5"= Lsuerzus.  AND Wee GREEN WAD ~$ 5 - 50 -
' eaimmi ran , rusan as. .
:ae§§7.2C "E:3.a§E'§°4s’ sex’ a'°°"°" am‘ 3322 9 9 9 V we ‘BUILT nus PLACE wmt You IN MIND. IF
YOU HAVEN'T FOUND US YET YOU NEEQ TO GET, ’
OUTAMORE. THE T. V.’S, ?’OOL TABLES. VIDEO '
GAMES, FOOSBALL TABLES. DART MACHINES,
DANCE FLOOR, AND LIBATIONS ARE HERE TO TAKE .
vow: MIND orr THE DAY. HAVING FUN IS ox:

 

 

Arch

  

 

{F 378. “I55
R552.

R

1

x/.{«CI’3,

 U112 lling-tum

v":*3. «

I

WASHINGTON AND LEE UN1vERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

      
 

MES 8. LEYBI
HIITJQJTO

VOLUME 103, No. 9

Peeping Tom
spotted

By Latrina Stokes

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee women living on McDowell
Street reported two cases of peeping ‘within the past
two weeks. I

The most recent peeping incident occurred on Wednes-
day, Sept. 27, around 7:45 p.m. The student, who wishes
to remain anonymous, was parking her car at the back of

her apartment building when she saw someone walk up '

the far side of the U-shaped drive.

“The driveway on the left is like a dark abyss,” she
said. “[From there] a rniddle—aged man came speed-walk-
ing out of the darkness towards me.”

The student was aware that one of the other student
residents reported a Peeping Tom two weeks earlier. “I
thought maybe this was him, so I stayed in my car and
watched him in the headlights.”

She said he began to walk away, but continued to give
her uneasy glances.

“Maybe he got nervous about me, because he bent
down and picked up a big stick.” He then walked out of
her view. The student then gathered her belongings,
locked her car, and ran toward the steps of her second
story apartment.

While she was trying to unlock the door, the man reap-
peared. “He was frantically shouting, ‘Ma’am! Ma’am!’ I
didn’t know what he wanted, but he kept trying to get my
attention,” she said.

Though she said the man did not come up the stairs or
attempt to follow her into the apartment, the encounter
scared her.

“I was visibly frightened,” she said. “ He’d have to be
a complete and utter moron not to see that.”

After telling her roommate about the encounter, she
called the police to file a complaint.

Two weeks earlier the police were called to the same
apartment building on McDowell Street. A W&L stu-
dent living on the first floor of the building was in her
bedroom when she spotted someone looking at her
through the window. When’ she went outside to con-
front the peeper, he was gone. She then called the po-
lice.

The two students, in comparing accounts of the sepa-
rate incidents, discovered that the descriptions of the
“Peepers” did not match up to be the same individual.

According to Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard,
about six “Peeping Tom” cases are reported in Lexington
every year.

“I think it’s terrible,” Beard said. “It takes a sick person
to do something like this.” .

Peeping or spying into a dwelling is a Class 1
rnisdearneaner under the Virginia State code. Three con-
victions in ﬁve years results in a Class 6 felony.

After the second incident occurred, new locks have
been installed on all outside "doors of the apartment build-
ing. Floodlights have been installed where trees block the
light of the streetlamps, and lights with motion detectors
have been added in the parking lot.

Lexington police have increased partols in the neigh-
borhood. Washington and Lee security now include
McDowell Street as part of their patroling rounds.

Pole House

. photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
POLICE LINE DO NOT CROSS. The Pole House

parking lot was the scene of the recent thefts
of credit cards, wallets, and purses.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

LEXINGTON RESIDENTS IN HISTORICAL DISTRICT. History Professor Taylor Sanders and his dog,
Marco Polo, pose in front of their home on Preston Street.

New regulations proposed for
“historic” residential area

By Mike Agnello

STA FF WRITER

A historic section of Lexington,
home to numerous Washington and
Lee professors, was the subject of de-
bate at a meeting of the Lexington City
Planning Commission on Thursday
night.

An advisory committee headed by
Carol Wheeler, wife ofW&L Account-
ing Professor Lyn Wheeler, and in-
cluding Art Professor Pamela
Simpson, proposed designating the

neighborhood surrounding the his-‘

toric downtown as a National Historic
District. Most of central Lexington is
already designated “historical,” but
is not subject to many additional regu-
lations. The new designation would
require residents to apply for permits
if they wish to construct additions to
any part of their property visible from
the street or tear down their houses.

Journalism Professor Ham Smith,
a resident of the neighborhood, also
supports the proposal.

“The historic designation will. . .
provide a mechanism whereby the
residents of that area and the city in
general has some sort of mechanistic
or bureaucratic oversight from pre-
venting. . . bad things from occur-

ring,” Smith said.

Simpson, who was invited to serve
on the committee because of her back-
ground as an architectural historian,
said that some of the homes are nearly
two hundred years old, and that the
current laws do not do enough to pro-
tect the property. She said that the
only restriction residents have is that
they cannot use federal funds to tear
down a building deemed historical by
the government.

“The only place that [restriction]
affects is VMI," Simpson said. .

Committee member Lewis Tyree
pointed out that the Col Alto build-
ing on Nelson Street was almost torn
down a few years ago, and that a few
minor restrictions could prevent more
modern buildings inconsistent with
Lexington’s architecture from being
built in place of the older homes.

“If we allow something like that to
happen, we’re likely to have a very
strong reaction. . . we’re much better
off having a sensible rule now,” he
said.

Many residents disagree, and are
resisting the regulation of their prop-
erty, saying that improving one’s prop-
erty is the sole decision of the owner.

“The right to property is one of
the most sacred rights we have in this

country,” said eight-year Lexington
resident Harry Hughes.

Tyree says he understands the
concerns of the homeowners, but that
preserving the city’s beauty takes pre-
cedence.

“We’ ve been lucky up till now, and
we can’t count on being lucky for-
ever,” he said.

The advisory committee drafted a
brochure that illustrated which areas
would be covered under the designa-
tion and what changes residents
would be allowed to make to their
homes. Though it explicitly states that
residents will have complete author-

ity overpchanges such as paint, they

will have to apply for permits if they
wish to make other improvements
deemed “significant” by their neigh-
bors. Hughes worries about this.

“‘Signiﬁcant’ is deﬁned in the eyes
of the beholder,” he said.

W&L History Professor Taylor
Sanders, also a resident of the
neghborhood, said he has not made
up his mind about the proposal, but
is wary of increased restrictions. Al-
though he trusts the people on the
committee now, he worries that sev-
eral years in the future things will

SEE ‘HISTORIC’ ON PAGE 2

automobiles burgled

Adelman said her address book was also inside of the

By Emily Barnes

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Two weeks after valuables were stolen out of their ve-
hicles, residents of the Pole Houses are still waiting to
ﬁnd out what happened to their belongings.

Seniors Laura Adelman, Becca Dupps, Faith Collins,
Stuart Crigler, and Marlea Leary were inside of their Pole
House at 207 Furrs Mill Road when several items were
stolen from their unlocked vehicles on Sept. 17. They said
the burglary occurred between 8:30 and 1 1:30 p.m. while
they were inside of their house.

“We were all here watching the Olympics,” Adelman said.

Adelman was the first to discover that her bag was
missing from her Volvo. She said that after she realized
she had not misplaced the bag, she reported -the bur-
glary to the Rockbridge County Sheriff ’s Department
early on Monday Sept. 18. The other residents discov-
ered that valuables were missing from their vehicles
and reported their discovery to the Sheriff ’s Depart-
ment later that day.

“Basically all of my notes and my school books were in
there,” Adelman said. '

bag. She said she suspects that the robber stole the bag
thinking that there was money inside of it.

“I’m sure that they thought there was a wallet in there,”
she said.

Crigler’s wallet, containing $40, two credit cards, and
three gas cards was stolen out of her Honda Civic.

“[The burglar] cut off the lights and didn’t shut the
door all the way,” Crigler said. *

The back right door of Dupps’ Jeep was left open
by the robber and the lights were turned off. Dupps
said the robber opened her CD case but did not steal
any of the CDS. Her portable CD player was also left
inside of the car.

The robber rummaged through Leary’s Jeep, but did not
take her CDS or cellular phone.

Collins’ straw purse was stolen from her Honda Civic.

The residents were outside cooking dinner on their
deck from 6 to 7:30 p.m. before the incident occurred. They
did not see anyone suspicious in the area at that time.

According to Rockbridge County Lt. Larry Conner, the
robbery is still under investigation.

Senior Adam Baker’s wallet was stolen out of his
bookbag in his unlocked Ford Bronco on the same night

MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 2000

that the other incidents occurred.

“I didn’t bother filing a report because it’s not worth
it,” Baker said. “The joke’s on them. There’s only six bucks
in there.”

Baker, who lives in the Pole House at 199 Furrs Mill
Road, said that he is now taking the extra precaution of
locking his car door all of the time.

The 207 F urrs Mill Road residents said that they initally
felt safe about leaving their vehicle doors unlocked at home
because they felt secure about the safety of the Pole House
block.

“It’s an open area,” Crigler said.

The residents said that they were accustomed to the
Honor Code rules that apply to the Washington and Lee
campus, and they thought it was acceptable to leave the
doors unlocked. _

“You get in that mindset . . .you think it would be OK to
leave your books [unattended]. . .the Honor System makes

A me feel lax about things like that,” Adelman said.

They said that they are more concerned now with their

-personal safety than with replacing the stolen items.

“All of that stuff can be replaced, “ Crigler said.
“Just the fact that they were so close to the house
scares us.” ‘

(J11: Bing-tum iﬂlii

October 2, 2000

 

 

 

Generals Féotball:
4-0, a first fnce 1961

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂhi R

NEWS

OCTOBER 2, 2000

 

  

By Mehul Srivastava

STAFF WRITER

Olympic drugs

This year’s Olympics concluded yesterday with an-
other bang. International Olympic Committee President
Juan Antonio Samaranch declaring this the best games
ever.

After two weeks of non-stop action, the games ended
as the last marathon runner made his way into the sta-
dium. But more than anything else, this year’s games will
be remembered as the year of doping. ‘

Eight athletes were stripped of their medals, and more
than 3,600 tests were run. The saddest story is that of 16
year-old Romanian gold medalist Andrea Raducan, whose
gymnastics medal was taken away after she tested posi-
tive for doping because she took cold medicine prescribed
by her doctor.

The IOC admitted it was being harsh and controversy
continues as the Romanian Olympics committee refuses
to ban her.

41 would-be Olympic atheletes were caught cheating
even before they made it to the Olympics, and a Romanian
hammer thrower was sensationally escorted from the ﬁeld
just minutes before her event.

Even more controversial are the allegations that the
United States is hiding drug use among its athletes, espe-
cially in track and ﬁeld events.

Investigations are probing charges that the US Olym-
pics committee sent athletes to the Olympics knowing
that they were abusing drugs. These charges have been
vehemently denied.

Violence in Jerusalem

More than 27 Palestinians died in protests against the
visit of Ariel Sharon, leader of Israel’s right wing party, to
the Temple Mount, which is Is1am’s third holiest shrine.
More than 700 Palestinians and 11 Israeli soldiers were
injured.

A 12-year-old boy was killed in the crossﬁre, as his
father was shot in the chest trying to shield him. An am-
bulance worker also died trying to rescue both of them.
The father is expected to recover from his injuries.

Sharon was found indirectly responsible for the killing
of hundreds of Palestinian refugees in 1983 when he was
defense minister during the Israeli invasion of Lebanon.

Most analysts blame the violence on the sensitivity
over the issue of control of religous sites. While Israeli

iH1sIoRn"’
FROM PAGE 1
change.

“I’m not as much concerned about my neighbors
as I am about the government,” he said, and warned
residents that such actions can lead to a “slippery
slope” of increased laws and regulations.

Smith, who has a master’s degree in American Gov-
ernment, says he does not agree.

“The slippery slope argument is not a good one
because then any law at all is the beginning of a slip-
pery slope,” he said.

Sanders served in an advisory capacity with the
Virginia Historical Commission thirty years ago when
it designated dowtown Lexington as a historical area,
and says he has seen the beneﬁts of such a designa-
tion.

“Over the years, [the designation] has helped im-
prove the town. . . the neighborhood is wonderful,” he
said.

Simpson also says that she does not think the
comrnittee’s proposal goes too far.

“Basically, [we’re] trying to extend some sort of
protection in to the neighborhood. . . it’s very limited
[in its scope].”

Bob Lawrence, a retired dentist, strongly disagrees,
claiming that in preparing the brochure the committee
has glossed over important details that will greatly
affect the lives of Lexington residents.

“It’s not what’s in there, it’s what’s not. . . this thing
has been sprinkled with pixie dust,” he said.

 
    

\

t.Tl-IE1 VVORLD

THIS VVEEK

prime minister Ehud Barak and Palistinian leaderYasir
Arafat continue to talk, trying to quiet down the vio-
lence, street ﬁghts continued near Joseph’s tomb and
other parts of the embattled city.

Death tolls reach 900 in India

In India alone close to 900 people are dead due to the
worst ﬂooding the eastern part of the country has seen
in decades.

As water levels recede, sanitation problems and the
rotting carcasses of farm animals are also causing health
problems.

Almost 18 million have lost their homes, just days
before one of the nation’s most widely celebrated festi-
vals, Durga Puja. Some people have been marooned on
roof tops for almost two weeks while the army struggles
to distribute rations and water puriﬁcation tablets.

A quarter of neighboring Bangladesh is also under
water, with no ofﬁcial death counts made. But it is be-
coming clear that the damage to crops will have strong
repurcussions in both countries. ‘

Euro rejected

Danish voters dealt a strong blow to European inte-
gration by rejecting a proposal to accept the Euro as
their currency. The Euro, which has steadily lost value
for the last two years, now stands around 88 cents to
the United States dollar.

1 1 countries out of 15 European Union members, have
accepted the Euro as their ofﬁcial currency and the rejec-
tion could slow down the momentum for integration.

By a margin of 53 to 47, Denmark joined Britain and
Sweden in choosing to hold on to their currency in 2002,
when the rest of the EU switches to the Euro. The EU
hopes to bring all of Europe under the same legislative,
economic, and trade umbrella, in an attempt to consoli-
date the industrial prowess of the continent.

The top Olympic medal-wimiing countries

The United States won 97 medals. Russia won 88.
China won 59. Australia won 58. Germany won 57.
France won 38. Italy won 34. Cuba won 29. Great
Britain won 28. South Korea won 28. Rumania won 26.
The Netherlands won 23. Ukraine won 23. Japan 18.
Hungary won 17. Belarus won 17. Poland won 14.
Canada won 14. Bulgaria won 13. Greece won 13. Swe-
den won 12. Brazil won 12. Spain won 1 1. Norway won
10. Switzerland won 9.

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

Go, GENERALS. Washington and Lee students show off their spirit and fashion sense cheering
on the football team as it cruises to an easy victory over Randolph Macon. The Generals are
now the first ranked team in the Old Dominion Conference. Read more about it on page seven.

 

W&L authors share hunting and

ﬁshing stories

Field Notes: Reﬂections of Hunters and Anglers,a col-
lection of stories about hunting and ﬁshing, has recently
been published. A total of 20 authors, all with ties to Wash-
ington and Lee, contributed stories to the project which was
sponsored by the Leyburn Fund. Copies of the book are
available in the bookstore for $14.95. Courtesy W&L Website

Heather Ross Miller publishes

memoirs

Heather Ross Miller, the Thomas H. Broadus Jr. Profes-
sor of English at Washington and Lee, is the author of
Crusoe’s Island: A Story of a Writer and a Place (Coastal
Carolina Press), a memoir on her experiences living and writ-
ing in a North Carolina state park. This is her seventh book
published in the last 10 years. Courtesy W&L Website

 

aught!

Matthew McDermott

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Six members of the Cadaver Society were surprised
and two unmasked when eight freshmen football play-
ers, hiding in the bushes around Wilson ﬁeld, appre-
hended them past midnight before they could spray-
paint the ﬁeld before the Randolph Macon game.

“I could recognize them if I saw them again,” said
one of the freshmen, who asked to be left unnamed.
“If they want to buy me off, that’d be great.”

After their capture, the Cadavers, reported to be
seniors Tyler Jorgensen and Phillip Wright, told the
freshmen “that they didn’t mean any disrespect-—it
was just tradition.” After the freshmen left, the Ca-
davers ﬁnished spraying the ﬁeld.

The Cadaver Society, formed in 1957 as a social
club that provided anonymous ﬁnancial aid to Wash-
ington and Lee students, is best known for its 1988
$100,000 behest to the Fraternity Renaissance pro-

gram.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

COUNSELING SUPPORT GROUP FOR
WOMEN IN RECOVERY FROM
SEXUAL ASSAULT

A confidential support group sponsored by the University Counseling
Service will begin meeting weekly for Washington and Lee women
who have experienced sexual/abuse, inlcuding severe sexual harassment,
at any time in their lives. Each member will sign an agreement of
conﬁdentiality at the first meeting. Please call Carol Calkins,
the Counseling Service secretary, at X8590 or the Health Service
at X8401 to learn of the time and location.

 

X

 

OCTOBER 2, 2000

  U

@1112 tiling-tum jtllii

PINION

PAGE 3

Construction persists,
patience wears thin  

There will soon be even more.
Reid Hall will be renovated next
year, moving all journalism classes
into modular buildings. The music
department will be moving into a
new building in a

  

4th year Sophomore
Geoffrey White ’05

few years. There
are plans in the
works for a new

Most people, I am sure, would
agree that the campus of Washing-
ton and Lee is one of the most beau-
tiful places on earth. Its columns will
forever remind us of the classes, fra-
ternities, and .. .
organizations  « -I

that defined ‘ 

who we were  "

for four years. i

(Or, in my case, six or so years.) Un-
fortunately, there is also the continu-
ous construction.

Last year, we all waited patiently
as the parking garage and sorority
houses were completed. We tried to
ignore the noise and the eyesore of
the construction on our way to tail-
gating, athletic practice, or other ex-
tracurricular “activities” at the Ru-
ins. We try not to pay attention to
the construction crane, which
seems to be permanently parked on
the plaza. This year, residents of
Woods Creek are trying to ignore
the gaping hole where the road
used to be.

Now we find out that we must wait
even longer; the sorority houses are
still not completed. Some people
could not move in on time, some wake
up every morning to construction
crews. The worst part is, the columns
of those beautiful sorority houses we

  

. always maintained.

University Com-
mons.

Despite the efforts to make our
campus beautiful, it is instead being
given it the feel of a permanent con-
struction zone. This is not a unique
situation. Most universities across
the country are expanding. The
booming economy permits us the
luxury of these extensive projects,
most of which are genuinely needed
to keep up the standard of excellent
education Washington and Lee has

i What I propose is this: After the
sorority houses are finally fin-
ished, after our little road by‘
Woods Creek has been restored,
after the roof of Washington Hall
is replaced, let’s have a campus
appreciation week. N o cranes, no
bulldozers, no early-morning
wake-up calls by construction
crews. Let’s enjoy the beauty of
our campus in its entirety. After

 

Graphics Editor
Online Editor
Business Manager

otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi

Colin Mitchell
Monica Schoenthaler
Ginger Phillips

Paul Seifert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publications
Board elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday to appear
in that week’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions
of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

 

 

By Christine Metzger

From comments I received about last week’s col-
umn, I will assume that I am not the only person who
believes in the current crisis state of fashion at W&L.

I’ve also realized that the paltry advice in my last
column merely scratched the surface of a very large
pimple. So, I’ve spent the past few days, in cognito,
disguised as a sick person in her pajamas (which I was),
taking special note of what you all are wearing. Boy,
do you guys need some help. Bring out the smelling

salts, defibrillators, oxygen masks but not the body

bags, yet.

As I said last week, there is hope, which I found this
week in sighting a leopard print coat, fabulous camel-
colored pumps, pais1ey—print capris, all being worn by
fine females on this campus. Good work, women!

For those of you less-skilled, here’s Cat’s Manda-
tory Fashion Advice, Part II (the unabridged version):

1. Capri pants are not the same thing as pants that are
too short for you. Capri pants are fashionable (again, NOT
on everyone), but pants that you outgrew (in two dimen-
sions) freshman year are not. _ _

2. Tapered ankle jeans. Boys, do not fear the bootleg
pant; trust me, they appear no more girly than appearing
to have your pants tucked into your shoes. And they’ll
make your butt and legs look sexy.

3. A corollary to last week’s no black socks with run-
ning shoes (and no, you can’t do it even if you’re wearing
pants): No white socks with leather shoes, non-sneaker
shoes, dress shoes. Your own mother would scold you for
it; it just looks tacky.

4. Give up the Tevas!

5. Set free your Adidas sport sandals!

waited so patiently for are of such that, the sound of machinery can . 6- Soho your gaudlly‘ooloroo» rnlnbowrlflo running
poor quality, they must be replaced. reign supreme once more, and the Photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor shoos (that you huyo _noVor» oyor run in) away foroyorl
S00na We Will try n01 t0 nntice as administration Can tear d0Wn and IT JUST KEEPS ON GOING. . . The portion of East Denny Circle in front of the 7‘ Whlte Sneakers 1" gen°ra1‘These are the one thmg
those Columns are rebuilt by some‘ build “P to lts uoartis °ont‘°~n_t- But Parking Garage is closed due to work related to the University Master Facili- that :0“ can Eltgn afnd theln g.0 a?1y1:l./hire IE1 lthe world

' 0“? hopefully more quallﬁedthanthe f°r_ ‘me Weehwhy Canlt we Slmply ties Plan, continuing the campus utility loop system. This phase of construc- ain av‘: a  Sdo lpelzp tetnn taA m.S O uages
original builders. enjoy what we already have? . . . . . . 83139 an say: o » oo 3 3 rnorloun oy aro
tion is estimated to be finished in two months. Until then, access to the park- not adnnnng your fashion Sense; they are wisningtney

ing garage will be limited to one entrance on the first floor closest to Route 60 could smack you upside the head with your glowing

and one lane on the fourth ﬂoor entrance behind the Warner Center. white Reehoks without causin an international inci-

‘ g
dent.
vote of the Week I . . f . . ....f.;::,‘:.‘:::‘;::.:‘;::.:i:;:::::::::::$.::::~;;:£‘.::
( C  V        hard, but for the love of all things holy, please cover
it y q y up those cold feet.

. 9.Ah,hNithf ' .W ’h be "fl

Who are you and Why 5° here’s the S°e“e“°= 1“ Sunday Butbasicaiiy» theiibrary is for Studr There is a plethora of ‘classrooms Sight the iiaey tfie ski: r:ii:::i:d ti:irtie:tg:an::tia:t

9 1 ' 9 night‘ You and_y°ur friends are Sitting lug’ not for talking Wailable Within the Coniinos of the week? A sea of the same coat, replicated in different col-

aren t you a In ' around’ gossiping about the past First and foremost you need to Colonnaoo We suggest you find 3 ors, a plenitude of styles and lengths. What a diverse

9‘ . . Weekend events’ or maybe’ ltis Sun‘ understand that tho “ﬁsh bowls” are nice cozy classroom in Newcomb. lace this is!
-—Anonymous twin girl to d ' h d I CC 1 ~ ‘ P ‘_ . _ .

b ay  t an you ' on group S not Sound Proof Everythlng you NeWCOIl'lb 0ffCrS  thC standard  Invgst lnagood rnln-or (full_1ength’ thrge-way),a_nd

cute oy working on a project. Either way, you say, from calculus to lame hook-up style of Classroom or the Seminar style use in please_ Fm not talking about people being unaware

9 9 _ and la numtblekri of 1 , _ol3ssroorn- Either Way you onnit go of some extra poundage hanging out on their rear side. I’m

4 £:(r)E:p:‘re iatlrllfr’    Wrong-t Asl in aftlgod lilonussllgt ltitiia talking about people putting together ridiculous outﬁts
, 0 _ _ oornPu or 3 W1 3 P ono u is and not looking into a mirror where they would instantly

D t  ‘S Opt ll   & K3116  ‘O1 lS I10t t0 discriminate against the SCl- realize thgir ggregious grrgl-_ A simple act’ 1'ga_l1y_

O    ﬁfmitf u,r pfglrﬁils’ onoo Center» the C'Sohool’ tho J" 11. Shop somewhere other than the holy trinity of

. i . atth fig“ re mg. ht b . .t t. _ , Schools Tuokora Paynoa or Robinson Abercrombie, J. Crew, and Banana (or substitute in your

‘   9 In B 1 rary you Hug 6 1m a mg a °°“"°“at‘9"S’ can a_nd W111 b.e uefud Hausa Wluoh also can accommodate favorite alternative). Speaking as someone who put in two
° lot ofpe0p1e' by your neighbors In the afuommg your groupis nooos years’ service at Aberland, the quality of their clothes is

Granted, there are some areas of fish bowls. So by default, if you’re The bottom hne is that you hood on par with Kman Thafs not a dis to the Big K, where I am

Leybum whereltis afceptable to. Carry listening to music’ you need to Wear to show your follow olassrnatos com‘ a regular shopper — at least they charge prices commen-

n Write a letter or editorial for the Phi!  l?eadln_l‘°"eS' H°re,1:iE"°t11°’; S"gg°s' ‘"0" °°urt°sy- Your ybur friends’ 0‘ surate I0 W0rth- Everyone Shopping at the Same Place

- t1on- you are Wor 8 W1 3 groulia fellow group members might sincerely ' w&L f th ' w d h d f 1 ’

ltis kopt to 3 Whisper: oyon the area do not us‘? the library The more care about your conversation, but no fg‘.-31,1:::us foh moreo atlcky on er tea 66 we re so

All submissions must be in by Friday at 5 p.m. around the first ﬂoor computers ls ok‘ people you have’ the louder It gets‘ One 6156 d0€s- 12. A newly added fashion accessory to the Lex
E_mal-I phl-@wh/Led“ or drop Offat University scene: cell phones. Puh-lease. One, do you realize how

‘~ absolutely ridiculous yourlook? This town is the size

Center room 208 . .

- of a postage stamp, bless it, and to be walking around
the Co-op or Hill with one attached to your ear makes
me want to throw things. At you. Unless, of course,

‘ you’re calling people with the urgent newsﬂash that
~ V you suck and should be drawn and quartered for being
all R. ' iﬂh- so gauche — by all means, go ahead. Two, you are
E 1   I also a hazard to your fellow students, namely me, when
Exm,m,6 Ed,«,0,S ‘ Stephanie man“, you are so busy yabbing away on your cell phone that
*1 Emily Barnes you nearly hit me in the parking garage, causing me to
News Editor Max Smith yell horrible, unprintable things, while you continue to
Am"“"' News Editor Ma“ M°D°""°“ have verbal diarrhea into your very small mobile (I
Opinions Editor Tara Ann Friedel _ , . Z

W&L,-fe Edna, Alexis Yee_Gal.cia know who you are, pray we don t meet in the parking

K Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin garage under the cover of darkness.)
‘ C0""‘I'bufI'ng Ediwrs ilvﬁfsica J0n<_‘—S Now that l’ve gotten that out of my system, I think
[Mr Word Edimr Br‘y°;‘:°1l:aSl;m°“d°“ I’ve made my point. Don’t cross me in the parking ga-

Phom Ed,-,0, Lisa Lin rage, and please think before you dress.

Staff Photographers Mary Guy It’s a dangerous world out there, kids, and I’m just

A A Martha Edwards here to protect you from bad fashion.

Just call me F.P.C. -— fashion police cat, sorta like a
firehouse dalmatian, only less slobber and a whole lot
more slink.

 What show would you like to see on W&L’s Channel 2?

 

“Something like the Real World —- I’d,
call it Dorm Life — just to see a bunch
of people getting into ﬁghts.”

-Mina Oh ‘02

“The Strip Poker Show. . .
because there are some fine
people I’d like to see naked on

this campus!”
-Matt Socha ‘O1

1 Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

“W&L Roller Derhy! ‘Nuf said.”
-Rich Reynolds ‘03

“I’m looking forward to seeing the
Survivor show; frat guys, frat girls, in a
cabin for a wee 

Annual subsription rate: $30 -ChﬁstinaJu1jan ‘()1

 

 

PAGE 4

Cilia ilting-tum iﬂtri

SEPTEMBER 25, 2000

I am the NRA

'ght of the Aisle
Brett T. Kirwan ’04

Last Monday, I joined the NRA.
N o, I don’t own any gun racks or be-
long to a militia. In fact, I don’t even
own a gun. But I do believe that the
right to own a ﬁrearm, guaranteed to
Americans by the Second Amend-
ment to the Constitution, among other
rights, is under assault. I also believe
that the NRA is the only organiza-
tion with a national audience commit-
ted to defending that right. And, its
president, Moses, has been to the
Planet of the Apes.

Whether merely misguided or se-
riously dedicated to undermining our
most basic rights, many on the left
seek to make it illegal for law-abiding
citizens to own any gun, let alone a
pistol or an assault riﬂe. No, they re-
ally don’t have any plan for prevent-
ing crirninals from procuring guns,
just lawful citizens.

Many would respond with the ar-
gument that the Second Amendment
only gives “militias” the right “to keep
and bear arms.” However, it is “the
right of the people” that “shall not be
infringed.”

Another argument against per-
sonal ownership of guns is that it
leads to too many accidental deaths
and too much juvenile violence. Now,
while these are both tragic realities
and I‘in no way intend to diminish
their cost to society, both problems
can be solved with strict enforcement
of current laws.

As an aside, my home has always
had a loaded gun in it and no one has
shot himself. Maybe we should de-

mand parental responsibility instead,

of depending on the government.
Nevertheless, the costs of making
gun ownership illegal are even
greater. Australia recently outlawed
the private ownership of handguns.
The lawful citizenry largely obeyed
the edict to turn in their weapons and,
as a result, the island has experienced
an explosion of burglaries, robberies,

and muggings. Violent
crime has increased
73% since the ban went
into effect. Knowing
that they will be unop-
posed, save by a kitchen
knife, criminals have be-
come so brazen as to
burgle homes in broad
daylight, with the resi-
dents at home! In Brit-
ain, another island
known for its draconian
gun laws, the populace
has come to expect,
much like one expects a
few flat tires or late
trains, that their homes
will be burglarized.

In the United States,
we have seen the oppo-
site result in states that
permit its citizens to
carry concealed weap-
ons. In these states, vio-
lent crime rates have
plummeted because

.41

 

criminals aren’t sure if
grandma is going to
shoot back or not. Criminals are cow-
ards. They prey on the easiest target
and are ﬁnicky about entering homes
which may have a gun.

Larger issues are also in play.
Upon seizing power in 1933, the Na-
zis immediately seized handguns
owned by the citizens they deemed
threats. In 1928, the democratically
elected center-right German govem—
ment, in order to curb gang vio-
lence, required that all handguns be
registered, so the Nazis’ job was
that much easier. In 1938, Hitler so-
lidified his power by outlawing pri-
vate gun ownership. We all know
what he was then free to do to un-
desirables.

When Castro came to power, his
goons seized all privately owned ﬁre-
arms to eliminate the power of dissi-
dents to resist his rule. Once again,
their task was easy because the
Batista government had required
handgun registration.

Stalin, Mao, Idi Amin, and Pol
Pot also all made genocide an easier
task by implementing harsh gun
control laws. These notorious des-
pots all heeded the Founding Fa-
thers’ advice that an armed popu-
lace is necessary to resist a tyran-
nous government.

So what, you say, gun ownership
won’t ever be illegal, guns just need
to be made safer with trigger locks
or identification systems in the
grips.

Rapists, muggers, burglars, and
thugs agree with you. They want
victims to struggle with a clumsy
trigger lock or an unreliable elec-
tronic gewgaw instead of defend-
ing themselves. The firearm is prob-
ably the most perfect mechanical
device produced by man. Compli-
cating it with unnecessary electron-
ics will only make them too unreli-
able or too difficult to use.

Additionally, the drive to make

V

RETIREMENT

   

ENSUBANEE

doesn't apply to taxes.

Social Security.

When you're investing for retirement, the adage
"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today"

That's because investments that aren't eroded by taxes
can add up to significantly more money for you-
money you can use to supplement your pension and

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax
deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax-saving solutions—along with TIAA-CREF’s
low expenses and solid history of performance-—can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% maybe
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

MUTUAL FUNDS

Tax-deferred solutions
from TIAA-CREF can
help you reach your
retirement goals faster.

$102,068

TRUST SEBVIAEES

' TAX DEFEHHAL MAKES A DIFFERENCE

TUITION FINANETNG

Aﬁer-tax savings

reﬂect expenses.

Taxdeferred savings after taxes‘

$67,5 1 4

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield_
may vary. The chart above is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reﬂect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIA‘A-CREF account, or

   
   

 

buying a gun increasingly difficult
doesn’t affect hoodlums buying
pieces out of trunks. Rather, this is
pretty clearly a liberal ploy to force
legitimate dealers out of business
and make purchasing a weapon so
convoluted and expensive that no
one bothers. Either by force of law
or weight of regulation, the libs are
determined to prevent laweabiding
citizens from exercising their Con-
stitutional right to own firearms. I’m
fighting back.

Stop making excuses

   

Consider this
Ginger Phillips ’01

 
 

I was watching my daily dose of CNN
news the other day when yet another fas-
cinating story about the upcoming presi-
dential election aired. The piece focused
on that select group of indecisive voters
that could make or break the election for
either George W. Bush or Al Gore.

“I have four young children,” said
one undecided woman. “I don’t have
time to listen to the issues, or even to
vote for that matter,” she said.-

Dumbfounded that this woman
could  believe that the future of
her children could be so unconnected
to the results of the November election
and the next four years in American
politics, I turned to one of my friends
for some rational explanation.

‘‘I know how that woman feels,” she
said to my surprise. “People our age are
just too busy to keep up with the issues.
I have no idea where the candidates stand,
so I’m not going to vote at all.”

And that was that. I realized that
both the woman on television and my
friend were ﬁrmly committed to allow-
ing the opportunity to help decide this
nation’s future slide by on excuses.

I also realized that they are not alone.
Let’s ask ourselves why political can-
didates focus on winning the vote of
every legal voting age group except our
own. Why are Bush and Gore talking
about prescription drug plans to se-
niors across the country instead of cir-
cling the American college circuit to dis-
cuss issues that affect 18-25 year olds?

The answer is simple: we don’t vote.

The student community here at Wash-
ington and Lee University is not immune
to this voting apathy. This is the ﬁrst presi-
dential election in which ﬂie majority of
W&L students are eligible to participate,
yet I have a feeling that most have thought
very little about their actual role in the
upcoming election. V

What may sound obvious is that the
voting process is not as simple as just
showing up at your local voting booth
and pressing a button on the big day.

First, you must register to vote in
the county which you claim as your
permanent residence. Since most W&L
students are not permanent residents
of Rockbridge County, they must also
request an absentee ballot from the
Registrar of Voters in their home county
and in most cases, return the ballot by
the day preceeding election day.

The voting process is by no means a
difﬁcult one, but will involve a little paper
work for most W&L students. All states
have different deadlines for both voter
registration and absentee ballot requests,
so procrastination is not really an option
if you are planning to vote.

A couple of easy ways to register
to vote are by picking up a registration
form from the University Registrar’s
Office or by visiting www.election.com
or a variety of other websites which
provide the proper forms.

We are adults now and the political
decisions of our nation, no matter how
remote they may seem from our W&L
bubble, will affect our future.

So don’t miss this chance to make a
difference. Stop making excuses. Vote.
And if you don’t, then I have two words
for you: don’t complain.

Bank One

Scholar Program

The Bank One Scholar Program combines on-the-job experiences at Bank
One with a graduate business education earned in the evening program at
either the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business or the Kellogg
Graduate School of Management at ltlorthwestern University.

Bank One Scholars are Chicago-based, but many complete one or more
6-month rotations at Bank One locations nationally or internationally.

- Comrnercial Banking - Private Clientservices - Sales& Trading

aAivrr_EoivL-'.

- InvestrnentBanking , - Strategy8z Planning - Corporate Finance

A 1 - 8 0 0 - 8 4 2 - 2 7 7 6 - Retail Banking ' - Credit Card Banking - Internet Banking ’ A

www.tiaa-cref.org . .  
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully     S   >   O    I ‘
Tonight >, University Center Room 114 > 7:00 P.M.

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

before you invest. 0 TIAACREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TlAA Real Estate variable annuities. - Teachers
Personal Investors Services, Inc. drstnbutes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. 0
llAA and TlAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities, t llAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.
- investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. © 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03

 

I

 

OCTOBER 2, 2000

IFE

  g  2 lting-tum i|Hhi'

PAGE 5

W&L Big Buddy

Program returns

By ShelleylMeyer
STAFF WRITER

This Bud, from the Big Buddy
Program, is for you.

The Big Buddy program is part
of a branch of the Nabors Service
League that targets elementary chil-
dren at Waddell and Central elemen-
tary schools.

According to sophomore Besty
Ely, there are approximately 30 Big
Buddies returning from last year. Ely
is not only a Big Buddy, but also
the children and youth contact for
the Nabors Service League.

“It’s the most important experi-
ence I have had here,” Ely said. “It
really puts things into perspective.
You spend two hours a week with a
kid who really needs you.”

Big Buddies are required to com-
mit to spend at least two hours a
week with their little buddy. Bud-
dies can mentor the kids, talk, or
just play around.

Ely said that she and her little
buddy “just run around play-
grounds.”

The Big Buddy Program is cur-
rently not very structured, said Ely,
but is being revamped. University
Activities Coordinator Teresa

Glassman is helping the service
league reorganize the program, in-
cluding forming a student advi-
sory committee. This advisory
committee will run the information
session on Tuesday.

“The complaint has been that
students get so excited, because
it’s a great opportunity, but then
they don’t follow up with their little
buddy,” said Glassman. “So the
student advisory committee is
going to do follow—up phone calls
and try to get together as a group
and process what has happened
with the little buddies.”

There are also hopes that the
student advisory committee will
also help maintain the program in
the future.

“We’re trying to make it a pro-
gram that perpetuates itself and
lasts from year to year,” said Ely.

This program is unique to
Washington & Lee, it is not affili-
ated with the national Big Botherl
Big Sister organization.

“It is not the exact program the
Big Brothers/Big Sisters is be-
cause it’s not nationally based,”
said Glassman. “But it very much
mirrors what that program is like.”

Ely said that they hope to have

i

p oto courtesy of Gabby LaRocca

MY BUDDY: Sisters and Little Buddies Kristen Robinson
and Amber Wright show off the goldﬁsh they won at the
Children’s Carnival last spring term, sponsored by the
children and youth branch of the Nabor’s Service League.

about 30 more Big Buddies this
year, but that quality is more im-
portant than quantity.

“We want committed people,”
said Ely.

Glassman hopes that the appli-
cation process to the Big Buddy
Program will help determine which
students will be the most commit-
ted and explain to students what
is expected of/them.

“The school counselors from
Central and Waddell [Elementary

New art adorns C-school walls

Latest exhibit ’
features local
artist and college
professor p

By Monica Schoenthalerl

STAFF WRITER

The unveiling of the new series
of paintings to adorn the walls of
the Williams Commerce School met
with appreciation on Friday after-
noon.

Attendees of the lecture entitled
“The process of creating a paint-
ing” given by Barbara Crawford, the
artist and a professor at Southern
Virginia College in Buena Vista,
mingled in the entryway of the C-
School during the reception to ap-
preciate and discuss the works. The
series of paintings, which con-
sisted of mainly monochromatic
prints and somewhat abstract oil
paintings of houses, seemed well
received by faculty and students
here at Washington and Lee.

Professor Larry Stene of W&L’s
Art department attended the recep-
tion to critique and admire Crawford’s

work

“I like the overall freshness of the
work, the immediacy,” said Stene.
“Her oils are very luminous. Most
artists use canvas, but she uses
masonite and plexiglass, which ac-
centuates the paint’s skin.
Crawford’s use of glazing technique
produces intense coloration, which

leads to a nice contrasting bal-
ance.”

W&L faculty and students
were not the only people gathered
to view Crawford’s artwork. Many
Lexington, Buena Vista, and
nearby area residents also gath-
ered to offer support and appre-
ciation. Tom and Betty Goad of
Lexington have been following
Crawford’s work since they moved
to Lexington in 1993. I

“I like [Crawford’s] work very
much. I would buy a painting if I
had any room left on my walls,”
said Betty Goad.

Several of Crawford’s Southern
Virginia College students also at-
tended the reception. Freshman
Andrew Anderson of Buena Vista
is currently enrolled in Crawford’s

28th.

     

art history course. He decided to
take the course, which covers art
from the prehistoric era to the me-
dieval period, after hearing reports
from previous students of
Crawford being “passionate”
about art and an overall excellent
professor.

Crawford’s passion for art
shows in her work, according to
those present for the exhibit’s

opening. Senior Mirella Dragieva, D

a C-School major, described the
paintings as “different. Last year,
we had lots of plain lines, triangles
. very abstract. These paintings
[by Crawford] are abstract as well,
but they seem more personal.”
Crawford’s art will be on dis-
play in the C-School until October

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

Fran Peppers and artist Barbara Crawford proudly
unveil the C-Scho0l’s latest art exhibit.

Schools] will be here to answer any
questions and let people know
that, once getting their application
filled out, they’ll go through an in-
terview process and be matched
with a little buddy,” explained
Glassman. “They’re going to try to
pair up as many people as pos-
sible.”

The Big Buddy program will
have its fall organizational meeting
Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the Univer-
sity Center game room. '

    

By Michael Crittenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Though this column prides it-
self on reviewing nontraditional ales
and lagers, beers not really seen
much in the fraternity base_ments_ of
Lexington, I occasionally like to in-
voke my editorial privilege to digress
and review a beer more familiar to
the Palms and Traveller’s hopping,
steamy frat basement crew. Hence
this week’s choice of Yuengling’s
Original Amber Lager.

At $4.50 a six-pack Yuengling is
fairly light on the wallet, andis a slightly
classier altemative to the others in the
medium to low price beers.

The beer itselfis of a medium am-
ber color, and has a mild hop taste.
The standard—bearer of the company,
the lager ﬂows smoothly from bottle
to gullet, and has a pleasant aftertaste
that isn’t too overbearing.

All in all, I give Yuengling a 8
out of 10 on the 1998 Beer Fest
Scale. A fun beer to have with a
barbeque or with a Northern tailgate

before the big game, Original Am-

ber Lager is a relaxed alternative to

.your usual selections. For more in-

formation check out the Yuengling
website at www.yuengling.com.

Next week’s beer will be Abita’s
Purple Haze, hailing from Abita
Springs, Louisiana. Till then, tip your
cups and drink one for me.

1 By Ashley Klimp
STAFF WRITER

Fun Foods & Accessories,
Painted Lady, and now Caroline’s
Sweets is the most recent in the
series of additions to Lexington’s
business environment.

-The owner, Caroline Dix,
opened the French-style bak-
ery on September 15.

“We’ve been very busy,”
said Dix. “It’s been great.”

Before it was Caroline’s
Sweets, 8 North Main Street was
Country Kitchen, owned by
Paul Campbell. Dix originally
approached Campbell about a
job. Campbell was looking, to
retire and saw an opportunity if

V Dix was interested in buying the
store. Dix agreed and the ‘store
changed hands in August.

Virginia is familiar tenitory to
Dix, who lived in Charlottesville
and ran the Foods ofAll Nations
bakery for the past two years. Dix
was happy to move to Lexington
since she livedin the Rockbridge
areafrom 1991 to 1998.

Though she has always en-

Pastries of 

‘ ‘nurse for five years heforeshe ’

, sortment of bakedgoods.

SWEET room: One of Caroline’s Sweets employees, 1 '
Janice Memmolo, mans the pastry counter. , *

joyed baking, Dix worlcieidias“ a" 

decided that she. would rather
take a chance doinglsomethinge; »
she loved for a ‘living. She  T
her nursing job and from 1982 to 
1983 she studied baking at  ,
Pot au Fen in France‘. [ 1: 7  . :
“I worked two jobs ‘and,had“’ 
two huge garage sales to aecorn- .
plish this,”Dix  S  f
While attending the  I
Dix found that she already knew i .
a great deal of What was being ,1 if
taught. . I ' Z , .  
“I learned that I knew a Iot‘,”“3
Dix’ said. “It did a great for 2 A
my self condidence.”  ‘ ,
Caroline’s Sweets sells. t1'adi’~-7 I
tional cafe drinks such as coffee: ’
and tea in addition to aiwidefas-B

  

Dix describes the bakeryfs A,
selection as “anything from mnf-I ’
fins to wedding cakes.” I A I .

Dixspassionforbakingshows‘ f
in the quality of her brownies and} i ’
breakfast foods, which have bee
the most popular items -on 
menu, as well asthe rnanypoth P
extravagant pastries available.

  
   
  
  
   
  
   

   

photo by emsiy ‘Blames/E 

P Y
DECISIONS, DECISIONS: Crittenden selects a Yuen

     

es xecutive Editor

gling

traditional lager from six offerings by America’s oldest

brewery.

Lexington Coffee won some big national award as one of the
best quality coffee houses in the whole country,

LEXINGTON

COFFEE

(— . 9’.
.ﬁIl(lA'/lI[y (>001/v(u(Iy

 

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - BAGELS ° PASTRIES
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ' LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

 

PAGE 6

‘II

@1112 Bing-tum iﬂht

SPORTS

 

OCTOBER 2, 2000

W&L sets record with win streak

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The men’s soccer team contin-
ued their unbeaten streak with a
pair of victories this week,Idefeat-
ing both Hampden-Sydney and
Lynchburg by wide margins. The
Generals also broke the record for
consecutive wins on Saturday
with their seventh straight victory.

The Generals beat Hampden-
Sydney 4-0 on Thursday. Senior
Andy Crawford scored three min-
utes into the" game, and found the
net again at 24:38 with the help of
junior Rick Schnatz.

“[My teammates] put me in a
position to score,” Crawford said.
“All I had to do was put the ball in
back of net.”

Schnatz scored with ten min-
utes left in the game, and two min-
utes later, freshman Philip Miller
assisted sophomore Sean Hardin
for the final goal.

Sophomore goaltender Tim Foley
saved all four shots he faced, giving
the Generals the shutout Foley said
the game was much closer than the
score suggested, however.

“They had their chances, but
we stayed solid in the back and
our forwards [scored on] their

chances,” Foley said.

Saturday’s game against the
Lynchburg Hornets opened with both
teams getting good opportunities, to
the dismay of the Generals.

Coach Rolf Piranian described his
team’s early play as “sluggish,” but
added that the Generals started to
dominate after some key substitutions.

W&L struck first 15 minutes
into the match, when junior Paul
Wallace passed to sophomore Brad
Murphy, who broke free to score
the first goal.

Later in the half, freshman Bret
Grote broke free down the sideline
and passed to sophomore Garreth
Winstead, who put the ball past
Hornet goalkeeper Levi Solmose
after a convincing fake for his first
collegiate goal.

One minute into the second half,
junior Andrew Grimes was stopped
by Solmose, but Crawford was there
for the rebound, netting the goal and
pushing the lead to 3-0.

As if , the Generals’ unbeaten
streak wasn’t enough, a female fan
streaked across the field during a
stoppage of play. Soon afterwards,
that omen of good fortune paid off
when freshman Philip Miller scored
off a Crawford assist five minutes
into the second half.

 

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

SURE SHOT. Brad Murphy shoots against Lynchburg goalie
Levi Solmose in the Generals’ 5-1 win Saturday.

Lynchburg sophomore Tim
Longnecker put the Hornets on the
board with little over 26 minutes left
in the game. Once again, the Gener-
als irninediately responded, as
Winstead notched his second goal
of the game less than 30 seconds
later to put the Generals up 5-1.

The Generals take the road
Wednesday to face the only other
undefeated team in the ODAC,

Men’s tennis hosts Fall

By Sarah Grigg

SPORTS WRITER

The armual W&L Fall Classic
men’s tennis tournament was held
last weekend, Sept. 23-24. Players
from Washington and Lee, Virginia
Military Institute, Johns Hopkins,
and the College of New Jersey vied
for titles in men’s singles and
doubles matches, with the Gener-
als taking titles in two of four
singles ﬂights and in both of the
doubles ﬂights.

Junior Rob Moynihan and
freshman K.C. Schaefer each won
championships in the singles
ﬂights for W&L. Moynihan took
the title in the third ﬂight with a 7-
5, 6-1 win over Dan Kreeger of
Johns Hopkins, and Schaefer won
the fourth ﬂight by knocking off
teammate Chris Sorenson 4-6, 6-3,
6-2 in the championship match.

Freshman Austin Kim of W&L
was defeated by Jay Berger of the
College of New Jersey by a 6-2, 6-7

 

(5), 6-1 score in the championship
of the number two singles ﬂight.
Taking the titles in the doubles

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
DOUBLE THE FUN. Rob Moynihan and Chase Bice compete
in the W&L Fall Classic, held Sept. 23-24. The duo lost
the championship match of the number two doubles ﬂight
to fellow Generals K.C. Schaefer and Zach Vuncannon.

matches were juniors Rhys James
and Albert Roberts in the number
one doubles ﬂight and Schaefer

Roanoke College, for conference
supremacy.

The Generals’ other sophomore
goaltender, Brad Heam, was selected
as the ODAC player of the week for
the week of Sept. 25. Heam recorded
shutouts against Randolph-Macon
and Ferrum, but could not play the
last two games because of a concus-
sion he suffered Sept. 23 against Vir-
ginia Wesleyan.

Classic

and junior Zach Vuncannon in the
number two doubles ﬂight.

James and Roberts defeated the
College of New Jersey’s Berger and
Rob Howland 8-6, while Schaefer
and Vuncannon topped teammates
Moynihan and sophomore Chase
Bice 8-2 in the finals.

The Generals play in touma—
ments in the fall as preparation for
a competitive spring season.
Moynihan, a junior, commented on
the auspicious outlook for the up-
coming season.

“We won the conference last
year and we have the entire team
back this year,” Moynihan said.
“Three out of our top four players
this year are new. Our players from
last year are getting bumped down,
which shows how good we’re go-
ing to be this year.”

The Generals will be competing
along with 15 other teams in the
South Regional Tournament, which
will be hosted by Washington and
Lee this Saturday and Sunday.

a
t."

   

.TeW.§.-

- ....'.-a

109 SOUTH JEFFERSON STREET LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TEL: 540-463-3116 FAX: 540-463-3171

www.n-gprintshop.com

Xerox copy PRICES

81/2 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond
$0.10 per copy

1-500

501-1000 $0.09 per copy
1001-2000 $0.08 per copy
Over 2001 $0.01 per copy

11 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond

1-500 $0.20 per copy
501-1000 $0.18 per copy
1001-2000 $0.16 per copy
Over 2001 $0.14 per copy

BINDERY WORK

  Two sided copies go at two times (2x) the rate.
Paper ‘other than white 20 lb. goes at copy price + paper cost.

Minimum $5.00 or $110.00 per hour

   

Women’ssoccer wins  
last two-on road trip

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team rounded
out a streak of ﬁve straight road

» games by winning two of their

last three to finish 3-2 on the away
swing. .

A Lynchburg scored three early
goals en route to a 5-0 victory

Sept. 24. Senior Kristen Kowit‘

recorded a hat trick against the
Generals, and teammates Nicole
Wisneiewski and Erin Streper
scored a goal apiece. The Hor-
nets dominated the game,
outshooting the Generals 32-1.
Senior goalkeeper Laurenﬂarris
kept the Generals competitive,
making 13 saves. 6

Harris made three saves to
earn her third shutout of the sea-
son on Wednesday, as W&L
routed Sweet Briar 9-0. Junior
Drew Powers, sophomore Jenny
Thomas, freshman Fontaine

. Marcoux, and freshman
Susannah Hewlett all scored two
goals each, and freshman
Heather Coleman also found the
net. Marcoux had two assists;
Thomas and Meghan Hayde
each tallied a single assist.

A Saturday’s 2-1 win over Virginia
Wesleyan was a bit more challeng-
ing for the Generals. Wesleyan’s
Melanie Braswell scored the only
ﬁ1sthalfgoalat4l:l4.

W&L ﬁnally struck back with
18 minutes left in the game, as
sophomore Lindsey Duran tied
the game with an unassisted
goal. Four minutes later, Marcoux '
notched the go-ahead goal. Har-
ris ensured the win by making
nine saves, and Virginia

A Wesleyan goaltender Janine
Swanson recorded four saves.

The Generals (5-4, 4-3 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) will
return to home play on Tuesday
with a match against ODAC foe
Emory & Hemy.

This week ’s schedule
Football

   

Saturday Oct. 7 at Catholic 1:00 p.m.
Golf '

Mon.-Tues.Oct. 2-3 at Aubrey Apple Invite TBA
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country

Saturday Oct. 7 at Dickinson Invitational 10:30 a.m.
Men’s Soccer

Tuesday Oct. 4 at Roanoke 4:00 p.m.

Saturday Oct. 7 Guilford 1 :00 p.m.
Women ’s Soccer

Tuesday Oct. 3 Emory & Henry 4:00 p.m.

Saturday Oct. 7 Guilford 3 :30 p.m.
Volleyball 1

Tuesday Oct. 3 at Randolph-Macon 6:30 p.m.

Saturday Oct. 7 at Randolph-Macon WC 1:00 p.m.
Men’s Tennis

Sat.-Mon. Oct. 7-9 ITA Southeast Regional TBA

in General athletics...

CORRECTION

In the Sept. 18 issue, Fontaine
Marcoux was incorrectly cred-
ited with an overtime goal in the
women’s soccer team’s 2-1 win
over Randolph-Macon. Lindsey
Duran scored the game-winning
goal. The Ring-tum Phi apolo-
gizes for the mistake.

EnrroR’s NOTE:
Women’s tennis
results from the ITA
Southeast Regional
will appear in the

Oct. 9 issue.

HULL’S

IJIRIVE-II\I

FRIDAY 0 SATURDAY 0 SUNDAY

4 Miles, Route 11 North Lexington
463-2621
Admission $4/adult
Gate Opens 7pm '
Movies at Dusk

 

LOSER   PG 13

Romantic Comedy

I—-—-I DOUBLE FEATURE -I-I-I

SAVING GRACE R
1 Comedy

www.huIIsdrivein.com

VVI

      

’The Real

    

FOR TWO TO

AFRICA

This year the cost of MTV’s

Now you can too! _
ﬁﬁ
‘test?

Enter for 0 chance to win of your
local Council Travel office or at
counciltroveI.com

This trip to Africa is provided by

g
a
Z w
worvdwkiovncntlonn
for‘I8 loasyxroids

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..
between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void
where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go
to counciltravelcom. Sweeps kes ends 10/15/O0.

-.__

counci|travel.com
1 -800—2COUNC|L

N A TRIP

\/Vorld’ went to Africa.

‘$0

WE
vlrgln
atlantlc

6&1 The Cutting Edge

‘ﬁair Salon

highlighting, manicuring, pedicuring, waxing
walk-ins welcome

117 W. Relson Street
Lexington. VP! 24-450

540-463-9588

   

Q

 

_. .....ov,-—....._ ,

 

OCTOBER 2, 2000

,Sf“d‘”1’“1Ts  

PAGE 7

Generals sting Yellow Jackets

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Another game, another slew of
broken records.

With a 34-6 victory over
Randolph-Macon Saturday after-
noon at Wilson Field, Washington
and Lee moved to 4-0 for the first
time since 1961, when Lee
McLaughlin’s Generals ﬁnished 9-
0 and won the Washington Touch-
down Club Award as the nation’s
best small college team.

The Generals (4-0, 2-0 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) also
snapped a ten-game skid against
the Yellow Jackets (2-3, 1-1). Se-
nior tailback Marc Watson set a
W&L record with 319 all-purpose
yards, including 153 yards and two
touchdowns on the ground.

“Our offensive line has a lot of
experience,” Watson said. “That
was the strength of the team last
year, and it’s the strength of the
team this year. When you’ve got
guys like that, it makes your job
look real easy.”

W&L’s defense intercepted Yel-
low Jacket quarterback Hunter
Price four times and also forced him
to fumble. The Generals now have
a plus-13 turnover margin for the
season, having given the ball away
just twice in four games.

Price ﬁnished 29-of-53 for 282
yards, but was never able to ﬁnd
the end zone. Randolph-Macon

head coach Scott Boone credited the
Generals’ defense with effectively
thwarting his team’s aerial attack.

“They put good pressure on
him all day,” Boone said of Price.
“He just made some ill-advised
throws, and we didn’t catch the
ball as well as we do sometimes. It
was just a combination of things.”

W&L head coach Frank Miriello,
who employed a different coaching
strategy for his defense, was pleased
with the way the unit played.

. “(Seniors) Jayson Lipsey and
Will Baker called the whole defense
on the ﬁeld based on the offen-
sive sets, and it worked,” Miriello
said. “We had a great mix of pres-
sure and zone, and our defensive
line did a great job of not rushing
up the ﬁeld on the screens and the
draws, which was in our plan. The
secondary was terriﬁc.”

Senior Andy Vendig followed
up a blocked punt by Watson with
a 24-yard field goal to give the
Generals a 3-0 lead with 4:59 to play
in the first quarter.

With ten minutes remaining be-
fore halftime, Watson found the
end zone from a yard out for a 10-0
lead. Yellow Jacket Clint Sullivan
would cut the lead to 10-6 four min-
utes later on a two-yard run.

However, W&L took control of
the game before the break, as
sophomore Chris Sullivan scored
on a 59-yard touchdown pass from
classmate Bobby Littlehale two

plays after the Randolph-Macon
touchdown. Vendig drilled a 27-
yarder with a second left in the
quarter to give the Generals a 20-6
halftime lead.

The Yellow Jackets overcame a
28-6 second quarter deﬁcit against
ODAC preseason favorite Catho-
lie on Sept. 23 to pull out a 31-28
win. With that in mind, Miriello
knew his team wasn’tf1nished with
its work after two quarters.

“We came in at halftime, made a
few adjustments I—- not many, be-
cause everything was working —
and we came out determined that
we were going to take them down,”
Miriello said. “I told them to get bet-
ter every rninute of the game, and
by the fourth quarter you’ll be play-
ing the best that you can play.”

The Yellow Jackets’ offense
was unable to provide a repeat
performance, and the Generals’ of-
fensive backﬁeld sealed the victory
with two second half scores.
Watson ran 50 yards for a touch-
down midway through the third
quarter, and Sullivan caught a 31-
yard pass from Littlehale in the
fourth to extend the lead to 34-6.

“There was a combination of
things that didn’t really go well for
us,” Boone said. “Their defense
played very well, and got after us,
and we just didn’t answer their
pressure.”

The Generals face Catholic next
week on the road, making the win

INSIDE THE HUDDLE. W&L water polo coach Todd Peters talks to his team during
a stoppage of play in Atlantic Division Tournament action on Saturday.

photo by Lisa Lin/Photo Editor

over Randolph-Macon even more
important for Miriello’s team.
“The confidence level keeps
building, and if kids play with con-
fidence, that’s a big part of it,”
Miriello said. “Catholic’s a great
team —— a playoff team year in, year

out. It’s going to be a big chal-
lenge, but we’re going to give them
all they can handle, and hopefully
we’ll come out with a win.”

Watson knows that he and his
teammates have no leeway to sit
back and relax at this point.

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer
CALLING HIS OWN NUMBER. Sophomore quarterback Bobby Littlehale scrambles against
Randolph-Macon. Littlehale finished 14-of-21 for 171 yards and two touchdown passes.

“Catholic’s got a great team,
period,” Watson said. “Any given
day, you can have a bad game, and
last week was probably theirs. So
we’ll have to strap it on, and play
better than we played today if
we’re going to win.”

ODAC Football Update

Standings ODAC

Team W L
Washington & Lee 2 O
Emory & Henry 1 0
Bxidgewater * 1 1
Randolph-Macon 1 1
Catholic 0 1
Guilford 0 2

§
2-‘;

o-nab/co<.o.r:.g
.t>-caterin---or“

September 30 Results

Washington & Lee 34, Randolph-Macon 6
Bridgewater 30, Hampden-Sydney 12
Lasalte 35, Catholic 10

Emory & Henry 54, Averett 7

 = .. “: ;.».  ._.;;i.L.,«L -
Washington 8; Lee at Catholic ’ 1
Emory & Henry at Hampden-Sydney
Guilford at Randolph-Macon

Maryville at Bridgewater

 

18 E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464-4483

PROBLEM WITH THE LOCALS ?

'WE’RE FROM ATLANTA.
AT THIS TIME WE ARE STILL ABLE TO ABSORB THE HIGH
COST OF ENTERTAINMENT- SO WE NEVER CHARGE
1 STUDENTSA COVER CHARGE!

DON’T MISS OUR MONDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
PARTY WITH .25 CENT HOT WINGS ~ 2 FOR 1

W&L sports roundup

 AND SPECIALS WE CAN’T ADVERTISE

B Jere F ankr Averett.8-15, 3-15, 16-14, 8-15, W&L rebounded to HERE !
 Y  “‘  S .
L W harnrners Guilfor d Freshman Kristin Shelton notchedaW&L—high 16 _     N ' 
kill ‘ , 1111 s lb talli d24 ' . - »
take, ,0 the mad for ’ ....::‘.g.:::‘.:::.‘.:.:::.*:.:;...:..:‘.::...‘:.::......:...w*‘;:::S. KITCHEN I5 MAKING some or mt BEST
kill ‘ Mill ,ttalin 23 dal ddin eiht
Elnory Tournament 4 blo:l:§aRIi1sctken ::l:lSH:ys ﬁr“Iishe::lnwitlS1o12’15 eaih,  IN  " I   T‘/,5   

The Washington and Lee volleyball team had a
four—match win streak snapped, losing three straight
before winning their final match of the Emory Touma-
ment over the weekend.

Before traveling to Atlanta, the Generals (8-5)
knocked off Guilford College at home Tuesday by a
15-10, 15-2, 15-9 score. Sophomore Stacey Kimmel led
W&L with ten digs, junior Leslie Fischbeck tallied
seven kills, and senior Katherine Kline contributed
1 1 assists as the Generals pushed their Old Dominion
Athletic Conference record to 3-1.

In Friday’s competition, W&L fell to Greensboro
College 9-15, 16-14, 11-15, 15-17, andto hostEmory 5-
15, 11-15, 6-15. Fischbeck and classmate Lindsay
Ruckert combined for 35 kills against Greensboro, and
Kimmel and senior Tori Hays contributed 13 digs
apiece. Senior Pam Saulsbury, who led the Generals
with 20 assists against Greensboro, recorded tearn-
highs of ten assists and seven digs against Emory.

After dropping Saturday mor11ing’s match against

and Saulsbury racked up 32 assists in the win.
The Generals return to ODAC competition Tues-
day on the road against Randolph-Macon.

Cross country teams place

second at Roanoke

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s
cross country teams both placed second out of seven
teams in Saturday’s Roanoke Invitational, ﬁnishing
behind the host school in each meet.

Sophomore Burke Duncan placed second overall in
the women’s meet with a time of 19:36, followed shortly
by senior Jessica Parrillo, who finished third at 20:04.
Junior Gretchen Tencza placed 13th overall at 21 :35.

Freshman Andy Schorr led the Generals in the men’s
meet with a time of 27:58, good enough for ﬁfth over-
all. Sophomore David Hicks ﬁnished ninth at 28 :47.

Both teams will return to action next Saturday in
the Dickinson Invitational.

6 DIFFERENT NFL FOOTBALL GAMES
GOING AT THE SAME TIME - IF YOU’RE
NOT HERE , WHERE ARE YOU .7

WE BUILT THIS PLACE WITH Xﬂt IN MIND. IF
YOU HAVEN’T FOUND US YET YOU NEED TO GET
OUT MORE. THE T. V.’S, POOL TABLES, VIDEO
GAMES, FOOSBALL TABLES, DART MACHINES,
DANCE FLOOR, AND LIBATIONS ARE HERE TO TAKE
YOUR MIND OFF THE DAY. HAVING FUN IS OK!

 

 

Because People
Just Aren ’t Funny

PAGE 8

LASTW

@112 iliing-tum ilﬂhi

ORD

OCTOBER 2, 2000

Sinx College

‘ﬂzecausenaw any5oJy cazrye/zlvz/o caﬂeye ./ 7[an£s,  we/tbn ./ ’

“From the makers of Sim Militia and Sim Insurance Firm”

Brand: Blamo
Platform: IMA C/G3

Rating: N (Nobody)
Available: In stores somewhere

Contains: Academic Lethargy, Mature Sexual Themes,
Adult Language, and Use of Illegal Stuff

* Now available for the pittance of $5,000 and a high
school diploma (Prices may vary), comes an exciting
new game from the developers who wish they had
brought you Sim Sh*ty 2000 and The Dims.

FEATURES

Control. . .

*Sim College is a real-time strategy that accurately
simulates the crazy and occasionally awkward college
student experience. Play the role of the bookworm nerd
and become a library legend or build up your alcohol
tolerance in the role of the party-hearty frat boy. Become
a swinger, go steady, or turn into a lonely, shut-in that writes
horrible, horrible poetry. Your Sim College student can live
out your wildest fantasies (ones you could never do yourself)
such as escort a goat as a Fancy Dress date or start a
clothing optional commune in your dorm.

Live. . .

*You may choose from a library of prefabricated nerds, jocks,
party-animals, drama queens, spoiled brats, and stoners with
unique personalities, abilities, and appearances.

*Attend 12 universities as diverse as Princeton, University
of Wisconsin, Bringham Young, UNLV, Texas A&M, Ole
Miss, Amherst, and Hillberry Community College.

*Let your College Sim pursue any of 40 possible major
paths including the extra-difficult Pre-Law and Pre-Med
programs complete with LSAT and MCAT. Guide your
College Sim well and he or she may become a doctor,
economist, CEO, actor, criminal mastermind, international
spy, or the President of the People’s Republic of Texas.
*Sim College lasts up to ﬁve years or until the Dean kicks you
out, including srunmer internships and studying abroad in such
remote and exotic locales as Mexico, Rwanda, and Haiti.
*Get drunk, have discussions, do homework, waste time,
compliment or insult your roommate, ﬁght or flirt with the
guy next door, fall in love, get laid, make friends, and the
list goes on. No other game has ever offered this kind of
variety or in-depth range of experiences.

   
   

   

 

   

I if Laxxuareré. smog.  

      ¢séa}4es¢21a9- 
 tarsexasxzme IN,:IF1£iGH VSkC:.l’§Q0L:[  
    nausea. mores.     

        
‘  —   I     

‘Study’ to become the
President’s second wife. . .
or to become an intern.

 

Train to work in the A
exciting ﬁeld of
janitorial
engineering.

 

Study and Participate. . . V

*Whether you are interested in Math, English, 17th
Century illiterate Banglanese poets, German, or just “a
broad” or seven, Sim College has it all.

*Sim College has over ﬁfteen different fraternities and six
different sororities to participate, with complete Rush
Programs including an optional hazing setting with such
classics as “Gookie Cookie,” “Barbara Streisand
Marathon,” and the vaunted “Rocket to Uranus.”

Decorate. . .

*Create the ultimate dorm room complete with televisions,
posters, bean bags, lofts, stereos, dirty clothing, old pizza
boxes, and passed out roommates.

Graduate. . .

*After 4-5 short years, you’ll reach your big day to enter
the real world and realize just how easy you really had it.
Graduation comes complete with proud parents, gifts from
relatives, huge block parties, job applications, and diplomas.
Get your limited edition College Sims Scholarship Edition
now in stores and watch out for the Grad School Expansion
due out Fall 2004. I

You know, sometimes you feel like a nut and
sometimes you feel like wreaking havoc upon
humanity of the likes of which have never been
seen before. Being the peace loving fellow I am,
however; I recommend a nice chewy Pay Day —
it really hits the spot. . . it’s right up there with
chemical warfare.

 

em ss,»a.;.. St.

Roanoke School Bus Accident

( Continued from p.4 )

Gawkers were astounded by the
massive amount of guts and gore. Gawkers
were astounded by the massive amount of
gore} Gawkers were astounded by the
massive amount of gore. Gawkers were
astounded by the massive amount of gore.
Gawkers were astounded by the massive
amount of guts, handle bars, and gore.
Gawkers were astounded by the massive
amount of blood, guts, and gore. Gawkers
were astounded by the massive amount of
gore. Gawkers were amazed by the massive
amount of cod fish and gore. Gawkers
were astounded by the massive amount of
blood, guts, ice cream, and gore.

 

   

1.     

 

cor=r=Er—:peop|eMu

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

 

GHQ

srcmore

Ilelln. III]! name is at-urge. Tire-
nor:1-no-rlrirrgs-In-irritate
rorrr-t:'asIrn-InIesIinaI-fract-
tierbil.

 

I'm here with an imnortant message about IBS
tlrritallle Bowel Syndrome). Kills. don't do
things to irritate your gastrointestinal tract,
because it you rlo. you might get IBS. Instead.
net Illenty of rest and stick to a Iliull-tiller diet
lreeause IBS is no Iauuinu matter!

*Brought to you by the University Health Depot

considerations

*Thanks to EA.com for promotional

Interested in having the Unabomber endorse
your product? Call 462-4060 for details.

 

I

 

 

it

&

4 373.755

  

 

"Arch

R555?»-
v. :03
V10» l0

C :9

dc-—I

VOLUME 103, No. 10

C112 ‘tiling

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsrTY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER [7,  f “

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

       

   

   

L-

 

’r‘.TK’)L%J, VA. ,3445c

L7i?“;‘~i'l.!7

- 2 t. :’.LJ"'NBRASl  T I I
WA8H!Ne‘TON it La; um/ens;
lg‘: "‘ r

  

MONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2000

By Latrina Stokes ‘

STA FF WRITER

Lexington police recovered sev-
eral bicycles stolen last week from
Washington and Lee dorms and
Washington Street fraternity houses.

The theft of the 16 bikes, worth
more than $1 1,000, occurred Oct. 2 and
3 between 11 p.m. and 4 a. in.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard said that an anonymous tip led
the police to discover all of the bikes.
They were found encrusted in mud
under a residential‘ porch on North
Randolph Street.

Seven people have been charged
for the thefts.

“We are still investigating because
three of the suspects are juveniles,”
Chief Beard said. “Petitions will be
ﬁled for grand larceny against them.”

The four adults were charged with
grand larceny and possession of sto-
len property.

Director of Campus Security Mike
Young said that one of the victims
actually saw some of the bikes being
stolen.

“A student observed three white
males and one black male ride away,”
Young said.

Three were juveniles and one was
an adult. He thought it suspicious
that they would be leaving campus at
3:00 a.m.

“He didn’t realize that they were
the thieves until later when he found

Stolen bicycles
recovered

out that his bike had been stolen,”
Young said.

Only eight bikes were reported
stolen to Campus Security. ’

Wednesday the Lexington Police
Department contacted Campus Secu-
rity to inform them that all bikes had
been recovered. As of Friday, nearly
all of the bikes were returned to their
owners.

Young said that the thefts were
easy because none of the bikes were
locked or chained. '

Junior Ian McAllister was so busy
that he forgot to lock his bike before
going into the Science center Mon-
day night.

“I normally lock my bike, but that
was the last thing on my mind,”
McAllister said.

McAllister parked his bike at 11
p.m. He did not‘ discover it was miss-
ing until he ﬁnished his computer sci-
ence project at 6 am.

“I was shocked and disappointed
when I found out that my bike had
been stolen,” McAllister said.

Initially McAllister felt his conﬁ-
dence in the honor system plummet.

“I felt that the honor system and
the whole campus had been vio-
lated,” he said. “However, I realized it
was people off campus and not stu-
dents, so that wasn’t the case.”

He was impressed at how quickly
local authorities found the culprits.

“W&L security and Lexington
police should be commended for ap-
prehending the thieves,” he said.

REUNITED. Junior Ian McAllister stands with his newly recovered bike, one of
16 stolen from Washington and Lee students.

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

By Mike Agnello

STAFF WRITER

UFO’s, ghosts, angels, and reincarnation
all remain largely unexplained—-—unless your
name is Dr. Paul Kurtz.

“If you cannot prove it, suspend judge-
ment,” Kurtz said in his lecture Thursday night
in Lee Chapel.

Kurtz, Professor Emeritus at State Univer-
sity of New York in Buffalo, specializes in
unexplained, supernatural phenomena, and
offers his services on numerous TV shows
as an expert skeptic. He has appeared on
“Sally Jesse Raphael,” “Larry King Live,”
and numerous local and national news pro-
grams. Critical of the media, he said that the
press sensationalizes supernatural phenom-
ena stories to draw viewers, and seldom pre-
sents a critical image.

“When I’m on television, I’m usually the
only professed skeptic, while there are usually
at least three ‘believers,”’ he said.

Beer ﬂows freely at  experiment

LIFE and Peer Counseling representatives posted the results
from the BAC and sobriety tests on a wall of the GHQ, in order to
keep track of the effects of alcohol on each drinking participant.

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Most people who see these things,
Kurtz said, suffer from crypto-arnnesia,
in which the mind distorts memories
trapped in the subconscious. He noted
that President Jimmy Carter once reported
he saw a UFO, only to find out later that it
was really the planet Venus at dusk.

Such incidents are not uncommon, he
said, because people’s minds see what
they want to believe is true. The same
thing applies to horoscopes, which he
said are completely invalid.

“I’ve given a classroom full of people
the same horoscope, and they all said it
applied to them somehow,” he said.

Kurtz also stressed the upward trend
in belief in the supernatural in the United
States, saying that America ranks num-
ber one among western nations in sev-

eral paranormal and supematural catego— '

rres.

“It’s ironic that belief in [the super-
natural] has increased almost proportion-
ately with progress in science and tech-

The drinks were on Washington and Lee Wednesday night as
several students took part in the Controlled Drinking Experiment.

The event, sponsored by LIFE and the Peer Counselors, was
designed to promote alcohol awareness, and drew in 25 student
participants from various campus organizations.

Teams of two students representing university organizations
participated in the experiment, one to drink and the other to aid the
drinker. Participants, all 21 or older, consumed two beers at their
own pace within the first 45 minutes. They then waited 15 minutes
before taking a BAC test administered by Lexington Police and the
Rockbridge County Sheriff ’s Office. The drinkers’ partners helped
them to ﬁll out their forms and to keep track of time. Participants
then continued to drink and to test themselves after each beer.

“We do this presentation to give people the idea of how little
alcohol it takes to get a BAC,” Lindsey Duran, LIFE co-chair for the
Substance Committee, said.

Participants drank up to six beers within two hours, though they
were allowed to stop whenever they chose. At the end of the night,
each drinker took a sobriety test.

“We posted the information not only to show the alcohol effect
rate, but also to show the differences in effects on individuals, for
example men and women or large and small people,” LIFE co—advi—
sor Dr. Jane Horton said.

Student band Poston Brown Project played while students and specta-
tors enjoyed snacks and drinks. LIFE and Peer Counselors also furnished
beer goggles and Alcohol 101, a simulated drinking computer game.

“I think it is a good idea for the school to promote alcohol educa-
tion,” H.N. Ferguson Rockbridge County Deputy Sheriffsaid. “It is
important for students to know their legal limits so that they can be
responsible drinkers.”

. Organizations participating in the activity included Environmen-
tal Law, Rutherford Institute, Executive Committee, Federalist Soci-
ety, Rho Chis, Trident, Law School, GHQ, Club Softball, Dorm Coun-

‘ selors, PRIDE, College Republicans, Student Bar Association, In-

dependents, fraternities, and sororities.

Duran said that she hopes that the participants will recognize
the true aim of the experiment.

“We hope people will come away from this with a lesson,” she said.

nology,” he said.

Kurtz also talked at length on reincar-
nation. He said that in many experiments,
students under hypnosis were asked to
“take [the person performing the experi-
ment] back” to their “previous life.”

“These students have admitted to be-
ing everything from a Neanderthal to a
Roman soldier in their previous lives,” he
said, adding that the vivid details the stu-
dents provided only further proved how
implausible it was.

“All you have to do is check the fac-
tual information in their stories, and you’ll
find that many are incorrect,” he said.

On an appearance on “Sally Jesse
Raphael,” Kurtz left no doubt of his skep-
ticism. After watching guests under hyp-
nosis admit to past lives in different peri-
ods of history, he asked:

“Tell me, has anybody here had a past
life as a cocker spaniel?”

Sophomore Christina Twomey, who
did not agree with Kurtz’s presentation,

Contact speaker debunks the supernatural

said that he used distinctly unreliable
sources to illustrate the opposition’s point
of view and applied rational thought to
irrational phenomena.

“He didn’t do a good job of present-

ing either point of view,” Twomey said.
Though he said he found the lecture

entertaining, freshman Daniel Vos agreed.
“A lot of his principles were pretty

commonsense,” Vos said.

Twomey said she was surprised that the
Contact Committee, which brings in many
well—received speakers, invited Kurtz.

“I thought it was awful. . . I hope they

‘ didn’t spend a lot of money on him,” she

said.

Contact Committee member Mike
Stefan said that he was pleased with
Kurtz’s lecture and presentation.

“The Contact Committee tries to
bring speakers of educational and/or
entertainment value,” Stefan said. “We
thought Dr. Kurtz achieved both of
these ends.”

photo by Lisa Lin/Photo Editor

WHAT’s YOUR BAC? LIFE members tally results of the drinking experiment.

Ellie ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

October 9, 2000

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

@112 {Ring-tum iﬁhi

OCTOBER 9, 2000 ‘

  

‘TH E WORLD

gence unit assigned to collect information on German
atomic bomb projects, focuses on the Manhattan X
Project, the massive scientiﬁc and technological ef-
fort that produced the ﬁrst atomic bomb. "The goal of

 

By Mehul Srivastava

STAFF WRITER
Kostunica sworn in as
Yugoslav president

Vojislav Kostunica took ofﬁce as Yugoslaviafs presi-
dent elect this Sunday after widespread protests and in-
ternational pressure forced Slobodan Mi1osevic\to hand
over the reins to Kostunica. ‘

The recently held elections were allegedy rigged in
Milosevic’s favor. He had ruled Yugoslavia for the past
13 years and was widely believed to have been extremely
corrupt.

No announcements have been made yet about inves-
tigations into these allegations, fueling speculation that
some kind of deal might have been struck. Nor has any
decision been reached about his extradition so that he
can be tried for human rights abuse charges.

However, all of these reports remain unconﬁrmed.
Kostunica was welcomed into office by several nations,
and he has been invited to an European Union summit
where he would receive emergency aid from the Euro-
pean nations. The economy responded positively, with
the Yugoslav Dinar rising against the Deutsch Mark.

In related news, China denies rumours that Milosevic
would try to ﬂee to Beijing with the about $150 million
worth of gold reserves.

SORORITY

hot water used by all five of the sorority houses.
Pressure must be regulated as the demand for heat
changes. When the safety pressure is exceeded, a
safety valve releases steam through a pipe that ex-
its through the roof.
Beebe has contacted the contractor to make the
necessary adjustments and aims to have the prob-

lem repaired within the week. Although the problem‘

is the contractor’s responsibility, the Physical Plant
hopes to alleviate the strain on students)

“We don’t want to inconvenience [them],” he
said. “It’s a new building and we want to get the
bugs fixed.”

When the alarm went off again the following

the Alsos project," explained Settle, "is to provide a
wide range of references to resources for the study of
the Manhattan Project to as large an audience as pos-
sible. We anticipate this project will strengthen the
quality of education by connecting different disci-
plines, issues and ideas surrounding nuclear energy."
Alsos was the code name for the U.S. Army's intelli- tr
gence unit assigned to collect information on German
atomic bomb projects during World War II.

As well as searching and indexing tools that allow
a user to explore the web site, Alsos will contain a set
of audio and visual references that will include in-
dexed, digitized sound tracks and images. Links to
vetted web sites will also be provided. Settle sees this
site as being useful in organizing classes, seminars
and other projects on the atomic bomb. He currently .0
leads an interdisciplinary seminar on the atomic bomb
at W&L.

The project is a component of the National Sci-
ence Digital Library program that involves approxi-
mately 42 colleges and universities. The goal of this
program is to provide resources for teaching science,
mathematics, engineering and technology to students
from kindergarten through adult learners.

Settle joined the W&L faculty in 1998. He has been It
a member of the Virginia Military Institute faculty and
has served as program director for chemistry in the

Science Foundation Fotaliflg $234000 to C°nFi‘}“e division of undergraduate education for the National
work on a web—based project titled The Alsos Digital Science Foundation‘

Library” -courtesy W&L website I
Alsos, the code name for the U.S. Army's intelli-

Tl-IIS VVEEK

 

New Film Observes 130th Anni-

versary of Lee's Death

Lee: Beyond the Battles, a new documentary ﬁlm by
Rubicon productions examining the life and legacy of
Robert E: Lee will be shown in Lee Chapel on Thursday,
Oct. 12 at 7:00pm. Created and directed by alumnus
Drew Perkins ‘84, with journalism professor Robert de
Maria as associate producer, the ﬁlm features interviews
with historians Ted DeLaney, Holt Merchant, and Tay-
lor Sanders, all professors of history, and Vaughan
Stanley, associate professor and special collections li-
brarian. Merchant also served as the project’s academic
coordinator. The film will be shown on PBS next year.

-courtesy Robert de Maria and Lee Chapel Museum

AIDS vaccine trials

South Africa’s Medical Research Council announced
Wednesday that heating breast milk from a mother carry-
ing the human immunodeﬁciency virus (HIV) could pre-
vent the virus’ transmission from mother to child.

Council president Malegapuru Makgoba also announced
that South Africa will begin clinical trials in February of an
HIV vaccine developed with the United States. The trials will
last several years, but Makgoba hopes to have results by 2005.

A large number of infants are infected with HIV by their
mothers in South Africa, where 10 percent of people are
infected with HIV, one of the highest infection rates on the
African continent.

The council reported that heating a mother’s breast milk
upto 65 degrees Celsius for 20 rriinutes leaves 80 percent
of the milk’s antibodies and nutrients and provides an al-
ternative to expensive anti-retroviral drugs.

W&L Professors Receive $224,000

from NSF

Frank Settle, professor of chemistry at Washing-
ton and Lee, and Tom Whaley, professor of computer
science at W&L, have received a grant from the Na-

Israeli border clashes ma,

Islamic guerrillas operating out of Lebanon traded fire
with the Isreali army and captured three soldiers during
nine days of ﬁghting between Palestinians and Isreaelis.
Responding, Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Barak set a 48
hour ultimatum for Palestinians to halt their assaults on
military outposts and civilian settlements. Observers fear
that recent clashes may derail the current Isreali/Palestin-
ian peace talks.

 

   

s FROM PAGE 1

Wednesday, residents of the house were prepared to
handle the situation. Herman said that she knew what
was going to happen when the lights began to ﬂicker.
This time, however, the Physical Plant did not have
to turn off the hot water line.

Although not strictly necessary, the girls stayed
outside until the alarm was turned off. The most com-
mon complaint concerned the alarm’s volume.

The other sorority houses, including Theta and
Chi-O, let the Pi Phis stay inside of their houses until
the problem subsided.

“I credit the girls for doing what they were sup-
posed to do,” Director of Security Mike Young said.
“I appreciate that.”

  

'_

When you're investing for retirement, the adage

doesn't apply to taxes.

can add up to significantly more money for you—-
money you can use to supplement your pension and
Social Security.

deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.
Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax-saving solutions—a|ong with TIAA-CREF's
low expenses and solid history of performance—can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years -to come.

subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

RETIREMENT IIIZNSIIBANEET MUTUAL FUNDS

Tax-deferred solutions
from T IAA-CREF can
help you reach your

retirement goals faster.

"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today"

That's because investments that aren't eroded by taxes

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% maybe

       

-rirjiifsr s£avl‘ft£57 TUITIUN FINANEING

      

If you are interested in becoming a dorm counselor or resident .
assistant next year, please make plans to attend one of three
information sessions that will be offered on October 16, 17, and

current residence life staff members will discuss their roles,
explain the application and interview process, and answer any

 

TAXI] FEHBAI ' . . .
E MAKES A DIFFEHENEE at these information sessions.

   
 

$102,068 A

*5" W''‘'’””'‘’ HULI.’S

After-taxsavirigs    ‘.
AFRICA

[>RI\/E—II\I

This year the cast of MTV’s
’Tl1e Real World’ went to Africa.
Now you can too!

¢
&\‘.,sv\;o
ﬁom
Enter for a chance to win at your

local Council Travel office or at
counciltravel.com

4 Miles, Route ‘I1 North Lexington
463-2621

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will fluctuate, and yield‘
may vary. The chart above is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reflect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIAA-CREF account, or
reﬂect expenses.

Gate Opens 7pm
Movies at Dusk

 

This mp "° AI"i°° is p'°"ided b7 2000 Kirsten Dunst Eliza Dushku

A I

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it.“

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..
betweenthe ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void
where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go
to counciltravelcom. Sweeps! kes ends 10/15/O0.

NURSE BETTY R

www.tiaa-cref.org

   

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully
before you invest. 0 TIAA{REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. - Teachers
Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. 0
TIAA and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities, 0 TIAA-C REF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services.
- Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. © 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03

2000 Renee Zellweger, Morgan Freeman
Black Comedy

counCiltravel.com
1 —800—2COUNC|L

 

www.hullsdr'ivein.com_

     

 

 

Residence Life Positions, 2001-2002 "

18 at 7 :00 pm in University Center 113. At these sessions A

questions you might have. Applications will be available only "

FRIDAY 0 SATURDAY 0 SUNDAY ‘

Admission $4/adult I

BRING IT ON PG 13 '

 7 W Comedy
1 . 8 0 O . 8 4 2 . 2 7 7 6  a‘c’i3%'3c DOUBLE FEATURE-——

F

 

OCTOBER 9, 2000

  OPINION

 

PAGE 3

«W&L’s third maxim: “Love it or leave it”

In addition to upholding honor and entertaining the
speaking tradition, Washington and Lee’s third maxim
should he “love it or leave it.”

Too often I read articles denouncing W&L idiosyncra-
sies, the very features that make this

and usually a lot of it. So it’s like Nietzche said, “If every-
one is guilty, then no one is guilty.” So I figure, if every-
one has a lot of work to do, then no one has a lot of work
to do. Life really isn’t that bad.

The onslaught of work is the

school unique. Or I’ll hear a vague mur-
mur of complaints lingering around the

KCo- op. Or l’ll see students carrying

O 1 ,8 FX common lament most often swing-
Kiis Pollina ’05

mg by my ears. I can understand
how getting an education can

Atlas’s burden on their shoulders as
they sludge down the Colonnade.
For Christ’s sake, we’re 20 years old. What can be so

‘had? Oh my God, the workload. The stress. Why can’t

college just be beer and sex?

“Hey, what's up?”

“Ohhhh I have a 15 page paper to write by tomorrow,
an Econ test Thursday, 9,422,015 pages to read by Friday,

‘a beruit tournament Wednesday, a date function Friday,

tailgating on Saturday, AND I have to meet my roommates
at the Southern Inn in two hours.”
Oh, the humanity of it all. Yeah, everyone has work,

muddle your thoughts and make
you crartky. But what blows me away is when people com-
plain about the lack of diversity on campus. Or the honor
code. Or anxieties induced by date functions. What I love
the most is how much it infuriates people that everyone
wears J. Crew. You’d think that with that 15 page paper
due tomorrow you’d be worrying about other things. I
really haven’t found the popularity of Abercrombie all that
offensive, but I might be missing something.

Why would you go to W&L if you were in search of
variety? This is the last place I’d apply to if I wanted to be
amongst experimental fashion. And how can you com-

plain about the honor code when almost everyone relies on
it to safeguard their Banana cardigans? Another thing I
haven’t found much fault in are the insane excuses for
date parties. What’s the big deal? You get a date, you
get a date. You don’t — will you be marked as a social
pariah and given a separate table in the D-hall? I don’t
think the social chairmen of W&L planned it with the
cruel intention to alienate insecure students. I’m pretty
sure it’s just supposed to be fun. But once again, I might
be missing something.

Stop complaining. We’re young. We’re relatively intelligent.
We have something to do every weekend. We have ice cream.
We have beautiful days outside the Co-op. We have the
Simpsons, we have Britney Spears. What else is there?

I guess I’m claiming a certain degree of hypocrisy, in
complaining about how people complain too much. So
goes life. Is there anything that bad that can’t be solved
by a beer and a slice of Domino’s or a carton of Phish
Food? I didn’t think so. Stop pulling your hair out and go
meet your roommates at the Southern Inn.

‘Three cheers for Vermont and democracy

‘ Last April, following a state Su-
preiiie Court ruling which prompted a
bill legally recognizing homosexual
unions as marriages, the Vermont leg-

Kislature passed a bill that created “civil
unions. ’

The governor, Howard Dean, qui-
etly but quickly signed the bill into law.

4 Soon a ﬂood of 4

who had no signing ceremony so
“the healing could begin,” gleefully
affixed his signature.

However, the people of Vermont
have not forgotten this disregard for
their wishes and ﬂexed their electoral
muscle in last month’s primary by de-
clining to renorninate all ﬁve Repub-
licans who

Khomosexual
couples from
across the na-

 

Right of the aisle
Brett T. Kirwan ’04

voted for the
civil unions
bill, instead

tion inundated

Vermont, the only place in the world
' where they could get “C.U.ed.” Even

though Vermont is in the traditionally

liberal Northeast and is the only state

with a Socialist in Congress, this mea-

( sure has been considered totally unac-

ceptable by most of its citizens. To
them, and to others who value true rep-
resentative democracy, it represents a
judiciary. legislature, and executive who
have collectively forsaken representa-
tion in favor of politically-correct so-
cial engineering.

The case that spawned this ill—con—
¢ sidered legislation, Baker v. Vemiont, is
a shining example of the harm that ju-
dicial activism causes. The ruling is-
sued by the court mandated that the
legislature create a law granting all
rights and privileges of marriage to
homosexual couples. It completely ig-
tiored all constitutional checks and
balances requiring that the judiciary
‘ merely interpret laws, not create them.

The court vastly overstepped its
bounds and created rights that aren’t
in the Vermont Constitution, unabash-
edly legislating from the bench.

‘ The legislature followed orders with-
out a whisper of protest. Seemingly
unaware that not one town meeting, a
centuries old tradition of governance

‘ in the Green Mountain State, favored
civil unions for same—sex couples, the
legislature sent a bill on the govemor’s
desk only four months after the ruling
was handed down. Governor Dean,

opting for
candidates who stand in favor of tra-
ditional marriage. Governor Dean
also faces an unexpected challenge
from politically—unknown Ruth
Dwyer, who has based her campaign
on her opposition to civil unions.

The election has largely become
a referendum on same—sex unions.
The strong reaction of the people of
Vermont is not because of their op-
position to civil unions, but rather
because of the way in which the mea-
sure was foisted upon them. This
strong statement is due more to de-
mocracy’s circumvention than
same—sex unions’ recognition. Lib-
erals who forced homosexual
unions down the throats of Ver-
monters did so without their ap-
proval and without consulting them.

In return, this ﬁercely independent
state has launched “Take Back Ver-
mont,” “Take It To the People,” and
other grassroots movements in fa-
vor of traditional marriage. Voter reg-
istration is at an all—time high and
participation in the primary was also
unusually high.

Like Vermont, America will not
except the liberal social agenda that
many left—wing activists seek to im-
pose on our country through regu-
latory trickery and judicial action.
Liberal social crusaders should take
note of Verrnont’s example of democ-
racy in action and rethink their plans

for social engineering.

Enjoy the month of October

_ been in rerun all summer
  4. It’s the unofﬁcial “candy” month
Megan Mulligan & Katie Palcho 01

. @112 Tiling-tum lﬁlii

E.t'eL'l¢t‘ive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes

5. Daylight Savings Time Ends a.k.a. we gain an hour

 

News Editor Max Smith °f 31361’ ,
A.s‘si'.stu/it News‘ Editor Matt McDermott 6. October has 31 days so you don t feel cheated
I. 0]7ittimt.s' Editor Tara Ann Friedel Most people have a favorite food, song, band, or pair 7. Baseball Playoffs

W&Life Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
(‘ontributitzg Editors Jessica Jones
Michael Crittenden
Last Word Editor Bryan Early

of jeans. But have you ever taken a moment to think about 8. Halloween
your favorite calendar month? If so, you may be inclined 9. Friday the 13th
to choose April or May, when ﬂowers are blossoming and 10. Sitting on a porch with friends, listening 10 music, C C

birds are whistling. But give us a chance to test out our drinking a tasty beverage...Need we say more?

 of the week:

1 pt" 4' L‘ ' . . . . x . . , - - - - -
P]wn:::mEp C:l";nL'1;mhe” persusive journalistic skills, to convince you that October So let s see some October spirit on the W&L campus.  ‘tll I  my 
Mary Guy should be your favorite month. Here is a list of “The 10 Go for a drive, play in the leaves, carve a pumpkin and eat

to class.

—- Anonymous male professor

Martha Edwards
Graphics Monica Schoenthaler
‘ Online Editor Ginger Phillips
Bl4.YIIlL’.S‘.S' Manager Paul Seifert

The Ring—tt.mt Phi is published Mondays during the
uiidergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University,
Lexington. Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publications
Board elects the Executive Editor, but The Rirtg—tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Rt'ng—tmn Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday to appear
in that wcek’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right
to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
columns do not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions
of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

some Mary Janes. (As a side-note, Megan would like to
1_ F311 Reading Days say, that while she does enjoy October and supports this
2, Homecoming column, she does not share my extreme passion for this

3. Season Premieres of our favorite shows that have month.) ? ’

TALKback: What are you doing for Fall Break?

Greatest Things About October.”

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
‘ Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/-phi

   

“I’m going to the University of I
Virginia to visit friends of friends.”
—Rob Burnside ‘04

‘‘I’m going to stay around to do a
little work and have some fun.”
Jonathan Wortham ‘04

‘‘I’m going to visit a friend in New
York City.”
—Kathryn Drinkard ‘O4

“I’ni going home for a wedding.”
—Cataiina Pas sidomo

‘ I Annual subsription rate: $30

 

 

PAGE 4

O

(The iliing-tum ilﬂht

PINION

OCTOBER 9, 2000!

Sorting out the “fuzzy math”

After watching the Presidential
debates last week, much remains a
mystery. How did Bush manage to
sound knowledgeable about the is-
sues? Is “fuzzy math” a credit course
at St. Alban’s or Harvard? For that

dates’ political twisting of the num-
bers more than their discussion of
Bush’s tax proposal. I only mention
Bush’s because Gore did not seem to
have one that could be explained co-
herently. Bush rightly accused Gore

 

matter, how of using
did Arnold “fuzzy math”
Schwarzeneager :5?   when attack-
. , ' h"
?$Z““g§I§§f§ Mike Agneﬂo 02 315... ‘S153’;
surgery and math itself

the vocal implants to facially and au-
dibly resemble Al Gore? Last time I
looked, Gore did not have a twenty-
four inch neck. Kidding aside, we need
to take a good hard look at these two
clowns and see how what they say
they’re going to do matches up with
actual reality. ’

No issue displayed both candi-

was not false, but it ignored an entire
set of ﬁgures.

Bush’s inability to respond effec-
tively from his hip pocket prevented
him from pointing out that regardless
of the benefits rich people incur un-
der his plan, an additional six million
American families would no longer
pay federal income tax. Gore, who is

to a poll. The results are shown at right.

I photo byLisa Lin/Photo Editor
DEBATE WATCH 2000. Last Tuesday night nearly 100 students and faculty screened
the debate with the Politics Department. Afterwards, 57 of the watchers responded

“fighting for working families” and
just about every other group you can
think of, should have praised Bush
for his doubling of the child tax credit.

Bush, who has an edge over Gore
on the education issue, bore the wrath
of the Vice-President Gore when he
alleged that the portion of Bush’s tax
cut benefiting the top one percent
amounted to more than his proposed
spending increases on education,
Medicare, and Social Security com-
bined. Even though this tax cut is ten
percent or less, this is a no-brainer.
These 2.8 million are paying most of
the bills, and only getting a small
crumb in return. By W’s reasoning,
everybody can be happy with this.
When Bush says he means to return
some of the budget surplus to “you
folks who pay the bills,” there’s an

unspoken elaboration: “Especially
y’all who don’t get 90 percent of your
taxes back at the end of the year.”

Most importantly, voters need to
remember one thing: Neither candi-
date is talking about real numbers.
Whether you choose to believe them
or not, the figures are based on the
projected budget surplus for the fol-
lowing year. A smaller surplus would
leave Bush with less to offer, and Gore
more political opportunity. A larger
one would favor Bush.

Even if you are a simple—n1inded
person who says, “I vote with my
checkbook,” you are in for a hard de-
cision. The best you can hope for, and
indeed the best America can hope for,
is that you put aside your shallow
notions of self—interest and vote for
the greater good of the country.

The Politics Department
Debate Watch Poll

Partv identiﬁcation: Who won?
59.7% Republican 31.6% Gore
19.3% Independent 22.8% Bush
15.8% Democrat 40.3% No one

5.3% Libertarians

Pre-debate Qreterence:
l .8 % Buchanan
56% Bush

19.3% Gore
21% Undecided
1.8% Not voting

Opinion Shift after debate:

lperson Gore to Bush
2 people Undecided to Gore
lperson Gore to Undecided

52 people Unaffected

The poll was compiled by Lee Wheeler, Charlie Boisky and Brooks Batcheller.

-.s-.. —_r-

         

N

ﬂflk -£1:

      

:- -. .:3«.-1-:'x u 3-.-. .~. .

azete

1

109 scum JEFFERSON STREET
TEL: 540-463-3116 FAX: 540-463-3171
www.n-gprintshop.com

XEROX copy PRICES

8 1/2 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond
$0.10 per copy
501-1000 $0.09 per copy
1001-2000 $0.08 per copy
Over 2001 $0.07 per copy

1-500

11 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond

$0.20 per copy

, 501-1000 $0.18 per copy
1001-2000 $0.16 per copy
Over 2001 $0.14 per copy

1-500

Two sided copies go at two times (2x) the rate.
Paper other than white 20 lb. goes at copy price + paper cost.

BINDERY WORK

Minimum $5.00 or $40.00 per hour

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

-£2a'.".:A;=.'L

BY RICHARD? s I 9“

DIRECTED ‘Y ALG

 

:;§ lnterviélnisfithrougli '

ADVANCE YOUR CAREER. FAST.

Start off your new career managing a SCORE! Educational
Center for kids. From there, you'll be trained in sales, marketing
and management so that you’ll have the entrepreneurial skills to I
move up quickly. If you want a job where the only thing that can

slow you down is your own ambition, visit www.scorej0bs.c0m.

  
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
      
   

  

 

‘ii

A

 

W&

PAGE 5

 2 ﬂing-tum lﬁlrt

OCTOBER 9, 2000

photo courtesey of Lenfest Press
FRIENDLY BANTER: Sir Peter (senior Howard Sanborn) and Lady Teasle (senior Cassie Ritter) tease each other in a scene
from this month’s play, School for Scandal. The play opens October 20, with a showing at 8 p.m. Tickets are available at the
Lenfest Center box office.

Radiohead’s Kid A is the new punk album

 

By Michael Crittenden
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

After a long weekend of getting beat
down and wearing myself down, there
needed to be a light at the end of the
tunnel. Luckily there was, in the form
of Abita’s Purple Haze, a fine ale from
Abita Springs, La. Though I tend to be
skeptical when confronted with a beer
whose name is a catchy allusion, Purple
Haze lives up to its classic-rock roots
and delivers a ﬁne raspberry ale.

Crafted by the Abita Brewing
Company in Louisiana, Purple Haze
is a classic American wheat beer that
has raspberries added during a cru-
cial second-fermenation. A slightly
murky amber, the beer has a distinc-
tive berry smell that sets the stage for
the soothing taste of raspberry ale.

Though I am not a berry beer type
of guy, Purple Haze satisﬁes due to its

carefully crafted background. The beer
is brewed with Abita spring water, found
on an ancient Chocktaw Indian reserva-
tion inliousiana. 'lhe wateris pulled ﬁom
a deep well for each batch of beer.

Abita is also notable for its use of
three different hops and a number of
yeasts, which are the backbone to a
quality ale. Pale, crystal and choco-
late malts are combined in the brew-
ing process with yeast, water and
hops to make this a pure beer without
the preservatives found in other
beers. Though it makes Purple Haze’s
shelf life a tad shorter than most beers,
the ﬁne taste makes it worth it.

Overall, I give Purple Haze a 7 out of
10 on the year 2000 Beer-O’Rama scale
(one point deducted out of principle
for it being a fruity beer). A good au-
tumn ale to have around the holidays
or with some chicken or pork kabobs,
Purple Haze is worth the chance if you
are trying to decide on a different wheat
beer for your next get together.

You can find out more information
about Purple Haze or Abita’s many
other fine brews at www.abita.com. It
can be purchased at various stores in
town, but your best bet is Main St.
Market, where a six-pack is about $6.

If you have suggestions for pos-
sible beers to be reviewed, email me
at crittendenm@ w1u.edu. Otherwise,
until next week have a great Reading
Days and tip back a glass for me.

By Heather McDonald

. STAFF WRITER

Imagine a wasteland, the kind T.S.
Elliot made famous. Imagine angry—look-
ing bears with sniper riﬂes on a land-
scape of snow—white sharp angles, vol-
canoes and grey—red skies. It could be
a ﬁlm, but no, it’s Radiohead’s long
awaited CD Kid A.

 

  

The Bends it is not. It is a concept
CD, a rock opera, a painting in sound.
It is experimental, postmodernist, both
ugly and beautiful. If it sounds like I’m
analyzing a poem, well, I just might be.
After the great alt—rock angst—ridden
Bends and OK Computer, (not to men-
tion the ever—popular Pablo Honey),
Kid A is about something new, blend-
ing ambient sounds electronica—inﬂu-

   

ences and general Thom—Yorke—
ishness. I want to call it the prototype
for a new era in music (possibly hence
the title?), but in this age of “Total Re-
quest Live” I do not blame the masses
for not understanding anything out of
the three main genres blared across
Top 40 stations everywhere (those
three genres are boy bands/Christina/

I Britney/Mandy/whoever’s 14, blonde

and has breasts, the generic angry hard
rock band of the moment, and the new-
est perversion of something that used
to be hip-hop). I ' '

had only that in mind while creating an
aural masterpiece. In the grand tradi-
tion of the Radiohead rumor, it might
be fun background music for other ac-
tivities as well.

Kid A is a CD for the true music
lover, especially those who go beyond
the liner notes and simply sit and lis-
ten. Beyond the initial sales, I predict
Kid A will be a commercial ﬂop. In 20
years, bands will be talking about this
CD and how it’s inﬂuenced them. In
the meantime, I’ll simply be listening to
the CD for the hell of it.

 

ph
HARD AT WORK: Crittenden searches for another quality beer
to test his sophisticated palatte.

  

mm

H Eily Bes/Executive Editor

 published since 1897. Obtain a weekly subscription

When R.E.M. put outAutomaticf0r

the People, they declared it a punk al-
bum. Why? Because it went against all
the grunge, all the generic alternative
music with which R.E.M. is usually clas-
siﬁed. Kid A is the new punk album. It
is unlike anything you’ve ever heard
and, chances are, no one will truly un-
derstand it. I know I don’t, but I do like
it.

Kid A is a soundtrack — but for
what, no one’s sure. One review Iread
declared it the perfect accessory for the
stylish stoner, but I doubt Radiohead

Subscribe to the Phi!

If you would like to keep up with events at
Washington and Lee, subscribe to W&L’s campus
newspaper. Get the news ﬁrst--get it from the Phi,

 

photo court .y of ww .g npla. . '
NEW AND IMPROVED: Radiohead released their latest album, Kid
_ A, on October 3.

   

     

in one easy step.

Just send a $30 check to:

Ring-tum Phi
University Center

Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

   
   

4, I.  Town & vcountryl ,

31 $txu »-  saw-t.  VA .2445». ,

 

18 E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464-4483

  PROBLEM WITH THE LOCALS ?

WE’RE FROM ATLANTA.

AT THIS TIME WE ARE STILL ABLE TO ABSORB THE HIGH
COST OF ENTERTAINMENT- SO WE NEVER CHARGE
STUDENTSA COVER CHARGE!

DON’T MISS ouR MoNDAY NIGHT FOOTBALL
PARTY wITH .25 CENT HoT wINg_S ~ _2_ fog;
A£ﬁTIZEI§S AND SPECIALS wE CAN’T ADVERTISE

HERE !

SuNDAY wE o1>EN AT NooN - ouR
KITCHEN ISMAKING SoME or THE BEST
FOOD IN TowN - THE 12 W5 HAVE UP To
5 DIFFERENT NFL FOOTBALL GAMES
some AT THE SAME TIME - KEEP u? wITH
YouR HoME TEAM wITH ALL THE

COMFORT 5 OF HOME.

*wE BUILT THIS PLACE wIIH XQLI IN MIND. IF
You HAvEN’T 1—'OuI\I’D uS YET You NEED To GET
our MoRE. THE T. v.’S, POOL TABLES, vIDEo_
GAMES, FOOSBALL TABLES, DART MACHINES,
DANCE FLOOR, AND LIBATIONS ARE HERE To TAKE
YouR MIND or? YouR DAY. HAVING FuN IS o1<:*

 

 

PAGE 6

S

@112 ﬁling-tum Elﬂht

PORTS

OCTOBER 9, 2000  

Generals roll over week’s co

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The women’s soccer team won two
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
games at home this week, edging
Emory & Henry 1-0 and hammering
Guilford by a 10-1 score.

The Generals defeated Emory & Henry
by a seemingly narrow margin on Tues-
day. In actuality, the Generals dominated
the game, outshooting the Wasps 46-0.
Emory & Henry goalkeeper Melissa Berry
stopped 23 shots to keep her team in the
contest.

The Wasps’ defense was the true
story of the game, stopping the Gener-
als repeatedly, as most of Berry’s saves
were from long shots. The Generals’
only goal came with 13:10 left in the
game, when senior Sam Garbisch took
a shot that hit the post. Freshman
Heather Coleman scored off the re-
bound for the game-winning goal.

The 10-1 score of Washington and
Lee’s game against Guilford on Satur-
day was more indicative of the Gener-
als’ domination. Freshman Fontaine
Marcoux opened the scoring halfway
through the first half after a shot from
junior Kate Bidwell hit the post.

“Once we score one, we get some

confidence and it comes together,”
senior captain Liz Olsen said.

Sophomore Ruth-Hill Yeilding
scored the second goal off an assist
from freshman Sara Jurkowsky. The
Generals’ third goal came with two
minutes left in the second half, when
Yeilding passed to Bidwell, who put
the ball over the head of goalkeeper
Jenny Akman.

Nine minutes into the second half,
sophomore Jenny Thomas, who had
previously been denied by Akman,
scored an unassisted goal. Three min-
utes later, Thomas beat two defend-
ers in the Quakers’ zone and passed
to Marcoux, who notched her second
goal of the game to put W&L up 5-0.

One minute later, Akman tackled a
General i11 the penalty box. Freshman
Meghan Hayde scored on the ensu-
ing penalty kick to extend W&L’s ad-
vantage to six goals.

Five minutes after the Hayde tally,
Marcoux went in alone against Akman,
but was denied the hat-trick goal. With 19
minutes left in the half, freshman
Susannah Hewlett went in alone and won
a loose ball for an empty-net goal. Soon
afterwards, Yeilding took a shot that

Akman was unable to control, and"

Hewlett picked up the loose ball for her

   

WALK IN THE PARK. Junior Kate Bidwell moves the ball upfield
in the Generals’ 10-1 win over Guilford on Saturday.

second goal of the game.

Guilford scored their only goal with
7:27 left in the game, when Megan
Barolet-Fogarty deflected a shot past
senior Lauren Harris.

“We are still struggling,” head
coach Jan Hathom said of the W&L
defense. “We don’t contain people,
and that’s why that one goal went in.”

Freshman Heather Coleman scored

   

. O O . . .
mp   Upcomm g events In General athletzcs... "
. Football
 » Sat. October 14 Hampden-Sydney 1:00 p.m.
Sat. October 21 Sewanee (Homecoming) 1:30 p.m.
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country
Sat. October 14 Virginia State Meet TBA
Riding
Fri. October 20 at Hollins TBA
Men’s Soccer
Wed. October 11 at Eastern Mennonite 4:00p.rn.
Fri. October 13 at Manhattanville 4:00 p.m.
Sun. October 15 at Emory & Henry 1:30 p.m.
Thu. October 19 Bridgewater 4:00 p.m.
Sat. October 21 St. Mary’s (Md.) 3:00 p.1n.
V I p Women’s Soccer
photo by Colin Mitchell/Staff Photographer Wed October  Holhns _  pin‘
Sat. October 14 at Carnegie Mellon 1:00 p.m.
Wed. October 18 Fenum 4:00 p.m.
Sat. October 21 Roanoke 1 1:00 a.m.
for the Generals with 3:18 left in the Volleyball
game eff 311 355151 ffeﬂl Senief Tues. October 10 at Eastern Mennonite 6:30p.m.
Courtney N013“ Yelldmg 383111 Seered Sat. October 14 at Goucher Tournament TBA
when Olsen fan dew“ the left 51de and Wed. October 18 Sweet Briar 6:30 p.m.
gave a perfect feed for the ﬁnal goal Sat. October 21 Hollins 1:00 p.m.
“Our ball possession was good and
people played well together,” Hathom womenas Tennis
Said Ofthe Overallteam effolt . October 14-15 W&L Fall Festival 8:30 am.
The Genera-15 (7-4, 5-3 ODAC) W111 October 19-23 at Rolex National Tournament TBA
host Hollins on Wednesday at 4:00 p.m.

Catholic knocks W&L from ranks of football unbeaten

W&L sports roundup

had the whole package.”
Senior tailback Marc Watson, who set a school record

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Catholic limited Washington and Lee to just 46 yards
of total offense, and Dan Boyle rushed for 197 yards and
four touchdowns as the Cardinals rolled over the Gener-
als 47-0 Saturday in Washington, D.C.

“What happened was just a bunch of pressure from
their defensive front,” W&L coach Frank Miriello said of
the Cardinals’ defense, which held the Generals to minus-
six yards rushing. “They just nulliﬁed our run game, and
they put a lot of pressure on our quarterbacks, so they

with 319 total yards last week in a 34-6 win over Randolph-
Macon, was limited to 14 rushing yards on 14 carries.

“Mark, instead of having room to run, never got a clear
shot at any inside or outside running game,” Miriello said
of Watson. “He never got a chance to run north and south,
because most of his running was east and west."

Despite the loss, the postseason aspirations of the
Generals (4-1, 2-1 Old Dominion Athletic Conference) are
still ﬂickering.

“We’re still in the hunt for the ODAC title,” Miriello
said. “Catho1ic’s got some tough games coming up in the
conference (in Emory & Henry and Bridgewater).

MostW&LSfuclen’rs

      US‘!/\l eolsol   

1 and Health
Educaﬁon:
Office

Based on W&L CORESurvey data from 1998, 1999, 20001 '

“We have to beat Hampden-Sydney — there’s no ques-
tion about it. It’s a must-game for us, and we’re treating it
that way.”

W&L runs in Dickinson meet

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s cross ‘

country teams ﬁnished in the middle of the pack out of 39
teams in Saturday’s Dickinson Invitational in,Carlisle, Pa.

The women’s team placed 16th in the meet, led by
sophomore Burke Duncan, who ﬁnished 27th overall with
a time of 19:44. Senior Jessica Panillo ran a 20:09, good
enough for 45th overall.

The Generals ﬁnished 23rd in the men’s meet. Freshman
Andy Schorr ran a 28:03 to lead W&L, ﬁnishing 73rd overall.

Generals open tennis season

The Generals’ women’s tennis team opened its season
with individual and doubles competition in the Rolex South-
east Regional Sept. 30 through Oct. 2 at Mary Washing-
ton College in Fredericksburg, Va.

Junior Melissa Hatley and sophomore Erika Proko ad-
vanced to Monday’s ﬁnals before falling to Lea Schon and
Ashley Knapp of Mary Washington. Hatley finished fourth
in singles competition for the Generals.

Three of W&L’s four doubles teams made it to the

semiﬁnal round of the tournament. The teams of sopho-
more Laura Bruno and freshman Elizabeth Law and of
sophomores Alyson Brice and Brandi Jane Wedgeworth
both lost in the semifinals.

Session 1/ Test 1
Session 2
Session 3
Session 4
Session 5/Test 2
Session 6
Session 7
Session 8
Session 9/Test 3
Session 10

KAPLAN LSAT Prep Classes

SCHEDULE FOR THE DECEMBER 2 EXAM
(CLASSES WILL MEET FROM 6PM-9PM)

Tuesday, October 17 5
Thursday, October 19
Tuesday, October 24
Thursday, October 26
Tuesday, October 31
Thursday, November 2
Tuesday, November 7
Thursday, November 9
Tuesday, November 14
Thursday, November 16

(1-800-KAP-TEST)

.THE-

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

October 9: Mjndbending Productions

  

J AVA AT

coFFEEpeopleMusIcmore

October 16: Open Mike Night

GHQ

1&

I

 

 

F

)0OCTOBER 9, 2000

  S

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂhi

PORTS

PAGE 7 T.

‘I.

  By Sarah Griggi 5

SPORTS wrirrze

 After a successful .-week 7- of
‘matches, the Washington and Lee

Eiiicluding a5-I maﬁrintheO1C.1Domin-

 
   
   
  
   
 
  

 Tuesday and Randolph-Macon‘
%32Yonien’s College on Samrday.  0
 . W&L wonTuesday’s match. 
*§three»gaInes, 15-9,15-1,0, 1,5-8’; Junior.
1 Vindsjay Ruckert and freshman

gkills -1- Rnckert with ‘-136 atidjshelton
‘recorded. an impressive 20: assists
fiwas not far,behindwitl1”t7,  .,  ‘ ‘

.  " .‘i‘Tl1cy’are one of the better tearns‘
in the ODAC, but wereally didn’t

f ‘volleyball team stands at 10-5 overall, 7

' {ion A.th1et'ic Conference. The Genet-‘_ ~
.1313 defeated Randoph-Macon College .

 Shelton. led the Generalsin’  _- _ L V
A _ A j V p L L Q -ODAC tournament, butthe team has
with '11. Senior setter I’am Saiilsbary .

Effwhile senior setter Katherine Kline. j  
good team? Saulsbuiy said. “We
need to concentrate on beating them

Q  continuesto breeze
4 through O])ACschedule

have too much trouble with them,”
said“ Saulsbury, one of the team’s
captains.

. Saturday’s,rnatch was another
easy Generals’, victory, with scores
of 15-4, 15-3, and 15-3. Shelton once
again led with.12 kiils, and Kline and

‘sophomore Stacy Kimmel contrib-
uted to the win withfour aces each.

Kline and Saulsbury each recorded
* 4 10 assists. 0
‘W&L travels next 5 to

fﬂarrisonburg for a match against
"Eastern Mennonite this Tuesday.

Nine matches remain before the

itssights set on winning 'I'uesday’s

. contest.

1‘?Ea_stern Mennonite is always a

first before any others.”

3

ODAC Football Update

Standings ODAC Overall

Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
Emory&Henry 2 0 74 49 4 1 152 73
lWashington&Lee 2 1 65 59 4 1 142 85
Bridgewater 1 1 65 49 4 1 139 82
Catholic 1 1 75 31 2 3 127 103
Hampden-Sydney 1 2 75 67 2 3 126 118
_ Randolph-Macon 1 2 61 90 2 4 97 185
Guilford 1 2 34 104 1 4 47 186

October 7 Results

Catholic 47, W&L 0

Emory & Henry 37, Hampden-

Sydney 14

Guilford 28, Randolph-Macon 24
Bridgewater 14, Maryville 10

1

Saturday’s Games
Hampden-Sydney at W&L
Bridgewater at Guilford
Randolph-Macon at Emory & Henry
Catholic at Methodist

.-_

October 21 Games

Sewanee at W&L

Catholic at Hampden-Sydney
Emory & Henry at Guilford
Randolph-Macon at Davidson
Johns Hopkins at Bridgewater

October 28 Games

W&L at Bridgewater

Catholic at Emory & Henry
Ferrum at Guilford

Davidson at Hampden-Sydney

Roanoke snaps W&L win streak

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team dropped a crucial game
to Roanoke College, then rebounded
against Guilford to improve their
record to 8-1-0 (5-1-0 in the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference).

The Generals went to Roanoke on
Wednesday to ﬁght for ODAC domi-
nation. Prior to the midweek matchup,
which the Maroons won 2- 1, Roanoke
and W&L were the only two remain-
ing undefeated teams in conference
play.

_ The two squads played to a score-
less draw at halftime, a tie that ex-
tended past the break. Late in the sec-
ond half, Maroon Regi Francois put
his team in front with a shot that de-
ﬂected off a W&L defender into the
goal. Ryan Pﬂugrad scored the sec-
ond Roanoke goal a few minutes later.

Junior Andrew Grimes struck back
for the Generals with four mintes left
in the contest, scoring off a pass from
freshman Philip Miller. Roanoke
goaltender Chris Ebeling kept the
Generals from tying the match, ﬁnish-
ing with three saves on the afternoon.
Sophomore Tim Foley made three
saves for the Generals.

“We didn’t play up to our poten-
tial,” defender Ryan Nelson said.
“They also had fortune on their side
and we didn’t.”

W&L head coach Rolf Piranian
agreed, stating that “it was a very even
game.”

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
    

 y ‘Co In I chelll/Sta-ff Pholirgraphcr
BOXING our. Senior Jacek Mucha attempts to keep the ball
from a Guilford defender during W&L’s 3-0 win on Saturday.

in the first half,” Nelson said.

W&L had several scoring chances
before halftime, however. With 10:35
left in the ﬁrst half, sophomore Brad

The Generals won Saturday’s
game against the Guilford Quakers 3-
0 despite a shaky first half.

“We were just playing kick and run

  
 

 

Murphy broke free in the Quakers’
end, but an offside call abruptly ended
the threat. The half ended with both
teams tied 0-0.

“We just didn’t come out to play
that half,” Grimes said.

The Generals opened the second
half with considerably more offensive
pressure. Four minutes into the half,
junior David Kodack took a shot that
evaded Quaker goaltender Ryan
Fitzgibbons but sailed just over the
crossbar. Ten minutes later, senior Jon
Wilson took a shot that went over the
goal as well.

Wilson scored with 28:42 left in the
match on an unassisted tally. Seven
minutes later, Grimes took a pass from
freshman Bret Grote, but his shot hit
the crossbar.

Grimes scored his eighth goal of
the season with 14 minutes left in the
half when he took a pass from Murphy
and put it over Fitzgibbons’ head.
Murphy added the third goal with
eight minutes remaining on the clock.

Foley made two saves to earn his
second shutout of the season. At the
other end of the ﬁeld, Fitzgibbons tal-
lied seven saves.

Senior Andy Crawford was named
the ODAC player of the week for his
three goals and one assist against
Hampden-Sydney and Lynchburg on
Sept. 28th and 30th. _

The Generals now face a three-
game road trip, with contests against
Eastern Mennonite, Manhattanville,
and Emory & Henry. They return
home Oct. 19 to face Bridgewater.

 

 

PAGE 8

Because I was the
only person who
volunteered for it

LASTW

@112 iﬁing-tum lﬂhi

ORD

OCTOBER 9, 2000

Uncle Bryan is Non-Oﬁensive Fable

Once upon a time, there
lived a very special rabbit
named Little Bunny Foo-Foo.
sbelivedin thewoodsina
special forest reserve set
up by the Sierra Club to be a
sanctuary for the endangered
spotted owl and the California
condor. Little Bunny Foo-Foo
lived with her mother,
father, and twelve brothers
and sisters in a nice medium
sized hole under an old growth
redwood. Her family was very
careful when they made their

. home as to not damage the

tree or do irreparable harm
to the local ecosystem.
Bunny Foo-Foo 's parents
loved their children in a
wholesome, completely
Christian way. may brought
up their children with lots
of morals and religion and
kept them away from evil
things like the media and
society. Papa Foo-Foo worked
very hard for his family,
ga th ering pl en ty of
vegetation for everyone to
eat. Mama Foo-Foo kept the
hovel clean and took care of
all of her bunny children.
Sanetimes the Foo—Foos had
problems and got into
squahbles, but for the most
part they lived a good life

together. may laughed, they
cried, had good times, had
bad times, and shared their
triumphs as well as their
failures. It was a very happy
bunny fam.i.Z_y.

ane time Little Bunny Foo-
Ibo, the youngest of the Foo-
Foo family, was hopping
through the forest. She
scooped up lots of field mice
and bopped them an the head.
Little Bunny Foo-Foo had a
psychological disorder that
made her want to bop things
an thehead... especiallyfield
m.ice. mis disorder was not
Little Bunny Foo-Foo's fault
-- she was born that way. mus,
Little amny Foo-Foo could not
be held accountable in any way
for her actions.

Little Bunny Foo-Foo had
many friends at the local
Critter Elementary School.
Mzile her school was attendend.
by mostly bunnies, it prided
itself for being diverse and
open to an.imals of all sorts.
It had foxes, turtles,
beavers, several deer, and
even a bear cub.

Little Bunny Foo-Ibo loved
going to school because she
got to learn about fun things
like hole-digging, plant-
ea ting, ' running-from-big-

scary-animals, and multi-
variable calculus. Little Rznny
!'oo—ioo got wonderful grades
in all her classes. Her
favorite class was ﬁbecause
she got to hop around and bop
other animals on the head.
Mzile the other animals di@'t
appreciate getting bopped an
the head, they were enliﬁtened
enough to realize that since
Little Bunny Foo-Foo had a
disorder she coulh ’t be held
acountable for her actions.

are day though, Little Bunny
!'oo—Ibo went overto the house
of her friend, Carla the Fox.
While Little Bunny Foo-Foo’s
mother had never told her
that foxes weren't nice
animals, the Foo-Foos never
had any foxes over to the
family hovel. Although, she
had some reservations,
Little Bunny Foo-Foo went
over to the Fox Bole anyway.
She was summarily eaten by
the Fox family because that's
what foxes do-it's not the
foxes fault that bunnies
taste so good.

we end.

*2'he moral of the story
is: Don't be friends with
anything higher up on the
food chain than you.

  y i 1. Stay upplateiiritoiithe

I 4. Play Ska music" I Q A   .  
5. Dorftdo your laundry  ever or
6. Bring home stray Camie folk

,   7. Say you find him or her S
I “strangely attractive”

8. Take a vow of silence or a vow

  Top? Wys t0B<5’1’¢"  
  Your Roommate   

Watching re-rungs of sFrz'erzds
2. Giveupbathing           I
.Dec1are the room clothing a ,4
optional and walklaroundi ‘  
T’   wearing only sandals S ’ S S

L0

  of non-silence   y I
9. Scream every time your room-
mate uses the letter “W” in a

iprepositional phrase  

Don ‘t believe the urordr that I ray.

I only write them oaure they're Ian-nay.
I don ‘t mean to ollend the average bloke/.
Only to get a /mile from my gooly joker.
It '1 not like they pay me.

-- tort lllord Editor

Mom btswl 07: me use

If you take $19.37 from the penny tray at Kwik Mart, but only give back
a nickel and a gum wrapper; are you ungentlemanly or just a jerk?

SA TYPiCAL D/_’\“\’ ‘Ma

1\r\oN§l¢,A $C.Ho€NTl-lAl.EQ

You know, elections are a sign of the impending doom of society. The media, the
radical ecoterrorists, and Stephen Baldwin are all part of a vast leftist conspiracy
designed to subvert the minds of people into believing we live in an actual
democracy where the real wills of the populace are reflected in our government.
Fools, the country is really run by none other than Timothy Leary, whose acid-
induced visions will pervert our country with such crazy things as government
paid prescripition drugs and Pokemon.

 

l

3(,I.'¢_ki‘ ICIOO\«k*

3!: Scraper

    

’r Chan-:k*

‘ @\§"    Cari

  ai aln

M
O
é
.’-‘A
)
X

HAVE M10651
QAMPUS? HAVE THE’
veemees G_\‘”‘-“
(3.; To THE'(
NEANDEKTHAL.

y AND‘ DKA assist. us
To THEM miss?

WHAT ~-H\eI_:l_E_l,_t. :5 ‘mar miss?’
Is it Pram? WA: Dew-45

URGES AND 6
s1Asts_o ‘»
woMEN Lu<I‘-.' -' 7
BA$‘( SEALS

  
 

cg fygezuf its
comtue. ctoseﬂ.
MM em RAVE

MEQL1’ ON cunt

saw! ‘-5!

I

     
 
  
  
 
 

1

 51 Pin F9966-'~*
“R °'   ewes.

   

 

dz

 

 

highlighing, manicuring, pedicuring, waxing

walk-ins welcome
117 W. Relson Street
Lexington. V1’! 24450

540-463-9588 _

Steve's “.Keal""BTBTQ. Catering

4 - _ — Specializing In I
_ Whole Pigs -— Hickory Smoked Ribs and B.B.Q

'7 5 Beans Bottom Rd., Lexington, VA
540-462-3769

“Have Cooker Will Travel”

LEXINGTON

COFFEE

. “" r
u(lt)()((:\"II‘I(/ (VIII)/)((I‘Iy

ENJOY CHESS 0 CHECKERS ' BACKGAMMON - & MORE!
ESPRESSO 0 CAPPUCCINO ' FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ' FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON ° 464-6586

 

hf

@112 iliing-tum {ﬂirt

  EWS

Democrat predicts GOP victory.

Connelly said.

Junior politics major Susan Ruge, a Republican, said
that she was impressed by the impartiality of Hart’s
lecture.

“He took great pains to be very neutral. . . that he‘!
says Bush will win says a lot about how fair [his analy-
sis] was,” Ruge said. _.

Sophomore Skye Justice, treasurer of the Young
Democrats, said he liked the way Hart targeted the‘
strengths and weaknesses of both candidates and their
respective platforms.

“He made a good point about how both candidates
are gearing their strategies toward the undecided voter
who probably doesn’t care enough to be inﬂuenced,”
Justice said.

Justice also said the lecture was highly interesting
in addition to being informative.

“He had pretty much the entire audience on the edge,
of their seats,” he said.

 

PAGE 2 OCTOBER 23, zooq

Experienced pollster
scrutinizes Bush/Gore
presidential campaign

By Mike Agnello

STAFF WRITER

George Bush will squeak by Al Gore in the upcom- '
ing presidential election, Democratic pollster Peter Hart
said in his Wednesday night Lecture in Lee Chapel.

Hart, who has over 30 years experience in polling
and has worked for 40 U.S. senators and 30 state gov-
ernors, came as the second lecturer in a four-part se-
ries on Election 2000, a jointly-sponsored effort by Con-
tact and the William Lyne Wilson Politics Department
Fund. He said that despite the dead—even tallies in the
popular vote, Bush has more secure electoral votes.

Hart said that Bush will not win because of his sub-
stance, but because voters are more comfortable with
his style of framing issues with generalities instead of

Junior Sam Langholz, vice—chair of the Contact Com-
mittee, said that Hart’s lecture was a success for both
Contact and the politics department.

, “Hart provided an engaging analysis of the general”
mood of the nation. We were fortunate to be able to bring
such a prominent pollster to campus,” Langholz said.

statistics, like Gore.

“Al Gore has the tougher job at this point be-
cause he lost the commanding lead he held a year
ago,” he said.

According to Hart, both candidates have spent too
much time discussing the tax cut issue.

“That issue is nowhere near the top of most voters’
priorities,” he said. Hart also said that, despite keeping
a low profile during the campaign, Bill Clinton is the
most deciding factor. According to polls conducted
by Hart’s ﬁrm, 76 percent of Clinton’s supporters also
support Gore, while 88 percent of his detractors favor
Bush. Of voters undecided on the Clinton Presidency,
55 percent favor Bush.

Gore has to decide to what extent he wants to use
the president, Hart said, because although he galva-
nizes the Democrats’ base better than anybody else,
he alienates swing voters, and both groups are critical
for a Gore win. »

“Bill Clinton is both his greatest asset and his great-
est problem,” he said.

Hart also said that while Gore has a chance of win-
ning, it will not be of his own merit.

“If Gore wins, he’ll owe it all to Lieberman. . .his
campaign was in danger of dying when he made that
choice,” he said.

Politics Professor Bill Connelly said he thought that
Hart’s lecture was very insightful.

“He effectively explained why Al Gore has not been
able to close the deal with the American voter even
though peace, prosperity and an election run on Demo-
cratic issues should all be helping the vice president,”

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
VOTE EARLY, VOTE OFTEN. Freshman Meghan Hayde casts a ballot at a table manned by Sophomore
Jane Ledlie. The new class officers are: Freshman Class President Ansel Sanders, Freshman Class
Vice President Noah Rhodes, Freshman SJC Representative Matt Lambert, Sophomore Class
President Elliott Kyle, Sophomore Class Vice President Karl Kuersteiner, Junior Class President
Grant Dickson, Junior Class Vice President Charlie Curroccio, Senior Class President Liz Borges,
and Senior Class Vice President Katie Baldwin. The Freshman EC Representative has not yet
been announced.

Second issue of She Says to be published

Women’s Forum Chair Junior Darlene Mitrano said.

The group plans an issue similar to last year’s debut.
Vice Chair Junior Amanda Adams said that she liked the
portrayal of women in last year’s issue.

“I think last year’s She Says was great because it
displayed women in so many different roles and ways,”
Adams said.

According to Mitrano, Women’s Forum hopes to
publish twice, once after Thanksgiving and again dur-
ing winter term, as opposed to last year’s sole issue.

To promote the publication and student participation,
members of the Women’s Forum have visited freshman
girls’ halls and sorority chapter meetings asking women
to submit original work. Mitrano says that publication’s
uniqueness can help educate the student body. 4, - ’ '

“I think that students can beneﬁt from this publica- ‘
tion in that they can get to know the different opinions
and different people’s work,” Mitrano said. “Last year,
for the most part, we had positive feedback about the
publication, so we decided to continue it this year. I
think people were pleased with last year’s product for
the most part; however, we did hear some jokes about
the content.”

Women’s Forum is a student organization in which
women students and faculty come together to benefit
women on campus by promoting awareness and issues
that affect the W&L community. Women founded this
organization in 1985 when the school first accepted fe-
male students.

Women’s Forum is also organizing a student/faculty
dinner on Oct. 24. Members of Women’s Forum invite
students and faculty of the W&L community to meet
each other in an informal setting.

The dinner is from 5:30-7:00 p.m. in the Gaines
Gatehouse.

“The purpose of the dinner is to get women stu-
dents acquainted with the women faculty on campus,”
Mitrano said. “So many W&L professors are men that
it’s hard for women students and faculty to become
acquainted with one another.” " ‘

Students interested in Women’s Forum or She Says
should contact Mitrano at 463-9343 or Associate Dean
of Students Anne Schroer-Lamont at extension 8750.

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee Women’s Forum hopes to at-
tract visibility and submissions with a second edition of She
Says, a literary publication celebrating women on campus.

The publication is accepting works by or about women
including prose, poetry, artwork or photography until Nov. 1.

“We created this publication last year to put something out
there that would show women have a voice on this campus,”

photo by Lisa Lin/Photo Edito

BY ma NUMBERS. Democratic pollster Peter Hart
asserts his opinion on the upcoming election.

  

 
   

17 South Main Street, Lexington 4
  464-3645 ,

  open 10 am -8 pmlmonday-Saturday  
  12-5 pm Sunday I

STUDENT APPRECIATION DA l

  FRIDAY NOV. 3

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

SHOWING OFF SHE SAYS. Women’s Forum Chair
Darlene Mitrano displays last spring’s She
Says issue.

CONCERT

FROM PAGE 1 ‘

ton to Salem, Oregon. The only emer-
gency shelter for battered women in
the Rockbridge area, Lisa’s House,
along with Project Horizon, has

worked with 103 sexual assault and 7

domestic violence cases and shel-
tered 28 people in the last three
months.

“There’s a need for the shelter,”
Elrod said. “There’s no doubt about
that.”

Elrod believes that because the
Rockbridge area is such an open com-
munity, many people do not believe

domestic violence occurs.

‘‘It makes more people aware that
these “issues exist,” Project Horizon
Executive Director Elizabeth Pharr
said. “Having the shelter makes our
work more symbolized.”

Pharr found that people were un-
aware of the range of Project Horizon’s
services. In addition to shelter, the
agency provides legal advocacy, indi-
vidual counseling, a 24-hour hotline,
and access to support groups free of
charge to victims of domestic violence
and sexual assault. Project Horizon also

provides educational programs to
schools and civic groups.

The organization oversees the
Rockbridge Area Anti-Violence Coordi-
nating Council, which brings wide-rang-
ing groups dedicated to reducing and
preventing violence in the community.

“We are honored to be recognized.
. .and are very grateful for the tremen-
dous help,” Pharr said.

The concert begins at 8 p.m. and

tickets are $5 at the door.
“I’m deﬁnitely going to be there,”
Pharr said.

10% or: ENTIRE srocnr
students must present valid school in.
*exclutles specially marked items.

  MlDlllGllT SALE!

    
 

   am 12:00am 
   FORTHEGRAIIDRELEASE or   

    "2’8NEWAlBUM     
cm LEAVE snumr  

 
  

 

Experienced Babysitter
Needed for 4-month-old.
4 hours, once or twice a week.
1/2 mile from campus

call 463-3746

  

    
 

 

 

 OCTOBER 23, 2000



I

01112 4.-«mg-rum 133111

PINION

PAGE 3

0 Friendly tips for

Despite the great diversity here at W&L, there remains

,‘ one common thread lacing the community together, a
' pasttime that could very well surpass tailgating in the

-0 following

degree of tradition it implies: Procrastinating outside the
Co-op, the Cooperation Facility of Glory, as it should be

_, called. The

Northerrrefs Exposure
Kris Polljna ‘03

“are 12 alter-
‘,nate activi-
l ties to pre-

’ tending to

V } do work once sucked into the void. (Dave Letterman has
“A cornered the market on the Top 10. 11 doesn’t make enough

 impact because it’s two ones, and 13 seemed too cliché.)

1 .) Start simple — Smoke. If you’ve mastered this, you
might want to go the extra mile and connect those bendy
straws to make a really long cigarette. Just stick the straws
together at the ends and put the cigarette at the very end.

"O It’s very chic.

2.) Breakfast time poll. Last year I asserted that capril

P 5' pirate pants are the most miserable piece of clothing to be

' popularized. Ever. However, upon facing opposition, my

‘ colleagues and I conducted a breakfast time poll, limited

ljto guys, because girls don’t wear clothes for female ap-
“ proval. There was an overwhelming negative response.

~.,;~;g (One gentleman went so far as to throw his hands in the

2»

ti’  and stormed off in a huff, grunting, “I don’t even want

        
 

 talk about it.”) p
 3.) Sell tickets to a Greek philanthropy project such as
 “planting dandelions for deaf people.

.\ ‘v
,

4.) Play the compliment game. One of the greatest
games ever invented, it simply requires complimenting
everyone who walks through the doors of the Co-op.
“Hey, nice shirt. Orange is my favorite color.” “Your hair

' ,looks nice today, you should always wear it up.” Just do

 
  

4  fries!”

it sincerely, or the compliment receiver will never wear

*5. ‘orange again, or ever put her hair up. (There’s no sar-
' Q casm in this suggestion. It’s really a nice game to play.)

5 .) Count how many times ticket sellers will shout “It’s
for a good cause!” Even better, when faced with no re-

.1 sponse: “You can swipe it home!”

%Work hard for the money...at Letitia Pate

“We need more chicken fingers!”

“Someone wants a to-go box!”

“Real eggs in the front, eggbeaters in the back.”
“OUCH! I just burned my hand switching out the waffle

Those are just some of the many words that pass the
‘ lips of the proud Letitia Pate Evans Dining Hall workers.
When I say “proud” workers, I mean it.
I guess I should begin with a personal bit about how I
became involved with the D—Hall . . .

It all started my freshman year during conditioning for
__,soccer. Every day without fail I would head over to that
, beautiful brick building for my twice—daily dose of pasta

with marinara. Some days I would have rotini, other days
‘I would have spaghetti. Ahh, those were the days.

I think after about _l00 or so servings of pasta with

marinara I had a breakdown. My body would not accept

uote of the Week:

244

.I

Is that a student? She
really scares me.

— Anonymous male freshman

Q - -
@112 ﬂung-tum lﬂlrt
Executive Editors Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes
Matt McDermott
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Jessica Jones
Michael Crittenden

News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor
Contributing Editors

Max Smith
Last Word Editor Bryan Early
Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Photographers Colin Mitchell
Mary Guy
Martha Edwards
Graphics Monica Schoenthaler
 Online Editor Ginger Phillips

Business Manager Paul Seifert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University,
« Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publications
Board elects the Executive Editor, but The Ring-tum Phi is
otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday to appear
. in that week’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right
_ to edit submissions for content and length. Letters and
columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
~ Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions
of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

wasting time at theCo-op

“toe? s.rs+;.«.--to 

  
 
  

“

.. "NICE HA1’ K.

-at/94.-$.24

“’°|4 SH°uu>
WEA K if u?
Mocﬁ OFTEN-

6.) Complain about that big econ test.

7.) Loudly whine you don’t have a date for (ﬁll in date
function) and hope Mr./Mrs. Wonderful will stride up and
gallantly yet demurely ask, “Well, if you’re not going with
anyone, and I’m not going with anyone. . .”

8.) Buy Stewart’s Root Beer and pretend to be a badass
drinking beer outside the Co—op.

9.) Jump off the top of the Co—op with an umbrella, see
if the umbrella prevents injury, and tell onlookers it’s the
basis for your senior physics thesis.

10.) Take note of person—you-hooked—up-with—last—
r1ight—when-you—were-really—drunk’s avoidance of eye con-
tact. Call him/her over anyway, and tell him/her your par-

any more._I don’t mean any more pasta, I mean any more
D-Hall. It’s not due to the food. It was because I took my
eating habits to the extreme.

I still visited the D-Hall for breakfast with friends to
relax and catch up on the previous day’s gossip, but could
eat there no more. How I cherished those comfortable
wooden chairs that allowed

ents want to meet him on Parents’ Weekend, and take
both of you out to dinner. Inwardly laugh at hookup—ee’s
violent discomfort.

11.) Laugh at people who trip on the absence of stair
right before the Co-op doors. The stair that used to be
there. Write a poem about it.

12.) Bring arbitrary household appliances to Co-op
(e.g. irons, mops, coffee filters, oven mitts, hammers, nails).
Surround yourself with them. Glare at people who give
your perplexed looks.

And you thought there was nothing to do but pretend
to work. You’re wrong again. I win. 0

school year. I know it’s kind of weird. Afterall, why would
a senior want to get a job during the last year of college?
It takes time away from “senior duties” at the Pahns. It
slows down the game of eating at every food locale in
B.V. because meal time is busy. It makes you smell like
food (not a popular scent to the fellas). It forces you to
spend time with freshmen. None of these are

for the classic girl-crossed-  Fdltor bonuses. _
legs, guy-“giving-it-some _ . But I still don’t regret working in the D—Hall.
space,” and Indian style po- Stephanie Bianco. '01 I’ve made some new friends, can identify.

sitions. .

Anyway, I took a little time out fromLetitia, but there
was lingering emptiness.

One day, a friend started working there. Then another
did. And then another. Pretty soon, the curiosity got the
better part of me. Igot a job as aline worker at the Dining Hall.

My little adventure began the second week of this

Letter to the Editor

all of the entree items at the D—Hall, and no

longer get queasy at the thought of downing a plate of
good ol’ rotini with marinara.

Hey —— where else can you jam to music of your choice,

at the volume of your choice, while exchanging funny

stories from the week with your friends? Sometimes I ‘

wonder how this is a paying job.

Gay marriage
widely accepted

Dear Editor,

In the interests of journalistic in-
tegrity, I feel the need to comment on
the October 9, 2000 editorial in the
Ring—tum Phi: “Three Cheers for Ver-
mont and democracy” by Brett Kirwan.

Vermont is not “the only place in
the world where [homosexuals] can get
‘C.U.ed’ [civil unionized?]-.” Accord-
ing to The Lambda Legal Defense and
Education Fund, as of January 1999:
Denmark, Greenland, Finland, Iceland,
Norway, The Netherlands, and Swe-
den had “registered partnerships” for
some sarne-sex couples. Slovenia and
The Czech Republic were expected to
follow suit. Belgium, France, Germany,
Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain, and Swit-
zerland were considering enacting simi-
lar laws and sarne-sex common-law
marriage was recognized in Hungary.
Meanwhile, the’Canadia'n courts are in
the process of including civil-union or

marriage for same—sex couples. Mr.
Kirwan, like many Americans, forgets
that there are other countries beyond
our borders.

Mr. Kirwan states “[the Vermont
civil-union law] has been considered
totally unacceptable by most of its
citizens.” He then fails to produce
any evdience for this statement. He
also informs us that the Vermont
Supreme Court “completely ignored
all constitutional checks and bal-
ances requiring that the judiciary
merely interpret laws, not create
them.” I take from this assertion that
he believes himself an expert on le-
gal precedence in Vermont. An edi-
torial is an opinion, but it carmot be
without some proof, if the writer ex-
pects to win over his or her audi-
ence. Mr. Kirwan writes with the
same regard for facts as did the jour-
nalists of the old Soviet newspapers.

The real argument comes down
down to whether or not the courts
have the right to pressure the legis-
lature or the executive to act. Kirwan
suggests majority opinion is on his

side, believing courts should not in-
fluence through their decisions,
though, again, he provides scant
proof. In the real world of laws and
politics things are never so clear-cut.
As Otto von Bismark said: “Ifyou like
laws and sausages, you should never
watch either one being made.”

I will agree that Mr. Kirwan was
perhaps correct when he suggested
in a previous editorial that Texas
should secede from the Union. Then
he and other pro—gun,. anti—gay right-
wingers could create The Texas Fun-
damentalist Christian Republic built
along the lines of Iran, complete with
clerical justice, public executions,
veiled women, wholesale intolerance
and — as a bonus — OPEC member-
ship. With all the oil and ﬁrearms al-
ready in Texas, the new cowboy re-
public might quickly become spectacu-
larly successful. Just imagine it: One
Republic, under God-doh, witl1outlib—
ertines and with injustice for all.
Sincerely,

David Ross Cobb
Class of ’87

y Christine Metzger

TALKback: Whyjdid you come back this weekend?

 

“For the chapter presidents’
conference and to see a band.”
-Andrew Caruthers ’87

“To have fun with old friends.”
-Eric Turner ’87

 

kids from my classes.”

-Roy Burns ’99

 

“To see old friends and a lot of

  

“I love W&L! I’m interested in
setting up an alumni chapter in
South Georgia.”

-Scott Moms ’99

 

 

PAGE 4

O

Ellie ilttng-tum Iﬂlit

PINION

The immorality of big government

This year’s election, contrary to the
seemingly endless parade of whining
“undecided” voters, presents each
voter with a

help French immigrants, James Madi-
son wrote in his veto, ‘‘I cannot under-
take to lay my ﬁnger on that article of

clear and well-
defined choice.
As Governor

 

Bush, not so
eloquently but adequately, described
in each debate, a vote for him is a
vote for a smaller, less intrusive fed-
eral government that trusts people,
whereas a vote for the vice-perpetra-
tor is a vote for hugely increased fed-
eral spending, costly new entitle-
ments, and a government committed
to anti-liberty paternalism.

Now, besides the fact that Al Gore,
in an effort to address each of his
dozen or so “first priorities,” has pro-
posed three times more spending than
Bill Clinton and would balloon the bu-
reaucracy like no one since LBJ, the
government he envisions, one that
spends most of its energy redistribut-

V ing wealth, is terribly immoral.

The Founding Fathers would be
appalled at what Americans have
come to expect their government to
do. Since Wilson and FDR brought
the blight of socialism to the fruited
plains, the nation has been trading
its liberty for security.

We now expect that the federal gov-
ernment will manage our retirement
funds, manage our health insurance,
pay for our children’s school lunches,
ﬁnance our college education, subsi-
dize crops that the market won’t sup-
port, and send us checks if we get in-
jured on the job, lose our job, or just
don’t want to get one. Madison and
the boys in Philadelphia didn’t em-
power the Congress to establish any-
thing even approaching the benevo-
lent programs we “enjoy” today. Not
a single entitlement is mentioned in the
Constitution.

For 150 years or so, presidents were
careful to limit the government’s in-
volvement in what should be a private
matter. In fact, when asked to approve
a bill which appropriated $15,000 to

the Constitu-

. tion which

Right side of the aisle granted a right
Brett T. Kiiwan ’04 *0 COHSTCSS Of
expending, on

objects of benevolence, the money of
their constituents.”

Years later, in 1887, Grover Cleve-
land expressed his disapproval for a bill
to assist drought-stricken counties in
Texas by writing, “I feel obliged to with-
hold my approval of the plan to indulge
in benevolent and charitable sentiment
through the appropriation of public
funds. . . I find no warrant for such an
appropriation in the Const 

1

HOMECOMING 2000

i

 

   
      

By Shelley Meyer

STA FF WRITER

Out with the new, in with the old. UVA has its Wahoos,
Auburn has its plainsmen, and Washington and Lee has its
minks.

This Homecoming, the Alumni Association tried to bring
back the lore of the W&L minks. Satiirday’s Alumni Lun-

( cheon was a “Minks Rally,” and the banner trophy has a
stuffed mink in the middle.

“A lot of students don’t know that W&L students used
to be referred to as Minks,” Chris Edwards ’99, Assistant
Alumni Director of oriline communications, said. “It’s a piece

“ of W&L lore I’d hate to be lost.”

According to local legends, the Generals acquired the
nickname from VMI cadets. Apparently, when the “rats”
had to go in for the night, the W&L men would steal their

3‘ dates, becoming “thieves in the night.”

Bringing back this tradition is one of the many changes
that were made this Homecoming. According to Edwards,
over the past five years, Homecoming festivities have
changed tremendously.

7 Rob Mish ’76, Director of Alumni Programs, who grew up
in Lexington, remembers Homecornings from when he was a
little boy. The fraternity houses would decorate their whole
facades.

e “[It was] almost like making stationery floats,” Mish
said. “That’s what I remember from my childhood days.”

“'Ihere used to be a parade,” Edwards said. “[We] lost it Fall
[of] ’96. Instead of ﬂoats, [we now] have banners in the D—Hall.”

Freshmen vote on three banners — the funniest, most

‘~ creative, and best overall. The winner receives the Mink
Trophy during halftime festivities.

The Homecoming Court activities also differed. The big-

, gest difference for the ’60-’ 80 alums was the absence of old

e Keith Shillington, a cherriistry professor given the honor of
armually kissing the Homecoming Queen. According to
Rob Mish ’76, Director of Alumni Programs, Shillington
was one of the most eccentric professors on campus.

“It was a dubious honor,” Edwards said. “You got to be

.1 Queen, but you had to kiss Shillington.”

Another change for the younger alums and current stu-
dents was the delivery of the envelope containing the

e Queen and King results. The past several Homecornings, a
skydiver delivered the ballot. Edwards said that it had lost
spontaneity, so instead the King and Queen were whisked
away in the “Gorgeous Darlin’” hot air balloon. _

‘ The luncheon for the alumni was given on the old base— A _ photos by Emily games and Lisa Lin

I ballgyellrg :¥1hll6;1ltl<’:tt’E:iilgat6tWaS at :he: Ruin: ” Ed d HOMECOMING 2000 EVENTS. Hot air balloon rides and tailgating (top left); View of the Ruins from
6 011g 1 CF63 C 3. 11621 3. H105 BIC, W211‘ S . _ - ~ - -
Said. “Students at tailgate, alums at [the]I1)unche0n.,, the. balloon (top right), Homec.om1ng.Queen Senior Nicole_Hartley. and Escort Senior Fred]
Thehmcheonwashe1df0rtheFiVeStaIGeneralS andthe Heiser s celebratory balloon ride (middle left); Crazed fans eheering the Generals footbal

duster Students The Cluster consists of graduates from the team on to victory (middle right); Homecoming banners on display at the game (above); and
past four years, The inclusion of these graduates is to «keep Junior Tiffany Friedel-accepting the trophy for Best Overall Banner for Chi Omega (left).

them in touch with the school until the 5th year reunion.” T h

8

Edwards said in the past, most of the events were tar-
geted towards the Five Star Generals and nothing was re- -~ _..'.~, x .
Fri

   

i

§’?vV_7§7_S--G3.Z€‘t.'-B

-: -. \'—§_;,_-g:«'.-

   

   

   

ally tailored for the clusters.
1. Tom Lovell, AssistantDirector of Homecoming and Reunions,
was responsible for many of the new events for the clusters.

“Tom came in late June ’99, reevaluated Homecoming
and the events,” Edwards said.

Friday was packed with events for the recent graduates. Car-
bon Leaf, a band from Richmond, played at the Ruins while
there was Virginia Wine Tasting and later a barbeque dimer.

“We wanted to provide a full afternoon for the cluster
alumni,” Edwards said.

4 Yet another big ‘change revolved around the football game.

“Football is kind of a non-issue — this year it’s a big deal,”
Edwards said.

Not only is the football team doing well, this is the first
Homecoming to have cheerleaders. “Change is a four letter

‘ word at W&L,” Edwards said. “Opinions will be divided.
People will deﬁnitely be curious and interested to see how
[cheerleaders] add to the atmosphere of the game and the
whole weekend.”

e , Homecoming weekend also has other events going on. Every
year, it is the weekend that the Alumni Board meets. Also, every
three years, there is a Chapter Presidents’ Conference.

“Usually this weekend is a little more tame than reunion,”
Edwards said. “[It is the] first weekend campus is inun-

‘ dated with people.”

“People think of this place as home,” Mish said. “Our
alumni feel so passionately about this place. . . they feel like
they own this place.”

.2 ~~ .

      

109 SOUTH JEFFERSON STREET LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450
TEL: 540-463-3116 FAX: 540-463-3171
www.n-gprintshop.com

XEROX copy PRICES

81/2 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond
1-500 $0.10 per copy
501-1000 $0.09 per copy
1001-2000 $0.08 per copy
Over 2001 $0.01 per copy

11 x 11 Black and White- 20 lb. Bond
1-500 $0.20 per copy
501-1000 $0.18 per copy.
1001-2000 $0.16 per copy
Over 2001 $0.14 per copy

Two sided copies go at two times (2x) the rate.
Paper ‘other than white 20 lb. goes at copy price + paper cost.
BINDERY WORK
Minimum $5.00 or $40.00 per hour

 

PAGE 6

S

@112 Bing-tum lﬂlrt

PORTS

OCTOBER 23, 2000

W&L escapes Sewanee rally

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Callitthe auraofahomecoming game.

Washington and Lee snapped a
two-game losing streak, jumping out
to a 20-2 halftime lead and holding off
a late Sewanee rally for a 27-24 win
Saturday.

Senior Marc Watson rushed for
262 yards and a pair of touchdowns,
giving him an even 1000 yards rush-
ing for the season. The tailback came
off a record-setting performance the
previous week in the Generals’ 45-28
loss to Hampden-Sydney.

Watson set W&L records with 281
rushing and 382 all—purpose yards against
the Tigers. However, 87 penalty yards and
three tumovers — two of which resulted
in Hampden-Sydney touchdowns —
helped the Tigers to an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference win.

The Generals’ defense prevented
Sewanee (5-3) from reaching the end
zone for more than three quarters of
Saturday’s contest. However, an early
safety, a fumble recovery in the Gen-
erals’ end zone, and a 71-yard inter-
ception return for a touchdown re-
sulted in 17 of the Tigers’ 24 points.

“It’s probably one of the most frus-
trating things ever, knowing that the

defense is doing the job and shutting
them down,” said junior defensive
end Jeff Bahl, who ﬁnished with 11
tackles and two fumble recoveries.
“But that’s the way football is. There
are some ups and downs, and the
ball’s going to get fumbled every once
in a while. Unfortunately, today it hap-
pened at inopportune times.”

Nevertheless, the Generals (5-2)
managedpto escape with the narrow
victory against Sewanee. Sophomore
quarterback Bobby Littlehale coun-
tered his interception with 133 yards
and a touchdown in the air, and class-
mate Davis White caught five passes
for 44 yards and a score. M

“We had a two-garne slide there, and
we had lost some conﬁdence,” W&L
head coach Frank Miriello said. “They
were playing with some conﬁdence
early in the season, and we had to get
that back. That was the focus this week,
and that’s exactly what they did.

“The defense started playing like I
know they can, and stopped the op-
tion game. I was very pleased with our
defensive preparation and game plan.”

Watson’s perfonnance against the
Tigers, who entered the game 11th in
Division III with 58.4 rushing yards
per game allowed, certainly aided the
Generals’ cause.

“I’ve got to hand it to my offensive
line again,” Watson said. “The front
four that Sewanee had will probably be
the best front four we’1l face all season
long. Those ﬁve guys and our fullbacks
were just opening holes all day.”

The Generals, 2-2 in ODAC com-
petition, return to the conference
schedule this week with a road game
against Bridgewater (6-1, 2-1). Bahl

photo by Lisa Lin/Photo Editor
BOUNCE OUTSIDE. Senior tailback Marc Watson evades two

Sewanee defenders in the Generals’ 27-24 homecoming win.

believes that the momentum from a
homecoming win will carry over
against the Eagles.

“We’re back on the train,” Bahl
said. “The bandwagon’s rolling again.
When we get that swagger going, we
honestly feel like we’re unstoppable,
and that no one can contain us. We’ve
got that back, and I look forward to
playing Bridgewater next week.”

Generals end regular season on igh note

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team extended its record to 10-
5, including an 8-3 mark in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference, with
three wins in four games over the past
two weeks.

The Generals shut out Hollins 6-0

on Oct. 11. Freshmen Fontaine '

Marcoux and Heather Coleman and
sophomore Jenny Thomas scored
within the first 20 minutes of the con-
test, and Colernan-added her second
goal later in the first half.

Marcoux and Junior Kate Bidwell
scored in the second half to give the
Generals a 6-0 lead, and Senior Lauren
Harris made two saves during the
game to earn her ﬁfth shutout of the
season. Thomas, Senior Liz Olsen,
Marcoux, and Freshman Susannah
Hewlett each had an assist.

The Generals traveled to Pitts-
burgh during Reading Days to play
Carnegie Mellon, which resulted in a
1-0 loss for W&L. Carnegie Mellon’s

Lauren Taylor scored the game’s only
goal with less than nine minutes re-
maining for the win. Harris made ﬁve
saves during the match.

The Generals returned home to
face Ferrum on Oct. 18, and won 5-1.
Bidwell scored the first goal in the
second half, assisted by Marcoux, but
Mary Jennette scored for Ferium to
tie the game three minutes later.

With 18 minutes left in the contest,
Bidwell assisted Marcoux for the Gen-
erals’ second goal, which would stand
as the game winner. Bidwell would
score another goal, and Sophomore
Ruth-Hill Yielding added two late tal-
lies to extend the lead to four goals.

The Generals edged Roanoke 1-0
on Saturday for homecoming. Lauren
Harris stopped all eight shots she
faced.

“The defense was incredible,” Jun-
ior Kristen Pranke said.

> The game remained scoreless un-
til the 78th minute of play. The Gener-
als played Roanoke evenly through-
out the first half, but eventually wore
down the Maroons. Bidwell scored off

    

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

CHANGING SEASONS. Senior Margaret-Hunter Turner dribbles
the ball downfield in the Generals’ 1-0, regular season-ending

win over Roanoke on Saturday.

an assist from Marcoux for the win.
“I’m very pleased and proud,”

coach Jan Hathom said. “I can’t say

enough about how well they played.”

The Generals are finished with
their regular season schedule, and will
proceed to the ODAC Tournament on
Oct. 24th.

Cross country teams place fourth in state meet

W&L sports roundup
By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams
both placed fourth out of nine teams
Oct. 14 in the Virginia State Division
HI meet at Christopher Newport Uni-
versity in Newport News.

Senior Jessica Parrillo won All-

oc1-oasn 23
OCTOBER 30

NOVEMBER 6
NOVEMBER 13
NOVEMBER 27
DECEMBER 4

coI=FEEpeo

TH

State honors with a fourth-place over-
all ﬁnish in the wo1nen’s meet at a time
of 19:04. Junior Gretchen Tencza
(20:10) placed 16th and senior
Kathleen Moroney (20:38) ﬁnished
23rd overall.

Freshman Andy Schorr finished
tenth overall in the men’s meet with a
time of 26:43, granting him All-State
honors as well. Junior Ken J ackman
and sophomore David Hicks ﬁnished
21st and 25th overall with respective

 

EVERY IVIONDAY 8:30 P.M. TO MIDNIGHT

THE LARRY KEEI_ EXPERIENCE
GHosT STORIES BY
PROFESSIONAL STORYTELLER/

TBA

 
   

HousE IVIOUNTAIN
ALEX WII_KINs
RING's END

  AT

p|eMusIc_:more

HQ

times of27:2l and 21 :33.

The Generals will host the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Cross Country
Championships at 1 1 :00 am. Saturday.

Generals. golf update

Washington and Lee finished 10th
of 14 teams in the Aubrey Apple Invi-
tational at the Salem Glen Country Club
in Winston—Salem, N .C., on Oct. 9-10.

Methodist College won the meet
with a combined score of 593 for the

two—day tournament. Medalist Chad
Collins shot a 145 for the victors.

Sophomore Chuck Green paced
the Generals with a 157, followed
closely by classmate Chip Campbell
at 159. Sophomore David Haase to-
taled a 161, Senior Ben Wilson turned
in a score of 167, and Junior Kyle Ulep
ﬁnished at 178.

Next, the Generals compete in the
Tom O’Bryant Invitational at Guilford
College on Oct. 30-31.

leyball win streak
reaches double digits

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee extended its
win streak to ten matches with a vic-
tory over Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference opponent Hollins on Saturday.

The Generals defeated Eastern Men-
nonite 15-12, 15-12, 11-15, 17-19, 15-l3on
Oct 10 before traveling to Baltimore for
the Goucher Invitational. Senior setter
Pam Saulsbury contributed 26 assists and
17 digs, and senior outside hitter Tori Hays
recorded 19 digs.

W&L then rolled over its opposi-
tion in Baltimore, failing to drop a game
in wins over Goucher, Mary Washing-
ton, Dickinson, and Mary Washington
again in the ﬁnals. Junior Lindsay

Ruckert received the tournament’s
most valuable player award, finishing
with 41 kills in four matches.

The team returned home and to
ODAC competition with a 15-0, 15-9,
15-1 win over Sweet Briar on Oct. 18.
Freshman Kristin Shelton led the team
with six successful attacks, also re-
cording two blocks and an ace. Se-
nior setter Katherine Kline recorded
12 assists and six aces.

The Generals’ win streak reached
double digits Saturday by way of a
15-4, 15-6, 15-6 victory against visit-
ing Hollins. Ruckert and Shelton led
W&L with 11 assists apiece, and
Saulsbury ﬁnished with 17 assists.

W&L (l7—5, 8-1 ODAC) will host
Roanoke at 6:30 p.m. Tuesday.

   

Upcoming events in General athletics...

Football

Sat. October 28 at Bridgewater 1:00 p.m.

Sat. November 4 Emory & Henry 1:00 p.m.

Sat. November 1 1 at Swarthmore 1:00 p.m.
Men’s and Women’s Cross Country

Sat. October 28 ODAC Championships 11:00 am.

Sat. November 11 at NCAA Regional TBA

Sat. November 18 at NCAA Nationals TBA
Golf

October 30-31 at Tom O’Bryant Invite TBA
Riding

Fri. October 27 at James Madison TBA
Men’s Soccer

Wed. October 25 at Virginia Military Institute 3:30 p.m.

Sat. October 28 at Averett 3:00 p.m. '

October 3 1—November 4 ODAC Tournament TBA
Women’s Soccer

October 24-28 ODAC Tournament TBA
Men’s and Women’s Swimming

Sat. October 28 at Transylvania 1:00 p.m

Sat. , November 18 at Swarthmore 2:00 p.m

Sun. November 19 at Gettysburg 1:00 p.m
Volleyball

Tues. October 24 Roanoke 6:30 p.m

Fri. October 27 at Averett 8:00 p.m

Sat. October 28 Averett Tournament TBA

November 3-4 ODAC Tournament TBA
Wrestling

Sun. November 12 at VMI Keydet Invitational 10:00 am.

_ Whole Pigs - Hi

  Steve’s “Real”'BTBTQ. Catering

Specializing In A
ckory Smoked Ribs and B.B.Q

75 Beans Bottom_Rd., Lexington, VA

540-462-3769

   

‘fHave Cooker Will Travel”

 

 

 

OCTOBER 23, 2000

S

@112 ilttng-tum iﬁlrt

PORTS

 

PAGE 7

3

HOUSTON, WE HAVE ASTROTURF. The Washington and Lee club field hockey team celebrates a
goal in their 2-1 victory over Hollins on the new turf field Saturday.

_, Tennis teams ﬁnish fall season

Men’s soccer continues
record-setting trend

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team broke a
school record for wins in a season Saturday following a
string of victories over the previous two weeks.

The Generals defeated Eastern Mennonite 4-0 on Oct.
11. Freshman Philip Miller scored ﬁrst, assisted by senior
Jon Wilson. Miller scored
again in the second half off

goalkeeper Tim Foley made
four saves for the shutout.
The Generals then trav-
eled to New York for a non-
conference match against
Manhattanville College.
Manhattanville scored only

    

the game, Miller added to his scoring streak to give the
Generals the early lead.

Ten minutes into the second half, Crawford scored off
an assist from Wilson. Danny Almond put the game within
reach for Emory and Henry, scoring with 18 minutes left.
Four minutes later, freshman Jacob Stoehr assisted Murphy
for the Generals’ third goal, ensuring the Generals’ win.

The Generals returned home to face Bridgewater on Oct.
19 in another conference
game. Grimes and Murphy

4 assists from Wilson and scored two goals each, and
juniorAndrew Grirnes.Less senior goalkeeper Jordan
than one minute later, Wil— Ginsberg made two saves to
son and junior David shut out Bridgewater 4-0.
Kodack assisted senior Miller and Wilson each re-

“ Jacek Mucha for the Gener- corded two assists during
als’ third goal. the contest.

VV1th three minutes left in “We have good chem-
the game, sophomore Brad istry,” Grimes said. “We

‘ Murphy scored an unas- have fun playing together,

A sisted goal to provide the and that makes the offense
photo by Lisa Lwphow Editor final margin. Sophomore a lot better.”

The Generals set a new
record for wins in a season
in an overtime nail—biter
against St. Mary’s on Sat-
urday. In front of a crowd
gathered for both Home-

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer Corning and Senior day, the

. In doubles competition at the 2000 Rolex Nationals, threﬁ minutes into the game FREE FOR ALL Junk" David Kodack moves Generals played the
By Jeremy Franklln Hatley and Proko took home third place by defeating Ab_ when Nick Giacopelli as— the ball against 3 St. Mary’s defender in the Seahawks to a sizoreless tie
SPORTS EDHOR bey U11-ich and Lama Cumming ofTr1njty Couege, sisted Paul Malyszka for the ‘ Generals’ 1-0 double overtime win Saturday. at the end of regulation.
The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team rolled 0111)’ 8031 of the first ham with One minute left in

‘through its own Fall Festival Oct. 14 and 15, and then
participated in the 2000 Rolex Nationals in Memphis over

the weekend to conclude its fall season.

Junior Melissa Hatley won the number one singles ﬂight

‘in the Fall Festival, defeating the College of New Jersey’s
Jen Crombie 6- 1 , 6-7 (5), 6-4 in the title match. Sophomore
Brandi Jane Wedgeworth topped Mary Washington’s Emily

Sutliff 6-4, 6-0 to win the number two singles ﬂight.

Generals host ITA tournament

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team hosted the
ITA Southeast Regional on Oct. 6-9, concluding its fall sea-
son with the l7—team tournament.

Juniors Rhys James and Andrew Roberts advanced to the
semiﬁnals of the doubles competition before falling to Jose
Lejanaga and Seth Morgan of Washington College 6-1, 6-2.
J tutior Rob Moynihan and sophomore Chase Bice advanced to

The Generals came back early in the second half when
David Kodack assisted senior Andy Crawford for the
game-tying goal. Philip Miller was once again the story of
the game, scoring the game-winning goal three minutes
into overtime for a 2-1 W&L win.

The Generals went on to secure another road victory
Oct. 15, this time defeating Emory and Henry 3-1 in an Old
Dominion Athletic Conference match. Four minutes into

the second overtime, Miller scored once again, this time
off an assist from Wilson. Foley made six saves to keep
the Seahawks out of the Generals’ goal.

The Generals are now 13-1 in the season, including an
8-1 mark in the conference. The men’s soccer team plays
two more non-conference matches before the ODAC Tour-
nament begins: Wednesday at Virginia Military Institute
and Saturday at Averett.

In doubles competition, Hatley and sophomore Erika

‘ Proko knocked off Mary Washington’s Lea Schon and
Ashley Knapp 6-1, 6-4 to win the number one ﬂight.
Wedgeworth and sophomore Alyson Brice edged Steffany
Slaughter and Kim Colwell, also of Mary Washington, 9-8

the quarterﬁnals of the tournament, dropping a 6-0, 6-1 decision
to Swarthmore’s Pete Schilla and John Thomas.

Two W&L singles players advanced to the third round
of the 64—player singles tournament. Freshman Graham Nix
fell to Lejarraga in the third round, who ultimately ﬁnished in

Generals split season opener

, to win the second ﬂight.

Academic Couple
Seeks Egg Donor

21-28

Right candidate will be
« compensated with
approximately $7500.

‘D

Outstanding SATs/academics,
good temperament, dark hair/
eyes, even-featured, 5’6” or
taller, and lean build.

Please describe motivation
along with several
4. [returnable] photos to:

P.O. Box 22
West Kingston, RI 02892

All serious replies will be
answered.

second place, and James lost to Schilla .in three sets.

    
    
   

Léadék
Travel

HUGE SALE!

Sale Dates: 10/24-10/28

hggdon $1 85
$345

Ameriee's
Student

1|’)

    

Paris

from LAX
(.

Great fares from all over the u.s.
to Amsterdam, Birmingham,
Brussels, DuhIin,DusseIdorf, Rome,
Frankfurt, Glasgow, Lisbon, Madrid,
Manchester, Milan, 1shannon, Zurich.

Fares are RT for midweek travel and subject to
availability Tkts are Non-Refundable and exclusive of
taxes/surcharges which range from $30-$85. Tkts
must be booked and paid for from Oct 24th-28th.
Departures from Nov 1 - March 31. 2001. No
departures from Dec 12th through Dec 24th. Must
hold valid lS|C,lTlC. or IYTO card.

Some age and other restrictions may apply.

 ‘_

1 —800—2COUNClL

(open 24 hrs
9am Tue-midnight Fri est)
counci|travel.com

 

SURVIVE SPRING BREAK 2001!

ALL THE HOTTEST DESTINATION S/HOTELS! CAMPUS
SALES

‘ ‘* ' REPRESENTATIVES AND STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS

' WANTED!

VISIT inter-campus.com or call 1-800-327-6013

4

 ] The Cutting E

*;- A Hair Salon

highlighting, manicuring, pedicuring, Waxing
1 - A _ A Walk-ins welcome

540-463-9588

dgz

     

117 W. ‘Relson Street
Lexington. VP! 24-450

By Geoff White 

To  “SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s swim
teams opened their season in
a dual meet this Saturday
against Sewanee.

The men won nine of the
11 relays en route to a 53-34
win. Seniors Colin Hayes and
Mike Miraglia and freshman
Drew Catanese combined to
win the 300-yard free relay
with a time of 2:47.14, seven
seconds ahead of the Tigers’
team. Only the 4x200 free relay
and 500—yard free relay teams
lost to Sewanee.

“For our first meet of the
season, it was a good team ef-
fort,” sophomore Matt
Kimbrough said.

The women won three of
the relay events, but ultimately
fell 58-31 to Sewanee. The meet
featured only relays; therefore,
no individual competitions
were held.

Both teams will next travel
to Transylvania University’ in
Lexington, Ky. for a dual meet
on Saturday.

photo by Emily Barnes/Ex,ecutive Editor

WAITING GAME. Swimmers from Washington and Lee and Sewanee
watch their relay teammates during the Generals’ season opener
Saturday at the Doremus Gymnasium. The W&L men won 53-34,
while the Sewanee women’s team took home a 58-31 victory.

LEXINGTON
COFFEE
_____,;§/jzj

.‘/t’nu.rl (.1151 ())I)III/)((I(!l/

ENJOY CHESS - CHECKERS ° BACKGAMMON 0 & MORE!
ESPRESSO ° CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES - FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET - LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

 

 

PAGE 8

ecause I was the
only person who
volunteered for it

9:

LAsTW8‘ﬁb  

 

OCTOBER 23, 2000

t7£l;'lI'0II MM-
JUE6’ I7 [0131]] IEUEI17

Students resoundingly say, “God, we hope so.”

By now, almost nobody cares about the
elections here at W&L. Sure, the ﬁrst few
campaign posters were amusing, but after three
weeks of ﬁfty students ﬂooding the campus with
literature, just about everybody is sick of it.

One would think that the campaigns 11111 at
W&L would have a certain aura of
sophistication, or at the very least, be a step up
from the pushover elections of high school.
Unfortunately, that just isn’t the case for the
freshmen class. For the last three weeks, our
beautiful campus that we’re all paying an arm
and a kidney to be at, has received a crap—job
reﬁrrbishing.

Honestly, if I see another poster attempting
to be cute, clever, or catchy, I’ll go postal.
Despite the fact thatW&L has some of the most
intelligent and talented students anywhere in the
country, the school elections have some how
managed to leave everyone even more

disillusionedthanthe rest ofAme1icais with the
national elections. Congratulations.

The campaign literature falls into three
categories: Thetmoriginal name/position posters,
the unoriginal clever/cutsy posters, and the
unoriginal “shocking” posters.

The main theme, here, is that none of them
were really funny and most of them were really
annoying, especially after seeing them for the
two-thousandth time. In fact, the only truly
exciting events the election spawned were the
spontaneous acts of vandalism that occurred
against them \

The elections have been almost laughable
in their immaturity. Nobody knows the
candidates, the issues, or the stakes. . . only how
not funny each of candidates can really be.
Perhaps a new system needs to be developed
for student elections, but for now, save some
trees and save us all some grief.

 

/iﬂaral gilemma
of the p1/eeh

Is it an honor violation to lie to

9 out of 10 Hippies agree that
smoking doobies make them
more intelligent,‘ more in tune
with nature, more healthful,
more appreciative of others,
and less inhibitted. If they
think all that, do you still
want to smoke pot?

D on ﬁ:L’CL‘:2'\ . .. 171

A 1"'i.r’Fi£ﬁ..L ppﬂf 5.,’ Monica ‘5-C-HuEI'd'1'H«":LE'll

 

. Ey'Ei'_'1'EaD"l' Liidl?-5 ll

5nI- EH9"-I-D
MEET ..,,,,,.t_ 'k«TE..'1

lv-— 11!": W n

 

uorzs wt-'r_rr B524-e-=ITj:—*_a*
{_g.Lo 151;. 5.5”; -r I1t'Dtc.u.r.a
SL515-HHS.’ ‘

~..,r.e;=.=ir mane:-s 1=3 TE-5? n.ia~'T:fE
I! Prtmsar-;s~:-. BEWW THE -“"’f""""""” D
_- £,,,,,,_~1~g-;'-1: gL.Ez..'r.1e-J-J5 uh.-LE 1'-JEENTEEE _
c,,,_,_E&E? I,.._,u.;;.T are THE. PL«é?':e€“‘-*5»
-,,_;+=‘.-tartar-£5. fr-IE ‘FEM '1” -I_10|-I3 5-,,‘
'u'n=r”.1.:. THESE ?’E.I=FI—E'= "4-T”
;P'D'S1“|'ra-It-‘I5 :1-7 PD-V-'E'Q?
pa THEY ¢.E.a.tw: Ta‘-H-4: .w_.
ME A1‘-IE so ta.Ho£.ui'h:‘!‘_ n‘
Tmffrum w=i—=- SE [1
ABLE To ‘Set.-..u?.E GMT‘! 

/?§»\
.-/R 

?!rLo Mir~auTE5 LATER---r

  
 
 
 

HEY tnztit
"51:-Eras

- |-'Jsif.-'lH-II.
I! 1?.-.35 sun-
 F::”'rH'P:_
I I-1
bnuuﬁ
l.I"'dI‘l"E'-
F:a'_FE..

H I :'*‘{.-r!:

9
l  R

H!-LLLET$,'

1 . mﬁlts*i___rii_



_.-——



1!

your date by telling her she doesn't ,-4
look fat in her dress if she asks?

Y

I

X

.D0000COOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQOOOOOO
I

BGUFQIZ

.7(cz/0/oa cz e/at
G 012 yra/zz/a/es 173  

jilozzz ecozzzzirzy Queen 9‘Q21221'12ees

yjraaw

WM; 012 9601}?
5)z}20(sey   _71/ er'122a12
Bucyi 46a//1222 ore

51;; age/A y7Z:11°c£1Is'o12
Bacey Z0122 orof

0090409600§OfOOO§O’§OOQO§O9OO

    

_   ,pr”§..{ 1..

18 E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464-4483

THE RLACE FOR FOOD _A_I\_I_1_2 MN .I
7=HuRsoAY- 1<ARAo1<E
1-'RIDAY~ o. J. JOE
SATuRDAY~HALLOwEEN~
ANNIVERSARY PARTY-CASH RRrzEs
FOR BEST COSTuME~RAFFLES- GIFTS

1 6 oz. T5BONE STEAK W/BAKED
POTATO AND MIxE1) GREEN SALAD
$ 6.50

   

-=r

 o

ITHINK THAT SAYS IT ALL .:

 

 

PAGE 2

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

NEWS

OCTOBER 30, 2000‘

THE VVORLD

 

Child soldiers lynched

in Sri Lanka

Ethnic differences led to more vio-
lence in Sri Lanka where 25 former
child soldiers of the Liberation Tigers
of Tamil Eelam, aged 14 to 25, were
lynched by a mob outside of a center
dedicated to rehabilitating them.

The LTTE has been accused by
several human rights groups of using
young children as soldiers.

When captured, these children are
sent to centers like the one where the
lynchings took place, where they are
given psychological counseling. With
Sri Lanka struggling to overcome the
rebel LTTE forces in the north, sym-
pathy for the child soldiers’ deaths is
not widespread.

The child soldiers had captured a
Sinhalese officer and were demand-
ing to be set free, when the 3000

 
   

.1.
1-, .. ...

Cy‘ -
gut

THIS WEEK

strong mob broke into the center, and
beat 25 of the 44 inmates to death.

The 17-year-old conﬂict, which
has claimed over 60,000 lives rages
between the Tamil mi 

«

s OCTOBER 30, 2000

C112 ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂht

PINK)

PAGE 3

 FOX announcers

prove average in

Subway Series

to mention the next six postseasons.
But while seeing the Yanks win an—
other World Series with their typical
slew of overpaid veterans was quite
depressing, the Fox broadcasters
turned out a solid performance from

I will readily admit that I was none
too pleased when Major League Base-
ball and FOX announced their six—year
postseason deal during the opening
round of this year’s playoffs.

After all, FOX’s exclusive coverage

of the entire postseason for the next six the booth.

,; years will prevent baseball-tuned ears Maybe I’ve learned to expect less
from listening to the best television an— f1omJoe Buck, T1mMcCarver, andBob
nouncers in the business. NBC’s Bob Brenly,butthey actually calledadecent
Costas and Joe _ Series. So why
Morgan — Th6  have they been

:» proclaimed Worldwide Leader in Sports.

_. dreading television coverage of this year’s

«es .3,

‘fraction of their own which you give

who also calls
regular season
and playoff games for ESPN — will no
longer grace October with their presence,
along with a plethora of intelligent and
entertaining announcers from the self-

. , ' ' their base-
Jeremy S' Franklm 04 kiowledge?
A complaint from many baseball
fans and non-baseball fans alike is that
the game is simply not enjoyable to
watch on TV. Although the problem is
multifaceted, the quality of the announc-
ing is a prominent factor in this dilemma
McCarver and Brenly, two fonner
catchers who might have taken too

That having been said, I was really

World Series, also televised on Fox, not

Letters to the Editor

ent ideas of what their profession
“earns.” And, of course, unless one
works from the premise that all men
have equal talents at birth, then it
cannot be said that the lawyer
“earns” 10 times the wages of a jani-
tor, as this division of labor is natu-
ral and predestined. And of equal im-
portance, in egalitarian social envi-
ronments defeat the claim that the
rich have worked harder for their
property.

Indeed, it makes little sense that
a society wishing to avert tyranny
would allow its better minds to vir-
tually set their own salaries at rates
at such great inequality from those
whose only “fault” is their social
and/or psychological state of birth.
This applies for simple income in-
equality, but moreover in a modern
capitalist society, most wealth is
unearned. Bill Gates does not work
ten million times harder than the av-
erage American.

Thus, the accumulation of private
property is determined mostly by
relative, worldly conditions. For
what other reason should it be pro-
tected? Not for liberty’s sake.

The philosophy of private prop-
erty is but a spiritual enslavement to
the rich and a material enslavement
to the poor. It seeks to deny that mo-
rality has any scope in private eco-
nornic affairs, assuring the tempted
that it is “rational” for them to accu-
mulate property as an end ir1 itself.

Some create apologies based on
their proclaimed good intentions, but
a camel still does not ﬁt through the

Student discusses
the immorality of
private property

Dear Editor,
“It is not with your own wealth that
you give alms to the poor, but with a

back; for you are usurping for your-
self something meant for the common
good of all. The earth is for everyone,
not only for the rich.”—St. Ambrose.

In the 23 October edition of the
Ring—tum Phi, Brett Kirwan wrote that
“(a government) that spends most of
its energy redistributing wealth, is ter-
ribly immoral,” that “the income tax is
. . . stealing.” These bold declarations
necessarily imply that the income that
one has a natural and inalienable right
to the property that he or she has
amassed. So, does there exist a right to
private property that is in itself, at least
conceptually, a moral good, into which
no human power can justify interven-
tion?

All, except staunch materialists,
would agree that a right or truth is
universal by nature. It can be equally
applied to all temporal environments.
But the process of “earning” property
is, in fact, fostered by very relative cir-
cumstances. Those qualities that af-
fect the cause of “success” include
personal ambition, ability, geography,
competition, and, perhaps above all,
chance. Young doctors exploring work
opportunities will ﬁnd that Russia and
the United States have vastly differ-

.V11‘;":“;*"3‘:"5:-i*E~‘.’7.“‘Z'?-L*'§°.§"Z“’;*"f3‘.*:i"N.-“.€J‘.«. v.T~f*~‘ °- '- r-5:‘ ,‘?

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬁhi

Stephanie Bianco
Emily Barnes

Matt McDermott
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Bryan Early
Heather McDonald
Michael Crittenden
Max Smith

Jessica Jones

Lisa Lin

Colin Mitchell
Mary Guy

Martha Edwards
Monica Schoenthaler
Ginger Phillips
Paul Seifert

Executive Editors

News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor
Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Contributing Editors

Photo Editor
Photographers

Graphics/Cartoonist
Online Editor
Business Manager

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring—tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 pm. on Friday to appear
in the following weeks edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves
the right to edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions
of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring—tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

iE@....7==Tl ,

By Christine Metzger

As journalists we are often faced with difﬁ-
cult decisions when covering emotional or per-
sonal issues that have the potential of affect-
ing people’s lives. These decisions are never
easy, and usually come at times when we least
expect them. Last weekend was one of those
times. Sufﬁce it to say that no one on the staff of
the Ring—tum Phi ever expected, or wanted, to
have to cover or write about the deaths of fellow
students. Not one person in this school would
want to have to decide how to deal with the is-
sues that arose in the breaking of that story: what
information to publish, whom to talk to, whether
ornot to talk to friends of those involved, what
pictures to run. Those are not easy decisions to
make, but as journalists, it is our responsibility to
make those decisions, whether we want to or not.

Though we are just a small campus newspa-
per, the published word can have a monumen-
tal effect on people, especially when dealing

 

“If I have someplace to go, I’m
going to be Lady Guinevere.”

many foul balls to the facemask, ﬁnally
proved their knowledge of the sport —-
certainly not to the extent of Morgan or
ESPN ’s Peter Garnrnons, but good
enough to preserve the ﬂow of the game.
Buck’s father, Jack, was a Hall of
Fame baseball broadcaster who actu-
ally worked with McCarver on CBS
broadcasts through the early 1990s.
After several years of sub—par play-
by-play, the team’s anchor seems to

be coming into his own. Costas, Mor-
gan, Rick Sutcliffe, Buck Martinez, and
Jon Miller will be missed next
postseason. But the confusion of the
divisional series television schedule,
divided among three networks since its
inception in 1995, won’t be.

As for Fox’s broadcasting trio, let’s
hope that this year’s perfonnance from
the booth was not just a Subway Se-
ries—inspired ﬂuke.

eye of a needle. Egoism is not free-
dom. The system teaches some to
treat other human beings as means, not
ends, to their financial goals, subvert-
ing these lives, to whatever degree, to
dependency on those with property
who proﬁt from them by usurping the
fruits of their labor and returning to
them less than was taken through wage
compensation. Forced servitude to
another man’s selﬁsh desires and eco-
nomic insecurity is not freedom.

The Earth was given to all, not just
to those who can best manage eco-
nomic production and deﬁnitely not
to those concerned with attaining the
pride and idolatry of wealth. It is com-
mon property, its only landlord is our
Heavenly Father, who made it. It ex-
ists to serve our basic material needs,
not for the rich nations to hoard them
from the poor, nor for them to be used
as “capital” to create new, baseless
wealth on credit.

One can claim no exclusive right
to all that which is not needed, that is
to say, to that which is surplus wealth
above and beyond wh.at is necessary
to sustain life.

Surplus wealth belongs to those
without necessary wealth, which is
the morality of loving thy neighbor
as thyself. Our collective lack of real-
ization and action in this regard
should bestow unto each of us the
greatest humility.

Private property, not the redistri-
bution of it, is our greatest evil, an
immeasurable moral burden.
Sincerely,

Thomas Smitherman ‘04

——— STAFF EDITORIAL

with an emotion—ﬁlled issue such as that which
occurred last weekend. For this reason, we took
great care and precaution in producing last week’s
story on the accident, more so than any other ar-
ticle we have published in the last four years. With
the invariable rumors and gossip that quickly
spread last Sunday, it was that much more impor-
tant to produce a story that presented the facts
accurately, fairly and objectively. Though it is al-
most impossible to stay objective when fellow stu-
dents, friends and peers are involved, those of us
here at the Phi try our hardest to make difﬁcult
decisions like those that had to be made last week,
with the interest of the reader in mind. We are not
perfect, nor do we claim to be, but we do try to do
our best in situations that are neither enviable nor
wished for. Ifwe make a mistake, or you think we
made a mistake, let us know, because we serve the
student body of this campus. Without comment
and criticism we can never get better.

—Ashley Daly ‘04

“I don’t know yet. I’m going to
Wal-Mart today to find a costume.”

Student clarifies
water pipe inci-
dent

Dear Editor,

After reading the article about my
involvement in the ﬂooding of Chi Psi,
I have to admit that I was quite upset.
The article was biased because my side
of the story had been neglected. This
hastiness is understandable though,
given all the events that took place last
weekend. I have now been given the
chance to explain the incident.

Obviously, there is no need to de-
scribe what happened in too great
detail because that has already been
done. All that needs to be said,
though, was that it was an accident.
Last week’s article made it seem as if I
had maliciously pulled the pipe down
with the intent of setting the sprinkler
system off. I assure you that this is far
from true. I used the pipe as a support
so I would not fall, not realizing how
fragile it was or the fact that it was the
pipe to the sprinkler system. It acci-
dentally came unattached and minutes
later the sprinkler went off.

I want to apologize to everyone in-
volved, especially the brothers of Chi
Psi. It was an accident and I take full
responsibility for it. Also, for future
reference, my last name is spelled
Pierce, not Pearce. I know many people
may have lost sleep over this griev-
ous error.

Sincerely,
Reid Pierce ‘04

    

   
 

“I want to be mad Ophelia from

Hamlet, and pass out dead ﬂowers

to people while reciting her speech.”
-Rachael Mallis ‘04

“I’m going to be a W&L
student."
-Sean Devlin ‘04

-Zach Bedard ‘04

 

 

PAGE 4

Ellie ilting-tum iﬂlit

PINION

OCTOBER 30, 2000

 

Bush: Dignity
and progress

On Election Day, we will have an opportunity to choose
between two candidates with very different visions for
America. Governor George W. Bush has presented a clear
vision over the past two years of where he wants to lead
our nation. He believes that we, the people, instead of
the federal government, are the most qualiﬁed to make
decisions about our finances, our children’s education,
and our healthcare.

Bush understands from his past six years as the Gov-
ernor of Texas, the second largest state in the nation,
that the federal government has not been successful
in solving many of the problems facing society, and
that it has in fact been a hindrance to the innovations
that he and many of his fellow Republican Governors
have attempted.

Unlike some hard—right conservatives, however,
Bush doesn’t merely want to reduce government, leav-
ing problems un-

 

Franklin Roosevelt, John Kennedy, and Lyndon Johnson
that America has turned to in times of social transforrna—
tion and international challenges.

Gore and Liebennan are New Democrats who believe ir1
opportunity for all, responsibility from all, and community
of all. Their economic plan provides resources for strength-
ening Social Security and Medicare, making America debt
free by 2012, targeted tax relief to help Americans care for
their families and save for their future, expanding access to
affordable health care coverage, bringing about revolu-
tionary change in education and training, cleaning up the
environment, and ensuring that we continue to have the
strongest national defense’ in the world.

During the Clinton—Gore administration the economy
created 22 million new jobs. Unemployment and inﬂation
are at record lows, and government deficits have been
turned into surpluses. Gore and Lieberman have the expe-
rience necessary to continue America’s prosperity. Per-
haps most importantly, Gore and Lieberman recognize that
everyone is not sharing in our prosperity and the economy

leader in the White House of whom all Americans can

be proud.
It would be nice if we could contrast this clear vision
for the future with Al Gore’s vision. The Vice President,
however, lacks a clear and consistent

solved. He is a “com-
passionate conserva-
tive,” who wants to en-

Young Repuljicans
Sam langholz ’02

agenda. Is he the populist firebrand that
will fight for the little guy against the evils
of big business, or a “New Democrat” sup-

courage innovation at
the state and federal levels to come up with exciting
ways to improve our education and healthcare sys-
tems so that “no child is left behind.”

He wants to reduce taxes for all people, not just
targeted groups, so that average Americans can im-
prove the quality of life for their families.

Bush also acknowledges the important role that
Federal Government should play in ensuring our na-
tional defense.

He will work to improve morale in the military,
return our armed forces to the strength that they
were during the Persian Gulf War, and rebuild our
strenuous relations with many of allies, which have
deteriorated over the past eight years.

Furthermore, Bush will restore honor and dignity
to the White House. He understands that we need a

  

BUS

CHEN

porting businesses to help the economy?

Is he a campaign finance reform crusader or the au-
thor of that phrase “no controlling legal authority” in
describing while it was alright to fundraise in the White
House?

Not only can Gore not make up his mind about his vi-
sion for America, but he has a habit for exaggeration and
downright lies. Remember the inventor of the Internet?
How can we entrust the highest office in the land to some-
one without the moral core and backbone .to lead beyond
polls and focus groups?

The choice is clear in my mind, and I encourage you to
join me casting my vote next week for Governor George W.
Bush, the next President of the United States.

(And if you’re a true-blue liberal that just can’t bring
yourself to vote Republican, vote for Ralph Nader - at least
he has some principles.)

 

RETIREMENT ,._rii5ugii_AN't'E:' MUTUAL rurros ;trtuStr‘3s‘Eiriv,_i_,tE's ' rurrrorv FINANEING

why you didn’t

One of the fastest ways to build a retirement nest egg
is through tax-deferred Supplemental Retirement
Annuities (SRAs) from TlAA-C REF. 

With funds automatically deducted from your paycheck,
you can easily build income to supplement your pension
and Social Security.

And your contributions to SRAs grow undiminished

by taxes until you withdraw the funds.* Add to that
TlAA-CREF's solid history of investment performance,
bolstered by our commitment to keeping expenses low,
and you have more money working for you.

So why wait? Let us help you build a comfortable retire-
ment today with tax-deferred

r

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

INVEST AS LITTLE AS _
h $2: a month _ SRAs. We think you will find it
t r°:gy,:?, ‘yllgﬁwatlc rewarding in the years to come.

Deferring taxes with
TIAA-CREF can be so
rewarding, you’ll wonder

do it sooner.

IT'S EASY TO SAVE MDHE THROUGH
THE POWER OF TAX lJEFEHHAl

$102,068
$67,514

   

& Tax—deferred savings after taxes
I After tax savings

$41,232

$31,933 I l

$13,052
$11,609

    

IOYEARS 20 YEARS 30 YEARS

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month in a
tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28% tax
bracket shows better growth than the same net amount put
into a savings account. Total returns and principal value of
investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield may vary. The chart
above is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not
reflect actual pcrfonnance, or predict future results, of any
TIAA-CREF account, or reﬂect expenses.

A A

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it."‘

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa-cref.org

© 2000 TIAA-C REF 08/03

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them care-
fully before you invest. 1. You may be able to invest up to the IRS maximum of $10,500 per year. To receive a personalized calculation of your
maximum contribution, call TIAA-C REF at I 800 842-2776. 0 TlAA—C REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA
Real Estate variable annuities. 0 Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual
funds and tuition savings agreements. 0 TIAA and TlAA-CREF life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. 0 TIAA-CREF Trust
Company, FSB provides trust services. 0 Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.

 
 

must be made to work for all Americans. They support
lifelong learning for all, new opportunities for families to
save, build ﬁnancial assets, and become homeowners. To
accomplish this, they plan to boost investment in technol-
ogy, pay down the national debt, increase the percentage
of Americans owning capital assets, and double the per-
centage of minority families owning homes.

Lastly, Gore and Lieberman want to strengthen
America’s families by recruiting one million mentors for
disadvantaged children without two parents and pro-
vide affordable after—school programs at every public
school. In addition to putting Medicare in a “lock box,”
their plan guarantees Social Security beneﬁts for future
retirees for at least the next half century and creates tax-
free savings accounts en-
abling Americans to build re-
tirement nest eggs.

Gore and Lieberman rep-
resent the kind of leadership
and vision needed for an
America with new challenges. Now more than ever, we
need experience in the White House to deal with the
rapid pace of the economic, social, and political changes
taking place, and to hold true to America’s enduring val-
ues of opportunity, responsibility, and community.

Vote Gore for
‘ ‘a new politics”

Voting for Al Gore and Joe Lieberman on Nov. 7 means
choosing “a new politics for a new America.” Changes are
occurring all across our land that require a new type of
leadership and great vision. An information, technology-
driven economy is changing the way Americans work. Our
population is becoming more diverse, more educated, more
suburban, older, and more centrist. Those
with education and skills are prospering, and
those without are at risk of being left behind.
The aging of our society is creating tensions
over resources for health care and retirement.
Younger Americans are increasingly more
skeptical about politics and government. Our environment
demands more attention than it ever has. America is facing
a series of international challenges based on regional insta-
bility, ethnic rivalries, and terrorism. Gore and Lieberman
represent the progressive American political tradition of

Young Democrats
Justin Arnold ’02

 

1eberrnan

r\n.".'-‘  2(l(II1Trgcrr>y:‘ DCNIQIX vrrsa-Ir.-5.06! tron-3.1.1.2739

 

 

WIN A TRIP
FOR TWO To

AFRICA s

This year the cost of MTV's
’The Real World’ went to Africa.
Now you can too!

~¢
&“’§s-«.9
€
%.-»0‘‘

Enter for a chance to win at your
local Council Travel office or of
councilfrovel.com

    

 

‘rli' In-<3. '_‘r:i;i,l

 

GOURMET SPECIALTIES
STUDENT CARE PACKAGES
CREATIVE GIFT BASKETS
LAUGHTER & SMILES

  /<
. iﬁaeaa §~‘r$~@d:$””-‘. A
.:%..aaeseve;$.essiess 

6600

Fun & Festive Gifts!
6 East Washirigton Street, Lexington
Next 777 Sroneu/a/ljackron flame

This trip to Africa is provided by

Z i
., . 1
("Ya
_/ =-

/
‘bvoﬂdwidc vacnuanu
for‘I8 to 35 ymr aids

virgin
atlan tic
No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S..

between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void
where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go
to counciItraveI.com. Sweepstakes ends 10/15/00.

Ix.)

540 464 4433
Order Toll Free: 877 473 4433
We Ship Anywhere!

www.fur1foodsforyou.com

   

Travel ..___

 

CounCiltraveI.com
1 -800—2COUNCIL

 

 

 

 

 

    
 
    
    
    

OCTOBER 30, 2000

W&E

2 King-tunt {Hlii

IFE

 

PAGE 5

Sorority houses

ington and Lee community,” Elrod said.

dedicated

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Sorority women were not the only ones dining in the
five new houses this Saturday. Men, women, parents and
freshmen joined the sorority women for lunch and tours of
the houses as a part of Washington and Lee’s formal dedi-
cation.

For many, the dedication of the sorority houses marked
a high point in the progress that women have made since
they were first admitted to W&L in 1985. The houses are
somewhat symbolic of the university’s comniittment to more
equal treatment of all of its students. University President
John Elrod emphasized how important women have be-
come in their involvement on campus.

“Women are ever—deepening their presence in the Wash-

During the formal ceremony that preceded lunch and tours,
Elrod and several W&L trustees and representatives presented
speeches and dedications. Elrod presented two plaques to
the classes of 1974 and 1975 for their generous contributions
to the sorority project. The classes gave money for the con-
struction of the houses as part of their 25th reunion gifts.
Vernon Holleman, one of the trustees who was instrumental
in the inception and progress of the sorority housing project,
will also have a plaque at the sorority house site.
Following the speeches, the first and only female mem-
ber of the Board of Trustees formally presented the houses
to senior Elizabeth Holleman, who accepted the houses on
the behalf of W&L’s Panhellenic Council.
_ “The Greek system has always been strong on this cam-
,pus. The addition of the houses will only help to make this
system thrive for years to come,” Holleman said.

I Following the speeches and presentation, students,
trustees, faculty, parents and others attending the event
ate lunch in one of the five houses and toured the others.

Those who viewed the houses were impressed with the
decor and furniture of the houses. .

Four years ago, the ﬁve sororities began the sorority house

project. Construction of the houses began last year and 20
‘women moved into each house this fall for the first time.
Saturday was the first public opening of the houses and the
‘only opportunity for freshman women to view the interior of
the houses before formal sorority recruitment.
i “I am very glad that the university invited all members
of the W&L community to the dedication on Saturday,”
freshman Blair Oakley said. “The houses are so beautiful,
and it would be a shame for everyone not to have the chance
_to see them.”

V photo by Mary Guy/Staff Pliotogrzipher
IT’s OFFICIAL. Senior Elizabeth Holleman, President of the Panhellenic Council, addresses the

audience at Saturday morning’s sorority house dedication.

 

photo by May Guy/Staff Photographer
OVER THE RIVER AND THROUGH THE woons: To the sorority houses we go. Students, faculty, trustees and visitors cross the “Millenium Bridge”

  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

£.e::ingI:cm, VA 2:34:50

33 183. Mata $2.
(548) ~$63~598&

 

 

LEXENGYON "  ~ A   ‘  9 
I WELCOME
SRQ? $33 ?A§"§’A€i‘t’A£.LQ ~
PARENTS
mazes I ‘ I  ’ ‘  
$§”tO@$, Clmﬁing
and ﬁt€)%3$I}l'i83
MAW STREET  T
 S.  street in Historic Downtown
465-5004
U331]
Gilt Baskets
Tailgate picnics
llmported Cheeses

llllistinctive Catering
lparfy Refreshments

Boar’s Head premium Delicatessen

BRING IN THIS AD AND RECEIVE

 . V A.  g g 110% OFFANYPURCHASE

  
        
         
        
     
   
   
     
 
 
       
   
   

 

 

 

‘I11, 1_3(T_>ril.""‘ if  

%

no 

   

4464*-r5002

 

I21   Sheaﬁ

wen Diei'i-Sari IO-R-5:30

 
 
  

*

  
 
 

 

"PAGE 6

S

Cilia ﬁling-tum iﬂlit

OCTOBER 30, 2000

PORTS

W&L volleyball takes court again after tragic loss

By Jeremy Franklin

t SPORTS EDITOR ‘

K The Washington and Lee volleyball team made its
1 toughest move of the season Wednesday night: Stepping
out on the court against Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence rival Roanoke.
The match for the Generals was the first since a single-
vehicle accident claimed the life of freshman outside hitter
3 Kristin Shelton the previous weekend. Head coach Bryan
, Snyder had nothing but admiration for his team’s ability
‘ to walk back out on the court.
“It took a lot of heart and courage to step back out on
the court tonight,” Snyder said. “That’s something that,

unless you’ve gone through it, you don’t know how to »

deal with.”

On the court, the Maroons handed the Generals their
first homecourt ODAC loss since 1994 by a 15-4, 15-7, 15-
6 score. Roanoke (16—9, 6-2 ODAC) had not defeated W&L
since 1991.

“I told the players before the match, that whoever wins
this game, it’s going to be hard,” Roanoke head coach
Blair Calvert said. “This is a huge win for us. Now we
know we can beat some of the better teams.”

Junior Lindsay Ruckert led the Generals with 10 kills
and nine digs, junior Leslie Fischbeck totaled nine kills
and seven blocks, and senior Pam Saulsbury recorded a

teain-high 13 assists.

“We certainly wanted to win, but it wasn’t about wins
and losses tonight,” Snyder said. “We blocked extremely
well, and that’s something we worked on in practice. We
didn’t play poorly, but we didn’t play well enough to win.”

W&L plays in Averett tourney

The Generals traveled to Danville for the Averett Col-
lege Invitational over the weekend, winning one of four
matches in non-conference competition.

The host team handed W&L a 15-6, 15- 10, 15-8 loss in
the opening round Friday. Fischbeck recorded nine kills
and four blocks in the match, and sophomore Stacey
Kimmel ﬁnished with nine digs and four kills.

W&L played three matches Saturday, recording a win
over Roanoke and losses to Savannah A&D and
Maiyville. In the Generals’ 15-8, 12-15, 14-16, 15-2, 15-6
win over the Maroons, Ruckert tallied 18 kills, 13 digs, and
eight blocks, Kimmel recorded a team—high 26 digs, and
senior Katherine Kline contributed 26 assists.

Ruckert led W&L with 14 kills and eight digs Savannah
-A&D’s 15-6, 15-5, 15-11 win over the Generals, and fresh-
man Mary—Wommack Barton finished with 13 digs. In
Maryville’s 15-12, 15-7, 15-12 victory against W&L, junior
Lee Charbonnet recorded seven kills and four blocks.

The Generals (18-9, 8-2) will return to action in the
ODAC Tournament Friday at Lynchburg.

By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

The skies were cloudy Saturday

_ morning, but the mission was clear for
the Washington and
1Lee cross country
teams as they looked to
capture the 2000 Old
;»Dominion Athletic Con-
A ference championships.

By the morning’s

‘end, the women’s cross

’country team had won
its second consecutive
ODAC title. Meanwhile,
despite an inj ury—riddled
season, the men’s squad
boasted a respectable p
ﬁfth—p1ace ﬁnish.

The Generals ﬁnished
with 45 points, nine
points ahead of second-
place Lynchburg and 13 ahead of third-
place Roanoke. Four General runners
ﬁnished in the top 1 1 overall.

Bridgewater hands W&L

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Bridgewater amassed 649 total
yards and held Washington and Lee
off the board for over 42 minutes to
close out a 38-10 victory Saturday af-
temoon.

W&L senior tailback Marc Watson
rushed 26 times for 116 yards and a
touchdown for the Generals (5-3, 2-3
Old Dominion Athletic Conference),
and junior Jeff Bahl tallied eight tack-
les and a pair of fumble recoveries.

“They’re a team that’s really on the
rise, and the future for them is bright,”
W&L head coach Frank Miriello' said
of the Eagles (7-1, 3-1). “You just try to
focus on your techniques, and do what

you do best. You hope that’s enough,

  

    

  

‘- =uex~aeive; w:._).f’  if 
 ;?¥~**“‘3*‘7§’ .

   . éaxlcfi i§Ix1:i:.v£.x-r::I3_. xnmme

Sophomore Burke Duncan and se-
nior Jessica Pariillo paced the Generals
with second and third place ﬁnishes,
respectively. Duncan crossed the tape
with atime of 19:26, while Parrillo came

in 10 seconds later at 19:36.
Other notable performances were
turned in by senior Kathleen Moroney,

but it obviously wasn’t for us.”

The Generals jumped out to a 3-0
lead on a career-long 43-yard ﬁeld
goal by junior Brad Wiginton with 8:36
left in the first quarter. After Watson
pulled W&L to a 12-10 deﬁcit with
12: 13 remaining in the half, the Eagles’
defense would keep the Generals out
of the end zone.

W&L also lost a pair of sophomore
classmates, quarterback Bobby
Littlehale and tight end Davis White,
to concussions. Neither is expected
to play this Saturday against Emory

& Henry (7- 1, 4-1), putting the Gener- .

als in an uncomfortable position.
“You’ve just gottoﬁndarallying point,”

Miiiello said. “We’ve always played very

well on Parents’ Weekend, so we’ve hop-

ing a little bit of that magic returns.

   

who finished in eighth place with a time
of 20:45, and junior Gretchen Tencza,
who placed 11th at 20:57.

“Burke Duncan did an amazing
job,” women’s head coach Emily

  

photo by my ames

WE HAVE LIFTOFF. The Old Dominion Athletic Conference women’s cross country
runners begin their meet Saturday at W&L, which the Generals won.

Pulsifer said of her top runner’s per-
formance. “She’s coming off an injury,
so to be able to race fast is really

 
 

anothe setack

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer

PoisEo To’ STRIKE. Leslie Fischbeck, Stacey Kimmel, and Pam Saulsbury wait for a serve in the
Generals’ match against Roanoke as head coach Bryan Snyder looks on from the bench.

good.”

Pulsifer was also pleased with the
performance of the third-place runner.

“Jessica Parrillo has done amazing
things all year, and has improved so

‘ much since last season,”
Pulsifer said.

The coach, in her third
season with the team, also
expressed admiration at
her squad’s chemistry.

“They’ve done a
great job of staying a
team all year,” Pulsifer
said. “They’re a tight
group, (which) shows
when they can score 45
points.”

the W&L men’s cross
country team placed ﬁfth
in a ﬁeld of seven. Eam-
ing highest honors for
the men, freshman Andy Schorr fin-
ished seventh with a time of 28:25.
Junior Ken Jackinan, with a time of

   

.XCCU IVC .

Ring-tum Phi File Photo

PRACTICE MAKES PERFECT. Junior placekicker Brad Wiginton
booted a career-long 43-yarder Saturday against Bridgewater.

“We’ve been here before, and now
we’ve got to regroup again against a very

   

V  West  avtmm.
[ ‘ ._ . (:0C:(2i$ffi1itEZ?£' «of M;ai.n. .8-1:: I

 

  :34:-(1.)I’i.~£;§§3:?y"-$i§.’E.il.Il§T§3I.§E!$§¥i, .1.‘ T§..-3z= .:n<:.:>.:n;tt $1.-¥I'3C.I5ﬂ-}”ﬁ
 V 7.5»‘}'.i.f*.__, tﬂiaetertaarail an-c_t  \W#K:i:lt:t‘}l!I1£fh.£i.

 

 
  
        
 
    

good football team. It’s a big challenge,
but I’m sure our players will respond.”

With a score of 105, A

28:53, claimed 1 1th place in the meet.
On a squad where seven runners
were sidelined with injury this season,
the Generals’ strong performance was
a testament to their dedication, ac-
cording to their leading runner.

“(The team’s performance) was
sub—par,” Schorr said. “But consider-
ing that we have been gaining new
players just about every week practi-
cally, we have been shaping up into
more of a team and are looking good
for next year.”

Both the men and women’s squads
eamed All-ODAC honors. For the
women, Duncan and Parrillo were se-
lected as first—team All-ODAC, while
Moroney and Tencza were named
second-team All-ODAC. For the men,
Schorr and J ackrnan received ﬁrst and
second-team Commendations, re-
spectively.

The Generals’ next challenge pre-
sents itself in the form of the NCAA
Division III South/Southeast Re-
gional on November 1 1.

I Women’s cross country team wins ODAC championship

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
OPEN FIELD. Freshman Andy
Schorr led the Generals with
a seventh-place overall finish
in the. 2000 ODAC meet.

Subscribe to thePhi!

If you would like to keep up with
events at Washington and Lee,
subscribe to W&L’s campus
newspaper. Get the news first from
the Phi, published since 1897. Obtain a
weekly subscription in one easy step.
"Send a $30 check to:
Ring-tum Phi
University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

637 Waddell St.

Lexington, Va. 24450

(s4o) 464-9042

Fax (540)464-6360

SPORTSWEAR

 

‘X

i

 

OCTOBER 30, 2000

S

@112 itling-tum iﬂhi

PORTS

 

Women’s soccer falls in ODAC ﬁnals

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
soccer team hoped to use its strong
regular season finish in order to cap-
ture the school’s first Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship
Saturday afternoon.

However, Lynchburg eliminated
W&L in a heartbreaking finals match
that featured three overtime periods.

On Tuesday, W&L began the difﬁ-
cult march to the finals with a 2-1,
double-overtime victory over Eastern
Mennonite. Senior Shana Levine scored
her first goal of the season at the 48:40
mark to give the Generals a 1-0 lead.

After Ellie Lind scored for Eastern

'Mennonite, the teams remained dead-

locked until junior midfielder Kate
Bidwell won it for the Generals on an

‘assist from sophomore Ruth—Hill

iYielding in the second OT.

In W&L’s semiﬁnal match on Fri-
day, the Generals handed Randolph-
Macon a convincing 4-1 defeat. After
Allison Picarde of Randolph—Macon
scored first, the Generals took con-
trol. Freshman Heather Coleman
scored two goals and classmate
Fontaine Marcoux chipped in a goal

Ring-nun Phi File Photo

SOCCER rs LIFE. Senior Sam Garbisch moves the ball against an
Eastern Mennonite defender in this Sept. 16 ﬁle photo.

and an assist. '

Junior midfielder Drew Powers
scored the game-winner in the 38th
minute on an assist from Levine.

The win against Randolph—Macon

sent the Generals to their first touma-
ment final since 1990, when that squad
lost to Roanoke on penalty kicks af-
ter four scoreless overtime periods.
A similar situation almost played

E1)1T0R’s NOTE: The women’s ﬁeld hockey team was incorrectly referred to as a club team in
the Oct. 23 issue. The team, in developmental varsity status, will be featured next week.

 

PART TIME & SEASONAL

‘ASSISTANT’ S

NEEDED TO WORK
IN AN EXCITING, FAST PACED,
AND FUN ENVIRONMENT.

APPLY IN PERSON AT "THE VICTORIAN PARLOUR"
13 SOUTH MAIN STREET LEXINGTON VA.

 

H Gift Boutguc

   

Football
Sat. November 4 Emory & Henry 1200 p.m.

out pln Saturday Sfternoon fwheg Mews and women’s Cross Country

Was in ton an ee ace

Lyrrehbrgrrgr Freshman forward Sat. November 11 at NCAA Regionals TBA
Susannah Hewlett capitalized on a Golf V

Jenny Thomas P355 ‘O 81“ W&L 3 October 3o31 at Torn O’Bryant Invite TBA
quick 1-0 lead at the 6:38 mark.

After Lynchburg evened the score, Men’s Soccer '

both teams battled for 94 seoreless mrrr_ October 31-November 4 ODAC Tournament TBA
utes. In the third overtime period, Volleyball

Heather Kirby won the game for November 3_4 ODAC Tournament TBA
Lynchburg and ended any hopes of an _

NCAA playoff berth for the Generals. Wresﬂmg

Kirby Seored on a deﬂecfron, which got November 12 at VMI Keydet Invitational 10:00 a.m.

Upcoming events in General athletics...

PAGE 7

past senior goalkeeper Lauren Harris.

Despite this twist of fate, Harris
was phenomenal in goal, saving 20
shots for the Generals.

“Lauren was amazing,” Levine said Standings ODAC Overall
of her teammate. “She played great Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
over the entire season and especially Emory & Henry 4 1 179 148 7 1 257 172
this past week.” Bridgewater 3 1 167 59 7 1 284 99

For her excellent play, Hams was Catholic 3 1 159 94 5 3 224 175
hamﬁd to the all-t011m3mCI1t team. Washington & Lee 2 3 103 142 5 3 207 192
310112 Whh I-eVh1€ and BidW€11- Hampden-Sydney 2 3 143 129 3 5 21 1 216

“I1 Was 3 great Way to end the 8621- Rando|ph-Macon 1 3 78 114 2 6 126 229
son,” Levine added. “The team really Guﬂford 1 4 66 209 1 7 79 340

came together and it was great for the
senior class to achieve its goal of
reaching the ﬁnal.”

' The Generals finished the season
with arecord of 12-6, with an 8-3 show-
ing in the ODAC.

ODAC Football Update

October 28 Results
Bridgewater 38, W&L 10
Catholic 50, -Emory & Henry 40
Ferrum 49, Guilford 0
Davidson 36, Hampden-Sydney 17 Hampden-Sydney at Maryville

November 4 Games

Emory & Henry at W&L
Bridgewater at Randolph-Macon
Guilford at Catholic

Swim teams anticipate strong seasons

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s swimming team has
begun its 2000-01 season in hopes of improving its 8-4
record from last season.

The Generals will look to seniors Rob Little, Mike Miraglia,
and Colin Hayes for leadership. Other returning letter win-

ners include junior Rick Black and sophomores Brett Burns, 1

Zach Fake, Austin Fisher, Patrick Frankfort, and Kirk Vogel.

“They’re a great bunch to have back,” head coach Andrew
Pulsifer said. “Hopefully, tl1ey’ll do good things this year.”

Hayes was named an All-American last year, making
1999-2000 the 26th consecutive year that W&L has boasted
a player with that honor. ,

However, the Generals are still a young team, with six
sophomores and ﬁve freshmen on their roster.

"Ihese guys are capable of big improvements,” Pulsifer said

Pulsifer, in his fourth season with the team, makes the point
clear: he wants the Generals to focus on individual irnprove-
ment. He would like to send as many people as possible to
NCAA competition at the end of the season, and is hoping to
take a relay team in addition to individual swimmers.

W&L has started off with wins against Sewanee and
Transylvania, and Pulsifer has had the chance to see the contri-
butions of his newcomers, particularly freshman Paul LaRaia.

“He’ll do great in many things,” Pulsifer said of LaRaia,
who won three events against Transylvania.

Meanwhile, the women’s swimming team enters a new sea-
son after earning a school record 10 wins a year ago.

“We graduated three good seniors last year,” head

  

Rmg-tum Phi File Photo
KICKING OFF. Swimmers from W&L and
Sewanee prepare for a backstroke event.

coach Kiki Jacobs Moore said of Lauren Beckenhauer,
Lez”ael Haynes, and Lauren McKeever.

The team is also losing three juniors who are going
abroad in the winter.

Despite the losses, the Generals have much about which
to be excited. W&L will lose only one senior at the end of
the season, improving the outlook for future growth.

“We have a lot of different people contributing, as op-
posed to a few stars,” Jacobs Moore said. The coach
describes her junior and sophomore swimmers as strong,
with a freshman group possessing deﬁnite potential.

Key contributors this season will include junior Katie
Kennedy and sophomores Blair Huffman and Kelli Aus-
tin. Junior Maggie Fagan and senior Allison Harvey pro-
vide leadership for the team as captains.

“It’s a team that has a good time together,” Jacobs
Moore said of the overall team attitude.

Academic Couple Seeks Egg Donor

21 -28
Right candidate will be compensated with approximately $7500.

Outstanding SATslacademics, good temperament, dark hairleyes, even-featured, 5’6”
or taller, and lean build.
Please describe motivation along with several [returnable] photos to:
P.O. Box 22
West Kingston, RI 02892

All serious replies will be answered.

 

Aluine

102 W. Washington Street

open. t is sun.

 

463-53 

etmia

 
 -  aw .ﬂ.ay=-«Bans «-   Bouts
- 190%  weal 
- Fa.nc_y Cummergund and The Sets
1 w  :BJ.t:s, Ties, Dog Collars -— Embassy Boxem

maems WEEKEND SPECIAL
S rrs ma SPORTCQATS 20%. off

VISA, MASTERKA RB, ﬁi‘i’?l"I.iI}ENT QPMXWEACCEPTEB
If at ~1a:oI:} a.m..

ﬁlm‘ ‘Willltl 1' 3

rarnllhénd

 1- 1

".35 5 

 

 

   
       

     

 

§ § 
m - . .
3 : is 112 rtltng-tum Elﬂlrt a
N4 3 2
3 e 3
9'» 3
PAGE 8 8 E 3 ocroman 30, 2000 ,
l N 6 :-
O
Illdﬁ €Ild€IltS ' T119 other W hltﬁ meat
. .~
Q
Nothing, except for sexual scandal, makes an election more interesting than The Libertarian Party
s:t:1itE:d;:::: ::::::::‘::”;:°::ea%:::::°:::::d  Libertarian my   a 
The roblerrl: with third parties lies in the eneral o ulace’: ignorancbzleexf their chance at the White House this year if anybody
existlence and a ath towards su ortin gthem Igispobvious in most elections knew what the Libertarian Party wee The Libere e
th t th d.pd my .11 nave pp. . g. t ' . V tin bl. th t tarian Party advocates a socially liberal and ﬁs-
d a ,:Se Canalll avstwi be it:   0 ioilvllgcte :1 0th glpu tuin a cally conservative agenda, the end of the war on
,;;::‘: t::.:e: tli:lLa.ls: W,,::;“ W3: 0;:  an-gs  
su ort—is grovidin free ublicit to these arties in the ho es of issin Most Americans would identify with this ape yr
fggh M P h b i . p th ()1, P P p g proach if they knew any thing about it. If one
0 C an W 0 6 eepmg em 0Wn' asked a typical passerby on the street who Harry Browne is, the person
would most likely guess Charlie Brown’s cousin. Actually, he is the Libertar-
V ian nominee for president. The Libertarian Party has not given up hope for
The Green Party the 2000 election; they optimistically project that if things go well, the I
Ralph ader was the obvious choice for the Green Libertarians could capture 1 percent of the popular vote.
Party candidacy due to his inability to recognize the ‘
futility of his own campaigns. Nader has been a life-
long crusader; when he was in grade school he sued The Reform Party '
hls teacherfortsexual misconduct after she paddled ’ The Retelm patty has been left ln Shambles
mm for cntrcizrng the bloated bureaucracy of the De- due to lntrabarty lraetlenallsm Stlrred up by the
partment of Education. When he started law school, eleetlen of Navy SEAL_tumed_wtestler_tumed
he Sued me Depanmeet ef Redundaney Department politician Jessie Ventura to the Minnesota gov-
ft Hmgaagld for not Pregldmg en‘t’1“$hl‘:1nVerS1tf3"}tI):i:1S 3 ernorship. After a well-publicized power ‘ i
egen eensumera Veeatew 015 ewn er 3’ struggle between Ventura andbillionaire—tumed— G  ’ ’ '
mg am“? the advent of the Standard eutemebﬂe eeat kook-tumed-politician Ross Perot, the feud culminated in the party splitting
belts’ texle Waste 5ta“daId59 and ma-kmg msmleuens into two separate Reform Parties. One faction nominated famous xenophobe-
mandatory on-all boxes of toothpicks. The Green Party advocates environmental tumed_rlgbt_wlng_pundlt_tumcd_politician Pat Buchanan. The other faction’ .  . .. . .
PT°t°Ct10“s “Diver 331 health Cams 1m1VeY 53-1 drug Cafe» umversal Welfare:  calling itself the Natural Law Party, nominated some physics professor, James ~
eduelatieni anI;1‘l1niVerSa11et‘}3l°n°mi"1r“in~ lilteeugtl: the  been eirmelzed Hagelin. The two pseudo-parties have been too busy sueing each other and Q
or s ogan, “ e p contro e peop e popu ation, ave your s spaye or neu— wblnlng to worry about actually getting their nemlnees eleeted_
tered,” Green Party leaders defended their position by promptly getting stoned. M 7‘7LAE 
Many Democrats are criticizing the Green Party for putting Gore’s presidential _ 3
hopes into jeopardy, but Republicans respond that Gore doesn’t need any help ' The Nat‘-"'3' “Law Party To Vote your consclence (Repubhcan) 01‘
ttin him lfbeat ' th ‘d tial . Who the he cares?
3° g 5° °“ “‘ 6 pres‘ °” W to vote your pocketbook (Democrat)?
A TY Picm. DAY L, Mo,»->»u~ swvawrheuee  L t.
if L  feed,” elem I ‘<"’°”t” “’"° "me He A/agony Evae
 A ‘ An: ANBI 4A3” S
.r man You Dltgw SA: D rr wfl
l-A‘T5““*f  . A (=K‘E.ET*NC.» l A -
. . E *
TKA 9:1: 024. 1‘
4 ‘ J’ t ‘ 
0 x l 0 1  I ~
every man day ' -
8:30 p. m. to mzdnzght
I
I

 

. ‘I1
18 E. NELSON ST. (540 ) 464 -4483

THE PLACE FOR FOOD _A_l__\l_’t_)_ FUN !
‘WIS wEE1< AT93’. S? 3‘    
MONDAY~MoNr>AY NIGHT FOOTBALL PARTY J AVA    T   ‘
TuESDAY~8~13ALL TOURNEY or cHAMr>IoNS C 0 F F E E P e 0 P ' g M U S I C m 0 V e t
WEDNESDAY-9~r3ALL TOURNEY or CHAMPIONS T H E   E"! Q
T?tuRSDAY~ KARAOKE

1-'RIDAY~ D. J. JOETHEJOHNNY COCHRAN  
0,-. D, J‘_ -5 2000 Toyota 4 Runner
SA TLLRDAY-FRA NKIE JACKSON “TH E 6 di§:f,f:,?;,:‘;f“j§§,f,l:?,;cks,
  excellent condition. l

Great for college student. $26,000

SUNDAY~NeFL SUNDAY TICKET~ANY call: (540)997-0766
 _    » A or cell: (540)460-5910. t~ ,

1 OM THE BROILER

1 6 oz. T~BONE STEAK w/3A1<Eo
POTATO AND MIXED GREEN SALAD
$ 6.50

 

 

 

 

  

 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

ﬂrCi')
ah $77; 75‘:
.  R551

JAMES G.
wAsuiNamN at LEI-1 UNRVERSW
g_*,.;:\':rﬁ*;TO!i£. VA 

LEYBURN LIBRARY

0V 072000

  

  
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
 
  
 
   
  
  
    
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
    
  
 

 

 

   
   

   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

   

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

VVEIGHING THE EVIDEN .: the female break-out session lead by Koestner:

 

date rape and sexual assault,” junior Sam
Langholz, the Contact vice—chair who introduced
Koestner, said.

Life Co-sponsor and Health Educator Jan
Kaufman agreed.

 

ton and Lee about the possibility of being booked
here as well.

She was co-sponsored by Contact, LIFE,
Women’s Forum, the Sigma Phi Epsilon Frater-
nity, the Panhellenic Council, and the NCAA.

3
V, M5 or or
no : I3
‘ C ' 9- -L
j K
R WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERs1'rY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER
VOLUME 103, N0. 13 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 6, 2000
' New alcohol task force launched
a. ,. 3* '  ' By Mike Agnello
g ASSISTANT-NEWS ED1r0R

President John Elrod announced the creation of a
permanent alcohol task force during his Report to the
Parents Saturday.

The committee consists of three chairs: sophomore

ll Will Coffman, Director of University Health Services
l Dr. Jane Horton, and Physics Professor Tom Williams,

. all recommended by Dean of Students David Howison

1 and approved by President Elrod. The members will

 4 address the problem of alcohol at Washington and Lee

*" and make policy recommendations to the admir1istra—
tion. Howison said he thinks the inclusion of the differ-
ent university community members will produce pro-

‘. ductive solutions.

“The idea is to bring students, faculty, and staff

p members together to address what is clearly a major

5 problem at W&L,” Howison said.

I’ Howison said he deliberately chose chairs from each

; I of these three groups, and that he has high hopes for

 t the committee.

3 “I chose the people I did because they’re all re-
spected members of the university community and care
very much about this issue,” he said, adding that other

3" ll members will be chosen later.

The task force, originally Horton’s idea, had been in
the planning stages for months. University Health Edu-
cator Jan Kaufman said the announcement came early

1 because of the recent deaths of W&L students Adam
Burchett and Kristin Shelton in a car accident. Although

‘ toxicology reports have not yet been released, it is

j speculated that alcohol may have been a factor in the

 , accident. According to the Oct. 25 issue of the Trident,

 ‘ Virginia State Trooper William Murphy said he suspects

; excessive speed was a major contributing factor.

l, « . .. “Encouraging better lifestyle choices is not enough.

v photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor . . it’s hard for individuals to make healthy decisions

3 1 BIG PLANS: President Elrod addresses the assembled parents while Dean Howison looks on. SEE ‘C0 E’ ON PAGE 2

 Veterans Memorial to be unveiled Thursday

 ”"’ ' ~ . ~ Histolic Lﬁxin nF0lIl1d3Ii0n. would hel the entire communit reco —

 K By Latrll.-lsl SlOl(€S mdT:1:l::Ignt;::; will march down Main Despite ohjzctions some had about njze [hosepcont_1'jbutions_ y g

 Sm” WRITER Street from the Stonewall Jackson Cemetery Size ahd placemeht’ Parsons was Pleased “I mink about how Towafding it is not

Local veterans will have the chance to to the memorial. Guest speaker Sgt. Maj. A1 with the  desigh °f the memorial‘ only for Votorans because the Crowd is
remember and honor their fellow service- Hockaday, USMC, (Ret.) will give the dedi- _ “It Provides a focus and helps edh' ohooringa but its good for speotators be‘
"‘ men at the Veterzms Memorial’s dedica- cation. ._. Cate folks to ‘ho Contributions of Vol‘ C3115‘? Poollle hawwanted to honor tho
tion ceremony on Nov. 9. Wreaths will be placed by representa- erahs °V‘_h the years*” he Said‘ Amoﬁoan Veterans and not known how
“The memorial is for all Rockbridge tives of the largest contributors to the Hopklhs thhhght that the Parade to do it,” Hopkins said-
County veterans, past, present and fu— $125, 000 memorial. Hopkins is Com- '  ' I‘ I I W  i '

, , ture,” said Lt. Col. Robert Hopkins, USAF, mander of VFW Post 1499, which contrib-

‘ (Ret). The memorial is located outside the uted $50,000 in matching funds.

‘ .‘ Rockbridge County Court House on Main Rockbridge County and the City of Lex-

V Street. ington were respectively the second and

 Hopkins, a veteran, organized the pa- third largest contributors. The remainder

 ‘ rade and dedication service, which begins of donations came from private and busi-

, at 3:30 p.m. on Thursday, two days be- ness donations.

" fore the actual Veteran’s Day. Frank Parsons, veteran and retired

'2 Hopkins has arranged for a varied pro- W&L faculty member, convinced Wash-  ..... , .

7;‘. .‘ gram, including overﬂying ﬁghter jets, to ington and Lee to contribute as well.

3 commemorate the occasion. “I used the pitch that it wouldn’t be

 Veterans will march by decades behind very nice not to get a gift from an insti-

l banners displaying the military conﬂicts tution so named for two great veter-

} in which they were involved. The- second, ans,” Parsons said.

 ‘ third and fourth graders from Waddell and Parsons is a member of the Veterans Me-

Central Elementary Schools will walk be- morial Committee, which has been planning
side them carrying American ﬂags pro- this project for the last two and a half years.
vided by the Veterans of Foreign Wars. They had to compromise with the Kappa Al-

‘ Marching bands and color guards from pha Association, whose deed speciﬁed that
Parry McCluer and Rockbridge County no structure would ever block the building.
High Schools, Virginia Military Institute, Several other agencies were involved in the V _ _
and the Virginia Women’s Institute for planstoo,includingtheLexingtonHiston'cSo— , _ photo bf Emily Bames/Exwmve Editor
Leadership will participate. VMI will send ciety, Architecture Review Board, Lexington S“R_°””E”‘ the “W Veterans M°“‘°"3' “"11 ""“‘a'“ “no” °°"°'

-. 0 acompany of l00to 150 cadets,abugler, Downtown Development Association and mm] the Thursday sorﬁce and Parade-
K t k   t ' t d t  
, oes ner spea s on agarns a e rape
By Matthew MCDenIiOtt “I thought Katie’s program was very effec— “Sharing costs was important,” Kaufman said.

 NEWS EDITOR tive,” she said. “She raised interest. . .in a very “I also think collaborative efforts increased at-

: sensitive way, giving information, debunking tendance.”

 ‘ Katie Koestner, founder of Campus Outreach Ser- myths, and raising awareness.” Many think Koestner’s speech was relevant.
vices and a date rape awareness educator, recounted Afterwards the audience broke up to discuss “Rape is always a threat to women atW&L,”
her past sexual assault to students and faculty as- a case described by attorney and risk manage- Director of Security Mike Young said.
sembled forthe“He Said/She Said”Contactlect11reon ment consultant Brett Sokolow. He led the ma.le’s There have been seven cases of reported
Oct.3l. group while Koestner directed the female’s. sexual assault in the past few years, he said.

if a “What happened to me shouldn’t happen to any- , “The break-out session was thought-provok— Young advises women to be aware of their
one,”she said“Whatwouldittakeforacampus—wide ing and brought about a lot of serious discus— surroundings and men to realize that “no” means
movement to stand up and say, ‘No rnore’?” sion,” Langholz said. “no.” Both need to remember that “excessive -

; During her speech “the entire audience was Koestner, alreadyischeduled to speak at the alcohol use is nearly always involved in sexual

7 ‘ thinking deeply about the issues surrounding Virginia Military Institute, approached Washing- assault incidents.”

A victim of sexual assault should immediately
inform Campus Security or the Lexington Police.
Rape or sexual assault of any kind, “ Young
said, “is a terrible crime. . . we need the help of all
of our students to stop this from happening here.”

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂltt

November 6, 2000

  
     

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

Elite {Ring-tum lﬁlii

  NEWS

NOVEMBER 6, 2000

THE: VVORLD

 

Mehul Srivastava
STAFF WRITER

Plane crash in Taiwan

After the tragic plane crash in Taiwan — in which 81 of the
179 passengers on board Flight SQ 006 were killed when the
pilot mistakenly tried to take off from a closed runway — mourn-
ers gathered and prayed together at the crash site on Friday
night.

Singapore Airlines has accepted full responsibility for the
accident, and announced a compensation of close to $400,000
per victim to “help families through this terrible period by of-
fering compensation without delay,” as a Singapore Airlines
spokesman put it.

The airport authorities explained that the pilot went on to a
runway marked “5R—23L ” rather than “SL-23R,” due to bad
visibility and weather. The runway was closed off and covered
with equipment, some of which the plane hit as it tried to take
off.

Before last week’s accident, Singapore Airlines had never
had a deadly crash in its 28-year history. In 1997, a plane oper-
ated by its subsidiary, SilkAir, crashed in Indonesia, killing 104
passengers and crew members.

Ebola Virus spreads

The death toll in Uganda’s Ebola outbreak went up to 90 on
Saturday, as three more people succumbed to the easily trans-
rriitted and extremely deadly virus. The deaths were in Gulu, in
northern Uganda, where the outbreak begun. Recently, how-

    

Tl-TISS VVEEK

ever, a soldier recently died of the disease in Mbarara, towards
the south, conﬁrming fears that the government had not been
able to stop the virus from spreading.

Meanwhile health workers disinfected cofﬁns before they
were buried, and people in Gulu stopped shaking hands and
wore facemasks to work.

The virus in Uganda has been identiﬁed as Ebola Sudan,
which was first discovered in Sudan in 1979. Ebola, which is
spread by bodily contact, can cause severe hemorrhagic fever
and is often fatal.

The virus’s early symptoms are similar to those of ﬂu and
upset stomach —— a parallel that has led to many false reports.
No one knows where the virus lives between outbreaks or how
the first person in an outbreak contracts it.

Palestinian/Israeli peace talks proceed

Authority President Yasser Arafatand Israeli Prime Minister
Ehud Barak should arrive in Washington, D.C. this Thursday
for further talks with U.S. President Bill Clinton.

This announcement comes after ﬁve weeks of Mid Eastern
violence, which killed 185, all but 17 of whom were Palestinians
or other Arabs.

These proposed peace talks derive from the recent Egyptian
summit in Sharm el—Sheikh. Since that emergency summit, for
weeks Clinton has been trying to hold meetings with Arafat and
Barak. - ' 1

Dan Meridor, head of the Israeli Foreign Defense Committee,

, told CNN that Arafat must make a public call for Palestinians to

stop their violent protests.
There was one last chance, he said, "to stop violence and go
back to the (negotiating) table I hope it will succeed ”

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

 

JAVA AT
co|=i=EEpeopleMus|cmore

THE GHQ

by david mamet

directed by zeenie ginwalla
a senior thesis project

TWO GREAT SHOWS IN REPERTORY

LENFEST CENTER
540/463-8000

JOHNSON THEATRE *

TICKETS AND INFORMATION

by jaston williams, joe sears
and ed howard .
directed by francis mcwilliams

a senior thesis project

 
    

starring ryan truax and blair mitchell

dec. 1, 2, 4 &6 at 8 p.m.

dec. 2 - 2 p.m.
dec. 3 & 7 - 8 p.m.
dec. 5 - 9 p.m.

COMMYITEE

when the environment promotes high-risk drinking,”
Kaufman said.

Kaufman added that although the university has
used task forces in previous years to deal with the
alcohol issue, she has higher expectations of this
one.

“Education alone is not the answer. . . I hope this
[task force] will be one of action,” she said.

According to the annual Winter Term stu-
dent surveys on alcohol use, Horton said that
the mission of the task force will not be deter-
mining whether or not there is a problem, but
on solving an existing one.

“We have data showing that there is deﬁnitely a

DuPont displays

By Alison Trinidad

STA FF WRITER

Washington and Lee Professor of Art Larry Stene
is going to change the way we look at photographs.

“I Digitizied This: Transformed Images,” Stene’s
photo exhibit, opened Friday evening in duPont
Gallery, where it will remain on display until Dec. 8.

“This is cool,” Southern Virginia College junior
Kristin Newell said. “This is stuff I like.”

Newell attended the opening reception after hear-
ing about it from her art professor.

“It’s taking [photography] to a new level,” she
said. .

Using prints taken from both digital and 35mm
ﬁlm cameras, Stene stretches color, texture, and aes-
thetic norms with Adobe Photoshop, image editing
software known for its assortment of painting, re-
touching, and special effect tools.

The exhibit showcases 41 of his digitally—altered
photographs.

Stene also uses Photoshop in his classes, believ-
ing the software gives students who lack technical
skill, but not vision, a chance to produce art.

The hardest thing for him, he said, is to let go of
the mouse and give someone else creative control.

Stene’s images reﬂect the life that he has lived,
said his wife, Greer Stene.

“We both grew up [in Minnesota] just look-
ing at birch trees, in everyone’s yard, on all
the lakes and everything, so we planted birch
trees in our own yard,” she said. “Those are
our birch trees.”

I Birch or Birches? is Stene’s daughter Alexis’s" 1

favorite work in the exhibit.

Sponsored by:

Office of Health
Promotion and
Substance Abuse
Prevention ’

FROM PAGE 1

problem, and we want to get students involved in
trying to find a solution,” Horton said.

The task force is not the only course of action
being taken by the administration.

President Elrod has called a Student Assem-
bly in Lee Chapel on Thursday at noon to dis-
cuss the culture of alcohol at Washington and
Lee. Students will divide into groups to dis-
cuss the issue.

Howison said that he hopes the university com-
munity can benefit from the task force and the as-
sembly.

“We want to use the lessons from this tragedy to
make positive changes in this community,” he said.

digital drawings

    

pictire by Emily Biies/Executive Editor
PICTURE Tins: Stene and one of his creations.

“It looks like three different trees, but it’s actually
just different sections of the same tree,” she said.
Several of the displayed pieces feature Alexis and
her two older sisters.

Tom Murphy, ‘85, will likely buy one of these
pieces, My Little Girl Alex.

“I knew Alex when she was just that age,” he
said, “but beyond the sentimental reasons, I think
that [the picture] is beautifully composed.”

As a work-study for the art department, Murphy
met Stene when he joined the faculty in 1982. He
now owns about 15 of Stene’s works.

“Stene can build anything.” he said. “The man
wields and does woodwork. He can really, literally,
build anything.”

Although the medium may change, Murphy
thinks that Stene’s use of color and dimension re-
mains constant.

“But I’ve been a fan of Larry’s from the very be-
ginning,” he said. “I think that he’s an outrageously
ta1ented’artist:”‘

H “Me too,” Greer Stene added.

Students

Based on W&L CORE Survey data from 1998, 1999, 2000

 

 

 

H wt 2 B 1'.\iI "lll1ll not

 

 

 

    

 

NOVEMBER 6, 2000
g I . . .
Twelve ways to get crazy in Leyburn
Q We don’t give the library enough credit. The co—op’s . when they sit down. Ifthey scream, calmly remind them to be playing any minute now. Stack large text books up to
okay once in a while (or all the time), but it doesn’t provide that this is a library. Leave a trail of breadcrumbs wher— the ceilings and claim that you just don’t trust the columns.
the paradoxical entertainment that the library can. It goes so ever you walk so you don’t get lost. Sit at someone If we don’t keep stacking up books, the library could crash
far beyond just prowling the library when you’re drunk and else’s carrel while he’s gone. When he returns, refuse to at any given second. i
everyone else is sober. Though amusing, it lacks creativity. leave, and insist that it was your carrel all along. ' Sit at a carrel and stare ﬁxedly on the empty desk, .
' The following lage 12 alternatives to b Rollghe hill behind the lit; _ shakilng ylllourd head, ‘mumbling, “I jaqst doitftﬂget Givo By Chnstlne M tzger
studying in the ' rary. rary. e rary’s setting is suc peop ea ar time or wearingm eup o e ' rary. “
12 ways to drive everyone else at  S  an untapped resource for getting in‘ THOUGHT YOUWEREHERETO STUDY, NOT PICKUP
the library loopy. And if you think I’m Kris Polling ’03 touch with your inner child. Ask BOYS!! Yeah, that’s what I thought.” "
, pulling the number “12” out of my ass, i everyone for help with your chinese Offer to help people with their calculus homework. If
you are sorely mistaken. A very grievous, terrible mistake. homework. Even if they say they don’t take chinese, tell they refuse, tell them, “I’ll just tell you this. The key is all in
Steal all the trash cans, and put them in your ﬁsh bowl them it’s ok, but they will indeed rot in hell for their mistake, the square root of x squared is x.‘That’s all I’m gonna say.”
until the room is brimming with trash cans, you are com- Crawl, don’t walk, amidst the book shelves. When some— The library offers more restrictions than the co—op in
pletely surrounded, and there’s no escape. If anyone ‘walks one asks, tell them if you told’ her, you’d have to kill her. regards to furthering your degree of insanity. But it’s these
"‘ in and questions your actions, chalk it up to being a neat Sit by yourself in Northen Auditorium, telling every- challenges that make us unique and happy and fulﬁlled in
freak. Hide under the carrels and grab people’s ankles one who asks that you heard Christina Aguilera was slated our every day life. Smile. God Loves You.
' 0 0 _
«Bush will Wm 
Tomorrow is a big day. By big, I mean hugely, greatly,
grandly, enormously, immensely important. This election
‘ is largely a choice between fresh, progressive conserva-
tive ideas for smaller government and at faster-growing .
economy or tired, bankrupt, tax—and-spend liberal plans '1
I for bigger government and will decide the course of our
country for decades. Fortunately for you, every Ameri-
1 can, and the rest of the free or yearning-to-be-free world,
Republican candidate George Walker Bush, Governor of
Texas, will ‘win, probably by a landslide.
The single biggest reason that W, as well as Republicans
around the country, will win big, is that the Republican base
‘ is galvanized and excited like it hasn’t been since 1980. We
arehungry for a victory, eager to eject the corrupt Clinton
administration from the White House, and can’t wait to vote.
The GOP faithful will assail the voting booths tomorrow and ’
g pull the levers for Bush in huge numbers.
Conversely, the Democratic base couldn’t care less
about this election. Al Gore is a good number two man. He
knows all the facts and ﬁgures and_is always ready to play
the sycophantic sidekick. He has been unable to energize
‘ traditional Democratic constituencies and has struggled
to mobilize urban voters who are key to Gore victory in
Pennsylvania,'Florida, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. As proof, »
Gore and Bush spent the last week in pretty much the same
1 r states, California, Washington, Oregon, Minnesota, Wiscon-
sin, Illinois, Pennsylvania, Iowa, Florida, and Missouri.
All of these states should have been sewn up by the
Democratic nominee long ago. The fact that Bush has even
a chance in any of these traditional liberal and union strong-
1 holds is testament to the fact that Democrats just don’t
get excited about Gore.
Throughout the campaign the electorate has demon-
strated the it finds Bush to be the more likable of the two
‘ candidates. They simply had reservations about whether or
not he was ready to be President. Dubya more than allayed I 
these d0nhts With his speetaenlaf debate PeI'f0ffnanCe- NOW, highlighting Gore’s huge entitlement increases and spend— Lieberman was excommunicated by an Orthodox Jewish
Goio did liiilisolf iio fiivois with his sigliss giiilitsi moans, ing promises, he has also never failed to criticize the vice— rabbinical court in New York. He has totally abused any
biillyiiiga and ooliiiesoolisioiia but Biisli Wass totally iiliex‘ perpetrator for being just as Crooked. G0re’S baffling in- credentials he ever had a devoutly religious man and many
‘ Peetedlyi more the Capable Of holding his 0Wn against an ability to tell the truth and his chameleon—like pandering Americans are repulsed by his false piety.
ostensibly skilled dehaten He sh0Wed the American People to every interest group hasn’t helped his cause. ' Finally, Ralph Nader will siphon votes from Gore in
3 Wide iiliiieislaiioiiig of foieigli 3-flaiis The liberal media gave Gore im- important swing states such as Washington, Oregon, and
slit-if altlioiigli  with Policy iiii‘   of the Aisle mense credit for his choice of Joe Minnesota. The Greens are right when theyssay that Gore
s iiiitiae like the Dingle Nolwoodbiliahas Lieberman as runmng mate. This has to cam his votes like any other candidate, but the
3 oloai Visioii fol ‘ioiiiosiio PolioY- Brett Kirwan ’04 Was hailed as ' an act Of unpreC- votes Nader has earned would otherwise go to Gore.
Aliollioi ioasoii to “Pool that Biisli edented political courage and an I am fully confident that Governor Bush will be our next
Will Clean Gore’s Clock is that the American Pe0Ple afe illustration of Gore’s progressiveness. These blandish- President; if for no other reason, one knows the Demo-
disgusted by the deceit, C01'l'llPti0n, lies. and C0InPlete ments notwithstanding, the move failed even as a crass crats are toast when they are complaining about media
1 disrespect for the rule of law displayed by the Clinton— ploy to disguise Gore’s positions counter to traditional bias, justas DNC Chairman Ed Rendell did in Pennsylva-
Gore Administration. This factor has been dubbed “Clinton morality, Lieberman was forced to change so many of his nia recently, saying, “1t’s so frustrating to me what's go-
Fatigue-” out there iii ill/oVel ooiilitil’ ilioio is 3 dooP and stances, SOCial security privatization. School Choice, and ing on here. We have . . . George Bush sounding compas-
abiding visceral dislike Of 0111' current President. AS II1llCl'l [nissﬂe defense, for example , that he no longer adds any sionatef’ Thg real shalnc fgr Gore’ Randell, and Dame-
1 as Bush has drawn a line between Gore and his boss by integrity to an h‘onor1ess campaign, A150, on oct_ 23, crats evgrywhgrg is that Americans are listening
. O
@112 ﬂing mm  Letter t0 the Edlt0r-
‘ one Student Offers his Own supports Grlolrle is Iolither :1 liar (and fsocial clilinber), or simply
. . - ' a moron. e o y re reason or a ric person to vote'
Executive Editors lSatnel[l)lli,aliiaernl:isanco View Of Election  Gore is over the abortion issue, (assuming that, if they
News Editor Matt McDermott . elect Bush, his Supreme Court justices will overturn previ-
0l’i”i‘?" E‘“f°’ T“"‘_A““ Fried", DearEditor, ous abortion rulin s.) So, b votin Gore for this issue, a
' W&Lzfe Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia . . . . g . y . g . .
Spam Editor Jeremy Franklin ‘Here at Washington and Lee, we have a plethora of rich citizen of the United States 1S trading. money in ex-
Last word Ed,-,0, Bryan Early honesty. Yes, I’d say we have a plethora. change for a SLIGHT possibility that abortions might,
COPY Editor Heather Me_D0nai<i But it seems as though honesty is taking a back seat in someday, become illegal.
C"”’”b“”"3 Ed”"’s $;°xh‘;:lit(l:l"“°“d°" the 2000 Presidential Election. Perhaps I am the only per— This is lunacy.
‘ Jessica Jones son with this unique perspective.’ After establishing that I Any other excuse made by a ‘wealthy voter to vote
Photo Editor Lisa Lin assumption from the start, here is my honest take on the Gore is pure malarkey and we honest people shouldn’t
Phomgmphers Colin Mitchell elections to be held November 7 in this the -year of our have to listen to wealthy, social climbing, idiots lie to us
ﬂﬁtyhfilgi d Lord 2000. ' about their “politically correct” beliefs.
‘ Graphics/Cartoonist M oni ca Scxgnsthaler Here’s the bottom line: Ifyou’re rich, vote for Bush and In closing, if you’re rich, vote for the coke—head who’ll
Online Editor Ginger Phillips keep your money. If you’re poor, vote Gore and get free let you keep your money. Ifyou’re poor, vote for the spine-
Business Manager Paiil Selle" stuff. If you’re middle class, you really- have no candidate less jellyﬁsh who will give you lots of free stuff at rich
to support here, so vote Nader or vote Andrij and support people’s expense. If you’re middle class, good luck in your
The Ring.-mm Phi is published Mondays during the Maxim magazine. efforts to become rich. Now that’s an honest opinion.
or undergraduate s¢hoo1 year at Washington and Lee I’m tired of listening to rich peopletalk about the great— Sincerely,
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee ness of Gore. In my opinion, everyone who is rich and Peter Jefferson ’03
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The '
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.
’ The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
9 and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday to appear
in the following week’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves .2;
the right to edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
9 Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions
of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
1 208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
¢. . E-mail: phi@wlu.edu _
h"p'i//wmed"/~phi “Seeing the falnilies attend the Various . “Shopping, sporting events, and getting “Together time. . . and hanging “The free food!”
Annual Subsription me. $30 activities and taking part in W&L tradition.” parents to meet the people you see everyday.” out at Otterville.” —Jean Rowan ’0l
’ -George Kudlacik -Alison Kudlacik ’02 -Mary Ann Rowan

 

 

PAGE 4

  &

  

@112 iﬂtng-tum Iﬂhi

IFE 

NOVEMBER 6, 2000

Oleana, Greater Tuna take Lenfest stage

By Ashley Klimp

STAFF WRITER

This December, Washington and
Lee will host two unusual and often
controversial plays: Oleana and
Greater Tuna. Both plays are student
directed as part of senior project the-
ses. Zeenie Ginwalla, a senior theater
and business administration major is
directing Oleana. Greater Tuna is di—
rected by Francis McWilliams, a se-
nior theater and European history
major. .

Oleana, written by David Mamet,
is a two—person play about a male col-
lege professor and a female student
that deals with sexual harrassment and
abuse of power. Ginwalla discovered
and selected the play last year.

“I read close to 50 plays before I
chose this one,” Ginwalla said.

She chose this play for its contro-
versial subject.

“Oleana is a really powerful play,
it’s very revelant. . .I’m not going to tell
you who’s right and who’s wrong in
this play, I wanted to make the audi-
ence think and decide for themselves,”
Ginwalla said.

Senior Colin Tate plays the part of
John, the professor, and sophomore
Catherine Summerson plays the part
of Carol, the student. _

“I have really great actors and we
have really great teamwork. It’s all

starting to really come together,”
Ginwalla said.

‘ Ginwalla has been either dancing,
acting, directing, or working back-
stage since the age of four.

“I’ve been involved'in every as-

pect of theater,” Ginwalla said.
Her main interest lies in directing
and backstage work and, though she

has some acting experience, she has 7

resisted acting at W&L.

.“I like being able to see the whole
thing come together and as an actor
you don’t really get to do that,”
Ginwalla said.

This is not Ginwalla’s directoral
debut, last winter term she directed
Reverse Transcription by Tony
Kushner. Directing Oleana has her
particularly excited because she con-
siders Mamet to be, “one of the most
proliﬁc playwrites of the ‘90s.”

Oleana will show on December 1,
2, 4, and 6 at 8 p.m.

Greater Tuna, written Jaston Will-
iams, Joe Sears, and Ed Howard, is also
a two—person play, but in this case each

' actor plays 10 different characters. The

story takes place in the small town of '

Tuna, Texas and is a comedy about
men, women and social convention in
the 1970s. The two actors in Greater
Tuna are seniors Blair Mitchell and Ryan
Truax. The play is also part of a senior
thesis for Mitchell and Truax as actors
instead of directors.

A EXPLORING THEIR FEMININE SIDES: Seniors Ryan Truax and Blair A
Mitchell rehearse for the upcoming play, Greater T una.

“It’s going great. We’re getting
along really well, we’re all collaborat-
ing to make this a good show,”
McWilliams said. -

McWilliarns was not involved in

M theater prior to attending W&L. He

first ventured into acting his freshman
year in The Philadelphia, a‘one act
by David Ives. Last year he directed a
one act play called Foreplay or the

Art of the Fugue, also written by Ives.

I arose to direct, he could not refuse.

Photo courtesy of Lenfest Center

McWilliams had not originally
planned to direct a play for his senior
thesis. -He was looking to audition for
a play, but when the opportunity

“I’m not really sure which I favor
[acting or directing] ,” McWilliams
said.

Greater Tuna will show on Decem-
ber 2 at 2 p.m., December 3 and 7 at 8
p.m., and December 5 at 9 p.m.

   
     
    
   
 
 
 
  

By Emily Barnes
EXECUTIVE EDITOR

h U2’s new album, All that You Can ’t Leave Behind,
brings us to the next stage in the musical journey of a
band whose music still manages to both keep us guess-
ing and make us pleasantly surprised. They’ve spent the
past 20 years evolving from that punk band from Dublin
in the early ‘80’s, to the righteous crusaders of War, then
lightened up a bit (on the crusading, but not on the mu-
sic) to create the lyrical/musical masterpiece The Joshua
Tree. After trekking around the states to soak up some
inspiration for Rattle and Hum, the boys took some time
off to, as Bono put it best, “dream it all up again.”

Dream they did, and the band entered the new decade

eration of listeners. Achtung Baby encompassed lyrical
genius with modern distortions of sound, resulting in a
high-tech symphony of music that perfectly illustrated
what was modern musical a_vant-garde in the early 90’s.
Pop followed along this path, but the album was more
thematic, focusing on a tongue—in—cheek portrayal of the
lifestyle of a true rock star, with songs of obsession with
consumerism and extravagance, throwing in a little hedo-
nistic charm for goodimeasure (the song “Playboy Man-
sion” being one example of this).

I’ll be the first to admit: Pop was no runaway success,
but it did not seem to phase the boys in the slightest.
They already had the star power, the stadium shows, and
the artistic license to take their music in any creative
direction. ,

With the understanding of this freedom, along with
the confidence of seasoned veterans, U2 moves us to
the next level with All that You Can ’t Leave Behind. The
, band is taking the next logical step —— they’ve gone to
’ the extreme and now they’re concentrating on the music.
As they followed the path of_ musical progression that
they continue to build in front of them, while picking up
new sources of inspiration along the way, the music was
always at the core. The music in itself is where the band
was and still is truly innovative, and that is what they
present to us now undisguised. The new album strips all
the glitter and TV screens away, leaving behind 10,infec—
tious melodies. ' '
This is_an album that you can pop in the CD player, hit

 
 
 
  

A 8 S   ,
SCREEN PRINTING

 

537 waaden st‘.
Lexington, Va. 14450
‘($40) 464-9042

Fax (540)464-6360

SPORTSWEAR

with the album that reinvented their music for a new gen- .

    

Newalbum keeps U2’s rock star statusintact

ranks of U2’s best albums.

My advice to you: If you’re looking for some new
music that is uplifting and catchy without being overly
pop, music that is made by the pros that have been doing
this for 20-plus years and aren’t going away anytime
soon, pick up this album. Learn the words (it won’t take
long), practice swaying back and forth, and purchase the
lighter you will want to raise when the boys take the
stage in the spring. It’s going to be worth it to see the
masters of their craft.

“shuffle play” and feel assured that, whichever song comes
on, you’ll be happy enough that you don’t have to rush
over to push the “next” button. It’s also a CD that might
still be in your stereo in a couple of years _— this is music
that has a timeless sweetness to it, characteristic of any
classic album. V

The songs share a similar speed, the words are clear and
catchy, and (not to sound too much like I’m describing the
latest sugar-coated boy-band music) the songs are happy
songs. You would think that, with Bono’s recent quest to
relieve the poorest countries of debt (not a small task), he
would slip back into his never—discreet tendency to preach.
Instead, this album is missing those brooding, introspec-
tive, dark s'ongs that have dotted the albums of the past.
With songs like “Peace on Earth” and “Beautiful Day,” this _
album is definitely one you want to groove to after a rough
day. .

Bono keeps his wipsy, crooning voice under control,
allowing the lyrics to blend with the music instead of over-
power it. The rest of the band shares the spotlight this time
around, and the group effort is a masterpiece worthy of the

WIN A TRIP

FOR TWO TO

AFRICA I

This year the cast of MTV’s
’Tl1e Real World’ went to Africa.
Now you can too!

  6
4-"§M.;°
‘E
$0“

Enter For a chance to win at your
local Council Travel office or at
councill-ravel.com

    

This trip to Africa is provided by

   

” ﬁg
. _ _ vlrgl-n
s.na...ss°"y§.§'§".¢.- atIant1c

No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S.. ‘

between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00. Void
where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go .
to counciltraveI.com. Sweepstakes ends 1,0/15/00. ‘

Travel ,____
counciltravelcom
1 —800—2COUNC|L

.5- ,.

    
   

hoto courtesy of http://www.u2.com
CREATIVE JUICES: Adam Clayton, Bono, the Edge
and Larry Mullen reinvent their music to
produce another classic album.

  COEEE

(, . O f‘;/)
. (.1 rm'Iu{(/ (nun/uII.Iy

' - FRESH EACH MORNING p
ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ' FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET - LEXINGTON ° 464-6586 I

N

‘U

H

 

 

"V

NOVEMBER 6, 2000

S

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬁlii

PAGE 5

By Geoff White

SP0RTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team won the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference championship
match on Saturday, defeating Virginia
Wesleyan 1-0.

Winning the tournament did not come
easily for the Generals had to battle
through a frustrating performance against
Guilford in the quarterﬁnals, and a close
contest against Randolph-Macon in the
semiﬁnals. Top-seeded W&L entered
the ODAC playoffs Tuesday against
Guilford, ranked eighth.

The ﬁrst half was scoreless until jun-
ior Rick Schnatz scored off an assist from
s phomore Michael Stoeckle. Guilford
midﬁelder Noam Sorek scored the game-
tying goal, which would ultimately send
the match to overtime, on a penalty kick
L15 minutes into the second half.

The overtime saw high emotions

and ﬂaring tempers. Six minutes into
the extra time, Sorek received a red card
for using hands to prevent the ball from
going into the Quakers’ net. A penalty
kick was awarded to the Generals, and
Guilford midﬁelder Paul Wallace scored
to send the Generals to the next round.

Five yellow cards were issued in
the Generals’_ semiﬁnal match against
Randolph—Macon, including one that
resulted in a penalty kick for the Yel-
low Jackets at the 13:35 mark.
Randolph-Macon forward Scott Eley
scored against sophomore goalkeeper
Tim Foley on the play to give
Randolph—Macon a 1-0 lead. .

The Generals responded by persis-
tently attacking the Yellow Jackets’
goal. With 1:47 left in the first half, their
persistence paid off when freshman
Philip Miller scored an unassisted goal.

With over two minutes left in regu-
lation, the ball went into the Generals’
goal. The goal was disallowed, how-

ever, since a Yellow Jackets’ player had
pushed the ball in with his hands.

With 1:29 remaining in the second
half, Wilson took a corner kick for the
Generals. Junior Andrew Grimes
headed in the pass from Wilson, beat-
ing the Yellow Jackets’ keeper for the
garne-wimring tally.

“Wilson hit a perfect ball, and I just
got my head on it,” Grimes said of the
goal, which sent W&L to the ODAC
ﬁnals against Virginia Wesleyan.

Freshman Philip Miller scored the
lone goal to win the championship
against the Blue Marlins, who had
defeated Roanoke in a shootout duel
in the semiﬁnals. The Generals had
many offensive opportunities, and fi-
nally capitalized when Miller scored
off a pass from senior Jon Wilson 19
minutes into the game.

“Once we scored one, I knew we
were going to win,” said Foley, who
made nine saves against the Blue

PQRTS
4 Generals edge Wesleyan, win ODAC title

Marlins despite an injured hamstring.

‘ The Generals weathered an offensive
stonn late into the game. A Blue Marlin
kicked the ball over the Generals’ goal just
after a shot hit the crossbar with seven
minutes left in regulation.

With 30 seconds left to play, the
Blue Marlins got their best opportu-
nity, only to see the ball cleared by
sophomore Sean Hardin. As the game
ended, the Parents’ Weekend fans
gave the team a standing ovation, con-
gratulating the Generals on their con-
ference championship.

“It’s been a dream,” said coach Rolf
Piranian.

Foley, Grimes, Miller, and Wallace
were named to the all-tournament team

for their play in the three-garne stand.’

As ODAC champions, the Generals
have earned a berth in the NCAA Divi-
sion HI Tournament. The time, date, and
opponent for the Generals in the first
round have yet to be determined.

  

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
PLAYOFF BOUND. Senior Jon Wilson is pursued by two Virginia
Wesleyan defenders in the Generals’ 1-0 win in Saturday’s
ODAC title game. The win gives W&L an automatic bid to

 

W&L falls in ODAC

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

, The Washington and Lee volleyball team entered this
year’s Old Dominion Athletic Conference tournament on
Friday with a clear target on its back. I

The Generals entered the tournament as the favorite,
holding the number one seed and being a three-time de-
fending champion.

However, Bridgewater found the mark in the ﬁnals and
downed W&L15-11,15—13,12-15,7-15,18-20in a gut-
wrenching comeback victory.

1 W&L began their title defense with an easy 15-4, 15-9,
15-9 victory over Guilford. Junior outside hitter Leslie
Fischbeck led the Generals with 13 kills.

Sophomore Stacey Kimmel and junior Lindsay Ruckert
added well-rounded performances. Kimmel had 10 kills, 14
slligs, and two blocks, and Ruckert chipped in nine kills,
nine digs, and two blocks.

In semiﬁnal action on Saturday, W&L continued to
move through the tournament, posting a well-earned 16-

. 14, 20-18, 13-15, 15-7 victory over Roanoke.

“Roanoke is» a very’ strong team,” --senior setter -Pam
Saulsbury said. “We played hard and intense, and fought
throughout the entire match.”

Saulsbury ran the offense well, dishing out 30 assists 0

against the Maroons. Ruckert totaled 21 kills. and
Fischbeck and Kimmel added 18 and 11 kills, respectively.

The Generals’ defense also proved strong, as Ruckert
and Fischbeck combined for 14 blocks between them.

The semiﬁnal win over Roanoke sent the Generals to
ihe ODAC championship for the sixth straight year. W&L
started strong, winning the first two games against
Bridgewater by close margins. 1

However, the Eagles fought back and evened the match.
in the final game of the best-of-ﬁve match, the Generals
held a close 14-11 edge when Bridgewater mounted the
winning comeback.

Once again, Ruckert led the offense with 27 kills.
Fischbeck totaled 26 kills, and freshman Kari Lassen
amassed 14 digs to lead the defensive effort.

Despite the loss, the team played remarkably well fol-
lowing the tragic death of teammate freshman Kristin
Shelton.

I

 

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer
FALCON AWARD. Senior Justin Holton was
honored for mirroring the perseverance and
character exemplified by Gary “The Falcon”
Fallon, who coached W&L from 1978-1994.

   

ovrthrow

Ring-tum Phi File Photo
REPEAT PERFORMANCE. Junior Lindsay Ruckert
was named the ODAC Player of the Year for
the second consecutive season. ‘

“We pulled together and played hard,” Ruckert said.
“We gave it our all. It felt very nice to be part of this team.”

The Generals ended the season with a record of 20- 10.
For her efforts during the season, Ruckert earned ﬁrst
team All-ODAC and the Player of the Year award. Shelton
received second team All-ODAC, and was named the
conference’s Rookie of the Year.

the NCAA Division III Tournament, which begins this week.

November 4 Results

Emory & Henry 24, W&L 10
Bridgewater 31, Randolph-Macon 14
Catholic 69, Guilford 27
Hampden-Sydney 42, Maryville 14

ODAC Football Update

_ Football

Standings ODAC Overall NW“ atswanhmore

Team L PF PA w L PF PA

Emory&Henry 5 1 203 158 7 2 281 132 Cmsscountry ,
Bridgewater 4 1 193 73 s 1 315 113 NOV-11 NCAARPg1°na1S
Catholic 4 1 228 121 6 3 293 202 Mensssoccer
Hampden-Sydney 2 3 143 129 4 5 253 230 TBA NCAADiv. III Playoffs
Washington&Lee 2 4 113 166 5 4 217 216 _

Randolph-Macon 1 4 92 145 2 7 140 260 Wrestling _ ,
Guilford 1 5 93 278 1 8 106 409 NOV. ll VMIKeydetInv1tat1onal

November 11 Games

W&L at Swarthmore

Bridgewater at Catholic
Randolph-Macon at Hampden-Sydney
Maryville at Emory & Henry
Greensboro at Guilford

Coming next week on the

sports pages of the Phi...

A review of the water polo and
rugby teams’ 2000 seasons, and
a preview of W&L winter sports.

Emory & Henry knocks off W&L, 24-10

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Emory & Henry rushed for 192 yards, including two
Dan Hammonds touchdowns, as the Wasps handed Wash-
ington and Lee a 24-10 loss Saturday at Wilson Field.

Senior tailback Marc Watson rushed 23 times for 108
yards, setting two more W&L records: rushing yards in a
season (1,224) and career all-purpose yards (3,816).

The Wasps (7-2, 5-1 Old Dominion Athletic Conference),
meanwhile, kept themselves in the race for the ODAC title
and a bid to the NCAA Division III playoffs. In order for
Emory & Henry to qualify for the postseason, Bridgewater
must defeat Catholic in the season’s final week.

“Our fate is in somebody else’s hands now,” Emory &
Henry head coach Lou Wacker said. “But for us to have
any chance at winning the conference championship,
which is always our goal, we had to win this one.”

Harnrnonds scored his ﬁrst TD just over six minutes into the
game for a 7-0 lead. However, freshman quarterback Zack
McQuigg — who replaced injured sophomore Bobby Littlehale

in the staning lineup — connected with senior Wesley Hardy
on a 34-yard touchdown pass to tie the game at 7-7.

On the next W&L possession, McQuigg left the game
after suffering a broken jaw, and was replaced by class-
mate Sean McGarvey, who would ﬁnish 5 -of-15 for 67 yards
and two interceptions.

Head coach Frank Miriello was pleased with the
freshman’s performance, especially considering his lack
of practice time with the first team.

“Sean McGarvey showed a lot of character going in
there under those conditions,” Miriello said. “I’m very
impressed with his character and his courage to go in
there and take charge.” 1

A 62-yard touchdown pass from Shannon Johnson to
Dorsey Hooker with 34 seconds left in the first quarter
ultimately proved to be the game-winner. However, a 34-

yard field goal by junior Brad Wiginton pulled the Gener- '

als to within 14-10, and a goal line stand by the W&L
defense — which resulted in a missed ﬁeld goal -— kept
W&L within striking distance at halftime.

Chris Epperly’s 34-yard ﬁeld goal with 1:39 remaining

in the third quarter pushed the advantage to 17-10, and
Hammonds’ one—yard score midway through the fourth
sealed the win for the Wasps. ,

Emory & Henry dominated the time of possession battle,
especially in the fourth quarter. W&L’s defense was on the
ﬁeld for more than 10 of the game’s final 15 minutes.

“When the offense is having trouble moving the ball,
you’re going to be on the ﬁeld a lot,” said junior line-
backer Jeff Bahl, who recorded 13 tackles and forced a
fumble. “Eventually, it does wear your defense down
physically and mentally.”

W&L (5-4, 2-4) will look to rebound and record a sixth
win for the first time since 1985 against Swarthmore this
Saturday. According to Bahl, McGarvey and the Generals
will be prepared for the competition.

“Sean’s obviously going to take all the reps this week,”
Bahl said of the signal caller. “He’s a confident guy, and I
think he’ll come out and lead the team to victory.

“We’re going to come out and have the best defensive
game of the year. We know that if they don’t score, we can’t
lose, and I think that’s the mentality we’re going to take.”

PART TIME & SEASONAL
'ASSISTANT'S
NEEDED TO WORK
IN AN EXCITING, FAST PACED,
AND FUN ENVIRONIVIENT.

APPLY IN PERSON AT "THE VICTORIAN PARLOUR"
13 SOUTH MAIN STREET LEXINGTON VA.

 

 

Academic Couple

- 21-28
Right candidate will be compensated with approximately $7500.

Outstanding SATs/academics, good temperament, dark hair/eyes, even-featured, 5’6”
or taller, and lean build. .
Please describe motivation along with several [returnable] photos to:
P.O. Box 22
West Kingston, RI 02892

All serious replies will be answered.

Seeks Egg Donor

 

[ W&L sports this week 

 

PAGE 6

Check it, Homefry,
cause I be bringing
stuporﬂy heat

LAS TWO

G111‘: ring-mm um ,

NOVEMBER 6, ZOOQ

Life’s a bitch and then you marry one ZE N |'-'() R |_| F E,

After FOX’s controversial “Who Wants to Marry a Millionaire?” aired last
year, most people thought the folks at FOX couldn’t sink any lower — guess
again. Last week, FOX presented “Surprise Weddings” and managed to sink
to a whole new level of debauchery. While this incarnation of the growing
wacky wedding series doesn’t have Darva Conger, it has something even
better: Five women just as desperate and pathetic as Darva Conger.

The show’s basic premise revolves around ﬁve women who want to pro-
pose marriage to their boyfriends on national television. To do this, they
pretend to have won a trip for two to Las Vegas from local radio station con-
tests. The boyfriends are then lured off to Las Vegas and end up waiting to go
onstage as guests of honor at some reception. The guy has absolutely no idea
what’s going on up until the point when he is walked out on stage to ﬁnd an
arena ﬁlled with ten thousand people, television cameras, a goofy guy with a
microphone, and some lady standing in a wedding dress. At which point, he
must be thinking to himself, “Holy P"**ing s**t! What the f"‘**? Where the
hell is Disco Dan and his hilarious AM radio show crew? Oh no, I must have
taken a wrong turn at the prime rib buffet and now I won’t get to meet the man
Time Magazine called ‘So absolutelyoutrageous that ‘Disco Dick Nixon’ is
rolling over in his grave!”

Then, once the guy gets over the shock of not seeing Disco Dan, he real-
izes that the lady in the wedding dress is in fact not really a lady, rather it’s his
girlfriend. At that point in time, he is most likely thinking something like “Holy
t"‘**ing s**t! What the s**t? Why the hell is <insert name of lying bitch
here> wearing a wedding dress? Oh no . . . she's not going to . . . she wouldn’t

    

Disco Dan

Crazy girl

. . . f***!” Just as the guy is about ready to turn around, march right back to
that prime rib bar, and eat himself into a beef-induced coma . . . he is ambushed
by the announcer and it all goes down hill from there.

The girlfriend then assaults the poor guy with the obvious proposition and
he is given an hour to decide whether or not he wants to get married.

The folks at Fox are not wholly cruel, however, they offer the guy a phone
call to anybody he wants — with a catch. The phone call is televised and can
only last thirty seconds. The conversations went mostly along the lines of
“Hi <insert the name of random person here>. ‘Geena’ asked me to marry her
on national television in Las Vegas, what should I do? . . . no, I am not pulling
your chain. . . no, I am not drunk either . . . nobody put me up to this. . . Yes, well
I was kind of smprised, too . . . it’ll be on FOX. . .Yeah, that does suck; doesn’t
it?” Click.

It was basically an inappropriate rip—off of the “Life-Line,” but insteauﬁ$

was the “Matrimony-line.” After this very unsatisfying phone call, th€boy-
friends are hauled out on stage for the hopeful wives—to—be to make their ﬁnal,
and I quote, “pleas.” If your wife has to get down on her knees and beg for

GONFUGIUS SAY: MAN WHO GO
THROUGH AIRPORT DOORWAY
SIDEWAYSIS GOING TO BANGKOK ’

 

your love, as one did, something is seriously wrong. The guys then had two

choices: To accept and get cheered, get a free vacation, and 15 minutes of fame
or to decline and look like a total jerk and totally piss off your girlfriend and, in

one case, professional ﬁgure skating partner. Well that’s a tough choiw,ﬂsﬁ i“gs  u 
I

good thing that the folks at FOX gave you an hour and a 30 second phone call
to decide. ' ' _
To me, and don’t get me wrong, I am not by any means comparable to Mr.
Kirwan in my conservative views on marriage; this seems morally reprehen-
sible. Marriage, at least in the United States, is supposed to happen for two
reasons: Two people love each other and want to spend the rest of their lives
together or one of the two people is pregnant. Even though some women do
many old guys for money, at least the old guys are getting their money’s worth,
they know exactly what they are getting into, and they don’t advertise it. Mar-
riage shouldn’t be about pleading, deceit, media attention, or two-minute cer-
emonies — it should be about love or at least really, really great sex. Those
marriages willvbe lucky if they last longer than a year, let alone “forever and ever.”
Of course, that works for FOX, too. Because coming Spring 2001, FOX will present
“Surprise Divorces” ﬁlmed from the Shady Heaps RV and Trailer Park.

 
 
  
   

 
  

lgluslwo/id ‘ L

It may not be the San Francisco treat
nymore, but it still tastes delicious.

“It tastes yummy when I eat it.”

Rice~o~Ror1i.

Tastes great with Polish sausage, beef franks, cheese
ﬁlled bratwursts, hot dogs, and twelve-inch Kielbasa.

 

VOIIW|lenll0ll'I'e llrllnli:

OOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO,

it). How stupid you look dancing

9,, Wandering around Lexington like an
inebriatediguana with a poor sense of
dlI'eC{:l0ﬂ—~~:  — 
Your body odor after four hours of grinding
The fact that the person you’re dancing

with belongs in a Richard Simmons video
Sleeping on the ﬂoor in the hall
Your liver s
Your eight o’clock- class tomorrow
The voices in your head telling you to burn
things ,
Using the Po-Po station as a urinal
. Hooking up with wrestlers

.\‘9°
0

“EV P’:".U‘.°‘

  
    

   

        

RETIREMENT WSURANEE MUTUAL FUNDS

Deferring taxes with

One of the fastest ways to build a retirementnest egg
is through tax—deferred Supplemental Retirement

must SERVlCES

TIAA—CREF can be so
rewarding, you’ll wonder
why you didn’t do it sooner.

IT'S EASY TO SAVE MORE THROUGH
THE POWER Ill‘ TAX DEFERRAL

    

TUlTlUN FINANEINE

 

WE HAVE

 
 

§ ‘lax-deferred savings after taxes
I Anenax savings

TOUCH

Annuities (SRAS) from TIAA-C REF.
$102,068

with funds automatically deducted from your paycheck,

. . . . $67,514
you can easily build income to supplement your pension
and Social Security.
And your contributions to SRAs grow undiminished $41,232
by taxes until you withdraw the funds.* Add to that $31,933
TlAA-C REF's solid history of investment performance,
bolstered by our commitment to keeping expenses low, $13 052

and you have more money working for you.
$11,609
So why wait? Let us help you build a comfortable retire-

WVEST A5 U-n-LE A5 ment today with tax—deferred
th 52: a month _ SRAs. We think you will find it
'°‘;,%y,:T, :‘,';:l"at'° rewarding in the years to come.

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

 

  

IOYEARS 20YEARS

In this hypothetical example. setting aside $100 a month in a
tax-deferred invmment with an 8% return in a 28% tax
bracket shows better growthihan the same net arnountput
into a savings account. Total returns and principal value of
investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield may vary. The chart
above is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not
reﬂect actual performance, or predict future results, of airy
TlAA—CREF account, or reflect expenses.

j

        

30YEARS

STUDENTS

 

18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 )1464 - 4483

THE ?LACE FOR FOOD AND EuN ! I .

IN CASE YOU MISSED IT WERE THE
RLACE IN TOWN FOR VIDEO GAMES

GOOD GORHERS -.CHAMRION RUB ~
DART MACHINES ' FOOS ’BALL-MEGA

-AND REVOLUTIONS.
REMEMBER WE WELCOME ALL

ALL STUDENTS 21 AND OVER
UNTIL WE CLOSE.

- HYDRO THuNDER~ N0 ,

v

vIDE0 -r>00L TABLES

. '7

UNTIL 10:00 PM. AND

‘V

will nriE BROILER

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa-cref.org

O 2000 TlAA-C REF 08/03

For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them care-
fully before you invest. 1. You may be able to invest up to the IRS maximum of $10,500 per year. To receive a personalized calculation of your
maximum contribution, call TlAA{REF at 1 800 842—2776. 0 TlAA{ REF Individual and institutional Services, Inc. distributes the C REF and TIAA
Real Estate variable annuities. - Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual
funds and tuition savings agreements 0 HM and TIAA-C REF Life insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. 0 TIAA-CREF Trust
Company, FSB provides trust services. 0 investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed.

16 oz. T~'BONE STEAK W/BAKED . .
POTATO AND MIXED GREEN SA LAD

$ 6.50 ’

 

     

Arm

'.\;7l8.p$‘
K 55'2-
v~ W3

»; V)0~ I 4

C - '2»

. U11 ﬂing-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UN1vERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

  
     
    
     

.i'At\n:;s G. LEYBURN LIESFKARY
w,a.::»-xmcoron z. LEE; um-/EHSKTY
= ; ;« «it veer-5. in $980

  

 

K VOLUME 103, NO. 14

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 2000

  

Campus

  

Small groups meet
after university
assembly

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

  

Following University President John
Elrod’s Lee Chapel address, in which he com-
pared campus alcohol abuse to a “toxic waste
A dump,” faculty, students, and staff broke into
nine’grOups to hold moderated discussions
on Washington and Lee’s alcohol culture.

These discussions provided material for

the new alcohol task force.
" University Health Educator and Interfra—
temity Council Advisor Burr Datz led one
discussion group with Assistant Athletic Di-
rector Chuck O’Connell. Datz, a 1975 gradu-
. ate of W&L, said he recognizes the magni-
tude of the problem and wants to do some-
thing about it.

“There’s a river of alcohol abuse running
through this campus, and_I want to reduce
4 the ﬂood to a trickle,” Datz said.

In Datz and O’Connell’s group, students
mentioned the difficulties in finding an effec-
tive solution that the university community
can still accept. Junior IFC member Quincy
Springs said the biggest problem is attitude.

“We have a lot of people here who plan to

get trashed. . . we need to change the ideas
about that,” Springs said.
A: Datz agreed and said that alumni consump-
tion of alcohol at Homecoming and Alumni
Weekend proves that campus culture pro-
motes heavy drinking.

“We do a lot of things that are diseased,
and We’ve done them so long we think
they’re normal,” Datz said.

Springs also suggested that fraternities
require more of their members to undergo

  

 

discusses ‘ ‘culture of alcohol’ ’

photos by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

BRAINSTORM: In the Morris House, students surround Dean Dalhouse in a constructive discussion on the presence of
alcohol in campus life (top right). Students, faculty, and administration leave the chapel for Small groups (top left).

TIPS (Training in Interventions and Preven-
tions) to reduce the likelihood Of distributing
alcohol to already intoxicated students.

Senior Peer Segelke said that the BYOB
policy, instituted his freshman year, has not
done much to change the distribution of
alcohol at fraternity parties. Segelke ac-
knowledged the difficulties involved in en-
forcing existing university policies on al-
cohol, but said that something has to
change.

“Somewhere, the axe should come down,”
Segelke said.

Director of Security Mike Young also par-
ticipated in the discussion. Young, who
handles many situations involving alcohol,
said he is frustrated with the way alcohol-in-
duced problems are handled at W&L.

“We encourage bad behavior because we
never punish,” Young said.

Dean of Students David Howison also
led a discussion group. Howison said
his group discussed several possible
solutions, including Greek organizations
developing their own versions of Live
Drive, balancing personal responsibility
and university responsibility, and the
possibility of a single—sanction suspen-
sion penalty for a DUI charge.

Senior Jenny Anne Kneisel, president of
Chi Omega and a member of HoWison’s dis-
cussion group, hopes Greek organizations can
encourage their members to take more per-
sonal responsibility.

“The university can only do so much,” she
Said. However, Kneisel said that the discus-
sion was along Way from finding a solution.

“I think it was a very positive experience,
but we only started to scratch the surface,”
Kneisel said.

English Professor Suzanne Keen took notes
for HOWison’S discussion group. She said she
was amazed at how long the discussion con-
tinued and how much the students said.

“They covered a whole spectrum of is-
sues,” Keen said.

Keen also said that the task force will
have a lot of useful information and view-
points to consider when they read the
meeting notes.

“They have an incredibly hard job,” she said.

Freshman Joel Pepera, in a disussion
group led by Dean of Freshmen Mark
Dalhouse, said his group discussed the dis-
parity between a strong honor code and al-
cohol-related behavior.

“The Honor Code is supposed to rule ev-
ery aspect of our lives. . . if we don’t expand
our concept of honor, the school will need
more regulations,” Pepera said.

A’

Commons designed to be

 

 
 
     
     
 
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
      
       
   
 
        
     
     
     
     
     
       
     
     
       
 
        
         
       
     
     

     
       
       
       
         
         
       
   
   
       
     
     
      
       
     
     
      
      
       
 

R

Planners balance concerns of
students and environment

Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

After 12 years of consideration, University officials plan
to build a new University Commons building that protects
the surrounding environment While meeting the needs of
the Student body.

 

sketch by VMDO
VIEW FROM REID HALL: A preliminary sketch

of the University Commons.

‘ecologically friendly

VMDO, the primary architectural firm in charge of
the project, has worked closely with members of Wash-
ington and Lee’s faculty, staff, and students to create

V a building design that complements the other build-

ings on campus while not infringing on the surround-
ing Woods Creek area.

Members of the team formed to help plan for the
environmental aspect of the building include Physics
Professor Bob Akins, also chair of the University’s
Environmental Planning and Management Committee;
Director of Physical Plant Scott Beebe; Director of Fa-
cilities Planning Tom Contos; and juniors Blaine Clarke
and Helen Downes, both interns for Association of
Colleges of the South, which addresses Southern en-
vironmental issues. '

This group was joined by several VMDO architects at
the Sustainable Campus Development Clinic at Emory Uni-
versity in Atlanta this weekend.

There they learned about “sustainable buildings,”
Clarke said, “that meet the needs of the campus now with-
out diminishing the resources for the future.”

“The Woods Creek area used to be so beautiful until
we built the Science Center, library, parking garage and
sorority houses,” Associate Dean of Students Leroy
“Buddy” Atkins said.

“It used to be one huge woods that nobody though
could ever be overwhelmed, but now it is overwhelmed.
This plan is a hope to restore the area to the way it once
was by taking advantage of the natural terrain,” Dean of

 

Students David Howison said.

Construction of the University Commons will begin
this summer. The new building perches on the ridge Over-
looking Woods Creek, next to Leybum Library and adj a-
cent to Reid Hall.

“The Commons will have two equal sides, not just a
front and a back, in order to incorporate the front of Reid
Hall and to create an amphitheater effect,” Howison said.

According to Howison, in 1904 university planners
faced Reid Hall’s facade towards House Mountain, where
they believed the campus would develop. Reid Hall was
going to be part of a second Colonnade facing the oppo-
site direction. No other buildings were built in that direc-
tion, however, leaving Reid Hall with a “Wrong-facing”
facade.

Planners were faced with the necessity of providing a
route for the service vehicles delivering to the bookstore
and food service facilities.

instead proposing an underground tunnel in front of

sketch by VMDO
VIEW FROM WOODS CREEK: Architects’ plan to minimize environmental impact on campus.

With environmental considerations, they Wanted
to avoid building a road up the hill behind the library,

Graham—Lees dorm that travels underneath the
Doremus lawn and parking lot to an underground load-
ing dock near the Commons.

In addition to harmonizing with its surroundings, it is
hoped that the Commons will provide a new social and
recreational outlet for the W&L student body.

“We need a place on campus where all members
of the community can gather for activities or to
have more opportunities to interact socially,”
Howison said. “I think that the Commons is aII
essential component of the liberal education of
students at Washington and Lee.”

SEE ‘COMMONS’ ON PAGE 2

‘Tilt: ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

November 13, 2000

Generals footbal
to Swarthm ,

 
  
 

  
 

 

 

‘PAGE 2

 ' @112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlri

NOVEMBER 13, 2000

‘COMMONS’

FROM PAGE 1
The building will probably include a food service

area, a movie theater, offices for different campus or-
ganizations, a coffee shop, a mail room, and lounge
‘areas.

Plans also originally included a fitness center, but

 planners were wary of an oversized building, and de-
‘ cided instead to renovate athletic facilities in Warner
’ Gymnasium.

Evans Dining Hall will become a conference center
available for large meetings, sorority socials, and spe-
cial occasion dinners.

“All the credit goes to the architects,” Atkins
said. “They have creatively incorporated many ar-

'» eas of campus into this project to make it fit more
- appropriately.”

“Other schools all have a vibrant student activi-

ties facility. We are really far behind other univer-
’sities in this aspect,” Howison said. “We hope to
9 create that kind of vibrant, active community with
our new Commons.”

To get student feedback, VMDO architects and

E-mail General Notes to ‘

 

Ninth Annual Writer’s Harvest to be
Held on W&L Campus

Washington and Lee’s contribution to the ninth an-
nual Writer’s Harvest will take place in duPont Audito-
rium at 7: 15 p.m. on Tuesday, Nov. 14. Writer’s Harvest,
the nation’s largest literary benefit to ﬁght hunger and
poverty, boasts readings by more than 2,000 writers in
600 locations nationwide each year.

Readers this year are Domnica Radulescu, associate
professor of Romance languages at W&L, from a novel
in progress, seniors Anna Baker, Matthew Gooch, and
Sarah Kennedy, Assistant Professor of English at Mary
Baldwin, from her book From the Midland Plain. Per-
forming a scene from David Mamet’s play Oleanna will
be Associate Professor of Theater J .D. Martinez and
senior Zenobia Ginwalla.

Since 1992, Writer’s Harvest has raised over $600,000
to fight hunger and poverty—issues which persist de— rs
photo by Mary Guy/gm; phmogmpher spite our thriving economy. Currently more than 35 mil-

Nelson—Bryd, the landscape architect will hold the first of
two forums Nov. 30 at 4:00 p.m. in Science Center A214.
“The architects are really excited to be working with

the students ” Clarke Sam “The more students Come the WHO NEEDS sLEEP?: Energized by the close race, a crowd of die-hards stays up past midnight '1l1esday 11011 Pe0P1€iI1th€ U-S- “V6 at 0F below the POVCITY 11116
more imput they’ll have.”

to watch CNN’s presidential election coverage in a program sponsored by the W&L politics department. ($16,050 for 3 family of f°“1')- Share our Strength’ ‘me of
V the nation’s leading anti—hunger and anti—poverty orga-

nizations, mobilizes authors, illustrators, publishers and
other literary professionals throughout the fall to share
their strength to alleviate hunger and poverty.

The suggested donation is $10 for adults and $5 for
students. Anyone who cannot attend, but would like to .*-.
make a contribution to SOS should make the check pay- .
able to SOS and send it to Rod Smith c/o Shenandoah,
Troubadour Theater, Washington and Lee University, Lex-
ington, VA 24450.

   

Courtesy W&L web page

Counseling support group for

women with eating disorders

A support group sponsored by the University Coun-
seling Service will begin meeting weekly for women who
are dealing with binge eating, binge/purge eating, very
restricted eating or compulsive exercise. If you are facing
any of these problems in your daily life, you are invited ‘r
to join this confidential group which meets weekly. Each
member will sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality at the
first meeting.

Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service sec-
retary, at x8590 or the Student Health Service at X8401 to
learn the startup date, time and location.

1
l
l
l
v

  
       

Q SUI?‘

, ‘L’ K... I s.
18 E.__NELSON ST. LEXINGTON 540 464-4483

THE PLACE Tore FOOD AM2 1-'uN 
*ATTENTION*
wE NEED YOLLR HELP. wE NEED
FEEDBACK FROM You ABOUT
SATELLITE PACKAGES. IT You ARE
INTERESTED IN HDCKEY OR
aASI<ETBALL- CDLLEGE 012 PRO-
ON ourz SCREENS PLEASE STOP BY
OR CALL AND LET us KNOW. ANY
AN0NYMouS REQUESTS T012 THE
PLAYBOY CHANNEL wILL NOT BE
CONSIDERED.

FROM THE BROILER
16 oz. T-BONE STEAK W/BAKED ‘ A C

I
I

I

9 9 9 9 9 9/9/9/9  9/9/9 9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9/9 9/9/9/9/9/9 ‘
0 b h ~\~\~\~\~\~ #\~\~\~\.0\0\0\~\~ ~\0\*\0\0\*\h\\~ h\t\~\~\0 ~\0\~\# 0\#\ﬁ\~ ~\~ ~\~\N\~

637 Waddell St.

mpg (L€§x3:)::§§j§§§°z SPORTSWEAR . POTATO AND MIXED GREEN SALAD jk

$ 6.50  

 

 

NOVEMBER 13, 2000

OFii<i1oN  

Smoking is silly. I know, because I used to smoke like a

factory. I quit two years ago and I’m glad I did. But I think _

it’s time we quit bothering those who continue to smoke

9

are bad. They kill all these people and no one cares.’
What I am actually thinking is, “I really don’t like body
bags, and anyone that uses them to spread their message

cigarettes. What I am referring to
are those ridiculous commercials
on TV where these crazy kids take
body bags and stack them in front

Opinionated Jerk
Geoff White ‘02 .

needs professional help.”

What offends me more is the premise
behind these ads. At the end of the ads,
someone says “What if cigarette ads told

of buildings, throw them out of airplanes, or take them
clubbing. This is supposed to make me not want to smoke.
What these advertisements really do is offend me. I do
not watch these ads and say to myself, “Gee, cigarettes

Gore ’s got to go

For whatever reason, our nation’s vote was split al-
most perfectly in half on Tuesday. However, the advan-
tage did go to George W. Bush and he should be the next
President. Al Gore has now lost the vote in Florida twice,
_ . _ once on Tues-
ght side of the aisle day and again
. ‘ in the recount,

Brett Klrwan 04 but he refuses
to concede the election. Every argument his surrogates have
ﬂoated to boost his case are without merit. Simply, it’s time

' for Gore to step down in what has been an agonizingly

close, but decisive election.

One tack that the Democratic public relations warriors in
Florida have taken is that over 19,000 ballots were thrown
out in Palm Beach County. However, this seemingly high
number is totally reasonable, and expected. In 1996, nearly
15,000 ballots were declared invalid and voter turnout was
higher this year. In Duval County, which Bush won by 44,000
votes, nearly 28,000 ballots were discarded as improperly
punched. Not one Democrat has complained about the
“disenfranchisement”of these voters, yet this was 9 percent
of the total whereas Palm Beach County only discarded 6
percent of its total ballots. I wonder why the Rev. Jesse
Jackson isn’t leading a protest march in Duval County.

Another argument the Democrats have used is that the
ballot itself in Palm Beach county was too confusing, pur-
posefully misleading and possibly illegal. Besides the hy-
pocrisy that Cook County, Illinois, where both Bill Daley
and Jackson voted, uses a nearly identical “butterﬂy”
ballot, this claim has zero chance of legal success. Florida
law states that ballots must “substantially” comply with
the statue’s requirements that ballots have the voter mark

/ an “X” to the right of the candidate’s name. If the law were

followed exactly, as the legislature did not intend, all vot-
ing machines and punch ballots would be illegal in Florida.

Letters to the

Clinical member responds to
egg donor ads

Dear Editor:

I would urge The Ring-tum Phi to reject any advertise-
ments involving the selling of human donor eggs (see ad
in your November 6, 2000 issue and the week before, “Aca—
demic Couple Seeks Egg Donor, 21-28, Right candidate
will be compensated with approximately $7,500”).

For a woman to donate her eggs in any circumstances, I

let alone for money, is an act of serious moral and ethical
concern. There are disturbing short-term and long-terrn
psychological consequences for the donor, the couple
paying for the egg, and for the child so produced. Be-
cause the entire process is usually shrouded in denial and
secrecy there is a lifelong prospect of emotional turmoil,
loss, and unattainable resolve.

Ciltr iiling-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
' Stephanie Bianco
News Editor Matt McDermott
Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello
Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel
W&Life Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
‘ Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Last Word Editor Bryan Early
Copy Editor Heather McDonald
Contributing Editors Michael Crittenden
Max Smith
_ Jessica Jones
Photo Editor Lisa Lin .
Photographers Colin Mitchell
Mary Guy
Martha Edwards
Graphics/Cartoonist Monica Schoenthaler
Online Editor Ginger Phillips
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Manager, Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washingtonand Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions
and letters. All submissions must be in the Phi office, room
208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday to appear
in the following weeks edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves
the right to edit submissions for content and length. Letters
and columns do not reﬂect the opinion of The ‘Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions

, of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring—tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
:E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

the truth?” My response: What ads? Under the 1969 Public
Health Cigarette Smoking Act, all advertising for cigarette
products was barmed from the airwaves. So what we have are
people attacking cigarette advertising that does not exist.

Advertising should stop blowing smoke

Magazines are a different story. If these anti—smoking ‘

zealots want to mess around with body bags, they should
do so in a venue that is fair. We can open our Maxims and
Playboys and watch the Marlboro Man and the Body Bag
duke it out for world supremacy. But the TV should be left
out of it. If that is unacceptable to the anti—smoking cam-
paigners, then they should choose a more appropriate
method of conveying their views.

My roommates and I have already agreed to kill the
Singing Adelphia Pager Man on sight. I can only stand so
much. Get those body bags off my TV.‘

 

As is, the ballot was declared “completely legal” by the
Florida Secretary of State on Friday afternoon. Also,
Florida legal precedent directs that a ballot is legal if a
voter could find the candidate for whom he intended to
vote after a “responsible search.” Do we really want to
leavefthe fate of our republic up to people incapable of fol-
lowing an arrow half an inch across a page? In addition, the
Supreme Court has ruled that ballots should be contested
prior to an election, not afterwards, by the loser.

Team Gore’s case is further hurt by the fact that a Demo-
crat, Theresa LePore, approved the ballot, and in an ironic
twist of fate, said that the candidates’ names had to be printed
on two pages because the type was increased to make vot-
ing easier for the elderly residents of Palm Beach County.

Gore has called for a hand recount only in heavily Demo-
cratic counties, knowing that such a count is open to
Caprice, interpretation, and fraud. He is waiting to eclipse
Bush in the vote tally and then is going to throw Bush’s
rhetoric back in his face.

' Should this third recount turn out the same way the

first two have, the Gore campaign is waging a public rela- I

tions battle to delegitimize the Republican victory. They

. have based their argument on the fact that Gore is leading

in the popular vote tally. But, note_that more than half of
those who voted, voted against Gore. Also, more than
ﬁve million votes remain uncounted nationwide with Gore’s
lead at a measly 185,000. Interestingly, in another example
of this race’s volatility, New Mexico was taken away from
Gore and called “too close.” The most recent reports have
Bush leading by just 17 votes!

Ultimately, this election has already been decided more
than once. Voting machines aren’t perfect, but they are non-
partisan and any mistakes balance out. In unnecessarily
perpetuating this election, Gore has shown himself to be
terribly politically craven, stupefyingly ambitious, and
unconcerned with‘ the nation’s welfare. In sum, he has
demonstrated that he is totally unfit to be President. Gore
should follow the example of two presidents who also
lost by razor-thin margins and, like Nixon in 1960 and
Ford in 1976, concede.

Editor

The woman in whom the egg is implanted and her
husband must live with the life—long issue of the fact that
they “purchased” their child. And for the child there is the
distinct possibility that he or she will never know the true
identity of one half of his or her biological heritage, let
alone ever have contact with her or his material heritage.
The child so produced will face lingering issues of iden-
tity that are more often than not kept secret by the “par-
ents.” And all concerned will be denied information about
the potential risks of inherited genetic factors.

I appeal to The Ring—tum Phi to discontinue accepting
such advertisements and, even more important, for the
women of Washington and Lee to reject any temptation to
donate their eggs in response to such commercialization
of human life.

Sincerely,

Dirck W. Brown

Clinical Member, American Association of Marriage
and Family Therapists

Alum expresses need for
Middle East classes at W&L

. Dear Editor:

It is surprising that W&L, while taking justifiable pride
in listing over 800 courses in the University Catalog, of-
fers no course about the Middle East. For much of the last
100 years, the Middle East has been a volatile region of
increasing importance to the developed, industrialized
countries of the world. Yet the broadly held American
view of the region -is simplistic, failing to take into account
the complexities of economics, politics and religion, all of
which come into play in shaping events in the Middle
East. .

Take for example our myopic view that the root cause
of the Arab-Jewish conﬂict grows out of the establish-
ment of the State of Israel; A more correctreading of his-
tory would begin with the collapse of the Ottoman Empire
in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, and trade-offs
made at Versailles following WWI.

Another example is our ﬂawed ﬁnding that Arab coun-

  

“My sister and her husband are -

hosting their first Thanksgiving for

the whole family in Nashville.”
-Martha Combrooks ’01

“Taking a break from all my fans.”

tries are united in their political thinking toward the West
and one another. The facts are that Iraq and Iran are sworn
enemies, the Jordanians and the Syrians have been close
to war with each other on more than a few occasions, and
there is bad blood between the Iranians and Saudis, even
though both peoples would like to be rid of Saddam
Hussein. The list goes on.

Islam is like Christianity in that there are many different
versions of the faith. The contract between Shiites and
Sunnis compares to those between Southern Baptists
and Episcopalians. Islamic Fundamentalists are no more
representative of Greater Islam than Evangelicals are of
Orthodox Christianity.

For the better part of 50 years, the West viewed the

Middle East through the prism of Soviet-U:S. relations, ‘

just as we did political developments in Africa. Each of
the superpower blocks had its clients states. Many Arab
leaders exploited our paranoia for their own purposes and
to remain in power. We vied for the favor of the Egyptians.
The Soviet Union supplied Syria while the U.S. backed
the Saudi Royal Family. The Soviets exacerbated any ten-
sions they could to foment hatred of the West.
Twenty-five years ago, many self-styled “experts” saw
little possibility for a peaceful resolution of Arab—Israeli

hostilities. Then Anwar Sadat ﬂew to Israel and addressed

the Israeli Knesset. Israel made peace, though a cold peace,
with Egypt. Israel made peace with Jordan. Israel has tried
to find a basis for settlement with Syria. But today vio-
lence between Israeli troops and Palestinian rock—throwers
continues to dominate the headlines. Is that all there is to
it? Are these merely misbehaving children who should be
sent to their respective rooms -while the adult nations of
the world impose a’ settlement upon them? Too many
Americans think it is all that simple. We want it over with
quickly and easily so we can move on to other things.
Sorry—that’s not going to happen. If we really want to
understand why and how to bring about peaceful ‘solu-
tion, maybe the university community ought to begin by
learning about the Middle East here at Washington and
Lee. V
Alan M. Corwin, ’62
Member, Alumni Board

 

-Alex Wilkins ’02
food.”

—Amina Elgouacem ’03

“Meeting friends, spending time with
my family, and eating my mom’s good

By Christine Metzger

ackt What are you looking forward to over Thanksgiving break?

 

“Tryptophgan.”

-Colin Tate ’01

 

 

S

Elie ﬁling-tum iﬁlii

PORTS  

      

 

 

 

’ photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

LOCKED UP. W&L grapplers practice for the
2000-01 season. Individual competition began
Sunday, and dual meets start in January.

             
     

Leader
Travel

America's
Student

1n

By Jeremy Franklin-

S1>0RTs EDITOR

Veteran head coach Gary Franke has enumerated very
straightforward goals for his Washington and Lee wres-
tling team in 2000-01.

Franke, in his 28th year as coach of the Generals, wants
an improvement from last season’s 7-5 mark, which in‘-
cluded a 3-3 record in the Centennial Conference. ,

“I think that this team, right now, has the potential to
be a better team than last year,” Franke said. “I hope that
we can have a better dual meet record than last year.” V

The Generals lost two seniors, captains Chad Casto and
Alex McManimen, from the 1999-2000 squad. However, W&L
has plenty of experience, with three seniors and three jun-
iors expected to be major contributors this season.

Spring Break 2001

most reliable air.

Call today for a brochure
and ask how  
you can go for FREE!!!

Seniors Josh Chamberlain (149 lbs.), Greg Valentine
(165), and John Sensing (285) will guide the Generals in
2000-01. Junior Ezra Morse (197), who posted a team best
22-6 overall record last year, returns as well.

Juniors Ben Segal (125) and Ivan Zdanov (174) and sopho-
more John Polena (133) areW&L’s key returning grapplers.

Franke expects freshmen Cory Little (141), Steve Saks,
and Joel Mueller (184) to have an immediate impact. Never-
theless, the coach admits that their inexperience at the col-
lege level provides a level of uncertainty for the Generals.

“We’re practicing, and we’re working on what we think
will make us successful,” Franke said. “It really depends
on how our freshmen do, because we kind of know how
our upperclassmen are going to do.”

After nearly a month of preseason practice, the Gener-
als opened their schedule Sunday with individual compe-

  Franke has wrestling team determined to improve  

tition at the VMI Keydet Invitational. Although dual com-
petitions will not begin until January, the chance to see
his wrestlers in ofﬁcial action is a positive for Franke.

“We’ve been going for four weeks, and we’ve had no
competition,” Franke said. “What [the Keydet Invitational]
does is it gives us an opportunity to compete. It’ll tell us
where we are, and what we need to do.”

W&L will face its stiffest challenge in the Centennial

PAGE 4 NOVEMBER 13, 2000
- »
‘ ' . V Upcoming events in General athletics...
  enera s stunne y   ewport    ,
i . Nov. 17-18 Gettysburg Tournament TBA
. . . ‘ - - - » .. - -  -   Nov. 25-26 Carne ie—Mellon Tournament . TBA
Captalns elunlnate S613: 313:3: atifngzesiiiggdogagi ’ 1'  if   November 29 Shenaidoah 6:00p.m.
   assist from senior Jon Wilson. The geccmberz _ R..an‘,1°,1ph'Ma°°_n 330091“ “
_ Bobcats got on the scoreboard when member 3 Vlrgmla Wesleyan 3'00P'm'
second round win Gao Lasko passed to Adam Fletcher. Women’s Basketball
Whose g031 01“ the 500“? to 3‘1-' November 18 Coe College (Haverford Tournament) 8:00 pm.
By Geoff White Fr°§tbuTg SW6 Sﬁlf-dt“-S.1I1lCted, how- November 19 TBA (Haverford Tournament) TBA
SPORTS WRITER EVCB Wllh 20 minutﬁs left In the Contest» November 21 at Shenandoah 5:00p.m. ’
. when they put the ball in their own net November 29 Lynchburg 8:00 p.m.
The Washington and Lee men’s Grimes wascreditedwiththe goal, which Decembeiz at Rando1ph_MaC0n 2;00p_m
soccer team moved on to the round I providedthe game’sﬁna1margin.
of 16 in the NCAA playoffs with a Sophomore goalkeeper Tim Foley w°men’s Cross Country _ . ,
win over Frostburg State on Saturday, made five saves, and the Generals November 18 ‘NCAA Reglonals (Sp°kane’ Wash‘) TBA F
but lost to Christopher Newport Uni- outshot Frostburg 14-10. Rmgwn Pm. me 0 . Mews socceii _
Versity 0“ S.““day- _ W&Lh‘h°“ ad"a“°°d t° thecsﬁﬁth SUCCESSFUL SEASON. The Generals celebrate their 2000 Old November 18 NCAA Divis_ionl1IQuaiterfinals
The Generals, seeded ﬁrst in the region c ampionship against 's— - - - - - _ . _ _
. NCAA Division III South region, de— topher Newport. Despite outshooting . ::;n1;::n4A::lel:tl‘$i:;?;::fI:V::i:y::lc€V;:1Eyn::(l;:l;:e£) vtvl::hr:u:“(i) Mews and W°me“’s Swlmmmg « A A
livered a 4-1 victory over Frostburg the Captains 12-11, the Generals lost of 16 in 'the NCAA Division In 1 ' ff November 18 at Swanhmore 2:00pm-
State on Saturday in Newport News. by a 1-0 score. M p ayo S‘ November 19 at Gettysburg , 1:00 Pm-
Senior Ryan Nelson opened the Foley made six saves, but was The Generals ﬁnished the season Nelson, and Jon Wilson — will be November 29 Ra“d°1p}_“Ma°°n Woman  (Women Only) .- 63301’-m‘ .
scoring for the Generals with an un- eventually beaten when Oscar Gomez— 19-2, setting a new school record for leaving at the end of the year. Dec’ 1'2 at Franklm & Marshall Invltatlonal 10300 am‘ '
assisted goal 19 minutes into the Romero passed to Matt Boettcher, consecutive wins with 12, a streak With the win against the Generals, Menas and womenasii-idom-Track ”
game. Less than two minutes later, who scored the game’s only goal at broken only with the playoff defeat. Christopher Newport advances to Decembeiz at Virginia Miiiiaiy institute TBA
junior David Kodack scored off an the 61:10 mark. Martin Zelada tallied W&L boasts a young team; only ﬁve face Central region champion Wiscon- _ ‘
assist from sophomore Brad Murphy six saves for the Captains, earning his seniors — Jordan Ginsberg, J acek sin-Oshkosh in the national Wresﬂmg
to put the Generals ahead 2-0. tenth shutout of the season. Mucha, Andy Crawford, Ryan quarterﬁnals. December 2 Scranton Tournament I 10:00a:m' Jr

3

from Western Maryland, ranked 11th nationally in the “

Brute—Adidas‘ Coaches’ Poll. Although a long holiday
break stands in between the Generals and their confer-
ence schedule, their coach doesn’t see any particular dis-
advantage from extra time off.

“The break for Christmas is awfully long, but that’s the
way it’s been for many years,” Franke said. “Most of the
teams are in the same boat.”

W&L ﬁnishes ﬁfth in regional meet

21 schools in Saturday’s NCAA Divi-
_sion III South/Southeast Regional
Meet in Newport News, while the
men’s team ﬁnished 10th out of 21
participating schools.

Head coach Emily Pulsifer knew her
team would be strong entering the
2000 season, but admitted that there
were too many variables to predict
how the Generals would ﬁnish.

° “I knew we were pretty strong, and
that we had some great people retum-

group raced so well in really tough

competition.”

Senior Kathleen Moroney (42nd
overall, 20: 12), junior Gretchen Tencza
(54th, 20:29), and senior Wendy Case
(71st, 20:59) rounded out the Gener-
als’ top ﬁve. A

W&L’s 246 points were good‘

enough for 10tli place in the men’s meet:
Also among the top 10 were Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference schools
Lynchburg (3rd, 131), Roanoke (6th,

of second—place Guilford.
Junior Curtis Bethea tied for 23rd

I

..‘. W&L sports roundup t TtW° W? rgnnérs fflllisélﬁdtilnltihe Generals end up
- op enan mae e -ou e- . _ . _
S P  n 9   By Jeremy Franklin giontearii; s<1>phorrtio1r§ l:i1rke(iI)uncan eighth at ll1Vlt3tl0I13l _
in seven ace a 2 , an senior .

- ff SPORTS EDITOR Jessica Pafrillo in eighth a second The W&L golf team placed elghth

, O  , later Duncan also ualiﬁed for the out of 17 teams in the Guilford/Tom

r k ' . _ . -. . WOIDCH S team P121068 NCAA Division Hlqchampionships O’Bryantlnvitational held Oct. 30.31
Mexico. Jamaica. in top ﬁve, Duncan ......   M .

- 1. _ . Cl1.Sk,Wh- ene soa_overeo-

H EAD Q U ART E RS _ Honda and Texas qualiﬁes for nationals °..i°f:i::Df::C:::nd fjmca Pamuo day event, one stroke behind Oglethorpe

o | . d 111 The Washington and Lee women’s led our team, and ran together the  3: 68:}: 3/liaﬂii
| I    e cross country team placed ﬁfth out of entire way,” Pulsifer said. “The entire Combined Score of 596’ 28 Stmkes ahead 7‘

overall with a score of 157 to lead» .

W&L. Junior Kyle Ulep, sophomore
Chuck Green, and freshman David
Haase all tied for 38th place, as each
finished at 161. Sophomore Chip
Campbell tied for 45m at 163.

The Generals do not compete
again until Feb. 23, when they return
to Guilford College for an Old Domin- ’

ing,” Pulsifer said. “But you never 172), and Catholic (8th, 239). i‘’“ A‘h1°“° C°“f“"”'“°.° me“
Travel ‘I _ know at the beginning of the season‘ Freshman Andy Schorr led the Two  wrestlers ;«
_ — ’ how it’s going to shake down.” men’s team with a 14th place overall 1 t Ke det te
1  U  I L   The Generals 179 points in the fuush at a time of 26.24. Juiuor Ken P ac a Y

counci|trave|.com

www.s’rudentexpress.com

women's competition were bettered
only by Emory (56), Rhodes College
(74), Mary Washington (135), and host
Christopher Newport (160).

J ackman (5 1 st, 27:31), sophomore Wil-
liam Teichman (53rd, 27:33), sophomore
David Hicks (74th, 28:21), and senior
Zach Usher (75th, 28:21) followed.

Junior Ezra Morse won the 197-
pound class in Sunday’s VMI Keydet
Invitational, and senior Josh Cham-
berlain placed third at 147 pounds.

 

Celtic
Con nection

selection of fine irnported goodis frorn
Ireland, Scotland, England & VVales!

V;

Stop by to see our exquisite line of
1 Celtic jevvelry
~ and check ‘out our Christrnas special on
Caithness Glass frorn ScotIand—lV!oor:cry'stal
Papenneights regularly $49.50 'novv $29-50!

Vve have books, rnuslc, artvvork, Aran svveaters,
capes & scarves, t-shirts, tartan ties, kilts 8-
accessories, tvveed .hats. foods, crystal,
perfun1es, and rnuch rnore——sornething for every
budget-——-all giftvvrapped for free!
Shipping available.

Dally 1OAl\ﬂ-5:3OPl\np ~
Sundays through Christrnas, noon—4Pl\II

19 VV- Nelson St-
Lextlngton, _\/A 24450
540-464-6545
1 —877—CEL'TlC-2
vvvv\M-celticconnex-corn
vvvvvv-irishrneaIsl3¥n_1aiI-corn

>'

.‘C

. Junk z-il><)ut it. Then get out il1(?l‘(_‘. and clear your 7‘
l\(.‘.’1(i of tzvorytlmig. Exrtr:-pt fskiiiig. Cull t0< r y 800.266.2444 or wvvw.WintergreenResort.coIn

 

4

 

NOVEMBER 13, 2000

@112 iliing-tum iﬁlii

PORTS

PAGE 5

~W&L hoops teams enter season with high hopes

N

1! -.1

 coi=FEEpeopleMus|c

THE GH

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor
BACK TO THE FUNDAMENTALS. W&L men’s basketball coach Jeff Lafave discusses a play with

members of his 2000-01 team. The Generals open the season Friday in Gettysburg, Pa.

Generals’ prospects go inside-out

Men’s team loses two key
frontcourt starters, but ,
returns depth to backcourt

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Normally one wouldn’t highly anticipate a season after
losing over 19 points and 16 rebounds per game from the
previous year — especially when the current roster fea-
tures just two seniors and one junior.

But second-year Washington and Lee men’s basket-
ball head coach Jeff Lafave has to be at least somewhat
optimistic about his team’s prospects in 2000-01. Despite
the youth of the team, the Generals — who finished 9-16
overall last year, including a 6-12 mark in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference — are far from inexperienced.

“We had a lot of freshmen on the ﬂoor getting some
time last year, so yve’re hoping they’ll contribute this year,”
Lafave said of his quintet of ‘second-year players, who
will be complemented by the same number of freshmen.
“A weakness is trying to mesh the five incoming fresh-
men with five sophomores.”

The Generals will have depth in the backcourt this sea-

Football falls to Swarthmore

son, despite the loss of point guard Walt Plyler. Lafave
feels conﬁdent that sophomore Will Cotter, who saw ac-
tion in all 25 games last year, can run the show from Ply1er’s
slot in the lineup.

“[Cotter] has a good understanding of the offense,
and he’s trying to take a leadership role,” Lafave said. “He
brings to the table something a little bit different than
Walt, as far as scoring off the dribble.”

Senior captains Will Ballard and Chad Braley will join
Cotter in the backcourt, and both will be relied upon on
both ends of the court. Ballard led the team in scoring with
a 9.2-point average in 1999-2000, and Braley contributed
7.9 per game.

Two swingmen, junior Bob Bustamante and sopho-
more Scott Hetterrnan, round out the returning W&L
backcourt. Bustamante, who averaged 8.8 points and 4.6
rebounds a game last year despite missing nine games
due to injury, and Hetterman (6.7 points, 3.7 rebounds)
can play a variety of positions for the Generals.

“We’ve got some versatile kids,” Lafave said of the backcourt.
“We have some depth and we can do some things there.”

The Generals’ inexperience may show up in the frontcourt,
however, with Brian Ricketts (9.0 points, 8.6 rebounds) and
Scott Hudson (7.1 points, 5.3 rebounds) no longer around
to muscle their way inside. Although the Generals have
several talented underclassmen, Lafave is concerned about

physical disparity between last year’s post players and this
season’s class, which features sophomore Jake McAlister
and 6-foot—6 freshmen David Bode and John Saxon.

‘‘It will be very hard (to replace Ricketts and Hudson)
because of the physical size of the young guys,” Lafave
said. “They’re probably more skilled than Brian and Scott,
but they’re 20 pounds away. We’re going to have to re-
bound as a team.”

Even if the Generals get off to another slow start, Lafave
believes his team will be a contender in the postseason. Last

year’s team began the year 04 but won its first ODAC Tourna-
ment game in 10 years against Bridgewater in the quarterﬁnals,
 that W&L will look to build upon in 2()()0-01 .

“Every season has its moments of uncertainty,” Lafave
said. “But anytime you have success on that level, you
can build on it.

“We’re setting ourselves on improving, and what we
need to do to make ourselves successful in February. It’s
going to be a game-in, game-out process.”

The season begins Friday at the Gettysburg Tournament.

ODAC Football Final update

‘ By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Swarthmore rolled up 386 yards of to-
tal offense, including 151 yards and two
touchdovms from tailback Ken Clark, as
the Garnet Tide defeated Washington and
Lee 16-6 Saturday afternoon.

The Generals managed just 179

‘yards of total offense, falling short of
their first six-win season since 1985.
Senior Marc Watson rushed 20 times
for 101 yards, extending his single-
season school rushing record to 1,325.
Freshman Sean McGarvey, making his

- first collegiate start at quarterback,
completed 6—of-13 passes for 43 yards,
but was picked off three times.

On the defensive side of the ball,
junior Jeff Bahl racked up 15 tackles

,_and a sack, giving him a team-leading

108 tackles for the year. Senior Will . « ‘ I ,

Baker, who led the Generals with five
interceptions, picked off a Scott
Murray pass and also tallied 10 tack-
les against the Garnet Tide.

After Clark’s one-yard TD run put
Swarthmore up 6-0 with 9:43 left in the
first quarter, sophomore Chris Sullivan

returned the ensuing kickoff back 80 ‘

yards for the game-tying score.

A two-yard touchdown run from
Clark put the Garnet Tide back on top
with 12:01 remaining in the game, and
Rob Castelluci’s field goal with 2:42
to play extended the lead to ‘16-6.

The Generals ﬁnished the 2000 sea-
son 5-5 overall, posting a 2-4 mark in
the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence, resulting in a fourth—place tie
with Hampden-Sydney and
Randolph-Macon.

 

in season finale

  

Standings ODAC Overall 1
Team W L PF PA W L PF PA
”” " Emory&Henry-x 5 1 203 158 8 2 315 199
Bridgewater 5 1 244 106 9 1 .361 146
Catholic 4 2 261 167 6 4 326 248
Washington&Lee 2 4 113 166 5 5 223 232
Hampden-Sydney 2 4 160 155 4 6 270 256
Randolph-Macon 2 4 118 162 3 7 166 277
Guilford 1 5 93 278 1 9 126 444

Sydney 17

Ring-(um P/Ii File Photo

November 11 Results
Swarthmore 16, W&L 6'
Bridgewater 46, Catholic 33
Randolph-Macon 26, Hampden-

Emory & Henry 34, Maryville 17
Greensboro 35, Guilford 20

l
l

NCAA Division III Playoffs

First Round (November 18)

Western Maryland at Emory & Henry

Bridgewater at Washington &
Jefferson

x-2000 ODAC Champions

NEUTRAL ZONE. The Generals’ defensive line prepares for an
Emory & Henry snap in the Wasps’ 24-10 Parents’ Weekend
win. W&L closed out its 2000 season Saturday with a 16-6
non-conference road loss to Swarthmore.

ED1ToR’s NOTE:

originally scheduled to appear in this week’s issue, will run
in the December 4 edition of the Phi.

Stories on the rugby and water polo teams,

eveljy monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

November 13
November 27

December 4 Ringsend

 

House Mountain
The Larry Keel Experience

1

more

  

LEXINGTON

 C 01; FEE
()(IA'I/IP17:/+Z71;()IIy1('lI‘ly
FRESH EACH MORNING

ESPRESSO ' CAPPUCCINO - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ° FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON - 464-6586

 

 

PAGE 6

Just because you’re a
woman doesn't mean you
have to get offended

@112 ﬂing-tum ilﬂlrt

LASTWORD

NOVEMBER 13, 2000

 

 

Me lose election: That’s unpossible?!

George W. Bush, Republican Golden Child and prob-
able President—Elect, got a big surprise on Election Day
after he found out that he didn’t win the race for presi-
dent. . . or lose it for that matter. The Bush campaign’s
polls had indicated, in fact, that G.W. was poised to win
popular election, but likely to lose the Electoral College;
thus, the Bush folk had ﬂooded the media with rhetoric
about making sure that the “VV1ll of the People” would
be respected. Now, those very same people are trum-
peting that the integrity of the Constitution must be pre-
served. Whatever ends up happening to Bush is irrel-
evant, what truly holds signiﬁcance is how the United
States government deals with the situation.»

The situation in Florida is unique in the history of our
country. Although presidential races have been close in
previous years, two anomalies have arisen that make
the case in Florida completely unprecedented: barrages
of lawyers and a borderline monkey-retarded media.

The media incorrectly reported the results of Florida
not once, but twice in the course of the election night,
which stirred up trouble in both the Bush and Gore carn-
paigns. The second time the media called the election,
they spurred Gore into making a concession call to Bush.

Now, I can only imagine what Al Gore said when he
had to call Bush back, “You know, George, how I said all
that stuff about this being a good race, and the better
candidate winning. . . well, I was just kidding — screw

\dH'A1% wt? wit”

 

    

BMichael Critenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

In response to a phone call I received this week from
two loyal readers, Mr. Sterchi and Mr. Radcliffe, I have
decided to choose this week’s beer based on its
compatability with seafood dishes, speciﬁcally a lobster
and brie cheese bisque. Though I know I didn’t get back to
you guys in time for your dinner, for future reference, the
right beer for the meal would be the Shipyard Brewing Co. ’s
Summer Ale.

Another beer hailing from the ﬁne state of moose, lob-
ster, and skiing, Shipyard’s Summer Ale is modeled after
classic Bavarian wheat beers. A paradigm of the traditional
American wheat beer that has cropped (sorry, bad pun) up
in the last 20 years, Summer Ale has a less aggressive taste
than its Bavarian counterparts. For those looking for a clean,
cool taste, its inviting golden color, mellow malted wheat
ﬂavor and less hoppy characteristics are the perfect comple-
ment. Brewed with Hallertau hops and Two-row British
Munich, Pale—Ale and malted wheat malts, Shipyard Sum-

starring ryan truax

A i’~rri<-»°~1- WI‘    

you!<irIsert obnoxious fart noise here with appropri-
ate giggling in the background>”

I I mean, Gore probably got a good chuckle out of
the entire affair, but the fact that he was put into that
position by the media’s irresponsible reporting wasn’t
fair. People in states on the West Coast, too, may have
been inﬂuenced strongly by the results of the elections
on the East Coast —— and the media’s misrepresenta-
tion —- no let’s not kid ourselves, blatant dumbassity
— of the voting results could have completely thrown
the election the other way.

Some right-wing pundits have even claimed that
media’s coverage was part of a vast liberal, Holly-
wood conspiracy to oust the Republicans from their
position of power. Of course, most of the people who
say that are kooks. . .

The second major election anomaly is that the elec-
tion has now been put out of the control of the Ameri-
can people and into the control of money-grubbing,
power-pining lawyers. The biggest post-election night
news on the various candidates was which lawyers
and how many of them were being dispatched to
Florida to represent the Bush and Gore campaigns.
The legal battles over the recounts, the confusing bal-
lots, and the legitimacy of the entire election of Florida
might just decide who the next President will be.

While the letter of the law must obeyed, it should

L, Q5

 

 

«swam-...a-I

not be twisted and exploited like a pair of used edible
underwear. And as everyone who is familiar with the
O.J. Simpson trial knows, lawyers are prettydamn good
at doing exactly that.

There have been very few elections in American

history in which the votes of its citizens have counted ‘

for so much and for so little. In states such as Florida,
Wisconsin, and Oregon the margins between Bush and
Gore have been mere thousands of votes and in
Florida’s case, less than 500 votes separated the two
candidates. .

If just a few more American citizens had exercised
their God- and Veteran- given right to vote, the country
would not be in the dispute it is facing now. Yet under
our country’s Electoral College system, the fact that
Gore received more of the popular vote is irrelevant.
Now, the race for the position of president is won through
playing a huge game of geopolitical Risk, rather than
trying to win over the support of the entire American
populace. I

It is ironic that the entire election has boiled down to
the legal battle over a single ballot, in a single county, in
a single state and the only thing left for the American
people to do is to watch the “Exclusive, All-Encom-
passing Election Coverage on Prirne—Tirne Television.”
But then again, it could be worse: we could live in
Canada, eh?

   

  

  i ll  

   
    
     
 
 
  

         
 

   
 

 ”* ?. ~ ..A‘ ‘mars. : - ‘'7'’
watt $‘FATE« 13*? ﬁéEJ:u:3T;:_3— §":ﬁ,::§§§:%rE§R,§§ E
.. V = 2 - E  err  - z -
‘t5tei%r””:t.f5i "’
%4£:1§J€§»¢fi:¢*~J5fi§

4.-::2I

 

mer is another finely crafted brew from Brewmaster Alan
Pugsley.

The beer is best served with a lemon or lime, and
brings back memories of warm summer nights at Two
Lights State Park in Cape Elizabeth, grilling on the l940’s—
era carrrp grills and hanging with friends. First brewed in
1995, Summer Ale is brewed from April-August and is
available in both 12 02. bottles and kegs, not in the usual
22 oz. bottles that Shipyard offers almost every other
beer in their repertoire.

Originally founded as Federal Jack’s Brew Pub in
Kennebunk, Maine, Shipyard moved to a four—acre plot
on Newbury St. in Portland, Maine in 1994, on the very
site where famed American poet Henry Wadsworth
Longfellow was born. The brewery has undergone three
expansions and now produces over 85,000 barrels of beer
a year. In 1996 the company opened the ﬁrst rnicrobrewery
and brewpub in an airport at the Orlando International
Airport. _

Available in the Northeast and in Florida, I give Ship-
yard a 17 out of 20 on the recentered “Yai-Craig” beer
scale. A great beer for seafood dinners, and especially
bisques, Shipyard Summer Ale is another in the long line
of ﬁnely crafted Maine beers. I know, I know, I have to
branch out, which is why in my next column I will be
reviewing the local pub/bar Traveller’s for their beer se-
lection and ambiance. Once again, I appreciate all phone
calls and emails with suggestions for future beer col-
umns. Any ideas, email me at crittendemn@wlu.edu, and
until next time, tip one back for me.

  
::  W3‘. V 4‘ J1’   p:

    

 ,,,,,,,.   i ,     
Iwr   we I-Iw   ~

Meet 13: LEMMA. QE TEE WEEK.

If you lost a Senate race to a candidate that was
already dead, would you consider suicide a
career move for your next election?

  

     

rm pi

Are You 21 Non-Business Major?

l)o You Want to Improve Your Marketability?

 

The

Learn the
fundanwentals of:

0 Accounting
Finance

00600

  

I-Ia.a.s School of Business
at the Llniversity of California, Berkeley
Intensive BASE Sulnrner Prograrn IS FCDRYCLJI
July 9 - August I 7, 200 I

  

- Fdarketing
0 C)rganizationaI Behavior
I-lands-on rnarket & ﬁnancial research
Business related cornputer applications
Effective concnrnunication 8: presentation skills
Prepare for the corporate recruiting process

Arts, Sciences. and Engineering students vvill beneﬁt frorn
this rigorous. six-vveek surnrner curriculurn that will
include lectures. case studies. cornpany visits, guest
speakers and student presentations-

For rnore Inforrnation. correct our website at:
http:IIhaas.be:-keley-eduIUnderg:-adlBASE..ht.rnI
or via ernail at: BASE@haas-berkeley.edu

by david mamet

directed by zeenie ginwalla
a senior thesis project

 

dec. 1, 2, 4 & 6 , 2000 at 8 p.m.

1'\NO GREAT SHOWS IN REPERTORY
JOHNSON THEATRE * LENFEST CENTER
TICKETS AND INFORMATION 540/463-8000

by jaston williams, joe sears and ed howard
directed by francis mcwilliams

and blair ‘mitchell

a senior thesis project

    

dec. 2, 2000 - 2 p.m.
dec. 3 & 7, 2000 - 8 p.m.

dec. 5, 2,000 - 9 p.m.

‘.

U

 

 

U.

‘ VOLUME 103, No. 15

I

112 ﬂting-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The recently formed Alcohol Task Force be-
gan to take action this past holiday weekend.

Task Force Student Representative junior Will
Coffman sent an email to all students and faculty
on Nov. 15 detailing the group’s initiatives.

According to Coffman’s message, the task
force recommended the university supplement-
ing Live Drive over Christmas Weekend.

In addition to the usual student drivers,
coaches drove University vans from Davidson -
Park, Red Square, Gaines Hall, the freshman
dorms, and the East Lex/Windfall area. Assis-
tant Lacrosse Coach Jim Rogalski headed the
effort.

“Instead of only students driving, we have
administrative individuals helping out [who] have
more at stake [and are] more dependable,”
Rogalski said.

Reid Hall to be renovated, wired

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Reid Hall’s proposed renovations aim to modernize the joumal-
ism department.

“To respond to the growing number of students and to the radical '
changes in the profession, Reid Hall needs to be updated,” Head of
the Journalism Department Hampden Smith said.

Improvements include the addition of a conference room and a
multimedia lab that will allow students to experience the increas-

  

UNDER CONSTRUCTION. Reid Hall, the home of the
journalism department, will soon be renovated.

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬂlti

December 4, 2000

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer

 

ingly overlapping print, broadcast, and web medias.

“What I am most looking forward to is having classrooms and
labs that make it a regular practical possibility to be able to teach in
the way we ought to be teaching these days, which deals with multi-
media capabilities in the classrooms,” Smith said.

The changes were designed to increase the program’s competitive-
ness and to better support the growing number of majors in the ﬁeld.

Reid Hall, built in 1904, was originally used as a chemistry building.
The journalism department moved in 35 years ago. At the time the
department had eight majors.

“As far as age is concerned, we’re the oldest place that really has
not had a physical improvement to speak of,” Smith said.

Journalism faculty, university planners, and architects discussed reno-
vation plans throughout the Fall semester. In January the university will
accept bids on the project. Construction should begin in early June.

During the renovation, the journalism classes, labs, and offices
will be moved into five modular buildings. Smith said the department
should move from the modulars to the newly renovated Reid Hall in
the fall of 2002.

Reid Hall also houses the Univeristy Registrar and University
Photographer Patrick Hinely’s darkroom. The Registrar’s office will
move to the bottom ﬂoor of the University Center on Lee Avenue
across the street from the International House. Hinely will move to
the Development Office behind the Science Center.

University Plarmer Tom Contos said he is pleased with the planned
renovations. -

“Now is a good time to renovate Reid Hall because the building .
. . is getting to be a century old,” Contos said. “With 44 majors, the
journalism department needs room to grow.”

 
   
  
  
 

,T .1 V _
for shoppi

Some gift ideas f
holidays

 

W&L spreads holid spirit

   

The drivers drove about 50 to 60 students
Friday night. Rogalski hopes that more students
will use the service.

“It’s something [,we’d] like to do every week-
end,” he said.

Coffman’s email also mentioned the need for
improved enforcement of existing party policies
set by the InterFratemity Council.

IFC advisor Burr Datz said that fraternities
are requried to have a bartender of legal drink-
ing age who monitors the legal distribution of
alcohol and not display it openly. Greek orga-
nizations are also required to have sober of-
ficers at every function. He said he hopes
these measures, along with the university’s
additional efforts, will ensure a safe Christ-
mas weekend.

“[My hope is] no injuries, no crashes, no ar-
rests, and no incidents that involve alcohol
which draw attention to those individuals,” Datz
said.

JAMES G. LEVBURN LIBRARY’

WASHINGTON 1. LEE umvensnv

t.EXi.\§GlT.‘—*.'sl, VA 24459

i £30520!!!)

I

MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 2000

.9:

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer

SANTA LIVES. Senior Jeff Cook entertains local children as part of Saturday’s International Holiday Celebration, arranged by
the Student Association of International Learning and N abors Service League. During the event, children made international
Christmas cards, listened to holiday stories from around the world, decorated cookies, and learned about origami. The
highlight of the program was the international-food lunch buffet. Children were encouraged to try everything, receiving
stamps on their “passports,” for each food sampled. Attending parent Jane Wilder said, “We are all excited about
Christmas now, and I will definitely bring my child back next year for this.”

-By Colin Harding, staff writer

Task force Works for safe weekend

Dean of Students David Howison vis-
ited each fraternity Saturday night to make
sure they were complying with the IFC rules
and the measures adopted by the task
force. Howison hopes the university con-
tinues its efforts for future big-party week-
ends.

“I think an adult presence at events like this
can do a lot,” he said.

Datz, who also visited several houses,
agreed that the weekend went well, but said he
wants to see students take over that responsi-
bility.

“Students need to exhibit their ability to regu-
late their own social scene,” he said.

Howison said he enjoyed getting a sense of
what a W&L party weekend is like.

He also said he was impressed with how well
fraternity members controlled their parties.

“I found it to be an enjoyable and rewarding
evening,” Howison said.

 

Lexington parades Yuletide spirit

GOING BUGGY. One of the the winning “floats”of the Lexington Christmas
Parade, driven by junior Lily Holleman, rides by.

?1.

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

 

 

 

 
 

 

PAGE 2

Cﬂlpz iﬁing-tum iﬂljt

NEWS

DECEMBER 4, 2000

 

By Mehul Srivastava

STAFF WRITER

Euthanasia legalized in Netherlands

The Netherlands became the first country in the world
yesterday to legalize euthanasia. The Dutch Parliament
approved by 104 votes to 40 a bill guaranteeing doctors
immunity from prosecution for mercy killing and assisted
suicides provided they observe a number of strict
cOnditions.Leader of the the largest party in the ruling
coalition, Ad Melkert said that the bill would give “free-
dom of choice at the most emotional moment of one’s
life.” '

The justice minister Benk Korthals said, “A law
whereby the considered wishes of a dying patient to put
an end to his life are permitted has its place in a mature
society.”

Opponents accused the government of failing in its
duty to protect human life.

“What is currently a crime will be transformed into a
medical treatment,” the International Anti-Euthanasia Task
Forces Rita Marker said. No other country has such a law,
although euthanasia is tolerated in Belgium, Switzerland
and Colombia as it has been for years in The Netherlands.

,In America, the state of Oregon allows doctor—assisted
suicide to the terminally ill. In Australia, the Northern
Territory legalized it in 1996 but repealed the law the fol-
lowing year. _

Under this law, the patient’s physical or psychological
condition must be unbearable and untreatable. This will
have to be corroborated by a second physician. Foreign-
ers will be barred from this procedure as doctors must
have a long—standing relationship with their patients.
Doctors will be required to report cases of euthanasia to
coroners. Dutch cancer surgeon Aycke Smook, who has
performed 95 euthanasias, said most patients sought pre-

mature death more to die with dignity than to escape pain.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

THE ‘WORLD

THIS WEEK

Ebola spreads throughout Uganda

The deadly Ebola virus continues to spread unabated
in Uganda. The first reported case this year was on the
14th of October, but since then all attempts by Ugandan
ofﬁcials to stop the spread of the disease have failed.
Ugandan ofﬁcials recorded another death from the deadly
Ebola virus in the southwest of the country last week,
while 14 others died from the highly contagious virus in
the north. The country has started gearing up for a major
epidemic, with people still being discouraged from treat-
ment of their dead, since the bodies of Ebola victims help
spread the disease. People are still not shaking hands or
eating in public places in the town of Gulu, 225 miles
north of Kampala, where the outbreak originated. Health
ofﬁcials believed that they had contained the virus by
rnid—November, until a soldier carried the disease to the
southern part of the country, where seventeen new cases
were reported last week, In all, 145 people have now died
of the disease.

Ramadan honored by ceasefire

The holy month of Ramadan, a time of fasting for Mus-
lims, began this week, prompting the Indian Government
to announce a unilateral ceasefire in Kashmir. The Gov-
ernment said that it hoped that this would allow peace
talks to resume. They were earlier suspended because of
the Indian govemment’s refusal to allow Pakistan into
the discussions.

While Indian forces remained on high alert to thwart
any attempt to create violence in the state, 12 people were
injured on Friday in a failed attempt by militants to attack
a convoy of Army vehicles, hitting a market full of people.
The blasts were aimed at causing maximum damage, with
the bombs exploding 15 minutes apart, both close to the
J arnrnu and Kashmir Courts Complex.

The leaders of the Hurriyat Conference, the politcal
wing of Islamic militants in kasmire, has called the ceaseﬁre
a “war of wits.” It remains to be seen if the Indian govem—
ment will withdraw the ceaseﬁre or not.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

CHRISTMAS MUSIC. Junior Noelle Beckman, freshman Daniel Vos, and junior Steele Cooper
prepare to perform a seasonal arrangement Tuesday night in Lenfest Center’s Keller Theater.

Christmas ﬁsh surprise Kappa Alpha Order

By Matthew McDermOtt

NEWS EDITOR

Brothers in the Kappa Alpha fraternity house woke up
Friday to the smell of dead ﬁsh and other foul odors after
four members of the Larnba Chi Alpha fraternity dropped
catﬁsh food and anchovies down a radiator, sources said.

The raid occured during Christmas Weekend, coin-
cided with the house’s holiday festivities. Other KA chap-

ters were also visiting the house and had to endure the
odorous prank.

The W&L chapter is the oldest house of the Kappa
Alpha Order, which is headquartered in Lexington.

Inter-Fratemity Council Advisor Burr Datz plans “to
hammer down on those involved.”

He also warned against reprisals.

“In sports, the person that retaliates gets the foul,’’
Datz said.

,.E-mail General Notes to phi@wlu.ed

 

Holiday Choral Concert at W&L

The Washington and Lee University Chorus will present its armual Holiday Choral
Concert on Tuesday, Dec. 5 at 7 p.m. in the Keller Theatre. The 80—member ensemble I
will perform a concert of music ranging from traditional holiday favorites to a Renais-
sance setting of the Mass.

Adding variety to the concert, the men will present Victoria’s “Ave Maria,” and the
women will sing an arrangement of the popular Hanukkah song, “Nes Gadol Haya
Sham,” accompanied by ﬂute.

As is traditional, the audience will be invited to sing along with holiday carols. A new
addition to the concert will be carols performed on handbells by Laura Myers. To conclude, the
audience may participate in the singing of Hande ’s “Hallelujah” from “Messiah.”

The chorus is conducted by Jerry Myers and accompanied by Sarah Heusel ‘O3
and Josh Harvey ‘00. The Holiday Choral Concert is free and open to the public.

Indian Writer to Lecture at W&L

Arnitav Ghosh, one of the best—known Indians writing in Eriglish today, will speak
on “Faith and Fundamentalism” on Dec. 4 at 7p.m. in in room 327 at Washington and
Lee’s Williams School of Commerce, Economics and Politics. His talk will address the
impact of religious intolerance, especially on writers, and is jointly sponsored by the
University Lecture Series and the department of religion’s Schewel Fund.

His ﬁrst novel, The Circle of Reason, won the Prix Medici Estranger, one of
France’s top literary awards. The Shadow Lines, the tale of a Bengali family caught in
the hostilities between Hindus and Muslims during the 1947 partition of India, won
the Sahitya Akaderni Award, India’s most prestigious literary prize.

 
  
  

  

  

  
 
  
  
 
   

 

  
  

, WANT TO SEE
YOURSELF IN
COLOR IN THE

YEARBOOK?

TURN PICTURES INTO THE
CALYX, W&L’s
I 05- YEAR-OLD ANNUAL

PLACE SUBMISSIONS IN BOX OUTSIDE OF
CAROL CALKINS OFFICE IN THE UNIVERSITY
CENTER. SENIORS, PUT FORWARDING
ADDREss ON BACK; UNDERCLASSMEN,
PLEASE PUT NAME AND CLASS YEAR ON

BACK (so THEY CAN BE RETURNED TO YOU !)
Any questions please e-mail -
willettsr@wlu.edu

 

Lexingtorr’s Feel Good Store!

Cards ,

GLGVV STARS, PGSTERS, Il\TC3EI\TSE,
CA1\TIDLES 8: SCIEI\TTS, I1\TSPIRATIC)1\T

Bangles, Beads & Baubles
Stationary 8: Stickers

Angels, Faeries 84 Devag
l'9IP‘$p T9?’ 3 JOQRS 

Cassettes, CD'S, Books & Celendars

learn fa Play Again
9)‘ .§'una’a_I,/ 2' C’ﬁ/'/05’

©16 N. Main St. © Lexington © 463-v:I.SUN (1786) ©
Open 10-6 Mon.—Sat. and 12-4 on Sun.

Bring this Ad in for a 20% discount off of any one Item purchased.

3

 
 

 

, OFil“\”i1oN  
i A brief defense of college hoops

DECEMBER 4, 2000 PAGE 3

Now that preseason tournaments
have come and gone, I ﬁnd it appropriate
to pause and wonder how sports fans

survive the annual seven—plus—month I
‘ hiatus taken by college basketball.

But then again, the shortness of
hoops season is one of the many rea-
sons that the sport is absolutely the best

. this nation has to offer. To defend NCAA

hoops against

fraction of the teams to qualify, take
over two months to draw to a close.
March Madness. In no other sport
can a Coppin State or a Valparaiso rise
to prominence in a matter of weeks, only
to disappear as quickly as they surface.
And of course there’s Billy Packer, the
former Wake Forest All—ACC guard who
has called the Final Four for 26 years.
The match-

 

the NBA would
be too simple;

  ' Thelinejudge
Jeremy 8. Franklin ’O4

up zone and
the four cor-
ners. The cre-

 

so, instead, I of-
fer a short list of
why the period from mid-November to
the ﬁrst of April is the most wonderful
time of the year.

Dick Vitale. No one else brings as
much energy as Dickie V to television
in general. He’s not the best analyst
in all of sports (that would be
baseball’s Peter Gammons), but he
adds more to college hoops than even
Gamrnons can to the Major League
Baseball season.

The venues. Sure, Michigan and
Tennessee can seat six digits of fans
in their football stadiums. So what?
Cameron Indoor Stadium (Duke’s
homecourt, for the uneducated) is the
toughest place in all of sports to play,
with the Pit (New Mexico) and Cole Field
House (Maryland) not too far behind.

A reasonable postseason. Only
college basketball combines a large
number of teams with areasonable time
frame for postseason play. The NBA
and NHL playoffs, despite allowing a

ations of two
of the game’s greatest coaches,
Temple’s John Chaney and North
Carolina’s Dean Smith, have improved
the game more than is generally ac-
knowledged. The NBA doesn’t even
allow true defense to be played, yet
still names an All-Defensive team at
the end of the season. Meanwhile, the
Dean’s creation revolutionized the
offensive game, and is a big part of
the Tar Heels’ 26 consecutive NCAA
tournament appearances.

Finally, the greatest rivalry in all
of sports. No professional rivalry car-
ries nearly as much weight as Duke-
Carolina; therefore, the only competi-
tion comes from college football games
such as Army—Navy, Harvard-Yale, and
Michigan-Ohio State. But the former
two lost much of their luster as the
teams receded from national power sta-
tus, and I’ll take Mike Krzyzewski and
Woody Durham over the Big House
and John Cooper any day.

 

.Letters to the Editor

Gore appeal unfairly portrayed
Dear Editor,

‘, I note with interest the column “Right Side of the Aisle”
Nov. 13, where the author says, “Gore’s got to go, Gore
has lost the vote, Gore should concede, Gore has demon-
strated that he is unﬁt to be president, etc.”

Rubbish.

'‘ While there are many things going wrong in Florida,

Gore has done nothing wrong in exercising his right ask-

ing for a recount, whether Bush partisans like it or not. I

would remind the author that the first recount was auto-

mati’c,.and with all the stories‘of missed ballots, unopened
boxes, both sides should honestly be wanting to make
sure that the will of the people is accurately followed. Of
course, both sides are politicians, and thus both sides are
out to win by any means necessary; the instant Bush’s

I people ﬁled that lawsuit seeking to halt the hand recounts,

they jumped in the pigpen as well. Furthermore, it shows

extreme arrogance to tell Gore to concede without a ﬁght
when the man has the lead in the popular vote. The author
called it a “measly lead;” I remind him that it is still a lead, and

I know that it would not be so “measly” if Bush had it. Heck,

I know that that 537 lead Bush has now ain’t measly, is it?

If anyone has shown himself to be (further) unﬁt to be
president, it is Bush, for assuming the role of president-

A - elect before anything had been ﬁnalized. I agree that the

media has screwed up royally in putting that image in his
(and our) head, but who is to blame for his keeping that
f image there? How dare he begin to organize and assume,
V when the ﬁnal result is still up in the air? There is a line

Clip: ﬂing-tum Iﬁlti

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
News Editor Matt McDermott
Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello
Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel
W&Life Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Last Word Editor Bryan Early
Copy Editor Heather McDonald
Contributing Editors Michael _ Crittenden

Max Smith

Jessica Jones

Photo Editor Lisa Lin
Photographers Mary Guy
Ashley Daly
Martha Edwards
Colin Mitchell
Graphics/Cartoonist Monica Schoenthaler
Online Editor Ginger Phillips
Bu.rine.r.s' Manager Paul Seifert

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

‘The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reflect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059

between conﬁdence and arrogance, and Bush has crossed
that line many times over.

I am surprised at how vehement many Bush support-
ers are against Gore’s efforts. I didn’t expect them to be
happy or sit idly by and watch, but neither did I expect
such “brownshirt” riot tactics. Wasn’t Gore supposed to
be the one trying to win by any means necessary? What
really disturbs me is that the Republicans are trying to
ﬁght down democracy by ignoring those uncounted bal-
lots. In a race as close as this, Gore is completely justified
in wanting as full a count of votes as possible. He may be
partisan in asking for them in democratic counties, but he
DID offer a statewide recount. In rejecting and ﬁghting
down this offer of true democracy, the GOP and Dubya have
become what they claimed to be against; people out to win
by any means necessary.

By the time you read this, hopefully, everything will be
resolved. Pray for the man who gets the White House,
he’ll be the unluckiest guy in history.

Sincerely, I
Geoffrey Marshall ‘02

Honor code routinely broken

Dear Editor,

There has been signiﬁcant dialogue on this campus lately
regarding the potential inclusion of alcohol—related issues
and sexual assault into W&L’s honor system. I applaud this
discussion and hope that it materializes into real change.

However, some people seem to attribute different “de-
grees” of honorable conduct to their own actions. For
example, I recently heard two students behind me dis-
cussing a paper they had to write on a certain book. One
student complained about the length of the book, and the
other student said, “That’s why you should have read the
Cliﬂs Notes!” The first student replied. “But we have to
write a PAPER on the book. So we really need to actually
READ the book itself.” The other student said, “Well, I
still wrote a paper just having read the "Cliffs Notes.”

Is this action honorable? I do not believe so. We
cannot continue to define honor violations as “lying,
cheating, or stealing” and at the same time assume that all
students know exactly what these terms entail. Isn’t gather-
ing analytical information about a book for a paper without
citing the source, ie, Cliffs Notes, considered cheating?

Doesn’t implying that you did a homework assignment
when you did not actually do it count as lying?

We carmot assume everyone is on the same wavelength
regarding the deﬁnition of honorable actions. Perhaps the
members of our community of trust should think about the
possibility of deﬁning the existing standards more speciﬁ-
cally as we ponder including other actions, like assault and
other issues, into the honor system.

Sincerely,
Emily Whitmire ‘O3

Honor needs more exposure

Dear Editor,

I would like to add a suggestion to Ms. Whitrnire’s
insightful letter. I do not recall there being much discus-
sion of the honor system when I arrived as a freshman
other than the session in Lee Chapel where the EC made
its presentation and then led breakout sessions along
with a video. There ought to be a more extensive inves-
tigation of the concept of honor when freshmen arrive.
Perhaps Prof. Sessions’ talk on Honor could be used as
the basis for discussion of the concept among entering
freshmen. In these -discussions, we could bring up those
issues of alcohol abuse, sexual assault, and so on that
students typically do not think of as honor violations.

As Prof. Sessions said, honor requires a community
that sets the standard. It appears that here at W&L we
have failed to set standards of honor as a community
that are in line with moral principles of respect and con-
cern for one another.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ’03

Don’t make choices for others

Dear Editor,

In response to Dirck Brown’s Letter to the Editor on
Nov. 13 regarding “selling donor eggs,” I strongly dis-
agree with Mr. Brown’s viewpoint.

First, Mr. Brown is not a woman. Therefore, he cannot
speak on behalf of women or what a mother will tell a child
about its birth.

Second, isn’t it much more rewarding to know there
are couples who truly want a child at any cost, that
this child—to-be is a truly wanted child that will not be
a “throw away” victim versus all the children who are
“thrown away.”

Our “throw away” children are children of addicts,
abusers, and women and men who do not want to be
parents but yet continue to have many babies. These
people never consider the effect their decisions has on
their children. . . and many of the children die at the
hands of their parents. -

It is my opinion that the couples who ask a woman to
consider donating her eggs desperately want to become
vital, loving parents. A child born to them by donation
would be loved, cared for, educated and taught to be a
humble child and adult.

Yes, it would be great if these couples would adopt the
children that no one wants, but that too is their choice.

Can we really judge and fault these couples for want-
ing a child of their own? I don’t think so. The last time I
looked, my name wasn’t God.

Sincerely,
Barbara E. Gedde, LSW

By Christine Metzger

  TALKback:   What do you want for Christmas?  

 

 

  

  

I ‘ — l . . h j \ I  U‘ _ '  ' . _ .\
i“ “I just want to see my girlfriend. And
get an ‘A’ on my Calc final. . . and all

my other ﬁnals.” —Chad Meredith ‘04

“A vacation.”
-Corinne Nathieu ’O4

“I want a book.”
-Bryant Adams ‘01

“A great LSAT score.”

Annual subsription rate: $30 'B0bbiA1exiS iol

 

 

PAGE 4

  O

@112 itting-tum Elﬂlti

PINIO

DECEMBER 4, 2000
I

Al Gore:
Thief

Imagine for a moment that in a‘
small South American nation, or maybe
a war—tom Balkan province, the ruling
party’s candidate for president has ap-
parently lost to the underdog candi-
date of the opposition party.

Instead of conceding defeat and
allowing a smooth transition of power,
the ruling party devises a recount
strategy whereby it seeks to “dis-
cover” previously uncounted
“votes.” Members of the ruling party
are in charge of this recount, which
only takes place in areas overwhelm-
ingly loyal to this party, and courts
controlled by the ruling party issue
decisions to facilitate further stalling
and prevent the opposition party’s
candidate from being declared the
winner. In addition, mass rallies, pro-
tests, and demonstrations calling for
a new election are orchestrated by
the ruling party’s most inﬂammatory
leaders. If such a complete disregard
for the rule of law were shown by the
party controlling another country, our

government would condemn these ac-
tions as undemocratic and editorials

would defame the nation as a back- ‘

wards banana republic.

Instead, since this is all going on
in the United States, Al Gore, gladly
assisted by the sycophantic media
has turned his personal crusade for
the Presidency into a fight to recog-
nize “the will of the people.” How-
ever, it is this same

are guaranteed no direct suffrage in
presidential

ostensibly all-im— .
portant “will of
the people” that

 

Right side of the Aisle
Brett Kirwan ’04

elections, even
in voting for
electors. Fur-

Gore has done his

best to thwart. The Constitution is
the highest expression of the people’s
will. What Gore has done is to force
a presidential election to be decided
by the courts when Article II, Sec-
tion 2, explicitly states, “Each State
shall appoint, in such manner as the
legislature thereof may direct, a num-
ber of electors . .  Note that citizens

 
   
 
 
  

thermore, the
Twelfth Amendment gives the power
to decide any election disputes to the
Congress. The judicial branch was de-
liberately kept out of elections because
it is an unelected branch and leaders
should be chosen by all the people,
however indirectly.
Gore has also thwarted the will of
the people as expressed by their duly

elected representatives in the Florida
Legislature. The will of the people, i.e.,
Florida law, set the week after the elec-
tion as a deadline for the certiﬁcation
of ballots. This law was illegitimately
and arbitrarily overturned by the
seven Democratically-appointed
judges on the Florida Supreme Court.
What’s more, Gore’s staff and media
attack dogs have destroyed the char-
acter of Secretary of State, Katherine
Harris, who was duly elected in an ex-

’ pression of the people’s will. While

she did no more than her job of en-
forcing election law, Gore’s surrogates

Most W8:L Students
lcolsoi    

 
 
 
 
  
 
 

Sponsored by:

Q

_ Office ofui_-iea|th
': Promotion and

Substance Abuse
Prevention

Based on W&L COREASurve.y- data from..1998, 1.999, 2000

have sought, yet again, to have the
will of the people, as expressed
through Harris, ignored.

Through machination after manipu-
lation, Gore has attempted to steal this
election, and has systematically lied
about his actions as well as those of
the Bush campaign. For example, he as-
serted in both of his recent televised
speeches that there remain ballots
which have not yet been counted. This
is totally untrue. Every single ballot cast
in the state of Florida has been counted
twice, many three or more times. His
ambition has so deluded  that he is
convinced that more people, _some-
where, must have meant to vote for him.
However, the facts are -aligned against
the Vice president. Nationwide exit
polls indicate that approximately 1.5%
of the people who voted on November
7 cast no votes for any presidential
candidate. The number of ballots about
which Gore is whining is within the 1.5-
2.25% range of people who choose any
candidate for president.

Another total fabrication of Gore
is that he is only seeking a ﬁrst and
ﬁnal “complete and accurate” count.
In reality, what Gore is doing is mining
for votes in heavily Democratic coun-
ties by demanding that Democratic
elections ofﬁcials “divine” the intent
of the voter.

This brief colurrm cannot do jus-
tice to the outrage that every Ameri-
can should feel at the underhanded
and dishonest tactics Gore has em-
ployed in his quest for the presidency.
Unchecked by any respect for the rule
of law, he continues to ﬁle lawsuits,
searching for a judge who will appoint
him president. We should be glad that
a man possessed by such a destruc-
tive lust for power totally unchecked
by even a shred of patriotism will not
ever be president.

A message from the Student Judicial Council

In keeping with the honor and traditions set forth over a century
ago, Washington and Lee prides itself on our commitment to student
self—govemance. In coming to W&L, we all recognized our duty as
adults to respect each other and protect the safety of all members of
the Washington and Lee community. The student self—govemance
system helps us achieve this goal. In recent years, driving under the
inﬂuence of alcohol has come to the forefront of concern among many
members of the University. As a result, at the beginning of this school
year, the Student Judicial Council enacted ainew policy designed to
emphasize the seriousness of drunken driving.

In order to promote a safer environment, under the new policy a
student found guilty of driving under the incluence of alcohol by the
Student Judicial Council may be suspended for at least an academic
term. Suspension for an entire term entails the loss of academic credit,
forfeiture of paid tuition and housing costs, and potentially devastat-
ing consequences after graduation. It is important to note that the
Student Judicial Council’s ﬁndings can be independent from a court
of law’s determination of guilt or innocence. While this punishment
may seem harsh, every member of the Washington and Lee commu-
nity is aware that driving under the inﬂuence of alcohol carries much
more serious consequences than any penalty the Student Judicial
Council can impose.

R.L. HESS & BROTHER, INC .
visrr out: cnmsmns sneer  
A r..naaa s1=;uzc'rrora or CHRISTMAS oanarnarwrsz

HEN FOR 2000 - Tl-IE tEX£NE‘sTON, WRIGNIA ORNAMENT
(EXCLUSIVELY AT RJ... HE$S 8: Bro}
boxed and gift wrapped for only $10.00

.0»: Exclusive Vmzt and ‘Wait. Ornaments
boxed and gift wrapped for aniy $10.00

GARLAHDS, Qt-IRi.$TMAS ‘INREATHS, ANGELE, METALLIC TREE HETFING, DOLLS,
MARIAN HEATH GREE'|'§NG CARDS,
BOXED CHRISTMAS CAR D5 STARTTFN-G AT $3.95!
FREE GIFT’ WRAFPIHG, FREE ENGRAVING

@iEE.Jv° 2 :r>.><£a/E’ .4 WEEK
JV°@W ﬁt, 

‘PU ‘.lV£iPICIJ\f”§E.B‘D§
3/OLE L®l/E 196)  ,}fE.li,E;! .

14°! 'W’B$'i£W J\r‘”3':11;.¢$£‘.).;}‘\t" 2.$"1’li§.;§§;‘i!": .?f.E:;‘-¥s’.7It.'.'c;¥*«*”"IL‘,',ffz"'l°’E‘;*.-;:“t;”°’ l-3‘”Z‘ft’ 2“Z%*=?¥.’»:"${‘f?. ("E5-§’vC?,lA-~§‘é§?§»—-513633

I

I

 

 

I

D

 

DECEMBER 4, 2000

W&E

2 Ring-tum lﬂlii

IFE

   

Aspirations of fame, groupies ring band

_i .

   

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive’ Editor

WILL PLAY FOR FOOD. Ringsend, composed of Anthony Allen (‘01), Chris Edwards (‘99), Chris Tully (‘03), Josh Harvey (‘00),
summed up their current status: “We want gigs. We’re cheap. And poor. We like fraternity gigs, we’re fun. We can play covers,
we can work with it.” Additional information on the band, shows and merchandise will soon be available at www.rings-end.com.

' _    fuizy 

R.  Brothers‘  .
Street, canjbcidistin-“"g

 angel wings; ‘ 1 *

circled by a trainand a large golden» T
., s‘l "sled. TIie;r_natie.. Christmas trees in- r
O t side include the “W&L tree,” cov— .
eredlwitli Washington and Lee ‘orna— ‘ . .

I —   blue: and gold ribbons.

L H p an .interesting
 ent of Christmas shopping

"browsjegthrongh¢the ”

’  Grinchbjooks‘

. he rnovie, which is also V. . *
“ being ;shown*at-ithe State. Theater.

.   on Nelson Street

 in_theplholiday. spirit, clecorat».
V  window,with,grinning snow»

iigiiin c1ad_in'a Sarita

_ V ilpapertlaaterns rnake
. estive ‘decorations-A duiingthe Christ-

1nas‘.seasoii asstvell asycar refund.

E  J  treetis home to several
_stores, with excellentideas for ‘

Christmas shopping, one of which

V is lsnndayfs Child; Siinday’s Child
’ has a large collection festive sniffed
animals, including red; sparkling '

I By Alexis Yee—Garcia

FEATURES EDITOR

Recognize this logo? It’s not the
Cadaver Society.

Josh Harvey ‘O0, Chris Edwards
‘98, senior Anthony Allen, and sopho-
more Chris Tully created the symbol
to promote their band, ringsend, and
their upcoming performance tonight
at Java at the GHQ.

“I feel kind of like Spaceballs because
it’s like, ‘ringsend: The t-shirt; ringsend:
The album; ringsend: The show on
Monday night.’ ” Edwards said.

The band got its name from a dock
area in the city of Dublin that is men-
tioned in both James Joyce’s Ulysses
and Diibliners.

“We just thought it was a cool
word,” Edwards said.

The band is currently completing
the recording for their first album, ten-

tatively titled Vertigo, which should
be ﬁnished around mid—February. JC
Kuhl, the saxophonist from Washing-
ton and Lee favorite Agents of Good
Roots, senior trumpet player Scott
Meister, and Charlottesville mandoline
player Rich Walter, ‘98, are all featured
guests on the forthcoming album.

Edwards and Harvey began writ-
ing music together during Harvey’s
freshman year, blending Edwards’
background in blues, folk and classic
rock with Harvey’s jazz and classical
music experience.

“We just kinda added people into
the band, and the rest is history,”
Edwards explained.

Each additional member added a dif-
ferent perspective to the band, whose
songs can be described as “three
minute symphonies.” Tully grew up
listening to punk and ska while Allen
brings straight rock with some recent
jazz experience. Rob Hubbard, UVA
‘O0, recorded the album with the group
and contributed more of a funk back-
ground.

“We try_to combine a lot of those
elements so that we have accessible
music, but something that’s complex
enough that people won’t get tired of
listening to it after the first three times
they hear it,” said Edwards.

Hubbard recorded drums for the al-

bum, but Allen is the drummer for cur-
rent performances since Hubbard is
teaching in Louisa County, Virginia.

Losing members to other comrnit—
ments is common for bands that start
in college, and some members of
ringsend are leaving Lexington in June
to play full time. Despite the uncer-
tainties involved, Edwards is conﬁ-
dent that the band will continue.

“Somewhere, me, Josh and some
other people will be playing together
in a band called ringsend,” he said.

Harvey is arguably the band’s
most distinguished member, having
worked with Agents of Good Roots,
Dave Matthews and Bruce Homsby’s
guitarist, Doug Derryberry. In addi-
tion to ringsend, Harvey is currently
working on a project with Rebecca
Lord, who was on the Real World in
Seattle. Most of the songs for Lord’s
album were written by Chris Keup,
who is producing Vertigo on his la-
bel, Grantham Dispatch.

“I’m ready for the next album, hon-
estly,” said Harvey. “I think it’ll be a
lot better than the first album, much
darker and edgier.”

Ringsend hopes to be able to pro-
duce future albums with Lord’s produc-
ers, John Alagia and Jeff Juliano. In
addition to Lord, Alagia and Juliano

Jen Davis a groupie?”

have produced Vertical Horizon, Dave

 

By Michael Crittenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Yes, folks, it is holiday time, hearkening images of a
warm hearth, snowball ﬁghts, hot chocolate and being with
loved ones. It is also a time of holiday cheer, and nothing
makes the holidays more enjoyable than a stein of your
favorite brew. This being the case, I have decided to present
my Christmas wish list of fine ales from around the country.

I am of course not asking or encouraging anyone to go
out and purchase me a six—pack, though if you do happen to
be in the Christmas spirit, why not? As a wise person once
said, “you gain more from giving to others than from giving
to yourself;” a lesson best learned around this time of year.
This being said, I present to you the six beers I hope to see
under my tree or in my stocking this December 25.

420 IPA -— The beer to get if you want to taste perfec-
tion. I had my first 420 in over a year during Thanksgiving
Break, and was well rewarded for the wait. Brewed by the
Stone Coast Brewing Co. in Portland, Maine, 420 is the
paradigm for IPAs. A deep, rich gold color, it has'a sweet
malty ﬂavor that combines well with its medium smooth

body. With just the right balance of ﬂavor and kick, 420 is A

the beer to try if you can get it. Greatest beer ever!
Sierra Nevada Bigfoot Al — One of the best barleywine

\ style ales on the market, Sierra Nevada’s Bigfoot is worth

the effort. A rough and tumble, swashbuckling ale, Bigfoot
is not to be taken lightly with an alcohol content of 9.6%. A

gold medal winner at the Great American Beer Festival, it
boasts a dense, fruity bouquet that mingles with a rich thick
body that is accented by a deep, reddish—brown color. This
ain’t your daddy’s barleywine style ale.

Chainberlin Pale Ale — This ale is named after Civil War
general Joshua Lawrence Charnberlin, who led the 20th Maine,
beat back the Confederates at the Battle of Little Roundtop
during Gettysburg, and accepted the South’s surrender at
Appomattox. The beer with his name on it lives up to this
impressive resume. A dry coppery ale, Charnberlin goes well
with pork or pizza and is great for a warm summer day.

Old East India Pale Ale — Brewed by the Sea Dog Brew-
ing Co., Old East India is another ﬁne contribution to the
IPA genre. Fashioned after the famous ales from England
which took on a bold character after surviving the long,
rolling voyage from London to Calcutta in the days of Brit-
ish Empire, Old East India is a striking tawny gold color with
a strong body and mighty kick. This dog’s bark isn’t as bad
as its bite, coming in with an alcohol content of 7.5%.

Frye’s Leap IPA —— Brewed by the Sebago Lake Brewing
Co., Frye’s Leap is named after a young Maine explorer by
the name of Frye. Spurned by the woman he loved, he jumped
to his death off a rock peaknow known as Frye’s Leap. A
ﬁne ale, Frye’s is best when consumed at the brewpub itself
on Congress St. in Portland. With happy hour from 4-7 and
9—close, the price is hard to beat and the beer is worth the
trek. A smooth body with a slightly bitter aftertaste, Frye’s
is another in a long line of A+ India Pale Ales.

Katahdin Red Ale — As the package says, “Step Ahead
with a Red.” A classic Irish style ale, Katahdin is brewed
with a number of roasted specialty malts that give it its
deep ruby—colored hue. Named after the famous mountain
at one end of the Appalaichan Trail, Katahdin is the per-
fect ale for your next steak dinner. Though it only has an
alcohol content of 5_%, you probably do not want to be
drinking it next time you are on the Knife’s Edge.

Well, that is my holiday wish list. Though I won’t be
coming out with my next colurrm for over a month, I en-
courage all of you to try for quality over quantity this
holiday season and maximize your beer experience. Happ
Holidays to all, and to all a good night! -

Matthews, and Agents of Good Roots.
“Our first album is good, but you
always grow out of these artistic phases
and move into the next,” Harvey ex-
plained. “I think we could easily put
out an EP or something like that.”
Though the band has high hopes
for their artistic future, Tully ex-
pressed the band’s more immediate
ambitions with a simple question:
“Do you think this article will make

0  Fun'Foods and Accessories, at ,
' newfstore‘ to. Washington Street, “is I

fully stocked with holiday-irispiried

i  With the sounds of keyboard » 1
music playing in the background, ,7
.. you can browse through velvet}

hotbuneredium  ’

For the aspiring sommeiier on 
your list, Washington Street Pur-
veyorsi has wines and wine acces- V
. sories that wouldicoinplement any i
I cellar, and foods that would .

complement any wine.

day season. Be sure to check out
‘what all of them have to offer.

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

-3‘ vi; i;ms;is:ems.,rog wriom FARM. Nelson Street’s

giias cutesy, of all  all-year” round. .

   

Fl Leringlarz ‘friirfilioll
Sewing Since I 932
‘YR ‘ Hours:

 “'4 11:30 AM— 10:00l’lvl
Monday - Saturday
12:00 PM - 8:00PM

Sunday

Bar Open 'Til 12:00AM
4633612

10% Discount
\ with Student ID
All Day Sunday

and 8-10 pm
Monday - Thursday
Through .
January 31st

 

Reservation
required
for parties
of 6 or more V

 

.4 casual / upscale dining
lunch / dinner

Located In T he Heart Of Downtown Lexington

VISA

37 South Main Street 0 Lexington

  Spring

Break 2001
Student Express

offers

Mexico, Jamaica,
Florida and Texas
with low prices

and

the most reliable air.

wrapped plum pudding mix, kits for ‘
making and painting vanilla Sugar ,
cookies for Hanukkah, and traditional 7

From ornaments to food, many f
Lexington stores are fully prepared 2
A for andhighly anticipating the holi- .

:15

George 8 Sue Ann tliigcr, l’mprietors . 6,

call today for a brochure
and ask how
you can go for FREE!!!

1-800-SURFS-UP or
.www.studentexpress.com

Let Us Make Gift Buying
EASY & “Fllll”!

You Select The

Custom
Made
Gift Baskets

For me...

‘Ar Coffee Lover

* Pasta Lover

‘Ar Spicy Lover

* Chocolate Lover
. Or Any Food Lover

Items’ On Your List!

We Customize, Design & Ship
W Ship Anywhere!

6 East Washington Street

Lexington

540-464-4433 0 877-473-4433

 

PAGE 6

S

@112 iﬁing-tum lﬂlti

PORTS

DECEMBER 4, 2000

Watson tabbed as ODA’s s

Record-breaking tailback

honored as conference

 

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

Player of the Year Women look to
, overcome losses from
By Jeremy Franklin ,
SPORTS EDITOR   S 
The Washington and Lee

Washington and Lee senior tailback Marc Watson was
named the Old Dominion Athletic Conference Player of
the Year for the 2000 season in voting conducted among

conference coaches.

Watson led the ODAC in all-purpose yards, averag-
ing 199.7 per game, and finished second in the confer-
ence in rushing (132.5 yards per game) and kick return

average (28.8 yards per return).

The tailback led the Generals (5-5, 2-4 ODAC) in sev-
eral statistical categories. Watson rushed 220 times for a
school—record 1,325 yards, also scoring 12 touchdowns
on the ground. In addition, Watson caught 26 passes for

205 yards and another score.

The ODAC Player of the Year also set a school record
with 1,997 all-purpose yards, accounting for more than
half of the Generals’ offensive output. His 382 all-pur-
pose yards in a 45-27 loss to Harnpden—Sydney on Oct. 14
were theqhighest total compiled in NCAA Division III

competition this season.

Watson has one remaining year of eligibility, and will

look to break two more career records in 2001. Although
he already holds the career record for all-purpose yards
with 3,950, he is currently second in rush yards (2,482)

and touchdowns (25).

Ring-tum Phi File Photo

QUITE ELEMENTARY. Senior Marc Watson set
single-season school records for all-purpose
and rush yards in 2000.

 

   

Upcoming events in General athletics..;

Men’s Basketball Men’s Swimming

Dec. 6 Bridgewater 7:00 p.m. Dec. 6 at Virginia Military Institute 6:00 p.m.

Jan. 3 at Guilford 7:00 p.m. Jan. 12 Buffalo State 5:00 p.m.

Jan. 6 Roanoke 7:00 p.m. Jan. 13 Catholic 2:00 p.m.

Jan. 10 at Eastern Mennonite 7:00 p.m.

Jan. 13 at Lynchburg 3:00 p.m. Women’s Swimming

Jan. 14 at Harnpden-Sydney 2:00 p.m. 1 Dec. 5 at Sweet Briar 7:00 p.m.
Jan. 12 Buffalo State 5:00 p.m.

Women’s Basketball Jan. 13 Catholic 2:00 p.m.

Dec. 6, at Randolph-Macon Woman’s 7:00 p.m.

Jan. 5 at Eastern Mennonite 7:00 p.m. Wrestling , .

Jan. 6 at Bridgewater 4:00 p.m. Jan. 6 W&L Quadrangul 11:00 am.

I an. 8 at Virginia Wesleyan 8:00 p.m. J an. 10 Muhlenberg 6:00 p.m.

Jan. 1 1 Randolph-Macon Woman’s 7:00 p.m. Jan. 13 at Swarthmore Invitational 10:00 am

Jan. 13 Emory & Henry 4:00p.m. Jan. 20 W&L Invitational 10:30am.

' J

 
 

Generals split tournament, early conference

W&L sports
roundup
By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

With the Haverford Classic, a non-
conference tilt against Shenandoah,
and two Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference games under their belts, the
Washington and Lee women’s bas-
ketball team stands at 2-3, including
a 1-1 markinthe ODAC, on the young
season.

Juniors Jessica Mentz and Megan
Babst have already» emerged as the
team’s statistical leaders, with both
averaging double—doubles through
ﬁve games.’ Mentz has contributed
22.6 points —- including a school-
record 35 against Lesley College -—
and 12.6 rebounds a game, while
Babst has averaged 17.2 points and
10.4 boards.

The Generals opened the season

"$2

K www.Viruinin.org

In-mt ml «‘:v<- vllurtij l-':r.< 1-; .~t akin M.

.v. [H l<‘)< lay 1.

    

photo by Ashley Daly/Staff Photographer

CHARITY STRIPE. Junior Megan Babst shoots a free throw in
the Generals’ 59-49 loss to Lynchburg on Wednesday.

with a 61-57 loss to Coe College in
Haverford, Pa. on Nov. 18. Mentz tal-
lied 28 points and 11 rebounds, and
freshman Sarah Michaels added 13
points. Coe’s Jessica Lincoln scored a
team-high 22 in the victorious effort.

W&L rebounded in strong fash-
ion on Nov. 19 with an 88-40 thrash-
ing of Lesley. In addition to Mentz’s
35, Babst racked up 26 points, 13 re-
bounds, and five blocks, and
Michaels contributed 15 points. ,

‘(J up to ya r butt in pow . 1
e. Skiztll season on over 20

re -1

. Or. for 1-;nowboarders.'Vii'g|_ru'

.tl)out“it. Then get out ttwtrrofanci clear your 

02662444 or www.WintergreenResort.com

women’s track team enters its indoor
season with a large amount of confi-
dence and a promising group of re-
turning athletes. ‘

Head coach John Tucker lost a
number of important athletes from a
successful 1999-2000 season to
graduation. Meredith Mylnar, Nancy‘
Dixon, and team captain Jill Kosch
helped lead the Generals to a first
place finish in the indoor W&L Invi-
tational last season.

“Jill is a key loss,” Tucker said.
“She was such a great leader for the
team, and will be missed.”

Nevertheless, the team will not
have to look far for leadership this
season. Senior Liz Olson and junior
Melissa Palombo, the designated
captains, hope to lead the team to
even more victories than the eight

racked up last year. Olson is a lead-
ing distance runner and Palombo will
compete in hurdling and jumping
events.

Sophomore Burke Duncan returns
to the track, fresh from an impressive
finish in the cross country nationals,
to run the 3000 and 5000 meters this
winter. Senior Kathleen Moroney will
also play a huge role, rumiing middle
distance (800 and 1500 meters) and
competing in a number of relay teams.

The team also expects key contri-
butions from senior Amy Calce, who
broke the school record in the long
jump (16’04.25”) last season and
should improve on a successful carn-
paign last year.

W&L will also gain contributions
from a number of freshmen this sea-
son. The new team members show a
large amount of promise and Tucker

believes that “any contribution from‘

a freshman is always a bonus.”

The wo1nen’s track team shows a
large amount of promise, even after
losing some key competitors. Tucker
has one simple goal for his team: To
be competitive in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

7 .

    

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

Field event. Freshman Lauren Egbert throws the shotput in
the season-opening VMI Invitational on Saturday.

The Generals fell to 1-2 in a non-
conference, 74-72 overtime road loss
to Shenandoah on Wednesday. W&L
overcame a 38-23 halftime deﬁcit and‘
26.9 percent field goal shooting in the
first half to force the extra period.

Babst and Mentz recorded double-
doubles against the Hornets, with the
former notching 27 points and 10 re-
bounds and the latter contributing 13
points and 16 boards.

W&L then dropped its home
opener, also the ODAC season
opener, to Lynchburg by a 59-49 fi-
nal. The Generals turned the ball over
34 times against the Hornets, and
shot just 29.6 percent from the ﬁeld.

Erika Whitten posted 13 points, 16
rebounds, and six steals to lead
Lynchburg. Mentz led the Generals with
13 points and 18 boards, while Babst
added 12 points and 13 rebounds.

The Generals evened up their
ODAC record on Saturday with a 70-
60 victory over Randolph-Macon.
Mentz again led W&L in scoring with

24 points, and the Generals shot 53.2
percent from the field in the win.
Babst added 13 points and 10 re-
bounds, and Michaels tallied 12
points and 10 boards.

W&L resumes its ODAC sched-
ule with a road game against
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
Wednesday at 7:00 p.m.

Morse wins again as
Generals place in
Scranton Invitational

Washington and Lee’s wrestling team
placed seventh out of nine teams in the
Scranton Invitational on Saturday in an
event won by Olivet College.

Junior Ezra Morse won all three of
his matches in the 197—pound class to
take home his second individual title
in two meets this season. Morse de-
feated Elizabethtown’s Art Mattes by
a 3-2 decision in the finals of the ﬂight.

Freshman Joe Mueller advanced

Generals open track season

With this year’s squad of sea-
soned veterans, the goal should be
easily attainable.

Men anticipate
successful 2000-01
indoor season

The Washington and Lee men’s
track team enters the 2000 indoor sea-
son with a solid core of veterans and
a thirst for success.

The team only lost four seniors from
last season, when the squad ﬁnished
fourth in the W&L indoor invitational.

The Generals’ sole key loss from
last year is 2000 graduate Hansell

.Pasco, a leading sprinter.

Coach Norris Aldridge’s squad
will look for leadership and consis-
tent performances from senior Marc
Watson, who enters the indoor sea-
son after a terrific year on the grid-
iron, where he was honored as the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Player of the Year. _

Watson broke the school record
in the 55—meter dash (6.44 seconds)
last year, and should anchor a num-
ber of relay teams this season.

Senior Jacek Mucha should be a
key performer, running the 400—meter
event and also competing in the high
jump this season. Junior Michael
Hegg hopes to improve on a terrific
sophomore season, when he ﬁnished
third in the 1 l0—meter high hurdles at
the ODAC Championships.

A pair of sophomores should also
contribute greatly this season. David
Hicks will be a tough competitor in
distance events, and classmate Chris
Sullivan will hope to improve in the
long jump.

The W&L men seem poised for a
successful season after losing only
four seniors and returning many of
their top competitors. With the addi-
tion of nine freshmen to the indoor
roster, the team is very well prepared
for the future.

contests

to the 184—pound class quarterﬁnals,
where he was defeated by eventual
individual champion Jason
Schlingman of King’s College.

The Generals wrestle again Jan. 6,
when they host the W&L Quadran-
gular against Davidson, Gettysburg,
and Pensacola Christian.

Generals open track
season across town at
VMI Invitational

The Washington and Lee indoor
track teams opened their 20()0-01 sea-
sons in Saturday’s VMI Invitational.

Junior Ian McAllister placed 13th
in the 200-meter dash and 23rd in the
55—meter event for the men’s team, and
senior Nicola Carpenter contributed a
17th place ﬁnish in the 55-meters and a
19th place showing in the 200-meters.

The Generals will not run'competi—
tively again until the Christopher
Newport Invitational on Jan. 27.

  
   

  
 

ms

scam PRINTING

 

637 Waddell St.

Lexington, Va. 24450

(546) 464-9642

Fax (540)464-6366

.5’/125//3,

SPORTSWEAR

 

 

DECEMBER 4, 2000

@1112 {Ring-tum iﬂlii

SPORTS

 

PAGE 7

 
 

W&L off to rough start on hardwood

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team, suf-
fering from the absence of three starters from last year’s 9-
16 team, has struggled coming out of the gate in 2000-01.

The Generals (0-7, 0-2 Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference) have shot just 39.7 percent from the ﬁeld in
their first seven games, while allowing their opponents
to shoot 49.9 percent. W&L has also compiled a 76-to-
122 assist-to-tumover ratio.

W&L opened the season in the Gettysburg Touma-
ment on Nov. 17-18, dropping games to the host school
(67-46) and the Philadelphia University of Sciences (80-
65). Senior Will Ballard contributed team-highs of nine
points and ﬁve rebounds against Gettysburg, while junior
Bobby Bustamante amassed 17 points and a career-
best six assists in the game against USP.

In the Carnegie Mellon Tournament Nov. 25 and 26,
the Generals fell to 0-4 with losses to Carnegie Mellon
and Thiel College.

After battling back from a 10-point halftime deﬁcit to
take a 53-50 lead over the Tartans with 4:20 remaining in
the game, the Generals allowed a 13-3 Carnegie Mellon
run to close the contest. Ballard led W&L with 13 points,
senior Chad Braley added 12, and sophomore Scott
Hetterman nailed down 10 in the loss.

The game against Thiel was less dramatic, as the Torncats
caught ﬁre ﬁom behind the are early on, drilling seven of their
ﬁrst eight three—point attempts. Thiel took a 53-27 lead into
halftime, which was too much for W&L to overcome.

Braley led the team in scoring with 18 points, while
Bustamante and sophomore Will Cotter reached double
ﬁgures with 14 and 10 respectively.

W&L slid to 0-5 with another nail—biting loss, this time
to Shenandoah in the Generals’ home opener on Wednes-
day. The Hornets’ 57-50 lead with 3:39 left in the second
half vanished thanks to a 9-2 W&L run over the next 2:49.

The Generals had two chances to convert against
Shenandoah. W&L turned the ball over with 38 sec-
onds left and the score tied, allowing what proved to be
the game—winning layup. Braley missed a three—point
attempt at the buzzer as the Generals narrowly missed
their first win of the season.

Photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer
JUMP SHOT. Sophomore Scott Hettermann
shoots over a Randolph-Macon defender in
the Generals’ 61-44 loss on Saturday.

Randolph-Macon pulled out a 61-44 win in the Gener-
als’ ODAC opener on Saturday. Jared Mills fronted the
Yellow Jackets’ effort with 13 points, 11 rebounds, and
seven assists. Hettermann and Bustarnante tallied 13
points apiece for W&L.

Virginia Wesleyan utilized a 23-5 run early in the second
half to extend a four-point lead to a 61-39 advantage en
route to a 78-49 victory over the Generals on Sunday. The
Blue Marlins shot over 65 percent from the ﬁeld in the sec-
ond half against W&L, and 54 percent for the game.

Hettermann tallied career highs of 21 points and 10 re-
bounds against Virginia Wesleyan (4-2, 2-1 ODAC). Cotter
added 12 points and four assists in the losing effort.

The Generals will continue to pursue their first win of
the season this Wednesday with a 7:00 p.m. home con-
test against Bridgewater.

J The sports staff of the Phi
’ wishes the W&L
community a happy and

, festive holiday season.

National success

W&L sophomore

runs in NCAA

meet in Spokane
By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee sophomore

’ cross country runner Burke Duncan

competed in the NCAA Division III
National Cross Country Champion-
ships Nov. 18 in Spokane, Wash.

With a 121st—p1ace ﬁnish, in the
middle of an elite ﬁeld of 244 runners
from around the nation, Duncan has
posted the most successful individual
effort for Generals’ cross country in
recent memory.

In fact, she is the first W&L
women’s cross country runner to
qualify for nationals since Josephine
Schaeffer won the regional meet and
placed ninth at the national competi-
tion in 1995. When asked about her
success this season, Duncan remains
extremely modest.

“The team and I are lucky to have
such a wonderful, friendly coach,”
Duncan said of Emily Pulsifer.

Duncan also credits success to the
team’s “coming together as a group
this year despite the constant pres-
sure to win.”

Duncan qualiﬁed for the NCAA
national meet after placing seventh
out of 138 competitors at the NCAA
South/Southeast Regional held on
Nov. 11 in Newport News, Va. Hav-
ing already turned in a second place

Ring-tum Phi File Photo
SWEEPING THE NATION. W&L
sophomore Burke Duncan
competed in the NCAA
national meet on Nov. 18.

at the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Championships, Duncan
crossed the tape with a season-best
time of 18:45 at the regional meet.

Looking towards next year,
Duncan admitted that “it will be difﬁ-
cult, losing four seniors and our
coach.” However, she remains conﬁ-
dentin the team’s ability to succeed.
Individually, her goals include a re-
turn trip to the national meet.

With several accomplishments
under her belt, this young runner re-
turns next year as one of the bright
stars of a talented women’s cross
country squad that will look to build
off the success of back-to-back
ODAC championships.

Swim teams resume season

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The men’s swimming team im-
proved to 3-1 on the season over the
past three weeks, while the women’s
swimming team slid to 0-4 before col-
lecting its first win of the season
against Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College.

The men’s team knocked off

V Swartlirnore 131-73 on Nov. 18. Fresh-

man Eric Ritter took first place in the
200-meter backstroke and the 200-meter
freestyle. Senior Colin Hayes took ﬁrst
place in the 200-meter butterﬂy, and
sophomore Brett Burns took first in the
50-meter freestyle event.

Senior Mike Miraglia, freshman
Paul Laraia and sophomore Patrick
Frankfort earned first-place ﬁnishes
in the 100-meter freestyle, 500-meter
freestyle, and 1000—meter freestyle,
respectively.

The men Suffered their ﬁrst loss of the
season against Gettysburg, a 111-93 de-
cision on Nov. 19. Ritter and Hayes both
set pool records in the contest: Hayes in
the 100meterbutterﬂy vvithatimeof52.53
seconds, and Ritter in the 100—rneter back-
stroke at 53.92.

The Generals proceeded to ﬁnish
8th of 13 teams at the Franklin and
Marshall Invitational over the week-
end. Sophomore Patrick Frankfort
helped the squad to ﬁve of their first-
day points by placing 12th in the 400-
meter individual medley.

 

photo by Mary Guy/Staff Photographer

CHALK UP THE W. The W&L women’s team swam its way to a
142-57 win over Randolph-Macon Woman’s College on
Wednesday, the Generals’ ﬁrst victory of the year.

Against Swarthmore, the women
lost by an overall score of 127-75.
Sophomore Blair Huffman won the
200-meter butterﬂy and earned second
place in the 200-meter breaststroke.

The Generals lost their next con-
test against Gettysburg by a margin
of 142-55. Sophomore Kelli Austin
won first place in the 100 and 200-
meter freestyle events. Huffman ﬁn-
ished second in the 400-meter indi-
vidual medley.

The women collected their ﬁrst
win of the year in a home conference
meet against Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College by a score of 142-
57. Generals took ﬁrst place in 10 of

 
 

$ TOYOTA

  

Most everyone has them...no one likes them. (Toyota Echo can help.) Echo gets up to 38 miles per gallon'..that limits your spending
on gasoline. (Good start.) Echo has an amazing amount of interior room...seating for 5...so it will hold a lot of something, like up to
4 paying passengers on Holiday trips home —- positive cash flow to further limit your spending. (Another plus.) Now you try one.
(Hints: It’s Toyota...very dependable. And its an Echo, starting around $13,500 well equipped.) So the next time your spending limits

come up for discussion, you’ll be all set with a positive suggestion...A visit to your nearby Toyota dealer.

"EPA estimate 31/38 4- door, 4-speed automatic. Even better with 5-speed manual.

America's

Student

Beat the

pet

*Passes must be

validated within 6

months from date
of purchase.

the 11 events.

Leading W&L were junior Laura
Ingoldsby, who won first place in the
200 and 500-meter freestyle events,
and Huffman tallied two ﬁrst-place
ﬁnishes in the 400-meter individual
medley and 200-meter backstroke.

The Generals then traveled to
Pennsylvania for the Franklin and
Marshall Invitational meet over the
weekend. On Friday, the first of the
two-day competition, the team ﬁn-
ished last in the 12-team event.

The men will return to action
against Virginia Military Institute on
Dec. 6, and the women will next meet
Sweet Briar on Dec. 5.

Leader
TraveL

 

 

’ 

 

Get your rail pass at
S 2000 prices
and travel in

2001

RAIL EUROPE ‘

33

GRCIJP

 ‘_

1 -800—2COUNCl L

counci|travel.com

 

 

 

PAGE 8

Because you may need

something besides gas
to get your Yule Log In

@112 iliing-tum lﬂlii

LASTWORD

 

' DECEMBER 4, 2000 ’

 

Ness puts the

By S irew Agnu

I LOVE UBLIC URINALS

On Thursday, Nov. 17, Washington and Lee declared a
war on alcohol, drugs, and gratuitous nudity in a stunning
twist-tum of events at the Sesquicentennial Celebration
of the Sacred and Royal Council for Putting Down of the
Smack on Lewd, Obnoxious, and Blatantly Unclothed Behav-
ior. The council met as part of a university eﬁort to curb the
amount of inebriating beverages consumed on campus.

The Council gathered secretly at the University Alumni
Ski Resort high in the Swiss Alps to discuss what mea-
sures needed to be taken in order to stem the veritable
ﬂood of alcohol that has been ﬂowing onto campus for
nearly a ﬁfth of a millennium.

The Council held its meetings huddled around a roaring
ﬁreplace, in deliberations that lasted well into the wee hours
of the morning without so much as a single cup of hot
cocoa to give them solace. After several weeks of consid-
eration, the committee ﬁnally came to a controversial deci-
sion to re-establish Prohibition on the Washington and Lee
University campus, after a vote of lFor and 12 Against. Mem-
ber of the Class of ’2l, Ernest J. McParteePouper used a little-
known corollary in University Charter to pass the measure.

Corollary 7.24 in Article IV, Section H, Subsection 2
states: “Any concerned bureaucratic gentleman in the em-
ployment of the W&L Administration is hereby empow-
ered to enact any policy in opposition to the will of vast

‘ ‘smac

majority of student body, alumni, and the will of the
various purveyors of alcoholic beverages including,
but not mutually exclusive to: the
Mafia, the honorable Alumni J ack
Daniels and Jim Beam, Jimmy
Madison’s Mash Malt Liquor, the Ap-
palachian Ghetto Superstars, and all
of the Ireland, in the furthering of
Gentlemanly Behavior and/or To pro-
tect the Proud and Honorable public
image of the University.”

Thus, McParteePouper was em-
powered to re—institute Prohibition
on campus as part of the new cam-
pus initiative entitled “Operation
Drunk—No-More.” McParteePouper
then declared Marshall Law and in a
unanimous, unilateral vote, was ap-
pointed Supreme Dru g Czar For
Life of the W&L Campus. His first
official act was to unfreeze Elliot
N ess from Science Department’s
Cryogenics Lab and appoint him to head up his Alco-
hol Gestapo in conjunction with the area Po-Po.

Commissioner Ness has promised to clean up the cam-
pus, if it is the last thing he ever does. In a bold declara-
tion on Thursday, Nov. 26, he promised to end the “Orgy
of Alcohol, Free—love, and Rock and Roll” that the W&L

 

students have lived in for the past 200 years: “The time
has come to draw a line that no boozy dare stagger
across. I will not rest until I see
this campus as dry as Strom
Thurmand’s Depends . . . only the
exact opposite. The times and tac-
tics may have changed since I took
on Capone, but Elliot Ness has
changed, too. I have upgraded the
campus security with the latest in
Democratic—Expression Oppression
Technologies including Alabarnians
with fire—houses, German
pararnilitaries with attack dogs, Tom
Arnold, and the LPGA Chapter of the
Dykes with Bikes motorcycle gang.”

The first major task in the “Op-
eration Drunk—No-More” was to
invade, harass, and bully the W&L
fraternal orders of manly fun on
campus during their Christmas Ju-
bilees. Using a system of surprise
raids, paid informants, and W&L’s surveillance satel-
lite, Ness organized the single largest mass offensive
against American excess and debauchery since the
“Tet Offensive.” Ness led his crack squad of Storm
Troopers through the houses with reckless abandon.
Doors were broken, windows were opened, pantries

  
   

PUBLIC SERVICE
ANNOUNCEMENT

THRICE-CONVICTED SEXUAL PREDA-
TOR MATTHEW MCDERMOTT HAS
BEEN RELEASED FROM THE GOOCH
COUNTY MAXIMUM SECURITY PENI-
TENTIARY LAST MONTH AND HAS BEEN
ACCEPTED TO ATTEND WASHINTON 8:
LEE FOR THE WINTER TERM OF 2001.
WARNING: ALTHOUGH PSYCHIA-
TRISTS HAVE GIVEN MCDERMOTT A
CLEAN SLATE OF MENTAL HEALTH, AU-
THORITIES STILL RECOMMEND THAT
SMALL ANIMALS AND WRESTLERS
AVOID CONTACT wITH HIM.

  

cOFFEEpeO

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

 

p|eM

uslcmore

HQ

 

  
       
     
     
       
         

 

 

Bela l-"leek,
I I         and MANY,’

  '5 8 ‘Tape: 
1? South Main Street, iLex,ing[tim_.
. , 454..3a4§ A  I  
S taper: it} am - 8 pm Manda}-Saturdays —
12-ﬁpmﬁundaygy t_ 

   wideeRange omfterdaiblecbs 
   p      _’. . .
$9.99-$12.99

Beb Marley, U2, Elton Jenn,

Lynyrd Skynyrd, Altman Bzress .
James Brown. Marvin Gaye,

i_ ’ Grateful "Dread, liar: Eﬁerﬂson, 

  

Enable‘ Bras;  -

MANY Mme:

   

P

 a  a la 

v

6/. Gfzfen/as A

’7was lie niyfl 5e/Dre freaf and/a//lfrouyf /[e scfao/s,
Cxams were /afen anJpeopﬁz cramming fzfe /aofs.

zﬂfen up from /[e @-Jfa///[ere arose sucf a c/al/er,
.71 was lie firs] semes/er’s /e/I/overs a//yainy sp/a/ler. y
,7rozen freaaf o/J meals, ana/some green cficfen,

.7//ra//inf away as /[e c/ocf Jone 5e lie-fin’.

you’re in my war/Jnaw,



” down with campus prohibition‘

were raided, and freshmen were subjected to humiliat-
ing, full-body cavity searches. N ess called the evening
a success with four half—empty beer bottles, a 24-pack
of warm Natty Light and a bottle of Bacardi seized and
over 127 freshmen probed by the steady hands of Tom
Arnold.

Ness has promised to step up his efforts to reduce the Q
illegal, immoral, and illegitimate imbibing of inebriating in-
toxicants after he recovers from his alliteration overdose.
As for McParteePouper, he has taken up residency in the
Delta House and is currently engaged in playing a thor-
oughly wholesome Four—square tournament in prepara-
tion for the s**t storm he is preparing to reign down on
the Greek system.

MORAL BILEMMA
OE ‘HHS WEEK .

Is it better to give
or receive in prison?

752:: up from 15¢ mess, came a /'of_fy, 51'; syuzlsﬁ; '
7 ueri/a5/e smor_yas5orJ of a s/range cficfen ¢/12:5:
“Jfa, £0, [0, ” 1'1 sat?/wi/5 ajiyy/_‘y]1'j_y[e
D

97.: 1'1 ficfet/up ils /ara/wi/5 a cry anal a wry]/e.

“(Sal me up now cause you ’// see me ayazh,

  
 

 1'/’s

a W//0/,m-,.f. _

 



18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464-4483

3

S1
.5

it

5

wt.“

 

 FHE RLACE FOR FOOD _AI_\Ll2 FUN !

FOR YouR RLEASuRE B. J.   ’S HAS
ADDED A LINE or FINE CIGARS. 
ASHTON , ARTuRo FUENTE, C.A.O., 
AND ELAVDRED CIGARS.  

...__.._..
  I‘: .4.‘

 HUNGRY 2REMEMaER ouR KITCHEN

 IS OPEN....LATE !

1 6 oz. T~BoNE STEAK W/BAKED
RDTATD AND MIxED GREEN SA LAD

 

l

 

I

K

C’

V

 Arab
2 3312.755
,_ _ﬁ5§?‘.,
'_ V403
I ’/000:6

("2-

  

3:‘
re

VOLUME 103, No. 16

A Campus survives another

%aSororities adopt new terms, but

‘through it all the songs remain
the same

1 By Latrina Stokes & Matthew McDermott

STAFF WRITER & ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

3 Washington & Lee's sorority hopefuls no longer rush for
_ bids. Instead, prospective members engage in formal member-
ship recruitment for acceptance cards.

According to Panhellenic Advisor and Director of Student
Affairs Teresa Glassman, the change in terms, handed down
from the National Panhellenic Council, corresponds to changes

, in the process of joining a sorority. .
A Glassman said that potential members are no longer called
 rushees because the term has negative connotations.

“We’re looking more to recruit new members rather than
having women rushing down our door,” Glassman said.

The changes in the sorority recruitment vocabulary corre-
spond with other changes as well.

“New words, new houses, new decor. This has been _a real
transition year. New advisor, too,” said junior Katie Cedarholrn,
Panhellenic Recruitment Chair.

She added that the new houses have allowed the sororities
to adopt a “no frills approach,” releasing members from deco-
rating rooms in the University Center.

This is a relief to Cedarholm, who with other Panhellenic
officers, worked in the recruitment office for at least 12 hours
a day last week contending with invitations, party lists and

. distribution rolls.

Though there are changes, “all of the technical stuff is the
same,” said senior Elizabeth Holleman, President of the
Panhellenic Council. She and other members of the Panhellenic
Council believe that this year’s recruitment went off without
any serious mishaps.

Glassman agrees.

“From the viewpoint of an outsider looking in, the process
has been really smooth,” she said. “People seem to be enjoy-
ing themselves.” '

2001 Men’s Pledge Statistics

Winter 2001

Phi Kappa Sigma 21 Sigma  Epsilon 13
Kappa Alpha 18 Lambda Chi Alpha 12
Phi Kappa Psi 15 Chi Psi ll
Pi Kappa Phi 15 Sigma Chi 11
Phi Gamma Delta 15 Beta Theta Pi. 9

Kappa Sigma Phi Delta Theta 8

Sigma Alpha Epsilon 13 Sigma Nu 3

Pi Kappa Alpha 13

Total: 191 '
Pecentage of Freshmen Males Pledging: 76%
Freshmen Males Ineligible Because of Grades: 20

facts compiled by Mike Agnello

‘ﬂing-tum {H

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsrTY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Rush numbers remain
constant with years past

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Freshmen joined Greek organizations at equal
or higher rates than last year, despite widespread
rumors to the contrary.

Seventy-six percent of freshman males pledged
fraternities, a rate nearly identical to last year’s.
Only three houses had fewer than ten pledges.
Seventy—seven percent of freshmen females ac-
cepted bids from a sorority Friday, up eight per-
cent from the previous year. All sororities had
between 29 and 32 pledges, the most even distri-
bution in three years.

Senior Trey Overdyke, Interfraternity Council
Justice, said the numbers speak for themselves.

“That just shows that frats are still an intergal
part of this school, and people still want to join
them,” Overdyke said.

Formal Rush for men began on Tuesday, when
they attended one or two rush dates at fraternity
houses. This schedule was repeated on Wednes-
day, and then each rushee had the opportunity to
accept two bids on Friday. They had until Satur-
day to decide where to pledge. I

Dean of Students David Howison visited. all
15 fraternity houses Saturday night,‘ and was

SMILE. Celebrating at the chapter house, new members of the Kappa Alpha Theta sorority have their picture taken by a Theta sister.

 

pleased with Tear Night and Rush Week in gen-
eral.

“[It was] a much more controlled situation rela-
tive to past experiences . . . [but] we’ve still got a
long way to go,” Howison said.

Freshman Parks Brown, who pledged Kappa
Alpha, said the formal Rush process could use
some improvement.

“I thought the whole Rush process was a little
unrealistic . . . [expecting us to pick] four houses
seemed like too much,” Brown said.

ear of Rush

  
 
 

JAMES  1.5-":;.=,-;.t» ; ;.— -A .._
WA3HlN£3'F€2=3\‘  a::S4i3¢e:wvW:ii*/

1""'..‘ .\.:i\-

 1‘-J TON, ‘~12! ,2£-Qﬁ

J 182001

   

MONDAY, JANUARY 15, 2001

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

photo by Emily Bamesl Executive Editor
THE FIRST SUPPER. Rushing freshmen dine at the Chi Psi Lodge

Freshman Tim Smith, who pledged Lambda
Chi Alpha, said he was also disappointed in
some aspects of Rush even though he enjoyed
his own experience.

“The number of guys balled really disap-
pointed me, because the frats seemed so
friendly [during fall terrn],” Smith said.

Despite his Inisgivings, Brown said Rush
went well for him.

“The whole thing was just monumental,”
Brown said.

Literacy program beneﬁts Rockbridge County

 

photo courtesy of Pi Beta Phi

Senior Allison Harvey reads at a local elementary
school as part of Pi Beta Phi’s “Links to Literacy”
philanthropy.

W&L students to volunteer
time in local schools

By Matthew McDermott

NEWS EDITOR

Forty—eight teachers will entrust their classrooms
to W&L students as part of the Nabors Service
League’s “Dream a Dream, Read a Book: Literacy Carn-
paign 2001.”

Starting today, on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, stu-
dent volunteers will adopt Rockbridge County classes
from kindergarten to third grade, visiting once a week
for 30 to 45 minutes. They will present age—appropri-
ate literacy lessons, whichcan range from acting out
scenes to running a writing workshop. The Nabors
Service League will offer optional lesson planning ses-

sions for these presenters.

“Studies show that children who are independent
readers by third grade are more successful in middle
school and beyond,” said junior Stacy McLoughlin, the
project’s lead organizer.

The Adopt A Classroom Program, though the largest
service project, is only one of many planned for the next
seven weeks.

A Book Drive will collect books from approximately
50 boxes scattered around the W&L campus, local
schools, and area businesses.

“Our goal is to give at least one book to every kinder-
gartner in the county,” said McLoughlin.

Weekly newspaper articles, written by W&L stu-
dents, will appear to highlight the importance of lit-
eracy.

Middle school students can participate in a poster
contest that promotes reading and writing. Entries will
be displayed around the W&L campus.

There are plans for a high school essay con-

test, judged by W&L students with prizes ‘for
winners. .

Libraries will host enrichment days for the next four
weeks. Volunteers will choose themes and present them
to some children invited through newspapers, schools
and churches.

All of the programs will end on March 2, Read
Across America Day.» Marion Heard of the Boston
United Way will be the closing speaker.

“My major partner in this one has really been [Di-
rector of Success by Six] Kelly Fujiwara,” McLoughlin
said.

The superintendent of the school district, public
library and many businesses are also assisting the
campaign. MSA, PRIDE and the Pi Beta Phi sorority,
which runs the “Links to Literacy” philanthropy and
hosted the kick-off breakfast, are helping too.

“It’s been a good deal of work, but I’ve enjoyed
it,” McLoughlin said. “It’s been wonderful getting
to know different people in the community.”

ﬁlly: ‘ﬂing-tum iﬁlji

January 15,2001

 

 

 

Men’s swimming, 6-1:
team adds Wm against
Buffalo State nd Catholic

  

 

V N @1112 airing-rum rain

JANUARY 15, 2001. ‘

Dennis Kimbro commemorates

legacy of Dr. King

Management consultant Dr. Dennis Kimbro will be
the keynote speaker for a celebration of the legacy of
The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., on Monday,
Jan. 15, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Kimbro addresses nearly 100,000 people in corporate
and public talks each year on leadership, entrepreneur-
ship, sales, and personal development. He has spoken at
Xerox, the Chrysler Motor Company, the Central Ir1telli-
gence Agency, Price Waterhouse, Stanford Business
School, Hewlett-Packard, Dunn & Bradstreet, and Apple
Computer.

1 Kimbro is the author of several best-selling novels
about finding the winning formula for personal and
professional success: Think & Grow Rich, Think &
Grow Rich Daily Motivations, and What Makes the
Great Great: Strategies for ExtraordinaryAchievement.

Kimbro’s visit is sponsored by the Minority Student
Association, Nabors Service League, PRIDE," The Col-
lege, The Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics, Student Affairs, the Athletic Department, and
Career Services.

'lVvo-day psychology program at W&L
explores food cravings and loneliness

The department will host two speakers to present on
Jan. 16. The first is an expert on food preferences in hu-
mans_ and will demonstrate the effects of chocolate on
the sensory system. The other guest lecturer will talk
about the connection between loneliness and its effects
on the immune system.

“The Psychology in Your Face” begins with a demon-
stration/lecture, “Chocolate Cravings: A Talk and Tast-
ing” at 4:30 p.m. by Dr. Marcia Pelchat from the Monell

Chemical Senses Institute in Northen Auditorium. The
Cocoa Mill will supply the chocolate.

Later that day, Dr. JohnCacioppo, distinguished pro-
fessor at the University of Chicago, will lecture on
“Anatomy of Lonliness” in N orthen Auditorium. One area
of his research explores the effects of loneliness on col-
lege—aged students and behavioral styles associated with
hostility, pessimism, insecure attachments, interactions
with others and inferior sleep.

Sergei Khrushchev joins W&L as a

Scholar-in-Residence

Sergei Khrushchev, son of the late Soviet leader Nikita
Khrushchev, will visit Washington and’ Lee University
Jan. 15-17 as its first Russian Scholar-in-Residence, spon-
sored by W&L's Ernest Williams H School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics.

Khrushchev will give a public lecture in Lee Chapel
on Tuesday, Jan. 16 at 7:30 p.m. The title is "Lessons
from the Cold War," followed by a question—and-an-
swer session with the audience. Immediately following
the lecture is a book-signing ceremony for his new work:
Nikita Khrushchev and the Creation of a Superpower
(March 2000, Pennsylvania State University Press).

Sergei Khrushchev has a master's in electromechanical
engineering (1958, Moscow) and a Ph.D. in technical sci-
ence (1988, Moscow). From 1958-1968, he worked on the
USSR missile and space programs, submarine—launched
cruise missiles, military and research spacecraft, includ-
ing the world's largest space booster.

His career also spans engineering, computer science
and strategic studies.

Since 1996, Sergei Khrushchev has been a senior fel-
low at the Watson Institute's Global Security Program and
a principal investigator in the Post-Soviet Studies Project.
He researches international security and comparative eco-
nomic and political transitions. .

His books, printed in 12 languages, include Khrushchev
Remembers (3 volumes, memoirs edited during 1967-70),
Khrushchev on Khrushchev, Crisis and Missiles, Politi-
cal Economy of Russian Fragmentation, Three Circles of
Russian Market Reforms.

story courtesy W&L website

Fraternities

Sigma Nu 3 289
Phi Gamma Delta 3280
Sigma Phi Epsilon 3_ 169
Phi Delta Theta 3148
Sigma Chi 3.120
Phi Kappa Psi 3,114
Kappa Alpha 3.101
Kappa Sigma 3.098
Pi Kappa Alpha 3_078
Phi Kappa Sigma 3_()36
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 3025
Beta Theta Pi 2972
Pi Kappa Phi 2958
Lambda Chi Alpha 2910
Chi Psi 2353

Fall Term GPA’s

Fraternities, sororities, and independents

KappaKappa Gamma 3 .348
P1 Beta Phi . 3303
Kappa Alpha Theta 3290
Chi Omega 3_27Q
Kappa Delta 3260

All Sorority Women 3 .294
N on-Sorority Women 3.148
All Women 3.219
All Fraternity Men 3.081
Non-Fraternity Men 3.031
All Men 3.059
All Students _ 3. 13 1

compiled by Matthew McDermott

 

EVERY MONDAY 8:30 i=.M. To NIIDNIGHT
'1/15 sing along
with Alex ‘Nrilkins
1/22 DJ

1/29 a night of jazz

  J AVA AT

co1=FEEpeopleMusIcmore

THE  GHQ

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor ‘

BACK TO THE GRIND. After a long Christmas Break, students brave the Colonnade again
during the first week of winter term class.

PHI OR DIE »

Meetings every Tuesday at
7 p.m., second ﬂoor of the v

University.Center,
Room 208.

LEXING TON

COFFEE

if’-ﬁj

.‘r./fini.s-2a}:r'j';li).v.J¢zrq9-.-
l..INCER AT A FIRESIDE TABLE
CC)l"T"l.".Ii 0 l:.'Nl’RES'S{J I l'.'+51l’l-'lJ('.{,'.lN() ' I-‘A.‘5'|'R IE5 ' HAIH-'s[.S
9 ‘WEST ‘VASHINGTON STREET ' LEXINGTON ' 454-6586

 

 

.lANUAl2Y 15, 2001

("lire Ring-mm iﬁht

PINION

PAGE 3

Beware of
the Greeks?

At Washington and Lee, we enjoy the beneﬁts of many
a unique institution. Whether it be the honor system, the
speaking tradition, our small size, or respect for tradition,

' these facets of the W&L gestalt all contribute to a college

experience unlike any other. There is, however, one as-
pect of our undergraduate years that is especially inﬂuen-
tial in creating this atmosphere, the Greek system.

Like nearly all other spheres of human endeavor, politi-
cal correctness has poisoned what was once a ﬂourishing
and successful system nationwide. Now, throughout the
country, fraternities are being impugned as rnisogynist,
chauvinist organizations that do little but party, drink, and
cause general chaos in an Animal House manner. Article
after article has appeared in papers from the Washington

. Post to the Boston Globe to the Los Angeles Times decry-

ing orrmipresent hazing, binge drinking, and promiscuity
at fraternities. Every time one chapter, in an isolated inci-
dent, tragically costs one member his life, the public is
bombarded with somber editorials, investigative reports
on 20/20, and shocked news anchors all calling for fur-
ther restrictions on the activities of these destructive, dan-
gerous, and delinquent organizations.

A more recent approach has been to write articles de-
tailing the movement to eliminate alcohol at many frater-
nities and the enthusiasm with which schools are forcing
houses to go dry. Brothers are described as raucous
drunks out—of—sync with the more sober lifestyle of con-
temporary college students. Simultaneously, fraternities
are demonized for corrupting impressionable pledges and
fostering a “culture of alcohol” on

y Christine Metzger

dodgeball as too violent and ‘slingshots as too danger-
ous, but believe that homosexual necrophilial pomegra-
phy is art.

campuses across the nation. Such
inconsistency is overlooked by
the critics of the fraternity system.

Right Side of the Aisle
Brett T. Kirwan ’04

We at W&L, rather than reject
generations—old traditions, have
embraced and allowed them to

To those who would abandon a

time-tested system of scholarship and service, fraterni-
ties are holdouts from a male-dorninated, violent, intoler-
ant society in the sensitive, accepting, hyphenated
present. ,

Interestingly, it is not the Elks, VFW, or American Le-
gion that is bad—mouthing fraternities into the history
books, but, instead, the same people who would prohibit

@112 ititng-tum lﬂlri

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
Matt McDermott
Max Smith

Mike Agnello
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Bryan Early
Heather McDonald
Michael Crittenden
Mary Guy

Ashley Daly

News Editors

Assistant News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Ltfe Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor

Stajj‘ Photographer

Circulation Director
Business Manager

Charlie Tonelli
Paul Seifert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reflect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

ﬂourish, enriching both the qual-
ity of life and the education. Here, the fraternity system
is strong and will continue to be so because it offers to
students exactly what it is named after, fraternity, broth-
erhood, philia. What is overlooked by the naysayers is
so evident in our fraternities and sororities. The not-
able—to-be-duplicated, intense camaraderie that results
from shared experiences, during pledgeship and party-
time, common goals, and deep loyalty. While hard to
define, the administration, alumni, and trustees have
recognized, or personally beneﬂtted from, its existence

The independent Greek

Largely superceding all other pursuits this frantic
pledge week have been thoughts on Greek life. Tears fall,
doors slam, hopes rise and fall to this worldly construct.
Yet there is hope.

The brotherhood and sisterhood, the tradition, and
the prospect for future success that come with Greek life
cause many bright young men and women to lose their
perspective on what it means to be an individual and to
be liberally educated. ‘

I do not mean to suggest, as you
may assume, that Greek life neces-
sarily renders one’s understanding
of these concepts barren. What I call
attention to is the need to place the value of an indepen-
dent and freed mind into the context of what Greek life
means to us as members of the Washington and Lee
community.

But what does this mean?

Like any sort of relationship, the chance for success is
enhanced exponentially when its co-signers have the abil-
ity to stand alone. Trouble often comes when members of
a relationship depend on the support of the other
member(s). As in any relationship, hunger for allegiance
in the Greek community will only lead to further despair
and confusion. After all, a group comprised of individu-
als all seeking for fulﬁllment in each other can never
achieve satisfaction.

Perhaps a relevant question to ask oneself when en-
tering the process of rush and pledgeship is if he, to any
degree, is complete as an individual and whether he sees
Greek life as a reciprocation of personal wanting. Does he
expect the Greek system to complete himself or does he
seek to affect the system?

A fundamental goal of any liberal arts education is to
free a student from those things which enslave him-—- an
inability to think critically and logically and a dependence
on the knowledge of others, among other things.

This concept applies to non—acadeinic areas, as well.
A person should look for spiritual and emotial stability
before entering into a contract. Anything different will

TALKback:

“Because my grandmother only

ThePatn'ot
Joel Pepeia ’04

and are certain to not let it die at W&L.

On a more practical level, living the Greek life, by its
very nature, creates a nationwide, if not international, net-
work of friends and contacts. Also, instead of fostering a
“culture of alcohol,” fraternities provide a safe, supervised
atmosphere where young adults can learn to become re-
sponsible and mature drinkers. Finally, fraternities and
sororities are committed to philanthropy. Brothers and
sisters run blood drives, food collections, Habitat for Hu-
manity projects, charity runs, walks, and innumerable other
compassionate programs.

Unfortunately, there are few, if any, others schools in
the nation the have encouraged fraternities and sororities
as W&L has. As demonstrated by our experiences, when
allowed to thrive, Greek life brings out the best in students
and is an integral part of their education for adulthood.
These really are Greeks bearing gifts.

only till the ground for destruction of the individual as
well as the whole.

As one aspect that should be considered when making
the difficult decision to “go Greek,” the ability to stand
alone has great importance.

Yet this decision also includes many other intricacies:
one’s ability to experience positive personal growth within
the Greek system, the relevance and importance of
cornraderie, the academic consequences,
and countless other issues.

As college is a time to stretch limits in
a number of ways, the choice to join the
Greek system should regard the possibil-
ity for personal growth and for one’s ability to affect outer
culture. The individual should decide whether the Greek
system allows for both.

Through prayer, thought, worthy counsel, and self-ex-
arnination, every individual is capable of making the cor-
rect decision for himself. Once made, this decision should
not be questioned. Whatever you decide, have faith that
it was the right choice.

Good luck to everyone in comtemplation.

Godspeed. A

uote of the Week:

(6

At rush, everyone becomes
very religious. They all
worship the porcelain god.

— Colin Harding ‘04 ‘
7 7

_Why did you comeback from break?

    

, “Good times on the fourth “My Winamp playlist.” “The opportunity to have my
sends my care packages here.” ﬂoor and pledgeship.” -Heather Bane ‘04 picture in the paper.”
-Vicky Romeo ‘04 -Bill Gilsenan ’04 -Jonathan Browder ’04

 

 

Eh: Zﬂiug-tum iﬂhi

PAGE 4

SORORITIE

JANUARY 15, 2001

C ongratuaitions 

to Tfie   Newest
ﬂloﬁfitions to
Kappa De Lia
Sorority,     
Tﬁe fpsifon Cfass

Tiffany Barfow Bnmwey Inman fden Tarés

ﬂlmanda Basﬁarn ‘ Katie Rifey

Lfise Judd

Katie Berg Laura Rosario

Cate Lacy

C [aire C arotfiers Laura Samueﬁ

Carofyn Duffy

Cristina Garcia

Liz Law

, Lisa Sauer
j-"ontaine .’Marcoux

Corinne .’Mat/"Lieu jmnie Tompkins

Carrie Qrafiam C firistina Tworney

Sfieffey Meyer

_13[a£e green Jzlnsfey Warren

Lisa .’Mo6[ey

Kara ﬂarbert Cfiristina Weﬁster

Ginny Jvloncure

ﬂﬁﬁy Harding Joy Wﬁiteﬁead

sari,

Tena Jvloure

Heather Niesman

 

Bfair Oaéfey

     

 Sarah Michaels
  Brooks Morgan
Elizabeth Osborne

Emily Averitt
Mary-Wommack Barton-
Liz Burton
Jessica Cedarholm
Beth Creasey
Natalie Deibel 
Martha Edwards 
Daley Formby
Nancy Francis
Meghan Hayde
Emily Helander
Hilary Henry
Susannah Hewlett
Tate Hoeffel
Sara Jurkowsky
Sarah Kavanaugh
Kari Lassen
Jess Lake
Jen Lalley
Kate Leggett i
Jennifer May
Molly McGinty

Millie Rand
Jess Rotzell
Maury Stegall
Kate Talbert
Ashley Thompson ;
Lee Wheeler
Sarah Yakots

   

 

   
 
 

I I I ,
0 \
~. .
I 2
I
‘, 3
ha
I

Gene Adams Elizabeth Loyd

  aess Bennet A maggie mason
Cameron Billups aenny mcélunkin
Bennie Dauxson Kelly mcFarlane
Kathryn Drinkard Caroline Parker
Katherine Emerson Elizabeth Postma
Austin Gee Alicia Iaavenel
Hattie Gruber i Brooke Boseberry
Stephanie Haldy miriam Rodgers
Lucy Hinkle Cynthia Rush
Helen Hughes Lizzie Scruggs

  Congratulations to the
2001 Pledge Class oi?
jlsappa Kappa Gamma

assasaeoeeéérasssswseeoesassaewsess

11111

Blair Sanzone
aoanna Schubert
Virginia Snider
Sarah Stanton
Stacy Suseet
Emily Baylor
Katherine Ehomas
Amelia (Haring
Arnita lﬂoiiiiord
Anne Séoung

 

 

JANUARY 15, 2001

(E112 ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

SORORITIES

PAGE 5

%' ﬁe/a 

       
  

  
  
  

   

Jfanna gfmeaf 1 Car-oﬁne W2-%'z2ney
zUz'z2z'/9-eJ gbes   yennzfer %T/er
yennzfer ﬂee-[e   ﬁarrell 9Ghron
Jfea/fer Lam 5%  5«7;,3,a,r 77¢:-Jae
gniesa ﬁoscf via/or1'a Women
yacyue/yn Gfarf Ga/fez-z'z2e csa//er/}'e/J
Jfea/fer Gofeman 6/fie (Simpson
9G'co/e $auof Weyan csmi/I
Griz: ﬁouyfer/y 1 Wary ﬂu/fa (S/one
Bauren Cyferl ‘ maria csjsia
gmanJa .7G'zn5fe   gessica yayfor
9'35/ey jfﬁizzp yamie 70:0
xegeaca .70-amer  925-egg//e Ia,-Jmm
Bauren Bafue .729’/[cry zﬂzfa/er
giana ﬂﬂaioyan

I 0. Zﬂzfson

ea; ﬂmegzao

§om?»oa7wZa7w« 475»

V014‘!/%4'ﬂv adﬂﬂﬂ’
ﬂmawolar aafafmw
am“ Bagwaﬁ
70%? Bwcifleﬁ?"
7”7e?a»rv Balggow

7”7mmlao 34/own

iwaalo gal»/ﬂow»
i<a7A«m/iwa 
  Eyyurv §Zoma'(:3?
Km,» ﬂoor»
angel aaovalaév
7”7a/paw Qvwt/vai
9M7W“W Wm

1”? Wm
%lﬂ34/in gu/voalww
6%/»m;rw M
{Milo ﬁowoﬁ
ﬂan yoémm
ﬂu» immmo
ﬂoayknlwo 7”7a7?»Tmv
yoarvwa 
B4/tlaova 
gwwoll 7Z«om7a4ow
Slaw» 730/emfon.

7”7az%'7_ 

 

 

PAGE 6

JANUARY 15, 2001

I

Broadening their horizons

By Alexis Yee—Garcia

F EA TURES EDITOR

Over 20 Washington and Lee stu-
dents took learning on the road dur-
ing fall term, traveling to countries as
far as Japan and New Zealand
through various university programs.

Juniors Katie Mahan and Elizabeth

Alford went to Paris with Academic 9

Programs Abroad to study at a uni-
versity there and learn more about
French culture.

“They take big lunch breaks in the

‘middle of the day,” said Alford of

some of the different aspects of
French life. “They enjoy life, they’re
‘bon vivant’ — good livers.”

Both students agreed that living
with their host families was one of the
highlights of the trip.

“I lived with a wonderful family,” said
Mahan. “I helped make dirmer every
night, learned how to make Crepes.”

Mahan said that living in Paris for

an extended period of time also made
the city seem less distant and “more
real.” Though living abroad de-mysti-
ﬁed an exotic location students also
grew to appreciate aspects of their life
they might otherwise take for granted.

“I missed the community life at
W&L,” said Alford, “We went to the
Sorbonne [for classes] and there’s no
real community for those students
there.”

Senior Leah Sawyer sought out her
cultural experience, ﬁnding an Israel
study abroad program on the intemet.
Sawyer received a scholarship
through W&L to study Hebrew and
contemporary Israel. She was even
able to live in a kibbutz for the first
half of her trip.

“It was interesting to be in a coun—
try that’s mostly Jewish and not be
Jewish,” said Sawyer. “It made me re-
alize what it must be like to be Jewish
in a mostly Christian country.”

With the recent uprisings in the

area, Sawyer’s excursion held differ-
ent concerns than Alford and
Mahan’s.

“In public places with a lot of
people there were checkpoints with
metal detectors and people checking
bags,” said Sawyer. “The day I went
to Jerusalem, a soldier was shot on
the bus. They have an entire garrison
of Israeli soldiers just for that part of
the city [the Arab quarter].”

Despite the dangers, Sawyer was
not‘ discouraged and tried not to be
affected by the violence around her.

“It’sjust like the U.S. You don’t go
to the bad areas of town, everyone
knows the rules to stay safe,” she said.

Though Sawyer experienced les-
sons in topics from street smarts to
biblical history, she also found some
locations to be more like a vacation
than anything else.

“They have really good clubs,” she
said, “We went to the ones near the
kibbutz about three times a week.”

photo courtesy Lea.h Sawyer

Senior Leah Sawyer and friends she met while living in a kibbutz in Israel pose for the camera.
They spent two weeks touring Greece and seeing historical landmarks, such as the Parthenon.

This Week in
theaters...

By Mike George

STAFF WRITER

Cast Away ***1/2

With Cast Away, director Robert Zemeckis brings to

life the story of a man who is forced to ﬁnd a way to
survive under the most trying circumstances. Veteran ac-
tor Tom Hanks plays Chuck Nolan, a FedEx inspector
who is stranded on a small island in the Paciﬁc Ocean and
forced to survive using only the skills of his experience
and the hope that he may someday get back to the woman
he loves. Along with the practical concerns of survival,
Hanks must ﬁnd a way off the island and back to civiliza-
tion. The barest of necessities, such as water, food, and
warmth, become central issues as Hanks is forced to try
to survive without the use of technology.

Zemeckis presents a film that is energetic, exiting and
touching on a very base emotional level. Zemeckis’s charac-
ters are real people, with lives and issues similar to many of
our own. Zemeckis argues that the power of the human spirit
is more enduring than the technology we rely upon and he
comments on the hanied nature of society. In a scene repre-
sentative of this idea, Hanks and Helen Hunt, who portrays

     

    

hoto courtesy Dreamworks studio
Tom Hanks struggles to survive as a stranded

FedEx inspector in his new film, Cast Away.

Nolan’s love interest Kelly, sit down with their pocket calen-
dars to plan out when they are going to see each other over
the holidays, traditionally a time when people put aside their
outside lives to enjoy family and friends.

Nolan and Kelly are both controlled by the world around
them, whose lives are based on their responsibilities. How-
ever, when Nolan is lost at sea, life slows down to nothing.

One of the ﬁlm’s most memorable elements is the relation-
ship between Nolan and Wilson, a volleyball that serves as
Nolan’s only companion on the island. Nolan begins a friend-
ship with the volleyball and his conversations with an inani-
mate object depict the need man has for companionship.

America's

1n Student

 

Travel ._____

I 1 -800-2COUNCI L
couriciltravelcom

Leader
Travel

— - \
S I"I n 
. K  \

. H EADQUARTE RS

 

VISA



  
   
    

‘casual / upscale dining
lunch / dinner

Located In The Heart Of Downtown Lexington

37 South Main Street 0 Lexington
George 8 Sue Ann Huger, l’roprietors

:31 Lexington ‘T radi tio/1 '
Serving Since 1932

 \ Hours:
'."< 11:30 AM . 10:00PM
9' Monday - Saturday
12:00 PM r 8:00PM
Sunday
Bar Open ‘Til 12:00AM

4633612

10% Discount
with Strident ID
All Day Sunday

and 8-10 pm

Monday — Thursday
Through .
January 31st

Reservation
required

for parties

of 6 or more

Though Zemeckis’ ﬁlm is entertaining, it does have some
weaknesses. Is it just me, or does this ﬁlm look like a two and
a half hour advertisement for FedEx? The people at UPS must
be ﬁirious. The opening credits also irritated me, as the cam-
era follows the journey of a FedEx package with shakiness
reminiscent of the Blair Witch Project.

Overall, I would have to say that Cast Away is an enjoy-
able ﬁlm, ﬁlled with a poignant sadness. I mean, what could
be more entertaining than a man talking to an inanimate
object for two years? However, I don’t think I’ll be running
to the video store torent it anytime soon. Hanks is excellent
though, proving once again that he is America’s everyman.

Proof of Life ***

In Proof of Life, Russel Crowe, Meg Ryan and director
Taylor Hackford present a story about the sacrifices we
make for those in need and the lengths we will go to help
those we love. When Peter Bowman, an engineer working
in South America is taken hostage by a group of militant
drug runners, Crowe is called in to negotiate his release.
When Bowman’s company collapses, Crowe comes to the
aid of Bowman’s wife (Ryan) and a romance ensues.

Much of this ﬁlm relies on its strong performances and
tense confrontations. Veteran character actor David Morse
is excellent as Peter Bowman, a man unwilling to give up
and driven by love for his wife. Ryan portrays Alice Bow-

l"l os’t W&L

Office of Health
Promotion and

man with sensitivity and subtle weakness, revealing a ?
character that can be strong yet fragile. Crowe, whose
recent work has brought him into Oscar contention,
proves the power of performance on an audience.

Although the film was entertaining, it is also long, so
do not go into the theater without the industrial size
bucket o’ cola. Proof of Life begins and ends with a
hostage extraction: 20 minutes of pure kick—butt adrena-
line and the best parts of every intelligent action ﬁlm
from the last 20 years. What lies in between is pure ro— I
mantic tripe, the likes of which I have not seen since
Titanic. It is, at best, two hours of Crowe and Ryan look-
ing into each other’s eyes, waiting to ride off into the
sunset and make every male member of the audience ask ‘I
for the in—theater vomit bag.

Proof of Life in its entirety is something nice to watch
on a date, but only if you like romance. Overall, this ﬁlm is
watchable, but only once as repeated viewings may in-
hibit masculinity. v

Ranking System
**** -— Amazing, watch until your eyes bleed
*** — Good, one time viewing
** — Fair, see if you don’t plan to be watching the
movie while in the theater
* — Poor, may induce paralysis

Students

co ho

Substance Abuse

Prevention

1999 2000

 

 

is JANUARY 15, 2001

 

S

@112 ﬁling-tum lﬂlii

PORTS  

 

PAGE 7

‘Generals run record to 6-1

, Women split meets against
Buffalo State, Catholic

By Geoff White

I " SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s swimming team im-
proved their record to 6-1 while the women became 3-5 on
‘the season in dual meets against Catholic University and

V‘ Buffalo State over the weekend.
I The women’s team defeated Buffalo State, but lost a
close meet against Catholic. The men won both contests.

Both teams went to Clearwater, Fl., during the Christ-
mas break to escape the cold weather and train for the
second half of the season. They weren’t able to escape
from the cold, but the squads did manage to get in some
practicing over the break.

Both squads handily defeated Buffalo State on Friday,

‘V with the men winning 1 19-65 and the women pulling out a

    

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
WING SPAN. Freshman Drew Catanese swims
against Buffalo State on Saturday. The
Generals won themeet by a 119-65 score.

1 10-49 victory.
Freshman Colin Mitchell led the men by winning the
100-meter backstroke and the 200-meter freestyle.
Sophomore Kelli Austin led the women with first-place

ﬁnishes in the 50, 100, and 200-meter freestyle events.
Classmate Michelle Moore earned a season-best time of
1:07.43 in the 100-meter backstroke.
On Saturday, the men handed Catholic their first loss
of the season, easily defeating the Cardinals 139-66.
Senior Mike Miraglia led the squad by winning the

~ 200-meter individual medley and the 200-meter butterﬂy.

Sophomore Patrick Franlcfort won the 1000—meter freestyle
with a meet-record time of 10: 18.07, and freshman Eric Ritter
placed first in the 100-meter freestyle with a time of 49.43.

The men also set meet records with wins in the 400-
meter medley relay and the 400-meter freestyle relay
(3:38.22 and 3:19.85).

The women’s squad lost a close match to Catholic,
dropping a 1 15-90 decision. Sophomore Blair Huffman took
ﬁrst place in the 200-meter individual medley, the 200-meter
butterﬂy and the 200-meter breaststroke. Austin ﬁnished
first in the 100 and 200-meter freestyle events.

The Generals will host Johns Hopkins next Saturday at
11 a.m.

.W&L grapplers open conference play

Generals play win, lose or
-, draw in quadrangular meet,
fall to Muhlenberg at home
By Jeremy Franklin

g ' SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wrestling squad delved into
team competition in the first week of the new year, hosting
the W&L Quadrangular on Jan. 6 and then falling to Cen-

'1 tennial Conference foe Muhlenberg on Jan. 10.

The Generals (1-2-l, 1-1 Centennial) posted a win, a
loss, and a tie in the quadrangular meet on Jan. 6. W&L
opened conference play in the meet with a 24-17 victory
over Gettysburg, proceeding to tie non-conference

‘ Pensacola Christian 24-24 and lose to Davidson 26-16.

Junior Ezra Morse remained undefeated on the season,
scoring three pins in the 197-pound weight class to improve
to 9-0. Senior Josh Chamberlain (149-pound) and junior Ivan

I Zdanov (174) also went 3-0 on the afternoon for the Gener-
als, and senior John Sensing (heavyweight) finished 2-1.

W&L then dropped a 26-13 Centennial match at home to
Muhlenberg (6-2, 2-0). Morse upped his rnarkto 10-0 with a 14-
5’deéisiori'over MuhIeribefg’s John Slokoviti. Jnrn6rBen'séga1‘‘ ‘

‘ (125), senior Greg Valentine (165), and freshman Joe Mueller
(184) won their matches against the conference leaders.
I The Generals wrestle again Saturday in the nine-team
(W&L Invitational.

K

    

1» photo by Emily Baes/Excutive dior

, Hoop DREAMS. Junior Sarah Schmidt shoots a

‘free throw in the Generals’ 56-39 win over
Randolph-Macon Women’s College.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

THE GREAT ESCAPE. Muhlenberg’s Shawn Zeplin attempts to maneuver out of the grasp of W&L
senior Greg Valentine in Saturday’s Centennial Conference meet. Valentine won the 165-
pound weight class match by a 5-1 score, but Muhlenberg pulled out a 26-13 win in the meet.

Women’s team par for the course

W&Ltops Randolph-Macon
Women’s College, falls to

Emory and Henry to even up

ODAC mark at 4-4
By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s basketball team endured
an up and down week to maintain a .500 winning percentage in
the competitive Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

The Generals (5-6, 4-4 ODAC) entered action Thurs-
day on the heels of a two—game losing skid. W&L quickly
made sure that the third time was the charm, mauling
Randolph-Macon Women’s College with a barrage of sec-
ond—half points, 56-39.

Junior Jessica Mentz led the Generals with garne-highs
in points and rebounds, ﬁnishing with 20 points and 11
boards.

After a slow start, in which W&L trailed 25-24 at the
half, the Generals outscored Randolph-Macon 32-14 in
the second half, effectively ending the WildCats’ hopes.

Freshman Heather Coleman led the game-ending 20-4

{Generals put two in Win column

Sophomore

&L takes two of

forward Scott

attempts to bring W&L to within 61-

,three ODAC

contests, falls to
Hampden-Sydney

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The new year has brought mixed

* emotions to the Washington and Lee

inen’s basketball team.
Although the Generals have collected
their ﬁrst two wins of the season, both in

x Old Dominion Athletic Conference play,

these victories have been oﬁset by three
road conference losses. W&L now stands
at 2-11 onthe year, includinga2-6markin
the ODAC.

N After suffering several close losses

in the first three weeks of the season,
the Generals managed to pull out a 50-
48 win over Guilford on Jan. 3.

ii

Hetterrnaim scored a game—high 15
points as W&L erased a 35-26 sec-
ond half deﬁcit via a 19-6 run, holding
the Quakers to 32 percent shooting
from the ﬁeld to pull out the win.

The Generals’ success was short-
lived, however, as Roanoke handed
W&L a 57-48 loss three days later.
W&L trailed by nine at halftime, but
managed to trim the lead to 49-48 with
4:15 to play. The Maroons’ defense
clamped down after that point, hold-
ing the Generals scoreless for the re-
mainder of the contest. Hetteimann
led W&L with 14 points, and senior
Wil1.Ballard contributed 13.

W&L found itself the victim in an-
other close ODAC contest on
Wednesday, dropping a 63-59 road
decision to Eastern Mennonite. The
Generals trimmed a 15-point deficit
midway through the second half to

- 61-58 with 32 seconds remaining.

Ballard hit the first of two free throw

59. Although he missed the second
shot, the Generals grabbed the re-
bound, and Ballard returned to the free
throw line with nine seconds remain-
ing. However, Ballard rriissed both
free throw attempts, and the Royals
sealed the win with two free throws at
the other end.

Junior Bob Bustamante and fresh-
man David Bode tallied 12 points
apiece to lead W&L.

On Saturday, the Generals
bounced back to knock off Lynchburg
67-54 on the road. W&L shot 23-of-
46 from the ﬁeld and 16-of- 16 from the
free throw line, paced by Hetterrnarm’s
14 points and eight rebounds. Sopho-

_ more Will Cotter contributed 13 points

in the win.

W&L fell to 2-11 on Sunday with
an 84-47 loss to Hampden-Sydney
(13-1, 7-1 ODAC). Hettermarm again
led the Generals with 12 points, and
freshman John Saxon added eight.

run, finishing with eight points and six rebounds.

“Heather has always been very consistent and makes
very few mistakes on the court,” W&L head coach Janet
Hollack said of her freshman guard.

In a near role reversal of Thursday’s game, W&L en-
dured a punishing second-half run by Emory and Henry
en route to a 63-38 loss on Saturday night.

The Generals hung with the Wasps until halftime, when
they trailed 19-18. This time, however, Emory and Henry
came out of the locker room on ﬁre, using a 13-2 run to
place the game out of reach.

Junior Megan Babst led the Generals with 12 points
and 12 rebounds. Junior forward Sarah Schmidt chipped
in 11 points and five rebounds for W&L.

Rebounding helped the Wasps take control of the game,
as W&L was outrebounded 41-30, with Emory and Henry
grabbing 15 offensive rebounds.

“We just need to take care of ourselves and our play,”
Hollack said. “If we are consistent and execute, we’ll be
fine for the rest of the year.”

The Generals continue ODAC play with a 7 p.m. road
contest against Lynchburg on Wednesday.

W&L SPORTS FANATIC?

'I11rn to the sports pages of the Phi
every week to keep up with
Generals’ varsity athletics.

MCAT Class starts
January 17!

1-800-KAP-TEST

kaptest.com

' MCAT is a registered trademark of the Association of American Medics Colleges.

 

 

 

PAGE 8

Rush: because your folks
don’t need to know
everything in your life

LASTW

flip: ﬂing-tum iﬂlit

ORD  

JANUARY 15,2001 "

Il‘llIl. "I IWIIIS and IIGIIIGIIIIIIS

W&L Mailing List Archive:

II

and the lack of respect it shows.

factual representation of the incident.

'$llII|BI" (3|'00|(S I‘lIII allllllili

IIISIIUIIMEII: The following sum: is

mav rilect noorlv on vour IIert:eII-
tinn on the maturiui oi vnur neers.

Before leaving for Christmas Break, the cam-
pus was struck by an indecent and inappropriate act
of vandalism by an anonymous party. The group
targeted a student—run food drive for its act of van-
dalism. Perhaps you recall a campus wide e—mail
inquiring about the incident perpetrated on Dec. 6:

“Last night around dinner time an un-
fortunate incident occurred. Some FLC
members left a sign drying in the BDG
quad for our charity Food Drive today, and
one or more students decided to take it
upon themselves and deface this sign. We
are all very disappointed in this behavior

After that last campus e—mail notice, no further
information was released to the general public. The
Last Word has received an account of the events
that led to the otherwise random act of terrorism,
though this account does not represent the direct

The alleged party involved saw the sign in the
middle of the BDG Quad replete with paint and
brushes. According to the source, the sign had
“Canned Food Drive” written upon it in “messy
lettering” and it was evidently “just asking to be
messed with.”

The intrepid terrorists decided to heed the call
of the painted sign, then, and vandalize it. So they
changed the “F” to a “P” and manipulated the let-
ter “d” to another “p.” Thus, the “Canned Food
Drive” became the “Canned Poop Drive.”

One would think that the students of our cam-
pus would be above such infantile pranks. One
would think that the high academic standards and
strength of character demanded of W&L students
would impel the collegians of our campus to be
above childish pranks like this.

Not only did these wannabe Bart Simpsons dis-
play theirimmaturity, but they also showed a
shocking amount of ignorance, as can be seen by
their vulgarity, and I think that this incident was a
low—point in personal responsibility and credibility
on campus. In the coming months with pledgeship,
one can hope that students can approach what
should be a very fun experience with thoughtful-
ness and some degree of prudence, rather than
brash disregard for our fellow students.

-- Last Word Editor
Bryan Early

rtcsiimtw CMIOY ieusi ween. <ikttI<S LAUGH

MCNMCNGIY FROM THC

Qwelé/.9, weeféo, wdundancg
and caaféie/5.’

The fraternities are not the only ones who were
busied with Rush—related activities. The women,
too, busied themselves with the harsh task of rank-
ing themselves according to the stringent rules:
Smoozing ability, cuteness, fashion sense, and abil-
ity to sing loudly in the Quad at 7:30 in the morning
on Saturdays. The difference between the sorori-
ties and fraternities seems to lie in the fact that the
males seem to enjoy the process while it is more of
an ordeal for the women — a comparable analogy
would be the process of bearing children.

Regardless of the actual rush process,
pledgeship is what will make or break the Greek
hopefuls. As events of the past hundred plus years
have shown us, men don’t exactly have a free-ride
when it comes to pledgeship. A fraternity brother
put it best when he stated at a fraternity function,
to some fraternity pledges, about fraternity policy
in unequivocally nonredundant terms: “There are
no free rides.” Happenstancially, a sorority sister put
it best when she stated in non—redundantly un-
equivocal terms: ‘There are free cookies!”

   

5W°W5 /“‘“’”“‘“/"ll

   
 

Aieehei round at the
all during Rush Week

Alcohol made its. unwelcome presence known over the
course of Rush weel<;. The student populace was left shocked

and dismayed over the massive numbers of piss—drunk fresh- -

men scattered across the campus. Since it’s against Rush Week
policy for fraternities to serve alcohol and they would never
dream of violating tl”.C stringent standards enforced by the In-
ter Fratty Council. Campus ofﬁcials are bafﬂed over the source
of the alcohol. A high level Inter Fratty Councilboy was re-
ported to have said when asked to comment on the puzzling
presence of alcohol on campus, “Whew, rushing kicks ass man,
whew —— yeah Shelbyi Ycaii, i.ll'4ll,5 wiiui F111 iziiisiiig dI)UUl —
this party is bitchin‘ ! Now, where the hell’s the Beam?”

  

The

Cal X

All years (1960-2000) are available
for purchase —-— $10
Contact Neal at Willettsr@ wlu.edu

Be in next years yearbook!
Please turn in underclass and senior candid
photos in front of Carol Calkins office in the
University Center

 YEAR IN REVIEW

The year 2000 was a strange mixture
of letdowns, disappointment, boredom,
and quiet desperation. The year was
supposed to be the beginning of a new
chapter of humanity — society was ei-
ther sup-
posed to col-
lapse due to
the Not-So-
Apocalyptic
“Y2K Bug”
or the world
was sup-
posed end
due to the
A r m a g e d -
don. The year saw economicdecline,
new lows in media depravity, the Res-
toration of the Bush Dynasty, horri-
bly annoying music, and yet it was
still a good time. Who thought that
the era ushered in by the new millen-
nium,wou1d be the 80s? I mean, Con-
gress is even funding a new “Soph-
ist—a—mikated Missile Shooting Down

Tw1'ste_ Sister,

Do-Hicky;” the only thing missing is '

the stagﬂation and the massive hair-
dos.

Culture

The 80s were directly responsible
for two monikers of modern society that
highlighted 2000: The nouveau riche
yuppies and the nonconformist-con-
formists. The punk movement was all
about telling the man to shove-off by
dying your hair neon colors and wear-
ing the ugliest clothes possible — oh
yeah, and there were tons of drugs, too.
The yuppies and preppies are off-
shoots of a society based upon excess
and self- gratiﬁcation; all conforming to
the same standard of clothing, lifestyles,
and appearance.

In 2000, Abercrombie, North Face,
SUVs, and tech vests dominated pop
preppy culture and nothing other
than the full backing of a well-fi-

 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   

 

nanced, highly attractive, and popu-
lar group like the preppies could
ever hope to make people wear
something as pointless and ugly as
tech vests. Unsurprisingly, drugs
still remain popular. And instead of
punk clothing, we have Gangsta
Wrappers like Tommy Hilfiger,
FUBU, and WU Wear.

Business

In the 80s, the American economy
was ruled by Big Business and even
bigger aspirations. The rich got richer
and the poor got poorer-and every-
one thought that if their problems
were ignored, they’d go away. . . until
reality came knocking. In 2000, the
Internet start-up companies bred a
new sort of upper-class, not reliant
on business contacts, market re-
search, or financial stability, but
based upon he ability to navigate Win-
dows, think up creative words to put
“e” in front of, and hold massively
trumped up IPOs. Seriously, what
does proﬁtability have to do with the
intemet?

In both cases, their stocks and junk
bonds were worth almost as much as
the Kleenex they were using to sob
into.

Music

The music of the 80s was known
for more show than substance. Glam
Rock, Punk, and early versions of
Gangster Rap were known for their art-
ists’ outlandish appearances and out-
rageous behaviors.

Groups like Twisted Sister, Ma-
donna, ABBA, and Run DMC
started their careers on hype and
looks, sadly they never really pro-
gressed.

In 2000, groups like ‘NSYNC,
Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera,
and Backstreet Boys (among other

18 E. NELSON sr. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464-4483

 

 

no-talent clowns) rose to near god-5
like levels of popularity. And in both-
cases, according to everyone older‘

than 35: “They just don’t make music; ,i

like they used to.”

World Affairs ii

In the 80s, the United States ted,

the good ﬁght against the greatest evil
the world has ever known: Commu-
nism. Conversely, the United States"
led the good ﬁght in 2000 against the

second greatest evil the world has ever‘ ’

known: 6 year-old boat children from
Cuba.

Media i p.

Television as it’s known may never-—
recover from the 80s. Shows such as
“Webster,” “Diff ’rent Strokes,” and
“Facts of Life” thrusted the family
sitcoms into the forefront of Ameri-'0
can pop’
culture
and in do-
ing so,
dragged
the intel-
lectual
level of
in o d e r n
media to
e n t i r e 1 y
new lows.

In 2000, America found something i

far better to take its minds off of the
monotony and tiivialness of their own
lives —— through the tiivialness and
misery of others’ lives on reality based
television.

The existence of “Temptation Is-
land” most deﬁnitely spells the end
of society.

Government

People like Bush now have as
much as they did in the 80s.

THE PLACE FOR FOOD _A_N_1_)_ FUN !

      
    

HUNGRY .7 REMEMBER om: KITCHEN
IS or>EN....LATE .1  

1 6 oz. T-BONE STEAK W/BAKED POTATO AND

 

,/Swath
9373.755
gas;
'1 \/~l0j

, ‘Speaker

   
  
   
  
  

  

Vl3Il7
c,.2_

VOLUME 103, No. 17

C112 ﬂing-tum IE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

stresses
success

By Matthew McDerrnott

NEWS EDITOR

A best-selling author kicked off the
“Dream a Dream, Read a Book” Literacy
Campaign with a keynote address at
the Martin Luther King Jr. Day Celebra-
tion.

Introduced by Minority Student
Association Vice President Lizina Green
as “one of the most popular speakers”
currently working the corporate track,
Dr. Dennis Kimbro has spoken before
employees of Xerox, Chrysler, Price
Waterhouse, Apple Computer and the
CIA.

“Out of the 50 million speakers
W&L had to choose from, you chose
me,” Kimbro said. “I am honored to be
here.” -

Kimbro chronicled his search for
answers to questions that interested
him from an early age.

“I wanted to find out two things,”
said Kimbro. “One, why does one suc-
ceed when another fails? And two, why
do some get rich while others stay
poor?”

Kimbro sought answers from accom-
plished black Americans, interviewing
so many that he stopped counting in-
terviews after the 150th.

Kimbro stressed the necessity of
lifelong learning in a country where,
“only three percent of Americans

have library cards and most don’t
use more than the sainc: I200
w:m:!«. "

CV.-aI‘:‘r :0 re.':  fu;w. to fail gra:;e-

_ f:dllKlIIll)1’O_Sa,lLl. Over his travels, he
noticed “the bigger‘ the home, the more
books it has. The smaller the home, the
bigger TV it has.”

Kimbro was preceded by two musi-
cal selections from the gospel group
Joyful Noise and by personal reﬂec—
tions from sophomore Toussaint
Crawford and freshman Monea
Hendericke.

The Martin Luther King Jr. Pro-
gram was sponsored by the Nabors
Service League, PRIDE, the Dean of
the College Laurent Boetsch, Will-
iarns School Dean Larry Peppers, Ca-
reer Services, the Athletic Depart-
ment, the Delt Center and the Minor-
ity Student Association.

Thirty students initiated
into Alpha Circle of
national honor society

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee honored its forefathers with
the celebration of the 130th Founders’ Day on Fri-
day. Held on former university president Robert E.
Lee’s birthday, President John Elrod initiated 39 W&L
students and honorary initiates into the Alpha Circle
of Omicron Delta Kappa,a national leadership and
honor society.

“Robert E. Lee always challenged his students to
do their duty,” Elrod said. “You can do that duty by
showing the leadership required of you in the history
of Washington and Lee.”

The ceremony invoked the memory of the Presby-
terian ministers who founded Liberty Hall Academy,
W&L’s earliest incarnation, in the 18th century, as well
as the other men and women, such as Lee and George
Washington, who signiﬁcantly impacted the univer-
sity.

According to Elrod, students at W&L founded the
Order of Omicron Delta Kappa in 1914 as a national
collegiate honorary fraternity to honor student leader-
ship. Today there are 139 circles of ODK at schools
throughout the country.

“ODK initiates have high academic standards
as well as character, honor, integrity, and involve-
ment in the community,” said Chris Edwards, who
works in the alumni office. “ODK celebrates all the
qualities that W&L embodies; therefore, initiation
is appropriate to be put on Robert E. Lee’s birth-
day.”

Prior to their initiation, Elrod spoke to the 15 senior,
ﬁve junior, ﬁve third year law and three second year
law students, in addition to the six honorary initiates.
He challenged them to honor the memory of Lee by
demonstrating leadership in solving the alcohol abuse
problem.

Induction into ODK is an honor, Professor of
History Ted DeLaney said. “I am grateful for the
recognition, and that ODK recognized my time and
commitment.”

Other activities in the celebration included a speech
by DeLaney on the first black student, John Chavis, to
attend W&L and a Founders’ Day dinner in Evans
Dining Hall. Chavis attended the school in 1795 as a
free black student.

“John Chavis was probably one of the most impor-

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

BEARING IT. Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledges reveal their devotion to a fraternity brother playing basketball. ‘

~ University celebrates heritage with Founders’ Day

tant historical ﬁgures in the college,” DeLaney said.
“He was a student who was here when it was unusual
for him to receive formal education. It is a fact of his-
tory that is never focused on.”

DeLaney’s speech focused on the accomplishments
of Chavis before, during and after his time at Liberty
Hall Academy and Washington Academy. According
to DeLaney, he left Washington Academy to become
a prominent Presbyterian minister and schoolteacher
of both white and black students.

“It seems to me ideal that someone can take an
education and make something of it to create a better
place as John Chavis did,” DeLaney said.

According to Elrod, W&L celebrates
Founders’ Day to pay homage to those men and
women who have provided for the life of the uni-
versity.

Robert Mish, director of alumni programs, said
Friday’s ceremony means a lot to the school.

“Most schools celebrate the founding of their
institution,” Mish said. “Today is an appropriate
day [because it is Lee’s birthday] and he had so
much to do with making the school the way it is
today.” .

Mish said that in addition to the festivities held on
campus in honor of the university’s founders, several
alumni chapters throughout the country were holding
their own celebrations.

 

Iii”

MONDAY, JANUARY 22, 2001

  

  
  

i:3i._?F=.N L IBR/RR‘!
A  UN."v'E.!!SiTY
", ‘M 17344.50

5 2001

 

,'k

]EhmMd2uﬂns(}reeks
to curb alcohol

By Michael Crittenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Continuing administrative ef-
forts to face the problem of alco-
hol abuse at Washington and
Lee, President John Elrod recently
issued a proposed alcohol initia-
tive that includes the banning of
drinking games and shots in fra-
ternity houses.

The “Fraternity Presidents’
Alcohol Initiative,” an 11-point
proposal presented last week at
a meeting between fraternity
presidents and President Elrod at
Lee House, includes a number of
potential rule changes aimed at
curbing perceived alcohol abuse
by students. According to Burr
Datz, Inteifraternity Council ad-
visor, the proposal represents
more than a new set of rules.

“Most of the points and ideas
in the proposal are already on the
books,” Datz said. “It represents
more of a re-focus . . . a step back
and evaluation of the current
rules.”

The alcohol initiative was cre-
ated through input received from
a number of sources, including
parents, trustees, faculty and
members of the administration.
lnforrnation and ideas from the
University’s Alcohol Task Force
were also given consideration, ac-
cording to Datz. The Alcohol
Task Force was created after the
death of two students in an alco-
hol-related accident earlier this
year.

While it does not ask for the
prohibition of alcohol consump-
tion by W&L students, the pro-
posal does demand a greater re-
sponsibility from fraternities in
helping solve alcohol problems
on campus.

“President Elrod wanted to
call attention to problem areas on
this campus,” said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison. “The goal
is to reduce the normative alco-
hol culture through strong lead-
ership. We want students to be

SEE ‘ALCOHOL’ oN PAGE 2

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

ARISE AND BE HONORED. Lauren LaFauci taps Carly

Blakelock with the ceremonial ODK wand.

(J11: ﬁling-tum iﬁlii

January 22, 2001

: Preseas

Five men’s lacro
named to All-Ame“

 
 
  
 

 
 
 
 
   

 

  
  

 

’PAGE2

s .

.p-.vv‘.-.-...........‘.._-..,--_-,

's ‘«.'o._u.'o.ju:«

(E112 itting-tum iﬂltt

  NEWS

more moderate . . . more responsible.”

Currently fraternities are not allowed to spend chap-
ter funds on alcohol or serve it to minors, and they must
follow IFC and national fraternity guidelines. The cur-
rent alcohol initiative reiterates these» points, placing
special emphasis on fraternities creating individual guide-
lines for the consumption and distribution of alcohol at
a party. The guidelines would have to follow University
policy, Virginia law and the risk management rules of a
fraternity’s national organization.

While these do not represent changes from current
University policy, some proposals may generate contro-
versy. The fourth point on the list, which demands that
fraternity guidelines “must include banning drinking
games and t 'ng shots,” and the ninth, which proposes
the regulation of off-campus parties by the IFC, have
both received heated responses.

“A lot of us think it may be taking things a bit too far
to go into a private residence,” said IFC member Hugh
Rabb, a senior.

While doubt was expressed by administrators as to
the plausibility of regulation of off-campus parties, most
seem more ﬁrm in the prohibiting of shots and drinking
games at fraternities.

“The main reason is that there are greater risks in-
volved [with shots and drinking games],” said Datz.
“When the sole purpose of drinking games is to get
trashed, that is a problem.”

FROM PAGE 1

Datz stressed that the proposal was not a final draft
and was not the law yet. Fraternity presidents are to
present the initiative to their respective fraternities
and later meet as a committee to discuss ideas,
changes or the amended proposals. They will then
present a progress report to President Elrod, the Al-
cohol Task Force and the Board of Trustees in early
February. It will be possible for more proposals to be
made later, or for the current proposals to be accepted
as written. Administrators also expressed interest in
continuing student input on the W&L alcohol situa-
tion.

To W&L students, the biggest problem with the pro-
posal may be its encroachment on student autonomy.
Historically independent from administrative control,
some students expressed displeasure at the appearance
of a mandate from President Elrod.

“I don’t think any changes will be taken seriously if
the administration is perceived not to be working with
the students,” said one sophomore who requested not
to be named. “For real changes to be made it has to
come from the students, not be told to us.”

While Datz said he agreed that students were the
solution to the problem, he also said they have to take
some responsibility for their actions.

“History shows that those who cannot control their
own destinies, have to have their destinies controlled
for them.”

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

Is rr BETTER THAN sEx? Students line up to sample assorted chocolates during the

“Psychology in Your Face” program at Northen Auditorium on Tuesday.

 

Love ‘n’ Liquor

The David Thompson Endowment Fund presents
“Love ‘r1’ Liquor” Thursday, Jan. 25 at 7:00 p.m. in Lee
Chapel. Linda Hancock, a nurse practicioner from Virginia
Commonwealth University, will give the presentation,
sponsored by SAMS (Student Athlete Mentors). She is a
national speaker on sexuality and alcohol issues. A slide
show that shows what might happen if college students
choose to mix sex and alcohol, along with numerous car-
toons and colorful advertising slides will highlight the
performance.

Lip Sync to beneﬁt local food

pantries

The 15th Annual LIP SYNC Contest, sponsored by
SARAH (Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger) will
be held on Friday, Jan. 26 beginning at 9 pm. Proceeds
from ticket sales will go to beneﬁt local area food pantries.
The contest will be held at the Student Activities Pavilion.
Tickets will be sold at the door.

Magician Belinda Sinclair to perform

Voted the “best female magician in the world,” Belinda
Sinclair performs slight-of-hand magic. She has appeared
at the Academy Awards, in a Celia Cruz video, on cable
shows, and on prime time television. An instructor as well
as a performer, she has taught Mikhail Baryshnikov,

JANUARY 22, 2001
, mail General Notes  Harrison Ford, Spike Lee, Al Pacino, Amy Irving, Michael
‘ALCOHOL 3- J. Fox, and Vice President Al Gore.

Panhellenic is sponsoring an event for children 3 to 12
years old and their parents, who can see Ms. Sinclair’s
Family Magic show at 2:00 p.m. on Saturday, Jan. 27. The
hour—long performance will be held at the Rockbridge
County High School Auditorium. Contact the Montessori
Center for Children at 463-6461 for tickets and information.

The same day, at 8 p.m., Sinclair will put on a Parlour
Magic Show for adults, with the sponsorship of the IFC.
Washington and Lee University’s GHQ lounge is the venue
for this performance. Individual fraternities have tickets.

Irish Music Concert

The local Irish Culture club, Deoraithe na hE’ireann, will
be hosting a musical presentation by Joshua Harvey (‘00)
and his newly formed Celtic band. At the conclusion of the
business meeting on Tuesday, Jan. 30th, Harvey and his band
will perform “ Ana cuisle gheal mo chroi: A Suite for Irelan .”
Harvey and his band mate, Chris Edwards (‘99) composed
the piece, a suite in three parts. The suite addresses signiﬁ-
cant events in Irish history. The first piece is entitled
“Cromwell,” the second is “Famine W ” and the concluding
piece is entitled “The Voyage of St. Brendan.” The concert
portion of the evening is expected to begin around 7:30 p.m.
and the public is welcome to attend. There is no fee although
contributions to the band would be appreciated.

The concert will take place at the Jordan House located
on Preston Street in Lexington. Harvey will have an oppor-
tunity to discuss with the audience the inﬂuences that
went into composing the suite.

Refreshments will be served and time for socializing
will conclude the evening. This event beneﬁts those in the
community who have been interested in the cultural pur-
suits of the organization and would like to see first hand
the level of expertise available in the local area.

regulations.

in Graharn—Lees.

A MESSAGE FROM MIKE YOUNG

The Security Department has noticed a marked increase in parking violations, particularly in the evening hours.
Many students, faculty and staff members are parking in restricted areas, notably near Reid Hall circle, the Library
circle, duPont, Admissions, and in restricted areas near the residence halls.

With the addition last spring of the parking garage, there would seem to be no reason for this to be occurring.
There are plenty of spaces available in the parking garage after 6:00 PM, for the parking of vehicles by students
studying at night. We are asking you to please utilize this facility and not park in violation of the rules and

Most violations of the parking rules and regulations include a parking citation and the vehicle being towed away.
This unpleasant action can be avoided by complying with the rules. The security department would appreciate your
help in this matter. Copies of the University’s parking rules and regulations can be obtained at the Security Ofﬁce

   

  
 
 

The Ring-tum Phi
congratulates recent
student initiates of the
Alpha Circle
of Omicron Delta Kappa:

Justin Arnold

Katie Baldwin
Carly Blakelock
Liz Borges

Jocelyn Bowman
Hillary Bryant
Patrick Bryant
Amy Calce

Joshua Chamberlain
Sabrina Ciccarello
Elizabeth Holleman
Tyler J orgensen
Seon Kum.

Sam Langholz
Stazy McLoughlin
Kathleen Moroney
Stephanie Mullett
Robert Naftel
Michael Paulhus
Andrew Pittman
Erik Rosenwood
Crystal Simpson
Jennifer Strawbridge
Carter Thomas
Nathan Urquhart
Patrick Wright
Elizabeth Yusi

 

It

  

JANUARY 22, 2001

OPi”i\i1oN

PAGE 3

Is anyone maintaining King’s legacy?

Last week, our nation honored the memory of one of
her greatest leaders. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. led the Civil
Rights movement from its infancy until its ultimate triumph
with the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the
Voting Rights Act of 1965. He dared to face the powerful
and entrenched interests against him and to demand that
America live up to the promises made by her Declaration of
Independence and guaranteed by her Constitution. It is
truly tragic that such a patriotic American and eloquent

advocate for
Right Side of the Aisle

equality was
struckdown at _
Brett T. Kirwan ’04

such an early

age. What is
even more tragic is that the black leaders of today have
betrayed his legacy and perverted his message.

Modem black leaders diﬁer from Dr. King in both their
political ability and their philosophy. Whereas Dr. King
was a consummate politician who carefully calculated the
risks of his actions, leaders such as the Reverends Jesse
Jackson and Al Sharpton have no sense of how to build
popular support for their positions. Whereas Dr. King
asked for no special rights and inspired long-oppressed
minorities to work harder and achieve more, Kwesi Mfume
of the NAACP and Congresswoman Maxine Waters only
whine about century-old wrongs and demand govemment
handouts and preferences. Dr. King was successful be-
cause he understood the political dynamics of America,
but more so because he was deeply dedicated to the Con-
stitutional principles on which our great Republic was
founded.

The civil rights movement spearheaded by Dr. King
carefully cultivated and eventually won the support of
the American public. For instance, Rosa Parks was the
third black person to challenge Birrriingharn’s segregated
buses, but the ﬁrst two were not supported by Dr. King
or his coalition because of their impure pasts. The first,
Claudette Colvin, was not championed because she, at
the age of only 15, became pregnant, soon after sitting in
the front of the bus. The second, Mary Louise Smith, was
ignored because her father was known to be a drunk. Dr.
King decided that neither a pregnant teenager nor the
daughter of an alcoholic would generate sympathy among
Americans, and instead elected to wait for the perfect
ﬁgurehead, Rosa Parks.

Neither Jackson nor Sharpton inherited any of the
King’s political acumen. Jackson recently went to Decatur,
D1,, to protest the suspension of four young black stu-
dents who had started a riot at a high school football
game. His protests and demonstrations generated no sup-
port and were ultimately rebuffed because the public did
not rise to the defense of thugs with criminal histories.

., Sharpton first came to national prominence by champi-

, oning the cause of Tawana Brawley, ayoung black woman

who claimed to have been kidnapped and raped by white
law oﬁicers in Wappingers Falls, NY. Ms. Brawley had a
checkered past -— she was certainly no Rosa Parks — and
has since rescinded her accusations and apologized for
fabricating such a heinous story, but Al won’t let up.

uote of the week:

(4

There’s not enough
alcohol in the world.

— Anonymous senior girl in response
to a freshman’s proposition

77

@112 Tiling-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
Matt McDermott
Max Smith

Mike Agnello
Tara Ann Friedel
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Bryan Early
Heather McDonald
Michael Crittenden
Mary Guy

Ashley Daly

News Editors

Assistant News Editor
Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor
Copy Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor

Staff Photographer

Circulation Director
Business Manager

Charlie Tonelli
Paul Seifert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions_for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

/

Last spring, he appeared on 60 Minutes and stated
that he still believes that Brawley was raped. In addition,
he traveled to Cleveland last winter to take up the defense
of a black female student who had been expelled from
Euclid High School for performing fellatio on several of
her classmates in a school stairwell.

Also, just last Thursday, Jackson, the man who was so
pious and steadfast in his support for President Clinton
during the impeachment trial, admitted that he is the father
of an illegitimate child. Needless to say, instances such as
these as well as countless others have destroyed any cred-
ibility that these leaders may have had and have mutated
earnest efforts to achieve their goals into a farce.

Another area in which modern civil rights leaders do
no justice to the legacy of Dr. King is in their political
philosophy. Dr. King insisted on remaining strictly neu-
tral in the 1960 presidential election, even though he be-
lieved that Kennedy would have been better on civil rights.
Today, the “non—partisan” NAACP and Jackson’s Rain-
bow/PUSH coalition are little more than lapdogs for the
Democratic Party. In this election cycle, the NAACP stooped
to producing television ads that featured the daughter of
James Byrd Jr. virtually accusing President Bush of ap-

 

crimes legislation. One shudders to think how far civil rights
legislation would have gone if Dr. King had labeled the Re-
publican Congressmen who ensured its passage as racists
and supporters of hate crimes. Also, noting President Bush’s
unprecedented overtures to the black community, one can-
not help but deduce that, based on his record of neutrality,
Dr. King wouldn’t have spurned his efforts with race-baiting
and unrestrained vitriol, as did Jackson.

Finally, Dr. King campaigned for no more than what _

blacks were owed as American citizens. He simply asked
that the promises made to all Americans, of every color, be
kept. Today, the black leadership perverts this message by
demanding special rights for blacks and other minorities.
Whether it be affirmative action, racial quotas, or repara-
tions for slavery, modern civil rights leaders betray their very
label by not campaigning for civil rights, but rather for a
handout, an unfair advantage, or outright reverse racism.

It should not be surprising to any student of history that
the black leaders of today have made little or no headway
with their causes. They lack both the political skill and philo-
sophical honesty that marked Dr. King’s career. To lead their
crooked crusade in honor of his memory is slanderous.

Caesar of the American Empire

With the inauguration of a new president, the recent ~

electoral crisis is quickly being forgotten. Another presi-
dent with soothing patriotic and inclusive rhetoric solidi-
fies his power.
The most ra-
cially diverse
Cabinet in his-
tory is set to be
confirmed, but, being complete with corporate lobby-
ists and oil executives, it rests, as always, a bastion of
big business and foreign interventionists. And now,
at a moment of celebration and apoliticism, the restora-
tion to “normalcy” will complete itself. America will re-
gain its arrogance as the world’s leader in promoting and
symbolizing “democracy.”

What was so democratic about the recent elections?
Two very well known candidates

 

How exactly is America a great democracy? A nation
can have a “one man, one vote” process, but without a
high degree of economic equality, there is no equality of
inﬂuence! Campaign ﬁnance laws are only a stop- gap mea-
sure. A larger problem is that, at present, only two par-
ties are allowed to play the game. And while there may
be a fair amount of difference between a Democrat and
Republican activist, among those who have the ability
to win the presidential nomination ideological diver-
sity is very rare.

The Gores and Bushes are separated by only maybe
seven cents in the dollar. Only politicians who support the
general quasi—liberal status quo of the upper middle class
and very wealthy can attract the favorable media cover-
age and inﬂuential support necessary to convince the
people that they will govern for “all Americans.” This de-

mands adhesion to free trade, a

were denied a seat (even in the 
audience) at the debates and ‘
lacked press coverage. A presi-
dent won again with a minority,
but also actually got fewer votes

lead... ?
than his opponent due to an an-

What is this great power
that Mr. Bush is about to

forward-looking capitalism, ex-
ploitative usury, support for impe-
rialist “intervention” overseas (so
as not to be an isolationist), and
social liberalism.

cient elitist tool that checks
popular will. An unresolved bal-
lot process served to expose the weaknesses in
American constitutionalism, as the final result was
rendered not by a careful count of ballots (that was,
perhaps, impossible to do impartially) but by the
Republican—appointed Supreme Court’s idea that
truth must be subverted to its time limitations. It is
estimated that the entire election of 2000 was a $2
billion business!

“I celebrated Martin Luther
King’s Birthday.”
— Robert Turner ’02

 

What is this great power that
7 7 Mr. Bush is about to lead, if not a
democracy? A republic? No, a pure
republic would just be a representative democracy, but
again there is highly unequal inﬂuence among electors. In
truth, this land is an oligarchy. A relatively small elite con-
trols our communications (and thus our subconscious be-
liefs), our production of necessary goods, and our elec-
tions (and thus our State and education). ‘
George W. Bush, far from a true leader, is but a tyrant of
our oligarchy.

 

“I played billiards.” “I had a meaningful lunchtime
- Chris McAleavey ’04 conversation.”
- Kim Gray ‘04

B 9 ristine Metzger

 

“I was going to dress up like Robert E. Lee
and run around campus, but I didn’t..”
— Courtney Perry ’04

 

 

PAGE 4

JANUARY 22, 2001

History unfolds f L stunts

Students travel to

Washington, D.C.

for inauguration
By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

At the presidential inauguration this
weekend, several Washington and Lee
students, including myself, joined over
750,000 people in wet conditions and
chilling temperatures to watch George
W. Bush take the oath of oﬁice as the
43rd president of the United States.

Some students were lucky enough
to have ticketed seats through their
connections in Washington. Others
were forced to take the Metro into the
city at 8 a.m. to get a decent place to
stand on the National Mall. Junior
Mike Reynold was one of the lucky
ones with a ticket, and had a seat be-
hind the Senate chamber.

“We could see [Bush’s] face,”
Reynold said.

Out of curiosity, I met, talked with,
and photographed protesters. One
couple proudly exhibited their child —

THE 43111) PRESIDENT. Chief Justice William Rehnquist adminsters the presidential oath to

probably no more than ﬁve years old
—- in front of a sign that said “Bush is a
major league a* *hole.” A few demon-
strators decrying Bush’s plan to begin
oil exploration in the Arctic Wildlife
National Refuge dressed as polar bears
and yelled throughout the ceremony.

One group of protesters brushed
past a group of Girl Scouts to cap-
ture $50 bleacher seats reserved for
campaign contributors and shouted
“George Bush, racist murderer!” Oth-
ers displayed satirical signs, such
as “Bush thinks with his Cheney.”
Civil Rights Leader Rev. Al Sharpton
and his followers repeated their fi-
ery rhetoric from the recount pe-
riod, after which a 5-4 Supreme
Court decision effectively handed
the election to Bush.

“We will continue to fight until
there is election reform in this coun-

George W. Bush on Jan. 20.

try,” Sharpton said at the rally.

The number of people necessitated
a large police presence in the city. Al-
though most protesters were peace-
ful, police took precautionary mea-
sures, pushing back specatators from
the parade route. Because of difﬁcul-
ties with protesters, police delayed the
parade for over two hours.

Sophomore Myles Svendsen said
that the large number of protesters
nearly ruined his experience. '

“I couldn’t believe the lack of def-
erence they were showing,” Svendsen
said. “It’s alright to disagree with the
guy, but you should at least show
proper respect.”

The ceremony began at 11:40 a.m.
with Vice President Richard Cheney’s
swearing—in, with President Bush’s fol-
lowing at noon. The podium was a

white dot in the distance, and I do not
think we would have known if it was
President Bush and Chief Justice Wil-
liam Rehnquist speaking but for
CNN’s large electronic screens. The
eight-second delay between the
broadcast and the live speech audio

made it impossible to watch and lis-'

ten at the same time.

Bush spoke about the need for So-
cial Security reform and tax cuts. He
also stressed the importance of com-
ing together as a nation, referring to
civility. Calling for "the determined
choice of trust over cynicism, of com-
munity over chaos,” he emphasized
the importance of bipartisanship.
Sophomore David Shriver said he en-
joyed the speech’s unifying message.

“[It] was very encouraging . . .he’ll
be a very good president,” he said.

 

By Michael Crittenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Following a recent discussion about the relevance of
journalism in the United States today, I decided to bring
the idea home to Lexington and ﬁnally review a beer that
is available to local fans.

In the time that I have written this column I have
tended to neglect Southern microbrews on the simple
premise that Southerners tend to be a little behind
when it comes to fine quality food and drinks, and
that New England is the proper home of fine crafted
beer. Invariably, this has led me to ignore some fine
local ales that should be recognized for their quality
and drinkabilityi

That being said, this week’s Beer of the Week is
Devil’s Elbow IPA, from the Rock Creek Brewing Co.

in Raleigh, NC. _

A hearty IPA with a bit of a kick at the end, Devil’s
Elbow is a standard example of the 18th century ales that
the British brewed to survive the long trips to their colo-
nies. The beer is named after a wily stretch of the James
River called, appropriately, the Devil’s Elbow. For residents
of Richmond, the only way to import ﬁne British beers was
to lead the ships past the Elbow, thus giving this ﬁne beer
its unique name.

Devil’s Elbow IPA is made from ﬁve different malts, in-
cluding 2-row pale and Crystal malts, as well as the distinct
Fuggles and Kent-Golding hops. The combination com-
bines for a rather strong hoppy taste, that while not dis-
tracting too some drinkers, has the potential of turning off
others. A fine deep gold color and rich aroma greet one at
pouring, and the 6.0 percent alcohol content can be a little
hard for some.

Overall, I think this is a rather ﬁne beer, but one must
remember my undying preference for India Pale Ales and
any beer with Fuggles hops. I give Devil’s Elbow, which
received a Silver Medal at the 1997 World Beer Champi-
onships, a 6 on the *9 point Roniger Beer scale. It is
available in town at Main St. Market, and I recommend
it if you are bored and are tired of Kroger’s “fancy beer”
section.

I encourage everyone to drink responsibly and con-
sider quality not quantity in their beer choices. If you have
any suggestions, comments, fun rnicrobrew stories, feel
free to email me at crittendenm@wlu.edu. Otherwise, have
a great week and enjoy your beer choices.

courtesy of dailynews.yahoo.com

Some fortunate W&L students had
the opportunity to go to at least one
of the eight Inaugural Balls, all of
which Bush attended. Junior Susan
Ruge got tickets through her work with
the Republican National Cornittee this
summer. With Reynold, she attended
the Texas—Wyoming and Congres-
sional Leadership Balls.

“It was amazing,” Ruge said. “We
were only about 20 feet from [Bush]. .
. my eyes were tearing up.”

Most students were glad to have
made the trip, regardless of the qualé
ity of their seats, the weather, or any-
thing else that might take away from
the experience. Shriver said that de-
spite the bad weather, lack of view, and
discomfort, he enjoyed the trip. ,

“I'd do it again in a second,”
Shriver said.

i
5
3

krrtesy htt '//usimdb.com§

   

LEXINGTON

COFFEE

‘ 

\_»»
1%’ 0 (l.t'(fI‘I  ())I)III/1(lI‘lI/

LINGER AT A FIRESIDE TABLE
COFFEE - ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO - PASTRIES * BAGELS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ° LEXINGTON ° 464-6586

 

SPENDING
 [MIT

www.gettoyola.com 0

Most everyone has them...no one likes them. (Toyota Echo can help.) Echo gets up to 38 miles per gallonﬂthat limits your spending

@ TOYOTA

 

 
 

on gasoline. (Good start.) Echo has an amazing amount of interior room...seating for 5...so it will hold a lot of something, like up to
4 paying passengers on Holiday trips home — positive cash ﬂow to further limit your spending. (Another plus.) Now you try one.
(Hints: It’s Toyota...very dependable. And its an Echo, starting around $13,500 well equipped.) So the next time your spending limits

come up for discussion, you’ll be all set with a positive suggestion...A visit to your nearby Toyota dealer.

"EPA estimate 31/38 4 door, 4-speed automatic. Even better with 5-speed manual.

fl Lc,riI1gt0IL’D'I1I!ilI'oII

 
  
 
 
   

Setoit1gSirtce 1932
xiii.‘ Hours:
. l 11:30 An 10:00l’M
Monday - Snturdarrj
I 12:00 PM v 8:00PM
‘ F‘ Strnrlrnj

J llnr Open 'Til 13:00AM
I 463—3ﬂ2

10% Discount
I with Student ID
All Day Sunday
1 and 8-10 pm
‘ 1 Monday - Thursday
Through
January 51st

 

 

Reservation
required
for parties
of 6 or more

‘casual / upscale dining
lunch / dinner
Located lnTl1o Heart Of Downtown Lexington

—
W54

37 South Main Street 0 Lexington

Gcotgqc 8 Sue Ann Huger. i’mpn'crors ID

 

 

, JANUARY 22, 2001

S

Eh: ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

PORTS ,

PAGE 5

By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

Having already earned a No. 3 preseason ranking and
posting six preseason All-Americans in Faceoﬁ” 2001
Mens College Lacrosse Yearbook, the Washington and

Lee men’s lacrosse team looks poised to make a run at the

NCAA Division III national championship.

The team garnered even more honors on Tuesday, as
ﬁve Generals were named to the Street & Smith ’s College
Lacrosse USA Preseason All-America team. W&L claimed
four of the 13 ﬁrst-team selections, more than any other
Division HI school.

Senior attackman Matt Dugan, senior midfielder Pope
Hackney, senior defenseman Pete Iwancio and senior

goalie Wes Hays were each selected to the first team. In _

addition, senior midﬁelder Bernie Norton was named to
the third-team squad.

“There is a great tradition of lacrosse here at W&L,
and a lot to live up to accordingly,” Hays said. “We work
as hard or harder than any other team out there in order to
maintain this tradition and that is something that we take
great pride in.

“Our success both individually and as a team reﬂects
these efforts and this year will be no different.”

All ﬁve Generals possess impressive resumes entering
the 2001 season. Dugan earned first-team All-Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference and First Team All-America hon-
ors last season after tallying 55 goals and 32 assists to
total 87 points. He enters the 2001 season with 228 career
points, seven shy of breaking the W&L record.

Hackney was a ﬁrst—team All-ODAC and First Team All-
America selection in 2000 after scoring 31 goals and dishing
out 18 assists for 49 points and winning 40 of his 63 faceoffs.

Iwancio also earned first-team All-ODAC honors last
season and was a Third Team All-America selection. He
helped spearhead a defense that ranked as the second
stingiest in Division HI, allowing an average of just 5.78
goals per game. '

Hays earned second—team All-ODAC and Honorable
Mention All-America honors last season. He ﬁnished sec-
ond in Division III in goals-against average at 5.85 goals
per game and posted a .607 save percentage.

Norton was a second-team All-ODAC and Honorable

W&L’s Mentz reaches career milestone

Two Generals post career
highs in men’s basketball,
but both hoops teams drop
three ODAC games apiece

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Junior Jessica Mentz became just the third General to

A reach the career 1,000-point plateau in women’s basket-

ball, but Washington and Lee dropped three road con-
tests in Old Dominion Athletic Conference play.

Junior Megan Babst posted 19 points and 13 rebounds
against Lynchburg on Wednesday, but the Generals fell
to the Hornets 66-55. W&L shot 24 percent from the field
in the first half, but trailed just 30-24 at halftime.

Lynchburg started off the second half with a 20-7 run
to extend the lead to 19 points. Although the Generals
closed the gap to 54-48 with just over three minutes re-
maining, 10 free throws over the ﬁnal 1:31 of the game
sealed the victory for the Hornets.

Against Hollins on Friday, W&L watched a seven-point
advantage disappear over the ﬁnal 5:50 as the Generals
dropped a 57-54 decision. Hollins led 39-34 midway through
the second half, but W&L quickly turned the game around
with a 14-2 run.

However, Hollins rolled off eight unanswered points to
take a 49-48 lead at the 4:07 mark. Mandy Nichols, who
ﬁnished the game with a team-high 21 points, hit six of her
seven free throws down the stretch to keep Hollins on top.

Babst led the Generals with 26 points and 18 rebounds,
and Mentz followed up her 16-point performance against

4Men’s lacross garners recognition

JUST WEEKS AWAY. Senior Matt Dugan, who with 228 points is just seven shy of breaking the
W&L career record, was one of ﬁve Generals named to the Street & Smith ’s College Lacrosse
USA Preseason All-America team. W&L begins the season against Elmira on Feb. 25.

Mention All-America choice last season after totalling 29
goals and 17 assists for 46 points.

In addition to these outstanding individual perfor-

mances, the team beneﬁts most from being able to func-
tion as a cohesive unit.

“We have a great coach and very dedicated players,”
Iwancio said. “There is a very strong sense of the team
being larger than the individuals who make it up.”

Overall, W&L returns 24 letter-winners to the fold this

Lynchburg with 13 points and eight boards against Hollins.

Mentz passed the 1,000-point mark by scoring 22 on
Saturday in a 63-45 loss to Roanoke. Although they shot
50 percent from the ﬁeld, the Generals turned the ball over
35 times against the Maroons.

Meanwhile, the W&L men’s basketball team suffered
three more setbacks in Old Dominion Athletic Conference
play this week to fall to 2-14 on the year, including a 2-9
mark in the ODAC.

Freshman David Bode’s career-high 15 points weren’t
enough to top Guilford at home on Wednesday, as the
Quakers broke a ﬁve-game losing streak with a 60-54 win.
Although the Generals led 35-34 at the 16: 18 mark of the
second half, a l-for- 13 slump from the ﬁeld allowed Guilford
to pull ahead for good.

Sophomore Scott Hettermann added 14 points and
seven boards for W&L, and senior Will Ballard contrib-
uted 10 points and nine rebounds.

On Saturday, W&L found itself in another close ODAC
contest, and again luck was not on the Generals’ side. De-
spite trailing Virginia Wesleyan by a slim 60-57 margin with
2:34 to play, W&L could not buy a basket for the remainder
of the game. The Blue Marlins hit eight of their nine free
throw attempts down the stretch to secure a 70-57 win.

Senior Chad Braley scored a team-high 14 points for
the Generals, and Bode and sophomore Will Cotter chipped
in 10 apiece.

The Generals fell to Randolph-Macon on Sunday by a
74-65 score. Freshman John Saxon led W&L with a career-
high 16 points, and Ballard complemented his 14 points
with a career best 11 rebounds. Junior Bob Bustamante
nailed down 13 points, and Braley scored 11.

The women’s team (5-9, 4-7 ODAC) hosts Guilford at 7
p.m. on Tuesday, while the men’s team meets Emory and
Henry at home at the same time on Wednesday.

Wrestlers place sixth in invite

By Sarah Grigg

SPORTS WRITER

On Saturday, eight teams competed
in the armual W&L Invitational wres-
tling tournament. The Generals ﬁnished
sixth in the event, won by Davidson.

Senior captains Josh Chamberlain,
Greg Valentine, and John Sensing
placed in the 149-pound, 165-pound
and heavyweight classes, respectively,
and senior John Valentine won the con-
solation bracket at 184 pounds.

Chamberlain vied in the final
match against Scranton’s Anthony
Politi, but was defeated 16-6, taking a
second place ﬁnish. Sensing and the
Valentines each placed third in their
classes.

Davidson took first place with 76

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

LOCKED UP. Freshman Joe Mueller (right) wrestles Wesley
Koteski of Washington & Jefferson in the W&L Invitational.

Ursinus Quadrangular.

  
        
    
 

photo courtesy of Sports Information

season, including nine of its top 13 scorers from last year’s
16-2 squad that advanced to the NCAA Division HI semiﬁ-
nals before falling to Salisbury State, 10-9.

“We’ve got some really outstanding freshmen coming in
who will have to contribute a lot and are quite capable of it,”
Dugan said. “I think all the seniors have enough experience,
talent and desire to take us as far as we can go."

Throughout the season, the Generals will carry with
them one chief goal: to win a national title.

, photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
FINDING THE OPEN MAN. Senior guard Chad
Braley looks to pass in the Generals’ 60-54

loss to Guilford at home on Wednesday.

Coming in February...

Previews of W&L spring sports, plus
continued coverage of winter athletics.

Generals fal to Johns kins

Visiting Blue Jays
defeat both W&L

swim teams
By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee swim-
ming teams suffered a setback in their
current homestand against Johns
Hopkins on Saturday.

The men’s team fell to 6-2 on the
season with a 163-93 loss to the Blue

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
UP FOR AIR. Junior Anne Lachiewicz swims against Johns I

 

points, while W&L took sixth with 41.

One of the team’s top wrestlers, 197-

), pound junior Ezra Morse, was unable
to compete in the tournament.

“We were a little disappointed (with

the placement),” W&L head coach

Gary Franke said. “One of our wres-
tlers was sick, and I think that hurt us
in the team race. Almost all of our se-
niors placed, though.”

W&L will compete next Saturday
at 9 a.m. in Collegeville, Pa., in the

“There will be two of our biggest
challenges competing,” Franke said.
“But we’re hoping to wrestle well and

try to get some good seeds for the‘

conference.”

Jays, while the women’s team lost 170-
70 to drop to 3-6 on the year.

Freshman Eric Ritter won the 100-
meter backstroke for the Generals, and
sophomore Brett Bums placed ﬁrst in
the 50—meter freestyle event.

Hopkins on Saturday. The women’s team fell to the Blue Jays A
170-70, and the men’s team dropped a 163-93 decision.

The men’s and women’s teams con-
clude their homestand on Friday with a 6
p.m. contest against Randolph-Macon. 4

Sophomore Michelle Moore led
the women’s team by ﬁnishing first in
the 100-meter backstroke.

 

 

PAGE 6

Almost enough to
make you worry about
America’s youth

Gilt: iﬁing-tum lﬂlii

LASTWORD

   
  
 
           
       
    

rntﬂmsww

'0/'9/7/em/oi//II/II

 

Welcome, my friends, welcome. I see
that my foretelling that you would read
this article has already come true. Do
not fret, though, the amazing powers of
Mama Clio and her mysterious tarot
cards are boundless. The tarot cards
never lie. Especially when explained over
modes of media such as telephones,
Internet, and newspapers.

Come on, hon, let Mama Clio ease
your troubles with the cards. By telling
you things about yourself that you al-
ready know and giving you a vague sense
of optimism, I will allow you to ratio-
nalize your problems so that they do not
seem so overwhelming. Just listen to
these satisﬁed customers, who know the
true power of the cards:

'I‘railer-Park Sounding Woman: .

Hello, Clio?

Mama Clio: Yes, Hon, what can I do
for you my dear? Do you want me to tap
into the awesome powers of the spiri-
tual realm to read your past, present, and
future before the world?

T-P SW: Yah—huh.

M. Clio: Tell me your name and sign.

T-P SW: My name is Thelma and I ’m
a Scorpitarius.

M. Clio: Yes, a Scorpitaﬁus I could feel
that. You are most deﬁnitely a Scorpitarius.
You sound bold and successjul.

Thelma: Well, I got a raise at the
salon from $3.15 per hour to $3.17 per
hour. Sharla said it was ‘cause I was
the most best stylist she had.

M. Clio: Now, letrne call upon the an-

Eihi

Thelma: Thats incredg-able! With my
raise, we are really moving up. We even
just bought ourselves a brand-new ’83
Chevy S-1 0 with only 357,000 miles on it
—- everybody’s jealous.

M. Clio: Hmm. . . the Knight of
Carts. I am seeing that you are living
with a man.

Thelma: How did you know that?
Claudius just got out of jail three weeks
ago and moved back in with me, Geana,
Captain Feathers, Sergeant Feathers,
Private Feathers, and mama.

M. Clio: Oh, dear. I see I have re-
vealed the. . uh. . . the Castle of Divi-
sions. This Claudius man that you live
with. . . is there some kind of tension
between him and your mother?

Thelma: Oh my, yes, there is.
Claudius ran over Corporal Feathers. . .

4.“...
4‘ -.4,‘

4.-.

18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464 - 4483

%i°Wrl’*

      
   
 
   

cient and '5‘: Was that
a r c a n e not astound-
powers of ing? The

-the tarot cards can-
cards to not lie be—
divine the cause it is
mysteries against the
of your law in the
life. I’m Astro-Realm
looking tolie.Listen
into the to another
realm be— satisfied
yond. Ah— customer:
ha, the Two
of Coins! M a In a
That means Clio: Hello,
your ﬁnan— how can
cial status is changing. . Mama Clio and the spirits help you?

Female voice: I ’m having trouble
with my husband, Frank.

M. Clio: Is this Kathy Lee Giﬂord?

Kathy: Yes, it is. How did you know?

M. Clio: Clio knows all. . . especially
since the advent of Caller—ID. . .

Kathy: What was that?

M. Clio: Nothing. . . nothing. So how
can the spirits help you‘?

Kathy: I ’ve been having problems
with Frank. He just does not love me, in
the ways that a man and a women ex-
press their feelings physically, the way he
used to. He just doesn ’t seem to have the
energy or desire anymore.

M. Clio: Let me check the cards. The
Grande’ Adonis. This means your hus-
band has a tremendous sex drive. You
should have to beat him off with a stick
to keep him away.

Péaiﬂméaie

JMII/0'/6'/ﬂ

Kathy: But he hasn’t touched me
for seven months. . . and that was when he
accidently dropped a cashew in my lap.

M. Clio: I will call upon the super-
natural and mysterious aid of the spirits
again to divine what is wrong with your
husband. Oh, no, no. . . it’s the Cheer-
leader ofMisfortune. I am afraid that your
hasband has been cheating on you.

Kathy: But he promised me he
wouldn’t ever do it again if we could
only just satiate his desire for Scandi-
navian culture by hosting Swedish
swim-team foreign exchange students.
. . that bastard. Well, I ’m going to ﬁnd
out who he is been messing around with.
In fact, I ‘ll even enlist Nadia and Helga
to help me track down the slut. Thanks,
Mama Clio. ‘

Now that you have seen the true pow-
ers of the Tarot Cards revealed to you,
how carmot you resist not calling? For
only the low, low price of $1.99 per
rninuteyou can have the attentions of a
professional psychic and tarot reader.
We might not be able to solve your prob-
lems, but at least we will listen to you
whine about your life.

Who knows what mysteries the fu-
ture may entail for you: love, money, re-
lationships, wealth, marriage, riches,
sexual encounters of the satiating nature,
and cash. You might never find out what
your true potential is if you do not call
immediately. Come, seek comfort in the
warm bosom of Mama Clio — the spirits
decree you should do so.

 THE RLACE FOR FOOD AND rum .r

 HUNG .7 REMEMBER ouR KITCHEN
R IS oREN....LATE 1  
1 6 oz. T~BONE STEAK w/BAKED POTATO AND

,«.  ‘'3’ 35.4 W] )”_”_A_

M1xED GREEN SALAD $ 6. 50

EVERY MONDAY 8:30 P.M. TO MIDNIGHT

JANUARY 22 - DJ DAN COPP‘

JANUARY 29 - JOHN SHAIN

ACOUSTIC, AMERICANA 8: BLUES
FEBRUARY 5 - ROBERT JOSPE

JAZZ (co-sPoNsoRED BY SAB)

JANUARY 22, 2001

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

'‘-*-§.,_. .3..-

Arch I
£378 . 755
ta 552.

v. pa”-
wo. I
c . 9..

0112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlﬁ

  

_ ‘,;iQ!_\{iv’~j§8$§. ilx:’Yf.-'tt.5Rf~: s,IraR,e 
? .§:r:”é{. :v.’.3?¢ «K  U~N£,ﬁSn.,j

«  

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

VOLUME 103, NO. 18

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

Pledge grades
concern SAC

In the Fall Term 1998, the Student Affairs Com-
mittee recommended - and the faculty approved -
the eight-week fraternity/sorority pledgeship pro-
gram that is presently in operation. The Student
Affairs Committee, led by Professor Jeffrey Barnett,
conducted an on- going evaluation of the pledgeship
program and will make recommendations to the fac-
ulty following the completion of the 2001 program.
Here are some preliminary observations based on
the first two years, with an emphasis on the three
components of the pledgeship program: Honor, Aca-
demic Performance and Personal Dignity.

Honor

In 1999, during the first year of the 8-week pledge
program, the Executive Committee reviewed a case
involving fraternity pledges on a scavenger hunt
trip. Based on that case, the EC told all fraternities

that individuals who participate in scavenger hunts

or require pledges to do so may be subject to an
honor violation. 5

Academic Performance

The University Registrar found that Greek male

' pledges’ GPAs have dropped the past two years

during their pledgeship period. Winter 1999 grades
fell by 0.123 from Fall 1998. Winter 2000 grades
dropped 0.232 from the Fall 1999 period for fresh-
man. Meanwhile, freshman independents and fe-
male pledges saw their grades remain relatively
steady between the two semesters. ‘

Personal Dignity

In 1997, the faculty approved a new “University
Policy on Hazing” that held individuals, in addition
to the chapter houses, accountable for hazing with
suspension the minimum standard. In Spring 1998,
President Elrod suspended the Kappa Alpha fra-
temity for one year and suspended ten members of
KA for hazing. In 1999, a member of Phi Kappa
Sigma was suspended for one term for hazing by
the SAC Hearing Board. No charges of hazing were
filed in 2000. Last year, the lnterfratemity Council
found Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity in violation of
pledge program standards by rnsking excessive time
demands and cut PiKA’ a 2001 pledge program from
eight weeks to one week.

Two—Year Assessment

Overall, we believe that the fraternity 8-week
pledge program is an improvement over the previ-
ous programs, including the 12-week program in
1998. There is increased awareness of pledge poli-
cies and consequences among fraternity members
and pledges. Nevertheless, there remain fundamen-
tal and serious ﬂaws in the fraternity pledgeship
programs as conducted by most of the fraternities.

The signiﬁcant decline in the academic perfor-
mance of freshman fraternity pledges is unaccept-
able. In our opinion, the declining grades are result
of several factors, especially excessive time de-
mands placed on the pledges. At the end of the 8-
week period, many freshman pledges are tired and
wom—down by time-consuming activities that have
little positive beneﬁts.

Another issue: A few fraternities encourage fresh-
men who have not achieved the minimum 2.0 GPA to
“voluntarily” participate in pledgeship. The Interfra-
ternity Council is presently investigating this issue.
A clear message will be sent that such a practice is
unacceptable and will result in serious penalties.

During the 2001 pledgeship period, SAC will con-
tinue its review of the 8-week pledge program. We
expect far less time demands on the pledges, and an
increased emphasis on academic performance. We
hope that genuine and meaningful community ser-
vice projects will be implemented. Following the 2001
pledge program, SAC will begin its formal assess-
ment in anticipation of a report to the faculty next fall
on the future of the fraternity pledgeship program.
Issues that will be considered include: increased
minimal GPA standards to pledge, academic perfor-
mance, length of the pledgeship period, promotion
of community service programs, the role of alcohol,
and the responsibility of pledges. _

A few observations about sorority pledgeship.
During the first two years of the 8-week program,
there have been no signiﬁcant violations by any
sorority. Our impression is that the sorority
pledgeship programs are reasonable and moder-
ate. Nevertheless, we are concerned about the so-

rority system’s role in the overall alcohol culture at I

Washington and Lee. Sorority members have come
to rely on the fraternities to supply alcohol and the
present BYOB policy is one-sided. The Alcohol
Task Force will address this issue.

— Courtesy of Student Aﬂair Committee letter,
edited for space

STAFF WRITER

Spears to Michael Jackson.

Sync’s proceeds.

ing,” said the
the judges.

this year,” Cox said.

said.

Fraternity and sorority pledges
hit the stage for Washington and
Lee’s 15th annual Lip Sync Friday
night. Students performed 33 acts,
lip-syncing to songs from Britney

All proceeds benefited Stu-
dents Against Rockbridge Area
Hunger, an organization that do-
nates to the Rockbridge Area Re-
lief Association, Community Share
in Buena Vista, and the Natural
Bridge/Glasgow Food Pantry. The
National Multiple Sclerosis Soci-
ety, the original philanthropy of
SARAH receives 10 percent of Lip

Last year, Lip Sync raised enough
money to purchase over 800 pounds
of food for Rockbridge County.

Entries are judged by “seven
things, including the lip sync, cho-
reography, costumes, and the tim-
chemistry
department’s Elizabeth Cox, one of

“There were a lot of good acts

“It’s fun to watch your friends go
up there and dance around,” said

“Lip Sync is a great chance to
watch people act silly,” Combrooks

   
 

ily Barnes and Mary Guy/Executive and Photo Editors

 

_ Oto. y
Now IF ONLY THEY COULD SING. (Above) Kappa Delta won first place, $100, and a pair of Fancy Dress tickets with its

 

freshman Chad Meredith. , _ _ _ _ _
SeniorManhaC0mbmOkS echoed performance of the Jackson Five hit “I Want You Back.” (Below left) “ChrIst1na Aguilera” made an appearance In
that sentiment. Kappa Alpha Theta’s pop mix, which won third place and a Fancy Dress ticket. (Bottom center) Sigma Alpha Epsilon

pledges demonstrate “interpretive dance” to the tune of “That’s Amore.” (Bottom right) Phi Kappa Psi’s Lip Sync
act was the remake of the Saturday Night Live skit “Chippendale Tryouts.” Kappa Delta, not pictured, took second
for its version of “Pour Some Sugar On Me,” winning $50 and a Fancy Dress ticket.

Humor and facts mix in
Lee Chapelpresentation
on alcohol and sex

By Matt McDermott

‘ NEWS EDITOR

Sex and alcohol are a dan-
gerous cocktail, said Linda
Hancock, “seeker of truth” and
nurse from Virginia Common-
wealth University.

“Love ‘n’ Liquor,”
Hancock’s presentation, was
delivered last Thursday night
to a large number of students
and faculty.

“She spoke about contra-
ception, the value of absti-
nence, STDs, beer goggles, and
clouded judgment,” said Uni-

versity Health Educator Jan.

Kaufman.
“And she did it in only an

hour,” Kaufman added.

Hancock met with cam-
pus health officials before-
hand to pick up data on

W&L’s alcohol use.

“She incorporated it into her
presentation,” Kaufman said.

Hancock’s program also in-
cluded information on
a1cohol’s detrimental effects
on sex drive, conditions of
consent, and applicable rape
laws;

One of the most popular
segments ’ of her presentation
was the “Bachelor Dating
Game,” where the fictitious
sexual histories, and attendant
STD risk, of three male stu-
dents were compared.

“I enjoyed the presenta-
tion,” Director of Athletics
Michael Walsh said. “I thought
the subject matter was very
pertinent to our campus and
some of the issues we are deal-
ing with campus-wide.”

SEE ‘LOVE,’ PAGE 2

(J11: ‘ﬂing-tunt iﬁhi

January 29, 2001

 

    
 
  

Fury  _ FL: :
America’s newes otball
league is fantasti f you

like cheerleai s

   

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 29, 2001

Students shake booty to combat hunger

By Jonathan Wortham

 

PAGE 2

 ' Ellie Tiling-tum iﬂlit

 

JANUARY 29, 2001

Hypnotist mesmerizes W&L students ~

Katie Howell

STA FF WRITER

The Student Activities Board hosted hypno-
tist Tom DeLuca Thursday, Jan. 25, in Doremus
gymnasium. DeLuca hypnotized over 20 Wash-
ington and Lee students and community members,
coaxing them to participate in actions like thinking
their shoes were on the wrong feet, not being able
to say their own names and thinking they were on
stage in their underwear.

DeLuca, who has performed on all major net-
works and appeared in People Magazine, Rolling
Stone and the Wall Street Journal, learned his trade
while working for a psychologist. The psycholo-
gist taught DeLuca to hypnotize people to con-
vince them to quit smoking. Since then, DeLuca
has taken his act across the country. He has per-
formed at W&L several times before.

“It’s fun to perform here [at W&L] because it’s
good when the students really get into it,” DeLuca
said. “There are some really smart students here,
and they are more creative, which makes the show
more interesting.”

DeLuca started his show with two tricks and
then moved into the actual hypnotizing. He called
on volunteers from the audience to join him on stage.
After more than ﬁve minutes of talking and coaxing
them, the group seemed to be asleep on stage.

“It was a really drearn—like situation,” said fresh-

KING or THE APES. A W&L student, under the inﬂuence of DeLuca, acts like Tarzan.

man Erin Johnson, who was hypnotized. “When I
was up there it didn’t seem real, more like a dream,
and when I woke up, I felt like I had taken a long
nap.”

DeLuca then convinced his subjects to partake
in dozens of activities, sometimes involving the
whole group and other times involving only a few
individual students.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

“I try to bring up contemporary issues in my
show to see how the students react in different
ways,” DeLuca said. “I like to use both large and
small groups [in my scenes].”

“Tom DeLuca has a great show,” said Lauren
Ivanick, an SAB officer. “People really enjoy it, and
he is always one of our biggest acts. People always
come out.”

Live Drive

(10 pm to at least 2 am)

Will drive reasonable distances on Fridays
and Saturdays

call 460-3054 or 460-3055

Safe Rides

(10 pm to approximately 3 am
on Fridays and Saturdays)

Vans are driven by paid coaches around
Lexington only — Davidson Park, Red Square,
Campus, East Lex (Windfall, Pole House area),

and Lenfest road.

Safe Rides will not drive people to their homes
in the country. If you need to get somewhere on
their route, this is fine — it’s like a bus system.

Thisservioewillcontinuetotheendoftheschoolyear.

Y.

information courtesy of Beth Meyers P

    
  

I E-‘mail General Ntges
toip @wlu.edu Ill»

Maury River Alliance calls

for new volunteers

The MRA will present the results of sam-
pling on the Maury River and on Woods
Creek/Sarahs Run in the City of Lexington.
Citizen monitors have been testing & col-
lecting water at 18 sites since late August
and have some initial trends to share with
our volunteers and the general public. MRA
will also demonstrate the need for additional
monitoring locations throughout the county.

MRA seeks community input and needs
volunteer water monitors. Local and state
government officials will also attend to speak

   

about the need for volunteer monitoring and
how the results are used by state agencies.
Question and answer period will follow.
Refreshments provided. For more informa-
tion, contact Tom Kastner 261- 1221
(cedarhi11@rockbridge.net).

Heather Ross Miller to give

lecture and reading
Heather Ross Miller, the Thomas H.
Broadus Jr. Professor of English at Washing-
ton and Lee University, will present an inau-
gural lecture on Tuesday, Jan. 30 at 7 p.m. in
Leybum Librar"y'sNorthen Auditorium. In-
augural lectures are presented by recently
endowed professors at the University.
Miller's lecture is titled "The Writer and
the Place," and she will read excerpts from her
most recent work, both ﬁction and memoir.
Miller is the author of Crus0e’s Island: A Story
ofa Writerand a Place (Coastal Carolina Press).

 

‘LOVE

Walsh administers the
David Thompson Endow-
ment fund, which sponsored

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

SPEAKER. Linda.Hancock
. talks in Lee Chapel.

FROM PAGE 1
the event. Dean of Students
David Howison, Head La-
crosse Coach Jim Stagnitta,
Head Athletic Trainer Tom
Jones, and University Phy-
sician Jane Horton are also
on the committee.

The David Thompson En-
dowment Fund supports stu-
dent health education pro-
grams, particularly those that
address student athlete issues.

It memorializes David Th-
ompson, a ‘‘well-respected
student and a ﬁne lacrosse
player,” said Walsh. Thomp-
son was killed his senior year

in a Jan. 1996 automobile ac-’ ’ "

cident.

{There's never been a better time to buildyour career with us}

This presents new and exciting challenges for
our employees, with ever expanding career
options. There has never been a better time
to be part of our dynamic global force as we

bring innovations to improve the way the
world works and lives.

For those who want to create the future.
now is the time to be at Accenture.

\

We've done more than just change
our name. At Accenture we're building a
completely new network of businesses that
will influence the shape of the new economy.

Check out our Webcast - premiering on Thursday, February 1 (1 :00 p.m. EST, 12:00 pm. CST, 11:00 a.m. MST, 10:00 a.m. PST) - for information on our
new name and new opportunities. it's an interactive experience and career opportunity you won't want to miss. *

Register for the Webcast at: careers.accenture.comIwebcasts

0 Consulting 0 Technology 0 Outsourcing 0 Alliances 0 Venture Capital   ‘

Accenture was formerly known as Andersen Consulting 5 5 it

 

 

 

JANUARY 29, 2001

OPINION

Once the oldest child, always

The moral of this story: to all of you out there who have
an older brother or sister, you owe them props. Big time.

You will never know how much they paved that paren-
tal road for you. They broke your parents in, and as a
result, you end up with the freedom and the privileges
that they only dreamed of having.

Trust me, I know this. I have been victimized by oldest-
child-syndrome many a time, but I figured going to col-
lege meant that I hit the turning point. I thought that I had
beaten it, that I had survived through my years of being
“parented” as only an oldest child can be. Then I went
home for

Christmas. i . .

Okay, for F9rec11trveEd1tor
those of you . ,
who know me’ Fmily Barnes 01
you know that

the bane of my existence right now is the fact that I have
no car. I live on Ross Road, about two miles outside of
Lexington. It takes me half an hour to walk to town. I
depend on my fabulously-accomodating roommates for
rides. Two weeks ago, I was too sick to walk and the rest
of my roommates had already left for the day, sol called a
cab and paid $5 for a ride to the Hill. (But Emily, youtrnay
ask, why would you choose to live so far away from town
with no car? Long story. Let’s just say I didn’t incorporate
this whole newspaper-editor-deal into my original senior
year plan. Needless to say, I spend more hours on campus
than one could possibly imagine, but I digress. . . )

Back to the trip home. Okay, I stayed in Washington,
D.C. all summer andl didn’t go home for Thanksgiving break,
so it had been a long while since I’d been back to good old
Bel Air, Maryland. I rolled into the driveway for the ﬁrst time
in six months (chauffeured by my parents, of course) and
happened to notice a blue Chevrolet Cavalier convertible in
the driveway.

“Oh, whose car is that?” I ask.

“It’s uh. . . it’s Hillary’s,” they answer hesitantly ——
knowing the reaction.

Yes, my parents bought my younger sister a car. In
July. Five months and nobody told me about it.

My sister, Hillary, is 18 years old. She goes to the same
high school where my mom works everyday during nor-
mal school hours. The car sat in the driveway the entire
first week that I was home for break. She’ll probably go to
a college next year that doesn’t allow freshmen to have
cars. What the hell is going on?

How is it that my younger sister gets the car while I
spend half of my time scheduling my life around getting
rides back and forth everyday? Plus, it is most likely that I
will need a car to get to the job I will hopefully have at
some point in the near future. But all of this apparently
doesn’t compete withmy sister’s needto ﬁt.in.with the

 

Ellie ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
Matt McDermott
Max Smith
Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello
Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel
W&Lif€ Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
5110715 E45707 Jeremy Franklin
Last Word Editor Bryan Early
‘ C017)’ 5111707 Heather McDonald
Contributing Editor Michael C1-ittenden
Photo Editor Mary Guy
Staff Photographer Eric Wechtler

News Editors

Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli
Business Manager Paul Seifert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/~phi

  

 

 

 

 

A Land Rover. . wrshl thinking.

cool high school crowd. Right. That’s fair.

I was pretty upset about this twisted scenario for my
entire stay at home. I immediately called up all of my high
school friends who drove me around for two years, and
they immediately felt sorry for me, more so than ususal -
as did my college friends. Now I had truly achieved that
higher level of pathetic. We had all been fooled by my
parents. We were all under the assumption that I was
poor, and that I would have to start seriously sacriﬁcing
my Palms money to the “wishful thinking” car fund.

So why is it that my sister gets away with not ever
having to feel this anxiety? Why does she have what I
consider at my wise old age of 22 to be the ultimate luxury
of wheels? I do know one thing. . . it ’s not fair!!! I

But, then I realized, it’s deﬁnitely not fair, but I can’t do
a damn thing about it. I’m the oldest child, therefore I get
screwed. That’s just the way it is. I endured those years
of car—less-ness so that, by the time my younger sister
got to driving age, my parents didn’t want to _deal with the
whole sad-because—no-car—guilt-trip routine. I wore them
out, and my sister reaps the beneﬁts.

It sucks, and I just have to deal. That’s it.

So, oldest children out there, maybe your story isn’t
as miserable as this, but you know what I’m saying. And

Contemporary Leaders
modernize their crusade

In the prelude to Black History Month, it seems appro-
priate to take a look at the African Americans who helped
shape America. When one thinks of African American I-lis-
tory, one cannot help but to think of Dr. Martin Luther
King. It is through his policy of passive resistance that his
followers were able to lead the Civil Rights movement from
its infancy to its successes. Dr. King’s policy of passive
resistance effectively secured many of the rights that were
guaranteed to black Americans

the oldest child

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Edior

we probably will never get a thar1k—you from our seem-
ingly over—1oved younger siblings, but we know in our
hearts that we totally deserve one, and without us, they
would be nothing.

So, little sis, even though you tell our parents you’ll be
home “later” on a Friday night when I had to be home at
11:00 at your age, I wouldn’t trade my oldest-sisterhood
for anything. (Notice that I’m trying hard to not be entirely
bitter throughout this article.)

As I struggled through our then—rookie parents’ attempt
to do their job, I realized that this whole experience" is just
one of those “tough love” things, and that I would never
take for granted my freedom once I ﬁnally had it. And, by
this most recent experience, I still see my own advantage in
the long run: I realize that the car keys aren’t always
handed to you. Sometimes you have to work for some-
thing to get it, and as a result you appreciate the gain. I
think only the oldest child truly understands this.

So, to anyone that’s ever given me a ride home, you rock,
and I urge you to contact my mom to request the dollar
amount in gas money you feel you’re owed for providing
taxi services. Seriously. I’ll give you her email address.

Just because I’ve “risen above”«the situation doesn’t
mean I’m going to let my family forget about it. Ever.

The legacy of Dr. King survives

ment did much to improve the circumstance of minorities
in America, much more needs to be done before the ideal
of equal rights for all can be achieved. Contrary to what
Mr. Kirwan says, contemporary leaders such as Rev. Jesse
Jackson do no more to campaign for their causes than do
many of the nation’s lobbyists, business leaders, and even
church leaders. By claiming that the NAACP and the PUSH
coalition are simply “lapdogs for the Democratic Party,”
Mr. Kirwan has thoroughly missed the point of what these
groups are trying to accomplish. He has pointed out noth-
ing more than the fact that many African Americans tend
to vote democratic. The fact is that many of the goals of
the NAACP are concurrent with the Democratic Party’s

platform. For example, the Republican

through the Constitution.
One prime example of the effec-
tiveness of Dr. King’s methods lies

 party supports private school vouch-

ers, while the Democratic Party supports
using tax money to improve our inner

in Rosa Parks’s refusal to give up
her seat in the front of the bus, thus touching off the
Montgomery (not Birmingham, as suggested by Mr.
Kirwan) bus boycotts. Being very astute to the laws of
supply and demand, the bus company realized that a large
portion of the population walking to work did not help
them make a proﬁt. Thus, they ﬁnally gave blacks the
right to ride anywhere on the buses.

King’s leadership through organization of the South-
ern Christian Leadership conference and his organization
of the 1963 Civil Rights March on Washington generated
sympathy from all Americans, thus pushing the Civil
Rights movement into high gear. His nonviolent opposi-
tion to the status quo quickly forced lawmakers and citi-
zens alike to recognize Americas minorities. No longer
were these people a group of disjointed individuals. They
were now a solid unit, non-violently ﬁghting in the spirit of
the American Way. Dr. King was committed to attaining
the ideals upon which our great country was founded. Tragi-
cally, Dr. King was assassinated in Memphis, TN after trav-
elling there to support a strike by sanitation workers.

Although Dr. King’s work during the Civil Rights Move-

 

 

city schools (where a considerable per-
centage of the nation’s African American population re-
sides). Is it wrong for them to vote for whom they think
will make their lives better?

Mr. Kirwan’s article simply underscores the fact that
we all need to work to understand those of different cul-
tures so that we can realize our forefathers’ dream of a
“United States of America.”

uote of the week:

(C

All of these people look way
too sober to be doing this.

— Anonymous senior
watching Lip Sync

77

  

  
  

V __ y Cisti Metzer

 

“That the KD’s got ﬁrst and
second.”
- Joy Whitehead ’04

“It ended.”
—Caleb Dulis ‘04

“The Chi O’s were the best.”
— Laura Drewicz ’04

5 “Seeing my brothers make
Annual subsription rate: $30 asses of themselves”
— Josh Comthwaite ’04

 

 

PAGE 4

  8 IE: {King-tum iﬂlii

JANUARY 29, 2001

 

Gallery masked by new exhibit

By Emily Barnes

EXECUTIVE EDITOR

The spirits of African Headdresses: Masks, Crests, and
Helmets have taken over duPont.

More than 200 African masks currently on display in
the duPont Gallery are only a fraction of Tom McNemar’s
collection of African artifacts, which exceeds 2000 pieces.

McNemar began collecting African art in 1960, after mu-
seum exhibits and African art collectors sparked his interest.

“I was living in London in the 50s and I saw the art
exhibits at the British museum,” McNemar said. “I met col-
lectors of African art in London. . . in 1959-60, I went to
Africa, just on a trip. In Africa, I met a group of French
people who" were supplying African art to the various Eu-
ropean museums. . . and I decided to stay there for a while
and see if I could collect some pieces. That stay extended
to about 15 years.”

During the stay, McNemar aquired the bulk of his per-
sonal collection. His ﬁrst contribution to a major museum
was to the then-new Museum of African Art in Washing-
ton, D.C., in 1963. He said his desire to exhibit the art was a
product of the collecting experience.

“In interesting myself with the art and meeting collec-
tors, I found that I could add things to existing collections,
and I also found that I could create whole collections, which
I did and parenthetically which I’m still doing,” he said.
McNemar said that the appeal of African art, especially

   
   

Hm,-0

photo by Emily Bames/Executive Editor

Reviews you can use:     

Continental cuisine is order of the day

that of the human ﬁgure and face, is in the way the artist
creatively interprets a form that is universally understood.
The viewer is given the chance to see the form in a new
way, and, as McNemar said about his own viewing of the
art, to see itin a new way every time.

“It’s continually evolving. It seems that, not only do
I see it differently, but I keep seeing new things. There’s
a kind of universality that runs through all primitive art,
and, once I began to see this universality, it became more
and more fascinating,” he said. “When you start looking
at it, then you realize that you’re dealing with something
that’s absolutely endless in the artist’s ability to create.”

The masks on display in duPont show many artistic
interpretations of the face. McNemar said that, in addition
to their artistic merits, the masks have a history to them
because they were originally worn by participants of spiri-
tual rituals. He said that the spirituality of the ritual is main-
tainedin the mask itself. He said that there is universal
understanding of the mask as something magical.

“In any culture, the appeal of the mask is that, as soon
as you put on the mask, you lose your own identity or
your identity is totally camoﬂaged from the world,” he
said. “Then you begin to get into another character, and
with these African masks, you get into not just another
character, but another being.”

The artist used the colors red, white, and blue to at-
tract the spirit into the mask. To make the mask beautiful,
the artist added a variety of materials such as shells and
feathers to a wood, clay, hammered iron, cast bronze, or
aluminum base. The result is what McNemar said is the
determining factor to his buying the mask: the combina-
tion of beauty and spirituality.

Studio Art Professor Larry Stene said that the exhibit
is effective in both its size and subject.

“It overloads the senses,” Stene said.

Senior Katy Gieselman said she enjoyed painting the
masks for a class.

“It’s fun to paint them,” Gieselman said. “They are
different from any subject we’ve ever ha .”

A reception will be held Feb. 2 at 5 :30 p.m. The exhibit
will be on display until Feb. 28.

Elephant Man to

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee students will perform Bernard
Pomerance’s play The Elephant Man beginning Feb 9.

The play stars junior Micah Tolman as John Merrick,
a crippled and deformed man living in late Victorian En-
gland. He was called “The Elephant Man” because one
of his arms was overgrown and resembled an elephant’s
trunk . Tolman said portraying Merrick’s deformities is
the most difficult part of the role.

“It’s almost like ﬁghting against yourself,” Tolman said.

Senior Francis McWilliarns plays Dr. Frederick Treves,

Alix Warren C02) is startled by elephant man Micahffoan ( 02) mime Elephant Man.

open in February 9»,

the surgeon who discovers Merrick perfomiing in a freak
show. Treves takes Merrick to live at his hospital and
introduces Merrick to Mrs. Kendall. played by junior 
Alix Warren, and other members of London society. Pro— ’
fessor Joseph Martinez, the play’s director, said he chose , 1‘
the play because it portrays how people judge others
from their appearance.

“[The play‘s_] perfect because it’s about someone
who’s disgusting on the outside, but has the soul of a
poet,” Martinez said.

Performance dates are Feb. I0, 12, and 13 at 8 p.m.
and Feb 1 I at 2 p.m. in the Johnson Theater of the Lenfest
Center.



 

Man of the people reviews food with an

 


~§T§:ZiAK$

eye toward the average diner

H

for savvy, sophisticated epicure

bite, I noted how the sandwich ap-

By Matthew McDerrnott

NEWS EDITOR

I spent a pleasant evening dining
at City Subs & Steaks, a downtown
Lexington restaurant on Main Street
that rubs shoulders with the military
recruiting office under the disapprov-
ing glare of the new courthouse.

The restaurant specializes in food
anglais — straightforward submarine
and steak sandwiches that hint at the
South Jersey heritage of the head chef.

Tables are covered with stain—proof
sheets of red-checked plastic, which
casually complement the borders of the
scattered Budweiser posters. Meals
are taken in a dramatically rectangular
room that channels the ambiance and
emphasizes the linear progress of drink,
sandwich, and ice cream that a true City
meal must follow.

Though Budweiser was the
boisson de choix for my fellow pa-
trons, I elected a glass of Pepsi in-
stead (City is a Pepsi shop). Due to
its availability on campus, I normally
avoid taking table-coke with my meal;
the inviting aroma of my steak, how-
ever, demanded nothing else.

I ordered a “Mexican” steak with
extra habanero peppers. Some fellow
epicureans have been so unkind as
to intimate that those readers not hail-

sandwich is

mg from Texas or South Louisiana
should stick to jalapenos, if they can
stomach peppers at all.
Theentreewas servedina‘ at,”a
plastic mesh contrivance that holds the
steak sandwich without allowing proud
gravitytodistortits delicately rnoldedpio-
portions. As the
steak is cooked on
a grill-top, the

served au jus.

    

H

By Mike George

STA FF WRITER

City Subs & Steaks may be one of the
few undiscovered highlights in the city of
Lexington Providing an urban atmosphere
of good food and friendly people, City

‘ ' Steaks isadeﬁnite
destination for a
gathering of
friends. City Steaks
is public enough

'Ihoseof you look- for a ﬁrst date, but
ing for a course quiet enough tobe
maigie should be  if you go
warned that low— attheright time.
fat food is not a It’s the type of
house specialty. place that’s per-
Though the feet for groups.
sous chef rnis- Tucked away
charged me at along Main Street,
ﬁrst, I found the City Steaks is
serviceamiable. within walking
A last word: distance of carn-

The ice cream (served a la carte, and
in one size) is fantastically priced. Go
there for the ice cream, if for no other
reason. Five scoops for under $2 —
andthiswasbefoielrevealedthatlwasa
prariiergunrnetrevieweroftheGreataIex-
ington Area.

My sandwich, attendant chips,
large drink, and ice cream cost under

$10.

Mm‘

 
l
I

pus. It tries to emphasize substance over
ﬂash. An old TV was playing one of my
favorite episodes of Star Trek, and I kept
looking back to watch as I reﬂected on
the simplicity of my surroundings.

I ordered a cheesesteak, standard
fare for this restaurant. I ‘ordered my
sandwich with mushrooms, but a wide
variety of toppings can be added at
your discretion. When I took my ﬁrst

WANTED:

Summer Scholars
Counselors

June 27 - July 28, 2001

Are you looking for a great chance to be a mentor and to experience
working with high school students while staying at W&L for the month of
July? The Washington and Lee Summer Scholars Porgram is an exciting

four week academic program for approximately 150 rising high school
seniors. We are looking for responsible students to help guide
participants and to plan extracurricular activites such as talent shows,
lip syncs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen and more.

peared to have a particular melding
of ﬂavors. A mixture of cheese and
mayonnaise tastes especially amaz-
ing. The steak itself has a particular
rich ﬂavor due to its preparation on
an open griddle. Served alongside are
standard potato chips, which were a
bit on the salty side, but a nice ac-
companiment to the steak.

Along with my meal, I picked up
an order of cheese fries. Accordion
fries come buried under a rich supply
of ﬂavorful nacho cheese. The com-
bination made for a fantastic addition.
For dessert, I had a heaping scoop of
butter pecan ice cream. It was amaz-
ing, one of the best deals for ice cream
‘..have seen in years. My bill for a
sandwich, unlimited refills of Pepsi, a
side of cheese fries, and a bowl of ice
cream was under $10.

I was impressed by the amount of
beer paraphernalia that filled the room.
The owners definitely know their cus-
tomer base. City Steaks advertises
pitchers of Bud Light for $2.50 on
Thursday nights, and drafts for $0.50.

Overall, I had a wonderful time and
a wonderful meal. I recommend City
Subs & Steaks for anyone who just
wants to have a good meal in a casual
place. Go with your friends some time,
it’s worth it.

Elephant  
    M an



    E*“‘5{i‘l is

I  .4

at UM :-—;‘i:;\.

F  DIRECTED BY
J.D..   T

. .3
pl
1
V
I
l
i
?
‘I’

12 82: 13, 2001- eP.M. 
; FEB. 11; :e2P-M.  
I JOHNSON THEATRE-LEN}_FE7s—-ii  , 

Tickets and Information '4 5l4(li/4603-8000

g   y 0 FEB. 9, 10,
For further information and to obtain applications, please contact -_’  ' t « I 9 - ‘ E
Jennifer Lotts, Summer Scholars, Hill House at 463-8722. ‘ E ‘ ' '

The deadline for turning in applications is February 27, 2001.

 

y JANUARY 29, 2001

Siiﬁﬁrs  

PAGE 5

Women drop pair

of ODAC games at
home, rebound on

Saturday outside

I of conference play

By Dave Crowell

,- SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team started the
week slowly, losing a pair of close

. gzlnes in Old Dominion Athletic

Conference play, before snapping a
six-game losing streak with a non-
conference victory over Villa Julie
oil Saturday afternoon.

On Tuesday, the Generals were
never able to recover from an early
13-point deﬁcit, as Guilford defeated

. W&L 70-54 in conference play.

Gi1ilford’s lead stood at 34-27 at half-

. time, and the Generals never came

closer than fivelpoints during the

second half.

{Junior Jessica Mentz led the team
in scoring with 22 points while shoot-

Men’s,women’s swim teams have

By Geoff White

ing 7—of-15 from the ﬁeld. Junior cen-
ter Megan Babst accumulated her
10th double-double of the season,
scoring 21 points and collecting 14
rebounds.

The key for Guilford was the forc-
ing of 26 W&L turnovers, which
helped ensure the victory.

The Generals returned to action on
Friday with an up-and—down loss to
Bridgewater, 63-52.

W&L jumped out to an early 20-9
lead over the first 11:35 of the game.
During the final 10 minutes of the half,
however, Bridgewater dominated the
court, ending with an 18-2 run and a
27-22 halftime lead.

The Generals managed to close
the gap to three points, but clutch
shots by Bridgewater, including three
treys, ended any remaining W&L
hopes.

Mentz led the team with 19 points
while also garnering eight boards.
Babst earned yet another double-
double with 14 points and 12 re-
bounds, and junior guard Carter
Thomas tied a school record with
10 assists.

“We have spurts of intensity,”
coach Janet Hollack said about her

Generals bounce back against Villa J

team’s consistency. “We must play for
40 minutes in order to win ballgames.”

The Generals returned to action on
Saturday with plenty of intensity,
mauling non-conference opponent
Villa Julie 71-39 and improving their
record to 6-1 1.

W&L used an aggressive defense
and a barrage of transition baskets in
order to build an insurmountable 36-
15 halftime lead. The Generals held
Villa Julie to 30 percent shooting from
the ﬁeld and forced 20 turnovers on
the day.

Mentz led the team with 29 points,
including 13-of- 16 shooting from the
free throw line, and added 11 re-
bounds to pace the Generals.

“We realize the importance of free
throws and have been very success-
ful at the line,’’ Hollack said.

The Generals continued their ha-
rassing defense in the second half to
solidify a 32-point victory, perhaps
gaininglmomentum for the end of the
season.

“This win is a big step for us after
the skid,” Hollack said.

The Generals return to ODAC play
with a Wednesday night game at
Guilford.

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s swimming team im-
proved to 8-2 while the women won two out of three to
move their record up to 5-7 over the weekend.

The women’s squad went into action Friday, beating

    

’ Hettermar1n’s layup with 16 seconds remaining. The bas-
I ket put W&L up 46-45, and senior Will Ballard’s free throw
‘ with two seconds left sealed the victory.

J run to take a 15-11 lead. The Maroons would not trail the

 P lena (133 pounds) and freshman
5’ Steve Saks (157) also recorded victo-

Randolph-Macon 1 14-87. Sophomore Blair Huffman con-
tinued to lead her team with wins in the 200-yard indi-
vidual medley, 100—yard butterﬂy, and the 100-yard breast-
stroke. Sophomore Kelli Austin also helped the team with
wins in the 100 and 200-yard freestyle events.

Classmate Michelle Moore won the 50-yard freestyle
event with a time of 25.57 seconds. Both teams were on
the road for two meets in one day on Saturday. First, both
teams handily defeated Marymount in Arlington. The men

- won 141-34, and the women took a 106-58 decision.

Freshman Jonathan James led the men’s squad with

ﬁrst-place ﬁnishes in the 100 and 200-yard freestyle events,

W&L tops Emory and He

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR . I I  

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor‘
BREATH or FREsHA.I.R.. Sophomore Blair Huffman...
competes in a breaststroke event in W&L’s
114-87 win over Randolph-Macon on Friday.

‘ The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team gar-
nered its third win of the season against Emory and
Henry on Wednesday before falling to Roanoke on
Saturday night.

‘ The Generals (3-15, 3-10 Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference) edged the Wasps on sophomore Scott

ll Although W&L shot 32 percent from the ﬁeld for the
contest, the Generals accounted for the poor percentage
by sinking 16 of their 24 free throw attempts. Senior Chad
Braley scored a game—high 13 points for W&L, Ballard
ﬁpished with 1 1 and Hettermann tallied eight for the game.

Despite snapping a four-game losing streak against
the Wasps, the Generals could not retain their momentum
against Roanoke, dropping a 75-61 decision at the home

nry, falls on road to Roanoke

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

ulie

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
LONG JUMPER. Freshman Helen Hughes fires
up a shot against Villa Julie on Saturday.

successful week

and his time of 1:49.84 in the 200 was a meet record. Class-
mate Colin Mitchell took ﬁrst place in the 100-yard back-
stroke with a meet-record time of 57.00 seconds.

Austin won the l00ya1d freestyle, and freshman Jackie Green
won the 500-yard freestyle to help the women win the meet.

Both teams then traveled to Fredericksburg for a meet
against Mary Washington College. The men won by a
score of 110.5 to 94.5, but the women fell 105-75.

Integral to the men’s win were seniors Mike Miraglia and
Colin Hayes. Hayes set a meet record with a tie in the 100-
yard butterﬂy at a time of 52.37 seconds. Miraglia set a meet
record with a time of 1 201.93 in the 100-yard breaststroke.

Mitchell also set a meet record with a time of 55.94 in
the 100-yard backstroke. .

Austin and Huffman once again led their squads with
wins in the 100 and 500-yard freestyle, respectively.

The women will face Radford and Hollins in Radford
on Thursday, while the men will next compete in the Grove
City Invitational in Pennsylvania on Thursday, Feb. 15.

of the Maroons.
X W&L stormed out to a 10-2 lead just over three min-
utes into the contest, but Roanoke answered with a 13-1

contest again.
X Roanoke converted 26 of their 46 ﬁeld goal opportuni-

Road less than fiendly to Genrals

Grapplers travel
north for Ursinus
Quadrangular, fall
in two matches

  

By Jeremy Franklin

V SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee wres-
tling team traveled to Collegeville,
P ., on Saturday for the Ursinus
Qiiadrangular.

The Generals had little luck on the
road, falling to Ursinus 32-9 and West-
em Maryland 3449 in Centennial Con-
fetence action.

Junior Ezra Morse improved to 14-
1 on the year in the meet, recording a
win in the 197-pound weight class
a ainst Ursinus. Sophomore John

Rm-mm Phi File Phot
CAPTURED. Freshman Steve Saks wrestles in the Jan. 20 W&L
Invitational. Saks won his match against Ursinus in the 157-
pound class on Saturday, but W&L lost the match, 32-9.

recorded a pin‘ for six of the Generals’
points against Western Maryland,
and senior John Sensing won his
match in the heavyweight class.

The Generals (3-5-1, 1-3 Centen-
nial) travel to Buena Vista for a 7:30
p.m. match against Southern Virginia
on Wednesday.

ries for W&L in the opening match.
Freshman 141-pounder Cory Little

‘W

I

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
RUNNING THE OFFENSE. Senior guard Will Ballard handles the ball just across halfcourt in the
Generals’ 47-45 win over Emory and Henry in the Warner Center on Wednesday.
ties and turned the ball over just 14 times.

Hettermann, Ballard and Braley led the Generals with
12 points apiece, and junior Bob Bustamante contributed

11 points.
The Generals meet Emory and Henry again on Wednes-
day, this time in a 7 p.m. road game.

Starting next week on
the sport pages of the

Ring-tum Phi...
W&L Spring Sports
Previews

 
 

WATERLOO HOUSES FORRENT
. 10 student apartments
available June 1, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enioy country living at its finest.
Just ten miles west of W&L

on Waterloo Drive.
Please call Tim Wilhelm

T?

.u_

ff

, .. - n - ~ » . . .
-.~.‘:.,..,..‘a‘... .. Jo .. .. . .. .2 .3‘

 

 

PAGE 6

Almost enough to
make you worry
about America’s youth

L Wm Mglmm W 
 ‘  . JANUARY 29, 200li

God bless M. Clnon

After the fanfare of W’s Administration fades and the .

public tires of the self—congratulatory, conciliatory rheto-
ric of the Republican party, people are going to wake-up
and realize that Clinton was a spectacular president.

He simultaneously helped restore the economy, sup-
port the fast-food industry, re—popularize cigars, revitalize
the Religious Right, and balance the budget. One should
not forget that he did it all with Congress and the media
fighting him at every juncture.

No other president, other than Reagan, was able to
withstand the adversity that surrounded of his adminis-
tration. Both presidents were media savvy, but Clinton
was still twice the president that Reagan ever was.

Reagan was the president responsible for the fall of the
Soviet Union, but giving him sole credit for the defeat of
Communism is equivalent to saying Geri Halliwell was the
only reason the Spice Girls were ever popular. Yes, she
was the best looking while doing the song and dance, but
without the rest of the group . . . well, just look at the
success of her solo career. V

Reagan was in the right place, at the right time, to har-
vest the fruits Truman, Eisenhower, and Kennedy had
planted. Reagan was a great man, but an average presi-
dent. Clinton was a remarkable man, and a great president.

The greatest part of the Clinton Presidency is how he
played our country with an impresario’s deft touch on a
violin. The American public fell in love with him and had
high approval ratings throughout his terms. Almost with-
out fail, he did what most of the country wanted him to do
or needed him to do, but always in such a way that contro-
versy existed either from a former sexual partner, a bitter
Republican, a shocked religious leader, or a media pundit

As much as the right—wing hated Clinton, he is largely
responsible for the rise of Jerry Falwell, Pat Robertson,
Bob Novak, and Orrin Hatch. Clinton became the focus of
the staged moral crisis that catapulted them into power. It
is incredibly easy to solve problems that do not exist.
Men like Joseph McCarthy, Kenneth Starr, and George
Wallace will always be there to attempt to pull themselves
up at the expense of others.

Clinton’s gregarious personality managed to be both
the cause and solution to nearly all of his presidency’s
problems. While his wandering hands, eyes, and libido
may have caused his problems, it is that very same per-
sona that induced a majority of women to support him
throughout his presidency. It is also that charming, en-
gaging personality that insulated him from the attacks of
his enemies — Starr never had a chance. For some reason
whiny, 50-year-olds with comb~overs don’t have the char-
ismatic appeal they once held.

Clinton was remarkable because he not only weathered

sponsored by:

w\\'\\'.\\'hile|muxe.go\'

his opponents’ attacks, but soundly defeated them.

Clinton’s approval rating hovered around 60 percent
throughout the trials and tribulations of his second term.
The Religious Right, which had clawed its way into power
through bold, deploring declarations calling for his impeach-
ment, imprisonment, and/or head on a stake, suddenly
found itself ranting and raving to an audience that was no
longer listening.

With a contrite apology, an emphatic hand gesture,
and a prosperous economy he managed to overcome quite
possibly the greatest smear campaign ever launched in
human history.

Americans love scandals, but they love success even
more. In Clinton, America found the perfect president be-
cause he provided both entertainment and prosperity.

What the media and his political opponents seem to
have forgotten, is that we don’t need the president to
instill morals in our children. We need the president to
safeguard our lives and liberties, and to help make us
prosperous.

President William Jefferson Clinton succeeded nobly.
Plus, his people stole all of the w’s from the White House
computers, which is pretty damn funny.

x

Office of Health Promotion and Substance Abusei.Prevention

Based on .W&L‘lCORE Surve ‘data ‘from 1999

 2o0o

Ltlygllulul

 

’ ‘i

Nation shares collective laugh at California 

Five years ago, California made the groundbreaking decision to deregulate its power suppliers from price controls—./
Being ever mindful of the consumer, however, the legislature decided that it wouldn’t be a good idea to deregulate the;
power distributors. While I don’t claim to be an economics whiz, even I can see that there’s a plethora of problems’;
associated with such a creative fonn of deregulation. As we’ve all learned from the Microsoft anti-trust suit, consumetisl
need to have competition in their choice of products/services, without regards to cost, convenience, and/or absurdityij
Thus, the visionaries in California decided that if the various suppliers of energy could compete to sell power to the;
various distributors, the prices would drop, as happened with long—distance phone service. The suppliers, being the‘
wily electrical entrepreneurs that they are, ﬁgured out a nifty little scheme. Since, the distributors couldn’t pass along;
any of the cost to the consumers, who actually purchase the power, and they were mandated to sell power to the‘;
consumers, the suppliers could pretty much charge whatever they wanted. 

Up until recently, this wasn’t an issue because enough power existed that the suppliers were forced into competiy
tion. But due to the rise of the Silicon Valley, revitalization of the San Fransicso Metroplex, and re-settling of Southern.
California by most of Mexico, California is just wee bit short on electrical goodness. if

Packer in trouble for packing 

Ex-tight end for the Green Bay Packers and three—time Pro Bowler Mark Chmura was in court ealier this week,
charged with one count of second—degree sexual assualt and one count of fourth—degree sexual assualt. While attentﬂl
ing his children’s babysitter’s prom party, Chmura allegedly forced sexual activity on her in a bathroom.

One is left to wonder, what the hell was he thinking? He’s a star athlete with several million dollars in the bank and
he’s hanging out at a prom party, making amorous advances at his babysitter in a bathroom? Now, he’s facing up to 30_
years in jail. It reminds one of a rather amusing football anecdote: Have you ever heard the one about the football play?
who went into prison a tight-end, but came out a wide-receiver? If not, you soon just may. 

I

West-Wing womped with wack1ness-

When W and his staff assumed control of the White House earlier this week, they were not so pleasantly supriseglp

to find out that the former employees of Clinton and Gore had been busy before they left. Those crazy office kooks had

reportedly plundered all of the w’s from the White House and the Executive Office Building computers, thus making it

all but impossible for Bush staffers to distinguish W from his father in press reports. Other hijinks include ﬁle cabinets

being glued shut and pornographic materials clogging the Executive Printing Server. The office staffers were not

completely petty — they were kind enough to help President Bush get accustomed to his new home with helpful sigimr
indicating such important places as the “Strategerie Room.”

SEIIIORS: WHA'|' KIIIO OF SUMMER JOB WOI||.O YOII LIKE
BEFORE YOU GO"I'O WORK III THE “REAL WORLD?” W

A job where you can make a lot of money?
OR
Would you prefer a job that gives you training in personal success, where you >1
can have fun in a stimulating and family-like atmosphere, make a good income,
and spend the summer in the mountains of Wyoming?

Check out our staff web site at www.coolworks.com/abara . ‘:5
Or call us at 303-838-1950 to set up an interview.

18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464-4483

A

  THE PLACE roe FOOD AND rum !

LADIES AND GENTLEMAN : SOME
OF THE FUTURE LEADERS OF
AMERICA HAVE CHOSEN TO SPEND
    CS Oasis,
BECAUSE _I_I _I_S_ THE PLACE TO MEET,
MINGLE , AND GET TO KNOW THE
  PERSON OF THEIR CHOICE.
SOMETIMES SIMPLE LOGIC DOES
BEAT raaorrrom.

 

Arch

9 3.7% . 755
R551

V. I03

tr’. Ir’) . :4?

C v 2.

VOLUME 103, NO. 19

C112 ilting-tum Iﬂ

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

JAMES G. LEYBURN l.lEi'¢,I"«.'r'~'."i"

  

LE~‘>«’sN«"- . VA. 24459
T; o 7 2001

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2001

I .
. . O
- - - In III 11 pl 11
Stlld€IltS dlSCllSS IIBW alcohol pOllCl€S C S10 a S
* com ‘led
New IFC and administra- P
tive proposals weighed in By Colin Harding I
, Open Ineetin I STAFF WRITER
g . The Committee for a More Inclusive Community hosted
By Michelle Lally a sctiudenttogly f0:'uttI111t0B1'6C0:l‘d cgpririiops on minority issues
STAFF WRITER an §;P° hi‘; 0 tr: Ear 0  365-h
it “ e’re O Ing s ecause, oug our committee
A student—only discussion group met in the Uriiver- has been meeting for quite sometime, we have, up until now
sity Center Wednesday night to address new regula- been doing more talking than action,”.said sophomore Will
tions to curb the alcohol culture at Washington and Lee. Teichman, one of the group leaders.
V Sophomore Will Coffman, student representative “I was pleased with the turnout,” said senior Renee

on the new W&L Alcohol Task Force, led a panel of
student leaders by directing the discussion on the new
initiatives of the Alcohol Task Force. The discussion
was Coffman’s idea to gauge student response to the

A; proposed rules. The task force intends to meet next

Sunday to create a proposal, which will be presented
to University President John Elrod on an unnamed date
within the next month. The panel included Executive
Committee President John Comly, Interfraterriity Coun-
cil President Andy Robinson, Panhellenic President
Katie Cedarholm, Student Judical Committee President
Jordan Ginsberg, Head Dorm Counselor Fred Heiser,
and Senior IFC Justice Trey Overdyke. The panel gath-

Q ered student feedback on the suggested alcohol-re-

ducing regulations that will be included in the pro-
posal.

In the 90-minute meeting, students questioned and
commented on a number of proposals. These included
expanding Live Drive, a campus-wide ban on hard alco-
hol, an automatic one-year suspension for a DUI with a
Blood Alcohol Content of .08 or higher, and the restric-
tion on using house funds to purchase alcohol.

3 Also discussed were the proposed IFC regulations,

primarily written by Sigma Nu President Matthew
Jacobs. The proposed rules include a ban on drinking
games and shots, and a 1:00 a.m. cut-off for alcohol
served at open parties.

‘ The Alcohol Task Force has worked towards re-

» Students search for next year ’s housing

A‘.

ducing alcohol consumption since its creation, shortly
after the deaths of Kristen Shelton and Adam
Burchett.

‘ More drastic measures were considered. Comly said

that after Shelton and Burchett’s fatal accident Elrod
wanted to temporarily close the fraternity houses, but
Dean of Students David Howison convinced him oth-
erwise. Howison oversees the task force, which is co-
chaired by Coffman, Physics Professor Tom Williams,
and Director of Student Health Services Dr. Jane

 

photo by Eric Wechtler/Staff Photographer

OPEN FORUM. Student government leaders facilitate conversation and answer questions
during Wednesday’s discussion on suggested changes in the W&L alcohol policy.

Horton. It also includes a law_ school student representa-
tive, law school faculty, and parents.

The IFC met earlier this week to create a proposal that
was presented to Elrod on Friday. After all presentations
are made, Elrod will decide which rules to put into effect.

Coffman said the Alcohol Task Force aims to make the
campus safer and make students more responsible with
these initiatives, but the students who attended
Wednesday’s discussion seemed skeptical.

Senior Ellie Antrim questioned if the proposed regula-
tions would push people off campus. The panel responded
they have no reason to believe that to be the case.

“Most of [these] rules have been in place for some time,
and we haven’t seen a push to the country yet,” Comly said.

When the fraternity presidents met last Monday to
create the IFC proposal, Robinson said the regulations
would not cause a drastic migration to country houses.

“We’ve been using that excuse for too long to get
away with a lot more than we should,” Robinson said.

Coffman expects to see the implementation of
these new regulations sometime within the next year.
Some changes have occurred already. Every party
must have two sober drivers wearing bright orange
shirts with “Sober Driver" written in large lettering.
Any house that fails to comply with new IFC and
university regulations will recieve ﬁnes and other
punishments. The severity of the measures has not
been determined.

Parties will be regulated by W&L security, members
of the IFC, and the officers of each house, who will
bear the brunt of responsibility if the new alcohol poli-
cies are not followed. Junior Thaxton Mauzy said the
fraternities will ultimately determine the effect of the
new regulations.

“The IFC has given us a huge responsibility to
change. .  it is our opportunity to show the administra--
tion that we can face this problem head-on and solve
it,” Mauzy said. A

BylMike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The scramble for next year’s housing con-
tinues, as university housing applications are
due on Feb. 26, and some upperclassmen still
hunt for off—campus housing.

Assistant Dean of Students for Residence
Life Courtney Penn said he encourages all
students to live in university housing for prac-
tical and social reasons.

“[Besides] staying in close proximity to carn-
pus, it builds a better community,” Penn said.

Upperclass students face several obstacles.
Because of the two-year campus residency re-
quirement, rising sophomores have the first
choice. The Housing Office will have two lot-
teries. The first, on March 7, will be for sopho-

mores, and the second, on March 9, for all other
students. The residency requirement, the lot-
tery system’s structure, and the lirriited num-
ber of spaces available Inake it difﬁcult for large
numbers of upperclassmen to live on campus.
New fraternity and sorority members who
want to live in Greek houses next year also face
limited space. For example, Kappa Alpha, who
had the second largest fraternity pledge class
this year, will require four or ﬁve sophomores
to live elsewhere. Sororities require anywhere
from four to nine officers to live in their houses,
and other spots are determined by a point—sys-
tem based on chapter involvement and GPA.
Many rising juniors and seniors decided
to find a more independent living arrangement
off—campus. Sophomore Kelli Austin and her
roommates will live at the “White House” at

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
WHITE HOUSE. A group of students will live here next year instead of on campus.

1 14 Henry St. next year, within walking distance
of campus. Austin said she decided to live in a
house instead of Gaines Hall or Woods Creek
Apartments because she wanted more freedom.

“I want to live more independently and have
some space,” Austin said.

Other students found houses close to cam-
pus. Junior Beth Collier will live on Preston
Street next year, half a mile from campus. Collier
said all of her roommates lived on campus for
three years, and wanted a change.

“We wanted to complete our W&L experi-
ence,” Collier said. A

That experience is one of Washington and
Lee’s many long-standing traditions. During
his presidency, Robert E. Lee encouraged stu-
dents to live in town to foster good relations
with the community. For over a century, stu-
dents have lived not only in town, but in in the
country as well. Sophomore Clark Griffith and
some of his fraternitybrothers will live at “The
Barn” next year. Clark said they chose the house
because of its distance away from campus and
closeness to other student houses.

“You get the social aspect of living in a
fraternity house, only with different types of
people,” Grifﬂth said.

The competition between students for off-
campus housing can be intense. Collier said
she and her friends found their house by read-
ing a campus notice in October after search-
ing for months through realtors.

“We didn’t take any chances. . . we signed
the lease that night,” she said.

Grifﬂth and his future housemates also
played tough when they had the opportunity
to sign a lease. They heard from the girls liv-
ing next door to the house that it was avail-
able. The girls then called the landlord, who
owns both houses, on Griﬁith’s behalf. Another

SEE ‘HOUSING,’ PAGE 2

Harper, president of PRIDE, a Washington and Lee di-
versity-awareness organization.

Students met in the Great Hall of the Science Cen-
ter, and later broke up into four task teams to discuss
academics, Greek life, athletics, and student associa-
tions. .

Facilitators assigned to each group led discussions,

and scribes wrote down recommendations.

Junior Justin Arnold said professors could participate
more in discussions on minority issues.

“More faculty members should be involved in student
groups because some problems could be resolved more
quickly with the help of the faculty,” said Arnold.

“I think that the Admissions [Office] needs to recruit
more home schooled students, who are an underlooked
minority,” said freshman Daniel Vos, a member of the aca-
demics task teams. “They could add new blood to the
school.”

The CIC also sponsors a web site where concerned stu-
dents can leave anonymous suggestions for the committee.

“I definitely think we had a good discussion,” said
senior Anne Hazlett, a CIC member. “And the best thing is
that it’s going to the Board of Trustees.”

 

.._. photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
WHAT DO YOU THINK? Members of the

academic task group swap proposals.

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬁlii

February 5, 2001

 

     
 

H (1 Times:

 

 

 

ASHINGTON 8: LEE UNEVEH. ii" ."

 

PAGE 2

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬁhi

NEWS

THE WORLD

 

North Texas KA’s suspended

The University of North Texas chapter of Kappa Al-
pha Order has been suspended for ﬁve years after mem-
bers allegedly used racial slurs and waved a Confederate
battle ﬂag at a group of mostly black football recruits.

UNT issued the ﬁve-year suspension, the longest
the school has ever handed out, on Friday, forcing the
fraternity to vacate the house and withdraw from uni-
versity activities. The university spokesman justified
the five-year ban, saying “ﬁve years of no activity en-
sures a whole different group.” UNT decided that KA
had violated the student code and misled the investi-
gation.

The head of the fratemity’s national ofﬁce, Larry
Wiese, told KTVT-TV in Dallas that “I think the incident
is not reﬂective of the entire chapter up there. It is cer-
tainly not reﬂective of the alumni from that chapter or
the 94,000 living alumni.” A '

The suspension comes after several questionable in-
cidents involving the chapter. In 1990, the fraternity
served probation for alcohol violations and in 1996 was
placed on probation when a notebook containing racist
comments was found in the fraternity house. The frater-
nity recently completed a two—year probation for 1998
hazing and alcohol violations.

Libyan protest al-Megrahi convicton
Thousands of Libyans protested outside the
United Nations building in Tripoli Saturday to voice
anger over the conviction of Libyan Abdel Baset al-
Megrahi. Megrahi was convicted on Wednesday of
270 counts of murder for the bombing of Pan Am Flight
103 over Lockerbie in Scotland. A special Scottish
Court in Camp Zeist in the Netherlands delivered the
verdict after taking into consideration evidence from
US investigators who claimed that Megrahi and his

HOUSING

group of W&L students thought they had secured the house,
only to ﬁnd that it was taken when they called the landlord.
Junior Alex Curlet, who did most of the dealing with the
landlord, said he was glad he could ﬁnd a country house for
his senior year.

’ “It’ll be nice to have a yard. . . it’ll be more anirnal—
friendly,” Curlet said.

THIS WEEK

By Mehul Srivastava

partner, Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, were Libyan intelli-
gence agents.

The protestors claimed that this verdict was US in-
spired and protested the mishandling of the case by the
Libyan Government. The Lockerbie plane crash had
prompted UN sanctions against Libya when Gaddaﬁ re-
fused to hand over the two perpetrators to stand trial. A
ﬁnal compromise was reached by declaring 30 square miles
of Dutch soil as Scottish so that the trial could take place
in a neutral region.

Meanwhile Fhimah, who was acquitted, said he would
seek compensation for material and psychological dam-
ages. Relatives of the victims armounced they would sue
the Libyan government for 10 billion dollars in damages.

India assesses earthquake’s aftershocks

One week after an earthquake measuring 7.9on the
Richter scale hit the eastern state of Gujarat in India,
rescue efforts have given way to relief operations. With
entire cities devastated, close to 150,000 people have
lost their homes and are in urgent need of tents and
other supplies. Lack of coordination among relief ef-
forts has resulted in several parts of the state not re-
ceiving any aid whatsoever. Massive relief efforts by
the government and by non-profit’ organizations are
taking place, and it is estimated that it will be up to four
months before life is back to normal in the Kutch region
of Gujarat. The estimated damage to property is 5.5 bil-
lion dollars.

There are conflicting reports on the death toll, but the
Gujarat Government estimates 25,000, a ﬁgure that is bound
to rise once excavation of bodies from destroyed build-
ings begins.

Aftershocks and tremors measuring up to 5.0 on the
Richter scale have prevented people from moving back
into their houses, many of which have developed cracks.

FROM PAGE 1

Some students thought the rigors of ﬁnding an apart-
mentor house were not worth the possible beneﬁts. Jun-
ior Jason Williams, who lived in Woods Creek both this
year and last, said he enjoys living on campus and did not
want the risk associated with off—campus housing.

“I heard a lot about. . . the bad condition of the houses,
and I didn’t want the hassle,” Williams said.

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

How DO YOU SPELL THAT NAME? W&L English professor Marc Conner signs a copy of his new book, 
The Aesthetics of Toni Morrison: Speaking the Unspeakable, to senior Erin Ferguson. '

THE

every momlay
8:30 p.m. to midnight

JAVA AT

coI=FEEpeopleMus|icmore

February 12 Karaoke
February 26 BluesWorks

tonight... :1

GHQ

Live Drive
(10 pm to 2 am)

Will drive reasonable distances on
Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays

call 460-3054 or 460-3055

Housing Applications are now available.

Students interested in living
in Gaines Hall or Woods Creek Apartments for the 2001-
2002 academic year must stop by the Housing Office
(Payne 4) and pick up a housing application.

(Only one application per Cluster or Group).-
Anyone wishing to live in a fraternity or sorority must
also submit an individual application.

If you are interested in special housing such as one of the
Theme Houses, please contact the following for speciﬁc
information and sign-ups.

Peoplehood Suite, Chavis House, Delt House -
Dean Penn - Payne Hall 3
International House - Mr. Klingelhofer - Tucker 316
Nabors Suites - Stacey McLoughlin - Graham Lees 355
Outing Club - Mr. Tatar - University Center

The deadline for all applications is February 26, 2001.

FEBRUARY 5, 2001

 

(lire ilting-tum iﬁlii

 PIN ION 

New rules will
‘lead to abuse

Ifit’s not an article divulging the secret that Washington
it and Lee is homogenous, then it’s an article about the “drink-
ing problem” here. And in the same vein, if it’s not an as-
' sembly of the C-School persuasion, it’s an assembly outlin-
ing the detiiments of drinking. So here are my thoughts
reconciling the two.
I’m not exactly the drinking-you-under-the—table srat
girl, so don’t misinterpret this as a dissertation on the
glory of Natty Light. Rather, it’s an appeal to stop forcing
2000 college students to work around drinldng limitations.
€ ;’Rules stated by the Interfraterriity Council decree that
._;there shall be no drinking hard liquor after 9 p.m., no beer
‘drinking after 1 a.m., no drinking games, and no shots.
Though I fully understand the consequences of “binge
':drinking,” I don’t agree that these rules will curb the dan-

 

B Christine Metzger

  
    

  
    
        
 
    

{C/.444/"'3'.

   
   

. - K .-
~\..\\\...\..i

      

Egers of it. [2 
: I spent a good portion of last term being the sober .1)‘, 
tlriver for my group of friends, so if we’re responsible  ‘§*
enough to designate drivers, I don’t think it’s fair to regu-  
at late our drink- 3 . ‘*1
ing. The last
thing I want is Northernefs Exposure 1:01 a.m. masses of students are forced to retreat out to the is not a testament to the hardcore, badass drinkers here,
A for this opin— Kris Pollina ’O3 country if they wish to continue partying. Despite sober but a mere demonstration of how the aforementioned
I‘ ion piece to drivers and Live Drive, this situation will still result in stu— rules will not be successful in drying out the campus. Ifthe

come across as a sneering “lots of luck trying to restrain 20- dents driving out to the country late at night, some perhaps administration wants to make Lexington safer, having un-

year—o1ds from drinking” commentary. Instead, I’m trying to after they have been drinking. And once out at the country derstood the drinking culture, it would be more efficient to

suggest the more hazardous consequences of abolishing at around 2 a.m., the sober rides stop, and there is hoard of first accept the intensity of the Greek system here. It would

drinking in town. drinking students eager to get home. If the parties had re- be safer to look for ways to keep drunk drivers off the road.

I It’s a lot easier to chug a beer than it is to chug a mained at the fraternity houses, this could easilybe remedied With more sober drivers, perhaps Live Drive could stay

screwdriver. And who chugs a screwdriver anyway? So by just walking. However, the IFC rules are just leading to open longer. _
cutting off the vodka supply at 9:00 p.m. will not induce an possible DUIs and accidents. While I strongly applaud the efforts regarding our

“Oh! We’re out of liquor! Let’s play Yahtzee instead!” So we can’t throw a ping pong ball into a cup of beer safety, it’s my belief that these efforts will backfire, pop-

mentality. It will only add another strain to maneuver anymore. If someone has resolved to get wizasted, he’ll do ping our W&L bubble, and heightening the danger in

around. Likewise, once the 1:00 a.m. rule kicks in, at roughly it, regardless of whether he has a Beruit partner or not. This each and every weekend.

Personal responsibility takes backseat to law suits

The Super Bowl is known for its creative, funny, and smoke, they are attacking tobacco companies as at fault for tion denouncing “negative cheering” which was to be
sometimes thought—provoking commercials. But this the deaths and illnesses of smokers. The problem is that read to the crowd at every home game. One wouldn’t
year’s broadcast featured two advertisements from the smokers made a choice to puff away on three-packs-a- want to hurt the feelings of the football players. Of course,
American Legacy Foundation, a group committed to mak— day for 30 years. No one forced them to start smoking the victim culture is best demonstrated by former Presi-
‘ ing America a smoke—free nation. Encouraging youngsters or to continue smoking. They have no one to blame but dent Clinton, who told Advocate magazine that he was
to reevaluate their choice to smoke is certainly an adrni- themselves. However, in modern America it is uncouth victimized by a witch-hunt which tried to overturn the
rable goal, but these commercials went too far in their to hold people responsible for choices and decisions results of two elections and, like the homosexual audi-

I

demoriization of not only cigarettes, but of the cigarette they make. ence of the magazine, was “oppressed.”
manufacturers as purveyors of death, or outright, cold- The most heinous example, though, is the Master Settle— The victim culture is a recent evolution in America.
‘ blooded murdererers. ment Agreement itself. This was the crowning achievement Its driving force is the trial lawyers who stand to make

This recently founded organization is just one more in for trial lawyers who have been seeking to squeeze billions millions of dollars in malpractice and punitive lawsuits.
a laundry list of groups that are contributing to the victim— out of corporate America in punitive damage lawsuits. They champion these supposed victims because such
ization of America and the degradation of our respect for Starting with the uproar over silicon breast implants and an arrangement nets them huge paydays. In the tobacco

1 personal responsibility. This phenom- continuing to the recent assault on lawsuit, private lawyers for just three of the 46 states,
enon is destroying what was once an ghs de of the aisle gun manufacturers, we have seen Texas,Mississippi, and Florida, made $8.2 billioninlegal
independent, individualistic society. huge lawsuits ham-string the way fees. Inl-iloiida, each lawyer earned $233 million, or about
Modern Americans feel no compunction Brett  ’()4 business is done and force some $7,716 an hour, assuming they worked every hour of
about suing corporations for mistakes interests to fold. Today, we sue the every day during the 42 month duration of the legal

7‘ they have made. Parents are blamed for gun manufacturers; it would make battle.
psychological problems in adulthood, ciirninals blame op— too much sense to prosecute the criminals who actually used This perversion of the legal practice is allowed to go
pressive policing, and murderous children are free to blame the weapons. on because trial lawyers are huge contributors to politi-
violent cartoon shows for their killing rage. Instead of Recent manifestations of the victim culture include a cal parties and campaigns. Trial lawyers are the second

. holding people accountable for their actions, everybody movement to remove urinals because allowing men to stand largest single contributor to the Democratic party, be-
has become a victim. This cultural shift, if left unchecked, is a “nasty, macho gesture.” The U.S. Navy has initiated a hind the National Education Association. We have
may do irreparable damage to the cultural fabric of our plan to replace all urinals with stainlesssteel toilets. Similar seen and could expect little change from Washing-
nation. to the woman whose McDonald’s coffee was too hot, ton when Clinton was in office. However, one of

The American Legacy Foundation, founded after the Veronica Martin of Knoxville, Tennessee is suing President Bush’s greatest achievements when he

it $206 billion Master Settlement Agreement of 46 state at— McDonald’s because an overly hot pickle in a hamburger was governor of Texas was tort reform, legislation

tomeys general with tobacco manufacturers, has dedi- bumed her chin, leaving her with permanent physical and that successfully reduced the scope and number of pu-

cated itself to making America smoke—free. Unfortunately, mental scars. After Penn State’s abysmal season prompted nitive lawsuits in Texas. Let’s hope that he brings a sirni—
instead of criticizing the choice of people who chose to many fans to boo, the faculty senate there passed a resolu- lar plan for reform to Washington.

k I r O b O 1 O 0
(she Mn mm ssh, nteraction egets inc usivity
g Thou the uriiversi has made little progress in its han— described the “Livin and Learning” Center.
W 8
dling of sexual assaults, alcohol abuse, or “inclusivity” since What we are missing, what the goal of a more inclusive
' Executive Editors Emily games . my freshman year, I still vainly get my hopes up when the community is, what a “liberal arts” diploma should include
_ Stephanie Bianco administration hosts forums as they did last week. It’s only is an intellectual and, dare I say it, social exchange between
New Ed''”” En“ :[°,':l‘:"‘n"“ when I start to think about it (why, different groups. While the “Living
ax mi . . . . . ,, .
Ass,-smn, News Ed,-,0, Mike Agneuo if is so important, was there no Fake Minority andLeaming Centerrnight look great
.2 Opinion Editor Tam Am. Friedei pubhcity?) and when I actually at— on paper, might even keep a small per-
W&1-ife Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia tend, that I get discouraged again. Alexis Yeegarda ‘()1 centage of the independent population
“ Spom Edm" Jeremy Franklin Part of the problem with the happy it is notasolution. There is still
Last Word Editor Bryan Early  . . ,,. . . . . . . ’ . . .

Copy Editor Heather McDonald mclusivity issue, is that we seem tobe struggling with iden- a stigma. They are still not mteracting with the rest of the
\ s Contributing Editor Michaei cl-mend“. tifying the purpose of “creating amore inclusive community.” world. The rest of the world is still not learning anything
‘ “'0” Ed"‘" MRI’! Guy No one should walk away fromaforum about inclusivity think- from them in that interaction. On that note, they are not

Smff Phomg '“1’h” En“ w"'°n"°" ing that more money devoted to minority groups will solve the learning anything from the rest of the world.
Business Manager Paul safe" problem. There is a reason that “separate but equal” failed. In a way, the “Livingiand Leaming” Center  the 
Circulation Director char] 1.; Tonem Ifthe goal is to increase numbers, increase retention, maybe example of why the creation of acential orgamzauon for mde—
gr even increase the happiness, of “non—traditional students” on pendents, complete with university ﬁmds, is a bad idea. So-

this campus, then yes, money may be the answer. Put these cial interaction is a fact of life. Someone who could actually
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the students up up in some really nice housing, give them money say “ostracism is not thatbad” might be able to learn a thing
undergraduate 5011001 Yﬁaf at Washington and L56 to do with what they will (all in the name of noble causes, of or two from these other kids who were trained ‘to climb the
. Ulnversnyt Lexington’ Vnginin The Wnsningtnn and 1-55 course). Guess what — the minorities, independents, etc. are social ladder. It’s amutual exchange, people, and guess what:
1‘ Publications Bmrd elects the Executive Editor’ but The going to stick around, they might even be a little happier, but it Creating a bunch of well-funded communities for minority A

Rmg-tum Ilhi is °‘h"“nS.° independent‘ A . will not create an inclusive community. . . In fact, I think I just students to take haven in is not going to bring that about.
The Rmg-tum Phi welcomes all responsible *

submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.

ti on Friday torappear in the following week’s edition. The T   you Watch — Friends or Survivor?

  

Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-
>( tum Phi or its staff. "This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity. '

 

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
~ Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
pp http://wlu.edu/~phi

         

Annual Submption me: $30 “Friends —how YOU doin’ !” “Tape Survivor! Watch Friends!” “Friends because I can relate.” “Friends, because it’s shorter.”
—Mike Reynold ‘02 -Tami Olubunmi ’02 -Andrew Willis ‘03 -Catherine Culpepper ‘04

 

 

PAGE 4

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂlri

PINION

FEBRUARY 5, 2001

Don’t like it?
Then you try it!

Sitting in the Dining Hall the other day, I was privi-
leged enough to hear a fellow student complain loudly
about how “awful both these newspapers are, they suck
horribly.” He was referring of course to this publication
and our signiﬁcantly younger sibling that comes out on
Wednesdays. Asking the student to elaborate on his rather
puerile comments, he launched into a standard list of com-
plaints that I have heard from a number of students: poor

writing; numerous typos, spelling mistakes and grammar

problems; editorials written by lunatics with silly opinions
no one wants to hear; and pointless articles that have no

‘ relevance. Agreeing with him fully and taking his comments

in stride, my only response was to ask him how many times
he had written a Letter to the Editor concerning his prob-
lems. Not unexpectedly, his answer was never, a response I
often receive when asking students on campus how they
have made their concerns known. Slightly odd thinks the
muse, you have a complaint but are content to let it lie and
not seek change.

This is not to say that the problems many students
on this campus have with our school newspapers are
not valid. In fact, I more than agree. Though we have
spent hours in our journalism ethics class discussing
what the role of journalists is, fairly simple guidelines
can be set down without involving too much debate. It
is our job to inform, to cover campus events, entertain
with features and beer reviews (I had to toot my own
horn a little), to let students know what decisions are
going to effect them, and to cover all the news that fits
(cliché alert). We are also saddled with the responsibil-
ity of doing it well, for there is a whole campus of critics
out there who seem to love to take potshots but never

 

c

newspaper. None of us really want to be in the Phi or
Trident offices until the wee hours of the morning, but we
invariably are. I remember Zander Strong, former editor of
the Trident, coming into class Wednesday mornings and
immediately falling asleep after a late night at the newspa-
per. I remember long nights I myself used to spend in the
University Center, laying out stories, copy-editing and
waiting for a promised story. We spend long, long hours
putting together what you read each week and it ain’t that
easy. Why then, you may ask, aren’t the papers any bet-
ter? The answer, unfortunately, is that not enough people
have the commitment or drive to participate, let alone join
the staff of one of the newspapers.

Having worked for the Phi

step up to the plate.

Looking at recent editions of both
newspapers, however, I don’t know
how well we are doing our job. Recent
editions of the Trident neglected to
ﬁnish an article, had an unreadable black box for a sidebar,
and spelled their own Executive Editor’s name wrong in a
photo credit. Not to be unfair to Ms. McConnell (spell-
ing?) and Ms. Nelson, my own publication is not in the
least bit less guilty, presenting weekly some of the most
irrelevant articles published on campus. While news does
seem to be a bigger focus than our counterpart, the same
basic errors are ever present. Typographical errors, spell-
ing mistakes and general miscues that most likely should
have been caught. Contrary to popular belief, however,
this isn’t the easiest thing in the world to do, otherwise
more of you might give it a try.

We all have as many classes as you do, we all have
other activities and lives outside of working at a school

 

     

P

 

18 E. NELSON ‘ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464 -4483

,, ,‘ (b g.Edi[Or since freshman year, I have seen

many people come and go; report-

Mike Cdttenden 01 ers, photographers, copy editors,

general help etc.— all who have
ended up not sticking with it. I am sure the same is true for
the Trident. Part of the reason is that there is no reward to
be gained from joining. At larger schools, reporters and
editors for school newspapers are paid for their services.
Here we can’t even be sure people are reading what we
write. With reduced staffs, we have fewer people checking
mistakes, fewer people involved in the process, and in the
end, less input into the journalism process. This is bad for
we practicing journalists and you, the readers. We aren’t
able to, or encouraged to, cover stories that students on this
campus need to know about. The administration is slowly
trying to change what this school is, its identity, who goes to
school here and what the rules governing you will be. You’d
barely know it, however, because we don’t have the time,

resources or reader demand to let you know, which is a sad,
sad thing. I can write a colunm reviewing beers week in and
week out, cover the latest band the SAB has had come play,
but the most important stories I have written since I started
working for a school newspaper were about alcohol-free hous-
ing in fraternities and the car crash earlier this year. Those
were real stories that had the potential for some impact. We
have journalism students who can write, students who can
cover real stories and students who can provide you with
the information you need to know. We just don’t have the
readership.

Students are content to complain about how awful the
newspapers here at Washington and Lee are. They have
never written for a newspaper, have never written a Letter
to the Editor, and have never even considered what they
would do differently if given the opportunity to make what-
ever changes they would like. Instead they are happy to
complain and loudly let us know that they don’t like what we
are doing.

I know the papers here aren’t great, and I know there are
many changes that need to be made. We need more student
involvement, more resources, and more time. We, as joumal-
ists have to continue to get better at our craft, and to do as
best we can with what we have. I would like to offer you, the
people who think we aren’t doing a good job, a challenge.
Write an opinion piece. Write a Letter to the Editor. Hell,
come to a meeting and write an article. It won’t kill you,
and in fact maybe you’ll enjoy it, seeing your name in the
paper, your friends complimenting you on your work. And
maybe, slowly, with more students like you getting involved,
the papers will be more up to the high standards at which we
would all like to see them.

THE PLACE FOR FOOD AND 1-‘um

    
        
    
    
 
     
 
    

    

LEXINGTON

COFFEE

( u : I .)
./l,()1‘l.S‘.(Il‘I(/I ()I)llI;1(II(il/'

 

LINGER AT A FIRESIDE TABLE
COFFEE 0 ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO 0 PASTRIES - BAGELS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ' LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

TUESDAY - 8 BALL TOURNEY
$ 100.00 CASH PRIZE

weomesmv ~ 9jBALL rouizzvrv
$ 100.00 CASH 7’RIZE  
.. ..§'€....a\J A  

COME ON DOWN AND TEST    . t  QM 33 ;\_,\j Q
YOUR SKILL        '   A  

  The
Elephant   A       
 Man         

DIRECTED BY
3.0. MARTINEZ

FEB. 9,10, 12 8: 13, A2001, - 3 RM.
. FEB. 11, 2001 - 2, RM.
JOHNSON  9 LENFEST 

Tickets and Information 0 S40/463-8000

 

W 

 

 

    

     

   
 
   

i FEBRUARY 5 , 2001 PAGE 5
C Q
~ ingers take their show on the road
By Katie Howell V A C .
‘ STAFF WRITER
While many students will travel over February
Break, few will be able to boast of visiting as many _. '  r
cities as Washington and Lee’s a capella musical - -
" ensembles, Southern Comfort and JubiLee, which By Mlchael Cnttenden
will tour the Southeast region, performing for CONTRIBUTING EDITOR
alllmni Chapters in nine different Cities. Like a neon—technicolor blight on society’s back-
“lwe are excited ab011t the l1’lP because] the side, Mardi Gras is looming, rising out of the Louisi-
f : alumni chapters in ‘the South really love the a ana swamps ljke the phoenix from its own ashes, New
; Capella groups, and It’s fun for us to be rock stars ‘Orleans, the City of Sin, once described by a visitor
1 for a week,” said senior Colin Tate, student musi- as collecting all the evil and sin from the states along
 Cal €llfeCt01'0fS011the1'n COInf0IT, W&L’S all-male a the Mississippi River, and serving as a basin for all
2 “P6113 gT011P- the drunken revelers to sate their thirsts in the bac-
V  Alumni Director for Online Communications ehanai they can Fat Tuesday, with this in mind 1
; Chris Edwards helped to plan the trip and said presentalager borninthis somewhat demonic atmo-
 the groups will leave Lexington on Feb. 17. From sphere; Acadian Brewing Cofs Vienna Amben
; there they will travel to Louisville, Ky.,Nashvi1le, ABronze Medal Winner at the 1998 Great Ameri-
h ; Tenn-,MeII1phiS,Tenn-, Little ROCK, Ark-, ShIeVe- can Beer Festival, Vienna Amber is modeled after
 p011. La-, laCl(S0n, MiSS-, Birmingham, Ala, At- the Marzen and Oktoberfest styles pioneered by
; lanta, Ga-. and ChafleSt0n, S-C. l3ef0fe returning the Germans centuries ago, which were brewed in
 t0 W&L 011 Fell 24- March and served in October. Brewed in the classic

‘ j ‘‘[The Alumni Office plans this trip] because it Viennese amber genre, Acadian’s lager combines

I helpS them and ITS,” Edwards Said. “When We , , _ _ Rl”’*"””' M” We Ph°‘° primarily Munich and Caramel malts forasatisfying

 Sponsor programs like this’ it helps the Smaller DUBYUNELL D1vAs. Jub1Lee performs in Lee Chapel during Parents? Weekend in November. deep amber colon Pound Correctly with amedium

j [alumni] chapters have events that they could “A lot of people are involved in the planning of head, Vienna Amber has a rich bouquet that avoids

7 not otherwise have. Also, the alumni like to see this trip,” Edwards said. “Those of us at the univer— the fruity characteristics of most ales. The presence

Q _ the people come from the university because it sity rely on the alumni chapter presidents to set up of Hallertau hops really makes this lager, however,
‘ makes them feel connected to the school.” places for the events and to ﬁnd housing for the making the first taste as pleasant as the last.

Edwards said that the tour has been a bien— students. Also, people have to make and send out Amember of the Carrollton Brewing Assoc. LLC,

nial tradition for the past 10 years. Other re— the invitations. There is a lot of work involved in the Acadian Brewing Co. offers a number of ﬁne la-

gions that the groups have visited include the planning these types of events.” gers. The brewery produces ﬁve year—round beers

'\ Northeast and California. The groups did not The groups practice several times a week to pre- including the Pilsener, Helles Bock and Hefe Pilsener

travel two years ago because most of the bud- pare for the concerts and tours like this one. styles. The brewery also produces one specialty beer
; get went toward the celebration of the 250th “We have been practicing two or three times a monthly, as well as various seasonal beers, all of
 anniversary of the university. week all year with several songs from last year and which are available in the greater New Orleans area.

. “We’re really excited about this trip. It is fun several new songs,” said Heatherington. “We are My recommendation is to give this beer a try if

. because we get to put on so many shows per week. especially excited about the trip because it will give you are in the New Orleans area any time soon
It’s great to get that many chances to show off,” us good practice for the CD we are going to put out (e.g. February Break). Knowing the penchant for
said senior Sarah Heatherington, student musical once we get back.” Washington and Lee students to ﬂock to various
director of JubiLee, the school’s all-female group. Students impatient for new releases from Jubi- locales south of the Mason Dixon when there is

V The alumni chapters in the various cities that lee and Southern Comfort can pick up their earlier even the slightest hint of a party, I do not think this

the groups plan to visit have all arranged luncheons, CDs in the Bookstore. should be a problem. Though I do not know if you
receptions or dinners followed by entertainment from Heatherington and Tate both said that students will ﬁnd Acadian while stumbling around the Quar-
the musical groups. Alumni, guests and current stu— interested in becoming a part of one of these musi- ter, I suggest you sober up, take a shower and stop
~. dents from the area will attend the performances. cal groups will have the opportunity to try out early hm, w,,,.,w E“,_,,,,,.,h HL,”,,,,,,,, by a nice restaurant to give it a try. Remember, qual-
Alumni will also house the students each night be- during Spring Term and once again at the begin- BETTER THAN ’NSYN C. Southern Comfort sings for enthusi- ity is favorable to quantity. Until next week, whenl
fore they travel to another city. ning of Fall Term. astic new members and actives at the Chi Omega house. review a special Valentine’s Day beer for all you
star-crossed lovers out there, adieu!

V ever, they recently sold the name to Bronco Wine Co.,
which will receive only the name and labeled cased goods

I _ in inventory. The Napa Ridge winemaker, David
Schlottman, will stay on with Beringer as a liaison to
I other Beringer subsidiaries.

‘ ' The Napa Ridge Chardonnay is a great buy at only
$13 a bottle. The agreeable, medium-bodied palate makes
this a good wine for people just beginning to appreciate

S U I ‘ i I i N e r  : h 0 I O  wines, especially since white wines are generally easier

‘ to start on than reds. Chardonnays are also by far the
most popular of the white wine Varietals.

' re  This pale yellow-gold wine presents with a ﬁrm appley
O U n  O r S By Alexis Yee_GarCia nose and subtle cream aromas. The crisp acidity bal-
~ . p H q _ H ances nicely with the plush buttery texture. Sweet, but

I FM’ UR“ E—1—”—/-OR — » —----——— - ---- - not overbearing, vanilla ﬂavors provide a good equality

J u   ' J u   ’  ll Despite the dangers of changing this page into a two for delicate mineral notes and well integrated oakiness.
part dissertation on the joys of quality alcoholic bever- Overall, the dominant fruit characteristics make this an
ages, I have made an executive decision: It is entirely too easy wine to drink.

,' a much fun to do reviews to leave all that play to Mr. Keep this wine in mind for that romantic, Valentine’s

A ' Crittenden. Like Michael, I also have a hometown bias and Day dinner (unless Michael’s Valentine beer proves too

      G g  C  n    0 represented this week with my wine choice: Napa Ridge tempting to resist), especially if you are enjoying alighter
. - . . 1998 North Coast Chardonnay from California, of course. entree, such as chicken picatta or pasta primavera. If

,  O         Though the name suggests that this Chardonnay comes you have developed a new love for wine, e-mail me at

W . _ _ from Napa Valley, Ca., Napa Ridge is not, in fact, an actual yeegarciaa@wlu.edu and let me know, especially if there

__ h I g h      I   n g   L location. Beringer, a company whose main label winery is is a wine out there that you want me to review. Until next

 , I _ actually located in N apa, created the brand for their wines time, remember, drink responsibly and try not to be afraid

     J u    I n  G  produced at an old Asti facility in Sonoma County. How— of exploring your non—beer options.

H‘: v . . ,

5 Lee Summer Scholars Porgram is an Are you computer—literate? We re not!
“ exciting four week academic program for The phi
‘  I I I I

35 appmxlmalely 150 "Smg mgh school is in search of an online editor

:2 seniors. We are looking for responsible

~22 - - - to update our web page every week

:; students to help guide participants and to I _ _ '

 plan extracurricular activites such as talent If YOU |‘e I hterestedz 9 We "5 3 Ca ll at

e ' - - 4060

,_ shows, lip syncs, weekend hikes, trips to X,

 I ‘ '-

~ :; G0-‘then Clnd m0le- or email us at phi@wlu.edu
V  . .
 For further information and to obtain   LV’L°L 'E”D”"°
ii; I _ I _ ,  .. .
 applications, please contact Jennifer Lotts, 
 Summer Scholars, Hill House at 463-8722.
What are you giving this year?
   1. ' ' N‘ 1.‘ ' Why not the timeless beauty and symbolism of the Claddagh?
      Available in rings, earrings, bracelets, &,necklaces in gold and silver
F b   I See our knotwork jewelry, Scottish Luckenbooths, and Welsh Lovespoons tool
‘t
9 "-'C"Y = - CELTIC CONNECTION
_ I ‘ 19 W. Nelson V 10AM-5:30PM M—SAT
T 464-6545 V www.ce|ticconne‘x.com

 

 

 

PAGE 6

 Men’s hoops endures tough week

By Jeremy Franklin 1

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team expe-
rienced perhaps the most tumultuous times of their sea-
son this week, dropping three close Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference games and having two players dismissed

9 from the team.

The Generals sandwiched overtime losses to Emory
and Henry and Lynchburg around a 66-60 home defeat to
nationally ranked Hampden-Sydney. Sophomores Will
Cotter and Scott Hettermann were removed from the team
following the Wednesday loss to Emory and Henry.

Senior Chad Braley’s 21 points, a season high, and
classmate Will Ballard’s -16 weren’t enough against
the Wasps, who shot 52 percent from the field to pull
out an 84-77 win.

Emory and Henry led 78-66 with 3:21 remaining, but an
11-2 General run trimmed the lead to three. However, the
Wasps preserved their lead from the free throw line, where
they shot 91 percent for the game.

W&L shot a season-high 52 percent from the field
against Hampden-Sydney at home on Saturday. Ballard
provided his best offensive output of the year with 20
points, but the Generals also turned the ball over 26 times
against the Tigers.

The Generals led 41-39 with less than eight minutes
remaining, but Hampden-Sydney rolled off a 10-0 run.
Freshman David Bode fouled out during the run, also com-
mitting a technical foul, and the Tigers hit all four of the
ensuing free throws.

Lynchburg forward Dennis Brown scored 39 points and
snagged 17 rebounds to lead the Hornets to a 77-68 overtime
win over W&L on Sunday. Lynchburg overcame a ﬁve-point
deﬁcit in the final 29 seconds of regulation, and then shot 64
percent from the ﬁeld in overtime to win the game.

After hitting just 27 percent of their shots from the
ﬂoor in the first 20 minutes, W&L stormed out of the locker

@112 King-tum lﬂlit

S PORTS

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

PERIMETER GAME. Freshman Michael Denbow (14) veers around classmate John Saxon in the
Generals’ 66-60 loss to fifth-ranked Hampden-Sydney at the Warner Center on Saturday.

room in the opening minutes of the second half. Bode
scored seven of his nine points in a 1:48 span early in the
half as W&L built a five-point advantage.

Ballard’s three—point play at the 7:23 mark pushed the
lead to 44-37, but the Hornets ran off a 9-0 run to take a
two—point lead with 4:47 remaining. W&L regained the
lead on Bra1ey’s field goal at 3:38, and built their advan-
tage back up in the closing minutes before the late

Coming next week...

The Phi continues to preview W&L spring sports
with a look at the baseball, golf, men’s lacrosse
and women’s tennis teams. Also, continued
coverage of W&L winter sports as ODAC and
Centennial Conference tournaments draw near.

Ring-tum Phi File Photo

    

   

Britain - Aus“

alia -

WHY BUNAC 
- We take care of the Work Authorlsatlon

Pll Iiux 113’!
Suutlilmrv [Ill l]ﬁA88
I ﬂllll Ali? 85?‘)

- Help with Job hunting: career or casual
- Resource centers In each country
- We are non proﬂt with 38 years of experlencel

 / 

Lynchburg rally.

Braley scored 17 points and Ballard added 16 points
and a career—best 14 rebounds against the Hornets. Junior
Bob Bustamante chipped in 1 1 points, and freshman John
Saxon finished with nine points and five blocks.

The Generals (3-18, 3-13 ODAC) step out of confer-
ence play on Wednesday with a 7 p.1n. road contest against
Greensboro College.

Generals young butrady

Unseasoned men’s tennis

team sports a plethora of

talent and a national ranking
By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

This spring, the Washington and Lee men’s tennis
hopes to make a serious run at the Division III national
championship. V

Positioned 25th in the country in a preseason Inter-
collegiate Tennis Association Division III ranking, the
Generals are considered by many to be a strong out-
side contender. Ranked seventh in the competitive
Southern Division, the Generals must be among the top
two in the season by season’s end to qualify for the
national tournament.

The strength of the squad lies in the talented youth of
the team. On a squad of 16 players, there are no seniors.
Furthermore, six out of the 16 players are freshmen.

Yet this is not new for the Generals. Last year’s team
had no seniors and only one junior. This year, there are six
juniors on the team, including number one seed Rhys James.
Having played in the top positions last year as sopho-
mores, these players have the experience that any con-
tender needs.

“The true strength of this team is our depth,” said team
captain Rob Moynihan, a junior who plays in the number
five position. “The experienced players from last year have
been bumped downto lower positions while positions
two, three and four are all new.”

These three new players are Andrew Roberts, a junior
who took off his sophomore season, and freshmen Aus-
tin Kim and Graham Nix.

As they haven’t competed against these new faces,
opposing teams in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
and the division will have trouble preparing fully to meet

FEBRUARY 5, 2001

   

Upcoming events in W&L athletics
Baseball 1
Feb. 19 at Olgethorpe 3:00 p.m.
Feb. 20 at Emory 2:00 p.m.
Feb. 22 at Olgethorpe 3:00 p.m.
Feb. 25 Muhlenberg (2) 12:00 pm.
Men’s Basketball

Feb. 7 at Greensboro 7:30 p.m.
Feb. 10 Eastern Mennonite 4:00 p.m.
Feb. 12 at Bridgewater 7:00 p.m.
Women’s Basketball

Feb. 7 Eastern Mennonite 7:00 p.m.
Feb. 10 Randolph—Macon » 2:00p.m.
Feb. 13 at Emory and Henry 7:00 p.m.
Feb. 15 Virginia Wesleyan 7:00 p.m.
Feb. 17 Hollins 2:00 p.m.
Feb. 18 Roanoke 2:00 p.m.
Golf

Feb. 23 at Guilford ODAC Invitational TBA
Men’s Lacrosse

Feb. 25 Elmira 1:00 p.m.
Women’s Lacrosse

Feb. 17-18 at South of the Border Toum. All Day
Men’s Swimming

Feb. 15-17 at Grove City Invitational TBA
Women’s Swimming

Feb. 16-18 at ODAC/Atlantic States Inv. TBA
Men’s Tennis

Feb. 15 VMI 3:00 p.m.
Men’s and Women’s Indoor Track

Feb. 9-10 at Christopher Newport Inv. TBA
Feb. 24 at ODAC Championships TBA
Wrestling

Feb. 10 at Albright Quadrangular TBA

Feb. 17 at Centennial Championship 10:00 am.

Ring-tum Phi File Photo
CRITICALLY ACCLAIMED. The Washington and
Lee men’s tennis team is ranked 25th in the
preseason ITA Division III poll.

them. However, this factor could also be seen as a two-
way street.

“Possibly, the naivete of our freshmen can pose as an
asset,” Nix said. “We’re not as intimidated by the higherrankcd
teams, because we do not know what to expect of them.”

Besides the newcomers, the team already boasts a
clear advantage in individual matches, with such latent
talent possessed by the more experienced players lower
in the roster. Combining experience, talent, and determi-
nation, the Generals have positioned themselves for a
highly successful 2001 season.

  
 
  

FEBRUARY 5, 2001

S

Ellie iﬂing-tum ilﬂhi

 

PORTS

., & sea

Ring-tum Phi File Photo
COUNTING THE DAYS. Senior Martha Combrooks

and W&L open the season on Feb. 17.

‘ Generals knock off Southern Virginia

' W&L sports roundup
By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

5 The Washington and Lee wrestling team defeated
Southern Virginia, 26-15, at home on Wednesday, and
then finished third out of eight schools in the Newport
News Apprentice Invite on Saturday.

.{~ , Against Southern Virginia, senior heavyweight John
Sensing and junior 125-pounder Ben Segal recorded pins
to lead the way for the Generals. Senior Josh Chamberlain
(149 pounds), freshman Steve Saks (157), senior John
Valentine (184), and junior Ezra Morse (197) also won

1 ,their matches for W&L.

_ The Generals scored 60 points in the Apprentice Invite,
;;,ﬁnishing.behind Longwood at 122 and North Carolina-
g;Pembroke at 90. Morse and freshman Joe Mueller (184)
‘both finished second in their respective classes, and Cham-
gberlain and Saks both ended the day in third place.
iv Sensing, Valentine, and freshman Cory Little placed
' fourth for the Generals.

  W&Lis now 4-5-1 overall and —l-3~invtheCentennial- A

1 _,Conference. The Generals take the road again on Satur-
"day for the Albright Quadrangular in Reading, Pa.

iWomen’s hoops team drops
yilopsided game to Guilford

Guilford overcame a 26-point night from Washington

, and Lee junior Jessica Mentz to knock off the Generals,
89-51, at home on Wednesday.

A Jennie Keichline scored 14 of her team-leading 16
points in the second half as the Quakers extended a 40-23
halftime advantage.

; Junior Megan Babst scored 11 points and grabbed 12

‘rebounds for W&L, whichlfell to 6-12, 4-10 in the Old

{ Dominion Athletic Conference with the loss.
The Generals meet Eastern Mennonite at home on
Wednesday.

~Women’s team

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

' The Washington and Lee women’s swimming team
improved to 4-0 in the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
‘ence on Thursday in a dual meet against Radford and
Hollins. With the wins they also improved their overall

‘ record to 7-7.

5- Senior Allison Harvey led the Generals with wins
in the 500 and 1,000-yard freestyle events. Sopho-

C

” C
   rip-On.
 Amsterdam Barcelona
 Berlin Brussels

Dublin London Madrid

Paris Rome

UNBEATABL
PRICES!

PACKAGES INCLUDE:
*1 0 Student roundtrip airfa"r
0 Accommodations 1

1, 0 Airport transfers
" and Travel Card*

 0 Camera, document
organizer, discounts,
guidebooks, maps
and more

   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   

‘Select cities only.

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
lacrosse team comes off a successful
2000 season in prime position to con-
tinue this trend in 2001.

The women only lost four seniors
from last year’s squad: their
goaltender, two attackers and one
defender. One of those lost attack
players, Katherine Riddle, was second
on the team in scoring. However, the
Generals return their leading scorer,
sophomore Leslie Bogart, who fin-
ished with 55 points.

The women were 8-5 overall last
year, and were 7-1 in the Old Do-

minion Athletic Conference. They
reached the conference semifinals
in the postseason tournament, but
lost a defensive battle to
Lynchburg, 8-4.

“I think we’re going to be great
this year,” said sophomore Laura Wil-
son, who ﬁnished third on the team
with 23 points in 2000. “We have a lot
of depth in the midﬁeld.”

Notable additions to the team in-
clude two freshmen goaltenders to
replace Girmy Jernigan, who gradu-
ated last year after ﬁnishing her ca-
reer second all—time in saves at W&L
with 505. Joanna Peiini and Annie
Tompkins will compete for the start-
ing goalie position this season.

“The incoming freshmen are really
good,” Wilson said. “We have a lot
of support through all the positions.”

Seniors Ellen Ritsch and Martha
Combrooks and junior Eloise Priest
are the captains for this year. Ritsch,
who plays attack, had 16 goals last

hes for success formula

W&L looks to build on
a successful year by
adding a deep and
talented freshman class

year. Combrooks and Priest will lead
from the defensive end.

Combrooks concurs with Wilson
about the strength of the freshmen.

“They’re going to make fantastic
additions to the team,” Combrooks
said. “We have a great balance of ex-
perience, skill and fresh players.”

The Generals are coached by Jan
Hathorn, who has run the program
since its inception in 1988. Laurie
Stagnitta, wife of men’s lacrosse
coach Jim Stagnitta, will also lend
her expertise.

W&L will begin their regular sea-
son on Feb. 17-18, when they travel
to North Carolina for the South of the
Border Tournament. They will play at
North Carolina and Duke against
other Division III teams.

“This will be a chance to test the
waters,” Combrooks said.

The Generals’ first home game will
be an ODAC match on March 10
against Randolph-Macon.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

OFFENSIVE HOLDING. Freshman 141-pounder Cory Little wrestles against Southern Virginia on
Wednesday. The Generals won the match, 26-15, to improve to 4-5-1 on the season.

Indoor track teams compete
in VMI Winter Relays

The Washington and Lee indoor track teams competed
in Lexington for the first time in 2001 at the VMI Winter

Relays on Saturday.

For the women’s squad, sophomore Burke Duncan

swims through

mores Blair Huffman and Kelli Austin continued their
dominance with two wins apiece. Huffman placed first
in the 200 backstroke and the 200 breaststroke, and
Austin won the 100 and 200 freestyle events. Fresh-
man K.C. Wilson contributed to the effort with a win

in the 200 butterfly.

The cards have been stacked against the Generals this
season. Huffman and Austin have had to shoulder most of
the burden for top times, as the team lost record-setting
swimmer Katie Kennedy and last year’s graduates Lauren

800 meters.

placed second in the 3,000 meters, followed by senior Jes-
sica Parrillo in third place. Freshman Lucy Frick recorded a
ﬁfth-place ﬁnish in the one-mile run.

Freshman Andy Schorr led the men’s team on the after-
noon, ﬁnishing ninth in the 3,000 meters and 10th in the

The Generals travel across the state on Saturday for

the Christopher Newport Invitational in Newport News.

turbulent times

Beckenhauer and Lezael Haynes.

Most of the top times this season are slower than last
season’s, although many of last season’s top times were
earned during the ODAC/Atlantic States Invitational.

The Generals are undefeated in the ODAC, and if

last season is any indication, they should do well at

money? OR

I Would you prefer a job that gives you
training in personal success, where
you can have fun in a stimulating and
family-like atmosphere, make a good
income, and spend the summer in the
mountains of Wyoming?

.-‘

SEl|IOllS:wHA1' mun or

SUMMER JOB WOULD YOII
I.||lE BEFORE YOU GO TO
WORK III THE “IIEAI.
WORLD?”

A job where you can make a lot of

the upcoming ODAC/Atlantic States Invitational.
They will look to repeat as champions when they re-
turn to the tournament as the Washington Holiday
begins on Feb. 16.

   
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
   

Check out our staff web site at
wvvw.coolworks.comIabara
Or call us at 303-838-1950
to set up an interview.

WATERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT
10 student apartments
available June I, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

8 Enjoy country living at its finest.
Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive.

Please call Tim Wilhelm
at 540-463-6575 or 540-463-2868.

 

 

PAGE 8

As always, over 90
percent fact free

@112 ‘itltng-tum lﬂlrt

LASTWORD

FEBRUARY 5, 2001

-5.

Point vs. Unsubstantiated Point

Everyone needs political correctness

By Alf

INTERPLANETARY M OOCH

The last time I turned on the television, I
came across the show South Park I was
both shocked and offended by the amount
of ﬁlth that was present. I was mentally,

physically, and emotionally assaulted by
images of intolerance towards womyn,
birds, Mother Earth, and vegetarians. I
quickly ran to my life-partner and ACLU
lawyer, Serinooka Rainbow Hugger, who
comforted me with a hot glass of
environmentally friendly tea and several
poems from Jewel ’s book, A Night Without
Armor: Poems. Listening to Jewel ’s wistful,
lyrical musings of womynhood pulled me
back up from the depths of chauvinistic rancor
that popular culture used to batter me.
I grabbed onto my Mayan beads and
said a quick prayer to Shesus Christ, and
then looked deep into Serinooka’s eyes and
said, “I feel deeply hurt and oﬂended by
that program. My inner-womyn is telling
me that we must sue the evil purveyor of
ﬁlth on television to compensate me for the
irreparable harm it has done. Besides, we
need a new waterfall in the Zen Garden.”

If you truly believed that this was what
the ferninst movement and the movement
to support political correctness was all
about, then you better check yourself be-
fore you riggity wreck yourself. Political
correctness is about ensuring the rights of
every person to live and work in an envi-
ronment that is ergonomically and emotion-
ally healthy. ? '

For years, those who have had the
money and power have had the ability to
adjudicate what was appropriate and what
was inappropriate no matter what the con-
sequences were for those who had to live
under their rules. Now that our voices are
starting to be heard, we are portrayed as
outcasts and radicals who don’t care about
rights, laws, or freedom of expression.

Being an alien, I have a unique perspec-
tive on the situation currently facing our

 

www.tvshows.main.de '

country. Due to the intolerance of most
Americans, I have had to live my life solely
within the confines of a suburban house-
hold. I have had to sleep in a pallet made
of fuzzy blankets, eat bland and unwhole—
some foods like Cream of Wheat, and re-
main at the whim of a rniddle—class family
that is just barely scraping by.

My people mastered the intricacies of
space travel and have advanced far beyond
the primitive needs of clothing and I’m
stuck here in this suburbanite hell with noth-
ing better to do than watch Oprah. If any-
one truly deserves political and social
equality, it’s me. But until humans have
advanced to the level where they can ac-.

cept everyone in their own species, how

can they hope to accept me?

Political correctness is not about point-
ing fingers and suing people for your own
proﬁt, well at least not wholely, it is about
giving every person the dignity and respect
they deserve, be they African American,
Anglo American, Asian American, Native
American, Indian-American, Inuit American,
Paciﬁc American, or some strange combi-
nation of all of the above. Maybe if every-
one tries a bit harder and shuts up a bit
more, people can ﬁnd it in their hearts to
love a little brown-furred alien like me.

The case against politcal correctness

By Bryan Early

LAST WORD EDITOR

In the last 10 years, our country has
been assaulted by a vileness so vicious
that it threatens the very fabric of our soci-
ety. What is this scourge? None other than
the policy of political correctness.

The policy of political correctness was
formed out of an attempt to enforce toler-
ance and universal acceptance of diver-
sity. In reality, it attempted to sterilize free-
dom of thought and action and homog-
enize public opinion.

It is not the govemment’s job to keep
its citizens from being mentally challenged
or remove all discomfort they might feel at
interacting with other citizens who are very
much their equal. One might not agree with
everything a person says or does, but that
does not give that person the right to stop
the other person from speaking. The First
Amendment gives people the right to hold
and voice their own personal opinions.

The most ludicrous principal behind the
policy of political correctness, is that when
one changes his or her phrasing from “I
disagree with your statement” to “I am of-
fended by your statement,” that person is

(true or untrue) would bring. It gave rise to
the plethora of sexual harassment, discrimi-
nation, and intolerance legal suits that
marked the ’90s. All of a sudden, the work-
place was laid under seige by groups of radi-
cal leftists and moochers whose very jobs
became to look for infractions on the part of
employers. Soon, courts were handing out
multi-million dollar settlements for bosses
complimenting female employeees on look-
ing nice and workers having Howard Stern
on the radio.

One has to wonder where the line will be

drawn. The approval of John Ashcroft to I

the position of Attorney General is a poi-
gnant example of political correctness at
work. While Ashcroft is perhaps not the
most liberal fellow in the world, his tough
stances on abortion and crime, coupled with
the actions he took to prevent the approval
of Ronnie White to the Federal Circuit Court,
became a political liability for him. He was
accused of being both sexist and racist, two
terms that strangely gained immense popu-
larity with the rise of political correctness.
Of what was Ashcroft truly guilty? Noth-
ing. Not a single group that opposed
Ashcroft’s nomination could prove or even
make a legitimate case any cause to reject his

automatically entitled nominaﬁom The battle
to receive some sort C ‘ W35 f°l1ghtWi"-h hints»
of compensation from _ 311033110115» and Vague
the offending  I   I     Of
Just What does it outside without feeling‘ like Whf:‘th§°l‘)‘1db°d":“Y
mean to be offended? - - - T5 9 903"“ CY
I am being held under serge.
According to ha.“ I10 T331 gT°““dS-
Webster ’s Dictionary, — R0" Diddlemyer I Ashcroft 53011313’

it means, “to irritate or
vex a person’s mind
or feelings.” Thus,'anything that chal-
lenges the thoughts, conceptions, or emo-
tional state can be construed as being of-
fensive. And who, if anybody, can objec-
tively read the complainant’s mindset?
The policy of political correctness has
ensured that whoever yells and complains
the loudest will be rewarded just to pre-
vent the negative PR that such accusations

,3) adheres to his beliefs

and is not intimidated
into silence due to fear over what others might
think or say. It is despicable to ﬁght his nomi-
nation on the basis that some individuals claim
to have read into the motives behind his ac-
tions and are offended by them.

Since its inception, political correctness
has attempted to smother and destroy the
very rights of the citizens that it was created
to defend.

GREAT MOMENTS IN
COMMUNIST HISTORY

 

Russian soldiers marched around their sparsely
populated and commerically inhabited country-
side to intimidate poor peasants into doing the
right thing for the greater good of all.

QQOOQQOO

 

t%¢M.....te..—t07 ~ 

Ask the Question Marquis is
a sporadically produced I
advice column, because proper

loving takes time. It is to be

Marquis are his alone and are
in no way to be construed as
representative of his sponsor,

Questia, you American pigs.

www.questia.com

Also, what are sunglasses?

Option 2. You can challenge her to a duel.

  Ask the Question Marquis

Q: Dear Question Marquis: My girlfriend seems distant lately. And I can’t get her to take oﬂ her sunglasses. I wonder
if shes seeing someone else. l/Vhat should I say to her? — Paul in Dallas

A: Ah, mon ami. I think I can help you with this. Your female is probably feeling that you spend more time with the '
library than with her delicate, sensuous frame. (I am making the assumptions about her, but for your sake, I hope that
I am right, you know?) But you are having many of the research papers, correct? So you have two options to send you
on the path toward a satisfactory loving scenario. ~- '

Option 1. When you are writing the research papers, you can save time by going to questia.com. Listen,
this is brand new. You can skip all of the tedious working, because the ﬁ1ll text of the books and journal articles is all
online. Search for the keywords, highlight the text. Also, you are not going to believe this, .but if you want to quote
something, you just click a button and Questia puts it in your paper, footnotes it, and formats the bibliography auto-
matically. And right now you can get two days* of Questia free. So try it. When your girlfriend sees how much better
your papers become and how much more time you have for her, she will be looking at you with her naked eyes that
seem to say, “Hallo. I like you. Much, much more than I like paté de fois gras,” or whatever it is these girls like now.

read with a silly French accent.

The views ofthe Question

Challenge the pig to a duel.”

“It is the joke"of an imbecile who longs to have my knowledge and looks.

 

— Michelle in Boston

Q: Dear Question Marquis: My friend sent me this photo. I don’t get  Is it a joke, or is it some deeper commentary
on the effect of technology on culture? — Cosmo in Grand Rapids '

c A: It is the joke of an imbecile who longs to have my knowledge and looks. Challenge the pig to a duel.

Q: Dear Question Marquis: How come you know about computers and dot. coms, but you’ve never heard of sunglasses?

A: Oh, sunglasses. Of course I know sunglasses. I thought you said “St. Molasses!’ I am not familiar with that one. The
patron saint of sorghum? What?

*Free offer expires and is limited to first-time subscribers. Internet access and
acceptance of online Subscriber Agreement required. See www.questia.com for
details. ©2001 Questia Media, Inc. Questia, the Questia logotype, “Better Papers.

Fasten”, the Question Marquis, the Question Marquis signature, and the Question
Marquis question mark symbol are service marks of Questia Media, Inc.

que

stﬂa

Better Papers. Faster?‘

‘I

F .

 

I
Yr“:
3 r

_
r

_r

\*1
l

«VOLUME 103, No. 20

U

V

By Michelle Lally

STA FF WRITER

The Board of Trustees met Thursday

evening with administrators and stu-
dents for a dinner reception, to kick off
the tri—annual Board meeting matters
pertaining to the management and de-
velopment of the University.
I During the reception the Board heard com-
ments from Rector J. Frank Surface, Univer-
sity President John Elrod, and guest speaker
Dean of Students David Howison. Executive
sq Committee President John Cornly and Stu-
dent Judicial Council President Jordan
Ginsberg presented student reports on the
status of their organizations. According to
University Secretary and Associate Director
of Development, James D. Farrar, the student
reports were candid and encouraging.

“The student speakers were honest in
their discussion of their committee’s op-
«,,~ eration, but both had a very positive and
 upbeat tone,” said Farrar.

Following the reception, the Board met
for a brief program before retiring for the
day. Friday’s Board activities began at 8:30
am, with the swearing—in of new Trustee,
Mr. H. Monier, from the Class of ’62, who
joined as the Board’s 30th member.

After Monier’s inauguration, the
, Board heard presentations from Elrod,
Annual Fund Chair Cal deColigny,
Alumni Board of Directors President J en-
nifer Stratton, and Law Alunmi Associ-
ate Dan Balfour before breaking down
‘' into groups to receive presentations from
various committees who reported on dif-
ferent aspects of the University.

The Student Life Committee presented

Alcohol Task Force, the same report the
University distributed to fraternity presi-
dents earlier this week. Before any of the
new rules are put into effect, they must ﬁrst

  
   

A

Trustees convene
to review reports

_ External Relations Committee, members of

the board with the ofﬁcial report from the _

NIGHT TO REMEMBER. University Chorus sings while Trustees dine at‘Evans.

be reviewed and approved by the Board.
Farrar said the Trustees are in favor of the
University’s proposed measures and back
the administration on these new initiatives.
“The Board of Trustees reaffirms its
ongoing commitment and support to the
Alcohol Task Force,” Farrar said.
During the meeting of the Capital
Projects Committee, the Board received
presentations from different architects
and specialists on the building of the Uni-
versity Commons, the renovation of Reid
Hall and the construction of a new ﬁt-
ness center to replace the current weight
room in the Doremus Gym.
In the meeting of the Development and

the Board approved the University’s Capi-
tal Campaign, a long—terrn process to raise
funds to help Washington and Lee realize
its goals and ambitions. The Campaign will
be armounced to the full Board during its
2001 October convention.

Funds raised through this campaign will
be allocated to building projects, and educa-
tional programs to ﬁnance ﬁnancial aid, fac-
ulty salaries, scholarships, and professorships.

Friday’s activities concluded with a re-
ception attended by the Board of Trust-
ees and 85 invited faculty and staff mem-
bers. Trustees, staff, and faculty met in
Evans Dining Hall for a buffet dinner and
entertainment provided by the University
Chorus. Mr. Farrar praised the dinner re-
ception as the highlight of the weekend.

The Board’s final meeting took place
in N orthen Auditorium Saturday.

Elrod and his wife, Mimi, were both in
attendance and expressed their conﬁdence
in the accomplishments of this weekend’s
meeting of the Board.

“It was a great weekend. We had great
attendance. We talked about substantive
issues, and I couldn’t be happier with the
outcome,” said Elrod.

A

‘ photo by Emily Bes xecutive Editor

 U112 ﬂing-tn  ”

 

_ . » ' .-Tm. 
 .  Lgvﬁb . ‘ :';"‘f
"«,‘\!‘/\:;i:=.*I\3:}§Tm-"at rt $-35. \aM‘¢‘t!.f&‘.s .-
" -;«--m_:_ vb. N590

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 2001

   

I

photo b

STAND UP FOR YOUR RIGHTS. University Center plays host for a student-planned, student-run, student-only discussion.

Protesters hatch committee

Matthew McDermott

NEWS EDITOR

The new Committee for Student Rights
held its ﬁrst public meeting yesterday in Room
109 of the University Center. The committee
was founded by sophomore Chad Ellis, who
chaired the forum with sophomores Eppa
Hunton and Matt Coursen.

“We all came here because no one is really
happy with the direction that the administra-
tion is taking with the alcohol policy,” said
Ellis. “We think it touches on a greater issue,
and that is students’ rights.”

The proposed Interfraternity Council
regulations to limit alcohol distribution moti-
vated Ellis, Hunton, and Coursen to form the
committee.

“I haven‘t heard one positive thing about
these rules,” said freshman Parks Brown. “It’s
going to put [fraternity events] out in the
country.”

IFC President Andy Robinson disagrees,
however. At last week’s alcohol forum,
Robinson said he did not forsee a migration
to the country because of the policies.

The committee suggested that the adminis-
tration implement Live Drive on all weekends.
Its members plan on circulating petitions to pre-
serve “student responsibility, safety, and pres-
ervation of the Greek system,” Ellis said. Par-
ticipants were also concerned about the man-
ner in which these rules were introduced.
Hunton said he heard the administration bul-
lied the IFC into accepting its policies.

‘‘I talked to some members of the IFC, and they

told me Elrod came to them, handed them the alco-
hol policies and said ‘Either you pass this, or I’m
going to go over your heads,” he said.

The IFC itself was a source of disatisfaction
for many of those present.

“The IFC [has] become just a way for the
administration to get a rubber stamp of ap-
proval for their policies,” Ellis said. “Organi-
zations like IFC are not doing a good job of
representing the student members.”

Most criticism, however, was directed to-
wards the administration.

“The alcohol policy is invading students
rights, stepping on toes, going in the wrong
direction,” Hunton said. “President Elrod’s al-
cohol policy came as a result of the tragedy in
late October and his reactionary policies are
attacking [student autonomy].”

Alcohol task force evaluates ideas

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The Alcohol Task Force debated several
possible new regulations during its third meet-

. ing Sunday.

The task force, chaired by Will Coffman
’O3, Physics Professor Tom Williams, and Di-
rector of Student Health Services Dr. Jane
Horton, met for six hours to discuss parental
notiﬁcation for alcohol—related arrests and a
single-sanction penalty of one year’s suspen-
sion for a DUI. The group also talked about
the role of hard liquor at Greek functions. Al-
though the task force cannot make policy, it
can make recommendations to the Student
Afﬁars Committee and University President
John Elrod. Dean of Students David Howison,
a member of the task force, said hard liquor
needs to become less of a presence at parties.

~Women’s studies program established

Proposal results
* in new concentration

By Katie Howell

STAFF WRITER

Five years of plarming came to fruition
after Washington and Lee faculty ap-
proved a new interdepartmental women’s
studies concentration Tuesday.

" Associate English Professor Lesley
Wheeler, Associate Professor of Psychol-
ogy Jeanine Stewart and Associate French
Professor Domnica Radulescu requested the

t addition of the women’s studies program.

Their proposal, which was approved
Tuesday, has received no opposition so
far, and the planners expect none.

The plan’s architects modeled the con-

~" centration after the University of
Richmond’s successful women’s studies
program.

“The University of Richmond has one of
the oldest programs of this type in the area,”
said Dr. Anne Schroer-Lamont, faculty leader
of the leadership area of the concentration.
“The University of Richmond’s research has
shown that self-esteem grows appreciably
among women who are involved in their
[won1en’s studies program.]”

Classes from the English, psychology, art,
and science deparments will supplement this
program.

Female faculty teaching these classes an-
ticipate assisting their students in more than
academic matters.

“Intellectual leadership can be carried on
as students continue through life,” Schroer-
Lamont said. “It gives them the conﬁdence to
feel comfortable discussing their ideas and
opinions among men and other women in ei-
ther a classroom or work setting.”

The new women’s studies program is sup-
ported by Knowledge Empowering Women
Leaders, a student organization that will bring in

speakers and organizes extra-curricular events.

KEWL co—founder Alison Trinidad, a jun-
ior, said the organization provides “a co-cur-
ricular way to get students involved and ac-
quainted with faculty and with one another.”

KEWL members will be required to com-
plete the concentration’s requirements.

The first women’s studies class should
appear Spring Term. Classes will be open to
all W&L students. The concentration, how-
ever, will be offered to only a few students
during the ﬁrst few years.

“We want to build the program up with
one small group at a time,” said Schroer-
Lamont. “It might take 5 years or longer, but
we hope to eventually have a program for stu-
dents interested in looking at issues involv-
ing women.”

“Students can take courses to blend tradi-
tional disciplines in new ways and will come
back to their traditional disciplines asking new
questions and getting a richer experience,”
said Stewart.

“Most serious problems related to alcohol
involve hard liquor,” Howison said.

The IFC proposed a 9:00 p.m. cutoff for
hard liquor at parties. They will vote on the
proposal at their meeting tonight.

The members discussed the role of tail-
gates as social functions and their relation-
ship to football games. Howison and IFC ad-
visor Burr Datz refused to comment in more
detail on the nature of the discussion.

The group also examined the role of the
Student Judicial Council and the Executive
Committee in punishing alcohol—related of-
fenses. Currently, the SJC has only indirect
authority over these incidents. If an intoxi-
cated student gets into a ﬁght, they can pun-
ish that student only for ﬁghting, said SJC
President Jordan Ginsberg. This year is the
first year the SJC can hear DUI cases.

The task force also evaluated the effec-

tiveness of new and old programs designed
to curb the harmful effects of alcohol. The
student—run Live Drive program and Univer-
sity-run Safe Ride program were judged
sucessful in reducing the risk of alcohol—re-
lated accidents. Coffman said these programs’
effectiveness was one of the few areas of
agreement.

“Everybody believed that these programs are
a step in the right direction,” Coffman said. “No-
body should have a problem ﬁnding a ride home.”

Howison said he was impressed with the
Task Force’s discussion.

“I feel energized [because] we’re making
progress,” Howison said.

The task force will sponsor a series of fo-
rums open to the university community be-
fore they meet again to discuss their ﬁnal rec-
ommendations to President Elrod. Their next
meeting is tentatively scheduled for March 3.

D

February 12, 2001

@112 ﬂing-tum [ﬂirt

 
    
 
 

1-?
ti:
5"
G

Don
Pollina” Isrts» "
discovers center of

ol and

the money:

universe

 
   

Bring h fava beans:
“Hanna 
Valentine’s Day

 

  

Cards fo and friends

 

ary uy/Photo Edito

 

 

PAGE 2

(J11: ﬁling-tum lﬁhi

NEWS  

TH-= womo

 

President Bush takes
part in Mid-East peace

process

After right-wing leader Ariel Sharon
defeated Ehud Barak by the largest mar-
gin ever in Israeli politics to take over as
Prime Minister, President George Bush
took the first steps towards getting in-
volved in the Mid-east peace process.
President Bush called Yasser Arafat on
Friday and spoke to Sharon on Tues-
day. They discussed the car bomb at-
tack for which a Palestinian group has
claimed responsibility.

Sharon, the leader of the Likud
had recently sparked a month of vio-
lence between Palestinians and Is-
raelis due to his controversial re-
marks about disputed religious sites

THIS WEEK

and his visit to the Temple Mount.
Arafat also holds him responsible for
civilian deaths during the 1982 war
with Syria, during which Sharon was
Defense Minister.

Valentine’s Day serves
up food for thought

The American Dietic Association
released a study that found that
Valentine’s Day meals are likely to be
hazardous if cooked by men. It said
that if the man cooks the romantic din-
ner for two, he is more likely than
women to use the same plate and uten-
sils, without cleaning them between
uses. The study, co-funded by
ConAgra, suggested that that “Val-
entine chefs” “sing the chorus of your

By Mehul Srivastava

favorite love song for 20 seconds
while you wash your hands.” It
also urged them to cook meat to
the suggested temperatures and
to keep raw and cooked meat sepa-
rate.

Not all tradition is lost. A study
in North Carolina gave the green
light to women suffering from mi-
graines to eat their holiday choco-
lates. The study has refuted ear-
lier beliefs that chocolate triggers
of migraines.

On a related note, a spacecraft
will land on the asteroid Eros,
named after the Greek god of love,
just two days before Valentine’s
Day. At 196 million miles, this is
the most distant object a landed
on by a spacecraft.

‘TRAILERS’

“We don’t think their impact
will be that signiﬁcant for the short
time they’re there,” Contos said.

The commission allowed citi-
zens to comment on the proposal.
Several said the trailers did not
need to be in such a visible loca-
tion. Dr. Thomas Harvey, Planning
Commission Chainnan, asked why
the university abandoned the origi-
nal location in front of Doremus
Gym. Contos admitted that he pre-
ferred that location, but said the
journalism department would be af-
fected by the contruction of the ﬁt-
ness center and university com-
mons.

“[They] would be very im-
pacted from the noise and traffic
would be cut off,” he said.

Contos added that Doremus
gym was never formally submit-

ted as the site for the temporary trail-
ers. The Corral was the next best
choice because it had a wall and room
to plant trees to screen the buildings
and easy access to utilities. Also, the
trailers would be closer to other class-
rooms.

Harvey said he did not understand
the need for such a close location when
the trailers contained no classrooms.

“If there were classrooms, that’d be
one thing, but they’re not,” Harvey said.

Contos said all of the other loca-
tions are inconvenient to students and
faculty because of distance. He also
said a walk from the main part of carn-
pus to the Corral takes only four and a
half minutes as opposed to 1 1 minutes
to the area around the athletic ﬁelds.

Several commission members did
not like the contrast of blue and white
trailers against the red brick wall.

FROM PAGE 1

Contos said the university can
paint the trailers tan or green so
they blend with their surround-
ings. Journalism Department
Head Hampden Smith said he
hopes promising to paint the trail-
ers will persuade the commission
to adopt the university’s plan.

“I’m glad we [can] do some-
thing that will permit the city to
be relatively happy with being in
the Corral for a year,” Smith said.

The Planning Commission
will vote on the proposed loca-
tion on Feb. 22. Commission
Member David Coffey said the
proposed location has little
chance of making it to a city
council vote.

“I don’t think [the commis-
sion] was terribly impressed,”
Coffey said.

tonight . . .

KARAOKE   nlelrri

Re-live Lip Synch while caffeinated!

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

J AVA AT

coFFEEpeopleMusIcmore

THE GHQ

February 26 BluesWorks
March 5 Jazz co-sponsored by SAB
March 12 Open Mike

 

Illusionist 
bends Spoons 
and minds

By Jonathan Wortham

STAFF WRITER

Illusionist Craig Karges dazzled the Lenfest
Center crowd Thursday with demonstrations of
the power of the unbridled mind.

“We only use 10-20 percent of our minds’
capabilities,”said Karges, “Just think about what
people could do if the other 80-90 percent were uti-

In his show, Karges uses the untapped re-
sources of his mind to perform such magical feats
as moving objects and reading others’ minds. For
example, Karges picked someone from the audi-
ence at large. This person wrote a word on a
board, and the blindfolded Karges guessed that
word from the person looking at the board.

Karges’ show differed from traditional magic
in that every trick involed toying with the minds
of those who were participating. Students were
astounded that this man could know their names
and what they were thinking just by them think-
ing about it. Freshman Khalid Hassan said he
enjoyed Karges’ mental antics.

“This guy is g°°d’” Hassan Said Now WATCH CAREFULLY. Craig Karges mystiﬁes.

The Ring-tum Phi congratulates new University Scholars

Emily Averitt Matthew McDermott
Kara Coen Colin Mitchell
Natalie Deibel Jaime Muscar
Rahmeen Farudi Karelle Samuda
Sarah Garrison Maria Syska
Kathleen Gibson Daniel Vos
Rory Gray Kenneth Walker
Kara Harbert Eric Wechtler
Corinne Mathieu Jonathan Wortham

Housing Applications are now available.

Students interested in living
in Gaines Hall or Woods Creek Apartments for the 2001-
2002 academic year must stop by the Housing Office
(Payne 4) and pick up a housing application.

(Only one application per Cluster or Group).
Anyone wishing to live in a fraternity or sorority must
also submit an individual application.

If you are interested in special housing such as one of the
Theme Houses, please contact the following for specific
information and sign-ups.

Peoplehood Suite, Chavis House, Delt House -
Dean Penn - Payne Hall 3
International House - Mr. Klingelhofer .- Tucker 316
Nabors Suites - Stacey McLoughlin - Graham Lees 355
Outing Club - Mr. Tatar - University Center

The deadline for all applications is February 26, 2001.

 

FEBRUARY 12, 2001 ,

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor .

 

 

FEBRUARY 12, 2001

OE‘il\”‘i1oN

PAGE 3

   A night in the life of a non-C-school major

My parents’ common lament resembles
something along the lines of “Well, if
you’re going to be an English major, you
need to marry well.” I often remind them

V that it was hard enough trying to ﬁnd some-
\- one to dress as Fred Durst for our Famous
liiaovers date function, let alone ﬁnd some-
one to marry. “Well, then why can’t you
i; just be an accounting major?” they re-
sound in exasperation.
_ Put bluntly, the C-school scares me. My
two expeditions into the C-school were
, solely to fulﬁll gen—eds, and they were not
enjoyable experiences. What I know about
politics and Bosnia and any other world
affairs, you can ﬁt in a thimble. . . and have
room left over for what I know about what
1; economics is. That’s another horribly con-
fusing facet of the C-school that makes
my head spin. Politics. Economics. Every-
thing is plural form. It’s intense.
~ Until this past summer —— and I’m not
I even kidding — I thought the Gulf War
was fought in the Gulf of Mexico. I con-
stantly mixed up Gore and Dole. (That
whole consonant—O-consonant-E thing.
1; Gole. Dore.) How exactly does 70 percent
of the school keep it straight? (Editorial
note: I pulled that number from outer space.
I don’t really know how many students
are C-school majors. I haven’t taken sta-
tistics — another damn plural.) Here is
' where I interject my article’s basis: I braved
the netherworlds of the C-school library
to experience a night in the life of a C-
; school major.

I borrowed my friend’s economics text-
book so no one would cast stones at me
whenl walked in. I actually typed this article
on a computer in the C-school. I tried writing

' it at a desk, but there were books Clinton (he
was the president) probably used when he
4. was ﬁve in lieu of telephone books when he
couldn’t reach his Chef Boyardee. I couldn’t
believe there was actually more than one
volume of the menacing blue texts called Mu-
nicipal and Government Manuals. It’s not
like I just read books with pictures or any-
thing, but who would even want to read
" one of those texts, let alone multiple?

/

HHI

A boy sat at the computer next to me
(Woo Hoo!). He was studying for a test
the next day.

“What’s it on?” (I have such good game.)

“Stake holders.”

Of course, the first thing that came to
my mind was some kind of tong device
used to hold red meat above the grill. I
didn’t even bother asking for clarification.

“The whole thing is on steak holders?”

“No. Just partially.”

I got out of him that the rest was on
information technology or something,
which sounded so wonderfully vague and
abstract that it amused the hell out of me.
Within the next few minutes, two people
came over to him and asked if he “found
anything.” Apparently, the entire steak
holder issue was of grave consequence.

55
no

They made a lot of noise looking for stuff
on the computer.

The last time I had an English exam
study group, we averaged about 2.84 ciga-
rette breaks for every early British story
we reviewed. Here,

lllll

“Woman in Canada May Have Ebola.”
That’s all it took. Suddenly, I didn’t
feel so out of the loop. If that’s what is
topping the political top 40 charts, I rea-
soned it didn’t really matter that my knowl-
edge is lirnited to who

everyone perched
at the edge of his or
her seat, and it

orthemei’s Brposure one
Kris Pollina ’05

wrote Little Dorrit.
woman in
Canada may have

made me worried
that they were cracking Pentagon codes . . . at
least that’s how they treated whatever
work they were doing.

It impressed me to no end. The previous
night, I went to the C-school (Twice in one
week. Money.) and I made the observation
that if they weren’t helping with the recount,
they were online reading about current events.
One headline I saw someone reading was,

Ebola. It’s not even
definite. I can totally still sleep at night.

I applaud the C-school majors in all sin-
cerity because you know what a “stake
holder” is, and you can administrate a busi-
ness, and you know who ran for President.
Plus, I need to stay on all of your good
sides because you’ll be handing out the sec-
retarial positions in your high power account-
ing ﬁrms to us English majors ir1 ﬁve years.

ote of the week:

'1. .2

C 6

I’m going to have to in-
‘ vent a boyfriend just so I
I don’t feel left out at lunch.

— Anonymous senior girl, lamenting
"‘ over lack of interesting conversation
tidbits leading up to the celebration (or
lack thereof) of St. Valentine’s Day

77

 

. Flip: Ring-tum lﬂlti

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
News Editors Matt McDermott
1 Max Smith
Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello
Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel
W&Life Editor Alexis Yee—Garcia
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Last Word Editor Bryan Early

‘ Copy Editor Heather McDonald
Contributing Editor Michael Crittenden
Photo Editor Mary Guy
Staff Photographer Eric Wechtler
g Business Manager Paul Seifert

Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring’-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible
, submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
‘ Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
' tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
I 208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059

'‘ E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

LETTERS To THE En1ToR--—-—

Student urges need to experi-
ence Delt Center before judging

Dear Editor,

Diversity is essential to our daily lives. Every group of
individuals is diverse, no matter how small, because every
person is a minority of one. The interaction of diverse
perspectives aids learning by challenging ossiﬁed opin-
ions, especially when perspectives differ widely. Diver-
sity is thus important because it is unavoidable and it is
beneﬁcial. Since we all value learning on some level, we
should seek and respect perspectives different from ours.

Total inclusivity, however, is impossible to practice. In
a community like W&L, there naturally arise smaller orga-
nizations that allow for closer interaction between indi-
viduals. It is simply impossible for any such organization
to include every person because each organization must
deﬁne its values, and some people will differ with those
values. When these organizations bring people together,
they provide unity within diversity, but they threaten to
destroy the larger community when they become insular
and exclusive.

This is precisely the complaint brought against the
Delt Center, the Living-Learning Center Alexis Yee-
Garcia referred to in the last Ring- tum Phi (2/5/01). Ms.
Yee—Garcia criticizes the Delt Center on the grounds
that it isolates independents and minorities, thus de-
feating the purpose of diversity, but she mistakes the
nature of the center. As a member and resident of the
center, I can say without reservation that the Delt Cen-
ter models the theoretical ideal of diversity and it has
the potential to exemplify it in practice.

The Delt Center promotes learning, diversity, and ser-
vice through residence at the house and through activi-
ties open to all. The center believes that these three val-
ues are integrally connected, and it holds discussions,
parties, and service projects in order to promote them con-
sistently. In many ways, the Delt Center is the ideal way to
promote diversity since its residential element provides
daily interaction within a diverse group and its active ele-
ment includes the entire community.

 What’s the best Valentine’s Day present you’ve ever received?

 

“A dozen roses waiting for me when I came
back from Feb Break.” -Elizabeth Doerries ‘01

 

As Ms. Yee—Garcia rightly points out, the center does
not currently have the support of the entire community,
which impedes the realization of its goals. Sadly, some
mistake the center for a haven for those who have been
excluded from the Greek system, and others say that it
serves only independents and minorities. However, resi-
dence in the center is open to all males regardless of
Greek affiliation, and everyone is welcome at its activi-
ties regardless of gender. The values of the center are
valuable for everyone at W&L, and our activities have
been wel1—attended by students of all types. If isolation
exists, it is on the part of those who misjudge the Delt
Center without first learning about it.

The Delt Center has the potential to allow for the close
interaction of a diverse group in a variety of social con-
texts, and thus it deserves the support of the entire com-
munity. The Delt Center may become a powerful force for
learning, diversity, and service at W&L, but this will come
only through thoughtfulness and respect. All who care
about diversity — and we all should — should support
organizations such as the Delt Center that promote it. This
issue demands action —— there is no excuse for ignorance
and apathy.

Sincerely,
David Newheiser ’03

Student responds to last week’s
“Cat’s Comer”

Dear Editor,

I was disappointed to read a line in last week’s “Cat
Comer” making fun of W&L women who have eating dis-
orders and abusive boyfriends. I happen to know some of
these women, and I fear that they will be upset by that
colunm. Women who struggle with these issues deserve
our\community’s respect, support, and empathy. These
issues are serious problems that take much time and effort
to resolve. Let’s not make life more diﬂicult for these women
in our community by making fun of them in the Monday
Phi.

Sincerely,
Julie Fitzer ’03

“I can’t answer that.”
—Dan Tortora ’03

“My boyfriend took me skydiving.”
—Nancy Rhinehart ‘03

By

Christine Metzger

   

“Vegernite, Beer Mat, Slab of Beer.”
—Andrew Gardiner (Australian exchange student)

 

 

PAGE 4

C)

(Ellie {Ring-tum lﬂhi

PIN ION

New regulations will do no

There has recently been much discussion on cam-
pus concerning alcohol. This debate seems to have
produced two prevailing opinions. The first is that, in
light of the recent tragedies and the general decay of
responsible drinking, the student body can no longer
be allowed to regulate its activities in this sphere of
university life. The counter opinion is that, although
the recent tragedies have been terrible, there has been
no marked increase in injuries from years past, and
Washington and Lee’s long tradition of student self-

governance, _ _ .

if left alone to Right sde of the aisle
f u n c t i o n , ,
properly, will Brat Klrwan 04
best solve the

problem of alcohol abuse. The conversation will con-
tinue until, most likely, the somewhat heavy—handed
regulations proposed by the IFC are implemented. In-
stead, we should listen more to what the second group
has to say.

Although it is, without question, absolutely neces-
sary to alter the drinking culture at W&L, the chosen
approach is doomed to failure. As President Elrod said in
an interview with the alumni magazine, “If student atti-
tudes and behaviors are to change, it can happen only as
a result of students making up their minds to properly use
alcohol.” The decision to drastically change the nature of
alcohol use at W&L, with little or no consultation of the
student body, is contrary to the notion expressed by Presi-
dent Elrod, and by his predecessor, Robert E. Lee. One
cannot change nearly 250 yearsof tradition overnight.
The students will not react well to the new regulations.

President Elrod also noted that, “We’ve got to rely on
strong student leadership.” Many would argue that every
regulation recently proposed has been student—generated.
However, it would be disingenuous to say that the student
leadership hasn’t been acting under heavy pressure from the
administration.

Another response would be that we students are free
to elect leaders of different opinions. However, does any-
one believe that a new group of IFC and EC members
would be free to roll back these regulations, once passed?

Regardless of the arguments against the regulations in
favor of traditional student leadership, the biggest problem
with the alcohol initiatives arises when one considers their
enforcement. First, if shots are barmed, how will this ban be
enforced? Willa security guard or IFC official be posted on
every ﬂoor of every fraternity house 24 hours a day?
Maybe cameras will be installed in every bedroom, in-
cluding every dorm room, on campus. Maybe the deci-
sion will simply be to fine every student or house that
owns a shot glass. Will the bookstore stop selling shot

18 E. NELS

good

  x

 

     
  

_  -‘ ,, ._ _ ._.
 \

 

glasses and will they no longer be commemoratives of
Fancy Dress? In all likelihood, this rule, so easily ig-
nored, will become little more than a farce and an affront
to students.

Although Beirut and other drinking games are a little
more difficult to conceal, there are dozens of “country”
houses in town where students will still be free to in-
dulge. Wasn’t one purpose of the Fraternity Renaissance
to ensure that parties and most drinking would take place
on university property, where some control can be en-
forced? This doesn’t even consider the possibility of
students driving into the country to play, or following
the proposed 1:00 a.m. end of alcohol distribution.

Enforcement is nearly impossible with every rule pro-

posed. On a grander scale, we have seen the failure of I

both Prohibition and the War on Drugs; why do leaders

2.‘ 7- '9: 52 2’;  1‘-2 §( 3‘.
 ya -2‘ 2-.‘ -;' _- ~ ,;

-my

ST. LEXINGTON 540 ) 464 - 4483

WIS WEEKS SPECIALS

MON ~ SALISBURY STEAK w/ MASHED POTATOES
AND GREEN PEAS

T‘uE- CHICKEN QUESADILLA w/ SPANISH RICE
‘ AND HOME MADE CHILI

WED ~ SPAGHETTI w/ MEAT SAUCE AND MIXED
GREEN SALAD i

new BBQ CHICKEN 51‘ RIBS w/HOME MADE
POTATO SALAD AND OUR OWN BAKED BEANS

FRI -- SHRIMP CREOLE SERVED ovER WHITE RICE

SAT~ CHICKEN CORDON BLEU SERVED ovER
RICE w/ FRESH BROCOLLI a

SUN ~MEATLOA1~' w/ MACARONI er CHEESE AND
E 

tr
1-
I»
4-»
4

.-
‘V
I1"


‘hr?-
45/
+5’

continue to believe that simple illegality will solve any-
thing? The only result will be a substance—less, cer-
tainly not substance—free, affront to student autonomy.

Some proposed rules, such as the automatic sus-
pension following a DUI conviction, are easily enforce-
able and send a clear message that grossly irrespon-
sible drinking, which puts oneself and others at risk,
will not be tolerated. This two—pronged standard should
be used to evaluate all proposed regulations.

Those with the authority to hand down restrictions on
alcohol need to take a step back and reconsider the antici-
pated effectiveness of the proposed regulations. Instead of
branding every W&L student as a drunk and issuing unen-
forceable and autocratic edicts, they should look to W&L’s
responsible drinkers, by far the majority, to set an example
and urge other students to follow.

 

FEBRUARY 12, 2001

  9-'o-h. I2:-_u.t .’ 

A very nice 2 bedroom, 2 bath apartment, one mile from
downtown Lexington. Central AC 8 Heat Pump.
Small deck, washer/dryer hookup. $550 a month.
Available immediately.

Please call 46l-3222.

LOVE, LOYALTY & FRIENDSHIP

    

What are you giving this year?
Why not the timeless beauty and symbolism of the Claddagh?

Available in rings, earrings, bracelets, & necklaces in gold and silver
See our knotwork jewelry, Scottish Luckenbooths, and Welsh Lovespoons tool

CELTIC CONNECTION
19 W. Nelson V 10AM-5:30PM M—SAT
464-6545 V_ www.ce|ticconnex.com

‘WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
V Annual Fund Staff Associate
The Office of University Development has an opening for an Annual
Fund Staff Associate. This position assists in the development and man-

Washington and Lee through the Annual Fund which provides direct sup-
port to the University's operating budget. The term of the position is one
year, renewable for a second year, with preference given to recent W&L
graduates.

As this entry-level position depends on creative communication to a
varied constituency, the successful candidate should possess excellent writ-
ing and verbal skills. Also necessary are demonstrated initiative, an abil-
ity to work within specific deadlines, ability to prioritize and juggle mul-
tiple tasks, an ability to supervise and manage student workers and alumni
volunteers, and a willingness to assist other staff members as needed.
Candidates should also be prepared for evening and weekend work and
some travel. Familiarity with computers and with public relations prin-
ciples is a plus. A Bachelor's degree is required.

Candidates should send a complete resume and letter of application to
Robert W. Fox, Director of Personnel Services, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, VA 24450.

Equal Opportunity Employer

 

agement of strategies to increase involvement in the ﬁnancial support of r

 

~ FEBRUARY 12, 2001

W&If

2 ﬁling-tum iﬂhi

IFE

PAGE 5

I-“Silence” a tough act to follow

‘.

\

By Mike George

STAFF WRITER

 “Hannib ”

ices: :1:

What is the most terrifying is of—.
ten that which is the most unpredict-
able. “Hannibal,” the sequel to the
1991 thriller “The Silence of the
Lambs,” conveys this idea with chill-
ing accuracy.

Ten years after his violent escape
from authorities in Tennessee,
Hannibal Lecter has found relative
obscurity in the streets of Florence,
Italy.

In America, the agent that most un-
derstood him, Clarice Starling, has
come under ﬁre for a botched drug
bust that took the life of a fellow FBI
agent and friend. With pressure
mounting for her resignation, Starling
is reassigned to the Lecter case, and
forced once again to enter the mind
of a deranged madman.

“Hannibal” is directed by Ridley
Scott, who in 1979 terriﬁed audiences
with the horror classic “Alien.” Scott,
a perfect choice for the third install-
ment in a series that includes the cult
classic “Manhunter” and the Oscar
winning “The Silence of the Lambs,”
proves that he is a master of suspense.
Scott uses anticipation and paranoia
to bring the audience to a new level of
terror. It is impossible to tell what Lecter
is going to do next, and that is what is
truly terrifying.

“Hannibal” rests largely on the
strength of its actors. Julianne Moore
is a worthy replacement for Jodie F os-
ter, but her performance seems to be
missing something. Where Jodie Fos-
ter was convincing as a West Virginian
trying to make it in the FBI, Moore
seems out of place.

As disappointing as Moore is in

her role, Anthony Hopkins’ return to
the role of Hannibal Lecter is amaz-
ing. He literally chews up the scen-
ery. Hopkins knows at every moment
exactly what to do to completely ter-
rify the audience. The subtleties of
his interactions with Moore are as re-

markable as the mood he sets when,

lurking in the shadows.

The rest of the supporting cast is
also lackluster in comparison to
Hopkins. Gary Oldman puts in a some-
what odd Dr. Evil-like performance as
Mason Verger, a disfigured victim of

Dr. Lecter who is bent on revenge.

For all of its superior direction,
“Hannibal” does have some problems,
particularly in the direction. Scott shifts
the tone of his ﬁlm and even the style
of direction as the setting changes
from Washington to Italy and back to
Washington again. In doing this, Scott
fails to present a ﬁlm that builds on its
suspense as it progresses.

This film is also very graphic, at
times to an excess. Playing on a shock
factor, “Hannibal” shows when it
could describe. Also, by bringing

 
 

  Students
US‘! A colsol

 
 
 
    

  
 
 
 
 
 

Office of Health Promotion and Substance Abuse Prevention
Based on W&L CORE Survey data from , 1999, 2000

photo counesy of ht //us.imdb.com
HELL0, CLARICE. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) carries an unconscious Clarice Starling
(Julianne Moore) as they escape from Mason Verger’s farm at the end of the film.

Lecter into the real world, it somewhat
reduces his unpredictability and
makes him appear more human. For this
reason, “Hannibal” is less terrifying in
some regards than its predecessor.

Despite these shortcomings,
“Hannibal” has many merits. Its ending
is both shocking and disturbing, but
comes to some sense of understanding.
“Hannibal” shows us what motivates
Lecter and how, in a larger part, what
he does is motivated by his own sense
of morality. This is a great ﬁlm, go see it
at least once.

Anyone interested in an
ad in the 2001 Calyx
should contact editor

Neal Willets at
Willettsr@Wlu.edu
orx4046 I

  

Pub is for lovers, friends too

By Alexis Yee—Garcia

FEATURES EDITOR

Though Michael’s Pub suggests
beer as a gift for a lover, all of the quality
brews suggested would be just as en-
joyable at a friendly dinner party. This
Thai inﬂuenced dish would pair well
with the Katahdin Red Ale (or a crisp
Riesling). So, gather a few single friends
and enjoy V—Day with this pungent en-
tree from Bon Appetit Cook’s Exchange.

(Try not to be intimidated by the
exotic ingredients. Anything not avail-
able in the local supermarket can be
found at the Healthy Foods Store or
one of the other gourmet food sources.)

14 oz. canned unsweetened coconut
milk

2 tbsp. Thai red curry paste

1 tbsp. minced peeled ginger

1 C canned low-salt chicken broth

1 tbsp. cornstarch

1 1/2 lb. skinless boneless chicken
breast halves, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 tbsp. ﬁsh sauce (nam pla)

2 tbsp. fresh lime juice

1 small red bell pepper, chopped

1 C sliced green onions

1 1/4 C chopped fresh basil

1 lb. dried pasta

2 C broccoli ﬂorets

Serves 4 to 6

Stir coconut milk, curry paste and
ginger in heavy large skillet over me-
dium-high heat until paste dissolves,
about 1 minute. Mix broth and corn-
starch in small bowl, add to skillet,
cook an additional 2 minutes. Reduce
heat to medium and add chicken, ﬁsh
sauce and lime juice. Simmer until
chicken is cooked through, about 2
minutes. Add bell pepper, green on-
ions and basil and cook 2 minutes.

Meanwhile, cook pasta in a large
pot of boiling salted water according
to package directions. Add broccoli
for the final minute of cooking. Drain
pasta and broccoli. Pour sauce over
pasta and broccoli to serve.

  

 

Q SM go»: 7/azmzam mu, “Q
Pumpkinseecis

wée/Le goo/6! 
Wafewtééze émdc
Waéenténe Sacyé

.£’cwe .1052/‘wze/7c'céeZ¢

7&6 game of Zaae

aaa(macémaae./

  

 

 

 

1 PAGE 6

FEBRUARY 12, 2001

Men’s lacrosse team prepar

Generals enter
season ranked
third in the nation

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team faces an awesome pros-
pect this season, looking to improve
on last year’s outstanding success.

The Generals were 16-2, 6-0 in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.
Salisbury State narrowly defeated
the Generals in the NCAA Division
III semifinals, 10-9. W&L finished
the season with a fourth place na-
tional ranking.

The Generals have been rated
fourth in a pre—season STX/USILA
poll. Although they lost a postseason
match to the Generals, Gettysburg is

' ranked third.‘

The Generals are returning three
of last season’s five best scorers, al-
though this year the team must do
without All-Americans Chris Brown
and Colin Dougherty.

CHASING THE GENERALS. ODAC teams will attempt to compete with senior Pete Iwancio and the
men’s lacrosse team this year. W&L finished ,6-0 in the ODAC, 16-2 overall in 2000.

Senior Matt Dugan set a school
record of 87 points by scoring 55 goals
and 32 assists last season. He will look
to continue his domination this season.

S PESRTS

“We put a lot of pressure on Matt

to lead the attack,” head coach Jim
Stagnitta told the W&L Athletics
Homepage.

Golf team targets ODAC title

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee golf team
enters the spring season with its ob-
jectives in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference clearly established.

“(Guilford) won our conference
last year, and they’re the number-two
team in the country right now,” said
head coach Gavin Colliton, in his
second season as coach of the Gen-
erals. “We have one goal, and that’s
to win the conference championship.
That’s something we should do ev-
ery year here, even though Guilford
is red-hot.”

W&L should beneﬁt from a bal-
anced roster, which includes at least
two members of each class. Seniors
Ben Wilson and Clayton Chandler will
provide the team with necessary lead-
ership, according to Colliton.

Juniors Curtis Bethea, who is lead-
ing the team in scoring stroke aver-

age through the fall, and Kyle Ulep
also bring experience to the table.

While the Generals don’t have a
definitive star, they do possess
enough talent to compete in and out
of the ODAC. The three—man sopho-
more class of Chip Campbell, Chuck
Green, and David Haase —— a new-
comer to the team —— is, however, vi-
tal to the team’s success.

“We don’t have that go-to guy,”
Colliton said. “But I think our sopho-
more class, with David Haase and
Chip Campbell, has provided the
steadiest performances, and Chuck
Green always has the capability of a
low score.”

Colliton and the Generals also ben-
eﬁt from playing in three tournaments
in the fall.

“Fall invitationals just give us a
place of where we stand in the league,”
the coach said. “The fall competition
just tells us whatwe have to do to
prepare ourselves (for the spring).”

Fall competition could easily be a
double-edged sword, as W&L has a
hiatus from actual competition of
nearly four months. However,
Collition believes that his team has
stayed active enough as to where the
time off will not hurt the Generals’
chances.

“Officially, we’ve been off for four
months, but the guys basically go
out and play a couple of times a
week,” Colliton said. “We just com-
pleted a five-week mandatory lifting
program, and the guys are in pretty
good shape.

“Their game is close with a little
bit of layoff, but it hasn’t been four
months (since they’ve played), so
that’s not a big factor.”

W&L opens the spring season on
Feb. 23 with the Guilford ODAC Invi-
tational. The Generals host their own
ODAC invite on Mar. 21, and ODAC
Championships take place on Apr. 23
and 24.

Courtesy 0 ports n ormation

ing as a captain this year.

On Hackney’s ability, Stagnitta com-
mented, “Pope is one of the premiere
all-around players in the country.”

Stagnitta is also pleased with the
success of Norton, who was named a
preseason ﬁrst—team All-American.

“Bemie just keeps getting better
and better,” Stagnitta said. “I think
you will see that improvement again
this season.”

Senior goaltender Wes Hays also
returns to the team as a captain. Hays
became a solid player last season, and
had a brilliant performance in the semi-
ﬁnal match against Salisbury State.
He earned a respectable .607 save per-
centage, and his goa1s—against aver-
age was second in the nation at 5 .85.

“Wes has gotten better every year,
and played huge last year in the big
games,” Stagnitta said. “He is ready
to haveihis best year yet.”

  

es to take field

of a team is its midﬁeld, where the
players must be adept at both offen-
sive and defensive play. With that in
mind, W&L looks stronger and,‘
deeper in the midﬁeld than in yearg
past.

“We’re better in the midﬁeld this
year than we were last year because
of the depth,” Stagnitta said.

Facing off this year will be sopho-
more Tom Melanson, who won over
70 percent of the faceoffs he took last
season. Stagnitta describes
Melanson as “one of the premiere
faceoff men in the country.”

Stagnitta, entering his 12th season
as coach of the team, says he has
never seen a better group of seniors.

“I can’t say that, during my ca-
reer over a four—year period, there’s a
group that can match these seniors,”
he said.

If last year’s success and

Seniors Pope Hackney and Bernie
Norton each had more than 40 points
last season. Hackney, who was a first-
team All-American last year, is retum-

Senior Pete Iwancio will return to
help Hays lead the defense. The Gen-
erals were ranked second in the na-
tion for scoring defense at 5.78 goals
per game last year.

Some would argue that the true test

Stagnitta’s prognosis are any indi-
cation, the Generals should go far-
ther than they ever have before un-
der Stagnitta.

W&L opens the season on Feb.

Generals ready for spotlight

Women’s tennis team looks
to continue national success
By Sarah Grigg

SPORTS WRITER

There is an auspicious outlook for the Washington
and Lee women’s tennis team this season.

With the return of six national competitors, two of whom
were named All-Americans, the team is sure to be a pow-
erful force in the NCAA Division III and the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. Cinda Rankin will return as head
coach to complete her 13th year with the team.

Last year, the Generals placed third in the Division III,
defeating Amherst 5-4 in the consolation match and ﬁn-
ishing with an overall record of 20-4. Doubles teams Brook
Haitzell and Melissa Hatley and Erin Eggers and Erika
Proko took second and third places, respectively, in the
NCAA. All four players were named All-Americans.

“It’s very, very hard to be an All-American,” Rankin
said. “Only eight doubles teams in the nation are named
All-American out of 327 teams. We are the only school in
the nation to have had two doubles teams.”

Seniors Hartzell. and Eggers graduated, leaving Hatley,
a junior, and Proko, a sophomore, as doubles partners. In
the 2000 Rolex Small College National Tournament, held in
the fall, the two took third in the nation. The pair will team
up this spring with their sights set on first in nationals.

“Our goal is to really do well in the individual doubles
at nationals,” Proko said. “We both went last year with
different partners, and ﬁnished second and third. I think
we should be able to win it this year.”

Other returning nationals players from the previous
spring season include junior captain Sallie Gray Strang
and sophomores Brandi Jane Wedgeworth, Alyson Brice
and Laura Bruno.

The ODAC will not present the team with any great
challenges, as they ﬁnished last season with a conference
record of 1 1-0. “I don’t think we’ve lost a match in ODAC

Courtesy of Sports Information
RETURN snor. Sophomore Erika Proko and the
Generals look to improve upon their NCAA
Division III third-place ﬁnish from 2000.

in about 10 years,” Rankin said.

The top six from the fall lineup will all return for this
season. They include sophomores Wedgeworth, Brice,
Bruno, Proko, Hatley, and freshman Elizabeth Law.

V.

V

,.
!

r~

1

25 with a home match against Ehnira. e V

3

The team’s first match will be against Emory and Henry ‘

on March 4 at home.

Questions, comments, or suggestions
about the sports pages of the P111?

Email Ieremy Franklin at phi@wlu.edu.

WATERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT
l0 student apartments
  available June 1, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enioy country living at its finest.

Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive.
Please call Tim Wilhelm

at 540-463-6575 or 540-463-2868.

is

V

 

Y

FEBRUARY 12, 2001

S

(lite ﬁling-tum ilﬁlii

PORTS

Mentz, Eastern Mennonite’s

« W&L wins battle of the record setters

1

Mullet shatter scoring

'\- records as W&L wins, 80-69

l.

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s basketball team
underwent a turbulent week, defeating Eastern Menno-
nite in a record-shattering game, then falling to the bal-
anced attack of Randolph—Macon on Saturday afternoon.

On Wednesday night, records fell throughout the
arena as the Generals defeated Eastern Mennonite, 80-
69. Eastern Mennonite guard Emily Mullet scored an Old
Dominion Athletic Conference-record 58 points and tied
the ODAC record with 10 three—point ﬁeld goals.

Mullet came three points short of the NCAA Division
IH record by shooting 20-of—37 from the ﬁeld, including
10-of-24 from behind the arc.

Unfortunately for the Royals, Mullet provided almost
all of Eastern Mennonite’s offense, and W&L gained a
record-setting performance from junior Jessica Mentz.

Mentz scored a school-record 37 points and grabbed
11 rebounds to pace the Generals. Unlike Mullet, Mentz
gained support from a number of teammates, including
junior center Megan Babst, who scored 20 points, col-
lected 17 boards and blocked four shots.

Junior co-captains Sarah Schmidt and Carter Thomas

= V also knocked in 12 points and dished out nine assists,
’ ‘respectively.

Against the Royals, W&L used huge runs to build
leads as large as 20 points, and finally iced the game
with clutch 10-of-12 free throw shooting in the ﬁnal 2: 18
of the game.

When the team played host to Randolph—Macon on
Saturday afternoon, however, it was the visitors who used
a balanced attack and key defense to win the game, 64-54,
and send the Generals to a record of 7-13 and 5-11 in

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

MAN-TO-MAN. Junior Alison Kudlacik tries to pass over Randolph-Macon defender Rachel
Kifer on Saturday at the Warner Center. The Yellow Jackets won the game, 64-54.

conference play.

W&L stuck with Randolph-Macon throughout the first
half, heading to the locker room down 34-26 after an eight
point run by the Yellow Jackets.

The Generals cut the lead to four points, only to lapse
and allow an 11-0 run by the visitors, who built a 47-32
lead with 12:28 remaining. In a complete role reversal, the
Yellow Jackets ended the game with clutch free throws,

an

Men’s team knocks off Royals

W&L sports roundup
By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee dropped a
60-52 road decision to Greensboro
College on Wednesday before return-
ing home with a 68-64 win over East-
ern Mennonite on Saturday.

The win against the Royals upped
the Generals’ record to 4-19 on the
season, including a 4-13 mark in the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

Despite falling behind 24- 1 1 at half-
time against Greensboro, W&L battled
backtomakeita3l—29 game with 10:34

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

DOUBLE TEAM. Junior Bob Bustamante attempts to shoot over
a pair of Eastern Mennonite defenders in W&L’s 68-64 win.

left in the second half. However, the
Pride rolled off a 12-4 run over the fol-
lowing 4:40 to secure the win.

Senior Chad Braley led the Gener-
als with 15 points and four assists,
and freshman David Bode contrib-
uted l4 points for W&L.

The Generals returned to confer-
ence play on Saturday by edging East-
ern Mennonite in what was a close
contest throughout the game. Junior
Bob Bustamante hit three of his four

I free throws in the ﬁnal 10 seconds of

the game to seal the W&L victory.

Bode scored 11 of his 14 points in
the first half as the Generals took a
32-31 lead into the break. W&L over-
came 51 percent shooting by their op-
ponent, helped along by 23 Eastern
Mennonite turnovers, to knock off
the Royals (9-14, 7-10 ODAC).

Senior Will Ballard led the Gener-
als with 15 points, also ﬁnishing with
three steals, and Bustamante tallied
10 points on the afternoon.

Wrestlers win two
matches at Albright ’

4 In the ﬁnal tuneup before Centen-
nial Conference Championships, held
Feb. 24 at Gettysburg College, the
Washington and Lee wrestling team
won both of its matches in the
Albright Triangular on Saturday.

The’Generals (6-5-l, 2-3 Centen-
nial) defeated Centennial Conference
foe Johns Hopkins, 34-7, and non-
conference Albright, 22-21.

Juniors Ben Segal (125 pounds)
and Ezra Morse (197) won both of
their matches on the day, and Morse

®'roYo'rA  
CALL IT §;i;ARr UP MONEY.   

TOYOTA’S /\COLLEGE GRADUATE
FINANCE PLAN INCLUDES $500
TO GET YOU GOING!

Thc1‘c‘s sure to he a Toyota that’s just right for you

So if you’re within 4 months of graduation -—
or if you graduated within the past 2 years -—
Ask your Toyota dealer for all the details.

www.gettoyota.com

Toyota College Graduate Finance Program available to qualified appli-
cants thru Toyota Financial Services. Not all applicants will qualify. Some
restrictions and limitations apply. Cash back offer subject to geographic
limitations and offer expires 6/30/01. See dealer for details.

improved his record to 19-2 on the
season.

Indoor track teams
run in CNU Frolic

The Washington and Lee indoor
track teams participated in the Chris-
topher Newport University Winter
Frolic on Saturday afternoon.

JuniorMarcWatson ledtl1emen’steam
by placing ﬁfth in the 60-meter dash and
second in the fourth heat of the 200 meters.

Freshman Meghan Hayde won the
first section of the 400 meters, and
senior Wendy Case contributed a sec-
ond-place ﬁnish in the ﬁrst section of
the 800 meters to lead the women.

Both teams will compete in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Cham-
pionships on Feb. 24 at VMI.

And now there’s a Toyota College Graduate Finance Program
that’s just right, too. Here are some of the advantages:
0 No Down Payment

0 ‘No Payment for 90 days

0 Finance up to 72 months
0 Get $500 Cash Back From Toyota...

in addition to any othergcurrent Toyota customer incentives!

Tacoma

sinking ﬁve in the last 2:33.

. This time around, Babst led the team with 20 points
and 13 rebounds, earning her 15th double-double of the
season. Schmidt chipped in 13 points on 6—of-9 shooting.
Following her record-setting game against Eastern Men-
nonite, Mentz was held to nine points on 2—of-9 shooting.

The Generals look to improve in the ODAC when they
travel to Emory and Hemy on Tuesday night.

Upcoming events in W&L athletics

Baseball
Feb. 19
Feb. 20
Feb. 22
Feb. 25

at Olgethorpe
at Emory

at Olgethorpe
Muhlenberg (2)

3 :00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m.
12:00 p.m.

Men’s Basketball

Feb. 12 at Bridgewater 7:00 p.m.
Women’s Basketball

Feb. 13 at Emory and Henry
Feb. 15 Virginia Wesleyan
Feb. 17 Hollins

Feb. 18 Roanoke

7:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.

Golf

Feb. 23 at Guilford ODAC Invitational TBA
Men’s Lacrosse
Feb. 25 Elmira 1:00 p.m.
Women’s Lacrosse

Feb. 17-18 at South of the Border Toum. All Day

Men’s Swimming
Feb. 15-17 at Grove City Invitational

TBA
Women’s Swimming
Feb. 16-18 at ODAC/Atlantic States Inv.

Men’s Tennis
Feb. 15 VMI

Men’s and Women’s Indoor Track
Feb. 24 at ODAC Championships

Wrestling

Feb. 17 at Centennial Championships

Celica

Trip-On:
Amsterdam Barcelona

Berlin Brussels
Dublin London Madrid

Rome

UNBEATABL 
PRICES!

PACKAGES _lNCLUDE:
- Student roundtrip airfare
0 Accommodations

-g Airport transfers
and Travel Card*

:0 Camera, document
organizer, discounts
guidebooks, maps
and more

*SeIect cities only.

Paris

 

E Clip: itling-tum iﬂlji "
‘% E
E E O 

PAGE 8 >53 e FEBRUARY 12, 2001*

 

Gupiels toting last Word Styles»

 

V1-Qoml \/roomy As Officer Baner I uphold the law,
7’ I "'1" P’ ez And I’ve ticketed, towed and
9’m [ii on/ire _ taken Your car;
la)!’-/-yaupre//yp/ease But t you’ll find my love is
de my uafen. . . /ire.’ — when you pick up your Vehicle
]ing1impo    

 

W message /130121 y3res1'o/en/ 7))usél ..

Why Can’t
someone like me,
Dave How—i—son?

Some people
like Ghengis,

others Attila
the Hun;

 

’ ‘ .1 -4ml\=cniux'z:.c:um
Some people say you re as ide as Shamu,
and sure you can empty a shopping cart;
but I just want to slap your leg
and ride the waves into your heart.

 

From the random hook-up
you just couldn’t pass up


Q ‘U

. $’Weet mail-order bride from France, .

. I now can finally pay your fee;
¢

So drop your frogs and escargot,
 V
e CC to  O C or .0 

 
 
 

‘ " , Roses are red,
V“ Violets are blue;
I have herpes,

And now you do, too! and wrap your urzslzaverz legs

around me.

 

the Question Marquis

Q: Dear Question Marquis: My sisters boyfriend broke up with her over a year ago. But his voice is still on her
answering machine. Should I tell her how pathetic this is? — Stephen in Annapolis

A: My advice here is going like this: It is not a problem, it is an opportunity. There is no truer friend of passion than
the vulnerable rejected lover. You must simply play your cards correctly. I recommend a subtle approach to win her trust.
Perhaps you can tell her about Questia. About how much more free time she will have when she’s writing research papers
if she does the research online. Free time that the two of you could use to, je ne sais pas, get to know each other better?
If you know what I . . .wait~you said your sisters boyfriend? This is a terrible misunderstanding. I have got to stop
skimming these questions.

 

Q: Dear Question Marquis: I am very interested in Questia. Could you please give me some more information about
its exciting features? — T W in Houston '—

Ask the Questia” Marquis is 0’ A: Zut alorsl I think my employer has slipped this one in. But just by chance this is not how the case is, I will answer

it brieﬂy. Questia will have an extensive scholarly collection, and the full text of each book and journal article is all

online. You just enter your topic and then you can instantly search through any book. And many of the author’s own

sources are, how you say, “hyperlinked.” So you can follow the writer’s train of thought,  you like. Also, quotes,
footnotes and bibliographies are all done automatically. And, in a few months, Questia can be used to more efficiently

groom racehorses. Or such is my understanding. That may be confidential information, so don’t go gossiping it about

like a bunch of Montesquieu’s concubines. Now I wish I hadn’t told you. ‘

sporadically produced advice column,
because proper loving takes time.

It is to be read with a silly French accent.
The views of the Question Marquis

are his alone and are in no way to be

construed as representative of his

sponsor, Questia, you American pigs.

“There is no truer friend of passion than the vulnerable rejected lover
You simply must play your cards correctly”

 

Q: Dear Question Marquis: Well ...why did you tell us? In both of your answers, you could have corrected your _
mistakes by using the delete key. '

A: In life, there is no such thing as a delete key. Q.E.D., there is no delete key for writing my column. What’s done is
done, what’s said is said. Vive moi! (Long live me!) ._ ‘

questﬂq

Better Papers. Faster?”

‘Price subject to change. See web site for current pricing. Internet access not included. ©2001 Questia
Media, Inc. Questia, the Questia logotype, “Better Papers. Fasterf,‘ the Q ' Marquis, the Question
Marquis signature, and the Question Marquis question mark symbol are service marks of Questia Media, Inc

www.questia.com

Jebidiah “Nascar” Ne ry —V1R(;|\ FUR Lin-1 .:

7

ta
1:.

 

 

C,’2._..

U112 iliing-tum Iﬂliftt”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

     
 

  
   
 
 

at-*«vv' ‘A ~~"”tf. .:‘"  .. ‘

aw.-..» ‘i -3 '--’—‘=¢- ‘v-‘Ml-

. ‘frag ‘Q0, 

VOLUME 103, No. 21

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MARCH 5, 2001

Y

‘SAC hosts
_ alcohol forum

By Michelle Lally

STA FF WRITER

.( The Student Affairs Committee hosted a forum discus-
sion Wednesday evening to address the University’s more
comprehensive alcohol policies.

Nine students, four professors and two Health Services
workers attended the forum. Many of the students who

'’ attended the meeting hold leadership positions on various
student committees. The Executive Committee, Student Ju-
dicial Committee, Interfraternity Council, Panhellenic Coun-
cil and Students’ Rights Committee were all represented.

g Dean of Students David Howison led students and fac-
ulty in discussing initiatives ‘intended to reduce what he
referred to as “high risk drinking behavior.”

These proposals include a single-sanction one-year sus-

M pension for a DUI and parental notiﬁcation of alcohol-re-

”‘ lated arrests for repeat offenders. Members of the forum
also discussed providing alternative social events, limiting
the role of hard liquor and managing fraternity parties.

Students offered many suggestions to improve the ef-

.‘ fectiveness of Live Drive and Safe Ride, such as posting

L the routes of the University vans, registering off-campus
parties to be included on Safe Ride routes and extending
Live Drive hours.

In efforts to adhere to Virginia laws on the consump-

"» tion and distribution of alcohol, EC President senior John
Cornly suggested that seniors rather than sophomores live
‘in fraternity houses. The idea received overwhelming sup-
port from the faculty and staff in attendance. Howison

,‘ noted that liability would decrease drastically if the houses
were inhabited by men of legal drinking age.

Howison said this plan would shift the balance of power
in the fraternity houses.

“Seniors and juniors would be responsible for running

< their fraternity, thereby creating a stronger fraternity sys-
tem,” Howison said.

Howison, who supports the resolution, said he intended
to draw up the proposal immediately and begin the ap-

‘ proval process in order to enact the plan by the 2002-2003
school year.

Students present at the meeting also supported the idea. “It
would be a lot of fun to live with my friends senior year,” said
Alcohol Task Force co-Chair.W"Ill Cotfman, a sophomore.

R IFC President senior Andy Robinson agreed.

“It’s the easiest solution [and] a painless way to gain
ground,” Robinson said.

Participants also discussed various ways to reduce
the role of alcohol at W&L events, including cocktail par-
ties, alumni functions and tailgates.

Howison expressed disappointment at the poor stu-
dent turnout and announced his intention of holding a
second, follow-up forum discussion in the next few weeks

I, in which he hopes to get more student feedback.

Howison said the University’s focus on reducing alco-
hol consumption is a long-terrn project.

“We’re continually looking for ways to solve this prob-
lem,” said Howison.

    

Campus readies for

    



phoo by Eric Wehtler/Sff Photographer

2001

Fancy Dress festivities

By Latrina Stokes

STAFF WRITER

Gearing up for Fancy
Dress activities, the Stu-
dent Activities Board re-
leased the name of the
band scheduled to per-
form at the March 22 FD
concert.

Funky Meters, origi-
nally known as The
Meters, plays a mix of
funk, dance and blues.
The band has toured with

the Dave Mathews Band
and other popular musical
artists, including The Roll-
ing Stones.

Funky Meters formed in
1967 under the direction of
Art Neville, Jr., who plays
piano and provides vocals.
George Porter, Jr., plays the
bass guitar and Brian Stoltz
plays the guitar; both also
sing. Russell Batiste, Jr.,
plays the drums.

When learning of SAB’s
choice, many students said

photo Courtesy of SAB
MUSIC AND DANCE: (top) students take dance

lessons preparing for the ball; (above) the
Funky Meters will play at the concert.

that they had never heard
of the band.

Funky Meters is just
“another no-name band,”
junior Gary Davis said.

Freshman Lisa Sauer
was also not pleased.

“I want a band that ev-
eryone likes,” Sauer said.

Sophomore Rich Braund
is one of the few who does
know the band’s style. "They
have a jazz, funk, improv style
— really improv,” he said.
Because he listens to this
type of music. he said he
would attend the concert.

Despite being unfamiliar
with the band, several stu-
dents interviewed said that
they would attend the con-
cert. Davis said he would
consider going since he has
heard that Funky Meters
plays diverse music.

Freshmen Melanie Barr
and Marinda Harrell said
that they would attend “be-
cause the alternatives are
too depressing.”

SAB members sug-
gested several bands and

selected the Funky
Meters based on sound
and availability.

“For this concert we
were looking for a high
energy band,” said SAB
President senior Crystal
Simpson.

“I know not everyone
knows their sound,”
Simpson said.

She said Funky Meters
has a sound like George
Clinton & The P-Funk All
Stars,"‘buf the band goes
even further back to the
beginnings of funk.

Simpson plans to ad-
vertise the band’s style
by playing their music at
the Co-op and on
WLUR. ‘

Talking to people who
have attended the band’s
concerts convinced her that
the show will be exciting.

SEE ‘FD,’ PAGE 2

Soccer nets funds for breast cancer

Ben Stein
to share

“insight”
Political pundit, game

show host to speak
a By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Ben Stein, host of Comedy Central’s “Win Ben Stein’s
Money,” will bring his famous dry voice and sense of
humor to Washington and Lee.

Stein, also host of “Tum Ben Stein On” will speak on
Tuesday, March 27 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. His lecture
is sponsored by Contact and the Young Americas Foun-
dation, a conservative organization that helps students
bring speakers to campus. Stein, a noted actor, comedian,
author, and conservative political commentator, will give a
lecture titled “Win Ben Stein’s Insight.” Due to his varied
professional background, the content of his lecture is still
unknown.

Besides his current job as a game show host, Stein has
a diverse background in politics and entertainment. After
graduating as Valedictorian of his Yale Law School class
in 1970, Stein worked as a poverty lawyer and a trial law-
yer in trade regulation. He taught courses in politics
and the media and libel law at Pepperdine University.
From 1973-74, he wrote speeches for Richard Nixon,
and later for Gerald Ford. Stein insists he did not write
the line, “I am not a crook.”

Contact Committee member senior Philip Wright was
the primary force behind bringing Stein to campus. Wright
first heard Stein speak in Washington, D.C. while he was a
congressional intern. Wright said Stein is coming out of
his way to speak at W&L because he recently completed
a book on Robert E. Lee. He also said Stein will give a
great lecture.

“I thought he was engaging, and he connects well with
young people,” Wright said. “We’re excited.”

  
   

photo courtesy of Contat
BUELLER, BUELLER? Ben Stein will speak in,

Lee Chapel.

“' W&L tournament aids
y-American Cancer

,, Society’s research
By Amy Blevins

STAFF WRITER

A little initiative and planning produced big
I‘ results this Saturday and Sunday for cancer pa-
tients across the nation when a soccer tourna-

ment plarmed by freshman Rahrneen Farudi raised
over $10()() for the American Cancer Society. The
‘ proceeds from the tournament will go to fund

breast cancer research.

Farudi obtained permission from the Ameri-
can Cancer Society to use its name when rais-
ing money for its foundation.

T‘ Fourteen co—ed teams of about seven play-
ers each played over the weekend following
IM indoor soccer rules. Each team was guar-
anteed two games in the tournament.

‘I Freshmen Sustin Leggans and Matt Lafkas
refereed.

“I love soccer and [the tournament] was a

good idea,” said Laﬂcas.
The tournament “came together easily,”
,‘ Katkas said.
i Lafkas agreed.
“We got the court easily,” Lafkas said. “I

was personally worried about teams, but sud-
denly we had about 12 teams.”

On Saturday, teams Chi Psi, Phi Kappa
Sigma, Lafkas, and Bebona won their desig-
nated brackets.

Phi Kappa Sigma defeated Bebona in sud-
den-death overtime 2-1 the playoffs Sunday.
The winners received T—shirts and a Willson-
Walker House gift certiﬁcate.

The charity fundraiser brought groups from
all over campus to participate.

“It’s for a good cause,” said sophomore John
Wright. “I’ve had relatives die of cancer.”

The Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity made par-
ticipation in the tournament part of
pledgeship.

“Wejust wanted to make sure, since this

is a charity event, that we participated,” said

Sig Epjuniorleremy Kirkland. “And one way
we can ensure doing that is making it part
of pledgeship.”

The fundraising has personal meaning for
Farudi.

“I started the tournament because recently
my family and I found out that [my] mother has
breast cancer and I wanted to do something to
help,” Farudi said. “It has been really hard for

—me over the past several weeks, and I don’t

want anyone to have to experience what I have
seen my mom go through.”

photo by Mary Guy/ Photo Editor

FEET WORK. Senior Shana Levine
dribbles a soccer ball along the
Pavilion wall as freshman Bret Grote
contains her.

:1

Ellie ﬂing-tum Iﬂltt

March 5, 2001

   
    

T emptatiri
of will pow

  
 

Truc: r’s paradise: p to the plate:
A '0 ps Emory

and H ryﬁito tip" ’ ODAC

   

 

(E112 ﬁling-tum ilﬂhi

NEWS

14‘

 

Lenfest Series presents John

Amos in “Halley’s Comet”

The Lenfest Series at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity will present the award—winning John Amos
in “Halley’s Comet” on March 8, at 8 p.m.

Amos won an  as Kunta Kinte in the Roots
miniseries. He starred as James Evans, the father in
the television sitcom Good Times. He played oppo-
site Eddie Murphy in Coming to America and co-
strred with Bruce Willis in Die Hard II.

“Halley’s Comet” is a comedy about an 87-year
old man who shares his lifetime memories from the
time he last saw the comet 76 years earlier.

Bookstore sponsors essay contest
in honor of Women’s History Month

Entries should attempt to answer the question
“What QQ Women Want?” Essays should be approxi-
mately 500 words long. The first prize winner receives
a $50 gift certificate. The second prize entry wins a
$25 gift certificate. Submissions should have a sepa-
rate title page.

W&L Dining Service to Host

International Food Show

W&L Dining Services will host its sixth annual food
show on March 6, from 1 1:30 a.m. to 1:15 p.m.

Over 24 vendors will display their products, with
offerings ranging from apples to zucchini. Dining ser-
vices will also raffle off a DVD player, a CD burner, an
MP3 recorder, a TV, a Palm Pilot, and a Play Station II.
The meal will cost one meal swipe on the University
Card.

 

7:30 p.m.— Campaign Program. “Reﬂections on
the 2000 Presidential Campaign,” Mike Allen ’86
and David Pace (W&L parent). Lee Chapel.

8:00 p.m.— The “Mass in B minor” Lenfest
Center. the Rockbridge Choral Society, W&L
Chamber Singers, Rockbridge Chamber Singers,
six soloists and a 30-piece orchestra.

Tuesday
8:00 p.m. - “Mass in B minor.”

Wednesday

George Washington Honor Scholarship Competition
7200 p.m. — Politics Filmfest. “Wall Street,” Room
221, Williams School.

Thursday

George Washington Honor Scholarship Competition
Phi Beta Kappa Convocation (Adjusted Class
Schedule)

    

photo by Mary Guyl Photo Editr

Jon WELL DoNE.‘Marion Heard, director of the Boston United Way, delivers the Friday

afternoon speech that closed the “Dream a Dream, Read a Book” Literacy Drive. —

P/11'

or die!

Join
IE:
university newspaper! .
Meetings every Tuesday
at 7:00 p.m.,

. theme is based on something that’s already fun.” -’

p University Center room 208.’

MARCH 5, 2001: V

(FD?

FROM PAGE 1}

“They’re saying if you give them a shot, you could appreciate them *7
in retrospect,” Simpson said. ‘

The band’s style will compliment this year’s FD theme to be re-
vealed Wednesday. ‘

Senior Christine van den Toom, who chairs the advertising sub- ‘
committee of the FD steering committee, said she was excited about ‘
this year’s theme.

“The theme is great. It’s really bright and colorful,” she said. “The

Van den Toom said that the entire campus will be decorated with
teasers about the theme. ,

The FD committee kicks off this year’s theme with a raffle in front
of the Co—op. Tickets will cost $10 for five. Memorabilia from past
balls will also be on sale. '

Tickets for Funky Meters go on sale a week before FD. They cost?
$15 for the W&L community and $20 for the general public.

The"Wallers and Kings of Swing bands will play at -the Fancy;
Dress ball. ‘

 

 

Ooh: iamg-tum aim

MARCH 5, 2001

‘Reality TV
‘doesn’t bite

PAGE 3

4

Students have been postponing their Wednesday night
time of departure in order to cater to one of the latest in
reality based television: Temptation Island. Every Wednes-
day, from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m., every phone in our apartment
gets switched to DND. Should someone make the mistake
of opening her mouth —v“I just contracted a terminal dis-
ease”—vshe is immediately quieted, usually with a ham-
mer thrown at her head. And thus is the great folly of our
culture: I can watch people hook up at a sketchy late night

Q DJ party, but I’d rather sit in front of the TV to do it. I can

ridicule the whole mild version of The Truman Show ‘til
I’m blue in the face, but it’s like admitting to buying a
Spice Girls CD or something. I’ve never met anyone who
liked them, but they still somehow managed to sell mil-

V lions of albums. I’ll be brave. I got addicted to the show.

I didn’t actually get into the whole Temptation Island
craze until roughly three episodes from the ﬁnal one. And
it was hard for me to watch because it makes my head

. spin; I can never keep track of who are the tempters, who

are the boyfriends, who are the temptresses, and who are
the girlfriends.

But what confuses me the most is the whole premise of
the show.

“Hey, honey? Is it cool if we go to an island and I can
hook up with beautiful girls while you go scuba diving
with handsome men?”

“Hmm . . . let me think about it.”

“lt’1l be televised on national TV, too.”

“Well . . . ”

“Don’t worry. You can watch my transgressions, if
you want, on a portable TV set and

he has blue eyes, and he looks good in unbuttoned
Hawaiian shirts. Yet this all just made me realize my
love for you.”

“Me, too! Let’s stay together!”

I couldn’t help but wonder if Mark —— the blue polo,
khaki shorts, and birkenstock—clad host — was somewhat
disappointed by the entire conclu-

your rejected, disappointed, and
hopelessly pathetic reactions can be
visible to the entire viewing nation.”

 S  sion. Not to mention the producers.

Which brings me to the issue of re-
ality—based television shows as a

“Cool. When do we leave?”

Not only can I not understand what girlfriend would
continue seeing a guy who would ask her to do that, but
it bafﬂes me that all three couples actually stayed together
in the end.

“I’ve made some very intimate connections, both physi-
cally and emotionally, with the temptresses.”

“Yes, I’ve met a guy who is wonderful. He can swim,

LETTERS To THE EDITOR

Women’s studies article
was misleading

Dear Editor,

On Feb. 12, the Ring-tum Phi published a misleading
article by Katie Howell entitled “Women’s studies pro-
gram established.” The faculty did recently approve a
Women’s Studies concentration. The article, however,
conﬂates Women’s Studies with a completely separate,
extracurricular program promoting women and leadership.
Ms. Howell thereby misrepresents both enterprises and
propagates several factual errors. The article’s most egre-
gious mistake is to suggest that Women’s Studies will be
an exclu ive program limited to few students; Professor
Stewart, in fact, informed the reporter that this was false
before press time. The major inaccuracies are as follows:

1. Washington and Lee’s new concentration in
Women’s Studies is not modeled primarily after the paral-
lel program at the University of Richmond. We examined
curricula from many institutions, including the University
of Richmond, synthesizing the elements most appropriate

. whole. (I swear, I am like an episode
of The Simpsons. My articles never get to the point until
halfway done.)

As much as the notion of watching people get up in
the morning, ﬁght about who drank the last of the or-
ange juice, or wrestle with diversity issues confounds
me, I am definitely a reality-TV junkie. I am chemically
dependent on Real World drama. My favorite part of

Survivor is the tribal meeting wh;::n they vote someone.

off. (“Sorry, Kal, I love you. i’ou.’re the light of my life.
But I don’t want to be on the same island as you.”) My
entire apartment erupts into laughter watching people
freak out at ﬂickering lights on MTV’s new show Fear.
Nothing is more compelling than watching a motley crew
of aesthetically—pleasing people (with the required deeply
rooted emotional issues) somehow screw up living in
the garden of Eden. How can anyone be unhappy living
in the Real World Hawaii house? But they are. It speaks
volumes about the human condition that we thrive on
the non-fictional entertainment of watching people screw
up a utopia. Or maybe I am just trying to justify my ad-
dictions to these shows that are even stronger than my
addictions to Mello Yello. I can only hope that my fasci-
nations with the aforementioned programs are just an-
other form of work procrastination, and not a reﬂection
of an abnormal psychological condition.

Dean Schroer-Lamont, however, is developing a women
and leadership program based on the WILL program at
that university. We admire her efforts but must emphasize
that the academic concentration we proposed stands alone,
and doeslnot contain a “leadership area.”

2. Women’s Studies will not be taught solely by “fe—
male faculty.” Any student completing this concentration
will undertake an introductory course and a capstone semi-
nar or thesis conducted by various faculty; students will

' also pursue relevant preexisting courses in a range of dis-

ciplines. Courses offered currently or in the past by Pro-
fessors Novack (Male and Female Roles in Society) and
Velasquez (Nature of Woman and the Art of Politics), for
instance, would ﬁt the bill.

3. Dean Schroer-Lamont may suggest that students
involved in Knowledge Empowering Women Leaders reg-
ister for credits in Women’s Studies, but we know very
little about this organization nor how it “suppoit[s]” the
Women’s Studies program.

4. Most importantly, the concentration will welcome all
interested students, male and female. Dean Schroer-Lamont
may plan to build her separate program “one small group at

 

 

 

A message to the student body

Dear Editor, ‘

Last September, we wrote toall students about

the new alcohol and drug laws in the United States
and the Commonwealth of Virginia. As we return
from Washington break, we want to reiterate the
message we sent last term.

The Commonwealth of Virginia adopted a new
DUI law that requires a mandatory five-day jail term
for an individual convicted of DUI with a blood al-
cohol level of 0.20 — 0.25. If the BAC is over 0.25, a
ten—day jail term is mandated.

Federal law has imposed severe penalties for pos-
session of the so-called “date rape” drugs. Any
person who knowingly manufactures, sells, gives,
distributes, or possesses with the intent to distrib-
ute gamma—butyrolactone or butanediol, when in-
tended for human consumption, shall be guilty of a
Class 3 felony. A Class 3 felony carries a penalty of
not less than five years nor more than twenty years
of imprisonment, and a fine of up to $100,000. Also,

 

Christine Metzger

  

Y to our needs and resources. atime,”but the academic concentration, like any academic the emergence of “Club Drugs” such as Ecstasy
majororprogram, eagerly seeks wide participation. combined with national surveys that indicate in-
, _ - On the aftemoon of Sunday the 11th, Ms. Howell left creased drug use among young people have raised
    messages with each of us. Professor Stewart actually new concerns. Ecstasy is a Schedule 1 drug and
V reached Ms. Howell a couple of hours later and corrected possession carries a penalty ranging from 12 months
her confusion about the two programs. Your reporter in jail/$2500 fine to one to ten years in jail if the
E"“"""" Ed”"" Emﬂy B_a'“°_s tacked on a quote but did not rewrite the piece, as new case goes to a jury. '
Stephanie Bianco .nf . 1 1 d d W f dl d. Th . f h h Id k _
News Edmm Mm Mcnermott l orination c eary man ate . e are pro oun y is— ere is one act t at everyone s ou now.
Max smith mayed that any student would submit material that she W&L is not a sanctuary from the law. Since 1996,
It Assistant News 541"" Mike Agnello knew to be wrong for publication, especially on the front eleven W&L students have been arrested by local
0pi"i°" E‘“’°’ Ta” Am‘ F”°d°' page of an inﬂuential student newspaper. We are also authorities and charged with felony drug crimes.
Assistant Opinion Editor Brett Kirwan di b Id C H S f . .
W&Llfe Editor Alexis Yee_Gama _stur ed that a reporter wou Contact ounse rig 'er- The consequences or these students and their fami-
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin vices about an academic program. Women’s Studies is a lies and friends have been severe. Immediate with-
Last W074 E470’ Bryan Eafly rigorous discipline with a significant institutional and drawals, suspensions, denials of graduation‘, ruined
‘ _ C0,” Ed‘,"” KT“ P°"'“a_ scholarly history, and does not emanate from Counseling careers, plus the high cost of legal defenses. Most
Contributing Editor Michael Crittenden . . .
Photo Editor Mary Guy Services;would anyone make aparallel assumption about of these arrests occurred at the end of the academic
Sygﬁ Photographer Eric wechuer Environmental Studies or Medic val and Renaissance Stud— year, during the Winter or Spring Terms.
. ies? We hope that this unfortunate article does not dis— If you are struggling with alcohol or drug prob-
! _B“"”‘_“ M‘f"“3" Pm“ §°‘f°” . courage student involvement in what should be an excit— lems, seek assistance from our excellent Health Cen-
Clmdanon Director Charm Tone"! ing new interdisciplinary opportunity ter staff or counseling psychologists
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the Sincerely, SHICCTCIY, .
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Lesley Wheeler, Associate Professor of English John Comly, President of the Student Body
, University, Lexington, Virginia- The Washington and Lee Jeanine Stewart, Associate Professor of Psychology Jordan Ginsberg, Chair of the Student Judicial Council
’‘ Publicaiions Board elects the EXCCWVC Editor, but The Domnica Radulescu, Assoc. Prof. of Romance Languages David Howison, Dean of Students
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.
The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible . .
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the O
4  ALKback. hat did you do over F‘ Break?
‘ on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
, Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
’ tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
)1; Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu " "
1 http://wlu.edu/~phi “I went to the Harvard “I had good food, got a lot of sleep, “I had a blast at Mardi Gras.” “Went golﬁng in Florida with
A 1 b ‘ ' - $30 Model UN in Boston.” and had a blast with my firends.” -Maitena Moure ’04 the golfteam.”
""““ 3“ “‘‘’‘'°“ ”‘°' -MegFerrara’04 —SahirKhanna’04 —BurrDatz‘75
V

 

 

PAGE 4

C)

@112 Tiling-tum lﬂhi

PINION  

MARCH 5, 2001 _

War on drugs saves society

Vlfrth the success of the movie Traf-
ﬁc, there has been much discussion on
the merits of the Drug War and drug
legalization. In his address, Gen. Barry
McCaffrey detailed the horrors that
drugs inﬂict on those who use them
and advocated an approach of ﬁerce
enforcement coupled with treatment of
addiction. Many challenge the moral-
ity, efficacy, and sensibility of his plan
to continue the struggle to eradicate or
even signiﬁcantly reduce drug use.
What exactly have we gotten from hun-
dreds of billions of dollars and decades
of concerted effort besides a decrease
in our liberties? A

I question this call for a total and
unconditional surrender. Conservatism
has been deﬁned as a belief that human
nature has no history. In other words,
humans are in great need of traditions
and institutions that moderate our na-
ture and perpetuate civilization. Some
elements of society are so pernicious,
corrupting, and evil that civil society
turns to government to regulate them.
Drug abuse is such a problem.

Where would legalization leave us?
Those who advocate it claim that if
drugs were sold by reputable dealers,

 
 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

DRUG WARRING. During his Contact address, McCaffrey

discusses strategies to reduce drug abuse.

make no argument against age restric-
tions because children are not yet ratio-
nal actors. Tragically, this is the case for
every drug consumer. As McCaffrey
noted, there are psychoactive sub-

they Would be stances which
safer and could - - change the chem-
be med by the Right of the Aisle My of 0116.5
government. In Brett K11-wan ’()4 brain and negate

addition, the so-
cial stigma attached with drug use would
be a much more effective method of
reducing drug use than government
prohibition has ever been. The gov-
ernment would have a role treating
addicts. This faith in the free market
demands that consumers be free to
make decisions concerning what
they consume.

Unfortunately, this rosy scenario
isn’t very realistic. First of all, should
drugs be legalized and sold by “repu—
table” dealers with drug use taxed, and
in effect sanctioned, by the govem—
ment, how does that serve to create a
social stigma? Also, the ﬁ'ee market de-
pends on the ability of consumers to
make rational decisions. Libertarians

  

RETIREMENT

doesn't apply to taxes.

Social Security.

INSURANCE‘

When you're investing for retirement, the adage
"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today"

That's because investments that aren't eroded by taxes
can add up to significantly more money for you-—
money you can use to supplement your pension and

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax
deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax-saving solutions—along with TIAA-CREF's
low expenses and solid history of performance——can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

one’s ability to
make rational decisions. Advocates of
legalization either are deluded or simply
don’t care that more people will become
addicted. Finally, advocacy of the Euro-
pean model wherein addicts simply be-
come wards of the state upon hitting bot-
tom is fraught with error. Our govem-
ment has no place rtmning a welfare sys-
tem for junkies.

The faults of drug legalization in no
way mean that the Drug War is perfect
either. Marijuana probably should be le-
galized. It is not physically addicting, nor
are its effects that severe. Also, the
govemment’s policy needs to be altered
to include a greater respect for the rights
accorded to citizens by the Fourth
Amendment. Ourrights are trampled upon

M u r u A L ru N n s ;__r_ri,u st ‘site 

Tax— deferred solutions
from TIAA—CREF can
help you reach your

retirement goals faster.

$ 102,068

TAX DEFEFIHAL MAKES A DIFFERENCE

by unlawful roadside searches, by
judges’ discretion in sentencing being
circumvented by legislators and pros-
ecutors, by the seizure of property, and
the reign of terror in irmer-cities created
by an ineffective drug policy. Manda-
tory minimum sentences need to be e1irni—
nated because they eliminate a judge’s
ability to carefully and fairly evaluate in-
dividual cases on their merits.

Govemment—funded treatment pro-
grams, welfare checks for addicts, and
public housing for addicts should be
eliminated. The message needs to be
sent that there are serious conse-
quences for drug use and society has
no sympathy for self-inﬂicted problems.
Finally, as McCaffrey suggested, the
crack—powder cocaine disparity needs
to be rectiﬂed.

We are never going to win the Drug
War. However, the total surrender to
armies of govemment-supported ad-
dicts that legalization represents is no
alternative. Changes need to be made,
but the best way to protect future gen-
erations from the scourge of drugs is
prohibition.

   

T_U|T|0N FlNANClNG_

Tax-deferred savings after taxes‘

$67,514 _ _

After—tax savings

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart above is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reﬂect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIAA—CREF account, or
reﬂect expenses.

  
  
     

per month 0

Y

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa—cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest. - l'lAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products.
0 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (T IAA), New York, NY and TIAA—CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. - TIAA—CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. - Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. © 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association—Co||ege Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY OI/04

 

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor fa

The Washington and Lee Undergraduate Ofﬁce of Admis- 
sions wishes to announce a possible opening for the positionif
of Admissions Counselor. Responsibilities include: student 
interviews, application evaluation, and recruitment travel.
Strong communication skills and demonstrated organiza- Na
tional abilities are expected. The successful candidate will _.
be both willing and able to work as part of a highly success- 

ful admissions team, yet capable of creative self-direction. if
Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a valid driver’s license.
All interested candidates should submit a cover letter and V \
resume, including two references, no later than Friday,
March 16, 2001. All materials should be sent to: y

Julia M. Kozak
Associate Dean of Admissions

Ofﬁce of Admissions at
Lexington, VA 24450

CAMP COUNSELORS

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

Archery, Baseball, Basketba||,_Climblng Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,
Hiking, lnline-Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
Volleyball, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

Camp Greylock
for Boys:

Camp Romaca
for Girls:

888-2-romaca 1-800-842-5214

. l
www_camQromaCa_c0m www.campgreyIock.com

 

 

 

MARCH 5, 2001

8 IE: Itltng-tum iﬁlri

W eezer, ()zma, Get up Kids ‘ ‘Sell Out’ ’

By Heather McDonald

4 STAFF WRITER

It was everyone’s anthem my freshman year
of high school: “If you want to destroy my
sweater, pull this thread as I walk away.” Ev-

‘-:ryone had the words memorized and every-
ne quoted it as the true, deep, insightful lyric
that we thought it was. Some of us adventur-
ous types even bought the entire “blue” al-
bum, as it is known, and memorized all the
Qlrics after that. Suddenly a band defined the
“trendy- geeky” blend that was emblematic of
the early 1990s underground style, making all
high school outcasts as cool as, well, Buddy
Holly and Mary Tyler Moore.
V I was one of the lucky few to experience
geek—rock nirvana for three hours on Friday

night. Weezer, emo/indie—pop/punk band The ’

Get Up Kids (who, may I say, rocked so damn
ﬁard it hurt) and the up-and—coming Los An-
geles band Ozma, played a sold-out show at
American University’s Bender Arena. Al-
though my friends and I drove over three
hours to get there, the car ride was worth it,
Even just to see Ozma and The Get Up Kids.
Ozma is a power—pop-rock band of young
college students (who are old friends of illus-
trious Washington and Lee senior Matt
errnan) that rocked out with originals dem-
onstrating witty and insightful lyrics,
A hummable melodies, and rockstar chords that
made even the most jaded Weezer junkies
around us bob their heads.
‘« The minute Ozma left the stage to make
room for The Get Up Kids, people in the
stands practically rushed the floor, and I
found myself unable to breathe. The crowd
yas ravenous, with small mosh pits breaking
out only to be stopped by the crush of more
fans packing themselves onto the main floor.
In addition to great punky-pop and bitter-
sweet emo lyrics, The Get Up Kids had the
l§est stage presence out of the three bands.
They talked to the crowd, wished their roadie
and keyboard player happy birthday (and
even gave them 35 E-chords instead of 35
lashes for luck).

ready for the mucho—hyped Weezer experi-
ence. The key words there were mucho-
hyped. Weezer took far too long setting up,
making fans progressively more grouchy.
They played some songs, told fans to go
buy the autographed CDs they had at the
merchandise tables, and finished up the set.
While they did play all the necessary favor-
ite songs that provoke thousands of fans to
shout lyrics back to the band, Weezer also
played three disappointing songs off the
upcoming CD. -

The stage was fun: two monitors as basket-
ball hoop backboards, mini-volleyball nets as
backdrops, and a huge “W” (complete with the
Weezer—wings) in red, white and blue lights.

show — just like a high school dance! Unfortu-
nately, merchandise was expensive, which is dis-
appointing to see with a band that has as loyal
fans — hell, I’d go as far as to describe them as
geek—rock cult members — as Weezer does.

All the tickets were sold on Yahoo!. This
tour is the ﬁrst ever consistently to sell out
solely on the Internet. I’m not sure if that was
the cause for Weezer’s titling of the “Sell Out
tour,” or if they titled it for their unexcited at-
titudes on stage — denying the love of the
worn-out and war—tom audience.

For a medium-sized venue, this show had
all the makings of the original Lollapallooza or
HFS—tival. I saw at least three people, corn-
pletely unconscious, passed forward and

courtesy www.weezer.net

INDIE ROCK ALERT. Members of the Weezer cult should leave their sweaters at home for Weezer’s “Sell Out” tour.

came on, the crowd was starting to tire, al-
though in a blissful, sweaty, I’ve—reached-
geek—rock nirvana way. I would have made
the journey simply to see the two opening
hands because I enjoyed them that much,
which is often a rare occurrence with lesser-
known opening bands.

Honestly, Weezer left me wanting more, and
not in a good way. They lacked the chutzpah I
expected from their music and image. Nonethe-
less, it was a rockstar show and Icouldn’t irnag—
ine a better way to spend a Friday night. Two
of my friends - being in the Weezer cult —
were in utter awe of the experience, so maybe I
missed something. Whether or not Weezer had
the spirit I expected, I got to see Weezer, The

wd was Get Up Kids and Ozma in a sold-out show!

There was even a confetti-drop at the end of the pulled out by security. By the time Weezer

Study Outside
  Next Semester

The Castle Rock Institute sponsors
an off-campus study program that
combines coursework in religion,
philosophy, literature and art: with
baekp asking, climbing, biking

and paddling.

  
  
  
 
     
 
 

   

   

      

When they left the stage, the cro

- A
B‘.

       

Limited space available for the
Fall 2001 session: Aug. 27 -Dec. 10

’Visit the CRT website to request an appiﬁtatzion.

astle Rock Institute

PO. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 .828-862-3759
wwW.cas1:le - rock.org

  
       
       
   
   
   
    
 
   

T AT .73’. X 6 IS
Kz4RA(9/CENIGHT. If You HAVEN’T
  BEEN HERE You DON’T KNOW WHAT
Y0u’VE BEEN MISSING!

You DON’T ﬂA\/ETO SING... BUT
You CAN.
  You ooN’T ,1_£AV_E_TO ’DANCE...BuT
  You CAN. 
You DON’T ﬂA_v;To HAVE rum...
BUT IF You ooN’T IT‘S YOUR

EAuLT.I

, 6 wee.-ks,.6 credits, as"low as $3,000 (based on typical costs
oftuition, r,oom,& board, books, anct e_stimated_airf_are) » ~  ‘

Term 1 : -May 21-Jurre‘2Q"- Term 2: July’ 2-A'ujgustj1jO 
vvww.outreach.hawaii.,ed.u - toll-free 1 (800) 8'62-6,6‘28v
University of Hawai‘i at Manda, Summer~Session‘s. 1- ,_ -

an

 

 

PAGE 6

Ellis: {Ring-tum iﬂhi

S PORTS

MARCH 5, 2001»

Generals jump out to 7-1 start

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball
team opened an optimistic regular sea-
son with games over the Washington
Holiday, racing to an impressive 7-1
start and a doubleheader sweep in Old
Dominion Athletic Conference play.

The Generals opened the season
with an exciting 6-5 victory over
Oglethorpe on Feb. 19. Sophomore
Bobby Littlehale drove in the garne-
winning run on a ninth inning single,
and sophomore co—captain Michael
Hanson led W&L with a _3—for—4 per-
formance at the plate.

Coach Jeff Stickley’s squad also
won three games in two days from
Muhlenberg. On Feb. 24, pitching car-
ried the day for the Generals. Senior
co-captain David Sigler and freshman
Dan Kagey each tossed shutouts in
8-0 and 1-0 victories. Muhlenberg only
tallied four hits on the day.

The following day, W&L posted a
9-5 victory over the Mules. Hanson
led the Generals as he tied the school
record for hits in a game, going 5-for-
5. Littlehale and sophomore Brian
Gladysz each homered in the victory.

    

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

CONTACT. Sophomore Kyle Droppers connects against Villa
Julie in the Generals’ 3-1 win at home on 'l1iesday.

W&L’s only defeat over the break
came at the hands of Emory. The
Generals left 17 runners stranded,
including leaving the bases loaded
in both the fifth and seventh innings
ofa 10-3 loss.

Luckily, due to a 3-0 week follow-
ing the break, that defeat has remained
the team’s sole loss on the season.

Freshman pitcher Peter Dean
pitched a solid game, allowing only
four hits and one earned run to beat
Villa Julie 3-1 on Tuesday after-
noon. Classmate Bryan Mulhern
pitched the last two innings to
wrap up the save.

W&L struck quickly, taking a 1-0
lead when Gladysz drove in

   

Upcoming events in Washington and Lee athletics

Littlehale on a first inning single.
Dean got all the run support he
would need when sophomore Kyle
Droppers singled home junior Matt
Kozora in the third inning, giving
the Generals a 2-0 lead.

Early run support helped the
Generals in a doubleheader sweep
of Emory and Henry to open con-
ference play.

In game one, Sigler beneﬁted from
a ﬁve—run first inning to cruise to a
complete—ga.ine shutout, 9-0. Hanson
hit a leadoff home run and Gladysz,
Droppers, Mulhem, and Kagey each
drove in runs during the outburst. In
the victory, ﬁve W&L batters tallied
at least two hits.

The second game was much closer,
as Kagey and Dean combined to shut
the door on the Wasps. Kagey picked
up his third win of the season, giving
up two runs, one of which was earned,
over six innings. All of the General’s
runs came in the third inning. Hanson
doubled home two runs and then
scored on an error.

The Generals hope to capitalize on
a quick 7-1 start and continue their
success when they host Southern Vir-
ginia at 3 p.m. on Wednesday.

k

Questions, comments, or suggestions? Contact 
Jeremy Franklin at phi@wlu.edu or X4452. J

Men’s tennis falls to Radford -  

Baseball Men’s Temiis _ _
Marcia southern Virginia 3:oop.m. March7 Hampden—Sydney 3:00p.m. Generals competitive, but
March 10 3tG11i11°0fd(2) 12100P-1T1- March 9 Christopher Newport 3:00p.m. . . . .
Men,SLamSse Mmhlo woos,“ 12.00pm fall to Division I Highlanders
March 10 at Gettysburg 1:00 pm , _ By Jeremy Franklin
Women s Temns S E

women’s Lacrosse March 7 Hollins 4:30 p.m. PORTS DITOR
 :30 ;ta1::1r:1ln;l_Mac0n  PE‘ Mafch 11 Denim“ 11300 3-m~ The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team fell to 1-1

P ' P’ ' A on the season with a 5-2 loss to Division I Radford at
Women’s Swimming Men’s and Women’s Indoor Track home‘ on Thursday.
Mar. 8- 10 at NCAA Championships TBA Mar. 9-10 at NCAA Championships TBA Freshman Graham Nix, playing as the fourth seed, de-

feated Radford’s Noufayl Nejdi 6-3, 1-6, 6-4 for W&L’s
only singles win. .

Nix and classmate Austin Kim pulled out an 8-1 win
over Nejdi and Rashid Lamrissi in, doubles competition.
Freshman K.C. Schaefer and junior Zac Vuncaimon edged
Daniel Vajdic and Khalid Lhamidi, 8-6, in number-three
doubles competition.

“I thought we all were really ready,” Nix said of
W&L’s performance. “We knew they were a good team.
We went out there, we fought hard, but we just_came up
a little bit short.”

Top seed Rhys James dropped a 6-3, 6-1 decision
to the Highlanders’ Faycal Rhalazi, and second seed
Andrew Roberts was defeated in straight sets by
Bartlo Oosthuizen. Kim, the three-seed in singles, and
fifth seed Schaefer fell in three sets to Lamrissi and
Vajdic. Sixth-seeded Chris Sorenson dropped a two-

For up-to-date information on W&L athletics, including scores, schedules, and statistics,
visit the Washington and Lee Sports Information Website at wvvw.w|u.edu/sports/

every monday
8:30 p.m. to midnight

J AVA AT

coi=i=Ei=.peop|eMusicmore

THE GHQ  

March 12 - Open Mike
March 19 - An evening with Charene Jones
March 26 - Mindbending productions
April 2 - Gospel Night with Joyful Noise

tonight...

Co-sponsored by SAB

set decision to Lhamidi.

Rhalazi and Oosthuizen edged James and Roberts 8-6

in the number-one doubles match.

According to Nix, playing a Division I school early in
the season will only help the Generals as they return to

Division IH competition.

“This deﬁnitely gave us a lot of conﬁdence,” Nix said.
“We’re thinking this is the best team we’ll play all year.
When we go against teams like Emory and Averett, we
know that we have the ability to beat them.”

The Generals’ match against Emory and Henry sched-

Mentz, Babst receive ODAC honors y

W&L sports roundup
By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Junior Jessica Mentz became the
first player in Washington and Lee
women’s basketball history to be
named to the All-Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference First Team this week.

Mentz, who averaged 20.7 points
and 10.1 rebounds a game in 2000-01,
ﬁnished second in the ODAC in scor-
ing and free throw percentage (.829)
and third in field goal percentage
(.520). The forward’s 1,223 points are
already a school record, and her 666
rebounds are second all-time at W&L.

Mentz’s 37 points in W&L’s 80-69
win over Eastern Mennonite on Feb.
7 are a school record, one of 15 that
the junior holds.

Classmate Megan Babst joined
Mentz in receiving All-ODAC honors
with an Honorable Mention recogni-
tion. Babst scored 15.7 points a game
and led the conference by averaging
11.9 boards. Babst narrowly trails
Mentz on the career rebounding list
with 663.

The Generals finished ninth in

the ODAC with a 6-14 record, 8-16
overall.

Golfers travel to
North Carolina for
two invitationals

The Washington and Lee golf team
began its spring season with a third-
place finish in the Guilford/Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Invita-
tional in Raleigh on Feb. 23, following
that up with an 18th—place showing at
the Pfeiffer/Pine Needles Invitational
on Feb. 26-27.

The Generals’ score of 320 in the
Guilford/ODAC Invitational placed
W&L behind conference powerhouse
Guilford (290) and Lynchburg (309).
Hampden—Sydney and Roanoke
rounded out the ﬁeld by tying for
fourth at 323.

Juniors Curtis Bethea and Kyle
Ulep tied for ninth by turning in scores
of 79 to pace the Generals. Sophomore
David Haase placed 15th with a score
of 80, and classmate Chip Campbell
tied for 18th by shooting an 82.

W&L then placed 18th of 24 teams
with a combined 621 in the two-day

I
photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

BACKHAND A BLUR. Junior Zac Vuncannon
returns a shot in the Generals’ 5-2 loss to
Division I Radford on Thursday.

uled for Feb. 3, which would have opened Old Dominion Y
Athletic Conference competition for W&L, was cancelled.
W&L will now begin the ODAC season at 3 p.m. on
Wednesday against Hampden—Sydney at home.

Pfeiffer/Pine Needles Invitational in ,
Southern Pines, N.C. Guilford shot a
589 to win the event, and Roanoke
tied for 16th at 618.

Campbell’s score of 150 led the,
Generals, followed by sophomore
Chuck Green at 155, Bethea at 156,
and Ulep at 160.

W&L will compete in the Ferrumi
Spring Invitational on March 12-13.

Mueller competes in
NCAA Division III ‘
Championships

Washington and Lee freshman Joe
Mueller lost in the fourth round of’
the NCAA Division III Wrestling
Championships consolation bracket,
falling to Kings College’s Jason‘
Schlingman on Saturday.

The l84—pound Mueller was the
lone grappler to represent the Gener-
als in the competition, which took‘
place on Friday and Saturday in Wa-
terloo, Iowa. Mueller was disquali-
ﬁed from his only match on the first
day of the championships, forfeiting?
his match against Lawrence’s Andy
Kazik.

 

p \«

 

1 MARCH 5, 2001 5

C1112 ilting-tum lﬂlii

SPORTS  

PAGE 7

Lacrosse team wins home,
“ road openers of 2001

Soaring Eagles.

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

«Men blast Elmira, top shington

“It was a good tuneup,” Hays said of the win over the

The Generals traveled to Chesteitown, Md. to face sixtl1-
ranked Washington College
jumped to a 2-0 lead, but with 17 seconds left in the first

on Saturday. Washington

quarter, senior Pope Hackney scored off an assist from

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team began
their regular season with wins over Elmira and Washing-

ton College last week.

with 148 goals and 86 assists.

The Soaring Eagles started the scoring, but the Gener-
I als’ defense would not let them see the net again until the
last seven minutes of the contest. Senior goaltender Wes
Hays, who played three quarters before being relieved
by freshman Ansel Sanders and senior Bo Vaughn, made
' four saves and allowed just one goal.

Freshman Matt Fink and senior Pope Hackney tallied
three goals apiece. Juniors Andrew Barnett and John Moore

and senior Bernie Norton contributed goals as well.

I Generals hammer
Sweet Briar, fall

_ to Franklin and

Marshall at home
By Jeremy Franklin

it SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee opened its
season with an Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference win over Sweet

‘‘ Briar on Wednesday and a non-
conference loss to Franklin and
Marshall on Saturday in women’s

_lacrosse action.

1 In the Generals’ 19-0 victory over

Sweet Briar on Wednesday, freshman
. midﬁelder Lee Wheeler and sopho-

-{more attacker Leslie Bogart contrib-

 uted four goals apiece.

1.’ 7 W&L outshot the Vixens 40-3 on

T ,the afternoon as freshmen goalkeep-

iWomen win ODAC

* invite, while men

, place in Grove City
5 By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s swimming team won the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Championship over the Washington
Holiday, and the men’s team placed
second in the Grove City Invitational.

Sophomore Blair Huffman was
named the ODAC Swimmer of the

q_ Year in women’s competition.
Huffman also won seven events to
be named the Atlantic States Swim-
mer of the Meet.

Sophomore Kelli Austin also

The Generals opened the season with a 16-3

, trouncing of Elmira on Feb. 25. Senior Matt Dugan
set a new school record for points with a five-goal,
three-assist afternoon. He now has 235 career points

period.

Norton to put the Generals on the board.

Hays held off Washington for the rest of the game,
making a total of 12 saves, as W&L came from behind to
pull out a 4-2 win.

“Our defense played well, as usual,” Hays said. “Most
of the shots were from outside.”

Norton tied the score with less than a minute left in the
half, and the two squads battled through a scoreless third

Hackney scored the game-winner in the ﬁnal quarter
off an assist from Barnett, and the senior put another in
for good measure to ﬁnish off Washington.

“It was a little more than we expected,” Norton said of
Washington’s challenge. “We took them for granted.”

The Generals will travel to face rival Gettysburg on

ers Joanna Perini and Annie Tompkins
combined for the Generals’ first shut-
out since the 1997 season.

Freshman Kelly Taffe added three
goals and three assists from her
midﬁeld position, and senior attacker
Liz Borges notched two goals and
two assists.

W&L dropped its 2001 home
opener to Franklin and Marshall on
Saturday, a 12-6 decision. Diplo-
mats Megan Bermingham and Laura
Fine scored three goals apiece in
the win.

Although the Generals possessed
a 31-20 advantage over Franklin and
Marshall in shots, the Diplomats were
able to break open a 6-4 halftime lead
to secure the victory.

Senior attacker Ellen Ritsch scored
a pair of goals to lead W&L, and Taffe
added a goal and an assist.

The Generals face non-conference ’ ‘

on Thursday.

earned a first-place ﬁnish in the 100-
yard freestyle. The Generals placed
first out of 14 teams at the invitational
tournament.

While the women were in Radford
at the ODAC championships from
Feb. 16-18, the men’s team was in
Grove City, Pa. The team ﬁnished in
second place in the Feb. 15- 17 event,
topped only by Division II
Westminster.

Senior Colin Hayes earned a meet
and pool record time of 1:53.17 in the
200—yard butterﬂy. The 200—yard med-
ley relay team, consisting of Hayes,
classmate Mike Miraglia, sophomore
Brett Burns, and freshman Eric Ritter,
also broke a 12-year-old school record
by winning in a time of 1:36.59.

Ritter also broke a school record
by placing second in the 100-yard

Saturday. W&L lost to Gettysburg in the regular season
last year, but defeated them in the NCAA playoffs.
“It’s always a real heated game,” Norton said.

I
  Women’s lacrosse splits opening contests

defender for control of the ball in Saturday’s contest. The Generals lost, 12-6.

«Swimmers successful at postseason events

backstroke with a time of 52. 14.

Hayes and Ritter will both compete
in the NCAA Division HI Swimming
Championships starting on March 15
in Buffalo, N.Y. Hayes posted NCAA
“B” cut qualifying times in the 100 and
200—yard butterﬂy events at the Grove
City Invitational. He will also swim in
the 200-yard IM. -

“It’s a big meet,” said Hayes, who
has already been to the NCAAs twice
and is looking to ﬁnish in the top eight
in his group. “There’s lots of fast
people there.”

Ritter qualified for the NCAA
Championships with his win in the
100-yard backstroke at the Grove City
Invitational. His time of 1:54.99 in the
200—yard backstroke put Ritter in the
NCAA “B,” and he will also compete
in the 50-yard freestyle.

lTrack teams run at ODAC meet

" Generals optimistic

about approaching
_ outdoor season

4
By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

J‘ At the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Indoor Track Champion-
ship, held Feb. 24 at VMI’s Cormack
Fieldhouse, the Washington and Lee

V men’s indoor track team placed fourth
of five teams, while the women’s
squad finished ﬁfth of ﬁve teams.

The men’s squad ended the com-

.’ petition with 49 points, while the
women’s squad garnered 28 points.

1 Despite their low finishes, both W&L
teams ﬁnished the winter season with

5,; promise for the future.

1 The men’s fourth-place show-
ing demonstrates the team’s steady
improvement. _

it» “We played to our potential, im-
proving by one position from last
year’s championships,” men’s coach

Norris Aldridge said.

Despite early season struggles,
senior Marc Watson led the way for
the Generals, winning the 55-meter
dash in a time of 6.56 seconds and
placing sixth in the 200-meter dash
at 23.64.

Freshman Andrew Schorr ﬁnished
second in the 3,000-meters with a time
of 9:17.77 and fourth in the 1,500-
meters at 4:24.41.

In the field events, junior Mike
Hegg captured third place in the 55-
meter high hurdles with a time of 8.42
seconds, while sophomore teammate
Chris Sullivan turned in a fourth-place
ﬁnish in the long jump.

According to Aldridge, by adding
“more depth in distance races and
young contributors in throwing
events,” the team will continue to im-
prove in the spring.

The women’s squad also stands
to gain from their ODAC Champion-
ship performance.

“Our women competed against

much stronger teams with poise and
spirit,” coach John Turner said.

Rumiing her personal record in the
1500—meters with a time of 5:1 1 for a
second place finish, sophomore
Burke Duncan also took second in
the 3,000-meters.

Senior Jessica Parrillo captured
third place in the 3,000 Meters with
a time of 1 1:00.22. Senior Amy Calce
also ended her collegiate indoor ca-
reer by finishing fifth in the long
jump.

In the spring, the women will ben-
eﬁt from the addition of three juniors:
Sarah Schmidt, the two-time ODAC
javelin champion, high jumper Megan
Babst, and distance runner Gretchen
Tencza. _

With these new additions and the
returning winter competitors, Turner
believes the outdoor squad will en-
joy a “combination of speed and
spirit that will add to the already
hard—working, dedicated, and enthu-
siastic team.”

 

courtesy of Sports Information
QUICK STARTER. Senior Pope Hackney scored

six goals in the Generals’ first two games.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
Opponempen-um Onthe mad at4p_m_ UNDIPLOMATTCZ Sophomore Sarah Janowitz (left) battles a Franklin and Marshall

  

_ Ring-tum Phi File Photo
STRONG SHOWING. The men’s swimming team
placed second at the Grove City Invitational.

WATERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT

10 student apartments
available June 1, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enjoy country living
at its finest.

Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive.
Please call Tim Wilhelm
at 540-463-6575
or 540-463-2868.

 

 

 

PAGE 8

Because having
friends just ain’t
what it used to be

i   (J11: iﬂtng-tum lﬁhi

 

MARCH 5, 200»

n11-annual conversation with Clinton

Last Word Editor: First off, how is re-
tirement treating you?

Clinton: <Laughing> I wouldn’t really
call it retirement per se: it’s more like I’ve
started a new chapter in my life. As I’ve said
before, if I could have run for a third term I
would have. I still have a lot to offer to the
world and years left of public service. But, I
don’t think too many of my colleagues in
Congress would have appreciated it.

LWE: Why do you suppose that is?

Clinton: Well, I think you might just have
to ask them about that. It seemed as if they
were out to get me from the first day I took
office. Lately the news has been filled with
coverage of Bush’s honeymoon with Con-
gress. Well, let me be the first one to say
that the honeymoon I got with Congress
was worse than the one that I had with my
wife — which was pretty bad.

LWE: Were you surprised that Con-
gress did not let you depart from office
peacefully?

Clinton: No, I wouldn’t have expected
anything less from them. All I did was ex-
ercise a constitutionally granted power in
the manner that I thought appropriate, ac-
cept a few hundred thousand dollars worth
of gifts from my friends, and take a few
presidential souvenirs to help me remem-
ber the job. I gave eight of the best years
of my life to serve the country, and the

only thing Congress showed me was in- ,

gratitude.
LWE: What impact do you think this is

having on your wife ’s career as Senator?

Clinton: Well, she’s just going to have
to deal with the controversy, because I
doubt that it’s going to be going away soon.
. . especially with her brothers receiving
massive amounts of money for their “con—
sultation fees.” But, of course, I have no
comment about that. . . except to say, that
while a man cannot be forced to testify
against his wife, there are some individuals
who feel that their civic duty is greater than
their matrimonial duty.

LWE: Wouldn’t you be implicated in
those charges as well, if criminal charges
were pressed?

Clinton: <Laughing> They call me
“Slick Willy” for more than one reason.

LWE: Uh, okay, Mr. President. What
do you feel is your greatest legacy as Presi-
dent of the United States?

Clinton: I would hope that my greatest
legacy would be the United States’ new po-
sition as a global good citizen. Throughout
my presidency, I endeavored to usher in a
new era of international peace and good-
will by deploying American troops all over
the world at every opportunity possible.
And although I did not invent the Internet
like my lackluster, backstabbing former vice
president, I take some credit for helping to
usher in the greatest sustained period of
economic growth that our country has ever
seen.

LWE: So, what’s next for you?

Clinton: Well, I wouldn’t mind taking

the next couple of months off from public
life to write, enjoy some rest and relaxation,
and address a few legal matters that need to
be sorted out. It will also give me more time
to devote to my favorite hobby.

LWE: And what is that? ,

Clinton: The collectible card game,
Magic: The Gathering. It was the only ben-
eﬁcial thing that Al Gore added to my presi-
dency. Al got us to start playing it when
he’d sneak on to Air Force One, until he got
“too cool” for it —— after he started playing
Dungeons & Dragons.

He, Reno, Rubin, and Shalala always used
to stay up late in the executive parlor playing
it —they called themselves the “Courageous
Cabinet Companions” <snickers>. They
don’t lmow ‘what they are missing anymore
with the newest expansion sets.

LWE: What— ?

Clinton: Well you see they have differ-
ent kinds of cards that you have to buy that
give you different powers for your spell-
battles. . . let’s just say Al wasn’t any better at
being a wizard than-he was at being a presi-
dential candidate.

LWE: Mr. President, could we per-
haps hear about your upcoming book?

Clinton: <Crestfallen> I’ in actually writing
two books. The ﬁrst is a compilation of mem-
oirs from growing up as a boy in Arkansas, to
my years as an activist, governor, and presi-
dent. It’s entitled Clinton: Conquering
Camelot Contritely.

The second book I’m co—writing with ac-

tor/director Ron Jeremy. It is a fantasy
novel about three college cheerleaders
who are sent on a magical quest by a State
Highway Patrolman for the mythical Rod

. of Klinton to save the free world. There is
even a movie deal in the works.

LWE: That sounds fascinating. Do
you have any final thoughts?

Clinton: Well, I would just like to thank
the American people for allowing me to
serve them all these years and say that I
intend to stay active and in the news.

courtesy http://search.news.yahoo.com

JUST CHILLIN’. Clinton, basking in
the glory of retirement.

Are you having problems with your computer, printer or other device?
Can’t seem to get on the Internet or network? Perhaps you could use
soine help or friendly advice. CALL:

   

P.C. Assistance, Inc.
We are ready to help or advise you on
your computer support needs or

questions.

  

Owned locally

Affordable, competitive rates
Experience with the W&L computing environment

Call today! Do not be frustrated another minute!

463-6887

l/Vhat can I help you with today?

  
  

i 221 South Main Street 
if Lexington, Virgina  
       to, Inc. .  
  Interested in black and white photography,
processing, and printing?      
Rent Andre Studio Inc.
(540) 463-2139

  

 

“In a duel, there is only
I one instant winner,
at questiapromo.com ’*

there are thousands?’ ,

Lg,   " F

For a chance to instantly win a

Del|® Laptop, Handspring Visors,” _

messenger bags and more, go
to questiapromo.coml

Qunxlu .s an onion mm. dcolgnod to run. you ......(n ma
.,... ,.,..,,. An menma scholarly («imam um mum: in ﬂee
, , ,. sun mm or back: andjouuul nudes. My»--Imkinoivom iwm
gain/. _ _ 4. m... or mu mzhadinq . povevl\rl!kIrI-
, ’V///% to own A...
'9“. - - - rchmg ilnun. mwiqmu man.» and mugln note
 :2-b-Imus. mu m.n..u¢ foofnolivw ma miogvaprn...
' aunL/////

MDIAVPES "“‘““ "
57 A, )3 Al l" uncu-

 :;-.:~.~:.... :1.-.~:~.-   Questias” is the newonline ’
 '"""" """‘“""“ service designed to help p
students write better papers, ‘ —

faster and easier.

AD6mUs/P|ﬂllolIIM],nuMlX/Qlhﬂlfhwlkﬂmbfli/Ctﬁﬂﬂﬂﬂﬁwdfl
Tool/Pl~lEY.HJl9(’U1O'Ml0OfI1nl/CﬂhdU|

questﬂar

Better Papers. Fasten“

usl be legal 2 ‘S. _
ning Dell laptop col

 

 
    

fire. in
t 3 ‘I ‘E 5/ if

 ;.,‘r‘)
ax J‘ J ‘W

.,/. 7-"ii.

,.
. -.
I 4- r"
(_

 i he Ring-tum

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

 

I -"I '3‘. _.- .

‘xi Vi I-5  Ulil£’I‘$B!.T‘Y'

  

  

; ‘(VOLUME 103, NO. 22

C. , pring term’s fate
   waits faculty vote

 

By Emily Barnes and Mike Agnello

EXECUTIVE EDITOR AND ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

\ Spring term may be a thing of the past.
Faculty will vote during the first week
in April on whether to keep the current
three—semester calendar or adopt a two-
ysemester calendar. A special called fac-
ulty meeting will be scheduled to discuss
the decision no later than March 26.
The current academic calendar, estab-
lished in 1970, is under review as part of
the University’s Strategic Plan and the
University’s Self—Study program. If a two-
semester plan passes, Dean of the Col-
lege Laurent Boetsch said the curriculum
(would have to be revamped. He believed
the whole process could take three years
. to go into effect. -

“I don’t think any student here now
will have to worry about a calendar
-change,” Boetsch said.

The Calendar Review Committee was
established at the beginning of the cur-
rent school year to compile information.
glts speciﬁc purpose, as defined by the

comrr1ittee’s report, was “to identify and
analyze as many consequences as pos-
sible of a change to a more traditional two-
semester calendar.”

The committee, chaired by University
Librarian Barbara Brown, consisted of Pro-
fessors George Bent, Roger Crockett,

    
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  

Linda Hooks, Chuck O’Connell, Kip
Pirkle, Maryanne Simurda, and students
junior Sam Langholz and sophomore
Anne Ritchey. The committee gathered
information from faculty surveys and the
1999 and 2000 senior exit surveys to de-
termine the issues of greatest importance
to the W&L community on changing the
calendar.

President John Elrod issued a memo-
randum along with the report to the fac-
ulty Thursday.

In the memorandum, Elrod urged the
faculty to “determine which of the two
calendars will best serve the educational
needs and interests of our students.” If
the University decides to adopt a two-
semester calendar, the semesters would
consist of 14 weeks, and “the current stu-
dent/faculty ratio of 1 1 to one will be main-
tained with either calendar, and no addi-
tional faculty positions will be autho-

“This decision obviously has long-
term implications for the University and
is as important as any decision we will
have made in recent times,” Elrod wrote.

Boetsch said there is no point in taking a

SEE ‘SPRING,’ PAGE 2

 ‘Student attacked

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

A female Washington and Lee student
was attacked by an unindentiﬁed man at
approximately 1:30 a.m. Sunday.

‘V Immediately before the assault she left
a Phi Delta Theta party at the Pink Palace,
a country house near Collierstown.

Leaving the party, she called Safe
Rides to pick her up, and Athletic Intern
Todd Peters, a driver, told her he would
arrive in 15 minutes.

The student waited 10 minutes in the
house, then walked up to the street along Pink

ii Palace’s long, tree-lined driveway. Because the
driveway was dark and slick, Safe Rides vans
were picking students up from the road.

While waiting at the mouth of the drive-
way, an unidentiﬁed man came from behind
a near-by shed and grabbed her shoulders
from behind. As she turned around to face

 

J-school students to put on walking shoes

him, he pushed her to ground, unbuckled
his belt, and started kneeling.

She kicked her attacker’s face with her
boot heel. The man clutched his face, be-
gan cursing, and ran into the woods that
surround the property. 

Immediately after she stood up, Peters
arrived in the van.

Approximately an hour after being
dropped off at her home, the student no-
tiﬁed security, who called the police. She
has agreed to press charges if an arrest is
made. Under Virginia law, the attacker
faces a Class 1 misdemeanor, punishable
by 15 days to one year in jail.

The attacker was approximately 5 feet
10 to 6 feet tall, with short brown hair. The
night of the assault he was wearing jeans.
a blue T—shirt, and white sneakers. Stu-
dents withi information on the attacker
should contact Director of Security Mike
Young at 462-8427.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MARCH 12, 2001

photo by Mary Guyl Photo Editor

JAZZING IT UP. From left to right, junior Gary Davis, junior Charene Jones, sophomore Latoya Sherron, freshman

Rachael Mallis, and freshman Meg Ferrara get down at the third annual Cabaret. Sponsored by the Minority Student
Association, Cabaret drew students, faculty, and administrators to Doremus Gym for four hours of jazz and funk.

SAE plans reinstatement program

Chapter alumnus Jim Farrar
plans to work closely with
men of Virginia Sigma

By Matthew McDermott

NEWS EDITOR

The Sigma Alpha Epsilonfraterriity took the
first steps towards reversing its suspension this
past week, meeting with Jim Farrar, president of
its housing corporation, to discuss a schedule
of reinstatement.

SAE will be reinstalled when its members
“demonstrate their readiness and their matu-
rity to manage alcohol within the laws of the
state of Virginia,” according to a campus-wide
broadcast mailer University President John
Elrod sent on March 6.

Fall 2001 is the earliest reinstatement time
that Elrod is willing to consider.

The fraternity is also required to collaborate
with the SAE National Fraternity and the SAE
House Corporation to develop a timetable for
future changes.

“Jim Farrar is working closely with SAE to dis-
cuss what needs to be done,” said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison, who informed the fraternity
of its suspension the evening of March 5.

Farrar, an alumnus of W&L and its SAE chap-
ter Virginia Sigma, has already met for several
hours with fraternity members.

Despite fraternity members. being “very disap-
pointed, hurt, confused and frustrated,” said Farrar,
they are “putting aside personal feeling.”

Impressed with the house’s behavior, Farrar
says that a 10-member committee has already
been formed to examine a large range of issues.
It will evaluate “pledgeship, a community ser-
vice component, and an alcohol policy,” said
Farrar, and will work on an unofficial reinstate-
ment proposal.

The housing corporation will meet March 17
to confer with the SAE committee and evaluate
the situation.

The corporation, informed of the suspension
several hours before the fraternity, concurred with
the decision.

In a Cable 2 television interview, SAE President

By Latrina Stokes

STAFF WRITER

Journalism students can expect longer walks
to class next year.
The Lexington Planning Commission granted
1‘ a one-year permit to the university Thursday to
A place the 10 trailers that will house the journal-
ism department in either the Woods Creek park-
ing lot or the parking lot between duPont Hall
and VMI’s Marshall Museum.

‘I The commission did not like the University’s
first choice for the “modular buildings,” the Cor-
ral parking lot on the comer of Washington and
Lee streets. When asked about that location,

‘University Architect Tom Contos told the com-
mission to forget about it.

“You can throw that idea to the dogs,” Contos
said.
Instead, he asked that a permit be issued for the

" Woods Creek parking lot next to the heating plant
as a last resort. The University prefers to use the

,’ parking lot behind the Marshall Museum. Contos
said VMI is willing to allow the trailers in the spaces

' where W&L faculty now park. However, state ap-

' proval, insurance and other legal complications may
prevent the University from using this site.

This decision comes after a month of meet-

ings and tabled discussions. Construction of the
University Commons will prevent the University
from using the original site in front of Doremus
gym. The Corral was the next best choice be-
cause of its close location, access to public utili-
ties, and low cost. However, the members of the
planning commission had been reluctant to al-
low trailers in such a visbile location.

Although it has avoided angering the city of
Lexington, the University has angered many jour-
nalism majors by choosing other sites.

Sophomore Austin Calhoun was most angered
that the city’s main objection to the Corral was
aesthetic. She also thought that the city failed to
recognize how much the University and its stu-
dents contribute locally.

“I feel like Lexington depends on the student
population a lot, and to subject us to such an
inconvenience, especially given the fact that the
department is so prestigious, is a little ridiculous,”
Calhoun said.

Calhoun, who plans to live off-campus next
year, added that walking to either location will
require more time and produce extra stress.

She was not the only student to gripe about
the distance. Junior broadcast journalism major
Charene Jones agreed with Calhoun.

“I definitely think it’s too far, I would have
preferred the Corral because it’s more central to

campus,” Jones said.

Jones said that she has an added burden with-
out a car to get to her interviews off campus. If
the trailers end up in Woods Creek, Jones said
that she would have even more difficulty com-
pleting her assignments. 1,

Senior Daniel Sozomenu, a broadcast major in-
volved with WLUR, said the department and radio
station would be more inconvenienced by operat-
ing from the Woods Creek parking lot.

“I don’t know if that would result in an even
more reduced listening area, but as far as I know
there will be an attempt to keep that going,”
Sozomenu said.

Professor Hampden Smith, chair of the jour-
nalism department, confirmed that WLUR as well
as most classes will operate from a trailer.

“All the larger classes will be taught on the
hill; all labs andjprobably all small serninar—like
classes will be in Mod Hall,” Smith said.

Smith, unlike many students, has not claimed
that either Woods Creek or the museum parking
lot would be a great inconvenience.

“We won’t be walking as far as the [VMI]
cadets do now,” Smith said. ,

“Both students and faculty will have to hustle
if they have back—to-back classes. [An] enor-
mous state university has classes far, far apart,”
he said. “We’re spoiled.”

John Comly said that changes such as a self— '

administered total ban on hard liquor were al-
ready being discussed before university action.

After the death of SAE member Adam
Burchett, “we took a hard look at our fraternity
and the way it operates,” Comly said. “We
thought we’d revamp the entire house from the
ground up. That takes time, but we’re willing to
do it.”

Critical of the measures, Comly believes that
the suspension is “counterproductive” and that
the action should have been taken “against the
entire system, not just one house.”

“[The proposal] may not be the fair thing, if
it’s going to make a difference then we’re will-
ing at any cost to have that change happen,”
Comly said.

In the meantime SAE may not participate
in social events, team intramurals, chapter
or Interfraternity Council meetings. The
fraternity’s pledge class will be initiated as
scheduled, no one will be forced to leave
the house, and the its kitchen will remain
open.

  
   

    

   

  
  

)t
V ~ - - Clinton’s ’ Iminal legacy: attack: , W0 _ k:
   the historical crushes What the ma rks are afraid
March 12’ 2001 nd president nation has to‘ '
‘F

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE 2

@112 iﬁtng-tum lﬂlti

NEWS

MARCH 12, 2001 

 

Preparations to clone humans begun

Scientists from Italy, the United States and Israel
armounced that they will begin preparations in the next
few weeks to try to produce the first clone of a human
being. More than 600 infertile couples had already asked
to participate in the experiment. Rome obstetrician
Severino Antinori and Lexington, Ky., based fertility
specialist Panos Zavos plan to have the project com-
pleted within the next two years. The project is being
carried out with private, “unlimited” funding.

The cloning of a human embryo would be used mainly
as a solution to male sterility, the doctors said, and only
when all other remedies had failed. If successful, the
cloned children would be genetic twins of their fathers.
Experts in the ﬁeld of animal cloning criticized the team,
not only because of the ethical issues involved, but
because of the probability, that a cloned human being
would have serious malformations.

Zavos and Antinori both said their long experience
in the ﬁeld of in vitro fertilization and other forms of
assisted pregnancies would allow them to create clones
without deformities. Zavos told reporters, “We will use
every test there is available, and if we have to invent
new criteria to determine a healthy embryo, we will. We
won’t go ahead until we are sure we will have a healthy
baby.”

The British government said last year it supported clon-
ing of human embryos up to 14 days old for purposes of

I mail General Notes to“-

 

Joshua D. Chamberlain of Richmond, VA, and Jor-
dan S. Ginsberg of Jackson, M1, were recently awarded
the 2001 Edward L. Pinney Prize.

The Pinney Prize is awarded to the undergraduate
story who “demonstrates extraordinary commitment
both to personal scholarship and to the nuturing of
intellectual life at Washington and Lee.” I

Pinney was established by Washington and Lee
faculty in memory of Edward Lee Pinney, professor of
politics, who died in 1980.

-story courtesy Student Affairs Committee

THE WORLD

THIS WEEK

By Mehul Srivastava

retrieving potentially therapeutic cells. The U.S. Food and
Drug Administration said no human cloning may take place
in the United States without its permission. Italy has no law
prohibiting human cloning. Many countries lack legisla-
tion or guidelines for dealing with the issue.

14-year-old sentenced to life in prison

A Fort Lauderdale judge yesterday sentenced 14-year-
old Lionel Tate to life in prison without parole, issuing one
of the toughest punishments to a child in Florida history.
Tate was found guilty of the first-degree murder of 6-year-
old Tiffany Eunick.

Tiffany’s skull was fractured, her ribs broken and her
liver torn as a result of Tate trying out professional wres-
tling moves on her. She received a total of 30 injuries,
which Tate initially claimed were caused by her being
swung into a staircase by mistake. Tate’s counsel Lewis
argued that Tate was simply copying the World Wrestling
Federation stunts hesaw on television.

Judge Joel Lazarus ruled that Tate was mature enough
to know the consequences of his actions saying ‘"Ihe acts
of Lionel Tate were cold, callous and indescribably cruel.”

One juror said the panel did not believe the wrestling
defense. “Anybody that went through that trial and wit-
nessed the brutality, and the length of time it took to inﬂict
the blows, would have to go with first degree murder un-
der the law.”

Harvard singers to tour W&L

The Radcliffe Choral Society of Harvard University is
scheduled to perform on Monday, March 26 at 8:00 p.m. in
Lee Chapel. It will sing sacred and secular works from the
Renaissance through the 20th century. Stravinsky, Mozart,
and Irish folk songs will be featured.

Admission is free, but a $5 donation will be appreciated.

Farrar named next senior assistant
to the president

Alumnus Jim Farrar, secretary to the Board of Trustees
and associate director of development, accepted Univer-
sity President John Elrod’s offer to become his senior as-
sistam. .    . . ., .. . . ..

In his new position, Farrar will enagein lspecialassigln-‘
ments: drafting reports, making presentations and serving
as Elrod’s proxy.

He replaces Farris Hotchkiss, also an alumnus, who
retires after a 35-year career at Washington and Lee.

WIN $50 in the BOOKSTORE CONTEST!

What D0 Women Want?

in honor of Women's I-ilstory Month, the W&L BOOKSTORE is sponsoring
an ESSAY CONTEST to find an answer to this timeless question.

FIRST PRIZE - $50 Gift Certificate
SECOND PRIZE —

OPEN to ALL members of the W&L community.
Essays should be approximately 500 words, typewritten, double-spaced.
Any approach - creative, persuasive, personal, historical - is valid.

A panel of judges, headed by Mimi Eirod and including a faculty
member, a staff member, and a student, will choose the winners on the
basis of quality of thought and writing. Submit to the bookstore any
time before noon on Friday, March 30, 2001. Submissions should have a
SEPARATE title page with the author's name and phone number, but there
should be no Identification on the essay itself. Judges will not know

the Identity or the gender of the authors before they make their choices.

$25 Gift Certificate

SPRING

student vote, because the administra-
tion already knows what students think.
Seventy-ﬁve percent of the seniors sur-
veyed in the 2000 exit survey opposed a
two-semester switch and only 16 per-
cent favored the move.

“The calendar is really the
perrogative of the faculty,” Boetsch
said.

History Professor 1. Taylor Sand-
ers said he likes the current calendar,
and worries he will lose personal con-
tact with students under the proposed
new one.

“Class size would go up and add
to the depersonalization of classes,”
Sanders said.

Sanders added that students who
are passionately against eliminating
spring term should talk to faculty
members and voice their concern. Poli-
tics Professor and former Dean of Stu-
dents Lewis John ’58 said he under-
stands the concerns of the new
calendar’s proponents, but worries
about his department’s spring term
programs in Washington, D.C. and
London. John added that professors
who complain about spring term be-
ing “play time” can simply raise their
expectations for students.

“That’s a faculty problem, not a
student problem,” John said.

One factor listed in the committee’s
report concerns student behavior
during spring term, when students
have much more free time, “which is
usually spent drinking.”

“A change to two semesters
would turn May into ‘crunch time,’
and offer less opportunity for exces-
sive drinking,” the committee wrote.

Other professors are concerned
that important courses for majors will
have to be revamped or eliminated.
Journalism Professor Brian
Richardson ’72 agrees with John that
professors can use spring term to de-
mand more of their students.
Richardson cited the department’s
spring term in—depth reporting class,
known for its rigor and intensity,
would not work in a 14-week term.

“[The new calendar] would de-
stroy the course as it’s currently con-
structed,” Richardson said. “If [we]
know students are taking only one
other course, [we] can set the expec-
tations higher.”

Some faculty members support elimi-
nating spring term because it would
give them more time to do research.
Fifty-seven percent of the faculty polled
said summer research time is an impor-
tant consideration.

Politcs Professor Mark Rush said
he favors a two-semester calendar,
and thinks his freshmen advisees get
closed out of too many spring term
classes. Rush added that few study-
abroad programs coordinate with the
current calendar, and most students
do not go abroad anyway.

“I don’t think the benefits are
worth [the majority of] students be-
ing stuck in Lexington,” Rush said.

French Professor Kathy Koberstein,
who coordinates a spring term program
in France, said she understands both
sides of the issue, but would probably
vote for a two-semester system.

“It would take an enormous
amount of effort [to change], but it
wouldn’t be impossible,” Koberstein

FROM PAGE 1

said. “Most of the [long] semester
courses would benefit.”

The Calendar Review Committee
report breaks down several factors in
the decision on a pro vs. con basis.
One major concern for students is the
comrnittee’s prediction that 12 percent
of the curriculum would be lost in the
move.

“It’ll be harder to double major, es-
pecially in the music department,
since you won’t have as much sched-
uling freedom,” senior Sybil Prince
said. “There are several seminar
classes we need to take that are only
offered in the spring term. Plus, I’m
dying right now with four classes, ﬁve
may be just too much.”

Freshman John Miller said he op-
posed the change, even though he has
yet to experience the term for himself.

“Spring term is one of the things
that attracted me to this school since
I visited during that time and found it
unique,” Miller said. “I also don’t
want to lose the two breaks from
Christmas to the end of the year.”

Sophomore Neal Willetts said he
prefers the two-semester, more conven-
tional calendar. Willetts added that he
has trouble applying for internships be-
cause of how late W&L’s classes end.

“Being in school a month later than
everybody else is ridiculous,” Willetts
said. “We could accomplish just as
much academically and socially in a
two-semester system as we could in
three.”

History Professor Holt Merchant
said no matter what the result of the
vote, the future of the University is at
stake.

 

of excellence.

Washington &Lee’s award-winning
publication wants you.

Be a part of the 103-year-old tradition

Tuesdays, 7:00 p.m., University Center 208.

Study Outside
 N ext Semester
The Castle Rock Institute sponsors
an off-campus study program ‘t'Iaa.t
combines coursework in religion,

philosophy, literature and art with
backpacking, climbing, biking

Limited space available for the
Fall 2001 session: Aug. 27 -Dec. 10

Visit the CR1 website to request an application.

Castle Rock Institute

P.O.. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 .828-862-3759
wwvsncastle - rock.org

 

and paddling.

 

 
  

 

Learn the fundamentals of:

' Marketing

° Organizational Behavior
° Hands-on market & ﬁnancial research

° Business related computer applications

° Effective communication & presentation skills

° Accounting
- Finance

Are You a Non-Business Major? Do You Want to improve Your Marltetabilityl

The Haas School of Business
at the University of California, Berkeley
Intensive BASE Summer Program IS FORYOU!

July 9 -August I7, 200i

- Prepare for the corporate recruiting process

Arts, Sciences, and Engineering students will beneﬁt from this rigorous, six-week
summer curriculum that will include lectures, case studies, company visits, guest
speakers and student presentations.

For more information, contact our website at:

IIttp:I/haas.berke|ey.edulUndergradIBASE.htm|
or via email at: BASE@haas.berke|ey.edu

 

  

 

MARCH 12, 2001

OiiRiroN

9
Preserve
‘spring term

V

  
 
    
  

Lately it seems that a wave of change has hit this insti-
tution. The administration and students have committed
themselves to making changes to implement a more posi-
tive culture at Washington and Lee. However, we ‘must
not resort to changing what makes W&L a unique and
intellectually stimulating place. As the faculty ponders

whether or
Cbnservativeltberal “°‘ ‘° .“°
away with
Jonathan Wortham ’O4 spring term,
Iurge them

to think wisely about what it would do to our University.

I realize that I am a freshman, and have not gone through

1 a spring term, but I think that I can provide some insight as
to why spring term is an asset to W&L. One of the reasons

I decided to come to W&L is spring term. And I am not
talking about the parties and trips to Goshen that evidently

‘W come along with spring term. I am refering to the array of
courses that are offered spring term, which help expose stu-
dents to a wide variety of topics that would not be able to be
covered in fall and winter temis. Used properly, spring term

can be a valuable time of enrichment and learning.

g; After talking with several faculty members, I under-
stand that spring term is the time to pick one or two sub-
jects to investigate deeply. In both the fall and winter
terms, students must focus on three to ﬁve courses; thus
each course can receive only a fraction of their attention.
However, in the spring students can investigate select
subjects “vertically” —— meaning intense study on a fo-

New alcohol regulations

4 should be reconsidered

Dear Editor,
As an alumnus who vowed not to forget what it’s like
to be a student, I’ve been very concerned over the past
'4 few weeks regarding the new alcohol proposals. I am tired
of the university branding every W&L student a drunk.
The majority is responsible, and I’m concerned that W&L
is passing from a state of understandable reaction to two
senseless deaths to a state of unacceptable overreaction.

Did I read correctly that the University has proposed
prohibiting “shots” anywhere on campus? Not only is
this laughably unenforceable, but it’s insulting to every
student." Banning liquor and prohibiting beer past 1 a.m.?

1; Perhaps not unreasonable at first glance, butliquor and
beer will always be available in the countryside beyond the
adrninistration’s reach, but not beyond an automobile’s.
These forced social regulations are only going to accom-

@ plish the opposite of the University’s intent.

What’s the goal? To ban alcohol? To limit legal liabil-
ity? To save lives? I would hope the primary goal is the
last one, but, ironically, the University’s proposals most
likely will have the opposite effect. This is how good in-

1, tentions can have horrible consequences. The University
is about to push so hard that students will abandon the
normal channels of socializing, and it will lose all control
over social interaction. The fraternity rarik-and-ﬁle will
head into the countryside to party, and the adniinistraton

4 can’t regulate what goes on there.

I know the University is concerned over alcohol abuse
on campus, but I think we need to be pragmatic. Alcohol
and drug abuse have never been eliminated in society so

‘ what makes the administration think they can eliminate it

@112 ‘tiling-tum iﬂlri

I
Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
News Editors Matt MeDerm'ott
Max Smith
1 Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello

Tara Ann Friedel
Brett Kirwan
Alexis Yee-Garcia
Jeremy Franklin
Bryan Early

Kris Pollina
Michael Crittenden
Mary Guy

Eric Wechtler

Opinion Editor
Assistant Opinion Editor
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Last Word Editor

' Copy Editor
Contributing Editor
Photo Editor

Staff Photographer

Paul Seifert
Charlie Tonelli

Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
" Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
'7 on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
” tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
‘v Washington and Lee University
1 Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
E-mail: phi@wlu.edu
'7 http://wlu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

~LETTERS To THE EDITOR

 

cused topic. If we had two 14-week terms, would students
have this opportunity to study these topics in depth?
In addition, spring term is the perfect time to study
abroad. It gives students the ability to spend a short, but
meaningful time in another country. The ability to leave
the country and not severely impact their academic career
encourages students to experience a variety of different
countries and cultures. The loss of spring term and the

accompanying prospect of falling behind in the four year
graduation schedule will result in less study abroad.

Spring term is one of the factors that make W&L stand
out among other schools. This time of enrichment and
education should not be eliminated because of a minority
who uses it for excessive drinking and partying. I urge the
faculty to consider an alternative to eliminating such a
valuable time.

on W&L’s campus? All the University will accomplish
with the “ends justify the means” mentality is increasing
the risk of loss of life while violating student self-gover-
nance — something I thought was sacrosanct at W&L.

W&L’s unique aspect is student self—govemance. I’m
troubled by the heavy-handed “suggestions” from the
University to the IFC presidents. After speaking with some
students, I was troubled to learn the IFC was basically
given the proposals, a three-week deadline to come up
with its own set of proposals — albeit they should be
similar to the University’s -— and a reminder of the power
of the University to suspend a fraternity altogether if the
IFC should fail to act. What is masquerading as student
government these days?

Micro—management of student life is never acceptable,
no matter the lofty goal. It’s insulting and duplicitous —
“Welcome to W&L. You’re adults now. . . however, we do
have this list of things we feel you’re too immature to
decide for yourself.” Adulthood affords them the oppor-
tunity to make brilliant or foolish choices.

Imay be old—fashioned in my thinking that if a student can
vote for the president, be sent off to die for his or her country,
and be expected to plan for his or her future in academics,
then that student is entitled to make his or her own decisions
regarding social drinking. Irealize our Congress determined
otherwise when it required every state to enact the 21-year-
old drinking age, but I’m a realist. People will always seek out
what’s denied to them -— after all, drugs seem to be rather
prevalent in society and they’re outright illegal.

I ﬁnd it problematic in President Elrod’s letter to W&L
parents that drugs are mentioned as “second—hand” ef-
fects of alcohol. Hardly second-hand. Drugs are preva-
lent on campus, as they have been for decades. I suspect
the university is in the uncomfortable position of not being
able to focus on drug abuse, since drugs are illegal across
all age brackets and therefore not prone to regulation. But
what’s more troubling to me is that the new alcohol propos-
als may, ipso facto, promote the use of drugs. In talking
with students this fall, I learned that it’s easier for them to
smoke pot or pop a pill on the way to a party than it is to find
beer and consume it publicly over a period of time. Again, I
may be old—fashioned, but I prefer students sipping alcohol
in the open to popping pills en route. The effects of alcohol
are easier for a student to predict than immediate chemical
reactions in the brain. I also prefer students sipping alcohol
openly at the fratemity houses instead of trying to get a
“buzz” before driving to them.

While I understand the University’s goal is to curb
alcohol abuse, most students know how to consume it
responsibly for the level of escapism they desire. A few
extremes do not, nor, sadly, will they ever learn even with
your prohibitions. You won’t dissuade them from their
desired levels of escapism. You’ll simply drive their so-
cializing out of the fraternities altogether, and put more
lives at risk on the roads. So, what is the answer?

Live Drive and Safe Ride.

What is urgent for W&L and what the University does

TALKback:

 

“Deﬁnitely nice people. There is a warm
aura coming from the campus.”
— J arnie Calabrese

    

“Great school, bettr people.”

realistically have some control over is the prevention of au-
tomobile accidents involving alcohol. The University must
expand the Live Drive and Safe Ride programs. In a town like
Lexington where taxi service isn’t an option, we must provide
a means of transportation for students who have consumed
too much. An expanded, reliable, free, anonymous, non-judg-
mental Live Drive/Safe Ride is the answer. Don’t judge, just
get them home safely if they’ve overdone it. Apparently,
over 700 students have utilized Safe Ride since its December
introduction —~ that should speak volumes.

Also, let’s not get involved in the legal system’s DUI
punishment. A student facing one has quite a lot on his or
her plate and shouldn’t be double—punished with a year’s
suspension. This isn’t to minimize the severity of the vio-
lation, but W&L should leave the severity of the punish-
ment to the courts. M . . . .. .

Finally, the 22 January 2001 issue of the Phi quoted IFC
Advisor Burr Datz as saying that, “History shows that those
who cannot control their own destinies, have to have their
destinies controlled for them.” I’d like to remind that the
Board of Trustees a long time ago wisely decided the W&L
student body shall govern itself. That governance may in-
clude some choices not to the university’s liking, but, never-
theless, it is up to the student body to make those decisions.
Let’s not be so myopic that we accomplish the exact oppo-
site of our intent. Refrain from over-regulating, and rather,
keep the students alive by offering an alternative to their
getting behind the wheel. Let’s make it easy for them to make
that adult decision to use Live Drive/Safe Ride. I suspect
they’ll do a ﬁne job of controlling their own destinies.
Sincerely,

Andrew Caruthers ’87

SAE suspension applauded

Dear Editor, ,

I applaud President Elrod’s action in suspending SAE.
Elrod consulted with the SAE national and with the house
corporation. But, ultimately, the decision was his to make
in the best interests of the entire university community.
The key word in all this from my point of view is responsi-
bility, rather than accountability.

Students leaders, especially upperclassmen, house
leaders and varsity athletes have to learn to take respon-
sibility for younger students who look up to them as role
models. They need to be proactive and step in where their
good judgment tells them action is required. Leadership
isn’t just about recognition. It’s also about taking un-
popular actions when that’s the right thing to do.

This isn’t something which can be done on a one-time
basis. It’s an issue which needs to revisited every year
with each new set of leaders. It isn’t about parental over-
sight on the part of the university either. It’s a life and
death matter as we have learned first hand. . . too often.
Sincerely,

Alan M. Corwin ’62

To the Honor Scholars. . .

What are your thoughts about W&L?

 

—— Dan Fassio

3/12/01, 12:48 AM

 

  

“A real southern college, pretty
and hospitable.”
— Duncan I-Iinkle

is avery eau i u campus. . .
very friendly students and faculty.”
—— Mary Vause

 

PAGE 4

  O

@112 iﬂtng-tum iﬂlii

PINION   

FD goes toBorbon St.

I had my first Mardi Gras experience
over Feb break. When I came back to
school, I resolved that the South was
crazy, and I wanted to go back to New
York where people are normal. . . or at
least where foreign cab drivers don’t talk
about how they see girls hooking up in
the back seats of their vans everyday.
In New York, they might be grouchy,
they might even stab me to death, but
they won’t point out New Orleans’ prime
recreational drug exchange comers like
they’re historical sites. Regardless, I
came back to Lexington tapped out.
Money. Energy. Any understanding of
the human condition.

But, alas, we’ve managed to bring the
salubrious aura of Bourbon Street back
to Lexington for my favorite weekend:
Fancy Dress. FD manifests the great
parody of W&L. In theory, it should be
this wonderfully pleasurable and typi-
cally collegiate experience that everyone
tells their children about: “My junior year
FD date was in the coolest fraternity, and
I had the best dress.” However, between
disappearing FD decorations, the who’s-
gonna-ask—me crisis multiplied exponen-
tially, and result-

L

STRANGE FRUIT. Fancy Dress kicked 011' th beads hanging from trees
around campus as the New Orleans inspired theme was revealed.

count that some people don’t check their
mailboxes every day; hence, not every-
one is going to receive their invitation in
time for the gala. Last year, I never went to
the post office, didn’t get one and as-

sumed I was not in-

ing Stlldﬁnt vited. I ate chocolate
alienations O S  chjpcookjedoughau
which I will dis— Ktjs Polling ’03 night instead of danc-
cuss later, Fancy ‘mg,

Dress 1001115 The theme of FD also insinuates con-

more sinisterly than it does happily.

Although everyone thinks Fancy
Dress is great and fun, it’s really a con-
glomeration of the everyday evils of
W&L into one giant affair. Ifthe FD Steer-
ing Committee cared anything about the
students’ emotional stability, they
wouldn’t make such a big deal out of it.
As if students didn’t get suicidal enough
about Homecoming dates, the drama over
having an escort rises proportionately to
the drama of the function. For example, if,
on a scale of 1 to 10, someone was a 7 in
pulling their hair out over getting a date,
the same person will be a 49 during FD.
You just square the degree of
patheticness. Clearly, the committee did
not take this into account.

Nor did they probably take into ac-

cepts such as debauchery and France.
When I was in Louisiana, I saw a lot of
people drinking beverages of the alco-
holic persuasion. To have the FD theme
be New Orleans implies that people might
drink. For the people here who don’t
drink, it alienates them. It also alienates
people who have not taken French, be-
cause the invitation (I wisened up and
checked my box every day) reads in
French. Once again, FD has jeopardized
the mental welfare of its students, isolat-
ing Spanish students and non-drinkers.

I don’t eat seafood, so having the
FD rafﬂe be for a crawﬁsh party seems
like an especially low blow.

Fancy Dress rears its psychologically
damaging head once again: Some people
think they might get an HV if they steal

 
  

 
 

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

photo by Emily Bariiestflxecutivei

beads. . . yet another anxiety to add to
the already burdened W&L mind. More
and more, FD seems to be a conspiracy
devised by the psychology majors in or-
der to gauge the emotional strength of
college students.

For those unfamiliar with types of es-
says, this one falls into the pigeonhole
of satire (I hate being the person who
can’t write well enough to let that speak
for itself, butl don’t want the FD Steer-
ing Committee ripping off my limbs and
bludgeoning me to death with them). I
can’t even imagine how long it took them
to put up those beads, but I applaud
them for that, and for the invitations, and
for the rafﬂes. I’m trying to point out
how ridiculous some of the crap we
worry about is. FD represents a week-
end of not worrying about the Victorian
novel research paper due, or the eco-
nomics test, or the fact that winter term
hasn’t ended yet. We should appreciate
the excitement and commotion of the up-
coming weeks, because it’s better than
trying to get excited about Recycling Fri-
days. (Just kidding, recycling’s great! All
the cool people recycle.)

Regardless, have fun at Fancy Dress.

Assistant Alumni Director

for On-Line Communications

The Washington and Lee Alumni Oﬂice announces the opening for the position of Assistant Alumni Director
for On-Line Communications. Responsibilities include: oversight of "Colonnade Connections," W&L's Alumni
On-Line Community, maintaining and updating that service's on-line message boards, its design, and utilizing its
"blast" email capabilities in communicating with the entire alumni population (or segments thereof); serve as
liaison to the on-line community provider and other campus web users; design and maintain Alumni Ofﬁce
homepages and websites; assist Career Services with career list requests; serve as advisor to Kathekon, W&L's
Student Alumni Association; answer requests for alumni lists and research projects; compose obituaries for the
alumni magazine; aid in general alumni office planning for homecoming, reunion and alumni chapter events.

Travel involved.

The position will become available June 15, 2001, and preference will be given to W&L alumni and 2001
degree candidates. All candidates for this position should submit a cover letter and resume no later
than Tuesday, March 27, 2001. All materials should be sent to:

Rob Mish
Director of Alumni Programs
Alurrmi Ofﬁce
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
EMAIL: rmish@wlu.edu
TEL: 540-463-8464
FAX: 540-463-8473

MostiW8.L
    Use Al

Sfucl ehis
coLol  5

every momlay
8:30 p.m. to midnight

J AVA AT

co|=r=Ei=.peop|eMus|cmore

THE GHQ

March 19 - An evening with Charene Jones
March 26 - Mindbending productions
April 2 - Gospel Night with Joyful Noise

TONIGHT: OPEN MIKE

  ‘Wwe,ek_a_t:g

 c eteyburnl-ibrary.

 .  University center‘

‘ "Student Health‘ .-.Cenj.1: ’ =

II participants eligible,

   “ win 1Eof__;i3»f  .
.5-50-_ Gift Certificates to tlgieé

 I ~ :  ‘ f ;Books.tor  ‘

 as con: 

Sponsored by:

0 0 H N‘

Office of Health Promotion and Substance Abuse.Prevention

 
 
 
 

‘MARCH 12, 2001

 

1

Students plan summer internships

By Amy Blevins

,( STA FF WRITER

The deadlines are here, the interviews are approach-
ing, the applications are cluttering students’ desks.
Whether they are padding their resume with a fun summer
job, doing research, or preparing for their future occupa-
tion, some Washington and Lee students are already mak-
ing plans.

Many students are using their summer months to gain

4 first—hand experience in the working world. Junior Susan
‘ Ru ge is planning to work with Republicans Abroad Inter-

national in Washington, D.C. The group works with Ameri-
can citizens living overseas, helping with absentee bal-
lots in election years, arranging overseas trips for Con-
gressmen, and answering questions about the United
States’ political situation.

Ruge sees interning as a stepping stone to her goal of
furthering her education in politics and ultimately living in

Y

"Europe and working with the European Union.

“I think interning is the most valuable thing you can
do. I’m only a junior, but I know that I have a job with a few
places if I want it already after I graduate,” said Ruge.
“Hopefully I’ll get to know some of the prominent Ameri-
can businessmen in Europe.” Ruge said.

Juniors Sarah Spisich and Sam Langholz are also hop-
ing to be in Washington, D.C. this summer. Spisich has
applied to work with the Department of State in the Bu-

areau of Intelligence and Research. Langholz hopes to work
as a White House intern.

Spisich is interested in foreign affairs and American
foreign policy, and plans on continuing her education in
international relations. With the internship, Spisich would
be conducting background research for European public
opinion polls.

“[The internship] will give me an idea if this is some-
thing that I could see myself doing for the rest of my life.”
said Spisich. “It’ll help me decide between law school and

<1 grad school.”

Langholz worked on Capitol Hill last summer and
worked for the George W. Bush presidential campaign in
Iowa.

“I’ve wanted to learn as much about Washington D.C.

‘ and the political life on Capitol Hill and now on the other
end of Pennsylvania Avenue at the White House,” said
Langholz. “Regardless of what I end up doing, it’ll be an
experience that I will take with me.”

,; Freshmen Blair Oakley and Lauren LaRue are getting an
early start on the internship process. LaRue is applying for
an internship with the National Space Society, and Oakley

is applying with the Environmental Protection Agency.

The National Space Society “works to educate the pub-
lic, the government, and corporate sectors about the ad-
vantages of space exploration,” said LaRue. The internship
would include researching public policy recommendations,
attending congressional hearings, and organizing events.

“The position really appeals to me because I want to
double major in a science and politics, and the internship
provides a wonderful opportunity to combine my two inter-
ests,” said LaRue.

Oakley is applying for an internship with the Georgia
Environmental Protection Agency. Oakley would work
under conservationists learning about local environmen-
tal health, mainly the Chatahoochee River.

“This experience would involve some tanning in the sun

To INFINITY AND BEYOND! Freshman Lauren LaRue hopes to get a summer internship with the
National Space Society, which educates others about the advantages of space exploration.

and playing in the mud,” said Oakley. “But more importantly
[it] would teach me a lot about environmental activism.”

Some students will use the summer months for educa-
tion. Sophomore Dustin Albright plans to assist W&L
Physics and Engineering Professor Kenneth Van Ness by
researching polymers. Albright plans to attend graduate
school to study civil engineering and architecture.

“This will help fill grad school applications,” said
Albright. “And tinkering in the lab should be pretty fun.”

Not all students are pursuing the typical internship.
Freshman Christina Webster hopes to work on a ranch
this summer in Wyoming or Colorado as a waitress, host-
ess, or children’s counselor.

“It’s absolutely gorgeous out west,” said Webster.
“And I want an adventure.”

 

* Vllishes you a
Happy St. Patrick’s Day!

Looking for a tasteful way to celebrate

St. Patrick’s Day?
4 Check out our ladies’ jewelry and selection of
men's lrlsh ties—or try our delicious lrlsh foods.

Formal is quickly approaching!

If you want to wear something a bit more
distinctive this year, why not a tartan bow tie 8.
cummerbund, or a taran sash for ladies?
Order yours nowl

Just lnl See our new line of elegant linen skirts & shawls
from Mary Flaherty Capes In Galway, Ireland.

1 Daily 10AM-5:30PM

19 W. Nelson St.
Lexington, VA 24450
540-464-6545
1-877-CELTIC-2
, www.celtlcconnex.com
A www.lrlshmealsbymail.com

From the Class of 2001 Christina Julian
Bryant Adams Lauren LaFauci
Ann Cabell Baskervill Christine Metzger
Lauren Bradshaw Kathleen Moroney
Virginia Brumby Eric Owsley
Allison Bruneau Stephen Pesce
Timothy Cormier Stephen Philipson
Mirella Dragieva Ginger Phillips
Erin Ferguson Hugh Rabb
Matthew Gooch Crystal Simpson
Charles Green Althea Smiley
Shari Henderson Nicholas Stawasz
Stephen Hostetler Julieann Ulin
Matthew Howenstein Dorothy Yuan

A  Iliirlg-tlilm  congratulates recent incilicteés of the Phi Beta Kappa National Honors Society

From the Class of 2002 Anne Lachiewicz
Michele Backus Amie Lucier

Richard Black, H Heather Mahaney
Kristen Bonnema Michael Malinzak
Amanda Cannon Elianna Marziani
Kristin Carroll Abigail Montgomery
Benjamin Dickson Matthew Petrusek
Emily Dixon Susan Ruge

Shelby Fierke Jesse Rockoff

Gerald Guilbert, Jr. Meredith Jane Sorensen
Wade Hess Alison Marie Trinidad
Sara Heusel

Kenneth Hickman

Heather Howard

THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE
TO PICK UP AN OLD CALYX!

Contact Neal at wi||ettsr@wlu.edu
by Tuesday morning (March 13) to reserve a copy.
1960 - 2000 editions available!

I ' L XINGTON

( I n‘ --if I I
. /fa (ml 011/ (wt;/)1/III/gy

FRESH EACH MORNING
ESPRESSO ° CAPPUCCINO ° FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ° FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON ° 464-6586

Dance Lessons

Will he held
Tuesday and Thursday nights
from 7:30 to 8:30

in the mezzanine level room in between the Dining Hall and the
University Center. Sherri Ludt, Lexiugton’s extremely talented
professional dance instructor will continue to teach students any
dance they desire: Waltz, llha-cha, lihumha, Meringue, Swing...
and many morell Dont miss your chance to improve on your
dancing skills in time for Fancy llressll

 

PAGE 5

  

 

 

PAGE 6

W&L Wins

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team slammed
Ferrum 27-0 on Thursday and then
improved to 2-0 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference with a 9-8 over-
time win over Randolph-Macon at
home on Saturday.

The 27-0 road win set school
records for margin of victory and
goals in a game. Freshmen Joanna
Perini and Annie Tompkins split time
in goal, combining for ﬁve saves to
shut out Ferium.

Senior attacker Liz Borges scored six
goals and assisted on three others to
lead the W&L offense. Junior attacker
Emily Owens and freshmen midﬁelders
Kelly Taffe and Lee Wheeler contrib-
uted three goals apiece, and sophomore
attacker Leslie Bogart tallied two goals
and three assists.

The Generals returned home on
Saturday to face stiffer competition,
eking out a 9-8 win over Randolph-
Macon on Taffe’s goal with 16 sec-
onds to play in overtime.

Bogart scored three goals, all in the
first half, as W&L sprinted out to a 5-
2 lead at the break. Randolph-
Macon’s Megan Keyser led the way

in the second half as the Yellow Jack-

@112 Ring-tum iﬂlit

S PORTS

blowout, OT contest

 

THE OPEN FIELD. Freshman Lee Wheeler (right) chases Randolph-Macon’s Lisa Weitzel in

Washington and Lee’s 9-8 overtime home win on Saturday.

ets reeled off four unanswered goals
for a 6-5 lead with 8:31 to play.
Senior attacker Ellen Ritsch tied the
game for W&L just over two minutes
later, and Owens put the Generals up

7-6 at the 4:47 mark. Angela Bisland
netted her second goal of the game
with 1:20 left, forging a 7-7 tie.
Wheeler’s goal put W&L up with
2:41 remaining in the ﬁrst overtime.

Men’s team starts win streak

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
AT YOUR SERVICE. Junior Andrew Roberts
serves in the Generals’ 7-0 win over ODAC
opponent Hampden-Sydney on Wednesday.

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

 

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

Keyser tied the game with less than a
minute left, but Taffe’s goal put the
Generals up seconds later.

W&L will face Guilford on the road
at 4 p.m. on Wednesday.

 

Questions, comrrients, or
suggestions? Contact
Jeremy Franklin at x4060.

secure the win.

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team improved
to 5-1 on the season with a string of four home matches
over the past ﬁve days.

W&L began the week with a 7-0 win over Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference opponent Hampden-Sydney on
Wednesday. Junior Rhys James defeated John Moss 3-6,
6-2. 6-4, and junior two-seed Andrew Roberts handled
Durell Carothers, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3. Freshmen Austin Kim, Gra-
ham Nix, and K.C. Schaefer and sophomore Chase Bice
won their singles matches in straight sets. A

James and Roberts, Kim and Nix, and Schaefer and
junior Zac Vuncannon won their doubles matches handily
against the Tigers.

Christopher Newport came to town on Friday, and the
Generals handed the Captains a 6-1 loss. James lost to
Christopher Newport’s Jason Martin at the top seed, but
W&L did not lose another set on the afternoon.

Kim, Nix, junior Rob Moynihan, Bice, and sophomore
Chris Sorenson rounded out the singles lineup with wins
for the Generals. Kim and Nix, Schaefer and Vuncannon,
and Bice and Moynihan collected doubles victories.

W&L continued its non-conference schedule with a 5-
2 win over the College of Wooster on Saturday. James and
Roberts lost from the top two slots, but again W&L ben-
eﬁted from a strong bottom half of the lineup.

Kim knocked off Jake Sintich 6-3, 5-7, 6-2 from the third
seed, followed by victories from Nix, Schaefer, and
Sorenson. Sintich and Rob Ogg topped James and Rob-
erts in doubles, but Kim and Nix and Schaefer and
Vuncannon secured the doubles point for W&L.

The Generals finished up their week on Sunday with a
5-2 win over Denison. Jeroni Barnes topped James and
Cameron Vincent defeated Roberts from the one and two
seeds, but Kim, Nix, Schaefer, and Bice cleaned house to

Barnes and Chris Compton defeated James and Rob-
erts in number-one doubles, but Kim and Nix and Schaefer
and Vuncannon pulled out victories.

W&L hosts Kenyon at 3 p.m. on Tuesday.

  

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 

_ 6 weeks, 6 credits, as low as $3,000 (based on‘ typical costs V
of tuition, room & board, books, and estimated airfare)

Term 1: May 21-June 29 - Term‘ 2: July 2-August_1O
www.outreach.hawaii.edu 7-‘toll-‘free, 1 (800) 862-6628-

University of Hawai‘i at Manda, Summer Sessions

 
 
 
 

  
     
   
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
   

MARCH 12, 2001 '

 
  
  

enerals stay perfect in 2001 .

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
IN THE AIR. Sophomore Alyson Brice prepares
to serve in W&L’s 8-1 victory over Hollins in
ODAC competition on Wednesday.

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team re- V‘
mained undefeated in 2001 with home wins over Hollins
and Denison last week.

The Generals improved to 3-0 in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference with an 8-1 victory over Hollins on ‘
Wednesday.

Sophomore Erika Proko, junior Melissa Hatley, sopho-
more Alyson Brice, junior Sallie Gray Strang, freshman
Liz Law, and freshman Emily Taylor won singles matches
in straight sets for W&L. Y

In doubles competition, Hollins’ Anne Stevenson and
Alice Moss topped Proko and Hatley 8-5, the Generals’
ﬁrst dropped ODAC match since March 1997. Brice and
Strang defeated Liz and Cayce Schnare in number-two
doubles, and sophomore Bonnie Goldsmith and fresh-
man Ellie Simpson knocked off Molly and Bess Kelly at
the third seed.

W&L stepped out of conference for the first time this
season on Sunday, pulling out a 6-3 win over Denison. p

Sophomore Laura Bruno, sophomore Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth, Brice, and Law won the second through
ﬁfth—seeded singles matches.

Lauren Gerlach topped Hatley 1-6, 7-6 (6), 6-1 in num-
ber-one seed singles, and Lisa Carlton handed Strang a
4-6, 6-3, 6-3 loss from the sixth seed.

Gerlach and Alison Hughes topped Proko and Hatley
in number-one doubles for Denison’s third point. Bruno
and Strang topped Kristen Hanto and Molly Smith, and y
Brice and Wedgeworth knocked off Carlton and Valeria
Muradov.

The Generals will take on Kenyon at home on Tues-
day at 3:30 p.m.

a.
Washington and Lee
I I 
Squash Championship
Divisions: Mens and Women’s Divisions
Dates: March 19, 20, 21, 22 ' «V
Ii_m_e: Matches will be palyed between 6 and 9 PM on the ‘
above dates
Courts: # 1-6 (100) level —- Doremus Gym ,.
Rules: USSRA RULES APPLY -- Players will make their own
calls
All matches are first to win 3 games
Eyeguards are required 7’
_aﬁ: Soft ball (equipment: use own or sign out at window)
' i - Students, Faculty, Staff, Alumni
Entry Deadlin : March 17, 5:00 PM (Must sign up at equipment
room window third level - Doremus Gym)
L1_c>t_e: This will be a single elimination format. Please include :4
your playingltournament history on entry form. Pairings will be
based on information received.
Master Schedule (Pairings and Time)will be located at hallway ,,,.
(First Floor -- Squash Courts)

 

‘MARCH 12, 2001

  S

@112 illing-tum lﬂlti

PORTS

‘, Two W&L grapplers, team
receive scholarly recognition

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Senior wrestler Josh Chamberlain and junior teammate

* ‘ Ezra Morse were named to the National Wrestling Coaches

Association of America Division III Academic All-
America team this week.

In addition to the individual recognitions, the Gener-
als placed 15th in the Division IH Top 20 Scholar Teams,
recording an overall 3.062 grade point average.

“This recognition means a lot to the team and to me,”
Morse said. “I believe it dispels the myth of wrestlers
being ‘dumb’ athletes. At W&L, it takes a lot of dedica-

W&L stomps Southern

Virginia, splits ODAC

doubleheader with Guilford
( By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee baseball team extended its
‘ winning streak to eight games before falling to Guilford in
the second game of a doubleheader on Saturday.

The Generals (9-2, 3-1 Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence) knocked off Southern Virginia at home on Wednes-
day to win their seventh straight. Freshman Mike Wert

Vi secured his first collegiate win by yielding just two hits
over six innings.

W&L jumped on the board early, as junior third
baseman Matt Kozora smacked a two—run single in
the first inning, scoring sophomore shortstop
Michael Hanson and freshman center fielder Austin
Allain. '

Sophomore first baseman Brian Gladysz pushed the
lead to 5-0 in the second with a double that knocked in

If Allain and Kozora. Hanson provided the ﬁnal margin in
the following inning by driving in sophomore second
baseman Richard Campbell and sophomore left fielder
Dan Kagey O O ;. O O

X The Generals then proceeded to travel to Greensboro,
N .C., where they split a doubleheader with ODAC foe
Guilford.

Senior righthander David Sigler tossed his third
complete game of the year to lead W&L to a 6-3 win in

4 the first game. Sophomore designated hitter Kyle Drop-

tion on an athlete’s part to be able to participate in a var-
sity sport because of the heavy workload.

“The team as a whole puts in a lot of effort in both the
matroom and the classroom.”

Chamberlain concurred with his teammate’s opinion.

“It’s nice to be recognized for academic and athletic
achievement, and I think it means a lot for the team to win
academic All—American honors,” Chamberlain said. “It
shows that we do something besides wrestle. Other teams
know that we don’t go here simply for athletics, and rec-
ognition for that is satisfying.”

Chamberlain complemented his 19-1 1 record on the mat‘

with a cumulative 3.895 GPA off of it. The 149-pounder
recorded a second—place showing at the W&L Invitational
on Jan. 20 and third-place ﬁnishes at the Newport News
Apprentice Invitational on F eb.3 and the Centennial Con-
ference Championship on Feb. 17.

The senior, whose 19 near falls led the Generals in 2000-

 «Wrestling academic for Generals

O1, ended his W&L career with a 62-44 record.

“Individually, I thinkl could have done a little better,”
Chamberlain said of his on-court performance. “The team
had a winning dual record even though we lost a couple
of close ones.

“The conference tournament was a little disappointing
on the whole, but we did have our first conference winner
and national qualifier (freshman Joe Mueller) since 1989.”

Morse posted a 20-3 record on the season, including
marks of 11-1 in dual meets and 4-1 in Centennial competi-
tion. The junior has maintained a 3.264 GPA while leading
the squad in takedowns with 37 and pins with seven.

The 197-pounder won his weight class at the VMI
Keydet Invitational on Nov. 12 and the Scranton Touma-
ment on Dec. 2. Morse ﬁnished second at the Newport
News invite.

The Generals ﬁnished the season with a 6-5-1 record in
dual competition, 3-3 in the Centennial.

  “Generals continue swift stat on the diamod

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

TIMELY RETURN. Freshman centerjielder Austin. Allain dives back into first base, beating the
throw to Southern Virginia’s Charles Moline in the Generals’ 7-0 victory on Wednesday.

pers batted 2-for-4 with a run and one batted in, and
four Generals crossed the plate in the fourth inning in
the victory.

Although Hanson led off the second game with a home

run, the Quakers’ eight—run sixth inning put the Generals
away in a 12-3 loss. Kagey was shelled for six runs and
nine hits over ﬁve innings.

W&L will host Westminster at 3 p.m. on Wednesday.

Baseball

March 13
March 14
March 17
March 18
March 21
March 24

at Mary Washington
Westminster
Harnpden-Sydney (2)
West Virginia Tech (2)
Bridgewater

at Randolph-Macon (2)

Golf
Mar. 12-13 at Ferrum Spring Invitational
March 21 W&L ODAC Invitational

Men’s Lacrosse

March 13 at Dickinson

March 18 Franklin and Marshall
March 24 at Virginia Wesleyan

Upcoming events in Washington and Lee athletics

Women’s Lacrosse

March 14 at Guilford

March 17 Virginia Wesleyan
March 22 at Roanoke V
March 24 at Mary Washington

Men’s Swimming
Mar. 15-17 at NCAA Championships

Men’s Tennis

March 13 Kenyon

March 15 Mary Washington
March 16 at Guilford

March 18 Washington College
March 19 Eastern Mennonite
March 21 at Averett

Women’s Tennis
March 13
March 15
March 17
March 19

Kenyon

Bloomsburg

Franklin and Marshall
Eastern Mennonite
at Bridgewater

March 20 Lynchburg

PAGE 7

at Sweet Briar
Roanoke
at Randolph-Macon Woman’s

For up-to-date information on
W&L athletics, including scores,
schedules, and statistics, visit the

Washington and Lee Sports

Information Website at
www.w|u.edu/sports/

March 21

Men’s and Women’s Outdoor Track
March 17 W&L Invitational
March 24 at Roanoke Invitational

CAMP COUNSELORS

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

Archery, Baseball, Basketball,_Climbing Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,
Hiking, lnline—Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
Volleyball, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

Camp Romaca
for Girls:

888-2-romaca

www.campromaca.com

Camp Greylock
for Boys:

1-800-842-5214

www.campgreylock.com

WATERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT

10 student apartments
available June 1, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enjoy country living
at its finest.

Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive.
Please call Tim Wilhelm
at 540-463-6575
or 540-463-2868.

 

 

PAGE 8 I

I am the Christian
the Devil warned
you about

@112 Ring-tum iﬁltt

LASTWORD

MARCH 12, 200 I

6

Last moth-{Hunt-Climrz-Erihuttr-Svrntinrl-Ettilgr  

WORLD

Global Architectural Coahtion
criticizes Indian building quality

After the 7.9 magnitude earthquake wreaked havoc
upon residential areas in Gujarat, India, the UN formed the
Global Archetectural Coalition to investigate the wide-
spread failure of their architectural safeguards.

The Coalition delivered its findings Saturday, stating
that the people of India should signiﬁcantly change their
building code standards.

Chairman Hassim Punj abidabi (Pakistan) delivered the
coalition’s ﬁndings Saturday, “Building materials such as
bricks and steel are much too heavy and could harm resi-
dents if they collapse. Thus we recommend India utilize

lighter materials such as styrofoam and balsa wood in the
construction of all urban high—density housing projects.”

NATION

Jackson promises to check self
to prevent riggity-wreckage

After Rev. Jesse Jackson soured the
minds of the general public with the men-
tal image of him engaging in the various
activities needed to create a “Luv Child,”
few media experts imagined that he could drag
his integrity any lower. Everyone except the
. National Enquirer was shocked when it was

 
 
 
 
 
 

found that one of Rev. J ackson’s many non—proﬁt organiza-
tions paid his mislress $35,000 in severance pay.

The revelation that Rev. J ackson’s organizations may
not be respectable sent shockwaves through the conser-
vative community.

Rush Limbaugh was rumored to have said, “although I
have not always agreed with Rev. Jackson, my respect for
both the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition and the Citizenship Edu-
cation Fund have never wavered before today. Now, though,
I have serious doubts about how those groups are using
their money to advance their vast liberal agenda.”

Fellow companion in debauchery Bill Clinton stands
by J ackson. Although Clinton mentioned he found it ironic
that during the very time he was seeking spiritual advice
from Jackson over his intern inﬁdelity, Jackson was taking
a dip in his clerical pool.

The question remains whether Jackson will open the
accounting books of his various organizations. It is ex-
pected that the contents of the books will remain clandes-
tine to prevent the public from ﬁnding out that the organi-
zations are really just a cover-up.

The FBI is currently investigating Jackson for partici-
pating in a nationwide breeding program in an attempt to
create an army of verbose, meddling Baptist ministers.

The question has arisen as to whether the allegations of
J ackson’s corruption will affect his chances of being elected
president. According to Williain Diehner, an Assistant Pro-
fessor at Stamford Department of Politics, the allegations
will have absolutely no effect, “Jesse Jackson had a
Dixiecrat’s chance in hell of being elected President to begin
with; thus, nothing could realistically hurt his chances.”

Jackson plans to revisit his organizations’ various tax
returns and make certain amendments to their contents
so he doesn’t end up some bad man’s boyfriend in prison.

LOCAL

SAE’s lose home, inner peace

The SAE fraternity was
struck by a surprise ruling
last week when the house
was notiﬁed by the Univer-
sity that it was being sus-
pended indeﬁnitely from the
campus. The SAE’s will not
be able to hold meetings at
their house, throw parties,
or continue their
pledgeship. Fortunately,
SAE doesn’t throw any
huge parties spring term and a large portion of the frater-
nity lives off campus.

An SAE was conjectured as saying, “Well, can’t say
that I am in favor of the punishment at all, but it could
have been worse. We really lucked out with the fact that
the punishment didn’t interfere with Christmas Weekend,
Rush, or most of pledgeship. I don’t want to get religious
or anything, but I think we are Buddha 3" Chosen People.
I mean somebody has to be looking out for us to have that
kind of luck, right? Who else would it be other than the
Supreme Enlightened One?”

The administration has yet to decide if it will forbid SAE
brothers from participating in silent meditation in the house.

An anonymous administrative source has elaborated
on the deliberations, “We haven’t been able to decide if
allowing the brothers to engage in the search for inner peace
is appropriate. What sort of effect will our punishment have
if they irninunize their souls to all worldly suffering? They’ d

 

really have our balls in a salad shooter with that one. I

mean, we’ve already annexed their fraternity and their?

government leader has been exiled, but faith in the Bud-
dha may protect them —— look at how the Chinese failed
with Tibet.
University President Giovanni Elroddo said SAE woul

be reinstated as soon as their most prestigious alum, G.
Montgomery Tuckworth XXIV, made a sizable donation
for the construction of the new University Virtual Reality
Playpen.

AMS& 

Disney mtroduces new annnationv

Disney introduced a new canine companion to
stand among such giants as Goofy and Pluto. Jean-
Francoise deBonze, will star in » --
the upcoming film “Dog Cage.”
The movie focuses on the life of
young, transsexual show-dog
J ean-Francoise (voiced by Emilio
Estevez) and his attempt to raise
his bitch (voiced by Claire
Danes) in urban New Orleans.

According to director
Stephano Spielpergo, the film
will be a heart-warrning tale of I
love, heart-break, and canine-sexuality. Criticized for
similarities to the French novel, La Cages aux Folles,
Spielbergo assures that, like all Disney movies, it will
be completely original.

— all graphics courtesy of www.lycos.multimedia.c0m

VISA, MASTERCARD,
STUDENT CHARGE ACCEPTED

lutn-43121111195. 11111:.
in: M. llﬂzuilttngton S71.
453-53 3 3
RENT OR BUY YOUR TUXEDO NOW FOR FANCY DRESS!
WE ALSO SELL THE ACCESSORIES:

curnmberbund/tie sets
fancy Vests
jewelry
ﬂasks
tux shirts

  
  
  

221 South MainStreet  

Interested in black and white photography  
processing, and printing?      
Rent Andre Studio Inc.

Lexington, Virgina  

IT’S THAT TIME or YEAR AGAIN!
IT’S MARCH MADNESS!
THE BIG DANCE ./
AN0 You CAN SEE IT _A__LL AT 13. J. ‘5
wE WILL HAVE THE ENTIRE NCAA
T0uRNAMENT 0N 0uR SCREENS:

ALSO 00N’T MISS THE ST. RATTY5
DAY PARTY AT 8. J. ‘s AND THE
f{c977ZfT LERRECHAuN C0NTEsT.
$150.00 CASH PRIZES

(540) 453-2139  

—-. 1

 

RETIREMENT  MUTUAL FUNDS .T_TI.usT”sisn.vI‘t"E5i TUITION FINANEING

When you're investing for retirement, the adage
"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today"
doesn't apply to taxes.

That’s because investments that aren't eroded by taxes
can add up to significantly more money for you—
money you can use to supplement your pension and
Social Security

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax
deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax—saving so|utions——along with TIAA-CREF‘s
low expenses and solid history of performance-can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

Tax— deferred solutions
from TIAA-CREF Can
help you reach your

retirement goals faster.

TAX EIEFEHHAI. MAKESADIFFEHENEE 

§102,068

Tax-deferred savings after taxes‘

 
  
  
   

$67,514

After-tax savings

per month 0 y P‘

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns I,’
and principal value of investments will fluctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart a ve is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reflect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIAA-CREF account, or
reﬂect expenses.

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

1.800.842.2776 il

www.tiaa-cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest. 0 TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products.
0 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (T IAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. - TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. - Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. © 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Associatlon—Co|lege Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04

‘V.

 

 
 

 

l

f .
:0

 

I

-<

+ 2, I

l'\.' :33 IL

 IKSVZ,‘

Vi 1.. 2 1
Q ~ 2»-

 
 

 

., 
‘T
ex

3 4

\

~ gar/as

VoLuME 103, No. 23

Calendar issue
still contested

By Michael Crittenden

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

As the battle over the future of Washington and Lee’s
spring term continues to grow, the report from the stu-
dent-faculty committee in charge of the review has left
many questions unanswered.

The report, “Consequences of a Two-Semester Calen-
dar,” was published by the Calendar Committee, a joint
student-faculty committee chaired by University Librar-
ian Barbara Brown. Charged with analyzing the pros and
cons of moving to two 14-week semesters, the committee
interviewed faculty and students, as well as members of
the administration, on a number of issues they found im-
portant. The committee then compiled the results and is-
sued the report to faculty the first week of March.

The major portion of the report focuses on the results of
the faculty survey on the consequences of a two-semester
calendar. While there is no general conclusion for the report,
the report is slanted in favor of a two-semester system.

“The beneﬁts appear to outweigh the costs,” the report
said. “Positive aspects of such a reform would include a
slower pace to conduct courses, the greater opportunity
for deeper learning, and the beneﬁts of confonning to cal-
endars used by the vast majority of peer institutions.”

The report also looked at the effect of a two-semester sys-
tem vs. the current calendar in relation to a number of non-
faculty related areas, most signiﬁcantly the eﬁect on student
affairs. The report notes that there has been an observed in-
crease in the happiness and relaxed nature of students since
spring tenn was instituted and that there is a fear that a two-
semester schedule may cause retention rates to fall.

More interestingly is the claim of the report that spring
term needs to be eliminated in order to reduce excessive
drinking. According to the report, “students have much
free time” during spring term, “which is usually spent drink-
ing. . . we cannot alter patterns of alcohol abuse without
altering spring term. . . a change to two semesters would. . .
offer less opportunity for excessive drinking.”

While there are no statistics given, the committee re-
port also said that drinking and driving is a nightly prob-
lem during spring term, despite the fact that drunken driv-
ing arrests have declined in recent years.

While some of the report does focus on the effect on
students, must of focusesron the opinion of the faculty in

SEE ‘CALENDAR,’ PAGE 2

Ultra ﬂttng-tum

JAMES  l..E\."8lJ5'eh ?r.f>Fjﬁ-“1,.t:,;:p,I
wasnwaron a aw Ui1‘V!!'l!‘3iTV

5 "“‘v"t‘~’v:?'F“:"w, \/A 24450

?‘-iiiili 2 2 2001

WAsHrNcroN AND LEE UNrvERsrrv’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

LARGE ART. With Fancy Dress days away, FD Steering_ Committee members scramble to
ﬁnish the decorations in time for the big dance.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

Fitness center awaits approval

By Mike George
STAFF WRITER

The proposal to construct a new ﬁt-
ness center met with no deﬁnite an-
swers this past week.

The W&L Athletics Department met
with architects and designers Tuesday
to discuss a new 10,000 sq. ft. ﬁtness
center. However, the project has not
been approved by the W&L Board of
Trustees and is still in its initial phases.
The project, if approved, will greatly in-
crease the availability of ﬁtness equip-
ment to faculty and students.

Department officials are looking for-
ward to the project but warn that its
completion is a long way off.

“It will take a long, long time. We

are still at ground zero,” Assistant Di-
rector of Athletics Cinda Rankin said.

While Rankin hopes the project
starts soon, she said there could be
complications.

“There are all kinds of concerns in-
volved,” she said, going on to list such
factors as OSHA regulations and ac-
cessibility for the handicapped.

Physical Plant Director Scott
Bebee also attended the meeting.
Bebee will work with architects and
designers to remodel the current
building. Plans must take into con-
sideration existing electrical, water,
and heating systems. The renovation
will require extensive work.

Bebee sai_d he understands the
work involved, but thinks a new ﬁt-

ness center is needed.

“There is no doubt in my mind,”
Bebee said.

Bebee said W&L’s current
weight room is “cramped” and not
ventilated properly, and he believes
that the new fitness center will get
more students to come to the gym.

Sophomore Peter Moore said he likes
the ideaofanewfacilitybecause of prob-
lerns with the current weight room.

“It’s always crowded in there,”
Moore said “When teams practice they _
always take up all the machines.”

Moore added he would probably
visit the gym more if a new ﬁtness cen-
ter were built.

“I think the need for it is there,”
Moore said.

Core survey measures campus alcohol use

W&L students believe alcohol
central to campus party scene
By Michelle Lally

STAFF WRITER

The Student Health Center distributed the Core Alco-
hol and Drug Survey around campus on March 12. Wash-
ington and Lee is one of 64 universities to participate in
this survey, conducted and tallied by the Core Institute
based at Southern Illinois University.

The Core Institute gathers information on college stu-
- ent use and perceptions of drugs and alcohol. The Insti-
ute tallies this information for each university and col-

lege, and averages it to render the national results.

Dr. Jane Horton, Director of Health Service, said
that the results of past surveys reinforce the percep-
tion that there is a strong drinking culture at W&L,
and that students here consume more alcohol on a
regular basis than other students do nationally.

The results of the 2000 Core Alcohol and Drug
Survey, compiling responses from 178 W&L stu-
dents, showed that 99.4 percent of W&L students
think that alcohol is central to the social scene for
W&L men, 94.9 percent for women and 99.4 percent
believe that the W&L social atmosphere promotes
alcohol use.

The results of that same survey also show that W&L

which is higher than the national average of 5.2 alcoholic
beverages per week.

The results of the 2001 W&L Core Alcohol and Drug
Survey will be shared by the Student Health Center with
the administration, faculty, Board of Trustees, and other
student health organizations.

The results will also be used in the Student Health
Center’s educational initiatives, toward the “social
norms” campaign to raise awareness of alcohol use
misperceptions, and to track trends of alcohol consump-
tion at W&L.

Surveys are available at the circulation desk of
Leybum Library, in front of Carol Calkins’ ofﬁce in the
University Center, and in the Student Health Center

iﬁhi

MONDAY, MARCH 19, 2001

GHQ hosts
global culture

By Matthew McDerrnott

NEWS EDITOR

Evening Abroad, a student-run presentation of for-
eign culture, showcased song, dance, costume, and stand-
up last Wednesday in the GHQ

“In the beginning, there would be as many people in the
audience as on stage,” said Dean of the College Laurent
Boetsch. “This room is a great indicator of progress we
have made with international education on campus.”

Director of International Education William
Klingerhotfer agrees.

“There are several times as many people attending as
there were a couple of years ago,” Klingerhoffer said. “There
has been growth in the past two years especially. Now the
international students are more visible members of the com-
munity.”

Some participating students were American. Senior
Bryant Adams led a group playing Brazilian instruments.

“I got interested in Brazilian instruments because they
are related to Capoeira, the Brazilian martial art I was study-
ing over the summer,” Adams said.

The eighth annual Evening Abroad was sponsored by
the Student Association for International Learning. This
is the ﬁrst year that SAIL ran the event previously put on
by the International Club.

SAIL is comprised of the Model United Nations orga-
nization, thelntemational Student Alliance, Study Abroad,
the International Development and Relief Group, and the
Social Activities Committee.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
DANCING QUEEN. Shabboo Hosseim, dressed in

 

photo by Emily Be:/Executiv Editor
BANG ON THE DRUMS ALL DAY. Anthony Allen plies his art.

students consume l2.5 alcoholic beverages per week,

By Latrina Stokes
STAFF WRITER

Senior Anthony Allen will perform
Washington and Lee’s first percus-
sion recital March 25.

Showcasing his talent in several
genres, Allen will play a variety of per-
cussion instruments from the xylophone
to the steel dnrm. V

All music performance maj ors?4i
must arrange an hour-long senior re-
cital to complete the major. Allen’s per-
formance functions as an honors the-
sis for his B.A. in music. He will also
graduate with a B.S. in business.

“Basically, my recital is not going
to be like any other percussion recital
or any other recital that anyone’s seen
at this school,” Allen said.

Having no precedent gave Allen
the freedom to design a diverse pro-
gram reﬂective of his many interests.
Drawing from different musical inﬂu-
ences, he has designed an energetic

Q3‘.

through March 20.

program that includes classical and
non-standard instruments.

Allen did not want to conﬁne him-
self to the instruments most widely
used in classical music. He will play
the marimba, a large wooden xylo-
phone from Latin America. He will
also play jazz on the Vibraphone, a
smaller xylophone, with the jazz band.
In addition he and senior Gabby Best
will perform a duet on the steel drums.

“Flight of the Bumble Bee,” a fast
classical piece, is the third piece Allen
will play on the xylophone. He said
he chose it “to show off his chops,"
because the song requires so much
ability.

Breaking away from traditional per-
cussion recitals, Allen will not be play-
ing a multi-percussion solo. He is un-
sure on how the idea came to him, but
he will project a Bugs Bunny cartoon
and play the music to match the ani-
mation.

“I listened to the cartoon about

traditional garb, presents a Persian dance.

two thousand times and wrote out all
the music to the score,” Allen said.
“It’s going to be really cool and I’m
really excited about that.”

Allen will show off his 11 years of
experience on the drum set when he
plays with the jazz band.

Allen hopes to dazzle the audience
with the encore. He will play the drums
with his cover band Smokestack with
smoke machines and a light show as
background.

Seniors Sybil Prince and Brooke
deRosa choreographed a dance rou-
tine to accompany a 1970s rock song.

Because Allen has devoted so
much time and effort to this recital, he
wants it to be impressive.

“I want people to know that this is
such a big part of my life,” Allen said.
“I want them to walk away and say,
‘Damn, that was really cool.’ And I
want them to remember it for a while.”

However, his devotion tocreating
his craﬁ is much more than the per-

Percussion student performs senior recital

fonnance itself.

“What I hope to convey to people
in addition to what they hear at that
moment at my recital is the amount of
work I have put into it before,” Allen
said.

Allen spends about seven hours a
day preparing for a single hour of per-
formance. He practices four hours, re-
hearses for two hours and spends an-
other hour on coordination of the
show.

“It’s a huge time commitment, but
I love every single minute of it,” Allen
said.

“I’ve been living and breathing this
thing [since] the beginning of last
summer,” he said. “I believe my life
can start aﬁer March 25.”

Allen said that he owes a lot to
his supportive parents. He knows
that they will appreciate all the time
he has spent coordinating 10 musi-
cians, practicing his music, and leam-
ing technique.

@112 Tiling-tum iﬂlrt

March 19, 2001

 

Life t

 

 

 

PAGE 2

Tllihe 3Rt'rtg-tum iBI)t'

MARCH 19, 2001

THE WORLD

 

Cheaper AIDS drugs
sold

Two of the largest producers of anti-
AIDS drugs announced this week that
they plan to sell lifesaving drugs and medi-
cines to South Africa at low prices. This
decision follows years of campaigning
by health activists who demanded that
Western pharmaceutical companies sac-
riﬁce proﬁts to help save lives in Africa.

Bristol-Myers will permit local drug
companies to make generic versions of
their drugs, giving up patent rights to
their medicine. This step is limited only
to South Africa, where HIV infects close
to ﬁve million people. Other African
countries with even more limited re-
sources than South Aﬁica are still wait-
ing for their turn. I\

While this announcement goes a
long way in helping out AIDS victims
in developing countries, other drug
manufactures. must follow suit before
drug cocktails, of which Bristol-
Meyers’s anti—retroviral drugs are only
a small part) will become an affordable
option for victims in developing coun-
tries. The drugs from other companies
like GlaxoSrrrithKline cost close to

RETIREMENT INSURANCE

THIS

WEEK

By Mehul Srivastava

$15,000 a year, making it possible for only
25,000 of the 25 million AIDS victims in
Africa to afford treatment. Brazil halved
its AIDS related death rate in just two
years by violating patent rights and mak-

ing cheaper lifesaving drugs.

Youth receives 25 years

Antoine Jones, 17, who wounded

seven young people when he opened ﬁre
at the National Zoo last April, was sen-
tenced to 25 years in prison Friday. This
is the second case in two weeks in which
children under 18 were tried as adults and
have been handed harsh sentences. Last
week in Florida, 14-year-old Lionel Tate
was sentenced to life in prison for the
murder of a 6-year-old girl. Jones was
found guilty on seven charges of at-
tempted murder, down from the 24 counts
for which he was originally indicted.
Jones fired on a crowd at the en-
trance to the zoo on Easter Monday af-
ter the annual Black Family Celebration.
A witness said Jones acted after some-
one broke a bottle at his feet. He is not

eligible for parole and will be 42 when

he is released.

MUTUAL FUNDS

Russian hostages

released

The 22-hour hijack drama of a
Russian plane ended on Saturday
after a Saudi Arabian rescue team
stormed the plane. A stewardess,
a passenger and a terrorist were
killed in the rescue. The plane
was hijacked after it took off from
Istanbul for Moscow. The hijack-
ers demanded that Russia end its
military campaign in Chechnya.

The hijackers released 40 pas-
sengers in Medina, Saudi Arabia.
The rescue team stormed the
plane when they heard the pilot
screaming on the radio that the
hijackers were attacking the pas-
sengers.

The Russian government an-
nounced that the hijackers were
Chechen terrorists. They identiﬁed the
leader as 41-year-old Supian Arsayev
— the brother of a former Chechen min-
ister for state security. The Saudis have
taken the terrorists into custody, and
are negotiating handing them over to
Russia.

rnusrsrnvirts’ TUITION FINANEING

 

doesn't apply to taxes.

Social Security.

When you're investing for retirement, the adage
”never put off until tomorrow what you can do today"

,-:-,—., »

Let our consulta nts show you all the advantages of tax
deferral, or call us for a free tax—savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax—saving so|utions—along with TlAA—CREF’s
low expenses and solid history of performance—can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

‘Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% maybe
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

TaX- deferred solutions
from TIAA-CREF can
help you reach your
retirement goals faster.

$102,068

TAX DEFEHHAI. MAKES A DIFFERENCE

I _ Tax-deferred savings after taxes‘
That s because investments that aren't eroded by taxes

can add up to significantly more money foryou——
money you can use to s@ rpension and v

$67,514

After-tax savings

 $l00"per month for l ‘y

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart a
purposes only and does not reflect actual perfomumce, or
predict future results, of any TIAA-CREF account, or
reflect expenses.

  
 
   

ve is presented for illustrative

A A

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa—cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest. - TIAA-C REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products.
- Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (T IAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. 0 TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. - Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. © 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association—Co|Iege Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY OI/04

Amex

 

CALENDAR

regards to spring term. According to the report, 68 percent
of faculty surveyed indicated that they were concerned
with the amount of course content currently covered. Un-
der a two-semester calendar many professors feel they
could cover more infomration with greater depth. Accord-
ing to Politics Professor Mark Rush, students are losing
out in some classes under the current schedule.

“A lot of classes are just really squeezed,” Rush
said. “Compared to our peer institutions, Washington
and Lee is in an awkward position.”

The report also said that students would have more
time to digest material during a 14-week term, listing it as
the number one beneﬁt in the area of course content.
Students have expressed doubt as to whether or not this
beneﬁt would actually occur. One student made the point
that the “math doesn’t really add up: [the professors] are
going to fill those two weeks with new information, not
stretch the 12-week class into 14 weeks.”

The report goes on to say that the major beneﬁts of
moving to a semester schedule for the professors would
be a.n easier workload and more time to do research.

Under a two-semester schedule, professors would be
able to start summer research three weeks earlier than they
currently can. It would also be easier to coordinate research
with other institutions that work on the more traditional
two-semester schedule. While this would beneﬁt the fac-

- ulty ﬁrst, Rush said, it would also help the students.

“Research doesn’t come at the expense of teaching.
. .[and] it isn’t a four-letter word,” Rush said.

While research time would increase with a switch
to a two-semester calendar, the workload for each pro-
fessor would be reduced. Under the current calendar,
each professor must teach 13 courses over a two-year
period. Under a two-semester schedule, each profes-
sor would teach three classes a semester, totaling 12
every two years. According to the report, Washing-
ton and Lee’s teaching load is as much as 40 percent
higher than peer institutions, making it hard for the
University to attract professors away from peer insti-
tutions.

While the report lists reducing the professors’
workloads as a beneﬁt, it wouldn’t come without a price.
President Elrod has said that in no way will the size of the
faculty change if the University moves to a two-semes-
ter program. According to the report, “without signiﬁ-
cant additions to faculty, curriculum would be reduced
by roughly 12 percent.” The reduction in classes would

FROM PAGE 1

also reduce some faculty to teaching only survey courses,
while not allowing them to offer specialized seminars in
non-traditional topics.

While the reduction in courses would streamline most
departments and ensure a focus on one’s study, some op-
ponents of the two-semester system said that it would limit
the opportunity to take non-traditional classes and to do
short study abroad programs and internships. Many de-
parirnents, most promirriently politics and journalism, cur-
rently offer spring term internship and study abroad pro-
grams that would be lost in a two-semester program. While
proponents of the two-semester schedule say it is better for
students to take a full 14-week term if they are going abroad,
many students prefer to go abroad spring term because it
gives them ﬂexibility with their majors.

“The spring term I spent in Russia my junior year was
one of the best experiences I had as an undergrad,” said
Assistant Director of Admissions Kelly Kopcial, an
alumna. “I double majored in English and Russian Stud-
ies. Without the beneﬁt of spring term, I would have been
hard pressed to take a 12 week term in Russia while still
being able to complete the English major.”

Kopcial also said that spring term is a good selling
point to prospective students looking at W&L.

“In my time in Admissions, many students have ex-
pressed the opinion that spring term is a factor in their
decisions to consider and eventually attend W&L. The
Washington Term program in particular is a big draw,”
said Kopcial. “I think we would lose something if we do

away with the options spring term provides, i.e., ﬁeld -
classes in the sciences, internship possibilities, study I

abroa .”

This contradicts the Calendar Committee report,
which said that by eliminating spring term “W&L
might be able to attract to campus prospective stu-
dents who turn away from us due to its reputation
as a ‘party school,’ enhanced by the ‘Goshen term.”’

The report, available to students through their pro-
fessors, has sparked furor among those who fear that
the switch is another attempt by school administra-
tors to “turn the school into a Swarthmore or
Amherst,” as one student said. Student petitions to
retain have been circulated with the intention of pre-
senting them to the faculty at the April 2nd faculty
meeting. Faculty members will vote on the issue be-
tween April 2 and April 6, at which time the votes will
be calculated by the Registrar.

Study Outside
Next Semester

The Castle Rock Institute aponeore
an voff~can1;pu$ study program that
combines coursework in reﬁgion,
philosophy, literature and art with
backpacking, climbizrg, biking

Limited space available for the
Fall 2001 session:Aug. 27 —Dec. 10

Visit the CHI website to request: an application.

Castle Rock Institute

13.0.. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 828-862-3'?59
Wwwzcastle -- rock.org

 

and paddling.

The College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson Street

See Us for All Your Fancy Dress Needs!

Elegant Rentals

We have been serving Washington and Lee for 75 years with contemporary clothing—-see us for all your clothing needs!
Visa

Mastercard

‘Y

1 .,.

 

 

MARCH 19, 2001 .

Glhe iﬂtng-tum lﬂht

PINION

PAGE 3

V.

G’ ’ t rest
*1 I know Lexington isn’t typically identified as a
joumalist’s delight. Indeed, it’s not a booming metropolis.

But I think there are certain topics that might have over-
stayed their welcome in our school’s humble periodicals.

‘The following are items that I suggest we boycott, be- ‘

cause there’s only so many times I can read about them:
The notorious drinking issue. I don’t really think there
are that many people in the school who are left in question
as to the extent of the alcohol problems here. In addition,
I see one more article about abolishing drinking or the
steps being taken to curb the rampant debauchery here, I
am going to go on a binge.
The “Most W&L Students have 0-5 drinks when they
arty” advertisement. You can’t really juxtapose a picture

of kids sip-

Ping D"P°"' lxtlrera’

pers while S 
playing pin K'i:isldJ:ira’CB
ihetailon the

donkey with article upon article about DUIs, MIPs, and
other alcohol-related issues. It doesn’t make much sense,
and then everyone gets confused as to who is telling the
th. Our heads start to spin in puzzlement.

' Clinton. Roar. I hate politics. And I especially hate
reading about a man who doesn’t even hold ofﬁce any-
more. He’s not our president anymore, get over it. Find
someone else to state the obvious about.

V My personal favorite. . .Any article making some ref-
erence to how the girls/guys here suck. Oh, man. He didn’t
call you after you hooked up. She was a tease. It never
ceases to amaze me how we can somehow manage to uti-

ize journalism to veil thinly our frustrations.

Guest Speakers. I feel so bad for Contact. Someone is
always up in arms about whatever speaker we hire. Pretty
soon we’re going to have to resort to just getting Mickey
Mouse, or someone else of equal non-controversy. But

rthen someone who will complain that it was disrespectful
that he didn’t wear a shirt in Lee Chapel.

The Greek System/Pledgeship. Among things I am very
grateful for is that pledgeship is over and thus, I do not

have to read any more about the detriments of the Greek
system and how we are all damned to hell if we endorse it.

The J. Crew Complaint. People still seem to amuse them-
selves over bitterly and rhetorically remarking “Can-y’all-
wear-something-other—than-j.crew?” No matter what the ar-
ticle is about, the author has to make some reference to W&L’s
homogenous student body.

The meanest one. . . Alienating some poor idiot by
referencing an isolated incident of stupidity. It’s like when
Dan Quayle misspelled potato. This school is brutal. You

can’t do anything dumb without it being broadcasted and
publicized for years.

As a general rule, Ithink there is too much complaining.
I wish someone would write an article extolling the virtues
of Wafﬂe House, or congratulating the FD Steering Com-
mittee, or commending the brotherly ties fostered through
pledgeship. But what the hell do I know about journalism,
anyway. As another general rule, don’t listen to anything
the "I-have—little-to—write—about-so-I-will-compose-a—list—of—
overdone-topics- for—this-wee ” writer has to say.

:IFC addresses the student body

Dear Students,

The Interfraternity Council has always had rules, but
students’ actions, except on various occasions, failed to
prompt the IFC to assiduously enforce these rules. This

lfact may be because the fraternity environment appeared
less dangerous or student governance proved so strong
that enforcement of these rules seemed unnecessary. The
University’s implementation of some of the alcohol initia-
xtives shows that the times have changed. Various stu-
dents’ actions have given the University plenty of evi-
dence that either the fraternity enviromnent exists as more
dangerous or that student responsibility, from the fresh-
men all the way up to the respective IFC members, suffers.
‘These initiatives attempt to address the problems. Our job
on the IFC is to enforce these rules. Not to enforce them
weakens them and may result in the tragedies that the
administration designed them to prevent. We on the IFC
‘realize, however, that the new changes will fill our hands.
Because we expected student resistance, we discussed
the initiatives with various fraternities, as well as with
various students to gain their insight. Many students say
that the initiatives will not work; they superficially ad-
4dress the real problems. Students say that people want to
drink and they will find ways to do so to their hearts’
content and/or based on the depths of their pockets. Some
people, students argue, will drink large quantities of alco-
. ol regardless of what regulations are in place. But let’s
not let this letter get ahead of itself; we will address this

, are iﬂittg-tum tam

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco
News Editors Matt McDermott
ﬂ Max Smith
Assistant News Editor Mike Agnello
Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel
Assistant Opinion Editor Brett Kirwan
W&Life Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
W Last Word Editor Bryan Early
Copy Editor Kris Pollina
Contributing Editor Michael Crittenden
Photo Editor Mary Guy
Staff Photographer Eric Wechtler

I’ Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
)4 University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
V Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reflect
the opinion of The Ring,—tum Phi Editorial Board.
it Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
gr E—mail: phi@wlu.edu
http://wlu.edu/»-phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

argument later. The two rules that met the most resistance
were the termination of the drinking games in the frater-
nity houses and the cessation of the distribution of beer
after one o’clock. Let’s first address the former. The Uni-
versity looks at drinking games as a means to consume
large amounts of alcohol in short periods of time. Such
action greatly impairs student responsibility and elevates
the danger of the fraternity environment. So, the University
prompted the IFC to eliminate drinking games from frater-
nity houses. Students say the rule pushes these games out
into the country and into individual people’s homes. People
always use this argument but it does hold validity. In off-
carnpus housing the danger factor elevates tremendously.
These games, which aim to inebiiate quickly and prove no
less dangerous, take place in various locations; the drink-
ing is more spread out and harder to control. Additionally,
the IFC holds no jurisdiction over off—carnpus housing. Stu-
dents say the problem of getting wasted and getting wasted
fast still exists, just not in the fraternity.

Let’s look at the one o’clock rule. One of the concerns
students expressed ‘was that people would pre—party ear-
lier and drink as much as possible at the party before one
o’clock. The danger in this situation exists in the fact that
people will drink more, earlier. This problem does have a
natural solution, however. With everyone at the party at-
tempting to drink as much as possible, the fraternity will
probably run out of alcohol before one o’clock anyway.
This unfortunately leads to the dreaded option, the coun-
try. Students say that at one o’clock the night is just half
over. People will continue the party out in the country.
Students say the number of DUIs and possible accidents
will increase. And, it again spreads out the drinking.

What one can gather from students’ views of these
two rules is that drinking moves from the fraternity and
out into the country were it will be much more dangerous.
Students argue that we should keep the drinking in the
fraternity houses and increase the safety precautions.
Many pushed for increasing live drive and increasing the
number of sober officers at the party. From this point of
view students believe that it is better that this grand con-
sumption of alcohol take place in the fraternity house,
rather than spread out in the country.

We can now consider the point we mentioned earlier;
some students will drink large quantities of alcohol re-
gardless of what regulations are in place. For what reason
do we as students want to consume alcohol and seems to
be at any cost. Students say so themselves: the number of
DUIs and other possible accidents will increase as a result
of these rules. Listen! We are saying to ourselves that we
will risk a DUI or a possible accident so that we can play

TALKback:

 

m 00’ ng all .
my hot girlfriend.”
-—— Casey Nixon ’01

  

 eh  sn g ut of the
dorms and it being quiet.”
— Suzarme Toussaint ’02

Beirut or continue a party after one o’clock. If this exists
as truly the case, then students prove correct; these rule
only superficially address the real problems.

The IFC strongly encourages that people comply with
the rules because we will enforce them. If these rules rob
you of your liberties, do not try to circumvent them; this
perpetuates the problem. Let us repeat! Circumvention

perpetuates the problem. As we close this letter, the IFC.

wants the student body to realize a couple of things. Be
aware that the University fails to be our arch nemesis. To
clarify some of the possible confusion this letter might
have caused; yes, the University put some of these rules
in place, but the IFC drew up most of them. On the ﬂip
side, realize that the IFC fails to exist simply as a tool of
the administration; it is a tool for the students as well. Use
us! We welcome students outside of the IFC; the meet-
ings are at 6:30 Monday nights in the University center.
We encourage you to come and express your views. Fi-
nally, the IFC encourages you to realize that if we want
changes to these rules, we as a student body must help
the University realize that we are truly capable of govem—
ing ourselves. The IFC believes we can do this in two
ways. First, adhere to the alcohol initiatives; there are
other initiatives that are much worse, and these people
posses the capability of going over our heads. Trust us!
Second, follow the lFC’s ﬁve—tier system of governance.

1. Self-discipline. Ifyou discipline yourself, others won’t
have to.

2. The Buddy System. When you go out, go with a
group that will look out for each of its members. It wouldn’t
hurt to ensure that one of those people were sober.

3. Your fraternity or organization. If an individual mem-
ber gets out of hand, it is up to the organization to take
care of the problem.

4. The IFC. If we want student governance to work,
this should ideally be the ﬁnal stop.

5. The Administration. It should only come in when all
else fails. We should not “inconvenience” them with our not
being able to control our own affairs. Well, we have “incon-
venienced” them and now we have something to prove.

The IFC welcomes student response to this letter.

The members of the IFC board,
Greg Michaels, Jr. Justice
Chris Pickens, Jr. Justice

Tarik Bateh, Secretary

Hal Shaw, Treasurer

Todd Gosselink, Sr. Justice
Brent Keene, Vice President
Quincy Springs, President

 

“Seing my date in her dress
— Seon Kum ’01

By Christine etzger

  What will be the best thing about FD? I

 

“Good food.”
— Allison Shank ’03

 

 

PAGE 4

O

@112 {Ring-tum lﬂlit

PINION

 

MARCH 19, 2001

 

Women’s Studies is mother of all evils

Washington and Lee is noted for
its uniqueness and ability to attractl
students without subscribing to edu-
cational trends or fads. As noted i
the Trident, W&L is a meat and po-
tatoes schoolthat puts faith in tradi
tion and believes that the best wayi
to educate students is to use the
methods employed here for hun--
dreds of years.

For this very reason, W&L was
noted in the Sept. 1999 issue of
Men ’s Health for being one of the 10
most male-friendly campuses in the

nation, specifically cited for not hav- '

ing created a vague and restrictive
sexual harassment policy. Unlike
other schools, W&L hasn’t com-
pletely fallen victim to political cor— '
rectness. In addition, the lack of a
Women’s Studies program puts
W&L on the list and attracted at least
one student, and probably many
more in our conservative student
body. So why has W&L added one?

Women’s Studies, by its very na-
ture, rejects conventional learning as
patriarchal and exclusionary. The
discipline was created because ev-
ery field of academics, from archae-
ology and political science to eco-
nomics and history, is a construct of
a male-dominated society and only
by creating a Women’s Studies pro-
gram through which all these issues
can be reexamined from a female per-
spective can women
students and scholars
escape this domina-
tion.

Not only is it abso-
lutely ludicrous to subscribe to some
post—modern feminist belief in male
conspiracy to oppress women, but
the idea that higher education is use-
less to one—half of the population un-
dermines society. This is not all that
surprising, however, because the En-
cyclopedia of Women’s Studies, a
conventional reference book written
from a “female perspective,” states
that some feminists think “that the

Rigtofdebjsle

B:ettKirvm '04

abolition of marriage and the family
is the only solution to women’s sub-
ordination.” It also notes that femi-
nists decry “compulsory heterosexu-
ality” and “the control of Women’s
productive and reproductive labor by
men.”

Do we reallygwant such a program
to become part of our fine institution?
Probably not.

In Who Stole
F e m i n i s m .7 ,
Christina Hoff
Sommers details
the damage that modern feminists
have done to the image of feminism
and how they use Women’s Studies
programs as poorly disguised fronts
for liberal political indoctrination.
She’s right. According to the Na-
tional Women’s Studies Association,
“Women’s Studies owes its existence
to the movement for the liberation of
women; the feminist movement exists
because women are oppressed.” In a

program created for this reason, can
one expect to receive balanced, rea-
sonable scholarship and instruction?
With such a goal in mind, the feminist
classroom will be training future femi-
nist activists at the exclusion of eq-
uity feminism, which only wants the
same rights for women that men en-
joy.

To even further discredit them-
selves, many feminist activists believe
they are at the forefront of an academic
revolution similar to Copernicus or
Darwin. As Sommers notes, feminist
scholars have compared w0men’s
scholarship to “the storming of the
Bastille” and the Renaissance. To
compare academia minus Women’s
Studies to the Dark Ages strikes me
as little bit extreme.

Sommers also describes the first
selection in Women: A Feminist Per-
spective, the best-selling Women’s
studies textbook, “Sexual Terrorism.”
The author, Carole Sheffield, recounts

a late-night incident at a Laundromat
in which she was, inexplicably, pos-
sessed by an incredible fear of being
assaulted and raped. She was victim-
ized by the patriarchal culture that
oppresses women and supposedly
condones rape. To give female stu-
dents at W&L such a perception is
not only academically dishonest but
destructive. One can only wonder
what feminist scholars think of the
two white male military generals for
whom our school is named.

Does W&L, as an institution noted
for its respect for tradition and refusal
to follow fads, want to invite this gar-
bage from the academic looney bin
into its midst? Does W&L want to
give radical feminists a place in the
school to indoctrinate young, impres-
sionable females? Does W&L want to
support such unscholarly, irrespon-
sible claptrap? The answer from stu-
dents, alumni, and faculty should be
a resounding no.

Quanta .. on em... unis: duignad to run.» 1... ruuuds Ind

,.
I will! P
”’ pi?’-4 mum
9:

154 An extensive ubolaviv collection on connmr 0-2
soar mdleuna mum. xywnnk-nu Mm mate

//,‘;7 to ..-..u. A use. 117190 of tools mchdifw A vow av’-4! tw-

nu;

-4 .

)I'R

nmhmg (nun. hiqhltqhtlt markup uad m-min M’

I . ; . ’
/%'

rkrecuun ’

r‘ Jvumllltleln
F Enevdoaeah

P’ Al

I" Mn»-low

r‘ Alndhlehluiun
r Eunalnh

|'' Imam

I" may

Mootuslruv-as Wwoaow

/ / 1Qw.
yptumnzuuqluwwunnm/caucus

.-swan

“In a duel, there is only
one instant winner,
at questiapromo.com
there are thousands?’



For a chance to instantly win a

De|l® Laptop, Handspring Visors?‘

messenger bags and more, go
to questiapromo.com!

if Questia“ is the new online
service designed to help
students write better papers,
faster and easier.

questﬂa

Better Papers. Faster.“

Y

 

 

 

YMARCH 19, 2001

W&Uii'%%

 

PAGE 5

Fancy Dress com

‘FD Ball has taken students from French
‘masque’ to New Orleans French Quarter

, By Amy Blevins and
~' Katie Howell

STAFF WRITERS

As the 94th annual Fancy Dress Ball
quickly approaches, the Warner Center and
Ii. Doremus gynmasium are being transformed
into New Orleans for “Laissez les Bons Temps
Roulez” just as the two gyms have trans-
formed in the past for such themes as “King
Y Arthur’s Round Table,” “Arabian Nights,”

' and “Land of Oz.”

History professor J. Holt Merchant (’61)
and politics professor Lewis John (’5 8) both

. , said that more recent Balls greatly differ from

‘those they attended as students.

“Our Balls were more colorful in terms of
costumes,” John said.

For the first six decades of the Ball’s exist-
ence, students, their dates, and faculty
dressed in rented costumes according to the
theme of the Ball. By 1977, however, the dress
had turned to its present form: tuxedos for
the men and ball gowns for the women.

Q The traditional date of the Ball also
changed with the addition of spring term.
While this year’s dance will be on March 23,
John said that past Balls usually took place
in January during the break between terms
when the school was on a semester system.

“As a student, Fancy Dress was a full
social weekend and a nice change from the
academic routine,” John said. “Now, it’s just

4‘ a big one-night occasion.”

In addition to holding the ball in January
and locating costumes, students also had to
locate dates — usually from home or neigh-
boring schools —— before the school became

V coeducational. In the past, the students had
classes on Saturdays as well as during the
week, which made finding dates for Satur-
day night functions and getting them to cam-

3 pus on time was much more difﬁcult than it is

i now.

“You had to ﬁnd a fraternity brother, who
had a car, going in the right direction to get
the dates back for the functions,” Merchant

’ said.

Though preparations for the dance have
always taken months, the selection of the
person in charge has changed throughout
the years. While the chair of the Fancy Dress
Steering Committee is now selected by the
Executive Committee, John remembered
electing presidents of each of the formal
events the school held each year, including
‘I Fancy Dress. The president and his ﬁve vice

presidents would then plan and organize the
event, including the selection of bands.

The bands have always been a focal point
of Fancy Dress and attendees have been
privleged to hear performances by Louis
Armstrong, Dizzie Gillespie, Duke Ellington
and Dave Matthews Band.

“I think we appreciated [the performers]
at the time and knew that we were seeing
heroes and innovators of American music,”
Merchant said.

Having such renowned bands and elabo-
rate festivities eamed Fancy Dress Ball the
title of “Social Event of the South” by The
New York Times in 1928. The school contin-
ued this tradition throughout the years, cre-
ating such a spectacle that networks such as
CBS and NBC chose to broadcast the event
live nationwide.

The level of excitement and suspense as-
sociated with Fancy Dress is somewhat sur-
prising, considering the first Ball —— “Le Bal
Masque” — was hosted by the school li-
brarian, Annie Jo White, with money left over
from a theater performance.

This year’s fancy dress, a product of al-
most 60 student committee members and
countless additional decorators, promises to
maintain the elegant tradition.

“I’m looking forward to Fancy Dress,”
freshman Kara Coen said. “It should be a
really great weekend.”

Like themes before, this year’s Fancy
Dress theme was decided by the Fancy Dress
Steering Committee, whose student members
vote on the theme after they contribute ideas.
Chairman Keenan Weston said that this
year’s theme was chosen because it is classy
and fun.

“Mardi Gras combined with classy his-
torical New Orleans is a great idea because it
has something that will hopefully appeal to
everyone,” said Weston.

Last year the committee began a new tra-
dition: a rafﬂe that offers students a chance
to win a trip to a destination connected with
the theme. Last year’s rafﬂe offered students
a chance to go to Las Vegas. This year stu-
dents have a chance to win a crawﬁsh boil or
go to New Orleans.

Despite the changing traditions, the
Fancy Dress balls of today still have the
charm and appeal of the balls of yesterday.

“I think students today really enjoy Fancy
Dress because it is a chance for the whole
school to have a social event together,” said
Weston. “And it gives us a chance to see
our professors and friends in [an] environ-
ment outside the classroom.”

- Additional information courtesy of Come
Cheer for Washington and Lee

bines traditions with today

upper right limo coL1rte.sy of Come ClweI'ﬁ)r l’V[I.S‘hlllgIOI1 and Lee, other photos courtesy of The (;1I)'x
LETTING THE GOOD TIMES ROLL. (Clockwise from upper left corner) Louis Armstrong charms the ’58 crowd;
Partygoers at the “Land of Oz” Fancy Dress in ’56; Three Washington and Lee students enjoy the company of
bellydancers hired to perform at the ’94 FD; The President of the ’57 Fancy Dress poses with his date.

yump on /£13‘, _y1'r/.s./

Qlhin -ZBenn1'§, Elm.

102 E ﬁaréhtngtun St.
463-5383
RENT OR BUY YOUR TUXEDO N OW FOR FANCY DRESS!

Jfaueyour mafe»-up, narfs, ant/[air Jone/or .7ancy 91°23: al

V e Cu//Izzy" 5Jye

117  9(e[son cs/.

     

‘7 463_,5“, . L wE ALSO SELL THE ACCESSORIES:
‘  ,/Q ts
***m.£e-.,, mar.-,. care 5, am.-../r,*** ,,m,,,e,t: Se
~ 0-!’ Gaff Teyy] or .7(aren /or an appoinlmen/. 1]\34§:TC13:fRA§Il:), 3 
Quys, ye/your [air cal earé/. AccEp1~ED Uxsfﬁrts
1 .
MAKE MARL ENE “'5 YOUR FASHION  _ Sm? ;~§§‘§f§§:“,3,,m
Celtic  ms 2»: E  
" HEADQUARTERS FOR FD \ 4*‘ / $0 igﬁﬂgtaﬂgvﬁgﬁgﬁ
C ' . {SSE}-s§3-$9-88
V OLQR Connection   M,_Mp,
GREAT EVENING STYLES ’ ‘ "

Wishes you a

‘(:3 A@ Happy St. Patrick’s Day!
.7,  W Looking fosrta ‘t’a:t_ef|t(:’l way to celebrate (3% 
 B I K I N I & L E G  N G  Check out our ladigsrjcewsefrtnaird selection of ..  ‘ .
® .9 men's Irish ties—or try our delicious Irish foods.
F O R S P Rl N G B R E A K Formal is quickly approaching!
5‘ If you want to wear something a bit more
distinctive this year, why not a tartan bow tie &
cummerbund, or a taran sash for ladies? 2

 

26.!‘ A game?

Order yours now! . ‘

/go  ‘$8/.4.4 %&'i-=5». . .

Just in! See our newline of elegant linen skirts & shawls
from Mary Flaherty Capes in Galway, Ireland.

Daily 10AM-5:30PM

CALL FOR APPOINTMENTS
G0 25 N4 6: - 6:103 st Q33 L°1*§":V2’§°i"7'5§“5‘t*’5°
YS OR H AIN T‘  "’ 1-817-CELTIC-2

50¢ %{&?/6

 aéaééede. .}%://06.)», f//?7«6/

www.ce|tIcconnex.com
www.irishmea|sbymall.com

GE T YOUR  aw/WK» /rz// m;wmz;r.,-.l./

 

 

PAGE 6

illibe Ring-tum 18131’

S PORTS

 

MARCH 19, 2001

Men’s lacrosse stoprankli (1 Marshall

Generals storm out in the
ﬁrst half, pull out a 15-4 rout
of the 15th-ranked Diplomats

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

“Score!” roared the crowd at Wilson Field on Sunday.

Washington and Lee fans weren’t yelling at any of
their attack players or midﬁelders. Instead, they were cheer-
ing on senior goaltender Wes Hays, who was carrying the
ball into the offensive zone midway through the third quar-
ter of the Generals’ 15-4 win over Franklin and Marshall.

Hays did not score like the crowd wanted, but the Gen-
erals were already up 11-3 by that time. It was just one
more thing that was going wrong for the Diplomats.

“I just wanted to draw a man and get the fastbreak,”
Hays said.

Franklin and Marshall started the scoring early in the
game, but the Generals answered back 44 seconds later
when senior Tom Burke scored off an assist from class-
mate Matt Dugan.

The Generals’ offense exploded with six minutes left in
the quarter, as senior Bernie Norton, Burke, junior An-
drew Barnett, and senior Pope Hackney all scored within
three minutes of each other.

The Diplomats called a timeout, trying to disrupt the
Generals’ momentum. After the timeout, sophomore Tom

    

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor

ONE-ON-ONE. Freshman Mike McNamara maneuvers around Franklin and Marshall’s Bryan
Kobel. McNamara scored a goal in the Generals’ 15-4 drubbing of the Diplomats on Sunday.

Melanson won yet another faceoff, and Barnett scored
off an assist from Dugan. After the first quarter, the Gener-
als were up 6- 1.

The Generals began the second quarter with an extra-
man opportunity, and converted within 20 seconds. Once

W&L men fa to Washington

 

. photo by Mary Guy/Phto Editor
IN SERVICE. Freshman Austin Kim rears back
against Mary Washington at home on Thursday.

By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

With a 7-2 record thus far, the Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team is having one of its best seasons in
recent history. Despite a weekend loss to Washington
College, the Generals captured two more victories last week
on their quest for the Division III crown.

The team began this week with a 5-2 victory over
Kenyon on Tuesday. During the matchup, junior two-seed
Andrew Roberts won a hard-fought battle against
Kenyon’s Keenan Hughes (6-1, 6-7, 7-6).

Two days later, the Generals defeated Mary Washington
5-2. In this match, freshmen Austin Kim and K.C. Schaeffer
garnered victories in both singles and doubles play.

According to head coach David Detwiler, “sophomore
Chase Bice and doubles specialist Zach Vuncannon” also
stood out as major contributors this week.

Although the week ended with a 5-2 loss to Washing-
ton College, the defeat held a lesson for the Generals.

“The team needs to keep up their conﬁdence,” Detwiler
said. “The team has a tough schedule.”

Ranked 25th in the country heading into the regular
season, W&L has already upset the 22nd and 15th-ranked
squads, Kenyon and Mary Washington, respectively.

By playing well against increasingly tough opponents,
as they have been, Detwiler believes that “the team has
been improving with every match.”

The Generals host Eastern Mennonite at 4:30 p.m. today.

Hayes, Ritter swim in national event

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

Senior Colin Hayes earned All-American Honorable Men-
tion with a 13th-place ﬁnish in the 200-yard butterﬂy, and
freshman Eric Ritter swam to a 17tl1-place finish in the 100-
yard backstroke over the weekend at the NCAA Division IH
Swimming and Diving Championships in Buffalo, N.Y.

“It was a little disappointing, because I didn’t get in
the top eight,” Hayes said of his performance at the event.
“I just wish I could have swum faster.”

In addition to his performance in the 100—yard butterﬂy,
Hayes earned 39th place in the 200-yard individual medley.

Hayes also swam a 1:53.90 in the 200-yard butterﬂy.

Ritter took his ﬁrst trip to the N CAAs, ﬁnishing 40th in
the 50-yard freestyle and 24th in the 200-yard backstroke,
in addition to his 17th place ﬁnish at 52.98 in the 100-yard
backstroke.

Ritter commented on the daunting task of representing
Washington and Lee as a freshman at a national tournament.

“It was a little intimidating this year,” Ritter said. “I’ll
be better prepared next year.”

The weekend ends the season for the men’s swimming
team, which ﬁnished second at the Grove City Invitational
recently. The W&L women’s team repeated as Old Domin-
ion Conference champions this year.

wA1'ERLoo HOUSES FOR RENT

10 student apartments
available June 1, 2001

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enjoy country living
at its finest.

Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive.
Please call Tim Wilhelm
at 540-463-6575,
or 540-463-2868.

again, with six minutes left in the quarter, the Generals
exploded on offense. Burke scored two goals and Barnett
scored another to put the Generals up 10-1 at the half.
Franklin and Marshall started the second half with two
goals by the ﬁve—rninute mark, but the Generals quickly

answered as Barnett scored off a high shot on the crease.
With less than a second left in the third quarter, Matt

Dugan ﬁred a low shot past the Diplomats’ goaltender, ‘

putting the score at 12-3.

Junior John Moore scored a goal ﬁve minutes into the
ﬁnal quarter. Three minutes later, the Diplomats scored
their fourth and ﬁnal goal, only to be answered right back
by freshman Mike McNamara.

The Generals weren’t done yet, as Burke rubbed the
Diplomats’ nose in the W&L lead when he fired a shot
into the net as he was being hit by a defender.

“It was pure luck,” Burke said of the late goal. “I knew
I was going to get hit, and I ﬁgured, ﬂing it at the goal,
who knows what will happen.”

W&L head coach Jim Stagnitta was pleased with the
way his team played against the 15th—ranked Diplomats.

“Things are starting to come together,” Stagnitta said.
“The biggest part was the balance between the offense
and defense.”

The Generals came into Sunday’s game after an over-
whelming victory at Dickinson. W&L rocketed to a 10-0
lead at the half, going on to win 14-3. Hackney and Burke
each had three goals and an assist.

The Generals outshot the Red Devils 59-11, and Wes
Hays was perfect, making four saves and allowing no
goals. He was relieved by two reserve goalies, freshman
Ansel Sanders and senior Bo Vaughan.

The Generals are now 5-0, and will travel to Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday for their ﬁrst Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference match of 2001.

AN RMY OF ONE”

 

IF YOU THINK A NIGHT
IN A FDXHDLE IS TOUGH,
TRY A LIFETIME IN A CUBICLE.

The U.S. Army offers 212 different career opportunities
in fields ranging from medicine, construction and law
enforcement to accounting, engineering and intelligence.

You’ll be trained. Then you’ll use those skills from the
‘first day on the job. It’s a great way to start moving in
the direction you want to go.

SM

Find One of 212 Ways to_ Be A Soldier

or call 1-800—USA—ARMY.

Contact your local recruiter.
And we’ll help you find what's best for you.

 
 
  
     
         
 

at GOARMYIIOM

 

.( .

1

 

05112 Ring-tum 3BI)t'

 SPORTS

«W&L Invitational successful for hosts

PAGE 7

Parrillo qualiﬁes for NCAA
1 competition in the Generals’

only home outdoor event
* By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

 

The Washington and Lee track teams participated in
their only home outdoor meet of 2001 on Saturday, the
annual W&L Invitational at Wilson
Field.

The women’s team turned in a
fourth place finish out of the 12
competing teams, and the men
placed eighth in a field of 13
schools. Allegheny won the
women’s event, while John
Carroll was victorious in the
men’s pool.

Senior Jessica Parrillo qualiﬁed for
NCAA competition with a time of
38:07.03 in the 10,000-meter run, which she won. Parrillo

 

)‘ Parrillo

 

 

photo by Emily Barnes/Executive Editor

HANDOFF. Seniors Amy Calce and Nicola Carpenter
exchange the baton in the 4x400 relay.

will travel to Decatur, Ill. for the national meet from May
24-26.

“I couldn’t be happier about the start of this out-
door season and qualifying for nationals in this event,
especially during our only outdoor home meet,”
Parrillo said. “It was definitely one of the strongest

feelings of accomplishment I’ll be able to take from
my career here at W&L.” .

Junior Sarah Schmidt also recorded a first-place
finish with a distance of 115’09.00” in the javelin
throw. Sophomore Burke Duncan contributed a
second-place showing in the 3,000-meter event,
senior Amy Calce finished second in the long
jump, and junior Megan Babst placed second in
the high jump.

“I think we opened our outdoor season on the
best possible note that we could have hoped for
with some quality performances across all the
events,” Parrillo said. “We’re coming off a rough
indoor season, and hopefully Saturday’s perfor-
mances are a clear indication of the positive direc-
tion in which we’re headed.”

Leading the way for the men’s team was senior Marc
Watson, who placed second in the 100-meter dash and
third in the 200-meter event. Sophomore Chris Sullivan
turned in third-place ﬁnishes in the 200 meters and the
longjump.

The Generals will compete in the Roanoke Invitational
on Saturday.

, ‘ 0 0
1 Women sweep away week’s competition

By Sarah Grigg

SPORTS WRITER

After three matches last week, the
Washington and Lee women’s ten-
nis team remains unchallenged.

The Generals have maintained
their perfect record with undefeated
doubles play and only one loss in
singles competition.

On Tuesday, the team played
Kenyon College, ﬁnishing with an 8-
1 win. Five of the top six players won

their matches in the singles division:

junior Melissa Hatley, sophomore

Erika Proko, sophomore Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth, sophomore Alyson
Brice, and freshman Liz Law. Sopho-
more Laura Bruno lost to Kenyon’s
Laelly Sherman 6-2, 6-3 in singles,
W&L’s only loss of the three matches.

In the match against Bloomsburg
on Thursday, however, Bruno came
back to defeat Katie Kochera 6-0, 6-0,
achieving one of the team’s two
singles shutouts for the week. The
Generals won the match undefeated
in singles and doubles, 9-O.

On Saturday, a match against
Franklin and Marshall provided the

ﬁnal victory of the week for W&L,
which won 9-0 once again. Proko gar-
nered the team’s second singles shut-
out against Pam Hillock, winning 6-0,
6-0. The doubles team of Bruno and
junior Sallie Gray Strang achieved
another effortless win, defeating the
Diplomats’ Hillock and Morey 8-0.

Currently, the Generals stand 7-0
overall, 3-0 in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference. W&L next plays in
a pair of ODAC matches at 4:30 p.m.
today, at home against Eastern Men-
nonite and on the road against
Bridgewater.

Enjoy elegant dining in a restored
1820 Classical Revival townhouse
in historic downtown

Lexington

Dine on our Veranda
" 
., W’ILLSON-
WALKE

   
  

Restaurant

Creative American Cuisine
www.willsonwalker.com

Featured in Food Q Wine

”Best Restaurants in Virginia” and
_QQurmgt_”I-‘ine Dining in the Virginias”

1 Tuesday - Saturday
Lunch - 11:30 - 2:30
Dinner - 5:30 - 9:00

' Reservations Requested
to Casual Dress to

Catering On-Oﬁ‘ Premise

Y Banquet Rooms up to 200 people
&m'irmat6:(Dp.in. a'ii8:I)p.m.

ﬁrErq/11$
A, V 30 North Main Street

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
RING ’EM UP, SIT ’EM DOWN. Freshman Mike Wert hurls a pitch against Westminster in the
,1 Generals’ 7-2 win on Wednesday. Wert went on to shut out West Virginia Tech on Sunday.

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee baseball team pushed its record
to 14-3 with ﬁve wins in six games last week, including three
wins in back-to-back doubleheaders over the weekend.

The Generals stepped out of Old Dominion Athletic
Conference play with a 7-4 road win over Mary Washing-
ton on Tuesday. Sophomore first baseman Brian Gladysz
and sophomore left ﬁelder Kyle Droppers smacked RBI

 

No CONTEST.
Junior Sallie
Gray Strang
serves
against
Bloomsburg
in the
Generals’ 9-0
non-
conference
home win on
Thursday.

photo by Mary Guyl
Photo Editor

singles in the first inning to give W&L an early lead.

After the Eagles took a 4-2 lead in the third inning, the
Generals manufactured ﬁve runs in the ﬁfth inning to se-
cure the victory. Freshman Peter Dean picked up the win
on the mound for W&L, while junior third baseman Matt
Kozora turned in a 3-for-5 performance at the plate.

Freshman right ﬁelder Bryan Mulhem’s three-run, fifth-
inning home run was the difference in W&L’s 7-2 win over
Westminster at Cap’n Dick Smith Field on Wednesday.
Sophomore second baseman Todd Johnson added a two-
run jack as freshman Mike Wert notched the victory.

The Generals returned to ODAC competition by splitting a
doubleheader with Harnpden-Sydney at home on Saturday. The
Tigers pulled out a 6-5 victory in 10 innings inthe ﬁrst game, but
W&L rebounded strongly with a 7-0 win in game two.

Hampden-Sydney’s Michael Duncan scored from ﬁrst
base in the 10th inning on an errant throw by senior pitcher
David Si gler. Sigler threw all 10 innings for the Generals,
and Kozora batted 2-for-4 with three batted in.

Freshman righthander Dan Kagey won his fourth game
of the season in the nightcap, hunting the Tigers to two
hits over seven innings of work. Droppers led the Gener-
als with a 3-for-4 performance, knocking in a pair of runs.

W&L had little trouble with non-conference opponent
West Virginia Tech on Sunday, pulling out 14-5 and 3-0
wins in the doubleheader.

The Generals scored 11 runs in the first three innings of
game one, cruising to the easy win. Sophomore shortstop
Michael Hanson went 4-for-5 with four runs and two RBI.

Wert took over in the second game, tossing a two-hit
shutout for the win. Johnson and freshman catcher An-
drew Riffee scored in the third inning to give Wert more
than enough offense.

W&L hosts ODAC foe Bridgewater at 3 pm. on Wednesday.

WWW. gettoyota. C0111

® TOYOTA
CALL IT START UP MONEY.

TOYOTA’S ACOLLEGE GRADUATE
FINANCE PLAN INCLUDES $500
TO GET YOU GOING!

Tl1crc‘s sure to be a Toyota that‘s just right for yoi1.....

And now there’s a Toyota College Graduate Finance Program
that’s just right, too. Here are some of the advantages:
0 No Down Payment

0 No Payment for 90 days

0 Finance up to 72 months
0 Get $500 Cash Back From Toyota...

in addition to any othergcurrent Toyota customer incentives!

So if you’re within 4 months of graduation —
or if you graduated within the past 2 years -
Ask your Toyota dealer for all the details.

Tacoma

Highlander

 
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
  

Toyota College Graduate Finance Program available to qualiﬁed appli-
cants thru Toyota Financial Services. Not all applicants will qualify. Some
restrictions and limitations apply. Cash back offer subject to geographic

_ 463-3020 

   

limitations and offer expires 6/30/01. See dealer for details.

 

 

 

Sometimes you
gotta go down
to get up

PAGE 8

LASTWORD

Qllbe ﬁtting-tum 1Bl)i

MARCH 19, 2001’

Countdown to Fancy Dress 2001

HIS

2 Weeks: Identify the best “investment.”

1 Week: Dial the ﬁnal choice to tell her who her
date’s gonna be.

40 Minutes: Shower.

20 Minutes: Put on tux. Fill up ﬂask with SoCo.
Grab sixer of jimmy-hats.

f/1g;o   hours Before ...

EUERS

12 Weeks: Start looking for dresses.
8 Weeks: Begin thinking about possible dates.
6 Weeks: Initiate insanely difﬁcult work-out regiment

to fit into that dress that was purchased a size too
small.

3 Weeks: Commence the ﬂirting and hint dropping
assault in full force.

2 Weeks: Preparations move into high gear with

,-~ dress—accessorizing such as earrings, necklace,

~  shoes, and hairstyles. The dateless: Move into “Do-
’ or-Die” mode, lowering all standards.

1 Week: The dateless: Declare total war on the male
gender, enlisting any and all resources available to
ensure any unattached young man will take them.

12 Hours: Shower, shave, wax, pluck, and engage
in the other painful processes.

9 Hours: Manicure, pedicure, and facial.
5 Hours: Hair appointment.

2 Hours: Begin beautiﬁcation/falsiﬁcation process

  
 
  
   
 
 
     
    
  
  

 
 
  
  
 

18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464-4483

IT’S T“-HAT TIME or YEAR AGAIN!
IT’S MARCH MADNESS!
THE are DAA/Cf ./

AND You CAN SEE IT _A_L_L__ AT 13. J. ‘s

we WILL HAVE THE ENTIRE NCAA
TOURNAMENT oN ourz SCREENS!

  a  

with the application of no less than $100 worth of
make-up.

1 Hour: Put on dress. Call friends to make final
costume critiques and build up unrealistic expecta-
tions.

*** The rest of Fancy Dress preparation is spent
wor in , ssin , lamentin , Ian uishin , and

7)’ 8 8 8 8 8
whining.

CAMP COUNSELORS

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

   
  
 

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

 
  

S‘?
B
Archery, Baseball, Basketbal|;,C|imbing Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,

Hiking, lnline-Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
.Vo||eyba|l, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

     
 
 

  
 
 
   
 

 
 
 

    
   
 

Camp Romaca
for Girls:

Camp Greylock
for Boys:

  

888-2-romaca

   

1-800-842-5214

  
 
 

      

www.campromaca.corn ‘’‘’‘”‘’‘’~°am '9 '°°k-Com

   
 

    

What are you doing this summer?

LEXINGTON

COFFEE

.(/l’lI(l.\'/l.I‘I(/ ()'unI/uII'I(/

ENJOY CHESS - CHECKERS ' BACKGAMMON 0 & MORE!
ESPRESSO - CAPPUCCINO ' FRESH ROASTED COFFES 0 FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET 0 LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

1

f

it

1-

l

 

          
  

mire 5. La urvavaﬁsarv
 "aw. VA gum

Re  z s 2001

1 C112 itiug-tum tam

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNrvERsITY’s WEEKLY NEWSPAPER

— .—- _ ‘t:‘V.‘1.'a§."-Si;

  
  

K

\,
_ ,.UI\xr
«Ur

“VOLUME 103, No. 24

tW&L parents
to assemble

By Mike Agnello

ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

MONDAY, MARCH 26, 2001

 

3 The Washington and Lee Parents’ Council will meet this
weekend to review the University’s progress in academics,
athletics and construction.

The Parents’ Council is a forum for administrative ideas, and
xfmeets twice annually. Members are chosen for their leadership,
enthusiasm, and interest in getting more involved in campus .
life. This year, the council will focus on the proposed University
Commons and the initiatives of the Alcohol Task Force.
I The parents will participate in a roundtable discussion

‘jwitli University President John Elrod, who will report on the
Alcohol Task Force’s progress.

, “We hope to have a (completed) set of regulations by the
end of the academic year,” Elrod said.

-

1-; * Dean of Residence Life Courtney Penn will speak on hous-
‘ ing and diversity issues.
Barbara Harding, mother of sophomore Andy Harding,
is one of seven vice—chairs on the council. Harding said
she enjoys working on the council because she hears about

. new University developments firsthand.

.3 “We get to hear what’s going on behind the scenes at
W&L, like the progress being made with the new Univer-
sity Commons,” Harding said.

‘V Parents’ Council Chair Michel Marcoux said he will tell

; Elrod and the other parents he is extremely pleased with

3 the University Commons.

. “I think that will make such a difference that in several
years we will classify graduates as pre- or post-commons,”
‘(Marcoux said.
Elrod said Marcoux and the council help him do his job
better.
“They’re very supportive and enthusiastic about what
. the University is trying to accomplish, and they offer won-
derful observations and advice,” Elrod said.
Elrod added he appreciates all that W&L parents do for
the University.
“[The parents] are a valuable resource. . .I’m extremely

’ ‘ if grateful for all they do,” he said.

I Marcoux said he and the council members work hard for

the University because of their love for the University.

“I think W&L is a national treasure,” he said. w

* “Martial arts class recruits students, faculty

“It gives us the opportunity to prepare for situa-
tions that will enable us to have more control in dan-

 

photo b Emily Barnes/Executive Editor
DANCING IN THE DARK. Senior Katie Baldwin and date Andy Bowie, of Duke University,
twirl on the Doremus dance ﬂoor. See more FD photos on pages 4 and 5.

Olson originated Fight Night while training in
Florida. Noticing the popularity of similar programs in

By Mike George

‘ STAFF WRITER
, A Washington and Lee student is ﬁghting for stu-
dent interest in his martial arts program.
Junior Eric Olson, sensei of Lexington’s Shotokan
‘I Martial Arts Center on Nelson Street, started a program
designed to teach students basic ﬁghting techniques.
The program, which he calls “Fight Night,” promotes
basic awareness of martial arts through practical, hands-
on application.

“My, purpose is to try to get people into the martial
arts,” Olsen said. .

Olson said many students have shown interest, but
few have shown up at the meetings. The club meets
from 5-6 p.m. on Wednesdays at the center.

“People say they want to come, but they don’t
show up,” he said.

4

the area, he decided it would be a good idea to start
one in Lexington.

“I thought it would be an awesome thing for the
col1ege.'[It would be] something to get people into
martial arts,” he said.

The club, which met for the first time March 18, has
gained popularity in the Lexington connriunity. W&L
students and faculty also participate in the club. Sopho-
more Timothy Marx sees Fight Night as an outlet for
stress and hopes the program will give students a way
to use their energy constructively. Although he has
worked hard, Marx said he has a long way to go.

gerous situations,” Winstead said. Winstead, who has
been training with Olson since February, hopes that
the program will teach him how to ﬁght defensively.
“I have a habit of thinking offensively and don’t
always consider the person I’m ﬁghting,” Winstead said.
English Professor Marc Conner has studied un-
der Olson since the dojo opened in September 1999.
Conner, who studies karate and jujitsu, said the pro-
gram brings a real-life approach to martial arts train-
ing. He believes studying the martial arts integrates
mind and body.
“It teaches discipline,” Conner said.

“I’ve learned that I have a lot to leam about the

martial arts," Marx said.

Sophomore Garreth Winstead is also excited about

the program.

JOIN THE DARK SIDE. Thaxton Mauzy receives advice from Robert Powers, his
“demon,” in The Author’s Voice, a one-act play directed by Alix Warren.

photo courtesy Lenfest

Olson emphasized that his teaching is defensive.

‘The last thing I want to do is let people think that this
is a fight club with full contact sparring,” he said. “I don’t
want people coming in to learn how to beat people up.”

Student-directed plays hit stage

By Latrina Stokes
W _ __p A STAFF WRITER

Originality takes center stage when mem-
bers of the advanced directing class present
one-act plays in the Lenfest Center’s
Johnson Theater.

All theater performance majors are re-
quired to direct at least once in addition
to their work onstage.

“It’s a challenge, but it’s good because
you see how difﬁcult it is to get the whole
production together,” junior Alix Warren said.

Warren acted in several plays over the
last three years, most recently in The El-
ephant Man. Warren said directing has im-
proved her abilities as an actor.

“It makes you a better actor, because
you can appreciate how hard directing
is," Warren said.

Warren will direct Richard Greenberg’s
The Authors Voice. Warren said the play
will be funny and surprising.

“It is a dark fairy tale world that crosses

the line of reality,” Warren said.

Both cast members and directors en-
joy the freedom to experiment with these
short plays.

“They are really popular not only for the
students involved but for everyone else

, they are entertaining,” cast member Renee

Harper, a senior, said.

Harper will act in F.M. , written by
Romulus Linney and directed by senior
Cassie Ritter.

“The One Acts are our time to try some-
thing new and possibly dangerous,”
Ritter said. “Hopefully, my show will make
people react.”

Senior Kathie Soroka acts in The Original
Last Wish Baby, written by William Seebring
and directed by senior Blair Mitchell.

“It comments on how Americans are so
fooled by the media and so eager to jump
on sensational stories,” Soroka said.

Senior Brooke deRosa wrote the play she
will direct, C n'me PaySAfterAll. DeRosa said
she wanted to direct an old-fashioned mys-

tery play. When she could not ﬁnd one to
her liking, she wrote one herself.

“I was imspired by watching the many
murder mystery movies of the 1940s like
Sherlock Hohnes and Phillip Marlowe,” she
said. “I thought it would be fun to attempt
a play of my own device.”

Junior Micah Tolman said that tradi-
tional theater does not always engage
the audience enough to be effective, so
he chose to direct Eugene Ionesco’s
The Bald Soprano, an alternative com-
edy.

“Its primary focus is the absurdity, irony,
and futility of the human experience,”
Tolman said. “The randomness is hysteri-
cally funny but it is also unsettling funny
and terrifying.”

Crime Pays After All and The Bald So-
prano will play March 30 and April 4 at 8
p.m. and March 31 at 2 pm. The Author’s
Voice, EM., and The Original Last Wish
Baby will be shown March 31 and April 5
at 8 p.m. and April 2 at 9 p.m.

N
v( - ‘ - .~ .
~ ~ v « . Let me te something: Goo times rolled: W ,h the birdies: All things mu ‘ end:
   "1-wants W   1oses to W&L women’s la 3 osse team
March 26 2001 iece ~ Ha  317.318 has five-game Winning streak
A, ’ "Washington

  
  
 

 
   

 
 

 

  

 

 

PAGE 2

  Ellie iﬁtng-tum iﬂlrt

MARCH 26, 2001

    

national recognition.

photo by Mary Guy/Photo Editor
SERVICE WITH A SMILE. Junior Stacy

'McLoughlin’s record of service won her

a Student recognized for service

Stacy McLoughlin, a junior from West Chester,
Pa., received the Seeds of Service Award from
the Campus Outreach Opportunity League
(COOL) at its 17th annual conference, “The Path
of Service Leads from Charity to Justice,” held in
Boston.

McLough1in was recognized for creating last-
ing change through innovation and tenacity. The
award is given to a student who has “demon-
strated outstanding leadership, creativity and
innovation.”

McLoughlin founded the N abors Service
League, a community outreach program at W&L
that matches students with many volunteer or-
ganizations in Rockbridge County. She is also
program coordinator for Project Outreach, a dorm
counselor, philanthropy chair for Kappa Delta
sorority and a member of P.R.I.D.E. and the Shep-
herd Poverty Program Review Committee.

She received the Omicron Delta Kappa Sopho-
more Leadership Award and was inducted into
the society earlier this year.

. story courtesy W&L website

The ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂlti congratulates its staff on
winning the following Virginia Press
Association college newspaper awards:

First place, News writing
“Pi Beta Phi house evacuated”

First place, Sports photography
Second place, Sports photography

Third place, Sports photography

Alison Trinidad

Colin Mitchell
Mary Guy

Lisa Lin

 

Until the practices of the “typical college student” change, these are
the alternatives to deaths, DUIs, MIPS, etc. Our intention is” not to
enable risky behavior but to prevent irresponsible decisions.

 

W&L awarded Congressional grant for

poverty program

Washington and Lee University has received a $500,000
direct appropriation from Congress to expand the Shepherd
Poverty Prograrn’s unique focus in merging students’ academic
study of poverty with intensive field service projects.

The grant, part of an appropriation act recently passed by
Congress, was secured by Sen. John W. Warner ’49 and former
Sen. Charles Robb. David Bradley, executive director of the
National Community Action Foundation, was instrumental in
the University’s grant proposal.

_ Students in the Shepherd Program study the complex ori-

Provided by individual Greek organizations during events.

 

When: Friday,>,and Saturday (10pm'to at least 3am)

0 Washington and Lee vans drive a designated route
within Lexington City limits——Davidson Park, Red
Square, Campus, East Lex and Windfall area, and
Hobbes/Raisin region.

 

When: Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday (10pm to 2am)
Contact: via cell phone numbersl—-460-3054 and 460-3055

0 Look for individual cars with Live Drive signs on sides of car
0 Will drive reasonable distances to country homes

sidering how their careers will impact the poor. The program’s

interdisciplinary studies are integrated with students’ hands- _

on work in health clinics, Legal Aid offices and homeless shel-
ters in Richmond, Roanoke and Washington. W&L students
have assisted hundreds of people since the program began
four years ago.

“I am proud that Washington and Lee is playing a lead role
in the effort to reach out to those most in need,” said Warner,

gins, obstacles and generational trends of poverty while con— .

‘V

   

chairman of the Amred Services Committee and a member of j

the Senate’s education panel. “The point is to give the less

fortunate the attention, training and tools necessary to climb A

up and out of poverty."

With funds from the grant, the Shepherd Program is expand— 
ing service projects in Latin America, Kentucky and West Vir— ,

ginia, and cities including New Orleans, Atlanta and New York.
About 24 W&L undergraduates and law students, in alliance

with students at Berea, Morehouse and Spelman colleges, will 

be working in impoverished communities in those areas this .

summer. ‘we ':~ 

;    g; -  i story courtesy W&L website ,

Office of Health Promotion {and Substance AbuselPreve‘ntion

 

 

 

MARCH 26, 2001

O

@112 Itiing-tum lﬂhi

PINION

PAGE 3

There comes a time in every writer’s life
when losing favor with the consensus ne-
cessitates itself. Perhaps my time has come.
I think I'm going to be quasi-serious this
week, in choosing to abandon. vain attempts
at humor for the greater cause of extolling
self-suﬂiciency.

I was reading Cosmo, and though I know
I shouldn’t take anything seriously that
promises better orgasms through yoga ex-
ercises, there’s a

ducing Mr. Wonderful when you’re sober?
So many people exploit the glories of al-
cohol, so much that it has become like a po-
etically twisted analogy: Getting drunk is like
writing poetry — you can’t be held account-
able for any resulting BS. “Oh, my God. I said
that? I totally don’t remember.” Liar. Instead
of the administration trying to abolish alco-
hol, they should be working to eradicate
Dnmk Posers. Drink all you want, just so long
as you ’re sincerely

feature in it every
month withtheserni-
nor suggestions to-

No1thetner’s Exposure d““‘k~ And Y°“”° “‘*
Kris Pollina ’03

in g it for yourself. Ralph
Waldo Emerson once

ward better living.

The top of the page reads, “Why don’t you. .

 Okay, granted, some ideas have been “wake
I him with nooky,” and the like, but I digress.
I’m offering my own “Why don’t you. . 
week. And it’s to rely on yourself.

It is inordinately depressing to hear
the phrase “I want to go talk to him, but
I’m not drunk enough yet,” pass from
someone’s lips. So many girls complain
about the guys here, but how is anyone
supposed to get an accurate depiction

y of you if you only want to present yourself

as a more capricious and drunk version? I
know, I am making a sweeping generaliza-
tion. Not everyone entertains that degree
of insecurity. I’m not claiming to be a poster
girl for sobriety, but why don’t you try se-

said, “It is easy in the
world to live after the world’s opinion; it is
easy in solitude to live after our own; but the
great man is he who in the midst of the crowd
keeps with perfect sweetness the indepen-
dence of solitude.” W&L doesn’t exactly em-
brace iconoclasm. Don’t read this as an en-
couragement to rupture the code here and
go out of your way to be a superfreak. Just
whatever you do, do it on your own terms.
One of my greatest pet peeves is de-
pendence. I know it’s fun to go out
scouring fraternity houses for your crush
—- God knows I’ve been there —— but upon
finding him grinding some other chick, it’s
not the end of the world. Don’t base your
contentment on someone else. I apologize
for throwing in another literary allusion,

E EDITOR

:Drink for the right reasons, please

 

    

'gA'l!\Oli3'l"03o...

m.+-.1 1 co.n-\'n\K'l°lj'_'§-

    
 

 only 0.

      

By Christine Metzger

but it’s like J .D. Salinger wrote in Franny
and Zooey, “do it for the fat lady,” mean-
ing do it for yourself. “Nothing can bring
you peace but yourself.” (Emerson is tum-
ing over in his grave, listening to me employ

his genius in terms of W&L culture.)

I’m far from the Statue of Liberty or any-
thing; I hope I follow my own advice, and get
wasted because it makes me a better dancer,
not because I want some action.

‘LETTERS TO TH

Women’s Studies is rigorous,
necessary, instructive

4 Dear Editor,

Several of our peers have recently written complaints to the
student papers claiming that the new Women’s Studies pro-
gram is sirnply a response to a “fad” that undennines the
academic character of W&L. I would like to dispel this notion.

V I am one of two student representatives who serve on the
Courses and Degrees Committee. Along with several mem-
bers of the faculty and Dean Boetsch, we examine proposed
changes to the curriculum and either accept or reject those

4, changes. In this role, we spent several meetings discussing

' the Women’s Studies proposal. This proposal was formulated
by Professors Wheeler, Stewart, and Radulescu in consulta-
tion with an ad-hoc committee of faculty who are interested in
forming a Women’s Studies program. The faculty involved

*7 examined the Women’s Studies programs at other colleges
and universities and designed a program that would best ﬁt
W&L’s current resources and needs. According to the testi-
mony of Professors Wheeler, Stewart, and Radulescu to the

V‘ Courses and Degrees Committee, the proposal was motivated
in part by student desire to have a structured program within
which they may examine the roles and lives of women. The
resulting program is a product of over a year of careful thought
and discussion, in addition to passing exacting review by

‘t Courses and Degrees. I have full conﬁdence that this program

will give students access to another approach to academic
inquiry that is as rigorous as any other discipline currently
offered at W&L; if I had any doubt of the rigor, I would not

have voted to approve the program. I would not vote for a

program merely in response to a “fad.” I have examined, and
voted to approve, the proposal for the upcoming spring term
course in Women’s Studies. The material to be covered and
discussed is not trivial, norwill the program be trivial. Women’s

V Studies has been for several decades nationally and interna-
tionally acknowledged as a respected area of scholarship.

I encourage students who are concerned about

‘I @112 illing-tum {ﬂirt

Executive Editors Emily Barnes
Stephanie Bianco

T News Editors Matt McDermott

Mike Agnello

Assistant News Editor Max Smith

Opinion Editor Tara Ann Friedel

Assistant Opinion Editor Brett Kirwan

W&Life Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Last Word Editor Bryan Early
Copy Editor Kris Pollina
Contributing Editor Michael Crittenden
Photo Editor Mary Guy

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Charlie Tonelli

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Executive Editor, but The
Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible
submissions and letters. All submissions must be in the
Phi office, room 208 of the University Center, by 5 p.m.
on Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for
content and length. Letters and columns do not reﬂect
the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-
tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current
court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
‘V’ 208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
Fax: (540) 462-4059
T E-mail: phi@wlu.edu

Women’s Studies, or any other aspect of the curriculum,
to contact me. Concerns about the women’s studies pro-
gram may also be directed to Professor Radulescu.
Sincerely,

Julie Fitzer ’03

Women’s Studies focuses on

women locally and globally

Dear Editor,

In the name of W&L tradition, I am pleased to see that
Brett Kirwan’s ar1icle “Women’s Studies is mother of all evil”
is defended as an opinion. Unfortunately, I am afraid that
W&L students share that opinion. I do not want to com-
pletely echo Professor Mayock’s response to Ms.
Culpepper’s like article in the Trident, but an article such as
Mr. Kirwan’s should drive more to demand and defend
Women’s Studies, and not the other way around. Yes, we all
acknowledge that W&L is a male-friendly, traditional, “meat
and potatoes school.” I’m so glad members of the student
body came here so that they wouldn’t “fall victim to political
correctness.” God forbid we learn more than those before us.

I think it’s clear that a Women’s Studies program is more
than necessary on this campus, and not only for education
purposes. I did not come here because it was male—friendly,
stuck-in—the-South type school. I didn’t even come here to
get married. I came here to get the education. And a good
education is not one based solely in the C—school. 'Ihe pov-
erty course is the best course I’ve ever taken. I can’t wait to
take a Women’s Studies course.

I think a more female—friendly school would be a welcome
change. There are big issues here. Yes, nine out of 10 W&L
guys have never sexually harassed or raped a woman. But
that means one out of 10 have. One out of 10. And that scares
me. Many people on this campus don’t realize what it means
when a man hurts or takes advantage of a woman. What kind
of people do that? Men need to learn as much as women do
about feminist perspective.

In response to Mr. Kirwan’s article: You’re kidding, right?
Clearly you have no clue as to what the Women’s Studies
program entails. Also, speaking as a woman, do you have
any idea what happens to other women in the world? Men
cut off our genitals in Africa, they rape our children in
Bosnia, they beat us in Islamic lands, they take away our
right to speak in Taliban areas, they are legally entitled to
makeamore money than us in the US, they are legally al-
lowed to rape their wives in Tennessee. . . and so on. This
said, most of us here have been given so much, therefore
we need to give a lot back. Women’s Studies should help to
educate us about one more area in which we can help.

Being a feminist doesn’t mean I want to abolish marriage
and kill my children; it means that I want to look at things
how they usually are not, i.e. from a woman’s perspective. I
wish I didn’t only know the great actions of men through-
out history. I wish I could name ﬁve women artists. I wish I
didn’t have to know that it is better to be pretty than smart.
Especially here. Thinking that a Women’s Studies program
would “give radical feminists a place in the school to indoc-
trinate young, impressionable females” is ridiculous. First

TALKback:

 

 

of all, it’s insulting to think that the women who got in here
(and it’s a lot harder for females than for males) are not
smart enough to judge for themselves what matters and
what doesn’t; and it should be even more insulting to think
that men come here to avoid such studies.
Someone please restore my faith in humanity.

Sincerely,

Nancy Rhinehart, ’03

Women’s Studies has deep roots

Dear Editor,

A few thoughts in response to Brett Kirwan’s mater-
nal anxieties (“Women’s Studies is mother of all evils,”
March 19, 2001), and the broader campus dialogue about
the institutionalization of a Women’s Studies program_at
Washington and Lee.

I’m both puzzled and frustrated by anxious attempts to
deﬁne feminism as the province of “the academic looney
bin,” rather than the radical notion that men and women
should be treated equally. At a co-educational, liberal arts
college, we should celebrate rather than disavow (‘I’m not
a feminist but. . .’) this basic principle of civil society. A
program in Women’s Studies is but one arena through
which innocent assumptions about the ‘risks’ of feminism
might be productively manned, into more sophisticated
and varied understandings of gender and society.

Moreover, like other “new” curricular initiatives such as
enviromnental studies, Women’s Studies (and the methodolo-
gies through which it challenges students to think) has effec-
tively been a part of this campus for many years. Just as the
environmental studim program draws on precedent curricular
offerings in biology, economics, philosophy, and literature, so
will the Women’s Studies curriculum centralize the proven
strengths of its faculty and the varied interests of its students
— across the disciplinary spectrum — who recognize gender
to be a crucial determinant of our social environments, at and
beyond our so-called “meat and potatoes school.” Like many
of my students and colleagues, I recently chose to come to
this University precisely because I was interested in more
varied fare, because our administration has signaled its sup-
port for these, and other interdisciplinary commitments.

As an English professor, I’ll conclude by noting that
Shakespeare — my own area of expertise, and that bulwark of
the educational “tradition” — has only been a part of univer-
sity curricula since the 1880s. Unusual as it may have seemed
at the time, the (belated) study of Shakespeare as instructive
literature was a disciplinary development that has proven strik-
ingly durable and even, I daresay, culturally useful (though it’s
admittedly hard to assess an academic “fad” when it’s older
than you are). In my own contributions to the Women’s Stud-
ies program at Washington and Lee, I’m more likely to turn to
the once—radical curricular innovations of Shakespeare, than
to the comforting truisms of Men ’s Health or the handy ency-
clopedia. I may simply need to broaden my reading, but then
again, it’s precisely through such inquiry that liberal educa-
tion, at our liberal arts college, most stands to ﬂourish.
Sincerely,

Eric Wilson
Assistant Professor of English

 

 

i “I had a great time. What more
could you want?”
—— Brad Smith ’04

“The night had a magical quality which
made it a lovely dream.”
-—- Shyarna Wickrarnaaratchi ’04

If “I don’t remember it.”
— Micah Tolrnan ’02

http://wlu.edu/~phi “At first, I didn’t want to go, but I’m
. A I b p _ I $30 glad I did and I had a great time.”
nnua SL1 Sl'lp[10Il rate. : Devin Dickson ,O4

 

@112 ﬂing-tum iﬂhi

 FANCY DRESS 

Letting the good times

TAKING BREAK. Sophomores Amina Elg uacem
and Federico Cardone sit and chat.

SIIAI<E TIIAI GROOVE THANG. Seniors Jeff Sloan and Michael
Capron are willing to do anything to get in the paper.

<

RELAXING AND PUTTING YOUR FEE’l‘ UP. Freshman Zakiyah

FANCY F‘()()TWEAR. Sophomore Stacy Kimmel
Bradford gets a foot massage from her date, Kyle Terry.

shows her dancing shoes to junior Rob Naftel.

IT I)oN’T MEAN A THING IF IT AIN’T GOT THAT swING. The Kings of Swing entertain a more low key
crowd in the elegantly decorated Doremus gym.

0 , on, PICK ME. SenIors Fred HeIser and Martha Cornbrooks ham It up for the photographer. SW CHEESE. Junior David Thomhin and date Mn")? Rnrhpr “amp to Qmﬂn fm, tho mmera"

Flip: ﬁling-tum iﬂhi

 FANCY DRESS 
roll: Fancy Dress 2001

DECORATIONS, DECOR TIONS, EVERYWH IRE A starburst of christmas lights illuminates the evening f r A \ OU HAVING FUN? Junior Emily Peck greets freshman Abby Perdue and jum r

x dancers in Doremus gym. Hillary Lockemer.

COUPLE ACT VITIES. Senior Matt
Herman and date Katy Kruschwitz
J practice some swing moves (above).
Junior Wes Rankin and sophomore
Robin Graham Sit 0“ the Stage as the ROLL ()UT THE RED CARPET. Students leaving the ball admire the lights and decorations from the

band takes 3 break (right foot of the stairs at Warner Center.
Y _

aner joins he rest 0 security in keeping a watchful eye on art ers ll ght.

All F ancy Dress 11 horas by Emilpv Barnes,/E.\‘ec‘z1rive Editor and Mary Guy/Photo Editor

 

PAGE 6

S iléiﬁrs

W&L falls one stroke short

Generals ﬁnish a
close second in
W&L Invitational

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

Playing without Old Dominion
Athletic Conference powerhouse
Guilford, the Washington and Lee golf
team hoped to secure a first-place ﬁn-
ish at the Lexington Golf and Country
Club on Thursday.

With a combined score of 318, the
Generals fell one stroke short of

Hampden—Sydney, which won a tour-
nament for the first time this spring.
W&L head coach Gavin Colliton be-
lieved his team should have taken ﬁrst
at the W&L ODAC Invitational.

“It was disappointing to ﬁnish sec-
ond,” Colliton said. “There were
tough conditions, but we needed
some guys to shoot better. I don’t
think our conﬁdence is shaken, but
you’ve got to be ready to play every-
day and in every condition.”

Sophomore Chuck Green shot a 75
as the medallist in the event, ﬁnish-
ing a stroke ahead of W.D. Ferriel of
Lynchburg and Steve Purdy of
Hampden-Sydney.

“Anytime you can be the medal-
list, that’s fantastic,” Colliton said
of Green. “He’s been working hard,
and he’s starting to see some re-
sults, and some consistent scores
in the mid-70s.”

Senior Clayton Chandler shot
an 80 to place second on the Gen-
erals, followed by sophomores
Chip Campbell at 81 and David
Haase at 82.

W&L has two conference
invitationals remaining before the
ODAC Championships on April 23
and 24. The Generals travel to
Roanoke on April 3 and Emory and
Henry on April 16, two events which

should give Colliton a better impres-
sion of how his team will fare at the
championships.

“The conference matches just give
everybody an idea of where they
stand,” Colliton said. “I still think
everyone’s second behind Guilford.

“The four of us (W&L,
Hampden-Sydney, Lynchburg, and
Roanoke) seem to have a good
fight between us for second, but I
don’t want to concede anything to
Guilford. You just never know
what’s going to happen.”

The Generals will compete in the
Camp Lejeune Invitational on Satur-
day and Sunday.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

 

MARCH 26, 2001 -,.-

1;rave| All in a Week’s work
e 3§:t:°:§r Borges tabbed as

player of the week in
ODAC, nation
By Ian R. Mcllroy

SPORTS WRITER

 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
 
  
 
    
 
  
  

    

>free of hassles
>friee of rip offs _
>friee for you with 1 0 friends!

For the week of March 19, 360lacrosse.com
named Washington and Lee senior attacker
Liz Borges as Division HI Women’s Lacrosse
National Player of the Week.

With eight goals and one assist that week,
Borges also earned Old Dominion Athletic
Conference Player of the Week Honors. More-
over, her superior performance helped lift the
Generals to ODAC victories over Guilford and
Virginia Wesleyan.

...Get 10 friends to go
and you’ll go free!

European Discoveryl

from $975
1 4 days including Amsterdam,
Paris, and Rome

Ring—tum Phi File Photo
. . SENIOR LEADERSHIP. Liz Borges received
Borges contributes to the team in every

possible manner, according to head coach Jan multiple player of the week honors for
Hathom‘ the week of March 19.

  

nondwldounniun
hr10to%yZoi®

 ij

uuu.counciLtraveL.com

1 -800-i-ZCOUNCIL

Experience Contlkl with a group of friends
booked on the same trip at the same time and
the 1 1th person travels free or everyone in your
group gets 10% off. Prices are land only and
do not include airfare. '

“Whether scoring, assisting, working hard quiet leader, in that she leads by example.”
in practice, or simply encouraging her team- Borges’ superior play and leadership is ex-
mates,” Borges devotes herself to, “making tremely impressive, considering she took last year
the entire team better in ways that often go off to concentrate on academics. Leading the team
unseen,” Hathom said. with 15 goals and tied for the lead with 27 points,

Citing Borges’ continuous work with fresh— Borges has added greatly to the overall success
man goalies Joanna Perini and Annie of the Generals, who currently rank 15th in the
Tompkins, Hathom added, “(Borges) acts as a IWLCA Division III poll.

RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUALEUNUS THUSTSERVIEES TUITION FINANEING

TaX— deferred solutions
from TLAA—CREF can
help you reach your
retirement goals faster.

When you're investing for retirement, the adage
"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today”

TAX IJEFEBHAI. MAKES A DIFFERENCE

  
 
  

doesn't apply to taxes.

$102,068
That's because investments that aren't eroded by taxes “H WWW mes.
can add up to significantly more money for you-—— $67 514
money you can use to supplement your pension and - Aﬁ:'**“%:ax savings

Social Security.

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax
deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAS), IRAS and
other tax-saving solutions—along with TIAA—CREF's
low expenses and solid history of performance-can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

. permonthfor 9 cars

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount pm imo a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart a e is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reﬂect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any TIAA-CREF account, or
reﬂect expenses. . -

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be
subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

‘ ‘ Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

1.800.842.2776       
www.tiaa—cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before ; » .. ,
you invest. - IIAA-C REF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products. _ _ ’ " -, y
- Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association (TIAA), New York, NY and TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. 0 TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 0 Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. 0 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association—Col|ege Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 01/04

 

 

{MARCH 26, 2001

S

Ellie illing-tum‘ iﬂhi .

PORTS

By Dave Crowell

SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team ex-
tended its winning streak to ﬁve games before having
Qtheir momentum stopped on Saturday afternoon by a
tough Mary Washington team.
The Generals entered the week ranked 15th in the
IWLCA Division IH poll, up ﬁve spots from the previous
(poll. W&L used this momentum to earn a hard-fought
victory in Old Dominion Athletic Conference play, an 11-
7 win over Roanoke College.
Roanoke opened the scoring with a quick goal, com-
ing ten seconds into the contest. After the Maroons took
Ya 2-0 lead, the Generals countered with four unanswered
goals as junior Emily Owens, sophomore Leslie Bogart,
and seniors Liz Borges and Ellen Ritsch, all attackers,
notched goals.
“We have great depth,” senior co-captain Martha
‘Combrooks said. “When a number of people can score, it
makes it harder for other teams to concentrate on only
one_ person.”
After another four—goal spurt to end the half, the Gen-
gerals held an 8-3 lead, which they would never relinquish.
Bogart added two goals in the second half to ﬁnish
the day with four goals and an assist. Freshman Joarma
Perini made 11 saves in goal to preserve the win.
Despite a 6-1 record, including a perfect 5-0 mark in
ODAC play, the Generals faced a daunting non—confer-
ence opponent in No. 8 Mary Washington on Saturday.
The Eagles, speciﬁcally junior Briana Gervat, proved
to be too much for W&L in a tough 17-6 loss.
Y Gervat scored seven first-half goals and led the Eagles

« “Eagles halt W&L winning strea

Ring-mPhi File Photo

VEER RIGHT. Sophomore Kathleen Gibson defends Virginia Wesleyan’s Summer Foster on
March 17. W&L topped Roanoke on Thursday before falling to Mary Washington on Saturday.

to a quick 8-2 lead. After a run of six unanswered goals
late in the half, the Eagles led 16-4 at halftime. The Gener-
als never recovered, despite outscoring Mary Washing-
ton 2-1 in the second half.

Owens and freshman midﬁelder Kelly Taffe led the Gen-
erals with two goals apiece. Perini was busy in the net,

making 14 saves in a losing effort.

“It was a tough game, but we held ourselves to-
gether,” Cornbrooks said. “We just have to prepare for
the next game.”

The Generals’ next game will be at home against Oberlin
College on Thursday at 4 p.m.

(Generals hammer Virgini eeyan

 

By Geoff White

SPORTS WRITER

While most Washington and Lee
“Students were busy with their Fancy
Dress plans on Saturday, the men’s
lacrosse team was hard at work in their
first Old Dominion Athletic Confer-

”ence match of the season.

That’s not to say the Generals
didn’t enjoy themselves, as they eas-
ily beat the Blue Marlins’ 19-5.

Senior attacker Matt Dugan, who

’scored six goals and three assists,
said the Blue Marlins (4-3, 0- 1 ODAC)
were an easy opponent.

“They didn’t have a really good

*.defense,” Dugan said. “They left me
open for shots and I took them.”

The Generals opened the game
with guns blazing, jumping out to a
5-0 lead in the first quarter.

‘K; “We just came out shooting,” said
senior Pope Hackney, who scored
ﬁve goals and two assists to help the
Generals earn the win.

Senior Bernie Norton also cut
through the Blue Marlins’ defense,

I one shot he faced.

adding four goals and an assist. Hack- g  V 1 ..  “" '

ney said the defense was unable to
contain Norton.

“Bernie was running around them
all day,” Hackney said.

The Generals only allowed one
goal in the first half, holding a 9-1 lead
at halftime. Senior goaltender Wes
Hays played most of the game, mak-
ing six saves and allowing four goals.
Freshman Ansel Sanders played
seven minutes in relief, stopping the

Junior John Moore scored two
goals, and senior Tom Burke and jun-
ior Andrew Barnett each added a goal.
Sophomore Matt Conners had an as-
sist.

The Generals outshot Virginia
Wesleyan 48- 18 and converted ﬁve
of seven extra-man opportunities.
Faceoff margin was much more even,
as W&L gained a slight advantage,
15-13, over the Blue Marlins.

W&L (6-0, 1-0 ODAC) is currently
ranked second in the NCAA Division
III. They will travel to face ODAC foe
Roanoke at 4 p.m. on Wednesday.

- Ru1g~tum Phi I"ll6 Photo
ODAC OPENER. Junior Andrew Barnett and the Generals proved to be

unwelcome guests at Virginia Wesleyan, where they handed the Blue Marlins
a 19-5 loss on Saturday to open the 2001 conference schedule.

,Track teams compete in Roanoke Invitational

By Jeremy Franklin

SPORTS EDITOR

V The Washington and Lee track teams continued their out-
door schedule on Saturday with the Roanoke Invitational.
The women’s team tied for third place in a seven-tearn
ﬁeld, and the men’s squad placed fourth in the eight-team
event. Roanoke won the women’s event, while
'Bridgewater took ﬁrst on the men’s side.

In men’s competition, W&L’s 4x100—meter relay team
won its event with a time of 43.64 seconds, and senior
Sandy Cooper ﬁnished second in the 1,500 meters. In ﬁeld
events, senior Chris Wahl won the discus event, and fresh-
man James Watson placed first in the javelin throw.

The Generals benefited from several second-place
finishes on the women’s side. In track events, senior
Amy Calce placed second in the 100 meters, junior
Melissa Palombo was the runner-up in the 100-meter

high hurdles, and senior Jessica Parrillo finished sec-
ond in the 10,000 meters.

In the ﬁeld, junior Katie Kennedy narrowly missed a
win in the discus, and classmate Sarah Schmidt turned in
a runner-up finish in the javelin.

The W&L track teams will split up on Saturday. The
women’s team will run in the Battleground Relays at Mary
Washington, while the men’s team will compete in the
Bridgewater Invitational.

1 Baseball
March 27 at Bridgewater 3:00 pm.
March 28 Shenandoah 3:00 p.m.
March 31 at Eastern Mennonite (2) 12:00 p.m.

all April 1 St. Mary’s (Md.) 1:00 p.m.
April 3 Southern Virginia 3:00 p.m.
April 14 Virginia Wesleyan (2) 12:00 pm
April 18 at Haverford 3:30 p.m.

ﬁr April 19 at Swarthmore 3:30 p.m.
April 21 Lynchburg (2) 12:00 p.rn.
Apr. 27-29 at ODAC Tournament TBA
Golf

~. March 31 at Camp Lej eune Invitational TBA
April 3 at Roanoke ODAC Invitational TBA
April 16 at Emory & Henry ODAC Invite TBA
Apr. 23-24 at ODAC Championships TBA

If Men’s Lacrosse
March 28 at Roanoke 4:00 pm
March 3 1 Marymount 1:30 pm.
April 4 Greensboro 3:30 p.m.

4; April 14 Guilford 1:30 p.m.
April 18 Lynchburg 3:30 p.m.
April 21 at Hampden-Sydney 1:00 p.m.
April 28 at VMI , 2:00 p.m.

‘I Women’s Lacrosse
May 29 Oberlin 4:00 p.m.
May 31 at Denison 1:00 p.m.
April 14 Bridgewater 4:00 p.m.

-2

A look ahead in Washington and Lee athletics

April 17 Hollins 4:30 p.m.
April 19 at Lynchburg 4:00 p.m.
April 21 Washington College '1 :00 p.m.
Apr. 25-29 at ODAC Tournament TBA
Men’s Tennis

March 27 at Virginia Wesleyan 3:00 p.m
March 30 Emory 3:00 p.m
April 1 Swarthrnore 10:00 a.m
April 2 at Roanoke 3:30 p.m.
April 4 Lynchburg 3:00p.m.
April 17 at Sewanee 2:00 p.m.
Apr. 20-21 at ODAC Tournament TBA
Women’s Tennis

March 30‘ vs. Emory at Trinity (Tx.) 12:O0p.m
March 31 vs. Trinity 12:00 p.m
April 1 vs. Gustavus Adolphus 9:00 a.m.
April 3 at Randolph-Macon Woman’s 4:30 p.m
April 14 at Guilford 9:00 a.m
April 20 at Agnes Scott 3200 p.m
April 21 at Sewanee 1:00 p.m
April 22 at Emory and Henry 1:30 p.m
Apr. 27-29 at ODAC Championships TBA

Men’s and Women’s Outdoor Track

March 31 at Bridgewater Invitational (men)TBA

at Battleground Relays (women)TBA
April 14 at Lynchburg Invitational TBA
April 21 at Eastern Mennonite Invite TBA
April 28 at ODAC Championships TBA

Ring-tum Phi File
SHOOTING FOR DISTANCE. Junior Sarah Schmidt
placed second in the javelin throw at the
Roanoke Invitational on Saturday.

5 Questions, comments, or
i suggestions? Contact

‘ Jeremy Franklin at-X4060
I or at phi@wlu.edu.

5

 

 

 

Assistant Alumni Director Study Outside
I - for On—Line Communications ‘   

   

The Washington and Lee Alumni Office armounces the opening for the position of Assistant Alumni Director

for On—Line Communications. Responsibilities include: oversight of "Colonnade Connections," W&L's Alumni The Castle   3130113033 l,
On;)Il.ine Coipﬂmunity, maintaining and updating that service's on—line message boards, its design, and utilizing its ‘ an Ofﬂ can]_p"{1S   
" ast" em ' capabilities in communicating with the entire alumni population (or segments thereof); serve as A ' * , ' °
liaison to the on-line community provider and other campus web users; design and maintain Alumni Ofﬁce c9In’b1neS cpursework in reilgj-?11)
homepages and websites; assist Career Services with career list requests; serve as advisor to Kathekon, W&L's ph11OS0phy, llteratﬂfe aﬂd 31' t 
::::i1iit:;llumniAssodci.ation; answer requests for alumni lists and research pr0J“‘-cts; compose obituaries for the  acking,   7
gazine, ai in general alumni office planning for homecoming, reunion and alumni chapter events. . _
‘ Travel involved. and 
The position will become available June 15, 2001, and preference will be given to W&L alumni and 2001 A  SD80!‘-3  f01'  by
degree candidates. All candidates for this position should submit a cover letter and resume no later   3333101}:   — Dec_ 

than Wednesday, March 28, 2001. All materials should be sent to: _ V
Vislt the CRI website to request an application. '-

P

Rob Mish
Director of Alumni Programs

 Castle Rock Institute

Lexington, VA 24450

EMAIL: rrnish@wlu.edu _ R0. BOX  Brevard, NC   5r

TEL: 540-463-8464

    WWW.castIe - rock.org j

WA TERLOO HOUSES FOR RENT

10 student apartments **
available June 1, 2001 

One house with 6 bedrooms.
One house with 4 bedrooms.

Enjoy country living
at its finest. l.

Just ten miles west of W&L
on Waterloo Drive. >-
Please call Tim Wilhelm  
at 540-463-6575
or 540-463-2868.

  
    
   
 
 
   
     
   
   
     
     
      
   
  

CAMP COUNSELORS.

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

  

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of
Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

‘

Archery, Baseball, Basketba||,,Climbing Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,
Hiking, |n|ine—Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
Volleyball, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

  

Camp Romaca
for Girls:

 

Camp Greylock
for Boys:

  

888-2-romaca 1-800-842-5214

   
   

  

“M,w_camQ,.°maCaVco,’n www.camggreylock.com

€

What are you doing this summer?

Ask the Question Marquis

Q: Dear Question Marquis.‘ How many times do I have to tell my roommate that just because hes stressed out, its no
excuse for his “accidentally gnawing on my ankles? _—Jeﬁ" in Seattle

‘al

A: I am not interested in your problem right now. I am outraged. Do you know that I went to try to purchase a fanner . ,
today? What kind of world has this become when a marquis carmot cheaply acquire someone to fan him as he sleeps?
And yet access to an extensive collection of digitized books and journal articles costs less than the price of two pizzas
a month? It is making no sense. It is like a horse with two derriéres. V A ‘

 

-~ = Q: Dear Question Marquis: I ’ve got a paper due on Diderotis‘ political inﬂuence. I figured, “The Question Marquis is
L% a?  ﬂ ‘ from the French Enlightenment — maybe he could give me some insight.” So. . . any scoop? — Karen in Santa Monica
éa ..

A: Yes. You are fortunate you" asked. Diderot was an idiot. He had the political inﬂuence of my poodle’s phlegm. Do
you know, he had his Ds coming before his Cs in l’Encyclopédie before I straightened it out for him? If there were a
French Enlightenment, you can be sure that Denis Diderot knew nothing about it. So you are best behooving to pick a
SP0mdiCa1b’P"0d_“Ced advice COZWW’ new topic. Once you do, go to questia.com to Search for an extensive collection of scholarly books and journal articles
because proper loving takes time. p ' to reference in your paper. That should make up for some of the time you wastedthinking about Diderot. Time that you _
It is to be read with a silly French accent. can use to improve the thoughts you will put into a new paper. So Questia will not only save you beaucoup de time, but *«
The views ofthe Quest,-on Marquis _ it will also help you to write‘ia better paper. And of course, my loyal readers (you feisty roustabouts, you!) will know it
are his alone and are in no way to be that Questia also does your footnotes and bibliographies automatically, once you have finished your paper. You can part
~ with a few francs for that, can you not?

Ask the Question Marquis is a

 

construed as representative of his

sponsor; Questia, youAmerican pigs.- *

“Diderot was an idiot. He had the political inﬂuence of my poodles phlegm.”

 

Q:‘ Dear Question Marquis: I haven ’t been feeling myself lately. I lash out at the people I care about, my cooking 1
skills are slipping, and I ’m often visited by the ghosts of vegetables I ’ve eaten. I worry I might be losing my mind.
— Nick in Houston . _ it

A: It is a shame that losing one’s mind must inspire fear. It is really not so bad. I myself lost my mind several decades
ago. I highly recommend it, in fact. The day you want to lose it, just put it under your pillow before you go to sleep, and
that night, the Mind Fairy will come along and take it, leaving behind anywhere from 50 to 3,000 francs, depending on
the quality of the gray matter. I got over 1,800 for mine. Yours, being an American mind, will naturally not command
such a high price. But still, something is better than nothing.

1’

‘Price subject to change. See web site for current pricing. Internet access not included. @2001 Questia

w w w. q u e s t i a . c o m -“?°‘5**..“Q.‘“ _ Better Papers. Faster.“

I .e. ..«. . .. -.n.\ A». k . -..»,.-»~ .... ..»...r............. -.»-......;.- ........_.,,,,__-‘_‘_,,,,...,¢.-i ._.-._.........;.m....-...i...~. ..«.........u.....u-.-».... .4-.......4.v..u. ... .. 3. .~...mv~.-.. .. L ..-.. at-.. .,-. . . ...  .i... .i .. ........ . ..-... ..» . ... i. .....  —v« ....v .-.-_,....--.......

 

 

  

Clip: ilitng-tum

..!.‘"*.:‘zr“w.:"r.‘. a";‘z. if; . :3-..l“.u'; L;-.:=.' .1“ ta’
Vi’)V$5"ii3't'%1‘:'0;"3 ii L‘ i:‘WV$'H'l"Y
7...E"-"N3"-"CW, VA 30%

.r.‘+.‘<t

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNivERsiTY’s BREAKING FLUEE NEws SOURCE

Iﬁlti

-4 VOLUME 103, No. 25

I:
‘.

if

V‘

LENINGRAD, VIRGINIA 227-311

APRIL EooL’s ISSUE

Spring term

jg abolished

By Thomas Goshen

REIAXA TION EXPERT

A 26-year-old tradition came to an end this week when
faculty members voted 127-43 to abolish Spring Term.

“I think that we’re moving away from our reputation as a
party school,”said Dean of the College Laurent Boetsch.
“This will help bring us in line with our peer institutions, and
help us recruit more serious students.”

Boetsch presided over the vote that made this Spring
Term the school’s last.

“The faculty have been ready to make this change for a
long time,” Boetsch said. “Plans for switching to two 15-

' week terms were drawn up two years ago.”

Faculty vocally supported the change. “Let’s be honest:
Spring Term is a six-week bacchanalia of booze and loose
behavior among co—eds,” History Professor J. D. Futch said.
“Look, we’ve got to be progressive here.”

Director of International Education William Klingerhofer
agrees.

“For years I’ve told the administration that we’ve hardly
been sending our best and brightest abroad,” Klingerhofer
said. “Because we won’t have (Spring Term) anymore, we’ll
only be able to send language majors with at least a 3.25
(grade point average).”

Art Professor George Bent said that he does not mind

j canceling future Spring Term trips to Europe.

“Pedagogical modiﬁcations have a distinct place in the
sociological society we call W&L,” Bent said. “And the
idea of a ‘Goshen term’ frightens me on many levels.”

The faculty and administration admit that it might now be
more difficult now to fulfill degree requirements.

“I suppose it may be a bit harder for current students,”
said Boetsch. “But they’re a transitional group anyway—
the administration has partially written them off.”

Student response to these changes has been unfocused,
particularly since the Executive Comrriittee failed to fulﬁll its
pledge to distribute a campus-wide survey to determine cam-
pus opinion.

“We sort of dropped the ball on this one,” said new Ex-
ecutive Committee President Robert Naftel, a, junior. “You
know, Fancy Dress really distracted us.”

“But we had that survey, right,” N aftel said. “Now that’s
sending a message.”

Former EC President John Comly was busy writing page-

V length editorials to The Trident, and could not be reached

for comment.

The Students Rights Committee, originally formed to pro-
test the administration’s alcohol policies, has adopted this
issue and is planning demonstrations.

“We do not advocate destruction of property,” said SRC
President Braxton Bragg. “But we can also not be respon-
sible for the actions of more zealous members.”

Several of those members have targeted Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison, who suggested the change four years
ago. Howison is chair of the Faculty and Undergraduate
Calendar Kickoff, an organization dedicated to promoting
positive coverage of the transition from three terms to two.

SEE ‘SPRING TERM,’ PAGE 2

SAE house converts to Biosphere

By Granola Boy

H 0 USING REPORTER

For decades, the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity house has been a breeding
ground for doctors, lawyers, and captains
of industry. Now, the former fraternity house
will become a breeding ground for over
200 species of ﬂora and fauna and home
to a team of six Outing Club members, who
will enter the renovated house next Au-
gust to begin a nine month sequestration
in a self —sufficient, contained ecosystem
that’s being called Biosphere III.

“We’re excited about the opportunity.

to expand our environmental program,”
said Outing Club head Nick Tatar. “We’ve
been looking forward to this for a while.”

Plans for the Biosphere were initially
set for the Troubador Cinema, but with
the fraternity’s suspension, administra-
tors gave the go-ahead to the program, a
joint venture of the Outing Club, the En-
vironmental Studies Program, and the
Dean of Students’ Office.

“We’re preparing for the year by
studying ecology and watching the hi—
larious Pauly Shore/Stephen Baldwin ve-
hicle Biodome,” participant Lucas Jack-
son said. “I can’t wait to kayak through

the dining area. Yeah, bad ass. High ﬁves
all around.”

Junior Biology major Erma Gordimer
was enthusiastic about the opportunity
to demonstrate ecologically sound liv-
ing to the W&L community.

“Yeah, like, everyone just needs to
chill out and love Gaia. And don’t forget
to recycle.”

SAE members were frustrated with
what they see as yet another setback for
the fraternity.

    

FORWARD HO. Outing Club members scope out their new quarters.

Junior Jimmy Brumbaugh expressed con-
cern for the future. “Like, even if we get
the house back, now it’s gonna stink. Have
you ever been over there (the Outing Club
house)? It’s like some sort of mutated blend
of patchouli, body odor, and rotting
leaves.”

Other members were more understanding.

“I understand the program, and since
we can’t use it for ourselves, why not let
them use it,” said sophomore Brian Stagg.
“Just don’t hurt the lions.”

photos by the Biscuit

Pillow ﬁghts draw interest

By Leer Letcher
PEEPING TOM

Another study on the connection be-
tween crazy college co—eds and pillow ﬁghts
here at Washington and Lee was released
Friday by Brown University’s sociology de-
partment.

The study shows thata startling 37 per-
cent of undergraduate females have partici-
pated in a pillow fight in the past academic
year. And 73 percent of those responding
“yes" to the pillow fight question reported
that they may have been less than fully
clothed at the time of the ﬁght(s).

These ﬁgures are a striking increase from
a similar study done in 1989. Though the
earlier study focused on the tendency of

, sorority versus non-sorority women to give

each other hot oil baths, research coordina-
tor Betty Smith maintains that the figures
are relevant.

“Either way, it’s about whether or not
women who join Greek organizations are
likely to engage in mildly erotic behavior.
It’s a matter of ﬁnding out whether artistic
depictions of sorority life — like the senii—
nal USA Network ﬁlm ‘Sorority Girls on
Spring Break’ — are interpreting the mod-

Area kids
go to camps

By Rita Book

STAFF D0-G00DER

The Rockbridge Education Association
announced on Monday that it would go
ahead with plans for the controversial new
“Read or Else” literacy campaign, in which
schoolchildren from Lexington and
Rockbridge County will be rounded up and
sequestered in several hastily constructed
Intensive Reading Centers.

The program, first announced in the fall,
initially drew harsh criticism from parents and
educators for the draconian measures it pro-
posed to take. In order to bring them up to
newly-raised Standards of Learning, se-
lected students will enter a designated IRC
for a six-week program of literacy training.
Outside contact will not be allowed.

Some parents have been worried by tales
of “marathon reading sessions,” in which
shifts of volunteers, reading to the children,
rotate for up to 12 hours. An enthusiastic
volunteer confirmed this rumor.

“On the last night of the ﬁrst six week ses-
sion, we stayed up all night, continually reading
aloud the children’s favorite books. We were all
pretty tired,” Glasgow resident David Crawford
said. “But luckily we had a lot of volunteers to
help out with the reading and going around
making sure the kids weren’t falling asleep.”

Two students, a third grader and a first
grader, were sent to the Stonewall Jackson
Hospital that night to be treated for symp-
toms of extreme sleep deprivation.

At the latest round-up of sub-par stu-
dents, protesters had gathered with signs
outside the IRC. J

One angry bystander could barely sup-
press her frustration.

“They’re taking children from mothers,
separating families,” said Rockbridge Baths
resident Allison Jeffcoat. “I just don’t know
what they think they’re doing.”

An unidentiﬁed volunteer, overhearing
her remarks, leaned into the woman’s face
and began screaming. “We’re making the
world a better place!” The exchange drew
cheers from other volunteers, who quickly
launched into an impromptu, a cappella ver-
sion of “We are the World.”

As the voices blended with the sobs of
separated mothers and children, one vol-
unteer summed up the day’s work.

“It feels so good to do something for
someone else,” said Lexington resident
Scott Gates. “It’s so great to see so many
people with that attitude, you know? It’s
like that attitude of, ‘We’re going to help
these people whether they like it or not.’
Such a great feeling.”

em sorority girl’s life correctly. And our
numbers show that they are.”

The “Girls Gone Wild” video company
agreed to sponsor the serious study in ex-
change for exclusive taping rights.

Researchers were reluctant to draw an
immediate connection between the pillow

_ ﬁght numbers and the recent addition of

ﬁve sorority houses.‘

But some observers say the connec-
tion is obvious. Alfred North White-
head, an emeritus professor of sociol-
ogy at Brown, argues that the jump in
erotic activity has been caused by an
increasing concentration of female liv-
ing quarters.

“First they built Gaines Hall, which
quickly became a hotbed of lithesome
young females. And there of course, the
tendency for erotic play, ahem, was greater
than in Woods Creek Apartments, where
the diffusion of living quarters and the pres-
ence of certain undesirables lends a decid-
edly un—erotic feel to the building. But the
sorority houses —— here we _have tender,
delicate, nubile young women, known to
each other, knowing each other, loving each
other, comfortable in their nakedness. And
they are not ashamed . . . ”

@112 ﬁling-tum iﬂlii

April FoOl’s Issue

 

J ti for laughs:

ut on time

 
     

 

 

 

PAGE 2

(‘Litre iliing-tum ilﬂlti

NEWS  

 

APRIL FOOL’S ISSUE

    

 

-mail General Notes 

Dalhouse released from custody

Dean of Freshmen Mark Dalhouse was released
yesterday from the custody of Yellow Brick Road, the
childcare center that borders Washington and Lee’s
campus. Earlier that day, Dalhouse was walking to-
ward the University Center when a worker, mistaking
him for a wayward child, lifted him and brought him
over the fence into the day care. “It was horrible,”
Dalhouse said. “They thought I was a four—year—old.”
Citing his dimunitive stature and childish demeanor,
employees of Yellow Brick Road repeatedly asked
Dalhouse where his mommy was and why he was
dressed up as such a handsome little man. Dalhouse
was ultimately signed out by Dean of Students David
Howison, returning to his office to attend to the pa-
perwork that had accumulated over his four hour ab-
sence.

Trident wins award

The Trident, Washington and Lee’s second oldest
newspaper, took second place in Rockbridge County’s
seventh annual High School Journalism Competition.
The contest is open to student newspapers of all
Rockbridge County secondary schools. The Tridenfs
editorial board issued a statement sayi.ng it was “sur—
prised and gratiﬁed” by the judges’ selection, the first
time in ﬁve years that the paper has placed. Their
certiﬁcate of recognition will be awarded later in April.
This is not the ﬁrst time this year that The Trident has
garnered outside attention. In January the paper was
approached by High School and College Newspa-
pers for Dummies for inclusion in its sixth chapter,
“I01 Mistakes You Should Never Forgive Yourself
For.” The Trident will illustrate 47 of them.

Comly celebrates self

lem with that, Phi boy?”

The day—long celebration ended with a bonfire on
the front steps of the Lee House, where Comly pro—
ceeded to threaten University President John Elrod.

“Come on out Johnny-pool What? You scared?”

Comly, surrounded by Macedonian mercenaries clad
in armor and holding eight—foot-long spears, merely
snickered and ate more mutton as dawn broke.

By EC Date Function

WE ’LL TELL You LATER

In an eleventh hour executive command, before ced-
ing power to Executive Committee President—elect Rob
Naftel, John Comly attempted to leave his mark on Wash-
ington and Lee by decreeing that a monument, inscribed
“to the everlasting glory of John Comly, Supreme Ruler
of the Feifdom of Washington and Lee University” be
erected on Stemmons Plaza.

“Al1 shall be hereto forced to pay his utmost respect
to my legendary presence on this campus,” Comly said
Friday. “Bring on the mutton and dancers.”

Comly was dressed in a bright red cloak with large
shoes that curled at the toe. He wore a large jeweled
crown as well.

A party ensued as several lute players took the stage
in duPont Auditorium. Comly then ordered the keydets
captured in last year’s Battle at Woods Creek to pro—
ceed with their dancing and giggled quietly to himself.

“I have expanded the borders of this empire beyond
any subj ect’s wildest dreams,” Comly said in a later
interview. “I have conquered all I want to. The gods
have surely smiled upon me. Who knew we could annex
enough land from the barbarian locals for the Gaines
Hall parking lot?”

On the last day, Comly also pardoned several people
up for honor code violations and took a chair and two
lamps out of the Executive Committee’s University
Center ofﬁce.

It was later discovered that the Alpha Betas had
donated $550,000 to Comly’s statue fund. Surprisingly
enough, Alpha Beta brother Patrick Nix was among those
pardoned. Comly denied any wrongdoing.

“I looked at the facts, and thought to myself,
‘Hey, why not pardon this guy.’ Do you have a prob-

ge

l « » - p
Hrs HIGHNESS. John Dexter Comly, in bronze.

RETIREMENT  MUTUAL ruuns 

When you're investing for retirement, the adage

doesn't apply to taxes.

can add up to significantly more money for you—
money you can use to supplement your pension and A
Social Security.

deferral, or call us for a free tax-savings calculator.

Supplemental Retirement Annuities (SRAs), IRAs and
other tax-saving solutlons—along with TIAA-CREF’s
low expenses and solid history of performance—can
help you invest tax smart today so that you can reach
your retirement goals faster in the years to come.

subject to restrictions, and to a 10% additional tax.

Tax- deferred solutions
from TLAA-CREF can

help you reach your
retirement goals faster.

"never put off until tomorrow what you can do today’

That’s because investments that aren't eroded by taxes

Let our consultants show you all the advantages of tax

*Note: Under federal tax law, withdrawals prior to age 59% may be

 

 

 1'u|’Tl0NF|NANElNG‘

Administration
ends all fun

By Ramada Inns

STAFF HOTEL CHAIN

University President John Elrod announced Friday the
administration’s decision to end all fun on the Washington and
Lee campus.

“It’s just gone too far,” Elrod said. “No more fun.”

Students have been expecting the move for a long time.
Recent administration decisions to end drinking games in fra-
ternity houses, curb Wednesday night parties and other intru-
sive measures proved to be just a warm—up.

“Man, this sucks,” said junior Richard Marx. “I was
just starting to smile Saturday, when Baner came up and
hit me with a nightstick. Guess I won’t smile or laugh
anymore.”

Elrod said fun has routinely interrupted the University’s
official policy of indoctrinating students and being un-
fun.

Measures to stop fun include killing all cute creatures around
campus, painting University buildings black, blocking Internet
porn and beating those who smile.

“Finally! I’ve been waiting for this along time,” Journalism
Professor John Jennings said. “If there’s one thing I know how
to do, it’s how to be un-fun. People taking Scorsese can expect
whippings every day. Ohh yeah! Whippingsl Woo hooo!”

Student hang-outs like the Palms and Oasis will be con-
verted to medieval nunneries. That’s right, medieval nunneries.
Stop smiling. Now.

‘SPRING TERM’

FROM PAGE 1

lHowison’s office was broken into, his baseball card selec-
tion scattered/, and his Sailor Moon collection stolen.

“This has /gone too far,” said Howison. “Today I got Sailor
Mercury’s head in the mail.”

Howison has asked for a security officer to be stationed
outside of his window to prevent noisy protests or another
window being broken.

The theft has not changed his position, Howison said.

“I agree with both sides of the issues and with everything
everyone is saying,” said Howison. “But our wonderful, en-
lightened, forward—looking President (John) Elrod has spoken.”

Upon being told that the faculty voted on the calendar,
Howison asked not to be quoted.

The theft of Howison’s belongings has cast a pal] on what was
supposed to be a day of triumph for faculty and administrators.

“Hey, I’ve got something to say,” Boetsch said. “If you
don’t like_(Spring Term), leave. We really don’t give a damn.”

.‘.. <2

TAX DEFEHHAI. MAKES A DIFFERENCE

$102,068

Tax-deferred savings after taxes‘

 

 
 
  

$67,514

Aﬁenax savings

     

per month I y

In this hypothetical example, setting aside $ 100 a month
in a tax-deferred investment with an 8% return in a 28%
tax bracket shows better growth after 30 years than the
same net amount put into a savings account. Total returns
and principal value of investments will ﬂuctuate, and yield
may vary. The chart a ve is presented for illustrative
purposes only and does not reﬂect actual performance, or
predict future results, of any 'I'IAA-CREF account, or
reflect expenses.

 

_ it 'Be_’co”mve 
' talented professiionalsli
City's under-pserfo"rrnving

A A

Ensuring the future

for those who shape it.“

1.800.842.2776

www.tiaa—cref.org

For more complete information on our securities products, call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, for prospectuses. Read them carefully before
you invest. - T1AA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. and Teachers Personal investors Services, Inc. distribute securities products,
0 Teachers insurance and Annuity Association (T lAA), New York, NY and TlAA-C REF Life insurance Co., New York, NY issue insurance and
annuities. - TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. - Investment products are not FDIC insured, may lose value and are
not bank guaranteed. © 2001 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association—College Retirement Equities Fund, New York, NY 0'1/04

  

  

experience required  ,
"fully paid~lVlasiter"s~g ‘g-reel. ‘Helpjusqgiv
H or education they‘de‘s'etv~e.Q;A3pp:lI '

 
   
    
   
 

' {each in New
.. ﬁr bu;

 

 

   

* R11. FooL’s ISSUE

Oii">“iii%‘ioN

PAGE 3

  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

onservative
olumnist bares soul

Throughout the year, I have been chastised and
ocked on many occasions for my conservative ide-
'als. Some merely call them radical. Others label them as
acist, bigoted, and misogynist. All these attacks are
jinderstandable from people whose sense is clouded
.-‘I blind adherence to liberal orthodoxy. However, one
riticism I cannot tolerate, one that strikes much too
deeply, is the charge of homophobia.
4 After “Three cheers for Vermont and democracy,”
hich made plain the many reasons why homosexual
nions are a bad idea, for families, for children, and for
America, I received a very nasty letter which implicitly
-4 cused me of being insensitive and even outright
fl ostile to the homosexual community and their needs.
was crushed because I had made well—reasoned, well-
supported arguments and the letter’s author resorted
'to baseless ad hominem attacks. It hurt most of all be-
Sause, you see, I am gay. »

I find many kindred spirits in the Republican party,
but I associate most of all with the Log Cabin Republi-
cans, a group founded in 1978 in response to the
pation’s first anti-homosexual ballot measure,

California’s Proposition 6. Our activism allowed Reagan
A to denounce the measure publicly and it was soundly
— defeated. Today, the Log Cabin Republicans or LCR,
represent values of free enterprise, small government,
Yndividual freedoms, and equal rights for all. We repre-
sent the fact that homosexuals will no longer voteiin
lockstep for liberals.

For all Americans, we represent a choice. A choice
{,0 reject the intolerance of the radicalmoral conserva-
tives and join with Republicans due to their support
for fiscal conservatism, a strong national defense, and
less intrusive government.

    irwan comes out

lated crimes. We applaud these efforts and hail those
Republicans unafraid to challenge the bigotry still
present in some corners of the party.

My writing has one goal and that is to demonstrate
that conservative and Republican ideals are not in-

We have made great strides
ollowing the election of Presi- 
_i ent Bush. Attorney General 
" ohn Ashcroft, thought by many

  
   
 

  
 

woolored Elephant
Brett Kirwan ’04

compatible with the homosexual
agenda. We can fight for equal
rights while ﬁghting for policies
that benefit us all, tax cuts, mis-

   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
 

o be a backwards religious
" zealot, met with our organization to address and dis-
_ niss our concerns which had been fed by the biased

reporting of the liberal media. President Bush has re-
. ently created a new AIDS Coordinator who sits on
he White House Domestic Policy Council and Senator
‘ordon Smith of Oregon has introduced a bill to in-
rease local enforcement of laws relating to bias—re—

irls are icky, icky, icky. If I
i ate them I’m going to hell

. | What a weekend! No, I wasn’t one of those ungentle-
, manly sinners at Fancy Dress. I’m talking about the Gen-
‘ erals Christian Fellowship teen ab-

sile defense, and tort reform.

Prejudice is something that my brothers and I face
every day. It comes from both sides of the aisle. So
when you read next week’s article, do so with a new
understanding and attempt to put aside your anti-con-
servative prejudice. Only if her citizens enter into our
national dialogue with an open mind can American truly
become one.

entlemen don’t date girls

bodies against girls when they dance. But, after the rally,
I realized that they’re not as cool as they think are. I know
some W&L students may not think resisting your body’s
sinful urges is all that “coolio,” but man, oh, man, are they
wrong! Totally!

Let me let you in on a little secret: When I feel evil,
demon—planted desires deep within

 
  
  

jtinence rally!
In this column, I’d like to share
what I learned there. This is espe-

Not Until.Marriage
Van Dos ’04

my loins, I just think, “soon my par-
ents will let me marry and I can do
God’s work and seven or eight babies

  
  
 
   
  

cially important, since sometimes at
W&L, students use peer pressure to get you to “do it.”
‘ \ 0 one has ever asked me to, but if anyone ever did, I
could see myself tempted to go along.

You see, I used to wish I was one of those frat boys
I who “go out” with dates to Fancy Dress and press their

@112 ‘ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Good Cop Emily “Biscuit” Barnes
Bad C01? Stephanie Bianco
Chief Bey-arch Matt McDermott
Staﬂ Sharp Dresser Max Smith
Richardson Appeaser Mike Agnello
Editor of Thoughts Tara Frieda]
Resident Communist Brett “Das Kapital” Kirwan
Chauﬂering Editor Alexis Yee-Garcia
Trident Story Supplier Jeremy Franklin
Un-Funny Edimr Bryan “Strip Tease” Early
Old Copy Editrix Heather MacDonald
Rarely Contributing Editor Michael Crittenden
Photography Editrix Mary Guy
Staff Moneybag & Pimp Paul Seifert

Squirrel Handler Charlie Tonelli

Unlike other student newspapers we could mention, ’
The Ring-tum Phi is published reguarly, never making up
lame stories about “computer crashes” or forgetting to
come out at all. As the pride of Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia, administrators, faculty,
and students prostrate themselves before its all-
encompassing power. Deans have been known to shake
before its displeasure, and students sacrifice Abercrombie-
and—Fitch on its altars. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board ministers to the Executive Editors,
who hold the power of life and death in their hands.

The Ring-tum Phi is probably too good for you. No, it
definitely is. If you falsely deem yourself worthy, all
submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the
University Center, by 5 p.m. on Friday so we have plenty
of time to laugh hysterically at them and throw them
away. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit
submissions for content and length. Letters and columns
do not reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reflect the opinions of The
Ring-tum Phi or its staff. Nothing reflects our opinion;
trust us, if you knew what we really think about you,
you wouldn’t be smilin’, honey. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity, bitch.

N The Ring-tum Phi
208 University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450

Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Advertising Office: (540) 462-4049
I Fax: (540) 462-4059
E—mail: phi@wlu.edu

http://wIu.edu/~phi

Annual subsription rate: $30

will issue from her womb.” Rad, huh?
It can work for you too!

Just imagine how special you’ll feel when you glorify
God within the confines of the holy matrimonial bed, im-
pregnating your wife to bring forward a new generation of
faithful servants of the Lord.

Women are a bit icky, but they do have a purpose,
otherwise God wouldn’t have made them. My youth rriin—
ister told me that they test men and see if they have what
it takes to join the “God Squad” — and that’s the coolest
team on the ﬁeld. Go, God! You’re the greatest! Woof,
woof, woof !

I don’t want to sound “down” on girls. I mean, I know
a woman who’s clean, thrifty, honest, reverent, tasteful,
well—dressed, daring, delightful, sexy, and a bit naughty.
'Iliat’s my mom, actually, and she’s ruined me for all of the
fallen women at W&L.

Well. . . I saw some girls at the GCF rally, which was
pretty darn exciting. Normally I just see them in class
or in the women’s pews at church. They never want to
talk to me, for some reason. Let me tell you how the
night ended, though, so you don’t suffer from impure
thoughts. See, because none of us had dates for FD
(not that we would have gone even if we were asked),
we all had pizza and soda pop! And we stayed out late
— until 10 p.m.! .

See? It’s possible to be gentlemanly and have a good
time at W&L. You don’t need to touch another person’s
body — or your own — to have a smashing good time!

TALKb ack: What’s your favorite Trident mistake?

  

“There were so many this year. . .
I can’t pick just one.”
—-— Emily Barnes ’0l

“Amanda McConnell

By Christine Metzger

The happy couple.

Mrs. Mama Cat is pleased to announce the engagement of her daughter Cat S. Comer to the fine Lord
B. Friend, who hails from somewhere on the other side of the Atlantic, is a graduate of Oxford University
and currently has his eye on a management poisition at Burger King. The bride-to—be, best known for her
work as a foot model, divides her time between being a rap—guy’s girlfriend and selling crack to fund her !
Internet porn addiction. A late summer wedding will be held at the Lee—Hi Chapel, Route 1 1, Virginia, where
Cat will be attended by a circus of midgets, a small Persian cat, and a pine marten. There will be no barefoot
hippies, and gifts will be accepted only if large and expensive. (Cash and major credit cards also accepted;
$25 fee for returned personal checks.) The couple has plarmed a honeymoon involving tubing down the
Maury and committing petty larceny.

 

   

“The stories cut—off rriid-sentence. Oh, wait

“The fact that it’s published
and Liz Nelson.” — it’s gotta be the doctored front page every week.”
— Michael Crittenden ’01 photo, or maybe the ﬂexible print date. . . ” —Max Smith ’0l

— Stephanie Bianco ’0l

 

 

PAGE 4

S

@112 {King-tum iﬂht

PORTS

 
     

A day that will live in infamy‘, '

AUGUST 12, 1994

Stagnitta out as lacrosse coach

Miriello to take
over team for
duration of the year

By O.J.

THE JUICE IS LOOSE

In a move that came as a shock to
the Washington and Lee community,
men’s lacrosse head coach Jim
Stagnitta was ﬁred on Friday.

The move came just two days af-
ter the Generals defeated Roanoke 16-
4 to improve to 7-0 on the season, 2-0
in the Old Dominion Atl1letic- Confer-
ence. W&L is also tied for first with

defending champion Middlebury in
the latest USILA Division III poll.
“We felt that it was time for the
program to move on,” W&L athletic
director Mike Walsh said. “Jim has
done a lot of good things for the pro-
gram and the University, and we ap-
preciate his 1 l—plus years of service.”
Walsh also announced that head
football coach Frank Miriello, who
served as an assistant lacrosse coach
at W&L in the early 1990s, will take
over for the remainder of the season.
Stagnitta compiled a 129-41 record
in less than 12 years as the team’s
coach. In addition, the 1984 graduate
of Pennsylvania won six ODAC titles,
secured five NCAA berths, and pro-

duced 34 Division IH All-Americans.

Despite the success, Walsh be-
lieved that the decision was the right
one to make.

“Sometimes you just have to look
past the numbers,” Walsh said. “Even
though the only thing Jim hasn’t done
for our program is win a national cham-
pionship — and I’ll admit that he had
a good chance of doing so this year
— we felt that W&L men’s lacrosse
was not headed in the right direction.

“Call it a gut instinct, if you will.”

W&L players were both aston-
ished and bitter at the sudden ﬁring.

“This really doesn’t make any
sense,” an anonymous senior co—cap-
tain said. “Coach Stagnitta has built

From Big Lex to the big time

SI signs Trident columnist
Denbow to replace Reilly

By Marv Albert

STA FF NIBBLER

younger generation, which is what our magazine caters

to. We couldn’t be happier with our new situation.”
Denbow’s first column will appear in the May 7 issue.

Terms of the deal were undisclosed, but Colson described

the deal as including “a substantial amount of money.”
Although happy for Denbow, several members of the

Freshman Michael Denbow will soon leave The Tri-

dent for bigger and better things.

Sports Illustrated will announce this week that Denbow
will replace longtime columnist Rick Reilly in writing the
back—page column in the touted sports weekly, The Ring-

tum Phi has learned.

Reilly, author of “The Life of Reilly” colurrm that ap-
pears on the last page of SI each week, will remain with the
magazine in another capacity. While appreciative of the
joumalist’s contributions in 16 years as a senior writer, SI
managing editor Bill Colson feels that Denbow will bring
even more insight and wit to the table.

“Rick has done a fantastic job, but we feel that his
services could be better used elsewhere, like in ‘Inside the
NBA,”’ Colson said. “Michael is much more hip to the

W&L community expressed their sadness at having one
of the top writers removed from the local sphere.

“It’s going to be a tough adjustment, not seeing his column

on the back page of The Trident every week,” freshman Rick
Gazica said. “At least I’ll be able to keep up with his splendid
journalistic endeavors through my subscription to SI.”

Colson cited Denbow’s March 14 column, “Look out

Duke: Here comes Kentucky,” as a major sign that pointed
to hiring Denbow.

“That kind of college basketball analysis, you just don’t
find coming from a college freshman,” Colson said. “Un-
less you read The Ring—tu.m Phi, but that’s beside the

point. And picking Kentucky as the national champion?

Simply amazing.

“Our editorial staff was already discussing making the
hire, but that column really finalized the decision.”

Questions, comments, or suggestions? I
Contact Jeremy Franklin at X4060 or at phi@w|u.edu.

The Phi sports pages will return to regularly scheduled programming on April 30.

Study Outside
 Next Semester

The Castle Rock Institute sponsors
an ofﬁczarnpus study program that
combines coursework in -reiigion,
philosophy, literature and art with
backpacking, climbing, biking
and paddling.

Limited space available for the
Fall 2001 session: Aug. 27 —Dec. 10

Visit the CRT website to request an _application.

Castle Rock Institute

P.().. Box 792, Brevard, NC 28712 828~862-3759
WwW.castle - rock.0rg

 

     
    

   

CAMP COUNSELORS

Summer In New England!
Have fun. Make A Difference.

Camp Greylock & Romaca seek caring, energetic
counselors and coaches. Co-ed staffs, competitive
salaries + room & board. Internships are available.
Located in the Berkshire Mountains of

Massachusetts, 2.5 hours from Boston and NYC.

  
   
  
   
  
 

  

  
   
  
 

    

  
 

Archery, Baseball, Basketball,,Climbing Wall, Creative Arts, Drama, Football, Golf, Gymnastics,
Hiking, lnllne-Hockey, Lacrosse, Mountain Biking, Sailing, Soccer, Softball, Swimming, Tennis,
Volleyball, Waterskiing, plus nursing and administrative positions.

 

   

   

Camp Romaca
for Girls:

    

888-2-romaca I

www.campromaca.com

What are you doing

    

this summer?

Camp Greylock
for Boys.:

1 -8i00-842-5214

    
 
 

www_camggreylock.com

      
  
 

very solid foundations for the program
here, and the success we’ve had over
the past couple of seasons has been
unmatched in school history.

“We had a legitimate shot at a na-
tional title this year, but you can’t re-
move the coach in midseason and still
expect the team to play at its previous
level.”

Walsh would not comment on the
coaching possibilities for next season,
claiming that, “the team has experi-
enced enough of a shakeup for now.
We’ll save news of the future disband-
ment — er, future changes, that is —
to the program for after the season.”

Stagnitta was unavailable for com-
ment at press time.

WRESTLING

   
 
  
  
   
   
  

  

  
 
  
  
    

' photo unclaimed '
A NEW LOW IN PROPAGANDA. Discouraged by low attendance at

Washington and Lee sporting events, the athletic
department is attempting to bring out students via a
series of new promotions, such as Streakers’ Night.

 

IE’ Backpack
IE’ Passport

IE’ Eurailpas
re    

  
 
   
  
     
     
   

With a money—saving Eurail-
pass, you can make tracks in
Europe wherever and whenev-
er the impulse moves you.

  

l



‘ﬁe

   

5?

‘/9/%/9ﬂ7'lﬁ/@/%   :9

W0MEN’S NIT A variety of Railpasses are available, ‘
. S -1- 1 including: Eurallpass Youth Flex — -'
M  inners S:n'1\E:C:l24 Travel any _10/15 days in 2 months

 43 (17 countries). $458/599*

NeWMexi°° 68 |‘2E {ail Eu rope

Sun.,March25

James Madison 65 T I

Ohio State 74 L V a V3 ‘___,

Champiomhip America's Leader in Student Travel

Losers gl:.d"S1\t/2I12l:Ch 28 62 1 — 8 0 0 -2 Clo u n c I‘
10 . .

NCWMCW) 61 www.counciltravel.com

*Must be under age 26 on first day of travel.

  

18 E. NELSON ST. LEXINGTON (540 ) 464-4483

B. J. ‘S IS PROUD TO ANNouNcE
THE ADDITION or MONTECIZQTO
2; OBUSTOS To OUR HUMIDOR AND
OUR ALREADY FINE SELEcTIoN or
CIGARS.

TIME You ARE DOWNTOWN.

         
   
    
   
     

 

 E

PLEASE STO? IN NEXT

l§» if-3 

’ TUESDAY ANDWEDNESDAY NIGHT
. ARE STILL THE POOL TOURNEY
NIGHTS ATB. J. ’S. TRY voure

    
   
  
 

FUN!

 ssssswss  

 

  

 A/m/wﬂw//M/

SKILL. HAVE SOME

1 6 oz. T-BONE STEAK W/BAKED POTATO AND
MIXED GREEN SALAD $ 6.50

,(..

    
 
 

