Jr“-.i.ri_Q;  ‘: §5*.:;‘\  :._.‘*.L '-..'9; 3/
WAu"i’l-NG"t".Nl I L.‘ t.D«UV“iT‘/
 Vﬂ M-ll)

Siiii 0 5 1995

 

More to Lexington than
meets the cue

Strong returning
class guides fall
sports teams

he ‘ﬂing-tum {ﬂirt

THE FRESHMAN ISSUE

I z
.

, t

 

,1

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA



   

hat a ush!

Fall Rush 1995 officially begins September 7. This Rush will be the last conducted during Fall Term.
A Winter Rush is scheduled for the Class of 2000.

Open container law made stricter

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Open the unofficial Washington and
Lee University handbook and find
Freshman Orientation Week. The defi-
nition reads: 400 alcohol-swilling
youths in search of the eternal buzz
(and perhaps a little lovin’). Every
year, the new crop of W&L kiddies do
their best to out-party their predeces-

sors. The Class of 1999 will undoubt- *

edly follow suit. On August 10 the
Lexington City Council, prompted by
the police department, threw a wrench
into their mission.

lt’s called City Code Section 3-3.

Previously, a police officer would
have to see you drink from an open
alcohol container before he could make
an arrest for violation of Lexington’s
open container laws. In theory, you
could legally be in possession of an
open container as long as you did not
drink from it. Not so, anymore.

Police are now entitled to arrest
someone simply for being in posses-
sion of an open container regardless of
whether he is drinking or not.

The police department urged the
city council to adopt this ordinance in
response to complaints from Lexing-
ton residents that public parks and rec-

reation areas were becoming hot spots
for outdoor drinking.

The law was not specifically de-
signed with students in mind, said Po-
lice Chief Bruce M. Beard. The in-
tended purpose was to curb drinking in
public parks by townspeople during
the summer.

Despite the initial goal of the ordi-
nance, students should take notice.

Beard does not expect the change
will adversely affect students, although
he does caution them to take more care.

“Students should not take alcohol
with them when they leave a party for
another,” Beard said.

Beard also advised the members of

the freshman class to watch the use and
abuse of alcohol. Because most are
probably minors, he urged them to
refrain from drinking altogether.

The most common alcohol-related
offenses forwhich students are arrested
are minor in possession and drunk in
public. Beard was pleased to add that
the number of drunken driving arrests
continues to fall every year.

With the inﬂux of students into Lex-
ington this week, police patrols will be
increased to monitor the “welcome-
back” parties. Beard also warned stu-
dents to be mindful of the increased
police presence on Rush weekends.

“Party smart and safe,” Beard said.

F

I

police department.

K

Attention to all
students who brought
bicycles to campus:

Washington and Lee students have experienced
problems with stolen bycycles in previous years . In
order to aid in theft prevention and recovery of stolen
bicycles, Lexington Police Chief Bruce M. Beard
reccommends that all bicycles be registered with the

 

Swiping a card through

Seventeen of the out-

, 

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

 

An electronic entry sys-
, '...i will go online for the
first time in the freshman
tdorms on Saturday night.

The class of 1999 will be
the first to test the card-ac-
cess system, which may ex-
pand to include academic
buildings.

“We wanted a pet project
to test the system on,” said
Director of Security Mike
Young, “and we thought the
freshman dorms would be a
good place to start.”

Once the system goes
online Saturday night, only
those with Washington and
Lee University cards will be
able to enter the dorms.

the electronic card reader
will disengage the magnetic
force that keeps the door
locked 24 hours a day. Once
a student enters the door, it
shuts and locks behind him

Inside the building, a
motion detector disengages
the lock when a student ap-
proaches, and again shuts
and locks when the student
exits.

Only the doors to-the
buildings will be locked. Hall
doors will not be locked, as
they have been at night in
the past.

if an outside door is kept
open for more than a few
seconds, the computer that
monitors the system will note
the open door, and an ofﬁcer
willbedispatchedtotheopen
door.

side doors will have card
readers. The other seven

them.”
Students who
lose their cards will

will be exit-only, and will need 30 1'ePl3Ce them
lockagainuponshutting. i m m 6 d i a I 6 1 y

The object of the new through the business
system is not to restrict Office, and may be
access tocampus, Young waned 3 temP0T3TY
said,buttocurbthe num- card by security out-
bers of thefts. 1" time» the 5Y5‘

“The numberofthefts ‘em may eXPa"d ‘O

of money have been in-
creasing in the past sev-
eral years,” he said, “es-
pecially in the freshman
dorms.”

The card system may
cut down on the number
of lost university cards
as well.

“Their card is going
to be their key to their
building,” Young said.
“We’re going to insist
that they have it with

 

Gaines and Woods
Creek, and academic
buildings with a
need for higher se-
curity.

“i could see the
system installed in
the library, and
maybe the computer
labs.,” Young said.

The total bill for
the system is not in
yet, Young said, but
it does exceed the

Dorm.

initial budget of $60,000.

The system was installed
over the past week, and
Young said that security of-
ficers are still looking for
expected electronic glitches.

“lt may take a while, but
we’ll get the bugs ironed

The card readers for the
dorms are part of the same
system that operates the card
readers in the dining hall,
laundry rooms, copy ma-
chines and drink machines.

Also new are two secu-
rity phones, one by the inﬁr-
mary and the other in the
breezeway of Graham-Lees

Phone directories of stu-
dents living on campus will
be posted above the phones.

“That’s for if someone
comes to visit and they don’t

SEPTEMBER 1, 1995

Class of 1999
continues tradition
of excellence

By ANNE ALVORD
Phi News Editor

The graduation of the class of 1999
will coincide with the 250th anniver-
sary of the founding of Washington
and Lee, and they certainly seem to be
worthy of such a distinction.

There will be 434 freshmen, includ-
ing 251 men and 183 women. They
represent 39 states and nine foreign
countries. Virginia (54), Maryland(32),
Georgia (32), New York(29), and Texas
(26) are the most widely represented
states. The foriegn countires repre-
sented are Brazil, Canada, Dominican
Republic, Germany, Jamaica,
Mauritius, Poland, Spain, and Switzer-
land, each with one student. There are
369 secondary schools represented.

There are 48 children of alumni.

Twenty-nine percent of the class
receives need-based financial aid.

The freshmen have among them an
astounding academic and extracurricu-
lar record.

The class of 1999 had an average
class rank of 91%. The average SAT
verbal score was 612 and the average

Young said.

off..

on campus.

heating plant.

know your phone number,”

The phones also have an
emergency button that dials
directly to security. The
phones have a two minute
limit, after which they cut

There are other emer-
ge my. phones on campus that
dial straight to the security
ofﬁce, but will not dial rooms

A dispatcher will be
posted in the security office
between 4 pm. and 8 a.m.

Previously, calls that
came into security at this
time were answered at dif-
ferent places on campus,
such as the library or the

“Now there will be one
person whose only job is to
answer the phone and

SAT Math score 663. The Freshmen
averaged 585 on their English Achieve-
ment Test, There are 25 National Merit
Scholars and 48 Valedictoians and Sa-
lutatorians.

Fourty—five Freshmen completed
one Advanced Placement course, and
338 completed two or more; all to-
gether, 88% ofthe entering class com-
pleted one or more AP Classes.

The Class of 1999 also speaks or
has studied 12 languages (English in-
cluded). The languages are Spanish,
French, Latin, German, Japanese, Rus-
sian, Italian, Chinese, Greek, Dutch,
and Portugese.

Sixty-two percent of the freshmen
have completed at least one year of
Calculus, with 69% of the class com-
ing from five or more years of math
background. 96.7% ofthe class has had
three or more years of laboratory sci-
ence background.

The freshmen include IO4 presi-
dents of major student organizations,
37 student body or class presidents,
133 sports captains, and 51 editors of
high school publications, including
newspapers, yearbooks, and literary
magazines.

’ ...g.gg.....;l35

New security system put in freshman dorms

dispatch the officers,”
Young said.

Young emphasized that
these new security features
do not eclipse the need for
students to be responsible
for their valubles,.

“We need student sup-
port,” Young said. “Some-
timcspeopledon’tlocktheir
doors because it’s an incon-
venience. But that’s just
foolish.”

The Honor Code has a
tendency to encourage stu-
dents to be too trusting,
Young said.

"Don't get me wrong,"
Young said. "The Honor
Code is a wonderful thing."

"We're sopolite to people,
which is nice. but it's not
always appropriate."

 

ALL OF THIS

0 iuooltof... 161

E’ I FEEL as «F
7-5: \ IUE FORGOT

   

 
    
  
  

    

\-S 5omETHmCv

Z;

_._./----'

Phi m r1 9

How to be cool: a survival guide for freshmen

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

I doubt I’ll be the first person to say this, but
welcome to W&L! So, what’s your name?
Where are you from? I know, I know... you feel
like you’ve been in Lexington for mere minutes
and already you’re overwhelmed. At this time
two years ago, I was frantically trying to cram
all of my belongings into my teeny room,
figuring out how to work my phone, and think-
ing, “Who the hell are all these people?” (Mean-
while, my mom was resting on my newly made
bed, probably enjoyingthose springs that poked
me in the back for the duration of my first year
at school.) So, what should you do? How can
you, to put in simplest terms, be cool? Read on,
little freshmen. I like to tell myself I know all
the elements of a cool freshman year.

‘ Your clothes: You’ve probably already

figured out that W&L looks like the J Crew
catalog exploded on it. Polo shirts, khaki pants,
barn jackets, and roll-neck sweaters abound. If
you want to look like everyone else, grab your

will congregate there at any given time of the
day; Guys: throw in a Sega and you’re set. It’s
also good to add plenty of comfy places to sit
and sodas in the fridge. The drawback? Tum-

navy blue blazer ing your
orPatagonia pull- room into a
over and put on A lounge will
your new w&L You are a freshman. You are far have a nega-
hatifuéwiijlgou away from your parents. These 
rea y on ave o - .
,owe,,P,,,dsh,,,s realities mean that the first few conside, ex-
everyday. we weeks ofyour freshman year will ploiting one
"°"" °‘"° "““‘ notbedescribed with thesewords- °f Y°“’
much how you , ' friends in-
dress, As long as Decorum. Moderatwn. Modesty. stead.

you’re comfort- ’ Your
able in what you social life:
wear, any teasing Here are
you’ll get will be affectionate. And leave your some basic

high school letter jacket at home.
* Your room: You are automatically cool
if you have a TV and VCR in your room. People

facts: You are a freshman. You are far away
from your parents. These realities mean that
the first few weeks of your freshman year will

not be described with these words: Decorum.
Moderation. Modesty. Just calm down. You
don’t have to hit every single party every night.
If you have a headache, go home early or
(shudder) don’t go out at all. Relax - there will
be another party soon enough.

You’re probably also wondering: what’s up
with this Rush thing? Guys, I’m sorry, but since
I’m a woman, I don’t have too much advice for
you. It seems effective to go out, have fun, and
not vomit on anyone you’re trying to impress.
But I could be wrong. Women: Take advantage
of all the band parties and free drinks. Stay clear
of all the male bonding— you don’t want to get
in the middle of that. You may have also no-
ticed that Rush is an odd time for romance. The
men are more interested in each other than in
you (in a fraternal way, of course). This will
pass...to some extent. Which brings me to our
next concern.

* Romance: Romance? What’sthat?W&L
students are not known for dating. You meet

Mr. or Ms. Adequate at a party, then some other
stuff happens. A few weeks later, you might
have a boyfriend/girlfriend. Or you might not.
No telling.

W&Lparties are also populated with women
from Our Fine Neighboring Women’s Col-
leges. Some of them are really cool. Some of
them are not. (The same could be applied to
W&L students). W&L women and women
from down the road historically don’t get along.
Let me be the first (and perhaps only) to admit
that this is because (1) They are competition

F

is
i

and (2) We are jealous. What about the stereo- .

type that they come to W&L to drink beer and
meet guys? Well, think about it: wouldn’t you?
‘ The Final Word: After having read this.

whole thing, you’ve probably come to one ‘

conclusion: I have no idea what I’m talking
about. So be it. No one can tell you how to be
cool. Just relax. Have fun. Muddle through the
best you can. And avoid taco bar at Letitia Pate
Evans Dining Hall.

/ll'E YOU iI1l'El' E5l'Ed ill bl.I$il7E55, finance, OI‘ advertising?

Contact Bob Nelson, Phi Business Manager
at 463-4059 or come Visit his office in the University I.‘ enter
for more information.

Ellie ‘tiling-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editor‘ Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editors Anne Alvord, Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Soot! Bookwalter
Features Editors Courtney Miller, Cindy Young
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartooiiists ..................................................... ..Alex Christensen, Phil Flickinger
Business Manager Robert Nelson
Advertising Manager Jenni Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Mark Tobias
Advertising Staff Melissa Byrd
Circulation Manager “ r‘ William

A Quick Guide to the Phi

News

Opinion

Features

Sports

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi‘ is othenvise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week ’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
cunent court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060

The news section always be-
gins on the front page and often
extends to other pages. The name
of the newspaper, underlined by
the volume, number, place of
publication and date, is called
the ﬂag or nameplate.

The front page includes the
week’s most important stories
with longer stories jumping in-
side.

When designing the front
page, editors try to make several
entry points, places which at-
tract the eye to start reading.
Teaser boxes at the top of the
page highlight stories inside the
paper.

This section, the opinion
page, usually occupies pages
four and five but may extend to
other pages. In the left column
of page four is the staff editorial,
which is the opinion of the Edi-
torial Board, unless it is initialed
by only some board members.
The Phi administrative staff is
listed in the staff box. The Phi
prints several political columns
and two humor columns which
reﬂect the author’s opinions. My
View columns and letters also
appear frequently. We strongly
encourage members of the
Washington and Lee commu-
nity to make their voices heard.

Stories of human interest or
the arts appear in this section.

A story here may be light-
hearted or take a deep look at a
serious issue.

This section usually occupies
two pages.

The features editors have
greater ﬂexibility than other sec-
tion editors in using creative de-
signs and different fonts in head-
lines.

This section also has regular
reviews of current music and
movie releases. Cartoons are also
among the favorite features at-
tractions.

This section covers the Gen-
erals athletics. Stories here are
often a mix of the feature and

newsstylesofwriting. lfthereis ._ '

an opinion column in this sec-
tion, it usually belongs to the
Sports Editor. The Phi uses a
sports front format, which means
that most important sports sto-
ries are on the back page. Jumps
and other sports stories are on
the inside pages. The Phi does
not have enough space to cover
every sport every week, so high-
lights from various sports are
sometimes put together in a sum-
mary fashion.

 

 

  
  
  
     
    
  

  

ANNE ALVORD ’98

Settling into W&L means more than
just learning your way around campus;
it also means learning your way around
Lexington. Big Lex may at first seem
stiﬂlngly small, but it has a lot to offer
if you take the time to look. I’ve never
failed to find what I need to buy in
Lexington, so I Anne “I Came, I Saw,
1 Charged” Alvord, with help from my
fellow Phi staff members, am going to
offer some advice on where to go for
what you need.

Clothes

I love Pappagallo, on Main Street,
for women’s clothing. Not only are the
people who work there fantastic (one
even knows where my home town is),
but they have terrific clothes and jew-
elry; they also have shoes. I also like
(l_aravan’s, on Nelson Street, a lot, and
I'buy all my hosiery at the College
Town Shop, also on Nelson Street.

Phi Executive Editor Dan Odenwald
tells me that the College Town Shop is
the place to go for men’s clothes in
Lexington. Being a mere woman, I am
n t an authority, but I lean toward

vin Dennis, on Washington Street.
ey have ‘The Trident Belt’.

Since I’m on the topic of clothes, I
have to mention TGIF, on Main Street.
TGIF has lots of slightly irregular
clothes from J. Crew, The Gap,
Victoria’s Secret, and many others.

ouowmsten’ ‘

e.[th¢.aiviai.et¢a

ikeiyfibe  
dents

  

ofteniforgettiiis. Learn-
-g swhathappiens durins.r
, rtightiidebates with young
_ j‘ n"mate,ia concert you“at-
end i‘at3==*Lenfest, and study ’
sessions with people from
an j‘jl1l_StOI'y..‘ClaSS. 1;. It’s not
necessarily ‘earn ng‘the‘A:*o;j,-3::
 €h3!:.<?0U1“S-
Relvishi‘ theéprocess  for 5that:_
I  the P differenceer =-ibe,-1 ; ‘

The Ring-tum Phi. September 1. 1995

They have both men’s and women’s.
TGIF also sells shoes. Lots of them. I
actually spent two weeks in Europe
last Springduring
which I scoured

Nelson Street, Sunday ’s Child, on Main
Street, or Caravans. When I’m shop-
ping for relatives, I go to Virginia Born

and Bred, on

Paris and Milan
for the perfect pair
of stacked heel
loafers. I ended up

W a s h i n g t 0 n
Street. They have
a big selection of
already designed
gift baskets, or

finding them at -you can design
TGIF a few days your own. They
afterlgot back. also ship gifts
Haircuts anywhere. Betsy
Now let’s talk Green and I did
about haircuts. ourMother’sDay
For women, loy- shopping there.
alty is about Music
evenly split be- lfyou need to
tween Marie’s buymusicinLex-
and Marlene’s.I ington, go to
myself like Night Owl, on
Marlene’s, but Jefferson Street.
Phi Photo editor Wayne, the

and humor col-
umnist Betsy
Green swears by
Marie’s. Decide

 

owner, is great. If
he doesn’t have
what you want,
he’ll order it. His

File Photo

for ourself. , . rices are reat

Dan Oden- Flarbs Blstro on “:38!” lloo. Plan togtake
wald goes to lngton St1'eetP1'°V1de5 some time and
George’s on excellent casual dining. look around
Varner Lane to while you’re
get his hair cut. there.

Former Phi Managing editor Phil
Carrott recommends “the back of the
House of Style” on Main Street.
Gifts
Gift shopping is great in Lexington.
Your options are quite limitless. For
gifts for friends, I go to Fantasies, on

   
 

With most of the major retail areas
covered, we now move into my favor-
ite area of all (even more than
shoes): food.

Grocery Store

Harris Teeter is the way to go for
grocery shopping. I love Harris Teeter.

Freshmen orient at
past years’Activities

Fairs

Thebestofofallthings Lex

PAGE, 3

It’s even fun to say. Harris Teeter is
located on Nelson Street. It’s walking
distance if you don’t plan to buy much;
otherwise, get someone to drive you.
They’re open 24 hours, and they take
credit cards.

Ice Cream

I’m a big fan of Sweet Things. on
Washington Street. l’ve worked at Ben
and Jerry’s for four years, so I don’t
give praise to ice cream lightly, but I
give it to Sweet Things. They have
home-made ice cream, frozen yogurt,
soft serve, and candy.

Coffee

The Lexington Coffee Roasters is
fantastic. They

they deliver until at least midnight ev-
ery day.

General Delivery

Frank’s also delivers, and they have
a large variety of Italian food and sand-
wiches, in addition to pizza. The prices
are low and the portions are huge. I
think my exact words the first time I
ordered from Frank’s were “Wow.” In
addition to the dish I ordered, they sent
me a salad and a loaf of bread.

CasualDining

If you want a casual sit-down meal,
go to Harbs’, on Washington Street, or
Spanky’s, on Jefferson. Both have
sandwiches, though Harbs’ is a bit more

gourmet. Harbs’ also has an Omelette
of the Day and a Mexican plate.

A little bit up the formality scale is I]
Palazzo, on Main Street, but it’s still
casual by all means. They have really
good Italian, and great pizza too. For

something a little different, try the pizza

bianca.
All Day Breakfast
Berky’s Restaurant at the Lee-Hi
truckstop on Route 11 is the best. I once
went to Lee-Hi with Betsy Green and
forrnerPhi Executive Editor Sarah Gil-
bert on an hour and a half of sleep each
to watch Tom Wolfe eat breakfast with
former Phi Associate Editor Richard
Weaver. We even

moved last spring
to a large location,
where they not
only have coffee
(a.k.a. nectar of
the gods), but sell
accessories, such
as latté cups, and

brought a copy of
TheBonﬁreofthe
Vanities.lt was
one of the best
breakfasts l’ve
ever had. Any-
way, Lee-Hi is
open 24 hours,

French press pots, and, like any good

and they have a truckstop restau-

large sit-down rant,servesbreak-

area. fast all the time.
Pizza It’s a great stu('y
Like any col- break.

lege town, Lex- That aboutIin-

ington hasalot of ishes our tour of

pizza. I won’t get
into details, but let

 

Lexington. Do
yourself a favor

me just say that and go exploring
Domino’s gives _ File Photo around Lexington
away enough 0ou_ Spanky’s on Jefferson Street provldes fun, grafittl, while you haveme
pons to wallpaper and great Sandwlches chance.

your room, and

Address

      

If you

  Subscribe to the Phi

we can be surrogate parents to you student.
Each issue of the Phi will be delivered to yourhome

weekly for only

$ 30 for a whole year.

Name

Send payment and order form to:
The R1'ng—tum Phi
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

Last Week:

There were no results last week
as the fall sports teams continue

to practice.

3

PAGE 4

Film ‘filing-htm lﬁhi

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL. CROSS COUNTRY

This Week:

The first weekend of sports
events is next weekend.

SEPTEMBER 1, 1995

Fall sports look to improve on solid

By Soorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

After an extremely successful fall season in 1994,
the Washington and Lee Generals expect key returning
stars and some fresh faces to keep the ball rolling and
provide for an even more productive 1995 campaign.

Seven W&L squads compete this fall. Four men’s and
three women’s teams will carry the torch for W&L in
volleyball, soccer, football, water polo, and cross
country.

Water polo was the only sport to finish with a sub-
.500 mark last fall. Still the Generals’ 10-13 mark was
far from shabby considering the team earned a nation-
wide, al]-divisions ranking of 20 and a fourth-place
finish at the Eastern Seaboard Championships.

Coach Paige Remillard loses captain Derek DeVries
and goalie David Silvester who set a school record in
saves last year.

However, a deep squad returns in 1995, headed by
junior Peter Sorenson, the team leader in scoring and
assists, and a second-team All-East pick. Fellow junior
James Silberstein will also be counted on to shoulder
much of the scoring load for the Generals, who compete
in the Eastern Water Polo Association.

The W&L football squad took a pounding during an 0-
3 start in 1994 in which it scored a grand total of two
points.

By the end of the season, the rest of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference was no longer snickering. W&L
capped one of the most amazing turnarounds in team
history with four consecutive wins to finish the season,
highlighted by a stunning 13-7 upset of ODAC co-
champion Guilford.

The biggest change in 1995 comes at the top, as
former defensive coordinator Frank Miriello takes over
as interim head coach. Gary Fallon, who compiled a

. \ i

. F‘, (gw

 

*9‘

Both the football and women’s soccer teams will be looking to

    

career record of 76-86-1 at W&L from 1978-94, died
April 29.

Coach Miriello will have to cope with the departures
of three-time ODAC receiving champion William Propst
and defensive standouts and tri-captains Stephen Cox,
Jason Chartrand, and Marc Newman. Yet a talent rich
returning committee should enable the Generals to pick
up where they left off in 1994.

Junior quarterback Brooks Fischer leads an offense
which began clicking by the conclusion of last season.
Sophomore Seth McKinley was a large reason behind the
offensive improvement as he racked up a W&L fresh-
man record 667 yards of the ground.

Senior defensive tackle Robert Hull anchors a men-
acing W&L defense which finished first in both pass and
scoring defense in the ODAC.

Seniors Stuart Hogue, Butler Ball, John Tweardy,
and junior McGuire Boyd should also contribute heavily
for the Generals, who open at Emory and Henry on
September 9.

The cross-country teams will have little trouble
being competitive this year. All both teams did last
season was capture the ODAC crown and place in the top
three at the Division lll Southeast Regionals.

Opposing teams must be tired of seeing seniors Amy
Mears and Josephine Schaeffer on the courses for yet
another year. Mears and Schaeffer were first-team
All-Region selections last year, and both earned a trip
to Nationals.

Women’s coach Jim Phemister does lose co-captains
Sue Deutsch and Kim Herring, but the likes of junior Nat
Messmore and sophomores Maren Wright and Carson
Flowers will aid the Generals in their quest for a fourth
consecutive ODAC title.

The entire men’s team returns this fall after a third-
place finish at the Southeast Regionals in 1994.

Coach John Tucker field a young but seasoned team,
which includes seniors Tom Fink and Jeff Zeiger , junior
Sandy Hooper, and sophomores Jason Callen, Will Olson,

File hoto

SCEISOIIS

Callen missed out on nationals last season by only two
spots with his 10th place finish at the regionals.

The W&L women’s soccer team took the ODAC by
storm last season with a 10-5 overall record, thanks
in large part to high-scoring sophomore Erica Reineke.
Reineke, who was involved in seven records in her
freshman campaign, will be assisted by fellow sopho-
more, goalie Delia Coyle, and juniors Michelle Bauman
and Jenni Grant. Coach Jan Hathorn’s youthful squad
will need to overcome the departures of six seniors to
graduation, though.

The women receive their first test September 9 at
the Kean Tournament in Kean, NJ.

Men’s soccer coach Rolf Piranian loses four key
contributors from last season’s 7-7-2 squad, but he
retains a young core led by sophomores Gordon Meeker,
the team’s second leading scorer, and Michael Germain.

Of course, the experience of seniors Jeb Wofford,
the 1994 offensive MVP, midfielder Shag Drewry,
goalie Fernando Bravo, and junior goalie Anthony
Mazzarelli will not exactly hinder the Generals’ shot at
moving up into the first division this fall.

The men travel to Shenandoah University on Septem-
ber 9 for their opening battle.

Volleyball capped off an outstanding 1994 season
with a 19-8 log and a trip to the ODAC semifinals.

W&L fans can expect to see more of the same in the
coming months as coach Terry Dadio returns nearly her
entire team, with the notable exception of Goose
Garrigus. However senior Cheryl Taurassi, who owns
the W&L career assists record, anchors a talented
returning nucleus, which also consists of senior Allison
Hull, junior Elizabeth Bahn, and sophomores Hilary
Martin and Holly Thomsen.

The Generals will receive shot

their first at a

possible 20-win season when they battle Christopher
Newport on September 9, the date on which Washington
and Lee kicks off its 1995-96 athletic schedule.

File Photo

improve on strong performances in 1994. The football squad will have to overcome

th 1 f l - ‘ - - . .
e oss o ong tune coach Gary Fallon, while the soccer women will look for continued scoring prowess from Erica Reineke.

So you want to write for The Washington Post or

The New York Times?

You Want to be the next Woodward or

Bernstein?

You Want the life of a print journalist?

1 your lif -— you’Ve worked for this...
NOW YOU’RE HERE.

rite f or The Ring-tum Phi

JUSTDO IT.

 

   
   
 

it

4 among faculty

 

fa

rt VOLUME 96; N0. 1

Breaking thel

silence:

WLUR rocks on 9

Hull watched

by pro scout 6

Ultra ﬂing-tum Iﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

Is this the line for Dead tickets?

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Students stand in line outside Robinson Hall to matriculate Wednes-
day. Matriculation culminates in the Opening Convocation, which
marks the beginning of the new academic year.

By ANNE ALVORD
Phi News Editor

Lime green counters. Harvest
ellow appliances. Moss green

  

A} in the Woods Creek Apartments
 until this summer, when the first
“r phase of a two phase project to

‘g renovate the Woods Creek Apart-

. ments was completed.

 In this first phase, all of the

apartments in the West Building
of Woods Creek were entirely
renovated. In the second phase,

iles. Such was the color scheme‘

slated to be completed next sum-
mer, the apartments in the Cen-
tral and East buildings will un-
dergo the same renovations.
The color scheme was

_ changed to lighten and brighten

the apartments, with all of the
interiorbeing repainted. The win-
dow treatments and blinds were
also replaced. The kitchens were
ﬁtted with new cabinets and ap-
pliances, and a new dining area
created. The apartments have new
furniture throughout, along with
new carpeting and tile. Also, the
hallways were repainted

By ANNE ALVORD
Phi News Editor

oods Creek gets face lift

and ﬂoored.

The costupon completion will
be around one million dollars.

The project was the ﬁrst reno-
vation of Woods Creek in its 20
year history, and it was “time to
do a signﬁcant and complete up-
grade,” according to Dean of
Freshmen and Residence Life
Dennis Manning. The work was
completed by Buildings and
Grounds in conjuction with Har-
ris Office Furniture of Roanoke.
The University, Manning says,
is continuing to look for ways to
improve student living.

Keck Foundation grants
$250,000 to Science Center

the name of the Keck Foundation linked to this

great step forward in the sciences at Washington

and Lee.”

teaching and
research by fa-
cilitating col-
1 a b o r a t i o n

in the sciences
and by increas-
ing and im-
proving class-
room, labora-
tory, and
library space.
“We are
very grateful to

The W.M. Keck Foundation has awarded Wash-
ington and Lee University a grant of $250,000
toward the construction of a geology laboratory in
the university’s new Science Center.

The Science Center project, currently under
construction, is designed to enhance the qualitygf

4'

   

 

the Keck

‘ Foundation for
its generosity to Washington and Lee University,”
said W&LPresident John W. Elrod. “This grant for
a geology laboratory contributes signiﬁcantly in
funding the geology department’s relocation in the
new Science Center. We are proud indeed to have

‘File Photo

The Los Angeles-based foundation was estab-
lished in 1954 by the late William Myron Keck,
founder of the Superior Oil Company. The founda-
tion has grown considerably under the leadership
of his son, Howard B. Keck, its current chairman,
and is now one of the nation’s largest private grant-
making foundations.

Washington and Lee also par-
ticipates in the foundation’s 12-
college Geology Consortium.
Over 70 students and faculty form
the consortium’s member col-
leges conductsummer ﬁeldwork,
winter academic workshops,and
an annual symposium at which
undergraduates present research
papers of professional caliber.

“Collaboration in research and
teaching with the other colleges
in the Keck Geology Consor-
tium has greatly strengthened our
program in geology and has pro-
vided extraordinary opportuni-

ties for our students and faculty,” said Edgar W. N 
Spencer, professor of geology and department head. i 7

“We are deeply indebted tot he Keck Foundation _
for its support of the consortium and for their gift ~  I-
for new science facilities.” :

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA SEPTEMBER 8, 1995

Kemp to advise Mock Con

ByEmily Baker
Phi Executive Editor

Jack Kemp has agreed to join
seven other political ﬁgures and
head the advisory board for
Washington and Lee’s1996
Mock Convention.

Members of the advisory
board use their inﬂuence and
write letters to invite political
ﬁgures to come speak through-
out the Mock Con year and for
the actual event.

When Kemp came to W&L
last Spring Term for the Kickoff,
Mock Con chairs spoke with him
at length after his speech.

“He was really informative
and said he would help us out in

The chairs also include
George Bush on their list

any way he could,” said Bob
Ross, Mock Con political chair.

“I think we’ve got a pretty
good shot with Newt Gingrich,”

“So we asked him to be said David of hopeful speak-
‘ our advisor.” V ers.

Kemp agreed. rely yours’ In addition to

Hewroteto writing letters to

Speaker ’ C potential speak-
ers, advisors are
available for ad-
vice or questions
thatMockConchairs
may have.

Kemp joins an advi-
sory board including Wil-
liam F. Buckley, Jr., Stephen
1. Danzansky ’61, Bob W.
Goodlatte ’77L, Richard D.
Haynes ’58L, Robert A.
Mosbacher ’47, ’49L, V. Lance
Tarrance, Jr. ’63 and John S.

Warner ’49.

o f

3 Stewart,
the House Mock Con General

Newt Gingrich in July, asking Chairman. “He and Kemp are
for his participation in Mock Con. really good friends.”

Rush begins, shortened pledgeship follows

By MICHAEL HEwuTr
Phi Associate Editor

of the South. The study surveyed 17 schools
in which 12 had Winter Rush with no prob-
lems. He also cited the Coeducation Review

administration and the faculty to wrestle au-
thority away from student organizations.
Connolly estimated that 90-95 percent of

There are only a few changes for fresh-

Committee Final Report. Both documents

freshmen males will rush this fall. Speciﬁc
concluded that Winter Rush would beneﬁt

numbers were not available at ress time.

men in this year’s Fall Rush, said Interfra-
temity Council president Ryan Connolly.

Rush ofﬁcially begins tonight. Tear night
will occuron September 23, with pledgeship
starting the next day. This year it will end
before Christmas vacation, and freshman
males will initiate in January. Last year
ofﬁcial pledgeship began in January.

Last year, the faculty approved the short-
ened pledge schedule as well as a Winter
Rush plan, to begin January 1997.

Winter Rush came about when Profes-
sor of Physics Thomas Williams gave a
proposal to the faculty last year that was

1 based on a two-year study by the University

students.
Many faculty members support Winter
Rush because they believe it will remove

some of the pressure freshman males feel

and allow them to focus on their academics.
IFC and fraternity members opposed
Winter Rush from the beginning. They ar-
gued that Winter Rush would hurt member-
ship and ﬁnance. Smaller houses might ﬁnd
difﬁculty competing with larger houses and
might lose their charter if they fail to reach
new members quota, the IFC contended.»
Winter Rush also revived the issue of
student autonomy. Some students believed
that Winter Rush was an attempt by the

.» “* rr '*";.*:

    

 

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Men participate in Rush 1994

SAC approves new alcohol policy

By EMILY BAKER

Phi Executive Editor

‘After years of studying alcohol use among Washington and Lee
students, study groups both inside and outside the W&L community
have come to this conclusion: We drink a lot more than other schools.

As a result of these ﬁndings, the
Student Affairs Committee ap-
proved a new University Policy on
Alcohol and a new University Policy
on Drugs. The faculty will likely
vote on the policies in October.

The two policies are separate,
just as they are under laws of the
Commonwealth of Virginia. Dean
of Students David Howison said the
new policies emphasize the obliga-
tion W&L students have to obey
Virginia laws.

;“The Washington and Lee cam-
pus is not a sanctuary and Univer-
sity authorities will cooperate fully
with law enforcement agencies in
support of drug laws,” the drug
policy reads.

The policy changes are based on

research done over the past ﬁve years by groups including the Dean
of Students staff, the Coeducation Review Committee, the Student
Health Committee, and a consulting team from the North Carolina
Substance Abuse. -
The SAC based their conclusions on both student discussions and
records of alcohol-related statistics over the past five years. For
instance, a national average of 59 percent of students attending
highly selective colleges say they drank alcoholic beverages before

Governor’s Institute on Alcohol and

coming to college. A survey of W&L’s class of 1998 revealed that 77
percent of students drank before coming

“This means our students have already started drinking before
they even get here,”

to W&L.

Howison said.

The number of alcohol-related student arrests has risen since a

1991 low of 85 incidents. In 1992-93, the number increased to 121,
primarily because of an increase in arrests for drinking in public. In
1993-94, the total grew to 139, and in the 94-95 school year, the total

was 145, partially due to an in-
crease in noise violations.

    

and speakers.

. _, M, ‘ ,, v .. Q, .. :
Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

All 12 cases handled by the
Student Conduct Committee dur-
ing the 1994-95 school year in-
volved alcohol, according to the
Student Judicial Report. Most
sexual assault and harassment
cases also involve alcohol.

But more than policies are
needed to lessen the impact of
drugs and alcohol on the student
body, Howison said. Student lead-
ers must “assume a major role in
any effort to address the problem
of alcohol abuse among students
at Washington and Lee,” he
said.

The policy also emphasizes
that students are adults respon-

sible for conforming their behavior to the law.
In recent years, the health education program has included drug
and alcohol education in its programming, through classes, seminars

In addition to education, students now have a wider variety of
social events to choose from. After the 1994 hiring of Student
Activities Coordinator Michelle Richardson, students could attend
coffee houses, poetry readings, dinner theaters and debates.

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Ripken breaks record

Baltimore — Baltimore Orioles shortstop Cal Ripkin played his
2,131st consecutive game, breaking Lou Gehrig’s 56 - year old record. At
Cambden Yards on Wednesday night, Ripkin led the Orioles to a victory
over the California Angels. One million dollars of the proceeds from
ticket sales will go to Johns Hopkins University to fund a study on
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig’s disease.

Ethics committee recommends
Packwood’s expulsion

Washington, D.C. — After a two and a half year investigation, the
Senate Ehics Committee voted on Wednesday to recommend that Senator
Bob Packwood (R -Ore.) be expelled for sexual and official misconduct.
Packwood, who had recently requested public hearings, stated that he
does not plan to resign to avoid expulsion. If the Senate fails to produce
a two thirds vote for expulsion, the committe members stated it would
present another recommendation for the censure of Packwood and loss of
his Finance Committee chairmanship.

1 NATO, UN continue bombing

Bosnia —— NATO warplanes continued to bomb targets in Central
Bsnia this week. However, Bosnian Serbs have shown no sign of lifting
their seige of Sarajevo. On Wednesday, NATO ambassadors met in
Brussels to discuss Operation Deliberate Force. The multi-nation alli-
ance remains unified and plans to continue attacks.

Fuhrman pleads the Fifth

Los Angeles — On Wednesday, Detective Mark Fuhrman asked for
his Fifth Amendment protection agaist self-incrimination. Fuhnnan
would not answer four of the defense’s questions pertaining to whether or
not he planted evidence against O.J. Simpson. Before Fuhnnan took the
stand on Wednesday, the defense renewed its motion to suppress crucial
evidence collected by detectives after the June 12, 1994 murders of Nicole
Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by
Bethany Bauman

GOP Watch

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re-
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Gunderson accuses Dole of
discrimination in campaign

Rep. Steve Gunderson (R-Wis), Congress’ only openly gay Republi-
can, has criticized Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole (R-Kan) for returning
a $1,000 contribution from the Log Cabin Republicans, the national gay
Republican group. Gunderson endorsed Dole in 1988 and was one of the
earliest supporters fo his current presidential campaign. Gunderson sent
Dole a letter Sept. 6 asking whether Dole’s move meant that he was
rejecting the support of anyone who is gay. “If this is so,” asked
Gunderson, “do you intend to now reject my support and request those on
your staff who h _pen to be gay to resign?” The contribution was returned
two weeks ago with the statement that the gay group’s agenda was “100
percent at odds” with Dole’s. Campaign spokesman Nelson Warfield said
that Dole will respond personally to Gunderson and that returning the
contribution “was not about discrimination.” Rich Tafel, Executive

Director of the Log Cabin Republicans, said the donation had been
solicited by the Dole campaign.

Dole to make English official
language of United States

GOP front-runner Bob Dole’s Labor Day speech to the American
Legion Convention in Indianapolis included an endorsement of English as
the official language of the United States. Dole said, “If we are to return
this country to greatness, we must do more than restore America’s
defenses...We must return as a people to the original concept of what it
means to be an American.” Under Dole’s proposals, most bilingual
education programs would be eliminated and English would be made the
national language. He has yet to endorse any of the bills before Congress.
Sen. Dick Lugar (R-Ind), Gov. Pete Wilson (R-Calif) and Pat Buchanan’s
campaigns all restated their support for English as the official language.
Buchanan said, “Dole is really violating the copyright laws. I came out for
this in 1992, and I said then that all federal funding for bilingual education
should be ended.”

New Hampshire paper
endorses Buchanan

The Manchester Union Leader, New Hampshire’s only daily newspa-
per, has endorsed Pat Buchanan for the Republican nomination. The
Union Leader said of Buchanan, “Our country is in need of a leader whom
we can trust, who has moral integrity, who would put America first and
who is capable of sending Bill Clinton back to Arkansas. In our opinion,
Pat Buchanan ﬁlls all those requirements.” The historically conservative
paper also stated that, “Of all the viable candidates, he is the ony on eho
has not shifted his positions to curry favor with the mood of the moment.
Yes, Pat Buchanan can win.” Buchanan, campaigning in South Carolina,
said he was surprised and pleased by the early endorsement. “It's a
tremendous boost for our campaign and it means that, I think, it’s a Bob
Dole-Pat Buchanan race in New Hampshire.” Buchanan was endorsed by
the Union Leader in 1992, which endorsed Pete DuPont in 1988 and
Ronald Reagan in both 1984 and 1980.

GOP Watch is compiled by Alex Christensen

C-School now named for benefactor ilims.

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

The School of Commerce, Politics, and Economics at Washington and Lee has
been named for one of the university’s most generous benefactors, 1938 graduate

Ernest Williams II.

In addition to voting unanimously to name the school for Williams, which will
henceforth be known as the Ernest Williams II School of Commerce, Economics,
and Politics, the university’s Board of Trustees established a $1 million endow-
ment to strengthen the Williams School in the areas of faculty development,

research, and emerging technology.

“The Board’s action in naming the school for Ernie Williams is an appropriate
testimonial to this devoted alumnus and his commitment to Washington and
Lee,” said former President John D. Wilson. “Ernie has given so much of himself
to his University, not only through his gifts, but through his time, talent, and

energy.”

During the course of the Campaign for W&L, Williams, his wife, Marjorie,
and their family made gifts to the University that are unprecedented in size and
scope. The couple’s gifts to Washington and Lee have created the Ernest

Williams II Professorship (currently held by professor of art history Pamcla

Simpson), the Marjorie 0. Williams Endowment for Library Acquisitions, and
the Marjorie O. and Ernest Williams Il Honor Scholarship Endowment.
Williams entered W&L as a journalism major from Lynchburg. He worked
as a reporter brieﬂy after graduating before moving on to a career in business.
After working in the insurance trade and serving in the Navy in World War II, he

embarked on a career in sales and investments.

Following his retirement from the investment business, he and his wife
opened an antique shop in Hilton Head, S.C. The couple gave up shop in 1981
and later moved to Florida, where they currently reside.

The Rin -tum Phi Se tember8 1995

 

A

    

is E LCOME
TO me
1mi.i.:AIus
commence ' semen.

in 1' 

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring-rum Phi.

 

A friendly sign bids welcome in the Williams School.’

“It is ﬁtting that the trustees have chosen to recognize the devoted service and
magnanimous generosity of Ernie Williams by naming the school in his honor,”
said C-school dean Larry Peppers. “With the creation of the Williams Endow-

ment, the school will receive a major assist in keeping pace with newly

developing knowledge in the explosion of information technology and the‘
continuously changing international forces that are reshaping economies, gov-
ernmental institutions, and commercial markets around the world.”

Student pub to open on Friday nights,

By DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Looking for a cool spot to hang out, drink a few
beers, and enjoy live entertainment? Better try the
Palms, Spanky’s or fraternity parties, right? Wrong.

Now there’s another option — the GHQ.

At the request of the Alcohol Review Committee
(ARC), the General’s Headquarters will be open on
Friday and Saturday nights to the Washington and
Lee community. Live entertainment, food and alco-
hol will be on the menu to add diversity to the
Lexington social scene.

“We wanted a place where students, faculty, and
staff could come together and take a break,” said
Dean of Students David Howison.

Formed last year in response to growing concerns
about alcohol misuse on campus, ARC developed a
plan to combat alcohol abuse on campus and gener-
ated ideas for alternative social activities. The GHQ
Pub, one of ARC’s suggestions, is the first to be
adopted by the University.

Student Activities Coordinator Michelle
Richardson received ARC’s idea enthusiastically
and filled the Pub’s September social calendar with
such W&L favorites as Roger Day, Settie, and the
duo of Brian Boland and Tommy Esposito.
Richardson said informal student polls indicated
there was a strong demand for a GHQ Pub.

“This is what the students wanted, and this is what

Photo courtesy of Marium Holland

Marium Holland dances as "Winter" in
a 1994 Charleston Ballet performance.

W&L wins CASE award

for development

we’re going to do,” said Richardson.

Yet to be officially named, the GHQ Pub was
designed to accommodate students who desired to
participate in non-traditional social activities in addi-
tion to drinking. Last year’s popular coffee houses
and poetry readings were a huge hit with students.
The addition of alcohol should attract even more
students.

Richardson said the idea behind the Pub was not
to compete with the fraternities for party- goers, but to
exist in conjunction with them.

Students often make GHQ events kick-offs to
their Friday and Saturday nights for they head out to
fraternity parties afterwards, Richardson said. The
Pub will coexist with the Greek scene.

Contrary to rumor, ARC’s original guideline for
the Pub that patrons only be allowed one drink an
hour, totaling four drinks for the evening, was re-
jected.

According to Richardson, the Pub will follow any
typical bar’s rules. Non-student managers will
monitor the serving and consumption of drinks and
patrons will not be limited to four drinks.

“If people are getting out of hand, then they will
have to leave just like any bar,” explained Richardson.

While ARC’s express purpose is to help curb the
excessive nature of alcohol abuse at W&L, Chairman
Karlene Jennings ’96 said she had no qualms with the
administration’s lifting of the cap.

“(The drink cap) was just a guideline. It was only
one tiny part of a larger picture,” Jennings said.

The Pub’s grand opening is scheduled for tonight,

and Richardson has planned quite a debut. Roger
Day, a W&L alum, will perform his acoustic show.
Tonight will also see the “Name that Pub Contest.”
Fill out an entry coupon and receive a free slice of
pizza. (See advertising section of this issue.) The ‘“
Pub opens at 9 p.m. Cheers.

~»nl$%"

  

...,£

‘I Phot b tsy reen, TheRing-tum Phi
The GHQ will now be serving
alcohol on Friday nights. ‘--

 

W&L Dance offers dance classes‘
by experienced performers

By ROBIN D. SEATON
Phi Staff Writer

and taught with American All-Stars, Inc. 7

Puzon has gymnastics, jazz, funk, and dance
team training. She choreographed for her high
school dance team and was chosen to perfonn
in the Alamo Bowl halftime performance.

Washington and Lee has a new opportunity
for people who love to dance. Jazz, modern

In addition, sophomores Marium Hollan
and Robin Seaton will lead ballet and stretci?
courses. Holland has studied classical ballet for

9

ballet, and stretch classes will begin soon, led
by both professional and student instructors.
Beginning classes in W&L Dance are available
for those with little or no experience, while
advanced courses will allow dancers to con-
tinue their training.

Colette Barre-Rec will teach modern dance
classes. She also instructs W&L’s modern
dance "physical education courses. In addition,
Missy Smithgall will offer ballet classes. These
sessions will require a small fee.

Washington and Lee students will lead sev-
eral classes. Jazz and funk teachers will be
sophomores Mimi Duet and Cheryl Puzon.
Trained in jazz, tap, ballet, modern, and funk,
Duet danced in the pregame shows for Super
Bowls XXV and XXVII. She both performed

twelve years and performed as a soloist with the
Charleston Ballet. She attended Point Park
College’s International Summer Dance Pro-
gram, and last year Holland taught and danced
with the Rockbridge Ballet.

Seaton studied for fourteen years with the
Creative Arts Guild. As a member of Dalton
Ballet Theatre, she taught and choreographed
both ballet and jazz for apprentice companies;
and performed as a soloist. She also studied)
with instructors from Ballet Tennessee, Jazz
Dance Theater South, and the Atlanta Ballet.

Classes will be held in the basement of
Lenfest Center, with times to be announcer;
soon. Instructors are aiming tentatively for a
spring performance as well. Interested students
should contact Cheryl Puzon at 462-4224 or
Marium Holland at 462-4193.

From Phi staff reports

Washington and Lee University’s office of development
has won a 1995 Circle of Excellence in Educational Fund-
raising award from the Council for Advancement and Support
of Education (CASE). A certificate recognition was awarded
during CASE’s Annual Assembly in New York City on‘July

eleventh.

Earning a citation for overall fund-raising performance,
the university was one of 57 higher education institutions and
41 independent schools to win that award or one for improve-
ment. Judges based their decisions on their analysis of data
submitted to the Council for Aid to (CAE) through its annual
“Voluntary Support of Education” survey, sponsered by CASE
and the National Association of Independent Schools. They

looked for evidence of solid program growth, breadth in base
of support, and other evidence of a well—maintained, mature

program.

“This year’s winners represent a broad spectrum of educa-
tional institutions and serve as models of outstanding fund-
raising practice,” said CASE President Peter McE. Buchanan.
“Their success is an enormous benefit to their staffs, volun-

teers, and donors.”

The Council for Advancement and Support of Education is
an international association of colleges, universities, and
independent elementary and secondary schools. Represent-
ing these institutions are professionals in the fields of alumni

relations, communications, and philanthropy.

Signing their lives away...

Photo by Betsy Green, The Ring—tum Phi

Freshmen at Wednesday's Activity Fair investigate the ‘
many clubs which highlight the diverse talents and
interests present in the W&L community.

 

 

E " S O
I .-
The Ring-tum Phi, Sept. 8, 1995 1

Rocking students throug anothergear

PAGE 3

prominence, now line the walls of “In addition to great new albums ing releases from frente! and the Gin weeks.” by each of the other departments as
BY CINDIE YOUNG WLUR’s office. They are ready to be fromestablishedaltemativeartistssuch Blossoms among others, we’ve dis— Soontobe featuredduringWLUR’s well, and additional U.S. Mail crates
, _ 59”°d ‘h1'°“8h _h)’ B re a k t h ro u g h offer testimony that new music will be

Phi Features Edltor thh °°"'°5P°h‘hh8 , i show, a daily featured in every department.

4, station managers.

After a three month pause, the air _ Theses lh addi‘
about campuswill soon hum once again hoh ‘° the ‘h°“53hd5
with the sounds of W&L’s own radio “ff albums ‘he Sta‘
station’ WLUR tion has already ac-

From its studios in Reid Hall, the °“h“-hated’ ehshrea

7‘ radio station offers a wide‘ variety of h°V°"°h‘hhg V311’

time slot for the
newest of new
music, are bands
such as Liquorice,
Shampoo, Blink,
Garbage, That
Dog, The Stiffs,

Operated in association with the
Department of Journalism and Mass
Communications, WLUR 91.5 is open
to all students, and airtime is available
to all, even those with little or no expe-
rience.

Any interested students are encour-

programming, with a schedule includ- ct)’ 1“ W1-UR’5 Pm’ I nc., the - Verve, aged _by WLUR staff to attend the orga-
ing rock, country, jazz, rap and dance, gmmhhhg f9‘ ‘he Ash, and My Life nizational meeting this Wednesday at
classical and inspirational slots. hP°°h“h8 Yeah With The Thrill 7 p.m., in Reid Hall. Posters will be

WLUR’s programming also features 5 0 P h_° m 0 T 9 Kill Kult, Swisher posted across campus with further de-
1‘ daily news programs, drawn together Sarah Swlsheh the promises. tails.

station’s Rock Di-  
rector, is particularly
excited about the '

many new artistssoontobefeaturedon as Hole, The [Mighty Mighty]
this year’s playlist. Bosstones, Soul Asylum, and upcom-

While rock of-
ficially receives
more airtime (and
more music) than any other depart-
ment, an exciting format can be boasted

With its wide variety of program-
ming throughout the day, 91.5 prom-
ises to be a popular resting point for the
tuner on every radio, whether of stu-

dent or professor.
Campus Paperback

Bestsellers Hidy combines fine art and -graphic design
‘- .. 1...  cs... Carr in works on display in duPont and Leyburn

2. The Hot Zone, Richard Preston

by journalism students from both As-
sociated Press and local news reports.
U.S. Mail crates, containing hun-
dreds of new releases from bands of

}‘ local, national and even international

covered a lot of new bands that will
receive heavy airplay in the next few

h‘ 8. Seven Habits for Highly Effective People ,
m2wmR.amy
9. Circle of Friait, Maeve Binchy
10. Chicken Soup for the Soul, Jadc
1 Canfield and Mark Victor Hansen

3. Debt of Honor, Tim Clancy

4. The Stone Diaris, Carol Shielcb

A 2nd Helping of Chicken Soup for the
Stul, Jack Canfield and Mark Victor

Hazsen
6. Apollo 13 , Jimlovell
7. The Chamber, John Grisham

New & Recommended
Who will Run the Frog Hospital?,
Lorrie Moore
Shelter, Jayne Anne Phillips
A Marble Woman, Louisa May Alcott

BY CINDIE YOUNG
Phi Features Editor

With one poster already hanging within the walls of
Washington and Lee, graphic artist Lance Hidy will this
Tuesday, September 19, return to campus, this time to open
duPont Gallery’s 1995-96 academic year.

While Hidy’s most familiar work to the W&L commu-
nity may well be the poster he designed for the James
Graham Leybum Library, he has produced many other
celebrated posters, computer designs, illustrative prints,
and photographs, and has earned a reputation both across
the United States and abroad as an artist of considerable
talent.

Neaxly as impressive as his artistic ability, however, is
his professional training.

Hidy first studied art as a freshman at Yale in 1964, from
which he graduated four years laterwith a background in
calligraphy, letterpress printing, etching, wood cut, wood
engraving, lithography, serigraphy, photography, as well
as the history of printing.

Upon graduating, Hidy went on to work with several
widely acclaimed artists, including Leonard Baskin, and
also David Godine, with whom he founded a Boston pub-
lishing house.

His interest in design has led Hidy to create a photo-
graphic book of his own, as well as award-winning work
with such masters as Ansel Adams and Arnold Newman.

Acquiring his first Macintosh in 1986, Hidy has since
become a prominent figure in the ﬁeld of computer art and
type design, and has secured for himself a reputation as an
internationally recognized artist. Hidy’s own typeface for
Adobe systems, Penumbra, was issued in 1994.

In the span of his career, Lance Hidy has risen to the
position of an internationally celebrated artist whose work
brings together the worlds of fine art and graphic design,
while at the same time drawing both into the future.

His work has been collected and exhibited across the
United States as well as beyond, including a retrospective at
the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. in 1994.
The show then moved to the Maryland Institute, College of
Art, where Hidy has been named visiting artist twice.

Among Hidy ’s plans for the future is a change of address
for the artist, from his current home in Newburyport, Mas-

sachusetts, to Lexington, Virginia.
Ari exhibit featuring some of Hidy’s many works will
open in duPont Gallery on September 12, and will run

through Octo-
ber 5.
duPont "...Hidy may well Gal-
] e r y ’ ‘ hours
areM0n- best be known day
h h F'-
§,'y",”gg for the poster ,,’,,',_
t5.. ~ Ad-
gisgignn he designed for i S
fr<=e-Ad- the teyburn Li— d i -
tional " post-
ers, as brary... well
HS 6X-
"amples ofhis

work in the book arts, will be on display in Lower Level 2
of the Leyburn Library throughout the exhibit.

The artist himself will visit the W&L campus on Tues-
day, September 19, when duPont Hall will host a lecture
delivered by the artist, as well as a gallery reception. Hidy’s
talk is set for 5:30 p.m.; a public reception will follow.

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

His official title is “Professor of Music,” but his
dozens of students refer to him simply as “Doc.”
Whatever people choose to call him, no one can
deny that Dr. Gordon P. Spice is an integral part of
the W&L community.

Doc arrived in Lexington after thirteen years of
post—secondary education. “Many of my friends
said, ‘When are you going to become a productive
member of society?” remarks Spice. He did fill his
schedule at W&L, conducting the Glee Cub and
teaching voice lessons, music appreciation, and
music history.

Currently, he directs the University Chamber
Singers, and teaches several music classes as well.

“' Doc is proud of the progress made by the depart-

ment of music since his arrival twenty—two years
ago. “With the addition of the faculty since l’ve
come on board, the department has grown, and
we’ve become a real, extremely viable part of the
W&L community,”says Spice. -
Not only does he take pride in W&L’s growing
music department, but also in his family. Doc says
the greatest achievement of his life is that he and his
wife raised their sons to be the terrific young people

"Spice"—ing up life

they are today. “One of the good things about being
at Washington and Lee is that I totally subscribe in
my own personal life to the concept of honor and
honesty,” says Spice, “and I really worked hard to
try to instill that in our children. I think l’ve
succeeded pretty well!”

Two of the most important things in Doc’s life-
family and music—consistently intertwine. He met
his wife when they were both members of the
University of Toledo choir; his sons are both music
majors.

In his spare time, Doc likes to get down 'n dirty
by laboring on his house. “In the summertime, I like
to do something physical like that, that really doesn’t
involve a whole lot of mental activity,” explains
Spice, “and it’s a wonderful, wonderful release.”

Doc loves to travel. He especially enjoys the
week he spends in the back-country of Canada each
year. “We have a cottage in northern Ontario that
my grandfather built in 1916, and it’s been in our
family for a long time,” says Spice. “It’s a very
remote part of the world. There’s no electricity, no
running water, no so-called ‘improvements.’ It’s a
great place to get away from it all.”

Everyone has a vice, and Doc’s just happens to be
that he likes to eat—especially hot fudge sundaes.
“I’ve really had to watch it in recent years, and I hate
itl” exclaims Spice. “I miss being able to indulge
myself.” Good luck kickin’ the habit, Docl

 

W

?__



Niclzname: Gus, after the mouse in .

Cinderella.

Birthplace: Flirt Flori, Manatoba, Canada.
(“It sounds lilze a jolze, but that's really the
name of the towni")

Family: Wife, Ann; two sons, Reed and
Grahm.

Favorite Movie: David and Lisa, a '60s 
about two emotionally disturbed young people
who meet in a home for emotionally disturbed
people, and fall in love.

BY COURTNEY MILLER
Phi Features Editor

Roger Day is one of those perform-
ers whose slow ballads tug at the heart,
and whose upbeat melodies bring out
smiles on rainy days. His 1993 release
Rich Man, Poor Man, Beggar Man,
Thief is an acoustic treat.

The 13 songs were all written, pro-
duced and arranged by Day. The themes
of his songs tend to lapse into the
familiar and overdone, but his melo-
dies save many of the pieces.

Track One, “Looking for a Reason
to Believe in Love,” is jazzy enough to
pass for an Indigo Girls tune, and still
perfect enough to sing along to at 55
mph. The title of his album is taken
from its last verse.

His alternative-folk tunes helped
Day and former partner Eric Heinsohn
release two albums and open for the
then unsigned Indigo Girls. The duet
split in 1988, and Day has continued to
gainafollowingasasolo artistthrough-
out many college campuses.

Rich Man, Poor Man, Beggar Man
Thiefwas recently named in the top 12
independent releases by The Perform-
ing Songwriter Magazine.

Track Four, “Jenny,” is reminiscent
of many James Taylor ballads. The
love song is beautifully written, and
Day’s deep tenor voice cuts through

He tends to lapse into country twang
in such songs as “Honeysuckle Moon.”
The more upbeat melodies seem a little
worn out and don’t quite fit with his

ballads.

Day is a 1985 graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee, having graduated with
honors in German. He returns to his
alma mater tonight. He is touring in
support of his most recent release, One
Equal Road.

He describes his music as ”sound-
ing somewhere to the right of the In-
digo Girls and to the left of James
Taylor with a healthy dose of R.E.M.
thrown in for good measure.”

His performances include music
from his two albums as well as more
popular songs from such artists as
Counting Crows and R.E.M.

Day is originally from Birmingham,
Alabama and now resides in Nashville,
Tennessee. Day is married and has two
children for whom he often writes
rhymes and sings songs.

Rich man, Poor Man, Beggar Man,
Thief is a terrific album. Day's ten-
dency to lapse into early folk-like rock
and add bits of country twang tend to
detract from the otherwise beautiful
music. Friday’s free concert at GHQ
should be quite a pleasing acoustical
performance, and could be Day’s road
to stardom and maybe MTV. We all
remember Hootie don’t we?)

By DAy HIS ACOUSTIC GUITAR
SOOTHES, ANd by NIGHT IT JAMS

and touches the heart. 

Publicity Photo
W&L alum Richard Day performs tonight at the GHQ.

Inmate writes
to fight death
row racism
against African
Americans

     
   
   

._, ..-.___
Live From 
Death Row BY MICHAEL HEWLETT

By Mumia

Phi Associate Editor
Abu-Jamal .

"You will find a blacker world on death row than anywhere else. African-
Americans, a mere 11 percent of the national population, compose about 40
percent of the death row population. There, too, you will find this writer."

This writer, Mumia Abu-Jamal, a death row inmate, gained international
attention this summer when a movement to prevent his excution began. Live
from Death Row offers Abu—Jamal's thoughts about racism and political bias in
the American judicial system and in society as a whole. He was convicted of the
murder of police officer Daniel Faulkner, but many contend that his trial reeked
of unfairness. He was scheduled to die by lethal injection on August 17, but was
granted a stay of execution to make way for a new trial.

This former radio journalist and current Pennsylvania death row inmate has
become an international symbol of the injustice he finds inherent in America’s
criminal justice system. Celebrities and intellectuals such as Alice Walker, Ed
Asner and Whoopi Goldberg have rallied to his cause. Abu—Jamal's case has been
taken up by Amnesty International and a host of other countries and he has been
declared a political prisoner.

The former Black Panther and a supporter of the Move organization in
Philadelphia has compiled his thoughts together in a powerful book entitled Live
from Death Row.

From the beginning of the book, Mumia lets the reader recognize his confined
humanity.

“Don’t tell me about the valley of the shadow of death. _I live there. In south-
central Pennsylvania’s Huntingdon County, a one-hundred—year-old prison
stands, its Gothic towers projecting an air of foreboding, evoking a gloomy mood
of the Dark Ages. I and some seventy-eight other men spend about twenty-two
hours a day in six- by ten-foot cells. The additional two hours may be spent
outdoors, in a chain—link-fenced box, ringed by concertina razor wire, under the
gaze of gun turrets.

"Welcome to Pennsylvania’s death row.”

This is the reality into which Mumia Abu-Jamal welcomes his reader. He tells
of his daily existence. Mumia describes the abuses he and other prisoners
experience. Images of beatings by prison guards and ﬂame-inspired suicide
attempts by disillusioned prisoners abound in this book. He lists Supreme Court
cases involving death row, indicating the iniquities in the prison system.

With clarity and bluntness, Abu-Jamal criticizes the injustices ofthe criminal
justice system and ofsociety as a whole. He lives up to his reputation as “the voice
of the voiceless.”

The essays go from the legal to the personal, from happiness to deep pain and
sorrow as this caged man speaks his mind.

Certainly, some readers may have trouble sympathizing with a convicted
murderer on death row, but Mumia presents a truth and a reality often hidden in
the flurry of emotional debate about crime, race and inequality. Whether or not
you think he is guilty or innocent, Mumia has a voice that must be heard. In the
end, this man on death row writes eloquently and provocatively enough to leave
the reader with some deep things to think about after closing the book.

Dead something intersting Ilately? feel
ilikr: writirg olbouit it’: DI-ease can the
IQ/ing-tum I-‘hi office at 4152--41069!

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 8, 1995

  

 

DAVE
by David Miller

 

= we've <)ECFETLY R’ ACEO
_ DAVE'€ FOUR CUP$ 3 . 1
MORNLNG COFFEE WITH...  ‘

 

@1995 David MiIer.All ‘ eserved, ' '-
Dist byTribme  inc. ‘ ‘
, ' .

 

COME 0N,DAKLA. \ WAS
H0?iN(1 THAT "BLCYCLING"
w0uL0 36 AN Acm/ITY
we couw EN Jay ‘\’06E‘THEil-’

    
  
     
 

  
     

    

 A I

  
  

 
  
    

CARTOONS

 

 EANS LOW PRICES!

S3  i “ _ K .\W
~11‘ ‘    .. ‘V .1” ,'-'°" §
 "  /‘ L E  

       

Harris Teeter
Large Grade A

Eggs __:_doz. 

PAGE 4

EIIISTGBIBI i

 
 
   
    
  
     

I‘

Be ular Or Junior
I I

‘t

:2‘ .... ' -

.1

Harris Teeter E 4* =
Homestyle

Wafﬂes__u oz. 99¢

   

  
  

  

2 HEY, BELLY. HEY, BELLY. ‘="
Si HEY, BELLY BELLY BELLY.

i HEY, BELLY BELLY.

ﬁg HEY, BELLY BELLY BELLY...

g‘:

  
 
 
 
  

 

Ring-tum Phi

Valle y 
maowana sronss 5’

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO
FREE!!! Student Travel Services is

now hiring campus representatives.
Lowest rates to Ca

     

  

Phi
______________.,_i_____

 

   
 

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. Jamaica, noun,
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 lC):1t?P§03?g4l§?f§ City Beach‘
0

 

Harris Teeter

o
C-
s.§
0

‘Q
"’ rb

Frozen
Concentrate

12 oz.

Hunter Farms
Trul Chocolate

59 E
' M, k 1/2 gaI.1

Harris Teeter‘
Apple Juice ~

    S)
. Soft Drink Feature

PEPSI ~
2
v .

 

    
  

 

 ’ ‘L 64 oz.

  

24 Pk. _12 Oz. Gang
Peps: Or _Dret‘
Pe st

49 7
109‘ i

Gra efruit

99

  

Folge_rs - 2 Liter L,
S ecral Roast 199 X *
offee 11.5 oz. V '

N b" S k H’
a5'e$7E‘i§s:"‘° we ‘ 99
Bars 7-8 oz.

Prices Effective Through Sept. 12, 1995

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, September 6 Through September 12, 1995 in Our _L¢Xi“8t0n Store
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food stamps. K

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 8, 1995

@112 ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Change comes from within

So there’s another university policy on alcohol.

Seems that every time you look, there’s another statement
or study or group of doctors saying that W&L students
drink too much.

Maybe it’s time we listen.

Yes, students at every college drink, and sometimes drink
excessively. But in drinking, as with everything else about
W&L, we’re not like other schools. Studies have shown that
we use and abuse alcohol more than other schools do. The
administration has updated policies to reﬂect its concern
about this.

But why should we curb our drinking? It’s just for fun, to
escape the pressures of the school week. It’s harmless.

And it is, if all that ever happens is that you drink and
laugh and dance and go home. But most of the bad things
that happen on this campus occur when people have been
drinking. Think of all the injuries, the fights, the property
damage, the sexual assaults that have led to everything from
broken legs to broken lives. Then think how many of these
involved alcohol. 4

Yes, drinking can be fun. It can make you laugh more
easily, dance more seductively, and ﬂirt like you never
thought you had the guts to. It’s a great time, until you wake
up with a stranger in your bed, or in jail, or realize there’s
another on your list of old hookups you can’t bear to look in
the eye when you pass them on the Hill. These are the kind
of things the administration hopes to curb, but they know
that policy alone will not change it.

The change must come from us. School officials can
write policies until their pens run dry, but alcohol abuse will
not stop until students realize it’s a problem. Until we get
tired of waking up and wondering what we did the night
before. Until drunken hookups become more trouble than
fun. Until we realize just how close we can come to hurting
ourselves or someone else.

No one’s preaching prohibition. That would be unrealistic
and extreme. But we need to realize that being out of
control isn’t fun; it’s unnecessary and dangerous. L

God and radio at W&L

We here at The Ring-tum Phi believe in divine
intervention. Every so often God opens the doors of
heaven, steps down through the clouds, and walks among
man on earth. ‘ e ‘

If you’ve listened to the radio recently, you can hear his

» handiwork. It’s called 104.7 FM and it comes out of

Richmond. Whatever you call it (progressive, grunge,

, alternative, college rock, buzz music), it rocks. Imagine two
years ago turning on the radio in Lexington and hearing the

likes of Belly, Silver Chair, Bush, Elastica, Sponge, Better
Than Ezra, Tori Amos, and Pearl Jam. The thought, not to
mention the possibility, was sheer madness. Let’s face it,

_, no one comes to Washington and Lee for the radio market.
‘ So, we masses starved; we subsisted on K92 FM in

Roanoke; we agonized with WREL.

God saw the injustice, the misery, the hell on earth
(well, in Lex anyway). And He came. He conquered
the airwaves.

Virginians are fond of telling visitors that they live in
God’s country. Maybe not, but this is sure where He listens
to radio.

Quote of the Week

“I'm surprised the upperclassmen are so eager to get to
know us.”
—Bewildered freshman male

3i\6H

tcKers?

N0! "4 ‘
I'M wkiftvotr

To (rgr A
P-E. cuss

PAGE 5

Flag, language issues threaten unity

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

To find a nation splintering into
factions, you could look at Bosnia.
You could also look at America.

While very few would suggest that
America will become another Bosnia,
it is not alarmist to say that in recent

not speech. There is a clear difference
between the two, constitutionally and
practically. While freedom of expres-
sion is a good shorthand for many
constitutional rights, no nation can
possibly permit absolute freedom
of expression.

Years ago, former Supreme Court
Justice Felix Frankfurter, when asked,
“What is
America?” an-

embodies the ideals and the heritage of
a nation. To permit careless desecra-
tion of the ﬂag is to tarnish those ideals
and the people that fought for them.
And to allow an activist judiciary to
stymie the will of the people is wrong.
One can only hope the Senate follows

the House’s action.
Congress is also likely to debate
another question
of national iden-

swered, “We are
nothing more than
the symbols we

(6

tity in the near
future—the En-
glish language.

emonies in foreign languages.

While no official language law
would prevent private citizens from
speaking in another language at home
or elsewhere, it does require them to
deal with the government in English,
a strong incentive to learn the
language ﬂuently.

An ofﬁcial language law does not
equal oppression of immigrants or mi-
norities as some would claim. Rather,
it is about the best way to integrate.
these people into American society and
equip them to succeed. Bilingualism

years, Americans have lost much of
our national identity. As a result, we
find ourselves currently engaged in a
debate over what our national identity
is and should be.

One ﬂashpoint for this debate re-
volves around the American ﬂag. A
few years ago, the Supreme Court de-
clared desecration of the"ﬂa‘g to be a '
protected form of speech under the
First Amendment, invalidating count-

cherish. We live
byoursymbolsbe-
cause a civiliza-
tion that does not
nurture and cher-
ish its symbols is
in danger of with-
ering away. The
ultimate founda-
tion of a free
ociety is the bind-

...Americans have
lost much of our na-
tional identity. As a

gaged in a debate
over what our na-
tional identity is and
should be.

More and more,
we find Ameri-
cans unable to

run rampant, and
yet it shows no
signs of improv-
ing English skills
in those for whom

too often coddles children (and adults)
by allowing them to rely on their pri-
mary language rather than encourag-

communicate ing them to learn English. When En-
result! we  Our’ with each other. glish is spoken by over 95 percent of
selves current en- Bilingualism has the population, this clearly has a nega-

tive effect on the ability of these people
to succeed.

There are few ties as precious as
language to a nation, and few abilities
as important as the ability to communi-

less state laws in the process. In early
July, the House voted to overturn the
Court’s decision and prohibit desecra-
tion of the American ﬂag by the over-
whelming margin of 312 to 120, 22
votes more than needed for the consti-
tutional amendment.

Opponents of the measure gener-
ally cry that proponents are seeking to
restrict free speech. This is an intellec-
tually dishonest and alarmist debating
tactic. Flag desecration is expression,

ing tie of cohe-
sive sentiment.”

As Rep. David
Funderburk of North Carolina elo-
quently declared, “That is why we honor
the ﬂag. It is the tie which binds us
together. We remember that tie every
time we see it draped on the coffin of a
soldier or sailorwho gave his life ﬁght-
ing to preserve our freedoms.”

A ﬂag is more than just a piece of
cloth or a token of a nation. A flag

English is a sec-
ond language.
Pushed by Pat
Buchanan and others, chameleon Sen-
ate Majority Leader Bob Dole has re-

cently declared that English should be .

made the official language of the United
States. One bill to accomplish this,
proposed by Wisconsin Rep. Toby
Roth, would end the federal mandate
for bilingual education and prohibit
bilingual ballots and citizenship cer-

cate and be understood.

To be ﬂuent in more than one lan-
guage is admirable. But spending tax
money to subsidize people’s efforts to
avoid learning English is counterpro-
ductive and wrong.

At a time when Americans can find
less and less that brings us together as
a nation, we must take a stand to ac-
tively defend our nation’s symbols and
language. Our heritage demands it; our
future requires it.

@111; iﬁittg-tum lﬁhi

Censorship reconsidered: Bob Dole,
Time Warner, and ‘gangsta rap’

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

 

Bob Dole has become only the latest politician to
criticize Hollywood for its practice of wantonly
bombarding America’s youth with violent images

cially uplifting” in its power to shock its audience
into a new appreciation of “reality.”

Madonna, for example, in praise of the new movie
Kids (again, kiddie-pom for the educated), has said
that it effectively communicates “the truth” about
adolescent sexuality, even if the truth does hurt.

One ﬁnal argument raised in defense of gangsta
rap and related artistic forms is that they represent an
outlet for the expression of black rage, by
deﬁnition justiﬁed.

There is at least superﬁcial merit in each of the
arguments mentioned above.

right to vent his frustrations in an artistic form is
certainly correct. But there are right and wrong ways
of doing so.

He can express his indignation and anger in such
a manner as to seek a constructive resolution to the
issues that concern him, or he can fan the ﬂames of
wild hostility in such a manner as to incite both
himself and others to violent and antisocial actions.
It bears repeating that the latter course, in addition to
being imprudent and immoral, is also illegal.

In conclusion, we can only say that the time to
revisit our national and local policies with respect to

Executive Fditnn r.-mg], Bakenpan odenwald and exhortations, as well as a good deal of Of course, the First censorship unquestion-
Associate Fditnr Micha¢|H¢w1ejt borderline pornography. Amendment does afford ably has arrived.

News Editors Anne Aivom, Christine Gamavish The “kiddie-porn” advertisements half-heartedly substantial protections to C ‘ Bob Dole’s recom-
S:(l)lI(:fl1lEIAl:1lge Editor Alex Christensen retracted bfy a major company of late are a familiar pven the most unpopular mendation to Time
5 '07 soniaookwi th‘ f bt ‘ t‘t ' “
   .:2::.:::::.::r.':.;..*::..; In short» there can be no 
Ph°‘°3"'Phy E‘"'°" Betsy Green “Gangsta rap,” of course, is probably a case in protections are limited, guarantee that bombarding there will always be

"°"“‘ ‘“"°°"'5‘5 Phil Fhcklnger point, its lyrics are often an incitement to violence especially in the com- money to be made In the

young people with images of

and indecency. mercialsphere. - marketing of offensive

“' Business Manager Robe“ Nels‘) _Notably, it has been gangsta rap’s disrespectful Asfarasthe argument murder! rape! and theﬂ will materials, so it follows

Advemsing Manager Doug Gm“; plttittuﬁle towarg vtviornen (pargculprly) black wqlirteq) alboul: art’s] ability to ln any way contribute to the that there will always be

,- M n. ‘Co .. An. _ a as raise t _eire.o i era s, ut virtua y a s oc peope into new ' ° ° ° ' those willing to profit by
Ad::n::,::e;aff mposmon '5'  Americans are united in being thoroughly repulsed ways of thinking goes, abolltlon or dlmlnutlon of marketing them.

ci,cu1,,i°,,M,,,,agc, by the general tone of this musical form. Killing no doubt this does often any Of these practices (in- Aways, at 1335;, un-

comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letteis, columns, and “My
Views" do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advenising
does not reﬂect the opinions of'The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060

the market?

One need look no further to answer this question
than to the company that is responsible for the most
notorious gangsta rap record labels and artists, Time
Warner. How does Time Warner defend its market-
ing of gangsta rap?

First, of course, by appealing to the First Amend-
ment. This is the line of argument, not surprisingly,
preferred for its simplicity by “artists” like Snoop
Doggy Dog: “The constitution says I can say what
I want, so if you don’t like it, tough.”

(Of course, Mr. Dogg would probably advance
his position more colorfully, but this is a
family newspaper.)

Another line of argument, one beloved in Holly-
wood, is that even artistic degeneracy can be “so-

a problem necessarily
contributes to resolv-
ing it.

Ourabundanceoftalk
shows and psychologists, and our coincident over-
abundance of social problems and pathologies, should
be enough to show that laying bare an issue in a
tactless and direct way is not always a
beneﬁcial practice.

In short, there can be no guarantee that bombard-
ing young people with images of murder, rape, and
theft will in anyway contribute to the abolition or

dimunition of any of these practices (indeed, irratio- '

nal and crude presentations of deviant behavior can
have a decidedly negative impact).
Lastly, the idea that the black man has an intrinsic

negative impact).

s--r,-I--n Williard . . . _ _ _
4 police ofﬁcers, raping women, anddismembering take place. . deed, 1,-rat-zonal and crude til our society takes a
the innocent~—even in this age of iniquity—are not But it is acunous fea- . de . ﬁrmer stand,

The Ring-tum Phi is Published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at ma‘S"S“.°f“m Pa5‘i”‘°5' . . . d rb “”° Rf °“' mf‘t’d°'g'e]S.°°i' ﬁresgntatlozs of dl: 0"’ “a‘i°"» in fa°‘> “as

W h- d . . . . . . . . _ . 0 1 gangsta rap IS unmitigate ga age, as etyt at we 0 en ieve avlor can ave a, c; a long history of regulat-

as mgm an L” Ummsny’ Lmngmn’ v"3'""" F""d'"3 {°' The R”'3 """ H" most Americans would concede, then why is it on that talking openly about y mg and Comromng inde-

cent and inciteful forms
of speech. Reasonable
men have long held that
such controls are not in-
consistent with the protections afforded by our Bill
of Rights.

Rappers might suggest that censorship would
endanger our status as a free society.

But they forget that a free society is not only free;
it is also social. That is, a free society is still a
community that, by definition, operates within the
parameters of a certain set of shared values
and standards.

Unless we find the courage to defend those stan-
dards anew, I fear we are in store for even more
troubled times ahead.

PAGE 6

Sleeping with the fishes

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

It’s been several months since the

.tragic death of my betta ﬁsh, Betta

Theta Pi. With the beginning of the
new school year I thought it might be
good to start off with a brand new fish.
So I wouldn’t get lonely.

Inspired by Kevin Costner’s ﬁlm
Waterworld I wanted to create the most

intricate, expensive ﬁsh environment

possible. I set off for Wal-Mart, where
I purchased not just any ordinary ﬁsh:
I got a balu shark (retail price: $8.97).
I also bought “Schlitz” a new ship-
wreck, as well as a whole bag of

blue gravel.

No ﬁsh would be complete without
a supply of ColorBURST ﬁsh food.
This gourmet ﬁsh food comes in multi-

colored flakes (which smell suspi-

ciously like ground-up dog food). The

bottle was covered by a seal with the
‘words “Sealed for YOUR Protection”
.on top. That made me feel a lot better.

Schlitz’s fancy ﬁsh food made me a

little bit jealous, so I bought myself

some Wurrnz-n-Dirt, a new snack treat
consisting of ground-up Oreo cookies
(the “Dirt”) containing gummi worms
(the “Wumiz”). The label says “The

Best Bait You Ever Ate! !”
They’re right.
This would probably be a good time

to discuss how much I like gummi.
Gummi is the most artiﬁcial food ever
created, with the possible exception of
Cool Whip. There’s something
strangely addictive about this pre-
slimed, artiﬁcially colored, artiﬁcially
ﬂavored, worm-molded congealed
sugar that you would sell your mother
to get more of. Or someone else’s
mother. And the Romans said that if
you eat it with Dirt, you will
become immortal.

Getting back to Schlitz, on the way
back to my room he playfully tried to
bite through his plastic bag. Those baby
sharks! After I placed him in his
Waterworld he swam at about 80 revo-
lutions a minute. I fed him some of his
ColorBURST food (so he would have
more energy), which he brieﬂy slowed
down to snort up. Then Schlitz started
shoving around gravel with his nose.

Normally people look for docility
in a ﬁsh, but for my $8.97 I wanted
something with personality, notably
anger. I brought in friends to watch
Schlitz speak around his shipwreck,
breaking only forthree or four helpings
of ColorBURST.

“Are you sure Schlitz is not going to
outgrow the tank?” someone asked.
Though that would have been cool to
see, it was not meant to be. Schlitz’s
life was cut short.

He had started repeatedly turning
upside down for several days. I just
thought he was doing tricks for my

friends, but soon Schlitz was a ﬂoater;
he was dead. I stared at his tank for
hours; his eyes looked back at me all
cold and shark-like.

In my grief I brieﬂy thought about
using cryogenic technology to preserve
Schlitz’s body (Schlitz Ice) until he
could be brought back to life in the
future. But I pulled myself together
and decided it was time for me to make
that long, hard walk down the hall to
the bathroom. With his limp little body
in my hand (don’t worry — it was
wrapped in paper towels), I stiﬂed a
little tear. After a short eulogy, I dropped
him gently into the toilet bowl. With
two ﬂushes, Schlitz started spinning
around just like he used to. And then he
was gone...

I don’t know if I’ll ever be able to
have another ﬁsh after Schlitz’s death.
But I do know that the blue gravel from
his Waterworld looks like little blue
diamonds if you shine a ﬂashlight on
them. Also, I do know that
ColorBURSTﬁsh food, when sprinkled
on your front door, can ward off evil
spirits. That stuff really stinks! And I
do know that Schlitz’s plastic ship-
wreck will make a great multimedia
addition to any term papers I do this
year on the Spanish Armada. I’ll put
Schlitz on the bibliography page.

Yes, Schlitz taught me a lot in his
short life: appreciate and cherish what
you’ve got, and then when it’s gone,
ﬂush the toilet and move on.

The Ring-tum Phi, September 8, 1995

Parents Weekend

Parents Weekend 1995 will take
place Oct. 27 and 28. Student leaders
whose organizations plan to sponsor
special Parents Weekend events
which will be open to all parents and
students should contact Michelle
Richardson, Student Activities Co-
ordinator, in the University Center
no later than Sept. 29.

Poster Policy

Notices should not be posted on

GENERAL

NOTES

 

any part of the Colonnade including
Newcomb Hall and Tucker Hall. The
Colonnade and Lee Chapel are Na-
tional Historic Landmarks.

Notices shuld not be posted on the
campus walkways.

Notices should not be posted on any
of the white columns of campus build-
ings. Banners and signs forspecial events
may hang from the Co-op columns.

Notices should not be posted on the
Co-op white tables and chairs or on the
teak benches on campus.

Notices should not be posted on the
campus lampposts.

The organization that posts the
notices is responsible for removing
all notices when the event is over.

RACASA

RACASA, a United Way agency,
is seeking volunteers to provide di-
rect victim services and community
education programs. The 33-hour
Volunteer Training Program will be
held from Wednesday, Oct. 4 through
Saturday, Nov. 18. For more infor-
mation, call (540) 463-RAPE.

The Ring-tum

Phi.

It's not just for
breakfast
anymore.

To the editor:

Let me welcome those of you who
are new to the W&L community and
welcome those of you who
are returning. I

The re-gathering of our community
after the summer’s respite is one of the
most special and exciting times in
the year.

LETTERS

Seeing again old friends, making
new friends, beginning a new academic
term with its promise of interesting
courses and teachers and its demands
as well, athletic contests, and parties
too—all these things and many more
make the beginning of an academic
year a very interesting and hopeful
time in our lives.

Mimi and I extend our very best

wishes for a year that fulfills all your
dreams for it, and we look forward to
being with as many of you as possible
before the year ends.

Very sincerely,
John W. Elrod

President
Washington and Lee University

 

\

pagollllo

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccessories

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

   

/

Welcome (Back Students

 

Alain-*Ei>nnia

102 W. Washington St.

 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

(703)463-5988

 

\

VISA

 

- BLUE BLAZERS

— BASS SHOES
- DUCKHEADS

- EMBASSY BOXERS

- RAY—BAN S
- RED WING BOOTS
- TUXEDO RENTALS & SALES
— W&L BELTS, TIES, DOG COLLARS

MASTERCARD
463-5383

SINCE 1963

J

STUDENT CHARGE

Harb

A Bistro

8 am - 3 pm - Monday

9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

   

8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday

10% off food - with student ID

Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
All you can eat $4.99
Thursday -
Friday - Seafood Nite -
Saturday - 8 oz. Prime Rib,
2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

 

24450 :

  

Welcome Back

from

FINE ITALIAN CUISINE

Students

24 North Main St.
464-5800

    

Welcome Back Students!  

 e ’ 4  \\

 25 N Main St. \.\
 463-6003 
‘x, \, One of Lexington’s Best Bets! ,7 //
‘\ ,,,, H/' “ \_g_/'
/  Full Service - Mens/Women Salon ____ , \
-’  if \-.
fl " Perms, Color, Highlighting w/ cap or foil “  “~.
 Bikini, Leg, Facial, & Therapeutic Waxing 
‘\_\ Facilas, manicures, Pedicures, Acrylic Nails /1’
\ Paul Mitchell Redken Nexxus Aveda 
\\ //
 Walk-ins Welcome /‘ ,_\
  I "3
‘\__/ \ _,/

  

19W

Your Student
Go Hungry

Harbs" Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner

For only $90.00

Nutritious M uﬁins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
21 Homecooked Meal With Our
Point Card

  Harbs’

shington St., Lexington, A

. 3
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

 

24450

    

3

al-

 

~:1

K‘

(V.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 8, 1995

 

Miami at New England 1PM

Pittsburgh at Houston 1PM

Oakland at Washington 1PM
N.Y. Giants at Kansas City 1PM

Detroit at Minnesota 1PM
Carolina at Buffalo 1PM
New Orleans at St. Louis 1PM
Tampa Bay at Cleveland 1PM
Denver at Dallas 4PM
Indianapolis at N.Y. Jets 4PM
Jacksonville at Cincinnati 4PM
Seattle at San Diego 4PM
Atlanta at San Francisco 4PM
Philadelphia at Arizona 8PM

MoNnAv's GAME
Green Bay at Chicago 9PM

 

    

PAGE 7

Defending champion 49ers
search for back-to-back titles

NFC, from page 8

wideout in Dallas, gives Dilfer a go-to receiver. Hardy
Nickerson anchors the defense at linebacker. With the best
talent they have had in a long time, the Bucs should go from
5-11 to 6-10 to... 7-9.

NFC WEST:

San Francisco: You can book this one. Sure, no-name
Derek Loville will be running the ball, but it never really
matters who the 49ers plug into their system. They still win.
It’s not that talent doesn’t count for something. Look up
Steve Young and Jerry Rice. The Niners
may end up losing comerback Deion Sand-

sunken to such depths that even Jim Everett becomes a
winner when he leaves town. Chris Miller spent more time
last year auditioning for the cast of M *A "‘S*H* then he did
throwing passes. If he can keep himself upright for most of
the year behind the Rams’ pathetic offensive line, he'll be
able to connect with Isaac Bruce, a wideout with some
major talent. But no doubt the newly fed-up fans in St. bouis
will soon be calling for Miller to hand off to Jerome Bettis
and get the heck out of the way. 5-II.

Carolina: Don’t be surprised if the expansion Panthers

ﬁnish ahead of the Rams in their inaugural season. For an
expansion team, Carolina really is not that bad. The
Panthers have a gritty starting quarterback in Frank Reich
and a solid kicker in John Kasay. However, coach Dom
Capers’ ball-control attack needs a dependable running

back, which isn't in Randy Baldwin's

ers, but there are still adequate players
around on defense, namely Dana
Stubblefield, Ken Norton, Jr., and Merton
Hanks. It will be more interesting to see
if the Niners can adequately replace the
losses of the offensive and defensive co-
ordinators from last year, Mike Shanahan
and Ray Rhodes. 13-3, division winner.

Atlanta: This team used to be fun to
watch when Deion Sanders and coach
Jeny Glanville were around. Now the
Falcons look like just another mediocre
franchise playing in a boring dome. At-
lanta is now the run-and-shoot offense’s
last stand, and it has the talent to effec-
tively operate it with quarterback Jeff
George, and wide receivers Terance
Mathis and Eric Metcalf. Now if they can
patch together a pass defense, the Falcons
will once again be raising some excite-
ment down in Georgia. 8-8.

New Orleans: In the past, the Saints
were very predictable. Stick it down
around the 25-yard line, have Morten
Andersen kick a ﬁeld goal, and watch the

 

Steve Young attempts to
lead the 49ers back to
the promisedland in '95.

resume, at least not yet. Capers built
the swarming Steel Trap defense in
Pittsburgh, and given a few years,
will do similarly in Charlotte. He
already has a seasoned veteran leader
in linebacker Sam Mills. Carolina will
hang around in plenty of games, and
a four or ﬁve-win season would be a
terriﬁc ﬁrst-yearaccomplishment. 4-
12.

In the end, it will boil down to
what it has in the NFC for the last
three years: a Dallas vs. San Fran-
cisco NFC Championship Game.
Unless, of course, there is a major
upset. That seems unlikely because
there are not any other teams near the
plateau occupied by the league's top
two model organizations.

Atlanta and Arizona are too incon-
sistent to stay with the Cowboys and
49ers over the course of the season,
and Philadelphia has a lot of question
marks, as well as a brand-new staff.

If there is a challenge, it likely will
come from a Central Division team,

defense do the rest. Now, those are no
longer possible. Andersen departed for
the archrival Falcons, and the defense turned as soft as
gumbo. So, for the Saints to regain their winning ways, they
will need to get another productive season out of the offense,
and (gulp) quarterback Jim Everett. 8-8.

St. Louis: No matter where they are located, this tough-
luck franchise can’t get anything to go right. After serving
as bridesmaids for the 49ers in the late ‘80s, the Rams have

all of which play well at home. De-
troit has Barry Sanders and an offense

that can put up some points. Chicago comes to mind with
its rock-solid defense. And surely the Niners and Cowboys
have found more pleasant places to play in January than a
frostbitten, windswept Soldier Field, where the fans are
swilling beer and bellowing, "Da Bears!"

Coming next week: ‘An analysis of the AFC.

Wnte for The Ring-tum Phi Sports Page:
If Interested, call Scott at the Phi afﬂce.

  9

GENERALS’ UPCOMING HOME
SCHEDULE 9/8 - 9/14

Saturday, 9/9 Water Polo in W&LFall
Classic

Wednesday, 9/13 Men's soccer vs.
Marymount, 4:00 PM
Thursday, 9/14 Women's soccer vs.

\ Mary Baldwin, 4:30 PM

W N
N
AFC American League
East W L PCT East W L PCT GB
Miami 1 0 1.000 Boston 76 45 .628 ---
New England 1 0 1.000 N.Y. Yankees 61 61 .500 15.5
Buffalo 0 1 .000 Baltimore 57 65 .467 19.5
Indianapolis 0 1 .000 Toronto 51 71 .418 25.5
N.Y. Jets 0 1 .000 Detroit 50 71 .413 26
Central Central
Cincinnati 1 0 1.000 Cleveland 84 37 .694 ---
Houston 1 0 1.000 Kansas City 62 59 .512 22
Pittsburgh 1 0 1.000 Milwaukee 59 63 .484 25.5
Cleveland 0 1 .000 Chicago W.S. 56 64 .467 27.5
Jacksonville 0 1 .000 Minnesota 46 74 .383 37.5
West West
Denver 1 0 1.000 California 68 55 .553 ---
Kansas City 1 0 1.000 Seattle 62 60 .508 5.5
Oakland 1 0 1.000 Texas 60 62 .492 7.5
San Diego 0 1 .000 Oakland 59 64 .480 9
Seattle 0 1 .000
NFC National League
East ‘w L PCT East w L PCT GB
Dallas 1 0 1.000 Atlanta 78 44 .639 ---
Washington 1 0 1.000 Philadelphia 62 61 .504 16
Arizona 0 1 .000 Montreal 59 63 .484 18.5
N.Y. Giants 0 1 .000 Florida 55 65 .458 22
Philadelphia 0 1 .000 N.Y. Mets 53 68 .438 24
Central Central
Chicago 1 0 1.000 Cincinnati 75 46 .620 ---
Tampa Bay 1 0 1.000 Houston 62 60 .508 13.5
Detroit 0 1 .000 Chicago 61 60 .504 14
Green Bay ’ 0 1 .000 Pittsburgh 51 70 .421 24
Minnesota 0 1 .000 St. Louis 50 72 .410 25.5
West West
Atlanta 1 0 1.000 Colorado 63 58 .521 ---
San Francisco 1 0 1.000 Los Angeles 64 59 .520 ---
St. Louis 1 0 1.000 San Diego 60 61 .496 3
Carolina 0 1 .000 San Francisco 58 64 .475 5.5
New Orleans 0 1 .000
WILD CARD RACES:
LAST WEEK'S RESULTS AL
(HOME TEAM IN CAPS)
Kansas City 62 59 .512 ---
ATLANTA 23, Carolina 20 (OT) Seattle 62 60 .508 0.5
Cincinnati 24, INDIANAPOLIS 21 (OT) N.Y Yankees 61 61 .500 1.5
Houston 10, JACKSONVILLE 3 Texas 60 62 .492 2.5
NEW ENGLAND 17, Cleveland 14 Milwaukee 59 63 .484 3.5
St. Louis 17, GREEN BAY 14 Oakland I 59 64 .480 4
Tampa Bay 21, PHILADELPHIA 6 Baltimore 57 65 .467 5.5
San Francisco 24, NEW ORLEANS 22 Chicago W.S. 56 64 .467 5.5
PITTSBURGH 23, Detroit 20
MIAMI 52, N.Y. Jets 14
WASHINGTON 27, Arizona 7 NL
CHICAGO 31, Minnesota 14
Kansas City 34, SEATTLE -10 Los Angeles ' 64 59 .520 ---
OAKLAND 17, San Diego 7 Houston 62 60 .508 1.5
DENVER 22, Buffalo 7 Philadelphia 62 61 .504 2
Dallas 35, N.Y. GIANTS 0 (Mon.) Chicago C. 61 60 .504 2
San Diego 60 61 .496 3
Montreal 59 63 .484 4.5
SUN1)AY's GAMES San Francisco 58 64 .475 5.5
Florida 55 65 .458 7.5_

THURSDAY'S GAMES:
NL
Atlanta 6, FLORIDA 3 (completion of
suspended game)

Atlanta at Florida, 2nd game, night

San Diego at St. Louis, night

AL
Seattle at Cleveland, night
Chicago W.S. at Texas, night

THIS WEEKEND's GAMES:
Baltimore at Cleveland, Fri-Sun
Boston at N.Y. Yankees, Fri-Sun
Detroit at Toronto, Fri-Mon
Texas at Milwaukee, Fri-Sun
Chicago W.S. at Oakland, Fri-Sun
Kansas City at Seattle, Fri-Sun
Minnesota at California, Fri-Sun

Atlanta at Florida, Fri-Sun

San Francisco at Chicago C., Fri-Sun
Cincinnati at Colorado, Fri-Sun
Houston at Philadelphia, Fri-Sun
Los Angeles at Pittsburgh, Fri-Sun
San Diego at St. Louis, Fri-Sun

N.Y. Mets at Montreal, Fri-Mon J

THE PHOENIX

September Music

20 South Randolph Street

Wednesday Thursday

Friday

’ ' 464-5011
Saturday

Se t. 6
R G
Project

Sept. 7
Karaoke

Sept. 8
Red Weather

Se t. 9
Miller rothers
Band

Se t. 13
J.
Michelle

Sept. 14
Karaoke

Sept. 15
Alter Ego

 

Sept. 16
Fatty Lumpkin &

LARGEST STUDENT TRAVEL
PLANNER on East Coast looking for
Campus Rep to promote Kodak
SPRING BREAK trips “ ”
lowest package prices and best incen-
tives. Youhandle the sales...we handle
the bookkeeping. Cancun, 4 Nassau,
Jamaica, S. Padre, Orlando & Key
West. EARN BIG $33 AND/OR
FREE TRIP(S)...GREAT FOR RE-

Lovehogs

SUME!!! CALL 1-800-222-4432

, wax: C-xesmxxx xima,
QBQQ-E, was Qkssisg

25 S. Jefferson 464-4050
Open 11 a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, Saturday 11 a.m.

  
  
 

- 5‘ p.m.

 

4 Bedroom 7/z427¢E2&?’0.4’5
House for Ren 7mm W, 54%,,

Rt. 60 E
463-5383

 

O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
‘O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O
O

/9 S. zmzaaé 51!.
463-2742

  

tjj

 

  
  

Last Week:

There were no athletic events
scheduled as all the W&L sports
teams continued to practice.

PAGE 8

   
  
 

‘ er’ 

 

Ifi’yo#.:<.>f<'>'1<,i 
“ are

    
  
   
 
 
   
 
  
 

V the-field‘ex’plaits.,:,Geo:ge
Steiabrlenner  back’ at g V
it again in New.,Y’ ,_I_ie?“ "

 ‘aiiowed’ ’ Darryl 

ﬁsh?” Steuben? td‘§<>
it t¢af!I_3iIet1_dy iiifeeted
eight,—,time,.druggief A
Howe. Qeorgetlieu traded‘
forpitcherDavidCea
stagger Rube_n.Si_e'i1'_
‘ vwatched» as the Y

Iééetegenﬂlt/1ici€c‘3'Ii*I_ . .

Mdiedofcancershortiyaﬁet‘ ‘

jreceiviiighis much-hyped
M

  
  
    
     

I on August: 10, as fans
_ out -their»-displeasure g by.
‘ petting senate with their

     

      
  
   
  
  
   

capture» the‘T1‘99 ' ' "
-Championship; _Cc‘,_irey.;=:-.
Yaviri, often laheie8C“th ‘
bes§.p1ay¢zW¢rett‘ _

  

* Mil-re”: _
McNeeley tiavest g A ‘
who had ‘paid.'rid1cuteus
sums to watch the;’ﬁ'glit.,. 

. were ‘angered when I
MeNeeley,’s . ’ trainers"
stopped the fight inidwayg .
throughi the"ﬁtst‘rouri.d. _
iron Miitestili iooksteugh: 

j at‘ter,:his jail At‘ “

  
    

Considering;;.c'ont_r ,
versy _foliowsI”I."yson, V

around like-:a_n;3g;,_¢r,.the ‘
upcoming yearpromises 
to offer its reach, excite-.=.,»

merit as the summer did. ?

S

(J11: 'iRt1tg-tum iﬂlit  

PORTS

I

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

Defensive tackle scouted by NFL

By Scorr BOOKWALTER ,
Phi Sports Editor

Look out NFL, here comes
Robert Hull.

Well, maybe not so quick.
After all, W&L isn’t known for
being an NFL prep factory.

Still, there was considerable
excitement recently when sev-
eral pro scouts showed up at a
Generals practice to watch the
senior All-American defensive
tackle Hull.

Head coach Frank Miriello
said that scouts mostly from the
east coast NFL teams, such as the
Washington Redskins, Philadel-
phia Eagles, and New York Gi-
ants, were present.

“It was a routine check,” ex-
plained Miriello, who added that
the scouts were in the area to
inspect players from James Madi-
son and VMI as well.

“They were aware of him be-
cause he was named the preseason
Divisionlll Defensive Player of
the Year,” Miriello said.

Hull was excited over the
scouts coming to visit him.

“It’s a great honor to be con-
sidered,” he said.

“Robert is an outstanding foot-
ball player,” Miriello added. “He
is so intense, has a tremendous
work ethic, and loves football.”

All-American DT Robert Hull has been scouted by
the pros, but is doubtful about trying out soon.

However, both Hull and
Miriello express doubt that Hull
will be trying out for the NFL in
the near future.

“He doesn’t quite have the
size that the scouts are looking
for,” cautioned Miriello. “That
level is big business.”

In the next few years, Hull
won’t be playing much football;
he will be playing with teeth.

“My immediate goal is that
I’m looking to get into a dental
school,” Hull said.

“'I‘hat’s looking pretty opti-
mistic,” he added.

The senior has been under
immense pressure to lead the Gen-
erals’ defense in 1995 after ﬁn-
ishing the 1994 season with a
team-high 106 tackles, seven
quarterback sacks, and four
forced fumbles.

In May, he was selected pre-
season Division III Defensive
Player of the Year by The Sport-
ing News.

“It was surprising (to be
named), considering we’re not a
nationally-ranked team,” re-
marked Hull.

Miriello feels Hull will have a
tremendous impact this fall on
not just the defense, but on the
entire team.

“Robert has the capability of
elevating people around him,”
the coach mentioned.

“He’s finally coming to the
realization that he has that
impact.”

Hull’s quest for another All-
American season and to lead the
Generals back to the top of the
division begins tomorrow, when
Washington and Lee visits Emory
and Henry.

The Wasps stung the Gener-
als in last year’s opener at Wilson
Field, 23-2.

“Our goal as a team is to win
the ODAC,” Hull said. “Hope-
fully, we can start it off with a
win against Emory and Henry.”

San Francisco, Dallas lead
charge as NFL kicks off season

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

The advent of a new school year means two things: the beginning
of autumn and the start of another NFL football season.

The only league without a recent work stoppage, the NFL will
attempt to follow up on an exciting 1994 season. Last year, the San
Francisco 49ers ﬁnally knocked off the Dallas Cowboys in the NFC
title game, and went on to destroy the San Diego Chargers in the
Super Bowl, 49-26.

Despite the loss of halfback Ricky Watters and possibly comerback
Deion Sanders, the defending champion 49ers are still the team to
beat in 1995.

This year also marks the birth of two new teams, the Carolina
Panthers and the Jacksonville Jaguars. The Panthers will play in the
NFC West (yeah, ﬁgure it out), while the Jaguars will compete in the
AFC Central. Both teams will hope to have more success than their
expansion predecessors, the Tampa Bay Bucs, and the Seattle
Seahawks. Tampa Bay and Seattle both joined the league in 1976,
and neither have played in a Super Bowl as of yet.

In this first of a two-part series, I’ll look at how the NFC stacks up,
and take a guess on how each team should finish.

much as he likes Jimmy Johnson. The defense, with the likes of Eric
Swann, Seth Joyner, and Clyde Simmons, will once again wreak
havoc on opponents’ offenses. Rookie wide receiver Frank Sanders
could surprise on offense, as well as newly-acquired Rob Moore.
Dave Krieg, who has been around long enough to hand off to Red
Grange, isn’t exactly the quarterback of Arizona’s future. 8-8, wild
card.

N.Y. Giants: The Giants were the NFL’s Jekyll-and-Hyde team
in 1994. They lost seven straight, then won their last six to ﬁnish 9-
7. Coach Dan Reeves has built a reliable defense in his two-year
tenure. The offense, without an established receiver, is another story.
Herschel Walker and Rodney Hampton do key a potentially strong
ground game. Now if quarterback Dave Brown spends more time on
the ﬁeld than he does in the training room this year, expect the Giants
to be in the midst of the playoff hunt. 8-8.

Washington: It seems the Redskins have turned into football’s
version of the New York Mets. Despite the constant infusion of
young prospects, the rebuilding program is stuck in neutral. With a
capable backup in Gus Frerotte, highly-touted quarterback Heath
Shuler is running low on time and chances. Linebacker Ken Harvey
was a huge success last year in his first season with the 'Skins, but he'll
need some help from his friends. 5-II.

NFC CENTRAL:

    

Photo by Mary Butkus, Associated Press

The L. A. Rams’ moving van enters St. Louis, where the Rams will make their
new home. Their former neighbors, the Raiders, also vacated Los Angeles.

Detroit: There is never a
favorite in this wacky division.
Every year, each team takes
turns beating one another, and
with the exception of Tampa
Bay, usually ﬁnishes around
.500. Detroit doesn’t look par-
ticularly dominant, but it is hard
to bet against a gamebreaking
runner like Barry Sanders. Wide
receiver Herman Moore has
turned into one of the NFL’s
elite, unlike quarterback Scott
Mitchell, who was the NFL’s
highest-paid free agent bust of
the yearin 1994. 10-6, division
winner. -

Chicago: Funny, but doesn’t
Mike Ditka still coach this team?
The Bears’ stiﬂing defense and
crank-it—out offense are trade-
marks of the Ditka years. Nei-
ther Erik Kramer or Steve Walsh
are the type of quarterbacks
likely to make coach Dave
Wannstedt’s Bears do the Super
Bowl Shufﬂe. With the ex-
pected defensive dominance, if

NFC EAST:

Dallas: The Cowboys still reign over this division, although they
have slipped a bit with some free agent losses, particularly on
defense, as well as the never-ending distractions provided by owner
Jerry Jones and coach Barry Switzer. The defense still has an
imposing line with the likes of Charles Haley, who once again
reneged on his retirement plans, Russell Maryland, and of course, the
famous football goat, Leon Lett. With Troy Aikman, Emmitt Smith,
and Michael Irvin still in town on offense, Dallas would have to fall
flat for the rest of the division to catch up. Predicted record: I I -
5, division winner.

Philadelphia: As usual, Philly’s fortunes rest with quarterback
Randall Cunningham. If Randall stays healthy and productive the
entire season for a change, the Eagles can soar into the playoffs.
Randall will have the benefit of offensive weapons such as Ricky
Watters and wide receiver Fred Barnett to help him. The acquisition
of Gary Anderson gives the Eagles an excellent kicker. New coach
Ray Rhodes will need to establish a solid defense, now that Buddy
Ryan took half of it to Arizona, and Eric Allen left for the Saints, in
order to bury the memory of last season’s inexplicable collapse, and
contend for the playoffs in 1995. 9-7, wild card.

Arizona: It is scary to think what Arizona could accomplish if it
ever found an offense. Coach Buddy Ryan likes offense about as

rookie halfoack Rashaan Salaam
does half of what he did at Colorado, the Bears will be in business.
9-7, wild card.

Green Bay: Brett Favre should sue for nonsupport. After the
quarterback finally began performing consistently, the Packers re-
leased superstar wide receiver Sterling Sharpe, and will hinge its
running game on...Edgar Bennett. With the loss of Bryce Paup to
Buffalo, Reggie White and the rest of his defensive comrades will
need to have an outstanding season to keep the Pack aﬂoat. 8-8.

Minnesota: During the late ‘80s and early ‘90s, the Vikings
perennially underachieved. Now they perennially overachieve. Cris
Carter shattered the NFL single-season receptions record with 122 in
1994, and defensive tackle John Randle anchors a potent run defense.
Wide receiver David Palmer, a disappointment last year, has blos-
somed into a dangerous return man. Quarterback Warren Moon is
about 55, and there’s not much of a running game. Still, don’t be
shocked if the Vikes find a way to capture the division. They were
not favored last season, but still won the Central, anyway. 7-9.

Tampa Bay: This could be the year that west Florida has been
waiting for. A Super Bowl? No. A playoff appearance? Probably
not. No, it could be the Bucs’ first single-digit loss season since 1982.
The pieces are in place with potential superstars Errict Rhett and
Trent Dilfer. Wide receiver Alvin Harper, who was a big-play

up See NFC, page 7

This Week:

VOLLKYBAIJ. - Sat. at Christopher Newport, 12 Noon.

Msocczn - Sat. at Shenandoah, 3:00 PM
Wed. vs. Maryrnuunt, 4:00 PM

WSoccm-

Sat. and Sun. at Kean Toumnment.

Thurs. vs. Mary Baldwin, 4:30 PM

Foovnm.i.-

Sat. at Emory and Henry, 1:30 PM

M, WCnoss COUNTRY - Sat. at Lebanon Valley Invitational
WATER Pow - Sat. and Sun. in W&L Fall Classic

SEPTEMBER 8, 1995

Soccer returns
top six scorers

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

With eight starters returning,
the Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team has plenty of cause
for excitement over the upcom-
ing season. '

W&L captured ﬁve games
out of six at one point late last
year to finish strongly at 7-7-2, a
decisive improvement over a 5-
13 log in 1993.

The Generals fell in the first
round of the ODAC tournament
at Randolph-Macon by a count
of 4-0.

Despite the losses of four
seniors to graduation, the fact
that six of the leading scorers
from 1994 are returning leads to
increased expectations.

The Generals lost two-time
captain midfielder Alan
Christensen, midﬁelder Kevin
Hocking, who notched three
goals and one assist during his
senior season, forward Jud
Allen, and back Paul Wright.

“We miss them (the graduat-
ing seniors),” head coach Rolf
Piranian said, “but we’re just as
good without them.”

Players such as senior Jeb
Wofford illustrate that point.

The tri—captain Wofford was
W&L’s leading scorer last year,
racking up seven goals and four
assists from his position at
midﬁeld.

These accomplishments
earned him a place on the all-
ODAC second team.

He will be joined at the
midfield spot by fellow senior
Chad Dobbins, who has started
every contest the last two years.

Sophomore Gordon Meeker
will key the Generals’ offense
up front.

Meeker posted an outstand-
ing freshman season by scoring
four goals and assisting twice.
Two of his four goals proved to
be game-winners.

Senior forward Shag Drewry

equaled Meeker’s ‘94 campaign
with four goals and two assists of

his own. _ _ _
However, due to rehabilitation

from knee surgery, W&L will not
be able to count on Drewry’s ser-
vices for the early part of the
season.

Senior tri—captain Fernando
Bravo will provide leadership at
forward, while juniors Dave Com-
ing and Bill Gill will be relied on
for extra scoring punch.

The Generals should be excel-
lent defensively, particularly be-
cause of the experience of junior
Bill Sigler, who will start for the
third straight season.

Sophomore Michael Germain
is also back after an impressive
first year in which he started ev-
ery game but one in the backﬁeld.

Also counted on for contribu-
tions on the defensive end are
junior Mike Matechak, who starts
at marking back this year, sopho-
more Colin Connolly, who also
played excellently in his first sea-
son, and incoming freshman
Mikel Parker.

Junior tri—captain Anthony
Mazzerelli, with 76 saves in 1994,
is solid at goalie. A

Piranian will emphasize the
team concept even more through-
out the autumn.

“I can’t single out anybody in
particular,” he mentioned.

‘‘I just look for a good eleven-
man effort each game.”

The Generals ‘kick off their
season tomorrow with a trip to
Shenandoah before returning
home on Wednesday afternoon to
host Marymount.

“I expect two very difﬁcult
games,” Piranian commented.
“We’d like to come up with the
wins, but they would probably be
ugly winsbecausewe’re stillcom-
ing together.”

Despite the increased pressure
to improve even more this season
with a load of talent returning to
the ﬁeld, Piranian keeps his phi-
losophy simple.

“We just want to have fun and
win some games.”

  

L-

 

JAMK G. LBYIURN UIRARY
\‘l/AI~D'C$«5‘ I ‘LC ‘II!-Sb/‘FIlTY
LQQOITIM, VA 800

8EP 1 8 1995

 

 

Fall TV

preview

Water polo

cruises in Fall
classic

1 9' or or .
x 9 5 .
VOLUME 93, N0- 2 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA SEPTEMBERI5, 1995
' O
* W&L ranked No
, 15 by U.S. News
WW®Ww .aaaaamama
H” E"°°‘”"’° Ed”°' 25th for academic reputation, third for
y student selectivity, and 77 percent of
Washington and Lee University has the incoming freshman were in the top
again been named the 15th best na- 10 percent of their high school classes.
tional liberal arts college in the nation. W&L Was also ranked 16th for its
This is the second year the school has student retention and boasts a gradua-
garnered that position. In 1993, W&L tion rate of 89 percent.
4 was ranked at number 20. While Howison is pleased with the
Bach September us. News and recognition W&L attracts, he said the
World Report, a national news maga- University does not cater their prac-
zine, compiles the listing to aid high tices to place well on college ranking
. school seniors as they begin their lists.
,3, college search, However, the University does focus
“we should be proud to beincluded on the areas to which surveyors look
among the best national liberal arts When S00rlhg- Thus, the UhlV¢fSitY
colleges in the country,” said Dean of Wins these accolades largely by de-
Students David Howison. “ Because fault, h0t 0Ut0f3|'|)’ C0nC€It€d ¢ff0It t0
I we are.” be Number One.
’ U.S. News studies a variety of cat- “Take our graduation rate,” said
egories to determine the rankings. Howison. “Our goal is to have as many
Academic reputation, student selec- students graduate as possible. Eighty-
tivity, faculty resources, student reten- nine percent is quite high and is indica-
tion, graduation rate, and other criteria tive of a quality education.”
4 ﬁgure into a college’s overall score. Howison believes the list is an im-
The listing of the best national lib- portant resource for ‘high school stu-
Betsy Green, phi photo Edna, eral arts. colleges should not be con- dents who are choosing colleges. To
Moooove along fused with the listing of the best na- that end, the feC0gmtl0ﬂ b0deS Well
tional universities, also compiled by for W&L.
‘( U.S. News. Dean of the College W. Lad Ses-
" Freshmen males gather in the BDG quad for one of the three rounds of Rush open houses held this weekend National universities usually have S'°"S.agr°ed wlth H°w.'S°" that ‘t was
' more-selective admissions and greater pleasing to be recognized for excel-
resources. According to U.S. News, lence,butplaceslittlestockinthe meth-
0 0 0 they offer a wide range of baccalaure- odology of the survey.
Stadium renovations st art this We ek    a   on    wi-
A , research, and award many Ph.D.’s. leges could slip ﬁve or more places in

F

‘e

)1, input in designing the new fa_ system to ensure students’ safety at W&L. Two weeks into the school
cilities. Suggestions were given year, Dean of Freshmen Dennis Manning and Head of Security Michael
,0 architect Kelly Ludwig of Young have not received any complaints.
the Richmond based firm last year, freshmen faced an increase in theft, solicitation and
Marcellus, wright’ Cox and unwanted guests in their halls. General Meters Corporation in Colorado
‘‘ Smith After the budget and Springs, CO, provided the answer with the new system. Although it may

By BET!-[ANY BAUMAN
Phi Staff Writer

A --"l Like several other W&L

buildings, the Wilson Field Sta-
dium will be getting a face lift
this year. Renovations on the
stadium began this week.
According to assistant ath-
letic director and facilities man-
ager ChuckO’Connell, the start
of the construction has been a
long time coming. Talk about

amount of input that they had
in the design. “We were happy
to have as much access as we
did with the architect and with
the administration. They
backed up with our sugges-
tions and were very
cooperative...I think that’s in-
dicative and characteristic of
Washington and Lee in terms
of administrative support,”
said head athletic trainer
Tom Jones.

The stadium is set to be

completed August 1, 1996. For
the next fall sports season, all
of the W&L field teams, with
the exception of the cross-
country teams, will be operat-
ing out of the new facility.
Thisisamovethat many mem-
bers of the athletic department
are eagerly anticipating.
“We’re outgrowing the gym
with the number of people who
are participating in sports. And
a lot of the teams are doubled,
almost tripled up, in the locker

rooms as it is now...it is much
more convenient for athletes
to be over closer to their ﬁelds,
especially if there’s an injury,”
said assistant athletic trainer
Patti Colliton.

Until the construction is
completed, field teams will
have to adapt to working out of
the Doremus Gym facility. But
according to Coach Frank
Miriello, the Generals football
team has not had trouble mak-
ing the change. “We’re an A

and I team, adjust and impro-
vise.” Miriello also stated that
the new stadium facility will
be a plus for W&L recruiting.

Despite any inconvenience
that the construction will cause
the W&L athletic community,
it will be well worth the wait.
“A lot of consideration has gone
into the plans, more than a lot
of people would have guessed.
lt’s going to be very functional
and practical, but very attrac-
tive,” said O’Connell. ‘

.%

m and 2.2 million dollars.

renovating the stadium began
about ten years ago. Making
formal plans, however, was put
on hold until funding was av ail-
able. During the University’s
“On the Shoulders of Giants”
capital campaign, part of the
money was earmarked for the
stadium renovation and exten-
sion. The budget forthe project
has been estimated between 1.8

Last school year athletic di-
rector Mike Walsh and
O’Connell met with the equip-
ment managers, athletic train-
ers and coaches to get their

space allotment speciﬁcations
were worked out, Walsh and
O'Connell again met with per-
sonnel to discuss the layout
and design of the new stadium.
Members of the athletic de-
partment were pleased with the

ck)‘ .-ae-

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

p * Plans to expand Phone Mail System

i

,4.

K.

 

By CELLESTE RASMUSSEN
Phi Staff Writer

In the first week of school, W&L freshmen are
faced with many new challenges: roommates, quiet
hours, communal bathrooms, and the Phone Mail
System. While the first three may eventually be
tolerated at best, the Phone Mail Sstem soon be-
comes an intricate part of residence hall life. Not only
does it give access to e-mail and the Internet, but it
also eliminates the need to purchase a separate an-
swering machine and telephone for students living in
University-owned housing.

One large group of students in University-owned
housing is being left out of the Phone Mail loop,

however: the residents of W&L’s fifteen fratenity
houses. Fraternity houses, which have been owned
by the school since the completion of the Fraternity
Renaissance Program, are currently being served by
the regional long distance company, Sprint—Centel;
and fraternity members must dial in via modem if
they wish to log onto Liberty.

Last year, after considerable interest from frater-
nity members, a Virginia company was contacted to
work out the schematics of laying down the ﬁber-
optic cables that are necessary for the Phone Mail
system. However, according to Associate Dean of
Students Leroy Atkins ll, the treasurers of the indi-
vidual chapters received a letter this summer saying
that the plans have temporarily been put on hold.

Director of University Services, Jim Johndrow,
cites two road blocks to the completion ofthe project.
Firstofall, the funds estimated to install wiring in the

houses themselves was underestimated. Secondly,
laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia prevent
schools, such as Washington and Lee, who run their
own long distance service (used in all main campus
housing and ofﬁces) from providing long distance
service to non-contiguous properties. Basically,
fraternity houses whose lots do not border the main
W&Lcampus, such as the fraternities in the Davidson
Park area, must use the regional long distance carrier.

Despite this initial setback, Dean Atkins is very
optimistic that the law will be changed this fall, and
Jim Johndrow assures that the Telecommunications
department is actively working to iron out the logis-
tical problems so that the system can be installed next
year. Hopefully, in a few months fraternity residents
will be able to hear the familiar voice of the “Phone
Mail Lady” when they check their messages instead
of their own answering machines.

Get ready for Mock Con:
See page 2 for GOP Watch

Topping this list was Harvard,
Princeton, Yale, and Stanford.

National liberal arts colleges are
also highly selective but emphasize —
and award more than 40 percent of
their degrees in — the liberal arts.
Amherst College in Massachusetts
topped this survey with an overall score
of 100. Coming in at number 21 with
an score of 87.9 was Davidson College
in North Carolina, W&L’s
long-time rival.

one year. lnparticular, he doubted how
Davidson, which he called a ﬁne aca-
demic institution, could fall from num-
ber eight to number 21.

“l have strong doubts about the re-
liability and viability of the rankings,”
said Sessions. “They aren’t etched in
granite. The ratings are slippery.”

According to Sessions, Washing-
ton and Lee will continue trying to
become a better institution regardless
of whether or not surveys notice it.

New security
system installed in
freshmen dorms

By Eiuc CHRISTENSON
Phi Staff Writer

  
   

men dorms

Washington and Lee Security has installed a new card-access system
in the Baker, Davis, Gilliam and Graham-Lees dormitories. Students are
required to use their student identiﬁcation to gain access to freshmen halls.
increased crime last year prompted the appropriation of $60,000 for the

be an inconvenience to bring a card jogging or on a trip across the quad,
the system proves worthy at night when freshmen can sleep soundly
without worries about unwanted intruders.

With a rising number of sexual crimes being committed against
women, their safety is also a concern.

The new card system has been well received by freshmen despite
general disdain to waiting a few seconds before entering a hall. Despite
the minor inconvenience, students are less than complaining about the
switch from locks to the card system; Silas Morse, ‘99, explains, “lt’s nice
because now we can visit the girls’ halls anytime.” Mr. Young agrees,
“[The security system] is more effective than nothing. It is impossible [to
check the identity of every entering person], unless we have an absolute
lock-down. We need to protect the people living in our doors and this is an
effective way.” The only danger is from lost cards, but they can be
immediately canceled when reported. Due to the positive results seen thus
far, the it is possible that the card-access system may see expansion in
Gaines Hall, Woods Creek Apartments and/or other university housing.

Card entry systems now adorn the doors of all the fresh-

. ‘i.
Betsy Green Phi‘ Photo Editor

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Quake rocks Mexico City

Mexico City——Thursday ‘s morning rush hour was interrupted in Mexico
City when a serious earthquake struck the area. The quake lasted for
approximately a minute and registered a 7.2 on the Richter Scale. Four
people are reported dead; roads and buildings were damaged. Scientists
report that the epicenter was about ninety miles from Mexico City.

NATO pauses air strikes

Bosnia—After an eleven hour meeting Wednesday night with the
Serbian President, U.S. diplomat Richard Holbrook announced Thursday
that NATO’s air strike, Operation Deliberate Force, against Serb forces in
Sarajevo would pause for three days. The temporary halt, it is planned, will
allow the Serbian military time to remove heavy artillery around Sarajevo.
The removal of these weapons will fulﬁll the main goal of Operation
Deliberate Force; however, the strike has not been permanently discontin-
ued. Peace talks will continue during the three day cease-ﬁre.

Belarus apologizes for attack
on U.S. hot air balloons

Belarus—Officials in the former Soviet Republic of Belarus have
issued an apology for Tuesday’s military attack on American hot air
balloons participating in an international competition which began Satur-
day in Switzerland. Two American crew members were killed when their
balloon was shot from the sky and crashed just inside the Belarussian
border. Four others were taken prisoner and later released after their
balloons were forced to the ground. The balloons’ ﬂight patterns over
Belarus had been cleared in advance, but Belarussian ofﬁcials maintain
that they ﬂew over a military area and would not respond to radio contact.
American officialsare calling the Belarus government’s apology inad-
equate.

Basketball lockout to end

New York——The National Basketball Association’s two-month-old
lockout of players is expected to end Monday which would practically
insure an on-time start to the 1995-96 season. At the core of this agreement
between the players and the union is a six year labor contract that, among
other things, increased the salary cap from $15.9 to $23 million and
guarantees players a minimum of $5 billion in league revenues. The only
obstruction to this deal is a challenge to the National Basketball Players’
Association by a small group of players, led by Michael Jordan and Patrick
Ewing, who wish to de—certify the union; thus, rendering the contract void.
In light of a vote on Tuesday by NBA players, support for the union is
overwhelming.

New government spending
plan proposed to avert shutdown

Washington, D.C.—President Bill Clinton and congressional leaders
agreed on Tuesday to propose a short-terrn spending plan that would avert
the impending government shutdown on October 1. Citing negative
publicity, both Democrats and Republicans decided that it would be in the
best interest of the country to extend its present spending policy until a
long-term spending plan could be put into law. House Speaker Newt
Gingrich and Senate Republican leader Bob Dole still hope to havea
spending bill in place by October 1.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by
by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

The Rin -mm,-Phi:

temb r 15 199

 

A

Film Society works to bring culture to Lex ‘

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

 

One of the most common criticisms
of Lexington, or any small town
for that matter, is the lack of cul-
ture and art.

For more than twenty years,
the Washington and Lee Film So-
ciety has worked to combat that
problem. Comprised of both stu-
dents and faculty, the organiza-
tion presents a series of critically-
acclaimed American and foreign
films. In the words of their mis-
sion, the series is designed to
present to the campus and the com-
munity noteworthy contemporary
ﬁlm achievements.

The group appeals to the gen-
eral population with such ﬁlms as
Reality Bites and Dazed and Con-
fused, but also select non-tradi-
tional and off-color ﬁlms for vari-
ety, said Co-President Julie
Doring, ’96. Instead of driving an
hour to Roanoke, students can go
to the Troubadour Theatre to see
art-house ﬁlms that do not play in
the mainstream theaters.

The movies are shown early on
Friday and Saturday evenings at
8:05 p.m. to avoid competing with
W&L’s rigorous social scene.

“It’s something to do during
that dead time between 7 and 10
p.m. before the parties get started,”
Doring said.

Films are selected by the
organization’s members from a
list of possible choices provided

Artist Lance Hidy
teaches workshop,
displays work

by film distributors. Between twelve
and ﬁfteen selections are screened each
academic year.

The ﬁlms attract members of the
W&L community, residents of Lex-
ington, and students from area col-
leges. 'VMI cadets are given special
permission to attend the screenings as

BY ANNE ALVORD
Phi News Editor

Visiting artist lance Hidywill offer computer work-
shops in Adobe Photoshop 3.0 on Tuesday, September 19,
from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m.and Wednesday, September 20,

from 2:00 to 5:00 p.m..

Working from scanned images, Hidy will show partici-
pants ways to alter images, cut away backgrounds, and layer
for photomontage. Participants are required to have basic
Macintosh skills. The emphasis of the workshop will be on
the use of the program for creative expression.

Hidy will also demonstrate Penumbra, the multiple
master typeface he designed for Adobe Systems.

Anyone interested in joining the workshop should con-
tact Kathleen Olsen. Enrollment is limited to 20.

An exhibition of Hidy’s work is on display in du Pont
Gallery through October 5. Hidy will also give a lecture and
demonstration followed by a reception on Tuesday, Sep-

tember 19, at 5:30 in du Pont Hall.

j GOP WATCH

 

LCR donates rejected
contribution to Specter

Log Cabin Republicans, the national gay Republican group, has given
the returned $1000 contribution from the Dole campaign to the campaign
of Sen. Arlen Specter (R-Penn). Dole returned Log Cabin Republicans’
contribution Aug. 25 after learning they were the first Republican presi-
dential campaign to accept money from a gay organization. “Arlen Specter
is ﬁghting for an inclusive Republican Party,” said Richard Tafel, execu-
tive director of Log Cabin Republicans. “He is taking on the radical right,
while other GOP candidates like Senator Dole are bowing to them. He
knows the politics of exclusion will ruin the chances for a Republican
victory in ’96.” Specter responded, ‘‘I welcome the support of all Ameri-
cans who oppose discrimination and who seek a more limited government,
joining the principles of ﬁscal conservatism with social libertarianism.”
Specter’s presidential campaign has speciﬁcally targeted the Christian
Coalition and its leaders for harsh criticism. In July, LCR contributed
$1,000 to the presidential campaign of Gov. Pete Wilson (R-Calif), which
was also publicly accepted.

Wilson closes Iowa office

California Gov. Pete Wilson (R) has announced he is closing his
campaign office in Iowa, the site of the ﬁrst caucus in the Republican
nomination contest. Wilson’s strategists said the move was designed to
free the candidate to spend more time in the states where his presence will
do the most good, starting with New Hampshire. Wilson remains in single
digits in most national polls of GOP presidential primary voters. In one
recent poll in his home state, Wilson trailed the GOP front-runner, Senate
Majority Leader Robert J. Dole (R-Kan). Wilson’s opponents said his
decision to pull out of Iowa was money-driven. “This is the beginning of
the end of the Wilson campaign,” said Mark Merritt, campaign communi-
cations director for former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander (R). “He’Il
be out of the race by Thanksgiving.” Wilson reported raising $3.8 million
for his presidential campaign in the midyear report he ﬁled in July with the
Federal Election Commission——short of his goal of $20 million by the end
of 1995. Wilson campaign manager George Gorton denied rumors that the
campaign has missed payrolls and laid off staff. In a memo distributed to
the campaign staff, the campaign also announced that they would not
participate in any more straw polls. Wilson ﬁnished a distant eighth in the
Iowa straw poll in Ames last month, with just 1.2 percent of the vote.

Forbes considering Republican run

Malcolm S. “Steve” Forbes, Jr., publisher of Forbes magazine and others,
has said that he will decide within the next week whether to join the
Republican nomination race. Forbes has formed a presidential exploratory
committee which has inquired about a major television and radio event for
later in the month. Forbes said, “It’s looking much more green than red.”
Forbes would campaign as a pro—growth, pro-trade, ﬂat-tax Republican.

Colin Powell showing signs

of presidential

Fmr. Gen. Colin Powell may be beginning the ﬁrst stage of a run for
president. Powell will appearwith Barbara Walters on ABC’s “20/20” tonight
and then begin a 25-city book tour and media blitz. In Powell’s new
autobiography, My American Journey, he describes himself as “a ﬁscal
conservative with a social conscience” and says he is not comfortable with
either of the two major parties today. He also speculates that the time might
be right fora third party to represent the “sensible center.” A recentNewsweek
poll found that voters would tend to favor Powell over President Clinton by
51 percent to 41 percent if the retired general were to run with the GOP
nomination. The poll indicated Powell, as an independent, would run a distant
third, at 21 percent,.in a three-way race, with Clinton pulling 36 percent and
Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole drawing 33 percent. Barbara Walters’ “20/
20” interview got the general to comment on several speciﬁc issues. Of
abortion, Powell said, “lt"s a matter between her [the woman considering
abortion], her doctor, her family and her conscience and her God, and if she
chooses to abort, that’s her choice, so that’s pro-choice.” On gun control: “I
am a gun owner, but, at the same time, I am willing to put up with some level
of inconvenience in acquiring guns or having guns in my possession that make
sure that I am a responsible citizen who should be allowed to have a gun.” On
prayer in school: “I have no problem if, on arriving at school, a quiet moment
is allowed for a child to do whatever a child wishes to do in that private
moment. I would be against any sort of stricture that says, ‘You will come in
and you will pray,’ and anything of that nature.” Ofa possible run, Powell
said, “If I were to decide to enter politics and run for the presidency, the easier
way to do it, I think, would be as a Republican,” though not ruling out an

independent or Democratic primary run.

GOP Watch is compiled by Alex Christensen

fever

well.

While most of the choices appeal to
a vast spectrum of viewers, some ﬁlms
have created controversy.

According to Film Society Advisor
Dick Grefe, The Last Temptation of
Christ caused an uproar. Some Lex-
ington residents called the ﬁlm blas-

THE jADVENT_URES 01''‘

Courtesy of Island Records
The Film Society will present Priscilla, Queen of the Deserttonight
and Saturday at 8:05 in the Troubadour Theatre.

phemous and objected to its being
shown.
David Lynch’s Blue Velvet also

received negative attention because of R

the picture’s explicit treatment of vio-
lence toward women.

Doring said last year’s screening of
Naked raised some eyebrows about the

ﬁlm ’s graphic violence and rape _,(

scenes.
Grefe said the past contro-

versy does not interfere with

the group’s selection process.
“If a movie is considered

and form their own opinions,”
Grefe said.

The Film Society receives
one-half of its budget from the
Executive Committee. Some 3
money is given by the Ofﬁce of
the Dean of the College for it
deems the films to be relevant
to the university’s curriculum.
One-ﬁfth of the organization’s

from patrons at the door.

The administration has re-
cently funded a project to line
the Troubadour’s walls with

the theater’s acoustics. Doring
expects that more viewers will
come to screenings as a result
of the renovations.

The Film Society has a full
schedule of ﬁlms to be screened
this fall including Kevin
Smith’s Clerks and the Cuban
ﬁlm Srrawbeny and Chocolate.
Showing tonight at 8:05 p.m. is

clan of ABBA-crooning drag
queens entitled TheAdventures
of Priscilla, Queen of the
Desert.

R. T. Smith named
editor of Shenandoah

From Phi staff reports

Rod T. Smith, poet, ﬁction writer,
and former writer-in-residence at Au-
burn University, has been named edi-
tor of Shenandoah, The Washington
and Lee University Review. He as-
sumes the position July 1.

Smith succeeds Dabney Stuart, who
has served as editor of Shenandoah
since 1988. Suart has returned to full-
time teaching in W&L’s department
of English.

A native of Charlotte, N.C., and
Griffin, Ga., Smith received his
bachelor’s degree in philosophy from
the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill, and master’s degree in
English from Appalachian State Uni-
versity. He served as Alumni Writer-
in-Residence at Auburn University for
the last 19 years. He was the founding
editor of Cold Mountain Review and a
former editor of Southern Humanities
Review.

Smith’s poetry has appeared in
Shenandoah, as well as in other liter-
ary publications. He has poems in the
current issues of Georgia Review,
Carolina Quarterly, and The Literary
Review as well as in recent textbook
anthologies, Literature: A Contempo-
rary Introduction (MacMi1lan), Imag-
ining Worlds (McGraw-Hill), andNew
Worlds of Literature (Norton).

Smith has published more than a
dozen books, with three more forth-
coming: Faith: Stories, Black Belt
Press; Trespasser, LSU Press; and
Hunter-Gatherer, Livingston Press, to
be published next spring.

In 1988, Smith was awarded the
Alabama Governor’s Award for
Achievement by an Artist. His numer-
ous honors include the Emily Dickinson
Prize and the John Maseﬁeld Poetry
Prize. He has been the recipient of an
NEA Literature Fellowship, a Fellow-
ship to the Yeats School, Sligo, Ireland
and twice awarded an Alabama Coun-
cil for the Arts Literature Fellowship
(1986 and 1994). ’

Shenandoah was founded in 1950
by a group of W&Lstudents, including
authors Tom Wolfe and William
Hoffman. In addition to material by
Wolfe, Hoffman, and other students,
the ﬁrst issues of Shenandoah included
works by e e Cummings, William Carlos
Williams, Ray Bradbury, and Donald
Davidson. The magazine has contin-
ued to publish famous writers,
includingW.H. Auden, William
Faulkner, and Reynolds Price.

Smith is the first full-time editor in
Shenandoah ’s 45-year history, a posi-
tion that has traditionally been heldby
a member of W&L’s teaching English
faculty. He will also serve as chairman
of the Glasgow Endowment Commit-
tee, which brings distinguished novel-
ists, poets, dramatists, and critics to the
university. The program was estab-
lished at Washington and Lee in 1960
by the late Arthur G. Glasgow.

Smith’s tenure as editor also coin-
cides with the establishment of the ﬁrst
full complement of offices for
Shenandoah on the second ﬂoor of the
Troubadour Theatre.

important, people need to see it X

funds comes from donations "‘

carpet in an effort to improve gt

the Australian picture about a A

‘at.

.$ .-

 

l<Zeet> some eye on Tile BALL  

BONNY ROMM PERFORMS TONIGHT AT THE GHQ

of.

A

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 15, 1995

PAGE 3

The Scoop

(ﬁourtncyis favorites)

Friends 8 pm Thur NBC
What is the deal with that
girl from China? Rachel
and Ross belong together!

Seinfeld 9 pm Thur
NBC.

Where can a show go after
seven seasons? I hope they
have some new material;
last year was stale exclud-
ing two very memorable
menage a trois episodes. As
always, I want to see more
of Kramer!

GR to pm Thur NBC
It can't get any better. This
is the best show since
Cheers. I finally got my
roommate (pre-med)
hooked, and she loves it
almost as much as I do.

ill.l. TIIEVIEW

TO

BY CINDIE YOUNG
Phi Features Editor

“ "The power is yours to set the trends and shape the
schedule. All you need is your remote... ” -TV Guide

Excitement, heartbreak, drama, zaniness, poignancy and
wit are soon to arrive in vivid technicolor at the W&L
campus, in thirty and sixty minute time slots.

Within the next week, television’s four major networks,
not to mention its many additional cable stations, will unfurl
a slew of new shows designed to move you, the viewer, to
new levels of laughter and compassion.

“If there’s one word to describe this fall,” TV Guide’s
September 16 issue reads, “it’s big.”

And big it is. A record 42 new series willjoin television’s
prime time alone, with many more miniseries, sports shows,
syndicated and cable shows, and specials ﬁlling out the
other 20-some hours of each day.

Across the channels, many new faces will peer out at the
student eager for distraction. And along with the new faces
will come new twists altogether in the tried and true formu-
las of sitcoms past.

CBS’ "If Not For You" casts two young professionals,
each separately involved in a somewhat dull, sparkless
relationship, as an accidental couple drawn together at first
sight. The show's executive producer, Larry Levin, asserts
that "If Not For You" is “not just cute TV, all neatly wrapped
up,” but instead “an exploration of couples...more offbeat”

BY COURTNEY E. MILLER
Phi Features Editor

Right this moment, as you are read-
ing this, somewhere very far away
someone else is doing something else
entirely unrelated to anything.

Also right now, a man thirty-ﬁve
years of age is preparing to reveal his
amazing extra-sensory powers to an
audience of non-believers--Washing-
ton and Lee students. Coincidence? I
think not.

The Ronny Romm show is one of
this country's most sought after enter-

‘ tainers. l t has been described by former

non-believers as "an extraordinary ex-
perience in entertainment."

Student Activities will present the
Ronny Romm Show, demonstrations
of ESP and hypnosis, tonightat 10 p.m.
in the GHQ. The audience will become
part of the show by volunteering to
challenge Romm's hypnotism and ESP
powers.

Romm's show promises to avoid
cliches such as, "reply hazy, ask again
later," other common clairvoyant de-
vices like the "Magic Eight Ball."

Names and numbers known only
to the members of the audience are
revealed with startling accuracy. Even
their innermost thoughts and personal
questions are revealed and answered.
(Let's hope that regrettable hook-up
doesn't slip out.)

The audience can also expect en-

lightenment about hypnotism. Is it
sleep or some altered state? And why
do people under hypnosis respond to
the slightest suggestion?

Romm will answer these questions
as he draws the audience into a side-
splitting demonstration of what hyp-
notism, and the human mind can do.
(We W&L students have already tapped
into that 90 percent unused brain power
trying to pass Organic Chemistry.)

The audience participants will en-
gage in such activities as a body build-
ing competition, speaking martian, or
becoming a prima ballerina or even an
army drill sergeant. (Watch out VMI !)
Of course, all the above activities will
be performed under the inﬂuence of a
swinging’ crystal ball. If we are lucky,

Guns and guitar make

The
Facts
Title:

Assistant
Professor of

than typical twosome series.

The powers that be at Fox, meanwhile, have slated their
new pairing, "Ned and Stacey," for the time slot following
the ever tacky, ever beloved "Melrose Place." The show
follows "Partners", a new sitcom by the creator of "Friends",
at 9:30, and producer Michael Weithorn promises in the
show’s unlikely combination of the self-involved business-
man Ned and leftish newswoman Stacey an “intelligent
character comedy that’s really about the relationship.” Fox
may not be quite so easy to turn off, after all.

In the midst ofthe sea ofnew faces filling out television’s
prime time in the forthcoming season, some familiar faces
will also be appearing.

British screenstar Nancy Travis (Three Men and a Little
Lady, 50 I Married An Axe-Murderer) becomes half of the
hectic relationship behind "Almost Perfect" on CBS, while
Jeff Foxworthy of “You might be a redneck...” fame be-
comes a father and business owner this fall on ABC’s "The
Jeff Foxworthy Show." Actor Corey Feldman (Stand By
Me, The ’Burbs) also joins the world of weekly television,
as one of three techno-geeks on CBS’s "Dweebs."

Even with so varied a list of names and faces, some
common themes emerge from this season’s batch of shows
vying for prime time. All the networks apparently plan to
convert America’s current infatuation with the legal process
into Nielsen ratings, and a host of new sitcoms and shows
will center around the courtroom. Such shows include "The
Home Court","The Pursuit of Happiness", "Murder One",
"John Grisham’s The Client", "JAG", and "Courthouse."

Another theme ofthis season seems to be the plight ofthe

maybe even Elvis will make an appear-
ance. (Personally, I would like to see
good ole Ronny use his powers help
me pass Russian 261.)

Warning! This show is not to be
taken seriously. Please consult a li-
censed professional therapist before
making any drastic life-style changes.

Next to reading your horoscope
every day in the Roanoke Times, or
hitting the local palm reader at the state
fair, this is the closest we students will
get to the realm of the occult--the un-
known.

So, tonight, bring your sense of
humor, and an open mind. Take some
time off from the most stressful event
at W&L —-Rush-— and journey into the .
Ronny Romm Zone. .

Gibbs spen

   

IEST REASONS
IGNORE YOUR HOMEWORK

single man of the '90s ("Hudson Street," "Charlie Grace,"
"The Drew Carey Show," and "The Single Guy") and his
female counterpart ("Almost Perfect," "Caroline in the
City," "The Naked Truth," and "Can’t Hurry Love").

Amidst the ﬂurry of new shows being launched this
season, expect some old favorites (or not-such-favorites) as
well. Among those returning are Fox’s "Married...With
Children," "The Simpsons," "Melrose Place," "90210," and
"Party of Five," together with NBC’s "Mad About You,"
"Wings," "Frasier," "Friends," "Seinfeld," "ER," and "Sis-
ters."

CBS will bring back "60 Minutes," "The Nanny,"
"Murphy Brown," "Murder, She Wrote," "Picket Fences,"
and "Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman"; ABC meanwhile plans
to air another season of "Lois & Clark," "Ellen," "Grace
Under Fire," and "Family Matters."

If the television screen alone fails to offer enough enter-
tainment (or distraction) to the seasoned viewer, another
screen is now also available for diversion: the computer
screen. Some television networks now have addresses
along the information superhighway, at which much more
thorough information can be learned regarding upcoming
shows. Among such addresses are those of NBC (http://
www.nbc.com) and CBS (http://www.cbs.com), and even
the magazine of the entertainment industry, Entertainment
Weekly (http://pathﬂnder.com./ew/).

With so many shows this fall to choose from, every
evening promises to offer at least one or two good excuses
to take a break from studying and turn on the television. The
hardest decision may well be which channel to tune into.

Ronny Roan,
hypnotist,
performs
comedy
routines
around his
mystic
extra-
sensory
perception

powers .

 

lici Photo

ding time in

office instead of in line

to retire. You ﬁnd

i rm:-tr-oo my this asysoon  I ,
maybe, just maybe. you'll learn  rlbou .r:nelf..’f

 

Desperado — Two and a half

One of the greatest surprises of the past
few years was a little ﬁlm namedElMariachi,
created by Robert Rodriguez. The film was
shot on such a low budget he couldn’t even
afford credits, and when the movie was fr-
nally picked up by a larger distribution com-
pany, the credits they added cost more than
the entire rest of the film had. But as those of
you who saw it at the Film Society can attest,
it was a little witty, off-beat piece about a
mariachi player mistaken for a hit-man.

So when Rodriguez’ independent success
finally landed him the much sought afterbig—
studio contract, it is understandable that he
wanted to build off his previous success. The
result is Desperado, a quasi-sequel to El
Mariachi. I say ‘quasi-’ because although he
borrows some of the same characters, the
actors, the mood and the storyline couldn’t
be more different. These differences are dis-
tracting, but in the end they become nothing
more than annoyances and the film is down-
right enjoyable.

One thing I found disturbing was how the
film makes references back to El Mariachi,
even though few in Desperado’s audience
will have seen it. At the same time, so much
has changed from the first ﬂlm that those
who did see El Mariachi will be equally
confused. How did the guitar player become
such an artisan with a gun? Where the heck
did the mariachi’s equally deadly friends
come from? The point is, Rodriguez seems to
be trying to satisfy two separate formulas,
one for a big-budget typically ﬂashy Holly-
wood film, and another for a similarly quirky
follow—up to El Mariachi.

An even greater problem for the ﬁlm is its

page sihouettes of Antonio Banderas and the
hard-edged copy, I was expecting an open-
throttle action film. Instead we get a very
stylish tongue-in-cheek parody of the typi-
cal Van Damme flick. Rodriguez takes ev-
ery opportunity both to display fantastic
slow-motion leaps and rolls and to throw in
unexpected flashes of silly humor. If you can
go into the film not expecting hard-core
seriousness and tension, you’ll emerge both
laughing at the humor and stunned by the
stylish visuals.

In fact, if I had to choose one word for this
film, it would be stylish. Rodriguez’s suc-
cess with El Mariachi enabled him to cap-
ture a hip supporting cast, including Quentin
Tarantino (who needs someone to tell him to
stick to directing and writing and to leave the
acting to others), Steve Buscemi (Reservoir
Dogs’ Mr. Pink) and Cheech Marin. Hunk-
of-the-moment Antonio Banderas, leading-
lady Salma Hayek, and the extra-smooth
drug lord Joaquim de Almeida (the Colum-
bian intelligence agent in Clear and Present
Danger) round out the leading roles. They all
do fine jobs, but at heart this movie has got
nothing to do with character, plot, action, or
dialogue. This film is all about camera angles
and moody lighting, with a few neat-o stunts
thrown in for good measure.

Orson Welles once compared being a
movie director to having access to the ulti-
mate toy box, and this seems to be the
philosophy of Rodriguez here. Having made
his previous feature for a few thousand, he
clearly loved the millions he could use for
this one, and he seems to want to make sure
all that cash is seen on the screen. It is almost
as if he were afraid that the old friends back
home might not believe the reports in the
local paper about how much Rodriguez had
to work with, and so he had to prove it to
them. The end result is a weird mix, as a
seedy bar in a crummy town is filmed in what
can only be called an opulent manner.

The result is showy but fun. If you can go
into this film expecting neither another El
Mariachi nor a straight-out bad-ass action

marketing strategy. Judging from the full-

nan--69,2: this film now. while it‘s3 ‘stillon
bucks you 'u ‘pay if you see it outside Lexington

 

probably see it on videotape.’ sun, p:gba'b‘ty;'“B¢ne::

 

be better served on your education, its  ' .

ﬂick, you’ll enjoy it immensely.

  
 

cm-okay, so there have been bet ’ films; ’Neve'_x:lu.~._

1}-It happens to be on HBO, and you '1: blowing o‘mqmo_r_miv's mding.vA1though _y_oa::time‘svjou_ld probably
. . .9"’F°. l?§f¢d» 39 80x8head and wiItciI’ii« ” I if I  if . -I

0-Even if it's free and your best friend said he pester laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks.‘ _

Don’t waste your time, or at least don’t waste iton this, ('I'lxere’s always’M'l’V.)*?' '9 ‘-;: -   

 

    
   
    

1

 

Management
Birthplace:
Velasco, TX
("It no
longer
existsl It
was annexed
by another‘
town.")
Family: A
19-year-old
daughter,
Ginny; and
two sons:
17-year-old
Jonathan,
and 4-year-
old Michael
Greek Af-
filiation:
Pi Kappa
Alpha
Favorite
Food:
Chicken
enchiladas
with white
sauce

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

It’s midnight—the night before a
major exam. You need help and you
need it now. No problem, if you have
Professor Philip A. Gibbs teaching your
class. Chances are he’ll still be chug-
ging away in his office. The question
is, “Why?”

“I think I ’m just a very slow worker,”
laughs Gibbs. “I’ve got students who
come in and tell me to get a life! I got
in the habit of working late hours when
I was a Ph.D. student, which wasn’t all
that long ago.”

However, Gibbs does have some
time to devote to leisure activities. “I
read things that I don’t have to read,
which is always nice,” says Gibbs. His
recent material includes The Alche-
mist, a book by Paul Coelho. “It’s
about a person on a journey of self-
discovery,” explains Gibbs. He also
likes to see a lot of movies, with Clueless
being one of his most recent viewings.
When asked if he saw any similarities
between W&L students and the main

characters, Gibbs decided to take the
Fifth.

The professor’s eyes brighten when
he talks about the weekends he spends
with his son, Michael. “We play a lot.
We go to what he calls the “Big Play-
ground,” which is Kids’ Playce, and
Sweet Things. And we go to listen to
the clock bells ring at Lee Chapel,
which is one of his favorites.”

Prof. Gibbs did his undergraduate
work at the University of Texas, a
place he says is much different from
W&L. “When I was at UT, the Long-
horns were a nationally ranked football
team. So, football was the reason that
all of us went to school,” relates Gibbs.
“Youcanimagine my amazementwhen
I went to the first football game at
W&L, which was Homecoming. When
I arrived, the stands were practically
empty. They ﬁlled for half-time, and
after the queen was announced, they
emptied. At Texas, you stood in line to
get football tickets early in the mom-
ing.” Imagine that....

Despite the lack of a major football
following, Prof. Gibbs loves W&L,
and loves his profession. “I never want

I really don’t!
something that you enjoy doing, and
then retirement is not a goal any longer.
As long as you’re physically and men-
tally able to do it, then you keep doing
it. Besides, I have a 4-year-old. I won’t
be able to retire—he’ll be in college
until I’m seventy-ﬁve or so!”

Prof. Gibbs wants his students to
view him as a tough but fair professor.
‘‘I want them to see me as a real human
being, one that they can relate to. I
think, just like everybody, I want to
have an impact.”

Don’t worry, Professor. Your stu-
dents think of you in just that way.
Junior Keith Beckerle had Gibbs for
Financial Statement Analysis last
spring, and summed up the opinions of
many of his classmates when he said,
“Gibbs was very demanding. I learned
a lot from him during the short tom,
and when I finished the class, it was
like overcoming an obstacle.”

Until his contract expires next year,
Prof. Gibbs’ students will continue to
overcome--and learn from—the ob-
stacles placed in front of them by their
workaholic teacher.

MEN IN PANTYHOSE AND HEELS

    
    

BY MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

 

Imagine for a second a place where men
shook their behinds in mini-skirts and walked
in high heels with pantyhoses hiding their hairy
legs. Imagine pseudo-masculine straight men
who made love to these drag queens, fulﬁlling
theirdark, closeted homosexual fantasies. Imag-
ine a place on the gritty, dirty edge of American
society, a place where the poor find themselves
trapped and the rich only come to visit and
partake of its erotictreasures. Imaginea muscle-
bound hustler named Apollo who pimped his
body and provided sexual tricks for cash to
support his drug habit.

This is the world that the characters in Bruce
Benderson’s novel, User, occupy. Benderson
creates human beings we often don’t think
about and usually avoid meeting in a dark alley.
The story starts in a seamy after-hours bar
where Apollo swivels his torso, tempting un-
knowing customers to experience sexual treats.
In a drug-induced rage, he slams the bouncer,
Casio, against the wall as he stumbles out of the
theater.

We follow Apollo as he hustles for enough
money to get another shot of Dilaudid. We see
him make contact with other souls with no
where to go in life. On his trail is a homosexual
detective named Juan Pargero who sleeps with
Tina, the drag queen owner of the after-hours
bar.

Meanwhile, Apollo freeloads off his former
AIDS-infected lover who writes in his diary on
occassion:

“Dear Death Diary,

Apollo’s my pain pal. In the first place, he
confirms all my theories about drug use. At this
point in the game, I’m an alienated
sonofab****—always trying to sniff out the
hypocrisy of so-called common sense.

Being HIV-positive, I’m lately goingthrough
a period where I’m feeling a lot of physical
pain. Recently I spent thirty-six hours in one of
our city’s glorious emergency rooms. l’ve got
an axe to grind with those licensed pillpushers.
It is my opinion that access to ending pain is
controlled by a greedy, insensitive bunch.”

We also meet Casio’s son, Baby Pop, who
was molested when he was young and has taken
to selling sex to get by. He dresses in three
layers of clothes and carries an algebra book, a

Bible, and a Stephen King book, telling every-
one he is going to college. When he’s not
tricking, he’s searching for Apollo, the cabron
who hurt his father, and sleeping wherever
there is empty space.

These are the characters that Benderson
creates for us to view from a distance. His story
ﬂows quickly and effortlessly. His writing
sparkles with realistic and sharp detail, present-
ing haunting images for our sometimes inno-
cent eyes.

User is a story about human survival, about
the daily struggle simplytolive.The characters
in this novel never aspire to anything greater
than what they are. They try to ﬁnd dignity in
the circumstances they make for themselves.
Sometimes they succeed and sometimes they
fail.

This book has no happy ending because
Benderson understands that life doesn’t oper-
ate like those Disney films you see to escape the
insanity. Instead, he brings the insanity of a
drug—filled, sex—crazed world to the reader with
eloquence and sensitivity. Even more, he re-
minds us in this let-us-blame-them political
environment that sometimes we aren’t much
different than they are.

 

 

Want to recapture
that youthful inno-

Z’

  

Remember your

Want a free date

Then apply to de-
liver newspapers

 
   

    
  

Dondero

Incorporated advertising specialties

promotional products

  

 

I
la  Custom
Engraving
on
plaques
H trophies

-trophies 
. custom engraving

0 T—Shirts
0 Hats

3 Sweats
‘Jackets

  
 

  

  
   

MAIN 0FllCE&SCREEN PRINT SHOP

PO. Box 408 I State Route 710 West

Fairﬁeld, Virginia 24435

Phone: 540-348-6753 & 377-6753
Fax: 540-377-6418

 

  

fl . .Back to School . . .New Area Codﬁ
Let us make the transition
easier for you!

We offer the following services:

     

Screen Printed Textiles

  
 
 
    

SHOWROOM
17 1/2 South Randolph Street
Iexington, Virginia 24450

Phone: 540-463- 2618

copies business cards
word processing flyers
typing forms & applications
resumes faxing
and more  ,
0
e/zraaaabo» Z44
P.O. Box 1409 0 12 W. Nelson Street

Across from the Post Office

_ J

PHONE: 540-463-1712 ' FAX: 540-463-9455

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 15, 19!

 

IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START
SAVING FOR RETIREMENT IS WHEN IT LOOKS
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.

money time

amzn/(,'r>//r_g: Rrlirrmnil I-,‘4um:.. Fund.

an't afford to save for retirement?
The truth is, you can't afford not to.
Not when you realize that your retirement
can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want
to live at least as comfortably then as you
do now. And that takes planning.
By starting to save now, you can take
advantage of tax deferral and give your

Consider this: Set aside just $100 each

Even ifyou're not counting the years to
retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF
to help you build the future you deserve -—
with flexible retirement and tax-deferred
annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest-
ment choices, and a record of personal
service that spans 75 years.

Over 1.7 million people in education and
research put TIAA-CREF at the top of
their list for retirement planning. Why not

to compound and grow.

 

paper route?

cence?

with our hottie
editor?

  for
The Ring-tum Phi

® TOYOTA
"TE REEL T MSRP starring Under $10,500

  

 month beginning at age 30 and you can join them?
..........I..........................  accumulate over$172,1o9*bythetime Calltodayandlearn howsimpleitis
I . . . . . . O . . é you reach age 65. But wait ten years and to build a secure tomorrow when you
. \ I /' / \ : : . . . . . . . . ‘S you'll have to budget $219 each month have time and TIAA-CREF working on
’  I  : : : E to reach the same goal. your side.
1; D >1‘ L et ‘pg : : ﬂ M 1;? :  sum planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline at 1 800 842-2888.
I . ' . ‘,3: A A
Your Student 3 I ” W’ I  % Ensming the future ‘ . t ‘
: : 601786 we/mace : 3 for those who shape it.“ ' I
G0 H ung Iy : 3 a meal : \ /
I . O */Lrm/rilrrg an [n!(rr.II ml: of 7 % credited In TIA/1 RtIir(m:nlAnniziti'e.1. TH; I:t1[t'l;l wt? .10/t/y In Jﬁaw lb: /pmgultr and effect rampaundihg. lower or Mgbtr ralav iwm/19
I . . prrrduct very dz/ftrcril mm/1.1. CREFczrILf1mi‘e.x are dutriéultd 15y TIA/I-CREF Individual and lnulilutmnal Scrvicw.
 :ooooooooooooooooo
. I
The $100 Meal Ticket :
Redeemable for :
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner : BIG WEEKENDS,
 =  SUNWEARV
I ent a wise ort e price 0 a .
. . . , , ' motel room!
Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties .'. 4635350 or (703)978_2416
Fresh Salads & Soups : 
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees - o
Candlelight Diners :
I
I
Give Your Student E %§izPi§vGE[iii}ziIi::1Aé<A’S9Ig -&sEGL(L)  
3 H°“‘e°°°k-ed Mea‘ W“ 0“ = §§£E5:§’..:‘:;‘.,i‘;tZ:::,‘:L§:,£r;n::;% teé=Mesr=©erncu8s=rpe.
Point Card ' - .
I Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun,
I Daytona and Panama City Beach. Cl8OVefS alley 203 n, main st
9 : Ca 1 1-800-648-4849
a I‘ S . 483-7440
I
I
19 W. as ington St., Lexington, V 24450 :
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 
 

SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY.

MSRP BASED ON TAX, TAGS, TITLE, FREIGHT, OPTIONAL & REGIONALLY REQUIRED EQUIPMENT. DEALER SETS FINAL PRICE.

@‘TOYOTA

I Love What You Do For Me

 

"/

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 15, 1995

Ellie ﬁling-tum Iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Greeks: Sinners or Saints?

Fraternity Rush is underway and raging with the
intensity of past wild fires on Long Island. Like
the uneontrollabe fires that burned the Hamptons,
Rush will be short-lived and forever change the
lives of many people. Freshmen males will join the
ranks of other Washington and Lee Greek men. To
some, this will be the happiest time of their lives.
To others, the induction of yet another crop of
innocents will perpetuate an essentially flawed
system.

The fraternities at W&L present us with an
interesting paradox. No other institution is so well-
respected and so reviled at the same time.

In terms of power, fraternities run this school.
Nearly 90 percent of undergraduate men are
members. They run student organizations,
monopolize the social scene, and continue some of
W&L’s long—held and beloved traditions. It is no
wonder that the issues of Winter Rush and Fall
pledgeship dominated the headlines last year. To
some members of our community, this is
frightening. Indeed, such a concentration of power
in one source can be intimidating.

Fraternitites get a bad rap, however. In the age of
political correctness, it’s too easy to point to
fraternity guys and blame them for all of society’s
evils. We should avoid the stereotypes of Greeks as
rapists, drunkards, and bigots.

In fact, fraternities promulgate some of society’s
most dearly held virtues. They champion
volunteerism, stress academic success, and promote
life—long friendship. The majority of fraternity
members are responsible young adults. For the
most part, they are open-minded citizens who care
about their neighbors. We bet if you actually sit
down and think about it, you probably can count
Greek men among your best friends at W&L.

Rush will soon be over. The Class of 1999 will
be full of green pledges proudly displaying their
new letters. We challenge those generally opposed
to fraternities to not pre-judge them. After all, they
continue to be the outstanding young individuals
who were talented enough to walk among us.

Quote of the Week

“Drag queens haven’t been in since Andy Warhol
died.”
Sophomore woman anticipating
Film Society ’s showing of Priscilla

@112 lliing-tum ilﬁlri

Executive Editors Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

  

Associate Editor . . . . . . . , , _ ,_Michae| Hewren
News Editors ...................................................... ..Anne Alvord, Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor .....Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Scott Bookwalter
Features Editors ............................................................... ..Courtney Miller, Cindie Young
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonist: .... ..Phil Flickinger
Business Manager ...... ..Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . ...Iennifer Grant

Advertisement Composition Artist ................................................................ ..Mark Tobias
Circulation Manager ,,,Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-mm Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060

PAGE 5

RENEGADE RUSH COUNSELORS. ..

 

IS THIS,
LIKE, A
FRATERNITY

fl.
E
m

j 1‘-

Walnut

 

 
  

    
  

,,,uH...
YEAH! WAIT
HERE ‘TIL

I 1 CHECK
:1 our.

  

*. . -1 ~ ."
9 T -. T ..-
.» .,_v ' . '

--  .-  9-I3 .~ 
_ .1 ."'.. .- ‘
..- _ . u.‘ L‘

First-hand lessons learned in Alaska

NovA
CLARKE,
’96

I had a hard time deciding what I
should devote this column to, after all
with all the scandals in Washington,
there is plenty to write about. But I
decided instead to devote this column
to my summer vacation. Don’t worry,
I’m not going to spend the next several
paragraphs discussing how my family
went to the beach.

I actually spent this summer in
Fairbanks, Alaska, doing research on
remote sensing. Although I could go
on about the joys of staring at a com-
puter screen for eight hours a day and
getting paid for it, I learned some im-
portant things aside from my research.

While I am on the topic of my
research, I’ll just mention a little about
what I did. I was working off a Depart-
ment of Defense grant to research
threats to the Arctic Ocean and the
Arctic Circle in general. My particular
project involved looking at an area in
the Urals known as the Chelyabinsk
reactor complex. It is where the Rus-
sians did a lot of their early experimen-
tation with nuclear weapons and fuels.
From the satellite images I was looking
at, it is a really a gorgeous area with a
lot of green pasture land and ﬁelds and
a ton of lakes.

Unfortunately, it is home to the
most radioactivelycontaminated place
on Earth, Lake Karachay, which is a
100 times worse than Chernobyl. The
Russian government was dumping
nuclear waste directly into the lakes
and streams since the early 1950s and
there have been a couple of accidents
there as well. The population (100,000)
in the area has the highest incident rate
of leukemia in the world. The Russian
government ﬁnally stopped dumping

in the late eighties, but they have never
fully admitted the extent to which the
area has been contaminated. Non-Rus-
sian scientists are still not allowed into
the area.

It’s knowing about places like this
that makes me happy to be in America
and have a free and open press that at
times obsesses about disasters and trag-
edies. There is no way what happened
in Chelyabinsk could have been cov-
ered up for 40 years if it had happened
in America. Journalists would have
been suspicious of any area where there
are signs that say, “Drive fast with your
windows up.”

Back to Alaska, I had a great time
there, driving around and getting to see
parts of the interior. I also had the
opportunity to meet a lot of interesting
people. One of the things I noticed ﬁrst
is the number of guns they have there;
Alaska is a state that fully supports the
Second Amendment. On one of our
trips to downtown Fairbanks, we went
into some pawn shops and saw wall
after wall of guns. There were signs in
the entrances of many of the buildings
on campus saying that guns were pro-
hibited in the buildings. In most places
I’ve been, this is common sense, but
due to the large percentage of people
who carry weapons in Alaska it needs
to be clearly stated on all buildings.

This is one state where the assault
weapons ban did not go over well at all.
One of the guys I worked with shoots
assault weapons in competition. This
was not some uneducated person, ei-
ther. He’s getting his doctorate in at-
mospheric science. We talked about
the assault weapons ban for a while and
how it was all basically a PR ploy
because if gun manufacturers remove
one small piece of a gun it is no longer
banned and that one piece is not hard to
get. Although he did not support
Clinton’s stand on the assault weapons
ban, he also was not a supporter of
Dole, whom he saw as using the issue
and not really caring what happened

with the ban as long as he looks good.
I met a lot of people who hunt using
guns but I personally thought that the
guys we ran into on the North Slope
going bow-hunting (which is the only
type of hunting permitted in a lot of
areas) were doing something a lot
more challenging.

Alaska has the greatest percentage
of wilderness among the 50 states and
that is a large area since Alaska is the
largest state in the Union (sorry to
disappoint you Texans). Most of this
wilderness is also federal land. This
does not make many Alaskans too fond
of the federal government. A friend of
mine told me about a trading post in
Circle where there is a sign that says if
you are a federal worker, we do not
want your business. Park Service and
Bureau of Land Management people
do not wear their unifonns very often
and do not go into the ﬁeld alone.

Although ideally I would like to see
as much of the wilderness preserved as
possible, I can see the complaint about
too much federal land. If the same per-
centage of Virginia were federal land as
Alaska we would all be living in an area
about the size of the counties immedi-
ately surrounding the District of Co-
lumbia. Not all of this land was federal
to begin with. Some was incorporated
into federal land as late as the 1980s.

I spent a weekend in Wrangell-St.
Elias National Park. Incorporated by
President Carter in 1980, it is the larg-
est national park in the country. Unfor-
tunately, those people who had been
living on the land were not consulted
prior to having their homes made into
a national park. There was one build-
ing off the road going into Chitnawhere
the former owner had spray-painted a
message to the effect that the Park
Service had taken his land, his money
and his family. I deﬁnitely understand
the anger this man felt; but, at the same
time, after being in Wrangell, I believe
it is an area that must be preserved. We
went to McCarthy (pop. 70 or so in the

summer) which is in the heart of
Wrangell. To get there you have to
travel 60 miles down the worst high-
way in America. The highway is dirt
laid over the old railroad bed, and none
of the railroad was removed before this
happened. It took us two and a half
hours to get to McCarthy which in-
cluded frequent breaks for the bath-
room and general car sickness. Once
you get to the end of the road, you have
to take a handtram across a river and
then walk a mile to the town. It is well
worth the trip though; the area is sur-
rounded by glaciers and some of the
highest peaks in North America.
McCarthy is a definite argument for
non-development. If the road was paved
and a bridge built across the river, a lot
of what makes McCarthy and the park
so unique would be lost_.,;

Here is one of the central problems
for the Park Service: whether to make a
park accessible to all and make every-
one happy or to leave it inaccessible
except to those who really want to see it
and risk the park being labeled as use-
less to the majority of the population
who can’t make use of it. While the
latter choice may mean the possibility
of being removed from the Park System
or losing funding, I go for that choice. I
have a friend from this summer who is
planninga multi-day trip into Wrangell,
including crossing a glacier, climbing a
mountain and doing some ice-climbing
for next summer. I’m hoping to go on
that trip and when I go down the
McCarthy highway I hope it is as hor-
rible as it was this summer.

I could go on about Alaska for a
while. The Brooks Range, my fellow
interns and the sort of family we be-
came over ten weeks, or the twenty
hours of daylight, but I won’t. I’m
heading back to Alaska next summer
because there is a lot of it I haven’t
seen. I think it is someplace everyone
should visit. Just don’t go in one of
Detroit ’s contributions to hell on Earth,
the RV.

Could the EPA be our real enemy?

disregard for aesthetics

in favor of rapid

should respect this fact by promoting policies that

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

 

Even as we speak the legislative wheels are
turning in Washington, seeking a workable consen-
sus on how U.S. environmental protection policies
ought to be overhauled.

The mainstream view on Capitol Hill now seems
to be that the EPA has raged out of control for many
years, slowing economic growth and hurting U.S.
businesses. In any case, I, as a conservative, oppose
these latest Republican efforts, and I should like to
explain more fully why I do so.

First, let us say at the outset that Republicans are
dreadfully wrong to assume, as they so often do, that
environmental policy can be crafted by reference
solely to cost—benefit analysis. Although it is cer-
tainly true that environmental laws can retard eco-
nomic growth and take away jobs, it is nonetheless
the case that other less quantiﬁable issues
are involved.

Putting dollar ﬁgures on all of our problems and
running the appropriate equations is a cowardly and
inhuman way to run a government; it is a method
worthy of bureaucrats, but not of statesmen.

So what are those intangible considerations on
which sane environmental policies depend? Let me
suggest only two.

First, conservation has vital aesthetic merits. We
are all familiar with the tasteless urban sprawl that
afflicts our modern landscape; this phenomenon is,
in the final analysis, a direct consequence of our

»

economic progress.

In my hometown a constant reminder of this
stark choice once stood in the form of a gigantic
neon sign towering over what the Indians appropri-
ately (at the time) called Happy Valley; it read
“WAL-MART: DISCOUNT CITY.” Of course, the
world needs its Wal-Marts; but, by the same token,
there are few of us who would wish to live next door
to one.

Quality oflife, then, is hard to
measure, but it is impossible to

maintain the basic integrity and health of our
natural surroundings.

The soul of America, today no less than two
hundred years ago, is located not in her cities, but in
her countryside.

And so it is for these principal reasons that I
oppose the effort currently afoot to weaken our
environmental laws. I should also say, however,
that my support for conserva-
tion has its limits.

I do not agree with radical

deny the positive effects a beau-
tiful natural setting can have.

(C

leftist egalitarians, for in-

, h h I
Let us also remind ourselves After all: when 3133:: v:e(c)iiSs?rlilt)tilfic(:: yof
just what it is to be a conserva- R e p u b I l c a n S wealth can save ourrace from
trve. After all, when Republt- put...pr0ﬁts ahead of an ecological apocalypse.

cans put business proﬁts ahead
of quality living, and job cre-
ation ahead of traditional life and
values, they are not really
being “conservative”; they are
being greedy.

quality living, and
job creation ahead of
traditional life and
values, they are not

Nor do I have any sympathy
for those scatterbrains who
distort the dangers posed by
(largely unsubstantiated)
phenomena like global warm-
ing to insist that mankind has

The distinction may not be
apparent to some, but I promise
that it is there. True conserva-
tism is not about money; it is
about preserving the way of
life of a given people——in our
case, the American people.

Since our nation has been historically rural, like
most others, true conservatism naturally should
value this heritage as a matter of course. No one is
suggestingthatwetumourlaptopsintoploughshares
and go back to the farm.

But I would assert that nature historically has
played a tremendously important role in the daily
lives of the American people; any true conservative

really

“conservative”;they
are being greedy. ”

only, say, ﬁve years to “save”
the planet.

These ideological (even
pathological) spins on con-
servation only serve to dis-
credit it as a movement and
as an idea.

In the end, I would only remind Americans when
they consider the aforementioned Republican pro-
posals that we are not just building a high-tech
economy in this country; we are also rebuilding a
civilization. And some of that civilization’s most
fundamental roots are in an appreciation for the
power and beauty of nature.

No good conservative could suggest otherwise.

being

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 15, 1995

Seattle, Wash.: City of romance/coffee

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

A belated hello and welcome back
to Greenland to all of my raving fans.
I know, as always, you’re panting to
know what l’ve been up to and how my
summer was (if you’re not, my thera-
pist says not to tell me otherwise be-
cause my delusions are healthy). Re-
member how at the end of SpringTenn
everyone told me (sincerely, I’m sure)
to “Have a good summer”? Well, I did.

This summer could not have been
anything but great. Not only did I live
with my fabulously talented and gor-
geous boyfriend Steve (who is getting
a copy of this paper...Hi, Steve), but I
lived in Seattle, The Coffee Capital of
the World. I was in heaven.

When I arrived in Seattle, I quickly
resumed my career in The Exciting
World of French Fashion as a sales
associate at Express. The people I
worked with were way cool. Afterclose
when all of the stupid customers left,
we’d rap classics such as “Ice, Ice,
Baby” and “You Be lllin”’ into our
intercom and laugh with glee (yes,
glee) as we folded sweaters.

I am even slowly being able to
overcome my bias against people from
Canada, The Evil Empire, after work-
ing with one of their ilk. Cicilyn was
pretty cool about my asking her if she
knew Michael J. Fox, asking her if she

went to Degrassi Junior High, and
claiming that she was an illegal alien
getting paid a dollar an hour to work
there, a job she only got because of
NAFTA. Those jokes never got old!
As long as I occasionally punctuated
my sentences with “eh?” she under-
stood me and we got along great.

Sadly, The Exciting World of French
Fashion was not located within easy
walking distance of our home in Old
Scandanavian People Central. Conse-
quently, I spent a lot of time taking the
bus.

It probably won’t suprise anyone
that people who ride the bus tend to be,
for lack of a better word, freaks. I am
now convinced that I radiate an aura

;that says, “I’m from the Midwest! l’m
friendly! Talk to me!” because the
freaks loved me. I tried wearing sun-
glasses and looking really involved in
my book to make myself seem less
approachable, but it didn’t work.

One of my favorite freaks was a
man wearing a Confederate ﬂag belt
buckle and a glazed expression. He
came up to me and asked me if I was
from Seattle in a cute Southern drawl.
He then shared with me that he was as
far north as he'd ever been in his life.
When he told me he was from Ala-
bama, I realized who he reminded me
of: Forrest Gump.

Still, he was a little easier to take
than the one who stopped to tell me that
I looked, “So fresh and natural, so
innocent.” I had no idea how to react to

LETTERS

that other than perhaps,“Thanks, that’s
exactly the look my pimp is going for.”

Even away from Metro stops, life
with Steve was a constant adventure.
We love going to the grocery store
together (and what young couple
doesn’t?) and got to know Bill, one of
the checkers there.

One day, Bill had a stuffed beaver
wearing a red skull cap with a protrud-
ing shock of blond hair and a light blue
dress that matched his ﬂoral apron
perched on top of his cash register.
When we complimented him on it, he
grinned and said, “Hey, it’s yours!”
Bill went on to explain that the stock
guys had been playing a Bear Claw
machine and had won seven stuffed
beavers. They gave one to Bill and told
him to give it to the first nice girl who
came through his line. I pointed out
that he had given the beaver to Steve,
who then quickly handed the little guy
over to me.

There’s something special about
being able to walk out of the grocery
store saying, “Have a good day. And
hey, thanks forthe beaver!” How could
we not have named our new stuffed
animal Bill The Beaver?

Ah, memories.

Steve managed to get us invitations
through his job to the wrap party to the
wildly popular PBS show “Bill Nye,
The Science Guy.” It was held at the
Corinthian Yacht Club and was quite
an experience because Bill Nye, host
of an educational children’s show, was

drunk.

Bill Nye walked along the pier with
us, staggering, but still teaching us
about science. Between swigs of beer,
Bill said, “See that rope? Friction. See
that there? Friction. See that screw? No
friction there...son of a bitch.” It was
both disturbing and exciting, like if Big
Bird let loose on your newly washed
car.

Have you ever watched that de-
lightful family show “Home Improve-
ment”? (It’s a newspaper; no one will
know if you admit it.) Richard Karn,
who plays Tim Allen’s delightful side-
kick Al hosted the Richard Karn Ce-
lebrity Golf Classic in Seattle. Let me
give you a second to think about that:
Richard Karn. Classic. RICHARD
KARN. Anyway, we were actually able
to watch part of the golfing fun on TV.
Featured celebrities included Potsy
from “Happy Days” and Academy
Award nominee Samuel L. Jackson.
Steve and I believe that man will do
any gig he’s asked to do.

Work, freaks, drunk PBS celebri-
ties, golf...who am I kidding? We all
know I went to Seattle for one thing:
coffee (Steve was nice, too). Any time
of any day, I could get an espresso
anywhere. You can buy a
McCappuccino at McDonald’s for
god’s sake. I get all jitterly just think-
ing about it...maybe I should have got-
ten decaf every once in a while. All in
all, my summer was good to the last
drop.

Moderation right approach to alcohol use

To the editor:

A large thank you to the writer of the editorial
“Change comes from within” in your year-opening
edition. It rings very true and makes good sense.

Even though the menu of behavior-altering sub-
stances was perhaps more varied in my student days
here, student behavior was, by and large, about the
same: we always wanted more of those items which
inspired us, in whatever fashion, to feel more the way

we wanted to feel.

We didn’t like anyone else telling us what to do,
or not to do, or how much of whatever to consume.
This is perhaps natural but certainly quite human at
that wonderful age when you are ready to take on the
world, thinking, with all the fortitude hormones can
provide, that you can change it all, as though you
have something new to prove.

If some of my generation saw the film Easy Rider
and took it seriously, it is no less true that some of
those who have followed us seem to feel the same
way aboutAnimal House.

I applaud your advocating moderation in alcohol
use, which is far more realistic than encouraging
prohibition, and your saying that you must make this
change of your own volition is exactly right. It is also
entirely within the realm of possibility.

It’s not at all difficult to decide that a hangover is
no longer a status symbol. You already know it
doesn’t feel good.

W. Patrick Hinely, ’73

Thanks for Freshman Orientation e/Tort

To the editor:

Film Society

Washington and Lee's Film Soci-
ety will present The Adventures of
Priscilla, Queen of the Desert at 8:05
p.m. tonight and Saturday in the Trou-
badour Theatre.

Also, this year's first meeting of
the Film Society will be held on Tues-
day, Sept. 19 at 5 p.m. in C-School
220.All members and interested stu-
dents are invited to attend.

Interview Workshop

There will be an Interviewing
Workshop on Wednesday, Sept. 20 at
4 p.m. in Room 109 ofthe University
Center. All students are invited to
attend. Those students planning to
participate in Practice Interviews Sept.
26 must attend this workshop.

Job Fair

There will be a Job Fair
registration meeting on Sept. 20 at
7 p.m. in Northen Auditorium. All
seniors planning to participate in the
SLAC Job Fairs should plan to attend
this meeting.

Parents Weekend

Parents Weekend 1995 will take
place Oct. 27 and 28. Student leaders
whose organizations plan to sponsor
special Parents Weekend events
which will be open to all parents and
students should contact Michelle
Richardson, Student Activities Coor-
dinator, in the University Center no
later than Sept. 29.

Resumé Workshop

There will be a Resume Work-
shop on Monday, Sept. 18 at 4 p.m. in
Room 109 of the University Center.
All interested students are invited to
attend.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Senior Meeting

There will be Senior Meetings on
Tuesday, Sept. 19 at 4 p.m. and on
Thursday, Sept. 21 at 7 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium. All seniors who
have not previously attended a Se-
nior Meeting are invited to attend.

Study Abroad

The director of the program of
Advanced Studies in England will
meet with students interested in
studying in England on Monday,
Sept. 18 at 3:30 p.m. in University
Center 117. Contact Kirk Follo at
x8828 for more information.

W&L Women

There will be an ice cream
social, sponsored by Women’s
Forum, Women and Leadership
and Panhellenic, for all freshman
and upperclasswomen on Thurs-
day, Sept. 21 at 7 p.m. in the
Baker-Davis-Gilliam quad. The
rain site will be Evans Dining Hall.
Contact Karly Jennings at 463-
3313 or Sakina Paige at 463-2507
for more information.

Who's Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate
a member of the current undergradu-
ate senior class for selection to Who ’s
Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges may do so
by submitting the name and qualiﬁ-
cations of that student to David L.
Howison, Dean of Students, in Payne
Hall 9 by Oct. 6. Criteria for selec-
tion to Who ’s Who include scholar-
ship, participation and leadership in
academic and extracurricular activi-
ties, citizenship and service to Wash-
ington and Lee, and potential for
future achievement.

I would like to take this opportunity to thank publicly the entire W&L
community for providing such an enthusiastic and supportive welcome to the
Class of 1999 during the Freshman Orientation program. Of particular impor-
tance was the work of the Freshman Orientation Committee, and its extraordinary
president, Amy Gorham; the unﬂaggingly dedicated committee chairmen: Hollis
Leddy, Hillary Olson, Adam Branson, Doak Sergent, and Bunny Wong; the
Dormitory Counselors; and Michelle Richardson and Amy Blackburn, all of
whom gave unﬂaggingly of themselves. Planning and organizing orientation
activities and staffing virtually every orientation event—from Casino Night to
airport shuttles—made for a very smooth opening week.

Thanks also go to: our Buildings and Grounds staff; our Food Services staff
who furnished the culinary touches for several meetings and special occasions;

 

Jim Farrar, Rob Mish, Justin King, Kathekon, Southern Comfort, JubiLee,
General Admission and Gordon Spice for the Alumni Association BBQ; Ms.
Joan Neel and the APO Service Fraternity for excellent leadership of the
community service activity; Professor Kirk Follo, Glenn Miller and the Outing
Club for organizing the overnight hike; and Keith Benedict and the Executive
Committee for such a meaningful orientation to the Honor System.

Others too numerous to mention also contributed to the Freshman Orientation
program, and this general note must suffice as a thank you. I am pleased that the
Class of 1999—our Bicenquinquagenary Class—was the beneficiary of such a
community effort!

Dennis G. Manning
Dean of Freshmen and Residence Life

 

Shoot people for The Ring-tum Phi!
If you are interested in photography, the Phi needs you.
Call Besty Green, Photo Editor, for more information at 463-1845 or 462-4059.

 

=
:9
r-.'
5"
031/

A Bistro

8 am — 3 pm - Monday
am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday

9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

   

 
     

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad

All you can eat $4.99
Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID
Friday - Seafood Nite -

Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib,

2 Vegs, Salad $8.95
Everyday Muffiiifi:&

 

(8 -am L “'1,
Daily Lunch Specialiprtth

19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

I3
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

Valley 

mnomae stones "

  

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186
Caps Fleecewear
T-Shirts Jackets

Team Uniforms Custom Printing

  
  

Screen :’Prt'.ntiu
648A Waddel St.

Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 464-9042

Allen L. Minnick
Sheila B. Minnick

%mNTrc EVENING
STARTER KIT

  

Ten E. Nelson

Florist’ to The Horrtestead

Lexington

 

463-9841

 

Hams T081’ Bl

RAMEN N

am. FLAVORS
‘Ir J‘

Nisin Top Rarnen

Oodles Of Noodles

3 02.

Reynolds

Aluminum Foil

25 sq. ft.

  2/$1

Ice

Tray........2ct.

Laundry

Basket . . 

‘ 
;uiesouﬂou9“5“”
S

Dismlncis Is It C191“

l

Harris Teeter

Window
Cleaner .

Bounty
Paper

Towels .

2/

0  OZ.

. 33 sq. ft. 

HARRIS TEETER COUPON

COUPON

Harris Teeter

Assorted Yogurt

IODIZI-ID S.«\I.T& PEPPER

McCormick

Salt 8: Pepper

2 ct.

oooo140zo

O0

VALUE .90
WITH THIS COUPON
Harris Teeter

5 Lb. Bag Sugar

Coupon Per Vist And 

Additional $25.00 Purchase.
Otter Good August 23
Through September 5, 1995.

PLU 5683
GROCERY

amsreeter

Th h S t b S, 1995 At Y L ’ ton Harris Teeter.
°**e'=G°°dA“W3 waasrlta aictttgsrrritaaa
- WE GLADLY ACCEPT VISA, MASTER CARD, DISCOVER 8r DEBIT

OPEN 24 H

Josephine Schaeffer
Women's Cross Country

Josephine Schaeffer was back in a familiar place in
the Lebanon Valley on Saturday: first.

The senior dominated the Lebanon Valley Invita-
tional for the third time in her four years at W&L as she
crossed the finish line in first place once again.

Schaeffer, who will be counted on to provide veteran
leadership for the Generals this season, clocked in with
a time of 18:41. Her performance facilitated W&L to a
seventh place finish out of the 29 schools present.

ATHLETES
OF THE WEEK

Anthony Mazzerelli
Men's Soccer

The Generals’ 1-0 victory this past Saturday at
Shenandoah was largely due to the performance of
goalie Anthony Mazzerelli.

After W&L freshman Sam Chase knocked in the
eventual winning goal in the 70th minute, Mazzerelli
blanked Shenandoah the rest of the way. The junior
posted 12 saves in securing his first shutout of 1995.

Mazzerelli combined with three other goalies in
whitewashing Marymount, 3-0, on Wednesday.

Pittsburgh is best bet in AFC

AFC, from page 8

grand total of once, in 1987. I’m very undecided on a team
that can’t decide between Jim Harbaugh and Craig Erickson
at quarterback. It is difficult not to like RB Marshall Faulk,
who is skyrocketing up the NFL’s rushing charts. The
defense, with big-play cornerback Ray Buchanan, is ad-
equate. If enough things go right, Indianapolis could back
into the playoffs. 8-8.

N.Y. Jets: OK, quiz time. Name the Jets’ top wide
receiver. lfyou answered Wayne Chrebet, you win a trip for
two to the Meadowlands. While you’re there, you can figure
out which end zone Jimmy Hoffa is buried in, which is what
the Jets will spend most of the year doing. Their quarter-
backs, Boomer (Esiason) and Bubby (Brister), sound more
like a circus act. Running back Adrian Murrell and tight
ends Johnny Mitchell and Kyle Brady are plusses, though.
New coach Rich Kotite has a mess on his hands with the
defense, which was rung up for 52 points in the opener,
against Miami. Theonly former AFL team not to win a
division title since the league dissolved in 1970, doesn’t
appear in any danger of winning one soon. 5-II.

AFC CENTRAL:

Coach Tom Coughlin, who is only slightly less authoritar-
ian than a Marine drill sergeant, will coax the maximum
effort out of his players. However, if the Jaguars were
outmanned against Houston and Cincinnati, how will they
match up against the rest of the league? 3-I3.

‘AF C WEST:

Oakland: Insiders claim this team is straightening itself
out. After three decades of ﬂinging 60-yard bombs
downﬁeld, the Raiders reportedly will be shortening the
passing game. Other than the inconsistencies presented by
their usual low-percentage passing game, offense isn’t a
problem, not with the explosive receiving trio of Tim
Brown, Rocket Ismail, and James Jett. QB Jeff Hostetler
needs to reduce his 16 interceptions from a year ago. On
defense, the Raiders are excellent at cornerback with veter-
ans Albert Lewis and Terry McDaniel. On paper, Oakland
has the fewest holes of any team in this division. But in
order to seriously challenge for the Super Bowl, the Raiders,
like Miami, will need to demonstrate an ability to win cold-
weather games on the road. I0-6, division winner.

Denver: Defense is always in demand in this town. Like
their baseball brethren Rockies, who frequently play high-

scoring games, the Broncos are similar

Pittsburgh: The Steelers were ago-
nizingly close to a Super Bowl last year.
Featuring an aggressive, blitzing de-
fense, and a run-it-up-your-gut ground
game, Pittsburgh held a late lead in the
AFC Championship Game. The
Steelers’ Steel Trap would have caused
San Francisco serious problems in the
Super Bowl, but the matchup never
materialized as the Chargers rallied to
win. Much of the same cast, QB Neil
O’Donnell, RB Bam Morris, and line-
backers Kevin Greene and Greg Lloyd,
is back in Pittsburgh. However, a sea-
son—ending injury to Rod Woodson is a
major setback. On another note, Pitts-
burgh attempted to turn itself into Dal-
las East with its numerous offseason
distractions. First, there was the Super
Bowl rap video the Steelers produced

Photo by Scott Hallen, Allsport
Dan Marino

on the football field. Their game plan is
to rack up as many points as possible to
offset the usual defensive collapse. The
offense is armed and dangerous with
ageless QB John Elway, RB Glyn
Milburn, and receivers Anthony Miller,
Mike Pritchard, and Shannon Sharpe.
The Denver defense looked like a ham-
burger on a Burger King grill last sea-
son when it ﬁnished dead last in the
NFL in pass defense. That’s not a good
omen against teams like archrival Oak-
land. If the Broncos can discover some
sort of defense along the way, they will
give opposing teams nightmares. Re-
gardless, Denver should be exciting to
watch. 9-7, wild card.

Kansas City: All right, let’s knock
off the Steve Bono bashing for now.
Sure, he has a funny name, and like
Steve Young in San Francisco, he will

before losing to San Diego. During the
summer, Greene auditioned for team
punter by kicking away a ball belonging to an autograph
seeker, and Lloyd drew a $12,000 fine for knocking out Brett
Favre in a preseason game. If the Steelers can overcome
these distractions, they will be rapping into late January.
I 2-4, division winner.

Cleveland: Andre Rison. Derrick Alexander. Michael
Jackson (no, not THAT one). Antonio Langham. Eric
Turner. The last time quarterback Vinny Testaverde had this
much talent surrounding him was his 1986 Miami Hurri-
canes squad. That year, Vinny threw a costly interception
late in the national championship game against Penn State
which cost the Hurricanes a victory. Enough said. Still, no
team in its right mind wants to play in Cleveland with the
Browns’ defense fired up, and the Dawg Pound fans woof-
ing, which is usually the case in Cleveland Stadium. 11-
5, wild card.

Houston: What happened to this team? It was only a
year and a half ago that the Oilers were a Joe Montana
comeback short of reaching the AFC Championship Game.
Now they have been dismantled, with QB Warren Moon,
RB Lorenzo White, WR Ernest Givins, and DE William
Fuller being shown the door in the past two years. Houston,
with coach Jeff Fisher, plan on rebuilding, but ifthe Oilers
are that committed, why is retread Chris Chandler taking the
snaps instead of QB-of-the-future Steve McNair? Only in a
division like this could Houston ﬁnish third. 5-II.

Cincinnati: Fans in Cincinnati are getting extremely
psyched over a 2-0 start. Not to rain on the parade, but the
Bengals beat Jacksonville last week. Still, this franchise
hasn’t had much reason for optimism in this decade. The
defense has been slightly better than horrible, and franchise
running back, number-one draft pick Ki-Jana Carter, suc-
cumbed to a season-ending injury during the preseason. As
for the positive, Cincinnati owns two potential superstar
receivers in Carl Pickens and Darnay Scott. QB Jeff Blake
will attempt to prove that he is not a one-year wonder.
Maybe next year when Carter rejoins them, the Bengals can
inch back to respectability. 5-II.

Jacksonville: The expansion Jaguars had a brilliant
opportunity to win their first game ever in either one ofthe
first two contests: versus Houston, and at Cincinnati. They
came close, but dropped both. That should set the tone for
the season. Jacksonville has assembled a roster capable of
giving other squads problems. Mark Brunell is a capable
young quarterback if Steve Beuerlein continues his haphaz-
ard play. Ernest Givins is a veteran wideout, and the
defensive backfield is impressive. Even Desmond Howard,
the draft bust of the decade, could turn into a key addition.

be known as The Guy Who Replaced

Joe Montana. He may be nowhere near

the level of Montana, or even Young, but Bono had always

been a solid ﬁll-in starter in San Francisco, and should
produce similar strong performances in Kansas City. The

Chiefs’ defense isn’t as intimidating as it used to be, but tell
opposing offenses that when DE Neil Smith and LB Derrick
Thomas are breathing across the line of scrimmage at them.
The key to KC’s season may be if it can get productive
seasons out of the running game from Greg Hill and ancient
Marcus Allen to compliment Bono’s short passing. 8-8.

San Diego: How did this team make it to the Super Bowl
last year? The Chargers lost star wideout Anthony Miller
prior to last season, and QB Stan Humphries played with a
dislocated elbow. Give coach Bobby Ross credit. Not only
has he transformed this formerly mediocre franchise into an
excellent one, he always causes the Chargers to play their
best when the chips are down. They were picked to finish
last in 1994, but they won’t be sneaking up on anyone this
year. Once again, San Diego will feature a smashmouth
ground attack powered by Natrone Means, and a tough
defense, led by LB Junior Seau and DE Leslie O’Neal. The
Chargers are solid enough in all areas to remain a viable
playoff contender. 8-8.

Seattle: As many high draft choices as Seattle stock-
piles, one would think that one of these years, the Seahawks
will finally make their move. Well, next year has never
come. QB Rick Mirer has done little to distinguish himself
since a spectacular rookie season in .1993. Number—one
draft choice Joey Galloway will need to mature quickly to
give Mirer a deep threat. RB Chris Warren doesn’t need any
help. Although infrequently mentioned outside the North-
west, Warren has turned into a big-time runner aftera 1,545-
yard campaign in 1994. Cortez Kennedy is rock-solid on
the defensive line, but he receives little help from his
teammates. Question marks dot the secondary, and the

special teams, with the loss of kicker John Kasay. Sounds '

like a couple more years of rebuilding in Seattle. 6-I0.

Is there anyone in the AFC that could win the Super
Bowl? Yes, Pittsburgh, Miami, New England, Oakland,
and Cleveland all have a chance. New England has a potent
offense, and a coach with two Super Bowl rings in Bill
Parcells. Miami and Oakland are the conference’s two most
talented teams, and Cleveland boasts a fearsome defense.

But the best bet may be Pittsburgh. The Steelers likely
have the AFC’s premier defense, and the offense, as long as
the running game is at full tilt, can get the job done. After
years of losing the Super Bowl with the offensive-minded
Broncos and Bills, defense is the route to go for the AFC in
order to end its Super Bowl drought.

  

Last Week:

Vouxvmu - W, 15-2, 15-3, 15-7, at Chfstopher Newport
Msoocsa - W, 1-0, at Shenandoah; W, 3-0, vs. Marymount
Wsownn - L, 6-1, vs. Kean; W, 3-1, vs. Jersey City at Kean Invitational
Tournament; W, 12-0, vs. Mary Baldwin
I-‘ooraau. - L, 35-22, at Emory and Henry
MCnoes COUNTRY - Finished second at Lebanon Valley Invitational
WCnoas COUNTRY - Finished seventh at Lebanon Valley Invitational
WATER Pom - W, 16-6, 16-6, 14-8, vs. Findlay;

W, 23-9, 16-5, vs. Virginia Tech in W&L Fall Classic

. PAGE 8

       

 

      
        

 

 

. . ..Witi: fc,3ts,fii§cethese,,it‘I~
j‘ i_s’ao=.wonder%_ ti1at.Mant§e*; 
 ‘_"w_as-irevered in New York ’_ :51
‘f.— andi.m'uch*.of the ‘country

 

    
     
 
 

   

  

  
 * ia hero,sorn?eorjiew}:o'=

 
   
 

I 

career *

  to ftftelplate :. .-

    

1;st;ed'ﬁa¢ii'‘‘‘§i§uer¢red'. :-
" “ 1 nd_A§ivedtris_. 1;

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

Expectations are high this sea-
son for Washington and Lee’s
women’s soccer team, following
their surprise 10-5 record last
season.

The Generals did lose six se-
niors to graduation, but last year’s
fab freshmen class returns this
year to pick up the slack.

The first test for the women’s
soccer team came in the Kean
Invitational Tournament in Kean,
NJ, this past Saturday.

The host Kean team from
Union, NJ, defeated the Generals
in their ﬁrst match, 6-1, by wear-
ing W&L down with their pow-
erful offense.

W&Lfreshman forward Karin
Treese tied the game at 1-1 early
in the first half off a penalty kick
conversion, but the rest of the
game was all Kean.

The Generals rebounded in
their next contest, defeating Jer-

S

@112 iting-tum iﬁhi

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

Women’s soccer grabs
split in New Jersey

sey City, 3-1, on Sunday.
Junior Michelle Bauman led
the Generals to an early 2-0 lead
by scoring two goals in the ﬁrst
half off assists from Treese and
fellow freshman Caroline Keen.

Treese tacked on her second
goal of the tournament during
the second half to pad W&L’s
lead before Jersey City netted a
garbage-time goal late in the sec-
ond half.

Sophomore goalie Delia
Coyle and her older colleague,
junior Beth Mozena, combined
to hold Jersey City to just one
goal, while tallying six saves.

On Thursday, the 1-1 Gener-
als looked for anotherwin against
the Fighting Squirrels of Mary
Baldwin, who they trounced last
year, 7-0.

The storyline was repeated
this year, as the Generals bombed
the Squirrels, 12-0.

Keen turned in an incredible
performance. The freshman
smashed the W&L single-game
point mark with her nine points.

She scored four goals and had
one assist. Treese added to the
freshman domination as she
notched three goals.

Coyle saved the lone shot at-
tempted by the Squirrels.

Tomorrow, the Generals
travel to face Guilford, the team
they beat in last year’s ODAC
tournament, by a score of 6-0.
That game also looks like a win
for W&L, as the Generals have
never lost to Guilford, winning
eight times in the two schools’
nine meetings.

The apparent early signs of
another powerful freshman class
this season continue to bode well
for Washington and Lee in the
near future.

While it may be too early to
say, coach Jan Hathom certainly
appears to have more valuable
additions to her already fonni-
dable nuclei of young talent,
which includes Coyle and scor-
ing sensation Erica Reineke.

The years to come look bright,
indeed.

This Week:

Vouxrmu. - Sat. in W&L Invitational, 9:00 AM
Tues. vs. Randolph-Macon, 6:30 PM
Thurs. at Roanoke, 6:30 PM

MSoocx|t-

Sat. at Catholic, 11:00 AM

Tues. vs. Emory & Henry, 4:00 PM

Wsoocnn -

Sat. at Guilford, 12:00 noon; Wed. at Hollins, 4:00 PM

M, WCnoss Couxrmr - Sat. in W&L Invitational, 10:00 AM
WATILR Pow - Sat. at Richmond EWPA Tourney

SEPTEMBER 15, 1995

File Photo

Kicking off the season

The Generals’ women’s soccer team split a pair of games in Kean, New Jersey,
last weekend before making the long trek back home to face Mary Baldwin.

Water Polo sweeps Fall Classic

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee wa-
ter polo squad wasted no time in
jumping out of the gate to start
the 1995 season, as the Generals
swept all ﬁve games they played
this past weekend in the W&L
Fall Classic at Twombly Pool.

The Generals ripped Findlay,
16-6, 16-6, and 14-8, as well as
dumping VirginiaTech by counts
of 23-9 and 16-5. With its quick
start, W&L bursts out to a 5-0
record in the young ‘season.

Head coach Page Remillard
was not surprised by the Gener-
als’ blowout victories during the
Fall Classic.

“The opponents didn’t expe-

rience the same type of preseason
that we had,” he commented.
Because of the lower level of

competition, Remillard wanted .

his first team and his goalies, as
well as his freshmen, to receive
plenty of playing time through-
out the tournament.

“The question was, how well
would we come together,” men-
tioned Remillard.

Much to the dismay of Findlay
and Virginia Tech, W&L had no
problems whatsoever. Junior All-
American Pete Sorensen was all
over the pool on offense last
weekend, tallying up a grand to-
tal of 16 goals and 9 assists. His
team-leading offensive statistics
figured out to a superb ﬁfty-per-
cent shooting percentage.

Sorensen didn’t skip a beat on

defense, either. His fifteen steals
in the tournament gave him top
honors on the team defensively.

Fellow junior Nathan Hottle
also made life miserable for the
opposition on defense by finish-
ing with fourteen thefts. Hottle
proved to be the catalyst on
W&L’s fast break opportunities,
as well.

Junior James Silberstein
added to his reputation of being
the Generals’ deep threat by
notching the team’s first two-
point goal of the 1995 season
during the Classic. Silberstein
ended up second to Sorensen in
scoring with a 23-point total.

W&L’s young goalie tandem
turned in an impressive perfor-
mance. Deep-end goalie sopho-
more J aoob Garrett and shallow-

File Photo

W&L’s water polo squad opened its season in extremely impressive fashion.
The Generals captured all five games they played in the W&L Fall Classic,
knocking off Findlay (Ohio) and Virginia Tech to run their record to 5-0.

end stopper freshman Aaron
Howell combined to ward off
60.5 percent of the opposing shots
in the tournament.

“When your goalies block
sixty-percent, you’re real happy,”
Remillard commented.

Remillard was alsoextremely
impressed with W&L’s block-
ing from the ﬁeld, saying that it
wasthebestﬁeld-blockingweek-
end ever for the Generals.

“We made some mistakes on
defense, but it will be hard to
evaluate them until we play a
tougher level of competition,” he
said.

That increased level of com-
petition oould come as soon as
this weekend when the Generals
travel to Richmond to participate
in an EWPA Tournament hosted
by the University of Richmond.

One of the teams W&L will
face there, Navy, is currently
ranked tenth in the nation. Rich-
mond also received votes in the
national poll.

‘‘I don’t expect us to go
undefeated (in the tournament),
but 1 do expect us to win at least
one game,” Remillard said.

The Generals did not receive
any votes in the rankings, but
that could change during the
course of the regular season, since
most Eastern Water Polo Asso-
ciation teams are lumped together
in ability.

“Parity is the deﬁnition of this
coming season,” Remillard
stated.

Because of the parity, it will
become even more critical for
the Generalstodefendtheirhome
turf, since road contests will
present a difficult challenge
against teams close to their abil-
ity level.

“Seven teams are all close to-
gether, which means they’ll be
beating each other,” mentioned
Remillard.

The Generals get their next
shot at a home game when they
host the W&L EWPA Touma—
ment on September 30.

Football:

For the second year in a row,
W&L dropped its opener to the
Wasps of Emory & Henry, this
time falling on the road, 35-22.

The Generals fell into a huge
hole at halftime, trailing 28-2.
Those two points came on the
first-ever defensive two-point
conversion for W&L.

The Generals scored three
touchdowns in the second half,
but three turnovers in the half
dashed W&L’s comeback hopes.

Safety Stuart Hogue turned
in a terriﬁc day on defense with
19 tackles. Hull added ten tack-
les and two sacks.

 

thony Mazzerelli fended off
twelve Shenandoah shots.

The goose-eggs continued
Wednesday at Liberty Hall
Fields, as the Generals dusted
off Marymount, 3-0. FourW&L
goalies teamed up to stop eight
shots in the shutout.

Junior Bill Sigler played a
large role by scoring one goal
and assisting on another for the
Generals (2-0).

Women’s Cross Country:

Senior Josephine Schaeffer
continued to own the course at
the Lebanon Valley Invitational,
as she triumphed for the third

Volleyball:

The volleyball team domi-
nated Christopher Newport on
Saturday, 15-2, 15-3, 15-7.

Sophomore Hilary Martin led
the way with 13 kills, and sopho-
more Holly Thomsen pitched in
with 7 kills, helping W&L to a
.493 hitting percentage.

Middle blocker Virginia
Yoerg controlled the defensive
play with her ﬁve blocks.

Men’s Soccer:

The Generals squeaked by
Shenandoah, 1-0, on Saturday,
as freshman Sam Chase beat the
opposing goalie late in the game

for the only score. Junior An-

\

 

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor
W&L started 2-0 after a 3-0 win over Marymount.

year in a row.
Schaeffer ﬁnished her 22nd
career win in a time of 18:41.
Sophomore Carson Flowers
came in second behind Schaeffer
with a time of 21:50. W&L
finished seventh in team play.

Men’s Cross Country:
The 1995 season started on a
bright note for the Generals, as
they captured second place in
the 26-team competition.
Senior Brad Paye took team
honors by finishing third at
Lebanon Valley in 26:35. '
Sophomore Jason Callen
checked in with a log of 27:03,
good enough for seventh place.

AFC looks to end eleven years of NFC domination

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

Part 2 of a two- part series.

If the NFL title was decided on the basis of regular season records,
American Football Conference teams would fare excellently.

However, since there is that small matter of a Super Bowl to be
decided each season, an AFC team has not won a championship since

the Raiders in the 1983 season.

There are various theories on why the NFC perenially dominates
the ultimate contest of the season. For one, the NFC emphasizes
defense and ball—control attacks more. Also, many NFC teams play
in tough stadiums under often inclement conditions.

Both reasons hold some validity, but the most probable reason is
that parity is more common in the AFC. The AFC annually boasts a
cast of solid, capable teams, but they are not quite talented enough to
overtake the likes of Dallas and San Francisco from the NFC.

Each year, the AFC holds its own with the NFC in interconference
play, but until it develops a team that rises above the pack, the Super

Bowl will be another AFC failure.

Here is a glance at the AFC, along with each team’s predicted

record.

AFC EAST:

New England: The Patriots have been on an upward swing for

three years now, and possess some of the best young talent in the
game in quarterback Drew Bledsoe and tight end Ben Coates. The
Pats would be poised to advance to the next level, but the defense is
shaky at best. Ironically, defense was always the strong point of
coach Bill Parcells’ Giants teams. New England also has a difﬁculty
winning big games, as evidenced by last week’s moribund perfor-
mance against Miami. The Patriots should eventually reach the

    

Photo by Jeff Fishbein, The Sporting News
The Dawg Pound intimidates the opposition.

Super Bowl, but it may take a year or two. As for this year, they stand '

a good shot at winning their division. I I -5, division winner.

Miami: The Dolphins are never short on talent. QB Dan Marine
is still rolling along at a tremendous clip, and fullback Keith Byars,
tight end Eric Green, and loudmouth linebacker Bryan Cox are all
proven veterans. Don Shula, as usual, is one of the top coaches in the
NFL. There is nothing not to like about this team on paper. On the
ﬁeld, things do not always go the same. Miami customarily starts off
on ﬁre, lapses into a November swoon when forced to play road
games in cold weather, and drops a playoff contest it should have
won, such as last season when a 21-6 lead in San Diego went up in
smoke. Expect much of the same this year. I0-6, wild card.

Buffalo: I know, I know, everybody is tired of these guys.
Nobody outside of the Buffalo area wants to see a Drive for Five.
Still, these guys aren’t that bad yet. Despite not making the playoffs
last season, the Bills still return QB Jim Kelly, RB Thunnan Thomas,
WR Andre Reed, DE Bruce Smith, and LB Cornelius Bennett.
Basically, it is the same nucleus that was present during the Super
Bowl years. It will be interesting to see if Buffalo can pull itself
together and prove last year was an aberration, or else maybe the Bills
are getting old. 9-7.

Indianapolis: The Colts have been a trendy pick to reach the ,

playoffs this year. But wait a second...these are the Colts, aren’t they?
They still have the Curse of Baltimore on their backs. Since 1984,
when they departed Baltimore, the Colts have entered the playoffs a

to See AFC, page 7

 

 
 

-23: 'a;:_.:—«...r

" .1.

wAa«n~i-an-cs. arm . ,0

Lenmwcm, am. 

 P  E3? 1995

 

ET
:1

 

95

it VOLUME 95’, N0. 3

going where no woman

Vollegboll prevails

fitlgﬂgng gefore 6 at W&L lnvitotionola

U11 ilting-tum Iﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

SEPTEMBER 22, 1995

EC questions Pub
Board reserve fund

Study circle

Photo by Betsy Green, i Photo Editr

outside of Lee Chapel.

As the first day of the fall rapidly approaches, students take advantage of the weather

and the scenery studying

Tailgating moved to lacrosse field

By MlCliAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

At tomorrow’s first Washington and
Lee football game, the time-honored
tradition of tailgating, or a party out of
a truck, will be held inside the fenced
Lacrosse practice ﬁeld which is beside
the freshmen parking lot.

Director of Security Mike Young
announced the new policy during
Wednesday night’s Interfraternity
Council meeting.

“Saturdays have become another
reason to have a big party,” Young
said, “and we can’t have that.”

IFC president Ryan Connolly said

reservations.

“l just won’t be as much of an expe-
rience as it used to be,” he said. “It used
to be an all day Foxfield-like event.”

The university is concerned with
any liability it might incur if an acci-
dent happened that caused injury to a
student or damaged the school’s prop-
erty, he said.

Associate Dean of Students for
Greek Affairs Leroy Atkins agreed.

“The real issue is that we cannot
afford to have a three hour party with
people drinking,” he said. “We have a
responsibility to this university to pro-
tect it. We have no choice.”

Young said W&L Security will start
shutting down the tailgating parties at

Barbecue in Buena Vista will provide
food for the parties. He asked the
fraternities who are having tailgating
parties tomorrow to please cooperate.
He said’ he hopes the policy will work
out.

These parties need to come under
control, Young said. W&L Security
has received reports from people com-
plaining about property damage.

“We’re not trying to keep you from
having a good time,” he said.

Atkins said he wants to keep the
school from being liable for anything.

‘‘I’m not anxious to have money
coming out of our endowment because
we let students do something that is not
healthy.”

“I think people will cooperate,” he
said, “and hopefully, more people will
watch the Generals destroy their feeble
opponents.”

In other [FC news, Kappa Alpha
fraternity will not have abig Tear Night
party tomorrow.

KA received a $1500 ﬁne and one
week of social probation from the IFC
for a rush violation.

The fraternity was charged with
having freshmen males at their frater-
nity house during closed contact last
week.

KA president .l. Harrison Morrison
refused to comment on the IFC’s deci-
sion but did say the social probation,
which started Wednesday, will seri-

By DAN ODLNWALD
I'll; Executive Editor

The Executive Committee and the
Publications Board called a last minute
meeting to talk about a $10,300 surplus
in the Board’s reserve fund.

Concerned over the unusually large
amount in the fund, the EC requested
that Darcey Livingston, Acting Pub
Board President, meet with the com-
mittee to discuss the surplus.

The Pub Board consists of the edi-
tors-in-chief and business managers of
The Ring-tum Phi, The Calyx, the Po-
litical Review, the Ariel, and the Jour-
nal of Science. A sixth campus jour-
nal, the Arete, was added Wednesday
night during the Board’s first meeting
of the academic year.

The mission of the Board is to act as
sole publisher for all the publications
and to appoint all editors. A
minimum of $3,000 is kept in a reserve
fund to absorb possible end-of-year
debts or unanticipated expenses of the
publications.

The surplus resulted from money
raised last year by The Calyx. The
yearbook ended the year with $8,000
more than anticipated. Increased rev-

' enues from student picture fees, the

patron drive, and advertising accounted
for $7,500. The Calyx also cut ex-
penses by several hundred dollars.

In early September, the E.C. exam-
ined the ﬁnancial records of the Pub
Board in preparation for the budget
hearings. They immediately noticed

that the Pub Board had substantial
funds, yet campus publications under
the Pub Board did not reﬂect that sur-
plus with lowered budget requests.

Hence the question arose: How is
that money being spent?

“There was a concern on the part of
the EC over what all that money was
doing there,” said Pub Board advisor
Brian Richardson.

Keith Benedict, EC President, was
concerned that the Pub Board might
squander the student activity fees.

“We don't want to see the money go
down a black hole,” said Benedict.

Additionally, he demanded more
accountability for how the money will
be spent.

Livingston reminded the EC that it
could send a non-voting member to
Pub Board meetings to see ﬁrst-hand
how surplus funds were being allo-
cated. .'.she also denied concerns that
the funus would be mismanaged.

“All surplus funds go directly back
into the publications. For example, we
[The Calyx] want that money to buy
new computers,” said Livingston.

EC member Amy Gorham
suggested that the Pub Board provide
a detailed account of how
the reserve funds are spent to avoid
further confusion.

Benedict added that he wants to see
the surplus spent on campus publica-
tions, but he advised Livingston to
purchase only what is necessary.

“We’re comfortable with
what you’re doing, we just want
to account for student money,”
concluded Benedict.

Freshmen women
meet leaders and
voice opinions

“Now

freshmen ship positions but also

the

fraternities will cooperate with
the policy. However, he did have some

1230 p.m. Buildings and Grounds will
provide tables and chairs, and Todd’s

Connolly said there might some
good to come out of the new policy.

ously affect plans for Saturday’s Tear
Night.

West-Settle joins administration

By RYAN BEAMAN
Phi Staff Writer

 

Cecile West-Settle has been
appointed Associate Dean of
the College. The former Asso-
ciate Dean, W. Lad Sessions,
is currently serving as Dean of
the College to fill the void left

by the ascent of John W. Elrod
to President.

West-Settle, a Romance
Languages professor, began
work under her new title on
July 1 and will remain for
the next three years, as Associ-
ate Dean of the College is a
rotating position among
the faculty.

Although West-Settle has
been exposed to the workings

ofthe university by serving on
various committees, her new
job itinerary holds a much
broader list of activities, which
includes matters concerning
the automatic rule and read-
mission, chairing a committee
comprised of eight faculty
members dealing with Gradu-
ate Fellowships, and work on
Release Scholarships which
enable students to work with

faculty members during the‘

summer. in addition, she has
also assisted Dean of Fresh-
men and Residence Life Den-
nis G. Manning with
resolving schedule conflicts
and advising.

West-Settle enjoys being
more ingrained in the work-
ings of the administrative as-
pect of the university and she
maintains she still has a good

deal of contact with students.
She is teaching one Spanish
course in each of the Fall and
Winter Terms, which provides
a welcome change in her day.
With her job still rela-
tively new, West-Settle is un-
clear as to whether a career in
administration might be ap-
pealing to her, but she appears
enthusiastic about her role
within the university.

More checkpoints keep Security busy

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

codes. The bar codes can be placed just about anywhere. Previously, the ofﬁcers

had to lug around a 14 pound clock that was advanced with keys placed around
campus. The new device weighs less than a pound and is carried in a pouch worn
on the officer’s belt.

Washington and Lee Security ofﬁcers seem to be patrolling a lot of new areas

this year, including individual fraternity houses.

Mike Young, Director of Security, said the increased presence of ofﬁcers is
due to a new check point system. The Deister System, a computer driven
checkpoint system, enabled W&L Security to increase the number of areas
checked on each patrol from 30 to 200. Security officers currently check 62

points on campus.

Young said some of these points include the fraternity houses. He stressed
that the officers are not trying to spy on students or catch fraternities breaking the
rules. The checkpoints were placed in each house because the school owns them
and is interested in keeping them in good condition. Young also pointed out that
the checkpoints are placed in areas in the house where Buildings and Grounds

frequently inspects for maintenance reasons.

This does not mean ofﬁcers will ignore activities in the house.
‘‘If something draws [the ofﬁcers’] attention, they’ll check it out,”

Young said.

The system operates on bar codes and a wand-like device that reads the bar

Young said that the new system allowed a better accounting of what was

checked and when it was inspected. He said after each shift, the scanning device

is down-loaded onto a computer where the reports are stored. The reports for any

patrol can be called up almost instantly. Each report shows the officer on patrol,

the areas check, and what time they were checked.

ln addition to better accounting, the new system allows Security to respond to
problem areas. Young said because of increasing thefts on the lower levels of the
law school library, a new check point was added. The checkpoint insures that

areas where problems have occurred will be patroled. Another checkpoint was

added on the lower levels of Leyburn Library after unwanted sexual advances
were made towards several students last year.

Officer Scott Rowe said he likes the new system more than the old one. He
said the old system encouraged officers to hurry because the clock was so heavy
and awkward.

Every checkpoint is supposed to be checked twice a shift, according to Rowe.

the money.

Young said the computer read-out of the patrols provides an opportunity to check
the quality of work of the officers.
Young said the system cost $2800 to purchase and install, but is worth

By SARA MCCRONE
Phi Staff Writer

On a typical week-
night during Rush, the
freshmen men put ontheir
khaki pants and navy blue
jackets and head out to
catch aride to fraternity
houses while their
dormmates a few ﬂoors
upsettle down to watch
TV or do some home-
work. But last night was
different for the fresh-
men women, who found
that although they didn't
have to get dressed up,
they did have some place
to go.

About one hundred
freshmen women ﬁlled
the rain site in the Uni-
versity Center to near-
capacity. Student lead-
ers of the event’s spon-
sors, Panhellenic,
Women’s Forum, and
Women and Leadership,
were pleased by the turn-
out and took the oppor-
tunity to welcome the
freshmen to W&L and to
invite them to participate
in women’s groups on
campus.

“We are glad that
freshman are voicing
their opinions from the
outset,” Sakina Paige,
ChairpersonofWomen’s
Forum, said. “Women’s
Forum addresses the con-
cerns of all women on
campus, and by having
events like this,
Women’s Forum pro-
vides a place for them.”

Paige acknowledged
that the social was also
planned for a time in
which freshmen women
may have been feeling
left out because of the
prevalence of Rush func-
tions for the men.

women can also feel like
they know upper-class
women on campus and
that they can walk up and
say hello,” she said.

“This activity, as well
as demonstrating that the
women’s groups are very
united, serves to help
form friendships among
freshmen and upper-
class women.”

The choral group Ju-
bilee, comprised of up-
per-class students and
two freshmen women,
kicked off the series of
events designed to gen-
eratecamaraderieamong
the students. As the all-
female group performed
excellent renditions of
Mamas and Papas songs
and Go-Go’s tunes,
women of all ages lis-
tened and snacked on
Creamsicles and Nutty
Buddies. After the per-
formance, a wide range
of female student lead-
ers, including SCC
Chairperson Madeline
White, Women and
beadership Chairperson
Karly Jennings, and
Panhellenic leader
Suzanne Sharpe, encour-
aged the freshmen
women to seek leader-
ship positions. “Just get
out there and do it,” EC
secretary Amy Gorham
advised. “Freshman year
is a good time to apply
for positions and seek
ofﬁce.” Gorham and the
sophomore and junior
class presidents advised

~ freshmen women to at-

tend a panel on seeking
leadership positions that
will be held in C-school
on October 3 at 4:00.
Jennings emphasized
that Women and Leader-
ship is not just for women
who already hold leader-

for those who want to
develop leadership skills
at W&L or out in the
work force.

“Sometimes groups
get too fractioned or di-
vided,” Jennings noted.
“This is one big group
for everyone; we have
members who are from
the Christian right to the
far left and everywhere
in between. That’s what
we're hoping for.”

PanhellenicChairper-
son Suzanne Sharpe
oommentedthatinvolve-
ment in sororities also
promotes leadership
skills.

“Being in a sorority is
conducivetobecominga
leader. Almost everyone
in a sorority holds sortie
l e a d e r s h i p
position,”Sharpe said.

The event seemed to
be a big hit among the
freshmen women, who
went to watch the season
premiere of Friends in
the Women's Center on
the third ﬂoor of Gaines
Hall, which Paige
stressed is open at any
time to any woman on
campus.

Especially pleased
with the activity were
those women who had
won prizes for speedily
answering such survey
questions as “What is the
only predominantly fe-
male department?”
(Arts) and “Which lan-
guage is taught by all fe-
male instructors?” (Rus-
sian).

“I think it's great be-
cause I won this T-shirt!”
freshman Keri Dunphy
exclaimed, proudly dis-
playing her prize which
read: “W&L Women:
Quality Doesn't Have to
Travel.”

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Popcorn mogul Orville
Redenbacher dies at age 80

Orville Redenbacher, the well-known creator of Orville Redenbacher
popcorn, was discovered dead in his bathtub on Tuesday. Police investi-
gators report that the eighty-year-old public figure died of natural causes.
Fans of Redenbacher’s popcorn will be relieved to hear that his popcorn
empire will continue under the guidance of his family.

Welfare reform legislation
survives Senate scrutiny

Washington, D.C.—After months of revision, the Senate passed a
sweeping welfare reform bill Tuesday by a majority of 87 to 12. Reforms
passed in the Senate bill include a ﬁve-year limit on welfare beneﬁts, a
requirement that beneficiaries work while receiving welfare, a new system
of block grants to states. and denial of benefits to legal immigrants.

The bill will now come before a House and Senate conference commit-
tee which will discuss compromises between the current bill and one
passed by the House earlier this year. Debate will likely focus on such
issues as the “family cap,” which would deny or reduce benefits for women
who had more children while on welfare, or variations ofthe cap, including
increased grants to states which reduce illegitimate births.

Bosnian/Croatian forces to
end assault on Serb holdings

Bosnia~—Bosnian and Croatian forces agreed Tuesday to end their
massive offensive against Serb holdings in western and central Bosnia,
including Banja Luka, the town which is currently harboring 100,000
Serbian refugees. In the past week, their combined efforts have gained
more territory for the Bosnian government than they have held since the
beginning of the war with Bosnian Serbs over three years ago.

Officials halted the raid on Serbian strongholds in light of growing
concerns that the assault would jeopardize the continuing peace talks with
Serb forces and possibly incite military action. The war continues in other
regions of Bosnia despite pressure from NATO to end warfare in the former
Yugoslavia.

NFL facing identity crisis as
Jerry Jones’ case escalates

Atlanta, GA—.ln recent weeks the court battle over Jerry Jones‘ alleged
violations of NFL advertising procedures has been escalating. While the

Cowboys‘ owner and other members ofthe NFL remain optimistic that the -

conflict between Jones and NFL Properties will be resolved out of court,
many, including Commissioner Paul Tagliabue, insist that ifJones wins his
case the effects on the NFL will be disastrous.

The case, including a $300 million lawsuit ﬁled by NFL Properties
against Jones, raises several central issues, such as sponsorship of stadiums
and athletic products, competition with other leagues, and equal access to
players. Tagliabue is convinced that these issues will not be resolved by
the owners. Jones’ alleged violations of NFL procedure and the resolution
of the lawsuit against him will likely be the incentive for a close examina-
tion of the NFL’s business relationships, as well as its licensing policies.

GOP WATCH

 

Parties clash over Medicaid
and Medicare budget cuts

In recent weeks GOP activity foreshadowed the controversy over what
will undoubtedly be one of the most complex issues of the 1996 campaign.
Senate and House Republicans, as well as Republican governors, became
embroiled in the battle over Medicare and Medicaid as the scheduled
makeover of the national programs approaches.

Democrats promise that any of the planned Republican cuts and
changes (such as caps on doctors’ fees, incentives to join HMOs and
increased premiums) in funding will leave thousands of children, elderly
and disabled without the means to procure medical treatment or prescrip-
tion drugs.

Republicans are also registering mixed opinions about the reductions in
funding. While Republicans in Congress view the cuts as integral to their
budget plans, GOP governors insist that the cuts must be reasonable in
order for the states to withstand them. The Senate and House are also
arguing the issue of whether or not the Medicaid program should be turned
over to the states or should remain an entitlement. The issue promises to
ﬁgure signiﬁcantly not only in the Republican campaigns, but in the party
battles as well.

Proposed foreign aid cuts
to cause controversy

The GOP’s proposed foreign aid cuts became the subject of controversy
within the Republican Party last week. The cuts, which Democrats allege
will preclude international communication to the point of isolating and
endangering the United States, have also been criticized by Republican
Appropriation Committee Chairman Mark Hatﬁeld. While a proposed
House and Senate compromise bill would bring about less drastic cuts,
Hatfield remains concerned about the effects of the cuts on the State
Department and the United States Information Agency.

The budget cuts have received the support of Senator Phil Gramm,
Senator Robert Dole, and Senator Richard G. Lugar, all candidates for the
GOP nomination. However, the proposed cuts are a continued cause for
concern among those who had hoped for less stringent attacks from the
GOP leaders on foreign affairs budgets.

Beyond the Blue Ridge and GOP Watch are
compiled by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

The 'n - Ph° tember 22 1995

 

W&L leads its students to the
Information Superhighway

By ALEX CHRISTENSEN
Phi staff writer

“The Information Superhighway”—the high-tech
future of information in a global age, or just another
media—generated catch-phrase designed to make any-
body without an e-mail address feel hopelessly be-
hind the times? It is probably a bit of each. Students
at W&L can ﬁnd out for themselves through Liberty,
the University’s computer network, and related ser-
vices provided by Campus Computing.

W&L’s Internet access and other services are
certainly not the most technologically advanced in
any sense, but they do provide users with basic
connections and fairly comprehensive features to
enable them to communicate around the world, con-
duct research and share data, participate in conversa-
tions grandiose and trivial without borders and be-
come familiar with the cutting edge of multi-media
and programming. Certainly, most schools, and even
businesses, would be thrilled to wake up and ﬁnd that
they had been equipped with the computing capabili-
ties available to W&L’s students, faculty, and staff.

Of course, gaining access to all of these resources
is not as simple as turning on a computer, but W&L
Computing has made the process fairly straightfor-
ward. W&L students and others affiliated with the
University may purchase computers through pro-
grams run by Apple and Dell at Student Computer
Purchase in the computing center on the ﬁrst ﬂoor of
Tucker Hall. The programs allow the purchase of up
to one desktop computer, one notebook computer,
and one printer per year at substantial discounts (the
limits are designed to avoid competing with com-
puter retailers).

After a computer has been purchased, or brought
from home, students may purchase a packet consist-
ing of a disk and a cable which will connect their
computer to the campus system, Liberty, via phone
lines installed in all University housing. Students
living off—campus can connect to Liberty via their
own phone lines using a modem.

Most students are already familiar with e-mail. E-
mail allows users to send information to any other
computer user in the world with a valid e-mail
address. Letters, programs, images, etc., may be sent
via e-mail. Students frequently communicate through
e-mail with friends at other colleges, friends they
have made previously through online services such
as America OnLine or CompuServe, parents or other
family, or participate in mailing lists on certain
topics, ranging from the basics of computer use to
religious discussions to favorite television programs.

All students, whether they know it or not, have e-
mail addresses which can be accessed through Lib-
erty on personal computers or in any of the computer
labs on campus, or the library. Passwords and ac-
count names were sent to students over the summer
from the Telecommunications Ofﬁce.

Pub Board
to add new
publication

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

The Publications Board voted
Wednesday to add a new publication to
the five already under its wing.

Bill Rust, editor of the Political
Review. requested that the Board in-
clude the Arete, an annualjournal now
in its first year.

TheA rete will complement the Ley-
burn Society’s Speaker Program,which
last year held discussions on local and
international issues ranging from Win-
ter Rush to Chechnya.

The journal will include student,
professor and guest essays, interviews,
student reactions and critiques.

The Pub Board agreed to fund 50
percent of the Arete’s first year operat-
ing budget, or $400.

“We thought thejournal would com-
plete what we’re trying to do with the
Leyburn Society,” said Billy Poynter,

W&L e-mail received an upgrade recently to
PINE 3.91, the program used to receive, sort, and
work with e-mail. The upgrade essentially does not
change the way the program works, but it does allow
USENET newsgroups to be accessed via PINE in-
stead of via TIN, the Liberty newsreader. Computer
services still recommends the use of TIN, however,
simply because the two are fairly similar and students
are likely more familiar with TIN.

Annie. named for Annie White, longtime W&L
librarian and founder of Fancy Dress, is the
University’s catalog system. It can be accessed via
Liberty in private rooms and also at locations through-
out campus. Students can leave comments about the
library and request new materials in addition to
searching for books, periodicals and other research
sources. Using Annie before heading to the library
allows students to cut down on time spent searching
in the stacks and spend more time on actual study and
research.

Liberty is the name of the computer’s interface
system. Included in Liberty, in addition to e-mail
capabilities and connections to Annie, are several
other features that allow W&L students to ﬁnd and
use information effectively. Some are used primarily
for non—curricular activities, while some are used
almost exclusively for serious research.

The USENET is an international system of
“newsgroups,” groups broken up by the subjects
discussed within each. Topics range widely from
cars to coffee to Conan O’Brien to foreign languages
to politics, and on and on. Virtually every topic is
represented, and if it is not currently, a sufﬁcient
show of interest is enough to make sure it is. In
addition to groups available to anyone in the world,
W&L’s USENET service includes W&L-speciﬁc
topics such as computing, Christians on campus, and
individual class groups where students and profes-
sors can discuss and organize their classes. Much of
the USENET, many students have found, must be
slogged through to get past the ﬂames (vitriolically
abusive “discussion”), trolls (attempting to provoke
ﬂames), ads (a severe violation of Internet etiquette),
and just plain useless discussion to find the interest-
ing or informative bits that can lead to discussion or
present unfiltered news and opinions from around
the world.

The IRC (Internet Relay Chat) is sort oflike a live
USENET. Users can talk live to people around the
world, again on topics as various as the people who
participate. While some may abandon the IRC as a
hotbed of horny undergraduates pretending to be
things they are not, cybersex is not the only option.
Discussions of religion, pop culture, and even live
“game show”—type groups are also popular.

The World Wide Web is what many people mean
when they talk about the Internet or the Information
Superhighway; though it is only a part of the total
picture, it is a quickly expanding part growing in
usage and popularity. WWW is a multi-media format
allowing users to see pictures. read text, and hear
sounds all in one integrated “document.”The WWW’s

editor of the Arete (the Athenian word
for excellence).

The Leyburn Society is named after
Dr. James G. Leyburn who said in his
1979 address at the Omicron Delta
Kappa assembly that “many Washing-
ton and Lee students so soon begin to
specialize that they miss the riches of

this University’s superb curriculum.”
The Leyburn Society attempts to
provide students with the opportunity
to explore areas not discussed in class.
President John Elrod agreed to be
the Society’s first speaker of the year.
Rust and Poynter also hope to per-
suade author John. Grisham to speak.

just plain good looks have made it extremely popu-
lar, though a lot of what is there may be less useful
than the information to be found in other formats.

The World Wide Web at W&L can be most
effectively accessed via labs in Gaines Dorm,
Newcomb Hall, the library, Parmly, the C-School,
and Robinson Hall. They are connected to Liberty
via Ethernet connections, which allow them to effec-
tively run the memory-greedy Mosaic and Netscape
programs which allow the Web to be seen in its full
glory. For purely informational needs, the Web can
be browsed in a text-only format from private rooms
using Lynx from the Liberty UNIX prompt. W&L
Computing is contemplating connecting private
rooms with Ethernet connections, but no deﬁnite
plans have been made. In the meantime, solutions
using other programs are being improvised to make
the Web more accessible in complete form to private
rooms.

Many students and others at W&L have designed
their own Web “pages,” now accessible from the
W&L Home Page, which feature their own interests,
artwork, and writing. Hints about creating personal
Web pages are also accessible from the W&L Home
Page.

Also available are commercial services which
make research easier and more topical, as well. W&L
has made UnCover, Firstsearch, and Lexis/Nexis
available from Liberty. These services are designed
for research related directly to academic work, and
include databases of articles in journals, newspapers,
magazines, as well as government documents and
legal and medical news.

New developments in computing this year in-
clude several thousand dollars’ worth of new com-
puters in the student labs; a new administrative
computer, AUGUSTA, which is ten to 20 times
faster than the old system, has ten times as much
central memory and three times as much disk space;
a new network ﬁle sewer for administrative users; an
upgrade in W&L’s Internet link from 56,0()0 bits per
second to 1.5 million bits per second; a newer, faster
processor, known as LOGIC, for USENET
newsgroups; an increase in ports so that more users
can be connected at once without waits, and new
SLIP/PPP connections accessible via phone lines to
allow full Web usage; a Student Help Desk in Tucker
227 which will provide general user assistance and
some multimedia facilities for students, and a new
System Information Hotline at 463-8409 which will
announce scheduled and unscheduled maintenance
and will recite the new dial-in numbers for the
University’s modems.

New developments in W&L’s computing capa-
bilities are announced and discussed in the
“wIu.computing” newsgroup on Liberty ’s USENET,
and changes are taking place every day. While most
students still. may only be using their e-mail or
connecting to Annie for preliminary research, there
is a full range of opportunities to learn more about, as
well as learn from, the Information Superhighway——
or whatever you want to call it.

Cable 2 boasts new
shows, new equipment

Write to
he D17/i

We welcome your imput

phi@wlu.edu

By EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

Cable 2, Washington and Lee’s Io-
cal-access television station, starts its
fall programming with new shows and
new equipment.

The equipment cost about $36,000
and includes three cameras, tripods,
and a new switcher. Engineers came in
over the summer and rewired the stu-
dio.

The journalism department received
the money after the administration ap-
proved a plan submitted by department
head Hampden Smith.

Cable 2 managers plan an expanded
lineup for this year. Programming be-
gins at 5:30 on the weekdays and runs
till 10. Exact times for all shows have
yet to be set, but Program Manager
Callie James expects to set the times in
the next few weeks.

The Dating Game and W&L Genes
return to the lineup, which will also
feature new shows.

The Roommate Game, James said,
is patterned after The Newlywed Game
and is designed to let roommates dis-
cover more about each other.

Today's Issues, which follows a
roundtable discussion format, will fea-
ture discussions on student media, the
Virginia Women’s Institute for Lead-
ership at Mary Baldwin College and
student internships.

The station this year subscribes to
the Burly Bear Network, a show aimed
at college students. The show includes
a recurring cooking segment called
Half-Baked and a music segment.

“On the first show, they follow the
Samples around,” said James. “So it’s
good music, no MC. Hammer or any-
thing like that.”

With the expanded line-up, director
Lucy Barnett hopes to attract a wider
variety of students to work for Cable 2.

“Freshmen can’t take journalism
classes yet,” she said. “This is the ﬁrst
opportunity for them to get involved
with broadcasting. And we want people
to know it’s not just for journalism
majors.”

 

   

1';

4

C
A.
The Ring-tum Phi, Sept. 22, 1995 1 Q

PAGE 3

HIDY BRING-S,F’ALETTE OF INFINITE POSSIBILITES TO CAMPUS

BY CINDIE YOUNG
Phi Features Editor

On the role of graphic art within today’s culture, visiting
artist Lance Hidy declares that it affects “the way we think
of ourselves, see ourselves, and see the world.”

Himself an accomplished ﬁgure in the world of graphic

A art, Hidy shared own insight last Tuesday evening on the
‘process by which an idea can become so powerful a form of
expression on paper.

Before an audience brimming over the seats of duPont
Hall onto the carpet and into the door frames, lance Hidy
reflected upon the origins and course of his own artistic

‘career, opening his lecture with a salute to a resource
' available to every college student, the school library.

“What a difference the college resources made to me,”
Hidy exclaimed, “and to students at W&L as well!”

As an undergraduate student at Yale, Hidy whiled away
‘many hours hunting though stacks of old books and illus-
trated manuscripts.

His hours there proved of value, and Hidy, who had
always considered himself more a ﬁne artist than any other
type, found in these books an introduction to a world he has

K

THE
POSTER

 

LANCE HIDY
CREATED
FOR THE
W&L

IEYBURN LIBRARY

‘K/Ai13=i’~IC?ON ANE‘ IE3 UNl‘.’ER’,I‘§"I

LIBRARY

A

program.

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Carter ﬂounders pathetically be-
fore an audience of millions. Scenes
from an old presidential debate?
No. A typical Thursday night epi-
sode of NBC’s ER.

After the hour-long dose of in-
tense emergency room drama, those
students addicted to the series can
,4 ﬂick off the T.V. and once again
settle back into the routine of their
own lives. For one group of W&L

g‘ Dr. Darcy Russell of the Biology
Department has assisted in rounding
up students to participate in the pro-

 

I
IWorI2ing tor the Community
I at Stonewall Jaclzson Hospital

the extended care facility, which deal
with the elderly. '

Sawyer now intends to become
physician assistant, and attributes he
certainty about her future career choic
to the “wonderful” experience hertim
at Stonewall Jackson has given her.

Sawyer fondly recalls working i
the clinic of Doctor Zel, particularl
when given opportunities of workin
with actual instruments and real pa
tients, and remembers with relief tha
the doctors and nurses took the time t
explain things; such helpfulness ha
made her tasks all the more valuable

never left since, that of graphic art.

Appreciative of the visual effect alone of the elaborate
illustrations he found, Hidy gained from his searches an
appreciation also for the history and tradition of graphic art.

“Renaissance art,” Hidy reminded his audience, “was
basically commerciaI;” DaVinci, Raphael and nearly all the
other masters of their day worked under commissions,
whether for private patrons or public religious institutions.

Graphic art, then, has held a role in modern civilization
over a span of many years, and has evolved into an “inter-
national language,” in Hidy’s words.

As a language of images, graphic art depends upon both
the technique of the skilled craftsman, and the impulse of the
fine artist. Hidy, a man in whom both technique and impulse
meet, describes the result as “an exploration of surprises,” a
constant discovery of new images.

Lance Hidy is a pioneer in the world of graphic design,
in the truest sense of the word, and is now involved in
exploring graphic art at the-outermost boundaries that tech-
nology allows.

The computer has become for Hidy both paintbrush and
canvas, and with the roll of a mouse he enjoys “an infinite
palette of possibilities.”

On his cherished Macintosh, Hidy is able to work freely
with an image, experimenting with its color, size, shape and

texture. He is satisfied only when he has found “the inner
nature of each medium, the Zen.”

Wondering at the freedom with which creativity can flow
from person to machine, Hidy remarked, “If you can think
of it, you can do it,” adding in the next breath, “You can even
do things you can’t think of.”

Hidy closed his lecture with a demonstration of his
creative process, projecting on the wall the images that
appear on his computer screen as he creates a work of art.

Hidy has been an active presence on the W&L campus
throughout the past week, attending classes, participating
workshops, and holding brown bag lunch discussions and
public lectures; he is, however, no stranger to Lexington.

Hidy visited the town several years ago when commis-
sioned to design a poster for W&L, and within the next few
months he and his family will leave New England, to
become permanent members of the Lexington community.

It is perhaps only fitting that the poster of internationally
recognized graphic artist Lance Hidy hanging today on
capus walls has as its subject the very building from which
his own interest in graphic art sprang up, a college library.

An exhibition of the work of Lance Hidy is on display in
duPont Gallery through October 16, and additional posters
and books of the artist may also be viewed in beybum
Library.

CAMPUS PROFILE:

PROFESSOR CLAUDIA ANDREWS
REVEALS HER PARTIALTY TO
CATS AND GOOD MEXICAN FOOD

students and other community vol-
unteers, however, the drama of the
emergency room can be experienced
first-hand.

These students work undera new
arrangement between W&L and
Lexington’s Stonewall Jackson
Hospital, some as volunteers and

A others as part of their work study

gram, along with Carol Elsnick, the
volunteer coordinator, and on Septem-
ber 16 a training session was held for
new and returning volunteers.

Junior Katherine Sawyer began
working at Stonewall Jackson her
sophomore year, as part of her work
study program. Her experiences have

ranged from the emergency room to

and interesting.

Like Hans Yao (’98), who wants to
start working at Stonewall Jackson this
fall, many of the students participating
in the program profess to be pre-med.

As for the more squeamish student,,
meanwhile, who elects to enjoy the
blood and gore vicariously, there’s al-
ways ER.

‘The Prophecy: Biblical

characters

and a SCooI)y Doo script

  
    

 

  
    

  
   
 

    

K
' BY KURT SUSONGI—— ;_ 4
4 Phi Reviewer A I out beyond what you might expect on a typical
_ __ , Tales from the Crypt episode. Even Christo-
pher Walken, probably the spookiest actor in
. the business today, seems like he’s just walking
through his lines. ~
4 o The ”,’0P’*eCY ' TWO SW5 . Another big problem with the film is that it
Her? I5 ‘IIIOIIISI mm III?" has much PI°_mI5_° leaves us with so many unanswered questions.
. but ultlmately‘ fails to deliver. The premise is lf a fllmmaltel. wants me to suspend my dlsbe_
rather interesting: what if the angels in heaven llef and embraee the fantasy world he ereates,
got T“«3IIY “P591 3b°III God I°VI“g II“ma“5.5° the least hecan do ismake italittle easierforme,
t much and decided to revolt? But the execution answerlng some of the most obvlous questions
( '~ I5 m“ddI°d’ °°“f“SI,"g and g°”°“’IIy S_IIaII°W- he raises. For example, exactly what are the
Inmanyways,thiscompleteconfusionisone waning angels ﬁghtlng for? lf the hnman_
@ of the most attractive parts of the ﬁlm. Through- hating angels wln, wlll they destroy mankind or
. ::".:.:“.:":3;'6:.:V:.?.'i.i.°t‘i::::Ji.“:z::‘e::"%  . 
@ Why do they itgrant to get theirhands on this <§th)e.r - on a more Senous-IeveI’ the mm S Iheobgy
g. . is even more confusing. At one moment the
ma"? Wha’ 50'‘ °f‘”"“Z’”g P0"’e’5 '10 “"3315 director is towing the party line of right-wing
— H have‘? _TII° mmmaker Phys III’ III“ Sense of Christianity; the next, he reverts to the sort of
mY5II°I5m and w°IId°IIIIaIaPP°,aI5I° eY°IY°"°_- retro-Indian mystical pablum we have seen in
‘O The film unfortunately has little going fOl"lI Thunderheatt, Natural Bom Klllers, The Doors
‘ beSIde5_III° g°IIeI,aI “II” S“”°““dIIIg III_° SIOIY S and a number of other recent films. In a film full
°°""aI Id‘?a' wIIII° d"°°I°IGI°g°Iy WIde" (‘he of angels and priests, references to Lucifer and
m 5°reeIIwIIt°I of B“Ckd_’“-ﬂ) wants I0 Show Christ, and even an extra chapter of the Book of
SP°°I‘"Ie5S “Id f°I°b°dI“g’ III“ I335‘ he ca" do Revelations, how should a little girl be exor-
are 5”,dd°"’ sketchy ﬂashback Seems “Id °°I‘ cised of an evil, unwanted inhabitant? Through
°I,ed IIgIIIS mmed through “I6 II_aZ° _°f Smoke‘ some sort of mystical Indian ceremony in a
4 ﬂ It s the sort of dry-ice-machine—inspired terror nneblo full of ehantlng and smoke, of eoutsel
that .Scooby D00 and Friends were constantly At any rate’ this ﬁlm lsnat a eomnlete dlsan_
Q finding at the end of eatchshow. ,1 can just hear nolntment, simply because the ntemlse ls so
the a“$°I5 °ryI"g °“I’ If II had" IP66” for Yotﬂ novel and the actors so capable. But the sense
I'“°%3:1IIIg II“maII5v °“I' PIaII WOIIICI Ve w°Ik°d~ of wonder and eager interest we have through-
4 > aIaIIIa°I°d m"jI9Ih° mm IIIIIIC ﬁfst PIa°° out the film is never rewarded with any sort of
‘ was the cast. PulpFzctzon veterans Christopher fulﬁllment. Let.S just hope that this movie
m Walken, Eric Stolta and Amanda PlumrI}6f_a{¢ doesn’t leave any lingering side effects on its
all present, along with lesser actors like Virginia east’ or lts Poor dlteetot and screenwriter G,-e-
. § Madsen and Ellas Koteas (best known for Teen- gory widen Maybe his next ﬁlm will rely less
385 Mutant Nmla “"1195 and "5 °‘l“3IIY W‘ on colored lights and more on a screenplay to
’( 5P°°IabI° 5F‘l“°I)- TII°_°a5I ‘I065 as fI“° alob 35 establish mood and tension. The Prophecy is
possible, given the limits of the rest of the film. simply too shallow to be anytllmg other than a
The 5CI’°_°“PIaY T°3II)’ 5‘l“3"d°I5_ “I9 Went 35‘ video rental for a stormy night after a tough
sembled, none of the characters is ever ﬂeshed tellglon exam_
‘- Q)
i< : .07; . _ 
I ed-on , its free and'tyou__
, nr ftietid, id heneverlaugiied‘ 3 ar__ .
Q "Don’t waste yonzitimci gr _ 1feast.don1’tv&aste iron this ‘ ' ‘ere’S“3IW3Y§ WV.)
In t .: it . _t .,.  ., _   _ 

 

 

 

BYDARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Prof. Claudia Emerson Andrews’
favorite restaurant doesn’t exist—at
least not in town! She loves Mexican
food, and says, “One of my great disap-
pointments is that there isn’t a Mexican
restaurant in Lexington. Don’t you
think it would go?” Actually, I’m
kind-of partial to Taco Bell.....

With or without the restaurant, Prof.
Andrews still likes the town, and adores
her job teaching at W&L. The class she
takes most seriously is her creative
writing class, because it is so near her
heart. Prof. Andrews stresses that above
all else, she is a poet-—a revelation she
arrived at not so long ago. In fact, she
probably would still be a rural letter
carrier, running a bookstore on the side,
if not for a certain conversation she had
with her husband, Jesse.

‘‘I came home one day and said, ‘I
think I really know what I am.’ He
said, ‘Well, what is it?’ and I said, ‘I ’m
a poet. That’s what I am. That’s what
I want to pursue.’ He said, ‘I’m just so
glad you finally figured that out.’ I feel
like most people would have said,
‘You’re what? You better not quit

your job! ’ He could have responded in
a lot of negative ways, but it was only
after that that I went on to graduate
school.

When she’s not busy teaching, she
likes to spend time writing poetry, or
scribbling in her journal. ‘‘I would
encourage everyone to keep a journal,”
says Andrews. “l’ve been keeping one
on and off since l’ve been about twenty.
But l’ve been writing very faithfully
for about ten years. lt\rquote s a good
place to let off steam!” Prof. Andrews
uses her journal to write about her daily
activities, and to jot down ideas for her
P°°II'Y-

A populartheme in her poetry is the
elderly, and Prof. Andrews explains
why. “My father had three old maid
aunts, and we went to visit them every
Sunday without fail. I have very vivid
early memories of going to visit them
and being made to kiss them and

be nice to them——it was just awful!
But, I write about them now. I remem-
ber them and I hope I didn’t show my
disgust at the time ‘cause they were
real sweet ladies.” -

However, Prof. Andrews did not
always want to be a poet, or even a
teacher for that matter. “The main
thing I wanted to be for a long time was
a country music singer. So, when l was
in my teens, I started playing the guitar

and singing. That was my dream: to go
to Nashville and be a country star. I
wrote my own songs. Actually, when
l was in college in Charlottesville, I
played guitar and sang for money in
bars.”

Prof. Andrews also likes to‘ spend
time with her menagen'e——six cats,
three dogs, and a chicken named
“Cluck” who visits her home on occa-
sion. “Jesse always says that I’m a
budding cat lady——you know, those
weird women in cities who have shop-
ping carts and a lot of cats,” relates
Andrews. “I hope it’s not that bad, but
I am a sucker for strays.” Most of her
pets indeed are strays; she rescued one
of her cats from a nearby dumpster
when it was just a kitten.

The one thing the professor does
not like about herself is the fact that
she’s a negative thinker. “I worry that
things are going to go wrong even
when I don’t have any reason to think
they will. My husband accuses me of
driving my car off the bridge before I
get to the bridge! I have a very vivid
imagination, and I can imagine disas-
ter easily.”

Prof. Andrews\ vivid imagination
also nurtures her students, who will
continue to learn and grow through her
teaching until her appointment ends
next June.

’vv\’VV\’VV\!

Quiclz and easy Iiot pot treats

to transform your dorm room

into your own private D-Hall

I

I

I

l  ; I
| 1 bag, marshmallows |
I Several bars, Hershey's I
I Chocolate candy bars I
l 1 box, honey grahams l
I DIRECTIONS: I
l Piercing a marshmallow :
l with a #2 pencil,roast over a l
l hot pot to desired texture. l
I

I

I

Sandwich between grahams |
and chocolate. Repeat. I

 

ii’ ——————— ' _ 7
. CHEESECAKE
I tiIi3r~I__T_s_:

I 1 Box,Jello No-Bake

: CheesecakeMix

l 1 Can of Pie Filling,made
l with desired fruit (blue-
l berry, strawberry and
l cherry in particular)
I

I

I

I

I

I

I

DIRECTIONS:

Using hot pot as a bowl,
prepare Jello mix and
refrigerate. Serve chilled
with fruit topping.

F “““““““ 
I

CHOCOLATE
FOND UE

I
I
I I
I I
I I
l IN REDIE : I
I Several chocolate bars l
I 1 cup of milk (or so) I
l Several handfuls, fresh l
I I
| DIRE I N : l
I Throw chocolate pieces I
l into heated hot pot, adding I
I
I I
I I

milk until creamy. Dip
. fruit into fondue and serve.

PAGE 4

 

 

W&LIFE

A

The Ring-tum Phi, Sept. 22, 1995

GOING WHERE NO %oMAN HAS GONE BEFORE

VMI's Classrooms open to 42 college Women this year, and one W&L student participates

    

By TARAH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

adition has always been a highly
.1

treasured quality in Lexington. For
many years, Lexington’s two male col-
leges closely guarded their tradition of
single-sex education.

The admission of women was ﬁrst
considered by W&L in 1896 as a means
of increasing registration and income,
but while The Ring-tum Phi advocated
co-education, the faculty voted it down
nine to one. 89 years later, in the fall of
1985, the first female students enrolled
at W&L.

VMI, on the other hand, has re-
mained an all-male institution.

Resisting change

“We feel our system is best done in
a single—sex environment,” said Mike
Strickler, Director of Student Affairs
at VMI. “Obviously it has been suc-
cessful over the last 156 years. and it is
important to us to keep this tradition.”

Many people support this tradition,
including representatives of seven
women’s colleges, who fear that if the
federal government succeeds in forc-
ing the all-male VMI to admit females,
all-female colleges would find them-
selves in jeopardy as well.

“Studies have shown that some stu-
dents perform better in single—sex
schools,” said Lt. Col. Courtney
Wheeler, a 1972 graduate of VMI who,
like most alumni, stresses the impor-
tance of keeping VMI an all-male
school. “States should provide single-
sex programs for both sexes. The sys-
tem at VMI works well as it is; it would
have to be remarkably changed to ac-
commodate women.”

The rituals and rigor of VMI have
long been a part of the school’s tradi-
tion, and VMI is infamous for the ha-
rassment and intense discipline the stu-
dents must endure their freshman year.

Specifically, VMI uses the “adver-
sative method,” in which students are
subjected to intense physical and psy-
chological pressure——with no pri-
vacy——in an effon to build group cohe-
S1011.

Spokespeople for the women’s col-
leges argue that the premise behind the
need for separate leadership programs
for women is that the methods used in
VMI are appropriate only for men.

Court action

Much controversy has arisen con-
cerning VMI’s all-male admission
policy recently. In its 1990 lawsuit
against VMI and the Commonwealth
of Virginia, the Justice Department
said the military
college’spolicyviolated
the 1964 Civil Rights

WOMEN IN THE

fered the state of Virginia three op-
tions: 1) to admit women to VMI and
make the necessary adjustments, 2) to
set up a parallel program for women at
another school, or 3) to end public
funding and turn VMI into a private
institution.

Virginia chose to set up an altema-
tive program for women at Mary
Baldwin College in nearby Staunton,
hoping to satisfy constitutional con-
cems without abandoning VMl’s tra-
dition.

VWIL establish ed

Mary Baldwin College explains the
resulting women’s program, Virginia
Women’s lnstitue for Leadership
(VWIL), as a rigorous program de-
signed to give students the knowledge,
skills, character and opportunities that
will allow them to obtain and succeed
in positions of leadership in the private
or public arena, includ-
ing the military.

The program con-

Act and the equal pro- VWIL PROGRAM WILL sists of four interrelated
tection clauseof the 14th components: curricu-
Amendment tothe Con- FACE SOME OF THE lum, co-curruculum,
stitution. SAME PRESSURES THAT physical and health edu-

VMI, meanwhile,
claimed that the 1972
Title IX educational
amendments to the Civil
Rights Act “expressly
authorize”asingle-gen-
der admission policy for
public undergraduate in-
stitutions, emphasizing
the importance of
single-sex education. Judge Jackson
Kiser ruled that VMI should be left
alone.

The Fourth Circuit Court of Ap-
peals ruling last fall agreed with Kiser
but insisted there was still a 14th
Amendment problem. The court of-

THEIR VMI CLASS-
MATES WILL, BUT
THEIRS WILL BE "A
NURTURING AND P()SI-
TIVE COMM UNITY. . . "

cation, and military
leadership. Students
will be members of the
Virginia Corps of Ca-
dets. Because it is of-
fered under contract
with the Common-
wealth of Virginia, fi-
nancial support is avail-
able to all Virginia resi-
dents, lowering the base tuition.

The VWIL program coordinates
military training with the Reserve Of-
ficerTraining Corps at VMI, but other-
wise is vastly different from its male
counterpart.

“Our goals are different,” explained

Professor Brenda Bryant to potential
students at Mary Baldwin’s visiting
day last weekend.
“VWIL is a 24-hour
leadership environ-

"THE ‘RATS’ ARE RE-

   
 

Scott Dittman have worked closely with
Mandeville, helping her organize her
schedule and trans-
fer credits, since her
admission to the uni-

ment as opposed to H M“, versity last spring.

VMl’s 24-hour mili- ALLYNI,CE' DEWLLE “We are thrilled
t a r y (W&L  SAYS OF HER to haveJenniferhere
environment...Building VM I CLAggMA1~Eg,_ [at VMI] and are
character is our ﬁrst gladtohelpherkeep
prion'ty;competence is "THEY TREAT TE “Ia A her scholarship and
second.” BROTHER RAT. pursue her educa-

The first-year ca-
detsatVMl,fondly as-
signed the nickname
‘rats,’ must wear unifonns all day,walk
on campus in rigid military style and
drop for push-ups at the whim of any
upperclassman. In the VWIL program,
meanwhile, participating women will
wear uniforms once a week, and al-
though they face similar academic pres-
sures, theirs will be, according to
Bryant, “a nurturing and positive com-
mumty.”

VWlL’s charter class of 42 women
has received much media attention over
the past month, and both VMI and
Mary Baldwin are pleased with the
positive publicity the program has re-
ceived.

“It has exceeded the expectations of
[both schools],” Strickler said. “We
are 100% behind the program. It will
accomplish what it has set out to ac-
complish.”

W&L woman a VWIL partici-
pant ‘

The VWIL participants, however,
are not the only females making a de-
but on the VMI campus this fall. W&L
freshman Jennifer Mandeville was
awarded a four-year Army ROTC
scholarship before receiving her letter
of acceptance from W&L.

W&L’s Dean Sessions and VMl’s

tional objectives,”
said Dittman.

After the
Citadel’s harsh reception of Shannen
Faulkner earlier this fall, Mandeville
and many of the VWIL participants
were concerned about the reaction of
the VMI cadets.

“The girls were scared; many of
them had emblazoned in their minds
the picture of the guys at the gate of the
Citadel,” Bryant explained. “But the
last thing that VMl wanted was that
image of its tradition. We are very
pleased with the hospitality of VMl.”

While the VWIL students only at-
tend a weekly military science class at
VMI, Mandeville must also fulﬁll the
physical training of her ROTC scholar-
ship at VMI.

“The ‘rats’ are really nice,”
Mandeville said. “They treat me like a
brother rat; we splash through the mud
together, and help each other out.”

Mandeville will be the second fe-
male student to be commissioned dur-
ing her time at Washington and Lee.

Her predecessor, Loretta Lee
Vandenburg, set some high standards
of success for Mandeville to follow.
Vandenburg had completed a year at
the US Naval Academy before trans-
ferring to W&L.

She then took military science
classes here and was commissioned

2nd Lieutenant in the Marine Corps in
December 1990 by the VMI ROTC
unit at a special ceremony in Lee)(
Chapel, going on to score the second
highest of any woman on a Marine
Corps leadership exam and was se-
lected for the American Gladiators pro-
gram. j‘
An uncertain future for single-
sex education

As more opportunities open for
women in the military, females are
bound to continue to challenge single- N
sex traditions.

Last June, the Clinton Administra-
tion asked the Supreme Court to appeal
the decision by the US Court of Ap-
peals that allowed VMI to exclude,‘
women provided that Virginia created ‘
the leadership program at Mary
Baldwin College. In its appeal, ﬁled in
May, the Administration argued that
the appeals court relied on “harmful
gender stereotypes” when it approved A
the plan earlier this year. A brief filled
by the Justice Department rejected the
argument that women could not with-
stand the adversative program: “The
history of sex discrimination in the
United States has been replete with
official assumption that women and
men properly belong in restrictive sepa-
rate spheres and plat different societal
roles according to sex. The exclusion ‘
of women from VMI impermissibly'
recognizes one such assumption~—that
where military-style education can be
preserved in its ‘true’ and most regorous
form, women simply do not belong.”

The Supreme Court must now de- l.
cide either to hear or to decline the
case. Until then, the prospect of women
one day attending VMl as full-time
students is left to speculation. As
Dittman put is, “only God and the
Army know” what will happen.

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO
FREE!!! Student Travel Services is
now hiring campus representatives.
Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun,
Daytona and Panama City Beach.
Ca 1 1-800-648-4849

BIG WEEKENDS,

GRADUATION. . .

Rent a house for he price
of a motel room!
463-5350 or (703) 978-2416

pogo9.Qo'

Ladies ’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccessories

  

GOOD
WEEKLY
INCOME

processing mail

 
    
   
       
       

tor

national company! Free

supplies, postage! No
selling! Bonuses! Start
immediately! Genuine
opportunity! Rush SAS.E.:
GHC. SUITE 216
1861 N.FEDERAL HWY
HoLLYwooD.FL 33020

R l".'l'l R I’. ,\l li N 'I‘ l\ \' If .\”l'l .\ ('.

\\\

.’

\. . M _,_,.;,_,\,/ ﬁg K)“  .

 

. .43, ,..c,_ X . 
« z


:7/_,2‘”'”“-fgw

Welcome Back Students BIG WEEKENDS, »

GRADUATION...
Rent a House for the price of a

motel room.’
463-5350 or (703)978-2416 ,1

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450 %

 

(703)463-5988

\ 

X
, . A ._j
IF OU VE GOT WHAT IT TAKES 5 I
TOIBE Aéli/\DER[%N OUR COMPAN Y, T
IRONICALLY, THE TIME TO START >-
LIKE YOU CAN LEAST AFFORD IT.
L

N. an't afford to save for retirement? Even if you're not counting the years to

E The truth is, you can't afford not to. retirement, you can count on TIAA-CREF

;§ Not when you realize that your retirement to help you build the future you deserve —

.3? can last 20 to 30 years or more. You'll want with ﬂexible retirement and tax-deferred 1‘
E to live at least as comfortably then as you annuity plans, a diverse portfolio of invest-

 do now. And that takes planning. ment choices, and a record of personal .

‘: By starting to save now, you can take service that spans 75 years. I ’

§ advantage of tax deferral and give your Over 1.7 million people in education and  " " if L‘ - ' - ' ' " '  -- ' - » .    ..  V .. - .- ..  .

E money time to compound and grow. research put TIAA-CREF at the top of X
i Consider this: Set aside just $100 each their list for retirement planning. Why not .. . , . _ _ ,

E . - - f ’ ' L ill . . . ‘ E 4 ' " ' -

 momh besinmns at age 3° and y°" can ‘1°'" them? . . ma rm 1361::/than $35.0 31%! 3'55; i‘:’l1§f(lf lgfg if '5: f\cirr(7)eCii }ll:l);lfJi”l€.:j 33:35 {iii/ai5§tllf?r.§‘$i2 neifl(i’r(()OI)1fd

-? a°°“'““1a‘° °"°6’ $17 ’r‘°9* by “"3 time can '°d“y “d lea” h°“' simple " '5  It/larine Oifflcerl iirriée} tandidcrtes School (OCS) is lead to an exciting career in av‘atron lfgyoffve got

5 ou reach ag 5. But wait ten years and to build a secure tomorrow when you  'r I ' ‘ ' ' - O I , p . ~‘ _ ' ‘ . ‘ _

E y 'll h t ebud et $21 each month have time and TIAA-CREF working on me 'ﬁ,,m‘,"'{Cp fowards prepafmg 0“ for a L‘/n‘"_’t rakef to  a leader of Marines’ you If
: 3'°“ "9 ° 5 9 _ future beyond anything you could Imagine. coula get an office Will? a spectacular view.

5 to reach the same goal. your side. 

 sum planning your future. Call our Enrollment Hotline at 1 800 842-2888.  

.5   Ensuring the future If you have what it takes to be an Officer of Marines, please see x
§ for those Who shape it-"‘ Captain Harwell at Evans Dining Hall from 71 AM - 1 PM on October 4, 1995,

\ ,/ or call 7-800-542-5857.
‘A.v.vu:nz'ng an inlem-I mu nf 7 96 credited to TIM Retirement Annuiliu. TH: ml: [.1 aue9.oakly to 45¢-v the ponverandeﬂtd r/comyounﬁag. [aver nr ﬁigber mlu would
produce very different r¢.ml!.;. CREF certificate: an diilniulai 5y TIAA-CHEF Indiaaul an) Iuliluiianal Sewitu.

 

 

P

2'

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 22, 1995

@112 Etittg-tum lﬁlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Tailgating must stay

Tailgating: a Washington and Lee tradition.
Like many of W&L’s most revered traditions
(Fall Rush, choosing your own housing, speaking
to each other, etc.), yet another is falling by the

wayside.

A few days ago, University Security notified the
Inter—Fraternity Council and Panhellenic Council
that tailgates, the ever—popular party outside of a
Jeep Cherokee trunk, were to be restricted to the
fenced lacrosse fields. Additionally, they are to last
only two hours from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m.

The administration cites safety and liability
concerns as justification for the new limitations.
Undoubtedly, that ’s a valid concern.

Nevertheless. all-day tailgates are part of the
W&L experience. Football games simply won’t be
complete without chicken wings, bourbon-and-
cokes, and Dave Matthews cranking out of a car

} stereo. Tailgates, tubing on the Maury, and hooking
I up under the moon at the Ruins-—-these are the
« events that make undergraduate life unforgettable.

Washington and Lee students are a generally

7 easy-going and well-mannered bunch. For the most

part, they know when to say when. Drunken

’ tragedies are a rare phenomenon at W&L, thank

God. The Hill’s concerns regarding tailgates, while
thoughtful, are largely unfounded. We certainly
can’t recall any tailgating nightmares.

For better or worse, student autonomy has
become a buzz phrase around the W&L campus.
Trespasses against the fiercely valued
independence of students are not treated lightly.
Restricting tailgaiting seems a foolish choice for
which the administration is rallying. Indeed, more
important issues facing the student body demand
the Hil1’s attention—-sexual assault, violent hazing,
and drug abuse, to name a few.

. Tailgates are about harmless fun. They offer a
respite from the stressful working week. They
provide a chance for the W&L community to
gather and support our fighting Generals.

Like Garbo, tailgates should simply be left alone.

Quote of the Week

“Bowties have been relegated to the land of
nerds, geeks and dweebs. That’s Manning, Atkins

and me.”

—-Professor Andrew Jackson Holliday

PAGE 5

l

i‘ ‘lhoj u\\\ 3’: EM become 't\ get-» slrtoda! even, \/eor:_

Overdue political overhaul in works

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

To say that the 1996 elections will
be imponant may seem banal to most,
but here I intend to put a new spin on
that statement. I think the 1996 elec-
tions are likely to tell us as much about
what sort of political system we want
to have in place as they will about
particular candidates or ideologies.

The most obvious example is the
continuing question over the possibil-
ity of a third or fourth candidate, run-
ning as an independent. However, I
would argue that the mere presence of
an independent candidate won’t tell us
nearly as much about the future of the
two major political parties as
pundits think.

In 1992, America was subjected to
the candidacy of egotistical billionaire
Ross Perot. Like the electorate, Perot
wanted change immediately. Conse-
quently, he passed up his excellent
chance to form a third party and chose
instead to leave his followers drifting
in the wind after the election.

What’s the difference, you ask? The
difference is that many states have an
automatic threshold guaranteeing bal-
lot access to a third party if it scores
above a certain level in the previous
election. In other words, Mr. Perot
could have been sitting at the head of a
third party in 1996 with ballot access in
dozens of states guaranteed. The polls
consistently show that a large segment
of the American electorate views the
possibility of a third party favorably.

While the most likely independent

candidate in 1996 remains open to ques-
tion, it seems as though a strong possi-
bility exists. With that in mind, it will
be the identity and beliefs of any inde-
pendent candidate that will be the deci-
sive factors in any possible fonnation
of a third party. Are voters and activists
merely interested in the instant gratiﬁ-
cation of an independent candidacy
rather than the real change a third party
would bring?

If a third party does emerge, one
wonders if the American political sys-
tem itself will adapt to prevent the
possibility of more presidents by plu-
rality. In a four-candidate race, assum-
ing for the sake of simplicity that ap-
peal remains constant nationwide, the
winner need only have 26 percent na-
tionwide to be elected in an electoral
landslide. This is hardly true
majoritarian rule. ,

Reform of the electoral college sys-
tem is never discussed in current politi-
cal talk. Yet it may be one of the most
important reforms needed in American
government. It would probably only
take one gross example of this or one
election thrown into the House of Rep-
resentatives for the American people
to demand change. But then again, why
wait until something goes wrong?

This year has also seen the extreme
front-loading of the primary schedule
as states scramble to move forward in
the process in order to remain relevant.
The results of this 1996 shufﬂe may
reverberate in years to come as future
primary structures are studied. Will
legislatures merely play “Can you top
this?” or will a better primary
system emerge?

A major structural question also
exists for the two parties themselves.
Since 1994, we have seen an unprec-
edented ﬂood of conservative Demo-

crats moving to the Republican party at
all levels of government on at least
nominally ideological grounds. Given
the intense dislike of the liberal wing of
the Republican party for their religious
conservative brethren, the next couple
of years may determine if liberal Re-
publicans are likely to abandon the
GOP. The 1996 election and events
shortly afterward may ﬁnally reveal
whether we are seeing an ideological
solidiﬁcation in the parties or a mere
ﬂood of rats jumping a sinking ship.

Another major question to be an-
swered deals with the ideological ten-
dencies of the voters themselves. Since
the 1996 election, the liberal media has
been chanting the mantra that the vot-
ers merely had a tantrum in 1994, de-
nying any ideological bent to the change
in the fervent hope that it will become
accepted fact.

This dubious illusion ignores im-
portant advances by conservatives in
1994, particularly social conservatives.
Nonetheless, we are likely to find out
what the ideological bent of the elec-
torate really is. Is the “radical middle”
made up of merely cynical iconoclasts
or will it continue the House Republi-
cans’ conservative revolution?

1996 will also be about the future of
Congress. Since 1994, virtually every
political scientist agrees that the major
spotlight has shifted to Congress from
the presidency. The congressional elec-
tions in 1996 may be much more im-
portant than the presidential election,
for a couple of reasons.

In races for the Senate, the deluge of
Democratic retirements (seven so far)
presents many open races, in which
voters will not only decide between
Democrats and Republicans. They will
also determine whether they want more
of the active conservative Republicans

or the moderate deal-makers to run for
these slots.

Senate Majority Whip Trent Lott
would be one of the favorites to suc-
ceed Bob Dole as Majority Leader if
necessary, and the Republican party in
the Senate would certainly take on a
more hard-line tone under the former
Gingrich colleague. Will the voters
empower the recently ascendant Sen-
ate conservatives to enforce more party
discipline and stick to their guns, or
will they measure politicians by the
number of bills they produce?

This theme of principle versus com-
promise is paralleled in the intensify-
ing Gramrn/Dole primary collision as
well as the upcoming budget ﬁght.
Republicans will soon be called on to
choose whether or not to blink in their
stare-down with Bill Clinton. Major
forces in both houses are willing to
undergo a government shutdown if they
can force Clinton to sign Republican
appropriations goals into law.

All of the above also says nothing
about the numerous Constitutional
changes that may be imminent, from
term limits to a balanced budget to
religious equality. Nor does this ad-
dress the huge upcoming debates over
radical reform in both the tax code and
the structure of the executive branch.
Nor the continuing questions of devo-
lution in government and the restora-
tion of federalism.

The 1996 elections and upcoming
debates will soon create the most thor-
ough examination of the American
political system in decades. This will
include answers to many lesser-known
structural and electoral questions be-
sides the popular ideological ones.

An old Chinese proverb says, “May
you live in interesting times.” Some-
how, I think we have that one covered.

Wacky, wacky, election year hij inks

@112 ‘iﬁtttg-tum iﬂhi

 

Executive Editors ................................................................. ..Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor......   Michael Hewlett
News Editors ............................................................... ..Anne Alvord, Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Mex Christgnsgn
Spons Editor ......... .. sum Bookwgngy
Features Editors cindig Young
Photography Editor Betsy Gm“
Editorial Cartoonists ............................................................. ..Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager .......... .. Rnhen Nclson

Assistant Business Manager ......................................................................... ..Doug Gertncr
Advenising Manager ..................... .. ...Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Anist . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Anne Alvord
Circulation Manager ................................................................................ ..Stephen Williard

    

The Ring-mm Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, roon1 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-turn Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail phi@wlu.cdu

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

Thank god for politics. What else am I going to do
with those three and a half minutes of unscheduled
time I have between 4:56:30 and 5 a.m.? The answer,
of course, is nothin’ more than politick, politick, and
politick some more.

And while you can ﬁnd analyses of the political
situation—who the Republican nominee will be,
whether Clinton will get a primary challenge, if
Colin Powell/Steve Forbes/Lowell Weicker/Ross
Perot/Bill Bradley might be the new political sav-
ior—pretty much anywhere, where else will you ﬁnd
a practical guide to Fun with the Presidential Election
than here in “The Far Middle”?

That’s right. Politics can be so much more than
old white guys in dark suits and red power ties talking
about “welfare” and “budgets” and “crap like that.”
In fact, it can be Fun with a capital F. Modern
technology and the quest for votes have combined to
allow you, the average American schlub, to have a
voice in our government.

Allow me to elaborate.

For instance, last year, when one of my personal
heroes and a great American, Joycelyn Elders, was
ﬁred as Surgeon General, I had the great pleasure of
writing a message by e-mail to the President (at
president@whiteh0use. gov) which began, “You f---
ing moron,” and went pretty much downhill from
there. While this was viscerally satisfying (try it,
you’ll see), l’m pretty sure it never actually reached
the President himself. His e-mail is probably even
more clogged than his regular mail. So while the
Secret Service men who showed up at my door in
Graham-Lees dorm seemed interested, I can’t help
but suspect that I may not have gotten my
point across.

Undaunted, l have tried to think of other ways to
get my political message through to the big-time
movers and shakers in Washington. This is really not
an easy thing to do, as the nature of politicians today
seems to be to isolate themselves as much as possible
from “the people,” principally because “the people”

are angry at “the politicians” for running “the coun-
try” into “the huge, festering pit of debt so great that
it can hardly be comprehended by the human mind,
much less paid off in our lifetimes” in which we ﬁnd
ourselves. They are likely to get beaned with a
ripe tomato.

Luckily, Jerry Brown still believes in communi-
cating with the people. He started the lovely trend of
“800-numbers” in 1992, which has now spilled over
into most mainstream campaigns. So now, you can
talk directly to the candidates, for free! Or at least
those guys who answer the phones when you call.

I have found it most effective to call late at night,
when they are least expecting it. It’s a fun study break
to sit back and punch in 1-800-GO-PAT-GO, then
just wait for the hilarity to begin. You’ll hear some-
thing like:

“Thank you for calling GO-PAT-GO. This is
Amy. Pat Buchanan is looking for patriotic Ameri-
cans like yourself who will support his efforts to take
America back from the professional politicians who
run Washington. To add your name to our list of
supporters, I just need your name, address, and phone
number. Would you like to add your name to our list
of supporters?” to which 1 like to respond, “No” and
then just see what they come up with. “What?” and
“OK, how may I help you?” are the standards, which
make me have to think of more witty things to say.
My favorite reply was, “Well then, would you like to
order a free trial copy of Soldier of
Fortune magazine?”

Or if Pat Buchanan is too scary for you, try the Bob
Dole campaign. Their number is 1-800-BOB-DOLE.
Catchy, huh? Sort of like the man himself. If you call
the Dole for President number, you’ll hear Bob
Dole sayi_ng:

“This is Bob Dole. Thank you for calling. Eliza-
beth and I would be honored to have your support.
America needs strong leadership, and with your help,
we can rein in the federal government, reconnect it to
our values, and reassert our inﬂuence abroad. But it ’s
not going to happen without a lot of hard work. That ’s
why we appreciate your willingness to help.” Then
you’ll be invited to learn more about how you can
join the Dole for President team or give a donation
by phone.

This might not sound like as much fun as harass-
ing real live people late at night, but with a little
creativity, it can be much more effective.

The ﬁrst thing you should know about politics,
just in case you don’t know anything about it yet, is
that there is one thing that can give you political
inﬂuence when nothing else can. No, l’m not talking
about voting. No, l’m not talking about wearing a big
red-white-and-blue button featuring a goofy mug
shot of your favorite candidate. No, l’m not even
talking about being informed about the issues. (I do,
however, recommend these, too.) No, what l’m talk-
ing about is DONATING BIG MONEY.

That’s right. If you can even hint to the right
people that you’ve got some big money to hand
around, you could become a candidate’s best friend.
Suddenly you’ll be invited to breakfasts and lun-
cheons and dinners and speeches and garden parties
and private teas, oh my! Your candidate will forget
about his own political stands and suddenly become
interested in what YOU think about a balanced
budget, illegal immigration, and a whole host of pet
issues you might want to bring up with him.

What’s that you’re saying? You don’t have big
money, but you’d like a piece of the action, too? You
think you have something to say about important
issues that might be constructive or instructive?

Well, just do what I did. When Bob Dole ﬁnishes
talking, hit 2 to donate big cash. l’m not saying you
should lie and say you’re ready to sign over your life
savings. l’m just saying that maybe, when the record-
ing asks how much you would like to donate, go for
the grand, man. I pledged $1000, the federal indi-
vidual contribution limit. Now, l’m not sure yet if I ’ll
be able to afford to actually include a check in the
envelope that arrived in my mailbox a few days later
when I return it to the campaign, but I will deﬁnitely
be including a short note letting them know exactly
where I think the campaign may be coming up short
in the ideas department.

Hey, all’s fair in love, war and politics, so enjoy
yourself! And remember, when the only way to get a
presidential candidate eager to tear into a letter from
an ordinary citizen is to make him think it’s stuffed
with cash, don’t be shy in letting him know what you
think about that. -

 

 

Growing up and getting published

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

I realize it’s fairly well-known that
I found a great deal of inspiration from
my mail. This week it wasn’t just an
inspiration; it was a calling. A letter
arrived offering me a “once in a life-
time experience.” “My knees turned to
jelly” is how Kathleen Sue Jones of
Carmichael, California described it
when it happened to her.

Alvin Tresselt, “Dean of Faculty”
at “The Institute of Children’s Litera-
ture,” wanted me to send in a writing
sample for a children’s book! Alvin
implied that “the heaven-on-earth tum-
ing point will be your first letter of
acceptance from an editor, followed by
the unforgettable experience of seeing
your words and your name in print.”
Alvin even sent a little book cover with
my name and “Growing Up” on it.

As I went through the letter 1 saw
that Deborah Wells of Leesburg, Vir-
ginia also said her “knees turned to
jelly.” This was too good to pass up.
l’ve decided that my new goal is to
write a children’s book. I want my
knees to turn to jelly.

Alvin even offered to enroll me in a
special class if my story was not yet

quite ready for publication, for a spe-
cial fee. In fact, there was a important
notice that the Connecticut Board of
State Academic Awards recommended
I receive 6 college credits should I
complete Alvin’s special children’s
book course. I

of their story before actually writing it.
It allows you to sketch out your ideas
so that, in my case, they fit into my

allotted column space in the Phi.
Since I will most likely need a cor-
porate sponsor to pay for the publica-
tionof my children’s

think it’s pretty
obvious that this
wouldbeanexcel-
lent replacement
for taking a Spring
Term class, in-
stead of taking
something silly

story I have no
z qualms at all about
throwing in refer-
ences to any num-
ber of products. In
fact, I may even hold
some sort of auction
for the right to ap-

here at W&L, pear in my story.
like Biology. My story is
“But where roughly like this: a

will I get the idea
for a children’s
story?” I asked
myself out loud. I

 

little boy named
Brian, in Nike Air
shoes, walked into
the Dollar Tree in

thought about Lexington where he
writing about sawforsale(forone
Jimmy, a seven- dollar) a Super
year-old heroin Power Robot
addict, but since Ranger plastic claw

that had been done
already, I took the letter’s advice and
decided to draw from my own experi-
ences and then make up details to make
them interesting.

it’s common practice for serious
writers like myself to write a synopsis

Announcing...

The Ring-tum Ph1"s new e-mail address:

ph1'@WIu.edu

Use The Phfs new e-mail address to
send letters to the editor, items for
General Notes, or story ideas.

(they’re in the toy
aisle—really). Brian thought, “Wow,
wouldn’t it be neat to have a cheap
Mighty Morphin Power Rangers
knock-off toy!”

He stuck his hand in the back pocket
of his Levi jeans to pull out his wallet

when his conscience began to speak:
“Brian, you can’t buy this product; it
would deprive the Mighty Morphin
Power Ranger Industrial Corporation
of its due royalties. Brian, how would
it make you feel if you made only $100
million off your line of overpriced,
easily breakable plastic toys?”

Brian thought about it for a while
and realized the moral of the story,
which he noted came on the second to
last page of the story, was to give
people their due credit (and money).
To rip off the Power Rangers would
not only be a mean thing to do, their
lawyers might have to come to your
house to turn your knees to jelly, if you
understand what I’m saying.

Brian walked next door to Wal-
Mart, where he bought several Mighty
Morphin Power Ranger products, as
well as more Levi jeans.

‘‘It feels good knowing l’ve ben-
eﬁted corporate America,” Brian said.
And he headed home to his parents,
who reminded him that this is what
“Growing Up” is all about. The End.

If a story like this can get me six
credits, I don’t care what anybody else
thinks: I’ll tell it to my future children,
and say, “This is what Daddy learned
in college.” And they’ll be proud. And
then they’ll go out and buy
me something.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 22, 1995

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Cable 2

Cable 2 will hold an organiza-
tional meeting Sunday, Sept. 24 at 7
p.m. in the television studio in Reid
303. No experience is necessary. All
interested students are welcome.
Questions should be directed to Lucy
at 463-4121.

College Democrats

Students interested in working on
local campaigns and helping the
Democrats hold Virginia are invited
to the College Democrats meeting at
6:30 p.m. Tuesday, Sept. 26 in the
Gameroom. For more information call
Nova at x4099.

Film Society

Washington and Lee’s Film Soci-
ety will meet on Tuesday, Sept. 26 at
4:30 p.m. in C-School 220 or 221. All
members and interested students are
invited to attend.

Habitat for Humanity

Habitat for Humanity will hold its
organizational meeting at7 p.m. Tues-
day, Sept. 26 in the Gameroom. Stu-
dents interested in building a house or
helping with fund-raising are invited.
Questions should be directed to Brad
at X4836 or Nova at x4099.

Hong Kong

Join W&L’s exchange program
with Chung Chi College of the Chi-
nese University ofHong Kong begin-
ning Sept. 1996. No Chinese lan-
guage skills are required. Courses are
in English; you pay W&L fees and
earn W& L credits. Contact Professor
Hill or Professor Rogers in the East
Asian Language Center (Red House)
for more information.

Mock Convention

Mock Convention is looking fora
student interested in the Internet,
Home Pages and computing. Inter-
ested students should call 462-4057.

Outdoor Program

The Outdoor'Program is sponsor-
ing kayaking lessons this term. Les-
sons are held Wednesday nights 8-10
p.m. in the small pool in the gym
(near the equipment check-out
booth). Formore information call
463-5947 or 463-5776.

Sigma Delta Chi

The Society of Professional Jour-
nalists/Sigma Delta Chi will meet at
6:30 p.m. Wednesday, Sept. 27 in the
J-school library on the second floor of
Reid Hall. All print and broadcast jour-
nalism students are welcome. For more
information call Lucy at 463-4121.

Who's Who

Anyone who wishes to nominate
a member of the current undergradu-
ate seniorclass for selection to Who ’s
Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges may do so
by submitting the name and qualiﬁ-
cations of that student to David L.
Howison, Dean of Students, in Payne
Hall 9 by Oct. 6. Criteria for selec-
tion to Who’s Who include scholar-
ship, participation and leadership in
academic and extracurricular activi-
ties, citizenship and service to Wash-
ington and Lee, and potential for
future achievement.

The Place Where Fresli is the Tttste;

 

503 E. Nelson Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450

(540) 463-3322

1' l‘}‘}‘s Hm ta.'»t“s :\-s~.ut'i.llt’~. Int.

FREE
1 SUB

Buy 2 Footlong
SUBS atregu-
iar price, Get
3rd SUB(of
equalorlesser
value) FREE

t

Good only at
. participating
’ SUEIWAYS. Not
1 Valid with any

other offer.

$ 1 I00
OFF

Any Footlong Sub

$.50

OFF
Any 6” Sub

Good at participating
SUBWAYS. Not valid
with any other offer.

Get a

22-02.

OTTSF.

FOOTLONG
SUB $.99

regular
footlong sub for
$.99 when you buy
a footlong sub and
soft drink
You pay regular
menu price for the
higher priced sub.

Good only at Par-
ticipating SUB-'
WAYS. Not valid
with any other

SUPER MEAL DEAL

$3.49

Get any regular
footlong sub
and a medium
soft drink for
just $3.99.

Good only at par-
ticipating SUB-
WAYS. Not valid
with any other

offer.

Applications for the state chairrnanships of:

Guam

US Virgin Islands
American Samoa

Vermont

available Monday, September 25, in front of the D-Hall

 

A Bistro

8 am - 3 pm - Monday

9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

=
as
v-:
5"
V.l/

   

am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday

10% off food - with student ID

Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout

I

I

I

-B

I

I

I

I

I

I

5 Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
I All you can eat $4.99
I

: Thursday -

I

5 Friday - Seafood Nite -

I

: Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib,

I 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95
I

 

19 W. Washin on St., Lexington, VA 24450

E. Nelson St., Lexington

HARDWARE STORES "

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

 
 

mxcovisn
How QLIIRKY
; we ARE!

POETRY MAGNETS

400 magnetic words
for refrigerator sonnets.

ELVIS VOTIVES
Dine b candlelight
wit the king.
MOUSE PADS
Mona Lisa. Water Lilies.
Vim Gogh sunﬂowers.
Die-cut cat. Creation.
Hershey chocolate bar
Grateful Dead.
flhe Scream.

VENUS 8: DAVID

Dtsrobe them. Dress them.
New build-a-villa.

FROG CHARMS

Good luck and prosperity
’ And maybe a prince.

DRIP CANDLES

Atmosphere in a
(.'htam2' bottle.

POSTCARD HUMOR
500 tttilating titles.
Mail them. Frame them.
Get a good laugh.

FISH PENS

Better than rubber ctucktes,
and they write.

caravans

117 W. Nelson Street o464.35()()
Dally lfktm - 6pm 0 Sundays [lam -3pm
UPS to your home or r2_(ﬁne

Available for

Men and Women

 

 NOT A CLOG. IT‘S A

  
 

Lexington Horse & Country
11 W. Washington Street
 Lexington, VA 24450
Downtown

(540) 464-9500

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 22, 199d  PAGE 7

      
      
 

 

   
    

       
   
    
    

 

 
   
 

-0 up‘? "4 enema   
Cf‘? NW3)‘; ‘  MIXED MEDIA
L\.a Roam .
,. __r__ e _e ,‘ by Jack Ohman
4 I K” W 1Don”\’ onoeesmno   1, EX“ 
300 Hnge ME- ‘sf’w“.Z’E3§§"3°§a§‘¥§ 2 -  ‘
Be HATED. 3 ..
3 i if 6   —  ,
‘ ' ::Z- "I | In an ,., —
« Q  mmms  W; B““*°:W;="~~-. 
E ‘ '%’/6"; ""/Z’ »:
a t 
~_IooTu ox: I'M 'E\s'?oe%W3.SPta;ATI7Eo:‘\% 1&0: 6; E 
K TR .300 JOSY ‘ - M. ' U 3 g  '
“°’is‘t‘=E°‘T'”°° I-:‘gEi\E. 5°°o%$a*C1g€5R-’e“§)oDl).I E 5;/’ 
,. ck

  
    
  

   

5%‘?
5%
W
99
I 3 

g l

lull“

 
   

      
      
   

   

   
 
      

       
 

 
 

mug MUST souroameur No.1 Dou‘T unre sou. . UNRECOGNIZED TEL5(oMMuNIcA1IoN$ 1145;; 1pm; AIzeN‘1'
L em 9? JUST AMO 1-M QaALuo1~e-me THATS AW 6009 pI__£A§g or ‘MS 19% CENTURY... M
'‘ '3F6M\\: soulucxre ME. RN20 NoT T0 36 vkAw'° ‘WV Fl“, 8°‘ I stop. GMT . WORKNG’ WNSON
gnu, Imou) Moo , , '
HATE ME. { Tm .
' I’-—-~.
‘ ALEXANDER ' \
1-p.co [ / I
BELL I , -__
lF sou LOVE: ME, W“M?? 5°” 9" ‘°"”"' you KEEP same l l ’> ..

-rm; l§ Io.)SAuE‘. OK! I

Aomn" IT! I HATE 5°” HATE Me'B°T

1 know sou Qeawa
LOVE-. ME

.‘5OU‘LL RDMH‘ HOV
HATE ME.

 

             
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
    

 

    
  

 

2
EX"ER'MENTA" LAUNDRY MI5HAP 1uTu wersurr THoN6 FLYu~Kq NUN £
W0R|<DAY MONDAY Tueeomr WEVNEQVAY nzlomr 3
THEMES E;
 me  3..
TR/\l;TTl0N 0F 3. > g
A "cA9uAL Fl?Il7AYf' _ v °
gﬁ,
‘= ' ; ,
.5 - .
gs 
‘ "§§ '
O l

 

   

Excu€E me, Ml$6...6UT
, .4“-T THAT A W W. e
IN YOUR BEILY BuTT0~.’ ~-

:"‘£“O‘CI"veu‘6‘{J':’9*0( ‘. - . . . . _ . . . . V . . . . . _

  

« HA’MADE You LOOK’  :_ -- ,
(Lb 1:   I ,
,- E __ fr I .
ﬁﬁ‘ :1 ll: "M
A . M, 1.‘  . . ..
W ,. ’ ;Z;
M « —~  I’ I 2:
9 \ 3:2
J) > "’ 3; ' l \ if;
A 
0H, 0H, Yes! j:
THANK6 For: PICKING '°
ON ME!!!
GIlI.lGAN‘$
1* EASTER

ISLAND...

_ 9!P°_w9ll¥¥1.llﬁI1S|G
.uv:aI~vIpsnaa9esIc

(=“l
9 E °x%% WW&Wk&m

\
2

 

 

   

     
 

      
 
 

 

 

    

 

‘ okp wmm {mg , E E .
“"7 TGIF Catalog Outlet 5 5 /{D “J t  :.
. I N“  6 ""  .
, Anniversary Sale , :.
I ; Your Student :3
d S tember 25 : G0 Hungry ::
Now through Mon ay. GP -_- ::
’ t 25% off all denim items, : , :5
Get an ex m L h. ts Coats : Harbs’ Po1nt Card :
pants, blazers, flanne 5 Ir , , : The $100 Mealrricket :i
‘ and outerwear, in addition to our regu— : Redeemable for :.
lar 50-80% discounted euerday. : Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner :3
: For only $90.00 :1
A 17 South Main Street 5 _ _ _ . _ E;
4 463-9 730 : NutrItzoIL;¢;se1glu§f}:Z1C.lsd<g’zggfczaltzes 
l;That's hlm|He’sthe onewho mugged me! 939 a'm' _ 530 pm" Monday through : Hearty Sandwiches&Mexican Entrees 5
l'm almost sure of ill!” ‘ Sat” 7-day : Candlelight Diners 
[ME I . ['
5-8 2-\ ; G1ve Your Student 3
§   Z‘ ; a Homecooked Meal With Our :1
-_« ‘ : Point Card :25
K 5 _I£l.__I;l_)__S_ 
_ . 19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450 :3’;
. :3:
L .-
Q-e %_
Former Presidents Ford and Bush head ' b-I0 
‘ off for another round of golf. ﬂ\:2oE°‘,.?.°§;,}'.‘,s°“,{'.,.“‘°$_‘°‘°'‘'‘°'’'''°‘ \\ ‘Q

 

 

PAGE 8

1995-1996 Executive
Committee Unofficial Budget

ORGANIZATION

AIDS Education
Amnesty International
Ariel

Ca/yx

Contact

Emergency Loan
Club Field Hockey
Film Society

Foreign Affairs Club
GLW Literary Society
Habitat for Humanity
independent Union

ALLOCATION

$500.00
$0.00
$3,500.00
$18,500.00
$30,800.00
$911.00
$1,118.20
$4,200.00
$1,360.00
$5,000.00
$4,000.00
$650.00

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 22, 1995

W&L Rated Best Buy by U.S. News

By ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee was named
U.S. News and World RepOit’s Best
Buy again this year.

The magazine released its list of
best buys this week as a follow up to
last week’s annual college guide. W&L
ranked 15th in the National Liberal
Arts Colleges category.

The Best Buys category was bifur-
cated into Best Buys based on sticker
price with no ﬁnancial aid and Best
Buys with tuition discounted by ﬁnan-
cial aid. W&L’s number one ranking
was in the sticker price category. The

University ranked 21st in the discount
tuition category.

Acting Dean of the College W. Lad
Sessions was pleased to see W&L at
the top of the sticker price list. He also
offered an explanation to why W&L
was 21st on the discounted tuition list.

“W&L is unique in our category
because we do not do tuition discount-
ing,” Sessions said.

Sessions went on to explain that
does not mean W&L gives no financial
aid. He deﬁned “tuition discounting”
as the process of using money from
students paying full tuition to ﬁnance
aid for other students. W&L does not
discount tuition in that manner. In-
stead, all of ﬁnancial aid received by
W&L students comes from

endowents.Sessions also said that tu-
ition discounting has become so com-
monplace at some schools that in order
to raise one dollar for operating ex-
penses, the schools must charge two
dollars in tuition.

“[Therefore] the discounted Best ‘:
Buy school is not the best buy for r“

someone who can afford to pay the
whole tuition,” Sessions said.

That is one of the reasons Sessions
feels the rankings have “assumed too
much importance.” Current students
also said the rankings were not the
deciding factor in choosing a college.
Junior Deborah Zollman said the fact
that W&L is a best buy did not make
her decide to come, although it did
please her father, who gets the bills.

Settie plays the GHQ Friday

international Club
Journal of Science
Leyburn Society

Liberty Hall Volunteers
Minority Students‘ Association
Mock Convention
Political Review
Preston Society

Club Racquetball

Ring Tum Phi

Rugby Club

Student Activities Board
Student Bar Association

$1,000.00
$800.00
$800.00
$850.00
$5,075.00
$30,000.00
$3,500.00
$300.00
$40.00
$2,200.00
$1750.00
$69,000.00
$45,000.00

From
Phi Staff Reports

Settie is an acoustic rock
duo, headed by the talented
Lisette Bellnier. ln just two
years Settie has managed to
become one of the most in
demand performers at col-
leges in the country.

She will be playing in
the General's Headquaters

tonight at 10 p.m. The show
is one of a series sponsored
by Michelle Richardson,
Student Activities Coordi-
nator.

The GHQ Pub was
opened in early September
to offer students an altema-
tive to the typical W&L fare
of fraternity parties.

Settie showcased at the
New England and East Coast
NACA (National Associa-
tion for Campus Activities)
Coffeehouse Festivals.

in 1994 they shined at the

National NACA Conference
in Boston resulting in a na-
tional fall tour of 45 co]-
leges. The fall of 1994 also
brought two more college
showcases at the Upper Mid-
west and New England
NACA Regional Confer-
ences. Now in 1995 they are
showcasing at the South
Central and llliana NACA
Conferences.

Campus Activities Pro-
gramming Magazine re-
views all concur that Settie
is the act to book and re—

book. With incredible ren-
ditions of classic rock tunes ‘.

to today’s most popular 5

songs, coupled with the mes- ’
merizing vocals and electri- -
fying stage presence of
Settie, audiences every-
where are always asking for .

more. Settie’s debut CD on 
Public Records entitled Bob .*

Bit The Fisherman, was re— 2;
leased in the fall of 1994. In 4'

the 1995 fall tour they will - 1.
be performing songs from
theirAlbum “Blackberry” on 7:“

Public Records. -

Club Soccer
Society for Creative Anachronisms

$100.00
$200.00

 

 
 
  
   
 
 
   

 
  
 
 

 

    

 

  
 
  
 
  

 

 

)0 1

 

      
   
        
  

   

  

Society for the Arts 51.30500 A

Club Softball $590.00 

Club Squash 53000 ,5

Trident $1,750.00 

Club Volleyball $750.00 

Women's Forum 51.500 00 

Women & Leadership 53.500 00 

The Student Pavilion 549375.00

E C Reserve $9.000 00

E C. Honor Reserve 54.00000 0

Student Body Working Reserve $15,000.00

rout $319_554.2o
k
L
A
A
x
r

1 Nlediu an 14'” BIZZA C o "
CHEESE & I‘ '1 ()PPI.N.:(3. 
*6 wrrri THIS COUPON _  g The Ring-rum Phl: K
2 Iwedium 14» PIZZAS   " Washington and Lee's best dressed campus
CIIEESE & i TOPPING PUb"°°*|°n
’\6'%\\Q89 yVIl1$l0.93UPo  in o o 0 o o 0000 on o 0
V r<.irl»IlISC N I :OOC COCO OOCCOO C 0 COO OCOOOOU. D '
30 Miiiiite Delivery 5 W’427tg2&P0‘45 E     .
1 o M in in te Pick--iip ; sﬁeedaéychy do 2t«,;amAe4 ; Train and make your first parachute *
£113 A :  and Séadee 5 Jump In one day. Skydive Virginias
4 6 3 7 5 7 5 . ; ; staff has 30+ years instructional expe- _
"'  Z I 9 S. zauclaqéé 3:. E rience. For brochure call 1-800-414-
Hot & Cold Subs — Salads - Dinners - Bcverageoi‘ :  : 
|‘l~EA$EMENTlUN‘!'||lSFl~YER‘Vi|ENPl-ACINGORUKE zooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo '
_ _ A‘

Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? VH0: 1gg:‘}_Ligﬁogg?E§ggR¥g§- gggggﬁ 216
.....,,....2:;r.:..°;:.:.':r::".:.'.:'.:.:i:..":.°;:.:.'i;:::::a'.“.:.': Y]<,S! um-ewsa-/msrmmnmcmm   .
°M"C?ig°l;§':r{f;‘;E"*;3"é;5;ﬁ¥JER'j4g’D'ggw*,§‘§3§FE3¥,L:’j Glrdsapproved lrruncdlalcly. 100% GUARANTEED! The Ri,,g.¢um
VISAS and MasterCard0 the man cards you _ Ph”
deserve and need for-— ID-—BO0KS—DEPARTMENT NAME An important part
sMeaos%‘3“‘§t§.T.‘l’T'lé?t’.§Ts*:i‘Ei’§’§¥ft"u"“nA*‘ms_”" °f‘h° daily ‘“°‘- ‘
HO_1‘ELS—~MOTELS—GAS—CAR RENTALS— ADDRESS Contains half as

em
IN‘
G” 6:”
6
was .. oh“ .
Gﬁ '09‘

REPAlRS—AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATINGI

SEND rm: coupon room
Youn CREDIT CARDS ARE imniuc!

No turn downs!
No credit checks!
llo security deposit!

'&&—:c&$::&¢‘¢—'u=3=3‘-

CITY __._
PHONE
SlGNA'IURE2

NOTE: Mastacord I1 I registered trademark d Malcﬁhrd lntcmattoml. Inc.
Vlsa Is I rtgl stznd tnidermrk of VISA USA. Inc and VISA International

[:1 IL rms no nrsx coupon roan

S.S."'

STATE __. ZIP

   
     

   
 

much as fat as other
campus publications.

 

  
  

K

PAGE 9

i §'5i»lt%n‘i5‘Es':   .. A

 
  

L llltlm

 

 

Caroline Keen Pete Sorensen

Women’s Soccer wage, P010
Freshman Caroline Keen has been on a rampage The W&L water polo squad shocked many by
§ this past week for the Generals. . _ upsetting Navy, possibly the best team on the East
, Mi  E Keen demolished the W&L single—game points Coast. 16-15, last Saturday in Richmond.
mmii/tiwilli “$§i‘  record ‘last Thursday in a 12-0 walloping of Mary No one General contributed more to the stun-
Baldwin, as she racked up an incredible nine points. ner than junior Pete Sorensen.
Keen scored four goals and assisted on another All Sorensen did was tally nine points. Most of

Buy One 8 02- NO F t to total the nine points, which shattered the record those came from long—distance, as he established
Land O Lakes Sara Lee ¢ previously held by teammates Erica Remeke and a school record by scoring three two-point goals.

.  B ' Michelle Bauman. The _|l.ll1l0l' also played admirable defense. as
DIP & Get One  S...” 91-

As if that wasn't enough, Keen nailed two more he contained Navy's two-meter player.
Th 0 m son ence win at Guilford last Saturday. the Generals’ 13-12 win over Johns Hopkins.

goals and handed out one assist in the 4-1 confer— Sorensen catne back to net two more goals in

 

  
 

   

      

 
AFC American League
East W L PCI‘ East W L PCI‘ GI
Miami 3 0 1.000 x-Boston 81 53 .604 ---
Buffalo 2 1 .667 ~ N.Y. Yankees 71 64 .526 10.5
New England 1 2 .333 e Baltimore 64 72 .471 18
lndianapolis 1 2 .333 Detroit 57 78 .422 24.5
N.Y. Jets 1 2 .333 Toronto 54 81 .400 27.5
Central Central
Cincinnati 2 i .667 x-Cleveland 93 42 .689 ---
Cleveland 2 1 .667 Kansas City 68 66 .507 24.5
Pittsburgh 2 1 .667 Milwaukee 63 71 .470 29.5
Houston 1 2 .333 Chicago W.S. 61 72 .459 31
3   Jacksonville 0 3 .000 Minnesota 51 82 .383 41
I I .
Aned De"c'ousé  ”   Your c3o'BcertA'nft’u’ K weStC't 3 0 1 000 Cal1i:lt'a 72 63 533
. ' ' ‘ : '~ _ ansas iy . I . --
D   3 ., ‘L "  a e Denver 2 1 .667 Seattle 72 63 .533 ---
 T  lb Oakland 2 1 .667 MW  _ Texas as 67 .504 4
' San Diego 2 1 .667 E ' ' " Oakland 67 as .496 5
  Seattle 1 2 .333
NFC National League
East W L PCI‘ East W L PCI‘ GI!
un er Dallas 3 0 1 .000 x-Atlanta 85 50 .630 ---
Arizona 1 2 .333 Philadelphia 66 69 .489 19
Philadelphia 1 2 .333 N.Y. Mets 63 71 .470 21.5
Washington 1 2 .333 Montreal 62 72 .463 22.5
N.Y. Giants 0 3 .000 Florida 61 72 .459 23
Central Central
. Chicago 2 1 .667 Cincinnati 80 54 .597 ---
Green Bay 2 1 .667 Houston 70 64 .522 10
Minnesota 1 2 .333 Chicago 65 68 .489 14.5
Tampa Bay 1 2 .333 St. Louis 59 75 .440 21
Detroit 0 3 .000 Pittsburgh 55 79 .410 25
1  West . West
San Francisco 3 0 1.000 Colorado 72 61 .541 ---
St. Louis 3 0 1.0()0 Los Angeles 71 63 .530 1.5
- Atlanta 2 1 .667 San Diego 65 69 .485 7.5
  F Carolina 0 3 .000 San Francisco 63 70 .474 9
New Orleans 0 3 .000
x - denotes division winner
LAST WEEK'S RESULTS
(Home TEAM IN CAPS) Wiu) Cum RAC:
' Atlanta 27, NEW ORLEANS 24 (OT) AL
St. Louis 31, CAROLINA 10
Cleveland 14, HOUSTON 7 California 72 63 .533 ---
® KANSAS CITY 23, Oakland 17 (OT) Seattle 72 63 .533 ---
GREEN BAY 14, NY. Giants 6 N.Y Yankees 71 64 .526 1
San Diego 27, PHlLADELPHlA 21 Kansas City 68 66 .507 3.5
BUFFALO 20, lndianapolis 14 Texas 68 67 .504 4
Arizona 20, DEl"ROlT 17 Oakland 67 68 .496 5
SAN FRANCISCO 28, New England 3
N.Y. JETS 27, Jacksonville 10 NL
Chicago 25, TAMPA BAY 6
SEATTLE 24. Cincinnati 21 Los Angeles 71 63 .530 ---
DENVER 38, Washington 31 Houston 70 64 .522 1
- Dallas 23, MINNESOTA 17 (OT) Philadelphia 66 69 .489 5.5
2 Liter MIAMI 23, Pittsburgh 10 (Mon.) Chicago c. as as .439 5.5
San Diego 65 69 .485 6

 

‘ . O D - t
ep r ‘e SUNDAY'S GAMES
I Tiiuitsn/tv's GAMES:
' Chicago at st. Louis 1PM NL
ar e New Orleans at N.Y. Giants 1PM Pm-5b|||'8h 3' Chicago C-. H181“

Minnesota at Pittsburgh 1PM N~Y- M¢1S 31 Allin". night

in

   
 

. Washington at Tampa Bay 1PM Florida at Philadelphia, night
a. O S N.Y. Jets at Atlanta 4PM San Diego at LosAngc|es. night
Houston at Cincinnati 4PM Colorado at San Francisco, night

?~

‘ Kansas City at Cleveland 4PM
‘ Denver at San Diego 4PM AL
Arizona at Dallas 4PM Baltimore 13, DETROIT 1
Philadelphia at Oakland 4PM Toronto at N.Y.Yankees. night
9 Green Bay at Jacksonville 8PM V llhzilwaukee at Chicago W.S., night
innesota at Kansas City, night
I i 6 Pk.  Oz.  2 (Open date: Buffalo, lndianapolis, Miami, New England,
' 6 ct. Seattle, Carolina)

Tins wEEK£ND'S GAMES:

Tropicana Season’s B st Super Or Regular 0  cm ggmri‘agotgtgxttgmra-sun
of e 0   San Francisco at Detroit 9PM Cleveland at Kansas City, Fri-Sun
* " T California at Texas, Fri-Sun
J 64 oz.  ct Chicago W.S. at Minnesota, Fri-Mon
. GENERALS’ UPCOMING HOME Detroit at N.Y. Yankees, Fri-Sun
Harris Teeter 00 ca ". sun  SCHEDULE 9/22-9/2.9 Oakland at Seattle, Fri-Sun
S read $1  ' Fri — Sat, 9/22-9/23 Golf in W&L FallClassic Montreal at Atlanta, Fri-Sun
A ‘K   oz,    OZ. Fri - Sun, 9/22~9/24 Men's tennis in Pittsburgh at Chicago C., Fri-Sun
"—_'—“‘ - Rolex Regional, 9:00 AM ‘ Cincinnati at Philadelphia, Fri-Sun
' s u,9/23 F bll .Ct 'Hll st.Lo‘ tii ,F'-S
Prices Effective Through Sept. 26. 1995  at ::‘.:..V2..:: ':.;3 c....:.:z :. 
Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, September 20 Through September 26, 1995 In Our Mecklenburg County Stores Thursday, 9/28 Women's soccer vs. San Diego at Los Angeles, Fri-Sun

4, On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps. K RMWC. 4:00 PM NY. Mets at Florida. Fri-Sun J

 

 

 

Last Week:

Vou.x\'mu.L- Won W&L Invitational, 15-11, 15-5, vs. Randolph-Macon;
W, 15-11, 15-3, 15-1, vs. RMWC;

W, 15-12, 15-6, 5-15, 12-15, 15-11, at Roanoke
Msoocall - W, 5-3, at Catholic; W, 4-1, vs. Emory and Henry
Wsoccxn - W, 4-1, at Guilford; W, 2-0, at I-Iollins
MCnoss COUNTRY - Finished ﬁrst in W&L Invitational
WCnoss Courrrnv - Finished third in W&L Invitational
WA11'.R Pow - W, 16-15, vs. Navy; L, 16-11, vs. Richmond;

W, 13-12, vs. Johns Hopkins at Richmond Invitational

PAGE 10

S

@112 ‘iﬁing-tum iﬂlti

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

This Week:

Vouxvmu. - Wed. at Bridgewater, 6:30 PM

I’-‘oorraau. - Sat. vs. Centre, 1:30 PM §
Msooclut - Sat. at Virginia Wesleyan, 1:00 PM;

Wed. at Guilford, 4:00 PM

Wsoocuz - Thurs. vs. Randolph-P‘ , 4:00 PM

M. WCaoss Comvmv - Sat. at Dickinson Invitational, 10:00 AM

M'l‘aNN1s - Fri.-Sun. in Rolex Regional, 9:00AM

W'I‘:Nms - Fri.-Sun. at JMU Tournament, 9:00 AM

Gour - F ri.-Sat. in W&L Fall Classic ‘

SEPTEMBER 22, 1995

  

w11C1s..t.,card..

    

an sup.

 

: this prayers corn

lie:

 

’ aysff , 
iaiayirtg eat. the ..strins.»
' —Bixt-.b°¢évs°-~.9f one

theiéieiteaieut. ct 
.'I‘1iere;is"f'mai1y=a ‘rea-
son for i1tbase-

 

 

  

conteadtafter dutx:pin_g; ,

high-salaried-’-players dur-
ingtheoffseason,’ piay-, ~
:offf¢v_er.~'  '~ Vi 

WIi.éi€.i$ihe caust£é_;:£_iat11:___‘_,

 
    
     
 
 
 
 

bail. in  beworthi ’
sayings? l«i§‘ef°t;tt1is Wk ’

 

ild Volleyball cruises to

W&L Invitationalwin

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

It has been a week of ﬁrsts for
the Washington and Lee volley-
ball team.

The Generals captured the
W&L Invitational for the ﬁrst
time ever last Saturday by blow-
ing away the competition in the
ﬁve games they played. Then, on
Tuesday, W&L established a
team record for best start ever by
humiliating Randolph-Macon
Women’s College at home.

The Generals wasted no time
making their presence known Sat-
urday afternoon in the ﬁfth an-
nual W&L Invitational.

Afterdispatching its ﬁrst three
opponents of the day, Carnegie
Mellon, Randolph-Macon, and
Catholic, to win the Pool Acham-
pionship, the volleyball squad
rolled into the semiﬁnals against
Lebanon Valley. However, Leba-
non Valley chugged into the semi-
ﬁnal match at full steam too,
sporting an impressive 12-1
record this season.

No problem.

Lebanon Valley put up a good
ﬁght in the ﬁrst game, but fell to
the Generals, 15-10.

Sensing victory, W&L
stormed out of the gates in the
second game, and took an early
advantage. But Lebanon Valley
was not waving the surrender
flag yet, as it fought back to grab
a late 13-12 edge.

Once again, there was no prob-
lem, because it was now Cheryl
Taurassi time.

The senior setter killed Leba-
non Valley’s momentum by forc-
ing a sideout. She followed that
up by serving an ace, enabling
W&L to ease past with a 15-13
triumph, and a ticket to the ﬁnals.

Taurassi ﬁnished the Leba-
non Valley match with 25 assists
to go along with fouraces. Sopho-
more middle blocker Hilary Mar-
tin was also a key factor with her
eleven kills.

The Generals had lost in the
finals of the W&L Invitational
last year, but there would not be
a repeat perfonnance this year.
After holding off Randolph-Ma-
con, 15-11, in the ﬁrst game of
the finals, W&L cruised in the

second game, 15-5, to capture
the tournament title.

Martin again played a huge
role in the victory, totalling up
six kills. Sophomore outside hit-
ter Rebecca Russell and junior
middle blocker Virginia Yoerg
each tacked on ﬁve kills.

Taurassi and Yoerg were both
selected to the all—tournament
team as a result of their efforts.

Yoerg was back in the spot-
light on Tuesday night as the
Generals hosted another
Randolph-Macon squad. This
timetheopponentwas Randolph-
Macon Women’s College, but it
made little difference to Yoerg
and the rest of her teammates, as
they smashed RMWC, 15-11,
15-3, 15-1.

The junior blocked three
shots, lifting her season total to
sixteen, and her career total to
127, which crowns her as the all-
time leader in blocks at Wash-
ington and Lee. Also, Yoerg,
along with Martin, each added
eight kills to their totals during
the match.

The record-breaking victory
gave W&L a perfect 7-0 overall

File Photo

The Generals are off to a record pace in 1995, winning eightstraight games to
begin the year. W&L hopes to overtake last season’s nineteen win plateau.

record on the year, as well as its
first ODAC win.

League victory number two
came in Roanoke Thursday night,
although it was the Generals’ first
struggle of the year.

W&L prevailed in five games,
15-12, 15-6, 5-15,12-15,15-11,
to continue its record start to the

File Photo

The Washington and Lee water polo team stunned Navy this weekend to push its season record to 7-1.

Men remain undefeated
by blasting past E & H

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer

So far, the fall athletic squads
at Washington and Lee have had
a memorable season. To that end,
the men’s soccer team is looking
to put itself one step ahead of
everyone else.

With a 4-1 win over Emory
and Henry on Tuesday, the Gen-
erals moved out to a 4-0 record—
the team’s best start since 1964.

In the game, freshman Sam
Chase tallied a pair of goals for
the second straight game as the

 

Generals rolled to victory.

The most recent victims in
this mini-winning streak have
been Marymount University last
Wednesday and Catholic Uni-
versity this past Saturday.

Against Catholic, the Gener-
als played without sophomore
starter Colin Connolly due to a
red card against Marymount.

Following a 3-0 shutout of
Marymount, a game in which
Chase, junior Bill Sigler, and
sophomore Gordon Meeker
scored, the Generals struggled a
little, letting in three goals in the
Catholic game.

The offense more than picked
up the slack, however, and burned
the Catholic defense for five
goals of its own to give the Gen-
erals a 5-3 win.

Once again Sam Chase led
the way, picking up a pair of
goals while sophomore Michael
Germainandseniorslebwofford
and Chad Dobbins scored the
other three goals for the Gener-
als in the contest.

The W&L team next takes
the field against Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday as they
look to improve on a near-per-
fect beginning to the season.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor
The men’s soccer squad is off and running at 4-0 after three recent victories.

Men’s Cross Country:

The Generals had the beneﬁt
of playing on their home course
last Saturday, and it paid off as
W&L destroyed the competition
in winning the W&L Invitational.

Six of the first eight runners
across the line were Generals.
Senior Brad Paye was the first to
ﬁnish, capturing his first career
victory in the process. Paye, who
spent last year abroad, showed no
ill-effects with a mark of 27:20.

The underclassmen who car-
ried the Generals to an ODAC
championship last season were
right behind him. Sophomore Ja-
son Callen ﬁnished second in a
time of 27:46, and freshman Andy
May dashed in fourth in 28:17,
the best time of his career.

Sophomores Will Olson, Greg
Ruthig, and Taylor Shultz, ﬁn-
ished sixth, seventh, and eighth,
respectively, for the Generals.

W&L travels to Carlisle, Penn-
sylvania, this weekend to partici-
pate in the Dickinson Open, a meet
which the Generals ﬁnished sec-
ond at last season.

Women’s Cross Country:

Josephine Schaeffer wasn’t at
her personal best last weekend in
the W&L Invitational. But then
again, she didn’t have to be.

The senior outran the other
participants in a time of 19:03,
which earned her ﬁrst place by
more than two and a half minutes.

K Led by Schaeffer, the Generals

season at 8-0 overall.

Yoerg continued her defen-
sive domination as she notched
20 kills, including the match-
winner. Martin was on target
again with 12 kills, fourof those
coming in the ﬁnal game.

Taurassi piled up a season-
high 35 assists during the match.

The senior also scored four aces

to help the Generals survive. (‘

With nine returning
letterwinners from 1994, the Gen-
erals will continue their assault
on last season’s school-record
nineteen victories when they em-
bark on a journey up to '
Bridgewater on Wednesday.

Generals beat ~

ranked Navy

in Richmond

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer

 

The Washington and Lee water polo team proved why they are q
a perennial east coast power as they turned in a 2-1 record at the

Richmond Invitational.

Record aside, the keystone of the weekend was a 16-15 last-
second upset over one of the top water polo squads on the east coast.

Navy led by one at 15-14 when junior James Silberstein was
fouled in the hole with one second left on the clock. He then found
senior Rich Cober outside the two point line.

Cober put the ball in the net and sealed the deal for the Washing-

ton and Lee squad.

For the game, however, junior Pete Sorenson was the catalyst.

Sorenson racked up nine points in the contest, including three two
point goals. For his offensive and defensive efforts on the weekend,
Sorensen earned Athlete of the Week honors.

The only blotch on the weekend, and of the season thus far, was
a 16-11 loss at the hands of host Richmond the following day.

The Generals responded to take the late contest against Johns

Hopkins, 13-12.

In the game against Hopkins, Silberstein led the squad with ﬁve

_ goals while Sorenson tallied two more.

In his first major water polo tournament, sophomore Jacob
Garrett held his own, keeping the Generals close in all three games.
The 7-1 Washington and Lee squad next takes action as they host
the Eastern Water Polo Association Tournament at Twombly Pool

next weekend.

placed third in the rain-drenched
meet, trailing only Dickinson
and Frostburg.

Sophomore Carson Flowers
was the next General to cross
the line, as she came in ninth.
Freshman Greta Richter ﬁn-
ished 15th, and seniorCatherine
Cardullo was next in 16th. It
was Cardullo’s best race ever.

W&L will get a chance for
revenge this weekend against

  

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi
Photo Editor

Women’s soccer has

dashed to a 4-1 mark.

Dickinson, when they both will
compete in the Dickinson Open.

Women’s Soccer:

The Generals capped off a
strong week with two more vic-
tories to pad their record to 4-1.

The Generals travelled down

 

 

to Guilford on Saturday, where
they stopped a tough Quakers
team, 4-1.

Keen and Bauman each
notched goals in the ﬁrst half to
give W&L a 2-0 advantage. After
Guilford got on the board early in
the second half, freshman Karin »
Treese scored a goal, and Keen ’
kicked home her second, as the
Generals steamrolled away with
the triumph.

The Generals next went to
Hollins, where W&L scored a 2-
0 whitewashing on Wednesday.

W&L gets its next chance to
improve on its 4-1 record when
they battle Randolph-Macon
Women’s College at home this
coming Thursday.

Football:

The Generals will ﬁnally play
their ﬁrst home football game this
Saturday, as they will attempt to
stop Centre in the Hall of Fame
Game at Wilson Field.

W&L fell to Centre last year in
Danville, Kentucky, 17-0. The
Generals trail the all-time series,
30-15-1, since the two teams’ ﬁrst
meeting in 1897.

Four memberswill be inducted
into the W&L Athletic Hall of
Fame tonight. Football will have
two representatives in the late Lee
McLaughlin, the head coach from
1957-1967, and all-time leading
receiver Tony Perry. Also enter-
ing will be swimming All-Ameri-
can Mike Bemot, and lacrosse

k

.’.

All-American Sam Englehart. J

A

  

.:_,'3v
..' r

 -1:» 2. 531'»: 1: at‘: *..'’«i’
. Q U‘ lkﬂ-rmtTY
a_ ".’!.. 994(1)

08?  1995

SEE SDECIEI REIWOII an

HiDDEN RASE’

Generals end in
stalemate with

centre

([0

~75

VOLUME 96, NO. 4 .WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

If your parents could see you now...

Fraternity Rush 1995 ended with Tear Night festivities on Saturday.

Marshall made what was perhaps his greatest contri-
bution tothe country in the grim peace that followed.

The Marshall Plan, Smith argued, was “the most enlight-
ened piece of public policy in the 20th century.”

CNN analyst talks

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

he it’ting—t11miﬂhi

SEPTEMBER 29, 1995

B&G resolvesproblems
with fraternity cleaning

BY ETHAN KRUPP
Phi Staff Writer

When Washington and Lee didn’t renew the
contract to clean fraternity houses with Stone-
wall Management last year, there was ooncem
that Buildings and Grounds would not be able
to do an adequate cleaning job.

Fortunately, B&G crews have been able to
handle the jobs given to them.

“There was initial concern that we [W&L
and B&G] weren’t ready to take on the respon-
sibility,” said Associate Dean of Students and
Greek Affairs Leroy “Buddy” Atkins. “But [the
cleaning] is on par with last year.”

B&G did have a rocky start though.

Atkins said concerns were voiced at the
beginning of the school year when house moth-
ers and fraternity members returned to find
basic summer maintenance unﬁnished. In addi-
tion, each B&G custodian was assigned to three
houses, allowing only two and a half hours at
each one.

This problem has been corrected according
to Mark Fontenot, Assistant Director and Safety
Officer for B&G.

“One additional custodians will give each
custodian only two houses to clean, and four
hours for each one.”

Mary Holt Taylor, the Phi Gamma Delta
house mother, said that should correct any
problems experienced earlier this term. She
said four hours is enough time to clean
the houses.

Students said the B&G custodians are

doing well.

“It’s probably just as good as last year,”
Sigma Phi Epsilon junior Dave Seidel said.

Sophomore Gill Stroube of Kappa Alpha
believes B&G was doing an even better job
than Stonewall Management’s people.

“l see them [B&G] working around the
house,” said Stroube. “They’ve already fixed
some stuff.”

Fontenot and Atkins dismissed the early
problems as what happens when new people
are assigned new jobs.

Fontenot, who also inspects the fraternity
houses, explained the procedure for calling in
additional cleaning crews.

If he comes in Monday morning and finds a
mess in the party room, he’ll usually give the
brothers until Tuesday morning to get it clean.
If the area is not clean by Tuesday, then addi-
tional B&G crews are called in to clean it. The
fraternity may be billed forthe time B&G spent
cleaning. He said the 24 hour grace period
usually doesn’t apply to other areas of
the house.

Atkins said some houses manage to keep the
house cleaner than others.

“There are some chapters l’ve never heard a
complaint about and there are others that you
wonder if they’re potty—trained.”

Fontenot agreed and asked students to clean
up after themselves. he said it would keep
chapters from paying for additional clean-ups.

He also said he thinks B&G staff will be able
to get close to the students living in the houses.

“lt’s our people and our buildings; they take
pride in their wor .”

W&L Class of 1995’faring

on media, military

BY CINDIE YOUNG
Phi Staff Writer

“The calling of journalism and the.calling of the military
seem to be quite different (nowadays),” Major General
Perry M. Smith, USAF (Ret.) observed in last night’s
Marshall Lecture in Lee Chapel.

Rarely indeed do the two ﬁelds overlap in one career,
and the life of Perry Smith stands as an impressive
exception.

Born into an army family, Smith’s first adult friend and
next door neighbor was the Five-Star General Omar Brad-
ley. At age 7, Smith witnessed the bombing of Pearl Harbor.

Smith graduated from West Point in the same class as
Norman Schwarzkopf, and during his service ﬂew 180
combat missions over North Vietnam and Laos. After
serving his country for 30 years, Smith retired, but only to
become more visible to the public eye.

On January 15 of 1990, the Gulf War broke out in the
Middle East, and Smith received a telephone call from
CNN, with an offer to act as military analyst.

With only a brief makeup session as training, Smith
began his career on international television.

Five years later, Smith has become an established figure
in the spheres of media and government relations, and now
divides his time between lecturing across the U.S. and
abroad, and writing.

The titles from two of Smith ’s more recent books, Taking
Charge - A Practical Guide For Leaders, and How CNN
Fought the War - A View From the Inside perhaps best
illustrate the issues Smith raised in his lecture last night: the
elements of effective leadership, especially after the model
of George C. Marshall, and the present-day inﬂuence of the
media on the military.

Smith opened his lecture with a reflection on the media
giant CNN and the level of news coverage it has established
in America and beyond.

Perhaps more important than any other feature of
CNN’s coverage is the speed with which stories come
to camera.

“The velocity of decision making at CNN is very impor-
tant,” Smith emphasized. “Many times stories went over the
air without any preparation.”

The inevitable result of such rapid coverage, Smith
added, was the airing of stories that were “many times
too superficial.”

Meanwhile, the strength of CNN is its widespread, well-
structured organization. CNN, according to Smith, boasts a
“brain trust of 40,000 people” and therefore can draw on a
vast resource of information.

During the Gulf War, for example, CNN attracted 40
times the audience share that CBS did, its public reputation
as the foremost source for crucial news.

After discussing in detail the explosion of CNN onto the
media scene and its remarkable effectiveness, Smith then
turned to George C. Marshall, a man who understood the
importance of maintaining a healthy relationship between
military and press.

Marshall was appointed Chief of Staff the same day that
Germany invaded Poland and began WWII, a day in
Smith’s mind crucial to modern history.

Marshall’s appointment, Smith explained, was easily
“the most personal decision of FDR’s 12 years.”

An important figure during the war’s progression,

“The great secret to the plan was the implementation
Marshall conceived by enabling devastated European coun-
tries to rebuild their own countries with American support.
The Marshall Plan effectively ensured the strength of
the West.”

Smith dosed his lecture on the military media with an
exercise in speculation, asking whether world events might
have followed different courses had CNN existed as early
as the 1930s and 1940s. .

“lt probably would have made a difference,” Smith
reﬂected, as ‘the American citizen would have begun to
realize [sooner than he did] that we had monsters on the
horizon—monsters bearing Fascist and Communists ﬂags.”

Smith reached a conclusion to his speech with a heartfelt
defense of the principles of freedoms of the press and
expression, eloquently laid out within our very
Constitution.

In his book Taking Charge, Perry Smith writes, “Seeking
the truth is easy, but finding it in all cases is hard.” One can
only feel that much more respect for a person who has
sought and found the truth, no matter where the
search led.

30

25

20

15

10

0

15
The Snag: '95 Rush Results

Phi Psi wins the race and captures 26, and
SAE finishes a distant second with 20.

Compiled by Michael Hewlett
Graph by Anne Alvord

well in varied job market

BY BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant News Editor

According to preliminary reports, members of the Class
of 1995 are fairing well in the job market. As of September
1, ninety four of last year’s seniors have reported to the
Career Development and Placement Office that they have
found full time employment. The recent graduates have
secured jobs in a variety of places, from accounting firms,
hospitals, software corporations, and the federal govem-
ment to CNN. -

Career Development and Placement Office Director
Beverly Lorig anticipates that, “...we’re going to have a very
positive report from the Class of ‘95. At graduation, we saw
similar types of reports of jobs as we’ve seen in previous
years.”

Throughout the fall, the Career Development and Place-
ment Office staff will place phone calls and write letters to

members of last year’s graduating class, asking them about
their current employment status and offering CDPO job
search services. In January, the data collected will be
compiled and published in the annual CDPO report.

The report recently published on the Class of 1994 is very
positive. Of 342 graduates, 178 are employed full time, 57
hold temporary positions, 83 are pursuing advanced studies,
15 are seeking employment, 5 are not seeking employment
and 4 did not respond to the CDPO study.

Lorig urges all Washington and Lee students, especially
the members of the Class of 1996, to become familiar with
the CDPO resources. The staff is available to help students
find summer internships, which Lorig says are increasingly
being used by businesses as recruitment tools.

However, students need to take note that many of the
highly selective internships have approaching fall applica-
tion deadlines. Seniors especially need to be aware that the
deadline for submitting resumes for J anuary’s Selective
Liberal Arts Job Fair is October 27. Last year, the lob Fair
brought 131 employers to W&L to conduct on- campus
interviews with seniors.

 
 

W
E
@

ICIOUI
HOOD-
IUDDI

%®@

Chi Psi
FIJI

KA

Kappa Sig
Lambda Chi
Phi Delt
Phi Kapp
Phi Psi
PiKA

Pi Phi
SAE
Sigma Chi
Sigma Nu
Sig Ep

Mystery
burglaries
solved

BY ANNE Arvom)
Phi Staff Writer

The rash of summer burglaries
which victimized local residences, busi-
nesses, and schools has come to an end.

David Wayne Hall, 30, of Piedmont
Ave., Buena Vista, was arrested at 5:40
p.m. on September 20 in connection
with the burglaries. Among the break-
ins were Maury River Middle School,
Central Elementary School, a local car
lot, and several residences, including
Gaines Hall.

Hall has been formally charged with
31 felonies and one misdemeanor, in-
cluding charges from both Rockbridge
County and the City of Lexington. The
felony charges include breaking and
entering and grand larceny. More
charges are anticipated.

Hall is accused of absconding with
between $30,000 and $40,000 of prop-
erty, which included computers, TVs,
VCRs, clothing (primarily women’s),
jewelry, and video games. Only a frac-
tion of the stolen property has been
recovered.

Although Hall has not implicated
any others in the crimes, the investiga-
tion remains open. Based on the mag-
nitude of the theft and the nature of the
items stolen, police suspect that more
people are involved.

 

PAGE 2 The Ring-tum Phi, September 29, 1995

 

 

Maj or drug bust brings
° L '
, BEYOND excitement to exington
 B L I I  information by an anonymous infor-
l _ BY Cllhnsrll RASMUSSEN mant. The marijuana seized ‘has an
phi Slarr wrner §§i(l)ﬂ(I)E(l)t3d street value of approximately
_ _ The evening brought much excite-
_ Le Big cityltroubleicallie to small tgwn merit to students who happened to be in
o 0 0 o xington astwee w enamajor rug the area durin the dru bust. Accord-
D ellb eratlons In SlIn.pS0n tauzt gccurredh on Je:_fersonRStr¢]:(e,t naear ing to Sigma lglu sophfmore Geoffrey
5 <l"3i'€- 000! ing to oc ri ge Boume, who watched the arrests from
trial Set to be on da County Sheriff’s Department Officer the side porch of his fraternity house,a
g1 y Cglemfan, tlwo black malcasfand one little after nine that evening six police
w rte ema e were arreste or trans- cars drove up and surrounded the sus-
rt’ f ft d f " .
Los Angeles-——The prosecution ﬁnally rested its case against 0.]. p0'[!h‘eg r,',d§f;':iE§)i:'insVr(:iv';':",’,‘},ag':re Pecifl was rah sea at fhsl The
Simpson on Wednesday. Both prosecutors Marcia Clark and Christopher from the Roanoke area, are ellrrenrly ln Slale trooper hady a gulrlypolhled  one
  was
cocii '11 fi 'sh h‘s su mazio b F}'dry. Aft $9‘ fe b in ob niiie set at ten thousam-1 dollars‘ Whither“ g'°""d' W‘ W“ “" d“°ki“g b°"i"d
W:_“’1 thmt all wal“ V V] [Y  t*_‘)’- I her 3 he is llibee y 6 not they_ had any intent to distribute in things trying to watch.”
prosecu ion, e ri i mo e in o is ina‘ p ase, jury ei rations. lhe mxlngton area ls ellrrerllly under Comic taller was soon Provided,
Judge Lance lto, eager to bring the year-old trial to a close and motivated investigation. however by a Phi Kappa Sigma mem- R
:y restltezs isnﬁxpehcted tofaskohhe jury i‘f, thgy ‘want tlq illlcrease the _ Three organizations were respolh bar who grafted blasllhglha song “Bad
?ltlISO ei ra IO in opeso pr ucinga er ic mas 0 er amoun sibie for the arrests; llle vlrglrlla Task Boys,» the theme to the police drama
0 im€~ Force, the Roanoke Vice and the local television show “Cops” from his bed-
police department. They were given room window_ ah ‘ a BC! G Ph_ Ph t Ed‘
00 y sy reen, 1 oo ior
R
O O O C _
Bosnian civil war continues Mother speaks to
Man, myth or legend...
d°SPi“e Peace Plan aPP"°"a1 W&L about hazing
A
Bocci Commissioner Dean David Howison stomps the
New York—ln an American-brokered peace plan, rival Bosnian fac- Phi at Wednesday’s friendly competition.
tions agreed to establish a joint parliament and presidency, and democratic
elections in their culturally divided nation. Yet while the conditions of the BY EWLY BAKER
new government were being discussed, a cease-fire could not be agreed Phi Executive Edhor A
upon; thus, the war rages on. However, President Bill Clinton said the pact
“moves us closer to the ultimate goal of securing peace.” P t 1. k k t
Chuck Stenzel was a 20-year-old economics and history major at Alfred a   S 0
University in New York when he decided topledge a fraternitv.
On the day he pledged, February 24, 1978, Chuck’s new fraternity brothers a ' S 11 1 t d t A
Sh0rt_term S g Ian put him in the trunk of a car with a pint of Jack Daniels, a six-pack, and a fifth - » C  S u  S
p P of wine. They told him he had to drink it before he was released, and shut
the Fi100i'. “All this stuff is out there, and we in
° orty minutes later, they opened the tmnk again. Like many of his pledge the newspaper business are just realiz-
to avold   brothers Chuck was unconscious BY MICHAEL HE ' ‘ ’ ‘ '
, . WLEIT ing how it s affecting us,” he said.
Uvrllllilke tlhte resal of his pledge lpjrothers, Chuck died that night. Phi Associate Editor Yack said that his paper owns ''
. . . . . “ ha died I had never heard of the terms ‘hazin ’ Infinet an internetcom an and hasa
Washington, D.C.—President Bill Clinton and congressional leaders . en oim Pm my  - ’ , - g ’ . . P y’
are closer to adopting a short-terrn spending plan that would keep the 3:. lI::“C\h:eekl .?lrle§(ll:'ldgl:lS hlslilglfghlgism(;iae1;lElli:;nh§:Vei:s’3:536 spokg g:,).I2°‘£,a%eOv:'hth [mks 0" the world
government operating until November 13. The agreement would mean brothers P6 y g I nee I 6 W‘ cm] y P e ges an hewésgggteéo ilolbio years fiom nlfw’ lhétfa daftha Saglgelvésgglglemare Stan‘
tht fd l k ldbfl hd M d ,th 1" td f ' V. . , ,w' “°w5°°“°’s“’ ere . . ’ ’ .
‘ha Inaiweﬁearcaalvilgrarerasalitillizahlgh €Coi::'g<:;lSgS Easmyet ‘:2 gas a‘: agmggefh thToday, she might know more about the fraternity system than any information can be gathered . and With allthis new technology, news- }(
spending hill. 0 er woman. _ diseminated through print, television papers are losing the younger genera-
Later that year, Stevens formed C.H.U.C.K., the Committee to Halt Useless or the Internet, said Pat Yack, editor of tion. »
College Killings. Through C.H.U.C.K., Stevens has tried to raise awareness of the Greensboro, N.C. News and Record “There’s no generational interest in
hazing practices, encourage legislation to eliminate hazing, and document Wednesday, ’ newspapers anymore,” he said. “It’sa
hazing de3th5- He spoke to the Journalism 253 and S030’ thought-”
Israel to  from West The’ pathologist who performed Chuck’s autopsylsaid that the cause of Editing 35] classes about changes in But Yack said he is not too con- 1’
Chuck sdeathwasacutealcohol poisoningcombinedwithexposuretooold, and the newspaper business and what his cemed about it. Regardless of what
too much ﬂuidlinthe lungs. Afterthe brothers tookthe pledgesout ofthetrunks, paperdoesto keep upwiththetechnoi- happens in journalism over the next
Bank and   they pLli them in a room frlled with cots to sleep it off. While he was passed out, ogy. few years, the business will require the
Chuck s lungs filled with ﬂuid beyond their capacity. He drowned in his Technology is starting to change, same skills needed now.
OW" fhlid- _ i and journalists must try to stay in- “The art of reporting is still going to 3'-
jerllsalenl__ln a landmark decision’ lsrael has agreed to ll gradual The pathologist told Stevens that he almost passed out from the smell of formed of new deveioprnents be cherished,” Yack said.
withdraw] of the West Bank and to giving Palestinians self-rule over the 310°“?! "1 _Ch“Ck’S_5t0m3Ch-
area which has been the center of much conﬂict between Arabs and Jews b U"'l"¢rS11ata)l/ Pflgclals Could tehalhﬁ Siehehiacj huh? Ofhellihah that there had 0
throughout history. Although many details still need to be worked out, the 99“ f1_ 0'0 “'1 1"ga”}P3")’_s 3“_ ‘W0 0‘ 91' )’3W°1’°"” ‘5 h°5Pi‘3l ih °"m°3] I I gt P D 
agreement will practically lead to a separate Palestinian state. °°“Sdm0“- A tgolhough 1’l1(‘j’°5t18:"°" ‘zould the l3Uh°h¢d«   . . a S A
tevens sai s e wou not nowt e trut today about her son’s death had ‘
it not been for Chuck’s roommate, who later called and told her Chuck died in f  .
a hazing ritual at Klan Alpine. fraternity house, a local fraternity at Alfred.   O S
The tmnk ritual had been perfonned year after year, the roommate said, with
no harmful consequences.
’ t‘ The ulliverstlly and the distfrict attprneyésloflicedconclaided tlhllir investiga- BY Ronln SEATON ll.
ions, ca ing e case an un ortuna e an iso ate inci ent. e university - ~
withdrew its recognition of the fraternity for a probationar riod. Phi Staff wmer
Y P9
There have been 75 hazing deaths in the past 18 years, Stevens said, two of
which occurred in the past month, one in Iowa and one in Illinois. Lexington’sﬁnest have four new officers onthe streets. These men were hired
She emphasized that she is not anti-Greek, but only wishes to see to fill the void left by recent resignations, according to Chief of Police Bruce ,
hazing halted. l . Beard. Thlelnew officers have assumed regular patrol duties within the city. Their
_ I havg learnedhsql much farorrpu illlhof you (fraternity menl),”hshq‘ said. “You have responsibilities include responding to criminal acts, accidents, traffic and vehicle
. l _ , . imlpressel me wit t e won e t ings you can acoomp is w en you put your violations, and ensuring public safety.
Edaltor S Note’  Watch 1's a minds t0 it.”_ _ _ Officer Jonathan Shenk has previous experience with the military police.
speclalwegkly feature to keep Washlng. b Stevenlsl d(i;d nit colrlne herehbeqajutae W&L hasd a haiinlg problem, she said, but According to Shenk, law enforcement is «what l,va always wanted to do... of a
l . ecause a ree co eges s ou e conceme wit t e issue. . Lexington, he says, “it’s a small town, but it’s ot its times.” «-
ton and Le? S Students In-Formed ab?ut ljledges should not let brothers intimidateathem into silence, she said. Ofﬁcer Keith Haraway joined the force in lateg December 1994. He previously
the Republlcan Presdentlal Campalgn b a You are ttlllie only ones who can speak up,’ she said. “I implore you to do so illienll fqur years with the park service on the Blue Ridge Parkway. Officers
. . e ore some I e .” ‘ d '
an advance of Mock Conventaona rig g0 S Wrong ic ae Hess an Michael Huffman could not be reached for comment.
X
i - B f t h nored at
Perot s third party could en-e ac or 0
O C
if
spell trouble for the cop dedication ceremony
In the wake of billionaire Ross Perot’s announcement Tuesday that he
will start his own political party for the 1996 Presidential Elections, many including the Ri‘ng—tum Phi, Alpha Tau Omega hr
Republicans are concerned about the possible implications of such an and the first W&L lacrosse team. ’
organization on their own bid for the presidential race. Although many say BY ETHAN KRUPP one of wilhams’ most notable investments
that Perot himself lacks the popularity to run again in I996, any third party Phi Staff Writer was in 1977 when he purchased as many shares
candidate withthe backing of Perot’s supporters could poseaseriousthreat of Berkshire Hathaway as he could find for
to the GOP’s candidate. Lawyers are still questioning the legality of $152 after reading about it in “Fortune” maga-
allowing Perot to ﬁnance the third party with his personal funds, while l b cl l l d l r zine_ Berkshire Hathaway is the parent com- )-
some doubt that the Independence Party will meet deadlines for voter gnrclzggttimseffigsfoqmif tiiseonni:|fir?gu ast tahse pany of many different companies, including
signatures in order to gain ballot access, which are as early as October in dedication of the School of Commerce, Ec0_ seeis Candyland several insurance businesses.
some states’ nomics and Politics. Their stock is now the most expensive stock
The school was named the Ernest Williams traded on the New York Stock Exchange, val-
II School of Commerce, Economics, and Poli- tied at roughly $23,5(_)0_P°1’ Sham L.
tics. Williams graduated from Washington and _ Peppers saidlthe million dollor endownmerit
0 0 Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor Lee in 1933_ This is the first time the W&L will allow Williams School faculty to partici-
  over  Board of Trustees have named a school, other pate in activities that could not be covered by
Eileen Stevens speakasntao thtle W&,II‘4u°‘:a1a1munitY than the university itself, aftqr a benefalqtor. the ;i0rtnli:|eh‘i;<:§;laSThf Fi)T;(<:h:s);OWr:l£’l:0“::;1v‘e‘:
' ' about hazing in Lee ape on e ay. But Williams is not an a umnus w 0 just cov r l
  of Medlcald gives W&L some extra cash. abroad with students, faculty members who "-
. " “He is the single biggest benefactor of present internaltionlal papers, and special speak-
_ r _ v ‘ll D f th C-sch 1 La C, ers, among ot ert ings.
The controversy within the Republican party over Medicaid continued     lhahéigplgrslsai 93" 0 9 0° “'3' In addition to the endowment, Williams and
to escalate this week as moderate Recpublican senatqrslextpressedf titiellf . . Brian Shaw, Director of Communications llls wll=e,Mnrl-orleallave sponsored severalother
concerns over the House Commerce ommittee’s vo e in avor o s a e d t t . R l l. hl l ovldalhe Speclal programs at W&L all
 of        new ABC is H0      ..      .. 
efforts to balance the budget through various means, including the pro- that ll hm he released_ fessorship, which is currently held by Pamela
posed revisions of the Medicaid Program. However, they fear that The board also used aponloh of Williams: Simpson ofthe arr rlepartrnenr
complete state control of the program which provides health care for By RYAN BEAMAN gifts lo eslabllsll a $1 nlllllon endownment to Another gift is the Marjorie 0. Williams
millions of needy Americans would result in a reduction in quality of health phi Sraff wrller support actlvhlas l h the Williams School Library Endownrnent_ This enoownnlenr helps a
care forchildren and in less spending of state funds on Medicaid. As voting According to peppers, the reason lhe board the library expand its collection
in the Senate began Wednesday on a draft of the overhaul’ many Reput» The Augusta/Staunton police agency which currently serves chose the C-School to bear Williams’ name Williams has ah'ii0Si made 3 S6C0i1d C3F_€0T
“can moderates remained wary ofthe pr-090-Sad changes’ e~mRhaslzm-g ‘hat Lexington will soon be replaced by the Roanoke district agency. was straightforward. 0"‘ 0f dommng ‘O W&L He has giVe" "Oi Just
they could become. Signiﬁcant lmemal dmslonsascampalgmng continues Although Chief of Police Bruce Beard has not been thoroughly “Since Williams’ success was in the busi- money, _though.' . _
for the 1996 demons’ informed of the entire situation and has yet to meet the new ness arena, the Williams School seemed appro- l“Ei’ii_ie has given so much of himself to hrs at
Roanoke agent, he said the change will likely occur on Oct. 1. pi-iate,” said Peppers. UiiiV_6TSily, I10! only through his gigta, but thagiaiaglh
The new agency will be most visible during major events Although Williamsmade hisfortunethrougah hiSii_m6,i3l6iitS,8iid energy, S81 0i’m€T _
' h ' dd't‘ l ff t ' re the streets of Lexing- investments and sales, he never took any poli— president John D. Wilson to the W&L Alumni
Beyond the Blue Watch GOP Watch are ioiifrerggfilgiiz S()lUlI?Cll1.aAoS f1(fl'eirl?e(l)(’.ll'[l)::lty of Roanoke’s agents tics, commerce or economics courses while he Magazine. “The naming of the school for him IS
'1 d b Pe Stuntz and Laura Knapp concerning parties and alcohol, Beard says the rules set by the attended W&L, Instead, he maloi-ed in loumal- a tribute to all he has done for Washington and
compi e y ggy . . . . . he ..
Virginia ABC Board will apply as before. ism and was in a number of organizations, 6- ii.

 

P

\

Al

*1

  

PAGE 3

The Rirggtum Phi, September 29, 1995 1 e

ingg‘€i/vorld
Ur ampus

 

Artwork by Tarah Grant and Bill Overbaugh

By Tarah Grant
Phi Staff Writer

Nestled in the Shenandoah valley,
outsiders may misconceive Lexington
as a rather secluded town. However, as
the world becomes a global commu-
nity, Washington and Lee isn’t losing
ground.

“The countries of the world are be-
coming much more interactive due to
technology,” said Dean Anece
McCloud, advisor of W&L’s Intema-
tional Club. “Since this is the case, it is
very important for the student body to
meet people from foreign places and
learn about their cultures. Only through
knowing and understanding each other
can we have a harmonious and peace-
ful global coexistence.”

There are 13 foreign exchange stu-

dents in this year’s student body. Rep-
resenting countries across the globe,
they bring with them an eagerness to
learn about the American culture and a
willingness to share their own.

‘‘I hope more people try to learn
Japanese and develop an interest in
Japan and its culture,” said Kaori
Okano, one of the four W&L students
on exchange from Japan for this school
year.

Although culture shockstrikes many
foreignvisitors, Washington and Lee’s
foreign exchange students explain that
adjusting is part of the excitement. The
differences between life in their native
countries and in the United States will
lead them to make several lifestyle
changes.

“The biggest difference between
universities and Japan and here is that
American students study very, very,
very hard and students in Japan do not

study so hard,” said Okano.

W&L’s social scene has surprised
some of the students more than any-
thing else.

“In Hong Kong, we don’t go to
parties; instead we do karaoke,” said
To-Keung Chan.

“Hong Kong people are busy with
their work and business; we don’t
spend a lot of time on social activities.
We also don’t drink a lot.”

Each year a few W&L students,
meanwhile, take advantage of the
university’s foreign exchange pro-
grams.

One such student, Michael Harden,
an East Asian studies major, spent last
year in Japan. Harden chose to study
abroad because he felt that there was
no better way to be com-
pletely submersed in the
foreign environment.

Although he found it
difficult to leave his friends
at Washington and Lee,
Harden believes that his
experiences abroad were
well worth missing a year
in Lexington.

“I had great times there,
traveling, doing as little
school work as possible,
and learning more than I
ever have,” Harden said.

For students who feel

. .\ .4; 4:u»:t w

    

“My Spanish improved consider-
ably,” Bookout said, “but I think I
learned the most about the culture, sim-
ply from living there and observing
Spaniards’ daily lives, their interests,
hobbies, etc...l learned more about Spain
itself than you could ever learn from a
textbook.”

While college may seem the ideal
time to take on new challenges and
adventure into the world, many students
don’t wait until college to experience
life abroad.

After graduating from high school in
1994, freshman Bill Overbaugh lived in
Hungary for a year through Rotary In-
ternational Youth Exchange.

Not knowing any Hungarian before
he left, Overbaugh now considers him-
selfﬂuentinthelan—
guage.

“I always knew
that I wanted to
study abroad and
when the opportu-
nity arose to go to
Hungary, I was the
guinea pig who
squeaked too loud,”
Overbaugh ex-
plained with a
smile. “The experi-
ence was invalu-
able. During my
year I learned a. lot

that a year abroad is too
much, W&L’s spring term
programs offer a taste of a
foreign language and culture.

With foreign study programs in
China, Central America, England,
France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Ja-
pan, Russia, and Spain, students have
a wide selection of countries to travel
to and explore in the spring.

Junior Amy Bookout decided to go
to Spain last spring tenn. Bookout
and ten other W&Lstudents studied at
Estudio Intemacional Sampere.

CharT(Ieﬁ) and.Okar;>_

about myself, the
way I relate to oth-
ers, and I realized
what I wanted to do in life.”

Students who have participated in
foreign study programs are usually ea-
ger to encourage others to do the same.
Overbaugh believes the motivation to
study abroad can be summed up in one
phrase he encountered during his ex-
change year, “You can make a differ-
ence —in a world of difference—— by
taking a step toward promoting world
understanding through youth exchange.”

  
 
  
  
 
  

   

Seven — three stars

Seven is essentially a darker,
grimier, less effective Silence of the
Lambs. In a nameless, blighted urban
wasteland, Morgan Freeman is an
older, grizzled veteran cop named
Detective Somerset, who is just get-
ting ready to leave a life of crime-
fighting behind. Brad Pitt portrays a
young policeman, Detective Mills,
who has just come to the big city to
take over Somerset’s job and begin a
life of crime-fighting. ,

But just when Somerset seems
ready to depart, a particularly grue-
some case compels him to stay. Some-
one is killing people in the fashion of
the seven deadly sins: gluttony, greed,
sloth, lust, wrath, envy, and pride. So
a particularly gluttonous man is liter-
ally made to eat till he dies; and simi-
larly othervictims receive justice that
mirrors their sins.

Indeed, the screenwriter (the rela-
tively unknown Andrew Kevin
Walker) has thought up some pretty
ingenious ways of working in the
sins, especially for the last two, envy
and wrath. But on the whole, the plot
moves in a straightforward way, with-
out sudden jumps or unexpected turns

of events. So what provides this film
with punch is twofold: the marvelous
acting, and the effective, moody direc-

 tion.

Here Morgan Freeman secures his
reputation as one of the finest actors
working today. Although this doesn’t
quite match his performance in The
Shawshankkedemption, he once again
provides the film with weight and seri-
ousness. In several scenes, his careful,
heavy technique removes what would
be melodrama and adds a real tension
and concern.

Brad Pitt’s acting similarly contin-
ues to mature. Pitt does a ﬁne job of
getting across the frustration that being
the ‘new guy’ carries with it: people
refuse to take him seriously.

Yet this film never turns into abuddy
or partner film where the focus of the
movie is their relationship. Rather,
while we remain centered on the mur-
ders and the police’s efforts to solve
them, it is in the context of this growing
friendship. The result is a balanced,
well-made look at the situation.

Another high point for the film is
the direction of David Fincher. His last
movie was Alien 3, which, although
the weakest of that series, was a dark,
rich and beautiful-lookingtilm. Fincher
carries the same sort of look intoSeven.

The sets are dark, mysterious, and
generally very depressed looking, but
never inafake,obvious|y“Hollywood”
sense, like in Batman. Fincher is very

capable of bringingacertain mood
to the screen without committing
overkill. Although the screen is
typically draped in dark browns
and blacks, it has such a sheen that
we forget how downright ugly it is
supposed to be. The result is that
we are able to enjoy spending two
hours looking at an ugly city, much
like the way Robert Rodriguez adds
so much style to a dirty Mexican
bar in Desperado.

Easily this film’s biggest prob-
lem is how much it will suffer by
comparison to Silence of the
Lambs. The characters here are
not as ﬂeshed out and real as were
Hannibal Lecter and Clarice Star-
ling. And, where in Silence of the
Lambs one left the theatre won-
dering if one of these psychos was
waiting around the comer, Seven
doesn’t quite get into our heads as
much. Still, the evil, the tension,
and the dirt and grime of it will get
under your skin. Though Seven is
not as psychologically effective as
Silence, it is nevertheless a very
competent thriller.

Three stars: Go see this ﬁlm
now, while it's still on the big
screen. It's worth a few Oscar
nominations and the seven bucks
you'll pay if you see it outside
Lexington. Overall, "Better than
Cats!”

 

honor the memories of
w&L_isangrisn depart-

[ti

5 lth einterested are

By Cintiie Young

PHI FEATURES Enrrok

The Lcnfest Series 1995 will
open this Monday in grand style
with The National Theatre of the
Deafs lavish production of the
1851 French farCeAnItalian Straw
Hat.

Originally written by Eugene
Labiche and Marc Michcl,AnItal~
ian Straw Hat is a "tour dc farce"
of endearing proportions, weav-
ing together with onc straw hat
character after colorful character.
Even the costumes promise to be
entertainment, and Variety ap-
plauded designer Charles Bcrlincr
for his ensembles that poke
"flounced and beribboned fun at
turn-of-the-century styles."

The play will be presented in

  BEHIND as
  URTAIN

NTD'S TOUR
D1: FARCE

NTD‘s signature style, a blend of
Sign Language and spoken words.

Established in 1967, NTD has
performed in nearly every corner of
the globe, and has raised Sign Lan-
guage to the level of an art form.

National Theatre of the Deaf, in
its own statement, serves as "a shin-
in gexample in the international com-
munity of the imagination America
uses in dealing with its minorities."

Hailed by The New York Times
as "a gleeful production of a clas-
sic," NTD's performance ofAn Ital-
ian Straw Hat will sparkle on the
Lenfest Center stage this Monday at
8 p.m.

Tickets are $3.00 to members of
the Washington and Lee commu-
nity. For ticketing inquiries or addi-
tional information, contact the
Lenfest Center at 463-8000.

‘ established

 

Fishburn Ctark, a
tally‘ interested in

utsday,  5 at

. He's Kissing Christian, That

. Ms. Wrong, That Dog

. Happy Day, Blink

. Sidewinder, The Seymores
. J.A.R., Green Day

Tune into WLUR 91.5 week-
days, 4:00 to 5:45 p.m., for
these and all the rest of the
newest, on Breakthru shows.

TOP 5 CUTS, WEEK OF 9/25

Dog

between the lines

author bell hooks explores racism
in America in her Killing Flage

By Michael Hewlett

Pm STAFF Wmrrarz

Race has been a thorn in the side of
America ever since the first blacks

arrived at Jamestown in 1619. It haunts

our sensibilities, our normalcy, our

sense of security. No matter how hard
we attempt to delude ourselves and
convince ourselves that race has no

meaning anymore, that Martin Luther

King’s colorblind dream has been
achieved, that we have overcome,
something happens that shocks our sys-
tems and awakens us to the American
nightmare that Malcolm X talked about
almost 30 years ago. Rodney King gets
beaten; Fuhrman drops a racial epithet
(that he denied using during the past
ten years) about 41 times on a tape, and
“angry white males” complain about
the unfairness of affirmative action.
Usually, the voices on either side of the
debate are men, and rarely have the
voices of black women been heard or
even listened to. In her new book, Kill-
ing Rage: Ending Racism, bell hooks,
one of today’s leading black intellectu-
als, lends a feminist black perspective
on the burning issue of race.

In 22 essays, hooks rearranges the
conventional conversation about race

and embellishes it with a forceful, fierce

intelligence. In her first essay, she de-
scribes an experience she had with
racism when riding on an airplane and
the rage that consumed her:

“It was these sequences of
racialized incidents involving black
women that intensiﬁed my rage against
the white man sitting next to me. I felt
a ‘killing rage.’ I wanted to stab him
softly, to shoot him with the gun I
wished I had in my purse. And as I
watched his pain, I would say to him
tenderly "racism hurts.”’

This “killing rage” afflicts Afri-
can-Americans at one time or another.
It comes from the day-to-day experi-
ence ofbeingblackin
America. hooks ar-
gues that blacks
sometimes seek to
deny this rage, hold it
downintheirgutsand
force a smile in the
face ofthis subtle rac-
ism. They scek to ig-
nore it rather than em-
bracing the rage, ac-
knowledging it and
building something
constructive from it.

hooks explores
and dissects our popular culture and
relates it to the maintenance of what
she calls white supremacy and white
male patriarchy. On a number offronts,
she criticizes the women‘s movement
for its earlier failure to articulate the
clear connection between racism and
sexism. hooks also calls attention to
the sexism inherent in the black power
movement and its insistence that black
women remain subservient to black
menwhoconsiderthemselvestheonly

hooks

    

leaders within the African-American
community.

In another essay, hooks comments
on how racial integration, regardless of
its benefits, has had the unfortunate
result of making black people believe
that the only way to make it in America
was to embrace whiteness and forget
their culture and history. This is evi-
dent in a number of ways, particularly
the historical prevalence of African-
Amcrican churches, fraternities and
clubs that excluded
darker—skinned blacks.
But hooks exhorts the
need to move away
from victimization
while ﬁghting against
racism and argues for
the need to love black-
ness as resistance.

In the end, bell
hooks writes with an
urgency mixed with
provocative insights
and observations. In-
stead of chaining to-
gether long, impressive words, hooks
fills her pages with a passion that is
oftentimes missing from intellectual
thought. With all the voices blaring out
of our television sets and all the talk
about the plight of the black man, the
plightandthevoiceoftheblackwoman
needs to be heard and understood. In
the tradition of Sojourner Truth and
Angela Davis, bell hooks provides that
voice.

 

RING- TUM
PHI
SPECIAL
REPORT

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Walking home from class, he thought how
exhausted he was. The exam was the most
difficult the professor had ever given. He was
up all night cramming for that midterm and
enticing sleep was calling. He climbed the
steps to his fourth ﬂoor Graham-Lees dorm
room and shufﬂed down the hall. As he
fumbled for his key in the bottom of his
bookbag, he glanced at the bright blue writing
on his dry erase board. His mouth dropped
open in horror at what he saw. Scribbled in
large block letters was the word: NIGGERI

Not Just a Hollywood Problem

Most Washington and Lee University stu-
dents would view this scenario as something
reserved for pop culture movies. American
college students regularly view ﬁlms which
glamorize and put a Hollywood-spin on hate
crimes. Whether its following the trials of an
embattled Jewish prep school student (School
Ties) or watching Neo-Nazis mow down a
peace rally (Higher Leaming), hate crimes
are often removed from reality by movie
directors. Truth shows that hate-motivated
actions are not relegated to the realm of fic-
tion. Indeed, they play an all too important
role in daily college life. Acts of prejudice
run rampant on real-life college campuses
including that of Washington and Lee.

The accepted definition of a “hate crime”
is a crime, action, or behavior that are directed
at one person or a group of persons by another
person or group of persons that are motivated
by an intense dislike.

The hostility that exists on our campus is

— much more subtle than a John Singleton movie.

After all, no one is painting swastikas on Lee
Chapel or burning crosses in the Dell. The
nature of hate crimes at W&L are clandestine.
Surely, one would be wary of calling them
hate crimes at all. Usually, they do not
involve the breaking of any legal law. Hate-
related acts of harassment and hostility are
much more frequent at W&L than any viola-
tion of legal statute. However, they plague
our campus nonetheless. Often the perpetra-
tor is never caught; the victim rarely reports
the incident, and most students are unaware
of the scope of the problem. In this Ring-tum
Phi special report, we will uncoverthe hidden
rage and prejudice that persists on our cam-
pus and reminds us of a dangerous undercur-
rent that threatens our otherwise harmonious
coexistence.

This Party is Closed

Tear Night: W&L’s night of male bond-
ing and spilled beer. lt’s a night when most
students make a beeline for the fraternities to
enjoy the deafening music of local bands.
With spirits in hand, everyone all over the
campus gathers together to enjoy the revelry.

Well, almost everyone.

Last Saturday John Branam, President of
the Minority Students Association, was plan-
ning to join his fellow undergraduates in
celebration. However, he and three other
black students were denied entrance to one of
those parties. The brother at the door in-
formed them that the party was closed. He
told Branam that those inside were “friends”
and he wasn’t. Branam attributed the incident
to bigotry.

“lt amazed me. I tend not to think of
racism as the first motivation for rudeness,”
said Branam. “But I can think of no other
reason except for racial intolerance.”

Branam believes hate crimes occur on the
W&L campus, but not in the typical sense

most associated with the term. Rather than
blatant acts of aggression toward minorities,
the acts of hate are subtle and covert.

For example, Branam said when a group of
black students walk into a fraternity party, they
receive inquisitive looks.

“You’re looked at like they don’t want you
there,” he explained.

Branam said that “nigger” is common lan-
guage in some fraternity houses. The speaking
tradition also breaks down. He spoke of one
student ducking his head to avoid saying hello
to a black student.

“The things that occur everyday have much
more impact than abumingcross,” said Branam.
“That’s a single event than can be discussed and
analyzed.”

Less pronounced acts of hostility toward
blacks are difficult to quantify and therefore go
unchecked, said Branam.

Some incidents have been recognized , how-
ever

Dean of Students and University Mediator
Anece McCloud said in her eight years dealing
with hate crimes at W&L, two race-related acts
of aggression have occurred. Both were in the
dorms and involved threatening messages left
on doors of black students. The incidents were
reported to the administration.

“I don’t believe they occur that often,” said
McCloud.

Students who are bigoted against another
group generally ignore contact with that group
or person. The rule is avoidance rather than
confrontation, said McCloud.

Branam sees the picture differently. He
believes that there is a strong contingent of
W&L students who are intolerant of blacks.

Nonetheless, he said the MSA will actively
work to involve more students in this year’s
activities to promote better understanding.

Despite the presence of racial intolerance on
campus, the long-term prognosis for race rela-
tions is positive, according to Branam.

With the efforts of the MSA, there will be a
shift from a stagnant tension to better rela-
tions,” said Branam.

Unusual Circumstances

The first year sororities colonized on cam-
pus was a breakthrough time for Washington
and Lee women. They were launching a Greek
system for females that would hold paramount
the value of sisterhood.

One girl was refused membership from the
sisterhood. Not because she was dull or homely,
but because she was Jewish.

Professor Richard Marks, advisor to Hillel,
the Jewish group on campus, recalled the story.
The student went through Women’s Rush, but
was released under highly “unusual circum-
stances.” President Wilson was called to inves-
tigate. Evidently, the girl had received a nega-
tive reference from a woman in Houston who
recommended exclusion based on the girl’s
religion. The student withdrew from W&L the
following year.

“(Jewish students) aren’t unwelcome,” said
Peter Weissman, President of Hillel, “but, I
believe if there was more of a presence and
awareness on campus, we would all feel a lot
more comfortable.”

Weissman believes that some W&L stu-
dents are unaware of the many aspects of Jew-
ish culture. Nevertheless, he thinks that most
Jews are received well on campus.

As evidence, he cited most professors’ un-
derstanding that many Jewish students missed
class on Monday because of the holiday, Rosh
Hashanah. According to Weissman, the ad-
ministration is also sympathetic to many promi-
nent alumni of the 1950’s and 60’s who are
Jewish and remember their alma mater gener-
ously.

Despite that, Professor Marks continues to
receive phone calls from apprehensive parents
of prospective Jewish students.

Additionally, some students do run into ste-
reotypes.

Last year, Francie Cohen, a Jewish member

Special Report

of the Class of ‘95, wrote in a letter to The
Trident that Jewish students were prone to
hearing friends make derogatory comments
about their religion. She recalled one friend
who proudly said he had “J ewed someone down”
meaning to bargain aggressively. She also
remembered hearing students make fun of the
names of Jewish holidays because they were in
a foreign language.

Despite having to conform to the traditional
ways of the campus, most Jewish students do
not complain about anti-Semitism. Most agree
that Jews are widely accepted on campus and
not discriminated against.

“I consider myself very lucky,” said Marks.
“(W&L) is a nice place for Jews.”

Dubious Distinction

Washington and Lee has the eyebrow-rais-
ing distinction of being the 4th most homophobic
college in the country.

Homophobia is as common on this campus
as Dave Matthews t-shirts and fraternity par-
ties. Many students believe that this university
is simply no place for gay students, and they
promote attitudes of hatred toward them. The
hostile atmosphere makes the life of a gay
student very difﬁcult.

“There have been numerous campaigns
against gay students in the time l’ve been here,”
said Schroer-Lamont.

One such campaign included circulating a
ﬂyerthat listed suspected homosexuals on cam-
pus. Schroer-Lamont said the posters were
plastered all over the Hill, some even being
taped to sidewalks.

Steve Powell, Coordinator of the Commit-
tee on Gay and Lesbian Legal Issues, also
spoke of examples of anti-gay behavior at the
Law School.

The bulletin board on which the committee
places their posters was torn apart. Although,
he couldn’t attribute the incident to homophobia,
it’s rare that university bulletin boards are de-
faced.

Additionally, some Law School students
who were suspected of being gay were left
threatening messages in their carrels.

Despite these events, Powell “doesn’t see
much intolerance in the Law School.”

The undergraduate scene is a different story
altogether, according to Powell.

Powell pointed out that the University’s
discrimination policy does not include protec-
tion for people of different sexual orientations.

Washington and Lee is a tough place to
announce one’s sexuality because of the cli-
mate of homophobia, said Powell.

Openly gay students run the risk of being
excluded from fraternity life. They risk the
threat of physical danger and verbal abuse.

For example, a few years ago, one gay
alumni returned to his fraternity house for a
party. Words were exchanged, and a ﬁght
ensued. This is just one example of physical
intimidation directed toward gay students.

To confront the major obstacles facing gay
and lesbian students at W&L, a chapter of the
Gay And Lesbian Alliance was founded on
campus last year.

“We can combat the problem through edu-
cation,” said Powell.

Pictures on the Wall

It was Hell’s Angels night at the Boiler
Room. Everyone was decked out in their finest
biker apparel. The room was filled with spiked
hair, black leather boots and fake tattoos. The
party-goers were there to have fun.

Some female guests didn’t have fun, how-
ever. For when they arrived at the Boiler Room,
they found offensive graphic graffiti awaiting
them. Pictures of naked women involved in sex
acts plastered the walls. The night of good-
natured fun was shattered for them.

Some of the women reported the incident to
the administration. The Student Conduct Com-
mittee heard the case, and those responsible

   
 

Hate and Prejudice

at Washington and Lee

were reprimanded.

Blacks, Jews, and homosexuals are not the
only groups on campus to be targets of hate-
motivated behavior. Acts of hostility are di-
rected at W&L women as well.

With each incident, we are reminded that co-
education started only a short ten years ago.

Dean of Students Anne Schroer-Lamont
spoke of the occasion when anti—rape posters in
the C-School were destroyed.

Apparently, the perpetrator repeatedly wrote
offensive language on several of the posters.
The Student Health Committee had to continu-
ously replace the posters which was part of their
campaign against sexual assault.

Additionally, some women are the victims
of sexual assault and harassment -— the ulti-
mate manifestation of anti-women behavior.

Unlike most hate crimes, sexual misconduct
is included in the yearly report on campus
safety.

The Student Faculty Hearing Board is the
University committee which hears cases in-
volving sexual misconduct.

In the 1994-95 school year, three cases were
referred to the SFHB. McCloud, University
mediator, heard nine complaints. Of the three
that were referred to the SFHB, one case pro-
duced “no clear and convincing evidence that
sexual misconduct occurred.” One case found
a student guilty and suspended him for one
year. The ﬁnal case found the student guilty
and put him on social probation launching a
student uproar that demanded that rape be in-
cluded as an honor violation carrying the single
sanction of expulsion.

In another scenario, one female student had
a phone trap put on her incoming calls to screen
for a caller who had been harassing her. A
phone trap reveals to the receiver the phone
number of the caller.

Head of Security Mike Young said that there
were also two instances where female students
came to him because they were being called by
strangers. The callers would crudely solicit
them for sex. Young placed phone traps on
their telephones, and it was discovered that the
callers were actually Lexington residents.

Although they comprise nearly 40 percent
of the Washington and Lee population, women
students are as likely to be victims of hate
crimes as the much smaller minority groups.

Their superior size, however, has encour-
aged their coming together into groups to com-
bat such acts of hostility.

Ignorance and Isolation

What kind of person would hate so much
that he/she could be driven to acts of aggres-
sion?

It seems completely absurd, never minding
the fact that it violates General Lee’s civility
code.

“Prejudice is something that’s taught,” said
Schroer-Lamont. “If bigoted attitudes have
been reinforced by your family and commu-
nity, it becomes second nature.”

Not all perpetrators of hate crimes are taught
to hate. Peer pressure can also play a role in
encouraging acts of hostility.

“Students, who nonnally wouldn’t do it,
participate to go along with the group,” Schroer-
Lamont said.

They usually feel guilty afterwards, but the
rational thinking that would usually prevent
them from acting in the first place is replaced by
the group mentality.

Of course, alcohol can also induce other-
wise sober students to participate in dubious
behavior. Indeed, perpetrators of several hate
crimes, including sexual assault, are likely to
act while under the influence of alcohol.

Understanding the psychology of the perpe-
trator is helpful in studying hate crimes. how-
ever sympathy lies with the victim.

Acts of bigotry against a student often leave
that student feeling isolated and alone. The
next step for the victim might be anger.

The anger can be both positive and negative.
If he directs that anger into the proper channels

 

like seeking justice, good may come out of
the incident. However, if he acts irrationally
and retaliates with more negative behavior,
the outcome could be disastrous.

While formal surveys have yet to be done
at W&L regarding hate crimes, chances are
many go unreported.

Many students who have been targeted for
intolerance seek advice from University coun-
selors.

For instance, Schroer-Lamont said black
students have come to her describing dis-
crimination they received at social functions.”

Schroer-Lamont encouraged any students
who believe they have been victims of hate
crimes to seek help.

Seeking Retribution

The victim of hate-motivated hostility at
W&L has many different options in bringing
his perpetrator to justice.

One of the most common locations for
these types of incidents is the freshman donns
which has its own system of dealing with
these problems.

McCloud said that most cases that occur in
the freshman dorms are handled within the
dorms themselves.

The cases usually involve graffiti on one’s
door or threatening phone messages.

Head Domi Counselor Jason Ward ‘96
said it is difficult to catch the perpetrator of
most hate-related incidents. Usually, they
live on another hall or don’t even live in the
dorrhs;.. . ; -.1:   .

However, Ward does hold hall meetings
to discuss the incident after it happens.

Dean Dennis Manning said hate crimes
are “very infrequent” and “highly unusual.”

In his five years as Dean of Residence
Life, only one or two cases have been re-
ported to him.

Nevertheless, a victim can seek him out to
report incidents.

Additionally, the student could seek retri-
bution through McCloud, the Student Con-
duct Committee, the SHFB, and the Execu-
tive Committee. Each has their cwn method
of recourse ranging from a written letter of
apology to expulsion.

One could also report to Mike Young.

“They are rare and don’t really stick out in '

my mind as being particularly eventful,” said
Young. “But they do happen.”

“Because hatecrimes occur so infrequently
we don’t target it specifically in University
policy,” said McCloud. “We address it in the

general approach of promoting civility.”

Gentlemanly Conduct

One generalization that can be made about
hate crimes at Washington and Lee is that
they are usually hidden and subtle.

The examples don’t signify major dis-
cord, but they do hint at an undercurrent of
hostility and anger.

Another generalization is that administra-
tors tend to downplay the frequency with
which acts of hate occur.

Many did admit, however, that they may
not be as in tune with what goes on when their
backs are turned.

Students, on the other hand, were much
more likely and able to discuss examples of
prejudice that they had experienced.

When all new students go through fresh-
man orientation, they learn that W&L prides
itself as being a community which members
behave with civility towards one another.

Acts of hostility based on hate stand in
direct violation of this claim and leave many
students wondering why.

Despite this, most students and faculty
agree that Washington and Lee is basically a
peacable campus.

While there is ignorance and prejudice,
few are marred by these traits.

The Ring-tum Phi. September 29. 1995

771e yea/"book" needsfyou/4 help!

The Calyx is looking for a Photography Editor and staff.
If you are interested, call Jessica Antonich or Susie Stowell at 462-4046.

7

V

>2.

1’:

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 29, 1995

1 _, . .
@112 iamg-tum lﬂln
The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
4 . Founded September 18, 1897

,Need for accessibility

On Monday, the National Theatre of the Deaf

I will perform in the Lenfest Center, proving that
persons with disabilities are every bit as capable as
able-bodied people.

K Many Washington and Lee students rarely think
of the myriad of problems facing the disabled.
After all, most are able-bodied and it is often
difficult to look past the daily reality of our own

3‘ lives. However, a few among us do live with those
disabilities we so often ignore.

What kind of concerns do they have? What

‘ barriers stand in their way? Imagine what it must
be like to be disabled.

W&L is not an accessible campus. Obstacles to

“ integrated living face disabled students every day.
Where are the elevators in the freshman dorms?
Where is the ramp granting access to those who use

A wheelchairs? Where are the braille signs directing
campus traffic for those with low or no vision?
Where are the assistive listening devices for the

2. hearing-impaired in lecture halls?

 Certainly, the University violates the spirit of the

Americans with Disabilities Act signed by
,. President Bush. This law guaranteed equal access
for all, but many institutions ignore that mandate.

_ Equal access is not a privilege, but a right. Not

everyone is born with functioning legs, eyes, or

ears. They deserve a right to participate in

American society, including access to education,

regardless of their disability.

Would W&L be so presumptuous as to deny
those citizens an equal right to education by leaving
their campus so grossly inaccessible?

Countless organizations and government
agencies exist to aid private institutions to become
more accessible. Whether it is financial or technical
support, they are there to help people with
disabilities. W&L needs to take advantage of these
groups.

* It embarrasses us to know that when the

performers of the National Theatre of the Deaf
arrive on campus three days from now, we will be

it ill-prepared to receive them.

Quote of the Week  

“Gee, they really do smell like they’ve been dried
in the sun.”
—-Freshman male discovers truth in
advertising on removing his first
1 batch of laundry from the dryer

OPINION

    
 

cui=.u<PoiNT

PAGE 5

MAN, TAILGATING
uusr ISN'T WHAT

IT USED To BE.

 

1,-U
/

it

’ ILIEMIDE. '
,1l@@

iﬂr

    

__;r —— rr
RPF
‘l-26

\W\--—- i‘ ——‘—-if ‘*--,<A/\c\*’1‘i{( M

Surveying slippery slope of outside
intervention in messy Bosnian crisis

 
 
   
 

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

From the very beginning of the
so-called Bosnian crisis, Western ob-
servers have misinterpreted the mo-
tivations of Bosnian Serbs.

Journalists in Sarajevo would
have us believe that the civil war
in the ex-Yugoslavia developed prac-
tically out of thin air, or (more likely,
according to them) out of the unpro-
voked malevolence and greed of
the Serb leadership.

What these journalists forget,
along with their UN comrades, is that
the Serb revolt in Bosnia has its ori-
gins in the foolhardy decision of the
international community to grant rec-
ognition to the Muslim-dominated
Bosnian state.

This recognition gave the borders
of “Bosnia” a superﬁcial legitimacy,
one that persists to this day in the
eyes of many Westerners, despite the
fact that the Bosnian state was cre-
ated against the will of many, if not
most, of its residents.

The heralded Wilsonian principle
of self-determination was not hon-
ored in Bosnia. The Bosnian Serbs,
in effect, were railroaded into a
scheme that was, to be sure, conve-
nient for tlfe Bosnian Muslims (and
their UN friends in New York); but in
the end this was an arrangement des-

tined to fail.

This error in the West’s
conceptualization of the Bosnian
crisis has recently been com-
pounded by what amounts to an ac-
tive military intervention on the part
of NATO on behalf of the Bosnian
Muslim government.

The recent punishing air attacks
on Serb positions in Central Bosnia,
while purportedly carried out to re-
lieve civilians in Sarajevo, have in
reality had a tremendous military-
strategic impact.

Muslims, along with their Croat
allies, who weeks ago controlled
only 30 percent of Bosnia, now oc-
cupy 55 percent.

Of course, since the UN/NATO is
superﬁcially disinterested, it has re-
peatedly warned Muslim forces not
to “take advantage” of NATO air
attacks, presumably by undertaking
new offensives against the Serbs. But
clearly this request has been ignored,
and clearly neither the international
community nor its counterpart, the
international press, is particularly in-
clined to care.

Serbs have been so thoroughly de-
monized that even Serbian civilian
refugees no longer evoke our sympa-
thy (if they ever did).

In the best case scenario, accord-
ing to the Clinton administration, a
compromise “peace” agreement will
soon be reached in Bosnia, and U.S.
troops will arrive shortly thereafter to
guarantee it.

What witches’ brew of potential
future conﬂict our soldiers may be

stepping into we cannot predict, of
course, but there are ample grounds
for pessimism. Serbs, Croats and
Muslims will all continue to nurse
their grievances, grounded as
these grievances often are in cen-
turies of history.

I can add further that I had the
pleasure this past spring, in my ca-
pacity as a Washington Term intern,
of sitting down
to lunch with

to mention manpower) to the protec-
tion of an obscure Muslim pseudo-
state was utterly unnecessary; but sec-
ond, because, insofar as we have in-
tervened in Bosnia, I am not so sure

that we have picked the right side.
That is, while both Serbs and Mus-.
lims are capable of barbarity and
meanness, there remains one crucial
difference between them: one side,
the Muslim gov-

ernment, fights

R i c h a r d _____..._.  alongside that
Holbrooke,who hateful world-
is now the prin- straddling body,
cipalU.S.nego- After all: when the UN; while the
tiator with re- R e p u b l l c a n s other side, that of
spect to the the Serbs, fights
Bosnian crisis. put'°°.proﬁ.ts.ahead of alone, proud, and
Hewasthemand  llvlng, and not for thc blood-
continues to be job creation ahead of less principles of

today, a fuzzy-
minded idealist,
enamored of the

traditional life and
values, they are not

status quo intema-
tionalism, but for
the dynamic, par-

same kind ofop—
timist, bleeding-
heart intema-
tionalism that
has gotten us
this far into
the Bosnian
mess already.

In short, if a transcendently
brilliant scheme for ending Balkan
bloodletting ever is formulated, I
doubt that it will be a product of Mr.
Holbro0ke’s labors.

Let me also say that 1 consider the
American role in the Bosnian inter-
vention a double tragedy: first of all,
because committing U.S. prestige (not

really

“conservative”;they
are being greedy.”

  free 

ticularistic prin-
ciples which are
the basis for
the health and
prosperity of all

being

There is a time
for togetherness, and there is a time
for separateness.

Unfortunately, it has taken NATO
and the UN four years of humiliation
and bloodshed to realize that the time
for togetherness has not yet come in
the Balkans.

The demon (or angel?) of ethnic
pride will have to be appeased for a
while longer.

@112 filing-tum lﬂlii

Executive Editor: Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Assistant News Editor Bethany Bauman
Editorial Page Editor Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Smtt Bookwalter
Features Editor Cindie Young
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Rnhert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord
Circulation Manager St ,‘ Williard

The Ring-rum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-nun Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’: edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-rum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Teleph -ue (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu.edu

Lobbying bill threatens free speech

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

There were so many possibilities for writing a
column this week: welfare reform, the possibility
that the GOP will not extend the debt ceiling and
cause the end of civilization as we know it (accord-
ing to some), and the founding of the Independence
Party by Ross Perot.

These are all getting good play in the news, so I
decided to write about something that was in the
news for a short while and directly affects one of our
most basic rights as citizens: the proposed lobbying
restrictions for non-profit organizations.

At first glance it seems like a great idea. I don’t
want my tax dollars going to support the National
Conference of Bishops and their attempts to limit
abortion. You probably do not want the gun control
lobby to get your money to lobby for stricter restric-
tions on the manufacture of armor-piercing bullets.

There is a bit more to the bill than this, however.
If it simply said that non—profit organizations could
not use any of the money they get from the govern-
ment to lobby the government that would be a
reasonable limitation. But the potential restriction is
on all funds raised by that group, including the
money that the average citizen sends in to support
that group. Under one proposal, groups would be
limited to using five percent of their funds for
lobbying purposes.

There are a couple of faults in this as far as
I can see.

First of all, under this proposal, the government
is not only limiting the right of the organizations to
lobby, it's restricting the rights of a citizen to lobby.
Suppose I send in my check to the National Abor-
tion Rights Action League in support of their efforts
to keep abortion legal. I am doing this in the hope
that through lobbying they will push the same goals
that I want but do not have the time to lobby

for myself.

Unfortunately, if the organization has already
spent ﬁve percent of its budget on lobbying, they
may not be able to represent my interests and those
of other members at crucial moments. My money is
therefore not being used as I wanted it to be.

The Republicans make a big deal of taking away
restrictions on people——and now they are infringing
on basic First Amendment rights.

In interfering with freedom of speech, they take
away one of the aspects that makes America great.
The founders based our
government on the idea
that there would beaplu-

have complaints against specific aspects of Repub-
lican policy? One suggestion to the Republicans: If
you can’t deal with a little questioning, get out
of Congress.

We need these interest groups to keep track of
what is going on in Congress because there are way
too many things for the average citizen to keep track
of, even if they want to be informed.

For example, a little while ago the House de-
feated, by a sizable majority, a bill that would have
created a National Parks review board to determine
what national parks
could be sold out of the
system. Last week its

rality of interests that
would be heard at the
national level. This was
to prevent the tyranny of
the majority and make
sure the interests of the

people are kept at the major

66

There 's something not right
about having a bill that was
openly turned down by a
of Congress

sponsor managed to at-
tach it to an appropria-
tions bill sothatthe pos-
sibility of defeating it is
greatly reduced. This
despite that fact that it
was already defeated in

forefront. By restricting
the ability of non-proﬁt
organizations to lobby
and represent the inter-
ests of the citizens, they
are opening a way to
majority tyranny.
Another complaint I

reappearing in a different
form so that it cannot really
be voted on just because a
congressman could not deal
with his idea not being
approved by the majority of

a perfectly open and
proper floor vote.
There’s something
not right about having a
bill that was openly
turned down by a ma-
jority of Congress reap-
pearing in a different

have about this proposal
is how blatantly biased
it is. Companies like Ar-
cher Daniels Midland
and Weyerhaeuser re-
ceive billions of dollars a year in federal subsidies;
yet they are not restricted in the amount of money
they can spend lobbying the government either
through direct legislative inﬂuence or contributing
to the war chests of various legislators. I’m willing
to bet that the amount of federal funds that these
giant companies get is many times that of all the
non-profit agencies combined.

Maybe I’m picking on the Republicans unfairly,
but could this restraint in lobbying be because many
of the non-profits, even the Conference of Bishops,

people.

 

form so that it cannot
really be voted on just
because a congressman
could not deal with his
idea not being approved
by the majority of people.

A final thought on Perot’s third party (actually
fourth party; I think the Powell for President group
could qualify as a third party): perhaps their goals
would be better realized if they worked within the
two parties to pick nominees whose goals match
theirs, and turning out people to vote. Maybe then
there would actually be candidates that people liked
and there would be a President who was actually
elected by the majority of Americans instead of the
minority of people who actually vote. -

 

    

PAGE 6

OPINION

Products could bring in da bigbucks

GREEN LAND ‘
Betsy Green

Not long ago, various campus or-
ganizations asked the EC for money.
Not suprisingly, some of us wish we
had more money.

I know the EC is like one big
khaki-wearing Santa Claus and would
love to ﬁnd more money so that each
and every good little campus organi-
zation can have all of the goodies they
want. All they need is to be a little
more enterprising. Heck, the EC has
too much to do anyway, so why not
add fund-raising to their list of tasks?
Besides, the merchandise l’m sug-
gesting will sell itself!

*ACLU Punching Bags. Since my
beloved page editor Alex was presi-
dent of the ACLU, I am probably
getting myself into trouble by sug-
gesting this, but a simple inﬂatable
punching bag with an ACLU logo
would sell out in no time. By denying
them money every single year, the
EC has been unofficially using the
ACLU as a punching bag for quite
some time. And most of the other
W&L students will leap at some good
old-fashioned conservative fun.

*Parking Ticket Gift Certificates.

What better gift for your loved ones
than the chance to park illegally?
Parking ticket gift certificates will be
the W&LequivilantofGetOutofJail
Free cards. On another law enforce-
ment note, what kid wouldn’t love a

five rookie cops possibly compare to
Chief Beard? Can’t you just see stu-
dents swapping cards in the Co-op
during lunch? “l’ll trade you a Baner
for your Mike Young.” “Throw in
Shannon and you've got yourself

set of... a deal.”

*Law En- *W&L—De-
forcement Trad— C C signed Bowties.
ing Cards. In my The EC could
hometown of Since my beloved makeakillingby
Moline, Illinois . usingthefashion
(City of ATliou- Page edltor Alex was sense of W&L
sand Forpiddlen president of the pcrlofessors and
Deli hts , t e a ministrators.
new agiid probably  I am pr Deans Manning,
ineffectiveway to getting myself lntO Gtkins, algd

et kids to ' owisonandt e
jgustsaynotodrugs trouble by suggestlng ever-spiffy Pro-

is to give the little
buggers Moline

this, but a simple
inﬂatable punching

fessor Holiday
could follow in

Police Depart~ - thestepsoflerry
merit trading bag with an  Garcia by de-
cards. Just like logo wouldsell out ln signing their
baseball cards, ' own lines of
they feature our no tlme' bowties. Of

men in blue,
posed with their
patrol cars, or better still, members of
the K9 unit. This concept would
clearly do well here in Lexington, for
both police officers and W&L Secu-
rity. Naturallly, some cards will be
more rare than others; how can the

course, it can’t
be too hard to
design solid colors and simple
red stripes.

*Leticia Pate Evans Dining Hall
Microwaveable Dinners. Just because
you don’t have the full meal plan any
more is no reason not to enjoy the

scrumptious delights of D-hall. Take
home a hearty plate of fish-shaped
bits, potatoes, lima beans, and the
classic D—hall dessert: Jell-O! I hear
you can get a deal on the Taco
Bar meal.

‘W&L Faculty Lollipops. For
when you need to‘ suck up to your
professor before a test. I can’t believe
I just wrote that. Have I no shame?
Apparently not, in light of my
next suggestion...

‘Men of the EC calendar. We all
know that one of the chief reasons so
many women bought copies of the
Southern Comfort CD last year was
because of the, uh,*cover art. I ’m sure
that all women on campus are aware
that the men we have entnisted with
preserving our Honor System are a
rather, shall we say, talented group of
young men. Last year the EC came
under some criticism for being so (to
use yet another euphemism) busy.
Students won’t ﬁnd them quite so
intimidating once they’ve seen
their representatives posed on a
bearskin rug.

Men, you ask, what about
EC woman Amy Gotham? Well,
someone has to be in charge
of merchandising. ‘

Hey, maybe
a photographer.

need

they

Announcing. . .'

The Ring-tum Phfs new e-mail address:

ph1'@W1u.edu

Use The Phfs new e—mail address to
send letters to the editor, items for
General Notes, or story ideas.

PR 1 N C I P l.‘ li 3...»,/"

    

SO U NI)

 

The Ring-tum Phi, September 29, 1995

\

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Hong Kong

Join W&L’s exchange program
with Chung Chi College of the Chi-
nese University of Hong Kong be-
ginning Sept. 1996. No Chinese lan-
guage skills are required. Courses
are in English; you pay W&L fees
and earn W&L credits. Contact Pro-
fessor Hill or Professor Rogers in
the East Asian Language Oenter(Red
House) for more information.

Law School Day

W&L students are invited to at-
tend Law School Day at the Univer-
sity of Virginia on Thursday, Oct. 5,
1995. Law School Day will take place
from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. in Newcomb
Hall Ballroom on the UVA campus.

Mock Convention

Mock Convention is looking for
a student interested in the Internet,
Home Pages and computing. Inter-
ested students should call 462-4057.

Outdoor Program

The Outdoor Program is spon-
soring kayaking lessons this term.
Lessons are held Wednesday nights
8-10 p.m. in the small pool in the
gym (near the equipment check-out
booth). For more information call
463-5947 or 463-5776.

Parents Weekend

Parents Weekend 1995 will take
place Oct. 27 and 28. Student lead-
ers whose organizations plan to spon-
sor special Parents Weekend events
which will be open to all parents and
students should contact Michelle
Richardson, Student Activities Co-
ordinator, in the University Center
no later than Sept. 29.

Career Test

There will be a career test inter-
pretation on Monday, Oct. 2 at 4
p.m. in Room 108 of the University
Center. All students who have taken
the Interest Tests and not had them
interpreted need to attend. See Ms.
Saunders in Career Development to
sign up to attend this session.

Degree applications

Undergraduate degree applica-
tions for the Class of ’96 are due no
later than Monday, Oct. 2, 1995.
Applications for degrees must be
filed with the University Registrar’s
Office on or before June 1, if the
degree is to be taken in December, or
on or before Oct. 1, if the degree is to
be taken the following June. Late
applications will be subject to a $25
penalty and will not be accepted
after Jan. 15, 1995. Registrations
and transcripts will be held until an
application is ﬁled. Questions should
be directed to Scott Dittman, Uni-
versity Registrar, orleannettelarvis,
Assistant Registrar, at 463-8455.

Film Society

Washington and Lee’s Film So-
ciety will present the Cuban film
Strawberry and Chocolate, in Span-
ish with English subtitles, tonight
and Saturday, Sept. 30 at 8:05 p.m.
in the Troubadour Theater. There is
no charge for admission and the pub-
lic as well as the W&L community
are invited.

Practice interviews

Seniors may sign up for video-
taped practice interviews in the Ca-
reer Development and Placement Of-
fice. There are two more days of prac-
tice interviewing this term: Wednes-
day, Oct. 25 and Thursday, Nov. 9.

R Ii 1' l R li M ii i\' 'l’

l.\l\-'i'IS'l'll\'(,} \

EVERYONE WILL GIVE YOU
THEIR TWO CENTS WORTH, BUT WILL
THAT BE ENOUGH TO RETIRE ON?

oday there seems to be an investment expert
or financial advisnr almost everywhere you
turn. But just how qualilied are all these experts?
Peace ofmind about your future comes from
solid planning. I“i*om in vestrncnts and services
designed and managed with your needs and
retirement security specifically in mind. The kind of
investments and services TIIXA-CRIEF has been

For you.

expense charges are among the lowest in the
insurance and mutual fund industries.’ That means
more of your money is where it should be—working

'l‘IAA~CREF is now the largest private pension
system in the world, based on assets under
managementmianaging more than $145 billion in
assets for more than one and a half million people

A Bistro

=
:9
v-:
5"

8 am - 3 pm - Monday

am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday

9 am - 3 pm - Spnday

   

I

I

Is

I

I

I

I

I

I

: Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad

: All you can eat $4.99

I

I

: Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID
I

E Friday - Seafood Nite -

u Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
: Saturday - 8 oz. Prime Rib,

: 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

I

 

19

. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450 E

 
 
  

providing for more than 75 years.

WE'LL HELP YOU BUILD
A REWARDING RE'I‘IREMEN'I‘.

Our counselors are trained retirement
professionals who have only you and your future in
mind. So you’re treated as the unique person you
arc, with special needs and concerns about
retirement. And that makes For an understanding,
coinllortable relationship.

With 'l‘IAA~CREF, you have plenty of choice
and ﬂexibility in building your retirement nest egg-
iroin TIA/\'s guaranteed traditional annuity to the
investment opportunities ol‘ CREF's seven variable
annuity accounts. And we're nonproﬁt, so our

0 L995 Tear‘:/‘.4 In.wnui.'( Jan‘ /In/m,<Lr_y .&<.wriai{.-u .~"(‘u1i‘:3¢r Rzrthmml F4m.ri':.- Fwiéi.

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

throughout the nation.

TIAA-CREF:
THE CHOICE THAT MAKES SENSE.

It's tough to wade through all the "advice" to
find a reliable pension plan provider. But as at
member ofthe education and research community,
your best choice is simple: TIAA-CREF. Because
when it comes to helping you prepare for.
retirement, our annuities will add up to more than
spare change.

For more information about how TIAA-CREF
can help you prepare for the future, call our
Enrollment Hotline at 1 800 842-2888.

Whiundzvdﬂ‘ Pinrlnlnounnu H»;-u A-ml.-.‘ INK-linnu-A-nlu~uI.I-tuna. la I’-u.g.h'u-u...‘ A._.I . In . --4 In

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH
with America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!
Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STU-
DENT TRAVEL (800) 95-BREAK!

Kestaurant and
 9-[o65ie’sLounge

  

Route 7, Box 99A
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Near the Horse Center

Phone 464-9499

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to?
Restaurant 11:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.

SPRING BREAK - Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun
and Jamaica from 299.00. Air, Hotel, Transfers,

Parties, and Morel Organize a small group and earn a

FREE trip plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321

DISCOVER
HOW QUIRKY
WE ARE!

POETRY MAGNETS

400 magnetic: words
for refrigerator srmnets.

ELVIS VOTIVES

Dine by candlelight
with the king.
MOUSE PADS
Mona Lisa. Water 1..i1ies.
Wm Gog/t suri_/Yowers.
I.')ie-cut cat. (...'reatI'on.
Hershey chocolate bar
Grateﬁll Dead.

'1 he Scream.

VENUS 8: DAVID

Disrobe them. Dress them.
New build-a—viIla.

FROG CHARMS

Good luck and pmxperity.
And maybe a prince.

DRIP CANDLES

Atmosphere in a
Chianti’ bottle.
POSTCARD HUMOR
500 titilating titles.
Mail them. Frame them.
Get a good laugh.

FISH PENS

Better than rubber duckies.
and they write.

caravans

/X” ll. ,‘.‘c:3‘o!i Sin./I 0404’ .75”?!
:'):u.5' 10am »- épm o SuIuI'u)'S I fr!/it -3?!”
UPS to your home or uﬂice

 

I ‘ msveserved ’
iangervnoes, Inc

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 29, 1995

    

PAGE 7

. ADVERTISING

TODPY I RM AN
EXPERT IN’-

LEHMAN by Andrew Lehman

 

 

 

@1995 David Mme: Al
Drsl by Tribune Med

mm“ ‘gcmm ugiaos\R°]i£xL1ucr§t£°
'n'.L=vi4.ioN' resaseui aowvweaﬁwv "1'?
"row-new mm{ mm M5 '°“-. .v\NE<=N?
‘g>,¢1—g‘ 'g'gas' '3cuvu,i:' oeoi 'm‘.°sN:s'
<oN>uTc.ﬁ$ 'i>u»aNs' '€ooD° '9H’“°N°
’ New u?<J9U6ﬂ°NT0RY°0\|6TvH?LV'9N5

 
     
 
     

     

‘M5 Meowabn mar vnrr-5 saw?

   
 

Heu_o,J0A~?...Hi,THI6 I9 DAVE...
REMEMBER ME FROM s»<rH GRAPE?

   
 

YEAH, WELL i'vEC1<7T A BUNCH OF
ow LETTERG HERE etc-.~Eo
/ "LOVE ALwAY6'.’,.

       
 

¢’ wgu, How ABOUT IT?

\ ,,  You MEAN IT?
I .. , /

  
 
 

vm/v HaADAcI/E
0

 
    

eises
DISL

'rHEY SAio...v~/ELL, wE mo THE
eesr JOB wE couw izméwe You...

 

.”A‘,. 7/
/’ /r
//

  
  

,— /" \‘

DavidM|| All ms" elf//;\“\ 
net. reserv ,«

byTribuneMedia"Serviees, Inc r,’.’',....‘‘ x

 

 

  
  
 

HE DIDN'T LIKE THE wAY
‘SOME GUY PA9$ED HIM...6O
HE WAS CHA-4,-ING HIM.

   

    
 
   
 

Good Luck Generals

Welcome Parents and by

  Alumni

Marlene’s Hairstylist

 

Conveniently located to campus in the historical

district at 25 N. Main Street

463-6003

Men’s and Women’s Cuts, Styling, Perms,

MAnicures, Foil Highlighting, Acrylic Nails,

Pedicures, and Facials
Walk-ins welcome or call for an appointment

Hairstylists: Marlene, Cindy, Robin, Bobbi,

Rebecca
Our Manicurist: Crystal Floyd

VIZMNC1 UNDER 17-IE INFLUENCE‘
OF T E9T06TERoNE 1/.’
w .

 

Lexington 0-[air Desgn
(Next to the fitness Center)

‘Would like to welcome all students to stop By and visit
Stepﬂanie, Roﬁin, andﬂlnn for aflyour haircare needs.
.’1{ours are Monday -‘Z7iuri{a_y 9:00 - 5:30
friday 9:00 - 5:00
Saturday 9:00 - 12:30

 

W o199s_Tmxno Mada Services. Inc.
Alﬁmts Reserved.

t-Hf

 

‘ ‘k\\\KL. _

  

NEW; N\EDll-\
ECON°N\lce. 101,"

 

  
 
 

wow! GPEEVINC7  AND

spew maul In '|$!G
nv ‘Jenn . 90 96616}
___

aui ‘sec; 2
‘pa/iiasailgfzggi

  

   

«snze§9—iz:.=uEvme'
TEcHNiauE «W5
‘ I

( _:L_

   

   
 

'\ MEETNG
i \O A1“-

  

6
I \
V /
IE1

O|995DavldMi|or.Al' reserved. .
Distb/Tii7unaMedia ‘ ,Inc.,%/4.73:2

.s.s.e. Démtez awe:

at 97/2 ﬁeaauouuae
/Q72 7%?! Je‘ Oﬁeot to‘ cm

(ex<:oﬁ«t%e(a4t7’Xaotdaqafe¢e4mao¢t4)
egg.-W-.., 04460: 2.1995

Wow»: Scandal; £4/w ‘74wzod4q 5:30 ﬁne - 7:00 ﬁat
Date in ac game-0:41!

gafjettotcladed  3¢hd gala. gaéealgzecad.
24¢4wz€eatZ3e¢oea¢'¢.aowl/444a¢ted3’eaoza9e4

       
     
     
       
   
 

em $5. 95. ma. emu $ 5. 75. €4(Z4uo¢ /00714440» $2. 95

*************************************************

¢W.2c'¢a;ze»ga¢Jae¢.é;a4:7Itao:dax,t4w7'té¢4‘i
Xam- //am
eu:d(:a¢c47Itaa¢dac;t4w‘7u’daz;, ,,¢l0¢'2ﬂ0¢«
Dateaoméautyaat
eaaéeéeaéuituaozuegeaaut

**********************************************

 
       
     
 

.
«
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

Your Student
Go Hungry

  

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for

Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner
For only $90.00

Nutritious Mu ins & Eg Specialties
Fresh alads & oups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our
Point Card

Harbs’

ashington St., Lexington, A ‘4450

W

19

 

   

 
  

Valley 

Walﬁ-ins welcome a’ 
 HARDWARE STORES HALLOWEEN
Hardware, Paint, and Related Items CREATE A °°ST”"E
ﬁuffman_Warz  To Get the Best . . . See us Soon!
4-51 6. Nelson Street - loexington. V1‘! 465-9152 0P9“ M011 ' Sat 3330 a-m- ' 6 P-m- 5119- 1 ' 5 P-m- September 29:11 through End of October
Wg acegpt major Crgdit cards  N6lSOIl St., Lexington  .

Call us for gout homecoming flowers

, Stonewall Jackson Hospital

THRIFT "SHOP

‘€

he

I16

‘gab. 

\$

. ‘ -

I  iY0Bl't7__‘cR£l)I‘£. cniias. .aae...: ItA,I_.'.fl8(i!_

Sean has cmiroamunav , g

 

BIG WEEKENDS,
GRADUATION...
Rent a House for the price of a

motel room!
463-5350 or (703)978-2416

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH  GQ
FREE!!! Student Travel Services is
now hiring campus representatives.
Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun,
Da tona and Panama City Beach.
Ca l 1-800-648-4849

 

 

‘  The Ringgum Phi, September 29, 1995

la  W __ 

   

Will your company grow as fast as you do?

Almost every company's re- Over the last five years, while between getting ahead. And
cruiting ad promises you rapid economic conditions stalled banging your head.
growth. But before making any many organizations, Andersen  

decisions, ask them how fast Consulting averaged 20% growth 

they're growing. After all, you're per year Compare that figure

going to have trouble moving up to any other firm you're consider- 

ARTHUR ANDERSEN II CD, S.C.

if your company isn’t. ing. It could be the difference

©1992 Andersen Consulting. An equal opportunity employer.

We look forward to meeting you at these campus events:
Presentation: September 29th, 4-6 pm ‘
I 14 University (_‘1ei1lei‘
Last Day of Resume Drops: ()ctol)cr 18th
Campus Interviews: November 13th

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, September 29, 1995

H 3|’ HS TGGIBI
MEANS LOW PRICES

Premier Selection
Ripe
Tomatoes

3

   
 
     

I

‘Harris Teeter Crusty
Round

A  __16 oz.99¢ 
Bu One Ruffles

ot_a to
, Chips

‘:_
W &ltl‘\l%lW"f"'*='..
 !i+l  Get One Like Item

1     A fee

All Natural Hunter 2/ Harris Teeter

lc$grOgeam__ 1/2 gal. 00 Wéallrf ._s9¢I

* Buy One Texas Twist

  Pretzel

And Get One

49

loaf

  
 

  

»~ A’
|\'»‘..'.'_ l

    
    

 
      
 
  

b

P

Soft Drink Feature

 
   

6 Pk. 20 Oz. NRB

Coke Or Diet
Co

Buy One 9 Oz.

Marie Qallenders
Pizza

And Get One

A

ke

 

 

Selected Varieties
Ban

Roll-On

Selected Varieties
. Tropicana

Twister 45 oz.

President’s _Choice Garden St '6
Natural Spring 3/

=4.’ Watel'___5o.7o oz. 00 gagllilzaes :28-30 02- 
1 Prices Effective Through October 3.1995

‘ ‘ Th" Ad Eff t‘ W d (1 ,Se tember 27 Through October 3, 1995‘
X Prgrétﬁl/rtle Ftlgserve 1?ll:eNF‘tiighl3T<r3‘ 'l_SimllyQual:ttities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept ’rederal Food Stamps.

39 79

2.5 oz.

1

 

SPORTS

    

Virginia Yoerg
Volleyball

The junior middle blocker Yoerg has been a
stone wall for the Generals the entire season.

Lately, though, she has picked up her pace even
more. Against Randolph-Macon Women's College
on September 19, she smashed the all-time W&L
blocks record with three, giving her 127 for her
career. She also totalled up eight kills in the match.

Yoerg was instrumental in the slim victory over
Roanoke on September 21. She pounded home
twenty kills to compliment another three blocks.

Yoerg kept it going Wednesday at Bridgewater,
as she collected twelve kills and six blocks.

The junior's standout play is a key reason that
W&L has zoomed out to an 8-1 record in 1995.

    

Robert Hull
Football

Remember that green~colored monster named the
Incredible Hulk, whose brute strength would terror-
ize people on his TV show? The Generals have the
Incredible Hull,who instead dresses in blue and likes
to pummel quarterbacks on the football ﬁeld.

The senior defensive tackle added to his legend at
W&L Saturday in the Generals‘ 7-7 tie with Centre.
He amassed an amazing ﬁve sacks against Centre QB
David Clark, who was dumped a total of nine times
by the Generals. With his sacks, Hull broke the
career sack record with 24. His seven sacks this year
have already matched his entire 1994 total.

On top of that, the All-American counted up
fourteen tackles, three of which went for losses.

3)’ the Numbers

 

AFC
East W L PCI‘
Miami 3 0 1.000
Buffalo 2 1 .667
New England 1 2 .333
Indianapolis 1 2 .333
N.Y. Jets 1 3 .250
Central
Cleveland 3 1 .750
Cincinnati 2 2 .500
Pittsburgh 2 2 .500
Houston 2 2 .500
Jacksonville 0 4 .000
West
, Kansas City 3 I .750 ,._-,
Oakland 3 1 .750
San Diego 3 1 .750
Denver 2 2 .500
Seattle I 2 .333
NFC
East W L PCT
Dallas 4 0 1.000
Arizona 1 3 .250
Philadelphia 1 3 .250
Washington I 3 .250
N.Y. Giants 1 3 .250
Central
Green Bay 3 I .750
Chicago 2 2 .500
Minnesota 2 2 .500
Tampa Bay 2 2 .500
Detroit 1 3 .250
West
St. Louis 4 0 1.000
San Francisco 3 1 .750
Atlanta 3 1 .750
Carolina 0 3 .000
New Orleans 0 4 .0()0
Lxsr WEEK'S RESULTS
(HOME TEAM IN CAPS)

ST. LOUIS 34, Chicago 28
TAMPA BAY 14, Washington 6
N.Y. GIANTS 45, New Orleans 29
Minnesota 44, PITTSBURGH 24
CLEVELAND 35, Kansas City 17
Houston 38, CINCINNATI 28
SAN DIEGO 17, Denver 6
ATLANTA 13, N.Y.Jets 3
DALLAS 34, Arizona 20
OAKLAND 48, Philadelphia 17
Green Bay 24, JACKSONVILLE 14
DETROIT 27. San Francisco 24 (Mon.)

(Carolina, Seattle, Miami, Buffalo, New England,
and Indianapolis had open dates.)

SUNDAY '5 GAMES

New England at Atlanta 1PM
Miami at Cincinnati 1PM
Dallas at Washington 1PM
Tampa Bay at Carolina 1PM
St. Louis at Indianapolis IPM
Philadelphia at New Orleans IPM
Kansas City at Arizona 4PM
Jacksonville at Houston 4PM
San Diego at Pittsburgh 4PM
Denver at Seattle 4PM
N.Y. Giants at San Francisco 4PM
Oakland at N.Y.Jets 8PM

(Open date: Chicago, Minnesota, Green Bay, Detroit)
MoNnAv's GAME

Buffalo at Cleveland 9PM

K

GENERALS’ UPCOMING HOME
SCHEDULE 9/29 - 10/5

Saturday, 9/30 Water Polo in W&L EWPA
Tournament. 1:00 PM
Men’s Soccer vs. Eastern
Mennonite, 1:00 PM
Tuesday, 10/3 Men’s Soccer vs. Hampden~

Sydney, 4:00 PM
Volleyball vs. Lynchburg, 6:30 PM
Women's Soccer vs. Sweet
Briar, 4:30 PM

Wednesday, 10/4

 mﬂMu
American League
East W L PC!‘ GI!
x-Boston 83 57 .593 ---
N.Y. Yankees 76 65 .539 7.5
Baltimore 68 73 .482 15.5
Detroit 60 81 .426 23.5
Toronto 56 85 .397 27.5
Central
x-Cleveland 97 44 .688 ---
Kansas City 69 71 .493 27.5
Chicago W.S. 66 74 471 30.5
Milwaukee 64 76 .457 32.5
Minnesota 55 86 .390 42
West
Seattle 76 64 .543 ---
Califomia 74 66 .529 2
Texas 72 68 .514 4
Oakland 67 73 .479 9
National League
East W L PC!‘ GB
x-Atlanta 90 51 .638 ---
Philadelphia 68 73 .482 22
N.Y. Mets 66 75 .468 24
Montreal 65 75 .464 24.5
Florida 65 75 .464 24.5
Central
x-Cincinnati 82 58 .586 ---
Houston 74 66 .529 8
Chicago 71 69 .507 l I
St. Louis 60 80 .429 22
Pittsburgh 57 84 .404 25 5
West

Los Angeles 76 65 .539 ---
Colorado 75 65 .536 0.5
San Diego 69 72 .489 7
San Francisco 65 75 .464 10.5

x - denotes division winner

Wnn Cum RAC:
AL
N.Y. Yankees 76 65 .539 ---
California 74 66 .529 1.5
Texas 72 68 .514 3.5
NL

LDS Angeles 76 65 .539 ---
Houston 74 66 .529 1 .5

THUllsDAY'S GAMES:

NL
Houston at Chicago C., night
Cincinnati at Montreal, night
San Francisco at Colorado, night

AL

Cleveland 12, MINNESOTA 4
Boston at Milwaukee, night
Chicago W.S. at Kansas City, night
Seattle at Texas, night

Oakland at California, night

THIS wEEK£ND'S GAMES:

Boston at Milwaukee, Fri-Sun
N.Y. Yankees at Toronto, Fri-Sun
Kansas City at Cleveland, Fri-Sun
Seattle at Texas, Fri-Sun
Minnesota at Chicago W.S., Fri-Sun
Detroit at Baltimore, Fri-Sun
Oakland at California, Fri-Sun

Philadelphia at Florida, Fri-Sun
Atlanta at N.Y. Mets. Fri-Sun
Houston at Chicago C., Fri-Sun
Cincinnati at Montreal, Fri-Sun
Pittsburgh at St. Louis, Fri-Sun
San Francisco at Colorado, Fri-Sun
Los Angeles at San Diego. Fri-Sun

END OF REGULAR SEASON

 

 

Last Week:

@111: ﬂing-mm iﬁlri

This Week:

vou.zmu.- Fri.-Sat. .t Gettysburg Clusic; ‘hm. VS. Lynchburg. 6:30 PM;

Vou.l:\'nAu.- L, 15.3, 15-3,8-15, 11-15, 7-15, atBridg9water F _ s“_‘:"_~“l;_mP'i'|_’)“_"_:"_'M'¥-1:§;,3‘}’,h*;”

Msooclm - L. 30. at Virginia Wesleyan; W. 2-0. at Guilford Msorxuh 80!. vs. Eastern Mennonite. 1:00 PM-.

WSOCCKR - W, 8-0, vs. RMWC ‘hue. vs. Hnmpden-S_ydncy.4:00 PM

MCnoss Couwmv - Finished second at Dickinson Open W5°W'-'- 5-K It R-I-dolph-MA°on.12=00 Noon:

WCnoes Cowmr - Finished ninth at Dickinson Open M. wow‘ cow‘  Elam“ 10:00 AM

F°°"3*“-‘-' Tv 7‘7- "3- CW’-"9 _ wnmm Fri.-Sun. at Rolex Regional (M.Bnldvin), &00AM

G’-our - Finished third in W&L Fal1C|as81c WATII Pow- But. in war. EWPAToumnment,1:00 PM

PAGE 10 FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY SEPTEMBER 29, 1995

   
 
  

half on their5wa"y. to
28 thumping of a* haif
ce!itAIiZ0I.13j3I:=i ’

    
 
    
 
 
      
   
    
   
 

, Q .;;$pux_r2
I lowingstartin‘g.Q‘BD
Wuerffel to stillbe 
I ing touchdownip
when the Gators we '
on their way, to
crushing offT_eit§r§e
‘D a tgelll is V ,
Rutherfo'rd,fiAU,iI§;Sep,, 23
 With a,co"rnfo’rt,able5V
lead ‘over Rutgers, 3 '
State backup ‘Q 
McQueary airs :lipf‘af
pass inside of Ehe‘gam ,
final minute. »:» Rutge‘,
coach Doug Graberf,
less than thrilledggrid?
PSU coach Joe 
after the game.,',l‘Iiis_ca
fa week after,?en’n‘- S
c1obbered_Ten1pIe,g66.*

 

  
   
 
   

 ﬁdowns. £0 ¢1f<.>s"e{t.
 ‘ margin to 35-29‘ 3
 V.cansethefin'al at

  
       
  
  
    

 1 more coaches like
1 arerightfullrz .. f nia
~rita:ed that theirt ms
. .- not-..<>nIy. gett‘
 ‘hurniiiatedr ;
,__.‘3constitutes_ ‘
 score, thong

 
     

bii¢I%np°52B‘tot>as§ 
ing a ﬁeld goat o’
" and tong, 

    

   
   
  
 
  

 singlevictories’,’te_A if 
, aiways have ince,
score at wiilg.  __

A * anti} the systegn‘:‘ch2in'gVV
cl 77pointswi11_‘rrotjustre£
 to 3 basketbailsqhre

Generals end in 7-7 deadlock

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

Sometimes a tie is just about
as good as a win.

True, the Generals had a shot
to win at the end of this past
Saturday’s game, but their hopes
were dashed when junior Drew
Thomas’s 53-yard ﬁeld goal at-
temptwasblocked,leavingW&L
in a 7-7 deadlock with visiting
Centre College.

Thomas’s previous career
long was a W&L school-record
47-yarder.

Still, a tie was quite an ac-
complishment for the Generals,
considering Centre returned
eighteen starters from an 8-2 team
last season. The Colonels had
blanked the Generals last year in
Kentucky, 17-0.

This year’s game was a low-
scoring defensive struggle from
the outset. Games such as those
usually bring out the best in Rob-
ert Hull, and Saturday's contest
was no different.

The senior All-American de-
fensive tackle came into the game
needing only two sacks to break
the school sack record. By the
end of the contest, Hull had
smashed another school record -
the one for most sacks in a game
as he hammered Centre quarter-
back David Clark to the ground
ﬁve times, giving him 24 sacks
for his career.

On top of his record—setting
sack numbers, Hull ﬁnished with
fourteen tackles. These num-
bers earned him ODAC Defen-
sive Player of the Week honors.

Junior noseguard Peyton Wil-
liams also had a huge game, col-
lecting eleven tackles and two
and a half sacks.

Senior defensive tackle John
Tweardy made ten stops, two of
which went for losses, and junior
Travis Wisdom tied Hull for the
team lead in tackles with four-
teen stops.

All of the game’s scoring
came in the first half. W&L was
the first team to ﬂash points on
the scoreboard, as ;-mior quar-
terback Brooks Fischer dashed
35 yards off of an option play for
a touchdown with 8:15 remain-

..>

.. ....;.

ing in the ﬁrst quarter.

Fischer was a thorn in Centre ’s
side all day, as he proved he
could run adequately as well.
Playing without injured star
sophomore running back Seth
McKinley, the j unior churned out
a career-high 66 yards on 12 at-
tempts, to go along with his solid
passing numbers of 16 comple-
tions in 24 attempts for a yield of
154 yards.

His numbers in the air moved
him into seventh place on the all-
time W&L passing list.

Freshman Chas Chastain was
on the receiving end of ﬁve of
Fischer’s passes. Chastain, a
converted quarterback, showed
plenty of ability at the wideout
position by making two diving
catches. His 48 receiving yards
moved him to the top of the
ODAC charts in receiving.

Trailing 7-0, Centre evened
the score in the second quarter.
Kris Garrett hit paydirt from
seven yards out with 4:23 re-
maining before halftime.

With the Colonels’ passing

attack grounded for only 32 yards
_on the day, Garrett provided most
of Centre’s offense as he ran for
141 yards in 30 tries.

The defenses took ﬁrm con-
trol in the second half. Centre
quarterback Clark spent a large
part of the half flaton his back, as
the W&L defense established a
new ODAC record with its nine
sacks on the afternoon.

The defensive effort was also
helped considerably by senior
punter Lee Goins, who was fill-
ing in for the injured Jonathan
Gardner. Goins boomed a 50-
yarder for one of his six punts, as
well as twice pinning the Colo-
nels inside their 20-yard line.

The Generals ﬁnally threat-
ened late in the game in an effort
to pull off a startling upset.

Rooted on by a surprisingly-
large crowd at Wilson Field,
W&L drove into Centre territory
late in the fourth quarter, where
they set up for Thomas’s futile
last-ditch attempt on the ﬁnal
play of the game.

With the blocked FG attempt,

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The W&L football team, depicted here in last year’s Homecoming game
against Randolph-Macon, will take an 0-1-1 record with to Ashland this
year to face the Yellow Jackets. R-MC is scoring 35.7 points per game.

W&Lﬁnished in a tie forthe ﬁrst
time since a 10-10 stalemate with
Randolph-Macon in 1988.

Randolph-Macon, in fact, will
be the opponent tomorrow for
the Generals. W&L will have to
travel to Ashland this year after
succumbing to the Yellow Jack-
ets in last season’s homecoming
game in Lexington, 19-0.

The Generals, though, still
hold the lead in the all-time se-
ries, 20-1 9-3, despite R-MC hav-
ing won the last ﬁve contests.

The Yellow Jackets have been
an offensive machine this sea-
son, leading the ODAC in scor-
ing with an amazing 35.7 points
per game.

Junior QB George Bland has
already aired upthe ball 123 times
in their ﬁrst three games, and he

has completed 57 of them for 878 V
yards and ten touchdown passes. .«
Two weeks ago, Bland and the .

Yellow Jackets were involved in
a wild 50-50 tie with Catholic.
The Generals take an 0-1-1

record, 0-1 in league play, with '

them to Ashland.

Josephine Schaeffer continued her dominance on the courses this weeken
of the ﬁeld at the Dickinson Open in Carlisle,

W&L teams run Well at Dickinson

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and l5ee’s cross-
country teams put up a solid
showing over the weekend at the
Dickinson Open, which was held
in Carlisle, Pennsylvania.

Men come away with sec-
ond-place honors in seventeen
team tournament

The men’s team recorded the
better mark, ﬁnishing second out
of 17 teams, behind only tenth-
ranked Haverford. Team high-
lights included a victory over

Carnegie Mellon for the ﬁrst time
ever at this meet.

lndividually,seniorBrad Faye
paced the Generals for the third
straight week, as he notched a
fourth-place ﬁnish overall with a
time of 25:45.

Sophomore Jason Callen also
made the top ten ﬁnishers, re-
cording a time of 25:52, good for
seventh place.

The other three top ﬁnishers
for the Generals were sophomore
Will Olson, who ran 24th, sopho-
more Taylor Shultzin 36th place,
and freshman Josh Beckham in
41st place. Beckham outstrided
classmate Darrick Alford by only
one second.

Women ﬁnish respectably

The women’s team faced the
absence of sophomore leader
Carson Flowers, and yet the Gen-
erals managed a solid ninth-place
finish in the seventeen-team
Dickinson Open.

Senior Josephine Schaeffer
posted another victory, covering
the course in 17:40, good for a
35-second win. Schaeffer broke
herown course record in the pro-
cess, and now has a career total
of 24 victories.

Freshman Natasha Dorofeeva
finished second among the Gen-
erals with a time of 20:03, put-
ting her in 42nd place overall,

d by outrunning the rest
Pennsylvania. The victory was the 24th of her career.

File Photo

and showing that she has now
recuperated from a sprained ankle
which she suffered last week.
Junior Nat Messmore, senior
Catherine Cardullo, and fresh-
man Katye Jenkins also scored
for the team.

Next stop: Greensboro, NC

The cross-country teams
travel to Greensboro this week-
end, and then take a week off in
preparation for the state champi-
onship. Astute W&L sports fans
will no doubt watch closely to
see more results from the teams’
young supporting casts this year

Men’s soccer

takes two games ’

in ODAC play

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team played its first set of
matches in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference last week.

They knocked off Emory & Henry and Guilford, but suffered V

their ﬁrst loss of the season to a nationally-ranked Virginia Wesleyan
team. The Generals now have a 5-1 overall record.

The win over E&H last Wednesday held particular merit because
the Wasps went into the match with an impressive 3-0 record in

conference play.

E&H jumped out to an early 1-0 lead, but W&L did not stay down -

for long. Freshman Sam Chase tied the game at one when he fired
in a pass from sophomore Gordon Meeker. Meeker put the Generals
in the lead when he took advantage of a poorly—positioned goalie and
connected on a shot from midﬁeld. Chase tacked on a second goal

before halftime.

In the second half, W&Ljunior Bill Sigler sealed the victory with
a goal thirty-ﬁve seconds before the ﬁnal horn. Three goalkeepers,
junior Anthony Mazzarelli, freshman E. J. Murphy, and freshman
Garry Hill, and the Generals’ defense stymied the Wasps attack

effectively after the initial goal.

Virginia Wesleyan, the tenth-ranked team in Division lll, proved
to be too much for the Generals; especially a W&L team that has
been battling the ﬁu recently. The talented Blue Marlins defeated
the Generals, 3-0, this past Saturday.

W&L was back in action Wednesday afternoon, as the Generals

headed south to Greensboro, North Carolina, for an ODAC battle ,

with Guilford.

The Generals took care of business on the road, handing the

Quakers a 2-0 loss.

Freshman Sam Chase started the scoring when he booted home
a goal off a comer kick from Sigler. Senior Chad Dobbins scored the
Generals’ ﬁnal goal in the second half by converting on an assist

from sophomore Colin Connolly.

Freshman Murphy was again solid in the goal for the Generals,

as he halted four Guilford shots.

The victory moved W&L’s record in ODAC play to 2-1.

The Generals will host ODAC opponent Eastern Mennonite at ,,
Liberty Hall Field this Saturday.

JockShoIts

Volleyball:

After two wins last week
stretched the Generals’ season-
opening winning streak to eight
games, the Washington and Lee
volleyball team finally suc-
cumbed in heartbreaking fash-
ion this past week.

‘ On Wednesday night, W&L
travelled into Bridgewater for
an ODAC match, but the Eagles
had a surprise in store for the
Generals as they upset W&L, 3-
15, 3-15, 15-8, 15-11,15-7.

Sophomore Hilary Martin
had another big evening
Wednesday with a season-high
19 kills, as well as 5 blocks.
Junior Virginia Yoerg, the Fe-
male Athlete of the Week, turned
in another commendable effort
with her 12 kills and 6 blocks.
Senior Cheryl Taurassi tallied
28 assists.

weekend, and played decently as
both senior Andy Horen and
freshman Dale Pretila made it to
second round play in singles.
Pretila returned for doubles
play, where he and senior Chris
MacNaughton teamed up to ad-
vance all the way to the semifinal
round, where the would-be cham-
pions from Washington College
defeated them.
The Generals will next be in
action October 7-8, when they
host the W&L Fall Classic.

Women’s Tennis:
W&L, the lone non-Division
1 entry, held their own at the
James Madison Invitational.
Freshman Mary Celeste Fos-
ter stole the spotlight away from
the strong Division I competi-
tion with her title victory in the
eighth ﬂight

 

day and Saturday, and W&L
played well at their home course
with a third—place ﬁnish.

The Generals trailed only
the 635 compiled by
Bridgewater and Virginia
Wesleyan. W&L ﬁnished with
a score of 641.

Juniors Jay lngram and
Tommy Dudley each carded a
157 for the 36-hole tournament,
which was only three shots be-
hind winner Charlie Meek of
Bridgewater. Senior Scott
Miller shot the low round for

at Mary Washington.

game this week, and they won it
going away, 8-0, over Randolph-
Macon Women’s College.

thanks in large part to junior
Michelle Bauman.

utes to record a hat trick. In the
process, her three goals broke
the W&L career points mark, as

W & L over a com-
Wl“ agam be petitor from
tested tomor— Davidson
row, when soph0_
they face de- m 0 r e S
f°"d'“g Natalia
ODAC Garcia,‘~
champion B e r r y “
E 3 S 1 €_ T_n Blankinship,
Mennonitem E r j C k 3
the openerof shapard, and
t ll 8 Helen Chan-
Gettysburg dler all ad-
Cl3SSlC- vanced to the

finals in the
Golf: consolation
The L.ex- matches.
mgm" C0u”' Photo by Betsy Green, W&LWill
la)’ C-jlUbf“’:S Phi Photo Editor face another
t esiteo t e mu h h 1-
first golf The Generals advance [mic cums
tournament to 5-1 on the season. Weekend in
of the year the Rolex
this Past F-'5' Tournament

Women’s Soccer:
The Generals only played one

The game was never in doubt,

lt took Baumanjust 21 min-

she currently totals 52.
Thursday was also another big
afternoon for the W&L fresh-
men. Nicole Johnson scored a
goal and collected two assists,
and Karin Treese notched her
team-high ninth goal ofthe year.
The waters become rougher
for the Generals tomorrow, when
they must pay a visit to second-

the Generals with a 75.

W&L will have more than
two weeks to prepare for its
next tournament, the Ferrum
Fall lnvitational. which will be
held October 16-17.

Men’s Tennis:
W&L hosted the Rolex South
Atlantic Regional this past

and in the future.

ranked Randolph-Macon. J

 

 

H]
ex.

 
 

h
v

 

 

X

X

-A

L

Behinal the lens with
W Patrick H1'ne/ya

  

_ 7 " '..l,‘:3 _,:_;.v',,¢._f,’;\/
Y  . s  ;..>.~a «..-uamrerzw
 .153‘; Jt~.«, :>'ﬁ\ mm»

GET ii 6 19”’

Fllllllilll snu 5EAlll.'ll|Nli
FIIR FIRST vision 6

,/
~52;

 Chi: ﬂing-tum iﬂlii

1
VOLUME 9%, N0. 5

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

‘-

A christening of sorts

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 6, 1995

Panhellenic revises
sorority Rush rules

By TURNER FIELD
Phi Staff Writer

With men’s Rush already in the distant past,
W&L women are now gearing up for this winter’s
sorority Rush. The fall is a time for potential rushees
to become acquainted with the four sororities on
campus and their respective members. But the
Panhellenic Council has established several new
important rules about fall contact between upperclass
sorority women and potential rushees.

Panhellenic instituted two new rules this fall. The
first bans “hotboxing,” which is when two or three
girls belonging to the same or different sororities box
a girl into a comer at a pany with the intent of rushing
her. This rule states that a potential rushee must
remain on the outside of the group when talking with
sorority members.

The second new rule to go into effect this fall
forbids sorority members from giving cold tests to
potential rushees.

There are many other rules that Panhellenic has
established over the years in hopes that sorority Rush
will be as fair as possible. Sorority members are not
allowed to have contact with women with the intent

to rush them. No sorority may be mentioned exces-
sively to a potential rushee. Sorority members are not
permitted to give gifts of any kind to a potential
rushee. Actives may not have potential rushees at
their residences, and if a party is being given at the
active’s residence, members of at least two other
sororities must be present. Sorority members are not
allowed to enter freshmen dormitories wearing so-

rority paraphernalia. The offering of rides to poten- ,

tial rushees is prohibited under any unorganized
circumstances. Study groups with potential rushees
are allowed, but they must be held in public places,
and no sorority paraphernalia may be visible during
such times.

Rush Orientation took place on the 28th of Sep-
tember when many of the preliminary details of Rush
were discussed. The next important date is October
23rd which is Rush registration. The location for
registration is still to be announced. After this date,
closed contact begins and sorority members are no
longer allowed to have any formal, organized Contact
with rushees. This includes visiting rushees in their
donns and having meals with them.

Sorority Rush officially begins January 12, when
girls fonnally meet with each sorority. Until then,
Panhellenic hopes the established guidelines and
rules ensure fairness and unbiased attitudes between
the sororities and potential rushees.

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

building in progress.

In an odd rite of passage, Cadaver Society's mysterious signs decorate the new science

FLC leads Class of ’99 in exciting year

BY RACHEL GODDU
Phi Staff Writer

Being a relatively new group on campus, the FLC has a lot of
ﬂexibility with which to work. A group at W&L without 100 or so
years of precident and tradition behind it is certainly a rarity.

The most pressing concern for the FLC members is the fresh-

The newly selected Freshman Leadership Committee (FLC)
began its busy year last week. The thirteen member committee is

looking forward to an exciting, eventful year.

The committee is dedicated to the task of organizing freshmen
class activities. The soon-to-be elected Freshman Class President
and Vice President will serve in leadership positions over the FLC.
Also overlooking the F LC is Dean Manning, who was pleased with
the students’ “eager[ness] to contribute in the community,” and the
way in which they “re-embrace fundamental values and traditions

of W&L.”

The students were excited to be chosen from the over 60 initial

applicants and expressed their feelings on the FLC.

Molly McGregor stated, “I applied to the FLC because I really
was interested in taking a strong leadership position in ourclass and

helping to plan activities together.”

Nate Tencza, who will be handling the FLC’s secretarial duties,
commented, “The FLC is a perfect group to help develop our sense

of class unity.”

SAB elects newofficers,
plans this year's events

BY CELESTE Rasmussen
Phi Staff Writer

No one can deny the “play hard” aspect of life at
Washington and Lee. Every weekend, students en-
gage in a myriad of fun activities that range from
fraternity parties to spending a quiet evening with a
group of friends.

One of the main organizations in charge of sup-
plying fun activities to W&L students is the Student
Activities Board.

According to President Hollis Leddy, the purpose
of the SAB is to bring entertainment to W&L. Be-
sides sponsoring acts such as comedians, hypnotists,
and different functions such as Bingo in the Pit, the
SAB also is in charge of hiring bands for the big
weekends on campus, such as Homecoming, Christ-
mas Weekend, and FD.

Last week 43 new and returning members of the
SAB held their first meeting. Leddy mentioned that

. one of their main goals for this year is to try to please

man class Homecoming ﬂoat, about which they have been meeting
daily. Future possibilities include dances, fundraisers and a con-
tinuation of the Mr. W&L male beauty contest. Subsequent
meetings will be weekly assuming, as Nate fears, they “find a ﬂoat
and aren’t bobbing along in the back
of a pick—up truck!”

Freshmen with concerns or sug-
gestions are encouraged to contact
any of the FLC members. FLC mem-
bers include Wes Armstrong, Trey

_ Carr, Keri Dunphy, Maciej
Golubiewski,James Haslam, Pamela
Hubert, David Lehman, Noah Levy,
Molly McGregor, Sarah Moore
(Homecoming Chairperson), Mandy
Stallard, Nate Tencza (Secretary), and
Amanda Yates. Alternates include
Ashley Copps, Charles Leddy, and
Jann Rhea.

everyone by supplying a wide variety of new activi-
ties, such as an 80’s disco party and a jazz band:
She also noted that the SAB would like to bring
bigger bands to campus this year and cites Rusted
Root and The Beastie Boys as possible candidates.
Because the SAB is funded by the Executive
Committee, many of the events are free or at a
. minimum charge.
Leddy says that because of the activities fee paid

Rockbridge County unites
against domestic violence

BY MICHAEL Hr-zwuzrr
Phi Associate Editor

On Wednesday, the Lexington
community made a stand against
domestic violence and sexual as-
sault during a vigil in Hopkins
Green.

The event was sponsored by
Project Horizon, a non-proﬁt or-
ganization that provides educa-
tion and assists abused family
members, the Rockbridge chapter
of the National Organization of
Women, and the Rockbridge Area
Coalition Against Sexual Assault
(RACASA).

Lori Olan, Executive Director
of Project Horizon, said the vigil
kicked off Domestic Violence and
Sexual Assault Awareness Month.
She said they will organize speak-
ing engagements around the city

and county and will be doing dis-
plays, starting at Washington and
Lee University.

Many community leaders, in-
cluding Lexington city mayor
Buddy Derrick, spoke and signed
a proclamation declaring October
Domestic Violence and Sexual
Assault Awareness Month. Libby
Boyd, Executive Director of
Choices of Luray, was the fea-
tured speaker. She encouragedthe
audience to take action against
violence toward women and chil-
dren.

“Men, women, and children are
dying from murder, suicide...,” she
said. “Each voice added will mean
one less victim.”

W&L students and faculty at-
tended the vigil. Many W&L stu-
dents are volunteers with Project
Horizon.

“It’s good that people care and
are aware the problem exists in

Rockbridge County,” said Margie
Ford ‘97, “but we still need all the
help we can get because domestic
violence continues to threaten to
erode the spirit of women in
Rockbridge County.”

Junior Susan McMurry agreed.

“I think it’s a good idea to pro-
mote community awareness,” she
said. ‘‘I hope it will make more
people aware that there is a prob-
lem with domestic violence in
Rockbridge County, but there is
also a solution. Theres help for
the problem.”

Professor of Art Pamela
Simpson, who is also the adminis-
trator for RACASA, believed the
program did have an impact on the
community.

“There is a real healing process
that can happen when victims and
their supporters come together in
something like this. It lets every-
one know they are not alone.”

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Leyburn Library hosts a trellis upon which students and faculty can tie blue ribbons, denoting
their support for victims of domestic violence.

2

Tailgating rules to change again

by students in the beginning of the year, ticket prices
are kept around eight dollars. Their goal is to raise
about half of their budget back from ticket revenues.

For students interested in joining the SAB, inter-
views for membership positions are held every fall
and interviews for officer positions every spring.

This year’s other officers include Erin Harrison
(Publicity), Doug Kennedy (Treasurer), Robert
Covington (Rider), Chris Wick (Entertainment Di-
rector), and Eli Smith (Operations).

This weekend, as part of the Homecoming cel-
ebrations, there will be an SAB-sponsored concert in
the Pavilion, Widespread Panic. Leddy reminds ev-
eryone that tickets can be purchased outside of the
Co—op until Friday.

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Two weeks after the Washington and
Lee administration placed new restric-
tions on tailgating, they have changed
their minds.

Liberty Hall Ruins will be the site for
Homecoming Weekend tailgates instead
of the fenced in lacrosse ‘practice fields.

‘‘I think that will be a lot better,” said
Ryan Connolly, President of the lnterfra-

ternity Council. “lt’s more scenic and more
enjoyable for the students.”

After gathering student opinion, Dean of
Students David Howison decided to move
this weekend’s tailgate to the Ruins.

Tables and trash cans will be provided
for the various student groups who wish to
participate in the festivities. Trucks will
not be allowed to park near the Ruins,
however, for fear of damage to the lawn.
Party-goers will be able to set up at 12 noon
and will be encouraged to attend the game at
2:00 p.m. .

Director of Security Mike Young says
it’s a hope of the new limitations that more

students will watch the football team.

Associate Dean of Students Buddy Atkins
complained that tailgates have become like
Foxﬂeld. He said the original purpose of
“coming together to socialize” has been
turned into an opportunity “to go out and
get trashed.”

Young reiterated university concerns
over accidents.

“We need more control over this event
than in the past,” said Young, “because of
the increasing liability.”

Connolly said he understood this con-
cern, but “of course, I prefer the
traditional tailgating.

 

V BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

O.J. Simpson acquitted

Los Angeles—After an extremely short deliberation, a jury of ten
women and two men found Simpson not guilty of the murder of Nicole
Brown Simpson and Ron Goldman. Positive and negative reactions to the
verdict throughout the country were clearly split along racial lines. Simpson
cannot be retried, but he could be forced to testify in civil suits brought by
the families of the victims.

Clinton vetos bill concerning

Congressional spending

Washington, D.C.——President Clinton vetoed a bill that pays the costs
of running Congress, telling Republican lawmakers that he will not
approve their spending bills until a federal budget is adopted. The country
is presently operating under an improvised spending bill since the end of
the ﬁscal year, September 30. According to Clinton advisors, the President
used the veto “to express his concern over what was sometimes pretty
pathetic work on the budget” by Republicans in Congress.

Bosnian troops attack Serbs

Sarajevo-—ln what US and U.N. officials are calling an extremely
damaging move, Bosnian military forces attacked the Serb strongholds
around Sarajevo Tuesday in an attempt to cut off supplies to the Serbian
forces who are continuing their siege on the Bosnian capitol. This military
action, which included the use of heavy artillery around Sarajevo is in
violation of weapons agreements made with peacekeeping forces and
could cause an enormous setback in the efforts toward ending the Serbian
siege and all warfare in Bosnia-Herzegovina.

Pope arrives in United States

Newark, NJ—Pope John Paul II arrives in Newark on Wednesday for
a five-day visit to the United States. During his time here, he will say Mass
in Baltimore and address the United Nations on human rights issues. Polls
report that American Roman Catholics are largely supportive of the Pope,
but many are in moral conflict with a Roman Catholic Church which they
believe does not address modern concerns. The Pope, it is reported, will
refer to many such issues in a reprimand to Americans for endorsing
euthanasia and abortion, among other topics which he views as a violation
of the American belief in basic human rights.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

GOP WATCH

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a
specialweekly feature to keep Washing-
ton and Lee's students informed about
the Republican Presdential Campaign
in advance of Mock Convention.

Dole caught in tax cuts debate

As Republicans senators clash yet again on the issue of the proposed tax
cuts, Senate Majority Leader and Presidential hopeful Bob Dole is caught
between moderate and conservative GOP factions. Moderate Senate
Republicans this week suggested a four-year tax reduction plan which
would cut federal revenue by $152.2 billion as a substitution for a seven-
year plan which would cut tax dollars by $245 billion. Conservative leaders
insist, however, that any temporary tax cuts are a compromise which the
GOP cannot make. Dole’s comments on the issue have been construed by
some as reﬂecting an ambivalence which could cause serious problems for
his bid for the party nomination. Debate on the tax reduction proposals will
continue next week during the meeting of the Senate Finance Committee.

Dole, Gramm clash over

affirmative action ban

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole and Senator Phil Gramm, both
candidates for the Republican Presidential nomination, were embroiled in
a conflict over the necessity of immediate Congressional action to ban
affirmative action this week. While the elimination of affirmative action
programs remains a major Republican goal, Senator Dole has repeatedly
delayed Congressional debate on the issue for several reasons, including
the urgency of the Medicare issue, and the likelihood of a presidential veto
on any outright ban of affirmative action. Gramm, however, contends that
his willingness to bring the issue onto the ﬂoor will play a major role in the
GOP’s choice of a presidential nominee.

GOP Watch is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 6, 1995

Simpson verdict  
captivates campus

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Where were you when the O.J.
Simpson verdict was announced?

With the same clarity of thought
and crystal-clear recollection our par-
ents possess when remembering the
JFK assassination, Generation X now
has its equivalent.

Alongwith millions ofother Ameri-
cans, the Washington and Lee commu-
nity was captivated Tuesday afternoon
when O.J. Simpson was found not guilty
of the murders of his ex-wife, Nicole
Brown Simpson, and her friend, Ronald
Goldman.

“The whole thing was just amusing
because it was such a production,” said
Helen Chandler, ’96.

The O.J. verdict was popular con-
versation Tuesday morning and was
further inspired by the banners around
campus urging the release of the ex-
football hero. Most notably, a banner
hung from the Co—op which read, “Free
the Juice today — #32.”

Some classes, normally beginning
at 1 p.m., were postponed so that stu-
dents and professors could gather
around television and radios.

History students on the third floor
of Newcomb Hall gathered intoaclass-
room and huddled around a prehistoric
radio.

Junior Adrienne Bryant said the
technical problems of the old radio
heightened the suspense because it re-
peatedly cut out when the verdict was
being read.

The Leyburn Library staff opened
Northen Auditorium to guests who
wished to stop by and watch the pro-
ceedings on the large-screen televi-
sion.

Journalism classes in Reid Hall gath-
ered in the large lecture room on the
second floor to watch as well.

Ethan Krupp, ‘97, was amused by
journalism professors who laughed
aloud when Judge Lance lto asked the
media to respect the privacy of the
jurors and not hound them for inter-
views.

Students in the Study Skills course
in the University Center walked down
to the GHQ to watch the verdict.

Many students skipped afternoon
classes to watch the coverage while
others came late.

One industrious freshman who had

an exam in a Calculus 101 class sched-
uled for 1 p.m. brought a walkman with
him. When the verdict was read, he
leaned forward to tell a friend. Upon
receiving quizzical looks from class-
mates, the student proudly proclaimed,
“The Juice is loose.”

Fraternity houses and dorm rooms
were also popular locations to watch
the ruling.

Junior Roderick Carmody heard the
ruling in the T.V. room of the Sigma
Chi house along with his brothers, house
cook, and two members of the cleaning
staff.

Perhaps the strangest spot in Lex-
ington where W&L students listened
to the verdict was the Intensive Care
Unit of Stonewall Memorial Hospital.

Junior Andria Greeney was volun-
teering that afternoon. According to
her, the Stonewall staff had a betting
pool on the outcome. Roughly 50
percent put their money on conviction,
while the other 50 percent put theirs on
acquittal.

“About half of the people were
happy with the ruling because they
won money,” said Greeney.

Despite the wide difference of loca-
tions students watched the verdict, they
seemed to agree that the verdict was
unfair. Indeed, many students were
disappointed with the ruling.

SeniorTory Noto commented, “The
trial was a farce. I thought it was a
travesty of justice. Personally, I think
he got off easy.”

“O.J. got off because of his presti-
gious reputation,” said freshman Claire
Cannon. ‘‘It causes us to doubt our
justice system.”

“They brought race into it and it had
nothing to do with it. He’s guilty and
everyone knows it,” said Bryant.

“l was not shocked by the verdict,”

said Jay White, ’96. “There was no ,

way a reasonable jury could convict on
that evidence even though he was guilty
as an s.o.b.”

Exchange student Nanu Segal, a
resident of England, was also intrigued
by the announcement.

“l was gob-smacked,” said Segal,
‘‘like I had been poked with an electric
cattle prod.”

Segal said the trial was covered in
the English media, but with less inten-
sity than in the U.S. media.

Watching American news is like
watching movies, said Segal.

Given the drama in the last two days
of the O.J. Simpson trial, many Ameri-
cans would undoubtedly concur.

College Republicans

BY CELESTE RAsMussEN
Phi Staff Writer

EDITOR’S NOTE: This is part one of a three-part
series examining different political organizations on

campus.

Whether they live in the C-School, are aspiring journalists, or just have strong

opinions, Washington and Lee students are no strangers to politics. This is
evident by the many political organizations present on our campus. One such
organization is the Washington and Lee chapter of the College Republicans.

With around 105 members, College Republicans is one of the largest political
organizations on campus. Under new leadership, their first meeting was held last
month and featured appearances by many local Republican campaigns including
Commonwealth’s Attorney candidate Bob Armstrong and his campaign man-
ager J.H. Kostelnl; Jeff Williams, campaign manager for Virginia Senate
candidate Emmett Hanger; and a representative from the office of Ben Nicely,
candidate for the 18th District House of Delegates. Also present were professors
Connelly and Rush and a representative from the local Rockbridge County
Republican Association.

Chairman Edyth Poecker cites many new goals for the College Republicans
this ear.

First, she would like to see an increased presence and a higher visibility of the
group around campus. Secondly, she would like to see the group have an active
participation in the upcoming Republican campaigns; and , ﬁnally, she would
like to bring new speakers and programs to the College republican meetings.

The Tusk, the newsletter of the College Republicans, states that the group is
interested in reassociating itself with the College Republican Federation of
Virginia and sponsoring trips to Washington, D.C. and Richmond, VA to see
historical sites and attend political conferences.

Other officers of the College Republicans include 1st Vice Chairman
Joshua Heslinga, Secretary Demian McGarry, and Treasurer Christina Petrides.
The group hopes to meet regularly on Tuesday nights and welcomes anyone
interested to attend.

Parking causes concern

BY RYAN BEAMAN
Phi Staff Writer

In the past there have always been places to park student
automobiles at Washington and Lee. However, recently the
lots around campus have appeared fully occupied, prompt-
ing some people to park on the grass, yellow lines, or other
non-designated areas.

According to the Director of Security Mike Young, this
is typical at the onset of each year.

“We tow some of them before they get the message,”
says Young. He also stated that as people get accustomed to
the new year the parking dilemma is usually alleviated.

Security officer Thomas Bane (“Baner”) agrees. “Think
of your buddy” by parking closer to the already parked cars,
leaving more space for those to follow.

Most lots designated for student parking, including the
freshmen lot, the Gaines Hall lot and the lot by the depot
across from the Lenfest Center, usually have spaces open.
Both Young and Baner agree that there is always room for
your car on campus, but if you can’t find a space, call Baner
and he’ll take care of it.

Students should be mindful to park in a registered lot,
however. Starting Monday, October 9, all cars without the
proper sticker displayed in the window will be towed.
Security has some unclaimed stickers if you have lost yours,
or another can be purchased for five dollars.

R

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor)‘

In an unexpected display of support, a banner at the Co-op
pronounces fﬁth in O.J. Simpson's innocence.

   
  
  

o is aimernber ofthe Sigma PhiV'Epsi1o;'ifratern1,
as ’diagnosed with a tneningococcal infection”;
. dent Vrscurrently listed in critical. condition at the Univ ’
ty';.Qt_?iV,irginia Hospital. No other cases‘ ofmeningoco at
f tion havebeen diagnosed at thistirne. A -  1
hasbeen learned that some inernbers of the Washington.
V Lee icommunity travelled to CharIottesvilIej‘o.v_eri VV
wee rid. Some Washington and  stude'nts”visite“ "
"gInéti::1?hi.Epsil' n fraternity e.W11,f,>l'¢. they may havejhee
xposed to the infection. As a result, thirteen individuals‘
Vnrrentlyreceivingprecautionarytreatmentagainsttheinf V _
tion"=7'Anyone. who visited the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternV.VVy;’ 
h e in Charlottesville over this past, weekend or anyone 
iw. . In ,y havehad close personal Contact with someonejyvhov
isitedthe Sig Ep house in Cha_flotte‘sville ’shoulV_d g _ V’  
»:diately-lto the‘: Student Healthfgenter-’:in the /bottdfn of 'Bake
'3I7f01'I1.1.“to“f’eceive‘the precautionary. treatrnent. f ' ’ 
V *I_)r;?Jane Horton, University physician, says the meningo
icoccal infection can be spread to anyone who hashad cl
-pe’rson'al. contact with a contagious person;'V‘Close per,
Contact is defined as extended direct contactofrnore than 1‘.
V hours over the pastfive to seven days with a “conta"gi
V . person. For example, roommates, hou'sernates,’boyfriend.s _
 girifriends would be considered to have had close person
¢gcontact_ with a contagious person. Ctassmates or those who;
havehad casual contact with a contagious person areno

   

    

        

  
  
  
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
    
  
   
    
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  

E

sidered tobe at risk. » xi . ,_
V 'I?h.e.:lsy_mptoms of meningococcal: infection are isin3‘ila_
e-symptoms associated with inﬂuenza (the fin): cough, so
»th_VroVa_Vt,' muscle and joint aches, .fever',.V_{co_ld ‘chi1Is;"and.he_a
_ ches-A distinguishing symptom of the rneningococcalin
Vfection isarash. Meningococcal bacteria are carriedin V e,
V jrnot th and throat and are transmitted through cone
 sneezing, and sharing food and drink. Meningococcal ‘V A
 tior‘1frnay.'cause meningitis, Whith symptoms of high rfevej "
vvomiting, and confusion or lethargy. ' ‘ V ' if _
_ ‘ «-Itis very difficult, if not impossible, to determine the origin, 
 'or-spreading points of a meningococcal infection. Because of
that difficulty and because of the vsimitarity to ﬂu-like syrrip M I
_to,"rrf1‘s§,*Eanyone who thinks that he or she may have symptom "
ociated with a meningococcatinfectionjshould go 
ito; the Student Health Center.y:,{VJniversVity physician
tanding by to evaluate.and.treat.anyone v.v.hoVmay~hav
ymptorns.‘ The Infirmary, located in the basement
Bai<Ver»Donn, is open 24 hours a day. The phone number 1
63-8401;‘ ’ ’ i . .  .
The University will continue to closely monitor the situa
 on and will notify the community if any other cases of
 rneningococcal infection are diagnosed. Pleaselisten to WLUR ;
— (91.5) or watch television Cable -2 for more information. You g; V
Vay also call the Dean of ‘Students office at 463-8751 or the? ’
_"'tI‘VVIews Office at 463-8460. . ‘ ~   

 

   
   
   
  
       
 
 
     
 
     
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
     
  
    
   
 

 

 

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The parking lotVon Nelson Street, though widely unknown, is an option for
studentVs looking for space for their cars near campus.

I»

V

 

‘ The Ring-tum Phi, October 6, 1995

R

(R.

)5.

#-

Q

 

By Tarah Grant

Pm STAFF WRITER

“Picture day again, Pat?” a coach
asks as he passes by.

“Everyday is picture day, ” Patrick
Hinely responds with a smile as he sets
up his equipment on the fifth ﬂoor
gymnasium. Today ’s assignment is
the “head and shoulder” shots for the
swim team.

He takes a roll of red electrical tape
out of his photo bag to mark where the
swimmers should stand. “Red tape-
something there is a lot ofaround here. ”

Having seen the university both
through the youthful eyes of a student
and through the camera lens as a staff
member, Hinely is familiar with every
aspect of the university. He ﬁrst came
to Washington and Lee in 1969 and
became an active member of the stu-
dent body by joining the Calyx staff.
With previous skills from serving as
the editor-in-chief of both his junior
high and high school yearbooks, Hinely
became editor of the Calyx as well.

In 1973, Hinely graduated from the
J-school “back when people thought

 

“This time, after I say, ‘Two, ’ don’t
blink”

Hinely was offered the position of
University Photographer in 1973. His
work appears in the annual engage-
ment calendar, the alumni magazine,
campus brochures, and varsity sports
team proﬁle booklets.

“There is a lot of manufactured
news. That’s what public relations is
all about—keeping the university look-
ing good. My job is part of that.”

While enjoyable to Hinely, his job
doesn’t always allow him to express
his creative side. For example, the
mug shots of the swim team that he is
shooting today are not much of a chal-
lenge as long as he remembers to load
ﬁlm into the camera.

Assignments can often be tedious
aswell. “A phone call from the Alumni
Ofﬁce saying they want 400 pictures of
last year’s senior class photo [taken]
four months ago usually isn’t the high-
light of my day.”

A group of girls arrives still drying
off their hair. One takes the initiative
and leaves the others to position her
toes on the red line. Hinely focuses his
camera.

“One...Two... ”

broadcasting was a passing high g‘ (:12;
fancy.” Originally thinking I ll. m
that he would go on to law .ackef,,, y
school and become a judge, I “hays
Hinely changed his mind f 1. n e
after taking the LSATS. one Two ,',
Instead, he decided to “hm  I
pursue journalism. “It was Su Used to
the year of Watergate; snﬁiw,
Woodward and Bernstein ,,T'.hat,S
were folkstars. The number t cu
of journalists increased 600- gig on; ,',
700% and the best job offer “"0 ka"
Igotwas under$100aweek G0 “he
doing work on Capitol Hill “One

for someone else’s by-line.”
Hinely decided to stay in Lexington.
The swim team members start to

' meander into the room. A boy runs his

ﬁngers through his hair and glances at
his reﬂection in the window of the
door. “Move up to the red ‘T. ’ Chin up
just a little bit. ' Good. One, two
three... Thank you. ”
Next up is a girl with long brown
hair. She thinks she closed her eyes in
the first shot and asks to have it retaken.

Two... Three... ' Click.
They leave and Hinely sits down
Indian-style on the floor to wait for the

rest. “I do this everyday, shooting
photos of other people, for other
people, ” explains Hinely. “The jazz
shots are for me. ”

Anyone who has visited the third
ﬂoor of Reid Hall is familiar with
Hinely’s more artsy work. His love of
jazz music leads to his favorite pastime

Wc%Life
‘EHIND THE LEN

‘An interview with campus photographer W Patric

S .

of photographing jazz musicians.

Before the Allman Brothers made
their claim to fame with Fillmore East,
they passed through Lexington. After
a concert, Hinely found them in the
gym tossing around a basketball. He
took out his camera and started taking
pictures. -

“This was the ﬁrst time I had an
opportunity to take a photo of musi-
cians that I could relate tc»-not on
stage but as real people.”

Hinely’s hobby developed from
there. As the rock and roll industry
grew, musicians moved away from the
personal level and became demi—gods
on stage. With agents and producers,
the stars were not within reach of pho-
tographers. They couldn’t be photo-
graphed as real people.

So Hinely turned instead to the night-
club scene, where musicians performed
for a few hundred people instead of
thousands. After their gig was over the
musicians would sit at the bar and
drink, giving Hinely the opportunity to
sit next to them and start talking.

“Originally it was just for fun, but
soon I began selling my work for
records and promotions. Back then, if
I wanted to make money I had to push
my own work.”

“Now,” Hinely explains, “things are
different. The phone rang the other day
and it wasa bass player from Malibu. I
had taken a series of shots for him
before and he wants me to do his next
album cover. They are looking for me
now and that’s real nice.”

Another member of the swim team
rushes in and sets her books on the

ﬂoor.

“You are the ﬁrst one to have dry
hair, ” H inely says.

“I know, I have class.”

“At Washington and Lee, we all
have class. "

Each year Hinely takes a ‘pilgrim-
age’ to a jazz festival in Berlin. He
usually tries to get a free-lance assign-
ment that will pay for the plane ticket
and other expenses.

Last year he had a photo show at the
Philharmonic Hall and three of his shots

_ H threeou "f
ta édby.s=an¢¢r‘6¥$Om¢;t30iht3aﬁtiini5—  .
e disturbing is the-fact thatmore and ,
en thougltvstuvival rates of  hatwii "

g aguosis,‘are' on the increase; i ’ , ,
also notes thatjcartcet is now’ theieadm
 experts: §ear,it will Msoon: replace heart disc

“wt _ tzeji I

to“  that  ,

i  of cancer ;')revent'on andtreatme

Devil in a Blue Dress

 what.’ " ended

flies across the screen

 

Devil in a Blue Dress — 3 stars

Devil in a Blue Dress has been ac-
curately compared to Chinatown, Ro-
man Polanski’s classic ﬁlm from 1974.
The similarities are tremendous: the
honest P.I. dragged into a murky, intri-
cate conspiracy, a mysterious femme
fatale, a scandal involving small chil-
dren, and of course the setting, the
boomtown Los Angeles of roughly ﬁfty
years ago.

Although Devil in a Blue Dress is

 .' ‘ —§='$=*m1"5-.»:'-'.‘ﬁ"‘ﬁrst-g‘i~i"":w5,g4~;

ultimately not as good a film as
Chinatown, it holds up very well in
comparison. Denzel Washington con-
tinues to dazzle us, and might very well
leave a body of work as strong as
Chinatown’s leading man, Jack
Nicholson. He brings an incredible

effortlessness to his character, re|uc—‘

tant hero “Easy” Rawlins; at every turn
we are as amazed as he is at the mess he
has gotten himself into.

In the supporting roles are a number
of ﬁne actors. Playing the primary
thug is Tom Sizemore, the wise-crack-
ing cop from True Romance. Just as in
that ﬁlm, he keeps here a certain ten-
sion right under the surface of the char-
acter, as if he is constantly ready to
explode in anger, not unlike Robert De
Niro as Al Capone in The Untouch-

ables.

Jennifer Beals seemed like a real
ﬂash in the pan after she disappeared
following Flashdance, but here she
makes an adequate return as the lead-
ing lady. Her portrayal of Daphne
Monet, the mysterious missing woman
Denzel is hired to ﬁnd, lacks depth, but
the ﬁlm moves so fast that little is
required of her.

This speed is really one of the
movie’s strong points. As inmost
period ﬁlms, it would have been easy
for the movie-makers to have envel-
oped us in the showy costumes, the
shiny cars, and the nostalgic slang of
the time; in Devil in a Blue Dress,
though, we are instead focused on the
storyline and plot,

Director and writer Carl Franklin,

whose only other effort was the criti-
cally-acclaimed One False Move,
speeds us through the film relentlessly;
when it was over, I felt as ifl had just
sat down, even though two hours had
elapsed. Even when nothing is hap-
pening on the screen, the audience has
just received somelittle hint orpieceof
information, so we’re always turning
over something new in our minds.

In the end, the film doesn’t quite
have the depth or atmosphere that other
modern detective classics like
Chinatown have. However, the won-
derful acting of Denzel Washington
and the tight, brisk directing of Carl
Franklin give Devil in a Blue Dress a
tension which makes it worth seeingon
the big screen.

, F‘ Three-star rating guide: Go see this film now, while it’s still on the big screen. It‘s worth 11 (‘cw Oscar nominations and the seven bucks

you’ll pay if you see it outside Lexington. Overall, “Better than Cats!”

were sold for record covers.

Hinely is pleased that his passion
for photographing jazz musicians is
proﬁtable, but the pure enjoyment of
the activity is in itself enough for him.

“The custom agent asks me, ‘Are
you here for business or pleasure?’
And I answer, ‘Both.’ Most of them
don’t have a sense of humor, though.
They get paid not to.”

As Hinely begins to take down his
equipment, the final group of swim-
mers comes in, assuring him that they
are the last of the stragglers. He ’II have
to come back tomorrow to photograph
the swimmers who didn’t make it to
practice today.

The coach waves a good-bye from
across the gym and Hinely returns the
greeting with an exaggerated wave,
standing on _one foot and leaning ove_r._

“ We have to be silly sometimes or else
life is far too depressing, ” he explains.

Placing his camera in its case as
gently as if it were a precious antique,
Hinely laughs to himself “My student
assistant thinks I ’m a dinosaur for not

PAGE 3

H irzely

using a camera with an autofocus lens,
but the problem with autofocus is that
it always focuses in the dead center,
and that’s usually not what I want. ”
Hinely is waiting for the day that the
focus can be adjusted with a mouse-

type ball at the top of the camera. The-

photographerwouldthenbeabletoroll
the focusing off-center. Until the, he’ll
stick with his manual equipment.

Off-center focus is just one compo-
sition technique Hinely uses when
making photograph. QuotingaFrench
photographer, Hinely says that he looks
for the moment when geometry and
emotion cross.

“Only one in 10,000 photos may
work at that level though. I run into a
lot of people, I guess amateur photog-
raphers, who look at my equipment
and say, ‘Geez, you must be a profes-
sional. l was going to do that once but
I got tired of wasting ﬁlm,”’

Hinely smiles. “Oh lord, if I get one
good shot out of 36, I feel lucky.”

Adjusting his straw beret and put-
ting his photography -bag over his
“George Gruntz Concert Band” T-shirt,
Hinely thinks about heading home. A
self-diagnosed victim of “voluntary
schizophrenia,” he isworking on spend-
ing more time with his family.

“When I come home and my chil-
dren say, ‘Mom, who is that guy?’ I
ﬁgure I haven’t been there enough.
I’m trying to be less hyperactive now
and I spent a lot of last summerwith my
children not doing much work. But, to
do anything well, you must do nothing
some of the time.”

Seemingly a bit deaf to his own
advice,Hinely has an upcoming agenda
that leaves little room for leisure time.
Recently having completed a show at
James Madison University as well as a
series of guest lectures, Hinely is now
preparing for upcoming exhibits.

From mid-October to the end of
November he ,will have a show at the
Lexington Coffee Shop, and plans are
being laid for a larger show in the law

~ . school this spring.

“This weekend is going to be really
busy because the World War II vets are
coming and l’ll be spending a lot of
time with them. But they are easy to
photograph because they don’t move
very fast.”

 

...Kevin Smith'sClerks
(USA, 1994), will be the next
presentation of the Washing-
ton and Lee Film Society. A
popular and low-budget com-
edy centering upon a young
New Jersey convenience store
clerk and his pals, Clerks was
listed by many critics as one of
the best films of 1994.The
movie will show free of
chargeFriday, October 6, and
Saturday, October7 in the Trou-
badour Cinema.

...The Chestnut Brass Com-
pany will perfonn the music of
Peter Schickele, among other
composers, in an evening of
versatile music on Saturday,
October 14. The free concert
will be at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest
Center and is open to the pub-
lic.

...Lex Williford, author of
Macauley's Thumb, a collec-
tion of ten short stories, will
give a reading at 4 p.m. on
Monday,October 16in Northen
Auditorium.

 

    

PAGE 4

E112 iﬂing-tum iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Stand against violence

On Monday afternoon, W&L students, faculty
and Lexington residents gathered in Hopkins
Green to take a stand against domestic violence
and sexual assault. Libby Boyd, executive director
of Choices of Luray, read a poem: “I whisper to
the wind/He beats me/ I say a prayer that he will
go... ”

In our minds is burned the voice of Nicole
Brown Simpson calling the police about her
husband, the American football hero who rolled
down a highway in a white Bronco with a gun to
his head: O.J. Simpson. On Tuesday, we rushed to
the nearest TV or pushed our ears to the closest
radio, stopping our work, closing our mouths,
shutting down our lives, and waited for the
verdict, a verdict for which we had waited nine
months. Not guilty. The two words etched
themselves onto our minds. We either felt rage or
joy, shock or relief. Regardless of how we feel
about the verdict, one fact remains: O.J. Simpson
hit his wife. Let’s not forget that.

And let’s not forget the millions of women and
children who are physically and sexually abused
every year across this country. Even on our
campus, there are nameless women who have
suffered pain from their boyfriends and their
classmates, who have been violated by people
they thought they could trust.

This montliii   Abuse and
Sexual Assuali'Awareness Month. As we debate
the O.J. Simpson case, we must educate ourselves
about this issue and how it impacts our lives on
this campus. We must raise our voices because as
one speaker noted, “Each voice added will mean
one less victim.”

Quote of the Week

“Where’s Stop-In?”

‘—Freshman male provides
the first sign of pledgeship

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, October 6, 1995

~‘ WM as it.

 

.. well as as \/otkc v\o'\’ clam...

OJ) abouit your lo0s't\\c$$.“

 

   

How many times can one sky fall?

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

There were many remarkable mo-
ments in the OJ; trial. (Now before
half of youdiscard this column in dis-

gust, bear with me.) One of the single '

most astounding moments in the trial
came when lead defense attorney
Johnny Cochran compared former
LAPD detective Mark Fuhrman to
Adolf Hitler, based on racist comments
Fuhrman made.

This outrageous assertion appropri-
ately drew immediate and forceful de-
nunciation from Fred Goldman, the
father of one of the victims. Cochran

.d.id 31 disservi,<=e.t<.> bla9ks.¢vtzrx.vxh.e_r9._.

and insulted every survivor of the Ho-
locaust with his comment. He also il-
lustrated a very important ﬂaw in mod-
em liberalism.

At its root, there is little to be faulted
in liberalism. Who could possibly be
for racism, for discriminating against
handicapped people, against protect-
ing the environment, or against help-
ing the poor? However, the reality of
these problems does not excuse irre-
sponsibility in pursuing theirsolutions.

Liberalism incessantly promotes a
crisis mentality, in order to provide
some justiﬁcation, however specious,
for the expansion of government to
deal with the current exigency. The
only change is which issue presents the
life-threatening crisis of the day. Yet

this apocalyptic rhetoric may be the
single greatest impediment to address-
ing any of these issues.

Inevitably, a continual crisis dead-
ens human sensitivity the way
constant stretching finally breaks a
rubber band. (One need only look at
contemporary attitudes toward wel-
fare as an example.) And constantly
labeling every problem as the most
serious of all makes us incapable of
recognizingtrulyseriousdangerswhen
they do come along.

Does it really help the fight
against racism to compare a man
who made racist comments to the
leader of one of the greatest forces of
evil in human history? Clearlv not.
Rather, it represents nothing more than
liberal demagoguing on the issue of
race, and it only succeeds in trivializing
the Nazi regime.

 ,.,And,,l_est you think this propensity

,fo"r’”o”r’at’or’ical exaggeration is solely

an individual problem of""Mr.
Cochran’s, let me illustrate a few more
examples of this never-ending liberal
tendency toward irresponsibility and
lack of perspective.

Just last week, this newspaperwrote
an appeal for more access for the dis-
abled on W&L’s campus-—an indis-
putably noble cause. Unfortunately, the
editorial showed little thought and even
less of perspective.

Amidst proper questions of ramps
and other access, the editorial asked,
“Where are the braille signs directing
campus trafﬁc for those with low or
no vision?’’

I doubt this editorial is going to rally
support to the cause of blind driving.

Seeing eye dogs are capable of many
things, but reading street signs is not
one of them. Sadly, this passage is not
an isolated example or a joke. The
vaunted Americans with Disabilities
Act actually gives credence to this lu-
nacy through a horde of unhelpful and
counterproductive regulations.
Earlier this year, ‘ Republicans
came under fire for pointing out
the idiocy codi-
fied under the
ADA, including

save Medicare from bankruptcy, and
they have abandoned the U.S. to ex-
ploding debt by defeating the Balanced
Budget Amendment and resisting cru-
cial budget cuts.

And no one surpasses the apocalyp-
tic rhetoric of environmentalists. Envi-
ronmentalists are guilty of predicting
mankind’s imminent destruction for
over 30 years. lronically, it hasn’t hap-

requiring braille
keypads , on
drive-through
ATMs. The

ADA now‘ can
be used by alco-

holics to demand
disability com-
pensation for
their own alco-
holism. These
incredible‘ bu-
reaucratic night-
mares have cost

. pened yet.

And while en-
vironmentalists
At its root, there is
little to be faulted in
liberalism. Who could
possibly be for racism,
for discriminating
against handicapped
people. against pro-
tecting the environ-
ment, or against help-

today continue to
preach the dubi-
ous doctrine of
global warming,
it bears remem-

bering that they
were trumpeting

the dangers of
global cooling
only 25 years ago.
While they‘ decry
deforestati'on,
America has more
acres of forest land

businesses bil-
lions of dollars
and turned a
noble effort into
a regulatory morass. .
The entire message of the Demo-
cratic Party for the past several months
has been to declare that Republicans on
the Hill plan to starve the poor and
condemn elderly grandmothers to death
by lack of health care in order to pay for
unwanted, undeserved tax cuts for the
rich. In doing so, they have abandoned
the elderly by refusing to help Repub-
licans pass the necessary reforms to

ing the poor?

today than it did
when Columbus
landed, due to
technological ad-
vances in firefighting, timber usage
and transportation.

The list goes on and on. None of this
is to say that legitimate oroblems don’t
exist, but it greatly hurts efforts to
solve these problems for liberals to
abandon responsible debate in favor of
scoring points with short-tenn fear-
mongering and irresponsible exaggera-
tion. America needs and deserves much
more than that.

Ellis iﬂittg-tum iﬂlii

Executive Editors Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Assistant News Editor Rethany Bauman
Editorial Page Editor Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Smtt Bookwalter
Features Editor “indie Young
Photography Editor Retsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallaoe
Business Manager ""*'"1 Nelson
Assistant Business Manager "Mg Gcnncr
Adveﬁising Manse.» Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord
Cirwlation Manager Stephen Williard

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily front advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
PM is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-turn Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wIu.edu

Just when you thought you’d outrun O.J

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

“Where were you when you first heard about
the murders?”

“Where were you when he took off in the Bronco
with AC. ? ”

“ Where were you when the verdict came down ? ”

Yes, gentle Far Middler, welcome to the hell of
the rest of your lives.

We don’t get to be the WWII kids and remember
where we were when we got the news that the man
who made America safe for capitalism and the
world safe for democracy passed away with quiet
dignity in Warm Springs. We don’t get to be the
sixties kids and remember where we were when the
President was shot in Dallas and the nation “lost its
innocence” (not really, but we like to let those old
enough to remember it think that’s how it hap-
pened). No, instead, we get to be part of the genera-
tion whose most vivid cultural memories are of the
time when the ex-football-star-turned-rental-car-
pitchman-and-hack-actor went on trial for the mur-
der of his ex-wife and a bystander.

Don’t get me wrong; if the Chinese curse is,
“May you live in interesting times,” I think we can
be pretty sure that our generation is the least ac-

- cursed of the three. The Simpson trial may have

riveted the attention of the nation and the world, but
that hardly qualiﬁes it as interesting.

Don’t lie. I know that most of you were like me,
trying to ignore the whole ugly spectacle, but every
once in a while being fascinated by the sheer grotes-
querie being paraded on the national stage.

More than once I found myself turning on the
news to see the details of a news story I had heard
about elsewhere, only to find wall-to-wall trial
coverage. lt got to be enough. Little headlines
would run maddeningly under Judge lto’s scowl:
“Jerry Garcia found dead” or “Hurricane approaches
Florida coast.” l remember yelling disconsolately at
Marcia Clark’s third (fourth?) hairdo when William
Weld had just announced he «would not run for
president, “Show me the news! Show me the news!”
to no avail.

And now that there actually is news--“O.J.
FOUND NOT GUILTY”—we’re so sick of it that
whatever reaction we might have to the actual
verdict is numbed by boredom and disinterest.

But there really is a signiﬁcance beyond
the circus.

l’ve heard all of the theories by now, and I’d like
to address a few of them:

First, to the young woman in the streets of Los
Angeles on KTLA the day of the verdict: Please
don’t think that just because Simpson has been
acquitted, there is no justice for woman victims of
violence. The look on your face and your obvious
grief indicated that there was something personal in
your reaction. Please don’t make it personal. What-
ever circumstances have affected you are not the
same as the circumstances of this case, and its
outcome doesn’t mean yours can’t be different. This
case didn’t turn on domestic violence.

Next, to the black woman on WSET Lynchburg
who said that she was glad Simpson got off and that
she was not shocked by Mark Fuhrman’s racist
comments: Please be more shocked. Most white
people never even encounter the kind of sick, deep
racism displayed by Mark Fuhrman in his gutless,
boastful confessions to screenwriter Laura Han
McKinney. Most white people———and all decent
people of whatever race—were and are as shocked
as you, and that shook, used constructively, can
bring something good from a bad situation. lt’s

never going to be perfect, but at least give this_

society the benefit of the doubt.

And finally, to the jerk sitting a couple of rows
back from me in Reid Hall, where several journal-
ism classes were watching the verdict on CNN, who
said, “lt’s just because he’s black”: Who the hell are
you? Did you sit in thatjury box for nine months and
watch a trial unfold, with over a hundred witnesses
and mountains of evidence? Do you have some kind
of inside knowledge of what happened in that jury
room? Just who the hell are you?

i don’t claim to have any inside knowledge of
why the case was decided the way it was. Maybe it
was because the jury had found reasonable doubt.
Maybe it was because they bought the defense’s
frame-up theory. Maybe they were just sick of
sitting around all day, day after day, unable to go
about their daily lives in their own homes, and
thought Simpson looked like a nice young man
(well, he does). ln fact, I believe that Simpson

probably murdered Nicole Brown Simpson and
Ron Goldman, and it troubles me to think that our
system has released a murderer back into society.

But I also think that the jury came up with the
correct verdict. lt’s correct not because there was a
staggering revelation of Simpson’s innocence, or
because there was any lack of evidence that he
committed the crime, but simply because the cir-
cumstances of the investigation of the murder cast
substantial enough doubts to acquit, and that is what
the jury did.

Imagine, for a moment, that your Jewish neigh-
bor is on trial for murder. You know he has a bad
temper, but you believe that he is probably innocent,
and are watching ambivalently, not leaning either
way, waiting to see if there is any concrete evidence
that might cause you to abandon your position.

The prosecution brings out a lot of circumstantial
evidence that is ably refuted by the defense. The
time issues become so confused that you look for
something more solid. There is no physical evi-
dence that can betied directly to your neighbor.

Finally, they bring out DNA results that place
your neighbor at the scene. A clean-cut young
ofﬁcer—let’s call him Adolf—recounts the tale of
how he collected the evidence. Prejudiced against
Jews? “Of course not,” he says. “They’re as good as
anybody else.” You begin to have serious doubts
about the possible guilt of your neighbor.

Weeks later, a recorded conversation surfaces
between the clean-cut young officer and a reporter,
in which he describes Jewish people as inferior,
greedy, prone to commit crime. He repeats anti-
Semitic slurs. He recounts how he and his fellow
officers have trumped up evidence, manufactured
evidence, beaten Jewish suspects to obtain confes-
sions, all with the knowledge that they “all knew
what to say” if any of it came to light in order to
protect each other.

What do you think of your neighbor now? How
would you vote? Will a guilty verdict send the
message that it doesn’t matter that a police officer
who had access to material evidence has admitted
manufacturing it in the past, that an officer who
admits to framing Jews in the past now claims to
have gone by the book?

I think it is too much. Not guilty is the only
verdict that makes sense.

This case turned on race not because of Johnny
Cochran, but because of a corrupt system.

 

  

 

1.
D"'t d bl khl
" g P GENERAL
, sai . ia. u a cos you ex .
DREAMI.AND :=.*::.‘?.:::2::i§:iS:.:ﬁ2;:::;::§:2  -. ;‘;“"v::;.:'.‘~°'°;‘:‘:.‘:‘:"‘“° NOTES
_ countless W&L Ford Explorers and “Where in Rockbridge County?”I Auto Towingdoes politely request '
- Rlchard W33VeT Jeep Cherokees. . pressed her. a fee of $50 for the service of towing , ,
Ryan led me to “Beatty Hol- your car. Career Fall‘ Found
I'm proud to say I’m a law-abiding what amounted to ‘ ‘ low,” Peggy “We charge $10 a day for storage,
student who parks his car in the cor- a big clearing in said. ,She eyed also,” she said. For that, you can The Eieventh Annnni Nations] Ahiack, brown and white ghized
rect W&L lots. 1 ve often wondered the forest several Ryan sbigstraw probably get Auto Towing to keep an Environments] ca.-eei confei-enee mat-hiestone pendanntrinn isi-with
. aroun us were . . . . . 8“

, WEE! h3Plg°“5_‘°fr‘h‘:§° bad  milgaoiftoftowni the rusted cannibal hatIit;fPIcnou§|y- gye in mircardduﬁng Thanksgiving and Career Fair will be held Oct. 27 yellow gold back. Contact Carol
WI _ par mg In 80 Ions; W _ WI 0" Y_3gT3V_° _ 9_ " aroun US I68 - at 3 ea - and28atthe Radisson Plaza Hotel at Calkins in the University Center.
awaits them? Where are their cars road leadingto it. ‘zed remains of cars were the_ rusted, Peggy said students are usually Maikcenteiinmexandna,Virginia,
towed to?  they‘ ever get them I realize ‘now that .udgin by their cannibalized re- pretty nice when they come to get The confei-enoe provides paneidis-
back? I decided this definitely re- thatlmay be ]InX- 9] g mains of cars their cars back. She did acknowledge eussions, workshops, networking Ire h  

ﬂ quiged spine sqrt of lllV¢;SlIgatll(‘)l'l. ilng nliyself, but model,  seen a tltiiat, judgingd by that aj fevlv ‘pf theli(n seem bt(obeina‘l‘)baq and ﬁeld u,ips_ The Career Fair en_ ac 81' 1103 on

or ose 0 you rea ers w o are ’vea waysoper- * t eir mo e , moo .” on’t now a ut you, ut hi ' t 1 ho t '1“
new this year, you should know that ated in the face of road In at least 20 hadn’t seen a think I would be pretty darn happy to :,g::?;i'i%':s:n§:,r::e,§p;§f1‘:n'if DR P3"? w°s'h°.f°' fmm Ma”
for three years1’ve been on and off on danger. When years. (FOP you re- road in at least trek out to Beatty Hollow one after- ties, For more information stop by Ba'd‘"'“ C°"°S° Wm be 0" cam“
my Dream Land World Tour. The Ryan and I ap- turning alumni this 20 years. (For noon to fork over $60 to get my car the Career Deveiopinent and Place- P95 Wednesday-N0“ .1-‘° °°“3“"
idea behind the tour is for me to get proached the k d . , you returning back, especially if it involved me ment office, Wm‘ 5_“‘d°'“3 '_°8‘“'d"‘8 ‘°3¢h°"

,4 out of my room and see new things, main building, wee en 9 ‘L 3'0]; re alumni this missingdinnerorsomethinglikethat. ';d:’°‘“'°"| 3“d_"°f“:“"°- 'fh}f°“'

’ meetnew people, andpresentthem to the three old missin a 8 er- weekend, if And if it was raining and cold as an O “ “W P “"5 "‘° “_ 3 W3‘? "'8-
you. You can send me gas money if women with ciga- g you’re missinga extra bonus. Career workshop Please °°m¢ b)’ Falffax 1-“"989

CW2)’, I found It-) between the hours of 12:30 pm.
and 2 p. m. to discuss your particu-
lar needs with Dr. Westhafer. If
you have questions consult Dean

West-Settle at X8746.

you want.
Since I wondered “Where do all
the cars go?” the logical first stop on
. ‘I the Fall 1995 leg of my world tour
» was Auto Towing and Repair, Inc.
Accompanied by Phi Staff Writer
Ryan Beaman (who wore a big straw

rettes resting in
their mouths gave
us the evil eye.
They backed off when we got closer
to reveal a woman with a shockingly
pink shirt.

“Where are we?” I asked the atten-

’48 Mercury, 1
found it.)

“We don’t
just cater to W&L students—we tow
everybody,” Peggy said. I was stand-
ing next to a big blue big rig. Peggy
said that Auto Towing and Repair

I returned from the black hole
with a greater appreciation for the
power wielded by these people who
can have their way with your car
and charge you for it. With that re-
spect, I hope I never cross paths with
them again.

There will be a Career Focus
Workshop on Wednesday, Oct. 11
at 4 p.m. in Room 108 of the Univer-
sity Center. All students trying to
decide on a major or narrow their job
search are invited to attend.

House mothers comment

 

7/ 

 
    

Oct. 6 and Saturday, Oct. 7 at 8:05
p.m. in the Troubadour Theater.

, SLAC Job Fairs
. Film Society ‘
 Liberal Arts and Science ma-
Washington and Lee's Film jors interested in the SLAC job
Society will present Clerks Friday, fairs should submit their resumes

by Oct. 27. Interested students can
get more information by stopping by

There is no charge for admission and the Career Development and Place-
l  the public as well as the W&L com- merit Office.
an g munity are invited.
To theedltor:    c e ‘
y _ , _ , _ _ Flu Shots Study Abroad
Unfortunately, the information contained in your front-page article regarding
the cleaning in the fraternities does not present a balanced view. I am one of the Q . . . .
house mothers involved and my house is not cleaned or maintained as well as it was shoi:::f::itnHe8gh ¥'l.|].::  aresﬁvemnlﬂitudgdgrdlgad gas;
under the previous contractor. Ihave been patient because I know that two and ahalf g ' ' ' 4 P nlicoin ‘E; Univetéity um
hours is not long enough to clean a fraternity house, especially on Thursday and . ' ' . _
\/. Monday mornings. However, when I read that the cleaning was on a par with last   lobby’ 3 represenumve mm B“

   
     
   

ver College will discuss extensive
study abroad opportunities, espe-
cially for the United Kingdom.
Thursday,Oct. I2 at3:30 p.m. in the

year, I had to respond. First, although many promises have been made, as of today
the woman who cleans my house is also cleaning two others and has been doing so
since the beginning of the school year. This problem has not been corrected.

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccessories

The Glasgow Endowment Series
will present readings by ﬁction writer

I feel that you should have spoken to a representative group of house mothers and [ex Wiiiiford, authorofMcCau[gy '3 . . _
fraternity occupants. A sophomore who did not live in the house last year is not Thumb, Monday, Oct. 16 at 4 p.m.; 32$/::;%ﬁ‘een|‘:;::::,y(;PglprnscupE an"
‘ really able to compare. The one house mother you quoted only said that the proposed poet Brendan Galvin, author of Great '

and Asian Studies will discuss op-
portunities. Friday, Oct. 13 at 3:15
p.m. in University Center I 17 a rep-
resentative from Danish lntema-
tional Studies will discuss English-

plans of B&G should remedy the problem. Was she not asked about the current state
of affairs? Why not talk to one of the house mothers who has been in the same house
for several years and has the background to really compare the service this year with
the previous years?

Blue and Saints in Their 0x-hide
Boats, Thursday, Nov. 9 at 4:30 p.m.,
and novelist and poet Lynne Sharon
Schwartz, author of Rough Strife

Welcome Back Students

       
      
   

 

‘ 

   

4 23 N. Main St. (703)463-5988 and TheFati ueAm'si, Wednesday, -
 Lexington. vA 24450 a :22::.::.:=:.5.*:.':‘.;.':.:',:=::::.':,%:.:.::?' 5?="vg5'ri«‘?5s°t‘n‘3=‘5s“-'"“"C°”°""“‘°"
V” E'"““'  

‘ \ . il < 4 i . . v 4 I . , a . . /

BIG WEEKENDS. SPRING BREAK ’96 . SELL ‘ ’ ’
GRADUAT10N_,, TRIPS, EARN CASH &_ Go
,, ieemanouseronheprzceofa :.*.‘.€'.?::.'.:':;’.:.';:.‘.T:“.:,°.‘.§.°.::.'..°°.*.;s. NIGHT OWL MUSlC C0.
’ '"°‘e"°°'"~’ iB‘?.”'§f.§.".i‘.’.ii=‘Z..f2.‘I.‘2‘°c‘%i,°§'é§2i’ c
463-5350 703 978-2416 '
°'( ) “H ““°°*““‘“““‘9 25 s. Jefferson 464-4050
Open 11 a.m. ‘til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, Saturday 11 a.m. - 5 p.m.
‘ COC0.0.00CCOCOCOOOOOOCOOOOCOOOCOCOCOCC
 -W,4z7z5z&p0,4g  $1 Off with this coupon
3 sﬁedatcyotg 6'49 7£«,’a¢z¢4e¢ 3
A I ‘?eomam mid 5444“ : **"'FREE TRIPS & CASH!!**"' A
: : Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH
: o with America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!
4 o I 9 S,   2 Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STU-
 463 2742 : DENT TRAVEL‘ 95-BREAK!

ALVIN-DENNIS

102 W WASHINGTON ST.
463-5353

WELCOME W&L ALUMNI

- Woolrich
- Duckhead
- Ray-Bans
- Red Wing
- 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos
- Fancy Cummerbund and Tie Sets
.1 - W&L Belts, ’l‘ies, Dog Collars

   

:. . . . . . ... . us... ...,.. :‘ _ Embassy Boxers
, IE:  3kiu!'hm ytiv E . o
‘  Alumni Special
53 come once a  Suits and Sportcoats
‘  ,,,eek_  20% Off

4 Open This Sunday at 10:00 a.m.

STUDENT CHARGE

VISA MASTERCARD

 

 

Valley 

mnowane SYORES "

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

ADVERTSEMEN TS

The Ring-tum Phi, October 6, 1995

17 S. Main St.
463-9730

Florist to The Homestead

WASHINGTON AND LEE
  « SELECTIVE LIBERAL ARTS
CONSORTIUM JOB FAIRS

IISlTER.'\/IEVVS IN: Atlanta, Chicago, DC,
Nezo York, Philadelphia, San Francisco

Hu.man Renourceslpersonnel ’ Museums
Teachin Coaching Scientific Writ-ing
Advertis. ng Banking
Consulting Sy:-menus

$ociuI Service. Agencies Insurance
P'hn21:nacentica'l Research Sales

Cable News Network .Relail

Publishing Wildentesq Programs
Editing Envitonxnental Groupq
Government Agencies: State Dept, EPA, Peace Corps

DON'T IVIISS THE BIGGEST AND BEST JOB.
INTERVIEVVING EVENT FOR LIBERAL
ARTS A'ND SCIENCE l\/IA}ORS!!

DEADLINE TO SUBIVIIIT
tI_{ESU1\/IES

Ten East Nelson Street Lexington 463-9841

Hours: Mon-Sat 10-5:30

SPRING BREAK - Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun
and Jamaica from 299.00. Air, Hotel, Transfers,

Parties, and Morel Organize a small group and earn a
FREE trip plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321

Cotnputcrs
. Software
sygrepns Salas & Service

HI Egan <'¢‘>‘¢:\-pacer Sqs::.cus

 
 

‘OI OK!

 

é 2';-3t<;)t1.evv’are-. 6:: porcelain
Ilnique baskets

.A.rn.i.-ah Cllliltti, hats, ap.rons
I~Iarx<:l..sacree.rx.eci greeting cards
Berea Cﬁcxllege Cra fts
Regional jkrtists

“—"E'.%*"'a.-’

2:2 'V\/"rt.-.=t VVasI1i1¢gt<)m
Z.-exingtc:r1 , X/irgirx fa
Plzorze (7'¢Z9..‘3) 46-4—.862£5
Adorzda}/~Sat14 rciay 10-5

§Harbs 6
§A Bistro

   

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
: 8 am - 3 pm - Monday :
:8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday :
u 8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday :
: 9 am - 3 pm - Sunday :
3 :
I
: Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad E
: All you can eat $4.99 u
I
' I
: Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID :
I :
: Friday — Seafood Nite - :
: Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout I
: Saturday - 8 oz. Prime Rib, :
. 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95 :
I I

 
 
   

 
 
 

: 19 . ashin ton St.', Lexington, VA 24450

The Ring-tum
Phi:
An important part
of the daily diet.
Contains half as
much as fat as other
campus publications.

LEXINGTON SWEATSHIRT

 

EXCLUSIVE DESIGN
NAVY AND BLACK
ASSORTED SIZES
MOCK OR CREW

THE STONEWALL JACKSON HOUSE
MUSEUM snop - GARDEN - HISTORIC HOUSE - TOURS
3 EAST WASHINGTON sr. - LEXINGTON, VA - 463-2552

Natural cotton. Natural linen.
Naturally Caravans.

Caravans

117 West Nelson Street 04643500
Open daily 10am-6pm Oszmdays 1 lam - 3pm

Clhi (Ohrnega congratulates its 

Homeoming Court nominees:

Saralh Brornlhaclher
Justine LaMont
Rohin King

 

OCTOBER 27, 1995

BEGINNING OCT. 6
SUNDAYS 8 T0 4

LEXINIJTIIN

(fl;//(;(' .(/I)(I(M'//}(/y (ll:

 

9 W. Washington St. - 464-6586

  
 
    
    
     

ﬂ

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 6, 1995

 

H at l_ I S 1'GG|'_B I
5" Anniversary Sawngs!

ritlﬁjsll

  

Harris Teeter
ple
urce

 

SPORTS

PAGE 7_

ATHLETES
OF THE WEEK

 

v Josephine Schaeffer
Women's Cross Country

The Schaeffer train just keeps on rolling along.

For the fourth straight time, she won a race, but
this time, it meant a little extra.

At the Greensboro Invitational on Saturday,
Schaeffer was given a tough assignment, as she was
lumped in with 24 of the top Division I runners in
the area. It made no difference to the senior, as she

 

Brooks Fischer
Football

If Saturday’s game was any indication, Fischer
is rapidly becoming a top-notch quarterback.

The Generals fell at Randolph-Macon, 24-21,
but Fischer kept W&L in the game until the bitter
end with an unbelievable passing performance.

The junior connected on 33 of 51 passes to
smash the 300-yard barrier with 362. All of those

Harris Teeter Canned 4 Pk, Haffis Teeter . ﬁnished seven seconds ahead of the second place statistics were second-best in W&L history. On
 runner from Ohio University in a time of 17:49. top of that, Fischer tossed three touchdown passes.
157_5 Schaefferwillbe challenged againintwo weeks, Adding up his 32 yards rushing, Fischer ﬁn-

ished with an incredible 394 total yards. He now

when she competes in the elite Paul Short Invita-
has thrown for 2,730 yards in his career.

tional at Lehigh University.

Tissue _s.,. n.
Premier Selection

  White
   Po ta toe

-‘E

          
   

 ‘Q

Green Beansfg 
cOl'n__15.é5 oz.

 

  
  

Pondero 

nci)  tea

 
  
        

  

advertising Specialties
Promo-‘tonal products - ' ‘

Screen Printed Tertilés

 

Q-.'\:v-1.‘ .‘.I

  -plaquies 

      
     
 
  
 

 

",- H‘\ l  " '1‘-SIIIIFI-.' _ .\ ‘
1   ll 2s:7.‘.':;::r:.< “
". . . \ \‘x-/‘i ' 5' J

”--1.’...-re“ 

 custom engrervinii it

 
 

lrltl.'mi‘liiT'&StTllEE.\‘PRl5l5lioi

 
 
  
   
 

  

 

 

 

lief; l_§‘l‘r2Sa{:li _ltf_:‘il.'4'.'§h."i.'1~.'t.
.~  . - . o .. ._ , 1  }’lIEonr.‘5-ill-3-18-6753, rt. 377.5753‘, §»‘.,‘,,"“."‘-{.E,?"f~§"".'=? 1“-‘“
, Premier Selection  Premier Selection 129 ' FM-‘*1-37745418 ‘ W" " '5’ ' ""3
6‘ carrOts___2]b_bag  lllllIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
 Harris Teeter // \ \ .
_  “#3 Don’t Let 5
A  .  a m Your Student
3”‘? , G0 Hungry _
‘I "' Harbs’ Point Card ;
‘j:—. The $100 Meal Ticket 1
Redeemable for i.
1 2 I. . .
* / ga Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner -

For only $90.00

Stock Up And Save Soft Drink Feature

  
    

 
   
  

   
  
  
      
  
   

     
           

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
‘Ru

4 ‘_,,«@%,t.» Nutritious Mu ms & Egg Specialties t
 Fresh alads & Soups g

. \_, ‘ H Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees’ ;

>  g.   Candlelight Diners 

‘V . /1!!! ® Give Your Student 
'/FRUIT CHE i ’  . 1.

' ’ “Y COOKIES‘ - a Homecooked Meal With Our 

,_ V Point Card 3%
 ' Harbs’ 

‘ PEACHQRICOT  19 W. ashington St., Lexington, A 24450 
 /téssaoczl  IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII :

Harris Teeter Fat Free P ' O D - 2

‘ Fruit Chewy ens’ ’ - '9‘ 
 Cookies Peps’ 

    

i 129

Re . Or Low Fat Harris Teeter Harris Teeter

* gheggse __12 oz. By gleam __s 39?

Harris Teeter
2’99¢

En lish Harris Teeter

* uffins__s ct. Bleach__12s.z. 

Prices Effective Through Oct. 10, 1995

4 Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, October 4 Through October 10, 1995 in Our _ _
‘ Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

Last Week:

VOLLEYBALL - Lost. to Gettysburg in semiﬁnals of Gettysburg Classic,

W, 15-10, 15-5, 17-15, vs. Lynchburg
MSoocnn- L, 2-1, vs. E. Me. onite; l..,2—1, vs. Hnmpden-Sydney ’
WSoocxn- L, 4-1, at Randolph-Macon; W, 9-0, vs. Sweet Briar
Mcnoss Courrrmr - Finished second at Greensboro Invitational

WCnoss Courrrmr - Finished fifth at Gree ‘

u Invitational

WATSII Pouo- L, 11-6, vs. Villanova; L, 12-9, vs. Princeton;
L,17-15, vs. Georgewaahington in W&L EWPAToum.

PAGE 8

S

L @112 ‘ﬁling-mm ‘iﬂhi

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

A p This Week:

Vou.InMu.- Today at Emory& Henry, 6:30 PM; Sat. at
Goucher Tutu ament; Wed. vs. Sweet Briar, 6:30 PM

Foo'rnAu.-
Msoccuh

Sat. vs. Davidson, 2:00 PM
Sat. vs. Roanoke, 11:00 AM;

Wed. at Brldgewataer, 4:00 PM

Wsoccsn-

Sat. vs. Virginia Wesleyan, 3:00 PM

Thurs. at Roanoke, 4.00 PM

M'l‘:Nms-
W'I‘s-.NNra-

Sat.-Sun. in W&L Fall Classic, 9:00AM ~
Fri. vs. Redford, 3:00 PM

OCTOBER 6, 1995

' . ,p,erfectI;.»;i=r.iot?’= ;¢Y*e'n
E §j1\/lattdux, although

  
  

 ‘ﬂap ..
f.fIastin.theAL
* “Mé’y»  

   

v.«bYM3§Ii0€I3 “P881133;
_[ endjL;_ti's.~SoJ. to fi
knock:off_the_ Ange 
I , Of course,fthere,’s"that~'
small matt’¢t.9f.the;el¢.Vea

 

back in mid-August._.. _

Generals drop nailbiter at Randolph-Macon

By STEPHEN WILLIARD
Phi Staff Writer

     
  
   
      
    

game lead Calif0In53~'h5£l 

The Washington and Lee foot-
ball squad has made little im-
provement with its record after
last year’s 0-3 start to the season.

The Generals, 0-2-1 after
three games, took a hard hit on
Saturday with a 24-21 loss to
Randolph-Macon.

With the score at 17-14 in the
fourth quarter and W&L poised
to tie the game on a 32-yard
Drew Thomas ﬁeld goal, disas-
ter struck. Randolph-Macon
blocked the ﬁeld goal, and to
pour salt in the wound, returned
the ball 72 yards for the eventual
winning touchdown.

W&L made the game close
late when junior quarterback
Brooks Fischer connected to
freshman Chas Chastain for a
twelve-yard touchdown to cut
the lead to three, but the ten-
point margin proved too much as
the Generals fell, 24-21.

The Generals had taken a 14-
10 lead in the third quarter, after
trailing 10-0 at halftime.

Senior James Urban caught
the ﬁrst of two Brooks Fischer
touchdown passes to bring W&L
to within 10-7, and a 16-yard
grab by Chastain gave the Gen-
erals the short-lived lead.

The highlight of the game

from the W&L side was the per-
formance of quarterback Fischer.
Fischer threw for 362 yards on
33 completions in 51 attempts.
James Urban was the main target
for Fischer with nine catches for
87 yards. Chastain ﬁnished with
three catches for 83 yards, and
Nick Hodge pulled down eight
balls for 78 yards.

The 362-yard performance
was the second highest single-
game total ever amassed by a
W&L quarterback. Fischer also
rode the game into fourth place
on the all-time touchdown list
with 21, and is now ﬁfth on the
all time yardage list with 2,730.

Despite the winless record,
the Generals are a much improved
team from last year. In their first
three games last season, the Gen-
erals were outscored 59-2, and
had only amassed 11 points
through the ﬁrst four, despite
winning against Davidson 9-3.

This year, however, is alto-
gether different. W&L is aver-
aging 356 yards of offense per
contest. By contrast, the team
only had 357 yards total through
the first three games of last year.

The Generals will be taking
on Davidson this weekend for
Homecoming. Just like last year,
they will be looking to ﬁnd their
winning ways again in this game.
The near future looks bright as
Davidson enters the game at 1-3,
and lost to W&L last season.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The Generals tied Centre in their last home game. W&L will try once again to pick up their first
victory of the year in this weekend's Homecoming game with Davidson, a team they beat in 1994.

Men endure rough week with  
two conference home defeats

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team has
recently run into a two-game
slump after surging into the sea-
son with four straight victories.
The Generals dropped games to
Eastern Mennonite and
Hampden-Sydney this past week.

EMU came out fast against
W&L, and the Generals could
not recover.

After Eastern Mennonite tal-
lied two goals in the first twenty-
ﬁve minutes, the Generals did
manage to regain some ground.
Freshman Sam Chase found the
back of the net after assists from
Colin Connolly and Jeb Wofford.

Unfortunately, Chase scored
with a mere twenty-ﬁve seconds
left in the game, and the Gener-
als would not get another offen-
sive chance. The whistle blew
with EMU victorious, 2-1.

W&L fell to Hampden-
Sydney at home this Tuesday, 2-
1. The Tigers struck first with a
goal in the sixteenth minute, then
stretched their lead when a
twenty-yard shot sailed in over
goalkeeper E.J. Murphy’s head.

W&L tried to stage a come-
back in the seventy-ninth minute
when Jeb Wofford drilled home

a direct kick to cut the deficit to
2-1, but the Tigers clamped down
on defense and thwarted the Gen-
erals’ scoring opportunities.
Gordon Meeker had a good

W

Volleyball:

The Generals had an up-
and-down weekend in
Gettysburg, PA.

W&L dropped three
matches, yet still managed to
advance to the semiﬁnals of
the Gettysburg Classic by win-
ning four of its matches, in-
cluding a triumph over league
rival Eastern Mennonite for
the first time.

Sophomore Hilary Martin
collected 68 kills during the
Gettysburg Classic.

The Generals returned
home on a winning note by
stomping Lynchburg, 15-10,
15-5, 17-15, on Tuesday.
Martin was once again nearly
unstoppable, as she totalled
seventeen kills, four blocks,
and seven digs.

Sophomore Ali Beard, ﬁll-
ing in for the injured Cheryl
Taurassi, put up Taurassi-like
numbers withacareer-high40
assists, for the Generals, 13-4
overall, 3-1 in the ODAC.

Water Polo:

The water polo team, try-
ing to defend its home pool,
had a tough time this weekend
in the Eastern Water Polo As-

sociation tournament at W&L.

The Generals went down to
defeat in all three of their con-
tests, falling 11-6 to Villanova,
12-9 to Princeton, and 17-15 to
George Washington.

The loss in the ﬁnal game
against GW stung the most.

' W&L led 10-8 heading into the

last period, and still was clinging
to a two-point lead when the
Colonials’ desperation two-
pointer found the net as time ex-
pired. GW went on to prevail in
overtime, handing the Generals a
bitter loss which dropped their
record to 7-4 on the season.

Women’s Tennis:

The Generals were back in
form at the Rolex Southeastern
Regional at Mary Washington,
assophomore NataliaGarciatook
home the singles crown in the
64-player tournament.

Along the way, Garcia beat
fellow sophomores Berry
Blankinship and Ericka Shapard,
who had both advanced to the
semiﬁnal round. Garcia, along
with Julie Ayers, also stormed
into the doubles ﬁnal.

Garcia’s singles title will cam
her a spot in the ITA/ Rolex Na-
tional Small College Champion-

 

 

 

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The W&L men’s soccer squad plunged back to earth this week, after losing
two tight ODAC games with Eastern Mennonite and Hampden-Sydney.

chance to score the equalizer,
but he was stopped inside of the
ﬁnal minute.

These two setbacks drop the
Generals to 2-3 in ODAC play,

and 5-3 overall.

W&L will try to improve their
conference standing when they
take on Roanoke at Liberty Hall
ﬁeld this Saturday.

ships in Boca Raton, Florida, on
October 19-22.

Men’s Cross Country:

The Generals travelled to
Greensboro, NC, last weekend,
and walked away with an im-
pressive second-place showing
at the Greensboro Invitational.

Jason Callen was the first
General to cross the line, as he
did so in ﬁfth place in 26:47.
Teammate Brad Paye was on
Callen’s heels, as he ﬁnished two
seconds behind in sixth place.
Will Olson, Taylor Shultz, and
Andy May also scored for the
Generals, who have a week off
before their next race at the State
Division II-III Championships.

Women’s Cross Country:
Josephine Schaeffer was
grouped in with the talented Di-
vision I runners at the Greens-
boro Invitational. So what?
The senior was again up to
the challenge, as she knocked off
the other 24 runners in her group
to ﬁnish first with a time of17:49.
The victory was the fourth con-
secutive for Schaeffer in 1995.
Although the rest of the team
was without their ace runner, the
Generals still held their own at

W

the Invitational, placing ﬁfth
out of fourteen entries. Fresh-
man Natasha Dorofeeva gar-
nered top honors for W&L
with her twelfth-place overall
ﬁnish. Carson Flowers, Nat
Messmore, Ashley Smith, and
Katye Jenkins all placed for
the Generals.

Women’s Soccer:

There were mixed results
for the Generals this week, as
they split two games. W&L
lost at second-ranked
Randolph- Macon, 4-1 , on Sat-
urday,but came back Wednes-
day to torch Sweet Briar, 8-0,

Nicole Johnson scored on
assists from Michelle Bauman
and Katie Jenkins forthe Gen- #
erals’ only goal. '

However, Sweet Briar was
no match for W&L on
Wednesday at the Liberty Hall
Fields. Bauman led the way
with three goals and one as-
sist. Sophomore Erica
Reineke, playing in her third
game after recovering from
surgery, tallied two goals. -
Freshman Karin Treese netted
two goals, and had two assists
for W&L, who climbed to 6-2
overall, 4-0 in, the ODAC. . J

v

F

Footbaﬂ

K

Men’s Soccer
Women’s Soccer
Volleyball

Water Polo

5-3

6-2
13-4

7-4
0-2-1

Photo by The Washington Post

Simpson awaits verdict

 

F

General Records]

:1

. n
. u
ﬁn
. v..m
€..E
B
.w,m
. ...n
«of».
0....
h.»
9.?

By Robin Seaton
Phi Staff Writer

honest tune with a linger-
“A.

ing lead” makes its way to Lexington
Friday as Widespread Panic head-
lines Washington and Lee’s 1995
Homecoming concert. Joan Osbourne
will open for the Athens—based band.
Tickets are available through Friday
in front of the Co-op, at a cost of $8 in
advance and $10 at the door for stu-
dents. Tickets for those outside the
W&L community must be purchased
in advance for $15 each. Doors at the
SAB Pavilion will open at 8:30 p.m.
Friday night. A beer garden will be
available for students with proper l.D.

Widespread Panic has been tour-
ing the U.S. for eight years, and they
continue to draw more fans with their
unique, compelling sound. The Bos-
ton Globe compares the band to the
Allman Brothers, the Grateful Dead,
and Blues Traveler, with their
“muddy—river feel” and “a southern
flavor,” a brew of “R&B, funk, and
country...energy and Latin-tinged
grooves.”

Lead singer and guitarist John
Bell believes he has been inﬂuenced
by every song he has ever heard but
claims “the boys in the band” have
affected him most." He calls Wide-
spread Panic “a band in the truest

The Ping

sense,” regardless of the labels and
comparisons others place on their
music. Known for their internalized
jamming, Widespread presents a
unique performance every time.

The band has toured extensively
all over the nation to promote each of
their four albums. Their latest Capri-
corn release, entitled Ain ’t Life Grand,
has proven to be even more success-
ful than previous albums such as Space
Wrangler, Everyday, and the self-
titled Widespread Panic.

The band also added a cover of
Van Morrison’s “And It Stoned Me”
to the recently released Hempilation
benefit CD, which also included per-
formances by Blues Traveler, the
Black Crowes, Drivin’ n’ Cryin’,
Government Mule, and others. Pro-
ceeds will benefit NORML, the Na-
tional Organization for the Reform of
Marijuana Laws.

Vic Chestnutt collaborated with
most of the Widespread members to
release Nine High A Pallet. The group
called itself “brute,” and recorded the
album in only two days. Most of the
songs were penned by Chestnutt, al-
though the group covered Hoyt
Axton’s “Snowblind Friend.” The
album hit stores in mid-September,
and tentative plans are being discussed
for future live performances.

After spring concerts with

Morn~e(:-o:ni‘irg "Q35

Widespread Panic

Jackopierce, From Good Homes,
Soulhat, God Street Wine, and oth-
ers, Widespread Panic spent the sum-
mer in the Midwest and Rockies. This
fall they finally return to the familiar
venues of the southeast, joined in

The Rina-tum P121 October 6 1995

/‘>

‘-31/A7z’l"tm1’lli7 [1 ll 

concert by Joan Osbourne, War, and
Colonel Bruce Hampton and the Fiji
Mariners. After Halloween, the band
will take time off and work on a
possible live album, with a release
date thus far unknown.

-tum Phi

would like to thank
Hillorg Coombs
for 0 superb job on the supplement.
We couldn‘t have done it without goul

The Rina-tum Phi Elctnhar 6 1995

By Scott Bookwalter
Phi Sports Editor

Another year, same story.

Last year, heading into the Davidson
game, the Washington and Lee foot-

ball team had not yet won a game,

after scoring an infamous two points
in their first three contests. This year,
the Generals are still searching for
their first win in the fourth game of
the season, after losing this past Sat-
urday at Randolph-Macon, 24-21, to
drop to 0-2-1 in 1995.

In 1994, W&L headed to
Davidson reeling at 0-3, but the Gen-
erals got back on track by holding off
the Wildcats, 9-3. The contest was
decided by a two-yard plunge by run-
ning back Seth McKinley midway
through the third quarter, and the
Generals’ defense halted Davidson
the rest of the way. Safety Stuart
Hogue had a huge day with nine tack-
les and two interceptions, one com-

ing at the W&L 27 on the Wildcats’
last-gap drive.

The victory over Davidson
kicked off a remarkable late-season

resurgence, as the Generals won five
of their final six contests to finish at 5-
4.

The Generals will hope for a
similar turnaround to start this Satur-
day, when the Wildcats invade Lex-
ington for the W&L Homecoming
Game. Last year, the Generals
dropped a lackluster 19-0 effort on
Homecoming to Randolph-Macon.

W&L head coach Frank Miriello
will be coaching in his first Home-
coming game as the Generals’ head
coach, but he claims his emotional
level will be the same as in any other
contest.

“All games are the same for me
- they’re all big games,” he men-
tioned.

Miriello added that the players
have never put a particular emphasis
on Homecoming games, although
they always like to win them.

Homecoming and Parents’
Weekend are “big emotional lift week-
ends for the players,” said Miriello.
“They play a bit harder to beat them.”

At this moment, though, Miriello
and the Generals are more concerned
about righting their ship before it be-

comes too late in the season. The
narrow loss last week to Randolph-
Macon did not help their situation too
much.

Miriello said that he had hoped
to win at least one of the first couple
games. Now, the Generals will “try
like the dickens” to win the next
couple.

Davidson is coming off a 31-28
loss to Guilford on Saturday. The
Wildcats are classified as NCAA Di-
vision I-AA, although most of their
opponents are Division 111 schools.
The Wildcats finished with a 3-7 log
in 1994. ‘

Although the Wildcats are not a
member of the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference, Davidson and W&L
are similar liberal arts colleges who
have created a rivalry both’ on the
field and in the classroom. In the
1995 U.S. News and World Report
rankings of the nation’s best liberal
arts schools, W&L rated 15th, while
Davidson plunged to 21st after being
ranked 8th in 1994.

On the gridiron, the Generals
also hold an edge, leading the all-time
series, 16-10-1.

Above: Robert Hull had 16 tackles in the '94
Homecoming game against Randolph-Macon.
Below: The Generals lost 19-0 to the Yellow

Jackets in last year's contest.

Pi Beta Phi
Julie E. Ayers
W&L ‘96
Psychology
Escort: Michael A. Witsil ‘95
“I have a love for W&L
and involvement on campus and
in the community.”

Kappa Alpha Theta
Ashley Bell
W&L ‘96 '
Studio Art/ Print Journalism
Escort: Rusty Bishop ‘94

“I have tried to find a good
balance between education and
extracurricularactivitiesduring
my time at W&L.”

Phi Kappa Sigma
Caroline Connolly
W&L ‘96
Business Administration
Escort: Lee Counselman ‘96

“I feel honored to be a
part ofthe W&L tradition, and I
would like to think that l’ve
given back to the university at
least a part of what it has given
to me over the past four years.”

Lambda Chi Alpha
Maria M. Daly
W&L ‘98
Mass Communications/
Russian Studies
Escort: Steven Frame ‘97

LI l~£..m~et:~I;>.|T{iI*g 

Kappa Alpha
Lauren Gutherie
W&L ‘97
Economics
Escort: David Fosgate ‘96
“I’m really friendly and
outgoing, and I liketo be around
people. My sense of school spirit
is important because a home-
comingqueen should take pride
in the school she represens.

Sigma Phi Epsilon
Emily Hazlett
W&L ‘96
Psychology
Escort: Tory Noto ‘96
‘‘I would make a good
homecomingrepresentativebe-
cause I’m involved in many
campus and community activi-
ties. But most importantly, Ilove
W&L.”

Chi Psi
Justine LaMont
W&L ‘96
' Art History/Journalism
Escort: Rick Hill ‘96
“This is my last year at
W&L. l’ve grown to love it,
and I would be honored to rep-
resent it.”

Phi Delta Theta
Kerry Martin
Hollins College ‘96
Psychology
Escort: Ransom James ‘96
“Be yourself. To have the

Alpha Phi Omega
Deborah Anne Munson
W&L ‘96
Economics/ Politics
Escort: Norman Lee ‘98

“W&L is very dear to my
heart, and I strive to uphold its
ideals of integrity, leadership,
and friendship.”

“I think I’m a well-
rounded person. I would repre-
sent a balance of academics and
social activities.”

ability to project a sense of ex-
cellence and all she represents:
academics, leadership, integrity
and grace.”

Phi Gamma Delta
Heather Lipke
W&L ‘97
Spanish
Escort: Greg Anthou ‘96

Sigma Nu
Robin King
W&L ‘96
East Asian Studies/Economics
Escort: Nicholas C. Polizzi
‘96

“The ability tosee through
social stereotypes and to find
the inner beauty in everyone.”

Sigma Chi
Julie Ann Olejniczak
W&L ‘96
« Neuroscience] Pre-Med
Escort: Ben Skaggs ‘96

Phi Kappa Psi
Jennie Peil
W&L ‘97
French/Sociology
Escort: Ben Swinburne ‘97
“I love the people here
and the school. l’m dedicated
and hardworking and a happy
person.”

Beta Theta Pi
Susie Prevost
W&L ‘97
Accounting/ Business
Administration
Escort: Jay Johnson ‘97

Kappa Sigma
Courtney Tucker
W&L ‘96
Politics
Escort: Will Townes ‘96
“My life is the Hill.”

Minority Student
Association
Nejma Petit
W&L ‘98
Evironmental Science
Escort John Branam ‘96
“This school means a lot
to me, and I would be proud to
represent Washington and Lee
as its queen.”

Ellen Marie
W&L ‘9
English V _ ,

Escort: Chris Blyt H 7.
‘‘I’m very involved in the W&L
community, playing sports and
participating in club and com-
munity services, and I would be
honored to represent the school
as homecoming queen.”

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Lynne Kemp Waterman
Hollins College
Communications
Escort: Wen Hutchinson ‘96

“A homecoming queen
should be an enthusiastic per-
son who is proud to represent
her school and the fraternity and
organization that nominated.”

International Club
Rachel Wright
W&L ‘97
Business Administration
Escort: Nick Waddy ‘96
“l think I would make a
good homecoming queen be-
cause I represent some of the
more diverse interests in the
university.

Not Pictured

S.B.A.
Alison Pilgrim
W&L ‘96L
3rd year law student
Escort: Booth Goodwin
Chi Omega
Sarah Brombacher
W&L ‘96
East Asian Studies/ Econom-
ics
Escort: Andrew Wolff ‘95
“l have an appreciation
for the people and the tradition
of W&L which have encour-
aged involvement in campus life
and in the community, but more
importantly, I have the desire

one year to skydive onto Wil-
son Field.”
during halftime.”
Pi Kappa Phi
Eileen R. MacMurtrie
Sweetbrier College
Art History
Escort: Ryan Read
Kappa Kappa Gamma
Betsy Blunt
W&L ‘97
Business Management] East
Asian Studies
Escort: Lin Fitzenhagen ‘97

“Love and loyalty for
W&L and respect for honor and
tradition.”

What's for dinner‘?

By Robin Seaton
Phi Staff Writer

0 So your Homecoming plans are
set. Widespread Panic and the ac-

companying parties, tailgating, cock-
tails, and a band party or two. In the
midst of this revelry you’ll need to
take time to eat.

But one a weekend like Home-
coming, Pop Tarts and bean dip just
won’t do. So what and where will you
eat? We have the answers to your
culinary quandry.

*Il Palazzo (Main Street):
Lexington’s most elegant option for
Italian dining. The food is authentic
and moderately priced. Options in-
clude pasta, seafood, poultry, meat,
sandwiches, pizza and calzone. Try
the pizza bianca as an appetizer. Ser-
vice is freindly and prompt.

*Willson Walker(Main Street):
Continental cuisine for every palette.
Well known for fine food with style.
Prices are moderate to high, but well
worth it. Café Willson is a must with
dessert.

* Café Michel (Clifton Forge):
The drive to Clifton Forge is well
worth the meal at Café Willson. The
atmosphere is romantic and relaxed.
The menu includes several steak op-
tions, as well as other entreés. The
chicken alfredo is excellent. Prices
are moderate; service is great.

* Harbs (Washington Street):
Conviently located in Downtown Lex,
the bistro is well known for its cre-
ative ﬂair. Additional dining space is
available on the beautiful back patio.
Prices are very affordable. Don’t go
in a hurry; plan on a relaxed meal.

* G Willaker’s (Route 7, Lex-
ington, in Best Western): The food is
fun and the prices are reasonable.
Service is excellent. Ask for a table in
Steve’s section.

* The Inn at Union Run (Route
674, Lexington): This full service bed
and breakfast also has a fantastic din-
ing room open to the public. The Inn
at Union Run is considered by many
to be the best food in the Valley. The
food is gourmet and excellently pre-
pared. Prices are high but worth it.
Service is top notch.

* Kenny Rogers’ Roasters (At
the Valley View Mall, Roanoke):
Order your favorite country-style side
dishes along with wood-roasted
chicken or turkey. Kenny’s music
completes the ambiance. Service is
fast—food but tastes like grandma’s.
Dont’ forget your souvenier cup.
Prices are low.

* Berky’s Restaurant at Lee-hi
Truckstop (Route 11, Lexington): If
dinner isn’t your style, have break-
fast. It’s available 24 hours a day.
(Try the He-man Special or the Quick-
n-Easy). Dinner and sandwiches are

ll-om-eoeming

-:95

also served. Berky’s is the ideal op-
tion for that laidback Homecoming
dinner. Prices are affordable.

* Home Sweet Home: Yours,
that is. How better to romance your

 

date than with a candlelight dinner
prepared by your own loving hands?
If that’s not your style, invite a group
to cook together. Prices and service
vary by location.

Homecoming Bands ‘Q5

Compiled by Jeff Mitchell

lambda CH Abha-My lJncIe’s Old Anny Buddies
Beta Theta Di-Uncle Mingo
(held ioihtly with Dhi Delta lheta)
CH Dsi-Duddlecluck
Kappa Abha-Impulse Dicle

Kappa Sigma-Doxie’s Kitchen
Dti Delta Iheta-Uncle Mingo

(held iointly with Beta lheta Di)

Dhl Gamma Delta-A DJ. Darty
Dhl Kelapa Dsi-Ihe Arnies
Dhi Kappa Sigma-limicl Dleasure
DI Kappa Abha-Six Million Dollar Band

Di Kaapa Dhi-The Sick Dogs

Slslna Abha Evslon-Blue Miracle

Sigma Chi-liot Karl and Catfish Jenkins
Sigma N1-Divine Thing
Sigma DH Epslon-llhe Mike Latham Band

Homecoming to include WWII reunion

From Phi Staff Reports

Washington and Lee Univer-

sity’s Homecoming activities on Oc-
tober 5-7 will revolve around the
theme of “A Sentimental Journey,”
which celebrates the 50th anniver-
sary of the end of World War II.

Homecoming at W&L tradition-
ally coincides with the Five-Star Gen-
erals reunion for alumni whose classes
were graduated 50 or more years ago.
This year the university is including
the “War Years” classes — those
classes who collegiate careers were
interrupted by World War II.

The keynote speaker for this
special reunion will be well-known

journalist and alumnus Charles R.
McDowell, Jr. ‘48. He will speak at
the opening reunion assembly on
Thursday, October 5 at 8:30 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.

The university will honor all of
these special alumni at a Friday
evening gala, “A Moonlight Serenade
— A Fancy Dress of the Swing Era,”
with the Glenn Miller Orchestra, at
the Warner Center. Other activities
will include World War II seminars, a
Memorial Service, and a post-game
reception at the Alumni House. In
addition the classes of 1940 and 1935
will celebrate their 55th and 60th re-
unions, respectively. Finally, mem-
bers of the four most recently gradu-

ated classes will also gather for a
“cluster reunion,” a chance for
younger alumni to come together prior
to the five-year spring reunion.

In addition to these special
events, other activities will include
the Homecoming parade on Satur-
day, October 7 at 11:30 a.m., the
football game against Davidson at 2
p.m. on Wilson Field, alumni recep-
tions, concerts, and lectures. Friday’s
activities will include the annual John
Randolph ‘Tucker Lecture in Lewis
Hall at 12:10 p.m. Carol M. Rose,
Gordon Bradford Johnston Professor
of Law and Organization at Yale Law
School, will be the scheduled speaker.
At 4:15 p.m. there will be a dress

parade at the Virginia Military Insti-
tute parade grounds with the W&L
alumni as the reviewing team. A
reception for alumni will be held at
6:30 p.m. in the Alumni House. A
concert with Widespread Panic will
be held in the Student Activities Pa-
vilion at 8 p.m.

Activities continue on Saturday
with the 11:30 a.m. parade in down-
town Lexington. An alumni luncheon
on the Front Lawn will be held at 12
noon. At 2 p.m. the football team will
go against Davidson, with the Free
Falling Sky Dive Team at half-time
and the crowning of the Homecom-
ing queen. A post-game reception
will be held at the Alumni House.

The Rina-tum Phi number 6

1995

By Cindie Young
Phi Features Editor

I I
hinking of them I know the
price we have paid for what we glibly
call our blessings,” wrote President
Francis P. Gaines in 1946; the me of
his thoughts were all at one time stu-
dents of W&L, students who in the
course of World War II lost their lives
wearing the uniform of their country.
Fifty years later, the memory of these
men is still alive on campus, and this
weekend features a host of events in
honor of them and their classmates.
Running from Thursday
afternoon’s registration to Saturday’s
football game, and with a schedule of
events including carriage tours, his-
tory seminars, speeches and a ban-
quet, Homecoming Weekend 1995
promises to entertain W&L alums in

grand style.
Rob Mish, Associate Director

of Alumni Programs, calls this year’s
Homecoming program for alumni “a
very different kind of event from any-
thing we’ve ever had before.”

One important way in which this
year’s scheduled events depart from
past homecoming festivities is in the
weekend’s focus, Mish explains.

“Here’s a group focused on one
thing,” Mish said, and that one thing
is the recollection of World War II, a
war that affected every student,
whether interrupting, preceding or
following his studies.

Just as World War II had its
effect within the W&L community,
so too did W&L have an effect upon
the fighting of the war itself, and the
university’s Alumni Magazine re-
ports that, “student-for-student,
Washington and Lee lost more of its
alumni than any other school in the
United States.”

By August 1944, nearly 3000
men—accounting for one-third of
W&L’s entire alumni roll—had
joined American troops in Europe,
the Pacific, and beyond, and before
peace was again restored to the world,
136 alumni had lost their lives.

Of the veterans who had left
without a degree the classrooms of
W&L for the battlegrounds of World

 I-orn~eCom'ing *9?)

ebrate 50th

' Photo by Betsy Green
Phi Photo Editor

Distintwe headgear identifies 1994 Five-Star Generals.

War II, some returned to campus and
resumed their studies.

One such veteran, Addison
Lanier, reﬂected upon the school he
found changed and yet much the same
when he returned, writing in the May
1946 Alumni Magazine, “Where the
man individually is concerned, there
isn’t a noticeable change. A lot of
inward change, but not the sort that
makes an apparent difference.”

In fifty years the campus has
doubtless undergone much more in-
ward and even outward change, but
this weekend its same doors and
grounds will open officially to those
who attended in years past.

Many a distinguished guest will
stand behind a podium in the next few
days, addressing an audience of
alumni and all others interested.

On Thursday evening, the well-
established journalist Charles R.
McDowell, Jr. (’48) will speak in Lee
Chapel, and Friday will bring Carol
M. Rose, Gordon Bradford Johnston
Professor of Law and Organization
of Yale Law School, to Lewis Hall at

12:10 p.m.

Aseriesof reunion seminarswill
also take place throughout the week-
end, featuring W&L professors of
history and politics, and examining
the effects of World War II upon
politics, women, the university, as
well as the war’s legacies in the years
that followed.

A banquet and fancy dress‘ for
alumni will be held Friday night, fea-
turing cocktails, dinner, and dancing
to the music of the Glenn Miller Or-
chestra.

Under the theme “W&L and
World War II: A Sentimental Jour-
ney,” Homecoming 1995 can only be
a weekend to add to the already rich
memories of the attending alumni..

To the presence on campus of
W&L’s alumni this weekend will also
be added the presence, in memory, of
their classmates who lost their lives
serving their country, a presence of
lasting power:

“As succeeding generations
come and go upon these green
stretches,” President Gaines asked in

1946, “what could we present of finer
inspiration than the story of these
young students who also walked the
grassy ways?”

WW

w 7%?

 I  995 The R!na—tum pm Octnhac 5 1325

Photo by Betsy Green

Phi Pnofo gar”

Welocome Back Alumni

fhgto by Betsy Green
' ' Phi Photo Editor

JAIN/aiiﬁ 
WA3Hi.’\‘€:'I’( I .9. L

 
 

. : li-?»7l~'».‘~‘.Y
}’Ni'./EQSITY

LEXINQTON, VA HQ)

GE?’ T. 2'27 1995

C ogrgree & ‘I/gage.‘

506127137 f0£'{ ‘me ﬂtacrs asrmxzgs
C‘ZlL’I’ll£/{£ rro am; QHQ 3

Volleyball ,

football

have big weekends

Iftiltg-111111 ighi  

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 13, 1995

ert E. Lee remembered

 

x 3/
Q5 ‘,5
VOLUME 56, N0. 6 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
r
F
ii
A
4
A
M
4
4
Bets Gren, Phi Photo Editor
Mourning a lost era
' , ' -   . , V _ , _ -..-,‘,;,,-_.a, ,.
As the Liberty Hall Volunteers march into Lee Chapel, the W&L and Lexington community gather for
the memorial service commemorating the 125th anniversary of General Lee's death.

‘Off-campus Liberty users
‘plagued by e—mail pranksters

4,

4

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

student’s identity, saying that he was wondering if he was gay. The
student soon began receiving mail from members of the group, encour-
aging him to explore his sexuality.

“These pranks have proved to be really embarrassing and insulting for

In order to prevent e—mail abuse, off-campus users of Liberty, Wash-
ington and Lee’s on—line network, should take care to log out completely

after a session.

Bob Williams, W&L’s network and systems administrator, said he
has heard about 15 cases of e—mail tampering beginning last year.
Williams explained that the problem occurs when an off-campus
" user’s Liberty session is interrupted before Iogout. Off-campus Liberty
users must dial the university’s e—mail number, 463-8965, which con-
nects them with the server, which handles all e—mail connections.

A session can be interrupted before logout due to a power outage or
call waiting signals that can disconnect an off-campus user.

Whether the session is interrupted, or the user does not logout
completely, the university’s server does not receive signals that the
session has been stopped. Instead, it keeps the account open.

The next user who dials in is connected to the previous user’s account.
person’s electronic

The second user is free to send mail under that
identity or enter into user groups.

The most common abuses include sending threatening or obscene
messages under someone else’s e—mail or entering user groups.

Williams told of one student who began receiving messages from a
homosexual chat group. A prankster had entered the group using the

‘Gross speaks on Jefferson

4 BY DAN ODENWALD

Phi Executive Editor

Most, if not all, Virginia residents know what three
accomplishments are inscribed on'I'homas Jefferson’s tomb-

" stone. He authored the Declaration of Independence and the

Virginia Statute on Religious Freedom, and was father of
the University of Virginia.

According to Dr. Robert A. Gross, Director of Ameri-
can Studies at the College of William and Mary, he

‘should also be remembered for serving as Virginia’s ﬁrst

school superintendant.

In a lecture entitled “Educating a Citizenry,” Gross
discussed Jefferson ’s goals for education in Virginia around
the turn ofthe 19th century.

4 Sponsored by the Washington and Lee History Depart-

ment and the Society of the Cincinnati, Gross spoke to a full
house at Leyburn Library’s Northern Auditorium
Monday night.

Gross analyzed Jefferson’s belief that the health of the
‘young republic depended on the education of its citizens.

“Given the statesman’s European Enlightenment training

and revolutionary ideals, Jefferson wanted education for all.

In 1779 he proposed a bill before the Virginia state
legislature calling for public schooling of all white children
at public expense. Furthermore, he provided for grammar

«schools which would prepare the brightest students for

college life.

the people they’re happening to,” Williams said. “Although W&L is in
its fourth year with Liberty, it’s only now becoming a widely used tool.”
Williams said this is why cases of e—mail abuse are happening now as
opposed to three years ago.

While he’s not sure who the pranksters are, Williams has an idea.
Computer records show the identities, times and locations of
people logging in. These records can help him narrow the list of
possible culprits. They could be from either inside or outside
the W&L community.

He hopes to install a new server by the end of this month that will
receive signals whenever a session is ended, regardless of whether the
user logged out or not.

In the meantime, part of the problem could be alleviated if users would
make sure to logout fully every time. But users cannot anticipate power
outages or thunderstorms.

If you find yourself in another person’s account, Williams said, logout
immediately, and send him a message notifying him that his account
was open.

Williams said that masquerading as someone else on e—mail does not
ﬁt with the high standards of honor the school tries to maintain.

“People think that standards of decency don’t apply simply because
they’re using higher technology,” he said.

BY KERI ANNE DUNPHY
Phi Staff Writer

For many, Thursday was merely another
“same-old, same-old” day in Lexington. Per-
haps they did not notice the black bows lining
the columns of Washington Hall; perhaps they
did not think it strange that the bells tolled at
9:30 a.m.; maybe they did not see the color
guard or the Liberty Hall volunteers walking on
the hill; or maybe they were just plain oblivious
to the historical importance marked by Thurs-
day: the 125th anniversary of the death of
Robert E. Lee.

The memorial service held on Thursday was
instituted in 1987, though this was only the
second consecutive year in which Washington
and Lee colonnade has been wrapped in black
ribbons in honor of Lee’s death. Encasing the
columns in black ribbon dates back to October
15, 1870, the date of Lee’s funeral, when the
columns were lined in
black and Washington
College began to mourn
the loss of Lee.

This mourning re-
surfaced on Thursday
at 12 noon when the
memorial service was
held in Lee Chapel in
honor of the former
president of Washing-
ton College. The open-
ing procession featured

’ the Color Guard, "Col: "
Harry W. Gilmor Camp
#1388, Sons of Confed-
erate Veterans and the
Washington and Lee
Liberty Hall Volun-
teers. An opening
prayer was said by Dr.
Thomas V. Litzenburg,
Jr., the acting chaplain,
who prayed for the souls
of the dead, especially
for “Thy servant Robert E. Lee” whose spirit is
at home in Thy presence.”

After the invocation, President John Elrod
gave his welcome and his reﬂections upon
Lee’s impact on the university now called
Washington and Lee. Lee shaped the college,
said Elrod, by reconciling two seemingly op-
posing views of knowledge: the Greek ideal
and the laconian understanding. The Greek
ideal is that ofknowledge forthe sake ofknowl-
edge while the laconian vision understands the
importance of knowledge for bettering the hu-
man condition. Lee embraced both ideals, ar-
gued Elrod, and molded the curriculum and
character of the university accordingly.

Hand in hand with this respect for knowl-
edge, Lee instilled in his students a sense of
moral character, for Lee held that a trained
mind is incomplete without a concomitant train-
ing of character. Lee has bequeathed this vision
to us, and today, he said, we carry out his legacy
and salute his memory with our ﬁrm commit-
ment to the necessary symbiosis of knowledge
and character.

Following Elrod’s remarks, W&L Profes-
sor of History J . Holt Merchant introduced the
guest speaker, Dr. James I. Robertson, Jr., C. P.
Miles Professor of History at Virginia Poly-

 

technic Institute and State University.
Robertson, the author of several biographies,
including a soon-to-be published biography of
Stonewall Jackson, spoke of Lee and his les-
sons for us even today, 125 years after his death.

Robertson claimed that Lee is a key illustra-
tion of the nationalistic decline this country is
facing. He said we no longer have great ﬁgures
like Lee to emulate. Honor, duty and valor,
integral to Lee’s life, are words that have lost all
meaning and seem in danger of extinction.

Robertson quoted, “Mountains are a mys-
tery when one looks only at lowlands.” It was
“spiritual hunger,” he said, a searching for a
sense of this “mountain” ﬁgure, that brought
people to the service on Thursday. It is this
“spiritual hunger’ that makes us idolize Lee.
Sadly, he claimed, “no one like Robert E. Lee
lives today.”

But why was Lee a “mountain” ﬁgure for
this nation? After all, he did lead the South in its
quest for independence. Lee was selﬂess: It is
said that after a battle he went searching to ﬁnd
food for his men, not caring about the potential
risks to his own life,
and not thinking about
his own survival. Lee
had a strong sense
of duty.

Afterthe South had

been defeated, he ex-
erted his inﬂuence to
restore the unity of the
country. Despite the
fact that he was called
a traitor and was not
granted citizenship, he
worked hard to restore
peace in the torn coun-
try and insisted that
the South accept its
defeat and work to-
ward reestablishing
unity. It is Lee’s sim-
plicity, modesty, com-
mitment to duty, self-
lessness and faith, said
Robertson, that we
yearn for today.

Robertson asserted that it was “because of
Robert E. Lee that modern America lived at
all.” After the battle of Appomatox, Lee had
three options: to ﬁght, to surrender or to pursue
guerrilla warfare until the Yankees surrendered.
Guerrilla warfare, not uncommon in civil wars,
would have, argued Robertson, “destroyed
America forever.” Lee, aware of this, chose
instead to accept defeat. Furthermore, he de-
manded this of others. He held that all must
accept defeat and let the past be the past. He
urged the South to work with the North for the
common good.

Robertson told of a mother who asked Lee to
persuade her sons not to go to college in the
North. Lee responded, “Forget your animosi-
ties and make your sons Americans.” It is this
sense of duty, commitment and teaching by
example that made Lee the “mountain” that he
was, and it is this vision that lives on at “General
Lee’s University” today.

Finally, Robertson denounced modern “re-
visionist” scholars who try to taint Lee’s image
which, said Robertson, “cannot be scarred by
such ignominy.” His vision and ideal live on
today at the University and his name will live
forever. Robertson asked that we “leave him
alone in his glory.”

He also completely revamped the curriculum for the
College of William and Mary by eliminating all religion
courses and placing a heavy emphasis on the liberal arts.
Jefferson believed a college education should be secular and
avoid the trappings of theologians.

In his bill, Jefferson also provided for scholarships for
poor students. If a student was successful at the lower levels
of education, the state would pay for his higher learning.
The selection process was extremely rigorous. Few indi-
gent students actually were granted admission to William
and Mary, but Gross pointed out that Jefferson did not
believe education was for the individual.

“For Jefferson, education was an instrument of citizen-
ship (to be used in) service to the republic,” said Gross.

Ironically, Jefferson’s proposals were contrary to the
prevailing attitudes of the day. He advocated tax-payer
support for public schools and increased state govem-
ment control — two widely despised concepts in
revolutionary America.

“His plan was radically at odds with the society in which
he lived,” said Gross.

Ultimately, the bill failed. Virginia did not provide for
public education until the 20th century.

Gross believes that the legacy of the legislature’s failure
to enact Jefferson’s bills was an current educational system
badly in need of help.

Gross is the author of two books on revolutionary America,
TheMinutemen and Their World and Printing, Politics, and

Kappas and bikers unite in the KKG’s first prize Homecoming float on Saturday.

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

the People.

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Serbs continue brutal ethnic

cleansing around Banja Luka

BOSNIA, HERZEGOVlNA—As the United Nations’ planned cease
ﬁre between the Bosnian government and Bosnian Serbs was postponed
until Thursday due to inadequate power supplies to Sarajevo, Serbian
continued what ofﬁcials are calling brutal ethnic cleansing in and around
Banja Luka. Muslim and Croatian women and children living in Banja
Luka, a Serbian military stronghold and a refuge for thousands of displaced
Serbians, are being expelled from the town and surrounding areas while all
men of ﬁghting age are being sent to detention centers and what ofﬁcials
call an uncertain fate. The brutality of the treatment of the Muslims and
Croatians by the Serbian forces is being condemned by neutral forces, and
the Red Cross is becoming increasingly alarmed by the refusal of the
Serbian military to allow them contact with the thousands of men who have
been detained.

Simpson backs out on NBC

NEW YORK--In the wake of widespread criticism of what NBC
viewers called the extremely distasteful decision to air an interview with
O.J. Simpson, Simpson last night backed out shortly before air time. The
planned interview with Tom Brokaw and Katie Couric was to be an hour-
long, commercial and proﬁt-free first public appearance for Simpson since
his acquittal last week in the murders of his ex—wife, Nicole Brown
Simpson, and Ronald Goldman. Simpson postponed the interview in light
of the civil suit ﬁled by Ronald Goldman’s family, which is still pending,
stating that in his lawyers’ opinion, it was not in his best legal interest to
respond to certain questions which might arise in the interview.

Webber’s new contract grants

highest salary in NBA history

SHEPHERDSTOWN, WEST VIRGINlA—Chris Webber’s new con-
tract with the Washington Bullets will pay $57 million over six years,
setting a record for the highest NBA salary ever, excluding the now banned
balloon payments. This sum is likely to become a standard against which
the salaries of free agents like Michael Jordan and Shaquille O’Neal will
be judged in the coming season.

N eo-Nazi group assumes
blame for Amtrak derailings

HYDER, ARIZONA--On Monday, ﬁve Amtrak passenger cars de-
railed and crashed into a ravine, resulting in one death and over one
hundred injuries. A group calling itself “The Sons of Gestapo” is claiming
responsibility for the sabotaged tracks which apparently were responsible
for the crash. Meanwhile, government agents begin a sweeping investiga-
tion of both the crime scene and the typewritten notes left there, allegedly
by this neo-Nazi group. Federal agents and President Clinton have vowed
to bring the parties responsible to justice, but in the wake of the false
accusations against Muslim terrorists in the case of the Oklahoma City
bombing, officials refuse to place blame on paramilitary organizations at
this early date.

GOP WATCH

 

EDITOR'S NOTE: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Republi-
can Presidential Campaign in advance of
Mock Convention.

Candidates make history with

early ads in New Hampshire

MANCHESTER, NEW I-IAMPSHIRE—-It is four months until the ﬁrst
Presidential primary takes place in New Hampshire, but the Republican
candidates’ advertising in the state is already in full swing. It is the earliest
television campaign in primary history. Former Governor Lamar Alexander
of Tennessee has been advertising since June, and Governor Pete Wilson
of California began broadcasting commercials in late August. Neverthe-
less, it remains uncertain if early advertising will be effective.

Since Senator Bob Dole was pronounced the front-runner for the
Republican nomination this year, none of the other ten candidates have
come close to challenging his position. In a recent poll, Dole had 35 percent
of the vote whereas his closet challengers were in the single digits. Yet
there still remains plenty of time for new-developments, especially with
Dole’s weak showing in a recent straw poll in Iowa, and the fact that the
heavily favored General Colin Powell has yet to announce his intentions.

Buchanan’s tough tariff talk
rattles Republican Party

FORT DODGE, lOWA——Pat Buchanan, on a recent campaign tour
through Iowa, advocated a strict policy of economic nationalism which
sent shock waves through the ﬁeld of Republican candidates.

He supports a 10 percent tariff on every import from Japan and a “social
tariff” on products made in Mexico and other developing economies to
“insulate us from un-American competition with workers making 75 cents
or a dollar an hour.” Buchanan also encourages a ﬁve-year suspension of
all immigration until American wages begin to grow again.

As a surprise to his colleagues in the Republican Party, Buchanan
attracting large crowds and often placing second or third behind Senator
Dole in polls. The overall effect, many analysts believe, of Buchanan’s
tough talk is to drag the Republican party platform further to the right as
the other candidates attempt to embrace Buchanan’s ideas in order to
attract voters.

Beyond the Blue Ridge and GOP Watch are
compiled by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

A

 Mock Con gets
$10,000 grant

BY EMrr.Y BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

The 1996 Mock Convention received a $10,000 grant
from the Ethics and Excellence in Journalism Foundation,
an Oklahoma City foundation. This grant is Mock Con’s
second largest source of funding so far.

The money will go to the Media Committee, which puts
together press releases and press packets for the news media
that cover Mock Con.

“Hopefully with this money, Mock Con will become
more of a learning experience for students,” said Mock Con
Political Chair Bob Ross. “We hope to provide students with
handson experience.”

Mock Con’s total budget is around $220,000. The Media
Committee's budget is $14,000. The Media Committee
plans to invite a speaker to talk about how the media shapes
politics.

“The money will help the Media Committee have more
activities that students can get involved in,” said Aloise
Bozell, one of the committee heads.

Not only will the money allow more students to get
involved, Bozell said, but it will attract more media attention
by allowing the committee to distribute more and better
press kits.

Mock Con’s largest source of funding comes from the
Sumner’s Trust from a Dallas organization, which contrib-
utes around $80,000 to every Mock Convention. Ross hopes
that Ethics and Excellence in Journalism will also become
a regular contributor.

“At the end of the year we turn in a report to them,” he
said, “and if they like what they see, it might happen every
four years.”

The Foundation was established in November 1982 to
support projects designed to improve the quality and ethical
standards of journalism in the media. The Foundation is
funded by Edith Gaylord Harper, whose family publishes
the Daily Oklahoman. The Foundation gives out ten grants
a year, said Roger Mudd, one of Mock Con’s media advi-
sors.

“They give money to a smorgasboard of journalism
projects,” Mudd said, including small journalism schools

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The Lexington Coffee Roasting Company will now have extended hours for
those in Lex who need a late-night caffeine and cheesecake fix.

Lexington Coffee Roasting’
Company extends hours »«

that request computers and writing workshops for small

newspapers.

Bozell said the Media Committee hopes to bring back the
McNeil-Lehrer News Hour, which came to cover the 1992
Mock Con. C-Span might also come, Bozell said.

Libertarians

EIHTTﬂTSlNOﬂIh Tﬂﬁsisthe
second of a three-part series
highlighting different political
organizations on campus.

 

BY CELESTE RASMUSSEN
Phi Staff Writer

 

One of Washington and
Lee’s newest political orga-
nizations is the College
Libertarians. President and
founder Jason Sorens started
the club at the end of last
year and hopes that its
presence on campus will
cause students to think more
philosophically.

For those not familiar
with the tenets of the party,
Sorens describes Libertari-
anism as,”neither liberal nor
conservative. It is liberal on
personal issues and conser-
vative on economic issues.
Basically, it is for limited
government and against
governmental interference
in social and economic
policy.”

Although the club has not
had an organized meeting,
its members communicate
by e-mail. Next month they
hope to sponsor a speaker,
Jacob Hornberger, from the

Drinking for science

Future of Freedom Associa-
tion. They also hope to spon-
sor a seminar along with
W&L’s other two political
party organizations, The
College Republicans and the
College Democrats. The
seminar would feature stu-
dent speakers and would be
an exchange of ideas be-
tween the different campus
political groups. In the
future, they would also like
to bring Libertarian Party
Presidential candidate Harry
Browne to campus as a
speaker.

As far as long-term goals
are concerned Sorens says
that, “We are more con-
cerned with the spreading
of ideas than electing can-
didates.” They are also in-
terested in increasing their
presence on campus.

Thefacultyadvisorofthe
College Libertarians is
Wayne Dymacek from the
Math Department. Sorens
urges anyone interested in
the College Libertarians,
whether an undergrad or a
law student, to get in touch
with him via e-mail.

MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Associate Editor

that night.

On October 25, students don’t have
to travel to fraternities for alcohol.
Instead, they can go to the General

Headquarters.

The Health Education Committee
and the Peer Counselors will sponsor
the 4th annual Controlled Drinking
Experiment. Representatives from dif-
ferent campus organizations will drink
one beer every twenty minutes and
then take a breathalizer test.

This year, along with the Controlled
Drinking Experiment, the ﬁrst annual

Mocktail will be held.

Senior Mary Lynn King, who
orgainized the event, said Mocktail is
a contest where students organizations
submit recipes for their favorite alco-

  

Valley 

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

 

BY BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant News Editor

Lexington Coffee is now experimenting with
extended later hours. This past Friday and Satur-
day, the shop stayed open and was quite busy
until l1p.m. According to co-owner Melissa
Scholl, the idea of staying open later has been on
the table for a while. It was, however, the shop’s
May 1st move that played a big role in the
realization of that plan.

“The fact that we finally found a larger space
enabled us to be open late at night...Being open
late in the other space simply wasn’t viable
because we couldn’t fit enough people in there,”
Scholl said.

Before Lexington Coffee moved across Wash-
ington Street to its new location, Scholl got some
general impressions from customers about what
they would like out of the new shop. The two
most popular responses were “the same quiet,
intimate sort of atmosphere” and late evening
hours. Scholl says that it may take some time to

get those later set though.

“lt’s all on experiment right now... [We need]
to see when it is that people want to come in.“
We’re trying to come in. We’re trying to give it
the biggest window possible to see when people
actually want to be here.”

Scholl also stated that she and her husband and
co-owner, Terry, are willing to keep the shop open
late on weeknights as well, if there is a demand for ’4
it.

During the new late hours, Lexington Coffee
will be serving a few more desserts, like cheese-
cake and trufﬂes, rather than just the cookies and
biscotti that they serve during the day. Another ,,
new addition for the late hours was a guitarist on
Saturday night. Scholl said that the music was
well received and complemented the shop’s quiet,
intimate atmosphere.

“[The music] went over real well, so that’s
something we’ll try to do as frequently as we ‘
can...We’d be interested in some other instru-
ments, a ﬂute or a violin...”

Lexington Coffee is now open Fridays and
Saturdays until 11 p.m. and Sundays from 9 a.m.
to 4 p.m., in addition to their regular hours during ,,
the week.

Yearbook Pictures .
We want your face in the Calyx
All Independents, Freshman ’

Women, Phi Kapps
where: The University Center Room 108
When: Friday, October 13, 10-2
Sunday, October 15, 3-6 and 7-10 ‘
***Women may wear provided black drape if desired.
Men are encouraged to wear coat and tie.*** I

holic beverages. She said student rep-
resentatives will make the beverages

The beverages will be judged by a
panel of student and faculty. King said
the list has not been ﬁnalized, but Dean
of Students David Howison, Professor
Erich Uffelman, and Drayton Virkler
’97 are on the panel.

King said the ﬁrst place winner will
receive $50. Other prizes include Ari-
zona Ice Tea, t-shirts and gift certiﬁ-
cates to places such Sweet Things.

Chairman Mathew Smith said the
Health Education Committee will plan
other events during the year.

“We will be doing brainstorming
throughout the year to come up with
new ideas,” he said.

He said new members are welcome
to come to the meetings, which take
place every Tuesday in the Women’s
Center at 6:30 p.m.

  

 

 

A     9{o5Eie’5Lounge 7

  

Route 7, Box 99A

Restaurant 11:00 am. to 9:50 p.m_

».
Betsy Green, Phi Phoo rtor
The Phi congratulates Homecoming Queen Caroline ‘L
Connolly  escort Lee Counselman.
SPRING BREAK - N assau/Paradise Island, Cancun
and Jamaica from 299.00. Air, Hotel, Transfers, ‘
Parties, and Morel Organize a small group and earn a A
FREE trip plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321
V

iliestaumnt and ;

0 L

"mama: smass Lexington, Virginia 24450 .3-

Hardware Paint and Related Items Near the Home Center ”

’ ’ Phone 464-9499
S . 1 - 5 . . ’~
un 463_2p1I8n6 Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to?

 

 

"The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995

 

K

 tress

By Rachel Goddu
Phi Staff W71-iter

Many moons ago the Faculty Ex-
ecutive and the Registration and Class
‘Schedule Committees put into works
the idea of a few days devoted to de-
stressing before Thanksgiving break
and catching up on homework. Thus
Reading Days were born...
-4»
This year's Reading Days fall on
Thursday and Friday, October 19 and
20, and, like last year a good number of
students will be staying on campus.
Studying will be a popular activity as
well as sleeping and hanging around.
In a survey executed last year by the
Registrar’s Office the following infor-

"Dead

V(7€o’L1'][e

 

relief/‘or the wear

are the students involved with the the-
atrical production Children of a Lesser
God. True to the maxim “the show
must go on,” Professor Martinez, who

mation was gathered. Out of 465 re-
sponses on a survey that encouraged
multiple answers, 43% of the students
who answered vacationed or at least
took a break during the days, with 40%
staying in the Lexington area.

Of those looking to the future, 1%
visited a graduate or professional
school, and 1% had a job interview.

46% of the students surveyed caught
up on past assignments, and 41% stud-
ied for upcoming academic assign-
merits.

Some students here at W&L will be
working as hard as usual during Read-
ing Days. Men’s and Women’s Cross
Country, Men’s and Women’s Soccer,
Football, Volleyball, Water Polo, and
Golf all have games on or the weekend
of Reading Days.

Also staying here for Reading Days

is directing,

one freshman from Washington State,
who claims, “On Reading Days I will
be rotting away in my dorm room,
weeping over the fact that I can’t go

home and ev-

said, “Rehears-
als are not can-
celed during
R e a d i n g
Days,” some-
thing the cast
knew before

...studying will be a
popular activity, as
well as sleeping and
hanging around...

eryone else
can.”
Some mis-

cellaneous stu-
dent plans are
clandestine fra-
ternity pledge
class trips, and
drives to visit

they audi-
tioned.
R e a din g

Days could have come at a better time
for W&L’s Theatre Department, as Pro-
fessor Martinez elaborates, “[they] oc-
cur a week before audiences arrive.”
Most students are nonchalant about
the brief respite, with the exception of

friends or sib-
lings at nearby colleges.

Last but not least among plans is the
ever popular and always enviable trip
home to Mom, Dad, and apple pie.

Sometimes we all wish we were
Virginians...

VWW»

 

 O O D

By Darcey Livingston
Phi Staff Wﬁter

Professor: Lisa Trevey Alty

Title: Associate Professor of Chemistry and Coordinator of Pre-
Med Studies Program.

Birthplace: Lynchburg, VA, where she currently resides.
Family: Greg, her husband of 12 years, and Issac, her14-month-old
son.

Pets: Max and Lizzie. (“They’re the son and daughter of Dr.
Russell’s cat. She didn’t want to take them to the pound, so she
conned us into taking them!”)

Greek Affiliation: Alpha Chi Omega

Professor Lisa Trevey Alty did not always want to be a college
chemistry professor. When she was a child, she was a bit more musically
inclined. “I thought that being an organist would be really great,” says
Alty, who began playing the piano when she was only seven years old.
“It wasn’t until late junior high or early high school that I thought about
being a college professor.”

Alty’s former teachers are the main reason she got into her current
vocation. “They inspired me into thinking that would be a profession
that would be rewarding—that it would be something that you could feel
good about at the end of the day when you went home.”

The professor loves her job for two main reasons, the first being the
chemistry department. “The thing I like best about being in the
chemistry department is the people that I work with,” relates Alty.
“We’re a pretty kooky bunch. Individually, we’re all very different
people, but all of us have a philosophy about being straightforward. We
saywhat we think to one another.‘ That openness is probably the best
thing about my day-to-day interactions in this building.”

Outside the department, Alty likes the quality of the students at

W&L. “The students here stimulate me intellectually,” she says. Alty
spends three afternoons a week in the organic laboratory, where most of
her interaction with the students takes place. “I really enjoy ﬁnding out
what makes people tick. I ﬁnd the students here very interesting people
to know.”

Alty believes that W&L students are in an ideal educational setting.
“This is the exception, not the rule, in university life, "Alty explains,
adding, "It’s a good exception because you guys have a lot more
personal interactions with the people who are teaching you——a lot more
than most folks do,” explains Alty.

Personal interaction is important to the professor, not only with her
colleagues and students, but with her family as well. In fact, Alty wishes
she could spend even more time with her son, Issac. “There are some
days when I only see him for two or three hours, because he goes to bed
at eight o’clock, and I have an hour commute from wor .”

Since Alty devotes most of her spare time to her family, she does not
engage in many of the activities she used to. “I sewed a lot of my own
clothes for work. I used to knit quite a bit. And, my husband and I
enjoyed going to NASCAR.” (Sewing, knitting, and NASCAR?
What’s wrong with this picture...?)

Prof. Alty explains that a number of years ago, her sister asked her
to get some tickets for the NASCAR races in Richmond. “I sort-of rolled
my eyes and said, ‘Oh gee,”’ admits Alty. However, her sister, brother,
husband, and she ended up going to the races that day. The experience
got her hooked.

“It’s kind-of boring to watch it on TV,” she concedes, “because you
don’t really get a feeling for the power of the automobiles and the skill
it takes to maneuver them at those high speeds in such tight quarters.
When you’re there, you really get a feel for how difficult it is for these
guys to do what they do every Sunday.”

Now, when Prof. Alty has a spare moment, she likes to read fiction-
especially Ken Follett spy thrillers. “One of his books that I liked a lot
was Night Over Water, in which I didn’t know exactly what would
happen until I read the last page of the book. That rarely ever happens!”
says Alty.

Presidents alive and well

PAGE 3

      
  

in By Kirk Suson_g_  V

 Phi Reviewer "r '-

Dead Presidents- 3 stars
¢

Twenty-year-old twins Allen and Albert Hughes made
quite a mark on the ﬁlm world two years ago with their
acclaimed debut, Menace 11 Society. And though much has
been expected of their follow-up, Dead Presidents, their
pager public will not be disappointed. Dead Presidents is
both well directed and well acted, and yet, much like their
first movie, it is poorly scripted. It is this ﬂaw which
prevents the beautiful ﬁlm from being an absolute classic.

Though it seemed like Hollywood had ﬁnally grown
tired of Vietnam ﬁlms several years ago, Dead Presidents
‘focuses on a protagonist greatly shaped by that war. The
story revolves around one Anthony Curtis (Larenz Tate), a
young black man from the Bronx who ﬁnds himself
directionless after graduating from high school in 1969.

at .

2

Though his parents want him to go to college, he decides to
join the military with two of his friends, Skip (Chris Tucker)
and Jose (Freddy Rodriguez).

The time in Vietnam produces the expected trauma, and
when he returns home in the seventies, it is to a world strange
to him. Jobless and prospectless, with hungry mouths to feed
and a cheating wife, he and some friends decide to rob an
annored car carrying old bills.

The ﬁrst thing to say is that Larenz Tate (O-Dog in
Menace 11 Society) gives the most amazing performance I
have seen all year. It would be a travesty of justice if this
young man didn’t receive at least an Oscar nomination for
this role. Tate’s character is young and growing, and goes
through all sorts of changes, from being an innocent young
graduate with a thousand hopes and dreams to a confused,
disillusioned veteran with little to look forward to.

In one scene that sticks out particularly in my mind, an
older, stronger tough guy has just shoved him down a
stairwell and now holds a gun to his face, threatening to kill
him. Rather than simply broadcast fear, Tate conveys a
dread mixed with the courage of a war-hardened veteran,

who knows both the horror of death and its inevitability.
This performance bodes well for the future of this young
man’s career.

As fabulous as Tate’s performance is, it would be a
shame to focus on it to the detriment of the rest of the cast,
notably Chris Tucker as Skip, Keith David as Kirby, and
Bokeem Woodbine as Cleon. Although not well-known
actors, they too are fabulously expressive; the only thing
that constrains them is the size of their roles.

Although the acting alone makes this ﬁlm worth seeing,
it is also an amazing sophomore effort from the Hughes
brothers. Since Pulp Fiction, we have seen a spate of ﬁlms
that loved style for the sake of style, artsy direction simply

to bedazzle the audience, without adding anything to the

substance of the ﬁlm (e.g., Desperado). Here, the Hughes
brothers manage to incorporate style without sacriﬁcing any
substance; the camera’s movement, its angles, even the
sense of editing is ﬂawless and contributes to our under-
standing of each scene. When we are amazed by the beauty
of a particular shot, it doesn’t exclude what is actually being
depicted on the screen, but magniﬁes and emphasizes it.

 

Nevertheless, this ﬁlm still has one gaping hole in its
construction: the script is lifeless, predictable, and tired.
Much like Menace 11 Society, the Hughes brothers devel-
oped one “story idea” and then let another person (in this
case Michael Henry Brown) actually write the script.

_ It’s not so much that the dialogue is not authentic or
something; the problem is more that the whole storyline
goes nowhere. This movie tells one very old tale, that of
youth being disillusioned by the tough realities of an uncar-
ing society, and tells it rather plainly.

The script doesn’t take us over any unchaned ground or
lead us down unexpected alleyways, but-instead meanders
its way through the same land that has been covered a
thousand times before, with varying levels of effectiveness,
in literally dozens of movies, from The Best Years of Our
Lives to Born on the Fourth ofJuly, passing/1 ll Quiet on the
Western Front and Rambo along the way.

As annoying as this is, it shouldn’t stop you from seeing
the ﬁlm. DeadPresidents is an amazing effort by the Hughes
brothers, and more importantly marks the emergence of
another ﬁne black actor. In a short amount of time, Larenz
Tate will stand beside the likes of Denzel Washington and
Morgan Freeman. Go see this ﬁlm now, before you lose the
chance to catch it on the big screen, where we can fully
appreciate the Hughes brothers and their cast.

 

  

, PAGE 4‘

@112 iﬁing-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

W&L values all its history

Yesterday, the Washington and Lee community
took a few moments to commemorate the 125tli"
anniversary of the death of Robert E. Lee. The
pillars of Washington Hall were draped in black
crepe, and a memorial service was held in
Lee Chapel.

It is only right that we celebrate the memory of
General Lee. During his time here, Lee changed the
character of our school forever. His legacies include
the establishment of the journalism school,
improved academic standards, the Speaking
Tradition, and implementation of the Honor System.
Robert E. Lee made Washington and Lee a
better place.

This year also marks the anniversary of another
change that bettered life at Washington and Lee. It
is the tenth anniversary of co-education at
Washington and Lee.

Admitting women to W&L markedly improved
the academic standards of our university. It
increased the number of applicants and allowed
W&L to be more selective. In their ten years here,
W&L women have made their mark as athletes, as
scholars and as leaders. We should be proud of the
legacy of co-education, just as we are proud of the
contributions of Robert E. Lee.

Sadly, the administration has currently made no
plans to commemorate the ten year anniversary of I
fco-educ_q;2__1__tip“n.;tCl“l,iAe contributionsiof: alumnae and‘ .>~ .
current W&L women will not be recognized.

Washington and Lee is a school fiercely proud of
its history. To not celebrate the anniversary of co-
education is to ignore an important chapter in the
history of Washington and Lee.

Quote of the Week

“Yes, I admit I was looking at your ass.”

——Phi Associate Editor Michael Hewlett enlivens

l

PINION

 

If  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995

  

Vi

Can we sacrifice ties to our land?

Nova
CLARKE,
’96

In his book, Blue Highways,
William Least Heat Moon travels
around the heart of America on the
rural roads of the title. The blue
highways of the title are those rural
highways, like Route 1 1 around here,
that go through all the small towns
and allow the traveler to see the coun-
try he is traveling through, as op-
posed to the strip malls and asphalt
travel plazas that are characteristic of
the huge interstates.

On the Outer Banks of North Caro-
lina the author meets an old man who
tells him that Jimmy Caner became
president because, “Hésliowed us he
came from the land. To an American,
land is solidity, goodness, and hope.
American history is about land.” The
members of the 104th Congress in
some ways seem to be working from
that premise about the central nature
of land in the American character.

The validity of this statement is
evident right here in Lexington. Part
of the character of the area is the land.
The surrounding Blue Ridge Moun-
tains cradle the valley and become
part of the memory of the years spent
here. When I go home to Miami, the
mountains are one of the things I
miss because they have been there
for all of the times I spent here.

In a more indirect way, the history
of this school and one of its name-
sakes is tied to the value of the land.
Part of the conflict of the Civil War
was the fact that the landowners of
the South were being told what they
could and couldn’t do with their land
and those that worked the land.

The American character is one
that resents anyone telling us what

to do with our land. Land is a
symbol of liberty and freedom from
the dictates of others and we resent
the idea of anyone telling us what to
do with it.

That is one reason that the Repub-
lican provision in the “Contract with
America” that expands private prop-
erty rights is so popular. Unfortu-
nately, it pits the survival of a species

One of the other bills moving
through Congress is backed by the
chairs of both the House and
Senate Resources Committees. Rep.
Young and Senator Murkowski are
both from Alaska, a state where 90
percent of the land is owned by the
federal government. The bill that they
have been backing would turn the
majority of federal land held by the

against the lib- BLM and other
erty oftheindi- government
vidual to do with ____.._ ..._.___ agencies over to
the land what  the states, who
he wants. would undoubt-
There is  aoapart     let the ma-
in Congress that acter of the area is {,ority_ of the éand
would require _ eprlvatize -
the government the land. The sur To some ex_
to pay a land-    tentlcan see the
Owner the 1088 of mountains cradle the '§aS°"S "°“i“d
potential return I 6 argument.
on ,,,,d if “S valley and become V6,, mm. of
valuernay be di- part ofthe memory of Alaska is owned
minishedb are- 17 Alaskaﬂsﬂlnd
3' the years spent here 3’
striction put on ‘ when people
[and usage to When I go home 10 don’t own land,
save a species. Miami, the moun_ thereisn’tasense

What this ig-
nores is one of
the other sover-
eignprinciplesof
ownership: the
responsibility to
take care of
what is owned.

tains are one of the
things I miss because
they have been there
for all of the times I
spent here.

of having roots.
Think of how
many people
moved out to the
suburbs so they
could have their
ranch house and
a lawn that was

Now we pay
land owners who
build in the ﬂood plain or don’t build
up to standards that will survive the
force of hurricanes or earthquakes.
We give people the freedom of land
without giving them the responsibil-
ity. Those people who build on a
barrier island should recognize the
fact that the land shifts and houses
are in constant danger of having their
foundations move on without the rest
of the house. Land teaches both free-
dom and responsibility, and the gov-
emment should remember that.

their own as a
connection to
the land.

In addition, parts of Alaska were
taken over by the federal government
after people had lived on it for de-
cades. I remember seeing a house
along a highway into Wrangell-St.
Elias Park, created in 1980, that said,
“The Park Service took my land, my
home, and my family.”

To Americans, the loss of land is
a loss of much more, for in some
ways it defines us. The land that my
grandparents farmed is part of the

history of our family and to give it up
takes away part of history. I under-
stand giving those who lost their land
some land in return. However, I dis-
agree with the suggestion that all
federal land should be turned over.

J ust as private property is part of
the history of the individual and the
country, the wild open lands are part
of the history of the country.

When Lewis and Clark traveled
to the Pacific, they were traveling
without cars, highways, and motels
where they could rest. The same goes
for the settlers who domesticated the
West; they traveled on trails with no
guarantee of safety and had to build
their homes when they arrived at an
unknown destination.

The federal lands in Alaska and
other parts of the U.S. should remain
federal and wild for the same reason
thatland is.kept in a family: to re-
member history. How are we to feel
a connection to American history if
the land is all covered in housing
developments and high-rises? We
won’t feel the connection to our
wilder past.

Alaska is the only ‘state in
America where you can still get 50
miles from a road and feel like the
pioneers of the past did. That attach-
ment is important because it is that
spirit that drives America forward,
and if we become too comfortable,
we begin to stagnate.

In his Desert Solitaire, Edward
Abbey writes, “A civilization which
destroys what little remains of the
wild, the spare, the original, is cut-
ting itself off from its origins and
betraying the principle of civiliza-
tion itself.” The members of the 104th
Congress should remember that when
they consider whether to give the
land over to private interests. They
might be turning the country away
from the proud history of individual
challenges and accomplishments that
they praise so much.

the Society for the Arts ’s poetry reading

flirt ‘ﬂing-mm lﬁlti

Executive Editrm

Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Fhristine Garnavish
Assistant News Editor Rethany Bauman
Editorial Page Editor Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Smut Boolrwalter
Features Editor Cindie Young
Photography Editor ‘May Green
Editorial Canoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Dr-ug Genner
Advertising Manager 1-nnifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Kane Alvord
Circulation Manager Stephen William

Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week 's edition. Letters, columns, and ‘My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Riug~tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current coun deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at ﬂaw‘ '

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu. edu

WASP culture, American culture one

NICHOLAS L.
WADDY, ’96

 

When America first emerged onto the world scene,
when she first wrested her independence from Great
Britain in 1776-1783, she was unquestionably one of
the most dynamic and promising powers the world
had ever seen. Down to the present the American
people have maintained this vitality; America is
today, as it is commonly said, “the sole remaining
superpower”—an achievement which speaks vol-
umes about the enduring strength of our people.

But evenis‘ Americans today recognize the enor-

mous significance of their past achievements, and

even as they take pride in their continued dominance
on the world stage, they seem disturbed, pessimistic,
deeply cynical. Even the American left has picked
up on this theme; Hillary Clinton has called for a
“politics of meaning” to redress our country’s per-
ceived moral-spiritual decline. And of course Re-
publicans echo this view as well in their ballyhooing
over the issue of “family values.”

But why does America seem to be faltering?
We are, after all, indescribably rich, far richer than
any country in history has ever been. And our place
in the sun is not meaningfully threatened by any up-
and-coming powers (at least none that do not have
tremendous problems of their own). So why the
national angst?

Let us first remind ourselves of what a nation
is (faithful readers of this column, of course, will

-already" know). A nation, put simply, is a

community like any other—only, of course, bigger.
It is a group of people, an extended family if you will,

bound together by ties of language and history, and
usually also of religion and blood. A nation is never
founded solely on a political creed. The Socialist
International, for all its menacing strength, was not
a nation. And neither is America a nation if it is held
together only by shared political principles. A proper
national identity, in short, always includes an ethnic-
cultural component.

So when we ask why
the tired and disunited
America of today differs

we have come full circle. This is now a country, for
example, that systematically and legally discrimi-
nates against the very people who founded it.

In addition, WASP culture, once a rallying point
for Americans, has become the favorite whipping
boy of revisionist historians. Can anyone doubt that
most members of today’s cultural elite are funda-
mentally hostile to our nation’s established Anglo-
Saxon heritage? Is it only
coincidental that we are
awash in mandatory en-

so radically from the
emerging and united

CC

thusiasm for the contri-
butions of various mi-

America of 1776, we
mightofferthesimpleob-
servation that the bind-
ingforcesofyesteryear—
common culture, ances-
try and history-—largely
have been blotted out.
The America of 1776
was almost entirely
Christian; ofﬁcial Ameri-
can culture was exclu-
sively North-European
White and almost exclu-
sively British in origin.
Indeed, 75 percent of all
White Americans in 1776
were of English descent.
Of course, in the in-

...A nation is never founded
solely on a political creed.
The Socialist International,
for all its menacing strength,
was not a nation. And nei-
ther is America a nation if it
is held together only by
shared political principles.
A proper national identity,
in short, always includes an
ethnic-cultural component.

norities, and yet at the
same time, the traditional
heroes of American his-
tory, like Robert E. Lee,
are now under unprec-
edented attack?

We now hate
WASPS, in short, be-
cause we blame them
for having dominated
America for almost 200
years. But here we err
in our logic, for
America in truth can
never be completely
abstracted from the very
people who historically
have detennined her

tervening 200 years, a variety of immigrant groups
have contributed much to our progress as a nation;
but it bears repeating that each of these new inﬂu-
ences (however positive) was essentially an add-on
to what has remained an enduringly British core.
That explains, after all, why we speak English in
America and not Spanish, German or Dutch.

But now, 200 years after our country was founded,

basic character.
In the broader perspective of history, therefore, in
hating WASPs we are really hating ourselves; we are
rejecting a core element of who we are. And self-
negation, as any psychologist will tell you, is rarely
a healthy practice. This situation is indeed very
dangerous; no social ediﬁce can long stand when its
foundation stone is being eagerly picked apart.

I

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995

OPINION

Late night, in the tunnels under W&L...

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

Setting: Late at night in one of the
darkest comers of the tunnels under
Washington and Lee University. Sev-
eral W&L professors and adminstrators
are gathered around with evil looks on
their faces.

Professor Cruel: Well, colleagues,
we meet tonight to discuss Dubyan
L. Student and his fate for the rest
of the week.

(A slide of our hero, Dubyan, ﬂashes
across a screen behind the professors.
Dubyan is a norrnal-looking guy in his
fraternity shirt and W&L hat. If you
look closely, you can detect dark circles
under his slightly glazed eyes.)

Cruel: Dubyan has had it too easy
lately. Our spies report that last week
he actually got some sleep. Now is the
time for us to all conspire against him
and make his life complete hell!

(The professors laugh ghoulishly
between sips of coffee.)

Professor Death: I’m Dubyan’s En-
glish teacher, so I thought I’d increase
the required reading for the class.

Cruel: Death, that’s not like you.
It seems so easy. C’mon, don’t let
us down.

Death: Did I mention that the extra
reading was the complete works of
Charles Dickens?

(The professors applaud Death
loudly until he calls for them to
be quiet.)

Death: Naturally I’m also assigning
a paper to be written about the reading.

Cruel: Excellent, Professor Death!

I’m sorry I doubted you.

Death: The topic of Dubyan’s little
paper will be, “What’s the meaning of
all of this, anyway?”

(More stomping and applauding
from the professors.)

Professor Pain: Wonderful, Death!
There’s no way he can address that in
less than a hundred pages even if he’s
being lazy! But that’s nothing on what
I have planned.

Cruel: How could you possibly
top that?

Pain: For my class, Dubyan will
have to read 450,000,095 pages of ma-
terial, all written in Russian, if he in-
tends to have a prayer on my midterm.

Death: But you’re a math teacher!

Pain: Exactly!

(Admiration and applause from
the masses.)

Professor Evil: Dubyan is going to
have a hard time getting all of that
reading done with the assignment he
has for my class.

(More cheering.)

Pain: Fabulous, Evil! What is it?

Evil: I’m making Dubyan go hear
four different speakers next week, then
write ten-page reactions to each one.

Cruel: Evil, that’s annoying, but it’s
not that bad.

Evil: Did I mention that three of the
speakers will be performing on the
same night and that one of them is
speaking in Baltimore?

(The professors give
standing ovation.)

Evil: Top that, Professor Unfortunate.

Unfortunate: In addition to being
one of Dubyan’s professors, I am also
his adviser. I plan to spend all of next
week calling him to harass him about

Evil a

LETTERS

his thesis, then hiding whenever he
tries to come to my office to discuss it.

Pain: Unfortuante, that’s delicious!
Dubyan’s only a freshman!

Unfortunate: Maybe so, but
don’t you think next week would be
a good time for him to start worrying
about graduation?

(Thunderous
the professors.)

Unfortunate: I’d also like to report a
bit of good news that none of us had
even thought to pursue. Dubyan seems
to be coming down with something!

(The excitement of the professors
is palpable.)

Cruel: And none of us accept late
work! What a stroke of luck.

Evil: But that’s not all. Gentlemen,
I have a suprise for you.

(Evil disappears into a dark corner
of the tunnels and emerges with two
W&L students, hands tied and
mouths gagged.)

Death: Evil, what have you done?
Who are they?

(Evil removes the gag from one of
the students. He is wearing a hat with
fraternity letters that match the ones on
Dubyan’s shirt.)

Evil: Student, who are you?

Bob: I’m Bob. Dubyan is one of
the pledges in my fraternity. I’m his
pledge trainer.

(A gasp of admiration for Professor
Evil ﬂlls the room.)

Bob: I hate to do this to
Dubyan. He’s a really good guy. But
Professor Evil told me I have to if
I want to get any sleep during my
time at this university.

Unfortunate: Enough of your whin-
ing. Next thing, you’ll be talking about

applause from

student autonomy. We want to know
what you’re going to do to Dubyan.

Bob (sighing): I’m to tell Dubyan to
report to the house for a cleanup. And
to get me a Stop-In dog from the Stop-
In in Buena Vista. My call is to come
when he’s about to take a nap and is
starting to enjoy a moment’s rest. Can
I please leave now?

Evil: Thank you for your coopera-
tion, Bob. Let’s hope Dubyan remem-
bers what you like on your chili dogs.

(Exit Bob. Evil removes the gag
from the other student, a pretty
young girl.)

Evil: And who are you?

Ashley: My name is Ashley. I’m
Dubyan’s girlfriend. Please don’t make
me do this.

(Ashley’s complaints are met with
boos and hisses.)

Evil: Speak, girl.

Ashley: I’m to tell Dubyan that we
need to talk. Regardless of his reaction,
I am to cry and tell him that he doesn’t
love me and doesn’t understand me. I
am also to scream and cry harder if he
does not stay and hold me.

(The professors laugh diabolically,)

Ashley: But I won’t do it! You
people are sick! I want nothing to do
with any of you.

Unfortunate: I’m sorry you feel that
way, Ashley. Because your schedule
next week just took a turn for the worse.

(Ashley is led out of the room
in tears.)

Cruel: On to our next victim.

(The slide changes, and every
member of the newspaper audience
gasps in horror as they see their own
faces reﬂected in a large mirror in
the darkness.)

Elrod invites W&L community to inauguration

To the editor:

My inauguration as the twenty-second president of Washington and Lee
University will be held on Oct. 21 at 11:30 a.m. Nothing would please Mimi and
me more than for you all to be there in full force to participate in the formal
opening of my presidency, and I take this occasion to invite you each and

everyone to that event.

The date falls on the Saturday following your two-day reading break. I wish

that it were not so, but this date was the only one available to us in the fall given
my desire to hold the inauguration before next spring and the crush of activities
at both Washington and Lee and VMI that makes scheduling any event very
difﬁcult at that time of the year. In spite of the timing, 1 do hope that you will plan
to be there and will look forward to your presence on that day.

John W. Elrod

President, Washington and Lee University

: ‘ ” ring-tum Phisjiorts coverage shows ’   ‘I
lack of respect for women’s soccer

To the editor:

I have a few comments about the Sports section
that I would like to share with you. First of all, why
is it that the women’s soccer team, and a few other
teams as well, are always reported on in “.lockShorts”
and are rarely allotted a full article? I’d like to point
out that the women’s soccer team has a better record
than either of the teams featured in the articles in the

Oct. 6 edition of the paper and that the game against
Randolph Macon was one of the team’s most impor-
tant games of the season.

Also, if you are going to limit coverage of a sport
to the “JockShorts,” then at least get your informa-
tion straight. The women’s soccer team defeated
Sweet Briar by a score of 9-0, not 8-0, as you
reported. There is no “Katie Jenkins” on the soccer
team; the player you wrote about is Katie Nichols.

Thanks for Homecoming
tradition of community

To the editor:

On behalf of the Alumni Association, we would like to thank the W&L
community for the tremendous support and assistance provided in the organiza-
tion and execution of Homecoming 1995. A very special thanks goes to those that
made the weekend possible: Randolph Hare and Bill Elswick, and the entire
Buildings and Grounds crew; Gerry Darrell and John Taffe and the Evans Hall
staff; Mike Young and Steve Tomlinson and the security officers, and of course
the faculty, staff and students for their participation and warm hospitality.

The sense of community that abounds here at Washington and Lee is very real.
Those of us here in Lexington have the privilege of living it every day, and our
alumni look forward to experiencing it anew when they return to this special
place. One alumnus told us that during this year’s Homecoming the University
had “cemented for this group [the War Years alumni] the feelings of camaraderie
and loyalty they had been missing for the past 50 years.”

We trust that future Homecoming and Reunion Weekends will continue to
provide an opportunity for the University community to come together and
celebrate this wonderful tradition of community. Thanks again.

Jim Farrar, ’74
Director of Alumni Programs

Rob Mish, ’76
Associate Alumni Director

Justin King, ’95
Alumni Staff Associate

 

Also, the women’s soccer team is not 4-0 in the
ODACs, but 4-1. I realize that the writers of

“JockShorts” may find these details to be minor, but

Via E-mail

DISCOVER
HOW OLIIRKY
WE ARE!

POETRY MAGNETS

400 magnetic wands
f0?‘ refrigerator sonnets.

ELVIS VOTIVES
Dine b candlelight
wit the king.

MOUSE PADS
Mona Lisa. Water Lilies.
Van Gogh sun owers.
Die-cut cat. Treation.
Hershey chocolate bar
Grateﬁil Dead
The Scream.

VENUS 8: DAVID

Dtsrobe them. Dress them.

New build-a-villa.

FROG CHARMS

Good luck and prosperity.
And maybe a prince.

DRIP CANDLES

Atmosphere in a
Chianti bottle.

POSTCARD HUMOR
500 titilating titles.
Mail them. Frame them.
Get a good laugh.

FISH PENS
Better than rubber duckies.
and they write.

caravans

ll 7 W. Nctrou Street 04643500
Dally [Own - 6pm o Sundays I lam ~3pnr
UPS layout home or oﬂlce

be assured that as a team member and a captain, I
would greatly appreciate attention paid to detail. We
work very hard and deserve proper recognition.

Ellen Wasilausky, ’96

PAGE 5

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Career Fair

The Eleventh Annual National
Environmental Career Conference
and Career Fair will be held Oct.
27 and.28 at the Radisson Plaza
Hotel at Mark Center in Alexandria,
Virginia. The Conference provides
panel discussions, workshops, net-
working and field trips. The Career
Fair enables seniors to learn about
specificorganizationsand careerop-
portunities. For more information
stop by the Career Development and
Placement Office.

Career Test

There will be a Career Test Inter-
pretation on Monday, Oct. 16 at 4
p.m. in Room 108 of the University
Center. All students who have taken

the Myers Briggs and Strong-

Campbell Interest Tests and not had
them interpreted should contact Ms.
Saunders at x8595 to see if there is
space left in this session.

Freshman Elections

Freshman class officer elections
for president, vice president, and
EC representative will be held
Monday, Oct. 23. Students who
wish to run for office can pick up
a petition outside of Carol Calkins'
office in the University Center.
The completed petition must be re-
turned to the box outside of the of-
fice no later than 5 p.m. Monday,
Oct. 16. For more information con-
tact Sakina Page, VRB chairwoman,
at 463-2507.

Glasgow Readings

The Glasgow Endowment Series
will present a reading by fiction
writer Lex Williford, author of
McCauley’s Thumb, Monday, Oct.
16 at 4 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

Graduate School

Students considering graduate
school are invited to “Getting into
Graduate School: What Works, What
Doesn’t, and Why” Tuesday, Oct.
17 at 7 psrnuinrﬁathrenzlsuditoriums

W&L students are also invited to
the UVA Graduate School Day
Thursday, Oct. 19 from 10 a.m. to 2
p.m. in Newoomb Ballroom on the
UVA campus.

SLAC Job Fairs

Liberal Arts and Science ma-
jors interested in the SLAC job
fairs should submit their resumes by
Oct. 27.

Flu Shots

Student Health will be giving ﬂu
shots starting Oct. 15. The cost is $5.

Politics Panel

The Politics Department is spon-
soring a panel discussion entitled
“The Black Vote in the Republican
Party at Century’s End” Thursday,
Oct. 26 at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Au-
ditorium. A reception will follow at
the Alumni House.

RACASA

October is Sexual AssauIt/Do-
mestic Violence Awareness Month.
Throughout the month, the Tie-A-
Ribbon campaign will display rib-
bons and thoughts in support of end-
ing this violence. Oct. 16 from 8 to
10 p.m. at Mary Baldwin College, a
bonﬁre and speakout will be held to
speak out against violence. The Vol-
unteerTrainingsession forWednes-
day, Oct. 18 from 6:30 to 9:30 p.m.
at Mint Spring United Methodist
Church will focus on child sexual
abuse. For more information, call
463-RAPE. Personal Safety Work-
shops will be held Oct. 21 from
3 to 5 p.m. at the Coalter Street
YMCA and Oct. 24 from 7 to 9 p.m.
at the Waynesboro YMCA. All ac-
tivities are free to the public.

Symphony Trip

Tickets for the trip to the
National Symphony Saturday, Nov.
4, can be purchased for $20
through Michelle Richardson, Stu-
dent Activities Coordinator. The
group will leave at 9:15 a.m., stop
brieﬂy for breakfast, and disembark
near the mall in Washington. There
will be several hours to shop or
sightsee, etc. At 7:30 p.m., the group
will leave for the Kennedy Center
for the 8:30 p.m. performance. Im-
mediately following the perfor-
mance, the group will leave for Lex-
ington and will arrive home around
1:30 a.m. The Symphony will per-
form works by Hartke, Bruch,
Mumford and Mahler.

  

Dr. Patty Westhafer from Mary
Baldwin College will be on cam-
pus Wednesday, Nov. 1, to consult
with students regarding teacher
education and licensure. If your
future plans include teaching,
please come by Fairfax Lounge
between the hours of 12:30 p.m.
and 2 p. m. to discuss particular
needs with Dr. Westhafer. If you
have questions consult Dean West-
Settle at x8746.

WELBOOE BACK!

SHEER TIIIIIIIQ

unntsnron
11 smnnorrnsrrzrztr
464-1145

$1.00 OITIIIITH THIS COUPON

SPRING BREAK '96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & G0
FREE! !_! Student Travel Services is
now hiring campus representatives.
Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancun,
Da ona and Panama City Beach.
I 1-800-648-4849

Need some forftier for four resume?

the CaI_i/zgneeris an tufvertisirg man-

ager. Low time corrimitment, great

ezqperience. Ca[[fDarcey at 462-4029
for more information.

Wasﬁirtgton fl).C_. &’ Symyﬁony ‘T’ 11'}:
Saturcfay, ‘1\l'ovem5er 4, 1995

 

*'T':'cEets go on safe ‘lvlondhy, Octoﬁer 16from I
Qvticﬁeffe Ricﬂarﬁon-‘University Center/‘Room 103

‘$20.00 incfudes cﬁarterecf 5145 &' 2114' tier seat in
"tile Concert 9-(aft/Qcennedfy Center for tﬁe Natwnaf
Symfﬁony Orcﬁestra sﬁow at 8:3o‘J"JUl

 

 

‘ The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995
CARTOONS I

 
   

   

 

  

  
          
        
  

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

    

- V coRToRI>TI; make '
‘I \\.‘NE N—L Ixm-= To  - %
QT: \'\' (=0 on T\¥Ié\NI\*(. g M’ "% \'\EKEAFYER"' I 3;;
gm ‘{o\)'\JE (:6? To P~VN\\T, E ﬂ
WM‘; \-’>T\3«E LONQEST  ll 1
TN; CTN Nxs BF-EN  E
FXBLE To N>~NC> ON TO 2
we c\xRI=sTme smarr 2: E
“ I.I.+\\/IL§y
C H A O S by Brian Shuster
A
WIIY NOBOW LIKEQ A " ’ » §
_ LET ME GET nus STRAIGHT, BOB. COMFIETELY L\°NE$T
: THIs PLANET I5 CATCI-I-AND-RELEASE PH_o—\—_'_ g§;‘§;[’f;%§N § .,
: ONLY 50 I FIGHT THIS THING Folk A A I uzxs BEENTURNED I  t
5 AN OUR, A oNcE—IN-A-LIFETIME I ' ON gecwsg WE ‘ ex \ g
I T ROPHY, AND N<7>,I/Ix!‘ I GOTTA TRKKY mm ‘ §
I    . .. ‘é  UP”. :
:  V
 i
h

"Apparently, some kids hooked up your grandmother's
pacemaker to The Clapper."

 
 

*5 W?§5mf’*"..“*.. *5

  

‘4,‘a.‘a.'~'.‘5

.“.'»:=.‘-.'o.'«.i».;«,_a.v..a.

Nothing Else is a Pepsi   ALL STUDENTS '

ARE CORDIALLY INVITED

YOU’RE BACK AT SCHOOL To ATTEND
w& LAND PEPSI ~
WANT TO LET YOU Cﬂée J -
“PHONE HOME, ncuoyamaéomz _
onus

September 18, 1995 through November 17, 1995, look for speciaﬂy marked cans from
campus PEPSI Machines to win a “CONGO Phone Card” valid for 5 minute: of prepaid‘

phone time. can from anywhere IntheUS or Canada from any touch-tone phone. W
Bring your specially marked card to the SNACK BAR to receive your “coneo Phone Card” (  .  1'
1 AS
THE TWENTY SECOND PRESIDENT
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
AT 11:30 A.M.,
ON SATURDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1995
ON THE FRONT LAWN.

A LUNCHEON WILL FOLLOW ON STEMMONS PLAZA.

In the event of inclement weather

1 C ‘A   ‘ M the inauguration will be held in Warner Center.

I

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 13, 1995

/"

By the Numbers  

 

AFTER SIX OF SEVENTEEN WEEKS

AFC

East W L PCT
Miami 4 1 .800
Buffalo 4 1 .800
Indianapolis 3 2 .600
New England 1 4 .200
N.Y. Jets .1 5 .167

Central
Pittsburgh 3 3 .500
Cleveland 3 3 .500
Cincinnati 2 4 .333
Houston 2 4 .333
Jacksonville 2 4 .333

West
Kansas City 5 1 .833
Oakland 5 1 .833
San Diego 3 3 .500
Seattle 2 3 .400
Denver 2 4 .333

NFC

East W L PCT
Dallas 5 1 .833
Philadelphia 3 3 .500
Washington 2 4 .333
N.Y. Giants 2 4 .333
Arizona 1 5 .167

Central
Tampa Bay 4 2 .667
Chicago 3 2 .600
Green Bay 3 2 .600
Minnesota 3 2 .600
Detroit 2 3 .400

West
San Francisco 4 1 .800
St. Louis 4 1 .800
Atlanta 4 1 .800
Carolina 0 5 .000
New Orleans 0 5 .000

LAs'r WEEK’s RESULTS
(HOME TEAM IN  V___

DALLAS 34, Green Bay 24
TAMPA BAY 19, Cincinnati 16
CHICAGO 31, Carolina 27
MINNESOTA 23, Houston 17 (OT)

PHILADELPHIA 37, Washington 34 (OT)

BUFFALO 29, N.Y.Jets 10
JACKSONVILLE 20, Pittsburgh 16
DETROIT 38, Cleveland 20
OAKLAND 34, Seattle 14
Indianapolis 27, MIAMI 24 (OT)
N.Y. GIANTS 27, Arizona 21 (OT)
Denver 37, NEW ENGLAND 3

KANSAS CITY 29, San Diego 23 (OT) (Mon)
* — NFL Record five overtime games in one week

(Atlanta, New Orleans, San Francisco, and St.

Louis had open dates.)

THuRsI)Av’s GAME:

Atlanta at St. Louis, night

SuNuAv’s GAMES

New England at Kansas City 1PM
Seattle at Buffalo 1PM
Philadelphia at N.Y. Giants 1PM
Detroit at Green Bay 1PM
Minnesota at Tampa Bay 1PM
Chicago at Jacksonville 1PM
San Francisco at Indianapolis 1PM
N.Y.Jets at Carolina 4PM
Miami at New Orleans 4PM
Washington at Arizona 4PM
Dallas at San Diego 4PM

(Open date: Cleveland, Cincinnati, Pittsburgh,
Houston)

MoNuAv’s GAME

Oakland at Denver

L

9PM

 

c ..-.,1. ».. ..,.,.........-

 

FINAL 1995 STANDINGS

American League

East W
x-Boston 86
y-N.Y. Yankees 79
Baltimore 71
Detroit 60
Toronto 56

Central
x-Cleveland 100
Kansas City 70
Chicago W.S. 68
Milwaukee 65
Minnesota 56

West
xz-Seattle 79
z-California 78
Texas 74
Oakland 67

L PCT GB
58 .597 ---
65 .549 7
73 .493 15
84 .417 26
88 .389 30
44 .694 ---
74 .486 30
76 .472 32
79 .451 35
88 .389 44
66 .545 ---
67 .538 1
70 .514 4.5
77 .465 1 1.5

National League

East W
x-Atlanta 90
Philadelphia 69
N.Y. Mets 69
Florida 67
Montreal 66

Central
x-Cincinnati 85
Houston 76
Chicago C. 73
St. Louis 62
Pittsburgh 58

West
x-Los Angeles 78
y-Colorado 77
San Diego 70
San Francisco 67

L PCT GB
54 .625 —«
75 .479 21
75 .479 21
76 469 225
78 .458 24
59 .590 -u
68 .528 9
71 .507 12
81 .434 225
86 .403 27
66 .542 —u
67 .535 1
74 .486 8
77 .465 11

x - denotes division winner
y- denotes wild card winner
2- denotes one-game playoff to determine

divisional champion

 

FIRs'r Rounu or PLAYOFFS:
(BEs'r or FIVE)

AL

Cleveland defeated Boston, 3 games to 0
Seattle defeated N.Y. Yankees, 3 games to 2

NL

Atlanta defeated Colorado, 3 games to 1

Cincinnati defeated Los Angeles, 3 games to 0

LEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES:

(BEST or SEVEN)

TUI-:sI>Av’s GAMEs:

AL

SEATTLE 3, Cleveland 2

NL

Atlanta 2, CINCINNATI 1 (11 innings)

WEuNEsI>Av’s GAMEs:

AL

Cleveland 5, SEATTLE 1

(Series tied, 1-1)

NL

Atlanta 6, CINCINNATI 2 (10 innings)
(Atlanta leads series, 2-0)

FRIDAY’S GAMES:

AL
Seattle at Cleveland

NL
Cincinnati at Atlanta

8PM

8PM

SATURDAY AND SuNI>Av’s GAMEs:

AL
Seattle at Cleveland

NL
Cincinnati at Atlanta

7PM

7PM

J

Are qou a big fan
too? Then
come write for the

Phi sports
section! Call Scott
at 462-4059 if
interested. join a
winning team!

    

PAGE 

ATHLETES OF THE WEEK

    

Hilary Martin
Volleyball

Martin has made some huge contributions for the
Generals throughout the season, and the Goucher
Tournament on Saturday was no different.

The sophomore led W&L to five straight wins at
Goucher to earn the tournament MVP award. Count-
ing two games the previous week, Martin ﬁnished
with 66 kills and 13 blocks in the seven matches.

 

Griff Russell
Football

When W&L needed a big play late in the
Homecoming game against Davidson on Satur-
day, Russell stepped to centerstage.

With the Generals leading by only three, the
senior turned the lights out on the Wildcats with
his second interception on the day. In the first
quarter, Russell picked off a pass at the W&L 31.

9/995 Tm:/mu Irwnmnw ms) Amuuty rig-axiata}su.’(7ol1(_oe Rdimmul Eqnilw Fumi.

501' B COMDUIIHQ PTODIEM?

Try the NEW

5l'UdEl1l' COMDUIIDQ
Help Desk!

. Open for both
Walls-In and IEIEDHODG SUDDOIT

MOHUBY - TIIUTSUEY HOOD-5 & 7-9
Friday HOOD-5

Tucker Hall, Room 227
Phone HELP (4357)

   

IF ATL  YOU SUCCEE1), Om
TRY, TRYAGAIN.

n the latest DALBAR Consumer
Satisfaction Survey. a comprehensive
study of 2,000 financial service companies
— banks. mutual funcis. brokerages, and

insurers — TIA/\-CREF was voted the
leading provider of retirement plans.

We'll try to do better next time.

Not that we mind the recognition, it's
just that a lot olpeoplc expect nothing less
than the best from us. Over l.8 million indi-
viduals in higher education and research, to
be exact. And frankly. so do we.

Day alter day. for over 7 5 years, we 've

put everything we've got into giving our par-

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.“

CRHF certificates am daslﬁlzutczl by TIA/\—CRl£l" Individual and Institnntianal Services. Inc.

ticipants all they need to help fulfill their
financial goals and long-term expectations.
In the years to come, we'll work even
harder to enhance the level of personal ser-
vice and innovative solutions we offer to
help them build a secure and rewarding
tomorrow. Maybe that's why so many of the
best minds in the nation trust us not just
with their money, but with their future.
Find out more about America’:

retirement planning experts. Call us at

l 800 842-2776 weekdays 8 am to II pm ET.
or visit our Web site on the Internet at
http://www.tiaa-creliorg.

 

 

 

 

Last Week:

Voruzvaau. - Beat Msrymount in ﬁnals to win Goucher Invitational;
W, 15-4, 15-12, 15-8, vs. Sweet Briar

Msooczn - L, 4-2, vs. Roanoke; W, 5-0, at Bridgewater

Wsoccaa - W, 2-1, vs. Virginia Wesleyan; L, 3-0, at Roanoke

WCRoss Couwrnv - Josephine Schaeifer ﬁnished eighteenth at the Paul

Short Invitational
FooraAu.- W, 19-13, vs. Davidson

MTENNIS - Chris MacNaughton and Dale Pretila advanced to semiﬁnals
in doubles at the W&L Fall Festival

PAGE 8

S

Ellie ﬁling-mm lﬂlri

PORTS  

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

'.!Z..13.i.S

Week:

Today at Hollina, 6:30 PM:

‘hut. V1 llandoIph- Macon, 8:80 PM

M8o1x:m-

Sat. at Hampden-Sydney. 1:30 PM
Sat. at Randolph “

, 8:00 PM; Mon.vn Cabrini, 4:00 PM;

Wad. vs. VMI at Brvwhakar, 6.00 PM

Wﬁoccuh
W1bnm-
Gou-

Sun. vm Havel-lord. 2:00 PM; Wad. vs. l.,ynn:l:bur;, 4:00PM
P:-L-Sun. in W&L Fall ‘lburnuy (Fri.-3:00 PM, Sat.-Sun.-$00 AM)
Mon-'I\:oo. at Fcrruna Fall Invitational

Cnnul Coumnv - Sat. at State Diviaion II-Ill Championships, 10:00 AM

Warm Pom -

Sat. at Goarp Washington EWPA Tournament:

Wed. vs. Richmond. 7:00 PM; Than. at Richmond. TWP"

OCTOBER 13, 1995

Refusing  
to lose

 

THE BIG FAN
BY Scorr BOOKWALTBR

 

Can anyone say the ,
word “Cinderella”? 5 '

It may be one of the
most overused terms in _
sports, but it definitely app-' '”
plies to Seattle, which up 
untilnowwas known more ._
for rainy weather and al-’ '
tentative bands than for
baseball teams. A

ButtheunderdogMari~
ners,sportingtheir“Refuse
to Lose” motto, have given
the Northwest aprominent . f

V place on the baseball map  _‘
inrecent weeks. _ ,1, 

>’S33ttle,:'WhlCh_'jWﬁSi .
mired in third: place in the ‘5.
 West .for',niost.of the *1
 summer, caught,t}reit1Sep~ ’
tternberto overtake tnesud~:

{ denly-punchless, Angels’
and the perplexing Rang-
ers to capture the division

l crown. Most of this was
done Without the services
of Ken Griffey, Jr.f;.:, who ~
spent the ‘summer; on the ,

. disabled list} . 1 . ‘ .

However, the Mar‘

'celebratedi’fthei'r-’=fitSt . 
pearance ever in the'play;~_ :
offs by promptly dropping?-’ 
their first twogarnes in
New York. ‘ ‘ ‘ ' v

One game away from a,
trip to the AL Champion-
ship Series, the Yankees
brought out their “Refuse
to Win” T-shirts. After
frittering away their two- A
game lead, the Yankees
were feeling very sleep-
less in Seattle before the 
deciding Game 5.

The Seattle Kingdome,
which had about as much
atmosphere as a mauso-
leum for the last decade,

. was rocking on Sunday
night when the Yankees, ,
and Marinersplayed a 
postseason game for the
ages. Intrue form, Seattle :
rallied back from two late -_

. deficits to win, 6-5, on
Edgar Martinez’s two-run" I
double in the 11th inning.

Seattle now is involved
in a David vs. Goliath se-
ries against the big, bad,
Cleveland Indians. Then
again, Cleveland would
probably rather take its
chances with David sling-. A
ing rocks than RandyJohn~ ‘"

A son firing 100-mph» 
fastballs. Ask John Kruk. 

   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

Maybe Washington and Lee
should begin scheduling
Davidson on opening weekend
each year.

For the second straight year,
W&L defeated Davidson in the
fourth game of the year for its
ﬁrst victory. After winning 9-3
at Davidson last year, the Gener-
als downed the Wildcats, 19-13,
this past Saturday in front of a
Homecoming crowd of 4,500 at
Wilson Field. The triumph raised
W&L’s record to 1-2-1.

Atouchdown catch by Nick
Hodge. midway through the
fourth quarter proved to be the
decisive score, and Griff
Russell’s second interception of
the game preserved a crucial
W&L victory.

The win also gave Frank
Miriello his ﬁrst victory as Gen-
erals’ head coach.

‘‘It should have happened two
games ago,” he remarked. “We
played good enough to win the
last two.”

Unlike the Generals’ last
game at Randolph-Macon where
W&L rallied back only to come
up short, this time W&L grabbed
the early lead and held onto it.

The Generals got off to an
impressive start with a ten-point
first quarter. Freshman Chas
Chastain reeled in a 16-yard

touchdown pass from quarter-
back Brooks Fischer to get W&L
on the scoreboard first.
Placekicker Drew Thomas fol-
lowed that up with his ﬁrst of two
field goals, a 23-yard boot which
gave the Generals a 10-0 lead.

The margin did not hold up
for long as Davidson responded
with a touchdown drive in the
second quarterto bring the Wild-
cats to within 10-6 at the break.

Miriello mentioned that he
was disappointed with the defen-
sive play in the first half.

However, the defense would
come up big for Miriello as the
Generals pushed the Davidson
offense around in the second half.

Davidson only completed 14
of 37 passes on the afternoon.
Junior Peyton Williams, who
made six tackles and one sack,
and linebacker Travis Wisdom,
who was credited with a team-
leading nine tackles, were the
major defensive contributors.

Still clinging to their 10-6 lead,
the Generals appeared to put the
game away when wide receiver
Hodge made a 23-yard diving
touchdown grab in the corner of
the end zone with slightly under
ten minutes to play.

Thomas ended his streak of
20 straight extra-point conver-
sions, but the Generals still had a
seemingly comfortable margin
of 16-6.

The Wildcats, though, once
again would not let the Generals
out of their sight. Quarterback

Tommy Dugan scored on his sec-
ond one-yard touchdown plunge
of the game to pull Davidson
back to within 16-13. When
Davidson regained possession of
the ball with three minutes to
play, there were some unsettled
stomachs in the vicinity of Wil-
son Field.

Not Miriello’s.

“l have conﬁdence in the play-
ers that when the game’s on the
line, they’ll make the big plays,”
he said.

The coach proved to be cor-
rect as Russell picked off his
second pass on the afternoon to
effectually end the Wildcats’
hopes for a late rally. The inter-
ception set up Thomas for his
second 23-yard field goal of the
game with 1:55 remaining to ex-
tend the margin to 19-13.

“Griff is a great young man,”
Miriello commented. “He’s get-
ting better and gaining more con-
ﬁdence each week.”

Davidson had one last gasp,
but Dugan, harassed by defen-
sive tackle Robert Hull deep in
the Davidson backﬁeld, threw
away a fourth-down pass to ice
the W&L victory.

Sophomore Seth McKinley
made a dramatic return to the
W&Lstartinglineupfollowinga
shoulder separation as he rushed
for exactly 100 yards on 21 car-
ries. Junior Aaron Wilkinson
also picked up a large chunk of
the rushing load with 62 yards on
only eight attempts.

Generals hold off Davidson for first victory

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

W&L snared its first victory of the season on Saturday against Davidson.

Junior quarterback Brooks
Fischer completed 12 of his 19
passes for a total of 135 yards.

Tomorrow, the Generals travel
to Hampden-Sydney for an ODAC
contest with the Tigers, a team
which won a 21-17 decision last
year on W&L Parents’ Weekend.

W&L has played Hampden-
Sydney (2-3) more often than any
other college. This game will be
the teams’ 53rd meeting in a se-

Unless the Mariners”
begindroppingceilingtiles ,
from the Kingdome roof 1" ”
onthe Indians, this is likely;
where Seattle’s partyends

Elsewhere, the Rookie.
shut up the tomahawkerst 
in Atlanta for onejgam ‘
butCo1oradowa  i’ ‘  _:§{

  
    

    

Series. The
blewtheir item

 
   

overtime games‘ this V past t
. weekend. One occurred in
Miami, where the previ-
ously unbeaten Dolphins
somehow managed to
torch a 24~3 cushion to
the...uh...Colts. Also, AFC I
power Pittsburgh got
bounced by suddenly dan-
gerous Jacksonville.
Things were wilder in

Texas A&M, both Top 10 qt
teams, were upset. In the

. shocker of the day, North-t '
western beat a previously

W&L volleyball

continues its
winning ways

 

By Roy BURNS
Phi Staff Writer

 

Washington and Lee’s vol-
leyball team captured first place
at the Goucher Invitational this
past weekend with wins over
Sweet Briar, Marymount, Stock-
ton State, Goucher, and
Marymount again in the ﬁnals.

These five wins, coupled
with two wins last week over
Lynchburg and Emory & Henry,
and Wednesday’s 15-4, 15-12,
15-8 home victory over Sweet
Briar, capped off a perfect week
for W&L.

The Generals have now taken
sole possession of ﬁrst place in
the Old Dominion Conference.
Their performance this week has
virtually assured the Generals a
spot in postseason play.

Led by Goucher tournament
MVP Hilary Martin, the Gener-
als have begun to hit their stride
this season.

When asked about the team’s
perfonnance this year, Martin
replied, “We’ve had our share of
roadblocks, but we’re well on
our way to playing like we’re
capable of playing.”

Sophomore Alison Beard,
who had 15 assists and four aces
in the championship match with
Marymount, agreed that the Gen-
erals are “playing excellent, de-
spite a slow start this season.”

Both Martin and Beard were
named to the all-toumament team
for their outstanding individual
performances at Goucher.

However, both were quick to
point out that the tournament wins
would not have been possible
without excellent play from the
entire team.

  

“We’ve been thrilled with our
team effort,” said Beard, who
had 17 more assists in the Sweet
Briar match. “Everyone has
stepped up and played solid ball.”

The Generals have four re-
maining games this season, three
of which are conference matches.
They also play in the Gallaudet
Tournament starting next week-
end. These ﬁnal games are all
that remains of a season in which
the Generals entered with high
hopes and deﬁnitive goals after a
strong ﬁnish last year.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The Generals’ volleyball team has been extremely
successful the past week, capturing eight straight
games, including the Goucher Invitational title.

 

One of these goals was to
ensure that they played up to
their abilities and not play down
to their opponents’ level.

If its record of 20-4 is any
indication, W&L has certainly
accomplished this goal.

However, W&L’s primary
objective of the season is to win
the ODAC Tournament. This
ultimate goal will only be ac-
complished by combining per-
severance with teamwork, and
its realization will be the basis
by which to judge this season.

r the colleges. Colorado and. I

undefeated Michigan team
inAnnArbor. Yes, North- vi
western,the sameteamthat
was so pathetic during the
‘80s that a disgruntled fan
once found an Interstate
94 Sign inthe Chicago area,
and plastered a sign under-
neath it which read,
“Northwestern 0”. ' ,

Yet, all of a sudden, the
is Wildcats are leading the
i Big Ten conference. Re»
: member, even Cinderella
; made it to the dance.

Women’s soccer has
strong stretch run

By JOSHUA HESLINGA
Phi Staff Writer

The women’s soccerteam continued to
build on this year’s success, scoring two
different but equally impressive wins this
past week over ODAC rivals Sweet Briar

and Virginia Wesleyan.

To say the least, Sweet Briar was not a
challenging opponent last Wednesday, as
the Generals rolled, 9-0. Junior Michelle
Bauman scored the soccer equivalent of a
hat trick, recording three goals and an
assist all in the ﬁrst half against the hap-

less opponents.

Sophomore Erica Reineke reached the
net twice, and freshman Karin Treese
posted two goals and two assists.

Virginia Wesleyan proved to be more
of a challenge, but the large Homecoming
crowd at Liberty Hall Field spurred the
Generals on to a dramatic 2-1 victory in
With the win, the Generals
avenged two losses at the hands of VWC
last year, including a heartbreaker in last
year’s ODAC Tournament semiﬁnals.

The Generals broke the defensive dead-
lock late in the second half on Saturday as
Reineke scored on assists from freshman
Caroline Keen and sophomore Leighton
Kirby. But withjust three minutes left, the
Lady Marlins answered to send the game

overtime.

into overtime.

In the extra period, Keen secured the
win for the Generals, tapping one past the

for them.”

letic Conference.

This weekend, the Generals will
travel to Haverford for a Sunday af-
ternoon non-conference game.

goalie on an assist from Bauman.

When asked what has been the key
to the Generals’ success, Reineke cited
the team’s incredible talent and depth.
“We have so much talent. We have
such a strong bench that anyone who
comes in can do the job.”

She explained that this can prove
to be the difference in grueling games
like Saturday ’s contest, saying, “When
someone goes on the ﬁeld, they can
give 100 percent all the time because
they know they have someone behind
them who can come in and do the job

As W&L begins to look ahead to
this year’s ODAC Tournament,
Reineke said the team will concen-
trate on improving communication
and sharpening focus on key games,
such as Thursday’s at Roanoke, which
decided second place in the ODAC.

The Generals, however, could not
sustain their momentum in Roanoke
as the Maroons blanked them, 3-0.

W&L contained Roanoke most of
the way, but the Maroons scored all
three of their goals in a span of only
4:58. Sophomore Delia Coyle al-
lowed all of Roanoke’s goals.

Despite the loss yesterday, the Gen-
erals’ mark still is an impressive 7-2
overall, 5-1 in the Old Dominion Ath-

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***
Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH
with America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free!
Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STU-

ries which the Tigers currently
lead, 27-23-2.

According to Miriello, the
key to success for the Generals
will be if they can control the
Tigers’ running game; therefore
forcing them to throw the ball.

However, Miriello was
pleased to ﬁnish with the larger
number on the Wilson Field
scoreboard for a change, before
making the trip to Hampden-

Sydney tomorrow.

In fact, the scoreboard was
adorned this past week with a
blue falcon in memory of late
Generals’ head coach Gary
Fallon. Miriello feels that the
Generals may have drawn some
inspiration from the banner
throughout their ﬁrst win since
the death of their former leader.

“We finally got one for
(Fallon),” Miriello said.

Men endure .500
Week in ODAC

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The W&L men’s soccer team split a pair of games against
conference rivals this past week to bring their overall record to 6-4,

3-4 in the ODAC.

Saturday’s match at Liberty Hall Field was against Roanoke, the
defending champions of the ODAC. Roanoke struck early, grabbing
a one-goal lead a mere three minutes into the contest. W&L tied it
up when Sam Chase rose above the crowd to head Gordon Meeker’s
corner kick into the back of the net.

After going to the locker room at halftime with a 1-1 tie, the
Generals drew ﬁrst blood in the second half. Chase connected again
on a header, this time with assists from sophomore Colin Connolly

and senior Jeb Wofford.

After Washington and Lee took the lead, Roanoke showed the
Generals why they are the defending conference champs. The
Maroons came roaring back, piling up three goals in only eleven
minutes. That scoring barrage was enough for Roanoke to go home

with a 4-2 victory.

After the stinging loss to Roanoke, the Generals took out their
frustration at Bridgewater on Wednesday. Chase continued pound-
ing balls into the net. He scored a hat trick and assisted on another
goal to lead W&L to a 5-0 win. The freshman from Atlanta now has

13 goals in 10 games.

Chad Dobbins and Brent Christ also tallied scores for the Gener-
als in the Bridgewater game. Jeb Wofford, Bill Sigler, and Geoff
Wright found their way into the assist column.

The Generals will look to bring their conference record back to
.500 when they face Randolph-Macon at Ashland on Saturday.

DENT TRAVEL (800) 95-BREAK!

  

  
    
   

 

European Union

    
   

 
  

Costa Rica

France

STUDY ABROAD

Tuesday, October 24

Spring Term,
Semester, or
Full year

Room 114 University Center

Denmark

China

     

7:00 p.m.

Germany

General Information Meeting

on

at

1n

J upan

Limited
Financial Aid
. Available

England

   

  

  

  
     
   

Hung‘ Kong

 

 

 

     
    
  

sofiedeleg)

,9,/,§I,§.?3"'!."".:“-*T«”*.« 5.. Jun vacuums’
 W2. ‘-*5‘ *9

0312371995

  PARENTS’ WEEKEND EDITION

Cross country
teams race well
at Gettysburg @

 Sound Full
Oil Silence..." 9

,3 [L

VOLUME ,96,’NO. 7

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

OCTOBER 27, 1995

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Our cherished tradition

As Washington and Lee welcomes newly inaugurated President John William Elrod, the W&L

John W. Elrod inaugurated

Washington and Lee
embraces a new era
and honors tradition

BY KER] ANNE DUNPHY
Phi Staff Writer

While many W&L students relaxed in the
comfort of their own homes over reading days,
numerous people flocked to our campus to
witness and celebrate the inauguration of John
William Elrod, the new president of Washing-
ton and Lee University. The ceremony took
place midday Saturday in front of Lee Chapel.

The procession included the University
Marshall, W. Barlow Newbolt, the presidential
party, the university trustees, the deans of the
University, various delegates from universi-
ties, colleges, learned societies, and educa-
tional organizations, the W&L faculty, several
student delegates and various alumni delegates.

The opening invocation was given by Tho-
mas V. Litzenburg, Jr. ‘57, the director of the
Reeves Center and Acting Chaplain of the
University. Litzenburg prayed that God would
“send down upon the president of this Univer-
sity . . . spirit, wisdom, charity, and justice . . .
that {he} may faithfully fulfill {his} office.”

Following the invocation, greetings were
presented from several sources. Representing
the faculty, W&L professor Barbara J. Brown,
greeted the crowd on what she called a “red-
letter day.” She expressed the faculty’s plea-

Senior Nova A. Clark, who called Elrod an
“example of what it means to be a part of this
university.” Clark expressed her confidence
that President Elrod will lead W&L into the
21st century continuing to incorporate change,
but without losing our many long-standing tra-
ditions.

H.E. Derrick Jr., mayor of Lexington, who
spoke on behalf of “the city of Lexington and its
citizens” had numerous accolades to offer Elrod,
under whose leadership, “the bond between the
university and the city can only grow stronger.”
He is proud that the Selection Committee had
the sense to not only “chose one of their own,
but also one of our own.”

Finally, Sidney M.B. Coulling ‘46 presented
“greetings from more than 19,000 alumni.” He
claimed that Elrod has gained their confidence
through his own love of the university, his
“appreciation of its tradition and heritage” and
his strong “faith in the importance of liberal
education.” Coulling assured Elrod the contin-
ued loyalty and support of the University’s
many alumni.

These short greetings preceded the convo-
cation address by John W. Kuykendall, Presi-
dent of Davidson College. Kuykendall chose to
consider the seemingly questionable future of
liberal learning, a timely topic in light of the
University’s upcoming bicenquinquagenary
(250th anniversary). He asked the audience to

sure of Elrod’s new position and stated that they
are “counting on you {Elrod} to be here well
after the year 2000.”

Her sentiments were reiterated by W&L

Steering
Committee
organized

community continues to live and learn in the tradition of presidents past.
-> See ELROD, page 2

Friday

Slow Jerk and Big Blast--SAE

Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts
--Sigma Chi

BY ROBIN SEATON
Phi Staff Writer

Saturday

Three Men and a Lad --KA
Southbound--Kappa Sig

Mike Latham Band--Phi Psi
Gentlemen and Their Ladies--PiKA
The Grandeurs--Sigma Chi
Dean Dollar Band--Sigma Nu
Heaven and Hell Party with On

Beyond Z--FIJ I
R&B All-Stars--Pi Phi
Midnight Movers--Phi Delt

Members forthis year’s Fancy Dress
Steering Committee have been chosen
after an extensive interview process,
according to FD Chairperson Ashley
Bell ’96. This was the first big step
toward organizing the event, to be held
in late March, stated Bell.

Interviews were held on October
11th and 12th, to select coordinators
for decorations and entertainment, as
well as chairpersons and members for
the ﬁve sub-committees. Decorations
will be organized by senior Ann
Howard, while junior Chris Wick is
entertainment coordinator.

Chairpersons for five sub-commit-
tees were also selected, as well as addi-
tional members for these committees.
Publicity, playbill, memorabilia, and
construction each have two members
in addition to the chair, while the invi-
tation sub—committee consists of a
chairperson and one other member.

This year’s Fancy Dress will fall
three weeks after Mock Convention,
but Bell does not expect any problems
or lack of enthusiasm from students.

“ED. is a tradition,” she says, “and
it will be just as good if not better than
ever.”

The entire steering committee will
meet each week until the event, and
Bell anticipates selection of this year’s
theme within the next few weeks.
However, this will remain a secret to
students, she says, “until the invita-
tions go out.” Bands for the two gyms
have not been booked yet, but Bell
states that there will be a swing band in A
the big gym, with another group per- V V, 1 ' _ ‘_ _ . , _ __ _ __ 
forming in the smaller gym, as usual. mi Willperform, with M T. New ‘98 cello s0l()i$t and Maestro“'Mma“‘
Bell encourages interested students to Xi uest‘.eondueto:,‘in the Lenfes Centefs Ke1ier.fI’heatre.
sign up for contract work in January. ’ 5

Parents‘ Weekend
Band Parties

  _ enda:10i3;in;
*3’ “if V‘!8’S.hi!>st9i:, nd

" Fi ..
W&L parents will be visiting the picturesque town of Lexington this weekend.

 . BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

 

Clinton discusses recent

issues with President Zemin

New York—-President Bill Clinton and President Jiang Zemin of China
met Tuesday at the Lincoln Center to discuss various conflicts which have
arisen in recent months between the United States and its Most Favored
Nation. The United States’ policy of allowing visas to Taiwanese ofﬁcials,
despite its refusal to formally recognize Taiwan as a nation separate from
China, will remain intact, although Zemin took serious offense at the recent
visit of the Taiwanese president for his college reunion. Clinton was also
rebuffed during the course of the summit when Zemin refused to discuss
China’s human rights policy and chided the U.N. and other powers for
interfering in China’s policies. Talks will continue between the two
nations next month in Japan.

Quebec citizens continue

efforts to secede from Canada

Quebec——As Monday’s elections approach, English-speaking citizens
of Canada, as well as U.S. officials, are hoping that recent polls showing
a slight majority of Quebec’s citizenry in favor of separation will prove
false. School children, authors, farmers, and public ofﬁcials from many
nations are appealing to the French Canadians to remain a part of Canada,
rather than seceding in response to the government and English- speaking
citizenry’s refusals in recent years to approve legislation designed to
beneﬁt the French-speaking province. Citizens on both sides of the
question agree that secession would cause major political and economic
upheaval, not only in Canada, but in most of the other major world powers.

Webber takes off five weeks

for shoulder rehabilitation

Ann Arbor, Michigan—The Bullets’ Chris Webber, who recently
signed for a record NBA salary, will be out for ﬁve weeks in order to
undergo rehabilitation for his dislocated shoulder. Doctors provided
Webber with the option of surgery, which would completely heal the
injury, but would require him to be out for several months. The recommen-
dation for ﬁve weeks of strength training came from a doctor outside of the
Bullets organization, but team officials say that team doctors will recom-
mend the same course of rehabilitation and that, once rehabilitated,
Webber should be able to avoid further injury.

'I‘ime-Warner to change rules

of parental advisory stickers

Los Angeles—ln response to recent criticism of Time—Warner for
releasing records with explicit lyrics, and to the results of surveys of
parents, the recording industry is beeﬁng up its system of parental advisory
stickers. The changes are designed to provide parents not with a system of
censorship, but with a more reliable method of screening the music their
children will listen to. Stickers will be more uniformly sized and
placed, and companies will be encouraged to promote the system
through advertising.

    cor WATCH

 

V Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a
specialweekly feature to keep Washing-
ton and Lee's students informed about
the Republican Presidential Campaign
in advance of Mock Convention.

Governor Wilson endorses

Dole for GOP nomination

Former presidential candidate Governor Pete Wilson of California
threw his support behind Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole in his bid for
the Republican party’s presidential nomination. With Wilson’s endorse-
ment, Dole has won the support of the GOP hierarchy in California, which
sends the largest delegation to next summer’s Republican National Con-
vention in San Diego. Many believe that Wilson’s endorsement will be a
boost to Dole’s campaign in California. It is being challenged there by
Senator Phil Gramm, who is strongly supported by the GOP’s strong
conservative wing of Southern California. However, most political opera-
tives agree that if General Colin Powell enters the GOP race, Wilson’s
endorsement of Dole would be meaningless.

Powell's platform proving

devisive among conservatives

The prospect ofa Republican presidential bid by General Colin Powell
has sparked angry conflict between once friendly leaders ofthe coiiserva-
tive movement because ofPowell ’s support ofabortion rights. This dispute
reveals how a Powell candidacy might split the conservative wing of the
GOP and also illustrates the increasingly heated battle over strategies to
fight abortion.

Beyond the Blue Ridge and GOP Watch are
compiled by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

Phi Eta Sigma to
hold induction

Bv RYAN BEAMAN
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee Chapter of Phi Eta
Sigma, a National Honor Society for freshmen, will
induct 56 students this Friday at 3:30 p.m. in Northen
Auditorium. Assistant Professor of Art George Bent
will speak on “The Age of Discovery.”

Phi Eta Sigma serves to recognize and inspire
freshman scholastic achievements.

Students with a minimum grade point average of
3.5 were notiﬁed of their selection by the faculty
advisor of the W&L chapter, Associate Dean of the
College Cecile West-Settle.

The Ring-tum Phi would
like to congratulate the

Phi Eta
Sigma
inductees

Rachel Ann Allen

Jack Richard Bebee
Christiana Petra Callahan
Anurag Munzni Chandra
Kendall Lee Cruickshanks
Maria Milagros Daly

Kristoffer Johan Neville
Matthew Emmett O’Brien
William Edward Olson
Tara Eileen Patterson
Stacy Melissa Patton
William Rueger Poynter

Aubrey Reed Deupree Christopher Scott Pugsley
Jonathan Regan Doherty Celeste E. Rasmussen
Juliana Shand Edmunds Nicole Marie Richard
Noah Michael Egorin Erin Theresa Rosencrans
Charity Lynn Forstmann Robert Thomason Russell
Allison Fairbanks Frey James Glenn Schweer
Marisa Linda Frost Robin Danielle Seaton
Natalia Maria Garcia Jacob Ogilvie Sewall
Molly Katherine Giese Anne Caner Shaw
Michael James Gilchrist Zachary Taylor Shultz
Tyler Christian Haring Scott Carl Silvers

Jana Lynn Heisler Jason Paul Sorens

Jill Lisa Herman Sarah Elizabeth Swisher
Joshua David Heslinga John Joseph Thrall
Marium Grace Holland Timothy Scott Trigilio
Robert Murray Hughes Richard Dunning Walter
Gregory Scot Kees Scott Morgan Wein
Andrew Peter Kintz Sunda Denise Wells
John David Kritser Brian Joshua White
William Thomas Lowrance Lauren Lee Willson
Mary Josephine Mahoney Cindy Judith Young

Sara Scott McGeorge Nora Marie Zwehl-Burke

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995

Summer is “1eaf”-ing

 

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Colorful leaves piled on Washington Street remind the Lexington
community that the seasons are once again changing.

College Democrats ‘

EDITOR'S NOTE: This is the last of a three-part series

highlighting different political organizations on campus. ’
The club has had three formal meetings thus far.
By Cerissng Rasmussian At one of the meetings the campaign manager for the
phi Staff wmer local Democratic Virginia Delegate candidate spoke
to the group which hopes to get involved in the local ’
Virginia state elections as well.

Rounding out the list of campus political organi- Besides the president, the College Democrats’
zations is the College Democrats. Comprised of main ofﬁcers include junior Melissa SawyerasVice-
about ﬁfteen members, its main goal for this year, president and sophomore Robin Boyce as treasurer.
according to President Nova Clarke, revolve around Clarke urges any students interested in joining the K

the upcoming November elections.

College Democrats to contact her.

John W. Elrod inaugurated»

up ELROD, from page 1

think about the value of liberal arts institutions such as W&L. What is our
mission? What are our challenges? What are our priorities and, most
important, why?

The answer to these questions, claims Kuykendall, lies in the basic idea that
institutions like ours are valuable in that their mission is to be “agents in the
formation of character of people who can make a difference in this world.” He
holds that there are four key concepts that provide the keystone of places like
W&L: self-consciousness and the capacity for growth, an appreciation of
heritage, the capacity of critical judgment, and the necessity of integration.

By self-consciousness, Kuykendall was referring to the idea that people who
attend small liberal arts institutions take themselves seriously and come with a
desire to grow. For this reason, said Kuykendall, “the personal dimension of
what we do here is primary.” This intimacy is necessary to our mission; it fosters
a community in which “we life and learn in a special way” for four years,
constantly growing

The second integral part of our University, according to Kuykendall, is “a
capacity to nurture in those who come an appreciation of time as a medium which
conveys . . . the human experience” through both intellectual legacies and
spiritual insights. We must see history as a tool which we can use to understand
the “symbols and ideals” that form the skeleton of our own society. Each student
who passes through the walls of the University will learn to apply his/her own
“interpretative templates on our inheritance.”

This understanding of our own history is fundamental to our type of
institution. It encourages faculty and students alike to “rediscover and unpack
the legacies of time to each generation.” It is only through this cognizance that
we are able to fully understand our own heritage. Perhaps our very own Robert
E. Lee said it best. Kuykendall quoted Lee as having said, “ The march of
providence is so slow, and our desires are so impatient . . . the life of humanity
so long, the life of the individual so brief, that often we see only the advancing
wave and are thus discouraged. It is History that teaches us to hope.”

The mission of “deﬁning and enhancing of judgment” further deﬁnes the
value of institutions like Washington and Lee. A liberal arts education teaches
us to ask “why” things are the way they are rather than practicing blind
acceptance. Kuykendall quotes from Dylan Thomas who wrote, “ ‘. . . useless
presents like books which told me everything about the wasp but why.”’ Our
mission is to realize and teach the necessity of asking “why?” in order to ﬁnd
“the best and most appropriate way to say because.”

Liberal learning insists upon probing further with “whys” so that students
may make careful choices. The best choices, claims Kuykendall, are those that
“take the broadest viewpoints.” These viewpoints, he believes, are only fully
understood after the question of why has been explored.

Perhaps the most important aspect of our mission, however, is fostering the
understanding that the “becauses” we generate from asking “why” are not
significant alone. That is, it is essential that they be integrated in order to see the
whole picture. This is a crucial part of liberal learning, as we strive to
“understand the connections between and among all of the things we learn”
claims Kuykendall.

Our ultimate purpose, then, is to synthesize all “strands of human knowl-
edge” in order to increase our cognizance of what Kuykendall calls the “central
unity” of knowledge. Kuykendall told of a time when he spoke with Robert Frost
and Frost told him that, “leaming is the surprise of seeing a relationship between
things you’ve never seen before.” This, claims Kuykendall, is the essence
of our mission.”

Following this mission, institutions like Washington and Lee are able to act
as ”catalysts for change” in that they nourish in students the capacity for growth,
an appreciation of heritage and tradition, a capacity for critical judgment and the
understanding that all knowledge must be integrated. These guiding principles,
according to Kuykendall, render our students capable of making a difference
wherever they maybe.

Following Kuykendall’s address, John William Elrod ofﬁcially became the
22nd president of Washington and Lee University.

After his inauguration, President Elrod spoke for a while on the concept of an
academic community. He addressed the current idea that in “the academy” there

  

is forming irreversible contention among students. This contention has been

dividing college campuses into opposing “camps” on the basis on racial and.
gender lines. He proudly claimed that this has not been the case at W&L. Our

students, Elrod said, “live together in amazing harmony.” Have we just

been lucky? ‘

According to President Elrod, our harmony has not been a question of luck,
but rather a function of history and civility. Though we each bring a unique
background to W&L, we share the history of W&L. We share the understanding‘
and remembrance of the history of our University. This history, evident in the
names of our buildings, our neoclassical architecture, our honor system, and
Lee’s curriculum, (to name just a few) binds us together producing the cohesion
and harmony that is central to W&L.

Furthermore, claimed Elrod, our “commitment to honor” and our respect for,
{each person’s} personhood” as reﬂected in our honor code and our speaking
tradition creates accord within our community. We refuse to be strangers to each
other and are committed to treating each other with due respect and civility
because we realize that, as Elrod stated, “respect knows no physical boundaries.”
This commitment applies not only on the Hill, but also in the dorms, on the ﬁelds
and it even “spills over into Lexington.” This , claimed Elrod, not “the watchful
eye of Providence” is the key to the harmony we achieve in the academic
community we know as Washington and Lee.

Elrod ’s words were followed by a selection by the W&L University Chamber
Singers entitles “O Clap Your Hands” which marked_the end of the ceremony.
A luncheon honoring President Elrod was held immediately afterward. ’

W;-’t'27¢E2&P0.4’5

‘Q

3'

7? 5. zcwdaéﬂé 55.
463-2742

 

 

I

I

ﬂ

.3»

if-

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995    

“Deafness isn’t the opposite of h

 

Wsasilence full of

life

earin

PAGE 3

,as youthink.

The curtains of Lenfest Center open

 

OI1

jeff mitchell
phi staff writer

“Deafness isn’t the opposite of hearing, as you think. It’s a silence full of
sound.”
—Sarah Norman

The curtains of Lenfest Center will open this Friday to a play that has earned
both the delight of theatergoers and the acclaim of critics; that play is Mark
Medoff’s Children of a Lesser God.

Focusing on the relationship that develops between a colorful young deaf
woman, Sarah Norman, and her hearing teacher, James Leeds, Children is
moreover a celebration of the possible unity of the worlds of sound and silence.

In the course of its ﬁfteen year existence, Children of a Lesser God has
received such illustrious distinctions as a Tony Award, an Outer Critics Circle
Award and a Drama Desk Award for the best play of its season.

In addition to the on-stage experience Dillon brings to the play, she brings
another skill particularly helpful in her current role, her ﬂuency in sign language.
In fact, Dillon has known how to sign since high school for the purposes of
communicating with a deaf friend.

Other cast members, on the other hand, had to start learning to sign from
scratch.

Zach Hanks, who plays James Leeds, the male lead, says that he and other cast
members “had to learn a lot [of sign language] in a very short time. We studied
with the former principal of the Virginia School for the Deaf, and two other
teachers. It was very difficult at ﬁrst and daunting to all, but once we started
learning it, it all came together within a week or so ago.”

Like Dillon, Hanks has acting experience at W&L to boast, having performed
in last year’s production of Macbeth as Macduff at the Lenfest Center.

“After reading the play, I fell in love with it,” Hanks admits, adding, “this part
is definitely the most challenging and extensive role that l’ve ever been faced
with—and possibly will ever be faced with.”

Besides Hanks and Dillon, Phaedra Cianciulli (playing the part of Mrs.
Norman), Maria L’Engle Hardin (Edna Klein), Drew Higgs (Mr. Franklin),

Megan Johnson (Lydia), and Bill Overbaugh (Orin

The production has provided the actors with the
challenge of learning what amounts to a new language,
that of American Sign Language.

“Injust ﬁve short weeks, from first rehearsal to first
performance,” the playbill reads, these students “have
attempted to recreate this multi-lingual production.”

Enlisting the help of Race Drake, once a principal of
the Department for the Deaf at the Virginia School for
the Deaf and Blind in Staunton, the cast members
participated in intensive training sessions, in order to
learn sign language as quickly as possible.

With the production opening in less than a week,
many of the actors and actresses bringing Children of a

Cast member Zach Hanks
enthuses, “It is an excellently
written love story, which at the Overbaugh both express excitement and optimism
same time makes the face
issues concerning an oft-
ignored minority...”

Dennis) join the cast of Children ofa Lesser God.
Daniel M. Tipton, in addition, adds numerous
experience both on and off stage as the Stage
Manager.
Two newcomers to Lenfest, Higgs and

about joining the cast and performing in college.
“As a freshman coming in from high school,”
Higgs reflects, “it is so different. [As far as drama
is concerned] I came from an extremely close knit
high school and I didn’t expect it to be so here.”
Overbaugh explains that he auditioned for Chil-
dren ofaLesserG'odbecause “I wanted to learn sign

Lesser God to W&L’s stage have come into the spotlight
nearly as much as the characters that they play.

Jeanne Dillon, who plays the female lead, Sarah Norman, provided the
instrumental thrust for the play, which will serve as her senior thesis.

Dillon, explaining how she initially became interested in the play, says,”I like
Sarah a lot, and this [role] gave me the chance to explore something I might not
have otherwise been able to explore, because deaf actresses usually play Sarah.”

For Dillon, acting is nothing new. She has appeared in many W&L produc-
tions including The Imaginary Invalid, The Lady’s Not for Burning,
E leemosymary, Other People ’s Money, Self Torture and Strenuous Exercise, and
Macbeth.

language for a long time and this seemed like a good
way to do so. Also, I love theatre.”

All cast members are quite excited about their production, and encourage
everyone who is able to attend the play to stop by.

Hanks enthuses, “It is an excellently written love story, and at the same time
makes the audience face issues concerning an oft-ignored minority.”

Children ofa Lesser God opens in the Johnson Theatre this Friday, October
27, at 9:00 p.m.; additional performances will be October 28 at 2:00 and 8:00
p.m., and at 8:00 the nights of October 30, 31, and November 1.

Tickets are now available at the Lenfest Center Box Office (463-8000).

 

Sarah (Jeanne Dillon) wows her mother (Phaedra
Cianciulli), Mr. Franklin (Drew Higgs) and James
(Zach Hanks) with her card—playing skills.

&L's Children of a Lesser God

 

PAGEG

 

cind young _
ph/fea ures editor

On November 1, the W&L campus
will host the nation’s largest literary
effort, bringing the talents of five writ-
ers of the college and its surrounding
community to one stage, while at the
same time ﬁghting a problem that
plagues more than 20 million Ameri-
cans daily: hunger.

The purpose of Tuesday’s event,
“Writer’ s Harvest: The National Read-
ing,” is, according to its mission state-
ment, twofold: “to raise funds for
groups fighting hunger nationwide,”
and “to untie the country’s literary
community while raising public aware-

ness of the issues related to hunger and
povertv.”

Sponsored nationally by the W 1 t h ofthec0m- Tuesday’s “Writer’s Harvest,” will
nation’s leading anti-hunger organi— s 0 m e m u n i t y , enable the Blue Ridge Food Bank to
zation, Share Our Strength, and lo- sense of serves fur- distribute $10 of food, the reading
cally by the English Department and purpose ther to rec- offers members of the W&L commu-
W&L’s Society fortheArts,“Writer’s and not ommend it nity the opportunity at once both to
Harvest” promises to satisfy both the total 1 y as awonh- hear some of the best local talent, and
intellect and the conscience of all who haphaz- while hour to contribute to a real problem plagu-
attend. a r d l y  or two. ing America today.

Before a microphone in Northen [during] A i d e d In answerto the question, “Why do
Auditorium, ﬁve talented writers from m y in its effort I write?” featured novelist Lisa Solod ‘
the greater Lexington community will f r e s h - by the par- points to the great satisfaction she hilt ‘ t
share their works, ashave hundreds of man year ticipation ﬁnds in “the pleasure of the text, the ,. ‘ -_ 
other writers—of both local and na- a t of Ameri— canvas,thestage,when presentedwith  QW  ._ 40 a.n-tl hun_ I .
tional distinction—in the duration of W&L.” can Ex- talent, joy, love, intellect.” “ organizations nthe United Statesse;
the event. Still— p r e s s , That Tuesday’s reading will fea- - - '*’-“_jI I

Three of the featured readers to man too , . ,... ....  ........ . Share Our turethe resultsofthe‘talent,joy,love, Canada and developlng countries’ Z '
share their time and talent, Ainsley is grate- , , Strength’s and intellect’ not 'ust of one, but of
Fisher of Richmond, Virginia, David ful for The Blue Rldge Food B“_"k'sﬂe‘" 0-f”“‘ck“ ‘"5 “Writer’s ﬁve distinct writerjs of the Lexington
Stillman of Virginia Beach, Virginia, the op- C0"-Wlntl)’ 0" the 70adP1Ck1"8 “P and dl5”ib“ti"8 Harvest” Community, coupled by the fact that
and David Olimpioof Houston,Texas, portunity food for the needy in 25 Virginia counties. has earned all donations will benefit a worthy
hail from the senior class of W&L “Writer’s in its three cause indeed, ensures that W&L’s
itself. Harvest” year his- “Writer’s Harvest” will surely afford

All three, having received invita- I

 

    
 
   

w&|ife

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995

tions from the English Department,
have established themselves as ac-
complished writers within the student
body, and their readings will doubt-
less be rewarding.

Fisher, recalling the ﬁrst couplet
she fonned (“Sometimes I wonder/
What causes thunder”), reflects that
herfulﬁllment from poetry now comes
not so much from a blatant rhyme as
from the more “subtle sounds of the
language.”

Asked about her participation in
Tuesday’s reading, Fisher admits, “I
am a little nervous, but I’m looking
forward to reading.”

Fellow reader David Stillman can
also see a development in his compo-
sition of verse, reﬂecting that he “be-
gan writing poetry seriously, that is,

to read with the other students, and
also with the writers of the commu-
nity.”

The third W&L senior to read his
writing before the event’s audience,
David Olimpio, will be sharing some
of his work in an altogether different
medium, that of the novel, as will the
final two readers of the program.

Both members of the greater Lex-
ington community, Lisa Solod of Lex-
ington, and Pam Patton (a member of
the Development Ofﬁce’s staff) of
Buena Vista round out the list of read-
ers to step before the microphone in
Northen AuditoriumTuesday evening.

While the talent of the writers alone
justiﬁes the reading as a valuable ex-
perience, the force behind the reading,
an initiative to bring food to the needy

will present him of having “a chance

    

tory signiﬁcant funds to support groups

Welcome Parents

ﬁghting hunger across the country,
while bringing the distressing prob-
lem of hunger in America to the atten-
tion of communities from one coast to
the other.

Share Our Strength allots grants
nationwide to over 800 North Ameri-
can organizations that focus on food
distribution combating the conse-
quences of hunger, as well as those
organizations building community
self-sufﬁciency.

100% of Tuesday’s event dona-
tions will go directly to local anti-
hunger efforts, and in particular to the
Blue Ridge Food Bank, which distrib-
utes 5,000,000 pounds of food annu-
ally to food pantries in 25 counties in
and near the Shenandoah Valley.

As every one dollar donated to this

’ much pleasure to _all_who attend. ‘T’;

Alain - lﬁennia Still The Leading

tore In Lexington

Inci-um‘

2-IQ:-vcéa 6

- W».
*rn¢-na'.~t.--.u “*3

uni!-vquuw.
I'Tl!l"1$I¥"' 
3 - IV» 4. -

 

     

f,‘7.‘.:.. ._

 

 

__..i__-___ -_

I

I
Dennis !

   

A11 Suits and Sports Coats 20% Off
SERO - Cotton Dress Shirts Duckhead Khakrs
W001-RICH W&L Belts, Dog Collars, Visors,

Emb-3333' Boxers Ties, and Straw Hats

I-0118 51¢’-‘Ve 3P0TtS Shilts 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos
Leather Watchbands Formal shins

Shoes by Bass, Topsider, Clark’s, Walkover Fancy Cummerbund and Tie sets
R3Y‘B9-11$ Handmade Ceramic & Other Gifts
C°1’d“f°Y Pants Confederate Cummerbund and Tie
Cashmere Blend Topcoats sets and Belts

Red Wing Boots W&LMinkTies

Wool .-‘Slacks .

        
      
       
    
    
    
    
        
 
 

  

  

OPEN THIS SUNDAY 10 a.m.

Alain - iﬁennia

Phone (703) 463-5383
Since 1963
STUDENT

CHARGE ACCOUNTS

A

 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995

@112 ‘iﬁittg-tum Iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

a Welcome parents

I.

October brings many of nature’s most beautiful and curi-
ous creations to Washington and Lee: the majestic prolifera-
tion of colors on leaves, sunny autumnal afternoons that are
simultaneously warm and chilly, and picture-perfect golden
sunsets.

It also brings parents.

Indeed, this upcoming weekend will see moms and dads
descend on Lexington to see their children who have been
notably absent from home since late August.

To varying degrees, students look forward to the arrival of
their folks. All around campus, they feverishly clean rooms
and make dinner reservations.

We can boast of our new lives highlighted by indepen-
dence and personal responsibility.

Our univ’ersity deserves thanks for recognizing the impor-
tance of such a weekend. They enable us an opportunity to
prove that we are well. College life hasn’t destroyed the
values and judgment which our parents have spent eighteen
years instilling in us. Fraternities have not transformed us up
into bacchanalian fools. Academic courses have not reduced
us to quivering stress-packed basketcases.

Instead, college has heightened our sense of self. We
benefit from the instruction of highly capable professors. We
enjoy a lively social life which promotes friendship and
camaraderie.

W&L is indeed our home away from home.

Hopefully, this weekend our parents can understand why.

Thank you, Mr. Fishback

Washington and Lee is blessed with generous alumni
who give back to the university for all they’ve gained from
it.

Thanks to a gift from William Fishback, Jr., ’56, students
will benefit each year from the advice and insight of a
distinguished writer picked by a panel of both students and
faculty.

In picking the speakers, the panel looks for writers eager to
interact with students in the classroom, not merely speak
from the podium in Lee Chapel.

This week, the Fishback Fund’s inaugural speaker, Charlie
McDowell of the Richmond Times-Dispatch, ate lunch with
students before visiting a journalism class, in addition to
giving a public lecture.

The Fishback Fund is a gift for students of all majors, as the
committee invites those who write about public affairs,
nature and the environment, and history and the theater.
Students of all disciplines should take advantage of these
opportunities to listen and talk to these distinguished writ-

ers.

Quote of the Week

“Did you read the papers this week?”
‘fWhat for?”

. —Two broadcast journalism majors
 overheard in the J -School library

OPINION

PAGE 5

t-—---—---J
T;>"7TL<‘ ;/. W‘/‘C‘< 

\‘\l\'\“

.. FT:"f

4-3}

“IT W! MJOM‘ W

V

jntgm mu 1’

-=3

iewcdtdnl-luqame

‘J~_Pax\‘“‘jlcA_t\

‘M

W‘ 5lwv\3 play it-

Filthy politics with the ‘filthy rich’

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

Last week, the Republican House
passed its plan to save Medicare, over
the political opposition of Democrats,
who united behind a dishonest and
disgraceful strategy of "portraying the
plan and the concurrent tax relief as
soaking poor seniors to subsidize “the
rich,” in an effort to obfuscate the facts
and the real problems at hand.

Never mind the fact that the
Republican measure offers seniors
true choice and ﬂexibility and the po-
tential for signiﬁcantly expanded ben-
eﬁts in their Medicare coverage for the
ﬁrst time ever, while preserving the
right of every senior to remain in the
current system.

One might think that such a laud-
able proposal would draw support from
Democrats, or at least substantive de-
bate over the changes in Medicare.
Nope. Watching the Democrats during
the four hours of debate on the Medi-
care proposal was like listening to the
proverbial Johnny One-Note banging
away at his piano keyboard.

While it is sloganeering to repeat
the line: “The party which once told us
we had nothing to fear but fear itself
now has nothing to offer but fear it-
self,” it is also factually accurate. Demo-
crats got up, one after another, to pro-
claim that Republicans were “slash-
ing” seniors’ health care to pay off
their wealthy backers.

Comparing the day to Pearl
Harbor, Democrats shamelessly re-
peated the mantra “tax cuts for the
rich” more than 100 times in just
over three hours in an unabashed at-

tempt to provoke class envy at the
expense of honesty.

The fact is that these “Contract with
America” tax cuts are merely the ﬁrst
step in setting right the past wrongs of
the 40-year reign of tax-and-spend
House Democrats. The fact is that these
tax cuts disproportionately beneﬁt the
middle class and working poor. The
fact is that Democrats are shamelessly
exploiting these issues for political gain,
while offering only to take more of the
American people’s money to finance
the failed liberal welfare state.

President Bill Clinton himself
remarked recently that he now thinks
he raised taxes “too much” in 1993,
when he and the Democratic Con-
gress jammed through the largest tax
increase in American history, includ-
ing unprecedented and unconstitutional
retroactive tax increases. Coinciden-
tally, he happened to reveal this gem at
a Democratic political fundraiser for
the wealthy.

Washington Post columnist and
budget expert Bob Samuelson, who is
opposed to the Republican cuts, re-
marked in a recent column that “their
[Democrats’] endless carping about the
‘tax cut for the rich’ merely disguises
their own unwillingness to confront
the budget deﬁcits. Republicans have
made some unpopular choices about
government; Democrats have not.”

But let’s ignore the political dimen-
sion for a moment and focus on some
hard evidence about where the Repub-
lican tax cuts are going. The single
biggest element of the tax-cut package
is the $500 per child family tax credit,
a step toward restoring the value of the
dependent deduction that has fallen
woefully behind inﬂation under the
Democratic congresses of yesteryear.

The nonpartisan Tax Foundation
recently certiﬁed that the family tax
credit will provide an average of $910

of tax relief per family in 1997. And
these are not wealthy families. Fami-
lies with incomes below $50,000 re-
ceive roughly two-thirds of the Repub-
lican tax credits.

And syndicated columnist Donald
Iambro notes that economists on the
Joint Economic Committee have stated
that 75 percent of the family tax credit
will go to families whose incomes are
below $75,000. Logicallv, as family
incomes increase, the value of the tax
credit in proportion to the family’s
total taxes paid
will decrease,
meaning that the
family tax credit
is even more dis-
proportionately

...The fact is that

recipient over the next seven years.)

Samuelson notes again, “Under the
congressional budget resolution, the
Republicans can’t enact a tax out until
the CBO [Congressional Budget Of-
ﬁce] certiﬁes that their plan would
balance the budget by 2002.”

Only after that time are the beneﬁts
to the economy from reduced deﬁcits
factored in, and these resulting in-
creases in economic growth and de-
creases in interest rates produce $170
billion in increased revenue to the fed-
eral government.
It is then that this
extra certified
savings that fi-
nances over 70
percent of the

important to low-
income families.
Likewise, the

‘Republican pro-

posal to cut the
capital gains tax is
hardly the kick-
back to wealthy
donors that
Democrats would
like to portray to

Democrats are shame-
lessly exploiting these
issues for political
gain, while offering
only to take more
of the American
people’s money to fi-
nance the failed lib-

$245 billion Re-
publican tax cut.

The irrespon-
sibility and
shameless fear-
mongering and
d e in a g o g u e r y
that congres-
sional Democrats
have been re-
duced to is clearly

an uninformed
public. IRS data
indicates that 56
percent of the tax
returns reporting capital gains were
from households with incomes below
$50,000. And while greater incomes
obviously receive more total dollars
from any given tax cut, the cut is
again more valuable as a share of
total income to lower- and middle-
class households.

What’s more, these tax cuts are not
the dividend from huge “cuts” in pro-
grams such as Medicare. (“Cuts,” by
the way, that actually provide for an-
nual growth in Medicare of six and a
half percent, or a $1900 increase per

eral welfare state.

a dark point in the
nation’s recent
history. The av-
erage child today
will pay more than $187,000 over his
or her lifetime to ﬁnance trze national
debt. In the face of a crisis this large,
Democrats have resorted to morally
bankrupt political posturing.

As Republicans in Congress con-
tinue to fulﬁll their promises, stimu-
late economic growth, preserve im-
portant programs for America’s fu-
ture, and return control over the Ameri-
can people’s money to the American
people, it is clear which party holds the
promise of policies to secure a new
dawn in America’s future.

@112 Etttg-tum ilﬂlti

Executive Editms Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Fditnr Michael Hewlett
N°‘”5 Edi‘°" Christine Gamavish
Assistant News Editor Bethany Bauman
Ed“°Im P38‘ F‘“"" Alex Christensen
SP‘-‘"5 Edll°_T Sm" Bookwalter
Features Editor . Cindie Young
Photography Editor Remy Green

Ed“°’m C3“°°"i5l5 Phil Flickinger, Torn Fallaoe

Business Manager Robe“ Nelson
Assistant Business Manager nous Gem,“
Advertising Manager Jennifer G,-am
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Ajyo,-d
Circulation Manager so.-prim William

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, roorri 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The R ing-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu.edu

Do you know what day it is today?

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

That’s right, it’s the anniversary (or as close as we
get in the weekly newspaper bidness) of the first
publication of a certain new kind of column by a
certain young W&L freshman with dreams of glory.
That column is The Far Middle. That boy is me (now
ensconced in productive sophomoredom). Those
dreams are all coming true.

(You can’t hear it, but behind me, The Far Middle
Kickline Girls are dancing and singing “The Alex
Christensen Theme Song,” which, in case you have
forgotten, goes: [clap, clap, clap, clap, clap, clap,
clap, clap] “Hooray for Alex, the hero of our nation!”
Feel free to sing along, won’t you?)

“Where exactly is ‘The Far Middle’?” you may
well ask.

Why, you’re probably already there right now.
“The Far Middle” is a term invented by cartoonist
Jeff MacNelly of the Chicago Tribune in his comic
strip, “Pluggers,” to describe the giant gulf that exists
between the failed liberal agenda represented by the
Democrats and the frankly frightening stridency of
the Far Right which seems to have taken over the
Republican Party.

(He didn’t exactly define it like that—in fact,
what he did was draw a cartoon.)

It is somewhere in this gulf where you will ﬁnd the
majority of Americans, possessed of decent values, a
work ethic they actually practice every day, and
enough common sense to realize that both sides have
gone too far.

So this column was founded upon representing
these voices. It started out with an article about
Pat Buchanan entitled “Fear and loathing in south-
west Virginia,” which began, “This is a new column.
It will not be based on the conservative world view
and it will not be based on the liberal world view. It
will be based on what I think. My name is Alex
Christensen. I carry a badge. People often ask me
whether I am a Democrat or a Republican. This

makes sense, since -I am a dues-paying member of
both the College Republicans and the College Demo-
crats. Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton spring to mind
when you ask me who were the best presidents of the
last thirty-ﬁve years.”

Since then, a lot of things have changed.
For one thing, lam no longer a member of the
College Democrats.

To put it bluntly, the Democratic Party died
when it failed to grasp the meaning of the 1994
Republican Revolution which swept Newt Gingrich
and a GOP majority into power in Congress. Liber-
alism had died long before that, but somehow the
Democrats were able to throw up a president with
their dying breath.

This is not to heap too much lavish praise at
the feet of the Republicans. Too many of them
have refused to repudiate the narrow-mindedness
and the reactionary (or just plain wacky)
viewpoints within their party, represented by such
modern—day Savonarolas as Ollie North, Pat
Buchanan, Alan Keyes, Bob Doman, Pat Robertson
(W&L ’50), George Allen, Jesse Helms and Phil
Gramm, that have kept it from being a majority party
for a long time.

While it is true that the GOP will continue to
have problems with building solid majorities until
it ﬁgures out how to dredge its metaphorical pond
of this very real scum, it is also true that the
significant battles of governance will take place on a
GOP battlefield.

So that’s different. My column has had a good
record, so far.

On the plus side, I correctly predicted, four days
before the election, when Col. Oliver “Slappy” North
was ahead in practically every major poll, that he
would be headed home instead of headed to the
Senate. This may be attributed to my analytical skills
or the fact that the entire state of Virginia realized that
it simply could not afford to pay one man a senator’s
salary and house him in a state mental institution at
the same time.

I also charted the possible courses the Republican
Revolution could take, fairly accurately in retro-

spect, gave some good advice to Democrats and
Republicans alike, stood up against state-enforced
prayer in school, subsidizing religion, irrationally
applied death penalties, W&L’s unique Affirmative
Action program for white males, the ridiculous treat-
ment of Surgeon General nominee Henry Foster by
hypocritical Republicans, inadequate campaign fund-
ing laws, and some of the more mind-boggling evils
of racism.

On the minus side, I probably have written a bit
too close to my deadline, which has probably hurt
more than it has helped, and I may have been the
tiniest bit of what some people would call mean, but
it was all in good fun.

(Now you can check out the entire record from
The Far Middle Home Page, at “http://www.wlu.edu/
~aechrist/aechrist.html”.)

I think I’ve been fairly even-handed about it all,
and hopefully entertaining as well, and now, if you’ll
excuse me, as an American, as a Republican, as a
Californian, I need to publicly dance on the political
grave of Pete Wilson.

Nyah! Nyah! Nyah! Nyah! Take that, Pedro! You
can’t seduce this America with your off—brand of
shady jingoism, you washed—up political hack!
Gramm and Buchanan and Doman and Keyes’ll
ﬁgure it out soon enough, but until then, YOU ARE
THE BIG LOSER.

Here’s my poem about the dubious legacy of
Pete Wilson:

Elmilenio tercero

Los nifios de California

del milenio tercero

no leeran la historia de Pete Wilson
en inglés ni espafiol.

Kinda brings a little tear to the eye, (gno?

Anyway, it’s been quite a ride so far, quite a
lot of fun, and I’d have to say that the best part
is that I get to work for the W&L weekly that doesn’t
hate women.

G’night folks! I’m here every other Friday!

 

 

OPINION

Spirits in an Enchanted World

D REAM LAND
Richard Weaver

Halloween in Rockbridge County
is not any normal event. The assorted
ghosts, goblins and townies all come
out to play. I had my ﬁrst bit of Hal-
loween fun several weeks ago when I
attended a seance. I wanted to meet
these mysterious beings.

If I were a spirit, one of the places
I would probably pick to materialize
in would be the Enchanted Castle in
Natural Bridge. If you’ve ever trav-
eled Route 11 on your way to the
Natural Bridge Wax Museum, you
may have seen a rundown little theme
park with huge plaster animals and
overgrown weeds. In the brochure it
says, “Witness the Pig Bungee Jump
from high atopa40 foot tower.” What-
ever that means. The gates to the En-
chanted Castle are usually open.

After seeing an announcement in
theLexington News Gazette I decided
to make the seance my next stop on the
Dream Land World Tour. It was held
on a recent Friday the 13th. Since this
paper comes out on Parents Weekend
I should probably mention to my Mom
and Dad that this is not what I usually

do on Friday nights.

I arrived at the appointed hour and
was met at the entrance by Mark, the
owner/creator of the Enchanted Castle.

“You must be Richard,” Mark said.

“Yes,” I re-
plied. I stood in
the front foyer
with Rocky, a
man whose eyes
and nose were the
only visible parts

We sat down around

like the back wall in Neweomb Hall.
Inside was a bottle of cider and 13
cups. Mark gave us each one and
encouraged us to drink the cider. He
watched intently. This really has
nothing to do
with anything.
After our
drink, Mark sat
down to conjure
up the spirit of
Frank, a slave

of his face. The
rest was hidden
by a thick black
frizz which I
guessed he had
been growing

the table and Mark
pushed on one of the
wall paintings,
which mechanically
opened up a panel to

who died after
saving someone
from drowning in
the James River.
With skill that I
haven’t seen

since he was 15.1 since Binn the
think he was from repeal a s.ecret closet’ Clown tirade
Buena Vista. -Kind Ofllke the  bouquets of

Mark led us wall i n N e wco m b ﬂowers grow out
into a room  of his hand at a
with a large ' birthday party I
round black- attended in ﬁrst

draped table.

“My name is
Mark and I’ll be your channeler to-
night,” he said.

We sat down around the table and
Mark pushed on one of the wall paint-
ings, which mechanically opened up a
panel to reveal a secret closet. Kind of

grade, Mark
made water from
Frank’s lungs appear in a bowl.
Really. This seemed to rattle Rocky
and his family.

Mark said, in a scared tone of voice,
that he hadn’t considered this might
happen, but since it did, he got atray of

13 different cups out of the secret
closet and gave us each one. He went
around the room and poured a little bit
of the water from Frank’s lungs. He
told us not to drink it.

All 13 of us lifted up our cups aswe
chanted to Frank. When we were all
done Mark came around for us to pour
the water from our cups back. But
there was no more water! Each cup
was empty except for some clear goo.
Mark had warned us that if anytime
during the seance a goo appeared, it
was probably ectoplasm, and we might
get burned if we touched it. The goo in
my cup felt like cold toothpaste. I
think Frank may have used mint Crest.

For his next trick Mark blew out
the candles on the table and started
chanting to Frank again. Oddly
enough, things only happened at the
seance when the lights were turned
off. Rocky, and his family, let out little
squeals of fear when we heard a book
ﬂy off the shelf. We never did hear
Frank talk: only Mark could hear him.

I would sum up my feelings during
the seance by saying I tried real hard
not to laugh. Even when Mark had to
stop what he was doing to ﬂip sides on
his tape of scary background music.
Whenever I become a spirit I’ll be nice
and ﬂip it for him.

1935 idea may not survive century

MY VIEW
Jennifer Galardi, ’96

EDITOR ’S NOTE: This is the ﬁrst of three
articles concerning the state of Social Security.

Unless you have been in a coma for the past couple
of weeks, or you are not very hip on watching C-
SPAN 24 hours a day (which is perfectly understand-
able), you cannot avoid the current discussion con-
cerning the two largest entitlement programs in this
country: Medicare and Social Security. The threat of
“Mediscare” wasplastered onthe coverofNewsweek
while the Senate Finance Committee battles with
Medicare refonn. Reports are ﬁnally conveying to the
American public what was researched and discov-
ered years ago: Medicare and Social Security will
soon become insolvent unless policy changes occur
now. Although both programs are facing the threat of
bankruptcy, politicians have begun debating only
Medicare reform while no one is willing to touch
Social Security with a ten foot pole. Therefore, I will
focus on Social Security, because you can pick up any
national paper or, yes, tune into C-SPAN to learn the
truth about Medicare.

First, it is important to distinguish between the
national deﬁcit and the national debt. The national
budget deficit equals federal spending minus federal
revenue for one ﬁscal year while the national debt is
the total accumulation of all the budget deﬁcits in our
history minus all the budget surpluses. The budget
deﬁcit for ﬁscal year 1994 was $203 billion and is
estimated by the Congressional Budget Ofﬁce to
reach $175 billion for ﬁscal year 1995. The national
debt is approximately ﬁve trillion dollars and increas-
ing by $602 million every day. This means that each
citizen’s share of the national debt is approximately
$19,0()0. Considering these staggering numbers, it is
not hard to understand why current spending trends
cannot be sustained if we do not wish to unfairly
burden America’s children and future generations.

Like consumers, the federal government borrows
money to fund these huge deﬁcits. Unlike consumers,
they borrow it from the nation’s pool of savings. As
a result of falling private savings and rising govem-
ment deﬁcits, there is less private savings available
for the investment necessary for this country’s long-
term economic growth. These savings, known as net

national savings, have dropped from more than
eight percent of the economy to less than two
percent today, which restricts American industries’
productive and competitive capabilities. When the
US. is not competitive, the country is not earning as
much as a whole, wages go down, and the standard of
living stagnates.

This long—term economic perspective is vital for
understanding the importance of controlling entitle-
ment spending and reforming Social Security now.
Consider these facts. Entitlement spending and inter-
est on the national debt now consume over half of all
federal spending. By 2003, that percentage increases
to 72 percent. Of the total $1.53 trillion in federal
expenditures in 1995, Social Security alone will ac-
count for nearly 22 percent, or $334 billion. By the
year 2005, costs of the program in constant dollars are
expected to increase to $566 billion. This leaves very
little revenue for discretionary programs such as
education and others which can raise productivity
and contribute to economic growth.

Contrary to popular belief, the Social Security
program is a direct transfer, or pay-as—you-go pay-
ment system. There is not a little piggy bank in
Washington with your name on it collecting the FICA
tax taken out of every paycheck you receive which
you will receive upon retirement. Those currently
earning money are paying for those currently receiv-
ing Social Security beneﬁts. To pay for the exploding
costs of these beneﬁt programs, FICA taxes have
increased dramatically in recent decades. These taxes
are paid disproportionately by the young. Retirees do
not pay FICA taxes at all. Among workers under age
30, nine in ten pay more in total FICA taxes than they
do in income taxes.

One reason discussion on Social Security reform
has been avoided by the plague is due to the belief that
there is a huge surplus in its trust fund (OASDI).
Although this is true, the current surplus will rapidly
decline once the Baby Boom generation begins to
retire around 2010. Such fundamental demographic
changes cannot be ignored. Because of longer life
expectancies and the aging of the Baby Boom genera-
tion, we must plan now for the aging of America’s
population. The number of Americans over 70 will
double in the next 35 years, from 24 million today to
48 million in the year 2030 and there will be fewer
than three working-age persons for each person over
65. This increase in the number of elderly will send
spending on Social Security to astronomical levels.

Even with the current surplus, the best estimate is
that the Trust will be totally bankrupt by 2030. How-
ever, the fund actually begins running a deﬁcit (cash
outﬂow to beneficiaries will exceed cash inﬂows
from taxes) in 2013, causing the trust fund to be drawn
upon. This deficit will also cause net borrowing from
the public and the federal deﬁcit to increase.
By 2015, Social Security’s annual operating deﬁcit
will hit $57 billion. By 2020, the revenue shortfall
will have widened to $232 billion; by 2040 it will be
$1.3 trillion.

In a recent debate during the Senate Finance
Committee ’s hearing on Medicare, Sen. Alan Simpson
(R-Wyo.) called today’s senior citizens “the most
fortunate people on earth.” Most people understand
the importance of the Social Security system. It
provides cash and health insurance to the elderly and
disabled, removes millions from poverty and gives
the elderly the means to live their last years in dignity.
But in the past few decades, the beneﬁts have gotten
out of control. Contrary to popular belief, beneﬁts for
seniors have actually increased in the past three
decades, from 17 percent of non-interest outlays in
1965 to 40 percent in 1995. Furthermore, this share
continues to grow under both the congressional bud-
get proposal as well as the President’s new budget.
Sen. Simpson used himself as an example. In his
employment days, Sen. Simpson never put more than
$864 a year into the Social Security fund. If he were
to retire now, at age 64, he would receive $1140 a
month. Most retirees get all the money they contrib-
uted to the system back within the ﬁrst six and a half
years of beneﬁts they receive from Social Security.
Social Security was created in 1935 during the De-
pression to provide the elderly with decent pensions
as a kind of safety net. However, the program was
never intended to be what it is today in allowing some
beneﬁciaries to live in luxury.

Current entitlement spending trends cannot be
sustained if we do not wish to unfairly burden
America’s children and future generations. We must
recognize the impending consequences of current
policy and inaction. Unless policy changes happen
now, our generation may never have the security
that our grandparents currently enjoy. It is no
wonder that more people believe in UFO’s than have
faith that Social Security will be there for them when
they retire. The big question now is how to restore
long—term solvency to Social Security and who will
be responsible.

LETTERS

Panhellenic story got the facts wrong

To the editor:

for the rest of the article. In the future, resist the temptation to fabricate

Panhellenic matters.

The Homecoming issue brandished a front-page article claiming that the

Panhellenic Rush mles had been revised. This is completely untrue. It is obvious
that your freshman male simply got a hold of the Rush rules and lent his own
.interpretation to the document. There are no quotations or interviews from
Panhellenic members to substantiate anything in the article. His deﬁnition of “hot
boxing” comes from who knows where. There aren’t “two new rules” set this

year, only a clarification of the previous rules.

While I thank you for announcing the Rush registration date, I can’t thank you

Suzanne M. Sharp
Panhellenic President

EDITOR ’S N 0 TE : The Ring-tum Phi would like to note that the information
contained in the aforementioned article was obtained in part from a Panhellenic

handout entitled, “Revised Rush Rules. ” In addition, the practice of having men

cover Panhellenic stories is intended to avoid possible conﬂicts of interest.

3/.9

in?-lam phi:
9 gal /old 0

/Lug./» ow chi/all/‘en

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995

  

Fencing Club

The Fencing Club will be hold-
ing an organizational meeting on
Thursday, Oct. 26 at 7:30 p.m. in
Room 113 of the University Center.
All men and women interested in
fencing at Washington and Lee are
encouraged to attend. Beginners
welcome. For more information,
please call Eric Kessel at 462-4243.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will make its contribution to
the Halloween season with the pre-
sentation of Ed Wood (USA, 1994),
directed by Tim Burton. Screenings
will be at 8:05 p.m. Friday and Sat-
urday, Oct. 27 and 28 in the Trouba-
dour Theater. There is no charge for
admission. All members of the W&L
community and the community at
large are invited.

Glasgow Readings

The Glasgow Endowment Series
will present readings by poet
Brendan Galvin, author of GreatBlue
and Saints in Their Ox-hide Boats,
Thursday, Nov. 9 at 4:30 p.m., and
novelist and poet Lynne Sharon
Schwartz, author of Rough Strife
and The Fatigue/lrtist, Wednesday,
Dec. 6 at 4:30 p.m. All readings will
take place in Northen Auditorium.

Mock Convention

Mock Convention Media Com-
mittee applications are currently
available outside of Carol Calkins'
ofﬁce. They will be due Nov. 6.

Politics Panel

The Politics Department is spon-
soring a panel discussion entitled
“The Black Vote in the Republican
Party at Century’s End” Thursday,
Oct. 26 at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Au-
ditorium. A reception will follow at
the Alumni House.

Practice Interviews

Seniors may sign up for video-
taped practice interviews in the Ca-
reer Development and Placement Of-
ﬁce. There are two more days of
practice interviewing this term:
Wednesday, Oct. 25 and Thursday,
Nov. 9.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

SLAC Job Fairs

Liberal Arts and Science ma-
jors interested in the SLAC job
fairs should submit their resumés
by Oct. 27.

Study in Hong Kong

There’s still time to apply for
a year in Hong Kong at Chung Chi
University! Applications are due
next Monday, following Parents’
Weekend. Please remember that

‘ you pay W&L fees here, with no

extra charge, and need only ﬁgure
in transportation cost. Living ex-
penses are apt to be considerably
lower than in’ Lexington. With
Hong Kong reverting to Chinese
rule in 1997, now is the time to go
and see firsthand what’s happening.
Courses are in English, so language
is noprob1em—youcanbeginstudy-
ing Chinese there, if you like. Please
see Prof. Ann Rogers in the Red
House for further information and
an application form.

Symphony Trip

Tickets for the trip to the
National Symphony Saturday, Nov.
4, can be purchased for $20
through Michelle Richardson, Stu-
dent Activities Coordinator. The
group will leave at 9:15 a.m., stop
brieﬂy for breakfast, and disembark
near the mall in Washington. There
will be several hours to shop or
sightsee, etc. At 7:30 p.m., the group
will leave for the Kennedy Center
for the 8:30 p.m. perfonnance. Im-
mediately following the perfor-
mance, the group will leave for Lex-
ington and will arrive home around
1:30 a.m. The Symphony will per-
form works by Hartke, Bruch,
Mumford and Mahler.

Teacher Education

Dr. Patty Westhafer from Mary
Baldwin College will be on campus
Wednesday, Nov. 1, to consult with
students regarding teacher educa-
tion and licensure. If your future
plans include teaching, please come
by Fairfax Lounge between the hours
of 12:30 p.m. and 2 p. m. to discuss
particular needs with Dr. Westhafer.
If you have questions consult Dean
West-Settle at x8746.

Correction

The Phi apologizes for the error.

In the Oct. 13 issue of The Ring-tum Phi, a column by Nicholas Waddy
ran a headline he does not feel that this reﬂected the message of his column.

E—mail your letter
to the editor:
phi@wlu.edu

,/

  

Your Student
Go Hungry

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner

For only $90.00

19 W. Washington St., Lexington

9
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

 

Nutritious Muﬁins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our
Point Card

Harbs’

 

 

  

Tine Ri.::§_-turn Phi, October 27, 1995  % PAGE 7

 
 

     
    

 
  

   

  

 
 
   
    

i
».._iy’t\ . .   IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
*4 ,o_M.7:%.§__,W__ﬁ___w_.”________ . . _
 7-“ ’.é‘*':s‘a.~“ _f’itte$t -irt Valley   . : \  ’/  g '
~ it 4 ,. ..,, - .- _. _ , I " -
, 1.. .- in 4 1 2:; lTlf1 Cfrajctsrnanshtp umownna s1’oREs”’ I - -' I
3   ' . ' . I
'1. E   . :.‘;‘u.z-vv.-are 82: I;'n;)r(:e];3i‘-3 . : I :
;‘    ‘ f’*‘;“’ "€‘_j‘f“‘~"§"‘ t Hardware, Paint, and Related Items -_- -_-
 v...,,:.~ »x ti")1S '1 CILII '5“, “(£1 ‘:55, 
 «vim» l’ L ‘s.r‘«<:‘I svztsrcz-¢L3l'\G:C1 greetirag cards : :
:‘\ -::vI2s>.= ~¢»...~ru.'x (;fZC;l1c3.- ‘ye CZ.r~ ” ,, , _ 0
K  t*i‘.'s1i AT, «$6:-’;§(‘u‘\.c‘1 1. /-\t,::;i:§I:'$3 aft“    a.m. - 6 pm. Sun.  : A  :
z;  . e son t., exington - I :
  =5‘-‘ _‘iVe-‘$4’ VV¢?=“-’3'- irtgtors - : 8 am - 3 pm - Monday I
it  .:«::c 1 rag; {(2 r1 , \/.1 rgir1 in . I
Q  ,2:  46:-izfssgs .8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday :
‘ i.;_.:;._;._= ..  .;  ’ V 4 ../ a u ra 423/ .2 0-5 ‘.   Art : 8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday I
F We have : 9 am - 3 pm - Sunday :
I I
Lee ' '
‘ . . : Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad :-
‘ ; signatures; one diploma . .
E \X/&L Copperplate hand—colored ' All you can eat $499 '
l 3 I
I Kataurant and W&L and R.E. Lee limited edition art : _ '
I 9-[  sculpture by Ron Tumson : Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID :
i ‘ ) I I
,. 0 zeszlounge . .dy S f M.
3 ‘ . Fri a - ea oo ite - :
5 "$1  T  ' Crab Le s Shrim Trout '
K‘ “W ‘Y.’ _ I g 9 P, I
i  Route 7, BOX 99A ﬂ ' ' : Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib, :
4  1»/<3XiY1gt0T1, Virginia  4 East Washington Street : 2 Vegs’ Salad $895 :
% Near the Horse Center F [m H Ige;<(i)n%tg>z;i,6:'t{)\4 24450 : :
 Phone 464—9499 ( ) ‘ E
 Open Monday ~ Saturday I I
‘ * Wnge ope“ 400 pm" ‘O '9 S0:0d)aaJ1nl I)3:£(i)(I)I1p.l:4nb0 m : - Le ' VA A 21450 :
5 UII Z . - 1 . .
9 xs""~.i"‘»7.Z1'L1l'€1T1t  3-m- to   j y P _ : I I I II I  I II I §InJqht(2II’I I I I I I I I I I I I I

 

i   You rant tsp. at 

  

   
   

  
    
   

    
   

   

 

11
A   g,o;eHal.bSs:ii 2
   A Bistro 
 h : 19 West Washington Street :
t      ’ S ' ' 2 I
 ‘ 5’ 0”’ C’,""””g ; Halloween Costume ;
 i"'t.§1d A ccessorzes ; ;
,  5 Contest 5
  Tuesday, October 51 
.   Mttin St. (703)463-5988  6 p.m. [O 7 p.m. 
m\m‘gt0IIl7 VA 24450 S E Natural cotton N 1 :11 If
 WA ; Dress to scare the , "er
“ 5 judges 5   
 .   . 5 1st Place: $25 Gift Certificate 5  c
a» g  t §t!,Sday Friday , _ _ _ , 
i  Vmher & Convembles , 2nd Place: $15 Gift Certificate ; ”mWWm__et‘Wm
ﬁg  Cat Muppetu Halloween Band E 3rd Place: $   Certificate 5 5 Open daily 104'"-6I»m'Swtdays 1 1am~312m
3  EOOOOOO000000000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOE

 1   "'**FREE TRIPS & CASH!!"*
Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH

ii .

I 3
   I I g with America’s # 1 Spring Break Company! Sell only 15 trips and travel tree!
 Choose Cancun, Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STU-

DENT TRAVEL  95-BREAK!

Too much classwork to do?
'«   tj‘ilOi1§Lj;ll time to wash your face. certainly not enough for washing

laundry! 

 of wearing the same clothes because nothing else is clean’?

‘ E» Barring your laundry to me, Teresa, at

  

‘W _-,

 

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SEIJ.
TRIPS, EARN CASH &_ GO
FREE!!! Student Travel Services IS
now hiring campus rep_reSentat1V9S-
Lowest rates to Jamaica, Cancufﬁ,
Da tona and Panama City Bede .
Ca ‘ 1' 

   
       

 Lexington Laundry Service 81   
 Alterations
 22 N. Main St. (next to 11 Palazzo)

‘  464-4001
 ii :i_;.iiEiI’g€ $.60 per pound forlaundry and I do alterations

A  too!
 i give 10% discount with student ID. Q Florist to The Homestead g  
  H g Ten East Nelson Street Lexington 463-9841 =:..'0‘¢D‘ii’I- 330 E

 

I

S The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995
some /&%’3R[~;[), me, Hi Born Computer Systems -
203 North Main Street

Q . . .2, /
W W -   [0 Lexington, Virginia 24450-2650 .

9m@mm  ' ' ' mm!
Wm”9“’“’ “"6" 703-463-6001

Wkm; .9?u'aé% ﬂoioém 2 7   Price List
3:00 [0 5:00/"m' 5 Mega of Ram expan%:::?eBE§ 1133:5093 256K Cache v.

14.4 Fax /Modern 10! Key Keyboard Mouse

?/ﬂkme;  930/m mm] ﬁwal 1 Meg PC! Video PC! Disk Drive cos-mono:

850 Meg Hard Drive 3.44 M09 Floppy Drive 0.
16 WEST WASHINGTON STREET LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA 24450 D windows 95 1 Year On-site Warranty

486 DX 4/100 128
WIN A FREE ROOM 486 DX 4/120 1360

for PENTIUM 75 1520 .

PARENTS’ WEEKEND '96 PENTWM 90 1620
PENTIUM 100 I840 *

Win a room in the Morris House for PENTIUM 120 2090 !
October 25th and 26th 1996 p5N1'|uM 133 2290

Tickets on sale [won "or Choices ‘

Noon — 5:30 Friday and 9:00 - 1:00 Saturday 14” SVGA .28 NMI 295
in front of the Co—op 1 5:: A 8 Ni  ~

$10/ticket or $15/ticket and T-Shirt ‘7’’ 5VGA -23 N‘ 795 ~

 

8 Meg Ram Addition 335.00
. . . 1 gig IDE HD Upgrade 100.00

All moneg to benefit W&L Habitat for lilumanltg 350 M39 Tape Backup 195.00 A
CD-ROM Muiti-Medic: 4X V 340.00

I CD-ROM Mum-Media 2X 240.00 E

0 ea 7  
The College Town Shop  0     

111 W. N~'<nn St.

STORE WIDE SALE

20 %  IF AT°FIRS'l‘ YOU SUCEEED,  ~
TRY, TRYAGAIN.

A
In the latest DALBAR Consumer ticipnnts all they need to help fulfill their
* * Satisfaction Survey. a comprehensive ﬁnancial goals and long~term expectations,
study of 2,000 ﬁnancial service companies In the years 10 come, we'll work even
. E  banks, mutual funds, brokerages. and harder to enhance the level of personal ser— "
 lﬂ~.<\l'!'e¥'S — Tl‘A/\-CREF was voted the vice and innovative solutions we of};-r go
§ leading ]I’)f0VIdCl‘ of retirement plans. help them build a secure and rewarding
S We ll try to do better next time. tomorrow. ll/la)/be that's why so many of the
E ‘ Slot that Vvc mmd the rccogmtnon, Its best mmrls In the na.non.trust 05 not just p
‘ P & just t at .4 lot of people (!Xpl.fCl nothmg less with their money, but wtth that future,
3 it-*3" the lief? (“Om us- Over 3 8 million indi» Find out more about America's
 viduals In higher education and research, to retirement planning experts. Call us at
.  be exact. And frankly. so do we. 1 800 842-2776 weekdays 8 am to 11 pm ET,
_ »  Day Rlicr clay. for over 75 years, we’ve or visil our Web site on the Internet at E
’ ' "'1 l ~ '4 -1 ’ 3/ PM cvelythmg We Ve got Into giving our pan httpz//www.tina-cref.org.
rt -1 §
MMNS AND WOMJNS z n
_E  g the future 5»
g or osc who shape it.“
IS
§
0

AMEX p,/[ASTERCARD V 1 S A }{()USE CHARGE CRi<IFccnil”uca1és are d..».~;m.n~a by TIA/\—CRl£l-‘ n..d;va.lu;.1 ml Institutional Scwicu. Inc. ~

 

The Ring-tum Phi, October 27, 1995 ' SPORTS

Grand ﬂpening  A

meetmeat WWN rrrnneresorrﬁe ween

........ ..//’ 

,..J -_.. j____
l“‘ 1 7%?’ L1i«'1  on

ST IKC COFFEE

Fresh Roasted Daily

L1,?” <‘*'5”’~”~’,.r'“‘I ESPRESSO &
ax,  CAPPUCCINO

a downstairs Rathskeller 

16 Lee Ave. OPEN TIL
(across from Chi Psi)  :   L  A '
Welcome Students Friday & Saturday ’%$’,,‘,,‘,‘,,£§°s’.,‘.’;Z':,f‘  ‘s’.,‘;,“§“'

Take Home Some The junior goalie was rock-solid against The freshman Chase had an impressive

   S’ Roanoke and Haverford. Mozena did not allow week with three goals and one assist against

Roanoke any goals coming off the bench. She Bridgewater, as well. as scoring the Generals’
. dd h H rfd,1-0. l 1' 2-11 - .
 f discount to an   I then procee e tos ut out ave or one goa ma oss to Randolph Macon
  everyday! 9 w_ wushmgm, & . 454.5535  6K

0 Great

Sandwhiches
Suhs
Salads

mar ween

0 Complete dinner menu
0 We specialize in Black V _ _  , _ _
Angus steaks  V’  Jason Cullen Julie Ayers Natalia Garcia

1  - - V . 1 .  ' " Men’sC1-osscoumry Women’s Tennis Women’s Tennis
. Lunch and dinner Callen took care of business in Ayers and Garcia dominated at the Rolex National Small College

T  if A 5 Gettysburg as he raced to a fourth- Championships. After capturing the Division III doubles title, the
specials  place finish in the meet in 26:51. duo eliminated the Division II champion team in straight sets.
0pen at 11 a.m. daily

Dinner served 4:30 p.m. ‘til ???

SPRING BREAK - Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun

and Jamaica from 299.00. Air, Hotel, T1-ansfers,
Take out  Parties, and. More! Organize a small group and earn a

464-3157 , y ,_  FREE trip plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321

The Robinson-Humphrey
Company,“ Inc.

V   E n Would Like to Invite All Graduating Students
lntemtecl in I mzestment Banking Opportunities
P S In Conmler I ntmiiezoing for our '

Corporate Finance Analyst

I/so/V9”
W/gﬂ J/:tt19‘f‘ Program

THE 5OU KCE Ir1terzIiewDate: November 14, I 995

FOR W&L GEAR Reswnze’ Deadline: October 3 I , I 995

11 Washington 51:.
Lexin ton

464'“ O00 C tmmct I/9e W/axbingttan (‘.3 Lee Career Development and
Placement O_/ﬁre for Additional Information.

<» :5 . N
.»

‘.~"'?3'R.°°.-°’I“‘v‘s‘>°°<"‘7“‘>°.’v?Z 

~ue\~\6V‘6"§ (We

'<.V.~:v«:g'~‘;r«5v:4.\zg;{ ;24v:§:;'4:¢z«'«<'.‘.é’4.-2-}€:‘c<<:~,«)'.'~'~:2 {

The performance experience of a lifetime is waiting for
you at Busch Gardens in Williamsb . Virginia. Join us

ora chance tobepanofaspectaculars owandagroat
entottaimnent tradition.

Nooth 1 tr l'kihis:' th‘    in ' - ..
perf0rn§;I§rO:r:°;1§fnnst<;g:rSm§:t;af'$:n:i:usmglahofsh   .g    The First National Bank of Maryland, (1 $1@B re

nu’ trtaimn t; dedi ted taffthat 2 4  1., % . . -. . . . . .
§,3,;’,f§§§i,0W§,§;§usm°§Ed;,wmd§5";f,oi;md   t     guonal financial ||’lSt|tUtlOl’l located In Baltimore,
dramawe     T   '

have "  . -_ x —

andaionm§cmrni;i:i:iii&i§£psi}§i5n{xi§iihc§n§e§xr?.§Ic.i?l- 2      “ Maryland, will be recruiting at Washington and
modat1ons.Alofth1splus access to one of the most * , _ ‘ _ .. .. _ , (

heautlﬁﬂthemeparksmtheworidl   ‘ "    J  lee University on Thursday, November 3%, 1995.
M°mmaI?0%é5g::§lr?)fe1}g°::h°mm   1  _    Our training program prepares you for a co-
- Singers 0 Dancers ° Musicians 1 1  it 
~ Actors - Variety Artists ,     .   
.Tec}mjcian5   program exposes you to credit analysis, cus-
(includin stage managers, audio engineers,

l’ ht’ fl] t d d bu
‘E ‘“gi?;ss§m°tZii”§e£l§§”é§’p’Zr?3ncZi“ ‘°°   Morgantown,

ir°i““2*f‘§ifii‘E;;‘iiP‘t’iiiig“£?‘g”K‘"r;"i’””fig°§%‘t W93‘ ""9'"'a  
yJZ§‘§‘éu1/imuieiﬁtonauniiniimuifmmaiii Friday, Novemberiﬂth ‘ brochure which is available In your Placement

on ' k’ k dsfro Fb 1:0Up.m.-4:00p.m. . . . .
m:o$liIli:‘;illac§3ﬁi}i11nV;(lioiriW§emii1ugh0gt1obEriu9§6?i Mguntaimair s office. If Interested In this excellent opportu-

For now infomtation, call: (800) 253-3302. Or write to: West Virginia University . - ‘ ‘ . .
Auditions, c/o Bustsli Gardens Entertainment, Onollusch Joseph muck mane mty, submit your resume for consideration to
Gardens Blvd.,Will1amsburg, VA 23187-8785. An equal ,

opportunity employer.

reer as a Commercial Lender. This challenging

tomer calling, problem solving, and diverse fi-
nancial training. Please review our training

your placement office counselor.

 

Last Week:

i.i.- W, 36-21, at Sewanee

' Vou.:YaAu. - Beat Salisbury St. and Mary Washington, lost to
Gallaudet and Kean in Gallaudet. Tournament; W, 3-0, at Guilford
MSOCCER - L, 2-0, vs. Centre; L, 5-1, at Emory & Henry
Wsoccan - L, 2-1, vs. Notre Dame (Md.); L, 2-1, vs. Centre;
W, 1-0, vs. Guilford in ODAC quarterﬁnals
MCaoas Courrnnr - Finished second at Gettysburg Invitational
wA1'ERP0lD- W, 19-6, vs. MIT; W, 22-12 vs. U.S. Merchant Marine;
L, 12-8, vs. Johns Hopkins in EWPA Div. III Champ.

PAGE 10

S

Cllria ‘filing-htm lﬂlri

PORTS

This Week:

I
VOLIZYBALL - Today vs. Eastern Mennonite, 6:30 PM
Foovrsau. - Saturday vs. Bridgewater, 1:30 PM
Wsoocut - Friday vs. Roanoke in ODAC semiﬁnals
WATIII Pow - Saturday and Sunday at EWPA Southern Playoffs
Gour - Today through Saturday at VMI Classic
I

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

OCTOBER 27, 1995

  

 pine grotznders »
B<>‘§£onW'as<>ne.;
.. ;it’s:, first

1995 Worid Se"; is
' iaeonctusion,‘ 
¥h?€*h§3ef5°$ ’

 

By Roy BURNS
Phi Staff Writer

Dashing to the top

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

 

. the team.

The W&L men’s cross country squad has been on a roll for the past two
weekends. The men finished second at the Gettysburg Invitational one
week after capturing the Virginia Division II-IH State Championships.

  
  

 

Football keeps on rolling
with impressive road wins

By Soorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

Since the Washington and Lee football
team had not won at Hampden-Sydney or
Sewanee in this decade, one would as-
sume that the team would have struggled
the past two weekends.

Evidently, no one told the Generals.

W&L vaulted over the .500 mark for
the ﬁrst time this season by smacking
Hampden-Sydney, 21-7, on October 14,’
and dumping Sewanee, 36-21, this past
Saturday. These impressive victories
upped the Generals’ log to 3-2-1 overall,
and 1-2 in the ODAC.

The Generals had not won in Ashland
since 1985, but things were to change this
year. Hampden-Sydney played the Gen-
erals to a draw through the ﬁrst quarter,
but it was all W&L after that.

After a 14-yard touchdown re-

ings since 1955.

W&Land Sewanee took turns domi-
nating the first half. The Generals rolled
out to a 13-0 advantage by the end of
the ﬁrst quarter, as Fischer scored a
touchdown from three yards out, and
Drew Thomas booted ﬁeld goals of 34
and 33 yards, respectively.

As much as W&L controlled the
ﬁrst quarter, Sewanee dominated the
second. The Tigers got on the board in
a big way when James Spriggs hauled
in a reception from quarterback Louie
Caputo and raced 78 yards for a touch-
down. An eight-yard run by Kent
Underwood enabled the Tigers to rally
back to take a 14-13 lead at the break.

‘ The Generals, though, were
undeterred, as they swung the momen-
tum back into their favor in the third
quarter. Wideout Chastain scored an
unlikely touchdown when he picked
up a fumble and sprinted 32 yards into

sive 45 yards out. Besides his tre-
mendous placekicking day, Thomas
averaged a terrific 49.3 yards on his
three punts.

The defense would not allow
Sewanee to come any closer. Line-
backer Doug Kennedy drove a nail
into the Tigers’ cofﬁn when he picked
off Caputo for the second time in the
game. The interception set up a one-
yard Fischer touchdown plunge
which sealed the deal for the Gener-
als, 36-21.

Defensive line stalwarts Hull and
Peyton Williams turned in big per-
formances yet again for the Gener-
als. Hull’s two sacks shattered his
school co-record by giving him a
season-total of eleven sacks. Wil-
liams did his part by sacking Caputo
twice, as well as collecting seven
tackles and forcing a fumble.

“We wanted to dominate defen-
sively, and that happened
in the second half,” com-

ception by Chas Chastain pro-
vided the Generals with theirﬁrst
score, running back Seth
McKinley dashed 27 yards to
paydirt, giving W&La 14-7 half-
time advantage. McKinley had a
huge day for the Generals as he
ran fora career-high 150 yards on
25 attempts. The yardage en-
abled McKinley to pass the 1 ,000—
yard mark in his rushing career
with 1,004.

McKinley was certainly not
the only offensive star. Quarter-
back Brooks Fischer was dead on
target with 16 completions in 22
attempts for a total of 146 yards.
He also threw a 9-yard touch-
down pass to a diving James Ur-

 

File Photo

The Generals pushed their record to
3-2-1 after beating H-SC and Sewanee.

mented Miriello.
“It was a good team vic-
tory all-around,” he added.
This Saturday, the Gen-
erals return to Wilson Field,
the site of their ﬁnal three
games. First on the slate is
a Parents Weekend contest
against ODAC rival
Bridgewater, a team which
W&L routed, 28-3, last
year. The Generals lead
the overall series, 17-8.
The Eagles, who have
only two seniors on their
roster, enter the game
winless at 0-7.
Miriello,though,
downplayed the impor-

ban in the fourth quarter to pro-
vide the ﬁnal margin of 21-7.

Urban caught half of Fischer’s 16
completions for a total of 67 yards on the
afternoon. With'his stellar effort, Urban
moved into ﬁrst place in the ODAC re-
ceiving standings.

The big story for the Generals, though,
was the defense. After causing only one
opposition turnover prior to the contest,
W&L forced Hampden-Sydney into com-
mitting five turnovers.

Safety Butler Ball led the charge with
an interception and a fumble recovery, to
go along with six tackles and one sack. His
interception in the fourth quarter thwarted
the Tigers’ comeback hopes. Defensive
tackle Robert Hull made his presence felt
by forcing two fumbles and recovering
one, as well as making ten tackles.

Sophomore defensive tackle Omar
Moneim came through in a big way for
W&L with his first collegiate fumble re-
covery. Safety Stuart Hogue had 13 tack-
les, as well as an interception.

Head coach Frank Miriello was ex-
tremely pleased with the Generals’ overall
effort in erasing the Generals’ ten~year
drought at Hampden—Sydney.

“lt was a big win, and we took a big step
as a team,” he said. ‘‘It was a major
obstacle for us to overcome.”

The Generals overcame another large
obstacle by sticking it to Sewanee in Ten-
nessee on Saturday, 36-2]. W&L won at
Sewanee for the first time since 1989 in
doing so. In fact, the visitor has prevailed
only ten times now in the teams’ 41 meet-

the end zone, putting W&L back in
front, 19-14.

The Generals extended that lead
when McKinley scored on a four-yard
run, making the score 26-14.

The running back was having an-
other solid game with 94 yards gained
until he re-injured his shoulder. He
will be forced to miss the next game
against Bridgewater.

Sewanee got back into the game late
in the third quarter on another touch-
down pass by Caputo, but that is where
the fun ended for the crowd of 4,034.

The W&L defense took control in
the final quarter, starting with line-
backer Travis Wisdom’s tackle on a
3rd-and-1 play for Sewanee. Wisdom
led the defense with nine tackles.

Thomas extended the margin to 29-
21 with his record-tying third ﬁeld goal
of the game, this time from an impres-

tance of Bridgewater’s
winless record.

“The challenge is not
Bridgewater,” he said. “The chal-
lenge is for us to maintain our focus
and keep our eyes on the ball.”

With the Generals riding a three-
game winning streak after starting
the year 0-2-1, Miriello feels the
team will be even more pumped up
for Parents Weekend. ‘

“We’re on a roll now,” he said,
“and we’re going to play better with
mom and dad up in the bleachers.”

The coach is also optimistic about
the Generals’ attempt to post back-
to-back winning seasons, since they
play their ﬁnal three games at home.

“We’ve proven that we can win
on the road,” he said. “But for these
three games coming up, we’re going
to have to play our best to win.”

Still, “we’d rather do it at home
than on the road.”

Asthe all-important regional
meet nears for both the men’s
and women’s cross-country
teams, both teams continue their
excellent running.

. Last week at Gettysburg, the
men’s team placed second out
of 29 teams, trailing only Divi-
sion ll Millersville. Sophomore
Jason Callen led the Generals
with a time of 26:51 over the
8,000-meter course.
performance was good enough
to capture fourth place overall
in the meet and earn him W&L
Athlete of the Week honors.

Senior Brad Paye’s 14th-
place ﬁnish and sophomore Tay-
lor Shultz’s 22nd-place ﬁnish
also aided the Generals. Addi-
tionally, sophomore Will Olson
and freshman Darrick Alford
scored points, as they finished
fourth and ﬁfth, respectively, on

Callen’s

When asked about the team ’s
performance at Gettysburg,
Olson commented, “We had a
good overall team performance;
however, some of us individu-
ally had subpar races.”

A week earlier, the men won

Olson, and Shultz.

east region.

on November 11.

sion Ill Championships.

ﬁdent in their abilities.

not become complacent.

don’t give 100 percent.”

 

Water Polo:

The Generals turned in a strong
performance in the EWPA Divi-
sion Ill Championship tournament.

In the ﬁrst round, W&L blew
away the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, 19-6. Rich Cober led
the way with ﬁve goals. In the next
match, James Silberstein’s five
goals enabled W&L to dispatch the
U.S. Merchant Marine, 22-12.

The going got rougher in the
championship game against Johns
Hopkins. W&L stayed close, but
the Blue Jays pulled out a 12-8 win.

W&L takes a 10-9 record with
them this weekend to compete in
the EWPA Southern Playoffs.

Volleyball:

The Generals came away with a
split at the Gallaudet Invitational
this past weekend. W&L knocked
off Salisbury State, 3-0, and rallied
to beat Mary Washington, 3-2, in
the tournament ﬁnale for its wins.

Hilary Martin’s 51 kills in the
tournament gave her 295 for the
season, breaking a school record.
Cheryl Taurassi’s 46 assists in a
match nearly tied her school record.

W&L travelled to Guilford on
Tuesday evening, and returned
home with a 15-9, 15-12, 15-11
victory in its pockets. Martin tied a
school record with her 24 kills.

The victory pushed W&L to 25-
6 overall, 8-1 in the ODAC.

Women’s Soccer:
W&Lconcluded the regular sea-
son with two tough losses to Notre
Dame (Md.) and Centre.
The Generals rallied back from
a 2-0 deficit to Notre Dame in the
second half, as Karin Treese scored
on a half-volley, but still fell, 2-1.
On Sunday against Centre, an

Erica Reineke oal ave W&L a
K 3 g

the Division ll-lll state meet for
the ﬁrst time. Paye was the ﬁrst
W&L runner to ﬁnish the race.
He was followed by Callen,

The Generals will go into their
next race, the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Championship,
ranked ﬁrst in the South/South-

According to team members,
their goal is to perform well at
the ODAC Championships in
order to maintain their momen-
tum as they prepare for regionals

If the Generals place ﬁrst at
regionals, then they will journey
to Lacrosse, Wis., where they
will compete in the NCAA Divi-

The Generals have defeated
every regional foe that they have
raced this year, and they are con-
How-
ever, they realize-that they can-

“We must continue to work
our tails off if we expect to make
it to Lacrosse,” added Alford.
“We cannot expect to win if we

As for the women’s team, se-
nior Josephine Schaeffer contin-
ues to showcase her dominance.
Schaeffer has won all six meets
in which she has run this year,

Cross-country teams continue to perform well i

I
bringing her career winning total
to twenty-seven.

At the state meet, which the
Generals captured, she ran a blis-
tering 17:22 overthe 5,0()0-meter
course, and garnered All-State
honors for her performance.

Washington and Lee also had
excellent races turned in by fresh-
man Natasha Dorofeeva, sopho-
more Carson Flowers, and junior it
Nat Messmore, all of whom re-
ceived All-State honors due to
their performances.

At Gettysburg, there were no
official results for the women’s X
meet due to an administrative
foul-up; therefore, no team stand-
ings were recorded. However,
Schaeffer won with a time of
18:27, and Flowers ﬁnished sec-
ond with a time of 20:03. Addi- It
tionally, Messmore, senior
Catherine Cardullo, and fresh-
man Katye Jenkins ﬁnished in
the top ﬁve for the Generals.

The women are also looking
for a strong showing at the ’
ODACs and at regionals. Like
the men, the women must place
first at the regionals in order to
advance to the nationals.

If both teams are able to K
progress to Lacrosse, they will
then have the opportunity to
showcase their running prowess
to the rest of the nation.

1-0 lead, which it held until only
twenty minutes remained. Centre then
sneaked in a goal with 46 seconds left
to earn itself a 2-1 victory. I:

W&L rebounded on Tuesday in
the ODAC Tournament by shutting
down Guilford, 1-0. This time W&L
scored late, as Michelle Bauman con-
verted on a pass from Lorraine

Taurassi with twenty minutes left. A
The Generals (10-5) continue play

in the tournament with a semiﬁnal

game against Roanoke on Friday.
Men’s Soccer: I

The men’s soccer squad captured
its ﬁnal victory of 1995 last Friday
against Lynchburg, 7-2. Sam Chase
netted four goals in the game, break-
ing the W&L record for most goals in ‘
a season with eighteen. The Generals
were not so fortunate in their season
ﬁnale on Sunday, as they dropped a
2-0 decision to a ranked Centre team.

On Tuesday, Emory & Henry
scored a ﬂurry of goals late in the ﬁrst 1.
half to win a 5-1 triumph in ODAC
Tournament ﬁrst-round play. Jeb
Wofford accounted for the Generals’
goal on an assist from Chad Dobbins.

The loss to E&H ﬁnished the Gen- ,,
erals’ season with a record of 7-9.

Women’s Tennis:

In the “Super Bowl” of women’s
tennis, Julie Ayers and Natalia Garcia
scored one touchdown after another. I

Ayers and Garcia, who entered
the Rolex National Small College
Championships as at-large entries,
quickly took over the competition.
After knocking off Ohio Wesleyan, 1:
5-7, 7-5, 7-5, to win the Division III
doubles title, Ayers and Garcia spiked
Division II champion Cal-Bakers-
ﬁeld, 6-4, 6-4, to ensure themselves
as the doubles co-champions. .

Garcia played well herself, ﬁnish- 0
ing fifth in the singles bracket. 1

Looking for people with a history of
ankle
sprains to volunteer in a
rehabilitation.
Call for more information. Carrie at
462-4656.

OPENS TONIGHT!

  Children of a
Lesse‘1’0God

An Extmarrlitmry Love Story

Johnson theatre v Lenfest Center

Tickets: 463-8000
Oct. 27 at 9 pm.

Oct. 28 at 2 and 8 part.

Oct. 30 & 31 at 8 p.m.
Nov. 1 at 8 pm. ‘

_t... 1.2

l

'1

1

_§

  

an W33 C‘. ?_=.:;v aav.<.‘== ‘.-lisRAlW
 .:xaa«ss.sv;:a~._a a can L-mwnﬂ-8| I "

ON THE BEAT

NC hand lziclzs up support
at W&L campus

Miriello named
head coach 6

he iﬁing-tum Iﬂlri

VOLUMF,v§6, N0. 8

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Boo!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Creatively carved pumpkins decorate Chi Psi’s front porch on I-Ialloween this week.

gend

9n1tﬁé‘iégal‘asp  .. .1 . :1
_ I1.Ri¢513IdB :of-VMI *6 SP. ,, , .,_in}ih¢ "
components. The"Socie_ty’s‘go31g_is'-’ 9e ,
h_,01a.r1y,i'forums and discussions‘.on_j I ' "
' at issues for the enjoyment ofthe ‘

.‘“.‘3" :

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 3, 1995

Freshmen election
results contested

BY SARA MCCRONE
Phi Staff Writer

They say it ain’t over until the fat lady sings,
and freshmen deﬁnitely found the truth in the
cliche this week during the runoffs for repre-
sentative to the Executive Committee. Gener-
ally it is the candidates themselves who are
most eager for the news of election results, but
their fervor was matched by classmates curious
to find out who had at last scraped by with
a majority.

The first runoff included the eventual victor
of Monday’s second runoff, Calder Britt, as
well as David Sugerman and Todd Poole, and
was extremely close. Britt captured the lead by
a margin of two votes, while Sugerman and
Poole trailed at 101 votes each. News of Britt’s
victory spread quickly but was closely fol-
lowed by the rumor that Poole was contesting
the election.

It wasn’t a rumor, however.

“I immediately contested the elections upon
hearing the results,” Poole said. “There were
312 votes, but only 304 people had signed up.
In light of this discrepancy and the close
margin of victory, I felt that something wa
not right.” ‘

Poole expressed his concerns to the Voting
Regulations Board, or VRB, a few minutes
after he heard the initial results.

“It is a possibility the ballots were stuffed-
but not by any of the candidates. Any of our
supporters could have done it,” he acknowl-

edged. “Of course, some people could have
forgotten to sign in.”

Sakina Paige, chair of the VRB, responded
to Poole’s suspicions in Monday night’s E.C.
meeting. She noted that there has been a
discrepancy between signatures on the sign-in
sheet and the actual numberofvotes in previous
elections but indicated her doubts that the dis-
crepancy was due to dishonorable conduct.

‘‘It got confusing at the booths, especially
during lunch,” she told a member of the E.C.
“It’s possible and more likely that some forgot
to sign in after voting. We have an honor
code here.”

In an interview by phone, vice-presiden-
tial candidate James Haslam supported this
scenario.

“Two people on my hall have come up to tell
me that they voted for me but forgot to sign in.
I trust the honor system here, and I wouldn’t
protest the election,” he said.

Paige indicated that changes will take place
in future elections.

“The VRB will meet prior to the winter
[upperclassmen] elections to determine if
changes are needed in campaigning and in the
actual elections,” she said.

E.C. President Keith Benedict suggested
that speeches and more informational meetings
with the candidates take place. Paige feels that
the confusion in the voting process this year
occurred because the elections fell around the
time of reading days, making it difficult for the

~ See ELECTIONS on page 2

V ,, ocabiy changethe environreen

1<.fzisét...i£wiomeh. who so despé

‘ ' perie_nce,'f were admitted
,the%sVMI experience; 1 fAddit1‘o

 

 

‘ tiieygfuied in favor _
hat the ’schoo1’s*adrfn_r
equal protection clause _
_ The court offered £

 
 

Phi ﬁle photo

On Tuesday the Leyburn Society discussed the possibility of women joining the ranks of the VMI cadets.

Concern for others shown at Blood Drive

BY JENNIFER MENDOCHA
Phi Staff Writer

Who enjoys being uncomfortable?

On Thursday, October 26, from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Doremus Gym, 91
generous blood donors sacrificed a short amount of time and a degree of comfort
for the benefit of others. This blood drive, a biannual event at W&L, was
sponsored by Chi Psi, in conjunction with the Red Cross.

Josh Nitsche, the Chi Psi representative in charge of the blood drive, reported
that 91 pints of blood were collected, exceeding the amount collected at last
spring’s drive, and falling just short of the goal of 95 pints. Nitsche reported being
pleased that, due to the support of W&L students, faculty, and Lexington
residents, this goal was almost attained.

To encourage others to participate in future blood drives, Nitsche notes that

the experience of making a blood donation is “not as bad as one might think.” He
hopes to allay future donors’ fears about the process by mentioning that they are
in the hands of fully trained staff, and that complications such as fainting or
muscle spasms are not common.

After registration, a few routine tests are performed and some critical health
and lifestyle questions are asked in order to confirm that the individual is able to
be a donor. The actual blood donation only lasts about 10 minutes and is virtually
painless after the initial sting. Each donor contributes approximately 1 pint of his
or her blood. It takes the body only hours to replace the liquid plasma, and a few
weeks for it to replace the cells.

A group of potential blood donors were unable to make a donation for various
reasons, some because they were taking certain medications, others because the
iron level in their blood was too low.

In all, a good effort was made for this event, although, on a lighter note, a Red
Cross volunteer happened to note that female donors outnumbered males by
about 2 to 1.

Distinguished
alumnus dies

BY Roam D. SEATON
Phi Staff Writer

Rupert Nelson Latture (‘15), former W&L faculty member, administrator,
and last surviving charter member of Omicron Delta Kappa, passed away
Thursday, October 26, at the Maryfield Nursing Home, High Point, N.C., at the
age of 103.

Mr. Latture came to Washington and Lee from his native Bristol, Tennessee
in 1911, where as an undergraduate he was elected into Phi Beta Kappa. In 1914
Latture and classmate J. Carl Fisher founded Omicron Delta Kappa. The
leadership society, which now has chapters at more than 220 colleges and
universities in the United States, recognizes leadership in campus activities. In
1990 Latture received ODK’s highest honor, the Laurel Crown Circle Award.

Latture earned his B.A. from Washington and Lee in 1915, followed by his
M.A. in 1916. After graduating from W&L, he taught at Albermarle County’s
Miller School. Latture then served in World War I from 1917 to 1919, and while
in France, he was awarded the French army’s Croix de Guerre.

Latture spent one year as principal of Central Academy in Stuart, Virginia,
upon his return to the United States. He then returned to his alma mater in 1920
as an assistant professor of romance languages. While a faculty member, Latture
served in such positions as head of the freshman program and chairman of the
political science department.

Latture also acted as an advisor for many years to Washington and Lee’s Mock
Political Convention. He missed the first 1908 convention, but attended every
subsequent event through 1984.

When Latture retired from teaching in 1962, then-president Fred C. Cole
asked him to remain as his assistant. Latture served as an assistant to the president
for 21 years, under Cole, Robert E. R. Huntley, and John D. Wilson. In 1983 he
retired once more and began working on special research projects associated with
Washington and Lee.

The university conferred the honorary Doctor of Laws degree upon Latture in
1980. According to the degree’s citation, he was a “mover” who “evok[ed] in us
sentiments of admiration, pride, and great respect. Of all the honorary degrees
ever conferred by Washington and Lee University, none has ever been awarded
with the special gratitude and affection that accompany this proclamation.”

During his years at W& L, Latture
took great care to ensure that new
students felt welcome, by greeting
incoming freshmen and their par-
ents as they matriculated in the fall.
As assistant to the president, he
often sat in the president’s outer
office and performed a similar role.
From his chair beneath a portrait of
Robert E. Lee, whom Latture called
his “contemporary,” Latture shared
stories, gathered from his many
years of service at W&L, with visi-
tors. He was also an elder
emeritus of the Lexington Presby-
terian Church.

Latture’s wife of 51 years,
Roberta Fulton Latture, preceded
him in death in 1968. Latture is
survived by a son, a daughter, five
grandchildren, and seven great-
grandchildren.

Graveside services will be held
at 2 p.m., Saturday, November 4 at
Stonewall Jackson Cemetary. Me-
morial contributions may be made
to the Omicron Delta Kappa Schol-
arship Fund or the Lexington Pres-
byterian Church.

Phi file photo

ODK founder Rupert Nelson
Latture died at age 103.

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995

P 1 k n '
BEYOND ‘
black Republicans .
 B    If all else fails, Brown said, Demo-
BY EM”‘Y BAKER crats la the race card and sa Re ub- ________ _ t
Y P
Phi Executive Editor lieanspm-i moist.
Bill Cleveland spoke next._ The g
0 0 0 0 Four black Republicans met in once vice-mayor of Alexandria said —
C0l1g1'eSS10na1 1nVeSt1g3tl0n Northen Auditorium Thursday night to that just 32 of 2500 black elected ofﬁ— B i  E
discuss why it’s not a dichotomy to be cials in the U.S. are Republican. ‘ ..
0 - black and Republican. Cleveland cited the ideas of finan-
contlnues; D eutch brlefed The politics department sponsored cial and personal responsibility thatthe
a panel discussion on “The Black Vote Republican party believes in as to why ~
_ , , , , ’ _ _ and the Republican Party at Century’s he supports the party. He also agrees
ffwashifnggjon, Dd.C.—iqllgressional II1V8StlIga[lOI'l into the damaging End» that faith in God was supported by the
° “'5 ° 3 mm“ SP3’ rich Am“, in“) Vemem in CIA °P°”‘u°n5 Though the Democratic Party has founding fathers of the country.
during the '35‘ years of the Cold war Continues with Direct” John M‘ hada“monolithic” hold on blacks, that Cleveland has tried to instill these
Dcu‘cn'5 Pncnng O_",cT inc i351 5cVcn Years of inc C°1d_W‘"v Several is changing, the panelists said. values in others through his work with It
defense spending decisions were made on the basis of what lS now known while the panelists’ involvement young black men in Aiexandrta_
to be tainted information. The Central Intelligence Agency is still unsure with polities and the Republican party Jeff Artist candidate for the Vir-
of whatinformation communicated by Ames’double agents is reliable and varied, they agreed that blacks have ginia House of Delegates, has been
what is misleading. While Deutch maintains that the blame for the heenexnloitedbv the Democratic party_ called 3 seihout, an uncle Tom and a
catastrophe cannot be placed on the directors during that period, he is JeffBl-own’director-ofcl-ass Roots wanha-he boy by other blacks,
taking steps to reestablish the CIA’s image, which has suffered consider- Development for the Virginia Repub- He is often asked why he is a Re- ,7
ably since the extent of its failures has been revealed. l-eon pott ’ compared the relationship niil,lican_
the Demgcratic Party has to blacks “I got tired of kissing the behind of
with that of slave owner to slave. the Democratic Party,” he said.
. .
“There were four things that kept Though they need the black vote,
Quebec Separatlst nlovernent slaves on the plantation: dependence, Artissaid, Democrats recognize blacks .. .. . . .. A I
ignorance, fear and race. This is the only when Election Day appears on the Betsy Green, Phi‘ Photo Editor
0 0 - - - - ‘
leader Parlzau I‘eSlg‘nS ggfgﬁﬁggiggsahgg t,’,l§rl:s“?::§lz'th the $52:a;gni:§2:_::in‘:::lg§:3:l Jeff Brown, director of Grass Roots Development for the
Blacks are depcndentonthe Demo- selves are basically relegated “to the Virginia Republican Party» Speaks 011 black Republicanism-
. . . . . ' ' ' ” ' 'd_
Montreal—The separatist movement in Quebec is dealing with an cmuc P3nY» Blown Saldv b_°°a“5_° " °°"‘°': Anus 53‘ , .
. . . - - d he believes in self-suffi-
additional blow as its leader, Jacques Parizau, resigned Tuesday after a advocates that any Problem m S°°"?ty . Ams 53‘ . . M D 
narrow loss Monday in the vote on secession from Canada. A very large Shcliuldntgejtsolliliellnyyltlhegiligelrnmerit in- Clel‘l(;yo:lll’l;le£lllnllfllilllenilligfgldﬁllllcrg.V c   e a S
percentage of the citizens of Quebec voted forsecession on Monday,which V0 Vc ' _ , . ’ f 'k_‘
underscores the necessity for the Canadian government to placate the licaaﬁlngggls El:’cm(;"‘5Bfrc(f‘vn:fs1;cdPul§3y  :o5[:1el;,P35l:3:s‘;’ifjcc'gu'l‘Y 0" ma o o
§§.°.§‘°§’{il"i:?,'§;'2,%.*Z2?“:.‘2°‘i;.sE2?ei.il’£“é':?i12ifé2.';‘;‘éZli:il‘§J.J§‘°?§  asoam    of in on . . and politics ~
votepang the l es of aghit)t/ei. patizan ’ P y starve children in school and take Randolph Street United Methodist
0 ' money away from old people. Church said that both parties lneed to
“Slave owners used to tell slaves, work for the good 0 the peop e.’ Bv EM,” BAKER
. too, that if they escaped, if they left the “Both Democrats and Republicans Phi Executive Editor
Barbara Bush I‘eVlSeS her plantation, all these bad things would needtoshowthattheycareaboutpeople it
happen to them,” Brown said. more than lust around election time.
. - Political columnist and commentator Charlie McDowell spoke of the
memolrs t0 plaCate Agee . _ . dramatic effect television has had on politics in his address in Lee Chapel
Wednesday night.
W h_ D C Th 1995 _ f f F_ Lad B b    McDowell was the inaugural speaker for the Fishback Fund for Visiting n
as ington, . .— e version o ormer irst y ar ara

Writers program. The money will bring a speaker to campus each year who has
written about public affairs, nature and environment, history and the theater.
McDowell has covered every national political convention since 1952. He
has seen how politicians and the people who vote for them have gotten away from
the issues because of television.
“The short, hardhitting commercial is more effective than a good half hour 1/
speech,” he said. People seem to care less about what politicians think than about

Bush’s autobiography, Barbara Bush: A Memoir has been revised to
remove references to former CIA agent Philip Agee. Speculation sur-
rounding the revision suggests that the passage, which implicated revela-
tions made by Agee in his own book regarding the death of CIA agent
Richard Welch in 1975, was removed in order to mollify Agee. Agee had
filed a $4 million libel suit against Mrs. Bush in September.

From Phi‘ Staff Reports

W&L University officials have an- Elswick’s resignation follows a pc-

Mike Tyson to fight Buster

 

nounced that Director of Buildings
and Grounds Bill Elswick resigned
last week. No reasons were given for
the resignation.

riod of discontent among B&G work-
ers, some of whom believe the resigna-
tion was a positive development be-
tween the school and workers.

what they can say about their opponent.

In 1968, during the average broadcast news story about a political candidate,

the politician himself spoke for an average of 42 seconds.

In 1992, the time was down to 8.4 seconds per broadcast.

  

 

d [tn-I3 hell‘;“Ein°dUnl%cT:it%’}PFcSi' ["1336  few Weel(<iS.h 1116 diS- Voter turnout has also decreased since television began to cover campaigns, A
0 en 0 n . ro sai t a ormer grunt e sta asconverte t eiran er h 'd_
Mathls Jr’ on  Eullgnngs and grcund Dnc‘t3_10T -ljatmcs inﬁll effotfts  uﬂionillgb ‘lg/iﬂidln Offb e Tile hope for intelligent and informative coverage of campaigns, McDowell
- _u‘' “'0” 5c1"’ca_53c mg ncc' cla 5 mc WI °VcT _ 3S_ mg 0" said, is campaign reform. If the candidates would spend lesstime on second bites
has vegas__Mn(e TySon,S Career Continues to recover from its brief to’ untu 3 “Placement 15 f°und- and Lcc Workers 135‘ Fndal’ mgnn and more time exploring issues, voters would make more involved decisions. h
legal detour as he prepares to meet Buster Mathis, J r, in the ring on Saturday S . _ ‘ ' ' I
night. Despite the non-specific “injury” to his right hand, his missing
manager Don King (who is embroiled in a legal battle in New York), his  
reported difficulties in adapting to life outside of prison, and the confidence .
of his undefeated opponent, Tyson and many others maintain that he will _
have the upper hand in Saturday’s fight at the MGM Grand.    I
, _ , ~VMI from page 1
Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled by '
Pe Stuntz and Laura Kna \
ggy V pp tives: admit women, establish a parallel institution for
females, privatize, or develop their own alternative
creative option.
VMI opted for the parallel institution. Enter the Virginia
_ Military Institute for Leadership, an ROTC-like companion
. to VMI. According to its creators, VWIL’s curriculum and 2‘
military instruction differ from VMI only in that it caters to
. ‘  W the developmental needs of women. V
Judge Kaiser and the Fourth Circuit Court ruled that    ‘
VWIL is a satisfactory equivalent to the VMI experience. Em)’ Green’ M" Ph°'° E‘“‘°'
one-ludge on the aF.’P°“*“° court dissented’ h9w.°V"' He The W&L School of Law has reported 4-5 reports of theft in the last week. "
asserted that an essential part of VMI s program is its strong
alumni network and rich tradition. VWIL, less than two
years old, certainly does notlhave these same qualities. L h 1 1 d b 11 f
. . . .. “rt:‘.:;:%"“:;.:“:.:;°.%;:'2.'*'::::::‘.:?;:.":2*.::‘:-C... aw 5° °° P 395"“ Y t 9 *5
Editor s Note: GOP Watch is a special I 1. Cl Y’ Th h d §“ h. P if f in it
o us we aren‘_:° omas a 0 excuse "me “PI,” _e 9:15 and 9:30 p.m. on that same night.
weekly feature t0 keep Washington and case because his son, Jamal, attends VMI. If the decision is BY MICHAEL HEWLETT He said he has no idea Whether these youth
Leevs Students informed about the Re_ spilt, the ruling of the lower court stands. Having agreed to Phi Associate Editor were involved in the thefts young Said he has n
_ _ t t _ hear the case, the Court must answer two questions. First, general dosonnnon of the youths but nothing
pubhcan Presldentlal Campalgn In ad" d°°5 °q"al Protection under the law require that a” sum‘ A little less music may be heard around the substantial. He said security is workingto identify it
° supported schools admit applicants regardless of sex. Sec- W h- t d he Lo 5 h lth d . th th _
Vance of Mock Conventlon. fnfn ifasnti is the WI}; Program a Saﬁsfactory equivalent alsn l?z:]sta\Tveek,e\lV&\l,. S:Cl?P)lty hirsserecgilisved e‘S‘ﬁll%,t=f)’lrJe zfsking law students to report to us if
0 C exP°."enc°'. . . 4-5 reports of thefts, including some portable CD they see anyone they don’t know,” he said,
S ':‘:0l‘:‘gl’i:':l gvsggﬁtssstgttgﬁegiiﬁligicxgﬁz tS1:::":)‘:) 3: players, various CD’s and a wallet. The items “and law s”tudents should lock their items in
E yd t S were taken from the law school students carrels. the carrels. ’
’ ° ey ° corp ' Director of Security Mike Young said the last Young said if anyone has information iv
Dole galnlng Support of Upon analysis of the institution, he discovered “a unique h f n dl ts d 9.30 Th d- th th ft l ll M-k Y
edutgggiclrlgiglgggsghgigdtlgglitbfglrgtggiggncgtmfg; §o°u.‘.;"i“.;7’g'i‘?5’s‘Zi.§oi‘;T."ge ;’§n?.’£2m' seé’,;'E.;iw§§§ 2'fg§23‘.’§g427?S° " S’ P  °“ ' 8 °”"g
O C
cOnSeI V atlve groups In IOWa from his study. One, the school is a high pressure situation o
' h'ch f rst- ear students, or rats, are re uired to ada t to  t  t t d
iilgydrdus plhysi)cal and mental demands. q P    S   e d
Des Moines, lA—Senate Majority Leader and leading GOP Presiden- Two, there is a profound absence of privacy. All doors
lid] Candida“? BOP Dclc is claiming that nc I5 accumulating 5uPP°n from have windows and are notably missing locks. Keydets share Dean Manning, and Benedict before he even
kc)’ Tcngicus and Social ccnsclvauvcs in Iowa» a5_ inc PT°5Pccl Ofa Pcwcu communal showers and bathrooms. ,.,ELECT10Ns, from pagel knew that his inclusion in the election violated
candidacy 10°m5- Pcus Snow ma‘ Dclc nusaccnsldcmblc ‘cad cvcr Pcwcu The third justification is the mostcontroversial. (Indeed, Article XI, Section D of the Constitution.
amcng cnlzcns cf IPW3 mat 3“? ukclll ‘O 80 ‘O caucus; Tnc cndcrscmcnts the team of VMI lawyers disagreed on how integral a part of “I felt that the VRB prematurely published the !
‘nut Dole 15 Tcccnnnga acccrumg ‘O man)’ “Pens: 15 duc to inc fcwcnt the reasoning it should play.) Studies show that the moral VRB to plan speeches or meetings. election results,” Poole stated. “Before they had
d6S|l€ 0" bdnalf 0“ inc c0n5cl’V3uVeS Oftnm Stale 10 nave an anu'3P°n1°n development of men and women are different. Since honor But where does all of this leave Todd Poole, even heard my reasons for contestingthe election,
Candldatd and integrity are tested daily, the introduction of women, or who worked hard to run in a campaign in which they posted the results. Before the E.C. was even
A an altogether different moral process, would disrupt the he wasn’t even supposed to participate? called, they posted the results. And, most em-
I  1 d men’s moral development. “Basically,Iwasn’teven supposed to beinthe phatically, the E.C. was called because of my n
Richarde Concluded that fol’ VMI 10 admit W0m¢‘-U, the first runoff and it makes sense that I was cutout protests not because of the discre anc in the
Poll Shows Powel Wou ea institution must under . r . . a ,, P i
go radical change to accommodate [of the second runoff, which only included numbers.
the new students — precisely what VMI does not want. Sugerman and Britt],”hesaid.“Thisshould never Paige denies intentionally posting the results
' ' Furthermore, they argue that women who desire admission have happened.” before the situation was resolved.
Dole In N e‘v Hampshlre to reap the benefits of the VMI experience will not receive The VRB erroneously included Poole in “We posted the results after determining there '
ll. f0Tth6if admission isfundamentally atoddswithwhat the Thursday’s runoff because of ambiguous lan- wouldn’t be another election. We contacted the
H h- A ll d t d f536 N H h- t experience Constitutes-_ _ guage in the Student Body Constitution. candidates at that time. We had calledtthe E.C. to
Moﬁjry biwpgﬁvygaiggngﬁ éoﬁege found/thzirllfpgozincivtisoig Nevertheless, Massie pointed out that these arguments Sugerman and Britt each carried 60 votes in the verify if Todd could protest the election. There
run in the state’s primary, he would receive 33% of the vote while Dole a"c“5_lflnPg '”:lc‘{i1lnf‘- 1 al "em I d_ original election on Monday, October 23, and was no precedent in oilr white book [of voting
             .      a         .
Dole would receive 37% of the vote with Steven Forbes running second q op f h 6 am; diver“ “W,” bei n red Th c , PP d f t I t d_5 1 c 0P n 3)’ 0 In‘./cs 183 c c P055‘ 1 I Y 0 3V'n8
with 10% Many experts expect that if powell does indeed mnt then his QU,<’«S 10n_S_0 C ting _ I Y I _g 0 . e two votes instea 0 simp y inclu ingthe top two another election. When we found that we would
Candidac iwouid most directly impact Dolois Campaign yet have httle Court s decision will stress the inherent legality ofexclud- people. have to have another runoffbecause ofthe consti-
effecton iguchanan thus Clean.” the way forthe nomination ofBnohanan_ ingwomen from an all—malestate-supported military school. How could the board in charge of overseeing tutional rule, we took the results down.”
’ g Ifthe practice is f0Und10 Vi0l3l6 the C0ﬂStitUli0n, VMI will the elections ofofficers make such a fundamental Poole still believes he was treated unfairly but
be forced 10 integrate. mistake? says he has learned a great lesson in politics. .

GOP Watch is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

Currently, VMI believes they odds are against them.
With Justices Souter and O’Connor representing the swing
votes, the case appears to be a toss—up.

“VMl has been overrun with lawyers,” said Richarde,
“most just want the thing to be over with.”

Benedict blamed the “poor language and poor
drafting” of the Constitution and approved a
recommendation by Paige to compile a list of
errors for future VRB members to avoid.

However, Poole protested the election to Paige,

“I am not trying to be a sore loser. I think that’s
[contesting the election] what I would have done
even ifl had won. I put my faith in the E.C. But
I am announcing my candidacy now for E.C.
spring-term elections.”

 

 

 

I

X

1

The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995

w&

 

ON THE BEAT

NC band lziclzs up support atV78L campus

Cindie Young’
Phi Features Editor

7l11ywal7LZ1clzofstu}§[into the pot, slzalee

it, an see w at comes out.

So Charles E. Jones of Dr. Lime Records explains the
musical recipe producing the music of a band newly arrived
on W&L’s air waves, a band by the name ofDoxy’s Kitchen.

Hailing from North Carolina, a state which has long
earned a name as a majorcity in the indie rock world, Doxy’s
Kitchen brings to the world of music compelling lyrics,
behind which lies, in Jones’ words, “acookin’ jazzy, groovy
band.”

Encouraged by W&L’s enthusiastic reception during
this year’s Homecoming Weekend, and a follow-up article
in The Trident of ﬂattering color, Doxy’s Kitchen “is very
excited” about its popularity in Lexington, and is eager to
keep alive such interest.

As the band’s manager, Jones explains that Doxy’s

rn

 

Kitchen has earned much attention in such cities as Char-
lotte, Chapel Hill, and Raleigh-Durham, and has recently
enjoyed airplay on not only college but commercial radios
thereabout.

Jones knows no better way to describe the band than

“just ﬁve guys having a great time playing music together.”

Its unique name refers to “Doxy,” a song by jazz musi-
cian Sonny Rollins by which the band members are particu-
larly impressed.

Doxy’s Kitchen is its own band, but its CD cannot lie far
away from CDs of Charlottesville’s Dave Matthews Band,
on any (organized) music-lover’s shelf.

The music of Doxy ’s Kitchen, in otherwords, follows the
same formula that accounts for so much of the success of
The Dave Matthews Band, a formula whose main ingredi-
ents are equal parts rock and jazz.

To judge by the overwhelming number of DMB logos
scripted across t—shirts, baseball caps, and bumpers about
campus, such a formula has a particular charm in Lexington,
Virginia.

As the music of the North Carolina band is not unlike the
music of the Charlottesville band, Doxy’s Kitchen seems to
hold the potential of becoming every bit as popular on
campus.

In one performance alone at a fraternity house on campus
several weeks ago, W&L students bought over 100 CDs and
15 t—shirts bearing the Doxy’s Kitchen logo.

Such enthusiastic support could only win the attention of
the band, and Doxy’s Kitchen has decided to make Lexing-
ton the next city in which it will concentrate its efforts.

“Doxy’s Kitchen is a real grass-roots band,” Jones ex-

 

Page 3

plains, and the best way to reach people is through real
people.”

The real people to which the band has now turned its
interest are the ones walking the Colonnade everyday, the
ones reading this article, the students of W&L.

In the past week, the band has already begun to focus on
W&L’s campus, and tables outside the Co-op featuring
earphones, demo tapes of the band, and free giveaways of
band material offer students a laid-back introduction to the
music and the logo of Doxy’s Kitchen. ’

“When I was there, there were some people playing
music on a portable stereo,” sophomore Justin Riedell
recalls; “they were pretty cool and I think people really liked
the music.”

An advertisement for Doxy’s Kitchen now adorns the
store window of Night Owl, and W&L’s own WLUR will
soon be introducing the band to the air waves above the red
bricks and white columns; upcoming plans include an hour-
long play of the band’s debut CD, "New Age Truck Stop.”

Chuck Carabello, Chief Director of Operations for
WLUR, has also discussed with the band’s manager the
possibility of an “unplugged” performance on the air.

Many other ideas, however, are also being considered, as
the band is willing to direct its energy in virtually any
direction, in order to maintain--as well as further-—the inter-
est it has already sparked on campus.

Dan Od»enW31(1
Phi Executive Editor

Meet Dave Bettencourt. At seventeen,
he is a senior at Burrillville High in middle-
class Burrillville, New Hampshire. His goals
for his senior year? To be elected class
clown, to start on the varsity basketball
team, to cause controversy with his under-
ground newspaper, Total Godhead, and to
take his beautiful girlfriend —— whose pas-
sion is in-your-face-rap — to the prom.

The media likes to glamorize the social

‘ills that plague our youth today. In the age
of “Hard Copy” journalism, teen pregnancy,
and murderous cheerleading moms, it is
difﬁcult to deﬁne a normal kid. It’s not the
Dave Bettencourts of the world that we see
on Ricki Lake, divulging their most intimate
secrets to America’s Voyeurs. The Dave
Bettencourts are not the victims of drive-by
shootings or heroin overdoses.

“We read often of youngsters who grow

up with violence and despair, but there re- Bell runs.

 

mains another coming of age, one experienced
by adolescents in cities, suburbs, and small
towns,” Miller writes. This is their story.

In Coming ofAge: The True Adventures of
Two American Teens, G. Wayne Miller tells
the story of two average teenagers growing up
in the not-so—average 1990s.

After proposing the idea to Burrillville’s
School Committee which they enthusiastically
embraced, Miller spent an entire year with
Dave, his girlfriend, Beth, and their wide as-
sortment of friends. Whether it was World Lit
class, work, parties, the locker room, Dave’s
diary or the principal’s ofﬁce, no subject was
too private for Miller to chronicle. Indeed, the
book provides the reader with a fresh and in-
sightful look into Dave’s world.

Coming of Age is especially poignant for
the college-aged reader, as it enables him to
return to the days of high school. Having been
removed from it for a few years, the book
reminds the reader of such momentous events
as prom, signing your best friend’s yearbook,
surprise birthday parties, and late-night Taco

the true

adventures

students to grow.

year.

Dave,an  

american teen

Witnessing the events of Dave’s senior year, the
readers discover those seemingly insigniﬁcant mat-
ters that can so completely absorb today’s teens.

' Along with Dave, for example, the reader devel-
ops a passionate respect for Mrs. Drouin, the ﬁercely
independent English teacher who challenges her

“Drouin fought for the abolition of the dress
code,” Miller writes. “Teaching kept her where she
most wanted to be: in the company of young minds.”

The reader also empathizes with Dave as he
battles with his mother over his high school courses.

He detests physics, but his mother, a biology
teacher at a neighboring high school, desperately
urges her son to pursue a science major in college.

A Harvard graduate and successful journalist in
Rhode Island, G. Wayne Miller turns out a book , .
which is a sheer pleasure to ingest. Captivating and ,, .:
inspiring, Coming ofAge presents the reader with a ‘
true-to-life journalistic account of a typical senior

Ifyou’ve ever wanted to be a ﬂy on the wall in the
day-to-day life of an average American teenager,
read G. Wayne Miller’s Coming of Age.

It’s the next best thing.

of

Jeff Straw, one of tire two stand-up comedians
performing at the Student Activities Pavilion at
7:30 on Wednesday, Nov. 8. Ticlzets are on sale
now tor $2, and  be sold for $3 at tire door.

Comedy Wears a gun in

Sonnentelct  Get‘ Slzorf

Kirle Susong
Plii Reviewer

Get Shorty - 3 1/2 stars

Over theyears, Hollywood has developed a real passion
for ﬁlms about organized crime. From the early days of
Jimmy Cagney through The Godfather and Martin Scorsese,
there have been some real successes about the Maﬁa.

So it is especially funny to see Hollywood make fun of its
own obsession with the mob. Get Shorty is just this type of
ﬁlm, about the foibles of the actors and producers who love
the romance of crime lords, and criminals who are eager to
get into the movie industry.

John Travolta plays Chili Palmer, a stylish Maﬁa soldier
who ﬁnds himself in Los Angeles trying to collect on
obligations owed both to his superiors and to his friends.

There he runs into a small-time producer named Harry
Zimm (Gene Hackman), infamous for movies bearing titles
like Hellish F iends at Horror High. But the catch is Zimm
has managed to get his hands on a wonderful script, and now
everyone wants a part of it, including his loan sharks and
Chili Palmer. When the short but star-powered Martin Weir
(Danny De Vito) agrees to act in the project, the stakes get
even higher, and when you throw in a Colombian drug deal

and an attractive former wife, you can see how the mix gets .

pretty spicy.

This ﬁlm is fun, fast and punchy from the start and never
lets up. The acting all around is superb, especially John
Travolta, who continues to remind us what made him one of
the pre-eminent leading men of the seventies. So many of
his characters radiate an easy-going charm that masks a
more subtle, dangerous conﬁdence. We’ve seen this ever
since he was Vinnie Barberino in Welcome Back Kotter,
through Tony Manero in Saturday Night Fever, and all the
way up to Vincent in Pulp Fiction.

And the rest of the characters in Get Shorty are equally

well-drawn. They all parody themselves expertly, espe-
cially De Vito as Martin Weir, a short but very popular actor,
who becomes so enamored with the Maﬁoso he even falls in
love with Chili Palmer’s rental car, a Pontiac minivan.
Delroy Lindo, Gene Hackman, Dennis Farina and Rene
Russo all contribute nicely, and there are even some surprise
cameos. But the real star of the ﬁlm is no single actor on the
screen, but the fabulous script and its direction.

The script by Scott Frank (Dead A gain) is based on the
novel of the same name by Elmore Leonard (himself a
screenwriter, oddly enough). Opting not to be as grimy as
the original novel, the script beautifully weaves together
some of the earthy dialogue without losing us in local color;
the characters are all just real enough to make their lam-
pooning effective.

Director Barry Sonnenfeld first gained a reputation~as;
cinematographer to the Coen brothers, working o'ri‘"siicIi""
ﬁlms as RaisingArizona and Blood Simple; when he ﬁnally
began directing on his own, it was in the stylish Addams
Family ﬁlms. And these credentials are apparent in Get

Shorty. He delivers a hefty dose of color and movement, but
because the ﬁlm is all about Hollywood itself, he is careful
not to commit overkill. He exercises restraint with the
camera, the surest sign of a director really in charge of afilm;
with a cast and script as great as these, who needs fancy
footwork anyhow?

At any rate, Get Shorty is an extremely enjoyable ﬁlm,
mixing elements of pure comedy with gangster posturing
and threatening, while simultaneously poking Hollywood
in the ribs. It could be described as a mixture of Pulp Fiction
with The Freshman and The Player. On the strength of its
cast, its direction and its script, I heartily recommend Get
Shorty to you.

»3‘3»38ar.¥é-Go see this ﬁlm now, while it's still on the big
screen. It’s worth a few Oscar nominations and the
seven bucks you'll pay if you see it outside of the
Lexington area. Overall, “Better than Cats!”

 

 

  

      
     
 
 
       

    
  
  
  

  
  
 
   
 
   

 

      

 

  

   

 

            
   
  

 

  
  

 
    

     
    
 
      
    

 

 

 

 

PAGE 4 C The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995
C H A O S by Brian Shuster ,1
l _
  {WERE Oﬁ9é>igg.IneModaSe~ioes.lnc.
by Jeff MacNe|Iy ...AND THEN I REALJZED, $2: ‘
,,, .
wuo REALLY WANTS §
\ ‘me warm ANMAY? 
5%
BUT s/ou SAID TAKE ;? y
ONLY CLEAR FLUIDS Rm-,HT_ 5
FOR A FEW DAYS. ~§ g
2  ~
#2,‘ % trot»!  e
  3 ..t.‘».f=»:\,~'e_'e. fl‘ \ll
 :.:-i; 2-. p 1  .
. / ‘I / "' ." "Z-i. .
cocilffn ’l>Sél‘a':§"?8Raa Wélililpiagéél , ., érllﬁlé l3n%’5'l’;5 lr ;/ The late bird
DEATHLE55 PROSE. TO MEAN? -§ I’, TO KILL IT.
3 ‘ -4./Q )1
£
§
2
3.
3
43 N
E .
E T . ,
W
TDE B.EV—ANV—BREM<Fp,g\- .
AND l3~'\-T VYUDE
l I llllllll““"""'
 lQl « ..‘1YOU'RE eoov, BUT / ’  , "
_ _ ‘(OWREORNO eozo‘: . \
, f   'NOBOD‘('6 M59; ME
 , ‘ REALLY Lrxue-A SINCE”
> , EMMETT KELLY Olav
‘. l l7ON‘T KNOW.
\ LATELY n enema *
LlKE EVERYONE
'Tl»\\NK’7 THEY'RE N
$7@‘.l®3lF5='¢:-- EXVEKV
ON N\‘( 3.0%
I
f N
l
l
A
t.
Valley .7/we]/aéa    
I mnowme STORES " K
4 Hardware» Paint» and Related Items IF AT FIRST YOU SUCCEED,
l Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. TRY  J.
l E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 3 '
n the latest DALBAR Consumer ticip.-mts all they need to help fulfill their
Satisfaction Survey, a comprehensive ﬁnancial goals and long-term expectations. y,
study of 2,000 linancial service companies In the years to come, we'll work even
- - banks. mutual funds. broker es. and harder to enhance the level of personal ser-
-§ 33
If insurers — TIAA-CREF was voted the vice and innovative solutions we offer to
. ‘  J  leading provider of retirement plans. help them build 8. secure and rewarding '
_-—- We'll try 00 do better next time. tomorrow. Maybe that's why so many of the
’ I i Not that we mind the recognition. it's best minds in the nation trust us not just
 e  just that a lot ofpeoplc expect nothing less with their money. but with their future.
é’ than the heat limm us. Over l.8 million indi- Find our more about America's
3" viduals in higher education and research, to retirement planning experts. Call us at 1|
‘Route 7, .B0.x.99A  he exact. And frankly. so do We. 1 300 842-2776 weekdays 8 am to 11 pm ET.
L€X1flgtOIl, V1rg1n1a   Day after day. for over 7 5 years, we've or visit our Wtab site on the lntemet at
Near the Horse Center  put everything we've got into giving‘ our par~ httpﬂ/www.tina-creﬁorg.
Phone 464-9499 3; 3
3 I 5
§   Ensuring the future
Lounge open 4:00 p.m. [O .7 3 for those who shape it.”
Restaurant 11:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.  ,
5 ‘ CKHF ecu-tilicates are distrilmlcd  TI/tA—CRl£l“ Individual and lnstiturinnitl Sea-vices. luc.

 

SPRING BREAK - Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun and **"‘FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Jamaica from 299.00. Air, Hotel, Transfers, Parties, and
Morel Organize a small group and earn a FREE trip
plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321

(800) 95-BREAK!

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun,
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL,
TRIPS,EARNCASH&GO FREE!!!
StudentTravel Services is now hiring
campus representatives. Lowest rates
to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona and
Egpgma City Beach. Call 1-800-648-

I

 

 

 

  

The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995

(‘Litre lfting-tum iﬁlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Learning without learning

Where has the passion for learning gone?

University life used to be an exciting
environment in which students and professors
were genuinely focused on learning. The
process was what mattered——not getting the grade.

‘ Classes used to be forums for the exchange of

information and critical analysis of material. The
relationship between teacher and student was
reciprocal. They taught each other. Students were
not afraid to challenge or add to the discourse.
Learning happened.

Today’s goal-oriented society places the
emphasis on obtaining the highest GPA, the
choicest internship, and the well-paid job. Students
often neglect the process of education in pursuit of
its ends. Our tunnel vision prevents us from
acquiring the true benefits of learning. There is so
much more to course work than regurgitating
lectures during examination periods.

If we are to be successful students, we must use
our minds. Question the manner in which you
learn. Be critical of what you are being taught, for
history proves that knowledge is generated by the
naysayers. Advancement of mankind comes from
taking exception to the status quo.

Luther protested the sale of indulgences by the
Catholic Church. Locke said humans were entitled
to life, liberty, and property. Monet insisted the
depiction of light and color did matter. Heisenberg
was convinced that subatomic particles did not
adhere to the Newtonian laws of motion.

Take a chance. Raise your hand in class. Visit
your professor’s office. Choose the unconventional
essay topic. Do something.

Malcolm X said, “Education is the passport to the
future.” A student who simply goes through the
motions and never wonders why denies himself a
part of that future. Open your eyes. If you notice it,
the world can be a pretty interesting place.

Quote of the Week

“I’m sorry. I was always late in college.”

——A W&L parent strolling in to a 9 a.m.
history class 15 minutes after the bell.

 
  

OPINION

  
 
 
     

NE BELIEVE THAT
THE STUDENTS wru-
Hguo us FHIID THE
3597‘ LOCATION FOR
A NELU STUDENT
cenrsk.

 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 

 
 
   
 
 
 
  
   
 

I set’ A
Pool, TABLE

rtrs IN
WATSON
PPNIL ION

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

000 "MM..-

THE VEET
House is
PRETTV
Qatari"

PAGE 5

am... wuAT'5
run-r are AR;/t
BETWEEN LEE

CHAPEL 3 HMS!!-
INGT'0N HALL?

 

Left, right cooperate in collectivism

JASON
SORENS,
’98

Upon the resignation of the previ-
ous columnist, I have taken over as the
“conservative” columnist opposite
Nova Clarke. Yet,Gentle Reader, do
not be deceived, for any adjective can
be used in a relative sense.

Though some of my opinions will
often sound conservative, others may
appear positively leftist. I do not seek
moderation for the sake of moderation,
however; rather, I adhere to a political
philosophy that defies conventional du-
alist labeling. I intend to present argu-
ment that is coherent and consistent,
and perhaps even persuasive. To that

end, I write this inaugural column about

the battle between collectivism and
individualism, and the alliance of both
contemporary conservatives and liber-
als with one side.

The difference between collectiv-
ism and individualism is brieﬂy this:
the former argues that government
policy should be fonnulated with the
good of particular groups (e.g. society,
economy, race) in mind, while the lat-
ter counters that government policy
should be framed solely with regard to
the rights of individuals.

Collectivism is divisible into two
main categories: utilitarianism, which
exalts economic efficiency as the proper
end of public policy; and ideological
collectivism, often cloaked in arational,
even anti-rational, emotionalism, pit-
ting one group against another.

The assumption of utilitarian col-
lectivism, implicit in every university
economics text, is that the growth of
the economy and maximization of “so-

cial welfare” should be thegcriteria for
public policy formulation and appli-
cation. Modern politicians almost uni-
versally adhere to this philosophy, es-
pecially when seeking to gain the votes
of well—educated neo-conservatives.
For example, President Bill Clinton
recently outlined his two criteria for
good public policy: “Number one, it
should be good for America; and num-
ber two, it should be good for the
economy.” This statement reveals the

President’s collectivist bent. He was’

either being redundant or self-contra-
dictory. For he must have meant that
what is good for the economy is also
good for America, in which instance
his statement was redundant. Or he
was saying that, in some cases, what is
good for the economy is not good for
America, in which instance he was
being self-contradictory by announc-
ing both criteria as prerequisites for
good policy. Let us assume that he did
not intend to contradict himself, but
was instead using redundancy as a rhe-
torical device. Thus, the President be-
lieves that the good of America is at
least to some degree determined by
whatever is the greatest good for the
greatest number of people, whatever
maximizes the utility of that group we
call “America.” In this sense at least,
Bill Clinton is adhering to collectivism
rather than individualism. Republican
supply-siders, too, defend their eco-
nomic policies with appeals to eco-
nomic theory, promoting economic
growth as an end in itself. Economic
growth is an aggregate concept; it ap-
plies to groups primarily, and only
secondarily to individuals. If economic
growth is intended to be a justification
for any policy whatsoever, that justifi-
cation is therefore collectivist.

The second, more dangerous kind
of collectivism, ideological collectiv-
ism, is unfortunately also more com-

mon. In the ongoing budget debate,
Republicans argue their support for the
younger generations, “our future,”
while the Democrats counter with sup-
port for the elderly, “our heritage.” A
naive observer would come to the con-
clusion that the United States is em-
broiled in a civil war, in which all
children are joining battle with all se-
nior citizens. The blatant ad populum
appeals by both sides sicken any logi-
cal thinker. Indeed, this sort of collec-
tivism relies on emotional hysteria. On
the other hand,
this philosophy

only achievable through coercion.
Thus, under social-contract theory,
certain individuals who go by the
name of “govemment” take away the
rights of other individuals by force.
The group of government officials has
more rights than the group of govem-
ment subjects. Locke’s theory breaks
down into collectivism.

Social contractarians argue that, if
anyone does not agree to the govem-
ment, he or she may leave for another
country—and another government. The
social-contract
g o v e r n m e n t

does at least at- ————— C ‘ ——-———-—- breaks down into
tempt to incorpo- a windshield-
rate some modi— - _ washing scam
cumofethicaland  social contract writ large. Like
moral concerns government breaks the burn at the

and apply them to
policy. Unfortu-
nately, it does so
in a patently col-

down into a wind-
shield-washing scam
write large....the gov-

intersection that
wipes your wind-
shield and then
demands com-

 ernment_ror<;es yen to, e:::3::::,£°'
this kind ofthink- accept its services government
mg can be laid and demands what_ forces _you to
squarelyatthefeet . accept its “ser-
of the democratic everpayment “deems vices” and de-
social-contract a ro riate_ mands whatever
philosophers,  p payment it
such as John deemsappropriate.
Locke. At first Government

glance, this attribution seems ironic,
since Locke purportedly advocated lim-
ited government and individual rights.
In fact, however, Locke’s social-con-
tract theory undennines individual
rights and perpetuates collectivism.
Social contract theory relies upon
the oxymoron that individuals volun-
tarily give up certain rights in order to
secure others. The surrender of rights
is involuntary by definition. Giving
away one’s life, liberty, or property
voluntarily is the free exercise of natu-
ral rights. The surrender of rights is

only exists by violating the wishes of
its subjects, while at the same time
forbidding its subjects to do the same
to each other. This double standard
gives rise to the contemporary lack of
clear thinking about applying moral
norms to government policy. The solu-
tion is a thoroughgoing political indi-
vidualism which treats individuals in
government and individuals not in gov-
ernment as human beings with the same
set of rights. This system is the only
one that avoids collectivism; thus, it is
the only one that is truly moral.

@112 ‘tiling-tum lﬁlri

Executive Editors Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Alex Christensen
Sports Editor Scott Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor Cindie Young
Photography Editor Remy Green
Editorial Cartoonist: Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager Ivnnifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Ar-tier Anne Alv_ord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current coun definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail phi@wIu.edu

GOP Congress must protect environment

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

Let ’s talk about money. It’s the hot topic of the
season, considering the Republican budget cuts on the
Hill. I don’t really want to get into the budget because
there are way to many things involved with that and
besides that, there are way too many items in the budget
that I haven’t a clue about. I want to relate money to a
more specific area, the environment. Admittedly the
Republicans haven’t closed down the EPAor any of the
other agencies charged with protecting the environ-
ment, but it isn’t from not trying, it’s from the realities
of the budget. If you want to reform American govern-
ment back to free and wholesale environmental de-
struction then you have to pay for it.

Just recently, the Senate agreed to reinstate a mora-
torium on the granting of licenses for mineral exploita-
tion. The House had voted to continue the moratorium
since the budget hawks realized they were giving up a
huge amount of potential taxpayer money to industries,
many of which are not even based in the United States.
Under a law from 1872, the government sells land for
prices of about a dollar an acre to people who stake it
out. These people then sell it to the mining companies
for a slightly higher price. The mining companies then
spend some money and remove millions of dollars of
minerals from the land. None of this money goes to the
average citizen. Instead, he ends up putting out addi-
tional money in order to finance the cleanup of the land
from all the chemicals and environmental devastation
the mining companies leave behind.

It seems ironic to me that the Republicans, who
have been complaining about outdated laws that penal-
ize the country and don’t apply anymore, are support-
ing a law enacted when General Grant was President of
the United States.

Then there is the decision to open more National
Forests, like the Tongass in Alaska, to logging. Perhaps

some of the old dead trees should be cleared out,
although in the natural scheme of things it is more
beneﬁcial to leave the dead wood around to fertilize the
new growth. But opening the forests up is also costing
the taxpayers money that we never see any return on
because most of the trees out get shipped to places like
Japan. When we agree to open up the forests to timber
companies we build a red carpet of roads to allow them
access to the trees they are going to cut. These roads are
used mostly by the timber industry and by a few
random nature-lovers who are trying to get further
away from the already logged areas. The Republicans
in general are not great

no taxes, no income tax, no sales tax and they get
money just for being residents of Alaska. This is all
funded from their taxes on theoil industry. None of that
money really makes it down to the lower 48. Instead we
all go up to Alaska, buy touristy things and add our
hard-eamed dollars to contributions to the 550,000
people of Alaska. On a more esoteric note ANWR is
incredible to visit. I was there this summer, and a few
oil rigs would completely ruin the entire area, espe-
cially if they start dripping oil all over the place, since

the entire area is tundra and very wet.
Finally, Congress must consider Superfund
reauthorization. This is one

supporters of backpack- thing the Republicans
ers and Sierra Club mem- ‘ ‘ haven’t been able to mess
bets. but those are the with too much. Many con-
only average citizens who servatives, including Dick
benefit from these roads, I personally care In uch Anney and Bob Dole, want

and I’m sure in the long
run they would be will-
ing to take the alternative
of hiking in to camp.
Finally, one of the hot
topics of the 104th Con-
gress was put forth by the
alwaysinterestingAlaska
delegation. They want to
open the Arctic National
Wildlife Refuge to oil

more for the environmental
aspect of these laws and be-
lieve saving the few remain-
ing wilderness areas is much
more important than saving
a few dollars in the short
run. I am grateful to
people...who feel the same...

to repeal retroactive liabil-
ity. This law forces com-
panies that dumped prior
to there being a law against
dumping to pay the costs
of cleanup. Fortunately,
the Republicans couldn’t
find a way top repeal the
law and still pay for the
cleanup that is needed on
many Superfund sites.

drilling. In fact, one of
the Alaska senators said
that oil drilling was a
natural part of Alaska, or something to that effect. I’m
sure that when the first Americans crossed the Bering
Straits that was one of their thoughts. I can just imagine
a conversation among some ancestors of Senator
Murkowski. Bob is complaining about his wife com-
plaining that he is spending too much time away from
home hunting caribou and polar bears. So he tells Joe
that he is going to convert to the other natural way and
drill for oil to sell to the losers who went down south.
This is the beginning of the great oil drilling debate,
100,000 years ago.

Back to money though, the citizens of Alaska pay

I personally care much
more for the environmen-
tal aspect of theselaws and
believe saving the few remaining wilderness areas is
much more important then saving a few dollars in the
short run. I am grateful to people like Senator Chafee
who in general feels the same way.

At the same time, I am grateful to the budget
hawks on Capitol Hill who are stopping some of these
provisions from being passed, although there are a
great many anti-environment bills like Endangered
Species Act reauthorizationithat they do support. Some-
times the best way to get a point across and win a
victory is to think like the opponent, but with a different
goal in mind.

 

 

. OPINION

;Arriba! ;Asistan la fiesta Mock Con!

GREEN LAND

Ballroom there had been the site of the
presidential inaugural ball since, like,
the dawn of time. As good tourists, we

and we were just sure something excit-
ing was going on inside. We tried to
peek inside so we could see what the

people as far as the eye could see. In a
vain attempt to blend in, we smiled at
the guests and said, “Hola,” as they

The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995

Betsy Green

The Mock Convention Gala is com-
ing up soon, and noone knowsadamned
thing about it. After all, no current
students were here when the ﬁrst one
was held at the last Mock Con.

really wanted to
see the Ballroom.
The whole idea of
an inaugural ball
seemed so glam-
orous, with the
new president a

(6

I’m pretty sure the
Mock Con Gala will

Ballroom looked
like, but it was
dark and full of
people. We real-
ized to see the
Ballroom we’d
have to sneak in.

passed by. The Ballroom was deco-
rated in red, white and green bunting,
Mexican ﬂags, and random crepe pa-
per and balloons. Entertainment was
provided by a mariachi band.

Mom and I ﬁgured if we were going
to crash this party, we might as well go

h  gepleral ctlmsegsus seems to bg virtual Citriderella, have lots in common (svql weh djid. pcllogut, [so yve helpledﬂpurpelpes tlo tg‘:
t at l wi invo ve ressmg up an minus t e mice . . . asn’tt at ra- Se Ou on a 6 8 es. a
drinking. How unusual foraWashing- and unreasonable w lth the shlndlg my matic?) probably needlessly that the food was
ton and Lee event. Still,Iknowalot of curfew. mom and I attended. The galaevent all Mexican—-and fabulous.

pelpplle arle ftqrious about vtvhattmthiﬁ th Ugfortupatqly, T h e r e w i l l be gelld in the Gfrilllid .lll’r}r‘i pretfygure the Mock CortihG3la
w oe gaa mg is going 0 a e oor o e , a room 0 e wi ave o in common wi e
about. Lucky for you, I have personal Ballroom was dancmg...as near as Mayﬂower Hotel shindig my mom and I attended. The

experience with this whole inaugural
ball/gala thing. And as always, I’m
willing to help you all out.

Granted I didn’t go to the Mock Con
Gala before, but my experience was
even closer to the real thing. A few
years ago, my mom (who is going to be

locked every time
we tried to sneak
in to take a look.
We had pretty
much given up on
the whole thing
until one night the

I can tell the Mexican
Hat Dance will be a
key way to impress
others.

was apparently a
conference for
Taca Airlines.
Taca, near as we
could tell, ser-
viced Southern
California and

guests will be homogeneous, though in
a paler way. There will be dancing...as
near as I can tell the Mexican Hat
Dance will be a key way to impress
others.

Probably thebiggestcommontheme
was that everyone seemed to be

way thrilled to be mentioned in my
column) and I were on vacation in
Washington, D.C. We stayed in the
Mayﬂower Hotel and were really ex-
cited when we found out that the Grand

door was open.

Mom and I were on our way to »

dinner and happened to pass by the
Ballroom on our way out. People were
wandering in and out of the Ballroom

Mexico. Why
they chose to hold their convention in
Washington, D.C. is beyond me.

Mom felt a little uncomfortable at
first. We were the only non-Hispanic

drunk.Tequila and Dos Equis seemed
to be crucial to have a good time.

So, go to the Mock Con Gala and
have fun. If you see me, don’t forget to
smile and say, “Hola.”

America must avoid generational conﬂict

MY VIEW
Jennifer Galardi, ’96

EDITOR ’S N 0 TE : This is the second of three
articles on the state of Social Security.

Fortunately, the war between the North and
South has been over for a century (although I am
sure many would contend otherwise). However, our
nation may soon ﬁnd itself involved in another bitter
confrontation with a completely different battle cry:
that of generational warfare.

I am assuming most people who read last week’s
editorial on Social Security walked away saying,
“Great. Who cares?” A year ago I would have had the
same reaction, but I actually learned something this
summer at my internship (besides how to be a pro at
crossword puzzles). Our generation should be espe-
cially concerned about the fate of Social Security and
understand what all the fuss is about. Because unless
appropriate and gradual policy changes are made
now, it is our generation who will bear the entire
burden of a dysfunctional program.

It is important to recognize that many citizens
regard Social Security as a generational contract
between the old and the young. It seems only fair that
the working generation help support those who can

, no longer sustain abstaridarql pf_ liv_irig_tl_iat they are _

used to. After all, ioiir'parer'i't"s“ have been fiscally

‘ responsible for us for years. Although such a contract

is only a political creation (there is no real financial
or legal basis for Social Security), it is a belief that
our country has seemed to adopt and one which sets
the stage for the discussion of generational equality.

However, if we accept this assumption, given
current policy the Social Security system will be
anything but fair to our generation in the future.
Under the present system, today’s retirees receive
beneﬁts worth two to ten times what they would have
earned had they invested all their lifetime Social
Security taxes in recent years, most economists agree
that under current law Social Security will not offer
large categories of younger participants anything
approaching a fair market return on what they paid
into the system.

What causes such an unequal distribution of ben-
efits between generations?

As mentioned in the previous editorial, one of the
main reasons for this inequity is,rapidly changing
demographics. Shortly after the retirement of the
Baby Boom generation beginning in the year 2010,
the OASDI trust fund begins to run a deﬁcit in 2013
and is projected to be bankrupt by 2030. If the
government wishes to continue to supply sufﬁcient
payments to retirees, the only option it will have to
account for such shortfall of funds will be to substan-

tially increase taxes on workers of our generation.
Those responsible for such a huge increase in
payments, namely those currently between the ages
of 30 and 50, never faced with the dilemma of
supporting an increasing retired population, will
gain the beneﬁts while our generation reaps all the
consequences. Again, this option hardly seems fair
in light of the fact that Congress can make appropri-
ate policy changes now to avoid such an unjust
obligation on the working class in the next century.
It is interesting to note that most administra-
tions have recognized this sort of generational
inequity in the financing of the Social Security
system. The Ofﬁce of Management and Budget
(OMB) routinely included a section titled “Genera-
tional Accounting” in its ﬁscal budgets. This section
ofthe budget indicated how much a typical member
of each generation can
be expected to pay, now
and in the future, in net

information to obtain new members and reassure its
current contingency. In a report on entitlements and
the federal budget deﬁcit entitled “Setting the Record
Straight,” the AARP throws out many numbers and
facts which contend that Social Security does not
need to be touched or altered.

However, all their numbers and charts monitor
past trends and blatantly fail to display projected
numbers for future costs. Although the report
admits that the costs of sustaining Social Security
rise in the next century, they assure members that
these costs level off by 2030 and the ratio of depen-
dents to workers will actually be lower in 2065 that
it was in 1965.

But they fail to recite the consequences of the
demographic changes between the years of 2010 and
2030, and thus fail to recognize the misfortune of
thoseretin'nginthese“in-
between” decades,
namely our generation.

taxes (taxes paid net of
transfer payments re-
ceived). This part of the
budget was visionary in

C(

It is time for our genera-

Unfortunately, many
blindly subscribe to the
AARP’s position as truth
without any knowledge

discussing and explain-
ing what future genera-
tions must pay given cur-
rent policy and the
government’s internal

._ budget constraint which
states that government

bills not paid by
current generations must
ultimately be paid by
future generations.

tion to organize a similarly
powerful group to defend its
interests, not through false
information, but through
substantial data that has
been supported by research
and analysis. Our genera-
tion has a particular stake
in seeing the system ﬁxed

of the facts.

It is time for our
generation to organizea
similarly powerful group
to defend its interests, not
through false informa-

tion, but through substan- >7"

tial data that has been
supported by research
and analysis. Our gen-
eration has a particular

Although the report
for FY95 is rather
lengthy and full of
details and qualiﬁers, it
undeniably displayed
the strong upward trend over the past century of
lifetime net tax rates which will continue to surge
through future generations. However, in Clinton’s
budget for FY96, the OMB conveniently omitted
such a section in its report. Why all of a sudden has
this trend been ignored? And why is everyone so
reluctant to discuss and debate the need for refonn?

The reason is this: Social Security reform is
probably one of the most politically charged issues to
confront our government. The American Associa-
tion of Retired Persons (AARP) is not merely a group
of old people demanding their Social Security checks.
It is an organization with over 30 million members,
more than $382 million in total revenues, and an
extremely strong lobbying force on Capitol Hill. No
wonder congressmen are scared stiff to even discuss
reform, much less propose cuts in the program.

Oftentimes, the AARP ﬁlls its reports with false

n0wCOO

stake in seeing the sys-
tem ﬁxed now, but the
longer we wait to reform
the Social Security sys-
tem, the more inequality
there will be between generations. .

I do not wish to incite anger or instill contempt in
our generation toward our parents and grandparents.
Just the opposite, I would hope to avoid generational
conﬂict by providing the facts and their implications.

As the Bipartisan Commission on Entitlement
and Tax Reform stated in its report in August of 1994,
“Throughout America’s history, each succeeding
generation has enjoyed the promise of a better stan-
dard of living.” Today, current entitlement programs
jeopardize that hope and promise. I truly don’t be-
lieve that our generation is being selﬁsh and demand-
ing a greater return from the government than our
grandparents or parents receive. We are merely ex-
pressing a well-founded concern for the economic
future of our country and I believe if all knew the
truth about the dismal outlook of Social Security,
even our grandparents would feel the same.

LETTERS

New campus sign policy
meets with (mostly) respect

To the editor:

We would like to thank everyone for respecting the new policy/guidelines on
posting notices on campus. Many students and faculty have commented to us on

aesthetically correct manner of displaying the Cadaver symbol...

J. Keith Benedict
E.C. President

how much better the campus looks without the scourge of plastered notices taped

to every conceivable walkway, pillar and post on campus. Thank you.
Now, if we can just convince our friends in the Cadaver Society to ﬁnd a more

David L. Howison
Dean of Students

Write in Washington for Board of Supervisors

To the editor:

I wanted to take this time to urge the citizens of
the Buffalo District in Rockbridge County to vote
for Mr. Hal Washington, write-in candidate for
Board of Supervisors. I have worked closely with
Mr. Washington in the past on several issues regard-
ing local government. In this time I have grown to
have nothing but the utmost respect and admiration
for Mr. Washington.

I have found Mr. Washington to be a southern
gentleman who stands for integrity and character.
While working together he never ceases to amaze
me with the amount of energy and time he puts in to
serve his community. He is a man who speaks the
truth, who isn’t afraid to stand alone and who pos-
sesses great wisdom and forethought when address-
ingissues affectingthepeopleofRockbridge County.

Mr. Washington has often told me that if he
were in local office he would schedule at least

four districtwide meetings a year to casually speak
with his constituency. He would go beyond making
himself available, to encouraging citizens in his
district to get more involved in local governing
decisions. Mr. Washington truly believes that the
decision—making process belongs to the citizens of
Rockbridge County.

I am a born and bred Virginian as was my
daddy. My grandfather as well as my father
farmed Virginia soil. I have lived in several counties
in Virginia that once were much like Rockbridge
County with its rural character and rich southern
culture. What is left of my granddaddy’s farm sits
among the sprawl that has resulted in the northern
counties of Virginia due to lack of forethought and
planning on behalf ofthe local governing ofﬁcials.
Mr. Washington and I have talked long hours about
my concern for our local culture and farmlands. His
thoughts for community planning and growth with-
out infringing on property owners’ rights is truly

progressive and wise.

I am voting for Mr. Washington because I love
Virginia with all my being. I am often saddened
to see how communities in the most beautiful
commonwealth are being homogenized with sprawl
and poor planning. I believe Rockbridge County is
the most beautiful county in my native common-
wealth. I believe Mr. Hal Washington is the man
who is most capable of leading our county into the
future. Providing for growth, yet maintaining and
encouraging the respect of our rural southern cul-
ture. A southern culture and way of life that is
becoming endangered across our beloved Virginia.
Please vote for Hal Washington if you care for the
future of your heritage. Just ask the attendant how to
write in Mr. Hal Washington’s name; it’svery simple,
and the right choice.

Darrell Lee Croson
Lexington

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Career Workshop

Trying to decide on a major or
career path? Attend the Career
Focus Workshop on Tuesday, Nov.
7 at 4 p.m. in Room 108 of the
University Center.

College Libertarians

Saturday, Nov. 11, Jacob
Homberger, president of the Future
of Freedom Foundation, will be
speaking on “Halting the Destruc-
tion of American Liberty” in Northen
Auditorium. The talk will take place
at 2 p.m. and is sponsored by the
College Libertarians.

Drama Auditions

Preliminary auditions for“ Faust,”
will be held Nov. 3 from 4 to 6 p.m.
and 7 to 9 p.m. and Nov. 4 from 4 to
6 p.m. in the Keller Theatre for those
interested in creating the script and
ﬂeshing out characters. Audition
materials are available from the The-
atre Department secretary.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will present the surprise hit
of this past summer, Smoke (USA,
1995), directed by Wayne Wang, in
English. Screenings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday, Nov. 10 and Satur-
day, Nov. 11 in the Troubadour The-
ater, at the corner of Main and Henry
Streets. As always, there is no charge
for admission. Smoke features an all-
star cast including Harvey Keitel,
William Hurt, Forrest Whitaker, and
Stockard Channing.

Glasgow Readings

The Glasgow Endowment Series
will present readings by poet Brendan
Galvin, author of Great Blue and
Saints in Their Ox-hideBoats, Thurs-
day, Nov. 9 at 4:30 p.m., and novelist
and poet Lynne Sharon Schwartz,
author of Rough Strife and The Fa-
tigue Artist, Wednesday, Dec. 6 at
4:30 p.m. All readings will take place
in Northen Auditorium.

Goldwater Scholarships

If you are a sophomore or junior
with a B average or in the upper
fourth of your class who plans a ca-
reer in the mathematics, science, en-
gineering, or medical research ﬁelds,
you may qualify for a Goldwater
scholarship ($7,000 annually). Con-
tact Dean West-Settle (X8746) be-
fore Nov. 28.

Habitat Square Dance

On Friday, Nov. 10, Habitat for
Humanity will be hosting a beneﬁt
square and contra dance. The dance
will begin at 8 p.m. at Southern Vir-
ginia College’s Chandler Hall in
Buena Vista. Becky McKenzie will
call to the music of Wildgrass. No
experience or partner necessary. Ad-
mission is $5 per person. Child care
will be provided for a small donation.

Internship

Interested in an externship/intern-
ship opportunity with Smith Barney
in New York? Attend the information
session on Thursday, Nov. 9 at 7:30
p.m. in Room 221 of the C-School.

Practice Interviews

Seniors may sign up for video-
taped practice interviews in the Ca-
reer Development and Placement Of-
ﬁce. There are two more days of prac-
tice interviewing this term: Wednes-
day, Oct. 25 and Thursday, Nov. 9.

Support Groups

A confidential support group is
meeting weekly for W&L women
who have experienced sexual assault/
abuse at any time in their lives. This
group has been meeting weekly for
eight years with the membership al-
ways open to new members. Each
member signs an agreement of conﬁ-
dentiality at the first meeting. Please
call Carol Calkins, the Counseling
Center secretary, at x8590 or the
University Health Service at X8401
to learn of times and locations.

Asupportgroupis meetingweekly
forwomen who aredealingwith binge
eating, binge/purge eating or very
restricted eating. If you are facing
any of these in your daily life, you are
invited to join this conﬁdential group
which meets weekly. Each member
will sign an agreement of conﬁdenti-
ality at first meeting. Please call Carol
Calkins, the Counseling Center sec-
retary, at x8590 or the University
Health Service at x8401 to learn of
times and locations.

Winter Courses

The course listings forwinter term
registration have been posted to the
University Registrar page at “http://
www.wlu.edu/~registra,” and to the
Liberty gopher. Registration forms
will be available beginning Monday,
Nov. 6. Paper copies of the course
listing should be available to stu-
dents and faculty later thu; week.

 

Bringing the
Information Age
to you!

Check out The
Ring—tum Phi
homepage

Address: (http://www.wlu.edu/
~swilliar/RTP.html)

or access through Netscape

 

    
 

"A

The Ring-tum Phi, November 3, 1995
. l

l The Foreign :’\lllllfS Club in cooperation with the lnternational Club challenges you with this

 

 

5 (TI RRENI‘ li\"EN"l"S Ql‘lZI£’l"l‘E

¢\l[I“l|LIfl[If§
OF IIHIE \WIiIfK

 
 
  

ll I‘ iiiwic sf!" xliuf-r'n1.\', _,-'v‘r.?,*t'.i:.s'ni'.\:, slﬂltl .\‘lt'1f,-’ J0 ;mr‘1:c:pr1It'. I.’ to t'.r_pccI it: little ft:.c1s mii'tm'7’
I/IL‘ .s:!s1rfci2Is‘.’; .'l!.’$\l't‘." as immi‘ z,721u.r.!.i.«>7:x ;1\"t'»'.>3.-' can - crcii IfI>2i!_i' mic - ui2rfdro;7_i‘nz1i'slice! in
the ./".r.~i'c.v,izi3 .'-lf,~‘t'1.’.".\‘ l '/til‘ l‘«o.r m'ti2' the L‘.‘.’I."'-.’N7£‘t‘ of I.l?r‘ / itii‘t*J'.\ii}' ( title." hm);-r= iiiiriiisglzi my
.‘*:'icIu,i'. .‘\'m:cn1licr .-’ ". H.195.

l i lrish author, winner otthis year's Nobel prize for Literature:

2) Turkey's female prime minister. desperately reshuftling and
re-reshufﬂing her governing coalition:

3) Year when China regains control ofthe British colony of
Hong Kong:

4) Percentage of Yes ‘(Dies in the lraqi referendum asking if
Saddam Hussein should remain president tor seven more years: ......................................... ..

5) l\‘Al‘0's former secretary-general. charged with corruption ‘
and fraud and forced to resign:

6) Japanese island where. allegedly. American soldiers raped
a 0-year-old Japanese girl:

7; Sight ofthe newest peace negotiations on the Bosnian civil
war:

83 Atoll. famous of recent French nuclear experiments despite
worldwide protests:

9) Sheik Omar Abdel-Rahman was found guilty ofc-onspiring
to bomb this New York City landmark in 1993:

l0) Nationality of Pope John Paul ll, who recently paid his

fourth visit to the LES;
l l ) UN. Secretary General who presided over the celebrations
marking the 50th anniversary ofthe world body:
ll) Year of Fidel Castro's communist revolution in Cuba:
l3 3 The two land masses ot‘Palestinian selt-rule after 37 years
of Israeli occupation:

,,.,,..,...._,..

 

Hilary Martin
Volleyball

J. P. Josephson
Football

The Generals were looking for somebody to
ﬁll in when starting tailback Seth McKinley was
sidelined with a shoulder seperation in last
Saturday’s game against Bridgewater.

That’s when juniorl .P. Josephson stepped to
the forefront.

Josephson, whose previous career-high rush-
ing total was 47 yards, rumbled for 97 yards on
31 carries in the Generals’ 24-13 victory. The
junior also scored on a one-yard touchdown run
with only 25 seconds remaining in the first half,
which gave W&L a 17-7 halftime advantage.

Sophomore Hilary Martin is carrying the torch
as the Generals march into the ODAC tournament
this weekend at Guilford College.

Martin was an integral part of Washington and
bee’s two latest victories, a win last Tuesday against
Guilford, and a triumph over Eastern Mennonite
last Thursday. She rolled up an outstanding 24 kills
against Guilford, which tied a school record, and
picked up two aces and eight more kills against
Eastern Mennonite.

Martin’s key contributions throughout the sea-
son were instrumental in W&L’s 26-6 season.

+l ) Outcome ofthe referendum on the future ot‘Quebec:

Fri-.rI pr1:e: u hc1skcI,*i1i of'gitIs,'
..\.'c::ond pr1:c: u suiicc>:_',*iil n,t’;_vi,‘i.'~'.'
if/1.'I'd,')HZ(;'.' a Sp(.>(.)Nfi!] nf_i_>:I!'.s'

as:

 

WHAT’S NEW?

 

Find out about The Steering Committee of the1996

Opportunities on Wall Street &
Investment Careers!

Mock Convention presents:

=
as
v-.-
5'

   

   
 
      

   

       

 
  
  
  

IIIIIin?f--------I-1-u'Irli‘i‘i‘ilI I

I I
I I
I I
I I
“A Bistro : Meet lfhe Presidential Gala
I 8 3 m M da I John Church, ’87, Economics Major
I am - - on I . . . .
‘ :8 am _ 10 pm _ ﬁuesday _ Tgursday : Associate, Dillon, Read and Co. Inc. Entertainment by The Midnight Movers
 ‘ : 8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday : . .   and ‘
 : 9 am ' 3 Pm "S“nd3Y : Chris Porter, ’80, English Major  November 10’ 
: I First Vice President, Smith, Barney Inc. 9500  ' 1300 3-m-
.. I Wednesday — Spaghetti & Salad I Warner Center
5 All you can eat $4.99 5 Thursday, November 9’ 1995 Black Tie
: Th d 107 fff d 'th r d t ID : 7‘3° Pm’ R°°m 221 - - ~
. “I5 3V ' 0 ° 0° ‘ W1 S “ °“ . W. . Ticket and Memorabilia Sales
,1 . . ilhams School of Commerce _
I Friday - Seafood Nita - : Monday, November 6, through Friday,
: Crab Legs, Shrimp. Trout I MEET SPECIAL AGENT J. ROBERT SHAY November 10 I
: Saturday - 8 oz. Prime Rib, : FBI I 11:00 a.rn. - 3:00 p.m. University Center
' : 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95 : Room 1 13
E  . ,  . E TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14 $50 buys tickets, shirts, cups and rafﬂe
_ _ 4:00 P_M. tickets for two
‘ E ' , ' .. , H . 1 .   . ,   ,  E ROOM 109 UC Questions? Call 462-4057
- 19 W. ash,-ington St., Lexington, VA 24450 I _ __ +—
IIII IIIIIII IIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIII  tw -‘
Learn Why the New York Times  ,
‘ . r~. .‘ The Ring-tum Phl.
Calls Them a Hybnd of ' .  , _ -
N  Consulting and Publishing, turning out 4; ‘t _V19§hl"9_,l°" ‘md ‘-99 5 best d'°3‘°ﬂa, ;_
N  “Millionaires By the Dozen” Pl-|b"¢0"°" '5
1

  
  

Attend the
on NEVER   
Information Sessions ’ ’./ \.‘ f
’ ti; ’ L: » 
$ Positions for ALL MAJ ORS! Don t L et ,
Thursday; November 16 Your Student
Bl.lY cl-|RIs'rMAs R, P553, U0
* BEFORE we °‘“ G0 H“”3’«V

 

1 my ave-ave.

(.",'aravans is closing its doors
‘J and moving everything
’ to the Wrginia Beach store.

EVERYTHING’!
ON SALE!

* Until we close November 25,
y071 can save 0??

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for

Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner
For only $90.00

0 0 O 0 !4_Qf_O: Q 0 0: {go Q_Qtv_O,.I.\»:p_Q O O  Q 0 O 0 ﬁ‘i'! 9 9 O 9 Q CA0?

 

grearfall clothing. holiday dresses,
.s'wemer..i', jewelry, home ﬁzrnishings
and special Chri.s'tn1asgzj/is.

NOV. 1-7 15% OFF
NOV. 8-15 20% OFF
NOV. 16~25 25% OFF

caravans

1] 7 W Nelson Street 9 -164.3500
Dally 10am - 6pm 9 Sundays 11am ~5 pm

 

We Welcome your imput

‘>4.-1': ‘1?".' » ' '

wlu.edu

   
 

lllluI-'--__.........._-—...__-_a-h-h-IVMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIl
\-

Nutritious M uﬁins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student 9
a Homecooked Meal With Our
Point Card

Harbs’

19 W. Washin ton St., Lexington, VA 4450

 

 

Last Week:

VOLLEYBALL - W, 15-8, 15-3, 15-2, vs. Eastern Mennonite
WSOCCER - L, 4-0, vs. Roanoke in ODAC Tourn. semiﬁnals
WATER Po1.o- L, 24-4, vs. Villanova; L, 21-10, vs. Slippery
Rock; L, 18-8, vs. George Washington in EWPA
Southern Division Playoffs
Foon;Au,- W, 24-13, vs. Bridgewater

Gour -

Finished fourth in VMI Invitational

PAGE 8

S

@112 ﬁling-htm lﬁlti

PORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

This Week:

Voumrmu. - Today vs. Emory & Henry in quarterﬁnals
of ODAC Tournament

M, WCBOSSCOUNTRY -

Saturday in ODAC Champion-

ships at Roanoke

Foonuu.L-

Saturday vs. Guilford, 1:30 PM

NOVEMBER 3, 1995

prevails

 

T’ BIGVFANV

BY;SCO’l'I' BOOKWALTBR

 

.'.l_‘he drought is finally
over in Atlanta] 1  3 »

The city fwhichA. had
.never_before. _boasted a

team. found a
.urday:;}Wh

winner Sat-.A‘ A
he , Braves  

    

diansiirt six‘ games to win
the 1995 World Series.
Afte_r..-two. years of 1a- .
bor disputes and image»
related probleins, baseball A
finally got its act together
to produce a memorable
Series; Unlike the Super
Bowl, almost every World
Series in this decade has
i been close. andexciting. A‘ 

7' Five of the six garnesin

E the ’,95_ Series were decided

shy .one..,r.1,m.? ~'r'I‘here' was‘

' superb pitching, t..meiy hit-
ting, and of course, trash-
tallcing and controversy.

= _'After_the Braves swept
the fir_st;.1wo’garnesA in At-
’ . lanta,AaA controversial inci-

‘ dentfoccurred when the 

Indians? Mr. Congeniality, 1‘

- NBC reporter Hannah:
4 Storm for having the nerve
A A tointervievvkenny Lofton.
Urn, Albert, this is the
World Series‘, isn’t it? A
You’reVsupposed to be on j
your best. behavior, what-
ever that may be. .
Eddie'Murray, who last
~ spoke to the media during
 the Truman Administra-.
;. Ation, hadino comment. A
  V .The;lrrdiansrallied back V.
V to? win :.two_*“of the three
gfgames inj_Cleveland, in- A
V eluding a‘ Game 5 victory
I over Greg “Clark Kent”
Maddox. «But the Indians
apparently forgot the
meaning of letting sleep-
ing dogs iiewhen Orel
V Hershiserfspouted off
about how the pressure was .
. .; now orrtheliravestoavoid
dropping another Series, A
. which would likely evoke ._
’comparisonsAwitAhthatBuf- 

  
     
   

   

’ aretations, gun: Dave‘ Alas» _

' %tieAewasfannAing theﬂames 

in VA 1’ ta; " M. He ..trash_e‘dA 
’. lack of .eti- *

 

 

,1 .

 

V —V ' l.W.of ,§0U!'1dS*0H¥€1i1<¢.:e
‘i so great“v.va’y- for Dave lIO,:: x
,.;.start offhis team’s biggesﬁ
IV-AA home -game of_thjeA seasorzif
g But then guAes§;Wh0.hit» a‘
s1x:n;innitrg-ilitonieatm to
V provide -th‘ winning‘= and“
. ., 9

   

Tom Glavineand Mark
Wohlers. combined on a. '
one~hit masterpiece in
Game 6. Ollﬁweek after
Superrnaddux’ shut‘ down
‘.fthe.Ind.ians ontwo hits in 5
A Game}. ‘Whowould have
thought that the powerful 
‘Indians’ offense wouid be "
*"'f7he_ld to agpaltry .179 bats ;
, A ting‘avera'ge in the Series?
. A we :were privileged to
' watch the two best teams’ '
in baseball squareioff in
the World Series, and
chances" are good that they
will both-return next sea-
son. That is, of course,
pending J_ustice’s house
A will not be burned down...
A A On ;a totally unrelated A
 Asports A;AtlOfe;_,‘$0ph0m0re ‘ .
Jeremy’ Adams§ . defeated ;
AssistantProfessOrofPoli- -
’ tics Marshal Zeringuelast
weekinafootbaIldistance-
throwing‘ contest on
Zeringue’s home turf: the
front of the C-School.
Three heaves and one
tracer shot off the roof of
Newcornb' Hall later, after
Adams, won the one-toss
j contest,-_¥'Zezingue ﬁnally
managed to shake off the
rusttoout-distanceAdams.
Maybe there’s a future
 forProfessorZeringueout-
side of politics. I hear the
49ers are looking for a
quarterback these days...

 

championship‘fp’ro sports 

Vchoppedthe , evelandin-' V3

Photo courtesy of W&L Media Guide

Interim head coach Frank Miriello was named as
the permanent successor this week to the late
Gary Fallon. Miriello has compiled a record of
4-2-1 thus far in his first season as head coach.

Miriello named permanent
W&L football head coach

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

Last Thursday, Head Coach
Frank Miriello was named as the
permanent head coach of the
Washington and Lee Generals
football program. Miriello has
held the position of interim head
coach since the unexpected death
of Coach Gary Fallon last April.

It was expected that a na-
tional search for a permanent
head coach, which would include
Miriello as a candidate, would
begin after the season’s end.

But according to Director of
Athletics Mike Walsh, “We were
pleased not only with the perfor-
mance of the football team, but
also with the way in which
[Miriello] and the entire staff had
come together after Coach
Fallon’s death...we had seen
enough and observed enough to
know that we wanted [Miriello]
to be our head football coach and

that it would not be necessary for
us to wait until the end of the
season to conduct a national
search.”

Thursday’s announcement was
metwith overwhelming approval.
Miriello, a ten year coaching vet-
eran of the General ’s football pro-
gram under Coach Fallon, has
earned the respect of his players,
their parents, other coaches, and
the W&L community through his
dedication and hard work.

Senior tri-captain James Ur-
ban said, “There is probably noth-
ing that feels so right...He’s per-
fect for the job, for this school.”

The W&L athletic community,
especially the football players, are
happy that Miriello intends to build
his own program on the solid,
respected foundations that Coach
Fallon laid during his seventeen
years as head coach.

“One of the goals in winning
the position was to keep part of
him in this program. And that part
of him is that ‘Falcon Fire’, that
passion for preparation, that pas-

._ Albert, Belle, cursed out A "

Volleyball team begins ODAC
tournament today at Guilford

By Roy BURNS
Phi Staffwriter

Guilford is the place to be
tonight as the Generals attempt
to clinch their ﬁrst Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference vol-
leyball title in school history.

Led by sophomore Hilary
Martin and senior Cheryl
Taurassi, the Generals enter the
tournament as the top seed, and
will face Emory & Henry in
their quarterﬁnal match.

Last Tuesday night, W&L
defeated the Guilford Quakers,
15-9,15-12, 15-11. Martincon-

tributed a school record-tying 24
killsinthevictory,whi1eTaurassi
added 36 assists.

Two nights later, the Gener-
als returned to Lexington to face
Eastern Mennonite, and needed
only fifty-ﬁve minutes to defeat
the defending conference cham-
pion, 15-8, 15-3, 15-2.

This victory served to clinch
the top seed in the ODAC tourna-
ment, and capped a perfect 10-0
home record for the Generals.

Junior Virginia Yoerg paced
Washington and Lee with a team-
high nine kills, and sophomore
Holly Thomsen contributed eight
kills and seven digs.

When asked about the team’s

thoughts before the ODAC tour-
nament, Thomsen commented,
“We’re excited to be seeded first,
and we think we have an excel-
lent chance to win it all. lt’s our
tournament to lose.”

The Generals finished the
regular season with a record of
26-6 overall, and 9-1 in the
ODAC. W&L’s sole loss in the
ODAC was to the Bridgewater
Eagles, a team that also elimi-
nated the Generals in last year’s
ODAC tournament.

This year, Bridgewater also
figures to be W&L’s top compe-
tition. Despite this fact, how-
ever, the Generals appear to be
ready for a showdown with the

Eagles, and to prove that the loss
in the regular season was a ﬂuke.
Thomsen believes, “We
should have the upper hand (in
the tournament) because we have
a deep bench and the experience
necessary to remain focused.”

The Generals have performed
well throughout the entire sea-
son, but all of those games were
in preparation forwhat really mat-
ters: the ODAC tournament.

If the Generals continue play-
ing as well as they have over the
past several weeks, then there is
no reason why they will not win
their first ODAC title and own
bragging rights in the conference
until next year.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The water polo team didn’t have much to celebrate this past weekend at the
EWPA Southern Division playoffs, but it still finished a respectable season.

Generals’ Water polo squad
ﬁnishes 1995 season with
losses in EWPA playoffs

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
water polo team pulled off a stun-
ning upset earlier this season
when they knocked off peren-
nial Eastern power Navy, 16-15,
back in September.

Beating the Midshipmen
again would have definitely
turned some heads.

The Generals had theirchance
when they faced the Midship-
men in the opening round of the

Eastern Water Polo Association
Southern Division Playoffs. The
Generals looked like they were
up to the challenge in the first
half as Peter Sorensen found the
back of the net in the second
quarter to knot the score at four
goals apiece.

The Navy squad, hungry for
revenge, went into the locker
room and reloaded.

The Midshipmen hit the Gen-
erals with a twenty-goal barrage
that put the match out of reach.
W&L failed to answer any of
Navy’s scores and the final count
stood at 24-4.

The Generals moved to the
consolation round where they lost
21-10 to Slippery Rock and 18-8
to George Washington.

Junior James Silberstein led
the Generals in the scoring col-
umn, netting three goals in each
of the two consolation games.

Senior Rich Cober scored in
all three games of the tournament
for Washington and Lee. Cober
also added a pair of two point
goals.

The three losses in the tourna-
ment ended the Generals’ 1995
season with a ﬁnal overall record
of 10-12.

sion for striving for perfection,
that passion for totally enjoying
the experience of playing the
game of football. We will al-
ways keep him in the program in
spirit,” Miriello said.

Miriello was part of Fallon’s
first coaching staff at W&L, as
an assistant offensive line coach
from 1978-1981.

After moving on to coaching
positions at Hampden-Sydney,
VMI, and two Pennsylvania high
schools, Miriello returned to

' Washington and Lee in 1990,

where he was named defensive
coordinator one year later.

Last season, Miriello's unit
led the ODAC in scoring and
pass defense.

Though it has been a difficult
year for the coaches and players
in many ways, Miriello has been
pleased with and has appreci-
ated everyone’s performance.

Miriello received another
good perfonnance from his team
last Saturday. The Generals de-
feated Bridgewater, 24-13, for

their fourth straight victory, rais-
ing their season mark to 4-2-1.

The winless Eagles (0-8)
shocked the crowd of 5,000 by
blocking a W&L punt in the ﬁrst
quarter, and scoring a touchdown
to take the early 7-0 lead.

That was the last lead for
Bridgewater as the Generals ex-
ploded for 17 points in the sec-
ond quarter. J .P. Josephson, who
rushed fora career-high 97 yards,
scored one of the touchdowns.

The Eagles would not go down
easily, as they cut the lead to 17-
13 early in the fourth quarter, but
Chas Chastain ran in a score from
eleven yards out to ice the game.

Guilford visits W&L tomor-
row. The Quakers, who dropped
a thrilling 13-7 contest to the
Generals last year, have endured
a rough 3-4 season thus far.

For the remaining two weeks
of the season, Miriello hopes to
see continued consistency and
productivity of the offense as well
as a strong performance by the
veteran_defensive unit.

Women’s soccer falls in
ODAC semiﬁnal game

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

the first half to take a 3-0 lead over the shocked

Generals into the intermission.

Although the ODAC Tournament did not

Hathom was “stunned” by Roanoke’s tor-
rent of goals.
“The game was so close up to that point that

we were overwhelmed when that happened.”

W&L could not recover.

The Generals

prove to be the overwhelming success that the
Generals hoped for, there is no reason for
disappointmentoverthc women’ssoccerteam’s
performance in 1995.

W&L finished with its second consecutive
ten-win season at 10-6 overall after dropping a
4-0 semifinal match to Roanoke this past Fri-
day at Randolph-Macon College. The Gener-
als’ ten victories was just one win off their
record pace of eleven wins, which was estab-
lished in 1990.

The Generals opened the quarterfinal round
of the ODAC Tournament last Tuesday with a
tense 1-0 shutout of Guilford at the Liberty Hall
Fields. The game remained in a scoreless
deadlock until only
twenty minutes were

played Roanoke tough in the second half, but
the Maroons punched home a final goal to
prevail, 4-0, and advance to the finals.

Although the season finished on a down
note, the young squad produced many positive
results. Bauman notched fourteen goals and six
assists on the season to total 34 points. The
junior has already broken the career points
record with her 71 points, on 28 goals and 15
assists, in only three seasons.

An extremely pleasant surprise this season
for the Generals was the play of their freshman
class. ln fact, freshman Karin Treese was the
team’s leading scorer, as she combined her
fourteen goals and ten assists to tally 38 points.

Freshmen Caroline
Keen, Katherine

left, when junior Mich-
elle Baumanconvened
on sophomore
Lorraine Taurassi’s
breakaway assist to
provide the Generals
with the only goal that
they would need.
Junior goalie Beth
Mozena pitched the
shutout for the Gener-

    

Nichols, and Nicole
Johnson were a few of
the other outstanding
freshmen contributors.
Hathom com-
mented that she was
“extremely pleased”
with the performance
of her young players.
“Since we’re very
young, we’re learning
what it takes to be de-

als by fending off four
Guilford shots.

The victory over
Guilford proved to be

W&L was bounced in the
ODACs, but still finished 10-6.

We Ph°‘° voted and committed ”
she said.
Washington and

Lee will lose four se-

especially sweet for
W&L,consideringthat
the Generals were coming off two heartbreak-
ing one-goal losses the weekend before against
the College of Notre Dame and Centre.

Beating Guilford “felt great”, according to
head coach Jan Hathom. “All three were pretty
hard-fought games.”

The Generals came out Friday determined
to fight conference nemesis Roanoke in the
ODAC Tournament semifinal round, and they
kept in stride with the Maroons forthe ﬁrst forty
minutes. But all of a sudden, Roanoke un-
leashed a barrage of three goals near the end of

niors to graduation
from a team which is predominated by fresh-
men and sophomores.

The sight of Treese, Mozena, Taurassi, and
sophomore Erica Reineke, not to mention the
record-setting exploits of Bauman, will be sure
to send a shiver down the spine of other ODAC
opponents for the next several seasons.

Hathorn expresses similar excitement over
the Generals’ future potential.

“I have all kinds of confidence about their
growth, and that they’ll continue to improve,”
the coach remarked.

 

-H‘

«Y

X

_h

 

 

Va“,

 {, :__‘_ </;§.Vi"»qVli:'--1:»-xi‘t:A
\7\'A“ivi‘#H*.”‘i In L.“ u'M~‘I3I‘-l Y
i..E7\W@QT$l VH M

NOV in ass-

Bringing Tinsel Town
to Lexington 9

Volleyball, Men’s
Cross Country
capture (DDAC titles (3

he ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂhi

Q5

VOLUME 96, N0. 9

 Moc

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

NOVEMBER 10, 1995

Convention Surprise

Keynote speaker to be
announced Friday night

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

The keynote speaker for March’s 1996
Mock Republican Convention will be
named in a surprise announcement at Friday
night’s gala.

Media Coordinator Jeff Zeiger said the
speaker is an “extremely prominent Republi-
can” who will speak free of charge because
he supports “the educational process and
Mock Convention.”

Zeiger will distribute a press release to more
than 70 news organizations across the country
late Friday to ensure that Washington and Lee
students are the first to learn of the news.

In other news, Mock Con got a surprise of
their own Wednesday afternoon when Gen-
eral Colin Powell revealed he would not seek
the presidency.

“It makes our job a lot easier,” said Political
Chairman Bob Ross, “although we would have
loved it. Powell would have added spice to
the election.”

Furthermore, Powell declared his new af-
ﬁliation with the Republican Party which may
pave the way for Mock Con to pursue him
as a speaker.

This week’s surprises follow the State Del-
egation Fair held on Monday and Tuesday.

is required from any delegate; however, stu-
dents can get active by contacting their state
chairman. The $15 fee required to sign up for
a delegation serves as the student’s ticket into
the Convention. General admission tickets will
be available to parents, guests, and Lexington
residents for a higher price.

In anticipation of the Delegate Fair, state
chairmen have been researching their states’
political scenes. They have compiled lists of
state politicians, public officials, journalists,
and university professors with whom they will
consult. Most of the research will be completed
before Christmas. After the holidays, Mock
Con will practice with different political sce-
narios to help direct them in successfully choos-
ing the GOP nominee in March.

State chairmen are not the only busy Mock
Con members these days. Platform Coordina-
tor Andy Olmem hopes to present Mock Con’s
platform in January.

“The platform will be debated on the ﬂoor,”
said Olmem. “lt’s one of the intellectual as-
pects of the Convention.”

About two or three planks will actually be
discussed at the proceedings. Possible issues
for selection are the ﬂat tax and immigration.

After Friday’s gala, the next Mock Con
event will be held Tuesday, November 14.
William Kristol, editor of The Standard and
prominent GOP strategist, will speak on the
media and the presidential race.

Nearly 1250 students
signed up to serve as
delegates representing
the U.S. states and

A very, very Mock Con week

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

territories.

“This is the last chance
for students to get in-
volved in Mock Conven-
tion,” said Ross.

Students sign up this week at the State Delegation Fair to represent the various U.S. states and
territories for the Republican Mock Convention, as Friday's Presidential Gala draws near.

Several states have al-
ready reached their limit
for delegates, but some
states remain open. No
major time commitment

William Kristol to speak to W&L

BY ROBIN D. SEATON
Phi Staff Writer

Chairman of the Project for the Republican Future
William Kristol will speak on Tuesday, November 14
at Lee Chapel. The8p.m. speech will be open to the
public and is sponsored by the 1996 Republican
Mock Convention. I

Based in Washington, D.C., the Project for the
Republican Future works to articulate and advance a
principled Republican agenda. In addition to his work
with this organization, Kristol serves as editor and

publisher of The Standard. The weekly national maga-
zine, founded this year by Rupert Murdoch, addresses
politics and policy.

Kristol received his A.B. and Ph.D. degrees in gov-
ernment from Harvard. He taught political science
from 1978-83 at the University of Pennsylvania, and
thenjoined the John F. Kennedy School of Government
at Harvard University. Kristol was assistant professor
of public policy there from 1983-85.

During the second term of the Reagan Administra-
tion, Kristol served as chief of staff to Education Sec-
retary William Bennett. He directed Alan Keyes’ 1988
Maryland U.S. Senate campaign, and was Chief of

Staff to Vice President Dan Quayle during the Bush
Administration.

As director of the Bradley Project on the ‘90s,
he led a survey of America’s current cultural, social,
and economic landscape. Kristol conducted this
project from January through October 1993 for the
Lynde and Harry Bradley Foundation of Milwau-
kee, Wisconsin.

In addition to his work with The Standard, Kristol
has authored numerous articles. His work has
appeared in numerous journals, including the
Chicago Law Review and theHarvard Journal of
Law and Public Policy.

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Town merchants remind Lexington residents of Election Day on Tuesday by displaying patriotic paraphernalia.

l

hi file photo
Students enjoying the Presidential Gala in 1991.

Greeks unite to provide
Mock Con band party

BY Roam D. SEATON
Phi Staff Writer

Funk-O-Matic will perform Saturday night at Zollman’s as part of
this weekend’s Mock Convention festivities. Mock Con received
financial support to sponsor the concert from thirteen fraternities, as
well as the four national sororities.

Julie Ayers, president of Pi Beta Phi, believes this is “a great idea
to get different organizations involved in something together.”
In addition, Sigma Nu president Charles Santo feels the concert
will “promote fraternity relations, and W&L community spirit
in general.”

David Stewart (‘96), who ‘helped co-ordinate the event, considers
it “a way of getting students together, an event to make this a
‘weekend.”’ The concert will be preceded Friday evening by the
black-tie Mock Convention Presidential Gala.

The performance by Funk-O-Matic presents a change from typi-
cal weekend band parties at individual fraternity houses. According
to Jason Bearden, president of SAE, the Zollman’s concert “will be
a great time, a chance to get everyone in the school excited about
being involved in the Mock Convention.” «

According to Stewart, Funk-O-Matic recently perfonned at SAE
with a blend of original songs and cover tunes. The Gainesville,
Florida band’s repertoire includes 70s hits and funk. Pi Kappa
Phi president Patrick White believes this weekend’s concert
“should be a lot of fun, and it’s a good idea to bring campus
organizations together.” -

Stewart encourages all students to check out Saturday’s concert,
which should begin around 9 p.m. He hopes that the event, in
conjunction with Friday’s gala, will bring students together for
the weekend. '

 

  A BEYOND    
THE BLUE RIDGE

Cleveland Browns confront

possible move to Baltimore

Grapevine, Texas—-—Brown’s owner Art Modell added to the growing
number of NFL controversies when he announced Monday that he had
signed a thirty-year lease with Baltimore in October and would be moving
the Cleveland team to Maryland. The city of Cleveland reacted angrily to
the news that the team, which has been in debt, would be moving, while
many associated with the Washington Redskins’ franchise expressed
worries that a Baltimore team could cause problems for the Redskins.
Other owners, however, reported no concern over the growing number of
teams which have migrated to other cities. A vote will be held in January
to determine whether or not the proposed move will actually take place.
(Editor's note.‘ Grapevine, TX is Emily Baker ’s hometown and a really
cool place.)

Kennedy children protest
publication of JFK’s diary

New York-——John F. Kennedy, Jr. and Caroline Kennedy are protesting
the upcoming publication of the diary of their father, President John F.
Kennedy. The diary, which was kept by Kennedy in 1945, has been the
property of one of Kennedy’s former Senate aides since he gave it to her
in 1960. Lawyers for the aide say that the Kennedys’ protest, which
apparently is based on alleged copyright violations and not on the content
of the diary, is unfounded.

French President Chirac

dissolves administration

Paris, F rance——French President Jacques Chirac was forced to dissolve
his administration on Tuesday after only a few months in office. The move
was made in order to cut superﬂuous positions and to create a more efficient
governing body. It was an attempt to rid the nation of deficits and meet the
goals for a single-currency Europe in 1999. The dissolution was also in
response to the administration’s extremely low popularity rating among
the French public. After a disappointing and highly controversial first ﬁve
months of his presidency, Chirac garnered approval from only fourteen
percent of polled French voters.

Right-wing groups suspected
in Saturday’s assassination

Israel—Authorities are investigating several right-wing groups for
involvement in Saturday’s assassination of Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak
Rabin. Although Yigal Amir, a 25-year-old student at Bar-llan University,
claims to have acted alone, several right-wing organizations are currently
under investigation for conspiracy. The organizations had publicly lauded
the assassination of the leader of the Israeli-Palestinian peace movement
in past days. Many right-wing leaders have gone into hiding while others,
like Binyamin Netanyahu of the Likud Party, have attempted to absolve
themselves of involvement in the shooting. Also under scrunity are
security officials who allowed Prime Minister Rabin to appear at a peace
rally without a bullet-proof vest.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

GOP WATCH

 

, Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re-
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Powell not to seek Presidency

Alexandria, Virginia—Forrner Joint Chief of Staff Colin Powell an-
nounced on Wednesday at a press conference that he will not seek the
Presidency nor any other political office in the 1996 election. Citing
personal and family reasons, Powell stated that he did not have the passion
or commitment at this time to run for office. He did, however, declare
himself to be a new black Republican, and also rebuked the Republican
right for their criticism of his moderate views. Powell did not rule out a
possible run for political office in future years.

Bob Dole endorsed by New

Hampshire Governor Merrill

Manchester, New Hampshire—On Wednesday New Hampshire Gov-
ernor Steven Merrill endorsed Bob Dole for the office of President and was
appointed general chairperson of the Dole campaign. Merrill stated that
Dole is the only candidate that is “capable of continuing the conservative
movement” started by the 1994 elections. Merrill’s endorsement gives a
“major boost to the GOP front-runner in the first primary state.”

GOP Watch is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

N

The Ring-tum Phi, November 10, 1995

Alum puts W&L
sports on film

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

While many in the Wash-
ington and Lee class of 1995
are still looking for jobs,
23-year-old Keith Grant al-
ready has a book and a
movie deal lined up.

Grant started working
on a documentary on the
history of W&L sports af-
ter he graduated in June.
That led to abook on Walt
Michaels, ’51, retired
coach of the New York Jets.

The alumni office mailed
letters to alums this sum-
mer, notifying them that
Grant was making a docu-
mentary, and suggesting
that those interested in help-
ing should contact Grant.

Michaels was one of
those who did. Michaels
told Grant he was writing
an autobiography and asked
if Grant would be inter-
ested in ghost-writing it.
Grant sent some writing
samples, and waited.

Michaels called last week
and offered him the job.

“I thought he was kid-
ding at first,” Grant said.
“He had this writer from

New York lined up who
had already put in six
months of work on the
book.” Michaels let the
writer go.

Grant said the first step
is to find a publisher. He
is continuing work on the
documentary, and expects
to finish it in the spring.

His years as Sports Di-
rector for WLUR and as a
writer for The Ring-tum Phi
have given Grant an ency-
clopedic knowledge of
W&L sports history.

“I’m a history buff, an
infomaniac,” Grant said.
“And I’ve loved sports all
my life. It’s only natural that
I combined the two.”

Grant wanted to docu-
ment W&L sports because
“there are so many phe-
nomenal stories throughout
its history.

“The first football game
to be played in the South
was between W&L and
VMI in 1873. We started
playing baseball three years
before that,” he said, and
continued rattling off events
from W&L’s sports history.

“W&L has a sports his-
tory that most schools in
America would be en-
vious of.”

Are we almost there yet?

 

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Students , patiently wait in the N ewcomb Hall registration line.

a

Students working to make a
difference in Latin America ~

projects. On this island, which lacked

Writers’ Harvest combats
hunger in Rockbridge

Photo courtesy of David Foster

Last February break this group of generous and community-
minded students lent their helping hands to Nicaragua.

BY DAVID FOSTER
Phi Contributing Writer

Last February break while many
Washington and Lee students were
lying on the beach in Cancun or in the
Bahamas, ﬁve students were getting
their tans by building sidewalks and
dry latrines in Nicaragua. The students,
through a non-profit organization called
Bridges to Community, traveled to
Rama Cay, a remote island off the
coast of Nicaragua.

Why, you may ask, would anyone
want to spend their mid-winter vaca-
tion sleeping on cement floors, eating
rice and beans, and doing hard manual
labor? The one senior, one junior, and
three freshmen who embarked upon
this unusual journey all went with dif-
ferent expectations.

Some were hoping for an experi-
ence that would open new perspec-
tives. Others were simply intrigued by
the novelty’ of the idea. In the end,
however, all were rewarded with new
friendships formed and a powerful ex-
perience that would never allow them
to look at the world in the same way
again.

For ten days, the students lived and
worked with the native people of Rama
Cay, helping them to complete desper-
ately needed community development

such basic utilities as electricity and
running water, the students helped to
construct dry latrines to help improve
sanitation and health conditions for the
community.

They also helped to construct a “side-
walk” to connect the two sides of the
island which are separated by wate
during the nine month rainy season.
Although the projects themselves were
rewarding, it was getting to know and
living the daily lives of the Nicaraguan
people that most impacted the students.

The moment these students returned
to the comforts of college life in Lex-
ington, they committed themselves to
providing this opportunity to as many
of their classmates as possible.

This year the group is planning an-
other trip during February break, this
time to the village of San Simon, El
Salvador. The trip will consist of an
eight-day stay in San Simon working
on the much needed food to this village
of 4000, the farm will serve as the
center of a literacy and reforestation
project in the region.

An informational meeting for any-
one interested in participating in this
trip will be held on Wednesday, No-
vember 15 at 8 p.m., in the C-School in
room 221. Anyone who is unable to
attend this meeting or has questions
should contact David Foster at 463-
3173 or Jenn Beam at 464-3697.

BY RYAN BEAMAN
Phi Staff Writer

For the third consecutive year the Washington
and Lee and Rockbridge County Writers’ Harvest
was effective in raising money to combat hunger in
27 counties in the Shenandoah Valley area. The
reading is not only a fund raiser for anti—hunger
groups in the region, but also a mouthpiece for the
national anti—hunger organization Share Our
Strength in raising awareness of the hunger problem
in America.

Five readers, including three W&L seniors, per-
formed original material in front of a crowd of about
sixty people in Northen Auditorium on November 1.
The works were unrelated to the theme of the evening
but served to enlighten those who attended.

The first performer was David Olimpio, who read
a chapter from his titleless and unfinished novel on
which he is working for his Honors Thesis.

Olimpio’s reading was followed by six poems
from senior Ainsley Fisher. The poems showed the
parallels Fisher finds “between the natural world and
human experience,” including a few inspired at a
South Carolina beach house.

Following Fisher were Pam Patton, who read a
humorous short story entitled “Lou Ellen on Oprah,”

and David Stillman, who shared his creativity through
six eclectic poems. Stillman’s works ranged from
“The Insomniac Envisions Daybreak” to “Medita-
tion on a Favorite Waitress at Chick’s Raw Bar.”

Lisa Solod concluded the evening with her crowd
pleasing story “The Visit,” which contained a plot
line not far removed from an episode of “Seinfeld” in
its abstract humor to reality. Solod commented on
the caliber of the performances by saying “I thought
everyone was great.”

The event raised more than three hundred dollars,
with roughly $270 collected at the door and the
additional amount coming from donations. “This is
about the amount of money we’ve raised the past two
years,” said Professor Edwin D. Craun, who is instru-
mental in the organization of the Writers’ Harvest at
W&L. Craun also stated that annual donations from
the IFC and Panhellenic will also be helpful re-
sources for the cause.

Every one dollar raised at the event will enable ten
dollars worth of food to be transported to the appro-
priate end by the Blue Ridge Food Bank. The
problem in distributing food to the hungry lies not in
the existence of rations but in the monetary assis-
tance for trucks, drivers, and other necessary tools.
Many food processors donate surplus goods to food
banks and pantries in the area, and the help provided
by the Writers’ Harvest and Share Our Strength
remains integral in ensuring the food does not go
to waste.

Phi ﬁle photo

The Blue Ridge Area Food Bank's ﬂeet of trucks are constantly on the road
picking up and distributing food for the needy in 25 Virginia counties.

W&L to host A
food show ~

From Phi Staff Reports

5
N

Washington and Lee University will be the gath-
ering place for about 150 college food service pro-
fessionals and more than 60 food and equipment
vendors when the university hosts the annual
NACUFS Region II Conference Nov. 12-15.‘
NACUFS is the National Association of College and
University Food Services. The conference chair is
Jerry Darrell, director of dining services at Washing-
ton and Lee.

Representatives will attend from state universi-5
ties as well as small private colleges in Region II
which covers Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Mary-
land, the District of Columbia, New Jersey, and
Virginia. Other schools from outside the region will
also be represented. ‘

Darrell has enlisted two W&L alumni to be gen-
eral session speakers. Parke Rouse Jr. ’37, author of
The Great Philadelphia Wagon Road, will speak
about the region covered in his book, which winds its
way directly through the NACUFS Region II. Halton
Smith ’73, president of Royal Cup, Inc., will speak?’
on “Value Added Service.”

Another W&L alumnus, Shep Rouse ’76, will
present an interest session on “The Evolution of
Wine Making in Virginia.” Other speakers will
include David Schreiber, president of the Cus-.
tomer Relations Group who will speak on
“Customer Service.”

Activities during the four-day conference will
include receptions, tours of the university and neigh-
boring VMI,specia1dinners with studentsin W&L’s
Evans Dining Hall, and educational programs. A‘
variety of training sessions will be offered—from
nutrition to sanitation—from cake decorating to
recycling—all informative topics to those running
large food service operations.

A “Vendor’s Showcase” will be a highlight of the!
conference, to be held from Noon until 3 p.m. on
Tuesday (Nov. 14) in W&L’s Student Pavilion.
More than 60 food and equipment vendors will
display their products in a layout in the model of the
New_York Restaurant Show. ‘

“The NACUFS Conference is usually held at a
large institution,” said Darrell. “Because of the repu-
tation of Washington and Lee and of the W&L
dining service within the organization, the Region II
executive council selected us asthe site of this year’s
conference. Our management team has worked long’
and hard over the past year, and especially in the last
three months, to make this conference a success. We
expect the most highly attended and successful re-
gional conference to date.”

94

 

 

 

‘Q

1

’ .

ﬁre Ring-tum Plzi, November 10, 1995

w&§life

Page 3

 

film society:

ringingtinsel town

TROUBA‘D0Ul9~li? 

THEATRE

)ao-»~--- -- 2: re T nazmzt —- -«~-'~--«--9»

 

Cinctie Young
Plzi Features Editor

Without a ticket booth, without even a popcorn stand, Washington and Lee’s
Film Society manages nevertheless to bring all the magic of Hollywood, and of
so many other cities, to the silver screen of the Troubador Theatre several times
each semester.

The club lists as its objective “provid[ing] educational and cultural entertain-
ment through screenings of critically acclaimed foreign and American works,”
and senior Julie Doring, one of the Society’s two chairmen, assures that such an
objective has been achieved, and with great success.

Doring indeed notes that quite a few showings of the Film Society in the past
several years have attracted “a lot of standing-room only crowds.”

In order to organize such events, as well as to plan future projects, the club
holds meetings twice a semester. ‘

During these meetings, members set dates for those films coming to W&L
over the next few months, ordering them from the half-dozen respective ﬁlm

o lexmgton

distributors active in the “non-theatrical market”.

Since its founding in the late 1970s, the Society has brought to town quite a
few major works, but it took a few years for the club's pace to pick up.

Society Advisor Dick Grefe, Leybum Library’s Senior Reference Librarian,
explains that in its first few years, the Society “only showed one, two or three
movies a year,” due to very limited resources.

Over the next few years, the Society showed films in the Law School, one of
the few places on campus equipped with the facilities to project ﬁlms before an
audience.

Its films now grace the screen of the Troubador Theatre, however, a change
effected during the presidency of John D. Wilson, with whose support the
Theatre’s facilities underwent considerable renovation; the theatre now falls
under the direction of David Howison, Dean of Students. 7

With the talents of Floyd Lynch, formerly a professional projectionist, the
many major and independent movies that the Society now brings to campus arrive
on the Troubador’s screen.

Rather than trying to compete with Lexington’s own State Theatre for the
main movies of the day, the Film Society aims to “get things to Lexington we
think people would be interested in,” chairperson Doring explains, things which
might not come through the lenses of State’s movie projectors.

One such movie whose title has not appeared above the State’s entrance
arrives at campus this weekend; that movie is Smoke.

A surprise hit of this past summer under the direction of Wayne Wang, Smoke
is, according to Film Society’s release, “a garrulous interweaving of stories told
by and about several characters.”

At the center of these stores is a Brooklyn cigar store, where the film’s
characters share wisdom and acts of kindness; while never intending to be
particularly benevolent, the characters _in effect improve each others’ lives.

Smoke is, in the Society release’s words “a gentle, but gritty ﬁlm,” features
an all-star cast including Harvey Keitel, William Hurt, Forrest Whittaker, and
Stockard Channing, and includes ,the,9am.I;o,,appearances of many other greats in
Hollywood today. A

The Film Society has already selected those movies which will be coming to
campus over the next few weeks have just been chosen by the Society ’s members,
including Academy Award winner Burnt By The Sun, and the arthouse movie
Safe. -»

Despite its lengthy e-mail list, the Society invites all students interested in
adding their name and receiving Society updates either to speak with Professor
Grefe, or to write chairperson Julie Doring (jdoring@wlu.edu).

As Grefe stresses, “We’d really be interested in all students who are interested
in us.” '

   
  

. , K .af§9£ Ted 3“11dY§f.'
;  hcffpolice, led by
he Gojeti (Hony Hunterand

  
 
     
  

tliiiig more than; seiyiceable-_thﬁiIer, one with a few
_ at without anysipcrb. ayofggto justify a high-ticket —
haracte{$“are'fairly“ty " ffo” this sort of movie ~ Holly

‘ j ‘ ‘ 1 '_  gto retain her femininity in 
"df'_Der_mot Mulroney is, the
iddliéfagéd woman drools.
 Sigourneyweaver, _
1 " :a and artiﬁcial 
thandothe actors 7
 for'whoe’yer"; 
from ajtlfthe acting‘ is: r
, eaver (which We
y can act. I'm sure a
‘ absixrd Madonna~like
“ leﬂwishing he had."

   

 
 
 
    
   
    
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 

d§‘these pans as" Y

. ffiimed;,__here in,

  ’ t30b,_an<3iia I9:  ‘
tiotagoodenougha

, ac:-;»s:i;1 gm  " .'

 

  

   

’ ptotxgkesusfazt 
eating. Dermot?
‘i_nyest_igati0.n‘—

 

    

YO11 SCOIC E1

wtioie term

 
   
 

Watctiing mov-
ies tor Crectitl

+4

   
 

You are #379 on
the waiting iist for
your History course.

  

 
 

Lose 2 turns.

  
 

 
    
    

    
  
  
 
 

  

Traveller‘ S

gtiost to
Registrar!

Gain 5 credits.

  
  

  
  

Washington's statue
smiles at you; the
clouds break apart
and the sun

    
      

reappears! Double
creciits iieiri.

 
    

directignsj Begin at Registrar’s as early before the sunrise as
possible. Players may advance in any direction; first
player to return to the Registrar with 25 credits wins.

  
 

 
    

Acivisor's out of
country!

-3

    
 

 
 

Accosteri by
Traveller's

gtiost; -5.

   
 

 
    
     

011 not Your
foreign language Art contiicts
with
schedule;

lose 1 turn.

 
 

 
 

has a Wi10i€ 118W

aiptiabetl
-5

 
 

   

 
 

   

   

  

  

PAGE 4

@112 filing-tum iﬂhi

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Giving holiday thanks

The Thanksgiving Holiday is right around
the corner. Most of us will soon be home eating
turkey and dressing with our families. As you
savor those fuzzy Norman Rockwell moments, ‘
take a minute to think of all that Washington
and Lee has to be thankful for this year.

We give thanks for:
*Frank Miriello - a worthy successor

*President John Elrod - for learning to live next
to Graham-Lees

*the Mock Con Gala, a date function nobody
can pronounce.

*the Capital Campaign - we’re all looking
forward to being called after we graduate.
Really.

*J. Crew, for dressing us so well

*tailgating, a W&L tradition preserved, albeit
altered.

*Rush: free alcohol, pledges, and “volunteer
labor.”

*O.J. Alas, it’s over.

*Fox Television - the fights on the gridiron
can’t compare with Allison and Brooke.

*Registration -- for departm§;nt~secretaries‘ who "
know it’s hard on students, too.

The Ring-tum Phi is especially thankful for the
.writers, photographers, and editors that produce
W&L’s oldest campus newspaper each week.
And to the professors that teach us to do so.

Have a happy and restful break.

Quote of the Week

“Nobody pronounces it ‘gayla.’ That’s so
bourgeois.”

—-An elitist student debating the
pronunciation of Friday ’s big bash.

/I

been leC\v\"WI3

///” u
o\ o

43 ‘

.  __,'/ 
i//

The Ring-tum Phi, November 10, 1995

II

,_...t

é

‘ff//«nib»

“Im  so -sure oloou\ ilxls ‘spgkm 'l'€Mi’:\o\‘... lAt‘$

l\ovrs.‘\

Liberal Lobbyists and the Taxpayer

JOSHUA
HESLINGA,
’98

 

One of the most intractable policy
questions in the current congressional
negotiations between House and Sen-
ate Republicans has been the so—called
effort to “defund the left,” mounted
primarily by House conservatives. It
has stalled the $23 billion Treasury-
Postal Service appropriations bill in
conference, with neither side ready
to budge.

The actual proposal, sponsored by
Rep. Ernest Istook (R-OK), has gone
through many iterations. Basically, it
proposes to limit the amount of money
spent on lobbying the government by
groups that receive federal govern-
ment funds, although the actual amount
of the limit has been open
to negotiation.

Conservatives, particularly House
GOP freshmen, value this initiative
above most others they could accom-
plish, because its effects are clearly
targeted at some deep liberal pockets.

Recognizing this, GOP leaders now
plan to attach the amendment to the
upcoming bill to keep the government
in operation and raise the nation’s debt
limittemporarily,which mustbepassed
by approximately Nov. 13, to avoid the
first default on government debts
in history.

Angry at the White House’s lack
of negotiation with the Republican

unwilling to vote for a debt limit in-
crease unless they see some conces-
sions from the President, such as agree-
ing to a 7-year timetable to balance the
budget. Because the debt limit bill is
“must-pass” legislation, many Repub-
licans hope to use it to force President
Clinton to accept budget provisions he

mittee a $33 million dollar grant and
then let the NRLC establish a massive
pro—life exhibit at the recent Fourth
World Conference on Women in
China.

Well, that’s exactly what the fed-
eral government did for Planned Par-
enthood, the nation’s largest abortion

doesn’t like, provider and a
suchasthelstook strong lobbying
amendment. -——--—-— C ‘—--—-j group for liberal
Whileitisnot causes at all
a partisan   tax. ICVCIS Of
amendment per government.
se, the Istook payer should be Planned Par-
amendment tar- forced to subsidize enthood is hardly
gets many big- theonlyexample.

name liberal or-
ganizations that

non-governmental
policy groups with

The American
Bar Association

 

use large por-  he or she dis_ received $2.2 mil-
tions of their . . lion in tax dollars
budget to lobby ¢lg7'€€S- Thls vlolates between July
the federal gov- the heart of 1993 and July
Z"‘.‘“§"§. ff America '§ 200 years 3h°.°.‘l;..‘Z‘§.“.3.‘.'.f‘§i§:
spending. ofprotectzonsforfree- sociation of Re-

Indiana Rep- ‘ tired Persons
r e s e n t a t i v e dam of consclence° (AARP) receives
David M. Mcln- millions every
tosh, one of the year from the tax-

73 House GOP freshmen, states the
case for the Istook amendment this
way: “All we are asking is that these
groups make a choice. Be a lobbying
organization or be a grant recipient.
But you can’t be both, and we’re not
going to let you get away with lobby-
ing with taxpayer dollars.”

The Istook amendment aims to pro-
tect the cherished freedom of con-
science of all of America’s taxpayers.
Imagine the furor that would result if
the Republican majority attempted to

payer trough in order to lobby for
nationalized health care and other big
government schemes. And there are
dozens of other examples of liberal
groups funded in various ways.

No American taxpayer should be
forced to subsidize non-governmen-
tal policy groups with which he or she
disagrees. This violates the heart of
America’s 200 years of protections
for freedom of conscience.

Ironically, liberals’ main argument
against the Istook amendment sounds

will destroy the First Amendment’s
rights to free speech and to petition
the government. Baloney. Not only is
this argument absurd on its face—it
completely misses the point.

Every group has the right to lobby
the federal government. The Istook
amendment would in no way restrict
that right. The point is that no group
has the right to use the American
taxpayer’s money for that purpose.
The only reason this bill has any “par-
tisan” character at all is that liberal
interest groups are desperate to pro-
tect their main source of funding: the
bloated federal government.

Furthermore, if a group does not
have the constituency to raise its lob-
bying budget from legitimate private
sources, it obviously hasn’t earned
those funds in the first place. I don’t
want the federal government subsi-
dizing the Christian Coalition any
more than I want it subsidizing
Planned Parenthood. Conservative
interest groups succeed privately be-
cause they have a strong pro-family,
limited government constituency
among the American public. The out-
rage of liberals on this issue immedi-
ately leads one to ask why they can’t
raise money without coercing it
fromthe taxpayer.

The American taxpayer should
not be forced to pay for the life sup-
port of these relics of the discredited
big-government, social-engineering
liberal agenda, especially in a time of
fiscal responsibility. Liberty-minded
Americans everywhere should be
cheering the Republican efforts to re-'
strict lobbying by groups who receive

flirt ‘ﬁlling-mm lﬂht

Executive Editors Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor Sm" Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor Cindie Young
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Rnhnt Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center. by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@w1u. edu

majority, House conservatives are also

give the National Right to Life Com-

the frequent and alarmist bell that it

federal funds. Quite simply, it’s what
our principles demand of us. -

General Powell throws away presidencyi

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

General Colin Powell will not be the President of
the United States anytime soon. The news just came
in Wednesday: he will not be seeking the presidency
in 1996, though he may be back in four years, and
vows to remain active in Republican politics.
Whatever.

I think that betrayal is certainly too harsh a word
for what General Powell has done, but I do feel that
he has let down our country by refusing, at this
historic, crucial moment, to run for an office for
which he is uniquely qualified. Were General Powell
to have run, he could have been a president who
brought back a measure of respect to the office, and
also a certain nonpartisan character that would allow
him to be a Republican and still stand up to the more
ridiculous excesses of the Republican revolution.
That is what is needed right now. ’

Indeed, the Republicans seem to be in the busi-
ness of professionally letting down the country lately.
Bill Bennett, William Weld, Lynn Martin, Dick
Cheney and Jack Kemp are all distinctive, dynamic
leaders who could have literally swept into office in
the way that has been predicted for the Republican
nomineee in this unparalleled election cycle, with a
party full of promise and an incumbent so lacking in
luster. (Newt Gingrich is the only significant leader
who so far has not let down the country with an
announcement about his presidential intentions.)

There are few prospects remaining in the Repub-
lican field who might be able to perform the function
General Powell could have, or that any of these
leaders could have. Bob Dole is a weak-kneed wafﬂer
who is even more for sale ideologically than Presi-

dent Clinton. Phil Gramm is evil. Lamar Alexander
is a cipher. Arlen Specter is a loser.

The only half-realistic contenders who can be
credible against Clinton are Sen. Richard Lugar of
Indiana and Malcolm S. “Steve” Forbes, Jr., and they
can barely get press coverage from a horse race-

(6

I think that betrayal is
certainly too harsh a word
for what General Powell has
done, but I do feel that he has
let down our country by re-
ﬁising, at this historic, cru-
cial moment, to run for an
office for which he is
uniquely qualiﬁed.

   

 

obsessed, largely absentee press corps. None of them
have the same understated yet overwhelming blend
of charisma and integrity that distinguished
General Powell.

Why did General Powell choose not to run? It
certainly was not because he could not have been
elected. Indeed, he outdistanced all comers in every
poll commissioned since people remembered they
had to elect a president next year.

He showed an almost shocking popularity, even

among those who disagreed fundamentally with
many of his stands, that, even though that kind of
thing can hardly last, he would almost certainly
have been elected whether he ran as a Republican or
an independent candidate. And he would have
deserved it. People are really sick of being prom-
ised the sky and getting nothing from politicians.
General Powell would have promised integrity and
delivered.

Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin’s assassi-
nation at the hands of his own countryman certainly
may have been a contributing factor to General
Powell’s decision. His wife had repeatedly ex-
pressed doubts about wanting to have her husband
thrust into public political life so soon after his
retirement, and the Rabin tragedy could hardly
have helped to convince her that it might be worth
it despite the risks. General Powell has seen com-
bat, and was perhaps ready to be done with it.

But I don’t think this was the deciding factor. In
the ﬁnal analysis, it is just very difficult to run for
president and to be president. (You might not think
it from looking at some of the Republican candi-
dates. Pat Buchanan, Bob Dornan and Alan Keyes
are all running, after all. Then again, they have the
advantage of not having to actually think about
what might happen if they were to be elected.)

Constant press and political attacks, violent ex-
tremists, the constant scrutiny of public life—these
are things that General Powell had every reason to
expect he had left behind when he retired as Chair-
man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. And he certainly
has the right to do what he feels is best for his own
life at this time. Unfortunately for us, it may not be
the best thing for our country.

Anyway, no matter who is elected president in
1996, I can still take comfort in the fact that I still
work for the W&L weekly that doesn’t hate women.

I

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 10. 1995

OPINION

You might be a townie if. . .

DREAM LAND

Stop-In or vice versa

You might be a townie if you own

You might be a townie if you aspire to those six CDs.

they might be towed because your dad
runs Lexington Towing. “
You might be a townie if when some-

PAGE 5

colorful term is not a derogatory one—it’s

, attend Sem after high school. You might be a townie if you try to

Rlchard WC3VCT You might be collect a toll from

a townie if you W&L students

Occasionally,ifyoureadaloud,you’ve have a Hollins T- who drive by to

heard me use the word “townie.” This

adescriptive one, and it doesn’t apply to all

Lexington residents. ies.

 

cc————

Living in Lexington

townie if you won-

one yells, “Hey, look at that townie!” you
turn around and wave.
You might be a townie if your

shirt you wear in look at the junked daughter’s name is “Letitia.”
order to get into cars in your yard. You might be a townie if you can,
W&L fraternity You might be a withastraightface, rent studentsahouse

that does not have central heat, insula-

Livinlg in Ijiqiéington has itsgeffecé Youmigfht be has its effect an der why students a workipg bathroom, or a roof for

on peop e in l erent ways. ven I a townie i ou ° " -‘ wasteammunition amont .

you’re a student and you’ve only been adamantly prifer people In dlﬁienent shooting at clay You might be a townie if you live in

here for a year you can qualify for the 11 Palazzo pizza ways. Even ifyou re a targets. the country and are proud you don’t

title of “townie,” if you work at it. over Frank’s or student and you Ive You might be a have cable TV. ' . _
But how do you know if you re a vice versa. townie If you get You might be a townie if you enjoy

townie? I’ve devised a set of criteria, with You might be only been here for a mad when the stu- the cheap concerts over at the real nice

inspiration from Jeff Foxworthy—it’s a townie if you year you can  dents buy all the W&L Pavilion.

called “You Might Be a Townie If. . .” ow n a Jeep fo r t h e ti t l e of cheap beer, forc- If your answer to ﬁve of these crite-
You might be a townie if you think Cherokee or ing you to drink ria is “yes,” then you’re probably a

Fancy Dress is something that comes with
white fringe and a matching cowboy hat.

You might be a townie if you’ve put a
gunrack in your BMW.

You might be a townie if you call Stop-
In and ask them to throw a few extra hot
dogs on the rolling grill-you’ll be down in
a minute.

You might be a townie if you prefer the
Lexington Stop-In over the Buena Vista

Ford Explorer
that does not
have a Phish
sticker on the
back window.

You might be
a townie if you enjoy listening to Schoolclass ring also worksasa handy
WREL-FM late at night and you don’t
notice all the music is from six CDs set
on random play.

“townie, ” if you work
at it.

 

bottle opener.

malt liquor in-
stead.

You mightbea
townie if your
R o c k b r i d g e
County

You might be a townie if you park
your car in W&L lots and have no fear

W&L senior who needs to graduate soon
and move on. If you said “yes” to more
than ten, you are a fIIll-ﬂedged townie.
You can now get a 10% discount at all
participating Stop-Ins.

I guess I would probably classify my-
self as a townie, that’s if Lexington will
adopt measits own. Iprobably needtobuy
a truck ﬁrst, though.

High

Social Security: no pain,no gain

MY VIEW
Jennifer Galardi, ’96

EDITOR ’S NOTE: This is the third of three
articles on the state of Social Security.

If you read the previous editorials concerning
Social Security and generational conflict, you are no
stranger to my position on these topics. But in case
you missed the point, I emphatically advise policy
changes in this entitlement program will lay entirely
on the shoulders of our generation. In this ﬁnal
editorial, I would like to present to you some sugges-
tions for reform. I would also like to emphasize that
these proposals are just that—proposals. You do not
have to buy into them wholeheartedly, or at all for
that matter. But I would hope that you will consider
them as possibilities for assuring a brighter eco-
nomic future for this country.

As one of the largest and most comprehensive
proposals to help reduce spending for Social Secu-
rity as well as other entitlement programs, means
testing was introduced by Peter Peterson, former
United States Secretary of Commerce, in his 1993
book, Facing Up.‘ How to Rescue the Economy from
Crushing Debt and Restore the American Dream.
Under his proposal, Social Security beneﬁts would
be subject to a sliding-scale, across the board income
test beginning at a family income level of $40,000.
Payments to the 42% of Americans who earn more
than that would be gradually scaled back in propor-
tion to their incomes. Those families with incomes
less than $40,000 would continue to receive full
benefits. Furthermore, those adjustments would be
phased in over six years, beginning January, 1997
with the entire policy in place by 2002. I know many
may view this as an unjust reduction in beneﬁts for
those who have worked hard for their money, but as
a result of reduced payments, income taxes would be
lowered for all.

While constructing new Social Security policies,
ofﬁcials should take into consideration the realities
of longer life spans and the increased ability of
individuals to remain a productive part of the work
force for a longer portion of their lives. Doing so
would logically result in a higher eligibility age for
full Social Security benefits. One option presented
in the Kerry-Simpson Proposal for entitlement re-
form (1995) is, again, gradual, and would increase
the currently scheduled normal retirement age (NRA)
from 65 to 67 and to age 70 for those currently under
age 29. No one currently over age 51 would be
affected, allowing workers sufficient time to plan for
this change.

Another strongly supported proposal is a move
towards more personal investment. As another part
of the Kerry-Simpson proposal, personal investment
programs would provide incentives for taxpayers to
diver 2 percentage points of their OASDI trust fund
payroll taxes to their own personal investment plan
(PIP). This provision would allow participants to
earn higher rates of return on a portion of their Social
Security payroll tax contributions, shift funds from
federal securities to productive investment in the
economy, introduce more ﬂexibility for retirement
decisions, and increase personal and national sav-
ings. Under this plan, Social Security would be
designed to supplement private savings, not replace

‘ them, and the original “safety net” intent of the

programs would be restored.

Another option to help reduce the ever increasing
costs of Social Security is to limit cost of living
adjustments (COLA’s). Currently, monthly pay-
ments distributed to beneficiaries are automatically
increased annually for changes in the cost of living
as measure by the Consumer Price Index (CPI).
Under this proposal, COLA’s would be limited for
those who receive benefits above the 30th percen-
tile of all benefits paid. Those below the 30th
percentile would receive the full COLA under the
current law.

Of course, no reduction program would be com-

plete without a moderate increase in taxes. Although
no one likes to hear it, in order to cut spending and
reduce the deﬁcit as a whole, all generations need to
pay a little more today or our generation will pay a lot
more tomorrow. Although income taxes could be
reduced with the means testing proposal suggested
earlier, the government could always raise taxes in
other areas. Some options include a higher gasoline
tax and a raise in alcohol and tobacco tax.

Unfortunately, there are no silver bullet solu-
tions to correct the impending problems of the
system. However, as mentioned before it hardly
seems fair to inflict all the “pain” associated with
fixing Social Security on one group, namely our
generation. If everyone sacrifices a little now, we
can avoid generational warfare while restoring sol-
vency and success to one of America’s most impor-
tant federal social programs.

Undeniably, any proposals for change will not
prove easy politically, as we recently have wit-
nessed with the debate over Medicare reform. Al-
though all the evidence pcints to the necessity for
Social Security policy reform, the current Social
Security program has backing from one of the
largest lobbying groups in history: the AARP.
Again, I would urge all members of our generation
to organize and take action to help politicians stand
up to such strong forces to secure our right to an
economically ‘sound and prosperous future.

I would like to acknowledge the following pub-
lications for the information in these editorials:
The Bipartisan Comission’s Report on Entitlement
and Tax Reform, August 1994. (Senator J. Robert
Kerrey, Chairman and Senator John C. Danforth,
Vice Chairman.) The Kerrey-Simpson Proposal,
1995 Senator J. Robert Kerrey and Senator Alan
Simpson. Get Real About D’s & E’s, Neil Howe
and Bill Strauss, The Concord Coalition. Testi-
mony of Mark A. Weinberger before the U.S.
Senate Finance Committee’s Subcommittee on So-
cial Security and Family Policy, June 27, 1995.

College Libertarians

Saturday, Nov. 11, Jacob
Homberger, president of the Future
of Freedom Foundation, will be
speaking on “Halting the Destruc-
tion of American Liberty” in Northen
Auditorium. The talk will take place
at 2 p.m. and is sponsored by the
College Libertarians.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society will present the surprise hit
of this past summer, Smoke (USA,
1995), directed by Wayne Wang, in
English. Screenings will be at 8:05
p.m. on Friday, Nov. 10 and Satur-
day, Nov. 11 in the Troubadour The-
ater, at the comer of Main and Henry
Streets. As always, there is no charge
for admission. Smoke features an all-
star cast including Harvey Keitel,
William Hurt, Forrest Whitaker, and
Stockard Channing.

Glasgow Readings

The Glasgow Endowment Series
will present readings by poet Brendan
Galvin, author of Great Blue and
Saints in Their Ox-hideBoats, Thurs-
day, Nov. 9 at 4:30 p.m., and novelist
and poet Lynne Sharon Schwartz,
author of Rough Strife and The Fa-
tigue Artist, Wednesday, Dec. 6 at
4:30 p.m. All readings will take place
in Northen Auditorium.

Goldwater Scholarships

If you are a sophomore or junior
with a B average or in the upper
fourth of your class who plans a ca-
reer in the mathematics, science, en-
gineering, or medical research fields,
you may qualify for a Goldwater
scholarship ($7,000 annually). Con-
tact Dean West-Settle (X8746) be-
fore Nov. 28.

On Friday, Nov. 10, Habitat for
Humanity will be hosting a beneﬁt
square and contra dance. The dance
will begin at 8 p.m. at Southern Vir-
ginia College’s Chandler Hall in
Buena Vista. Becky McKenzie will
call to the music of Wildgrass. No
experience or partner necessary. Ad-
mission is $5 per person. Child care
will be provided for a small donation.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Internship

Interested in an extemship/intern-
ship opportunity with Smith Barney
in New York? Attend the information
session on Thursday, Nov. 9 at 7:30
p.m. in Room 221 of the C-School.

Support Groups

A confidential support group is
meeting weekly for W&L women
who have experienced sexual assault/
abuse at any time in their lives. This
group has been meeting weekly for
eight years with the membership al-
ways open to new members. Each
member signs an agreement of conﬁ-
dentiality at the first meeting. Please
call Carol Calkins, the Counseling
Center secretary, at x8590 or the
University Health Service at x8401
to learn of times and locations.

Asupport group is meeting weekly
forwomenwhc aredealingwithbinge
eating, binge/purge eating or very
restricted eating. If you are facing
any of these in your daily life, you are
invited to join this conﬁdential group
which meets weekly. Each member
will sign an agreement of conﬁdenti-
ality at first meeting. Please call Carol
Calkins, the Counseling Center sec-
retary, at X8590 or the University
Health Service at x8401 to learn of
times and locations.

Career Development

There will be a Career Test Interpre-
tation Session on Monday, Nov 13 at
4 p.m. in the Conference Room of the
Mattingly House. Call Ms. Saunders
if you have taken the Career Tests
and not yet had the results interpreted.

The FBI will be presenting an Infor-
mation Session cn Tues, Nov. 14 at 4
p.m. in Room 109 of the University
Center. All students are invited to
attend.

V Atten_tio_rI Seniors: SLAC interviews

Habitat'Si1u'tifé’Daﬁct‘?‘ ' Wiltbé posted an’ 'ru*es,‘Nov 21.

I Flu Shots

Flu season is fast approaching. The
Student Health Center is offering ﬂu
shots for $5.00, a small price to avoid
spending your good time as a patient
in the inﬁrrnary.

MY VIEW
Karly Jennings, ’96

As I sit at my keyboard, I ﬁnd it
ironic that I am writing a piece for a
newspaper, since I don’t like to see my
name in print or go “on record” about

‘ anything(astheeditorsandreportersofthe
« Phi can certainly attest). Yet, I thought I

had something important enough to say to
the W&L community, especially my fel-
low students.

Recently the administration has been .

criticized for usurping student au-
tonomy and trying to ruin the char-
acter and spirit of W&L. Whether
football tailgating, winter rush, or
sophomore housing, students complain
often and loudly that they weren’t asked
or even considered in this planning.

NOVEMBER
NOW
OR NEVER
SALE!

BUY CHRISTMAS
BEFORE WE

Well, twelve years ago, students were
saying the same things about co-edu-
cation; and before that, about spring
term and racial integration. These
changes took place because qualiﬁed
staff saw things which they felt needed
to be addressed. Even with football
tailgating, the administration had the
best interests of the students in mind.

Some closed minded individuals
might say that the students know what
is best for other students, and that they
aren’tchildren and shouldn’t be treated
as such. Yet, they sit back and whine
and complain about the evils that the
Hill is inﬂicting upon them and their
traditions. To these individuals I say:

get involved on campus.

Students have a voice on campus
whether through the newspaper by
writing a letter to the editor, joining an
existing organization, starting a new
one, or being appointed to a university
committee. Now, I have done all four
of these things at least once in my time
here, and they have all been worthwhile. It
is not difficult to get involved here, there
areorganizations that need peoplewhoare
willing to spend their time and energy
for them.

Likewise, through my involvement in
these organization, I know many of the
members of the administiationon a ﬁrst
name basis. They are not “incompetent,

   

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items
Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.

.7/ia7/

umowana sronss "

aéte

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.

unprofessional, hate mongers,” but rather
highly intelligent, trained, and compas-
sionate individuals who have a great
deal of experience in higher education.
They are more than willing to talk with
and listen to students. We are lucky to
go to a school where administrators
take the time out to meet with andwork
with us.

I am sure some of you might feel that I
have been brainwashed by the administra-
tion, but that is most certainly not the case.

BUTLER

INSTITTE FOR STUDY

UNDERGRADUATE STUDIES IN

Many of my dealings with the adIninistia-
tion have been because of changes that I
felt werenecessary foranirnproved W&L
I encourage each and every student
here to become more involved Instead of
simply bitching and complaining about
the Hill and the changes that they impose,
we students should work with the admin-
istiation to propose solutions. This should
not be an “IIs versus them” situation, but
rather the W&L community working to-
gether for the bettennent of the school.

    

ABROAD

UNIVERSITY

E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

SAY BYE‘-BYE.

Caravans is closing its doors
and moving everything
to the Virginia Beach store.

EVERYTI-IlNG’S
ON SALE!

Until we close November 25,

‘ y03l can save on
greatfall clothing, holiday dresses,
sweaters, jewelry, home ﬁirnishings

and special Christmas gifts.

NOV. 1-7 15% OFF
NOV. 8-15 20% OFF
NOV. 16-25 25% OFF

caravans

117 W Nelson Street 9 464.3500

Daily 10 am - 6pm 0 Sundays 11am -5 ‘pm

  

 
/

O.Pp(1q&QO'

Ladies ’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccess0ries

\\

 
     
   
   
       

Welcome Back Students

23 N. Main St.
Lexington, VA 24450

 

(703)463-5988

  
   

\\

GREAT BRITAIN
AUSTRALIA
IRELAND
NEW ZEALAN D

Fully integrated study at British, Irish,
New Zealand and Australian universities

FALL oR SPRING SEMESTER - FULL YEAR
INSTEP - SUMMER PROGRAM - INTERNSHIPS

Stud Abroad Information Session
Representative: Tom Roberts
Date:
Location:

 

Monday , November 13

4:30 - 5:30 Fairfax lounge
University Center

For Pfiurtlherginformation please contact: Your Study Abroad Office on campus
or  e nstirtitc for Study Abroad. Butler University. 4600 Sunset Avenue.
l“dl3"aP“]|5» IN 46208. Tel: 317/940-9336 or 800/858-0229 Fax: 317/940.9704

 

PAGE 6

S

1996 mock convention

11 Washington St, Lexington

 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 10, 1995
t

-‘ (_)  9

best wishes for a great

Welcome Stu-

rffi  ..

464 5000

er.
ll

Route 7, Box 99A
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Near the Horse Center

Phone 464-9499

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to?
Restaurant 11:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.

 

Ten I-2. Nelson

540.463.9834 1

Florist to the
Mock Convention . s

     

Florist To The Homestead

Lexington. Virginia 24450

ST/llliCllS
er.

   
 

  
  

  

 

 

 

   

 

EM 55; : \\\‘a: l ..i'_,// \\\.‘ :: :
»»»»» ~- «- ' “ 1. . .  I I I
L“\/‘J ;  Don ’t Let --~ ;: _ :
 Your Student :: a r :
a downstairs llathskeller : G0 Hun E : . E
16 Lee Ave. : H b ,1) _ tc d ::A Bistro :
: at S 0111 at :: 8 am — 3 pm - Monday I
(across from Chi PS” : T116  M631 TlCkCt ::8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday :
10% food discount to all I Redeemable fer 3: 8 am '9“ "”“3‘ Fri“:-" 'dSa“”day 3
' Breakfast Lunch Dinner ' ' 3"‘ ' Pm ' ““ “Y- '
Q I 3 9 I I :
W&L students everyday. : For only $90.00 ._.: _
" :: Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad :
0 Full menu served  Nutritious Muﬂins & Egg Specialties II A11 Y011 can 63‘ $4-99 I
0 Black Angus steaks : Fresh -Salads & S0-"PS :: I :
. Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees : : Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID :
0 Salads, Sandwiches, 5 Candlelight Diners :: F ‘d S f d N. :
A etizers I . II n ay ' ea 00 ﬁe 7 I
pp : Give Your Student -_-: Saturda _  l’;re§I*:’;Si:‘i’l:mP’ T‘°“‘ :
; a Homecooked Meal W1th Our :: y 2 Végs salad $95 :
Take 0uts 464-3157 ; Point Card ' ' :
Nightly dinner specials I H a  S ’ E
Lunch Specials Daily : :
: . . . .1.9.V."-. ‘.’V.i‘;°>‘.‘i."i%£".“.§‘:.E‘i"3’:%‘9‘3’.Y’}.%‘l‘l5P. . . : : . . 22  . 9§*iiI.1%t.°9.§t-. .L.e§inat92~. .1’: 2.4.4.59. . . . :
open at 11 a.m. daily , ***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***
Dinner served 4:30 p.m_ ‘tn 3??  Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
' 9 ' V ' l
Reeerveeiens reeemmeeeee A"'i§a'§§mZ: iifzﬁﬁllioi i=i§rl‘a§z° 31{’Z'£' iicifii °r'iyr<E15X 11§i2i3I::Ig§¥iJgi§N$1i91§fV%a$ M’ We Rina-tum W
_ (800) 95-BREAK!
.  ._ .  ,. .. 1  93
mg; ‘am; we VA aierard Crii ﬁareae years
. old
and
we
still
come
once
a
week
**except the week
before Thanksgiving!

Washington and Lee winter sports teams
entertain high hopes for upcoming season

PREVIEW, from page 8

pounds, and Rob dc Clerk, wrestling at 142 pounds.
Franke hopes to improve on last season’s disappointing
dual meet record and would like to see more individuals
placing in this season’s tournaments. The team is particu-
larly looking toward the December 1st and 2nd Lebanon

‘A Valley Tournament.

“Lebanon Valley at the beginning of the season has

«A always been a good barometer of how the team will do

because youngsters that have placed in that usually have
good seasons. If we don’t get a lot of places in that
tournament, then it ends up to be a season where we just have
to concentrate on developing a little bit more,” Franke said.

The team is also focused on what should be the season’s
highlight, the January 20th Washington and Lee Wrestling
Invitational, with eight schools competing.

Franke is looking for a solid mixture of youth, including
freshman standout Ryan Walker, who is wrestling at 126
pounds, and returning veterans to take the team through a
successful season.

Men’s Swimming:

The mcn’s swimming team under head coach Page
Remillard and assistant coach Chris Budvitis will return
eight swimmers from last year’s nationally ranked team.
The fourteen member roster includes All-Americans Craig
Sears, Frank Braden, Nathan Hottle, and this season’s
captain, David Stillman. The four were key members of last
year’s team which ﬁnished eleventh at the 1995 NCAA

 

Division Ill Swimming Championships.

In the preseason, W&L has been ranked tenth in Division
III by College Sports Magazine. Braden earned his All-
American honors in the 200 and 500-yard freestyle and
broke the 18-year-old W&L record in the 500. Stillman was
awarded All-American honors for his 50-yard free perfor-
mance, in which he placed eighth in the nation and annihi-
lated the existing W&L record. Hottle won a national
championshipin the 200- yard breaststroke and was awarded
All-American honors in the 200 IM and 100 breaststroke.
Braden, Stillman, Hottle, and Sears were also key members
of the 400 and 800-yard free relay teams which received
national recognition.

Remillard believes that the team’s main focus this season
is winning the championship. He said, “All of our training
and dual meet decisions will be inﬂuenced by that primary
goal of winning.” Remmilard also stated that the biggest
challenge facing the team is not any of their opponents, but
rather from the individuals themselves. “They need to
decide what they want to accomplish. They know what the
deﬁnition of commitment is,” Remillard said.

Men’s Basketball:

The men’s basketball team is under new leadership this
season. Head coach Kevin Moore comes to Washington and
Lee from Elmira College in New York. Moore, with the
help of assistant coach Jerry Jusianiec, has drastically changed
the heavily defense-centered style of play that the Generals
came to expect under now-retired Coach Verne Canﬁeld.

“lt’s an up-tempo style based on ninety four feet of
pressure for forty minutes,” stated Moore.

Moore hopes to run a fast paced game, giving a signiﬁ-
cant number of his ﬁfteen athletes substantial playing time.
Moore is, however, concerned that the team may lack the
depth needed to play this style.

The Generals will be led this year by senior tri-captains
Cam Dyer, Jon Coffman, and Derek Carter. Dyer, adjusting
to his new position at center, has played well in the pre-
season,. Coffman, along with junior standout Chris Couzcn,
have turned in solid performances at guard, responding well
to the increased pressure of Moore’s quick playing style.
Carter has been limited during preseason conditioning while
recovering from knee surgery, but is expected to play well
at the forward position.

Also recovering from surgery is freshman guard Zeb
Mellett. Mellett had shoulder surgery earlier in the summer
and once healthy, is expected to backup Coffman and
Couzcn at the guard position. Another freshman guard that
has impressed the coaches in the preseason is Brian Jamison.
Moore hopes that Jamison will be able to make a signiﬁcant
impact this season.

The Generals got to test their skills against the VMI
Keydets Junior Varsity on Tuesday. Moore was happy with
his team’s performance. He did however note that the
players needed to put more pressure on the boards.

Moore has some very speciﬁc goals in mind for his team.
He would like the Generals to win at least ﬁfteen of their
games and enter the ODAC tournament seeded in the top
five. In order to achieve this, Moore believes his players
need to concentrate on staying healthy and demonstrating
the winning attitude he knows they all possess.

  
 

The Ring-tum Phi, November 10, 1995 A   PAGE 7

THEB£:s'rHoLIDAYME:Ar_,g mi-ILETES of THE WEEK
‘ S'']''J\RTWITHUS!

\

      
 
       
  
 

i ‘ I :i
l in.

lillllll

llllllll

‘ll

Harris Teeter

l Cheryl Taurassi Jason Callen
Volleyball Men's Cross Country
The all-time W&L volleyball assists leader ﬁn- The sophomore gained the distinction of ODAC
ished her career in superb form this weekend. Runner of the Year after his performance in the

   

 
    
    
  

 
  
    
 
 
    

V

II '~‘t‘irt=sr«<:§* at l

 
      

    

-1 J \' 1 ‘ ~- =
ill ll .rn2r=liillr:.rE.
#1 TE

\ ~s.\ 3-‘ .\\\ \\. I-hid mm in
' '4 't,. ' ‘ Ill» ‘“ .

    

      
 

Llll null

   

     

Taurassi racked up 96 assists in helping the team ODAC Championships this past Saturday.

  
 

to its first ODAC crown. The senior posted a W&L Callen finished first in a time of 25132, which
" record 50 assists in the semifinal game against Was 13 Seconds better than the next finisher, in
, Guilford in being named ODAC tournament MVP. helping W&L to the ODAC Championship.

' y ' liillllrilllll

l liil

  

ill to
lllllill lil .
1/2 gal.

Selected Varieties Harris Teeter Real  g1  a  e

‘i De.’ Monte  09 Choqolate 8W to compete to keep the Browns. ‘Just this Tuesday, Cleve-
P'"e3PPle_.15-25 Cli'PS___v2oz. MY VIEW £§!;.‘i.“.2E,"ii‘i‘:l’J§é°{’,8“..ii’fl§,‘lf‘:’;‘..?%f.fi§£,“,L‘:"2;l:‘$§’;.:§

Joshua Hgslinga, ’98 Stadium renovations. But Modell said that it doesn’t make
a difference when commenting about a possible return to

   

ti Cleveland: “The bridge is down, burned, disappeared.
This week saw the sad announcement that the Cleveland 'l‘here’s not even a canoe for me)’
Browns Would be moving to Baltimore, effeetiVe next year, Ultimately, despite threatened legal action by Cleveland
Putting another black mark in today’s ledger of Professional and the possibility that owners could try to block Modell’s
Sports’ low moments move, the Browns are gone. Earlier this year, owners
4 CleVeland owner Art Modell Couldn’t resist the inbred‘ backed down and let the L.A. Rams move to St. Louis after
‘- l ible deal that Baltimore had offered the Browns to relocate. Rams’ owner Georgia Frontiere threatened to sue the NFL,
y A publicly-funded $200 million stadium will be constructed Thus, the ﬁght over the Browns is probably meaningless.
next t0 Camden Yards, and thﬂ BFOWHS  gﬂt all l'CCClptS The issue is really what sports stands for and what Sports
from oonoossions and Parking’ The Browns Will get a 30‘ teams owe to their homes and fans. Denver Broncos
‘ year rent-free lease, and Baltimore will guarantee them ten president Pat Bowlen stated earlier this week, “Teams have
Years of Solloilts Modell Pockets a $50 million relocation a moral responsibility to their fans. Only as a last resort
fee, plus revenues from personal seat licenses to pay for should they move”
relocation ltS6lf, and the O0l']Stl'UCtl0[1 Of 3 practice facility. The NFL has seen foul‘ other moves in recent years (the
N0w,beforelgo an)’ further, i should Point out thatl’m Colts to Indianapolis, the Raiders back to Oakland, the
a proud conservative and a capitalist. Businessmen should Cardinals to Arizona, and the Rams to st_ Louis) and more
‘r, be free to build a better mousetrap (or relocate their old one), are apparently coming, The Cincinnati Bengals are report-
soto speak. Nonetheless, I can’t help feeling that something edly considering a move to Cleveland if their locality
is wrong here. doesn’t pass a tax increase for more funding. The Houston
To turn professional Sports into_a purely business arr Oilers are seriously weighing a move to Nashville (which
y rangornont would be as Wrong as it would be to_tlirn a nearly lured the New Jersey Devils after their Stanley Cup
 , fraternity into a business Yes, both inVolVo legitimate victory). Both the Seattle Seahawks and the Cardinals are
‘ " ﬁnancial concerns that must be dealt with, but both also rumored to be thinking about Los Angeles, and the Tampa
involve loyalty, trust, and other intangibles. Professional Bay Buccaneers are scouting stadium sites in orlando_
S t sports today has lost the “rfnagio” by focusing so much on Buffalo Bills owner Ralph Wilson, himself in a small
Wee business that it ignores its ans- market, stated: “This is wron . The credibility of our league
. Juicy 4! ¢  Eastern or  The NFL has four Criteria for owners Wanting to rnoVe has taken abeating in the lastgyear. Fans used to believe that
it . 7 , their teams: the adequacy of the tcam’s facilities, loss of our league stood for stability, Now it’s all crazy)’
 ea As community support. losses in ﬁnancial records, and good- I have been a die-hard Browns fan (and a lot ofdying they
— ' __.__..3 ‘'3' bag faith negotiations. Modell argued that he was losing mil- have done) for going on ten years now_ one of my desires
' lions in Ohio, and that the Browns’ somewhat dilaPidateri in life has been to make the trip to Cleveland to see a real
  Cleveland Stadium was no longer adequate forthe franchise. football game, To throw myself into the rush of a Browns
, Yet, the Browns were aVoraging 70,000 fans Per game, game, played in bitter winter cold onagrass field. To absorb
and were dominating ratings in their area, which hardly the enthusiasm ofcrazed fans in the legendary Dawg Pound.
seems like a serious loss of support to me. If the proximity My dream is not going to be denied_ I bought tickets for
of Cincinnati or Pittsburgh is a problem, does Modell think the December 17 game against Cincinnati the day before the
that things will greatly improve once the Redskins complete move was announced, because it’s my last chance to be part
their ProPoS°‘l moVe to Prince Georges Count)’, between of that ambiance. The atmosphere that surrounds a true
V‘ DC» and Baltimore? , sports game, whether it’s the historic aura of a Fenway Park
The greater Problem is that Modell failed to engage in any or Boston Garden, or the excitement of a Camden Yards, is
good-faith negotiations with the city of Cleveland. He broke truly something special,
9 his lease with the city, which runs until 1998. He put a one- so many things in America have lost their meaning as
~ year moratorium on talk of renovating Cleveland Stadium, they have been corrupted by the taint of business that
v Yet he broke that ban bY brokering a deal With Mar)’land- cynicism reigns, and the intangibles like responsibility and
Cleveland mayor Michael White expressed justifiable an- loyalty are certainly endangered species. It’s time for
ger, saying: “Like a thief in the night. our NFL franchise has everyone to take some time to ponder meanings deeper than
been Stolen-” profit margins and personal gratiﬁcation, lest we find those
Furthermore, Modell refused to give Cleveland any chance all we have left_
1
©©..>:;€t:5 “’ as K3 irCc:.ii—,ll @l7~it
. ﬂ ass I
-u 3 “Their sound is more  x57 _   ;. A   0’
‘_  groove-jazz than anything  9 . ‘ 0 _
. 2 else. Think hip, think focused. T T
1 You can even think rock iiyou
. .1
1 i an
5
,.
i
!
: The {Inc rd Exclumg _ Roiersh
,1 '  and Chapel Hill
or mad? er<xe\<‘—€*(vat:
K

   

 

1 %u  ill 6Pk.200z.NRB

Harris Teeter Coke Or Diet  sum BREAK -  on cam and

StudentTravelServicesis now hiring Jamaica from 29900, ,Air, Hotel, Transfers, Parties, and

I t t' . Lo t t .
O,-an e Ihuce cake .°f,"’.i’,i}‘.,i,’if,§’,’,°Sc‘:’,‘..‘..‘é.'.¥.‘f'Snay¥Z,°.f,‘iii  o.g...,.........iig..,..,.....i....,..i:nEn trip
PanamaCity Beach. Call1—800-648- Plus Comissionsl Cal] 1_8()0_822_0321

4849

 
     

 

H d _ ooooooooooooooooooo0 000000000
illl',%'ia ° 79¢ fiiitlllfé reg,,°r 99 1/,4z7z5;2&z>oz5

, Franks__is.,.. Toothpaste _4.s oz. 1 ' ' ' an 7t«,<e«'aée«
Philadelphia Harris Teeter 7mm,-awe amt Séewtee

ghae"ese_s 99¢   199
Prices Effective Through November 14.1995

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, November 8 Through November 14, 1995 In Our Mecklenburg County Stores
Only. We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

/9 S. Pcwolaéﬁé St.
463-2742

 

 

 

K Last Week:

Vou.r-zraau. - W, 15-5, 15-6, 15-7, vs. Emory & Henry;

W, 7-15, 15-12, 15-12, 16-18, 15-12 vs. Guilford;

W, 15-4, 15-13, 15-8, vs. Roanoke in ODAC tournament
MCnuss Courrrmr - Finished ﬁrst in ODAC Championships
WCROSS COUNTRY - Finished second in ODAC Championships

F00fl‘BA1.L- W, 13-9, vs. Guilford

\
PAGE 8

Ellis ﬁling-mm iﬂhi

SPORTS

FOOTBALL, SOCCER, WATER POLO, VOLLEYBALL, CROSS COUNTRY

I This Week:

F00l'BAU.- Saturday vs. Swarthmore, 1:30 PM

MCnoss Courrrmr - Saturday at NCAA Division III
Regionals, 12 Noon (Memphis, TN)

Wckoss Coummr - Saturday at NCAA Division III
Regionals, 11:00 AM (Memphis, TN)

NOVEMBER 10, 1995

 

Volleyball captures first—ever ODAC title

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee vol-
leyball team has been the team to
beat in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference all season. Now
they can ﬁnally call themselves
the champions.

The top-seeded Generals
came into the tournament with
the best regular season record
(26-6), including an undefeated
mark at home. They were also
hungry for the title, having lost a
close match in the ﬁnals last year.

This year, with a solid core of
key players returning, as well as
a promising freshman class, the
team had high expectations.

“I thought we had a really
good chance to be one of the top
teams in the conference,” said
senior setter Cheryl Taurassi.

The Generals began the tour-
nament in championship-caliber
form, dispatching Emory and
Henry in three games. Virginia
Yoerg led the W&L attack in the
opening match. The junior
middle-blocker had 12 kills and
a pair of solo blocks. Taurassi
helped the winning cause with
17 assists.

This three- game match proved
to be an effective warm-up for
the Generals because Guilford
would give W&L all they could
handle in the semiﬁnals.

Guilford came out strong in
the first match and earned a con-
vincing 15-7 victory in the first
game. This was the wake-up call
the Generals needed; they came
roaring back to take the next two
games 15-12, 15-12.

Guilford, however, was not
ready to roll over and die. The
Quakers hung tough in the fourth
game and ﬁnally prevailed in a
18-16 nail-biter.

In the deciding game, the
Generals showed the Guilford
home crowd and the rest of the
field why they dominated the
conference this season. W&L
stormed back once again, and
earned a 15-12 victory and a re-
turn trip to the ﬁnals.

The Guilford match was one
to behold; the ﬁve games were
decided by a total of 19 points. In
addition, many Generals players
recorded spectacular perfor-
mances in the match.

Taurassi shattered school
record for assists in a match by
tallying an amazing ﬁfty. Yoerg
had another ﬁne offensive effort
with 22 kills.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

  

 

Eric Zavolinsky cans a jumper during practice.

Winter sports
ready to play

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

As the fall sports teams are
wrapping up their competitive
seasons, another group of ath-
letes are getting ready to be-
come the focus of Washington
and Lee athletics. For the past
few weeks, members of the
swimming, basketball, and
wrestling teams have been con-
ditioning, practicing, and pre-
paring for the mid-November
starts to their seasons.

Women’s Basketball:

The women’s basketball
team, under head coach Terri
Dadio and assistant coach
Brenda Davis, is ready to begin
its second season of Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
play. The team is very young
and small in numbers with only
three returning upperclassmen
and six freshmen.

But accordingto Dadio,this
is a combination that will work
for her team. “From a coach-
ing perspective, I’m looking
forward to the season. I think
we have a lot of youth, a lot of
energy, and I think we have a
lot more talent than we did last
year. And I think that’s the
combination that we need to be
more successful.”

The team will be led this
year by senior co—captains
Allison Hull and Sandra
Holmes. Holmes and Dadio
both believe that one of the
team’s goals for the season is
qualifying for the ODAC tour-
nament. Holmes stated, “One
expectation I have is to ﬁnish
strongly in the ODAC. I think
we have a really good team this
year...the one thing that’s hurt-
ing us is that we don’t have so
many returners. But I think
that our younger players are
mature enough to step up and
till the spot and get the job
done.. .I want everyone to know
that W&L is a team to be reck-
oned with.”

Women’s Swimming:

The women’s swimming
team was supposed to kick off

its season with a meet against

Centre College this Saturday.
However the meet has been
moved to January 6th because
of pool problems at Centre. The
Generals have won this particu-
lar opener for the past three sea-
sons. Under the direction of
head coach Kiki Jacobs, the team
enters the season with sixteen
solid swimmers on its roster.

“[This is] a team that’s got a
lot more depth than it used to,”
said Jacobs.

The women swimmers are
hoping to capture another
ODAC title with the leadership
of co—captains Jill Sheets and
returning All-American
Rebekah Prince. The team’s
veteran upperclassmen will be
helped by a six-member strong
freshmen class, including
standouts Courtney Tyler, Greta
Richter, and Megan Hoehl.

Jacobs hopes that in addition
to winning the conference, sev-
eral of her swimmers will qualify
for the national championships.
Prince could be returning to na-
tionals for her fourth time.

Looking past the season
opener, the team is gearing up
for what promise to be fast, tough
meets against Catholic Univer-
sity, Johns Hopkins University,
and Gettysburg College later in
the season.

Before the team can face
these schools and head toward a
conference title, they must ﬁrst
face the challenge of a broken
circulation pump. Twombly
Pool ’s malfunctioning pump has
forced the team to practice in
the small pool on the third ﬂoor
of the Warner Center, swim-
ming in shifts of only four or
ﬁve at a time.

Wrestling:

The wrestlers will start their
season on Saturday at the VMI
Keydet Invitational. Head coach
Gary Franke and assistant coach
Rolf Piranian have 22 athletes
on their roster this year, about
half of whom are returnees. The
team will be looking for leader-
ship from captains Colin
Looney, wrestling at 190

See PREVIEW,
page 6

Sophomore hitter Hilary Mar-
tin had a tremendous all-around
match with 15 digs and 16 kills.
Hitters Holly Thomsen and
Megan Snodgrass also reached
double ﬁgures in kills for the
Generals with 18 kills and 16
kills, respectively.

Referring to the Guilford
match, Taurassi said, “We’re two
evenly matched teams. It came
down to the wire and everyone
played so well.”

The hard-fought match with
Guilford was all the motivation
W&L needed heading into the
ﬁnals against Roanoke. All of
the Generals were at the top of
their games as W&L over-
whelmed Roanoke in three
games, 15-4, 15-13, 15-8.

Taurassi capped off a fantas-
tic tournament with four aces to
go along with 13 assists. She
tallied a total of 96 assists during
the tournament, which earned her
MVP honors.

Besides Taurassi, Martin and
Yoerg were also selected for the
all-toumament team.

This is Washington and Lee’s

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Celebration

first ODAC title since the begin-
ning of the program. After many
seasons of coming close, the
Generals can ﬁnally enjoy the
view from the top.

The Generals’ volleyball team had plenty to cheer about this past weekend
after capturing the ODAC tournament for the first time in history. W&L’s
three wins in the tournament enabled the Generals to finish the fall at 29-6.

Generals’ football outlasts Guilford  

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

One would assume that Guilford would have learned by now not
to throw the football in Stuart Hogue’s direction late in ‘the game.

Evidently, Guilford quarterback Dan Strelkauskas had not ﬁgured
that out yet. Hogue gave him a refresher course by intercepting a pass
at the W&L 14 with a minute and a half remaining in the game to seal
a hard-fought 13-9 Generals win on Saturday.

Last season, on Guilford’s ﬁnal drive, Hogue swatted away a
Strelkauskas pass intended for wide receiver Junior Lord in the end
zone as W&L captured a stunning 13-7 upset of the ODAC leaders.

One year later, the fortunes had changed for both teams. Although
Guilford had retained nearly all of their offensive weapons from the
powerful 1994 squad, the Quakers were bumbling along at a disap-
pointing 3-4 coming into the game. In the meantime, W&L had passed
them in the opposite direction, as the Generals were searching for their
ﬁfth straight win Saturday at a chilly Wilson Field.

W&L head coach Frank Miriello was not about to discount the still-
dangerous Quakers, though.

“They’re the scariest team in the league by far,” he said. “They.
have so much speed. All we were trying to do was to contain them.”

The game started out at a Guilford pace: a shootout. W&L
methodically marched down the ﬁeld on its opening drive, which
ended with J.P. Josephson hauling in a 16-yard TD reception from
Brooks Fischer for a 6-0 lead.

Guilford quickly answered back with a drive of its own. The
Quakers moved all the way down to the W&L 1, where the Generals’
defense stiffened in a big way. Defensive tackle Robert Hull rose to
the challenge by nailing Guilford star run-
ning back David Heggie for a three-yard

capped with James Urban’s six-yard TD grab with ten minutes left
to catapult W&L back into the lead at 13-9. On the drive, Fischer
completed ﬁve of his seven passes for 53 yards.

Fischer was named the ODAC Offensive Player of the Week by
connecting on 17 of his 35 passes for an outstanding 262 yards
during the game. His two touchdown ﬂings tied him for second
place on the all-time W&L touchdown pass list with 27.

“Brooks had a great football game,” Miriello said. “That last

drive was like a Montana drive.”

Guilford wasn’t about to disappear quietly into the frigid after-
noon, though. The Quakers responded by driving downﬁeld to the
W&L 35, but failed on a fourth down attempt. {

The Generals responded with a long pass reception by Chas
Chastain, which moved the ball deep into Guilford territory. It
appeared that W&L was on the verge of salting the game away, but
then disaster struck as Guilford forced a turnover. '

With only a few minutes left, i t had appeared that W&L had
locked up the game again by forcing Guilford into a fourth and 18
deep in Quaker territory, but Strelkauskas responded by completing
the fourth down pass near midﬁeld to keep the desperation drive
alive with under two minutes remaining.

With the determined Guilford offense half the ﬁeld away from
saving its season from oblivion, the W&L coaching staff went back

to the drawing board again.

“We decided to blitz the quarterback, and play a more cautious
defense with the clock running down,” Miriello said.

Playing the uncustomary role of favorite against Gzrilford, W&L
made the big play. With Lord and Heggie temporarily on the bench,
the Generals’ defense kept them there permanently. Under pressure,
Strelkauskas forced a pass deep down the middle, where Hogue was

waiting for it at the W&L 14.

loss, which forced the Quakers to be content
with a 21-yard Chris Meehl ﬁeld goal.

A Hull had a huge game for the Generals by
making 12 tackles and picking up two of
W&L’s ﬁve sacks. Defensive lineman John
Tweardy had one of the sacks, as well as
making eight tackles.

It did not take long for Guilford to claim
the lead. Strelkauskas connected on a 15-
yard TD pass to speedy backup wideout Dee '
Rankin, giving Guilford a 9-6 advantage. In
the meantime, Heggie was doing his best
Barry Sanders impersonation by rushing for
110.yards in the ﬁrst half alone.

The Quakers took their 9-6 lead into half-
time, where Miriello and the rest of the W&L

e.

    

Photo by Scott Bookwalter, Phi Sports Editor

W&L won its fifth straight game
on Saturday against Guilford, 13-9.

coaching staff plotted a way to slow down
Heggie, as well as wide receiver comrades
Lord and William Rochelle.

The adjustments worked, as W&L slowed the pace down consid-
erably in the second half.

“We slowed our pursuit down a little to stop the cutbacks, and we
changed our coverage some,” Miriello explained. “Heggie’s speed
was amazing, but the players became more acclimated to that speed
(in the second half).” '

With time starting to wind down, Fischer took command. The
junior gamely directed the Generals on a 79-yard drive which was

“That interception was a huge relief,”
Miriello said.

Like the situation last year after
Hogue’s heroics against Guilford, W&L
will face Swarthmore in the ﬁnal game
of the season. Last season, the Generals
prevailed, 14-11, as W&L stopped the
Garnet Tide ﬁve times inside the W&L
30, including the ﬁnal drive of the game.
Swarthmore will enter Wilson Field on
Saturday with a log of 4-5.

Miriello expects it to be a tough game,
but feels the Generals will prevail as long
as they do not beat themselves.

At the start of the season, the W&L
football team had a goal of winning six
games.

It did not appear that would

' happen after an 0-2-1 start, but Miriello
maintained that the dream would be real-
ized, especially because of W&L’s offensive improvement.

“The potential for a turnaround was there,” he said. “We knew
that sooner or later it would turn.”

A sixth win in a row would provide the 5-2-1 Generals with their
longest win streak since 1985, and their longest victory run to end the
season since 1981, as well as solidifying at least a third-place ﬁnish
in the ODAC. Also, it would give Miriello the distinction of winning

‘ the most games as a W&Lﬁrst-year head coach since back in 1914.

“We’re going to accomplish this goal,” Miriello vowed.

Cross-country excels at ODACS

W&L, whose closest competi-

By Roy BURNS
Phi Staff Writer

Last Saturday, on a very cold
and windy afternoon, the men’s
cross country team captured its
second straight ODAC title‘ and
proved that it could win under
less than ideal circumstances.

Sophomore Jason Callen led
the Generals by ﬁnishing ﬁrst
overall in the meet with a time of
26:32. Callen received ODAC
Runner of the Year honors for
his efforts, and along with fourth
place ﬁnisher Brad Paye, was
named to the All-ODAC team.

Freshman Darrick Alford,
sophomore Will Olson, and
freshman Josh Beckham rounded
out the Generals’ top ﬁve with
finishes of ninth, tenth, and
twelfth, respectively.

tor was Roanoke with 61 points,
ﬁnished with a score of 36 points.

This victory gave the Generals.

their second straight ODAC title,
and provided a boost the team
needed as it heads to Memphis,
Tennessee, to compete in the
NCAA Regional Meet.

Alford commented, “We had
some guys who really stepped up
and ran well. We won even though
we were missing one of our top
ﬁve runners (Taylor Shultz), and
our number three runner (Will
Olson), was running sick.”

The Generals are conﬁdent as
they prepare for Regionals; how-
ever, they realize that they will be
running against some really good
teams. Team members expect
Emory University and Rhodes
College to be their top competi-
tion in the meet. ‘

“Rhodes has a deﬁnite ad-
vantage, considering they’re
running on their home course,”
added Alford.

Despite this fact, though, the
Generals will enter the meet
ranked ﬁrst in the entire region,
and are favored to win.

On the ladies’ side, W&L
ﬁnished a close second in the
conference meet to Lynchburg.
This loss broke the Generals’
streak of winning three straight
ODAC titles.

However, the loss did not
diminish great individual per-
formances from senior
Josephine Schaeffer, sophomore
Carson Flowers, and junior Nat
Messmore. All three were
named to the all-conference
team, and ﬁnished ﬁrst, third,
and sixth, respectively.

Catherine Cardullo and Sarah

Feinberg rounded out the Gener-
als’ top ﬁve runners by placing
thirteenth and fourteenth.

The women will also travel to
Memphis to compete for the
NCAA Regional crown. Team
members expect strong competi-
tion from Emory, ODAC cham-
pion Lynchburg, and Rhodes.

If a W&L team places ﬁrst at
Regionals, it will travel to La
Crosse, Wisconsin, to race
against the best teams in the na-
tion. Expectations are high for
both teams, but the majority of
the pressure is coming from the
team members themselves.

“We’re going in thinking that
this is our race (Regionals) to
lose,” said Alford.

If both teams run like they are
capable of running, they will jour-
ney to Wisconsin together to run
withthe best.

9

4.‘

G

 

‘.%””«7‘55 
I2 33", i..!NiN8T!“R‘l. am 
v: 4
We are 941995

Pretty Fire:
a universal
journey

.. I

\/M , W&L in hoops:
long time no see 9

‘/:7
»z;'.
.

VOLUME 96, NO. 10

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

 

No strings attached!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

of the obligatory Christmas tree.

In a creative display of their decorating acumen, the Phi Delts show off their non-traditional placement

I

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

  Chi: iﬁittg-111111 {ﬂirt

DECEMBER 1, 1995

Equipment failure
silences WLUR

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

Students who rise each morning and flip on
the radio to listen to WLUR’s popular morning
rock show, “Moming Mag,” will now be greeted
with static. Due to a malfunction within the
radio station’s transmitter, WLUR was forced
to shut down early Thursday morning.

“It’s the cost of running business.” said
Professor Robert de Maria, WLUR’s faculty
advisor, “It’s just one of those things that hap-
pens.”

Installed in 1973, the transmitter contains
several meters, all of which work in conjunc-
tion to power the radio station. Junior Robbie
Watt, Chief Student Engineer, noticed that one
of the meters was reading erratically late
Wednesday night. By Thursday, the meter
collapsed causing the transmitter to cease work-
mg.

Residents of Woods Creek Apartments —
only a few hundred feet from the station —
were unable to pick up WLUR’s signals. Upon
hearing this, the WLUR staff knew the trans-
mitter was non-operational.

Chief Student Operator Chuck Carabello
said the timing of the transmitter’s failure could
not have been better.

With everyone preparing for exams and
dealing with the last minute rush of Fall Term
activities, it does not really effect anyone too
greatly, said Carabello.

According to de Maria, Thursday’s episode
is the first time the 27-year-old transmitter has
caused a major problem forthe staff of WLUR.

Melissa Cox, secretary of the Journalism
Department, distributed an e-mail message to
all music directors instructing them to notify
their dee-jays of the cancellation of program-
ming.

Although unsure of the exact timetable,
Carabello and Watt hope to have WLUR back
on air by the start of Winter Tenn. Meanwhile
all programming has been canceled. In addi-
tion to losing the music shows, WLUR will be
unable to air ﬁve basketball games and six
operas which are carried live from New York’s
Metropolitan Opera House.

Washington and Lee Tech Services are busy
trying to repair the malfunctioning meter. If
those attempts fail, Tom Tinsley, Director of
Technical Services, will purchase a new meter
from the makers of the transmitter. The precise
cost of a new meter is currently unknown.

When Tech Services were located on the
third ﬂoor of Reid Hall, also the home of
WLUR, daily check—ups of the transmitter were
possible. Many minor problems were diag-
nosed and repaired before they became major
ones. Since Tech Services has been moved to
the Heating Plant, daily investigations of
WLUR’s equipment are impossible.

Carabello thinks the meter’s malfunction
resulted from the rigors of perpetual use. None-
theless, he believes, had Tech Services been
located on the third ﬂoor of Reid as before, the
problem might have been detected earlier.

Sunken ground near C-School
poses no threat for building

Trees began to grow from the pile, somewhat stabilizing the
ground. The growth did not prevent the dirt from slipping
down the side of the hill. Workers first noticed the land
sliding in the 1970’s.

Rainwater would slip between the rock and‘ the dirt,
lubricating the soil and causing it to slide down the surface

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

The ground next to the Williams School parking lot has
been slipping away for years. But spokesmen for Buildings of the hill it had formed.
and Grounds say the area has stabilized and is safe to build In 1985 an underground water leak caused the earth to
on. settle, said Scott Beebe, assistant director of B&G. The dirt

The area that encompasses the parking lot of the Will- soaked up water from the ruptured water line, causing the
iams School and slopes downward to the dell between earth to sink and settle. '

Woods Creek apartments used to be a sheer rock cliff, said An engineering company examined the area after the
Jim Arthur, interim director of Buildings and Grounds. water leak and said there was no danger of collapse.

For years, workers dumped the refuse from on-campus “The worst problem was over after that,” Arthur said.
construction sites over the bank, causing it to pile up. B&G Both Beebe and Arthur say the slippage has stopped and the
workers also used the spot to dump cinders from the Heating earth has settled.
and Cooling Plant, when it occupied the space where the The engineering company also said the spot would be
library is now. safe for a building if all the dirt was first excavated down to

“It was the dumping site for dirt and excavated materials the rock, eliminating the problem of dirt slippage altogether.
on campus,” Arthur said. “I predict there will be a building on that site before too

The pile grew up the side of the cliff, fonning a slope. long,” Arthur said.

Greg Gumbel to speak
to W&L community

BY RYAN BEAMAN
Phi Staff Writer

NBC sportscaster Greg Gumbel will speak in Lee Chapel on Tuesday,
December 5th, at 7 p.m. The public is invited to the Contact-sponsored event,
and a reception will follow.

Gumble, one of the most visible broadcasters on network television, joined
NBC in 1994 after a successful five-year relationship with CBS. The award-
winning broadcaster has covered professional basketball, baseball and, most
notably, football. He won an Emmy for “The NFL Today,” which he co-hosted
with Terry Bradshaw.

Gumbel served as primtime anchor of CBS Sports’ broadcast of the 1994
Winter Olympic Games from Lillihammer, Norway, and co-host of the morning
coverage of the 1992 Winter Olympics from Albertville, France. He has also
been named the daytime anchor for NBC’s coverage of the 1996 Summer
Olympic Games in Atlanta.

W&L holds Christmas Service

From Phi Staff Reports

Washington and Lee University’s annual Christmas Candlelight Service will
be held Thursday, December 7th, at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The public is invited
to attend.

Music for the traditional service of lessons and carols will be provided by the
University Chamber Singers, conducted by W&L professor of music Gordon -
Spice. Members of the Chamber Singers are upperclassmen chosen by audition
after at least one year of singing experience in the university chorus.

The service of nine lessons and carols at Washington and Lee follows, in its
entirety, the service performed continuously since 1918 at King’s College,
Cambridge. Thanks to its annual broadcast over the BBC, this has become the
best-known’ liturgical service of the Christmas season.

Associate professor of music Tim Gaylard will be the organist for the service
and, as is customary, readers for the service will be chosen from the university
community. Acting University Chaplain Thomas Litzenburg Jr. will preside
over the service.

The annual Christmas Candlelight Service is sponsored by the University
Federation.

‘ )-

' Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Magnifying glass not included

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

According to Building and Grounds spokesmen, the sunken
ground near the Williams School has stabilized.

Students strain their eyes in the University Center
searching through the sea of Presidential Gala proofs.

 

 

PAGE 2

BE%ND

THE BLUE RIDGE

 

Initial talks on a balanced

budget not promising

Washington, D.C.—-Talks began on Tuesday between Republican and
Democrat leaders and the White House in an effort to reach an agreement
for a balanced budget. While many officials hope to reach an agreement
before Christmas in order to avoid an increase in interest rates and a
balanced budget battle during the 1996 elections, most admit that the
results of the first days of talks have not been promising.

Congressional leaders and the White House are split on several major
issues which have become obstacles to reaching a compromise by Decem-
ber 15th. The concerns over changes in Medicare and Medicaid, as well
as a disagreement over the computation of economic assumptions to be
used in the development of the plan, have dominated the talks thus far and
officials do not foresee quick resolutions to any of these disputes.

Clinton repeals speed limit

law; states to set own rules

Washington, D.C.-—Despite the arguments of safety and environmental
groups, on Tuesday President Clinton repealed the national speed limit law
originally signed by President Nixon to conserve energy after the 1974
OPEC Oil Embargo. The White House cited Congress’ refusal to provide
federal funds for national highway improvement until the signing of its
National Highway System bill as Clinton’s primary motivation for signing
the bill.

On December 8th, states will no longer be required to maintain the
national speed limit of 55 miles per hour, and will have the jurisdiction to
set their own speed limits. Some western states will increase the limit to
75 miles per hour or higher, while Montana will have no speed limit.

FINA enacts stricter rules for

swimmers using steroids

Rio de Janiero--FINA, the international swimming federation, voted
Tuesday to enact much stricter rules against amateur swimmers who test
positive for steroids. In response to increasing concern from countries like
the United States, FINA voted to ban swimmers who test positive from
amateur swimming for four years. Such a probation would cause the
swimmer to miss an Olympic Games, a very serious sanction for an
amateur swimmer. The swimmer would also lose any records or honors
achieved during the year prior to the positive drug test.

Thousands of readers bid

farevvell to Calvin and Hobbes 

Fans of the popular comic strip “Calvin and Hobbes” received a blow
recently when artist Bill Watterson announced that he will not continue
drawing the strip in 1996. After December 31st, the cartoon will no longer
appear in the more than 2300 newspapers in which it is currently published.
Watterson cited the artistic limitations of deadlines among his reasons for
discontinuing “Calvin and Hobbes,” and said that although he has made no

plans for the future, he hopes to continue his work with fewer creative ,

constraints.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is compiled
by Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

GOP WATCH  

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a
specialweekly feature to keep Washing-
ton and Lee's students informed about
the Republican Presidential Campaign
in advance of Mock Convention.

Dole supports Clinton and

Bosnia; Gramm opposes

Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole has found himself resigned to support
President Clinton’s plan to send 20,000 troops to Bosnia. He suggested at
a speech on Tuesday that any congressional effort to block the deployment
would create “unacceptable costs at home and abroad.”

Dole’s position on this issue is drawing him criticism from other
Republican presidential candidates, especially Phil Gramm. Gramm
stated that he is “opposed to sending American troops to Bosnia” and
intends to “fight the president’s resolution that will ask Congress for the
endorsement of that policy.”

Political observers view this differing of opinion among the two front-
runners for the nomination as a “deﬁning issue” in the contest between
Dole and Gramm.

Gingrich not to run in 1996

Ending months of speculation, Newt Gingrich announced on Tuesday
that he will not run for president during the 1996 election. Gingrich stated
that he was “influenced by his commitment to shepherd a balanced budget
through Congress” and believes that he will be more able to serve the
interests of Americans as Speaker of the House.

GOP Watch is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp

‘happen at the worst possibl

Swimmers face
pool problems

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

A problem with the pump of Washington and
l_.ee’s 23-year-old swimming pool caused swim
team members to miss four days of practice earlier
this month.

The seal on the pump broke the ﬁrst week of
November and began leaking water. The pump,
which was installed last spring term, filters water and
sends it through a treatment system to purify it. The
seal on the pump creates a vacuum that sucks water
into the pump.

“If we had kept the pump running, it would
have blown out,” said women’s swim team coach
Kiki Jacobs.

Men’s coach Page Remillard said the broken seal
was a problem with the equipment from the
manufacturing company, which sent a new one
within days. ~

Coaches and swimmers both felt that the days of
missed practice would have jeopardized their perfor-
mance in that weekend’s meet with Centre College.
Centre, however, was having its own problems, with
its pool’s heater.

“This would have hurt us for (the meet) this
weekend,” said sophomore swimmer Bligh Wollner,
“but Centre had to cancel the meet.”

The pump mishap is not the only problem W&L’s
pool has had lately. The swimming pool is beginning
to show signs of age.

“lt has served us well throughout its life span, but
we’re starting to have some problems with it,”
Remillard said.

The pool’s cast-iron piping system has become
corroded and lined with rust, decreasing the diameter
inside the pipes.

“There’s plaque in those pipes like there’s plaque
in a circulatory system,” Remillard said.

Sometimes an air bubble will knock off a clump
of rust and sent it through the pipes into the pool,
discoloring the water.

“We call it a burp,” Remillard said,

The most recent burp happened about a month
ago, right before a water polo game.

“it’s not a health hazard for swimmers, it’s just an
eyesore,” Remillard said. The meet was held as
scheduled.

The equipment has simply outlived its usefulness,
both coaches said. Remillard is scheduled to meet
with the five-year planning committee to discuss the
needs of the aquatic department.

W&L swimmers are not the only ones inconve-
nienced by pool problems. The public uses the pool
as well, and Remillard said that large groups some-
times rent it.

These recent mishaps are symptoms of a larger
problem, Remillard said.

“We’ve been putting band-aids on the whole
thing, and we can’t continue to do that,” he said.

“My biggest fear is that a major problem will
e moment.” '

11'

The Ring-tum Phi, December 1, 1995

A Christmas Carol?

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Lexington dons festive attire as the holiday season approaches, every day
looking a little more like a picturesque town in a Dickens novel.

Ashton to be Visiting Scholar

From Phi Staff Reports

Dore Ashton, professor of art history at The
Cooper Union, will be the Phi Beta Kappa Visiting
Scholar at Washington and Lee University Decem-
ber 6-8.

In addition to seminars and infonnal meetings
with students and faculty, she will present a public
lecture on Wednesday, December 6 at 7 p.m. in
DuPont Auditorium. The title of her talk is “Shibbo-
leths, Dubious Critical Approaches, and No Guides
for the Perplexed.”

Ashton received her B.A. from the University of
Wisconsin-Madison, her M.A. from Harvard Uni-
versity and is a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

She has been professor of art history at The
Cooper Union since 1969, is former art critic for the
New York Times, and during 1974-92 was associate
editor of Arts. She has also taught graduate courses
at Columbia University, City University, and the
New School.

Recipient of the College Art Associationfsltgatlrer 

.w ,1

creative work.

ﬂood.

Arm:

The Literary Arts Magazine of
Washington and Lee
is currently accepting submissions of

Submissions can be dropped off in the /\.r/e/ box
in the secretary's office of Payne Hail (second

  
   

 

 

One man’s revolutiong One woman’s rebellion.
A penlousjoumey. A daring escape.

C/ﬁn epic novekoflove, Iibergt

and the pursuit

   

of happiness.

Award for art criticism and the Art Criticism Prize of
the St. Louis Art Museum, Ashton has been a
Guggenheim, Graham, and Ford Foundation fellow,
as well as a recipient of grants from the National
Endowment for the Humanities.

She is a former contributing editor of Studio
International and Opus International, and is a con-
tributor to the Vision and Value series and New Art
Anthology. She has been a curator of various inter-
national art exhibitions and has done radio and tele-
vision broadcasts.

She has written over 20 books, including Noguchi

East and West, A Fable of Modern Art, The New 3-

York School.‘ A Cultural Reckoning, About Rothko,
American Art Since 1945, A Critical Study of
Philip Guston, A Joseph Cornell Album, and
Picasso on Art.

The Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar Program

makes available each year 12 or more distinguished 

scholars who visit approximately 100 colleges and
universities. The purpose of the program is to con-
tribute to the intellectual life of the campus by mak-
ing possible an exchange of ideas between the visit-

Hing-scholarsgand the resident faculty and students.

10% <i2ti>ubticiT1 QAOCK CONVENTION

 

;tlllllftl2 etiimnt
fol? ﬁll lllﬁl? l'|ﬂPD WODK Oil Till
|__ P95 ?PfS|Dfl|T|ﬂl Qﬂlll
Come By and enter our
drawing for an

nurogarmwzq)

of Ken fo[[ett’5
ﬂl Tface Cnlfecffreecfom

‘Washington anc{Lee
University
ﬁookgtore

Lexington, ‘Vﬂl 24450

Drawingto Ee ﬁeld ﬂe-
cemﬁer 11, 1995

WlSl1fS TO Tllﬂllli

C OT?’

‘'1

 

‘I

universal journey

W8 ‘S curtains rise on Woodard's Pretty Fire

tarah grant
phi staff writer

When Charlayne Woodard’s Pretty Fire opened in New York City, the play
was immediately stereotyped as a “black play” by several prominent theater
critics.

Woodard responded to the criticism by writing an editorial to The New York
Times.

“Contrary to the assertions, [PrettyFire] caters neither to a white audience nor
to an African-American one,” the playwright insisted. “It caters to any human
being, regardless of race or religion, who wishes to join me on an universal
journey through a world of loving mothers and fathers and grandparents who
spoiled us silly.” ‘

The story focuses on a black family, but offers a general story of family life.

When senior theater major Marilyn Baker decided to bring Pretty Fire to
Lexington, she kept Woodard’s inten-
tions in mind, and the open casting has
both black and white students playing
the black characters.

Baker hopes that the audience will
likewise see the message as colorless.

“Life is like a mountain,” said Baker,
explaining why she selected the play.
“You have times when your life is at a
very high point and times when your
life is at a low point...ln the end [of the
play] you end up at the top.”

Evoking both tears and laughter,
Pretty Fire recreates experiences in the
ﬁrst 11 years of the playwright’s life.

The play consists of ﬁve vi gnettes—
“Birth,” “Nigger,” “Pretty Fire,”
“Bonesy,” and “Joy,”——and offers a
“celebration of life’’ with moments to
which everyone can relate.

“The play itself has stirred up a lot
of memories. from my early childhood—memories about going to church,

Tamara Watkins comforts granct-

 

ataugtiters Lyrae Van Ctfe]/amt E/izatretti
Spencer as ttze Ku K/ux Klan rictes try.

different songs playing on the radio, records my parents used to play all the time,
‘the breakfast of life,’ and phrases that it seems every black mother or grand-
mother says at least once in her life,” explained Tamara Watkins, who plays both
Dorothy and Grace. “I realized how much I had missed [from] those days.”

Pretty Fire is distinct from other Lenfest Center productions in several ways.
While the One-Act Festival presented each spring is also student-run, a full
production such as PrettyF ire is a far more complex effort for those involved than
the production of only one act; the play thus stands singular on campus as an all-
student production with multiple acts.

“Working only with other students, there is a greater sense of comradery,”
explains the play’s technical director, senior Tom Kernan. “It’s easier to be
creative and work together as well as to solve problems, because there is not that
student-teacher situation hovering in the back of your mind.”

The production also is unique in that it fulﬁlls the senior thesis project
requirement for two drama majors, instead of one; while Baker is directing the
show, senior Chris Buford has designed the set.

The original script just called for a bench, but Baker had a more elaborate set
in mind. The result is the interior of a Southern Baptist church, the design of
which is based on one in Lexington. .

“It’s been a learning experience,” said Buford, of the set’s con-
struction. “[Baker] gave me a lot of direction in where she wanted to
go and I developed it into physical plans. We put in a lot of extra hours
to get it done in time.”

Baker began planning the play over the summer, adding to the one-
woman show the roles of those characters who inﬂuenced Woodard.

In assigning their words to the supporting characters themselves,
Baker felt that their inﬂuence on Woodard would be clearer to the
audience than in the original version.

While adapting the play to a full cast production turned out to be no
small task, Baker wanted to direct Pretty Fire from the ﬁrst time she
read it and was determined to make it work.

“Marilyn is so patient,” said Watkins, also Baker’s roommate.
“That’s what I love most about her. Living with her gives me an
advantage because I have gotten a lot of insight about what this play
means to her.”

Staged between Thanksgiving and Winter Breaks, the production
time was somewhat limited; set construction started the day after
Children of a Lesser God closed, and the play will open tonight.

“This is the shortest production time for a play that I have [ever]
been on,” said Kernan, “but everyone has put heart and soul into it and
we got to where we needed to be when we needed to get there.”

The crew oonstructedjthe set under the direction of Kernan, arranging the
lighting and sound in the two weeks before Thanksgiving. After break, they had
less than a week to put everything else together and do touch-ups, a hectic week

not without its obstacles.

Three days before open-
ing night, Kernan and
Floor Captain Dave Ledlie
dropped the pi- ano which is
usedintheplay’s final scene;
theirinjurieswill restrict each
of them to move— ment with the
aid of crutches for about a
week.

Staying in ac- cord with the
old cliche that “the show
mustgoon,”the Assistant
TechnicalDirec- tor, freshman
Drew Higgs, quickly as-
sumed full re— sponsibility
for the technical aspects of the
show.

The produc- tion is ﬁnally
uniquebecauseit involves so

many non-the- ater majors.

The cast of nine performersin-
cludes six mak- ing their de-
buts on W&L’s stage, three of
whom are fresh- men.

“I had never acted before,
but my friends encouraged
me to audition? Baleer smiles aluring retzearsa/. Said 5°Ph°'
more Keith Haber, who
was also recently cast in the up-

coming production of Faust. “It’s been such a blast——a lot of hard work, but also
a lot of fun. I hope that we are able to portray this to the audience.”

Pretty Fire will be on stage at the Johnson Theater through December 6.
Tickets are available free of charge to W&L faculty, students and staff at the
Lenfest box ofﬁce.

“If we can do it six times and still study for exams,” smiledWatki.ns, “anybody
can come and see it once.”

Photos courtesy of Louise Uffelman.

 

Odds are,
enjoy Casino...

iiappy lioliciays
Special tttanks to Central E/ementary's
Katina Montgomerg/, for tier ctrawingsf

 

SMIA E

youﬂl

Kiri-2 Susong
Ptii Reviewer

If you are one of the few readers of this
column not related to me by blood, you will
know that one of my biggest problems is that
movies so often simply disappoint. That
isn’t to say that a ﬁlm itself is bad, but that
the trailers and hype will emphasize aspects
of the movie that in the end just don’t come
through. The result is that you are left with
a bad impression of .a pretty decent film.

And if you are in any way familiar with
movies of the past two decades, you know
that one of the most successful combina-
tions has been Martin Scorsese and Robert
DeNiro, which has resulted in masterpieces
like Raging Bull, GoodFellas and Taxi
Driver, to name a few. So you can expect the
sort of expectaions I had before seeing Ca-
sino; the ﬁlm has such a legacy to live up to.
Well, the good news is that although Casino
isn’t a perfect ﬁlm, it deﬁnitely meets the
standards set by this duo’s seven previous
movies.

As you probably could have guessed
from the movie’s title, the whole story re-
volves around a single Las Vegas casino and
the man sent by mob bosses to run it for
them, Ace Rothstein (DeNiro). After he has
established himself there, he is joined by his
childhood friend Nick Santoro, a brutal,
violent, small-time gangster played by Joe
Pesci.

Further to complicate matters, Rothstein
falls in love with an equally small-time
hustler, Ginger (Sharon Stone), whose only
ambition seems to be getting dough from

vacationing conventioneers so she can sup-
port her low-life lover, Lester (James
Woods). The whole ﬁlm turns on the slow,
painful deceptions and double-crossings the
characters pull on one another, while their
careers simultaneously ﬂame out like a match
one has to drop when the ﬂame gets too
close to one's ﬁngers.

The ﬁrst thing to know about this ﬁlm is
that you will be getting your money’s worth:
it is long, coming in around the three-hour
mark. And Casino moves so deliberately
and thoughtfully that you’ll be completely
aware of the length as you sit in yourcramped
theater seat. But oddly enough, you won’t
mind the length, because the characters are
so captivating.

Robert DeNiro is absolutely brilliant as
the intelligent, dapper Jewish casino
managre. I had grown so tired of hearing
about DeNiro the Great, whose very pres-
ence holds weaker ﬁlms together, they say.
So I went into Casino hoping I could walk
out without paying even more homage to
huim, as every ﬁlm critic seems to feel so
necessary. But his performance is simply so
amazing I must analyze anyhow.

DeNiro brings a phenomenal depth to the
role of Ace Rothstein. Instead of the me-
thodically violent man of machismo he has
so often played, here he is a quiet, peaceful
man of compromise, one uncomfortable
with violence but who knows it is a part of
his world. A truly great actor is defined by
his breadth and depth, and De Niro brings
both to this role. As much as I liked Larenz
Tate inDeadPresidents, now I might have to
tip my hat to DeNiro forbest performance of
the year.

The supporting actors all do a fine job
(especially Don Rickles as the unsuspecting

4 comic relief), though I must disagree with so

many critics who say this is the role where
Sharon Stone proves she can act. In Casino,
Stone plays it safe in the morally degenerate
role she’s familiar with. Until she finally
plays a character who doesn’t jump into
every bed in sight, she will remain nothing
more than Hollywood’s most respectable
whore.

Just as with GoodFellas, Scorsese co-
wrote the script with Nicholas Pileggi, taken
from Pileggi’s based-on-fact books about
gangsters. Also noteworthy is the score,
which is restrained and suitable. In a day
when it seems like soundtracks are taking on
lives of their own (e.g., Pulp Fiction,
Clueless, Empire), it is wonderful when
music in a ﬁlm relies upon subtlety insetad
of popularity.

My biggest complaint with Casino is
with some of Scorsese’s direction, oddly
enough. It seems he takes some shortcuts
that molly-coddle the audience to make his
job of storytelling easier. For example, I
didn’t think the running narrative provided
by both DeNiro and Pesci was very effec-
tive. Without revealing too much, his use of
time-discontinuity seemed like a cheap and
almost dishonest way of getting the audi-
ence to adopt_ a certain attitude towards the
characters.

These and other minor complaints aside,
this is a tremendous movie. The story is
intriguing and original, the dialogue simple
but enough, andlthe acting absolutely su-
perb. This is absolutely a character ﬁlm, and
what characters! If you are a fan of DeNiro,
you’ve probably already seen Casino, so I
will merely encourage you to go a second
time andtakeafriend who hasn’thad enough
exposure to this outstanding actor.

    

PAGE 4

@112 ﬁling-mm lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

World AIDS Day

The U.S. Centers for Disease Control
in Atlanta recently announced that AIDS
has replaced accidents as the number one
killer of people aged 25-44. Last week,
an article in The Washington Post re-
ported on a study that maintained one in
ten young males aged 18 to 30 may carry
the AIDS virus. Health clinics across
America have proven that youth repre-
senting all demographic characteristics
constitute the new “at risk” population.

Now, more than ever, the young need
to be educated about the disease and in-
crease their awareness about its transmis-
sion and prevention. Methods for disease
control need to be widespread and readily
available. Washington and Lee students
are often reminded that we do not live in a
cozy bubble. Real life problems with real
life consequences confront us every day.
AIDS is no exception.

The sexual revolution of the 1960s and
70s has blown up in America’s face. Free
and indiscriminate sex must become an
antiquated relic of the past. Unfortu-
nately, instead of smoking a bowl and
listening to J imi Hendrix albums, the
foreplay of today ’s sex is a trip to the
local AIDS clinic. Perhaps the sentiments
expressed in the hit Generation X film,
Reality Bites, are truer than ever: AIDS
tests have become our strange rite of pas-
sage.

December 1 is World AIDS Day. It is
altogether fitting and proper that we take
time to remember those who have died of
AIDS. Furthermore, today offers us an
opportunity to recommit ourselves to
supporting those living with the disease.

Quote of the Week

“Chicks. No chicks.”

—W&L ’s battle cry as our fearless
Generals succumbed to VMI basketball.

‘CO

OPINION

‘ska 601'

A srtcxik ‘OR
rem’ nuns,
M1’ 8W?

The Ring-tum Phi, Decernber 1, 1995

Welfare critics ignore program’s benefits

NOVA
CLARKE,
’96

Last week Newt,Gi n grich addressed
the Republican Governors’ Associa-
tion and went on one of his rambles
about the ills of the welfare state. He
blames the welfare state for the hor-
riﬁc murder of a woman and her chil-
dren in Chicago, much the same as he
blamed the crime of Susan Smith on
the welfare state‘; In saying this,'he
forgets that death is a tragedy, not a
political platform. Gingrich’s idiocy
may know no bounds but instead of
embarking on a tirade against Gingrich,
I would rather focus on the greater
environment that his remarks were
born of.

I suppose we should be thankful to
Gingrich for exposing another crime,
since many of us have become some-
what numb to violence. We may still
be shocked and angered by a killing
spree (although the anger may be mis-
directed) but we are not saddened by
every individual death by violence. I
grew up in Miami and it was a rare
news night that there was not a story
about a violent death; after a while
you hear such a story and it doesn’t
shock you, it’s accepted as the way
things are. Different groups seek to
blame this on the media, talk shows,
violence in movies and on TV, and a
myriad of other reasons. Some of this
blame is valid but it ignores a larger

problem. If we were simply immune
to violence, why do the human rights
violations in Bosnia and the injury of
a close friend anger us. The latter is
obvious, we hurt for those closest to
us, it’s an inseparable aspect of friend-
ship. The former is a bit harder to
explain; but it is probably related to
the localized blindness that compels

free society cannot help the many who
are poor, it cannot save the few who are
rich.” Gingrich and company should
remember that when they complain
about the beneﬁts that the poor receive
from this country.

Yes, there are problems in the wel-
fare state; but where would we be
without it. We are embarking on a

peopletogiveto computer-
charities that C C driven age, and
help orphans in it is the welfare
fi’i.‘§l§"l°;’.‘,’I,‘§l‘,?§ ---[Pe°P’e1 ‘'0 ."°‘ ¥é3%'“21ZnlL"§:
the problems in observe or conslder healthcare, edu-
their own neigh- the thousands who cation, and the
borhoods. school meals

The Republi- P039 ﬂf?'0Ugh welfare that the children
cans are correct on their wa U OI‘ the of the r re-

poo
insayingthatthis ceive that en-
thousands of

short-coming . ables them to
will not and children wha are learn and be-
should not be born ta mothers on come competi-
solved by the tive. As Sir
federal govern- welfare  are_l0ved Arthur Conan
ment alone. But and cherished ln the Doyle’sfamous
toblamethewel- ' detective said,
farestateistone- way chlldren should “You see, but
glect all of the be- you do not ob-

beneﬁts of the
programs initi-
ated by men such

serve.” People
see the crimes
committed by

as FDR and his successors, including
Johnson and the Great Society. Per-
haps those who condemn the state
these men built forget the years when
children were forced to work instead
of getting an education or the thou-
sands who were killed by diarrhea,
measles, and small pox before there
were widespread and cheap vaccina-
tions and healthcare. In his inaugural
address, John F. Kennedy said, “If a

people who happen to be on welfare
and the children born simply to ex-
pand beneﬁts to their mothers; but
they do not observe or consider the
thousands who pass through welfare
on their way up or the thousands of
children who are born to mothers on
welfare but are loved and cherished in
the way children should be. ,
So how should we solve these prob-
lems? I make no claim to be an expert

R

but the solution seems to be in strong
community support backing federal:
aid. This is not block grants, the"»
money should still have a speciﬁca‘
purpose and conditions for use , but it?’
must be buttressed by community ac—,*;
tion. A community is also not forced‘
into useful action through removing
federal funds. The welfare state is
often blamed for destroying commu-
nity by taking away responsibility of
communities to take care of their own.
To some extent this may be true but:
there were other massive changes in
American society that affected the
way communities interacted. These
include: the move to the suburb, a
lack of roots created by an ever more
mobile society, and the draw of home
entertainment away from recreational
activities that involved the entire coma,
munity. Who knows what impact
exactly these changes had but it is not
simply the fault of the welfare state
that more charity originated in the
federal government than at home. This
trend towards government charity is‘
being halted as one can see in the
increased level of volunteerism among
young people. _
“We hope that the world will not
narrow into a neighborhood before
it has broadened into a brotherhood.” -.
Lyndon Baines Johnson ;
Perhaps politicians can put aside
their political posturing and Ameri-f
cans in general can focus on what is
right around them and prevent the inci-
dents like to one in Chicago. The only
way to solve the problems and the
violence the Speaker lectured about is
to remember it is OUR PROBLEM not
that of the anonymous welfare state.

Ellie illtng-tum iﬂlti

Executive Fdimf‘ Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor semi Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauinan
Features Editor Cindie Young
Photography Editor Betsy Green

Editorial Cartoonists. Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallaoe

Business Manager Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@w!u. edu

On Bosnia and other quagmires

JASON
SORENS,
’98

American foreign policy has often been mis-
guided, due in part to the lack of solid theoretical
grounding. In the beginning, America fought for
hate of Britain and love of Indian land. Later in the
nineteenth century, it was for Manifest Destiny and
the “white man’s burden.” This higher calling
transmogrified into Wilson’s goal of making “the
world safe for democracy.” Then someone decided
it was time to make the world safe for capitalism, by
means of the Cold War. Now, after the alleged fall
of Communism, the United Nations and its cohorts
have ushered us into a “New World Order,” in which
we make war to make peace.

These misguided notions have meant that the
U.S. government has lacked a single true foreign
policy success since... oh, about the Revolutionary
War. This government needs a consistent and
correct political theory for foreign policy.

As I argued in my previous column, government
policy should be fonnulated with respect to indi-
vidual rights rather than to collective identities.

War has always tended to be collectivist. Its
carrying-out and the propaganda that accompany it
have encouraged us to kill and injure, or simply hate,
other individuals -- simply because of their national
affiliation, race, or geographical location. War has
always meant the killing of innocents, whether the
involuntary draftee on the other side or the hapless
civilian shot, bombed, or starved to death. Thus, war
has throughout history tended to be mass murder.
Furthermore, war has caused not insigniﬁcant prob-
lems at home. Examples include: exorbitant taxa-
tion, massive government takeover of industry,
draconian regulations both on business practices
and on personal liberties, hatred of various ethnic

groups, widespread conscription, and enormous
budget deﬁcits.

When these caxgats thus become clear, it is easier
to develop a few criteria for the justification of war.
First, war must not violate the rights of citizens of
other governments. It should be conﬁned only to
voluntary participants. Second, it must not violate
the rights of citizens at home. Implementation of the
war effort, too, should be conﬁned to voluntary

cc--————

Government has the sole
purpose of providing rights
protection to its customers,
or citizens (used broadly not
to the exclusion of those indi-
viduals who pay taxes to a
certain government but are
for various reasons consid-
ereddisenfranchised aliens).
It has no duty to protect the
rights of non-citizens.

participants.

There is one ﬁnal criterion, more an extension of
the second. Government has the sole purpose of
providing rights protection to its customers, or citi-
zens (used broadly, not to the exclusion of those
individuals who pay taxes to a certain government
but are for various reasons considered disenfran-
chised aliens). It has no duty to protect the rights of
non-citizens. If any individuals want to go out and
protect these non-citizens, then let them do so with
their own bodies and their own resources. Many

Americans acted in this manner in the 1930s by
going to Spain to ﬁght Franco.

Furthermore, government, unlike most otherbusi-
nesses, forces its customers to buy its services. This
act is itself a rights violation and thus immoral, but
to expand these services to non-paying customers is
to add insult to injury. The government has no right,
much less a duty, to protect or otherwise serve
non-citizens. ;

Enter the Bosnian debacle. Clearly, the sending
in of troopsto Bosnia violates at least criteria two and
three. Paying for the “war” will certainly cause
higher conﬁscation of private wealth, and the rights
of American citizens are clearly not at stake. Thus,
the two oft-quoted justiﬁcations for involvement,
“moral imperative” (i.e., duty) and “national inter-
est,” are clearly incorrect. The only thing truly at
stake is the credibility of the American government
within NATO and the UN, which I believe should be
shattered to the greatest extent possible, if it means
fewer expeditions to foreign lands.

Haven’t we learned from Somalia, Haiti, and
other recent entanglements? In Somalia, we decided
to take on police work and nation-building, mean-
while taking casualties for the New World Army,
and in Haiti, we reinstated an avowed Communist
and mass murderer in order to impose our version of
the white man’s democracy.

Opponents of foreign involvement often cite the
impracticality of the particular mission. This accu-
sation rings especially true in the case of Bosnia.‘
Most military experts and most historians realize
that American soldiers will die copiously, and that

' the Balkan conﬂict will not be resolved. Even Henry;

Kissinger, the devout intemationalist, has proclaimed‘
the current peace program unworkable and unen-‘

forceable, f_or it forces into a federation two ethnic. -
groups that generally hate each other, the Croats and I_"_

the Muslims. Hundreds of years of hatred are simply"
not soluble by 20,000 armed Americans. ~ L

Thus, intervention in Bosnia is unjustiﬁable either on‘
utilitarian or on moral grountb. On a broader scale,
America should return to an “isolationist” policy perspec-)
tive adopted all too infrequently in the past.

3

‘I

I

7

1

 

 

, K

:The Ring-tum Phi, December 1, 1995

»

mcvv

».
5

GREENLAND
Betsy Green

Before I start this column of holi-
day joy, I want to dedicate it to my
good friend Ashley of Hollins Col-
lege. Ashley is one of my many fans (I
like to pretend) and has told me that if
I mention her name in one of my
articles, she will get me to autograph
it and will hang it on the ﬂowery wall
of her Hollins room. I can see it now:
Ashley will come up to her friends at
school and say, “You guys, my friend
Betsy at W&L mentioned my name in
her column!” They’ll look at her du-
biously and say, “Ashley, there’s no
way a W&L woman is friends with
you. Now put on your pearls. It’s time

' to go horseback riding.”

Okay, on to my point. It’s time to
start your Christmas shopping. Since
we’re all lost in academic pursuits
(Christmas weekend? What’s that?),
I’m sure most of us haven’t gotten a
chance to do our shopping. But as
always, I’m here to help you all out
with Betsy’s No-Fail No-Money-Back
Guaranteed Christmas Shopping List.

Catchy, isn’t it?

Your Girlfriend: You know
you should be romantic and senti-
mental, but you also know you ’ll prob-
ably only screw it up. So why not just
go with that and
buy her jumper

that or give him earplugs, saying that
it’s going to be “a rockin’ New Year.”

Your Parents: Give your dad a
copy of the new unrated Showgirls
and give your mom a pair of lsotoner

cables? You know

Christmas advice from the expert

that’s what every
woman wants.
Would I steer you
wrong? And
throw in a pair of
thong underwear,
too. What the
heck; it’s Christ-
mas!

Your Boy-
friend: Give a
gift that says, ‘‘I
love you just the
way you are,” like
a big ol’ bag of
Doritos and a six
pack of beer. His
friends will be
way impressed.

. slippers. Let the
C 6

fun begin.
Y o u r
Zizur (girlfriend;

You know you should
be romantic and sen-
timental, but youalso
know you’ll probably
only screw it up. So
why not just go with
that and buy her
jumper cables? You
know what every
woman wants.

 

Y o u n g e r
Brother: Get
himaW&Lshot
glass. When
your parents
look worried,
tell them it’s for
him to put quar-
ters or Q-tips in.
Snicker behind
their backs.
Your Sis-
ter: No gift
could be more
smug and con-
descending than
a subscription to
TigerBeat.
Your Pro-

Your Roommate: Give him a
10 pound bag of onions to guarantee
he won’t hook up for the rest of the
year. Your peace is assured. Either

 

E. Nelson St., Lexington

7/z'a¢7/z&¢e

umowana STORES "’

 

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items
Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m.

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

 

 

at
3.

2;?
‘ii.

 
  

a gallery with a difference

A cooperative of Rockbrldge artists. selling a
dazzling array ofbcautlful art 6: cmﬁwork

   
 

fessors: Let’s face it: if you are
considering giving your professors
presents, your grade status is pretty
clear. Why not be honest about your
situation and give him cash. Or a

kidney.

The Person Who Has Every-
thing: Nothing. That’ll teach them
to have everything! Hah! Sorry, l’ll
calm down.

Aunts, Uncles, Cousins, and
so forth: The natural choice is al-
ways a W&L sweatshirt. It works for
anyone and you can charge it home.
But if you- used that trick last year, try
this one. Most discount stores—K-
Mart, Wal—Mart, and so forth—sell
special holiday gifts. They usually
come in red and green boxes and have
“Great Gifts” or something like that
printed on them. “Great Gifts” is a
misnomer. They’re usually things like
mechanical tie racks, spark plug gift
sets, and fruit cake. A gift like that
screams one of two things: “I know
you well enough to get you a present,
yet I know nothing about you and
have no idea what to give you,” or

' instead of “When you care enough to

send the very best,” “When you don’t
give a damn and you don’t care who
knows.

Still stuck? For ﬂattery or a
small fee, you can get someone’s name
printed in my column. What the
heck—I’m easy. Your name in print

makes a great gift—-just ask Ashley.

corrrr FUNITURE

IO9 S. Jefferson Street
163-117 6

"The Discount Bedding Store"

The cheapest prives on Amatresses. etc.
New mattress sets as low as
$99

_ Sofas, chairs, tables, etc.

PAGE 5

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of John Sayles’ haunt-
ingly beautiful The Secret of Roan
lnish (USA/Ireland, 1994).

Screenings will include the “nor-
mal” 8:05 pm showings on Friday,
December 1 and Saturday, Dec. 2,
as well as a special matinee perfor-
mance at 2 pm on Sunday, Dec. 3.
(This performance has been added
in the hope local children might
attend the performance.) All screen-
ings will be in the Troubadour Cin-
ema, at the comerof Main and Henry
Streets. As always, there is no charge
for admission. This film is in En-

glish.
Study Break

. There will be a study break for
all students Tuesday, Dec. 5 in the
Warner Center. Basketball touma-
ment starts at 9 pm in the Warner
gym. A step aerobics class will start
at 10 pm in Doremus. Free food.

’97-’98 Schedule

The Registrations and Class
Schedules Committee and the F ac-
ulty Executive Committee are in-
terested in the community's com-
ments on th our proposals being
considered r the 1997-1998 un-
dergraduate academic calendar.
Please look at the four proposals
(on the on-campus newsgroup
wlu.talk.academic.calendar) and
give us your ‘two-bits.’ Thanks.

(You can access the newsgroups
through your favorite WWW
browser or through the Liberty lo gin
menu.)

Scott Dittman
University Registrar

Downhill Skiing

There will be a meeting of
the club downhill ski team at
6:30 on Thursday, Dec. 7 in the
Fairfax Lounge. For more in-
formation call Christine Bragg
at 462-4633.

   
    
 
 

 

 

opp 0190990’

Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing
andAccessories

 

Welcome Back Students

////a

   

/

\

 
 

  

‘ 

 

‘ 

|“WVVUN'Uﬂ1 compx1stn¢Pa1nt1ngp.Photo9'a h8.Scul tum. .
,,ms;-«mm & &m?;§m}$m, A" gear round 23 1\_1. Ma1n St. (703)463-5988
“‘*"',‘;",,‘.f‘“"‘“ Lexlngton, VA 24450
Open 10-5 llandqyvaotunmr
M0-I64-I 147 Annex. via C no Wiloouud

   

Low Prices

 

§\\

  .

   
 

 

lVISA

 

102 W. Washington Street

Embasy Boxers
Red Wing Boots
W&L Belts,
Ties, Dog Collars
Christmas Ties
Ray—bans

MASTERCARD

Tuxedo Rentals
St Sales
Golf Sweaters Gt

Ties

Hats, Gloves,

Scarves

STUDENT   CHARGE

 

 

    
            

  

 
 
 

      
  
 

 
   
     

     
    

  
 

    

    
   
  
   

 
 
 

~ :OCCCOOOOCO.‘.0000’OOCOCCOOOOOOOOCCOOOO: 
PRING BREAK - Nassau/Paradise Island, Cancun and. ‘ ' I " : A :
amaica from 299.00. Aii Hotel, Transfers, Parties, and , . :    L :
Morel Organize a small group and earn a FREE trip 2 . ‘ o 0
plus comissionsl Call 1-800-822-0321 K ltﬁeC4‘CXr.(/"<3/Tr‘: . t : : ,_
. O Q
Q A. Q Cm-1 war pn-ms: Ltd EU_ for Sale 0 StonewareAngelOrnaments ' Handjscreened calendars o  i H‘ I ' o
 /  bg coi1ector..Po_pu1ar artists &Sculptures&Nat1v1tySets &Chnstrnas Cards : :
0 K””Sl‘.‘"i'iT'°“i"‘ ‘B L°?' "a°"". '5*°°*-Wtird Feeders '55R9810nalArt1sts Represented ; ;
« »~-~—~~———~~——~-~‘~~~~~—  -Wits A A = MADNESS s ALE = 
: campus Reps smoDre@vt.edu ' G"“°TaYl°' : o I
' C
‘' Needed SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL T I ‘ I
“‘ " PK“ TF3?! * (A H Io-um TRIPS, EARN CASH&GO FREE!!! 22 West Wasltfn Ion 454-3625 0 o -
;" * Nfw Sid 3. $ Eqvar StudentTrave1 Services ILS/I)1OW hiring Lexingtan g M9nday.5a,,mg,,y1o.5 : ‘ : A
.. M tamii::.i:*::°a::.*:.‘s¥.“isa,:::=:;its ‘egg   I Sunday!-4 ‘ . JUST IN TIME TO SHOP .
G °°"' P Ct’ B ll. 6 1l1-800—648- ' °
» 1-sao-999-ski-9 4322"“ ‘Y  3 aw» aura»-aw» : FOR CHRISTMAS’ =
0 I
LOSE 2O POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS : S I‘
Famous U.5. Womens ﬂloine Ski Team Diet 0 _ _ , , 0
During the non—snow off season the US. Women's Pllpine Ski Team members used the ‘Ski Team’ diet to lose 2O pounds in two weeks. That's right —- 2O pounds in I4 : 25% Off practlcally eVeryth1ng* at the University :
dogs! The basis of the diet is chemical food action adn was devised log a famous Colorado phgsician especlollg for the U.S. Ski Team. Mormal energg is maintained : Bookstore :
lverg importantD while reducing. You keep Tull -- no starvation -- because tl;1eO:i:tt i:.}odr::gned that wag. It's a diet that is easg to follow’ whether gou work. travel. or : Wednesday, D e C 6 mb e I. 6 : r
This is. honestly. a tantasticallg successful diet. If it weren't. the US. Women‘s Qlpine Ski Team would be permitted to use it. Pight? So. give gourself the same break : 7 TO 10 PM :
the U.S. Ski Team gets. Lose weight the scietitic. proven wag. Even if goulve tried all the other diets. gou owe it to gourself to trg the US. Women's Fllpine Ski Team : ' ° ° ° ' ° ' 0 9 ° ° ° ° ° 9 ' ° ° ° ° ' 9 ° ' ° ° ° ° ° ° 9 ° 0 ° 9 ° ° ° :
Diet. That is. if gou reallg do want to lose 2O pounds in two weeks. Order todagl Tear this out as a reminder.
Send onl $8.95 ($9.60l in‘ California) -- add $50 PUSH service to: Plmerican Institute. 72l E. Main Street. De t. 254, Santa Maria. C0 93454-4507. Dont order :  MAD : ‘n
9 P 0 0
unless gou expect to lose 2O pounds in two weeks! Becausethats what the Ski Team Diet will do. 0 Monday, December 18 o
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII-----: l  :
I‘ ' ' 8-00 430 '
,- I \ I I - _ v
,.« /‘ \  ‘ ,. I I I \ \ l  I I : : .,.
., _, s. . x v II J I 0 0
 ,1}. D ,1, Let    \\ 4% J5  ‘not included: Textbooks, sundries, film... :
0,1 I ‘ II p  ' ICC...COCCCOCCOOCOCOOOCQQQQOOOCCQQQQQQQOO
I I I _ ' ’ ' " I
Your Student :: a I S : ,
I I I
Go Hungry :: , :  Restaurant and
"A Bistro ' A
I I , I ' O ) -
Harbs’ Point Card  8 am _ 3 pm _ Monday  ﬂoﬁﬁw 5L Olmﬂe A
T116  M631 T1Cl(€l ::8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday :
Redeemable   8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday : L _R0ute 7‘:/HBO?‘ 450
For only $90.00 I: ‘ I Nefhme H4%’4‘°"*9g;“e’
I I - I one -
. . Wednesday — Spaghetti & Salad .
Nutritious Muﬂins & Egg Specialties I: All YOU can eat 354-99 I
Fresh Salads & Soups '_': : Lounge open 4:00 pm. to? . *
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees :: Thursday - 10% off food — with student ID :. Restaurant 11,00 am_ to 930 p_m_
Candlelight Diners . . . _ ,
:: Friday — Seafood Nite - :
Give Your Student  Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout E T‘:
a Homecooked Meal With Our -- Saturday ‘ 8 °Z‘ Pmne Rm’ -
. I I 2 Vegs, Salad $8.95 I
Pomt Card :: E d M ff‘ &‘ C r C ff $1 : 
:: "W 3’ “ I“  "P"   :
9 --     (saw .- wami -
a r S :.'. Daily Lunch?Speci$ll,:_fWith5lI)t‘i§1 '
19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450 I: 19 w_ washin ton st_ Lexin ton VA 24450 I »
5 .3.

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIRIIII II,IIIIIIIIIIIII

  
     
 
    
   
   

  

***FREE TRIPS & CASH! l *** SKI 8 SNOWBOARD - WINTERBREAK 8 SPRINGBREAK '96
Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with Intercollegiate Slzi Weeks, ONLY $219. Includes: 5 DAY LIFT
America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun, TICKET, 5 NIGHTS LOGDGING (LUXARY CONDO)/ 5 DAYS ,_
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL INTERCOLLEGIATE ACTIVIES (drinlzing agel8), Sponsors inclucle '
(800) 95-BREAKl Molson§1’l_al>atts. MT. Call Slei Travel Unlimited. (800) 999-SKI-9.
‘ DO You Want VISA 8;‘ MasterCard Credit Cards? C. {Camus CARD. Box 220615. Hoi_LwooD. FL 33022 : M‘ g
F I _ . ' I  ‘
° ..,........ '2?.'a.t°o‘:.‘3£.21'i$.‘!.?;i’J1{‘;f..":°2LL‘°.Z§;‘L".é’.'.:.‘2 - Y ES! Ivar-tvIsA°IMAsrI=RcARD° cum . nzuvzav muvsns
cltdIlc¢:;£dDs.r.i:|‘:irwA§l'; : (hnlsappmved   OIIIIIRNVEEIII :   I
VISAO and MasterCard0 the credit cards you I I  . ?«
deserite and need for— |D—BOOKS—DEPARTMl-INT 3 NAME 3 '
STOREs—TUIT|ON—ENTERTAlNMENT—- . . owe
EMERGENCY CASH—TK2Kl-:1S—-RESTAURANl‘S- ' ADDRESS . ll row are 33 76°“ 0’ '1
Harri-:i.s—Mo'rr-:Ls—c.\s—cAR R1-:mA1.s— . have your own insured auto and
namns—AND TO Burn) Your: CREDIT RATING! : CITY .____.._.__ STATE _. ZIP ____. ' are 0 50,9’ counews CW8,’ _,
.ﬂg£U no turn dmms! ' PHONE _..—.._..__.... SS.” ' call your local Little Caesars
“T. ‘s«_‘g§‘9 No credit checks! : SIGNATURE : °r Owl’ m person’
‘ ml’ It In security deoosit! . nduldennlltduntathnll ammo-Lur. >~
'‘‘::;II':::: 05'?‘ 4 ' I "am i'ii‘2’.'7l'“;'.'l',.'Z.I..'§"§'.°......... cl VISA usA. in-_ IMITIISA Int.-nnllonnl I     '
°“ “ 55"“ ‘"5 °°""°" ‘°"“' I ' on aqua: opmrwy amplcv/er
Youn CREDIT CARDS ARE HAlIlIlGl . __________________g

  

.  - - V _‘

Q3_'u\~ ‘  

sttowboar »
$ 219

“r.ivtIilte.t.i\h.e.aIIii

IHIEICOLIIGIIYI SR! 711;’!!!
330-301: hulnﬁu
6 lobon I Laban: 9

«A 5 DAY sxi 2. snovisom
 urr TICKET

NIGRTS LODGING, ,.
LUXURY CONDO

DAYS 9. IIIGHTS Of

(Not A Lot Of Money)   iliiliiiiiiliiis -

®TovoTA    
TE REEL MSRP Starting vnaer3i10i. I. ‘ ‘ ""

SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY ®  » 3-  7 e »
I I Love What You Do For Me  ”
MSRP BASED ON TAX. TAGS, TITLE, FREIGHT, OPTIONAL & REGIONALLY REQUIRED EQUIPMENT. DEALER SETS FINAL PRICE. ' "‘ "' ""’k“"”'°"°°'"

1-800-999-Ski-9

       

 

_ 139.
‘ '‘ MIX ________1 lb. bag

   
  

HOLIDAY SAVINGS!

Regular Or Junior

Chiquita

  
  

Naturally Fresh Reg. Or
Fat Free Salad

Dressing _12 oz.
, Stouffer’s

. ‘§*a"_Y_‘§i?.§.T!*S?.?i P t S '
we    ar y ize

Fresh Express

Salad 99

Mm “V.” 5 \.uur

 
    
 

250°  ..  39¢

_2:j_.

Harris Teeter

Apple Juice

amsteeiei  

Soft Drink \Feature

  

 

2 Liter

Coke Or Diet

 Mardi Gras
Paper
“ Towels

' B O M ma Selected Variet_es
,,,,‘;,’,’,,,.,"[_’,,c,-2 Get White Rain Hair 9
Meatballs _2o°$'.‘? fee Produc_ts_4.u Ed

" Selected Varieties Elfggll 5"“-‘d 7° 9’

'l'ropi_cana 149
 46 0-2.
Prices Effective Through December 5.1995

. ~ - d , N b r29 Throu h December 5, 1995 ' In our Lexington store p
Pr8f1|SylrlN:hl§e::r5§eTCli|e/l1cfT_lriiill Q(li\;:?lll€eS. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamp: .

X

S
2

BeeL__~__u.. 599

PAGE 7

 

Cam Dyer
Men's Basketball

The senior forwardhas had no trouble pick-
ing up where he left off last year, when he
averaged 17.2 points and 8.1 rebounds per game
to earn second team all-conference honors.

Even though the Generals have started 0-6,
Dyer has once again been on target. The tri-
captain scored 27 points versus the Savannah
College of Art and Design, and notched 26
points versus Emory.

Dyer rolled past the 1,000 point mark in the
Emory game, and he passed the barrier in dra-
matic fashion. It came on a slam dunk.

p4.'NI.€£.'i£S
0? Hit W££I€

 

Josephine Schaeffer
Women's Cross Country

Maybe we should erect a shrine in this space
for Schaeffer, considering this is the third time
she has appeared here this fall. lt‘s only ﬁtting
that one of W&L’s best athletes ever closes out
her cross country career as Athlete of the Week.

The senior ravaged the South Region Cham-
pionships course for the third time in her four
years, prevailing in a time of 18:47 to earn a
berth at the NCAA Division III Championships.

Schaeffer performed admirably at the NCAAs
as well, ﬁnishing ninth in a time of 18:02 to
capture an All-America award for the third time.

Christmas Eve with Jerry,
Neon Deion and the ’Boys

THE BIG FAN, from Page 8

letic teams. I am also confident that the W&L football team
would give VMI a tough battle if the two teams were to
challenge each other on the gridiron.

Sure, these two schools may have very few similarities,
and there historically have been some ill-feelings, but this
bad blood has mainly been confined to the past. If you want
to see teams that absolutely do hate each other, check out an
Auburn-Alabama or a California-Stanford game.

VMI and W&L are scheduled to play each other in
basketball again next season, so hopefully, this will be the
start of another tradition.

For one night, thanks to a television broadcast by Chan-
nel 7 of Roanoke, Lexington was in the spotlight. Hopefully,
this can occur more often.

We’ll now return to the regularly

Now dash away! Dash away! dash away, y’all!”

Despite this collection of talent, St. Jerry wanted more
This year, he would tolerate no less than twelve-and-four
So up to Deion’s mansion, the Cowboys’ bandwagon

moved,
With the wagon full of cash, and St. Jerry too-

And then in a moment, Deion heard on the deck

St. Jerry trying to keep the grousing players in check.
As Deion closed the door and began to turn around,
Into the nine-car garage, St. Jerry came without a sound.

He was dressed all in black from his head to his toe,

With his ego tarnished from losses to the Niners, his
closest foe;

A large bag of money he had thrown on his back,

And he danced in like Bryan Cox
just after a sack.

scheduled column, which is now in
uncharted territory: white space. l’ll
try to make good use of it by formu-
lating a Christmas tale which I’m
sure you’ll someday tell your kids:

‘Twas the Night Before Christ-
mas at Deion Sanders ’ house

‘Twas the night before Christ-
mas, when all through Deion’s home

Not a sound could be heard, not
even in the Astrodome

Deion’s wallet was placed by the
bar with care

In hopes that St. Jerry soon would
be there;

  

Photo by Stephen Dunn, Allsport

Deion Sanders forsook 49ers
red for Cowboy blue this year.

As Deion watched, he began to
wonder about the fun

Of wearing gray and white, while
making interceptions.

But baseball or football- how could
he ever choose

The turf he would tra"eise in his
Nike shoes?

Deion knew he had Ed DeBartolo
and the 49ers to blame:

They wouldn’t even let him play
wide receiver on his Sega game!

He was also growing very weary
of yearly contract hassles;

Gosh, the Niners might soon ex-
pect him to make tackles!

 

t J

The NFL players were nestled
all snug in their beds,

While visions of multi-million dollar contracts danced
through their heads;

And Deion softly climbed from his pool while singing
some rap,

Hoping that free agency would put number twenty-one
on the map,

When out on the deck there arose such a clatter,

Deion sprang from his jacuzzi to see what was the matter.

He took off his sunglasses, but his gold necklaces re-
mained dangling

As he quickly strutted toward the site of the banging.

The recent winter storm of freezing rain, sleet, and snow

Would give Leon Lett bad memories of Thanksgiving
two years ago,

When suddenly, Deion saw objects appearing to be toys

But no- it was a bandwagon and eight large Cowboys,

With a little old driver so self-satisﬁed and merry,

Deion knew in a moment he must be St. Jerry.

More rapid than Eagles and Cardinals they came,

And he negotiated, and pleaded, and called them by
name:

“Now, Aikman! Now, Emmitt! Now Moose and Irvin!
On, Haley! On, Woodson! On, Novacek and Newton!
To the top of the conference! To the top of it all!

 

/9 5. zcwdatﬁé St.

St. Jerry knew he had to move now, for he was under the
un

g He was still mainly known as the man who ﬁred Jimmy
Johnson

Circumventing the salary cap was all St. Jerry would
need to do,

To sell lots of jerseys, logos, Pepsi, and Mountain Dew.

So in much less time than it takes Aikman to get sacked,

That swift St. Jerry signed Deion to a long-term pact.

As he opened the crystalline door and was greeted by the
chilly air,

St. Jerry pumped his fists- he would DEFINITELY NOT
revenue share!

He swaggered to his bandwagon, to his team he gave a
whistle,

And they all reached new heights faster than a missile.

But the NFL heard him exclaim as the Cowboys contin-
ued their climb-

“Happy Christmas to all, and get ready for Prime Time!”

Walt Whitman I’m not, but it was worth a try. Consid-
ering Neon Deion Sanders, Jerry Jones, and the Dallas
Cowboys are all the universe ever hears about anymore, this
story seems appropriate.

Anyway, I wish everyone a merry Christmas, thanks for
reading, and l’ll see you back here in the new year!

  
 

463-2742

 

 

Last Week:

Mlhsmrasu. - L, 90-61, vs. John Carroll, L, 93-79, vs. Kauks
at Carnegie Mellon Invitational; L, 100-62, at VM1;
L, 65-60, at Hampden—Sydney
Wnsnrmsu. - L, 50-40, vs. Sewanee, ‘-4’ 85-40, vs. Rose-
Hulman at Sewanee Tip M.‘ ilassic-, L. 65-46, at RMWC
Mcaoss Courrmx - Finished 21st at Division III Championships
Wcaosa Cour:-ray - Josephine Schseﬁer ﬁnished ninth at
Division Ill Championships
Wswnntma - W, 134-69, vs. Sweet Briar

PAGE 8

S

@112 iﬂing-tum iﬁhi

PORTS

This Week: ’ *

Wn:arI.n«:-

Fri.-Sat. at Lebanon Valley Invitational

 - Sat. at Guilford. 7:80 PM; Mon vs.
Bridgewater, 7:30 PM; Wed. vs. Emory & Henry, 7:80 PM
 - Sat. at Guilford, 5:30 PM;
’l\1es. at. Bridgewater, 7:00 PM

 -
WSIImnNo-

Fri.-Sat. at Johns Hopkins Invitational
Fri.-Sat. at Johns Hopkins Invitational;

Tues. vs. RMWC, 8:30 PM

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee
men’s basketball team has been
. struggling through their first six
games of the season.

During their Tip-off Touma-
ment the Generals dropped a
game in overtime to Emory Uni-
versity, 89 to 86.

Despite the hard loss, the
Emory game did contain a
memorable highlight. Senior tri-
captain Cam Dyer scored his
1,000th college career point on a
dunk in overtime.

In the consolation game,
W&L, plagued by 50 percent
foul shooting, lost to Albright 85
to 77.

OverThanksgivingbreak,the
Generals traveled to Savannah
College of Art and Design where
dismal shooting in the first half
gave W&L too large of a deﬁcit
to recover. Despite an 18-2 run
in the second half, the Generals
were defeated 72 to 64.

The team ﬁnished the break
at the Carnegie Mellon Invita-
tional, where they dropped games
to John Carroll, 90 to 61, and
Keuka College, 93 to 79.

With a record of 0 and 5,
Washington and Lee was ex-
pected to go into Tuesday night’s
contest with Virginia Military
Institute and willingly accept

BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, CROSS COUNTRY

what had been billed as an inevi-
table defeat. The Generals, how-
ever, came out with great inten-
sity and managed to keep the
Keydet lead to only seven points
at the half.

Tri-captain Cam Dyer said,
“We played hard. If we approach
every game with that level of
intensity then we’ll have a real
successful season in the ODAC.”

But in the end, the athleticism,
quickness and depth of the Divi-
sion I VMI squad overpowered
Washington and Lee by a score
of 100 to 62.

in the opening minutes of the

first half VMI jumped to an early
lead, but then became compla-
cent. The Generals took advan-
tage of the Keydets’ tentative-
ness, denying their transition
game and forcing them to play
some half-court offense unlike
their usual stun and gun style.
' The Generals were helped
under the basket by 6’6” Eric
Zavolinsky, 6’5” Kelly Dyer and
6’7” Cam Dyer.

Washington and Lee head
coach Kevin Moore started this
big lineup, hoping to combat the
fact that the Generals have been
out-rebounded in all ﬁve of their
previous games.

But the Generals, despite
showing great improvement in
their inside game, had trouble
handling 6’5” 1st Team All
Southern Conference senior for-
ward Lawrence Gullette and 6’ 7”

Men's Basketball:

W&L endured another
tough loss on Thursday night,
falling to defending ODAC
champion Hampden-Sydney,
65-60.

The Generals led 29-21 at
the break, and extended their
advantage to as much as
twelve in the second half.

The Tigers roared back with
a late 8-0 run to grab a 61-53
edge. W&L pulled to within
three, but two free throws with
six seconds remaining clinched
the win for the Tigers.

Chris Couzen scored 16, and
Cam and Kelly Dyer each added
12 for W&L, now 0-7 overall.

J ockShortS

 

    

Phoo urtesy of W&L Sports lnforrnation
The Washington and Lee men’s basketball team, depicted here in this year's A

team picture, played tough against VMI, but lost, 100-62, to fall to 0-6.

freshman standout Brent Conley.

The Washington and Lee
frontcourt lineup has been no-
ticeably weakened by the loss of
6’5” senior tri-captain Derek
Carter. Carter, a solid defender
as well as a legitimate three point
threat, has been out with a knee
injury. He is expected to return
after Christmas.

The Generals were plagued
by several things on Tuesday.

They committed thirteen turnovers
in the ﬁrst half alone.

Moore hopes to see his team
making no more than fourteen
turnovers per game.

Shooting from the ﬁeld also
remained a problem for the Gen-
erals, who posted a 28.8 percent
performance.
progresses, Moore hopes to see
his athletes playing more deci-
sively and under control, making

As the season_

Women’s Basketball:

The women also dropped a
contest last night, succumbing
to Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College, 65-46.

The Generals trailed 30-18
at halftime, and could not catch
up, as they fell to 1-2 overall.

Sandra Holmes led W&L
with 15 points, and Chrissy
Burghardt notched 13.

Women’s Swimming:

The Generals captured their
23rd consecutive league win
Thursday with a 134-69 trounc-
ing of Sweet Briar. The last
W&L ODAC loss came in 1987.

more of their close range shots.

Entering the second half, the
Generals were obviously fa-
tigued. The Keydets regained
their fast transition game, led by
senior guard Bobby Prince.

Asthe game progressed, VMI
head coach Bart Bellairs was
able to rotate his players often,
eventually playing everyone on
his roster.

W&L was hurt by the depth

DECEMBER 1, 1995

VMI storms away in second half »
W&L keeps it close in first half of teams’ first meeting in 54 years

of the VMI team more than any- ”

thing. Coach Moore admits that
the Generals are struggling with
their own depth, but hopes that
with a few more solid recruiting

classes, they will successfully be r

able to play an up-tempo style

similar to Bellairs’.
Washingtonand LeeandVMI

have not met on the hardwood

since the 1941 Southern Confer- ”

ence quarterﬁnals in Raleigh,
North Carolina, where VMI de-
feated W&L 39 to 32.

But now that the rivalry has
been renewed between these two
schools, whose campuses col-"
lide, the W&L-VMI basketball
game may become an annual
event, with proceeds going to the
Rockbridge Area Recreation
Organization. ,,

Despite the loss to VMI,
Moore and his players seem
pleased with their performance
and are conﬁdent going into
Thursday night’s game against
defending Old Dominion Ath-"'
letic Conference champs
Hampden-Syndey.

Moore hopes that the team
will use the conﬁdence and poise
they gained from their ﬁrst half»
successes as a “springboard into
the ODAC.”

Zavolinsky said, “We came
out with a lot of intensity against
VMl...I think if we keep our in-
tensity up once we get into the
ODAC’s, we’ll be in much better
shape.”

Women’s hoops

splits in Sewanee

By BRIAN F031
Phi Staff Writer

T9

After a slow start, the Washington and Lee women’s hoops squad
exploded out of the gates with an 85-40 scorching of Rose-Hulman
in the consolation game of the Sewanee Tip-off Classic.

The Generals’ big win came on the heels of a frustrating 50-40,,
loss to Sewanee in the opening round. Head coach Terri Dadio
credited the big turnaround to “a better team effort, great defense and

a little weaker competition.”

A large part of the dramatic change in point production can be
credited to a much better shooting percentage in the second game.
In the season-opener, Sewanee held W&L to an anemic 36 percent
from the floor, while the Generals hurt themselves with a 43 percent

performance at the charity stripe.

In the Rose-Hulman game, the team turned it around, finding
their stroke, and hitting at a clip of 51 percent.

Coach Dadio was happy with the Generals’ performance versus’
Rose-Hulman, but feels that their best chance of winning isn’t in a
run-and-gun shootout, but when they “play good solid half-court
defense and try to get easy baskets, or baskets out of our half-court,

motion offense.”

The Generals prefer to play at a more controlled tempo because-0
their bench is only four deep, which hamstrings their ability to make
a lot of substitutions for tired players. Another resultof the shortage
of manpower is that with nine players, members of the coaching staff
often have to step in and play during scrimmages so that the team cant.
simulate true ﬁve-on-ﬁve game conditions.

According to Coach Dadio, the team’s goals this year are to “be
more competitive in league play, improve every game, and make the
ODAC tournament, which means ﬁnishing in the top eight in the

conference.”

In order to accomplish these goals, the team will have to hope foi“
solid seasons from senior co-captains Sandra Holmes and Allison

Hull.

So far, the two have responded well to the challenge,

combining for twenty-eight points and twelve rebounds in the win

over Rose-Hulman.

Coach Dadio is pleased with the perfcrrnance of the entire team,»
and how they have responded to ,a limited roster, saying, “our
numbers are small, but our hearts are big.”

W&L cross-country"
teams finish season

By RYAN BREMER
Phi Staff Writer

After breezing by the com-
petition at the South Region
Championships, the W&L
men’s cross country team earned
its ﬁrst team berth in the Divi-
sion Ill championships.

W&L competed for the title
against twenty other schools at
the national championships, held
at the University of Wisconsin-
LaCrosse. W&L’s runners re-
ceived a rude awakening at na-
tionals, ﬁnishing last overall.

Jason Callen was the top ﬁn-
isher for the Generals, coming
in at 141st place. Finishing in
back of Callen was fellow sopho-
more Taylor Shultz in 147th
place, senior Brad Paye in 163rd

place, sophomore Will Olson in

169th place, and freshman
Darrick Alford in 180th place.
The team title was captured
by Williams, and the individual
winner was North Centra1’s John .
Weigel with a time of 23:58.
The women’s team also ended
their season at the national cham-
pionships with senior Josephine
Schaeffer running her last race

for the Generals. "‘

Schaeffer capped off her il-
lustrious career by blowing away
the ﬁeld at the South Regionals
in a time of 18:47, and qualifying

for nationals for the fourth).

straight year. She placed ninth at
nationals, with a time of 18:02, a
mere 37 seconds behind the win-
ner, Jessica Caley of Williams.
Schaeffer added another All- A

America honor to hertrophy shelf
to gowith two otherAll-America
honors, three South Region titles
and 29 career victories.

 

I» It

 "'  utv.‘».'it¢!é£ll"~

¢7ke ecctcamt mactqme Women's swimming

¢a1tea‘t1>at.=I=.st..s 9 has pelfect week 6

Chi: ‘iﬁing-tum Iﬂlii

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

45

VOLUME/96, N0- 11 LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA JANUARY 19, 1996

Ramos reinstated;

Let it snow, let it snow, let it snow!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

A treacherous beauty, snow covered Lexington earlier this month. The Blizzard of 1996 stranded travelers, closed
schools, and delayed ﬂights...not to mention cancelled classes. See related story on page 2.

New exhibit proves photography is art

BY EDYE POECKER
Phi Staff Writer

When most people think of an art exhibit, they
imagine that it displays painting or sculptures.
However, the new exhibit in the DuPont Hall

gallery proves that photography can be just as artistic
and creative as most conventional conceptions of art.
The DuPont exhibit features the works of three
Virginia photographers.
One of the contributers is Washington and Lee
alumnus and current Annual Fund director Peter
Cronin. Cronin’s black and white photographs de-

pict local landscapes, including the Shenandoah
National Park, and landscapes of the California coast.
Radford University art professor James Knipe
trained as a sculptor and as a painter before he traded
in his chisel and paintbrush for a camera. His local
landscape photography has been displayed through-

out the country.
Susan Bidwell’s

black and white ab-

Reaching for the stars

stract photography of
everyday objects has
been displayed in
shows throughout Vir-
ginia and North Caro-
lina. Herwork has also
appeared in the New
York art journal en-
titled Manhattan Arts
International.

' The exhibit will re-
main on campus until
February 9.

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Lexington police officer Mark
Ramos returned to work Monday, even
though he has not yet been cleared of
assault and battery charges stemming
from the arrest of third-year Washing-
ton and Lee law student Shelby Katz.

Chief Bruce Beard reinstated Ramos
after reviewing the results of a two
month investigation conducted by the
Virginia State Police.

Beard concluded that Ramos did
not use excessive force and followed
all departmental procedures during
Katz’s arrest on October 28.

Ramos charged Katz with having
an open alcohol container on a public

charges not dropped

street, being drunk in public, and re-
sisting arrest.

On November 15, Katz filed assault
and battery charges against Ramos.
She claimed that he used excessive
force during her arrest.

Ramos was suspended from the
department with pay on November
17, pending the outcome of the
investigation.

Chief Beard refused to say whether
Ramos would be allowed to continue
working on the force if he is convicted
of the charges.

Katz declined to comment; Ramos
was unavailable.

Katz and Ramos were scheduled to
stand trial at the Rockbridge General
District Court on January 12. How-
ever, the weather caused the court date
to be pushed back to February 9.

Freshmen faring Well
with fall term grades

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

The report cards from Fall Term
1995 may indicate one of the strongest
freshmen classes in years, according to
Dean of Freshmen Dennis Manning.

“The grades indicate that the
freshmen have adjusted well,” said
Manning. '

Only eight members of the class of
1999 earned a grade point average be-
low 1.5, the probationary GPA for first
year students, as compared to 14 stu-
dents last year.

Manning also indi-
cated that the retention
rate among freshmen
has been higher than in
previous years.

In addition, frater-
nities have an espe-
cially good reason to
be proud of their
pledges.

“With the con-
densed fall pledge pe-
riod, the grades were
higher than we had an-
ticipated,” said Dean
of Students David
Howison.

A lambda Chi Alpha
pledges topped the list
with an average GPA
of 3.360 with Sigma
Phi Epsilon pledges
earning second place
with a GPA of 2.990.
Chi Psi was third with
a GPA of 2.900.

Because of the de-
cision to move frater-
nity Rush to the win-
ter, academic expecta-
tions for freshman of
the Class of 2000 are
on the rise.

Dean of Greek Affair, Buddy Atkins,
expects that next year’s freshmen might
surpass their predecessors with Rush
scheduled for the winter.

“They will achieve as well or better
with lower anxiety levels,” said Atkins.

Overall, ChiOmega was ﬁrstamong
all Greek organizations with a GPA of
3.209 followed by Lambda Chi (3.191),
and Kappa Alpha Theta (3.171). Sig
Ep won second place among fraterni-
ties with a GPA of 3.123.

Howison was happy to report that
Fall term grades showed ‘nothing
irregular.

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Professors to make the
call on make-up classes

President Elrod agreed with the Committee.

A aw»

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The sisters of Chi Omega prepare for Pref Night by decorating the Fairfax Lounge on Thursday.

BY DANIELLE BURGHARDT
M Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee students do not have to
make up the snow days, unless their professors
say so.

With more than 30 inches of snow and students
stranded everywhere but Lexington, classes did not
begin until Wednesday.

Dean Larry Peppers, Chair of the Faculty Execu-
tive Committee, said that there will be no formal
make up classes. Instead, the decision will be left up
to the individual faculty members.

The Committee met Monday to discuss the
semester’s slow start.

“The Faculty Executive Committee was asked
by the President to consider this issue, and we made
our recommendation to him,” Dean Peppers said.

Peppers plans to make up the lost time in his
Tuesday—Thursday class. Although he normally
needs an hour and a half of the two-hour time, he
plans to use the extra half—hour two or three times to
make up for the one missed class.

Professor of Sociology David Novack said that
he learned of the Committee’s decision Wednes-
day morning.

‘‘I think that their primary concern is in the area of
natural sciences, because there are labs. If you lose
a lab, you literally lose the equivalent of a week,”
Novack said.

Novack also said that he plans to use less intro-
duction time than he normally would.

W&L students will also miss classes the first
Friday in March for Mock Convention.

“Losing class that Friday is unfortunate, but I
think the benefits of Mock Convention certainly
outweigh the lost time we would have,”said Novack.

The Ring-tum Phi. Januarv 19. 1996 1
NEWS A j

 

BEYOND

 

' THE BLUE RIDGE

Mitterand illness sparks

debate on impeachment 9

Paris, France—Questions have arisen this week concerning whether or
not the French Constitutional Court should gain the right to impeach a
president. The debate is following the publication of a book by former
French President Francois Mitterand’s private physician, Claude Gubler,
in which he reveals that Mitterand suffered from severe cancer for more
than a decade of his presidency. Gubler, who is being sued for violating
the code of patient privacy by Mitterand’s family, asserts that the President
was so ill that he was incapable of fulfilling the duties of the presidency for
the last six months of his last term. This report is being vehemently denied
by others who worked with the former President, who died last week of
cancen

Government agencies face

shutdowns, budget cuts

Washington, D.C.——Several federal agencies which recently reopened
following the latest government shutdown are planning for the possibility
of another shutdown on January 26, when many will run out of spending
authority. By operating on limited reserve funds and sharply reducing all
but necessary daily operations, agencies like the Department of Health and
Human Services and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion have been able to pay some ofthe many bills which went unpaid during
the shutdown. However, they are running out ofmoney and will likely have
to cut or shorten many important programs. Although many agencies have
received approval for funding through the end of the ﬁscal year, some
facing the January 26 cutoff fear that they could face very serious
reductions in operations if GOP budget cuts go according to plans.

Hillary Clinton uses book

tour to deny Whitewater

Washington, D.C.— First Lady Hillary Rodham Clinton used her new
book’s publicity tour to deny continued allegations of wrongdoing con-
cerning her roles in the Whitewater and Travelgate affairs. Promoters of
her book, entitled It Takes a Village, have sent Clinton on a nationwide
press tour where she's faced reporters more interested in the scandals than
her writings. In her effort to dispel the allegations, which have recently
inspired a drop in her popularity ratings, Mrs. Clinton hinted that she might
even be willing to testify before the Senate lnvestigation Committee on
Whitewater, although as yet she has not volunteered to do so.

Baseball owners vote on

interleague play proposal

Los Angeles, CA—Baseba|l owners who are conducting quartcrly~

meetings this week hope to vote on a proposal for interleague play during
the regular season. Supporters of the proposal say that this change could
improve baseball’s popularity among fans, as well as increase ratings for
television networks. interleague play could be up for vote Thursday before
a meeting of all the owners, and would need 21 of 28 votes for approval.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

 

GOP WATCH

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re-
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Forbes’ advertising blitz

shows results in Iowa polls

A recent poll taken in Iowa shows that Steve Forbes has significantly cut
into front runner Bob Dole’s lead. Although Dole is still maintaining a
large lead, many analysts believe that his chances of losing are growing as
Forbes’ popularity continues to surge. Forbes’ strong showing in the poll
is a direct result of his advertising bombardment ofthe state. Since Forbes
is not receiving any federal election funds he is not subject to the spending
limits that constrain other candidates. But political observers are warning

  W&L husband and

Blizzard of ’96 hits Lexington * 

BY Cmmrs YOUNG
Phi Features Editor

The Blizzard of ’96, now a, phrase reserved for gas station tee-shirts (of the “I
survived...” variety) and meterological records, was not without major impact
both on the W&L campus and within the greater Lexington community over the
past week.

The largest snow storm of several decades, last week’s blizzard caused classes
to resume at Washington and Lee a full two days later than was planned.

Such a delayed opening is singularly rare for W&L, and was indeed “the fourth
time school has been cancelled in 30 years,” as will attest James Arthur.

Arthur, Director of Build-
ings and Grounds here on cam-
pus, describes the vigor with
which B&G employees fought
the weather across campus:
“We had people working
around the clock, from Satur-
day to Wednesday, to remove
the snow.”

While snow removal is after
all a task common (although
not to this season’s extent) ev-
ery winter at W&L, this year’s
removal process varied in sev-
eral distinct ways from that of
any other year.

Arthur explains that 1996
was “the first time we have ever
setup housingin Gaines [Hall]”
for those employees who could
not risk the trip back and forth
over the weekend.  ' “°" '

Anotherdifferencelies in the
fact that Evans Dining Hall this
year provided B&G employ-
ees with food during their

  

to school by Monday, January 8, originally scheduled as the first day of Winter
Term 1996. '

Phone calls from students who were trapped under snow drifts or whose ﬂights
were cancelled flooded W&L’s administrative offices, and whether convinced
more by these calls or the weather itself, school officials ultimately declared
Washington and Lee closed until the Wednesday of last week.

Students in the meantime whiled away the long hours during which the
weekend’s heavy snow prevented travel, some in the comfort of their own
apartments and houses, some in their dorms, and some stuck in hotel rooms
miles away.

The W&L campus was hardly the only party affected by last weekend’s
blizzard, however; members of the Rockbridge County community also felt the
impact of the storm.

One area of the county di-
rectly affected by the weather
was that of the stores, most of
which were closed during the
thick ofthe storm only to re-open
with droves of customers.

Laura Davis, an associate of
Wal-Mart,declines to discuss any
particulars aboutthe store’s sales,

good sales in toys and sleds.”

A manager of Harris Teeter
likewise describes the grocery
store’s business as “really, really
busy” during the snowy week-
end. Similarly avoiding specif-
ics, the manager nonetheless
stresses that the crowds were
“worse than [during] Christmas.”

As manager of Domino’s
Pizza, meanwhile, Rick Ficken
also recalls “a good amount of
sales,” especially during the in-
terval in which Domino’s and
HarrisTeeterweretheonly stores
open in downtown Lexington.

 

campus stay.

Thus providedwith food and
lodging, all B&G crew mem-
bers—plumbers,carpenters and
custodians alike—worked in
shifts and overtime to prevent much accumulation of snow, and Arthur speaks
for the entire crew in saying,“ We’re pleased at our success at getting the
snow removed.”

As well as the snow may have been removed from the sidewalks and
crossways of W&L’s campus, however, its presence upon the roads and backroads
of Rockbridge County and beyond proved too much for many students to return

Old man winter marks his territory once again.

Ficken estimates that his busi-
ness did in fact suffer due to the
storm, however, explaining that
his delivery service was out for
two and a half days.

Once reopened, “business did very much increase in the days that people could
get to their cars,” Kroger manager Mike Blanks affirms as well.

While traces and tee-shirts of the “Blizzard of ’96" have not yet disappeared,
and the trek to and from class still merits warm boots and Chapstick, the worst
of the storm is long over, and Lexington has now become once again a booming
Main Street community.

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

wife team to teach,
research in Europe

From Phi Staff Reports

Lawrence M. Lamont, professor of administration at
Washington and Lee University, and Anne Schroer-Lamont,
associate dean of students at W&L, are spending the winter
and spring in Oslo,’ Norway. ‘ ‘ ’ » " »

Lamont has joined the international faculty of the Nor-
wegian School of Management, the second largest institu-
tion of higher education in Norway, where he will teach
marketing, advise students, and conduct research.

Schroer-Lamont accepted a position as scholar-in-resi-
dence at the Center for Research on Women at the Univer-
sity of Oslo. She will join researchers from around the world
and will share her findings from a 10-year study on the
career decision-making ofgifted young women from Wash-
ington and Lee.

In her study, Schroer-Lamont has been recording the
changing patterns of future educational, career, and family
planning goals of several hundred W&L alumni. Her goal
is to contribute to the establishment of a theory of career
development for gifted women.

Following their stay in Oslo, the pair will travel to
Warsaw, Poland, to attend an international educator’s con-
ference where Lamont will present his recent research on the
teachings of marketing. Later they will travel to Russia and
eastern and western Europe, visiting research centers in
their respective fields.

Lamont received the B.S., M.B.A., and Ph.D. degrees
from the University of Michigan. He joined the faculty at
Washington and Lee in 1974 as an associate professor and
was named a- full professor in 1981.

Schroer-Lamont joined the administration and counsel-
ing staff at Washington and Lee in 1985. She received her
B.A. from Defiance College, her M.A. from Washington

They're seeing spots!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

State University, and her Ph.D. from the University of
Northern Colorado.

Amidst a sea of blue tape, the Kappa Alpha Thetas prepare for Rush.

but allows that the store “did have .

Freshman males initiated

BY MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

Despite concerns about hazing, fraternities initiated their pledges this past
weekend. Under the guidelines passed last year by the Interfraternity Council,
freshmen males must be initiated by the first week of the term.

Associate Dean of Students Leroy “Buddy” Atkins said under IFC bylaws,
freshmen should have been initiated last Saturday. An anonymous letter by a
parent raised rumors about possible fraternity hazing.

In response, President John Elrod called a meeting last Wednesday with IFC
and fraternity presidents. Atkins said the purpose of the meeting was to remind
them to not haze and get their pledges initiated that weekend.

“There is not supposed to be any hell week,” he said. “lnitiation week is
supposed to be for initiation and not for any foolishness.”

IFC president Ryan Connolly said all freshmen pledges were initiated this
weekend and has heard of no violations or hazing incidents.

 

 
    
     
   
             
   

WEEKLY
INCME

processing mail tor
  national company! Free
au plies. postage! No
  an ling! Bonuses! Start
  immediate!  Genuine
opportunity! §1SA.S.E.*

  

 

L*:::::::.%.".:;;°;:§.§2:}:?::.:.:%:.‘::;;::::::::;5:.:‘::,::::.:t:::?:%:.3::::   ct-re, sures 216 “‘
many believethatitwillbedrtfrculttoforhrmtotransferhispopularrtyinto . 
caucus votes.  8 6  N .  G
  0LLYHO0D.FI. 3302 "
GOP Watch is compiled by
Peggy Stuntz and Laura Knapp
Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor ,;(

Jenna Cowles and Dana Hood prepare Pi Phi for Rush.

 

 

W

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1996

tlxe eFFi.c'Lev\t vv\.acl~'Lv\e

pi|<5bO|US

 

Page 3

tion.

calleel

dia,” and Kent Lindemer’s and John Mario-Sevilla’s

By Lisa Brunciage
Guest: Writer for the Phi

Martha Graham said that bodies can’t lie. Perhaps
that is why Pilobolus’ audience members are so awe-
struck. ‘

Pilobolus’ dancers, who brought their unique
acrobatic dance to the Lenfest Centeron Tuesday and
Wednesday nights, bend, shape and throw their bod-
ies in unimaginable feats that seem to defy all the
laws of physics.

Pilobolus Dance Theatre is the brainchild of Moses .

Pendleton and Jonathon Wolken. The pair founded
the company in 1971 after meeting in a dance class at
Dartmouth College. Since that time, the group has
gained and continues to enjoy world-wide recogni-

The program shown at Lenfest was a retrospec-
tive of works covering the company’s 25 year his-
tory. In the five pieces presented Pilobolus demon-
strated not only physical prowess but miraculous
artistry.

Dancers swung like pendulums, turned somer-
saults through each other, jumped, lifted and all out
suspended themselves in mid-air. So seamless were
the motions that the boundaries that normally exist
between people completely vanished. Each dancer
became part of the efficient machine called Pilobolus.

The inventive choreography kept Pilobolus’ ab-
stractions from being too esoteric, and it seemed that
even the large members of children within the audi-
ence appreciated the group’s efforts.

The repertoire the company presented varied from

‘ the comical “Walklyndon” (1971), straight from the

Ministry of Silly Walks, to the stunning drama of
Rebecca Anderson’s pasd’un(e)entitled“Pseudopo-

duet “Pyramid of the Moon.”

Nothing, however, could have prepared the audi-
ence for the amazing ending of the program.

“Day Two” featured some of the most innovative
props used in dance. Poles were used to suspend and‘
support dancers before the flooring itself undulated
beneath their feet. Soon, however, it was the dancers
themselves who vacillated underneath the ﬂoor cov-
ering, before reemerging before a standing ovation to
remind everyone how much fun Slip ‘n’ Slides are.

Pilobolus is ultimately a true testimony to the
human spirit, not only by testing the bounds of
physical capability within an aesthetic framework,
but by giving the art-of dance accessibility.

E ditor ’s Note: Lisa Brundage is currently a sopho-
more atMary Washington College, in F redericksburg,
Virginia, where she is enrolled in both English litera-
ture courses and dance classes.

Michael Hewlett
Phi Staff lVriter

Isn’t life weird? First, President Bill
Clinton forgets to inhale; now, we are wait-
ing to exhale. The movie “Waiting to Ex-
hale” has finally arrived, and groups of
women have packed the house to see this
movie about their lives, their fears, and their
hopes. t
The movie was inspired by Terry
McMillan’s best-selling book of the same

V ‘K name, which was based on the experiences

of the author and her circle of friends. The
book focuses on the trials and tribulations of
four black women.

One such woman, Savannah is a single
public relations executive who moves to
Phoenix, Arizona, because she cannot find a
decent man in Detroit.

Another, Bernadine, finds out on New
Years Eve that her husband is leaving her for
a white woman. Never underestimate the
rage of a scorned woman because she pro-
ceeds to clean out her anal husband’s closet,
pile his belongings in his car, and light a
match to them. Ouch!

Robin, meanwhile, is a successful insur-

wrong men. Although she is intelligent in other
areas of her life, she loses all common sense
when it, comes to the male species.

Finally, Gloria is a single mother who runs
a stylish salon and tries to raise her decent but
increasingly difficult son. At the same time, she
waits for the perfect man while feeling self-
conscious about her weight.

Here you have four black sisters struggling
to find a man who can '
satisfy them emotion-
ally, physically and in-
tellectually. In the
course of one year,
these women see a se-
ries of brutish men
come in and out of
theirlives. They cling
to each other to get
through the rough
times.

Some have argued that this book is a general
bashing of black males. Those arguments fall
flat, however, when one reads the book.
McMillan simply and eloquently relates the
experiences of black women in American soci-
ety.

Furthermore, the reader is always reminded
that not all black men are dogs (which serves as

Terry McMillan's tioole is
a realistic portrayal of
the sometimes hostile

worlal of lwlacle male-

female relationships

to exhale

 

Exhale is ultimately about the relationships that
black women, and women in general, build
among themselves and the bonds they share
with each other.

I laughed with them. I felt their pain and
their desperation. They spoke to me in a direct
personal way, reminding me of my mother, my
cousin, my aunt, and every black woman I have
ever met. .

My only criticism
was the sometimes
cavalier attitude to-
ward adultery with
married men. At least
three ofthe four char-
acters get themselves
involved with married
men. But, in another
way, these indiscre-
tions show the reader
that these women are
not angels; they are humans and as much at fault
for choosing the men they allow in their lives as
the men themselves.

This is a realistic portrayal ofthe sometimes
hostile world of black male/female relation-
ships. McMillan writes from the heart with
honesty and sensitivity. Her novel brings to life
the songs of black women’s voices and experi-

 

ance professional who always attracts the

reassurance for this reviewer).

Waiting to ences so the whole world can listen and learn.

 

I{irle Susong
Phi Reviewer

The typical time travel film involves some pretty basic criteria: the lead
running into his younger self, the actors working to avert some tragedy and
‘change the future,’ and the time travelers blending into their surroundings to
avoid capture.

Twelve Monkeys takes these normal parts ofa time traveling movie and subtly
changes each ofthem, altering them just enough to make the film innovative yet
still a mainstream hit. And largely, it works. _

The film’s premise? In the year 1996, a deadly virus breaks out around the
world, mysteriously killing ﬁve billion people; mankind is forced to ﬂee
underground to save itself. But we humans are none too happy in the dark, grimy,
industrial caves below the surface. So the government decides to send convicted
criminal James Cole (Bruce Willis) back to the year of the outbreak - but not to
change history, since that can’t be undone. Rather, they simply want him to locate
the source ofthe pure virus, so that scientists can create a vaccine for it. Then man
could safely return to the surface of the earth.

At this point Willis makes the same mistake it seems every time traveler does.
(I vow that if] ever travel back in time the last thing I will do is to tell people I

am from the future, since they would think l was a complete loon. Why do they
always make this mistake?) At any rate, Willis shoots his mouth off and is
promptly taken to a psychiatric hospital, where he spends his time drooling.

More importantly, he meets fellow inmate Jeffrey Goines (Brad Pitt), and also
the kindly Dr. Kathryn Railly, played by Madeline Stowe (Last of the Mohicans).
Needless to say, they become an intricate part of his planning as well as of the
plot’s eventual resolution.

The real strength ofthis film is the intricate plot, and the many twists and turns
it takes. Thanks to time travel, you are never absolutely positive what is going
on, or who knows what. And since the film states early on that the future is
unchangeable only to a certain point, it makes the resolution of the plot all the
more interesting and unpredictable.

But as always occurs in science fiction or fantasy films, the unique features of
Twelve Monkeys’ world aren’t perfectly developed. There are a number of
questions which are left unresolved, and several of the characters’ actions don’t
necessarily make sense. For example, ifthe future is truly unchangablc, then why
does Jose give Cole a gun? is there any significance to the fact that the scientist
always says she is in “insurance” at the film’s end? But though these distractions
are disquieting, they also ultimately serve to illustrate the thought-provoking
nature of the film.

Brad Pitt takes a lot of criticism for being a beef-cake poster boy. but I think
this film will go a long way towards proving his critics wrong. Pitt brittgs to his
role as Jeffrey Goines a sort ofscary sanity reminiscent oflack Nicltolsun in (me
Flew Over the Cuckoo ’s Nest; sometimes it’s difficult to decide if the chat 1lL'lL‘r.\‘

::l?°- Army of 12 Monkys Marches
 Across the Silver Screen

are sane people who love the freedom ‘insanity’ brings or if they really are crazy.
The other members of the cast also perform admirably; it’s particularly good to
see Bruce Willis continue to expand his repertoire.

So what bothered me about this ﬁlm, besides the aforementioned inconsisten-
cies? One, the script is rather uneven. Writers David and Janet Peoples (the
former being known for Unforgiven and Blade Runner) seem only to have
sketched out some of the more interesting parts ofthe film, and let the rest ofthe
plot development be filled in by apprentices.

For example, the question of time travel is well addressed. But when the
‘everyday’ business of finding the virus begins, the script quicly loses its
cleverness. When Cole and Railly are searching for the Army ofthe 12 Monkeys,
they simply follow a trail of paint to the headquarters! That seems more
appropriate to a Charlie Chan radio serial than a multi-layered film about the
complexities of sanity and time.

l also found myself quickly tiring of Terry Gilliam’s directorial vision. The
former Monty Python member and director ofBrazil and The Fisher King takes
:1 dark and slightly paranoid view ofthe future which quickly becomes tiresome‘
- afterall, this film isn’t 1984 and shouldn’t get too involved with that sort ofpost-
industrial, urban grime picture.

Overall, Twelve Monkeys is an above average picture. It raises and explores
interesting questions about destiny, sanity and memory, all within the context of
:1 plausible plot and compelling characters. Although there are a few loose ends
here and there, Terry Gilliam’s dark vision is well-filmed and entertaining. And
really, what more can we ask for from a film‘?

 

    

PAGE 4

Ella: ilting-‘tum Elﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

You look fabulous

Perhaps the most fascinating feature about
Sorority Rush (minus the singing and clapping
girls) is the veritable fashion lollapalooza that
overruns our campus for one cold week in
January.

Yes, it’s time again for Lexington’s own Pret-
a-Porter and you’re invited.

From the Colonnade to the University Center,
the women of Vogue and Cosmopolitan have
stepped off their magazine’s pages and into our
lives.

Everywhere you turn it’s a bazaar of winter
fashion. A-line skirts in classic black accom-
pany form-fitting charcoal sweaters. Tasteful
brown turtles, cream-colored tights, and sen-
sible shoes adorn virtually all W&L women.

Labels, labels, darling, it’s all about labels.
Anne Klein, Ann Taylor, Todd Oldham. It’s not
who you are, it’s what you wear. Evidently, it’s
an absolutely fabulous campus—if only Patsy
and Edina were here!

Never mind the ridiculous decorations that
overwhelm Fairfax Lounge and the Game
Room. They look more like the runways of
New York, Paris, and Milan.

Yesterday somebodytthought they saw the
film crew of MTV’s House of Style gathering
footage for their college edition.

Time to put away those tattered Gap jeans and
over—sized J. Crew sweaters, ladies! Grab those
Kenneth Cole shoes and that funky mod squad
dress you found in that boutique on Rodeo.
That’s right, honey, Kate Moss ain’t got nothing
on you.

Style, poise, and elegance are this week’s
buzz words. Diet Coke and rice cakes in hand,
sorority wom,e_r1,:,;,i,r1 haute couture, have revolu-
tionized W&L’s fashion scene.

Guys take a look! After this weekend it’s
back to the frumpy casual wear of crunchy
comfort —- so tired, so old, so three years ago!

Who cares about the snow on the ground?
Check out those glammin’ women. Hot, hot,
hot. So what if it is gloomy and gray outside?
This week’s explosive excitement is inside.

They may call us snotty, shallow, and superfi-
cial. Maybe they’re right. But don’t despair,
darling, because, as Billy Crystal would say,
you looook mahvelous.

Quote of the Week

“That’s what Rush is all about.”

—A Kappa Alpha Theta on the thousands of
pieces of blue tape used to
attach decorations to the wall

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1996

         

'-V?

  
   
     

I  tl 3l.«_;'lE M;

‘M 

, um
. .5 ' F‘ i i I ,‘ HF’
I __  V.‘  H t as‘ -_ - .

“ Imuelekkamkk-Er

End of Racism : old issue, new debate

MY VIEW

Joshua Heslinga

Over the past several weeks, a dis-
cussion has been raging on Washing-
ton and Lee’s campus about the nature
of racism and multiculturalism.

One of the most unfortunate things
about such discussions, as they are
commonly held, is that both sides seem
just to rail against the other, repeating
mantras about affirmative action and
multiculturalism without much com-
prehension or substantial reasoning.
The arguments in such discussions are
frequently constricted and hardly ever
supported in detail.

A few months ago, a book was
published that attempted to change the
nature of the discussion of racism in
America. You’ve probably ,heard the
many outraged liberal denunciations
of this book. I’m referring to The End
ofRacism by Dinesh D’Souza.

I bought D’Souza’s book partly
because I figured that if it had drawn
such condemnation from the en-
trenched liberal civil rights establish-
ment, it probably had more than a
grain of truth to it. I now believe that
The End ofRacism is one of the best
books on culture and public policy I
have ever read. It is exhaustively re-
searched and extensive in its explora-
tion of racism’s history, scathing in its
treatment of those who stand in the
way of real solutions, and painfully
probing in searching out contempo-
rary cultural pathologies and prescrib-
ing remedies for them.

D’Souza provides an in depth look
at the origins of the modern liberal
commitment to group equality and pro-
portional representation, ideas that
have become gospel without any seri-
ous reasoned support. He charges that

while the early sociological commit-
ment to cultural relativism served to
fightthe entrenched racism ofthe early
20th century, it has now become a
major obstacle toward finding serious
solutions to contemporary attitudes.

D’Souza presents the central di-
lemma for liberals clearly. By nearly
all means of measurement, American
attitudes toward race have undergone
a remarkable transformation that now
shows little or no explicit racism. Yet
liberals have been puzzled as to why a
reliance on merit has not produced a
greater change in black achievement.
In response, they have devised a dubi-
ous and unsupported concept of insti-
tutional and implicit racism that ig-
nores any pretenses offairness or merit
and relies on explicit racial prefer-
ences that, D’Souza alleges, “treat in-
competent individuals as competent
on account of their membership in a
fa"\Foi'e‘d3 grasp.” ‘

In addition to destroying standards
as a whole, these racial preferences
virtually concede black inferiority by
acknowledging that less qualified mi-
norities must be chosen in order to
-produce “fair” levels of achievement.

In 1993, Jack Nelson, chief of the
Los Angeles Times’ Washington bu-
reau, announced to his staffthat hence-
forth, only women and minorities
would be hired. He was asked if this
prohibition on white males amounted
to discrimination and replied: “No,it’s
affirmative action.” Similarly, Freddie
Hernandez, a black lieutenant in the
Miami fire department, stated, “We
hire 60% Hispanics here, regardless of
qualifications.”

These rigid instances of explicitly
racial preference have provoked, in
D’Souza’s words, a large white back-
lash that believes that “America does
not have a race problem but rather a
black problem.” While some of this

backlash against racial preferences is
undoubtedly expressive ofracist senti-
ments, some black Americans too are
beginning to attack affirmative action,
and most whites seek only the restora-
tion of Martin Luther King’s color-
blind standard.

However, many liberal civil rights’
activists see this as insufficient and
reject all merit-based standardized
tests, which invariably show a large
gap between white and black achieve-
ment.

These large merit gaps have led
liberal coalitions to oppose all testing
and job qualification standards as in-
herently racist. Yet D’Souza points
out that the National Academy of Sci-
ences recently concluded that these
tests in fact over predict black achieve-
ment, and even critics ofthe tests, such
as James Crouse and Dale Trusheim,
authors of The Case A gainsl the SA T,

'‘ freely admitithat the tests are, if'any-

thing, biased toward blacks.

To his great credit. D’Souza moves
beyond the pessimistic recognition of
the merit gap that is too often the
extent of contemporary debate. Con-
trary to the assertions of many of his
critics, D’Souza rejects any arguments
of the genetic inferiority of blacks,
including those proposed by Charles
Murray in his controversial book on
IQ, The Bell Curve.

Rather, he seeks to confront many
of the pathologies that destroy
achievement in black culture. He ar-
gues that having achieved formal
equality, blacks must now address
these cultural problems, which liber-
als refuse to acknowledge because it
threatens their belief in cultural rela-
tivism. These cultural problems in-
clude extraordinarily high crime rates,
the normalization of illegitimacy,
prevalent drug use, dependency on
government for help, glorification of

violence, a reliance on racism as an
excuse, and a complete “repudiation
of standard English and academic
achievement as forms of acting
white.’”

Unfortunately, the penetrating and
honest commentary that D’Souza of-
fers is hardly welcome in contempo-
rary debates over racism and
multiculturalism. As he states, the civil
rights establishment owes its contin-
ued existence to the constant unearth-
ing of allegedly racist attitudes and
practices.

Indeed, liberal blacks denounce
any serious dissent from the line of
the civil rights establishment, impugn-
ing non—black critics as racists and
invoking the dreaded Uncle Tom epi-
thet toward black conservatives.
Washington Post columnist Carl
Rowan declared: “if you give [Su-
preme Court Justice Clarence] Tho-
mas a little flour on his face, you’d
think you had David Duke.” Black
historian John Henrik Clarke sums up
this attitude, asserting that “black con-
servatives are really frustrated slaves
crawling back to the plantation.”

These inﬂammatory statements
and attitudes have been used (or over-
used) so much that they now have
only questionable effect. Controver-
sial presidential candidate Pat
Buchanan declares, “Words like rac-
ist’ have lost their power to intimi-
date. No one is cowed anymore.”

This ominously harsh rhetoric
stands as a major obstacle to reaching
the multiracial society that D’Souza
envisions. It would behoove those on
both sides of the debate (as well as
those in the vast gray area between the
two encampments) to listen to his
innovative and compelling voice, for
only when the debate becomes truly
honest and open will we be able to
achieve The End ofRacism.

@112 ilting-tum lﬂlti

   
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  

Executive Editors ................................................................. ..Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Michael Hewlett
NCWS Edll0l' .............. .. Christine Ga]-navjsh
Editorial Page Editor.. ..... ..Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor ................................................................... ..Scott Bookwalter

Assistant Sports Editor .............................................. ..
Features Editor ............. ..
Photography Editor.... 
Editorial Cartoonists ............................................................. ..

....Bclhany Bauman
........ ..Cindie Young
....................... ..Betsy Green
Phil Fliekinger, Tom Fallaee

 
 
  

Business Manager ....................................................................................... ..Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager...  ..... ..Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..Jcnnifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist ................................................................ ..Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University. Lexington. Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription rev'enues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-(um
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions oflibel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail p/ti@w1u.cdu

Why can’t they just keep it to themselves?

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

I did not attend the Mock Convention Gala (and
don’t ask me to pronounce it), but it did, at least for
me, provide a telling glimpse into the unpromising
future of our country and the evils of so-called
“political correctness” and “tolerance.” While these
are fine concepts in general, I think they are really
getting out of hand when people try to force them
into the mainstream of society, past the point of all
reasonableness, until everyone is expected to con-
form to..the. same norms that everyone else does,
leaving little or no room for disagreement.

“What does this have to do with the Mock Con-
vention Gala?” you ask, aswellyou might.“lthought
it was just another date function.”

Sure, that’s what they would like you to believe.
lt’s alljust another excuse for a party, another excuse
to dance and drink and have fun. That’s true up to a
point, until you see the sinister ideology such an
event promotes, however subtly.

Everywhere you looked on campus, it was the
same. At first, it was hardly noticeable. Out of
nowhere, they appeared: Women with men! Men
with women! Laughing couples holding hands and
pretending to be happy while ﬂaunting their so-called
“lifestyles” in a ﬂimsy exercise to try to make them
look more acceptable to the mainstream. Surrounding
me was a tide of political correctness, screaming,
“Abandon your morals! Throw away your future!
Forget the rules of tradition and common decency!
Heterosexuality is just as good as any other arrange-
ment.”

Now, I realize that in today’s political climate, it is
unfashionable to “bash” heterosexuality. Suddenly,
politicians from Newt Gingrich to Bill Clinton to Pat
Robertson want us all to believe that being hetero-
sexual is somehow “okay,” or even desirable. “Family
values” are pararr Jill in the political discussion.

And heterosexuals have not let this go unnoticed.
Suddenly, as ifout of nowhere, they are flexing their

newfound political muscle in an effort to carve out a
territory for “special” heterosexual rights. They want
tax deductions for married couples that somehow
constitute more of a “family” than any other loving
living arrangement. They want marriage to be an
exclusively heterosexual province, depriving the chil-
dren of people of other sexual orientations of a more
stable, identiﬁably cohesive environment in which to

grow up. In some states, heterosexual extremists have

even attempted to organize to pass ballot initiatives
that would deny access to the political process to
anyone but heterosexuals. How far is this politically
correct hegemony going to extend before the Ameri-
can people see it for what it is?

 .I1Ihis.all dates backtothesixties. Then, “hippies”

demanding “peace” and “love” threw out the old
boundaries and moralities in favor of “free love.” They
brought their sexuality out of the closet, and demanded
that everyone watch them fomicating in the woods on
television, at the movies—throughout the popular
culture. What once had been tolerance of other people’s
sexual choices and living arrangements became just a
general sickness at watching naked men and women
going at it all the time. And yet, they continued. Now
you can’t turn on a daytime talk show without seeing
some hick with three teeth and long hair at the back of
his ﬂattop, just emerged from his trailer for the first
time in months and still blinking, talking about exactly
how he and his wife like to have sex. Do we really need
to know?

I, for one, am ready to step forward and say,
“Enough is enough!” I don’t care what ’anyone’s
sexual orientation is——have sex with anyone and ev-
eryone you want, or an old boot. But the public
promotion evinced toward this kind of sick, open
heterosexuality is just wrong.

Imagine the effect this could have on our children
alone. Suddenly, instead of discovering their sexuality in
pure, healthy ways, they would, have a heterosexual
hegemony mandating that they get married, have kids,
confonn to the American ideal, even before they fully
realize their own potential as individuals or develop
healthy attitudes toward sexuality.

The country would be overrun with loping, macho

men and mincing, effete women all trying the latest
“hip” trend of heterosexuality.

While I don’t think that any one religion should
control the government, it is abundantly clear by now
that America is fundamentally a Christian nation, and
this kind of rampant sexual immorality is clearly
againstthe Bible. In the Old Testament alone, there are
over 300 prescriptions on heterosexual activity. Can
the message be clearer?

This is not to mention the unhealthy aspects of the
heterosexual lifestyle. Over 90 percent of the world’s
AIDS cases are caused by heterosexual sex. A deadly
epidemic is passing through our society like wildfire
while “populists” and pseudo—intellectuals tell us that
heterosexuality is “natural.” If it is so natural, why will
it kill you? May as well light up and shoot up and throw
away your life as become a practicing heterosexual
these days.

Heterosexuals are also more likely to be child
molesters. 90 percent of child molestation, committed
against both young girls and young boys, is committed
by pedophiles who often masquerade as “normal”
heterosexual men with goodjobs. wives and families.
Obviously‘.s0methingisterribly wrongwithalifestyle
that can generate these kind of shocking statistics.

I’m not saying that all heterosexuals should be
locked away or whatever wild final solutions to the
problem some have proposed. I have lots of good
friends who are heterosexual, and even though I am
their friend, I let them know in no uncertain terms that
what they are doing, in my opinion, is a sin. I’m just
saying that society cannot afford to sanction some-
thing so insidious as this in the name of “PC.” or
“toleration,” and whileweshouldnotviolatethc rights
ofheterosexuals, we alsoshould not pretend that what
they are doing is right or even morally neutral.

So next time you see a young boy-girl couple
walking down the street, making moon eyes and
ﬂaunting their perversity for all the world to see,just
ask yourself what you are being asked to accept in
that arrangement.

Me? I don’t go for fancy cars, diamond rings or
movie stars. I go for penguins. Oh, Lord, I go for
penguins.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1996

Looking for somet

think of the things I could do. What
jumps out right away is to become one
of the people who “buys” back text-

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

hing to do

the 137 different shots I took ofthem,
I’d still be raking in a proﬁt. Plus I
would get to go to Fancy Dress for free.

already pretty much know my way
around. I’d like to build a dairy there,
just like the one they have at Sweet

b00l<S1 My date could Briar College. Really.
Robert E. Stu- carr around There is alwa s the one other con-
. . . _ Y Y
This is the time of the year when dent: lboughtthis 9 Q mycamerabag tingency, the one which no college
"1051 SCWOFS TCQIIZ9 that 1” 3501" fl‘/6 geology book for for me. graduate wants to face: going back
months they will no longer be on a $45. . What will You may have read Now that home and living with your parents.
mealplan. Thisjarsthcm intolhtnklngg you give me? that Hollins C  the Grateful For me this is only slightly enticing
ab0Ult1Wh_3lIOEO3l1CTgF3dUi1l|0“}jTll15 I M61 TWO d0l- 0 ege Dead IS dis- because over the Christmas break I
USU3 Y "W0 V95 "OWE ‘O gm U319 ﬂrS~ ' ' banded, I found out that Linda Geor ‘an, th
school or getting zi‘;.j‘ob. Or thinking Robert E. Stu- ls l0f)klng for a new could spend president of the Psychic Fl'l6gl'lClS Ne:
ab0;1l b§°0ml“g§‘ll}l1‘hjY"333Y S0n;]0F- dent: Two do|- president, and I ﬁg- timefollowing work, has moved to my hometown,
y irst step in t e jo searc was lars? What a rip- Doug Clark Very Beach, Florida,
putting tfogetherarejurng. Thef:ouhgh% off!M 357.9: hey: why not me? and the Hot “I psychically felt I wanted to live
est part or me was cci ingw re 0 e: Nowit’sa Nutsaround. I in Vero Beach. I saw a bright light
my activitieswere directly relevant. It dollar and half, alreadyprettymuch could sell T- around Vero,”shetoldtheVeroBeach
always helps to have a friend read just for your atti- know my way around. shirts to help Press Journal.
thT0Ugh )’0U”°SUm0l0 ‘ell YOU “M0”? Iudc. 9 ° - sup on myself This could be my chance to live at
ber, Columbia House”and“President, Robert E. Stu- I d llke to  a on Flhe road. home, workforaTV psychicand getto
the CadaverSociety”are unnecessary. dent: I’msorrysir, dairy there, just  Maybe if I know Dionne Warwick personally, all
N0‘ that I am the Plesldent OT GVCI1 21 I’ll take it. worked hard at the same time. Plus this could lead
mepliber. Neverwirjd. fh S Sdtonewajll J. the one they have at enough Doug to all-new career opportunities like
ext comest in ingo ow to get tu ent: ow ° would make workingonSylvesterStallone’smom’s
as much money as possible with the much is that used Sweet Brlar College’ me a Hot Nut, psychic TV show. My resume will
least amountofwork. While getting 14 geology book? Really. and I could have a bright light around it.
hours of sleep a day. I would like to Me: $30. have my own Recently I’ve also been thinking a
have a job in TV, but I’m working on Stonewall J. limericks and lot about the speech ofmy high school
some back-up plans, just in case. Se- Student: Deal. everything. Valedictorian, who said the future lies

niors have to have something to calm
their nerves.
I look no farther than W&L when I

Icould always be one ofthose“pai1y
pics” people who come to Fancy Dress.
Even ifeach couple bought only one of

You may have read that Hollins
College is looking for a new president,
and I figure, hey, why not me? I

ahead of us, gleaming with possibility
or shimmering with hope or whatever.
Maybe he’ll give me ajob.

Alpha Phi Omega coed service
fraternity announces annual rush

To the W&L Community,

It is my privilege to announce that Alpha Phi
Omega Coed Service Fraternity will be holding its
Winter Rush from Jan. 25 thru Feb. 1. The activities
include an Open Meeting, Midnight Bowling, a
service project at the SPCA Animal Shelter, a Pizza
Party, and the Pledge Ceremony. Flyers providing
dates, times, and locations ofactivities will be posted
across campus and both Greeks and Independents
are encourages to participate.

This is a very special time for the Alpha Beta Tau
chapter of APO as this has been our best year ever!
We have had the largest pledge class, the largest
membership (forty brothers), and are working to-
wards completing the most service projects and
service hours in our history. For those unfamiliar
with APO, we are a Coed Service Fraternity dedi-
cated to the principles of Service, Leadership, and
Friendship. We have weekly social breaks in the Co-

op, a weekly meeting in the University Center, and
weekly service projects. (Brothers are required to
attend two service projects per term.) Upcoming
service projects include a visit to Stonewall Jackson
Intensive Care Facility, a visit to the SPCA Animal
Shelter, helping out with Habitat for Humanity and
attending our Sectional Conference at V

CU. We also sponsor ongoing projects such as a
tutoring program at Waddell Elementary School and
supervising two Brownie Troops in the area. We
also have numerous socials including our Annual
Semi—Formal (Feb.), a Movie Night (Mar.), an 80’s
Party (Apr.), and many informal socials scattered in-
between.

Pledgeship in APO is open (anyone who wants to
join gets in), lasts about six weeks, and involves four
tasks: going through the Pledge Ceremony and Ini-
tiation Ceremony, interviewing all the pledges and
brothers. sponsoring a pledge service project and

pledge social, and attending weekly pledge meet-
ings. Our pledgeship is not that demanding and is
designed to introduce pledges to the traditions of
APO and to familiarize them with theirfellow pledges
and their future brothers. Each pledge is assigned a
BIG Brother who helps them out with pledgeship
and who serves as a best friend in the fraternity. In
addition, there is no hazing in APO: no meaningless
errands to undertake, no stupid or humiliating tasks
to perform. Finally, joining APO is very easygoing
on the wallet or purse, only $35.

If you’re interested in learning more about
APO (and you think you want to be a part of
our best year ever), don’t hesitate to contact an
officer or brother or attend any (or all) of our
Winter Rush activities.

Paul D. Saboe,
APO President

rounds.

U112 ﬂing-tum lﬂlii

Neither sleet, nor snow, nor driving rain
can stop us from making our appointed

(Well, usually.)

[I

PAGE 5

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society’s next presentation will be
the award-winning story of a “date
from purgatory,” What Happened
Was. . . (USA, I994), directed by
Tom Noonan.

Screenings will be at 8:05 p.m.
on Friday and Saturday, Jan. 19 and
20 in the Troubadour Cinema, at the
corner of Main and Henry Streets.
As always, there is no charge for
admission. This film is in English.

The Film Society’s presentation
of The Postman, postponed by the
recent horrible weather, has been
rescheduled for Jan. 26-27.

Study Break

First Northern American Na-
tional Bank (Circuit City) will be
conducting an Information Session
on Tuesday, Jan. 23 at 7 p.m. in
Room I l4 ofthe University Center.
All students are invited to attend.

The News York Stock Exchange
Summer Internship deadline has
been extended. Resumes, State-
ment of Interest and Transcript are
due to the Career Development Of-
fice By January 26, I996.

Videotaped practice interviews
will be held on Wednesday, Jan. 24
at 4:30 in the Career Development
Office. All students are invited to
attend.

Career Opportunity

Are you getting ready to gradu-
ate and can’t find alegitimatecareer
opening? We can help allay your
fears. Exciting, unlimited financial
opportunity in the telecommunica-
tions industry.

We are holding on campus re-
cruiting mcetings on Monday and
Tuesday January 22 and 23 at &:30
p.m. in Room 113, University Cen-
ter.

Formoreinformation ortosetup
a confidential interview, call 463-
6638 from lto 4 p.m. on Monday or
Tuesday.

Project Horizon

Lori Clan of Project Horizon
will speak about violence and dat-
ing 7:30 p.m. January 25 in the
Northen Auditorium.

Support Group

A confidential support group is
meeting weekly for Washington
and Lee women who have experi-
enced sexual assault/abuse at any
time in their lives. This group has
been meeting weekly for eight
years with the membership always
open to new members. Each mem-
ber signs an agreement of confi-
dentiality at the first meeting.
Please call Carol Calkins, the
Counseling Center secretary, at
8590 or the University Health Ser-
vice at 8401 to learn of times and
locations. The first meeting for
the winterterm willbe Friday,Jan.
19.

Stress Test

Take the Stress Test. Find out
what stresses W&L students and
how W&Lstudents manage stress.
book forthestresstestinthe Health
Center, d-hall, library and classes.
Results will be revealed at an in-
teractive program “Cliff Notes on
Stress Management” 7:30 p.m.
Tuesday, Jan. 30, Northen Audi-
torium by Wattcr Childress of Dow
Management Institute.

Alpha Phi Omega

Alpha Phi Omega events for
the month of January are as fol-
lows. APO will have an open
meeting Jan. 25, 6:30 p.m. in the
Fairfax Lounge. Midnight Bowl-
ing will take place at the lanes
midnight, Jan. 26. Those partici-
pating in the Jan. 28 Animal Shel-
tcr Project should meet at 12:50
p.m. in the BDG quad. A pizza
party is scheduled for 6 p.m. Jan.
30 in the Women’s Center.

Elrod commends B&G
for snow removal

Dear W&L Employees:

I want to pay a special tribute to
those of you in Buildings and
Grounds,DiningServices,andSe-
curitywholaboredwithsuchdedi—
cation during our monster snow
storm. To the Buildings and
Grounds crew, I want to express
my appreciation for those long
round-the-clocktwelve hourshifts
you served removing snow from
the walks, roads, and parking lots
on campus. To the Dining Ser-
vices employees who found ways
to make it to work on Sunday
evening and Monday to servethose

students who made it back to Lex-
ington, thank you for your great
efforts. And to the Security folks
who fielded hundreds of call daily
through the storm weekend and on
Monday, and who provided trans-
portation as needed, a special debt
of gratitude is owed you as well.

Thank you all for your very
special efforts on behalf of Wash-
ington and Lee. We all appreciate
your dedication and thank you
for it.

Sincerely,
John W. Elrod

During the non‘-snow off season the U.S. Womenis Rlpine Ski Team members used the 'Ski
dogs! The basis of the diet is chemical food oction odn was devised bg a famous Color
lverg importontﬂ while reducing. You keep full -- no storvotion -- because the diet is de

This is. honestlg. o fontosticollg successful diet. If it weren't. the U.S. Womenis Fll

LOSE 2O POUNDS IN TWO WEEKS
Famous US. Womens H/pine Ski Team Diet

stog at home.

Teom' diet to lose 2O pounds in two weeks. lhots right -- 2O pounds in l4
jodo phgsicion especiollg for the U.S. Ski Team Mormol energg is maintained
signed that wog. lts o diet that is cosg to follow whether gou work. travel. or

pine Ski Team would be permitted to use it. Pight? So. give gourself the some break
I e U8 5k’ Teom gels: l*°5“_ “"3’g"l  5Cl¢l'llC. Pfovcn wog. Even if gouve tried all the other diets. gou owe it to gourself to trg the US. Womens Qlpinc Ski Team

l)l¢*.  IS. If gou really do want to lose 2O pounds in two weeks.
Send Onlg $8.95 l$9.60l in Colrfomiol -- odd $.50 PUSH service to: ﬁlmericon Institute. 72l E.

unless gou expect to lose ZO pounds in two weeks! Becousethots what the Ski Team Diet will do.

Order todogl Tear this out as o reminder.
Main Street. Dept. 254. Santa Maria. CFI 93454-4507. Dont order

older students - camp coun-

Colorado Rockies Backpack-
ing. Western riding, water
activities. natural sciences and
many outdoor programs Write:

Box 167, Florissant. CO 80816

Rewarding. exciting summer
for college sophomore and

seller positions available in the

Sanbom Western Camps. P.O.

gm; DETAILS:

Vicky
Pratt
Kedﬁng

  

ANC

SUIT 2 1 6

1.861 1~t-1=.='1a:1::E12.a.r. 
I-:oIaL‘x1rg,po.n..F1;. 33030

in the GHQ Pub

Friddy,
Jdnudry l9
lO:00 pm.

    
 
 
    
  

I    Admission Free
NECESSARY!
RUSH LONG 5.455 .

‘‘|mogine it Nanci
Griffith, David Byrne,
ond Kate Bush were

I somehow fused into

I one body ond you've
. got the idea.” Henry

’ Dorn, of Charleston's

Free Times

  

 

The Ring-tum Phi, 3]} ggggx 1g, lﬁg “

3

     

 
 

gem MN iAtx\ii;BEEN
M4 \)NDERl>\C\k\’\l\lER.
BUY RE \Nl>é M’\2o\)D
Ui~\DERi>ciAii:.\Ji;R

M=oi<ruNi; 500   ‘ ; 1    i  
NEDDNG   A  i  i

. . l “  s  ./'



xx/Lay 

  
     
   
     

Put your face in the yearbook!

  

Drop off pictures ofyou and yourfriends infrorit of
Carol Caulkiri’s office in the University Center

Please limit contributions to those taken during the 1995-96 school year.

Welcome Students ’

 smiiciisii   ,

‘—tL:af:a=

While you were gone -

COLOR i

came to Lexington

     
     
       
         
     

We now Offer   COIOY Xelbx a downstairs Rathskeuer
copies at competitive prices ll
. ... 16 Lee Ave.
The possibilities are endless — 9» —
.. flyers, transparencies, photos. . .. (across from Chi Psi)

. 8am-3pm-Monday -
:3 am - 10 pm — Tuesday - Thursday
I 8 am - 11 pm - Friday — Saturday

   



  
    

      
         
  

   

 
 

       

  

P.-0* B‘“Ac1,§§§m;‘,g§f,;’,& 3,-=;-1:3“ 5"“  9 am ' 3 Pm ' Sunday  10% food discount to all
mom 540-463-1712 - FAX: 54o—463~9455 E W d d S h tf & S 1 d E W&L Students everyday!
. enes ay- pagel aa . .
: All you can eat $4.99 : .  Angus steaks " 3
.7  I Thursday — 10% off food - with student ID I 0 Salads, Sandwiches,
iwiowaine SYORES : : . )_
‘ : Friday - Seafood Nite - : Appetlzers
Hardware, Paint, and Related Items : Crab Legs, Siilrbimpi Trout I
' S t d - 8 . P ' ' , '
E gplen MSon.LSat.‘ 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 316-35 : a “T 3)’ 2 §>/ZegS:1g1:ad1$8.95 ... Take outs 434.3157 *
. e son t., exmgton — :
I Nightly dinner specials
: Lunch Specials Daily

: I I1I9IW'I lwlal ISILI, IIICIX 9| I I I E  at u a’m' 
_ « Dinner served 4:30 p.m. ‘til ‘.'??
  Reservations recommended '9 3
/
g ..

     
     
    
     

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
.. ‘./I

app oqa9.Qo'

. if
Ladies’ Shoes, Clothing  Restaurant an

 9{o55ie’sLounge

  
   
 
   
   

  

 

Don’; Le; andAccessories
Your Student Route 7, Box 99A
G0 Hung”, Welcome Back Students Lexington, Virginia 24450
 : Near the Horse Center
Phone 464-9499

  
  

23 N. Main St. (703)463-5988
/ Lexington, VA 24450

 

   

\\

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to?
Restaurant ll-001m in 0-30 r) m

\

 

: : would you like to spend the summer working
I W/427¢g2&p0Ag : of a Wyoming Guest Ranch? Ours is on
V I   H H V 3  5”’ 2Z“{"‘“2”‘e“ I 1425,0095 acres in the Medicine Bow Mountains,
Nutrltlogfiglugalyjdfggfclaltles E  curd Séadea 3 next to a wilderness area. We serve 1%
Hearty Sandwl~CheS&Mexl-can Entrees : i : guests at a time with a staff of 85. If you are
Candlelightpmers : ,9 S.  st. : available from about June 1 to September 8 or
2 463__274Z : the end of September, and enjoy both out-

ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo doors and being of Service to Others: Weld‘ 

TEACH ENGLISH lN KORE/\- Positions available monthly. B./\. or 13.5. to set up an interview, For an application or

degree required. U5 $18,500-25,400/yr. Accomodation & rourid—trip _ _ _
airfare provided. Send resume, copy of diploma and copy of passport to: more 'nf°rmat'°n‘ Bob or Margle HOW» A 30" A

Bol< .Ji Coprporation, Chun Bang Bldg, 15445 Samsung Dong, Kang Nam Gu, Ranch p 0 BOX 1g4g Conifer CO 80433 (363)
Seoul, Korea 155-090. ’ ' ' 4 ’
TEL: oii—s2—2-sss—.ioss(se27) FAX: oii-s2—2-ss2—4FA><(4529) 838-1950 0|’ e-mail O  F0 ranch O0l-Com l

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our

Point Card
19 W. ‘Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

:WpThe Ring-tum Phi, January 19, 1996  IJAGE 7

      YtT'll‘|.‘|iT‘li3
« EANS LOWF£i:iCE$ W Wm WM

Ground  

‘.
g c
an >‘:ixv04uU‘I0iI‘

    

   

Rebekah Prince Cam Dyer
Women’s Swimming Men's Basketball

Rebekah Prince seemed to be everywhere Dyer has piled up some amazing numbers

last week, _ in the past few weeks.
The seniorcaptainwasamain contributorin The Senior has not Scored under twenty
the Generals’ three meet victories last week. points since the New Year. After scoring 21
She proved herconsistency bycapturingat least points against both Virginia Wesleyan and
  Sa'e one race in each mee(tj. Aga(t')r(1)st Centre, Prince Iliyn(<j:h|t)t;1rg\,/I Dyer, gent onda rampage at
took the 100 back an the 2 lM. an 0 p - acon. e poste a career-hi h
Thorne  Valley Perdue Her performance was also impressive late in point total Of41, including 24 in the first halif.
n Lunch Tufkey the Catholic meet. With the meet on the line, Dyer’s point total trailed only Jay Handlan’s
M t D t‘ k Prince teamed up with Megan Wiedmaier, Greta 66 as the highest W&L single-game total ever.
ea S 8 oz,   S_Ib. Richter, and Laura Marshall to capture the 400 Dyerput24 morepointsontheboardagainst
free relay and the meet victory. Roanoke and piled up 25 at Emory & Henry.

Fresh

Russet
otatoes

”  meets last week. . ' 
‘ ‘ W&L dispatched Centre, 109-82. Natha L
 A it David Stillman led the way for W&L wit ‘twp
' victories apiece and Craig Sears added anothe

_ The relayteams also roved tentgasthey

   

‘     ea.

   
 

        

_  victorystringcaniv  agains S
_ _ . _ :, ._lic, 126-64, QHottle did his part one ‘  Q‘,..P0nSaC01aChr la
cahfafnla Tangy Ju'cy _ 1 wirilnting aniindlilvidual race. h  d ”h ’ saweek;later‘,34¢12; d_
. - ’ ‘ » V eroa wi eteventou er n atur w _ ‘ " ' "
Navel L T A Limes 0'' T the-Generals uglier to UNC%ChaCpel Hill t battele j‘
 A   i i  2‘ "  eai . , ough Emory and Johns “Hopkins squads,‘-
_  4 Pack
N 5”” i I _ .
 ' . i ' .IJ:eRIng-rum Phi Is proud to serve you each   f 5 7
sco'Ss ,_Feel free to Contact us of our office -- 462-40593)» ’
-<

   

 egaﬁrirers should come to our meetings on Tuesda‘

  F S4 "-  Ir Yousvr GOT WHAT lT TAKES

Soft Drink Feature TO BB‘/X LEADER iNI_OUR CQMPANYJ, 2

THTS'COU,l;D BEYOUR QFETCE.
PEPSI
Q
C

 

  

um»  Ms  . . r . =. .. . A .- A. '
., . ‘ "" WV‘ ‘W’ 3*?‘ 59‘ -Wu Y 6-’? 355s"r .41’ 015 ;°’.‘:u‘as' or-.».~..’:;:: me (:‘»::a3‘twi=s. "»‘(.~i.‘ nrsjts’ M .">a«-
' . '    OZ. Cans ""5 V25 3"’ *i”‘,"‘*"* “?"~""i"">‘-“‘»‘v”ﬁ-*“i'*"*«»’3’»*L‘ AM? it -ms .'e .92 (mi? 3 !.4I.x::'.»: C*ff,i:?=r *:r.w«‘a-.—ate.«":» ::.§.a».n:;}..,,~«‘;%~ 3-”
-4 sklnner Ver'l,1'ce'" or I ' D . t  ::m“;:"   §1'*3d3»'f"’tl7‘$} as ‘3;'z3C’ 30 M sm.‘.:a; t‘é:'»:(*' :4.‘ a.~~.s,!.x;x‘'> 1‘? 5*-T‘*'.*‘.<¥’u(:$;;
_ .,~t.4.t¢“)c.§;t’:{}\ ’;i1€a'«M;a’i§(°.' g.’§§‘§§{,l yd ' _,’;,......A i ,‘ >._ . gal; ,s’..,¢
it I hm PS” r 'e v".'i".!*“:* Di’/\'1'x:F.,i'ty‘{t’tt?l:‘] .-e.'1:,it(.~;,*.'(.“:tY\1t1';2*:e' mﬁ    U W)‘;  
I - - * o !k”“”' - _’~‘ » * 5.... s. ~92 . s. I. Jﬁfcaitaxrfi Ht‘;
* Spa heft‘ Pe St    &
 M For more mfomaation, please set: =Captain Hanvefi at the
:3 I Evans Diﬂlﬂg Hall on February‘ I3, 1996

from 11:00 a.m.-1.-00p.m.
or call 7-«80{)~542~$85 1,

 

. 7 oz.

g . . . SPRING BREAK ’ -
Hams Teeter President’s Choice mps, EARN CASH & 360 FRSl~;Ii§ITii

‘i ' T0mal-‘O 2? '-em0'i('-.U0U"a" 139 §:§l‘,J§'§l‘s‘}f;§‘é‘%§f§§LiZ:E3§?s?l2t%

'« amarca, ,

  Sauceils  Coo 'eS__j_12oz. mmac.,,Bg;g,:nCa,,qx8«g;,=:;g;.

Fresh Selected Varieties

Single Stem 2? Colgate 199 W C
' FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***
onS_ea. -  __5-5-4 02- Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
    23’  America s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun

Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL

iv,-u,-,-_-_v_v._-,-_cXv.‘-vxv-_vv4 vv V26 tn 1: u u u \ I. x In I. u c.

Prices in This Ad Effective January 17 Through January 23, 1996 In our Lexington store _ ,
 Only.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept reaerai PO00 Stamps. (800) 95 BREAK‘
L
V
\ T l

 

 

 

Last Week:

Wa.I.srLINc - L, 34-12, vs. Pensacola Christian; L, 25-24, vs. Davidson
 - W,7-1-71, vs. Lynchburg; L, 81-66, at Rand.-Macon;
L, 90-83, vs. Roanoke; L, 84-73, at Emory& Henry
 - W, 55-46, vs. Hollins; L,56-54, vs. Lynchburg;
L, 70-47, vs. Emory& Henry; L.67-44, at E. Mennonite
Mswnlumo - W, 109-82, at Centre; W, 88-52, vs. Buffalo State;

L, 126-64, at Catholic

Wswmuma - W, 122-60, at Centre; W, 118-44, vs. Buffalo State;

W, 103-102, at Catholic

PAGE 8

S

Ellie ﬂing-mm lﬂhi  

PORTS

BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

This Week:

Wnzsnma - Saturday in W&L Invitational, 9:00AM
MBAs|(n'aAu.- Saturday at Bridgewater, 7:30 PM;
Wednesday vs. Hampden-Sydney, 7:30 PM
WBAsIrl:raA|.L - Saturday at Randolph-Macon, 2:00 PM; ’

Tuesday vs. Eastern Mennonite, 7:00 PM;

Thursday vs. Randolph-Macon, 7:00 PM
M, Wswnmmc - Saturday vs. Emory, Johns Hopkins. 10:00 AM
M, WINDOOR Truck - Saturday at Virginia Tech Invitational

‘'1:

JANUARY 19, 1996 ti

 

   

. Late int’;
 e

    

 
  
  

"gang .VMl'

1, gs;;ofNieo1eSimpson"'
[nd3Ro_nafld._Goldman.  ._

   
 
 
  

ays.

 

.71.:
does, ‘remember j

<iO"KW¥‘\LTER  1

en, and def‘ ;.

 
  

itmayliap-jg

éard.iit,.,ltere first. .

Generals’ late rally falls short

against archrival Roanoke
Cam Dyer racks up 41 points in loss to Randolph-Macon

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee
men’s basketball team played
some ofits best ball ofthe season
during the final five minutes ofa
home game Monday against
longtime nemesis Roanoke.

The Generals were draining
three-pointers, driving the lane,
creating Roanoke turnovers and
playing an up-tempo pace. Un-
fortunately, W&L was behind
by fourteen points at that point
and it could only close the gap to
a 90-83 loss.

Head coach Kevin Moore
admired the Generals’ tenacity
at the end.

“ltwas encouraging,” hesaid.
“We didn’t quit.”

Afterwatchingafirsthalflead
evaporate into a double-digit
deficit, W&L began to charge
back late. Senior Derek Carter
caught fire from the three-point
line to help the Generals narrow
the deficitto five points at86-81,
buttime ran outon the Generals’
comeback attempt.

Roanoke helped themselves
survive the threat by sinking 18
of 25 free throws in the second
half. The Maroons were also
solidontheboards,out—rebound-
ing W&L, 41-37.

Roanoke trailed 33-30 late in
the first half, but it finished the
first half with a scoring ﬂurry.
Dan Riley canned a three-pointer
at the buzzer to send the Ma-
roonsintothelocker room witha
37-35 advantage.

Roanoke would never relin-
quish the lead. W&L closed to
48-47 on a Kelly Dyer bucket
with 13:45 remaining, but
Roanoke took offon a 9-0 run to
give it a comfortable margin.

Moore acknowledged that
Roanoke’s rally to end the first
half may have turned the mo-
mentum in the Maroons’ favor.

“We were playing real well
and then we started turning the
ball over,” he commented. “We
haven’t yet put a finger on why
we’re doing that.”

Senior forward Cam Dyer did
his part to helpthe Generals with
his 24 points on9for16shooting
to go along with eight rebounds.
Carter scored 11 points, 9 com-
ing from behind the arc, and
grabbed nine boards. Junior
guard Chris Couzen pitched in
with 14 points.

Jason Bishop scored 19
points to lead Roanoke, which
improves to 9-3 overall and 4-3
in the league.

The Generals’ luck was not
any better Saturday at Randolph-

Macon as the Yellow Jackets
overpowered them, 81-66.

W&L once again came apart
midway through the second half
after playing well in the first
twenty minutes and holding a
38-35 halftime lead.

The game was knotted at 50
with 12:31 left, but the Yellow
Jackets outscored the Generals
31-16 the rest of the way to deny
W&L from ending a 19-year
winless drought against them.

The story of the day, though,
was Cam Dyer. The senior put
on an amazing show by racking
up an incredible 41 points. Dyer
connected on 76 percent of his
shots (16-21) from the floor and
converted 9 of 12 free throws to
give W&L its highest individual
scoring performance since Jay
Handlan rung up 66 points back
in 1951.

Dyer scored 24 of the Gener-
als’ 38 first halfpoints and started
the second half with eight more
before Randolph—Macon finally
began making adjustments.

The Yellow Jackets scrapped
their man-to—man defense that
Dyer was torching in favor of a
zone defense which shut him
down in the post. Randolph-
Macon didn’t totally succeed in
stopping the one-man wrecking
crew as Dyer scored nine more
points, but it was enough to al-
lowthem tojumpoutto aninsur-
mountable sccond half lead.

“(Dyer) has done a greatjob,”
Moore said. “He’s playing as
good as anyone in.the confer-

ence.”

Dyer’s shoulders were wide,
but not wide enough to carry the
rest ofthe team, which shot only
26 percent from the floor. The
Generals were well off-target
from the three-point line, failing
on all 13 shots attempted.

“We need someone else to
step forward, “ Moore stated.
“We can’tjust rely on him.”

No other General was in
double figures in points besides
Dyer. Carter and Kevin Cobbin
were next on the list with six
points apiece.

While everyone else was
stuck on impassable roads and
grounded in airports, the Gener-
als actually bcnefited from the
blizzard. Due to the snow,
Lynchburg moved its home game
with W&L last Wednesday to
the Warner Center.

The unexpected home court
advantage paid huge dividends
for the Generals as they pulled
offa 74-71 triumph fortheir sec-
ond victory of the season. This
time, W&L was the team that
made the big second half run as
the Generals launched a come-
back fr. ' eight points down to
snare the win.

Dyer had another big game
with 21 points and 11 rebounds.
The forward was named ODAC
Player of the Week for his totals
of 62 points and 22 rebounds
against Lynchburg and
Randolph-Macon.

Couzen also contributed
greatly in the victory with his 13

points and 5 assists. Senior Jon
Coffman added 11 points.

The Generals weren’t quite as
hot a week earlier against Vir-
ginia Wesleyan on January 3.
Wesleyan blew them away, 103-
82, in a game marred by 28 W&L
turnovers. Dyer and Coffman tied
for high scoring honors with 21
points apiece, but the Generals as
a whole could not quite shake off
the rust in their first game after
Christmas break.

W&L endured another frus-
trating game Thursday night at
Emory & Henry, losing, 84-73.

After trailing 41-35 at half-
time, the Generals hung tough
throughout most of the second
half. Emory & Henry held a slim

'65-63 lead with less than ﬁve min-
utes to play when the bottom fell
out on the Generals.

The Wasps jetted off on a 10-2
run which ended the Generals’
upset chances.

Cam Dyer added 25 more
points to his totals and brother
Kelly tacked on 14 for W&L.
Couzen, Carter, and Coffman all
sank a pair of three-pointers.

Despite another hard-fought
effort, W&L falls to 2-13 overall,
2-7 in the ODAC, with the loss.

Moore mentioned that the
team’s goal for the second half of
the season is to play its way into
the ODAC tournament. The top
eight teams in the ODAC make
the conference tournament.

The Generals swing back into
action on Saturday night at
Bridgewater.

um.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Cam Dyer (24) has been on fire in recent weeks. After scoring 21 points in the
Generals’ victory over Lynchburg, Dyer piled up 41 against Randolph-Macon.

 
      
   
 

 

Phi File Photo I

The women’s swimming team sped out to a 3-0 "
record last week. The Generals are now 5-2 after
taking care of Centre. Buffalo State, and Catholic.

Swirmningposts '
strong 3-0 week -

The women’s swimming team blew through their meets last
week, posting victories in all three, and improving their overall \
record to 5-2. I

The Generals, led by senior All-American Rebekah Prince,
crushed Centre College, 122-60, and Buffalo State, 118-44. They
also beat Catholic, 103-102.

Against Centre and Buffalo State, the Generals jumped out to
huge early leads and never looked back. The Generals had a 33-2 A
lead over Buffalo State after two events and a 28-2 margin over
Centre after two events.

Prince led the way over Centre with two wins in the 100
backstroke and the 200 individual medley (IM).

Six different Generals also won their races: freshman Courtney
Tyler in the 1000 freestyle, sophomore Megan Wiedmaier in the 200? _
free,junior Laura Marshall in the 50 free, freshman Margaret Hoehl »
in the 100 free, freshman Greta Richter in the 500 free, and seniorlill
Sheets in the 100 breast. ’'

Against Buffalo State, Hoehl won two individual races, the 1000
free and the 100 fly. She was also on the winning 400 relay team.’

Catholic provided the only resistance to the Generals last week.
Going into the last race, the 400 free relay, Catholic was leading
W&L, 96-92.

Prince, Wiedmaier, Richter, and Marshall took first place in the
race by five seconds, giving the Generals the 103-102 victory.

“We were pretty nervous before the event, but we swam well and
had personal best times. It was really exciting,” said Wiedmaier.

Prince, Hoehl, and Wiedmaier each won two individual races for
W&L against Catholic.

With these wins, the Generals have their sights on repeating as
ODAC champions. ,-

“We have a really strong women’s team this year and we have a
really good shot at winning the ODACS,” said sophomore Katy
Gibbs.

Senior captain Jill Sheets echoed those same sentiments: ‘‘If
everyone swims the way they have been, we should win (ODACs).”,

The team’s three wins last week helped turn around a 2-2 season.

“After the Catholic win, we were really pumped. '1 he Christmas
training has really paid off. and we are getting results,” said
Wiedmaier. '

Helping the Generals will be the contributions of several out-’
standing freshmen.

“We have five freshmen that can swim all different events. They
add lots of depth and can score a lot of points for us,” noted Sheets.

Prince was named the women’s Athlete of the Week for her
outstanding performance in the last three meets.

The Generals will probably have their toughest meet of the year’
tomorrow against Emory and Johns Hopkins at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. They are looking to avenge an earlier
loss to Hopkins.

The Generals will swim at Radford on Wednesday and have their
next home meet on January 31 against Hollins. “"

Women’s hoops ﬁnishes 1-3 stretch - 
with defeat at Eastern Mennonite 1

From Phi Staff Reports

Three Washington and Lee
women’s basketball players
scored in the double figures in
last week’s 55-46 defeat of
ODAC foe Hollins College.

Freshman Chrissy Burghardt
led W&L with 15 points while
senior Sandra Holmes and sopho-
more Tonia Dean each added 12
points for the Generals.

Dean crashed the boards to

helped out by freshman Amber
Hinkle and Holmes with 11 and
10 boards, respectively.

The Generals were not as suc-
cessful while racking up two losses
against ODAC members
Lynchburg (56-54) and Emory and
Henry (70-47).

Burghardt stole a Lynchburg
pass with 30 seconds left in the
contest and went coast to coast to
give the Generals a 54-52 lead.
The Hornets, however, buried four
free throws in the last 15 seconds

victory. Burghardt was once
again the leading scorer for the
Generals with 16 points.

Emory and Henry jumped out
to a 7-0 lead to start their game
with the Generals. E&H shot 62
percent from the three-point are
as they cruised to a 70-47 win.

Dean scored 10 points to lead
the Generals while Hinkle
helped out with a Washington
and Lee single-game record of
four blocked shots.

The team hit the road on Tues-

nonite, 67-44. W&L was down
by nine points at the half to be
surprised by a 16-0 run by East-
ern Mennonite at the beginning
of the second half. ’“'

Burghardt had nine points and
four rebounds, Holmes had 14
points and four rebounds, and
Dean had nine rebounds.

W&L’s record stands at 2-7 1-.
overall, 1—6 in the conference.
The team will travel tonight to
battle Virginia Wesleyan. On
Saturday, they face Randolph-

 

 

grab 12 rebounds. She was to provide them with a two-point day only to lose to Eastern Men- Macon on the road_ 3‘
' ' 3" " " " "€'z:c'K1i'n" ''§ri:'*r'é''2‘i''‘§' '' ' " " ' ' " '5
- . _ 5 _ _' _ 9 , ‘A . . V
00 Y0" want ‘"5 Magtercard Credit -Card5 ' I 1501 n..mu.r.1mns.r.z nee BLVD :
Of ﬂuwyoucantm-etvanuoftheuiost-mmgmnadund ' HELL-MIDRLE; F  )-
- accepted tnidlluxnia in the wu_ud..vIsaI um peuiucauu.-do I V i
cndlt ands-‘In :3-{V511-name EVEN gown Nwng-‘ﬁlgg : twmtvismmasrmcaann Credit I
casnn" or E8” |URN_ DOWN ' 3 5
ms”, Md Mmmcuﬁa mt ﬁg “id, rm ' tngdalpprmved Immedtalehr. 100% GUARANTEED! '
. daueruetridnocd£or~---n)—-B0OR5-—  EN!‘ | NA’-‘E 3.»
. STORES—11II11UN~—EN'£‘ERTAlP4MEN!'— V 4
® _EMEK3_EM.'.‘-Y_ mL?i—rnkséAgmsr  : 3993353 
' '.- ' RBPIHRS-—AHDTO-Bu£lDYOURCR!§DfTRAT1NGl :C!'IY . . STATE-:....ztP_._...__.__. .
am No tam. ummsi ' S "2 if’’?*§“““‘¥E‘S‘5'# "'
,,,.au“,_,,;.uu an credit checks! ' SIGNAWRE '
‘“$plQI:%2‘_g 1:“ In security deposit! : mm uauaoua tan peguuod antenna :11  mmuMﬂ Inc. :
Gugll $51 I v who Iitkﬂstuul trad:-unrkdwsll tn; Vushiaknnloml
" 59'“ "*5 “~'?’“"‘*‘ ‘°“*“:‘ I '-
TOUR CREDIT CARDS MIE VAITIIG. | g
I &$&:C—I—In-—w$Q$CCC&*QQ&h:$—9

 

. ..—._.-v V. ....- vs-or-I I.l—rv1FH

waauimmew 3 Ln! tuuuterrv

LDGNCTQQ. VA U11

JAN 29 1998

9?
o LUME 96, N0. 12

SAB presents the

QTEKEK 3%

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

student s

King:
EK
9

-tum lﬂht

ught by police

New Kappas on the Block

Betsy Green, P/ii Photo Editor

W The ladies of Kappa Kappa Gamma took second prize with this rendition of "Step by Step" at last year’s Lip Synch
contest. The 10th Annual Lip Synch will be held tonight at 9 p.m. in the Student Activities Pavilion.

BY, MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Associate Editor

The United States Supreme Court is pursuing a
.politicalagendainstead ofinterpretingthe Constitu-

’ i on, said former Supreme Court nominee Robert

ork Tuesday night at Lee Chapel.
Bork, who is the author of The Tempting of
- merica and is now the John M. Olin Scholar in
Legal Studies at American Enterprise Institute, spoke
‘on how the modern Supreme Court is impacting
culture and how it has increasingly drifted away
om the original meaning of the Constitution.

, Bork’s visit was sponsored by Contact, the Fed-

. 'ﬂillSt Society, the Student Bar Association and the
Frances Lewis Law Center at Washington and Lee.
Bork has taught Constitution Law at Yale Law
School, served as Solicitor General, and as Circuit
Court Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the

a ; District of Columbia Circuit.
1»

In 1987, President Ronald Reagan nominated
Bork to the Supreme Court. The Senate Judicial
Committee rejected him, and conservates believe
the rejection was based on his political ideology.

W&L holds 10th Lip Synch Contest

He said there has been a decline of the judiciary
independence of the Supreme Court and to a general
disregard to the original intent of the Founding Fa-
thers.

“The Constitution is the one trump card in Ameri-
can politics,” he said. “In most law schools, the liberal
view of law is far ahead.” ‘

He argued that most law schools and schools in
general have become politicized. He said there is a
war in the culture.

He pointed to the recent controversy at Stanford
University when an alumni offered o donate $25
million to set up a Western Civilization course. The
university rejected the offer.

“We all know that Western Civilization is racist,
sexist, homophobic, and imperialist—not like those
Third World cultures,” Bork said as the audience fell
out in laughter.

He said today’s universities are quite hostile to the
values of Western Civilization. People have lost a
shared moral perspective, an agreement about what

.direction America should be headed.

The Supreme Court is at the center ofthese culture
wars. VMl isjust one example ofthe many cultural
questions that the Court has taken up that will have a
negative impact on American culture, Bork argued.

BY TARAH GRANT

Phi Staff Writer
‘Q

Tonight Milli Vanilli wanna~bes will take the stage in the
Student Activities Pavilion to compete in the annual Lip

Synch contest.

‘E J his is the tenth year that Washington and Lee will host
tthe contest to raise money for Students Against Rockbridge
lv/‘urea Hunger (SARAH). Last year, SARAH purchased over
"if0Ur tons offood to distribute locally. According to the Lip
jsynch chairperson, senior Emily Hazlett, they hope to top

-that amount this year.

in the past, the Lip Synch has been a favorite activity-of
. fraternity brothers who required their pledges to perform.
S/\RAH’s officers realize the importance of support from
‘he fraternities; however, they aren’t concerned that, unlike
Previous years, pledgeship has already ended. Sophomore
‘Matt O’Brien, one ofthe contest organizers, spoke with each

' C‘

chapter’s president at an lFC meeting.

“The fraternities have always supported us in the
past...they seem to want to continue their support and
participation in Lip Synch since it’s for charity and a long
tradition. As always, the sororities will all be submitting

several acts a piece,” said Hazlett.

Acts will be judged on choreography, lip synch ability,
costume, crowd reaction, and timing. SARAH will be
awarding the top three performances. First prize is $100 and
one (couple) Fancy Dress ticket; second prize is $50 and one
Fancy Dress ticket; third prize is one Fancy Dress ticket.

“We expect this to be our most successful contest ever,
and hope that members of the W&L community as well as

iRobert Bork critiques Supreme Court

He said the Supreme Court is simply pushing a
modern liberal agenda.

He argued that the current Supreme Court is not
conservative and has not been conservative since
1937.

Modern liberalism has erased any commitment
the Supreme Court may have had to the original
intent of the Founding Fathers. Radical individual-
ism has privatized morality and removed the re-
straints that are necessary for a successful civiliza-
tion. Bork cited the abolition ofpraycr in schools and
the expansion of First Amendment rights as ex-
amples.

Radical egalitarianism has replaced the concept
of equal opportunity with equal condition. He con-
tended that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the
Voting Rights of1965 explicitly makes racial prefer-
ence of any kind illegal. Afﬁrrnative action has only
made race relations worse and is tearing this country
apart, he said.

“lfthere is a conservative resurgence, we may get
back to the original meaning of the Constitution.
Unless the Court actually says otherwise, we must
govern ourselves democratically and choose our
own moral codes.”

WOMEN’S $WlMMlNG

RIPS PADFORD 6

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writer

Where in the world is Todd Mat-
thew Rehm?

The Lexington Police don’t know.
His classmates at the W? hington and
Lee School of Law don’t know. And if
the administration knows, it isn’t tell-
rn .

gAn arrest warrant was i. sued when
Rehm ’96L twice failed to appear in
Lexington General District Court to
answer charges that he wrote a bad
check. The check, written for $7.39,
was to Sav A Step Food Mart Inc. of
Lexington. Rehm did not repay his
debt.

Police Chief Bruce Beard said that
if an officer finds Rehm within the
Lexington city limits, he will be physi-
cally arrested and taken to the Rock-
bridge County Jail. Rehm would re-
main there until his Feb. 27 court date.

On Wednesday, Rehm was pros-
ecuted bythe Blue RidgeAnimal Clinic
of Lexington in a civil case. Rehm had
boarded his golden retreiver, Reggie,
at the clinic for four days in July. He
never paid his $32.47 bill.

Rehm did not show up in court to
defend himself, or to pay his bill.

Another civil case was brought
against‘ him last year by Franklin Wise
of Natural Bridge, this time concern-
ing unpaid rent. The case was settled
before the Nov. 1 court date.

Wise refused to comment on the
case.

JANUARY 26, 1996

Notonly is Rehm’s name appearing
on court dockets, but it is also appear-
ing near the cash registers of down-
town Lexington businesses.

Aﬂyerdistributed by the Lexington
Downtown Development Association
reads: “ATTENTION! We have re-
ceived notice from a member of the
Washington and Lee Financial Rela-
tions Committee that a member of the
’96 W&L Law Class is passing insuf-

ficient funds checks in town.” It then _

lists Rehm’s name and law school car-
rel number.

LDDA Executive Director Jennifer
Dalla Vecchia said that FRC Chairman
Keith Beckerle ’97 visited her in No-
vember to tell her Rehm was passing
bad checks to local businesses. After
speaking with Beckerle, the LDDA
drew up and distributed the ﬂyer.

Also known as the Cold Check Com-

mittee, the FRC funds checks bounced .

by students to area merchants, then
collects the money from the students
themselves. The committee makes it
easier for students to write checks in
town, since the merchants know they
are backed by school funds.

When asked if the FRC was inves-
tigating Rehm, Beckerle said he could
not comment.

In addition, Executive Committee
President Keith Benedict could not
comment on any EC disciplinary ac-
tion that has been or will be taken
against Rehm.

~seelREHM, page 2

‘i

Death at VMI raises
concerns at colleges

BY DAN ODENWALD
P/zi Executive Editor

College students often believe they
live in a vacuum where they are imper-
vious to nature’s nightmares.

Last week’s death of a fourth-class
Virginia Military lnstitutecadetproved
thatdisastercanand,indeed,does strike
without reservation. Eighteen year-
old Scott Hickey died from the bacteria
that causes meningitis.

According to Washington and Lee
Director of Health Services, Dr. Jane
Horton, the cadet died when the bacte-
ria spread into his bloodstream. The
ensuing infection caused fever, chills,
nausea, muscle aches, bruising, and
shock. Hickey was finally killed by a
heart attack resulting from his shock.

The bacteria that causes meningitis
resides in the throat of human carriers.
Up to 15 percent of the population
carries the bacteria, yet few are ef-
fected. An unusually weak immune
system, perhaps under stress from an-
other disease like the ﬂu or even a
common cold, will be unable to ﬁght
off the bacteria.

Horton maintains the possibility for
further infections is slight.

“Most outbreaks are sporadic and
come out of the blue,” said Horton.
“Usually stricken patients have no other
contact with those already infected.”

Given the unlikely chance ofspread,
W&L officials decided not to alert the
student community.

The cadet had been on base foronly

four days and had no direct contact
with any W&L students, said Horton.
Studies show that only four to seven
direct transfers ofthe bacteria occur for
every 1000 cases. The statistics for
second-hand exposure are even more
remote.

Nevertheless, college campuses are
prover‘). breeding grounds for meningi-
tis outbreaks. In 1991, the University
oflllinois reported 11 cases of menin-
gitis and three deaths. A year later, the
University oflowa reported five cases.

The concern was so great that the
American College Health Association
distributed a manual to college health
officials on managing meningococcal
disease in college populations.

The unusualoutbreak onthelllinois
and Iowa campuses may be prompted,
in part, by the nature of communal
living. Students whose bodies already
battle poor nutrition, alcohol binges,
and lack ofsleep, are in a compromised
position when fighting off the bacteria
that causes meningitis.

Theliving conditions at V.M.l. may
increase the chances of further out-
break. They are unique in that all
fourth-year students, or “rats,” live in
the barracks. The proximity of living
space and shared facilities provide a
better environment for the spread of
disease.

Despite this, Horton said that most
new cases will appear a week after
diagnosis oftheoriginalvictim. Those
at V.M.l. who had contact with Hickey
before his death were treated with an-
tibiotics.

local citizens will come out to join our students, enjoy the

a press release.

advance at the W&L snack bar.

show, and support the local food pantries,” said Jerry
Darrell, director of food services and advisor to SARAH, in

Doors will open at 8:30 p.m. and the show will begin at
9 p.m. Admission is $5 at the door, or $4 if purchased in

,.,,r»''‘'‘“°‘« ‘
,.-:w"; e

P/ii file photo

The communal living at VMI is causing concern over exposure to the meningitis bateria.

  
    
     
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
  
  
   

PAGE 2

The Ring-tum Phi. J anuarv 26. 1996
NEWS

New Liberty an unexpected innovation

was hardly a problem.”

In the end, with
Steinmetz’s help, the univer-
sity paid about $10,000 to
complete the entire conver-
sion to a system worth around
$40,000.

The new Liberty brings the
W&L system up from 96
megabytes of memory to 256
megabytes, and has improved
the speed of processes being
performed as well.

BEYOND

THE BLUE RIDGE “’9ii5-3?i‘?i5T““

Washington and Lee Com-
puting has installed a new ma-
- 0 chine to replace the old Liberty
Cllnton Speaks on 1'eS01V1Ilg that had beenthe basisofnearly
all networking on campus. On
a - Friday, December 29, a new
party differences In address Liberty, .. brand new Hewlett
Packard 9000 D-class server,
replaced the old. Yet Hewlett

 

Washington, D.C.—ln his State of the Union Address on Tuesday, Packard’ the maker ofthe new “we had an initial dou.
President Clinton focused primarily on the domestic issues which are at the Liberty, did not announce the blihg ofspeed, which was dis.
root of the average American’s worries these days. imroduoﬁon of its D_C1aSs appointing,” said Stuckey,

Clinton emphasized the goals which he and the Republicans share, such Server um“ the week of lamp “But then we realized that we
as budget and welfare reform, while reiterating his methods of achieving my 22. were not correctly utilizing
these goals. He proposed few new programs, and instead concentrated on The Story of how W&L go‘ the new dual piocessoh Us.
the cutsthat he says must be made withinthe federal government to achieve in on an innovative product ing the dual processor, Lib.
a smaller, more efficient government that will gain the trust ofthe people. before it was released to the city is at least eight times as

The President again encouraged the Republicans to set aside major public almost rivals the Story fastas before, Oui-load aver.
differences of opinion on the budget issue and to agree to his version of a ofthe unknown Student whose age’ or the number of pm.
balanced budget in order to avoid further federal shutdowns. courtesy to a campus visitor cesses put on hold while 0th.

resulted in the donation of the
Doremus Gymnasium. Chuck

Daytono‘AccordS ignored  Steinmetz, a Hewlett Packard

ers are being performed, has
declined at peak periods from
the old average of 30 to an
average of .56 blocked pro-
cesses. The effect on perfor-
mance has been electric.”
According to Hewlett
, Packard, the new D-class ma-

engineer, was visiting Lee
Chapel a few years ago and
° ' ° decided that he would stop by
Musllms’ Serbs In Bosnla the computing office to see if
' there wasanythingthey needed.

Obravac Bosnia In light of refusals by both Muslims and Serbs to Since then’ he has been work‘ chines Offersiandardlmemel

. i _ . . - - - 'l' , ' -

comply with the terms of prisoner release set in the Dayton~-Accords, the ing ‘t'Viin in: °3niP“t: ‘3t0i\i;/Pg? Eﬁgiiigéigtg Ofjigirslsgla 
United States is threatening to rescind the relief funds and military training ing 0 inn ° Sure 3

q _ . .v . P
promised“) BoSma_ getswhateverhelp he isable to Sewing ‘3aP3biiiiiY, C

  
     
    
   
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
    
 
  
   

On Tuesday, an elderly Serbian woman released the Muslim woman Offer‘ . . glggéer Proﬁﬁittlgrt for agtfd
whom she had held hostage in her basement for nearly three years. The _ so when Steinmeiz foiind deconﬁ [nation amomati
imprisonment is said to have been in response to the imprisonment of the niinseif °n ine team W‘_’ik_'ng memor g a C degnocatiom
Serbian woman’s own daughter who still has not been released by her on Opeiniing 5)/Sisin Opiiniiza‘ block mliefmi Corfu “On ho
Muslim captors. The Muslimsinsist that they will not _release the woman “On for ine new D'°1a_5§ HP lug ing Oftzeintcfml disk
or other high-ranking Serbian officials until they obtain information 9000» ne ngiiied iiini ini5 new §0ﬂ=>gO“</vepoff raceful Shut’
concerning thousands of Muslims missing from Serb-held towns. f3°inP“i“’i: n0“’ being ioiiied 35 dowgs Should gower be 105

The Dayton Accords call for unconditional prisonerrelease ratherthan inwi for an affordablev em‘ a muhbhanne? in ut/out U‘
prisoner exchange, and officials say that the refusal of both sides to honor Cieni Internet and World wide . , I . hp h ph
these terms could be a sign of continuing trouble in Bosnia. web Server’ might be Some‘ Betsy G’°°"’P’" Phom Edm” S“bSY5“".i‘ forhlg en mug

thing W&L could use. . . put, are ideal for Web. serv

.As is its usual practice, Hewlett Packard chose several “testimonial sites” to ers. and feature iihP0i'i3iii iiPg_i3f3ie CiiP3biiii)/- iii 0ih€F_ W0TdS. 3CC0Fdlhg i

. . test the new machine for future marketing purposes. Steinmetz asked Director of Stuckey, “The new Liberty positions us for UNIX capacity for the foreseeabl

Phone Order Olymplc tlcket Computing John Stuckey if W&L would be interested in serving as such a site. future. And some plans, such as setting up local-mailer LAN systemsin th
Along with being able to preview an innovative machine, being a “testimonial dorms, will free up the new system even more.” _

. site” also allowed W&L to purchase the new machine for a large discount. The old Liberty has been converted to “Wisdom,” and continues to serv

Sales t0 begln  Feb. 1 0 “It seemed to us a great opportunity,” said Stuckey. “It required us to convert specialized system functions. Meanwhile, the conversion to the new Liberty -‘

to the new HP—UX operating system a bit sooner than we had anticipated, but that relatively transparent to most users.

Atlanta, GA—With the mail order phase of the: talylrgpic Summer
Games ticket sales over, phone orders will begin on e . . _ _ A __ t I l V 1

Customers may order tickets to various Olympic events, including I " __ - . 1"  ’ " ‘ " , .1,  
volleyball and modern pentathlon, by calling (404)744-1996. Orders may ’ ' ' ~-  r  . ,_ z
be made only with a VISA card.

The 3.7 million tickets which will be made available during this latest
phase ofsales will also include tickets to the preliminary soccer rounds held
at RFL Stadium in Washington, D.C., which will go on sale on Feb. 3. Only

about seven million more tickets will be offered to the public through sales
......... VYIIA wg... a. vaiiuub uiyiiipic uaines iocations in June at Atlanta.

 Women leader
tohold dinner

BY BETSY GREEN
Phi Staff Writer

Next Wednesday, some ofthe most powerful wom
Washington and Lee will take a break ‘from their ,
schedules for an evening of entertainments. The eve
Women and Leadership’s annual dinner for women lea
Assistant director ofathletics Cinda Rankin will speak_
dinner will be served January 31 at 8:00 in Evans Di
Hall for $7.00 a person.

Women and Leadership member Alison Oneacre 
the committee that planned the dinner. Oneacre said that
dinner committee has been planning “for a long ti‘
reserving the dining hall, working with W&L Cat 
choosing a speaker, and putting together the guest li

Women and Leadership invited approxi-matel
women who represent a number of important organiz
on campus, including sorority leaders, athletes, W0‘ '
active in community service, and academic leaders. Onéfi
9 was pleased with the “variety ofwomen campus leaders.
Founder S Day honors the guest list. All of the women on the faculty wer‘
invited. Dean of Students David Howison is the only
. , Jan. 19 saw the induction of new members into Omicron Delta Kappa. 'nV3‘:::::)r:,hf,)$?aI}flre'd that me Ur me of {he dime. I
Pictured here, Earle Palmer Brown '44, J .B. Lewis, Alan M. Corwin '62, allow women leaders to come togctlfiei for‘‘s0methingr'
:   Margaret Brouwer, and the Hon. Roscoe B. Stephenson ’43, ’47L. Oneacre is enthusiastic ﬂhouithe Choice Of CindaR

. ’ as a speaker. Oneacre explained that Rankin served o
board that voted to make Washington and Lee co-ed“ ('
. tional. “She is a respected figure on campus who has se
   b  of the changesvsince co-education. It’s a perfect vv‘

y P celebrate Washington and Lee’s first ten years of co

tion,” said Oneacre.

FOX, NHL develop nevv pucki

FOX and the NHL have collaborated to produce a new, more easily seen
hockey puck. Transmitters are placed inside the hockey puck and moni-
tored by sensors in the ice rink. Computer enhancement then allows
television viewers to see a puck surrounded by a blue halo designed to make
it easier on fans who have trouble locating the puck during play. Many are
questioning whether FOX’s latest innovation is more of an annoyance to
hockey viewers than an aid.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

W. Patrick Hinely, W&L Photographer

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
‘weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re- ~REHM»fr°m Page 1
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Although there are many parties who have taken legal action against Rehm,
there are still some who have not.

Animal Clinic ofRockbridge Inc. is still uncompensated for boarding Rehm ’s

dog for three weeks in August. The $191.75 check that Rehm wrote for the clinic

' ' ‘ ’ bounced, and he never re aid them.
Dole crltlclzed  medla9 Margaret Showalter, W[i)‘l0 handles the clinic’s accounts, said that she could not
contact Rehm at the address or phone number he gave. She waited three to four
' ° months before turnin the account over to a collection a enc .

rlvalsi  leaders Faye Bradshaw ofgThomas~C. Bradshaw ProfessionalgPho)iography in Lex-

9 ington said that Rehm gave her a check for about $13 before winter break.
Shortly after Christmas, she was notified by her bank that the check did not clear,
and she was fined.

, The owner of Lexington Laundry, Teresa Dattolo, was also fined after a $9
check from Rehm bounced. Her bank, the Bank ofRockbridge, fined her $20 for
trying to deposit the bad check.

Dattolo said she would rather have lost the money from cleaning Rehm’s
pants than be fined for the check.

“I don’t care about the money,” said Dattolo. “Ifhe didn’t have it—fine. Take
the pants. I don’t want the pants. But, don’t give me the bad check.”

- I In addition to these known Lexington debts, records indicate that Rehm owes

Forbes emerges as  over $1,000 to major credit card companies, and over $150 to other businesses.

According to students, uniformed police officers have been seen in the law
school asking questions regarding Rehm’s whereabouts. A warrant ofdcbt from

. to fr0nt—1'unner  Dole the Blue Ridge Animal Clinic is posted on his cluttered Carrel.

University Registrar Scott Dittman said Rehm is listed in the school’s
computer as being on campus. However, Associate Dean of the Law School

Since giving the Republican response to President Clinton’s State ofthe
Union Address Tuesday night, Bob Dole has been the target of criticism
from the media, his rivals in the race for the Republican nomination, as well
as from Republican leaders across the nation. Many members of the
Republican party seriously doubt that Dole could be able to win in a head
to head race with President Clinton. Political observers cited Dole’s
lackluster delivery and appearance as his major problems.

  
   
   
    

With the New Hampshire primary less than a month away, polls ‘are Mark Grunewald said Rehm is not registered for Winter Term classes. Further-
showing that Steve Forbes has emerged as the clear challenger to front- m0|’C, law Silidehis lhiC|'Vl0W6d h8V€ H0! S06“ Rehm Since Cxam Week in , . . _

_ runner Bob Dole. Many undecided voters have found themselves support- D0C0FhhCf~ . . Rehm S Carrel’ with Warrant displayed on Cabinet 1100
ing Forbes rather than Dole which could be partly attributable to Forbes’ Thiid'Y°ai inw Siiidcni On‘) B3Ti_SCh said that he had 0138505 With Rehm last 
media blitz. But despite Forbes’ gains, Dole remains relatively popular in term, bui 0111)’ Saw him about f0Uf limes _ _ . Marc R8hd0lPh. "Bin in an)’ kind 0fSOCi€ll/political situation, he was teriffic. if
New Hampshire. Many political observers believethat Forbes will end up Second-year law student Dave Carter said that the news of Rehm’s financial was very good at going outand meeting people, making connections, and makir
making serious trouble for Dole without becoming a major contender PF0‘hi0ms dlsiiifhed hm} 7, _ “ . . I friends. llelust liked to be really involved.”
himself. A “I6 was ={LaWT1;e,vi_ew Person. Said Cmr; This Isfomcone who is type- “The best description ofTodd is brilliant,” said Bartsch. “The man is one,

_ goana -retentive. IS is the kind of guy whoiust docsn t let that kind of stuff the smartest pcoplcl ve ever met in my lite. He could appear to not be payi

. . - _ v . attention at all in class, and then the professor would be like, ‘Todd?’, and th

GOP Watch 1S compiled OsIi)“t2\S£)l[i}$ir?:htI(l)l Ssa fl2gl'lCIt21ll]'lfOUblCS, the law students interviewed did have he would‘ come up with this analysis that vvzis so stunning. You_would govq
by Laura Knapp P 8 Y ou im. bcttcr write this stutt down. I want to put it in my exam. Hc’sJust absolute

“Some people might have thought he was quiet,” said third-year law student brilliant.”

Ring—tum Phi, January 26, 1995

JAN .   3 I ,

\

SAB PSENTS THE KING.

  Bela Fleck 

BY CINDIE YOUNG
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

Bela Fleck has already been to Lexington.
From the comer of a “downtown” bar (the name
of which he has long since forgotten), Fleck
played his banjo “back around 1980’ ’fora local
audience. "

Now a musician of international recogni-
tion, Fleck returns to town this Wednesday
nightto make his firstappearancewithinthe red
bricks and white columns of W&L.

While that sixteen year interval that has
separated Fleck and Lexington has hardly
changed the narrow streets and thick-walled
buildings ofdowntown and beyond, it has trans-
formed the little-known musician into an inter-
nationally acclaimed artist and the central fig-
ure of a band whose albums seem to belong to
the colloections of not a few W&L students.

Officially titled “Bela Fleck and the
Flecktones,” the band traces its origin to the
phone call of one Victor Lemonte Wooten to
Bela Fleck, nearly a decade ago.

Wooten, then a bassist involved with the

New Grass Revival movement that offers (in
Fleck’s words) “modem soul” from a “bluesy”
band, “got my number,” Fleck explains. He
dialed.
' Over the phone Wooten treated Fleck to a
sampling ofjust what the bass could sound like
under his fingers; such a sound, Fleck recalls,
“blew my mind.”

Playingthe bass “sometimeslikeaflamenco
guitar, sometimes like a banjo player,” and
always well, Wooten impressed Fleck with the

possibility of a sound that was “just amazing.”
Both musicians were enthusiastic about each
other’s work, “and so we got together,” Fleck

. relates. The two enjoyed a “natural sort of

empathy” playing together, and the rest
is...Newcomb’s specialty. '

Over the band’s years together, the musi-
cians have developed a sound that is their own
unique mixture of bluegrass, soul and good ole
rock ‘ri’ roll.

Fleck’s own musical tastes may best explain .

the many dimensions of the band’s sound, as
he’s “got everything” in his personal collec-
tion: “...blues,jazz, Phish, not to mention music
from all over the world.”

Music from the far corners of the globe
indeed holds an important inﬂuence over the
Flecktones, and theband has brushed shoulders
and tapped toes with many a local musician
while whirling though countries of the First,
Second and Third World variety.

Having traveled extensively with the
Flecktones over the last several years, Fleck
speaks of tours through Mongolia, China, ire-
land, the Philippines, Thailand, Singapore, and
South Africa. This introduction to many new
and often different cultures that such traveling
offers leads directly to the band’s tendency
toward experimentation with other sounds and
meanwhile enriching its own.

For all its international inﬂuences and ap-
peal, however, Bela Fleck and the Flecktones
remains a band thoroughly rooted in America.

Easilythe centralinstrumentthroughoutthe
Flecktones’ songs is the banjo, after all, the
longtimeinstrumentofthe American (country)
music tradition.

Perhaps an even more blatant salute to
Americana within the band’s identity, though.

L Li   R

_ trim your reel/o up for that 5 weer eauaa

' CDs that arrive in the office each day. It is herjob, to listen to each new CD, and

BY COURTNEY E. MILLER
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

‘sjisic. It controls my life, it controls your life. Just stop and think a second.
‘Ur radio comes on in the morningjust to get your blood ﬂowing, study music,
,-nething mellow to help you with that English paper you are only writing
...ise you have to take general education credits, and can we forget the parties,
, .;.r'ri DJ to Band, we revolve around Music. ‘
‘~ist fora littlespice to Lexington’s country venue, WLUR brings the students
§hing new, soemthing fresh, something we can party to and study to.
‘he station began broadcasting Sunday, Jan. 21, with a recently repaired
mitter. New DJs and the introduction ofthe College Music Journal (CMJ)
 lights hope to spice up the winter doldrums. Nate Tencza, freshman, will DJ
, ,_ highlights.
' Gtasically the concept ofthis show is based on College Music Journal’s top
Ds. My show will play the top 10 each week,” said Tencza.
;=‘.{)Cl( Director Sarah Swisher hopes that this show will highlight some of the
er music hitting the waves. Most student DJ ’s play the music they like and
Tzmiliar with, CMJ highlights hopes to introduce music with a wider interest

ifisher feels the most difficult aspect of herjob is keeping up with all the new

screen out those that suck and contain offensive language. This can be quite a
challenge because they receive up to 5 a day.
Tencza enjoys the time he spends at WLUR. It was something he had thought
about doing in high school, and when he arrived at W&L, he eagerly volunteered
to DJ a rock show in the fall.
Swisher got involved because she didn’t want to lose touch with current music
trends while stuck in Lexington. She feels: it gives something back to the
community because there are not a lot of outlets for various musical tastes.
Since becoming Rock Direetor, a position that she doesn’t’ plan on giving up
any time soon, Swisher has introduced new shows. Besides the regularly
scheduled shows like Morning Magazine, she has introduced a section entitled
“My favorite Band”. This show offers individuals, or groups of friend to have
a two hour block once during the semester to highlight a favorite band
The other programs that are popular among the students include Morning
Magazine, a morning show that runs from 7 am to 9 am. In the afternoon
students catch the Breakthrough show which plays most of the modern music,
making waves across Air America; Many new stations are introducing the newer
alternative/rock music. The great thing is that often times WLUR will play music
months before it goes mainstream.
There are around 100 students currently involved with WLUR. Others
interested in having a show should fill out an application to become a backup DJ. \
Backup DJ’s are used to replace those students who don’t show up for shows.

:,,atest Tarantino movie suffers

rom an extreme duality complex

‘ BY KIRK SUSONG
PHI REviEwER

’3OI7l Dusk Till Dawn - frik

‘he three Quentin Tarantino which have successfully reached production are all fantastic -
..ervoirDogs, Pulp Fiction, and TrueRomance. They combine humor, tension and a street-"wise
of dialogue that is unparalleled in the current industry.

‘o it was with tremendous anticipation that I went to see his newest screenplay, directed by
Rodriguez of Desperado fame. Unfortunately, F romDusk T i11Dawn is a sincere let-down.

E‘he story revolves around two murdering brothers trying to escape to Mexico. On their way
:l‘l and Richie Gecko (George Clooney and Tarantino himself) kidnap ex-preacher Jacob Fuller
rsrvey Keitel), his son Scott (Ernest Liu) and his daughter Kate (Juliette Lewis), who are
-Harking on an RV vacation across the border. They head to a cheap Mexican bar for bikers and
. j(‘ers, which turns out to be a vampire hangout; they must fight their way out or lose their lives

“ a process.

his film suffers from some sort of multiple-personality afﬂiction; In the first halfof the film,
ocent store clerk is set afire, an unsuspecting policeman is shot, and a mother offour is raped
illed. The tone isn’t exactly grave, but the events are realistic and tense. The ﬂlm seems to
trying a tradition of crazy couples on cross-country killing sprees that stretches from

ds up through Kalifornia and Natural Born Killers (which Tarantino wrote the screenplay

at refuses to acknowledge the production because it was removed from his direction).
second half ofthe film couldn’t be more different. Though everyone is fighting for their
‘gainst an onslaught of vampires, the rhetoric, the gore and the general silliness is obviously
..dy of many B-movie horror flicks.
the film’s first part we explore the brothers’ complex relationship, and the dialogue probes
choses which afflict them. The preacher loses faith in God when his wife is suddenly and
‘ally killed. The issues are complex and demand a full and rich treatment.

the second halfofFromDusk TillDawiz, by contrast, is a motley collection ofliumorous asides

and laughable action sequences. The dialogue is abrupt and extreme, talking about the “legions
of the living dead,” “hordes of hell-hounds,” and the like. The special effects are melting faces,
bursting eyeballs, and exploding bodies - all in special ‘icky ’ Technicolor. It becomes not so much
a parody as a well-produced imitation. The result of this change of pace is a confused movie which

perplexes us instead of being whole.

On top ofthis is the acting. Typically, Tarantino is atrocious - so painfully bad he pulls down
the rest ofthe film. His saving grace here is the relative silence his character remains in. Similarly
with many ofthe other actors, such as Harvey Keitel and Juliette Lewis; they are believable neither
as real character nor as imitations. They are simply strung together stereotypes that are not

amusing.

Luckily there are two actors who stand out from the pack in From Dusk Till Dawn. One is
Cheech Marin, continuing the come-back that he has been enjoying recently. Here he actually

plays several different character; perhaps surprisingly,

characters.

he is best when portraying “serious”

' ‘The other is George Clooney. The ER star is making his first real leap to the big screen, and
it is a tremendous success. He carries off his role with poise, depth and even magnetism. lfthis

is any indication, it shouldn’t be long before he leaves TV behind for the biv

movies.

gger world of the

Robert Rodriguez’s direction is lackadaisical, and even a little boring. His first major

production, Desperado, established his fondness for slow-moving bodies ﬂying through the air,

a rich palette, and extraordinary camera angles. In From Dusk Till Dawn, he is more restrained
and calmed down. The result is pleasant, and it bodes well that Rodriguez is capable of a less

ﬂamboyant piece.

So who is at fault for the film’s problems? We must assign that to Tarantino himself. although
there arestill a number oftrademark Tarantino touches in the film (lots of cuising, for example),
it s missing the cohesiveness which so characterized his earlier films, especially Reservoir Dogs.
Its almost as ifTarantino wanted to have the fun of making a spoof while still trying to be taken
as a “serious” writer. As a result his characters are interesting but undeveloped, and the scenario

is both overwrought and poorly explored.

lam a really big fan ofTarantino, yet l still must recommend you not spend your time or money
on From Dusk Til[Daw/z. Some slow evening check it out on videotape,just so you’ll know why
people are talking. But then watch Pulp Fiction one more time to remind yourselfwhy Tarantino

is so wonderful.

is the unexpected answer to a question foremost
in the minds of new and old Flecktone-listener
alike: Why the banjo?

Fleck answers such a question easily, sim-
ply pointing to (what more American?) the
theme song for television’s TheBeverly
Hillbillies.As a kid in New York City, Fleck wa
s charmed by the instrument, and its appeal was
reinforced by a popular song ofthe day featur-
ing the banjo from the movie Deliverance.

“A lot of people started taking lessons,”

Fleck recalls, on the instrument of American
folklife, and he was an enthusiastic member of
that lot.

Fora musician drawing so unabashedly from
the American tradition, then, the deep respect
Bela Fleck feels for his native country is not too
surprising, a respect in many ways strength-
ened by his travels to foreign lands.

Unwilling to divorce himselffrom an adjec-
tive typically associated with rock ’n’ rollers,
“disillusioned” (with respect to the American
Dream, broadly defined), Fleck nevertheless
generously professes his love of“certain free-
doms” that only American soil offers.

The musician of the world has seen many
problems within the great system that is
America, and yet he has come to appreciate no
less “how much more the system does work
than doesn’t.”

Bela Fleck takes every question seriously,
whether about the origins ofthe Flecktones, his
own influences, or his outlook on the world
around him, and his answers strike the listener
as both generous and honest.

Little wonder, then, that the albums upon
which his name appears likewise offer a gener-
ous portion of talent and honest ’Cl’2ll"‘iSmZtll-
ship—and, oh yeah. good music.

Photo by Cindie Young, Phi Features Editor

RQucnUns
Other

Reservoir Dogs

One of Tarantino's best films, it is shot
out of sequence, and the dialogue is witty
and direct. The soundtrack is incredible
and Tim Roth and Harvey Keitel give supe-
rior performances. We all wanted to be Mr.
Blue,butinthis world,some ofus need to be
Mr. Pink. The torture scene with the razor
and the car, will make anyone's blood chill.

Pulp Fiction

Not only does every house on campus
keep a copy in the VCR, but this jewel ofa
film launched John Travolta from the mun-
dane Look Who's Talking to his incredible
performance in Get Shorty. Pulp Fiction has
kept us all wondering what was in the brief-
case, and whether or not our parents would
let us sepnd a summer ‘in Amsterdam.

True Romance

This Tarantino classic stars Christian
Slater as an Elvis obsessed comicstore clerk
who falls in love with a prostitute (Patricia
Arquette). The two go on a cross country
spree.‘ The most memorable scene is the
confrontation between gangster (Christo-
pher Walken) and Slater's father played by
Dennis Hopper.

Four Rooms

Since Tarantino only directed and wrote
the last of this four part sketch, some peole
may not count it as a real film, but I loved it.
It is modeled aftera Hitchcock classic where
Steve McQueen is involved in a finger
losing car exchanging deal. The other three

, sketches are worth the price of admission. 1

i.

PAGE 4

@112 iting-tum lﬁlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

 You are what you read

Sometimes editors goof.

Suffocated by work, crunched by deadlines, and
deprived of sleep, we occasionally mess up.

In the past few editions of The Ring—tum Phi, we
have run an advertisement which no one really
noticed. The ad boasted of the Famous U.S.
W0men’sAlpine Ski Team Diet. Proudly sprawled

, across the top was the eye-catching proclamation,
“Lose 20 pounds in two weeks.” The ad admon-
ishes dieters to indulge in specially formulated
“chemical foods” as an alternative to starving

s themselves. Ironically, a few inches above the ad
was a General Note informing students of support
group meetings for students with eating disorders.

The odd pairing provides ample fodder for any
sociology major writing a thesis on the media and
weight obsession. I

V The American fascination with weight and
(is. weight loss invades nearly all aspects of
our society. ‘ I

Everywhere we turn we are confronted with

Madison Avenue’s ideals: the hourglass figure, the
“ ﬂawless skin and perfect face.

No wonder Americans hate their bodies
so much. A

We compare ourselves to the Baywatch
beauties (real and plastic) who run around the
beach half—naked.

People purge themselves to look like the beauti-
ful models in this week’s Sports Illustrated Swim-
suit Issue.

Joan Rivers goes under the knife on her popular _

, television talk show to rid herself of those‘‘nasty’’

‘ bags under her eyes.

The media convince Americans to worship
‘ieauty. And the media convince Americans to

., believe thatjwejdonot possess it. Hence, we buy
their products, watch their sliows, and read '
their triagaziries.

_,_ Of course, the media are not the only culprits.

, They are not alone in their irresponsibility. Surely,

L other factors aggravate the problem. The most
frightening part about our editorial oversight was
that we didn’t even realize its absurdity. We have
become part of the problem because we have
internalized our culture’s impossible demands for

.. our bodies. Like most Americans, we seem to
have become incapable of separating myth from
truth. For that, we are truly sorry.

““* Quote of the Week

“I'm just going to put this number here because
I'm a nerd.”

—A junior C -school major doing
his tax accounting homework

I

The Rig-tum Phi, January 26, 1993» l

GENERATION X

nnanurou Lax

(new year : new cartoons + new

GENERATION v LEX

- ;..;....;;.i.s... st...-' v.‘ .: .".;.....;;..:.;_r:.—3

Government: a fresh perspectiv

MY VIEW
Nova Clarke, ’96

Can you imagine being a tourist in
the US. during the past couple of
months? I was thinking about that on
my daily trips to the Fort Lauderdale
airport before I finally made it back to
Lexington. I ended up talking to a lot
of tourists who were stranded in Ft.
Lauderdale and couldn’treally do any-
thing because their leases on their rental
cars was expired and there were very
few nice hotel rooms. They hadn’t
been able to go to the Everglades be-
cause ofthe government shutdown and
now they were stuck because the last
remaining superpower couldn’t deal
with a little snow. I was reading a great
column in which the author pointed
out that novone needs to build nuclear
weapons to destroy America-theyjust
need to launch a weather satellite that
would cause constant snow or just
dump massive amounts of fake snow
on Washington DC. By the time
Marion Barry got Congress and the
army dug out-England could have re-
claimed us as a colony.

I think a more interesting perspec-
tive would be that of a government
official from some small country that

the U.S. was trying to convince to
become a democracy after years of
dictatorship. Say you are Joe Execu-
tive, the president ofthis hypothetical
country. You’re pretty happy that you
made it into the country the day before
the December government shutdown.
Bill, your liaison at the State Depart-
ment, tells you
that you are

Bill has told you to listen to the

' arguments being made and that will

give you an idea about what is impor-
tant in a democracy. It seems fairly
simple, the US wants to make sure that
we are not running a huge debt. This
seems fairly reasonable; but, you took
some economics and history and you

realize that they

are basically ar-

probably the last
foreign official
to be given this
treatment be-
cause the pro-
gram is not cov-
ered under the
continuingreso-
lution that Con-
gress has
passed. As part
ofyour tour and
education about
‘the nature ofde-
mocracy, you
are allowed to wander around Con-
gress and listen to real elected repre-
sentatives at work. Unfortunately,
since all anyone is doing is arguing
about the budget, all you see is con-
gressman appearing on TV to de-
nounce the other side. There aren’t
even any good brawls like the Tai-
wanese Parliament has.

take

77

It seems the con-
gressmen want to
away more
money from the poor
and pass it on to the
upper class in the
form of taxbreaks.

guing about an
unknown future.
Everything can
chainge in seven
years and that
sometimes it is
good economic
policy to run a
_ deficit. You read
the newspapers
andwatchTVand
see that all of

employees have
been turloughed. Unfortunately they
seem pretty essential to you, after all
tourism is a big part of the economy of
your country and now with the pass-
port offices closed, no one can come
down, there goes the economy. Bill
asks you whatwould have happened in
your country before democracy. “Well,
the government workers who were not

these“non-essen_-v ,
tial” government —'

being ‘paid who probably have bands’ "’9-
together and overthrown the govern 
merit.” Bill mumbles something aboll
that being a good idea.

There is anotherthing that you don
understand. Back when you were Ill
military dictator of your country, y. _,
pretty ‘much ignored the poor and 2l
the aid that came to the country went',.,
you and your friends and the 0' E‘?
knew betterthan to complain. Bill tel 
you that in a democracy money sho
not be kept by the government and
freedom of speech is essential. H0 
ever, you see that congressmen 3 _
getting paid while the employees 3*
not getting paychecks and this see '

a lot like your original system. Pl -'
nothingis open, even ifno one hadlr
money to visit the museums in yo 
country, they were always open  5.
the rich tourists. Plus it seems I U
congressmen want to take away m _'z’
money from the poor and pass it on ‘w
the upperclass in the form oftaxbre r

WITCH UIC EUIPOTIS Uptill arte, I

huge snowstorm you head back to
country. Before you leave thov
you tell Bill, “Hey, I’ve decided:
with American democracy, from

I’ve seen, it’s not that much diffe
from the dictatorship I had before,
USIA came and told me about dc .
racy.”

_...4-1;.-;_,.._.<...; <:....-  .

flirt ‘ﬂing-tum iﬂlri

Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald

Michael Hewlett
Christine Gamavish
Hillary Coombs

Executive Editors
Associate Editor
News Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Friitnr Scott Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor ............................................................. ..Cindie Young, Courtney E. Miller
Photography Editor .... .. ‘ Betsy Green
Editorial Caﬂonni r Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace

Robert Nelson
Doug Gertner
Jennifer Grant
Anne Alvord

Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Advertisement Composition Artist

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

TheRing-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060 -
E-mail plri@wlu.cdu

Thou shalt not censor thy neighbo

MY VIEW

Jason Sorens, ’98

Ah, those elusive little civil liberties. We can
never find a precise line between what is permissible
and what is not. For example, is flagburning a crime
against the national government, or is it protected
“speech”? Liberals apparently favor speech ahead
of patriotism, and conservatives apparently prefer
patriotism. But neither side can offer any clear
reasons for their preferences.

The issues become much simpler if they are
treated as issues of property rights. For example,
ﬂagbuming is permissible if the burner uses his own
ﬂag and burns it on his own or a willing party’s
property. The person who owns a printing press has
the right to print anything at all.

The catch comes when we deal with government
property, such as public schools or streets. Here we
find a strong argument for privatizing schools, streets,
and other areas of government domain: the issue of
speech would become much clearer. Private schools
could say whateverkinds of prayers they choose, and
private streets could allow whateverkinds of demon-
strations they wish. Instead, we have a jumbled
system in which competing interests battle for their
“rights” to do anything at all on government prop-
erty' zit

' Politicians have extended this confused system to
the private sector unfortunately. For example,
ﬂagburning is still an issue for conservatives. Also,
the War on [Some] Drugs still rages, with little
success and much harm. Internet censorship is

imminent.

For all liberals’ ranting about speech and conser-
vatives’ alleged defense of property rights, neither
side is consistent on the issue.

Liberals applaud draconian environmental re-
strictions, which have jailed people for filling in
puddles on their property with soil. One Hungarian
immigrant in Texas was ordered to construct a sign

Libertarians have proved
the only true defenders of
civil liberty. A property-
rights basis for civil liber-
ties provides a consistent
stance that liberals and con-
servatives lack.

by the road, delineating his crimes and apologizing
to the state. This sort of police-state, mind-control
tactic is reminiscent of the Soviet Union or Nazi
Germany.

And the conservatives’ beloved War on [Some]
Drugs has all the marks of a failed government
policy. Because of the government’s continued
failure to control drug importation and use, they
have stepped up their coercive measures. Using the
infamous RICO statutes, federal agents may now

seize the assets of innocents, simply because so
one may have used them in a drug operation,
warrants are no longer acquired for many"
searches. We’ve heard of Randy Weaver‘
Waco, but there are stories many of us haw.
heard about. One political candidate in Caliﬁi
had. his ranch raided on the suspicion of mayrlji.
possession. When he tried to defend his propé
federal agents gunned him down. No m 
was ever found. Just as in the ecohomi
when the government finds it must cover H
takes by imposing more regulations, thew
[Some] Drugs has brought more tyranny’ ,
could have imagined in 1913, when we -imp
our first narcotics laws "

Gun control is another important civil-
issue. Ironically, the allegedly pro-liberty Am
Civil Liberties Union in fact supports gun ‘“
tions. When will we stop focusing on the_
start focusing on the person? Gun (and drii
lations are justifiable only insofar as they, ,

‘children or the insane from possession. P
laws, however, are designed specifically to
discourage gun ownership by all individua
thermore, the government has banned manyi
guns, the kind that would be effective a
foreign invasion or domestic oppression.

not a militia-type paranoiac, nor am I a n
user, but I defend the rights of sane adujl
whatever they want to themselves with tli
property.

In sum, libertarians have proved the o
defendersof civil liberty. Aproperty-rights L
civil liberties provides a consistent stance th li
als and conservatives lack. '

So WHAT IF

r<<»x.>t.

H 3‘.

READ THE RING-TUM PHI. ‘WE'RE§ur(r(€Ai

P0“

xar-I Hor.r.vtraNa5j.is

I.

‘I

' "f‘he Ring-tum Phi, J anuary 26, 1996

 un within the HonorCode boundary

%REEN LAND

Betsy Green

_ ‘I,Greetings from the Winter Term of
:y discontent. We are without a doubt
'f,the midst of the worst time of year at
,;?‘stL. Fall term is fun. It’s the begin-
mg of the year, you get to see friends

:

'1g'u haven’t seen all summer, and

‘L

A

~~'/feryone’s in the back-to-school, smell
.. ew crayons spirit. Spring term is

 ply a time of joy. The weather is

Lautiful and you only have two classes.
pffe is good.
‘Winter term, on the other hand, has
acredeeming qualities. Mock Con and
.§_"are going to be fun, but who has
,- ‘ for that? Every day, the weather
'e'ms colder and my bed seems
rrner. I feel like I should get class

"Llit just for leaving my apartment

..;y morning.
The solution is simple: we’ve gotta
_ put of this place. ,
' {None of us wants to have to leave
(grades; I think everyone at W&L

communtiy, but it

citement, right?

has some higher earning in their future
dreams. And getting kicked out for an
honor violation would not only be a
grim humilation
and a breach of

7?

plain that even statues like to cuddle.
4. Instead of taking your dog to the
hill with you, bring your goldﬁsh.
5. Refuse
to buy a pair of

trust with the en-
tire W&L

would also be no
fun. We need ex-

So with that in
mind, I bring you
Ways to Get
Kicked out of
W&L .Without
Breaking the
Honor Code.

1. Late at
night, go intoTraveler’s former stable/

Lee.

cuddle.

John and Mimi’s garage and urinate.

Knock on the door and insist that Trav-
eler needs to be walked. Point to the

puddle as evidence. Repeat for two
weeks.

2. Vote Democratic,
3. Insist on taking naps in Lee
Chapel, next to the statue of Lee. Ex-

Insist on taking
naps in Lee Chapel,
next to the statue of
Explain that
even statues. like to

khaki pants.

6. Women:
go to class
wearing a
S w e e t b ri a r
s w e a t s h i rt.
Men, do the
same with
H a m p d e n -
Sydney.

7. Park il-
legally until
the amount
you owe in
parking tickets exceeds your tution.
Better still,

8. Make up your own parking tick-
ets. Possible violations you can ticket
for include, “Excessive stickers,”
“Parked Kinda Crooked,” “Bad Tapes
Visibile In Vehicle,” and “Took the
Spot I Wanted.” If the administration
doesn’t kick you out, Baner will make

sure you leave one way or the other.

9. Paint the rotunda of Gaines Hall
hunting orange, “for safety.”

10. Change the screen savers in the
C-school computer lab from “Move
mouse to begin” or whatever it is to
“Help me escape from this hell-hole.”

11. Join the Film Society. Insist on
a Pauly Shore retrospective.

12. Stand outside of the D-hall
petitioning foralimiton the constantly
Unlimited Salad Bar.

13. Weep openly at all times.

14. On each test you take, alter the
honor pledge to read, “On my honor, I
have neither given nor received any
unacknowledged aid onthis exam. May
God have mercy on our souls.” ’

15.’ Refuse to buy a Dave Matthews
CD.

16. Ask the administration to con-

vert the Delt house into your own ‘

“Swingin’ Pad.”

17. Inastudentnewspaper, suggest
that W&L students try to get kicked
out of school.

kg

1-.

 I see THAT «/ou'v,,r
BEEN TELLM/6- 5/pug
DOG /WOU1‘ Mt’ CLASS

not

GENERATION Lax

Is it spring term yet?

United Way and

Alpha Phi Omega

lriteriraternity Council

Pzitihcllettic

other agencies

Sponsored by:

Habitat for Humanity
Minority Student Association
University Federation

Wednesday, January 31, 1996
University Center, Z-4 j_3.m.

a

All students invited

.
x .
t‘ A fﬁj/1 I, '6
v .'.rt.*.*..*.:f?
v .1.»
'5 M.
'- V‘?-3

rt ,;<_ ‘
rwgﬁrvruh

' >5
,.,..-“-i-;-.-,.«.~ v

GENERAL
NOTES

CDPO News

All students are invited to “Ca-
reer Opportunities in International
Business” on February 1st at 4:30
p.m.inthe WilliamsSchoolofCom-
merce, Room 221. Mr. Marvin
Suomi, Executive Vice President
and Director of Strategic Planning
of Kajima International, the world’s
largest construction company and a
graduate of the University of Michi-
gan, with graduate study in thejoint
program of East Asian Studies and
the Woodrow Wilson School of
Public and International Affairs of
Princeton University will be speak-
mg.

There will be a Career Focus
Workshop on Tuesday the 30th of
January at4:00 p.m. in Room 108 of
the University Center. Students
needing help choosing a major or
deciding on ajob search are invited
to attend.

There willbeaninternship work-
shop for students interested in sci-
ence jobs on Thursday, February

1st at 5:00 p.m. in the Career Devel-

opment Office.

Stress Test News

Getthe resultsoftheW&LStress
Test at an interactive program “Cliff
Notes on Stress Management” 7
p.m. Tuesday, Jan. 30, Northen
Auditorium by Walter Childress of
Dow Management Institute.

Volunteer Fair .

Alpha Phi Omega, Intcrfrater-
nity Council, Panhcllenic, Habitat
for Humanity, the Minority Stu-

.dent Association and the Univer-

sity Federation are sponsoring 21
volunteer fair for the United Way
and otheragenciesJanuary3l from
2 to 4 p.m. in the University Cen-
ter.

Recycling

For information on recycling in
Woods Creek contact Jason Ham at
ext. 4459. Buildingsiafnd Ground
personnel will be collecting alumi-
num cans and mixed paper.  yﬂ _

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of Burnt by the Sun
(Russia, 1994), directed by Nikita
Mikhalkov. ,

Screenings will be on Friday and
Saturday,.February 2 and 3, at 8:05

pm. in the Troubadour Cinema.

There is not charge for admission.
This film is in Russian, with En-
glish subtitles.

Burntby the Sun tells the story of
one day in the life ofRussian family
in the year 1936. Their seemingly
idyllic existence-their “day in the
sun”-is slowly undone by inexo-
rable forces, externally by 'Stalin’s '
repression and internally by dark
shadows within the family’s his-
tory. I

Support Crroup

Interested in joining a six-ses-
sion support group for anyone who
has experienced the death ofa fam-
ily member or friend? The focus
will be on learning how to handle
the loss and changes it brings. Call
Health Education at 462-4501 to
sign—up or for more information.

Phi Eta ‘Sigma

Phi‘ Eta Sigma will award na-
tionwide 5 scholarships of $2,000
eachforgraduatestudy duringl996-
7. Graduatingscniors who are mem-
bers ofPhi Eta Sigma are eligible to
apply. Call Dean West-Settle at
X8748 on or before Feb. 9 if you
wish to apply.

I

 Omega would like to 

con grai ulclic their

\

1996Plcdgc Class

Sarah Aimcn
Kelly Benson I
Christine Bragg /lb/Ssol K a zyfman
Megan Carleton Wendy Kimble /
 5ll56lI1I’ldll Carr Veronica Langhofcj‘r ,
X  Leyla C uslcr W
/lllichcllc DczllVcchia K are L lLSl€6j/

,  Megan Davis Anne McElhancy/
 Christy Meade  pg 
Cathy Moore   in it

Rosie M ungcr

‘\

// \
I
I

Ashley Ezghcr
A my Frazier
Dec Garry

Sarahjaycocles
Kdtycjcnhins

HillaryLewiss  /

l

I

\/

\

\\~.._

Amy Grccnhcrg Lydia Nichols

Haley Hall
Mollie Harmon
Mary Hemmer

Claire Parsons
Sarah Rector ‘_
Cassie Shaner ‘H

 Pamela Herbert Megan 5nodgrass’/

 iflizahcrh H ZLSIOI1 Natalie Wcllc  "3
 I Megan Wicdmaicr I

. . ' -.
i mi 4
. ., .‘ .°
. C <‘>.‘4‘s,‘u«’g’u ¢
arnsnfit
, . I must >1»
.'n,t_s . 1. ‘ring’;
H_- ...r, .
< I

PAGE 6

 
   
   
 
  
 
      

 

- ADVERTISEMENTS

 

The Ring-tum Phi, January 26, 1996

 
  
 
   

  

 

 
  

  
   

Do You Want VISA 8; ‘MasterCard Credit Cards? : , ?;;,‘,’*‘,;~";m 5"I§§I_§"§CH BLVD  ca ms E J 033
1 ‘ t ‘ . Now you can tum. hm afthe most recognized and I HA‘LLANnALE. FLOR Inn 33009 i Em, ,,,, ,0 $2S(‘,‘5‘3";'}§,5,§_'°,‘§‘,’,‘§,‘:,‘,,,, ,0, C f.
accepted cruﬂt audit in Ha  3'  . I I Shipsoi-Land-Tourcompanies+WorldTril, 1
Cflldll §l!1!._.'Il[ yﬂuf 1'DlII¢..' EV KI , ME , ' | . , . . Seasonal and F ll-'l"'me em lo . j
cmznrror HAVE nan»  ncrwn name: , _ ""“"“_"5""’““5"'5'm‘_‘"$"°,‘:.""“ : able. Forinro c:n= X P mm ‘*7’ '
We ,, I“, , ,. mt M , M ' Caxdaapproved Immediately. wow ouammnsam ' 206 971-3550exn 053421
decent and need for-— ID-EJOKS-—-DEPARTHIENT [  '
5'l7O}1E—1t1l1'1OlVlwEtﬂ‘ER‘fAlNlIlIEtTr— I '

EMEEEFCY (M$1—TCKEI3—HEST  ’ I ake upto$25-$45 per hour leaching basiccom,‘ .
. . ADDRESS . , , . ..
ﬁQ'['E£5._[9g(}'_rE1__3_..(m5...CAR R§N'[‘g5_ ‘ ﬂ ational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan "

z I :3 t t ‘ REpA"§___AND -It} Bun‘, YOUR CR1‘-r "RA-I-‘Hal 1   __  I Korea. Many employers provide room & I

. r I 4 ,. | '

EVICE5 1. wig‘ H mm: "0 tum do-ms! ' swag“? !'”'°””§ Eu 5'5’ I
S - R ’ ' - VI SIGNATURE : .
,, . . . . . .
L guts! “chm iln credit checks! 9 _ _

"N L V l 9 115!-".’=%2f-V ‘ﬁg: , '0 3'53‘-3""fft.¥ dﬁlmﬁitlf ' ' Wm Iataamt:-at In mmsieunctsndcauau at |l.u!lt10hn$|nkmJ\thm1 inc. ' (Hie King tum ?ﬁl' 

V ' . . ‘dull 6.51 ‘I: _ I van. in mgaumxs u-sdznudrditllsn |1!\JLJn¢: um visa:-ucmuuma I 98 ears oldamf we still

9 I  ‘d 9 I am '9 SE“ ""5 CW9“ 70”” .3 um nus nnnisu coupon room: I y 1 

I 1 15¢,’ a . . Tova CREDIT ‘cmus Jute WHT inc! | 1 1 ' . . , COW 07153 £1 Wet

 

 

  
 
    

  NECESSARY!
DETAILS: RUSH LONG SASE  
EUR!)

said:-E2. 21:5; .1
1861 1:~I..F‘EnER.a.I..  g
A r«xcI.‘:r$g§g)¢)I) .»:§;- ’_33ﬂ__T_-L-’,

Put your face in the 13361-Dunk!

' A

<—

 

unlit  H.

‘hmmmmmmn

Drop off pictures ofyou and yourfriertds infront of

        

Carol Caulkir1’s officeiri the University Center

Please limit contributioinsto those taken during the 1995-96 school year.

SUMMER JOBS AT
WASHINGTON AND LEE

Counselors for Summer Scholars
July 3 - August 3, 1996
Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 rising senior high school
students in Graham—Lees dormitory and plan evening and weekend

28, 1996.
Special Programs Resident Assistants
‘ June 12 — August 3, 1996
The Office of Special Programs employs four W&L students to serve as
hosts/ hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni
Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities
management and housekeeping, receptions, and transportation. Appli-
cation Deadline is March 15, 1996.
For further information, please Contact the Office of Special
, Programs, Howard House, 463-8723.

activities. Ten positions are available. Application deadline is February v

Rewarding. exciting summer for college sophomore and older
students. - camp counsellor positions available in the Colorado
Rockies. Backpacking, Western riding. water activities. natural
sciences and many outdoor programs. Write: Sanborn Western
Camps. PO. Box 167. Florissant, CO 80816

     
 

Don ’t Let
Your Student
Go Hungry

 

 

Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our
Point Card

19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

G009
WEEKLY
INCOME

processing mail tor
§.ﬂ&!%l0I't&l company! Free 
supplies. postage! 

gelling! Bonuses! Start
trnmediatalt Genuine
  opportunity! U§'tS.A.S.E.‘: A

 cuc. suzma 215
1861 u.aEnEnaL any
 ¥0LLYHO0D.FL 33o2o

  

}i.lvi§‘</’~;°v' L

$Attention All Students$ lg
FREE Money is currently available for College Students Nationwide. Over $6 Billion iin 31 
is now available from private sectro grants & scholarships. All students are eligible to "
receive some sort of aid, regardless of grades, income, or parents’s income. Let us help yo f
For more information, call: _ ’

  

Student Financial Services

I-

. 8 am — 3 pm - Monday
:3 am - 10 pm — Tuesday — Thursday
:8 am - 11 pm — Friday - Saturday
9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
l All you can eat $4.99

Thursday —

10% offfood — with student ID
Friday — Seafood Nite -

Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib,

2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

Everyday Muffin:& Cup of Coffee $1.50
_ W I (8‘am,-910 am)
Daily Lunch Special with Drink‘$4'.50

19 W. Washi.rIigt_o_r1_S_t._,_L'e_xin-gtgn, VA 24450

Restaurant and
}[055ie’sLounge

  

Route 7, Box 99A
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Near the Horse Center

Phone 464-9499

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to ?

Restaurant 11-00 '1 m to 0-30 n m

/. E)./ll. L77” 

TEACH ENGLISH lN KORE/\— Fosltlono available   l
'  found l:’ll7

degree rea_t:reo. U5 49*&.50()—25,4OCl/yr, ~
airfare prowdcai. Send rcourne, copy o‘ 5 ‘

 

L/l "if/1m .. ,
_ ma ena. copy o‘ n.a55:7or: to:
bok Jl Coprooratlon, Chan Bang Bing, 15443 Dﬂrnaung Dong, <;,ng \g,m Gd,
Seoul, Korea 155090.

TEL: O’ll»82~2»- 55—._JOB6i”i~8?'7\

 

F’/~ /: "'71 P0,’) -720 .<:f,zis{/.'if%.f,?Cly

.7/74¢’!/z&ce

HARDWARE STORES ‘’

     

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. — Sat. 8:30 am. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1 — 5 p.

.113. Nelson St., Lexington

would you like to spend the summer working \ 

of (1 Wyoming Guest Ranch? Ours is on
14®,@®@ acres in the Medicine Bow Mountains,
next to a wilderness area. we serve mo
guests at a time with dstoff of 85. _ If you are ,1

available from about June 1 to September 8 or_’—‘;;'

the end of September, and enjoy both out-
doors ond being of service to others, we’d like 
to set up an interview. For an application or

more information: Bob or Margie Howe, A Bar A

Ranch, P.O. BOX 1049 Conifer, CO 80433 (353)

463-2186;

~ ; .~;:r ~_  ,4 .,-1

   
   
       
 
      
 
     

 
       
     
  
 

      
   
  

 

838-1950) or e—moll obol;ggg_p_g,b_faVqnlfoyn

. -..-A

‘.
iii}

to

Milhge Ring-tum Phi, January 26, 1996 S

}7IT7-[LETES O5‘ ‘Z7{£ ‘WEEK

- Bunsize Or Lite Meat

yoga‘    Ball Park

‘ _  Franks

Josephine Schaeffer V C0511 1400119)’
Women’s Indoor Track Wrestling

Chances are goodthat you’ve seen this pic- Looney had an outstanding performance
ture here before. Saturday at the Washington and Lee Wres-
lt may be a new sport, but it is the same story tling Invitational. ~
for Schaeffcr. After tearing up cross-country Theseniorco-captain demoIishedthecom-
courses in the fall, she switched to indoor track petition in his first two matches. He did not
Saturday at the Lynchburg Invitational. allow a point in either match, winning 12-0
The senior was one of only two athletes to and 2-0. ‘
participate in both distance events, and she did Looney faced a much tougher match in
so in style by capturing both races. Schaeffer the ﬁnals at 190, but he did not give an inch
 prevailed in the one-mile run with a time of to his opponent, Joe Howe of Lebanon Val-
, _ _ _ _ 5:28. 25. She crossed the line 32 seconds ahead ley. Looney knotted the match 2-2 with a
egular Or Th'Ck S"Ced lfnltatlon of her nearest competitor in the two-mile run ' reversal, but Howe prevailed with a late

Harris Teeter 7  crabnqeat  with a time of l I:44. 1. takedown and a 4-3 decision.
16 oz. Flakes lb. T

N Selected Varieties Women endure rough Week

I a S  points and 12 rebounds. W&L returned home and Burghardt each had 10
From P,“ SW” R°P"”* Thingsgottougherforthe Tuesday night,onIytofaIlto points and 7 rebounds for
‘*1-—:"““: Generals Saturday when Eastern Mennonite, 75-60. the Generals. Hinkle added

' I
Th0 W0mC“’-5' It‘-1-‘ikcibilii they trav- O n C 0 7 more rebounds.
team faced tough opponents ctcd to again, the w&L received a chance
in,the past week, dropping R;md()]pI1- " L   Generals
V
I

\:

z .

to avenge their loss to
£111 0f N5 YOU!‘ C<)Iil051>'- Macon. the -. . . . p I a y 6 d Randolph-Macon Thursday
' The 00110171‘-*‘ WW0 s e e o n d - v  tough,sliC- night at the Warner Center,
silddlcd Will‘ I7i1Ci~*l<>-1’i|Ci~' ranked team . inga4l-29 but this gamewentlittle bet-
C0nl€SlS 1215‘ WCCKCW HIICF intheSouth. 4_ V ' G - halftime terthan the previous one for
having to make up a previ- R;md0|p|1. _ ' ' deficit to the Genci-a1s_
ously-postponed game with M 11 C 0 n E ~~ °  g c i g h t w&L again kept the
Vlrglllia W°5l9)t“”- proved its  ’ ‘' points in game close in the first half,
Th0 GCHCTHIS SEWC ‘I10 lofty rank- .,.  7 V the SCCOnd traiIingby35-25athalftime.
Marlins a tough battle Fri- mg by ‘=’  >1 " half. East- Rando1ph-Macon, though,
d€1)/- FTCSIVWI“ CIITISSY steaming " _ I -9 3' cm Men- spurted away in the second
Burglmrdi h°lP°d Will)’ the past the , .'  " n 0 n i I 6, half to win the game hand-
Generals back from a Gcncra I5’ - .'  however, ity, 35-45.
6  double-digit second half 73-53  _  p \ re_s_pgn_ded Sgohgmgre Tonia Decan
" _ _ _ " deficit to within ()I -57. F r C S h _ 2  with 8 10_ m”;’edV‘]'5"E)C;i"n[;°a"[;3 ‘9’ r“e'_‘
  &   The Marlins‘ mmlgh’ man Amber Photo by Betsy Green, 2 run to Put bounds and Holmes added 6

~ Cheese ¢ Grape —  l‘f’°r°_5‘°“dY““lI°fI°°fI"“"f Hittklc was PM Photo Editor the game points and 11 rebounds for
,§ . me in the closing minutes ;,|mg]nsPm A b H_ kl t away me Generals.

 Z25 oz.  64 oz. and managed to hold oft {Mme Gen. m 91' H} epu 5 Fresh_ washin ton and Lee
—— u h t t ff‘ 8

‘_“*'-‘ W&L~, 70-63 crals as she p as 0 In ra 1c’ man Karin sinks[02_1],1-10inODAC

    
I . ‘ . , ‘ _ ‘ ' P0””5 2”“ Pii1)/0d 511- TheGeneralswilIattempt
    “IS”,-)0 P‘””‘~W” 5‘I—‘5h00“ snarcdb’ rebounds. TheGen— perbly with 16 points, 7 as- to get back on track sagur-

Int‘; SCl‘i""51Wi"11I'I0l”‘C5 erals also converted a sea- sists, and 3 steals on the day with a home contest

-
8  “I50 PI4l.V°<I WC” Will‘ I3 son-high 1‘)-25 free throws. evening. SeniorAllisonHull againstcujlford

I I.  Indoor. Track:   

. Senior tri-captains Stuart Hogue and-Brady Payc ’ V _ g _

placed in the Lynchburg Invitational on Saturday.» The Washinigtgoiia 'Le:_eﬂWresitIing_Invitai'
contest marked the opening of the Generals’ indoor Senior;eo1captain€:'CoIin,;Leone" '

f season.‘ Hogue took second in the 440-yard» dash in a ﬁnalsiat 190.,before'Iosing’io‘_the_top’
time of54.68 seconds. Paye captured thirdplace in the‘ ;Lebanon.\(aIlcy.‘/,,§'f.‘«V _3:  V_ _
1,000-yard run. . ' ' ' g  f1‘ ‘  . ‘ FreshI‘rti1nTfR‘yan‘WalIteIl‘,gi 
V ’ Senior co-captain Josephine Schaeffer captured two‘ '_ door  ' "
first place finishes to give the W&L women a great start’ - 3‘: 

. ’ .1!’ . I
  Super Bowl especial Soft Drink Feature j’iiii)ii1i.2:i;1.r12d8(i§Z).r5 ihﬂdiglgogvihh $122321?.§3i"£El'-i§i£I‘L‘E.§° 5

' -[0fg_11':4A4'.1».’ ; V 

K.

r

Great Offer! ’ ‘”‘* ~””‘

section is tootiirtg

One FREE Introductory Tanning Visit I" “ IN 9°“

with H/tIl?CUT/S73/LE/\ppointtncnt at ’}:’f‘;  ﬁfe“

. J I ctiatfengé, give us
I I A ‘ 0 Cl cctttl Contact
Superpretzel 6 Pk. 20 Oz. NRB - the m‘ office at

Soft   Coke Or Diet 
Pretzels Coke       .,.e_Va,_.at.°n

Tanning Sessions
* ’ 12 visits for $35.00
  SOUIIl JCITCFSOII SIFCCI Marie's Hairstulers

13 oz.

. .  J.«Waite?‘-51llUs;;;.i1;|ﬂdlYtd.Uats ~55 Stu.den.t—= S  SPRING BREAK ’96 — SELL 7
Natural Selected Varieties ‘ 'I‘gVa'ni2.;‘:tions.“a'r‘1d’S,n13iii__AGi‘ot;xps _to‘t3r‘omo TRIPS, EARNCASH&GOFREEl!!

.."""’ 2/500 3"“ ‘3''‘‘’‘ °-’ 7.3/ 00 ari°§§§'2§$;?g?;f3§3é'§‘Z§'é":£§E‘?—?§leg   55‘ri§’r?’t5‘s‘iei?‘rVe‘3.'g=i?’e3”i‘v°e°ss»‘i33v7='s’3i?t'l%
4 9 Cfeamg/2 gal. heese Brteszs oz. 1  iseaIgtltNTf.R~°g.MPuserzeeeems:-[gag §:‘i....i‘..'1‘..“fc°i‘2’yBé‘£‘§i$“oa’i‘t¥£;‘ii'b‘i6‘i;'E;‘i
iected Varieties k   " ‘B0 '327"6°13 ' 4849

Sea Pa
jbisco 69 Shrimp 2/ya
*.rackers”s.s.1ooz.1 Poppers t 5....  TRIPS 8‘ CASH”***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with

    30’  America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun

r’riCes In This Ad Effective Wednesday, January 24 Through January 30, 1996 In Our Mecklenburg County Stores Bahamas’ Mazatlan’ or Florida! CA»LL NOW! TAKE? A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL
l Unly. We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps. (500) 95'BREAK'

/

vv'callita'hunch.;I’  -

Last Week:

wusﬂmc ' Finished wvemh in W&L Invitational MBAsKm'B.A1.L - Saturday vs. Guilford. 3:30 PM;
Mﬁmmm - L. 9065. at Bridzepgawgz Wednesday at Virginia Wesleyan, 7:30 PM
14.97-75. vs- Ham °n- yd--er WBAsKr:mAu.- Saturday vs. Guilford, 1:00PM;
WBASK2'FBALL- L, 78-53, vs.4T;andolp}l;-iIB:1&acltJt1l";l~:a.75'50r V5- E Tuesday vs, mvrwc, moo PM
Menmmitei 14:85‘ - "3- °P ’ 3 '1 MSwtMM1Na- S tu do at Sewanee w/ Transylvania, 1:00 PM
Mswmmme - 11.89-31. V5~ J°hn8 HOPHHB; L. 71-53, vs. Emory \VSwmmmc- simian; at Sewanee w/ 'I‘ransylvania, 1:00 PM;
WSwrMMmG- L, 83-41, vs. Johns Hopkins; L,8B-33, vs. Emory; Wednesday at H011-ms_ 7:00 pM
W, 141-58. at Redford
PAGE 8 BASKETBALL, SWIIVIMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK JANUARY 26, '-

    
     

 th'a_t_Supe'r,Bowl,X=X3X will »
Vi be anotlierflatrghe  '
 ?_i=Tt1e.ojd,ds‘¥ar’
 ,-whelmi,ngly.,in'
:_ N

 
 

  
  
  

 this deca'de.,Thc_,.Co,wboy_
* are-113 1_i/2‘-’p'oi\n't"favorites' V
2;‘.,Oh,'and.Ne'on‘Deion,_is, " '
f ’toWnfthis.,ye‘ ' What-
" there-not to lik S9
J ' So,-with "all; I H
1 considered; 91 _predict‘the 
'winn'eriwi_ll be: p .-  ' ’
_"Pittsburgli.fv  V 

. OK,‘-go. ahead and";
laugh. No, ll. don’t have”

. any top-secret; insiéle in-1 '
formation on: the game.j_,

‘ But before you~_fold up the‘
 paper and tossit aside’, hea
S me outfolr ﬂjshorjtwliile
_   'Therelisf_no,doubting't,h
yfact that D  ‘,
team; A’ gran. em-,-» pj
haps. Tlteycan be beaten
though.’ Nobodyltlviougli
Washington co'u_ld".bea
them once, let alonetwice.

First, this NFC streak. ,
has to end sometime. The‘ 1
law of averages will come
intoplaysoon,'partieularly
when the AFC’ finally‘ 
fields a complete team.

The Steelersarethebest
team that the AFC has of- '
fered in the pastclecade.
Denver was too reliant on
John Elway’s arm. Buf-
falo had an explosive of-H
fense, but tlie‘Bills wereW-

V turnover-prone. San Di- \
ego was dependent on the
. big play.

Pittsburgh doesn’t do '
anythingprctty,butitdoes . '
/everythinggwell. QB Neili .
O’Donnell has come into '
.his own this yearas l1ZlS“_'

' WR.Yancey Thigpen. RB ;:
Baml_Morri‘s¢is,:a load: to“ L
_ tackle, , KOl'(.lCll..‘jSl('1_$l1”i 
Stewartis Pi,ttsbur’gh,’s"  ,,
swer to Deion; nobody ever, 
knows which position he9
. will line upai, but he plays
eachgone well. Unlike the"
Bills, who used the pass to,
set up the run, the Stcelcrs,‘
v can run and‘pas_s/the ball,‘
' with equal success._;‘_ . j‘ '-
,- The defense _has'been
~ _ the bedrock ofthe Steele
: for»20 years and—_t_l1is.y.ear ,
. is no exception.i lt star-t's_7“
'thlin_ebacl\ rs’-

    
   

  
  
   
 

 

 
  

  

 

   

  

 

. " ‘So, 'what.the- heck; I’.l A
. go,eutonétbig7t1ir1j1 ,Pitts-. 
. burgh’-wins, 20-17. Just 3-

  

, Whateverhappens,pull /
up your chairs for this one.
For once, the Super Bowl
may be more exciting than
the Bud Bowl. ‘

 

 

Women’s swimming redeems loss to Emory
and Hopkins; men’s team continues to struggle

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

Rebekah Prince and the
women’s swimming team con-
tinued their sweep through
ODAC competition Wednesday
by crushing Radford, 141-58.

The W&L women won all of
their events.

“We just had a good time,”
said freshman Margaret Hoehl.

Sophomore Megan

Wiedmaier won the 1000 and
100 freestyle eve.;ts, junior Ann
Spencer won the 200 and 500
freestyle, and Prince won the 50
freestyle and the 100 backstroke.
Sophomore Kendall
Kruickshanks won the 100 but-
terﬂy, and sophomore Bligh
Wollner won the 100 breast.
The 200 individual medley
relay team of Hoehl, Wollner,
Prince, and sophomore Taryn

Kiekow placed first, as well as ,

the 200 free relay team of senior

Ellie iting-tum 31911?

captain Jill Sheets, Laura
Marshall,Hoehl,andWiedmaier.

“This is the strongest team
we have had in four years,” said
coach Kiki Jacobs.

The men’s and women’s
swimming teams both were out-
gunned last weekend as they both
dropped meets to Johns Hopkins
and Emory.

The men’s team lost 89-31 to
Hopkins and 71-53 to Emory,
despite strong performances by
junior Nathan Hottle and senior

David Stillman.

Stillman won the 50 freestyle
and placed second with the 400
relay team along with senior Craig
Sears, Hottle, and sophomore
Steve Brigance.

Hottle led the way forthe Gen-
erals by winning the 100 and 200
breaststroke and the 400 IM.

The women also had strong
performances from stars Prince
and Hoehl, but they lost to Emory,
88-33, and Hopkins, 83-41.

Prince continued dominating

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Kelly Dyer drives to the hoop for a layup in the Generals’ 97-75 loss to Hampden-Sydney Wednesday.

Generals fall to Hampden-Sydney

By BE’l'll/\NY BAUMAN and
JASON Z/\ClllC,R
I’/ii Staff Writers

Kevin Moore’s first season
as coach of the men’s basketball
team continued to be trouble-
some, as the Generals lost to
Hampden-Sydney 97-75
Wednesday night.

The Generals(2-15,2-9) only
had two players in double fig-
ures, whilc the Tigers had four.

Leadingthe way againforthe
Generals was senior Cam Dyer
with 20 points and senior Jon
Coffman with 1‘).

W&L controlled the opening
tip, but Sydney scored the first
five minutes of the game, and
never looked back. Only twice

to Reduce The coetticient

oooaoo0o2cooooouotocoo:-uoooaoooooﬁ,

would the Generals get within
five points, at 7-4 and 18-14.

“We didn’t do a good job of
handling their defensive
pressure...and we gave them too
many open jumpers,” Dyer
stated.

Hurting the Generals were
senior Derek Carter’s four first-
halffouls; he would only play 19
minutes of the game.

The Tigers opened the game
with a 16-7 lead in the first 3:36.
A two minute total scoring
droughtfollowcd,which wasbro-
ken by sophomore Eric
Zavolinsky’s two buckets.

Despite the loss, there were
bright spots for the Generals on
Wednesday night. The first was
rebounding. Kelly Dyer com-
bined with his brother to pull

down 17. The second was
Coffman’s 15 points from three
point land, as he connected on 5
of 6 attempts.

The Generals kept the game
within ten points thr0ugh0ut,but
a late 14-4 run by Sydney to end
the game put it out of reach.

The Generals hope to change
their luck in the Warner Center
on Saturday.

They meet Guilford at 3:30
PM in a must-win game for an
ODAC tournament berth.

Cam Dyer said, “This is a
huge game because ourmain goal
now is making the ODAC tour-
nament. We feel like we match
up against Guilford well.”

Zavolinsky added, “I think if
we play defense and limit our
turnoverswecandeﬁnitely win.”

 

‘Washington and Lee 75

Player FG FT Pts Min
M-A M-A

C. Dyer 7-11 6-10 20 30
Coffman 6-9 2-4 19 26
Zavolinsky 4-6 0-0 8 10
Cobbin 2-8 4-6 8 27
Couzen 1-5 4-6 6 31
K. Dyer 2-8 2-4 6 25
Carter 1-5 0-0 3 19
Mellett 1-6 0-0 3 20
Jamison 1-1 0-0 2 5
Ayers 0-0 0-2 0 1
Dirmann 0-1 0-0 0 5
Totals 25-60 18-32 75 --

3pointers: H-S8-22;W&L7-18(Coffman
5-6, Carter 1-4, Mellett 1-3). Rebounds:
H-S 46; W&L 44 (C Dyer 9, K Dyer 8).
Assists: H—S 20, W&L 10. Fouls: H-S 24;
W&L 19 (Caner, Coffman 4).
Halftime Score: H-S 62, W&L 51

    It uoesirt Talte ll Mam aiur        

(And Do It With A Lot of Style.)
® 'roYoTA 

Toyota ’s Affordable Sporty Fun,-Cv<_Jr.

Sﬂi YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY.

 
   
    
            
   
  
  
  
   
   
      
               
      
        
      
  

This Week:

WINDoon Tmcx - Saturday at East Tennessee State Invitational

“It’s good to go against son ‘I
one other than ODAC compe ,
tion. Sometimes we think we .1
the best around here. It’s a u.‘
wake-up call,” said Jacobs. ;

Both teamswill travel togetl
again this weekend to Sewan_
Tennessee, where they will ha’
a dual meet with Sewanee a
Transylvania College. .Y

Jacobs remarked, “We are c‘
pecting a good meet again
Sewanee. It should come dot
to the last events.” it

her events, winning the 200
backstroke by one second, and
the 200 IM by four seconds.

Hoehl captured the 500
freestyle and placed second in
the 100 backstroke.

Wiedrrraier also was strong,
placingthirdinthe500freestyle, V
under one half-second behind
second place.

The women hope that this
meet will help them prepare for
the AtlanticStates/ODACtour-
nament February 23-25.

I
1

New trainer
Haynes joins

athletic staff

i
.
I

U of Maine intern replace:
Melanie Middleton

By .Bf;"l‘llANY BAUMAN
1’/ii Assistant Sports Editor

Joellen Haynesjoined the Washington and Lee Athlctic'l‘rainl.
staffovcrthe holiday break. During the wintersports season she
work with the men’s basketball team. ,

Haynes, 23, is a senior at the University of Maine majoring;
physical education with a concentration in athletic training. 2,
semester has brought her to W&L in order to perform the intern5
required for her degree. But before she is awarded her degrct,
May, Haynes plans to take the National Athletic Trainers Ass0 
tion certification test in April.

Having worked at both Division 1 and 1 ll schools, Haynes e
the college athletic setting and anticipates that her first job

S
nj I.
r 5
iv
graduation will be at this level. Ultimately, llaynes hopes to ﬁg

 
    
   
    
   
 

compete anymore.”

“I like the constant, day to day interaction with people...andj
being in competitive situations even though I can’t compete .
self.”

When Haynes isn’t in the training room, she enjoys activi
which keep her outdoors such as rollerblading, mountain biking‘
traveling. f

Haynes is filling the position left vacant by Melanie Middle
Middleton had just begun her third year as 21 trainer with-it
Washington and Lee basketball program when she was offered a '
at :1 clinic in Sumter. South Carolina. ,4

trainer for the United States National Gymnastic Team. ‘_
Haynes used to be a gymnast herself,‘in addition to pluyingﬁ
hockey, skiing and running track. Unfortunately, injuries Cut
athletic career short, but Haynes has found that athletic traini
“...is a way to keep involved in athletics even after [she] could
1
ll
I
D
5

   

Middleton received her undergraduate degree at Campbell '
versity. She earned her mastcr’s degree in sports medicine from

  

U.S. Sports Medicine Academy in Mobile, Alabama. ,
Before coming to W&L, Middleton worked as 21 North Caroll

   
   
 

State trooper and as a high school girl"’s basketball coach at Dapli
High School in Alabama. 
She joined the W&L training staff in December of 1993 a

serving as a certified hang gliding instructor and pilot at Look‘
Mountain Flight Park. '—

Middleton is a former goalie for the U.S. National Hand‘
Team for which she competed in the Pan-American Games and«
World B championships in Denmark. She also served as an assis
coach at the U.S. Olympic Festival in St. Louis during 1994.

lnuddition to working withthcmen’sbaskctball team, Middl
also served the men’s soccer, baseball and track teams.

 
    
 
 

ﬂtﬂraw-3‘

   
   

® TOYOTA

I Z.m..~ \Vh.xZ You Do for Mr

u
w)

V \’~..- '3’. 2

l-$’l”,‘».".‘*”‘.' I “?":i, 1. .

res as tees

lt’ s not easy being

Hallie, Prince

greervmindecl 9 rule a! Sewanee 9

m Iﬁhi

voLUME,96f‘No. 13

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

They’ve got that volunteer spirit!

Betsy Green,.Phi‘Photo Editor

Local volunteer organizations looked for W&L students to help their causes at the Volunteer Fair. The
Fair was sponsored by several W&L organizations, and was held in the University Center Wednesday.

Burke stresses Greek
responsibility in speech

BY MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Associate Editor

In an increasingly litigious society, fratemi-
ties and sororities are being stuck with the
image of being drinking clubs, said Timothy
Burke, an expert on fraternal law and a legal
representative for two W&L national sorori-
ties, in a speech Tuesday night in Lee Chapel.

Burke’s visit was sponsored by both
Panhellenic Council and the Interfrater-
nity Council.

The negative image that fraternities and
sororities have presently is not the image that
W&L fraternities and sororities want to have
for their Greek life, he said.

He said in laws against drunk driving are
tightening because of the efforts by organiza-
tions such as MADD (Mothers Against
Drunk Driving) and SADD (Students
Against Drunk Driving).

“All of your national fraternities and sorori-
ties have encouraged risk management,” he
said, “and notjust to eliminate liability but also
to eliminate injury.”

Mock Con site gaining prestige

He said fraternities and sororities should
start with the premise that under Virginia state
law no one under 21 can be served alcohol to
have effective risk management. If Greek orga-
nizations don’t start with that premise, they will
not have insurance companies willing to de-
fend them in case of a serious incident.

He also argued that hazing has no place in
the proper conduct of a Greek organization.
Thirty-eight states have prohibited hazing as a
statutory law.

Hazing does not move the fraternity move-
ment forward, and it does not promote brother-
hood or sisterhood.

“Thankfully, national fraternities and so-
rorities recognize that message, but it doesn’t
always get down to the local chapters,”he said.
“No physical punishment should be part of the
initiation for your brothers and sisters.”

He said fraternities and sororities can’t man-
age the risks of hazing. They simply don’t haze.
He urged fraternity and sorority leaders to make
clear to their members and pledges that hazing
is not tolerated or condoned and stand by it.

He cited a definition of hazing by Robert
Keith, Greek advisor ofOhio Weslyan Univer-

BY EMILY BAKER
P/zi Executive Editor

And the time has payed off.

Last week the Mock Con Home Page was named Web Site
ofthe Week by two companies that evaluate web sites. Thurs-
day it was named Web Site ofthe Day by Politics USA.

_ The Steering Committee’s original idea for the Mock
. Convention home page wasn’t quite as ambitious as Mark

Tobias’.

“At first all they wanted wasjust the logo,” said Tobias,
‘reator ofthe home page. “I thought we could do a lot more

'ith it.”

Tobias’ vision has turned into a nationally recognized
50 page-long web site of candidates, issues, and links to

)ll'lCT websites and newsgroups.

Tobiasdividedthe pageintodiffcrentsectionsincluding
coming speakers, platforms, state by state analyses, politi-

cal publications, and donations to Mock Con.

‘‘I thought about what I wanted to learn, and what l
thought other people would want to learn from it,” Tobias

said.

He estimates that he has spent between 400 and 500
hours building and adding information to the home page.

“Today’s pick is an impressive offering from a group of
students at Washington and Lee University,” reads the Politics
USA review. “This 1996 Republican Mock Convention site is
well-designed, full of information and fun to navigate.”

Tobias said that 150 extra people visited the web site
Thursday when Politics USA reviewed it. The feedback from
web-surfers, politics watchers and alumni has been positive.

Tobias said alumni are e-mailing the web site and sharing
memories of their own Mock Con memories

The home page offers an on-line issues forum, pictures and

video footage of candidates.

tion in August.

Tobias plans next to add in ‘‘what‘s new” section, so visitors
don’t have to sift through information they’ve already read to
find updates. He says he will continue updating the home page
after Mock Con, until the actual Republican National Conven-

Check out the result of hundreds of hours of work at
http://www.mockcon.wlu.e(lu/~mockcon/

sity, which is in the form of six questions: Will
the activity achieve its predetermined purpose?
Could you tell the chapter president about the
activity? Would you be willing to perform the
activity before an administrator? Would you be
willing to send parents a snapshot of the activ-
ity? Would you be able to defend it in court?
Would you share this activity with other
chapters during a national conference of
fraternities?

Burke said if the answer to one or all of these
questions is no, then the activity is hazing.

Fraternities and sororities should also pro-
tect against sexual abuse, he said. Laws have
been strengthened to prevent sexual abuse in
the workplace and on campus.

“The fraternity that condones getting a fresh-
man woman liquored up so that the upperc1ass-
men can get her to their room is wrong,” he said.
“Women’s groups need to stand up to men’s
groups and demand that they attend parties
where they will be respected.”

With a resurgence of fraternities and sorori-
ties on American campuses, there has been an
increased recognition of the bad things that
occur in Greek organizations, Burke said. If
fraternities and sororities work well, they can
provide its members with leadership skills,
connections, and personal development. To
achieve this, fraternity and sorority members
must stand against those practices that may be
considered tradition but are in fact legally and
morally wrong.

“Stopping these things will make your fra-
ternities and sororities better for it.”

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 2, 1996

Thompson missed
by W&L community

BY DANIELLE BURGIIARDT
AND DARCEY LIVINGSTON
Phi Staff Writers

Friends, faculty, and administrators thought
of him highly:
“He was a great guy.”
“He was the sweetest guy.”
“He was marked for success.”
Washington and Lee senior David C. Th-
ompson died Sunday following a single—car
accident near Collierstown.
The accident occurred around 2:30 that
momingon Route25l.
Thompson was
taken to Stonewall
Jackson Hospital in
Lexington.
After his condition
was stabilized, he was
flown to Roanoke Me-
morial Hospital. He
died there at approxi-
mately 6:15 a.m.
State Trooper R.J.
Noe said Thompson
was driving at 70-75
miles per hour when
he veered off the road
and into a field. Th-
ompson was thrown
from his vehicle when
ithitatree. He was not
wearing a seatbelt.
Trooper Noe said
when he arrived on
the scene, he smelled
alcohol on
Thompson’s breath. -- --
Although officials
believe Thompson
died of severe head injuries, it will not be
confirmed until the medical report is released.
The funeral is scheduled for l :00 p.m. today
at Old St. Paul’s Church in Baltimore, Md. A
reception will be held at St. Paul’s School
forBoys, Thompson’s alma mater, following
the service.
Dean of Students David Howison said the
university is providing two buses to Baltimore

today. He expects most of the 90 spaces to be
filled by Thompson’s former lacrosse team-
mates and members of his fraternity, Beta
Theta Pi.

Thompson, whose home was in Hunt Val-
ley, Md., was a 3-time letter winner as a
midfielder on the W&L lacrosse team.

“Thompson’s impact on the lacrosse team
went far beyond the lacrosse field,” said Head
Lacrosse Coach Jim Stagnitta.

According to Stagnitta, Thompson contrib-
uted not only athletic ability, but team spirit
as well.

Thompson received the W&L Scholar-

Athlete award last
fall for his 3.5
grade pointaverage.

“It was his best
academic perfor-
mance since he had
been at W&L,” said
Dean Howison.

“He radiated good
humor and good will
to others and he al-
ways seemed in a
cheerful mood,” said
J. Davis Futch, pro-
fessor of history. “He
appeared to be the
friendliest student in
school.”

An announce-
ment is expected
Monday about a uni-
versity memorialser-
vice for Thompson.
Dean Howison said
it should take place
in Lee Chapel some-
time next week.

Thompson is sur-

vived by his mother, Elizabeth Thompson of
Hunt Valley; his father, David Thompson of
Baltimore; and his brother, James Thompson of
Hunt Valley.

Thompson had a bright future ahead of him,
said Futeh.

“If any student was ever marked for suc-
cess, it was he,” he said. “David was the kind
of son every family hopes to have.’

Benefit concert soon to
rock the Lenfest Center

BY SARA MCCRONL‘
P/ii Staff Writer

The Hill will be alive with the sound of
musicon Feb.3forthesixthannua|One Acous-
tic Evening benefit concert held at the Lenfest
Center at 7:30 p.m.

The event will feature W&L students, fac-
ulty, and alumni, as well as some members of
the Lexington community. The proceeds from
the $5 admission will fund two alternative
springbreak projects, BridgesTo Community’s
trip to Nicaragua in February and “Christmas in
April,” sponsored by Total Action Against
Poverty and Catholic Campus Ministry.

The performers include W&Lseniors Brian
Boland and Tommy Esposito joined by fresh-
man Chris Edwards, W&L law professor and
guitarist Alan ldes, and W&L third year law
student and soprano Alison Pilgrim.

Another student group, Fifth Beat, which
features Tom Leggett, Todd Bryan, and David
Olympio, plans to play modern jazz arrange-
ments. Leggettwillalsocollaborate with W&L
junior and poet Aaron Wilkinson in performing

original compositions.

A three-year veteran of Lime Kiln musicals,
Chris Leva ‘86 will perform original folk and
reggae arrangements, and the Greenhouse De-
feet and Stringdusters are also slated to share
their musical talents with the audience. ln
addition, students who frequent Lexington’s
Night Owl Music will be pleased to recognize
owner Wayne Raynal on stage for his debut
performance of original compositions.

McGraw Gap, winner of Telluride’s 1995
Bluegrass and Country Music Festival Best
Bluegrass Band, Best Guitarist (Larry Keel),
Best Mandolin (Daniel Knicely), and Third
Best Banjo (Will Lee), will also perform on
Saturday night. The group, which is recording
its first CD in the next month, has been the
opening act for such performers as Bill Mon-
roe, the Country Gentlemen, Eddie Adcock,
and Leftover Salmon.

lnaddition,Blind Lemon Phillipswillpresent
his “...grand mixture of musical styles and
influences ranging from the blues to rock to
folk to avant-garde, all delivered with an enthu-
siastic blend of humor and wit” (Jerry Harris,
The News Gazette). .

What do you mean, more snow?

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Before the remains of the Blizzard of 1996 fully disappear, Mother Nature slams
Lexington with another pile o’snow. See Weekend Weather above.

lib) .
» »
1

 
 
   
 

 
    

 

.4

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

French President envisions

Euro-American alliance

Paris, France——French President Jacques Chirac said that during his
visit to the United States this week, he will present Congress and President
Clinton with his vision ofa new balance of power in the alliance between
Europe and the United States.

Chirac, who has made sweeping domestic and diplomatic reforms since
he began his presidential term, emphasizes that while an alliance between
the nations of Europe and the United States will always be significant to
maintaining world security, the nations of Europe must begin to take
greater military responsibility for upholding regional peace.

In Chirac’s vision, the United States would decrease its military
involvement in European peacekeeping efforst while increasing financial
reliefto third world countries. Chirac has already begun to execute his plan
by reinstating France as a significant NATO power and providing French
troops for the peacekeeping mission in Bosnia.

Scientists make new progress

in battle against AIDS virus

Atlanta——Medical researchers have made what could be a significant
discovery in the battle against the AIDS virus. Scientists have found that
by countingthc numberofstrands ofHlV genetic material, or RNA, in each
micro liter of a patient’s blood, they can accurately predict the stage ofthe
patient’s illness.

This assessment ofthe progression ofthe AIDS virus is usually done by
counting the number ofimmune system cell defenders. or CD-ls, per micro
liter of blood. However, this method has often proved inaccurate, a
problem which doctors say can affect the quality of the treatment given to
a patient. In order to maintain a patient’s comfort and safety during
treatment. doctors must be able to accurately assess the stage to which the
AIDS virus has progressed.

RNA counts will also aid researchers in their search for a cure by
providing more accurate data concerning the effectiveness of various
treatments in combatting the virus.

Cosmo editor to retire

New York—Helen Gurley Brown, editor-in-chief or cosmopolitan,
has been asked to retire after 31 years as the editor of the most popular
magazine among college women.

At seventy-three, Brown is the only woman editor to have received the
Henry Johnson Fisher Award from the Magazine Publishers of America,
and is known among her colleagues as a work hard, play hard “Cosmo girl”
whose ambition and work ethic turned a failing magazine into a thriving
enterprise mroe than thirty years ago. Her highly controversialviews
concerning women and sexuality have been an earmark of her work for
years, and have gained greater popularity for her magazine.

Many, including Brown herself, cite the drastic difference between her
age and that of her and that of her typical college-age reader as the primary
factor behind the decision to ask Brown for her retirement. The position
of editor-in-chief will be filled by thirty-nine year old Bonnie Fuller next
year

Chinese Premier threatens

use of force against Taiwan

Beijing—ln a speech designed to fortify the strained relationship with
Taiwan, Chinese Premier Li Peng threatened force against the foreign
powers which support independence forTaiwan. Li insists that the state of
relations between the nationalist island and communist China is the fault
ofTaiwanese independence movements and that, despite its reluctance to
do so, China will not hesitate to use any necessary methods to bring about
reunification. ~

Taiwanese officials viewed the speech as a familiar tool in China’s
continuing effort to bring about one unified China.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re-
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Forbes takes lead from Dole

In less than three weeks until the New I lampshire primary, Steve Forbes
has surged into the lead. passing front—runner Bob Dole according to a
Boston Globe/'\\’l3S—'l‘\/ poll. Political anal_\ sts state that Forbes has much
momentum because many voters see him as an outsider to Washington
politics. His popularity, attributable to his huge media blitz, continues to
surge as the Dole campaign collapses. Many voters are dissatisfied with
Dole especially since his response to President Clinton’s State ofthe Union
address. Concerns about his age, the fact that he is a Washington insider
and his role in the budget negotiations have raised doubts in the public’s
mind about Dole’s ability to be a worthwhile President.

Buchanan edges ahead

Pat Buchanan edged Steve Iiorbes in a narrow victory in the Alaska
GOP Straw Poll while Bob Dole received less than half the votes ofthe
winner. Buchanan supporters assert that this win in Alaska sends the
powerful message that Pat Buclianan is the only conservative candidate
that can beat Forbes and Dole to Louisiana and Iowa caucus goers.

GOP Watch is compiled
by Laura Knapp

Women leaders unite for dinner, anniversary ,

BY SARA, MCCRONE

argued that female W&L students would be “young
ladies on the prowl” and would turn W&L into “the

  
   
   

The Rin -tum Phi Februa 2 1996‘

 

example, there was a huge back—up of angry studehts‘
in the Graham-Lees laundry room: no one had °

Phi Staff Writer

It seemed like a repeat performance of Rush as
women filed into the University Center, dressed to
the nines and sporting name tags and 100-watt
smiles. But this was a one-night deal, a special
dinner sponsored by Women and Leadership to
celebrate the tenth anniversary of coedueation at
W&L. The organization had invited 135 student
leaders, faculty, and staff to attend the dinner and
speaker event.

Women and Leadership’s president, Karly
Jennings, welcomed the guests of honor, Dr. Mimi
Elrod, Cinda Rankin, Michelle Richardson, Dean
Howison, and Dr. Darcy Russell, and cited many
groups and teams in which women were involved
and held leadership positions. After dinner, the
women’s tennis coach, Cinda Rankin, gave a well-
received and interesting speech on the history of
coedueation at W&L.

The audience was surprised to learn that women
had been allowed to attend W&L for two summer
sessions during World War II, and all chuckled
when Rankin read an excerpt from a Ring-tum Phi
article in which a professor against co-education

&
'85

'7
%,

W&L gains new counselor, facilities

BY EMILY BAKER
P/ii Executive Editor

Washington and Lee’s counseling services
start the new year with a fresh face and reno-
vated facilities.

Anne McThenia is temporarily taking the
place ofAnne Schroer-Lamont, Associate Dean
of Students, who is on sabbatical in Norway.

McThenia and Dr. James Worth, W&L’s
other counselor have their offices in the newly
renovated counseling center. The center is also
home to W&L’s health educator.

McThenia comes to W&L after eight years
ofworking at Hollins College. She had planned
on retiring at the end of this school year,
when Schroer-Lamont and Worth asked" her
to fill Schroer-Lamont’s place this year. She
retireda semester early from Hollins to fill
the position.

McThenia majored in psychology at
Randolph-Macon Women’s College and

reading about them."

seled for five years.

received her master’s from James Madison
University.

“I was aware at an early age that my first
passion was working with people in a helping
capacity,” she said. “As a child, I was always
the one who would try to keep other kids from

point.

I Preisident_  
*1’: ‘  = :i—Ant13911y Mazzﬁrell

 
 

 
   

’I‘reasurer-~._ ;
Tommy?
Secretary,    ; V ’
, I Tom‘I_ny_R_u,eger ’97, Phiv,KappaS

‘ Senior Justice; : ‘ ‘  
 Chad Sartini

 

‘I:97,>*'si‘grii' Bhi’Eps1I0,

   
 

am 597, ‘stggttaatpha Epsilon  _

Eort:

This logo for the tenth anniversary of
coedueation will be appearing on
t-shirts which go on sale next week.

saying ugly things to each other.”

During the 60’s and 70’s, McThenia raised
herthree children and did volunteerwork on the
side. Raising herthree children prepared hcrfor
counseling college students. she said.

“I’ve been exposed to just about every issue
you can experience in counseling,” she said.
“(Raising children) gave me an understanding
about things I wouldn‘t have had from just

Fort Lauderdale of the North.”
Also amusing were some of the first problems
encoutered in the transition to co-education.

‘§§\\gQ'l ON A/V0

OE

In 1980. McThenia helped start the Alcohol
Service of Rockbridge County, where she coun-

This is not McThenia‘s first job at W&L.
Before she worked at Hollins. McThenia coun-
seled for a semester here. At the time, Dean
Schroer-Lamont was doing career counseling
and the school needed a temporary counselor.

W&L is typical in its counseling needs,
McThenia said. Students here face the same
problems as students on other campuses, in-
cluding adjustment problems, eating disorders,
substance abuse, and sexuality issues.

McThenia enjoys working with college
students because they’re at such a transitional

“It’s exciting to help people transfer from
one major life period to another,” she said.

   
       
  
   
  

Sorority housing plan proposed

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

After months of dialogue with the
four Panhellenic sororities, the Sorority
Housing Committee announced a pre-
liminary housing proposal last week.

The proposal includes plans for five
sorority houses, while allowing room
for a sixth. Each house would sleep 20
to 30 women, have a kitchen, an eating
area, a common area, and an office area.
There would be no party room, as na-
tional sororities have non-alcoholic hous-
ing policies.

The proposed location, next to the
Pavilion and across from the law school,
is a six-minute walk to campus.

women enjoy on this campus.

rorities eat together.

house only a few members.

representatives.

ADMISSIONS COUNSELOR

The W&L Admissions Office is now
accepting applications for a possible
Admissions Counselor position. All
interested graduating seniors should
submit a cover letter and resume no
later than Friday, February 16, 1996
to:

Julia M. Kozak
Associate Director of Admissions
Office of Admissions

   

 

  
     
  

5

   
  

The plan also includes a Panhellenic cen-
ter where sororities can hold date functions.
The committee hopes that a common center
will help allay fears that sorority housing
will lessen the Panhellenic spirit sorority

The committee also suggested a rotating
meal plan, where classes from different so-

Members of the four sororities filled out
surveys earlier this year, but were divided on
whether to have houses or lodges that would

The committee emphasized that this is
not the final report. Panhellenic has until
March first to submit the report. Sorority
members are encouraged to give their input
to and ask questions of their Panhellenic

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast

The Buffet is served from 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m.

RAVEL ABROAD AND WORK

ake up to $25-$45 per hour teaching basic eonver
ational English abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S
Korea. Many employers provide room & board «
ther benefits. No teaching background or Asia

anguages required. For more information call
_"06l 971-1570 ext 115471

gs

expected that the female students would wash thei
clothes twice as much as their male counterparts. In
addition, there was t-shirt wars among the students.
Some men wore t—shirts which read, “Women at
W&L: The Beginning of an Error,” while women ‘
shot back with slogans like “W&L Women: Quality
Doesn’t Have to Travel.” I

But there were also moments of seriousness, such
as when Rankin shared a letter written by Jennifer
Gray ‘89 in her freshman year in which she com— V
mended the W&L community for offering a warm _
welcome to females on campus and stated that she _
did not come to W&L to “smash a tradition” but “to
attend one of the nation’s finest schools.” Rankin
concluded her speech by saying that “the Colonnade
is still standing...coeducation has been a mere bump
in the road. Tradition has not changed. [W&L
represents] honor and integrity, and the students ‘
respect and care for one another.” «

At the end ofthe evening, the audience applauded
the efforts of Pamela Simpson, the head of the Co- ‘
education Steering Committee, and Jennings an-
nounced that March 14 was the day to wear the
newly-designed anniversaryt-shirts which willbe on
sale next week.

For

4:»

'95
%

é. .
W. Patrick Hinelly
Anne McThenia is the new counselor at W&L.‘

Denniston visits W&L,
speaks on reporting . ,‘

BY DAN ODENWALD
Phi Executive Editor

t

Lyle Denniston is the quintessential journalist’s journalist. ,

He believes in the principle that journalists are the catalyst in the
democratic system — they help the process along, but have no measure,
influence on the result. i

In the age of embattled Supreme Court nominations, he maintains that
the press plays virtually no role in determining the success of that
individual. I

It may seem strange that these remarks would be made by the dean of
the Court press corps. Even stranger when considering that Denniston has
been covering the Court for nearly 40 years as a reporter for The Baltimore
Sun. I v
Denniston visited the W&L campus Tuesday afternoon as part of
Professor Edwin Yoder’s course on Reporting on the Supreme Court. The
Department of Journalism and Mass Communications and the School df
Law sponsored a speech he gave to the general public that afternoon. I

In his lecture, entitled “Reporting on the U.S. Supreme Court,” Denniston
argued that Court journalists are not active participants in the nominating
process. They in no way affect the outcome ofthe purely political game.

“The role ofthe press is profoundly exaggerated,” said Denniston. “The
press can’t make anything something it’s not.”

Denniston refuted the idea that the press is the handmaidcn by which
judicial careers are destroyed or deeply threatened.

    
  
  
 

3

  
   
     
    
    
   
  
    
  
    
   
   
  
 
  
 
    
       
    
   
 

He examined the nominations of Justices Clarence Thomas and Ruth

Bader Ginsburg.

In both examples, he maintained that the U.S. Senate had alrcady_
determined that the nominee would be confirmed. Media scrutiny played
no role in the confirmation process, according to Denniston.

There was no way Democratic senators were going to vote against an
African—American successortoThurgood Marshall, Denniston said. Simi-
larly, the media’s exposure ofthe letter-writing campaign ofGinsburg and
her husband would not be enough to persuade the Senate to reject her._

In the same vein, he asserted that Judge Robert Bork was doomed from
the beginning. The anti—Reagan senators used the Bork nomination as ;
way to strike back at the President in the wake of the Iran-Contra afla‘ ‘.,

Despite Denniston‘s conviction that the press doesn’t direct the ot -
come of a confirmation hearing. he supports grueling examination of’ II
potential justices.

Journalists should go in looking for dirt, said Denniston. But théy
should not be surprised that the fate of the nominee has already been
decided. /

Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.

We’ll be waiting for you.

Berky’s
Route 11 North - Lexin

  
   
 

ShipsorLand-Tourcompanies+WorldTraveI rh
Seasonal and Full-Time employment avail
able. For info call:

Q06) 971-3550 ext. C5342]

   

 

   
  
  
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
       
       
 
      
   
     
 

 
  
 
     
    
  
  
  
  
     

 

I

K
, I

I’
I‘
I

K

‘-.

I The Ring-tum PI1i,February 2, 1996 I  

&life

Page 3

it’s not easy

being greerrmincieci

Courtney  A/iiiier

Phi Features Editor

lt’s not easy being green, as Kermit sweetly sang so many
years ago. The environmental movement has infiltrated the
daily life ofthe daily consumer. Many states have passed
. legislature mandating the recycling ofcertain materials, and
 encouraging itthroughsuch programs ascurb-siderecyclying
and redemption values forsoda cans. Followingin line with
a national trend, then, W&L has begun a pilot proram of
campus recycling at Woods Creek Apartments.
V W&L’s distance from the movement is slowly disap-
: pearing as students from all across America voice concerns
; overthclackofacampusrecyclingprogram. Manystudcnts
: feel that W&L, as an institution of higher learning, has a
; responsibility to be a leader in recycling within the commu-
; nity, that it can no longer take a back seat to the responsibil-
; ity of recycling. Due to the lack of a campus recycling
j program, many students are struggling to maintain pro-
: grams of their own.
j The university now provides facilities for the recycling
i ofaluminum products such as soda cans and ofmixed paper
' without large plastic or wax labels (but not newsprint).
Previously students who wished to recycle would sort.
separate and transport their own waste to Rockbridge

County’s recycling pit-stop in the Kroger parking lot.

Aluminum and paper were chosen because they are the
easiest products for the consumer to recycle, and they use
the least amount of labor and money to complete the cycle.

A recycling committee headed by the Treasurer of the
unversity, Lawrence Broomall, and consisting of several
students, both law and undergraduate, has met three times
this year and hopes to expand the pilot Woods Creek
program to the entire school in the near future.

I

 

Unfortunately, however_. there has been little or no re-
sponse to the committec’s pilot program of recycling; :1
meeting for students living in Woods (‘reek interested in
recycling \vas poorly attended, and although bins are avail-
able for the students to recycle, many are not using them.

Jason Ham, law student and member of the recycling
committee, feels that the bins should be placed in the
apartments whether or not the individual students ask for
them. Each apartment has between three and five individu-
als, and Ham feels that at least one ofthem will be inclined
to recycle, while in the future the other residents may also
wish to recycle.

Buildings and Grounds employees collect discarded
materials from bins in the basements of the East and West
buildings. Pick—up is every Tuesday and Thursday from 8-
9 a.m.

Ham also feels that students who previously recycled
losetheirinitiativeand interestinrecyclingwhentheyarrive
at W&I.. because it is so difficult to recycle.

Students who wish to recycle items such as newspapers
that the pilot program does not include should place bundles
in brown paper sacks, or tie them together with string.
Plastic containers need to be sorted by color (white and
green). Glass also needs to be sorted by color (white and
brown). The students can then take their bundles to the
recycling center at Kroger. The grocery store operates the
center from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. seven days a week.

If the pilot program of Woods Creek is a success, and
students prove interested in recycling, l-lam hopes the com-
mittee will extend recycling campus-wide. He also hopes
the school’s recycling will eventually include newspapers
and other commonly recycled materials.

Phi Executive Editor Dan Odenwald explores

Everybody knows newspapers
are boring.

The writing is cliché, the report-
ing is biased and the ﬂare is absent.
Readership is down, the afternoon
dailies are dead, and the Informa-
tion Super Highway threatens the
print media"s very existence. For
God’s sake, they’re still managed
by those dinosaur-aged editors who
still believe in the inverted pyra-
mid.

What the hell is happening?

The truth? Well, most critics are
correct: newspapers are in serious
danger. The problems of which
readers complain are valid.

The good news is that print jour-
nalists are aware of their concerns.
Those who teach, those who prac-
tice, and those who pontiﬁcate are
engaged in a dialogue focused on
revolutionizing the world of news-
papers.

Advocates of New Journalism
want to see more human interest,
more personal connection, and bet-
ter storytelling. These reformers
desire to throw the antiquated mod-
els of old out the window. Change
the paradigm. Innovate. Win back

Like most well-entrenched institu-
tions, the print media are slow to change.
But if you look closely, you can find
it—-superb journalism for the modern
age.

The Washington Post is one of the
two best newspapers in the United
States today (The New York Times

‘ beingthe other).

Some ofthe ﬁnestworkinthe news-
paperbusinessappearswithinits folds.
This review is a salute to the Post’s
Style section, an impressive repository
of New Journalism.

The Style section contains features
stories or funky and offbeat material.
Topics include fashion, entertainment,
society, unique people, and the arts.

On any given day, one can open up
the Style section and truly catch a
glimpse of American culture. Con-
temporary deToqueville-types, search-
ing forthe meaningofAmerica,should
look inside these pages.

Take the PostofThursday, January
31, 1996, for example. The headlines
say it all.

G.O.P. presidential hopefuls de-
scend on Louisiana in anticipation of
the state primary. Rock artist Jewel
warms the hearts of adoring fans.
Couples who are in love and confront a
big age gap deal with society’s expec-

Post-Modern News

man whose girlfriend hates his tattoo.

This is America, folks. Who cares
about Whitewater? Bosnia? the Bal-
anced Budget? Let’s talk gossip.

The most enduring component of
the Style section is TheReliableSource,
the Post’s own gossip column. For-
merly edited by Lois Romano, the
Sourceisnowcompiled by AnnieGroer

and Ann Gerhart§ If you want toknow ‘ '

wherrlalugh gets caught with a hooker,
when Lisa Marie and Michael call it
quits, or when John, Jr., fails the bar,
read the Source.

Style can be smart and important,
however. Who could forget the inti-
mate portrayal of Betty Friedan pub-
lished this summer? Where else could
one follow the demise of the
government’sarts agency? Where else
could one read of the Log Cabin Re-
publicans?

Congratulations are in order. The
Washington Post has a lot to be proud
of. Its Style section is remarkable.
exciting, and new.

Reporters are perfectionists. They
almost never are entirely happy with
what they produce. But I think I speak
for the entire journalistic community
when I say that the Style section gets it
right.

They do it well, and they do it con-

your readers.

tations. Ann Landers gives advice to a

sistently. Not many of us can say that.

Jewel will save your soil and open
for Edwin t\/IcCain tonigiit at [Ire Pavilion.
Doors open at 9:00 p.m., and the Show
starts at 9:30. A beer garden will be
available for tiiose with ID. Ticieels are 

in advance, and $8 at tire (Ioor.

SUDDEN DEATH:
‘NEVER QUITEALIVE

Kirk Susong
Phi Reviewer

,, There are at least_two types ofaction flicks: those that you
will want to see more than once, and those that even once
seems like a few too many times. The former category
includes movies like Die Hard or Cliffhanger, the latter,
unfortunately, includes Sudden Death.

Jean-Claude Van Damme is fire marshal Darren McCord

‘I at the ‘Igloo,’ where the Pittsburgh Penguins are playing the
Black Hawks in the ﬁnal game ofthe Stanley Cup. But the
Vice-Presidenthasdeeidedtoattendthegameintheowner’s
box, and badthings ensue. Acrazed ex-Secret Service agent
decides to take the Veep hostage, plant bombs around the

g arena, and demand that the U.S. government shuffle money
between various bank accounts.

This sounds like a pretty straight-forward movie, right?
In fact, if that were all there was to the plot, and it was
executed well-enough, we might have a pretty good film

intimate characterizations or complex plot twists; its well-
executed simplicity was part of its success. But apparently
the people behind Sudden Death don’t like things so simple.

‘ * They have thought up a number of needless devices to make

the film supposedly “more interesting,” although in reality
" they just detract from the action. _

For example, the chief agent on the case. whose job it is

to protect the Vice-President, is actually a traitor. But it

W._.. g,__ t.

A’

here. For example, Under Siege was hardly a movie full of

doesn’t matterone little bit in the movie’s terms, because the
notion of a traitor agent is never explored; he gets killed a
few minutes after we find out. Or take another example.
Van Damme is an ex-firefighter who quit hisjob because of
the trauma he faced when a little girl died in his arms. So
what? Do we ever see this resurface in the movie? No. The
incident is mentioned once or twice, but in no way does this
trauma ever affect Van Damme or his actions. Undoubtedly
the film-makers want this to make the film more complex,
but instead itjust muddles the plot.

Would you like another example ofthis silliness? At one
point, Van Damme is actually required to suit up as a
Penguin and play in thegame. Although his only experience
was as a semi-pro a decade previously in Canada, he is able
to make the “save ofthe season” to keep the Penguins in the
game! Somehow the writer is able to work this into the plot.
but to top it all off. after making the huge crucial play, he
signals to his little boy in the stands and tells him how much
he loves him! Whatever. Quite simply. the writing is
atrocious, though I suppose that is to be expected from
writer Gene Quintano. whose previous movies include
quality films like H()II(.'vW)I()()II Acudcniy and N(IIl()II(ll
Lampoon ’s Loaded Weapon.

But ifthatshould’ve been expected. then what I certainly
didn’t foresee was the poor action cinematography Direc-
tor and cinematographer Peter llyams worked with Van

Damme in last year’s Timccop. For all the problems that
film had, at least it provided us with some entertaining fight
sequences.

Tit” 'vt"i~‘iV st‘/"u - ‘ ‘ tr ’"

blood pumping if we were connected to a machine. There
is very little ofthe gymnastics we expect from Van Damme.
Admittedly there are a few good fights, but they simply
don’t live up to the quality Jean-Claude can deliver. Too
many ofthe sequences have an interesting premise, but then
don’t deliver on credibility——like when Van Damme dc-
cides to storm the owner’s box. Maybe we would believe
getting in via air ducts or by posing as a bad guy. But there
is simply no way even he could swing around on the huge
lamps which hang down from the ceiling, then miraculously
ride an overhead camera to the box. If he had showed us his
incredible athleticism instead of relying on fortuitous cir-
cumstances to resolve the problem, the movie would have
been a lot better.

The one highlight of the movie is Powers Boothe, who
plays demented terrorist Joshua Foss. Boothe is certainly
not afraid to typecast himself as the asocial type, whether in
Nixon or Tombstone. Perhaps this dates from his Emmy-
winning performance as cult leader Jim Jones in Guyana
Tragedy. which still pops up on TBS now and then. What-
ever motivated him in this direction, it was a good move.
because he is excellent in these roles. Here he gives the most
likable and realistic performance of the movie. despite his
being the character who is least accessible to the audience
member.

lixcept for Boothes convincing and downright cool
portrayal of the bad guy. this film is no good. I saw it at a
second-run theater. and I still feel like I got taken fora ride.
lfyou can‘! get a few others to chip in forthe cost ofthe Video

tr “mt-.x.

 

ROCK

Morning Ma2.7:00—8:45 a.m.: M) Jon
Redenbaugh, John Farringer, Wes
Armstrong; T) Eric Zavolinsky, David
Foster;W) Ben Didier, Mutt Holbrook; Th)
Charles Allen, Justin Pfeiﬂer; F) Matthew
Patrick, Robert Tucker. Classic Rock
2:00-4:00 p.m.: M) Stan Roberts; W) James
Angelo,Greg Chow; F) Ramey Harris,
Janna Pellegrino; Sat) Greg Pimentel, Noah
Levy, Will Hershey (9:00—11:00 a.m.).
Future History, 2:00-4:00 D.m.: T) Jenny
A u; Th) Chris Baldwin, James Urban.
Breakthrough.4:00-5:45 p.m.: M) Erik
Holbrook, Chas Frank; T) Jenni Robison
W) Tyson Hilton, Dan Rushing; Th) Chris
Kane, Brett Whitaker. College Music
Journal Highlights, 4:00-5:45 p.m.:

F) Note Tcncza. Sundays: Rock) Jason
Treat, Jeﬂ Woodbury (2:00-4:00 p.m.);
My Favorite Band) rotating dj’s (10:0()
p.m.—12:00 a.m.).

JAZZ

9:00-11:15 a.m.: M)Anna Bentley; W) not
yet assigned... 12:00-2:00 p.m.: Th)
Nathaniel Hagar; F) Tom Leggett, Aaron
Wilkinson. 8:00-10:00 pm: T) Mac
Jennings; Th) Ryan Bremer; Sun) Elizabeth
Yost, Robert Hughes

 

 

COUNTRY

12:00-2:00 p.m.: M) CharlesAllen; T)
Justin Telchick, David Laiwr”ence,Jason
Cox; W) Sunda Wells, Emily F rampton,
Will Townes, Rich Walter; Sun) Doug
Hartog, Forrest Stewart.

CLASSICAL

9:00-11:15 a.m.: T) Craig McCang/zrin;
Th) Sean Li/idly; F) not yet assigned...
6:00-8:00 p.m.: M) Kerry Dunphy; T)
Trevor Cox, Josh Harvey; W) Ron
Nicbo; Th) Eric Kessel; F) Michael
Leaser; Sun) Matt Socha, Andrew Higgs.

DANCE/RAP

8:00-10:00 p.m.: M) Dan Odenwald, Lisa
Ackerman; W) Raymond Hall; F) Willie
Polaski, Tom Becker.

8 PECIALTY
SHOWS

10:00 .m.-12:00 a.m.: M) Charlie Mason,
Jagger Harvey; T) Dan Vesay; W) Scott
Schneider, Ed Chun; Th) Kelly Totten,
Margaret Rich; F) Bill Overbaugh. ﬂir_d
Ear 12:00-2:00 a.m.: M) Brugh Foster,
Phil Barrett; T) Wild Bo & The Oultaw; W)
Adam Avitable; Th) Brian Casto; F) Alex
Christensen; Sun) Robert Hough. &gh_t
Owl Blues, 6:00-9:00 p.m.: Sat) Wayne
Raynal. Anti-Headache Medicine, 9:00
p.m.—12:00 a.m.: Sat) Doug Harwood.

TiNSF°lR'
ATIONAL

7:00-9:00 a.m.: Sat) John Wilbers:
Sun)Tamara Watkins. l2:00-3:00 a.m.:
Jason .\‘o1‘cns. CLtlit_‘.' .\lertitt.

 

 

 

 

    

PAGE 4

@112 iﬁing-tum iﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

“Greeks” include men, too

Tim Burke, fraternal law expert, gave an
eye—opening speech Tuesday night in Lee
Chapel. Unfortunately, the people who needed
to hear it most neglected to come.

Sorority pledges and actives piled in, fill-
ing the middle section of pews. But the num-
ber of fraternity men in Lee Chapel would not
have reached from one end of the pew to an-
other. _

Anyone in a Greek organization would
have benefitted from Burke’s speech. Most
were surprised to hear that Greek members and
officers can be held liable if a party-goer has an
accident after drinking alcohol at a fraternity
party or sorority function.

So where were the people who throw the
majority of these parties? Sororities have par-
ties where alcohol is offered only every few
months, and then only through a cash bar to
those of legal age. Fraternities throw parties
and serve alcohol nearly every week, regardless
of the age of their guests.

Fraternity members needed to hear Burke’s
message more than sorority members did. Not
that they are any more predisposed to act irre-
sponsibly than sorority members, they simply
have more opportunities.

Burke spoke of the liabilities that come
with hazing. W&L sororities have never been
known for harmful hazing practices. Again, this
is not a judgement of character, but of opportu-
nity. Sororities have a six—week pledgeship;
fraternities go for ten.

Yet in spite of all these reasons for frater-
nity men to show up, they simply didn’t. The
fliers hung prior to his speech advertised an
expert in fraternal law. By the looks of the
audience, only one sex on this campus cares
about it.

Quote of the Week

“We did not invade Panama, by the Way. We had
a ‘pre—dawn vertical insertion.’...I thought that’s
what happens after Fancy Dress.”

—A W&L professor describing
the evils of double-speak

fill‘ Il'.'flllllll1llll'llllf  -

' I I’

l (f Com,“ C,,(‘5\,<l,~y.~-just" ocftw mow. wales -  Codlrées otmd ‘‘
rpttl be «srslovs .jwoo-wwwxkul-1

The Ring-tum Phi, February 2, 1996

The ’96 Vote Republican Textbook »~

MY VIEW
Joshua Heslinga, ’98

For all you casual campaign watch-
ers (i.e. those with lives) who want to
sound well-informed in the month be-
fore Mock Convention, I present my
first, and only, primary primer, guar-
anteed to give you the edge in those
pesky politics discussions that pop up
over drinks.

Let’s start with the candidates. First
on the list has to be Senate Republican
Leader Bob Dole of Kansas, the front-
runner from the start (having run for
President three times before). Dole
presents himself as the candidate with
the experience and leadership quali-
ties to be President. He has largely
succeeded in cutting offunited conser-
vative opposition by tacking to the
right over the past year, although his
opponents attack him for a penchant
toward deal-making. His recent lack-
luster response to Clinton’s SOTU
address has left many Republicans
convinced he can’t win on his own
merits, something he may implicitly
beacknowledgingin his rumored pleas
for Colin Powell to be his VP.

Next comes Malcolm S. “Steve”
Forbes, Jr. His campaign has grown out of
the Republican Party’s supply-side eco-
nomicwing, and he relentlessly advocates
the ﬂat tax. Forbes isfrnancing nearly allof
his campaign out of his personal fortune,
and his huge expenditures on hard-hitting
TV commercials have propelled his mete-
oric rise to second-place nationally, al-
though he has recently drawn fire for his
more moderate stances on social issues.

The only other candidate with a
shot at winning is Texas Senator Phil
Gratnm, who has the most focused
conservative message. Gramm has run
on a record that includes the Gramm-
Rudman deficit reduction act and early
opposition to the Clinton health-care

plan. His relentless and uncompromis-
ing campaigning has drawn fire from
his rivalsandthernediabuthas seemed
to help him in his quest to build an
activist constituency that will help him
exceed early expectations and propel
him into the national spotlight as the
conservative alternative to Bob Dole.

Others in the race include Pat
Buchanan, who possesses a dedicated
nativist and social conservative con-
stituency but is far too harsh to win;
Alan Keyes, an eloquent but unknown
blackconserva-
tive with the
purest appeal to
religious con-
s e r v a t i v e s;
L a m a r
Alexander, 21
former gover-
nor of Tennes-
see who has
built his
uninspiring
candidacy on a
plaid shirt and
an outsider im-
age; Richard
Lugar, a sena-
tor whose for-
eign-policy fo-

image.

~cus, lack of

money, and obscure status will be lucky
to win his home state of Indiana; and
MorryTaylor, anothermillionaire busi-
nessman who likes to be called “The
Griz.”

The biggest early contests are the 2/
12 caucuses in Iowa and the 2/20 pri-
mary in New Hampshire. Contrary to
popular belief. these two states are a
greatone—two indicator olillrimary sen-
timent. Iowa‘scontest is largely domi-
nated by social conser‘vati\'es‘. and its
intricate precinct-based system rewards
organization and dedication. Bad
weather could be a major aid to
Grammishard—core constituencythere.
New llampshire offers a more popular

_..__,.-_.__ 7; __

Others in the race
include...Lamar
Alexander, a
governorof TN who has
built his uninspiring
candidacy on a plaid
shirt and an outsider

primary, which emphasizes both per-
sonal and media-based campaigning
and allocates delegates proportionally,
based on the candidates’ vote percent-
age.
Polls show Dole and Forbes as one-
two in both states. Two big questions
will be whether Forbes’ candidacy has
peaked in New Hampshire and can
mobilize caucus-goers in Iowa. Dole
is expected to win both, so an upset or
close results in either will seriously
hurt his campaign. Gramm’s candi-
dacy will contend
for an upset 2nd-
place in Iowa and
a strong enough
3rd or 4th-place
showing in New
Hampshire to
avoid dismissal.

H o w e v e r ,
while Iowa and
New Hampshire
draw the most at-
tention, it may be
other states that
provide the best
indicators of who
the nominee will
be. Two states
have mounted so-
rious challenges to become early play-
ers: Louisiana and Delaware. Louisi-
ana will hold caucuses on 2/6. Al-
though it has drawn little attention
since Dole and Forbes are ignoring the
contest, Louisiana offers more del-
egates than New Hampshire. Gramm is
favored there over Buchanan and Keyes
and must win fairly substantially to have
any shot at the nomination.

Delaware will hold a winner-take-
all primary on 2/24 and has pulled off
the ingenious maneuver of putting all
the candidates on the ballot whether
they attempt to qualify there or not.
Polls have shown Forbes tied with
Dole in DE. and Gramm needs a strong
showing there too.

0771187‘

Arizona, North Dakota, and South
Dakota hold primaries on the 2/27.
Arizona’s is winner-take-all and will
be a key battleground between Gramm
and Forbes, with Dole likely to finish
no better than 2nd. Although Gramm
has the backing of most major Repub-
licans there, polls have shown Forbes
leading. Gramm and Dole have fought
hard in South Dakota, and the results
there will be critical if either fails to

perform up to expectations in other

states.

South Carolina’s 3/2 primary is piv-
otal to Gramm, who depends on beat-
ing Dole in the conservative South, the
heart of the Republican Party.
Georgia’s 3/5 primary will also be a
key indicator of Southern sentiment.

The conservative constituency of
Minnesota’s 3/5 caucuses makes it al-
most a lock for Gramm, while the
labyrinthineballot lawsin New York’s
3/7 primary have made it almost a one-
on-one showdown between Dole, sup-
ported overwhelmingly by the state
party, and Forbes.

Most reports show Gramm leading
in Maryland’s 3/5 primary, where he
hopes to capture delegates and Gain
momentum for “Super Tuesday, the
conglomerate of delegate-rich South-
ern primaries (including FL, TX, MS,
TN, and OK) that take place on 3/12.

Afterthat, Gramm’s campaign will
either be ahead or dead. Forbes has the
money to press Dole in the later prima-
ries, but the Midwestern primaries on
3/l9 (in IL, Ml, OH, and WI) and the
grand—daddy CA primary on 3/26 will
likely resolve the fight.

If it’s suspense you want, there’s
the excitingbutunlikely scenario where
Dole, Forbes, and Gramm prevent each
other from achieving a majority ofthe
GOP convention’s 1.988 delegates. In
that case, the deal-rnaking will be a
sight to behold.

Get some popcorn and some bever-
ages, save this article, and enjoy the ride.

@112 ‘tiling-tum lﬁhi

EXCCUHVC Ediloﬁ Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
' News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor smut Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor Cindie Young, Courtney E Miller
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists.. Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallaoe
Business Manager Robert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Genner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views" do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail pIri@wIu.cdu

Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Idiot

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

Headline get your attention? .

That’s the point, and it’s also the point ofthe title
of Al Franken’s wonderful new book,Rush Limbaugh
Is a Big Fat Idiot and Other Observations.

As Franken himself says of the title, “Have you
ever noticed how all newspaper composite pictures
of wanted criminals resemble Jesse Jackson?” No,
wait. That’s actually a horribly racist thing Rush
Limbaugh said in Newsday on October 8, 1990.

What Franken actually said was, ‘‘I thought the
title, aside from the obvious advantage of being
personally offensive to Limbaugh, would sell books.
Let me explain why: It makes fun ofRush Limbaugh
by pointing out that he is a big lardbutt.”

Whichisexactlywhatitdoes,amongotherthings.
lthink you’ll agree it’s about time. And after reading
the book, which I urge you in the strongest terms to
do, I think you’ll agree that Al Franken is the perfect
person to do it.

For those of you who have somehow managed to
miss Al Franken, he’s a writer for Saturday Night
Live, and has been since its inception. He is respon-
sible for some of the most savagely funny political
satire of the television era, from Chevy Chase’s
bumbling Gerald Ford to Dan Aykroyd’s paranoid
Nixon, egghead Carter and caustic Dole, from Phil
Hartman’s genial Reagan and self-loathing Clinton
to Dana Carvey’s goofy George Bush. And he’s still
going strong with a brilliant new cast (gratuitous
SNL endorsement). You may also know him as the
performer who portrayed Pat Robertson (W&L ’50)
in I988 and Paul Tsongas in I092. as well as the sell’-
help expert Stuart Smalley on the small and big
screens. (Stuart Srrrcs His Frrmily is one of the most
underrated movies ever.)

And Franken also displays in the book a real depth of

knowledge about Limbaugh. and his tactics and an almost
uncanny understanding of his character.
But if you’re expecting an unadulterated bash-

.“Bob Doleis Night-

Limbaugh—fest, you may be disappointed. While
Franken’s jokes and points are on-target and very
funny. they aren’t confined to Limbaugh. Franken
also roasts such other “big fat hypocrite[s]” as Newt
Gingrich. Dole. Pat Buchanan, Phil Gramm, George
Will. Ollie North.
Clarence Thomas,
and Dan Quayle. In
his chapter entitled
“ O p e r a t i o n
Chickenhawk,” he
sends these not--so-
famousdraft-dodg-
ers to the dark
jungles of ’Nam to
see what might have
happened if any of
them had actually
been there during
the Vietnam War.
“Pat Buchanan
[was 4-F]...had a
bad knee. He spent
the war writing
speeches forNixon.
Interestingly. he is
now an avidjogger.
logs regularly. I un-
derstand."

/\ few more
chapter titles may
suffice to suggest
the nature of the
book: “Gingrich:
Sex, Giraffes. and
Weightlessncss."

mareol'Depravity."
“The Reagan
Years: Rush Limbaugh Is a Big Fat Liar.” “Phil
Gramm: liverybody‘s Favorite Bastard." “Pat
Buchanan: .\Ja7.i Lover,“ and “Bill Clinton: Greatest
President of the 'I\\'entieth Century.”

/\nd lest those seem so broad that you might give

up on the book, you should be aware that the whole
perfect, vicious point ofthe book is notjust to call Rush
Limbaugh a big fat idiot (‘‘I wouldn’t, for example,
attempt to create a psychological construct to explain why
a desperately insecure man would weigh three hundred
pounds and have diffi-
culty sustaining intimate
relationships.
Psychobabble mumbo
jumbo doesn’t interest
me, and I would never
suggest that a difﬁcult
separation from the pri-
mary love object at an
early age might cause a
man to hate women and
look to food as a substi-
tute for the mother’s
teat”), but also to lam-
poon Limbaugh’s
whole slash-and-burn
style, which produces
much heat but little
light.

Not that it’s not
nasty. You can learn
about when Limbaugh
spenthis daysinside his
house eating govern-
ment-finance junk
food, too lazy to mow
his own lawn. You can
learn why Rush
Limbaugh never voted
for Ronald Reagan.
You can learn how
Newt Gingrich left his
family to be taken care
of by the local church
charity while he was formulating his theories on
family values, and just how often our great family
valueschampionslikc Gingrich, Dole,Gramm, Pete
Wilson. and George Will have been married (once
less than Rush Limbaugh).

 

 

   

The Ring-tum Phi, February 2, 1996

‘Divorce and disillusionment

MDREAM LAND

Richard Weaver

l’ll bet you’re still pretty upset by

at the recent news of the break-up of

K

Michael Jackson and Lisa Marie
Presley. As an honorary member of
the Jackson family, I was shocked and
saddened by the announcement, and,
in the name of News, I wanted to know
what others in the community thought
about it.

What better place to gauge commu-

nity reaction than the new Stop-In/
Burger Kin g/Baskin-Robbins complex

3 in Buena Vista. The Buena Vista Stop-

In puts the LexingtonStop-Intoshame,

ifthat is possible. The floors are white,

the aisles are wide, the hot dogs are

hot. They even sell Valentine’s Day
‘ teddy bears.

I asked Wanda, the attendant, what

she thought about the J ackson-Presley look.

nuptials.

“I don’t want to
c o m m e n t , ”
Wanda said.

With a little
more coaxing, I
got Wanda to ex-
pand on that.

‘‘I don’t care; I
like country mu-
sic, myself,”
Wanda said.

I soon moved
over to the dining
area of the com-
plex, where I
spoke with

Vernon and Billy. They were having a

“What do you think about Michael

Vernon gave me kind of a strange

I
a

What better place to
gauge community re- 5
action than the new
Stop-In/BurgerKing/
Baskin-Robbins com-
plex in Buena Vista.

late Burger King lunch.

“Excuse me, but do you own
Thriller?” I asked.

    
 

1361

TAR   DETAILS:

77

added. Billy nodded again. Stunned
by their answers, I drifted over to the
Burger King counter.

“Welcome to Burger King-may
I take your order?” the cashier

U

h

freak,” Vernon

nodded his
head in agree-
ment. About
his marriage to
Lisa Marie: “I

whattheirkids
would look
like,” Vernon

ackson?” I
s k e d ,

nfazed.
“He’s a

aid. Billy

ate to see

asked.

“What do you think about the pend-
ing divorce of Michael Jackson and
Lisa Marie Presley?” I asked her.

“(silence)” she answered. This was
getting to be depressing. Reva, at the
Baskin-Robbins counter, also had no
opinion.

I went back to Wanda to ask her if
she had any advice for Michael and
Lisa Marie to fix their marriage,

‘‘I don’t know how to answer that,”
she said.

It turned out that the people at the
Stop-In/Burger King/Baskin-Robbins
were pretty apathetic.
disillusioned about the whole thing.
That’s the problem with this country;
nobody cares anymore.

Will I ever go back to the Buena

I left pretty

Vista Stop-In? Sure. ' I just hope that

when I marry Lisa Marie, reaction will
be more positive.

PAGE 5

    
 

:.

   
   
    

  NOEXPERIENCE
NECESSARY!
RUSH LONG 593855

C216:

‘ﬂuannwwmon FL asazo

m Iii 

 

 

 

Correction

In the “Robert Bork critiques
,‘Supreme Court” story of the Janu-
ary 26 issue of TheRing-tum Phi,
we incorrectly named a univer-
sity. It was Yale University who
turned back the $25 million dona-
tron.

The
Ring—tum
Phi

We have
award-winning
journalists on

staff.

  

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Senior Cocktail Party

The senior cocktail party has been
postponed until Friday, March 15
from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Alumni
House. Non-refundable tickets are
available by advance sale only.
Tickets will be sold outside the Co-
Op from Wednesday to Friday
March 6-8 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
each day. You can still charge the
$10 fee home. If you have already
bought your ticket, you need not
reregister. If you have any questions,
please call Justin King (463-8464) and
let him know.

Phi Eta Sigma

Phi Eta Sigma will award nation-
wide 5 scholarships of $2,000 each for
graduate study during 1996-7. Gradu-
ating seniors who are members of Phi
Eta Sigma are eligible to apply. Call
Dean West-Settle at X8748 on or before
Feb. 9 if you wish to apply.

Oxford Exchange

Washington and Lee is one of six
area schools that sponsor a summer
program of study at St. Anne’s College,
Oxford, England. The Virginia Pro-
gram at Oxford follows the English
tutorial system and studies the subject
areasofliteratureand history ot'Tudor-
Stuart England. Dates are July 1 to
August 10,1996. Application deadline
is March 1,1996. There is some schol-
arship aid available. See Prof. Pamela
Simpson in the Art Dept. or call 8857
for more infomation.

CDPO News

Therewillbean interviewingwork—
shop on Monday, February 5 at 4 p.m.
in Room 109 ofthe University Center.
All students are invited to attend.

There will be an internship work-
shop for communications majors and
those interested in obtaining intem—
ships in the communications field on
Tuesday, February 6 at 4:30 p.m. in the

Career Development Office.

Seniors: Don’t miss the newest
recruiting and interviewing oppor-
tunities with the Career Develop-
ment Ofﬁce. Included are positions
in publishing, banking, consulting,
paralegal and teaching. Most of
these have FEBRUARY 16 dead-
lines so stop by soon to get details.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of Burnt by the Sun
(Russia, 1994), directed by Nikita
Mikhalkov.

Screenings will be on Friday and
Saturday, February 2 and 3, at 8:05
p.m. in the Troubadour Cinema.
There is not charge for admission.
This film is in Russian, with En-
glish subtitles.

Screening Program

Losingweightisonething. Los-
ing perspective is another. Attend
the first National Eating Disorders
Screening Program Wednesday,
Feb. 7, 4 p.m. in the University
Center, Room 109. For more infor-
mation call the Health Education
office at 462-4501.

Support Group

Interested in joining a six-ses-
sion support group? Open to any-
one who has experienced the death
of a family member or friend. The
focus will be on learning how to
handlcthelossand changesithrings.
Call Health Education at 462-4501
to sign-up or for more information.

Lacrosse Team

The Men’s Lacrosse team needs
managers and a video filmer who
are willing travel. They offer the
possiblity of PE credit and cash
earnings. Contact Coach Anderson
at 463-8477.

February W96

Sunday Monday Tuesday WednesdayThursday Friday Saturday

* Black History Month

8 p.m., Trouba-
dour Film - Burnt
by the Sun

1

2

9 p.m., Pavillion SAB
Band - Edwin McCain and

8 p.m., Trouba-
dour Film - Burnt
by the Sun

5 p.m. Women’s Basket-
ball vs. Villa Julie

tact Speaker P.J.
O’Rourke

7 p.m. Lee Chapel Con-

Screening

Cornel West

* 7 p.m. Lee Chapel MSA -

College
Faust

Safe

Board of Trustees Alumni
8 p.m., Lenfest Theatre -

8 p.m. Troubadour Film -

Jewel 7:30 p.m. Men’s Basket-
ball vs. Mennonite wNV&L
Groundhog Day Dancers
7:30 p.m. Men’s 7 p.m. Women’s 4 p.m. Health 10 GHQ Board of Trustees
4 Basketball vs. 5 Basketball vs. 6 Education pre- 7 8 Eliszgnééh Cutler 9 A|umni Conege 1 O
Randolph-Macon Bridgewater sents Healthy

8 p.m. Lenfest Theatre
- Faust

8 p.m., Troubadour
Film - Safe

2 p.m., Lenfest
Theatre - Faust

11

2 p.m., Lenfest
Theatre - Faust

12

7 p.m. Women’s
Basketball vs. VA
Wesleyan

lecture

Store for You

13

7: 30 p.m. Lee Chapel
Gertrude Himmelfarb

* 8 p.m., GHQ MSA -
There '5 Something in

Va/entine’s Day 1 4

15

16

17

7 p.m., Lenfest
FAIR: Rockbridge
Modern Dance
Ensemble

18

President's Day 1 9

Un derg

20

graduate

N

Washiri
‘o Classe

21

S

22

gram Hoiiday -

25

Undergraduate
Classes Resume

26

8 p.m., Lenfest
Center Concert
Guild - Camerata
of Israel

27

8 p.m., Lenfest
Series
Capitol Steps

8 p.m., Lenfest
Series
Capitol Steps

Z8

29

24

“Black American
Leaders” display in

case in Library  

 

 

PAGE 6 . ADVERTISEMENTS The Ring-tum Phi, February 2, 1996 ’

.  
GIVE US TIME TO REPAY

WINTER SALE
YOUR |-°AN- 50% off all Fall and

    

    

\‘

Get On The internet
Hi Ram Computer Systems introduces

 
 

    

After just three years in - -
theArmy,yourcollege loan Wlnter F as hlo "S at
couldbeathingofthepast. . 1 Pow
ﬁnder the Amys Loan Shop early for best selectzon Wm
Repayment program, each uia‘n\e ‘:0 ‘ Keying rd
year you wrve on active duty 2 8
1 reduces your indebtedness by 4 m [3 R3; in ' 00 Mod
- .» V onettiird o.r$1,500,wl1ichever 5'40m6ursr=éa¥:ie *0 ?23W=§ MN“; eh‘!
, \ ’ ’ amount is eater, u to a .
‘  355,g0(}]i,§;I.L p 09 0 0 ”«?rd pr}, D 03/9’ I :1 If OW:
This offer applies to Perkins Loans, Stafford Loans ‘'9

and certain other federaiiy insured loans which are not
in defauit

And this is just the first of many benefits the Army
will give you. Getthe whole story from your Army

14" color Monitor

Mini Tower Case with

23 N. Main Street
Hours: Monday - Saturday} 0:00 - 5:30

\ 
 

  
 

  
 
  
   
  
    

   

 

Recruiter.   a 9 “M “ E‘‘g:;':‘°'‘ R'"’''’
(703) 886-26“ Be;3o:::;:::h:;t:;::;<;::::::°::;t;::“:;$t§:,;t, l‘\'\,'$‘{‘(I>g'T;<¢$ﬂa99.0o
ARMY. as ALI. YOU cm BEE‘ "N”Re"°§?53“pi§f‘£2’3f§§;‘5“s§fii3ff'282373°‘   

E000O000000000O00OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOE g,  ‘
: 7/’42%g2&p0‘45 1  champion mesh '
:  M  :  shorts

3 7,0,,“-mm W“; 5444“ 2 in forest green

3 2 and Vegas gold *
° : ‘ 15_w washington street

:  S.  st, : V  lexmgton va 24450  V

E O O O I O O O O O O O  O O O O O O O O O O O O O O 0 E   I‘ F ‘v

 
  
       
      
  
 

5 17 South Main Street 463-9730 '3 r V
Our Best Warehouse Sale 

$3 - $5 - $7 Racks

Bring in your student ID and
get an '
EXTRA 20% off
Sale and Regluar Prices 9
‘ Hundreds ofother Items "
Reduced Greatly 4

Put your face in the yearbook!

Drop off pictures of you and yourfriends infront of
Carol Caulkir1’s office in the University Center

      
     

Please limit contributions to those taken during the 1995-96 school year.

  

 
 

 

   
        

 

   

  

    

V  ~  " ‘ - V V _ Sale Ends Sat. Februaryi 
SUMMER J  - «Hours: E95530’ - 5:30 Monday 9 Slaturdaif .
LEE 4 "
WASHINGTON AND
°°““j°‘§i‘y"§.f‘3{u§E‘s‘$’§’eis»S§§°"’s 9   S a FREE FINANCIAL AID
Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 rising senior high school _ » _ _ 9 n . $Attention Alsl sgudexlztss ‘dc Over $6 Billion ﬁn aid y
Students in Graham_Lees dorrnitory and plan evening .anC.1 weekend 9 '  I   FREE Mmlleyhls (furi-1‘1:miiyvi]1l,ealsl:<l:Jt11":1foEaS:i:g:ch:la:li:pS.a/Sllstdddnls are eligible to
a§ti‘1,i9t9ie6S' Ten positions are available. Application deadline 15 February » ' lsecnc:)i‘\:,eas‘:)ari1: scfrt r(())f aid, regardless ogf grades, income, or paren1s’s income. Let us help you.
2 3 - H i For more information, call:
Special Programs Resident Assistants . . = : 2 Student Financial Services
June 12 - August 3, 1996 - A  -''A'''‘ ' 3
The Office of Special Programs employs fo1urW&L studelntcsi to s:1rve as ' - . ' - ‘  Z I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
hosts/hostesses forawide variety of Specia Programs inc u ing umm . V o 9 i u n I I I u I n I I u n I u I I
Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. lguties include failitiis        t E
management and housekeeping, receptions, an transportation. pp 1-  A _ _ ‘V 1
cation Deadline is March 15, 1996. . :    ; : ”
For further information, please Contact the Office of Special . _ 9 A _ _ . . :
Programs, Howard House, 463-8723.   3.   3  :
Rewarding, exciting surnlmer for college .sot1)1l11o1nor1e1 arégl 01:15:‘: -      E ,
students — camp counse or positions avaia e 111 ‘ _e or _o 1- = , . 9
Rockies Backpacl<ing.dWestern riding. Vvélater §1;t11t\)I1ot1es.“r]1at:1ral _   d I   Q _ G 6    E
sciences and many out oor programs. rite: m es em . H : __. _ Z ' _ 9 V 9 V V - ‘Z’ _ *
Camps. P.O. Box 167. Flonssant, co 80816 9  ‘  : 8 am _ 3 pm _ Monday 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII: ;    -. §8am-1?f)m—T;e‘sjday-sThur:day :
I   .  _ .. ' I am— pm- r1ay- auray I
: .   E     E 9am-3Pm-Sunday :7-
. _z;.v I » . . _ I I I
I ‘K ““~ I  3  I z  ‘ - I :
: : oI.1:;ruoon.FL 33020 : Wmayg  _
: D0’/lyz, Let : N : All you can eat $4.99 : ’
I ' I :
: Your  E : Thursday — 10% off food — with student ID :
- Go Hungry : - . _ :
: , 9 _ V V , , I : Frlday — Seafood Nite — n V
I .  __ .   I I ' L *9“  . , T t :
: V  S  -- t  S : Li : Saturd'1y -  P:ii1?c Rilvlmp mu '
: 0 The $1()0_M 1T1ck  _ :p   : ﬂiestaurant an ._- 2 Vcgsg SM $8.95 5
:   E .7'[055ie)5£z0lL71(qe : Everyday Muffin & Cup of Coffee $1.50 5 “
' A ,-12,‘,   .1  =: . Z I : (8 am - 10 9.111) -
: 9   0.0074‘ ‘ l ' ' D.'l L h s ‘.1 ":1 1)~' k $4.50 I
:   A  .9 : Rome 7’ BOX 99A : '11 y unc pecm w1 1 11n I
=     9   . . : “”"i“8‘0“» ‘“‘gl“”‘ 24450 i 19 W» Washin.:~’t<>n ~‘3.t-.~.1».C.;*in.9£<.>I:».‘.//i 2.4.4.59. . . . : ’
: Nutritious Muffins & Egg Speczaltzes : Near the Horse Center ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' '
: SF7‘€;h 521610: (15);! S0_“P5 E t : Phone 464-9499
- Hearty an wic es exzcan n rees : ﬂ
: Candlelight Diners ' , t 9 [lug aw
= 5 R i""i‘§‘T§1p§§;./".305;‘§a§;m 7   
. as 1111‘ - ' I »
I 0 I
: Glve Your  : TEACH ENGLISH IN <O‘REF/\— Positions available rrontnly. B./‘\.g~o’J/E§:‘,>.} Hardware Paint and Related Items , 4
, Y 9
I k d M 1  Our ' degree required. US $ 5,oOO—25,400/yr. Actorruooianoru & rm it in 9
' a Homecoo e ea I ' 5 51 *9 M1 loma and copy of oaseporr, to:
I ' . : a'rfar.6 pr0V'd6d' an '”;Um5';dOW1%4_1p55am5UH Wm KW Wm GU Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 am. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. I
: Polnt Card ' Bok Jl C0prp0rat|.On'ChUn Em  ‘  Q d  G ’ E. Nelson St. Lexin ton 463-2186‘ '
. . I Seoul, Korea 155 O90. a g
: 19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450 . TEL: OH_82_2_555_JOB5(5627) FAX: on_g2_2-552-4;/W4529; ~,
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

~ « .- »~ sax‘-.-»..:-.»

 

. ..... ...-.vvv:-
. . . . . ...-., 1.-.~.~..-...nr->5-‘n a'i5au¢.a'-I on -annar
-_- .—--..-.-..-.-....-v.-¢.~.---.-.--v-....~...-.~<a acct’-

’. 0' "A p‘ ‘n

'n"n-"-'3F‘¥‘EP't..'in'V|"In"o

'a.“!n".'."An“\ui'k"-n"nu"n'.

The Ring-tum Phi, February 2, 1996

ATHLETES OF THE WEEK

      

Nathan Hottle

Men’s Swimming

Josephine Schaeffer
Women's Indoor Track

Schaeffer smashed her school record in the
5000 meter run with a time of 17:49.90 Saturday
at East Tennessee State. The senior provisionally
qualified for the NCAA Division III champion-
ships March 8-9 at Baldwin—Wallace College.

Hottle captured the 200 freestyle and the
200 breaststroke Saturday at a double dual
meet with Sewanee and Transylvania. The
junior has earned a provisional bid for the
NCAA s in the 100 and 200 breaststroke.

TIPS ON HOW TO KEEP
UP WITH EXCITING
CAMPUS ACTIVITES

1. Pick up your own copy of the

new W&L Entertainment

Calendar, available in the co—op, li-
brary, University Center, and

Washington Hall.

2. Check out the W&L Homepage on
the Web. Under Student Activites,
there is calendar of W&L events

that is updated each-month.-«www 

3. Be sure to get a Student Organi-
zations Directory, available in the
University Center. This is a
complete listing of all organiza-
tions, their officers, and other
pertinent information.

4. ATTENTION organization officers
and members: Don t forget to fre-
quently check your club mailboxes
located in the University
Center. You could be missing im-
portant information.

PAGE 7

Generals get back on track
afterlosingt to Guilford

By CHRIS l’uosi.i=.Y
P/If StaffWrilcr

‘ The Washington and Lee Generals women’s basketball
team dropped another defeat to the Guilford Quakers Satur-
day afternoon, 69-39, at the Warner Center.

The Quakers (11-5, 8-5 ODAC) began the contest with
a 31-5 run that lasted for aspan of almost twelve minutes,
holding the Generals without a field goal for five minutes.

Senior co-captain Sandra llolmes broke the scoring
drought with a short turnaroundjumperat the fifteen minute
mark of the first half. ‘

But the tempo ofthe game clearly favored the fast-break
oriented Quakers. The Generals’ 23 first halfturnovers led
to 48 first half points for the Quakers, who were led by 11
points each from Bari Nixon and Lauren Haynes.

Guilford hit on 45 percent of their shots, including a
three-point ﬁeld goal, and it hit 92 percent of their free
throws inthe first half, compared to adismal 14 percentfrom
the field and 65 percent from the charity stripe for the
Generals. These events culminated in a 48-17 halftime
bulge for the Quakers.

The second half seemed promising for the Generals,
beginning with a l()—0 run and an eight minute scoring
drought for the. Quakers.

Just when one thought it would be safe for the Generals,
sophomore Marija Preimats hit a three-point bucket to
extend the Quaker lead to 24 and put the final nail in the
Generals’ coffin.

 

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL
(800) 95-BREAK!

A valiant effort in the last six minutes came up short for
Washingtonand Lee, and the Quakers took home the vic-
tory, 69-39. '

Holmes paced the Generals with 11 points and 9 re-
bounds while freshman Karin Treese hit on 5-9 shooting for
10 points and 4 rebounds.

The Generals were plagued by poor shooting and turn-
overs, shooting 26 percent from the ﬁeld and committing 35
turnovers.

Haynes had 15 points, 6 rebounds, and 7 steals to lead the
Quakers, and Nixon contributed 11 points and 11 rebounds.

The loss sustained the Generals’ tenth place position in
the ODAC while Guilford pulled to within one-halfgame of
the Virginia Wesleyan Marlins for fourth place in the
ODAC standings.

Washington and Lee turned things around Tuesday
evening by beating Randolph-Macon Woman’s College,
58-48, in the Warner Center.

The Generals came back from a 13-point first halfdeficit
and a 6-point halftime margin to snare the win.

A huge key forthe Generals was their22 for27 freethrow
shooting performance.

Chrissy Burghardt racked up 16 points, including a
perfect‘ 8-8 from the free throw line, to go along with 6
assists and 9 rebounds.

Tonia Dean had 10 points, Holmes pitched in with 9
points and 11 rebounds, and freshman Amber Hinkle to-
talled 9 points and 6 rebounds.

W&L raised its record to 3-12 overall and 2-11 in the
ODAC with the win over the Wildcats. The Generals will
next face Villa Julie at home Saturday.

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SEL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!
Student Travel Services is now hirin
campus representatives. Lowest rate
to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona an
Egggma City Beach. Call 1-8O0-648

- .=,~. 

  I F Yo’1,1’v13'G'r
T .     

 

' ;y~.«(.»;‘.a‘c ma‘: a::=-W;  ,‘l::;.‘ .3‘.  .‘_’¥ff\;".:-'
‘  “;:‘» tr;-22: Ma, 42’ *.m;..:. 32.: Si‘

.3.‘
I  _z.:.x;¢...1x-“;.t«};.'s:>~.s an .5
.*;»{:m:= {:.c~,xrrx;,! .»ny:r1.inri ,~<i:;= sf «:;«;;}.;j m\‘a,';..:r~*

- "x'(’ . ‘I, . .
N” 3.3-...‘ _y‘°» . ‘. ’ .-

.jija'::.-'« a -“.5

 

ilxxfrwihelﬁmat r».-.um:.au.

 

:.q..«\ai:~z..~..}é)'a'-.r-;o::.e*i-1,

~ r. .4 4.1;. - >
4 yr .. . .,**,,\2 4

ATITTAKES
OURCOMPANY
uao

" L-' ;;.‘r:ew: 3;‘x...».; r:<e:w' I"! 
' ‘;'r.:x;.}...:s:;;s;'+ T.‘gW's+*s:_g gm? t, ’

if ye I,

r::i;s’:.f§*i’S 8*‘: .*f.¥.’.”{i“»'~r a‘.<>.‘.’. -9 $c’.iT4‘.".‘«lz‘xz»'.-«'2' L{r."=«;

For rnere information, pleaszr we Captain Hamaeil at the
£?’vans Oinirrg Hat! on February 33, 1996
item 11:00 a.m.~ 3:00 pm.
or £3.31! I-30{J~.$42-585 1..

A fu clay’.
fiber in eiglit
easy pages.
\/cry easy to l ‘
digest. A

Republican Mock
Convention Tie

The College
Town Shop

33'! West Netson Strsat in iexington
Student Accounts»-Masts: Card>—Vt8A

 

 

 

Wnssnmc -

Last Week:

L, 25-21, vs. Apprentice School

 - L, 84-76, vs. Guilford; L, 78-57, at Va. Wesleyan
WBAsKlrra..u.- L, 69-39, vs. Guilford; W, 58-48, vs. RMWC

S

@112 ﬂing-mm ilﬂlti

PORTS

This Week:

WRBSTLIING - Sat. at W. Maryland with Ursinus and Swarthmore

MBAsxzrm\u.- Sat. vs. Eastern Mennonite, 7:30 PM; Mon. vs.
Randolph-Macon, 7:30PM; Wed. at Lynchburg, 7:30 PM

WBAsxzraALL- Saturday vs. Villa Julie, 5:00 PM; Sunday vs. ‘
Roanoke, 4:00 PM; Tuesday vs. Bridgewater, 7:00 PM;

MSw1MM1NG- L, 103-97, vs. Transylvania; W, 100-94, vs. Sewanee Thursday at Hollins, 7:00 PM
wSWlMM1NG- W, 104-101, vs. Transylvania; L, 107-98, vs. Sewanee; MSWIMMJNG - Saturday at Mary Washington, 2:00 PM
W, 128-97, vs. Hollins WSWIMMING - Saturday at Mary Washington, 1:00 PM
MINDoon'I‘n.AcIt- Saturday at VMI Relays, 10:00AM
PAGE 8 BASKETBALL, SWIIVIMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK FEBRUARY 2, 1996“

  
  
  

  

 

The-iBtG”FAN

BY  BOOKWALTER

 

 

_ . Dallas was favored big
 toywin Super Bowl XXX,
 yet almostlost. Pittsburgh
 ewas given no chance in the

  

 ..fortu'nat_ely, thereare no
 moral" victories at the

«championshipleveksothe
: C Steelers and their fans are
;[left thinking about what
could have been.

» ' First, let me tip my hat
’ =tothe Cowboys. Their 27-
-_ ’ 17_vict_ory is indicative of
->"how,they'makc big plays

 
   

:3 “___hen_‘needed and consis-
i__tently., find ways to win.

i_“.b§:'St"tea’rn?, in" the NFL
2.” throughout the season and
 the first half of the Super
» . Bowl. But they were defi-
nitely not the best team in
the second half. Because
, Ofthat, we deserved abet-
terfinishthan we received.
C We could have seen a
A _;Steelers game-tying field
‘Afjgoal,sendingthegameinto
 the first Super Bowl over-
';;§?'3.tirne ever. ‘We could have
 seen a dramatic Pittsburgh
3. touchdown,catapultingthe
If-Steelers into the lead and
3 V‘ forcing Dallas into a rare
‘catch-up situation. Even
‘ an emotional Dallas stop
of the Steelers deep in
Cowboys territory would
have sufficed as true foot-
ball excitement. This game
had the potential to become
 -the best Super Bowl ever.
Instead, we saw Pitts-
 burgh QB Neil O’Donncll
 ‘. throw two time zones away
' from his intended receiver
. not once, but twice. Those
will go down in history as
the worst Super Bowl
, passes since Miami kicker
-GaroYeprc’mian’s pathetic
: floater in Super Bowl Vll.
. One would have
zthought hometown legend
"Dave Kricg of the Cardi-
“nals was throwing those
-1 passes, not the impecca-
bly-accuratc O’Donnell.
We saw Dallas CB
Larry Brown intercept both
passes. Brown was named
MVP for those feats and
gets to tour the talk show
: circuit this week. Good
' for him. But let’s face it;
Larry Hagman and Larry
A, King could have caught
 5', those passesjust as well as
7§_Larry Brown did.
» 5 Now we will be privi-
' leged to see Dallas players
 starring in a million com-
mercials this offseason.
Charles Haley will threaten
’ to retire again. Jerry Jones
will proclaim Barry
Switzeras The Best Coach
in the Universe. Yes. the
- Cowboys are Super Bowl
K champions yet again.
 " l,can’t complain too
 much. It was great to fi-
 nally see a close game and
 Pittsburgh represented the
Z AFC well. Don’t be sur-
7E"prised to see the Steelers
_ back next year. if they
' retain theirkey free agents,
' they’ll again be tough.
A controversy has been
brewing in the NHL lately
' over, ofall things, the Fox
TV Glowing Puck. I re-
? jmcmberwhenpuristswere
7 up in arms over the Fox
. ' football scoreboard. Now
' that tiny box 'sbcen cop-
-’ ' cl by othe ‘ networks.

    
   

 

 ‘puck ‘w
fans will beimainly watch-

' station, where ‘the ipucks
don’tglow.; :' " .

pucks be, but conﬁne them

Q much of a hockey buff,'I’ve

give me incentive to watch
Fox hockey, where fights
are no longer the main
source of entertainment.

  atcould

arne, yetalmostwon. U__n- .

"They proved they were the C

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

Men‘s swimming is off to a 3-6 start after splitting a meet with Transylvania and Sewanee Saturday.

Prince, Hottle continue

domination at Sewanee
Women extend ODAC streak to 25 meets

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

Junior Nathan Hottle and se-
nior Rebekah Prince continued
their march toward nationals last
weekend, but their teams split
meets with Sewanee and
Transylvania.

Hottle, this week’s Athlete of
the Week, qualiﬁed provision-
ally for nationals in the 100 and
200 breaststroke and is very close
to qualifying for the 200 IM.
Hottle is the defending national
champion in the 200 breast.

A nine-time All-American,
Prince isjust a half-second away
from qualifying in the 200 back-
stroke and 1.4 seconds away from
qualifying in the 100 backstroke.

Both swimmers will get a

chance to qualify this weekend
in anotherdual meet against Mary
Washington.

Wednesday night, the women
extended their ODAC winning
streak to 25 meets with a 128-97
victory over Hollins. The vic-
tory increased theiroverall record
to 8-5.

The Generals won 9 out of 10
races. Freshman Margaret Hoehl
set a meet record with her win in
the 100 back and sophomore
Kendall Kruiekshanks won the
1000 free by almost 14 seconds.

Junior Anne Spencer won the
200 free, senior Jill Sheets won
the 100 and 200 breast, and
sophomore Megan Wiedmaier
took the 50 free.

Junior Laura Marshall and
Prince added wins in the 100 free
and 200 back, respectively.

The Generals were the victors

in the 200 medley relay, claim-
ing the top two spots.

Last weekend, the men’s team
defeated Sewanee, 100-94, but
lost to Transylvania, 103-97.

Freshman Tom Cox won the
50 freestyle and tied for first in
the 100 free with a time of:51.00.
There were three swimmers
within 1/100th of a second.
Freshman Brad Wymore placed
third with a time of :51.01.

Junior Steve Brigance won
the 200 butterﬂy, and along with
Cox, Wymore, and Craig Sears,
won the 400 free relay. Hottle
added wins in the 200 free and
the 200 breast.

The women split their two
meetsthe other way. The Gener-
als were victorious over
Transylvania, 104-101, but they
fell to Sewance, 107-98.

Hoehl continued her strong

season by winning the 1000 free
and placing second in the 200 and
500 free.

Sophomore Bligh Wollner
added a win in the 200 breast,
while Prince won the 200 [M by
three seconds and the 200 back by
four seconds.

The 400 free relay team of
Cruickshanks, sophomore Katy
Gibbs, freshman Laura Goodwin,
and freshman Greta Richter
cruised to victory over
Transylvania by six seconds. The
400 medley relay team ofWollner,
Prince, Marshall, and Wiedmaier
was victorious over Sewanee.

The teams are looking at tough
meets tomorrow against Mary
Washington. Last year, the men
defeated the Eagles, 132-73. The
women, on the other hand, are
lookingto avengeaone-point loss,
152-151.

Quakers hold .  

off Generals

By BETHANY BAUMAN
P/zi Assistant Sports Editor

Despite their solid effort, the ‘men’s basketball team dropped
their game to Guilford College Saturday, 84-76.

Both fighting for one of the eight spots in the upcoming Old
Dominion Athletic Conference Tournament, the Quakers and the
Generals entered the game with similar must-win attitudes.

Guilford came into the contest with a record of 6-11 overall and ‘‘

2-10 in the conference, while W&L posted a 2-15 overall record, 2-
9 in the ODAC.

Guilfordjumped to an early lead within the first few minutes of
the game. But senior tri-captain Jon Coffman gave the Generals a

15-12 lead at the 12:04 mark on a three point basket. 1

The Generals capitalized on Quaker turnovers to go on a 16-5
scoring run. Guilford was noticeably weakened by the four first half
fouls of Quaker scoring leader Mike Norris.

W&L opened the second half with a 39-37 lead over Guilford.
Cam Dyer continued to lead the team, racking up 25 total points. _
Derek Carter also turned in a solid performance, sinking two ofthree
from three point range as well as grabbing a few key steals.

The decision came down to the last few minutes of the game with
Guilford taking a 72-70 lead with 2:32 remaining. With 236.4 left in
the clock, the Quakers extended their lead to 78-72, putting the game

out of reach for the Generals. V!

The team entered Wednesday’s contest with Virginia Wesleyan
with several key players injured. Dyer had been hobbled by a hip
injury prior to the Guilford game while Coffman was slowed by a
shoulder injury he sustained in Saturday’s game.

Sophomore Eric Zavolinsky had also been struggling with a
sprained thumb since January 26.

These nagging injuries proved costly as the Generals were
overrun by Virginia Wesleyan in Norfolk. 78-57.

W&L trailed 33-25 at halftime, but the Generals put together an
impressive 9-2 run early in the second half, cutting the deficit to 35-

34 with 16:12 remaining. it‘

The bottom then fell out for the Generals. Virginia Wesleyan
reeled off the next 17 points to put the game out of reach and hand
W&L another tough loss.

Cam Dyer led the W&L effort with 16 points and Kevin Cobbin

added 8 points. y.«

The Generals dropped to 2-17 overall with the loss. W&L will
be back in action Saturday evening against Eastern Mennonite at the
Warner Center.

    
  
 
 
 
 

n Looney prevailed 7- _' 
90 ‘andAdar_r Branson,
d’e_‘C_lc,rk, ' and John‘ ‘
r‘_unibine"also captured their
atchesf-‘,But it was not quite.’
't_Jgh_  W&L fell to 1-5.,

Commercials and the Super Bowl: perfect together

MY VIEW

1

Jason Zacher ’98

Why did you watch the Super Bowl?

Think a moment.

Did you really watch it fora good game? To procastinatc from
that paper? To see Dcion get maimed‘? For the Cowboy cheerlead-

ers‘? Or for the commercials?

lf you watched it for the first and last reasons, you were in luck.

For the first time in years, the American sporting community was
treated to a good game of football. The Steelers for once gave the
AFC‘ some reason to cheer. They showed up.

This was a team of relative unknowns playing against the flashy,

The Steelers almost did it. Even I was scared for a moment. Now
that the game is long over, the Cowboys are enjoying another

offseason as world champions.

The AFC, on the other hand, is

hopefully planning another attack using the Steelers’ blueprint.

I will acknowledge that there were many people who watched the
game for other reasons. I watched the game with a few of them.

lfyou watched it for the commercials, you were also treated. The
commercial crop this year was highly creative.

Any advertiser will tell you that the Super Bowl of football is also
the Super Bowl for advertisements. This year, a 30-second ad cost

$1.2 million.

So here goes. I conducted an impromptu poll around campus and

came up with this:
BEST SERIES OF ADS:

This wins throughout the year: the Nike Pee-Wee football ads.

tune in, ‘After an, diehardfr‘

ing on cable orfa local,TV 

So leave the ‘glowing ‘
to Fox. Although I.’m,not‘

never had trouble follow-‘ 
ing the puck: Still, it will ‘i

explosive Cowboys. Who thought the Steelers had a chance (other
than my editor)?

OK, so there were no spectacular performances by the stars. RB
Emmitt Smith only had 49 yards rushing and WR Michael Irvin only
had 76 yards receiving. These are poor numbers on a normal day for
these two.

7 lfyou are a Steelers fan (like one ofmy editors), you could watch
the heroics of RB Barn Morris running tlirough the Dallas defense,
the tenacity ofthe Pittsburgh rush defense, and the individual skill of
the receivers.

lfyou are a Cowboys fan, you can celebrate your fifth Super Bowl
title, the heroics of Super Bowl MVP CB Larry Brown, and Dallas
MVP QB Neil O’Donnell, as well as the leg of K Chris Boniol, who
scored one-third of the Cowboy points.

 
  
   
   

I §nI'cUTd

Do You Want VISA Q Mstercard Credit Cards?

. .6,,;s)3‘1‘:',§l.ra!» Ito credit checks!
“5,£:=;5ﬂ:-, itu security deposit!
was ¢°‘“‘ Sean rut: Ct1|P0ﬂ mmw

Who could forget the pee-wee ice bowl or the little kid high-stepping
into the end zone?

BEST SHOW PLUG:

NBC’s “Mad About You”. The Packers were a nice touch.
Everyone’s sentimental favorite forthe Super Bowl got on somehow.
“Oooh Cheese!”

BEST TWIST ON AN OLD AD:

Charlton Heston plugging Bud Light. The Bud Light guy was
getting a little annoying. Glad he could get some advice from Moses.

FUNNIEST AD:

This one was close. From who I talked to, the award goes to the
Budweiser frogs. Having the three ofthem frozen to the can was one
of the funniest things 1 had seen in years.

Honorable Mention: l. Dinosaur doing tricks for McDonald’s

QCQ—C—$QQ§$$$
as-crttm, SUITE 215
. 1501 B.mu.x..snna1.n sea amp
tluuyou can have have ofthe most recognized and ‘H31-"I-INDEX,-E . }?I.0RIDh 3.3009
oeeepteid crud}! <?:dII In {ha worId....V|aaE: :3: Maa n: :
t um-.. ' at your mm’ EVEN. I N‘! ~ . . twmtwsmmasrmmneo Credit
Cﬂfzbnmraavlnnm-:N1tJl_iN8DDOWHnE!!UREl mmnwmm mmmumy um“ Gwmimtnm
two ma 'M:ustc:<:xm:o the neat: and: you ‘
deserve and need for-— I!)-—K)0!£.‘;‘p-—D!£Pz'tRTIa-IE1)!!!‘ ],mME
S1‘0REs—11JI11ON--ﬂ€I‘I:R'fAlNMElfr--- -
m-ems:-ae~t eAst1—riexms—szsmunsms-- Apnmgss
HOPEL5-—1M:0TELS—G&S—-CAR scarring...
mamas-me.-no suru: mus CR1-:r:arr RATING! cmr STATE _._ ZIP

no turn deans!

‘upon-an--Dﬂﬁ-nun

‘form CREDIT cmns MIE tmrtue!

 

3STUl}BN'I'? Yes

«SIGNATURE

I\KIT§ Hauaﬁnl is I lﬁllllﬂd ill!-‘lvlfiﬁllﬂt dl N-Illttfﬁ-31$ Iﬂkzmﬁlbrul Inc.
VH1 II it "K313111151 llidurlﬂt d’ VISA IISJL inc. Ind VISA lrskunuonyl

fries. 2. Beavers building house for Doritos. 3. Hakeem buying
the Olympians lunch.

WE HAD THIS MANY STARS AND STILL COULDN’T
MAKE AN AD AWARD:

Tylenol. They had a Heisman Trophy winner and three NFL stars
in one comtnercial and it still stunk.

BEST CAMPAIGN:

Pepsi. For the third straight year, they did it.

1. Frozen tundra. The people in the doctor’s office with the Pepsi
cans stuck to the paticnt’s lips. 2. Coke driver buried in Pepsi
landslide. 3. Goldfish. it was only good because it got flushed.

BEST AD WITH DEION SANDERS (ifthis is possible) OR
MICHAEL JORDAN: -

The Dcion commercial for Pepsi with Wile E. Coyote. Maybe it
is just a traditional weakness for the Looney Tunes. 3

THIS AD WAS SUPPOSED TO i\l.'\l{E ME BUY SOME-
THING AWARD:

This is a distinguished category. Hopeful ly. people lost thcirjobs
for these: 1. Plymouth Neon (maybe the person that designed the
carcan lose hisjob). 2. The Wolvcswith Toyota. 3. Kinko’s with
theincrediblcstretching neck. 4. Anti-snore strips. 5. McDonald’s
with the kid in the baby-swing.

Well, that is a more—than-thorough rundown of the Super Bowl.
We can look forward to a year of preparation for the next one.‘
Madison Avenue is already preparing.

Maybe there will be a really memorable game to go along with
the ads next year...maybe like Super Bowl ill?

P.S. Marv Albert: Michaellordan scored morethan the Cowboys
on Sunday.

 
 

...................m= saw

I

3

1

‘I

I

a

I

it

-s

it

I

I

I

1|

I

I

‘
I

X

  

1

 

.'~'2?JZ<'aia3 ‘7’ Li?» I 244‘. l.-itvLs'7..»°v.‘r"i‘/

L * ’l , Xl'’‘.>’"_) w.~.s:;»>uas:aso;ruttnumssT'v’
5; l-9.’r¢"f€!‘r.";P.~4 VA aunt.
: - I"~ .7 :‘- 
_   1;. s.2a.t

 
  


FRIDATI Mostly sunny, highs, 
‘ ‘ i tearat nightwith 

 
      

  

‘SA 7’__   Mostly sunny,
59h$iﬁ;.....‘99m59'5"¢‘93 I I

  men's basketball
"s't1t\tt1)str.;iPan;yotoudy;Si»A‘   3 ’eadies  

Uh   ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

   
   
   

if

VOLUME 96, N0. 14

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

File Photo

Washington and Lee spent another week under a frigid blanket of snow this week. Temperatures dipped
below freezing prompting many to Wonder when Spring will spring.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FEBRUARY 9, 1996

W&L instructor
arrested on
cocaine charges

BY DANIELLE BURGHARDT, DARCEY
LIVINGSTON, and DAN ODENWALD
Of the The Ring-tum Phi

Kurt Russ, a Washington and Lee research
assistant and archaeology instructor, was ar-
rested Monday for conspiracy to distribute co-
caine. Russ graduated from W&L in 1978 and
is considered one of the foremost experts in
local historical archaeology.

Russ was suspended by the University with-
out pay. He was released by police on a $5,000
bond.

At a press conference Tuesday afternoon
held in the W&L’s Mattingly House, Director
of Communications Brian Shaw announced the
arrest. The Rockbridge Regional Drug Task
Force concluded a two year investigation of a
major drug trafﬁcking ring this week with the
arrest.

The Drug Task Force comprises the Buena
Vista Police Department, the Lexington Police
Department, the Rockbridge County Sheriff’s
Ofﬁce and the Virginia State Police.

The investigation identiﬁed ﬁve men as
being involved — Russ (Lexington, Va.), Tho-

mas Davis (Rockbridge County), a former W&L
Buildings and Grounds employee, William
Gossman (Raleigh, N. C.), a former W&L
student, Andrew Jones (Charlotte, N. C.), and
Eric Jamison (Miami, Fl.).

According to the Drug Task Force, the ﬁve
men were responsible for the distribution of
more than $1 million worth of cocaine from
1990 to 1994.

The nationwide drug ring originated in
Florida with the kingpin, Jamison, supplying
Lexington with approximately 250 ounces of
cocaine valued at over $1 million. Some of the
cocaine was purchased with food stamps and
Mexican currency which the police conﬁscated
when arresting those involved.

Gossman was the direct link to Russ and
Davis. After the University noted Davis’ drug
problem in 1994, he was ﬁred.

According to police accounts, Davis was
arrested in February of 1994 for being in pos-
session of nine ounces of cocaine valued at
$50,000. Davis helped the authorities nab
Gossman who in turn aided the police in the
arrest of Jamison. Both Jones and Gossman
were convicted of felony distribution of co-
caine in late 1995. Jamison is awaiting trial.

Students seek Live
Drive resurrection

someone who had smelled mari-

BY MICHAEL HEWLEIT

police sent the two canisters to the

Freshmen kicked out of dorm for marijuana

Dean of Students David

Coolio will deﬁnitely break away
from the typical Dave Matthews-
genre to add to the party atmosphere
of the weekend.

Many W&L students are skeptical
of Coolio’s appeal at W&L(or “Con—

Because Coolio will draw in fans
from outside of W&L, Jalbert urges
students to purchase their tickets ahead
oftime. SAB will sell tickets the week
prior to event at a reduced rate to the
W&L community.

  

     
  
 
 
  

  
  
 
  
  
  

  
 
 

ya to brothers and sisters,”-
White‘

 metztation. _

 
 
  

  

, _up:_em-acy in me, then there Ah‘

L supretrtacyiis the degradation of blaclebodies.” 
hi sinpretttacy has made some blacks ashamed] of their hips, '

ny. .(3iS¢tf1ssion of race has to beginwtth W.E.B;
of Black Folk. In that book, do Bots -talked about
33¢ a problernifﬂe agreed that an humanbeings have to
'21 _ people who are cast as a problem in society have an

BY DARCEY LIVINGSTON

senior David Thompson was
killed in a single-car accident
two weeks ago, his blood al-
cohol level was high enough
to affect his driving skills.
“Alcohol was a definite
-factor in the accident,” said
State Trooper R.J. Noe.
Noe’ssupervisorwould not
permit Thompson’s actual
blood alcohol level to be re-

  
  

death inspired groups — like
the Interfratemity Council and

gram.

Dean of Students David
Howison was enthusiastic
about their ideas.

“There have been a lot of
positive initiatives from stu-
dents, and I’m sure we’ll be
able to move toward a good
sober driving system,” said
Howison.

W&L seniors

Cindy

is the essence of thedemocratic tradition, he said.-: A  . _
For those who are interested in that dialogue andvt t struggl
democracy, he said he will be there with ‘ ’ ’ '
“I’m going down fighting.” . ; v

. .  . *o1<ay.wt.=iie fofsett
the Anne can people who are’strug'gling:ot1 it ‘daily; 

, West. ..t;id,th_ t;eae11’generation has to renew democrat’

“If yodthittk Jyoti can rmiddle through it, you lose it.”

V ’ Americans must deal with the issue, of race. and enter auto a,

them.

“The purpose of the service
shouldn’t be to avoid a‘ D.U.l.,”

Not again." Phi Staff Writer Panhe1lenicCouncil—aswell said Atkins. “It shouldn’t be a
___:j:j as individuals to discuss de— way to get knee-walking drunk
When Washington and Lee veloping a sober driving pro- and not worry about the conse-

quences.”

According to IFC President
Ryan Connolly, fraternities are
not required to have sober driv-
ers at their parties.

However, Connolly said so-
ber drivers may soon be re-
quired at fraternity parties.

The IFC would request the
drivers’ names when each fra-
ternity registers for a party.

   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
       
 
   
   

 

 

‘ K juana smoke emanating from one drug lab in Roanoke County in Howison said that since the Uni- -
Phi Associate Editor of the dorm rooms.When security Salem, Va. The lab work should versity Drug Policy was put into |eaSSei:§gr1El:g(:1(;’V:§nr,:a:(;:ih Ié:tg}le;?i’nel\4Ci)gStal:$](:)e‘fv’ar::r:g  ?:eI:§,t;1:§nIl;e;k:(S’:::
arrived, they asked O’Connelland take SIX to eight weeks. Coleman place ﬁve years ago, ten students on January 29 numerous Stu_ Stan up a Service Similar to the drivers were there and s0_
Two freshmen were found with Hurst if they had smoked mari- believes the students had about 2- have been kicked out of the dorms ’ - - - .
marijuana by Washington and Lee juana and ifthey had any more. 3 grams. Both O’Connell and for using marijuana, which in- ggggsggegrugriglggtﬁgzlgiﬁ LIV-lehlzrniilieved pan of the berifthe drivers violated these
4 Security at 3 a.m. Sunday, Jan._27. Thestudentswerecooperative, Hurst have been charged with eludes 9 freshmen and 1 upper- isuatorsto discuss the imple_ reason {Jive Drive failed was stipulationsﬁhefmtemitv could
Thestudents,IsisCalculus K1rby- andW&Lsecurityconﬁscatedtwo possession ofmarijuana, which is classmen. Also, three students memation of a Sober driving becausenoonevvamedtodﬁve be ﬁned or puton SOcialpmba_
O’Connell and Laura Hurst, were 35mmﬁlmcanistersofmarijuana, amisdemeanor. have been kicked outof fraternity program the large vans tion.
subsequently kickedout of Baker which were turned over to the The case was also turned over housingbecauseofmarijuanause. Washington and Lee did SO, they vvam to Stan a SinceTh0mpsonvvaskmed,
~  :21.       a        
Y .“-°’~ - . .. 'd'hl hl ' an ldh b
O’Connell and Hurst still attend Drug Task Force consists of the White said they are investigating Theuniversitytumsoverall drugs umig {-6 as‘ SC 09 year’ people Voiun-teerthelr cars as thin- ‘ nota tea y ave so cf
classes and eat their meals in the Buena Vista Police Department, the incident but could say nothing found to the Rockbridge Area t1)3t94"fa(lj1l 81:33; ed during the :;;lL::;;f)l£;T§'StEg§:g:3{;§ grslgéggofrgigslgllgsegaZ;a:j::_
Evans Dining Hall. the Lexington Police Department, more. She addedthat the SCC will Drug Task.Forc.e. All cases in- “Live Drive; failed because are willing to do both. mg One_
~ m.'?§Et"}o?‘?t§lZ“;ZI§f”“’d ‘° g°  ‘$‘?a‘§2’Z‘§%’1i§°v‘f§’g‘§E§Z§.';T£‘i3£ iZ‘g‘§t‘§‘y'§1e°.?."§$‘l§’?J'{i.'; §¥.’.‘3i.§i‘§ §?l§L"%.§“§Z§.’fSé§ ?L“‘3E2‘Ssé'2:‘7 °f 3 ‘a°.k °f 53?“ ASS°°‘="*=D“"9fS*"d°"‘S “W” 3 S‘““°"‘ dies °”'-
_ f S ‘ .t M. h 6] 1. b t .t does!“ necessaril affec; Usuall the Students are ut on Executive Committee Pres1- and Greek Affairs Leroy cohol, everyone must feel a
Dlrecim 0 ecimdy lllcf 3 Ice‘ . £1 1 1. y b .y’ P dent Keith Benedict. “There “Buddy”Atkinssaid he iswor- sense of responsibility because
Young Sald they receive aca rom Ofﬁcer Gary Coleman said the t e ru mg. pro ation. was no student interest}, ﬂed a Sober driving program it deem’, haveto bethatwav,»
V However, Thompson’s will breed irresponsibility. said Atkins.
" C 1' t l FD
Th d y ' h
. urs a mg t
servative Hell,” as referred to by an
BY KELLEY TQTTEN anonymous junior).
P '1' Sim Wm“ “I’m curious to see who will get
,, the larger crowd: Newt or Coolio?”
“Been spendin’ most your life sophomore Amanda Robson said.
livin’ in the Gangsta’s Paradise...” - Others had never heard of his hip-
not exactly alyrictowhichthe major- hop tunes Or eccentric hair.
ity of W&L students can relate. Rap— “lf’s he’s one of those totally funky
per Coolio will bring his act to the guys, he might be a little let down by
‘V Pavillon for Fancy Dress Weekend. the W&L audience,” said junior
Coolio will earn $17,000 enter- Katherine Sawyer. .  —
taining the W&Lcrowd on Thursday Coolio ﬁrst hit the charts in Fall ,  ~ »  » ~ -  . .~  ;. .- ~ . V _ H _ _ _
March 21. SAB treasurerPeteJalbert 1994 with his “Fantastic Voyage.” {Si (A v 2 that {S3-ue'sa,e1:r-acialgzed in owe, to pojargze the mags; f I L ‘ p 
said the brou ht in the act, who has He has since gained popularity with 2 .  . » » ~ .'~‘ ‘ ". - “Since.3968,we’ve seex:theassoeiatio_x_1_with he! in tttedisenfranc
, Y 8 . . h. . d f _ mg and oo-wrote a boot: witit.T:kkun . . . .,,   P, 8
1-: gamed DJ-party popularity with “is movie sou track suc_ce§ses 0 ~ ed. e,§,s:,,ndB;“ck;,:Le,_,heHealmgBégin;»rmsvisit Wlfhi|.8!})ll1gblaCkS..- »  . A . _.  :-- j 
Gangstwspamdige to add d,,,e,S,,y_ Rollln With the Homles from ._t_h Mi gsmden-mssociatim. D5,,h_O§g,u§,,n,5,w&L Hectted aftirmattveactionandwetfareasexamples.Heisaidpeop 
“l’m lad he’scomin ;atleastitis “Clueless” and “Gangsta’ Paradise” ' , - - , - ’ ‘ . v - ~ " the fact that the rimarybeneficiaries ofafﬁrmative actionjtavelyee 53;

3 .g .. . ,, Reitgtott H1¥lel.StudentAettvittes, Dean of . . P .. . . - . . .  _ ..
somethingdifferent/’said sophomore from Dangerous Minds. ‘dent?-Qgbd  __ f    . I  I femaies or that empmcaiiy, ’whttes‘make upath m8}Ofkt}¥ o be p!
Jennifer Murphy. “I hope it is some- Skee-lo, who begs for heighth in .   r  7”‘ 1’  " 3 ~ . .   ' wetfare. if ' V  . '1  3' ..

,_ thing everyone can get into.” the MTV favorite “I Wish,”will0Pen. pe“lm.1st .3130   ' '  ' _ y‘ it xc;dtsct1sszo1t,v

in

  

 

diatogué

 
   
 

 

 
 

 

PAGE 2 The Ring-tum Phi, Februgx 9, l99§ )

BEYOND

THE BLUE RIDGE

 

U.S.-China relations
deteriorate

U.S. relations with China continue to deteriorate as a series of intelli-
gence reports on China’s arms shipments to terrorist nations add to the
tension of China’s threatened use of force against Taiwan.

Intelligence reports recently made public show shipments of anti-ship
cruise missiles from China to Iran, shipments of specialized magnets used
in the production of uranium for nuclear weapons to Pakistan, and ship-
ments of crated Chinese-made missiles, also to Pakistan. Under the 1994
Nuclear Proliferation Prevention Act , President Clinton must now decide
whether to impose trade sanctions, such as blocking loan guarantees made
by the U.S. Export-Import Bank, or to formally waive the sanctions for a
lack of conclusive information. Many officials say that the information
contained in the reports is very strong, but that the decision to impose
sanctions on China would affect several major American companies, as
well.

Plan approved to move
welfare and Medicaid to
states

Washington, D.C.-At the end of their three day meeting, the National
Governors’ Association unanimously approved a plan to put the manage-
ment of Welfare and Medicaid into the hands of the states.

Supporters of the plan say that state-run Medicaid and Welfare pro-
grams would maintain the quality of service while removing the bureau-
cratic system of federal control over state administration of the programs.

Political leaders in Congress and in the White House are calling this
compromise a very positive move away from the partisan bickering over
the programs which has been a central problem in the attempt to approve
a balanced budget plan. However, both Congress and the White House have
questions about whether the states will be able 0 continue to provide service
to all the recipients of federal welfare and would commit only to hearings
and extensive consideration of the new plan.

Tagliabue asks for NFL
anti-trust exemption

Washington, D.C.-In a hearing before a House Judiciary Committee,
NFL Commissioner Paul Tagliabue asked for an anti—trust exemption for
the NFL in order to end franchise moves.

After five franchise moves in the last year, Commissioner Tagliabue
insists that the only way in which he can enforce NFL rules against the
uprooting of franchises is with an exemption from the anti—trust laws which
allow owners and states to sue when the NFL will not allow a team to move
to a new community. The state of Maryland recently filed a suit against the
NFL for extensive damages if the Browns are not permitted to move from
Cleveland to Baltimore. Tagliabue says that when faced with the cost of
paying reparations to disgruntled states and owners, the NFL cannot
enforce its legislation against relocation.

Reagan turns 85

Los Angeles-Ronald Reagan became the fifth president to turn 85 on
Tuesday. His birthday was celebrated with a party at Chasen’s restaurant’s
in Hollywood, where he proposed to wife, Nancy. Reagan supporters made
donations of $85 or more to the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation,
and Republican senators called from their lunch meeting to sing “Happy
Birthday” to the President. Reagan was unfortunately unable to attend the

festivities due to his Alzheimer’s disease. ‘

Beyond the Blue Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

GOP WATCH

 

Editor's Note: GOP Watch is a special
weekly feature to keep Washington and
Lee's students informed about the Re-
publican Presidential Campaign in ad-
vance of Mock Convention.

Buchanan wins Lousiana

Pat Buchanan won a decisive victory over Phil Gramm in the Feb. 6
Louisiana caucus. Buchanon’s win has dealt a potentially fatal blow to
Gramm’s chances for the Republican presidential nomination. Gramm
stated on Wednesday that if he does not have at least a third place showing
in next week’s lowas caucus, he will bow out of the race. The Louisiana
caucus was not attended by the two front-runners Bob Dole and Steve
Forbes who deferred to Iowa’s first—in—the-nation caucus status. Neverthe-
less, Buchanan’s win in Louisiana positions him as the conservative
alternative to Dole and Forbes.

Dole gears up for Iowa caucus

In preparation for next week’s Iowa caucus (Feb. 12), the Dole cam-
paign has bought 138 television spots which is signiﬁcantly more than the
number Steve Forbes has bought. The Iowa caucus is critical for the Dole
campaign since he is now in second place to Forbes in New Hampshire
according to a recent Dartmouth College poll. The poll, however, indicated
also that the race is still very close and no clear front runner has emerged
yet.

GOP Watch is compiled
by Laura Knapp
Chec out Moc Conv nticgi’ web ite:
http: www.moc con.w u.e u?~moc con/

Elrod says honor, civility, truth bind W&L

Bv MELISSA BYRD
Phi Staff Writer

sation.”

For President John Elrod, Washing-
ton and Lee’s future is told in the teach-

ings of historic intellectuals.

Elrod told almost 40 students and
faculty members Tuesday night that
concepts such as honor, civility, and
truth-seeking provide the stability and
consistency seen at W&L throughout

its history.

“When you’re thinking about edu-
cation, you can’t forget about charac-

ter,” Elrod said.

Men like Alexis de Toqueville and
Robert E. Lee understood that respect
for one another as rational and free
individuals, and a constant search for
knowledge strengthen and enrich an

academic community.

Elrod said the school’s encourage-
of conversation was important

ment
in building character.

“Education is essentially about one
thing: conversation. If you look in on
the Colonnade from God’s perspec-
tive, you will see talk, talk and more

the art of conversation.

“We need to continue to make our
conversation here as sophisticated, re-
fined and appropriately complex as we
possibly can. It shapes your mind,” he

said.
Elrod said he would

greater variety of students and faculty

at W&L.

this.”

We will all stick together because
we will all have an allegiance to those
things that have held this school to-
gether for so long: honor, civility and

truth.”

talk. lt’s talk that does it. Something
almost miraculous happens in conver- .

Elrod said the students are prepared
for life after W&L because they know

“We need more ethnic, economic,
and cultural diversity. We live in a
community here, and we need to think
more, longer, and harder about what
that means,” he said. “In an increas-
ingly heterogeneous world where
people are pulling farther and farther
apart from one another, we can at least
make sure our community is not like

like to see a

I President Elrod discussed his vision for W&L Tuesday

On the other side of the footbridg 

 

BY TARAH GRANT
Phi Staff Writer

 

We need to begin with,
heaven forbid, The Rule. Open
your handbooks to Rule VI,
Rules of Criminal Procedure.
We see under Section III...’’

It’s 2:00 p.m. on a Thurs-
day afternoon. On the other
side of the footbridge, Profes-
sor William Greimer is start-
ing his Criminal Procedure
class. In front of him students
open their textbook, The
Criminal Procedure, TheP0st-
Investigative Process, and take
outthe profession’strademark
yellow paper pad almost si-
multaneously.

No obligation of secrecy
may be imposed on any person
except in accordance with this
rule. So it may be worthwhile
to see whom is bound by this
secrecy requirement.” When
Greimer pauses, the sound of
pens piously scribbling down
his words creates an intermit-
tent hum.

Kevin Batteh, a first year
law student, gazes past the pro-

"A‘-iknow D.'I‘.,”. vsaid, Be
 {Theta Pi fgaternity broth
 ‘and; lacrosse’ teamtna , _

   

I you ‘for’. making a Vdiffe
, ence, for beingﬁe good
- friend, for making us bet-I

’ ter people,” Stagnitta said, .

_;“Your friends wilt never
 fforget you.” V _
 . £ThepewsofLeeChape‘l
g_ *;,_were packed Tuesdayeafs
"iternoon with members;
‘the administration, faculty,
Beta’ Theta Pi,‘ men’si la-
jcrosse team, _‘\(,;M,I.g<:adet

corps,‘and stuiientbod ‘
.:, 5 Thompson was..t;1I;led
 inacaraccidenttwoweeks
“ - ago; A native ofﬂﬁalti»

   
  

iast year. He was 22 years
old. a

I were moved by the memo-

   
 
 
    
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
 

   
  

‘ more, Maryland, Thump‘-. . willV%?b
son was recipient of they

Scholar/Athlete Award -A  ' I pe

 

V V _  tionstobemade t‘o.‘W&
. Those who attended?»

. ries shared by Stagnitta and .
Croft who remembered .
Thompson as a resilient

 Stag_rtitta.Where theftinds
I will be used will bed: ’
mined at a'r‘l_ater"‘date. .

fessor through the window. A
few pine branches frame a pic-
turesque view of the
Shenandoah mountains. They
beckoned Batteh to come to
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity five years ago. As a senior
in high school, he knew he

, wanted a small liberal arts col-

lege with “an excellent aca-
demic reputation and that had
lots of mountains and rivers
around it.” He thought about
attending law school one day
but didn’t set any specific
goals. _

According to the admis-
sions office, in an average year,
approximately one third of the
members of each freshmen
class indicate their intention to
attend law school. However,
by the time they need to regis-
ter for the LSATs, many have
found other paths. Maybe a
general education requirement
in natural sciences brought out
their passion for geology. Per-
haps participating in a play in
the Lenfest center sucked them
into the drama department and
now have Broadway aspira-
tions. Even more reconsider

   



  
  
   
 
 
  

be

in David’s name at 
quest ofhis mother;-‘sat

 

THE RING-TUM PHI.’
WHAT WOULD ‘YOU DO WITHOUT IT?

\

 

their decision to attend law
school when they receive the
results of their LSATs. A hand-
ful of students, however, end
up applying to W&L’s School
of Law.

According to Assistant
Dean of the Law School Susan
Palmer, W&L undergrads en-
joy several advantages in the
law school admissions process.
“We have great respect for the
quality of the undergraduate
education you receive on our
front campus,” explained
Palmer. “We know that you
are in small classes, where you
are asked to read complex
materials, analyze them
closely, participate in class-
room dialogue, and write.”

The number of W&L
undergrads who attend the
W&L Law School varies from
year to year, from a low of 2 to
a high of 10 in the years be-
tween 1986 and 1995. There
were 6 W&L undergrads in
the 1995 entering law class.

I decided to stay at W&L
when I opened the letter that
said I had been accepted,” said
Batteh. “On the whole, I am
glad that I stayed. W&L is a
great place to study law even if
you have in Lex for 4 years.
Did I mention the law school is
even smaller than the
undergrad?”

Lewis Hall, consisting of
ﬁve major classrooms, small
seminar rooms, and a Moot
Court Room, is one of the
smallest accredited law schools
in the nation. The School of
Law accommodates 380 stu-
dents and 30 professors.
W&L’s size has many advan-
tages including personal atten-
tion from professors.

Greimer picks his first vic-
tim.

Miss Hodge. I didn’t get a
chance to call on you yester-
day. See I was up latelast
night...”

I was too,” Elizabeth Hodge
responds quickly with a dim
hope that witty response may
let her escape. The students
laugh; so does Greimer.

Great. There I was up late
last night and I thought I had to
find someone in a similar situ-
ation...”

Greimer, like many profes-
sors in law school, practices
the Socratic teaching method.
The professor randomly
chooses a student to whom he
asks a series of questions. The
interrogation lasts from 10-50
minutes depending on the pro-
fessor.

“Basically, it’s just you and
the professor, one on one, in
front of a class—full of very
intelligent people,” explained
Batteh. “He asks the questions
and you provide the answers.
It is always nerve racking at
first.”

Why is the grand jury pro-
cess kept secret?” Greimer asks
Hodges.

Batteh remembers the first
time he met Professor Greimer.
Batteh was an undergrad work-
ing on a paper for a philosophy
class. Professor Ramsey Mar-
tin recommended that he talk
to Greimer about the paper as
it dealt with his area of exper-
tise. Later that afternoon,
Batteh entered Lewis Hall for
the first time and introduced
himself to Greimer.

He spent 45 minutes talk-
ing with me—about my paper.
I think that’s typical W&L.”

The close relationships that
develop between professors
and their students is a trade-
mark of both the undergrad
and the law school. For the
past two years, The National
Jurist, a magazine for law stu-
dents, did a ranking based
solely on current students’ as-
sessments of their schools and
ranked W&L#1 in student sat-
isfaction with academics, fac-
ulty,’ and facilities. Last year’s
U.S. News survey ranked
W&L Law School 21st na-
tionwide. Princeton Review
ranked it 19th.

Looking at E and 3, how is
information disclosed?” No-
body responds. “Nobody
knows? Okay, you’ll get the
APLA Dull Statutory Text
award if you find an answer...”

Batteh leans back in his
chair and glances at the female
student sitting next to him,
Andrea Mosely.

“I better not get called on,”
whispers Mosely. Batteh
smiles and then stretches into
a yawn. He was out late the
night before at the Bela Fleck
concert.

Mosely remembers her first
impression of Batteh.

He was such a sweet guy
but he looked like the devil,”
she laughs, remembering the
goatee he spotted at the begin-
ning of the year.

Batteh adjusts the bill on
his orange cap, which appears
to be held together with duc-
tape.

“The Clemson hat has been
through a lot,” he explained.
“Actually I am sponsored by
the team, Duck Tape; they pay
me to wear this.”

Combined with a
Headbangers’ Ball t-shirt from
a 1993 fraternity party, a denim

jacket, baggy pants, and hik-
ing shoes, Batteh doesn’t
model the stereotypical ward-
robe of a soon-to-be lawyer.

The generic descriptions
only go so far,” said Batteh.
“There is nothing ‘typical’
about W&Lstudents. We have
many ‘smart’ students at
W&L, but it’s good to see that
we still have talented students
as well. I have friends in the

law school who have raised
children, run businesses, prac-
ticed medicine, worked for the
secret service, been accoun-
tants, wasted away on the
slopes of Vale, guided rafts,
taught high school and so many
other things.”

“As we can see in 6B 1...”

Batteh ﬂips the page in his
book and starts to underline.

“Challenges shall be made
before the administration of
the oath to the jurors and shall
be tried by the court...”

Batteh doesn’t know what
challenges lie ahead of his life;
he’s still undecided on what
kind of law he will practice.
The law school certainly
doesn’t lack in alumni role
models though. Five presidents
of the American Bar Associa-
tion and five of the history’s
104 Supreme Court justices
have been W&Lalumni as well
as a number of state Supreme
Court justices and federal and
state judges in every region.

“That’s another angle we
missed. We’llf1nish up on the
Bank of Nova Scotia tomor-
row.”

The students pack up their
belongings to go to their next
class. After their classes are
over, they work to prepare for
the next day’s classes.

“I think most students read
through the material some-
times several times until it be-
comesveryclear,”saidBatteh.
“Often students will brief the
cases they read. This entails
preparing a summary of the
facts of the cases, identifying
the main issue and how the
court reasoned to a decision on
that issue.”

The students were not un-
aware of the workload that law
school would entitle. Batteh
often reflects on how much his
life has changed since he
crossed the footbridge. He en-
joyed life as an undergrad and
misses the time that he had to
pursue extracurricular inter-
ests.

“That’s not to say I don’t
get out now and then. I just
don’t get out as much,” said
Batteh. “At the same time, I
feel like I’ve learned a great
deal already. Law school gives
you one more way to look at
the world and analyze prob-
lems and situations. I guess
it’s a tradeoff of sorts.”

Bettah tightens the straps
on his black and purple
bookbag to head to his next
class and then to his carrel in
the library to study. A friend
gives him a high-five as he
leaves the room. “Hey Kevin,
are you still having people over
tonight?” she asks. “Yeah,”
Bettah responds. Afterall,this
is W&L. Even studying is a
good excuse for a party.”

Mock Con picks Louisiana winner

BYEMILY BAKER

Phi Executive Editor

pers predicted Gramm.

“We found out ahead of most people,” Elkins
said. “They called us from the victory party in

The Louisiana delegation of the Mock Con-
vention correctly predicted Pat Buchanan ’s vic-
tory in the Feb. 6 Louisiana caucus.

The delegation based its decision on infor-
mation from political contacts in Louisiana and
the Buchanan campaign., such as political con-
sultants, professors of political science and

campaign insiders.

“We E-mailed them, sent them surveys,
basically stayed in constant contact with them,”
said Louisiana state chairman Will Elkins.
Mock Con appeared to be the only body that
correctly predicted Buchanan over his oppo-

nent Phil Gramm.

“Everybody predicted Phil Gramm would
win. All the polls out and editorials in newspa-

Baton Rouge.”

“We were pretty excited. It feels good to be

of speakers.

right when everyone else is wrong.”

Last week Mock Con received confirmation
that Rep. Tom DeLay (R—TX) and Republican
National Committee Chairman Haley Barbour
will join the convention’s already extensive list

‘‘I think this is the best line of speakers

we’ve ever had, said Andrew Olmem, chair-

man of the platform committee.

His committee this week finished work on
the Republican platform to be debated during
the convention. Welfare and social security top
the issues of the platform.

“We tried to follow the actual process the

Olmem said.

Republicans follow in writing the platform,’

 

ll“ w&

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 

:5 

   

I
1 I 6

Page 3

 

.'
2
O
2
I
.

4

‘ Cindie Young
; Phi Features Editor

V To the cliche if ﬁtting line “heaven and hell and everything in between” one cast member adds “and
a red sequin dress,” describing the W&L Theatre Department’s latest production, Faust.

V The students behind W&L’s Faust have indeed dressed the play in ’90s clothes, with such modern
adaptations as the use of what is now everyday language, the background of the beach for God and

His angels, and the setting of a rave bar for other characters.

The origins of the play lie in a seminar taught last year by Al Gordon, Professor of Theatre and
current director of Faust. In his course, Gordon presented students with scenes from older versions

of the Faust legend, and then rewrote them for a modern audience.

The older scripts from which the students worked include Goethe’s original version, those of
Christopher Marlowe (Doctor Faustus) and Vaclav Havel (Temptation), and even the Broadway

musical “Damn Yankees.”

“Most of my colleagues looked at me slightly askance when I told them I was going to direct a
production of Faust,” Director and Professor Al Gordon admits. “I started out thinking I would

deconstruct the orignial script.”

But after much interaction with students and collaboration with Professor Robert Youngblood of
the German Department, Gordon feels that this year’s Faust will overall be faithful to its predecessors.
“[Gordon] did a lot of polishing,” Phaedra Cianciulli (God) recalls of the modernized versions
turned in by herself and other students, and this year’s production indeed promises to present an

imaginative and fresh - and polished - approach to a well-established plot.

The aim of this newest version has been “to preserve the essential elements of the [Faust] legend,
while making it more accessible to the audience,” Gordon comments in a press release.

While casting of the play fell during the month of November, and the actors attended one “read—
through” before Christmas Break, the bulk of the effort behind Faust has occurred in the past few weeks

of this term.

And not without setbacks. The generous portion of snow allotted Lexington in recent memory “cost
a week of building,” estimates cast member Megan Johnson (Monkey). “We didn’t get onto a set until

two weeks ago.”

However recently assembled, the set will be elaborate nonetheless, with one structureas high as
what a cast member guesses to be 27 feet, and many more set pieces that roll on and off the stage.
Master electrician Eric Sproul, reﬂecting on the intricacy of the set, describes the show as “a pretty

tech-y kind of show.”

“A lot of special things need to happen,” Sproul readily admits, but he is conﬁdent that they will,

assuming no catastrophe.

Not only lighting but sound and electrical arrangements, the teching of the show, and the actual
acting are all accomplishments solely of a dedicated group of students, with members of the faculty
holding only the positions of director, set designer and costume designer of the production.

On the night before the curtain rises on W&L’s own Faust, a general enthusiasm emanates from

tech and actor, designer and dresser alike.

Cast member Dan Tipton predicts “a very visually pleasing show,” praise that technician James

Christovich reinforces with his promise of “a lot of special effects.”

The efforts of so many students, and also of the participating faculty members, should indeed
combine in a production stimulating not only to eye but to - and in - every other sense as well.
Faust will run through this weekend and early next week. For more information on ticket

availability or show times, contact the Lenfest Box Office at 463-8000.

 

Costume extravaganza

KURT SUSONG
PHI REv|EwER

Restoration — ﬁr 1/2
A Restoration is essentially one big
,excuse to employ all the costume and
set designers in Hollywood. This is
beautiful and interesting for about the
first twenty minutes, but then the awful
script begins to bore us. Before I knew

it, I was busy daydreaming; and there’s

no reason I should pay five dollars just
for an excuse to daydream.
Restoration follows the exploits of

tone Robert Merivel (Robert Downey,

Jr.), an intelligent but poor doctor in
largely superstitious seventeenth-cen-
tury England. His courage and origi-
. nality are soon noticed by King Charles
; II (Sam Neill), and he is whisked away
from his friends in the poorly-lit hospi-
tals to the King’s Court. However,

_ Merivel is adventurous in more ways

than just intellectually, and he is soon
dragged down into sensual distractions
of the Court.

At the same time, the King needs to
hide one of his mistresses, the gor-
geous Lady Celia (Polly Walker); he
decides the easiest way to do this is to
arrange a paper marriage as a perfect
cover for his her. Naturally, Merivel is
given the job of becoming the ‘hus-
band’ of Celia. He is then sent off to a
country house so that this farce of a
marriage is safely beyond most
people’s gaze.

However, Merivel promptly does
the one thing the King forbade: fall in

lisabetli Cutler at GHQ

love with the woman who is supposed
to be his wife in name only. As a result
he sinks into disfavor with the King,
and the rest of the movie is the story of
his fall from andretum to grace.

Precisely as you might expect, the
screenwriter (Rupert Walters) has
thrown in so many silly metaphors and
grandiose ideas the entire plot is quickly
lost in a haze of overstatement.

Every action is trite and easily fore-
cast. If a seventh-grader were writing
a story about spiritual redemption, he
would undoubtedly throw in all the
neat tricks that we see here. A prime
example is that by the end of the film
Merivel saves the very woman who
refused to love him.

Even the director (Michael
Hoffman) is a party to the absurdity, as
this scene is filmed exactly as another
scene at the beginning of the ﬁlm — as
if we needed to be reminded or literally
shown just how far Merivel has come.
The result is absolutely not inspiring,
but sickening.

At least you’d think this film, unlike
so many in the theaters today, does
justice to its characters, instead of treat-
ing them as simply pawns on the board
of action. But Restoration fails there
as well.

We never care about these people,
and we are never given a reason to care.
Merivel is thrown to us, and we are
expected to like him immediately. As
if this weren’t impossible enough
given the poor development, there is
another problem with the good
doctor’s character.

The centerpiece of the movie is

played by none other than Robert
Downey, Jr. There is probably no actor
in Hollywood I find less interesting
or magnetic.

His face is contorted into a per-
petual smirk, so his ‘serious mo-
ments’ look just like a real jackass
pretending to be serious for a moment
before revealing his true apathy to
your problem.

Luckily, some of the supporting
actﬁs are quality. Sam Neil] is won-
de Ily ﬁckle and condescending as
King CharlesII,whileboth Hugh Grant
and Meg Ryan perform admirably in
two, peculiar supporting roles.

Those few bright point aside, Res-
toration is a set designers dream. Ev-
ery detail of the King’s gaudy Court
and opulent parties is reproduced
with ﬂair.

Even the dark and dirty streets and
filthy hospitals are brought right onto
the screen. Unfortunately, there is no
film to accompany the extravagances
of the sets; the result is a very uninter-
esting, very
stale, rather
predictable
movie full of
lots of colors.

Restoration
is a bad film. I
wouldn’t rec-
ommend this
for very many
occasions, un-
less, perhaps,
its to make fun
of Robert
Downey, Jr.

DAN ODENWALD
PHI EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Looking for a break from the gray dreariness

of the February snow?

Want to hear a soulful blend of refreshing and

original folk/rock/pop music?

Then, the GHQ Pub is the place for you
tonight as Elisabeth Cutler performs for the

Washington and Lee community.

Cutler is quickly gaining wide recognition
for her strong guitar playing, poetic lyrics, and

passionate performance.

Activities/Pub Committee.

begin playing at 10 p.m.

Her appearance is sponsored by the Student
Admission is free and Cutler is scheduled to

The Pub was established this fall as an alterna-
tive to Lexington ’s stagnatin g social scene. Since
its inception, the Pub has been successful in
attracting large groups of students eager to escape
the monotony of fraternity parties.

Above: The devil (Zach Hanks)
tempts Faust (Drew I-Iiggs) with
everlasting youth, power and
pleasure. Right: Wrath (Matt
Kirby—Smith) and Envy (Maria
Hardin) share a shady moment.
Photos courtesy of Louise Uffleman

  

§Faust opens tonight

  

 

COURTNEY E. MILLER
PHI FEATURES EDITOR

By now I am pretty much sick to death of hearts, and
cupids, andall that lovey dovcy stuff associated with this
“couples only” holiday. So maybe I sound a little bitter, it
isn’t like I haven’t had one of those significant others for
this overrated holiday (in fact this is the first time in three
years I am single for the big V-day) what I am trying to say
is this year, my eyes have been opened I understand how
stupid, and useless this holiday seems to most ofthe W&L
students. (Gee aren’t 98% of us single?)

Anyway to get back to my point, this is the single’s
guide to making it through February 14th without puking,
or calling your ex-boyfriend in a blatant attempt to receive
flowers. (not that l’ve ever been that desperate...)

First off, find a constructive way to eat up your time.
My suggestion; write to Ricki Lake, beg to be on her show.
I’m not joking here. (Has a W&L student ever actually
appeared on Ricki?) There are lots ofgreat things she does,
ummm... setting people up with really good looking guys

The sinf
to J-"e6. 14

pulled off the streets of New York and paid to say they
would date you. Or how about those make-overs? You
know. girl goes in looking typical jeans/sweatshirt, and
then some model comes out in her place. “Doesn’t she
look fabulous folks?”

If nothing else you could beg to do a whole showjust
about W&L. Think ofthe possibilities: former student,
now archeology professor busted in million dollar co-
caine ring. Truth is stranger than fiction...

Okay, so maybe you’ve already had your fifteen
minutes of fame and are looking for something a little
more tame, with less exposure. Call MTV and dedicate
videos to your pets. Rationalize: goldfish need love too.

Go to The Source and rent some of those classic 80’s
movies, you know the movies that celebrated the Me
decade. What ever happened to that concept anyway?
Vision Quest is a must, especially if you haven’t seen it
in about 10 years. Best bonus is Madonna’s performance
in some cheesy bar. Okay I guess I have to throw in Can ’t
Buy Me Love. Only, Iwantto know whose mother would
actually own a white suede fringe outfit?

Okay, so you think I am stretching it? Nope. There is
nothing betterto help you forget red and white lovin’ than
laughing at Patrick
Dempsy.

This one is more of a
personal note, but watch
Dukes of Hazard on at 7
pm. on TNN five days a
week. Start now, a week of
“good ole boys never mean-
ing no harm” will put
Valentine’s day into per-
spective.

Throw a “Happy Hate
Day” party. It is a terrific
way to counteract those
hearts and cupids.

I really wish Hallmark
would market a line of cards
for the darker side of
Valentine’s day. Ijustcan’t
ﬁnd acard with ‘‘I hate you”
on the front and inside read-
ing “You really weren’t
worth the $1.25.”

Speaking of parties,
your life could be so much
worse. I have some close
friends who actually have
their birthdays on the
dreaded V-day.

So nothingin my snappy
guide that appeals to you?
Spend the day commiser-
ating with your friends and
blame everyone else for all
of your problems. There's
 a" do-

 

    

PAGE 4

@112 iatmg-tum lﬂlrt

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

West speaks to all

One would think Cornel West would play at
Washington and Lee as well as Hillary Rodham
Clinton would do at a radiologist’s convention.

After all, this campus is not a hotbed of radi-
cal liberalism, multi-culturalism, or rabid
affirmitve action supporters.

Knowing this, I expected few to attend West’s
lecture on race and democracy Wednesday evening
in Lee Chapel. I was wrong.

In fact, the chapel was filled with a representa-
tive gathering of W&L students, V.M.l. cadets,
Lexington residents, and faculty. More impor-
tantly, West’s message seemed to be well received
by those in attendance. What could have been an
extremely hostile audience turned out to be very
receptive and attentive.

The eminent professor of Afro-American
Studies at Harvard University won the audience
over by bringing intelligence and purpose to the
debate over racism. West spoke to the audience --
not at them. He raised the level of the discourse by
informing and not blaming. With compassion and
a sense of history, West explored the legacy of
white supremacy in the experiment of American
democracy. Therein lies his genius.

In the age of Farrakahn’s lunacy, the Supreme
Court ’s smashing of minority electoral power, and
attacks on afﬁrmitive action, West seeks to heal.

West does indeed present a disturbing picture
of the American cultural scene. Young people
suffer from the dearth of morals and the market
culture prostitutes the American ideal. But there is
cause for hope: the democratic desire to do better.

Perhaps the most moving part of West’s lec-
ture was his colorless and classless call to arms
among young people. History demonstrates that
social revolutions are manned by America’s young.

As we enter the 21st century, it is our respon-
sibility to eradicate racism from society, to raise
the level of the discussion, and to free ourselves
from the ties that bind us.

Will we ever get to the Promised Land? No
one really knows, but like West, we should all go
down ﬁghting.

-- D.O.

Quote of the Week

“Apparently, the lead was dry heaving on stage
last night.” 1

—--Student commenting on the outbreak of
sickness among the Faust cast.

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1996 ..

     
   
 
    
   

   

The W&L Theater Department presentsi

    
 

RUSS

"The Devil Made Me Do It''

  

(‘Mon Kuar,
WHAT'S UIRONC.
WITH A LITTLE
MONEH’ on THE

  

. . ,. in
 \.-1‘: 54‘.
{\ 1'; 5

S

.1.“  ii
. ‘ii
tr


.’.i,;§

‘- 

Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Monday in the Lenfest Center

‘,4

Politics: a matter of perspective

MY VIEW
Nova Clarke, ’96

I have to admit that I succumbed to curiosity and
bought acopy of PrimaryColors. I have no idea who
the author might be, and I don’t really care———it is a
good novel. I read it in a day because once you start,
you're caught up in the story, wondering whetherthe
“scorps” (short for scorpions - the nickname for the
press corps) will ever learn all of Jack Stanton’s
secrets. I also have to admit that even if I’d missed
all the hype in the Washington Post about this book
that had to have been written by an insider because
it portrays the '92 Clinton campaign so well, I would
have thought of Clinton as I was reading it. The book
doesn’t make you want to nominate Clinton for Man
of the Year, and it is undoubtedly not a ﬂattering
portrait of Clinton, but it isn’t a negative one either.
Yes, he is pictured as a very ﬂawed person, but after
reading the book, I think one has to realize that you
aren’t going to ever ﬁnd a politician who isn’t
flawed.

Why do we expect to have a near perfect leader?
There’s been a lot of blame put on the press for
building up expectations and then completely shat-
tering them by portraying the person running for
ofﬁce asthey truly are and not an ideal. Is there really
anyone who is perfect enough to satisfy our expec-
tations—George Washington maybe, but he’s long
dead, and his actions are glossed over by the rosy
glow of history.

James Fallows in the February issue of the
Atlantic suggests that the problem of the press is
always asking how—as in, “How will this speech
affect your reelection in the year 2010?” These

aren’t the real issues. Ideally a candidate shouldn’t
be thinking about the implication of every state-
ment he makes for his future. He should be focusing
on the what—“What do you plan to do to ease the
problems of poverty in this country?” Unfortu-
nately, if we get all our political education and
candidate information from the media, we’re likely
to get an image of a candidate concerned solely

(C

Unfortunately, if we get all
our political education and
candidate information from
the media, we’re likely to get I
an image of a candidate con-
cerned solely about reelec-
tion

about reelection. I think most of us are fairly real-
istic people. We expect our candidate to be worried
about getting reelected. If he or she wasn’t, what
reason would we have to believe that he/she would
listen to us while in ofﬁce, but the press takes this
idea too far.

That is the reason why Jack Stanton or Bill
Clinton likes to stay away from the “scorps” and
maybe that’s why all of us are looking towards Iowa
and New Hampshire. There is a scene in the book
where Henry Burton is talking to Daisy, one of

Stanton’s PR people about the last night in New
Hampshire before the primary when Jack Stanton
spends hours standing in a local mall and talking to
potential voters. At that point he’s behind in the polls
and eventually comes in second, but the point was
Stanton wasn’t listening to the press and neither
were most of the voters. They were more interested
in the “what” and not “how” the result of New
Hampshire would mean for the future. Clinton is
like that too. It’s been said that he’s on a permanent
campaign. What’s wrong with that if it means the
people are getting a true picture of the candidate or
the President?

So here’s a twisted idea about why we focus so I

much attention on these two basically unrepresenta-
tive and electorally poor states. We want to be like

them, we would like to actually meet the politicians .
and ﬁnd out what they would do to solve our prob- '-
lems instead of deciding on a candidate based on his vi
stylish (or not) ads. Another option is maybe we "l
would like to trust government again. There was a 1;
whole series of articles in last week’s Washington 5
Post about the lack of trust the average citizen has in I;
the government. That’s probably a function of him/ 7;
her never meeting the “government,” i.e. his senator, '

representative, or the President. His closest contact
may be the guy he sees at the passport ofﬁce. In New

Hampshire and Iowa all of the voters are being I

overwhelmed by personal attention from the candi-
dates. So theory two is that if we can’t look the
candidates in the eye and make a choice, maybe we
can follow the example of those who have had that
opportunity.

So if you get a chance, read Primary Colors. It
will take your mind off the midterrns you have next
week, and maybe it will make you think about what
qualities you think are necessary in a politician.

Examining the economics of liberty

Gilt: ﬂing-tum ﬂirt

Executive Editors I-'_mi|y 3.3“, D.“ odgnwgtd
Associate Editor Mictnd newton
News Editor Qpﬁgigg agmgvign
Editorial Page Editor Hillary comb.
Sims Editor Scott Booltwulter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Barman

Features Editor (‘indie Young, Courtney E. Miner
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial cartoonists nut ntctmgq, ‘rm Fallgu
Business Manager Robert Nelson

Assistant Business Manager Doug (Jenner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Ame Alvord

The Ring-nan PM is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-nun Phi
comes primarily front advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The king-tun!
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofm, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week‘: edition. letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-nun Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of 170: Ring-um PM or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenhy.

The Ring-nun PM

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail pIu'@tvlu.edu

MY VIEW

Jason Sorens, ’98

Having discussed issues of foreign
policy and civil liberties in previous
columns, I will now move on to eco-
nomic issues. For, as PJ. O’Rourke
concisely put it, “Most of our liberties
have to do with money stuff.” In this
column, then, I will discuss the one
issue that concerns us all the most:
taxation.

Taxation has for centuries been
perhaps the most uncomfortable topic
in economic theory. Economists have
perpetually disputed over which sort
of tax is the most eﬁicient, or more
properly, the least inefficient. This
concern has spilled over into our mod-
ern debate over federal revenue. In
recent years, we have debated the ap-
propriateness of tariffs, the income
tax, and consumption taxes. Some
economists and politicians call for an
end to the income tax and the institu-
tion of a national sales tax or value-
added tax. Others favor a ﬂat income
tax, and some favor no taxation at all.

The reason taxation is such a slip-
pery topic is that anyone who assumes
the appropriateness of taxation cannot
come up with any kind of tax that does
not distort or burden economic activ-
ity. I will prove that distortion is
inevitable in all kinds of taxation,
whether tariffs, income or property
taxes, or consumption taxes.

Tariffs have a twofold distorting
effect. First of all, they raise prices for
the domestic consumer, thus causing
“under-consumption” in the economy.
Second, as a corollary, tariffs encour-
age the misallocation of resources and
production.

Tariffs raise domestic prices be-
cause they stifle competition. Putting
a tax on imported products causes their

prices to rise commensurately in the
long run. In the short run, the foreign
exporters will absorb some of the blow,
but in the long run, the whole burden
will pass to consumers, after foreign
companies that could not withstand
the decrease in theirrevenue have gone
out of business. But driving foreign
exporters out of business is no help to
our consumers. It was this sort of
action that precipitated the worldwide
depression after the Smoot-Hawley
Tariff in 1932.

After the tariff has stiﬂed foreign
competition, domestic industry will
have the freedom to raise prices as
well, but they will reap the full beneﬁts

of higher proﬁts without having to pay _

the tax that foreign producers do. In
the long run, these new proﬁts will
incite new competition, which brings
prices down again but brings about
misallocation of production. For in-
stead of producing what we are “natu-
rally” capable of producing, the nation
has turned to producing what other
nations used to produce for us. This
consequence ﬂies in the face of the
division of labor so important to an
efficient economy. If France is pro-
ducing wine and exporting it to the
United States, and we put tariffs on
French wine, then the United States
will start producing wine. But the
United States is not naturally ﬁt for
producing wine; otherwise it would
have been doing so beforehand. We
end up producing wine when we could
have been producing silicon computer
chips or another product for which we
have more and better resources.

Thus, we see that tariffs have a
distorting effect on the economy. Let
us then turn to income and property
taxes.

Income and property taxes, espe-
cially those of the progressive sort,
tend to discourage the making of in-
come and the ownership of property.

‘‘If you tax something, you will dis-
courage it,” is a general rule. Ironi-
cally, the only exception is for inferior
goods, which are so dear that they must
be attained at any price.

In the case of the income tax, in-
come is an inferior good for the very
poor. Those who have little income
will, when taxed, try to make up for
that loss by working harder to make
even more money. Thus, income taxa-
tion perversely causes the wealthy to
move their assets to sheltered places
and not to work as hard or produce as
much, and causes the poor to work even
harder for less pay. Meanwhile, taxes
on the rich encourage them not to work
or produce at all and to move their
investments to sheltered areas, tactics
which the rest of us are not able to use.
The progressive nature of our income
tax today takes the burden off the poor
but exacerbates the other problem, that
of discouraging wealth-production.

Property (in the sense of land), on
the other hand, is not an inferior good,
because property taxes do not take
away land itself, but rather wealth.
Thus, they encourage the poor to work
harder to make up yet another shortfall
in income, and encourage the rich not
to buy large plots of land but instead to
put their wealth in speculative ven-
tures, for example. All these distorting
effects of income and property taxes
are serious problems in the national
economy because they force consum-
ers to make decisions that do not bring
them the greatest utility.

The consumption tax is equally
destructive. Its proponents argue that
it would not require an intrusive bu-
reaucracy such as the IRS, but this
assertion is unfounded. A national
sales tax would require a myriad of
inspectors to make sure that every small
business and every day-to-day trans-
action factored in the state’s percent-
age. Furthennore, such a tax would

unnaturally discourage consumption, i

as should be obvious by now. The
exception would again be for inferior
goods, such as food and gasoline, which
are virtual necessities. When the prices
of these items rise, they cannot be

substituted, and people will continue _

buying them. Poor people, who spend
a greater percentage of their income on
necessities, would be hit hardest.
Thus, most sales-tax proponents
favor deductions for the poor or with-
holding the sales tax from necessary
items. But once this happens, we still
have the problem of unnaturally dis-
couraging consumption of luxuries and
thereby distorting economic alloca-
tions. The problems are inescapable: a
consumption tax hurts the economy.
In fact, these problems dog any

kind of tax proposal. Not only do taxes '

hurt the economy by taking large
amounts of capital out of productive
use, they further damage us by encour-
aging misallocations and distortions.
Unless we can envision an all-wise
government that can somehow factor
in every problem it causes by taxation
and then remedy these problems with
equal and opposite policies, we cannot
justify taxation on economic grounds.
I submit that we cannot envision such
a government, unless we believe in a
God-govemment that could also run
the minutiae of an entire economy.
The complexities of our modem-day
economy simply will not allow any
kind of effective micro-management.

The statist may justify taxation on
one ﬁnal criterion: coercive taxation
might be necessary to fund certain
crucial operations that for some reason
a free market cannot do. I will analyze
the problem of “public goods” and
“externalities” in my next column.
Unless the argument for public goods
succeeds, we must conclude that taxa-
tion is wholly unjustifiable on eco-
nomic grounds.

.._i-.-_--.--

 

's---__-_-

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1996

OPINION

  ‘You’re the next contestant on. . .

1

'4'

1|.’

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

Since I have too much work to do
now anyway, I’ve started wasting more
time with a new hobby: I sit on my
couch, watch The Price Is Right, and
yell at the television. It is, after all,
educational. I know all about how to
be a good consumer and get the best
deal on new carpeting. The Price Is
Right has always held a special magic
for me. I remember watching it over
the summer when I was a kid, thinking
about how much I’d like that new car
and listening to my mom tell me I’d rot
my brain, and I should read a book.
Ah, memories.

One of the cool things about the
show is that nothing seems to have
changed in all the years I’ve watched
the show. The set is the same orange,
red, and purple monstrosity it has been
since approximately 1860. And the
contestants will probably neverchange.
I hope not, because lately I’ve dreamed
of becoming one.

Near as I can tell, there are a few
ways to ensure that I will one day here
the words, “BETSY GREEN, COME
ON DOWN!” All I’d have to do is
wear something that will give Bob
Barker something to talk about. A t-

shirt with the name of your hometown
is always a good choice, or huge Greek
letters ora college name. Another popu-
lar choice is a huge
cowboy hat and

Right and watch people try to bid.
They leave themselves a margin of
three dollars between bids, like they
aresosurethey
were dead on

belt buckle set, but

(6

accurate in

the best choice by , their estima-
farseemstobeany Since BOO Barker no tion of the
military uniform. - price of that
Bob Barker loves longer klsses contes' curio cabinet.
the soldiers. Come tants, I ’d just pat  These are the
to think of it, any- people who are
one ‘in Lexington 0 n the 17 U tto H e bound to spend
wou dhaveapretty I ° the entire show
good shot of get- dO_esn t seem to mlnd bidding, guess-
ting Ion the show, altttle sexual harass- ing wrong, and
W& students in bondin w'th
their letters, ment now and then" the oth%r Ids-
townies in their... ers. Probably
townie gear, and the coolest

VMI students in
their little grey outﬁts. We’d be a lock.

I ﬁgure if my name didn’t get called,
the thing to do would be to look excited
and run down to Contestant’s Row
anyway. If I beat the real contestant
there, maybe no one would notice.
Such obnoxious behavior seems to be
encouraged. And if I can’t get on the
show, I’d want them to have to call
security to drag me out of the studio.
That would be cool.

If you ever have any doubt as to the
poor job the American educational sys-
tem has done, tune in to The Price is

thing you can
do is bid a conﬁdent, “One dollar!” I’d
probably do that for every item, re-
gardless of whether or not anyone over-
bid. It would work for me eventually.

Once I got on stage, I’d scream and
jump up and down a lot. Since Bob
Barker no longer kisses contestants,
I’d just pat him on the butt. He doesn’t
seem to mind a little sexual harassment
now and then.

Bob would then explain the game to
me, and when he’d say, “Do you un-
derstand?” I’d keep saying no until he
got mad. And if the game was

 
  

_ A

uu.L  THEY'RE
Nor GOOD PLEMFS.
ftrr TIIEY DON'T‘

COMPLMN IF You
BEAT ‘men want

GENERATION Lax

A $0LUTl0N T0 SHORTENED PLEpoEsmP-.

  

 
   
   
   
 

STICK .

  

O’Rourke castigates
whiners of America

MY VIEW

Celeste Rasmussen, ’98

When debating about politics with
some of my liberal friends, factual
contentions and constructive reason-
ing usually turn into dirty attacks.

“But Democrats are so much
cooler,” they say, and usually cite x
and y rock band and our sax-sporting
president. “Well, you may have all of
them,” I respond, “but we have P.J.
O’Rourke.”

O’Rourke, one-time editor of Na-
tionalLampoon magazine, author, and
contributing writer to publications that
span the spectrum from Rolling Stone
to The/lmerican Spectator, spoke last

Tuesday night in Lee Chapel. Being a
great fan, I was more than impressed
with his speech which included the
same wittiness and multi-layered hu-
mor that can be found in all of his best-
selling books.

He discussed “The Whining of
America,” a spin-off topic from his
bookAlI the Trouble in the World, and
reminded us that despite all of the so-
called-troubles of the worry-mongers,
(there ’s a hole in the ozone, the Repub-
licans took all the money in the 1980’s)
life is better today than it ever has been.

“Just think of King George’s den-
tist,” he added. In fact, in true W&L
style, he reminded us that life was
better last Tuesday night than it was at
9:30 that morning, after aspirin and
two Bloody-Mary’s, of course.

Indeed, only O’Rourke could ex-

plain the S&L crisis in 15 minutes,
relate the Omnibus Farm Bill to the
artiﬁcial insemination of cows, and
compare life under the Democrats to a
visit to the Department of Motor Ve-
hicles. The fun didn’t stop even after
the speech, when he ﬁelded questions
from the audience. Afterbeing asked if
the current “whining trend” of America
would ever stop, he responded with:
Trends come and go, just like in the
1980’swhen the trend was to dress like
a preppy. The W&L look was in back
then

Kudos to the Contact Committee
for bringing in-one of my favorite
authors to campus. The highlight of
my evening was when I met O’Rourke,
and he autographed a book for me. “To
Celest,” he wrote, “Peace kills - P.J.
O’Rourke.”

”‘ Be a part of a

, 98-year-old tradition

‘ The Ring-tum Phi
W Tuesdays 7 p.m. room 208, University Center

everyone’s favorite, Plinko, I’d fall off
the Plinko Platfonn. Suing the show is
bound to be worth more money than I
could possibly win. But once the game
started, I’d be all concentration. The
worst thing to do on the show is to
irritate the studio audience. Follow their
advice or pay the consequences. Man,
you don’t want to turn those people
against you. If you try to spin the wheel
and don’t get it to spin all the way
around, I think they have interns who
hold off the audience with cattle prods.

Natually, I'll get to the Showcase
Showdown. This is, after all, my day-
dream. On every show I have ever
watched, there has been one showcase
that’s really cool and another one that
is just useless. When they show me the
ﬁrst one, if they even start to mention
carpeting, a bedroom set, or new socks,
I’ll just interrupt them right then and
there and pass the hell out of it. Let the
guy in the sailor suit have the furniture
and Stainmaster carpet. I want the jet
ski, the home ice cream parlor, the trip
to Isreal, and I'll drive to Isreal in A
NEW CAR!

As my dream comes to an end, I’ll
be sitting in that new car and yelling at
the models to stay away so they don’t
chipthe paintasAmerica watches with
pride.

I’ll see you on the small screen. Get
your pets spayed or neutered.

PAGE 5

GENERAL

NOTES

 

Senior Cocktail Party

The seniorcocktail party has been
postponed until Friday, March 15
from 6 to 8 p.m. in the Alumni
House. Non-refundable tickets are
available by advance sale only.
Tickets will be sold outside the Co-
Op from Wednesday to Friday
March 6-8 from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m.
each day. You can still charge the
$10 fee home. If you have already
bought your ticket, you need not
reregister. If you have any questions,
please call Justin King (463-8464) and
let him know.

Oxford Exchange

Washington and Lee is one of six
area schools that sponsor a summer
program of study at St. Anne’s College,
Oxford, England. The Virginia Pro-
gram at Oxford follows the English
tutorial system and studies the subject
areasof literature and history ofTudor-
Stuart England. Dates are July 1 to
August 10,1996. Application deadline
is March 1, 1996. There is some schol-
arship aid available. See Prof. Pamela
Simpson in the Art Dept. or call 8857
for more infonnation.

CDPO News

Seniors; Don’t miss the newest
recruiting and interviewing oppor-
tunities with the Career Develop-
ment Ofﬁce. Included are positions
in publishing, banking, consulting,
paralegal and teaching. Most of
these have FEBRUARY 16 dead-
lines so stop by soon to get details.

Film Society

The next presentation from the
Washington and Lee Film Society
will be SAFE (USA, 1995), di-
rected by Todd Haynes.

Screenings will be at 8:05 PM on
Friday and Saturday, Feb. 9 and 10,
in the Troubadour Cinema, at the
comer of Main and Henry Streets.
There is no charge for admission.

Scholarship

Scholarship opportunity: The
John Gyles Education Fund make
ﬁnancial assistance available to stu-
dents in the U.S. and Canada. Full
Canadian or U.S. citizenship is

required. Also required is a mini-

mum GPA of 2.7 . Selected students
will receive up to $2,500.00. Dead-
lines: April 15, June 15, November
15. For application forms send
stamped self-addressed envelope
(NO.10) envelope to:

The John Gyles Educational Fund
Attention: R. James Cougle, Ad-
ministrator

P.0. Box 4808, 712 Riverside Dr.
Fredericton, New Brunswick
Canada E3B5G4

Alumni Office

Applications from members of
the class of 1996 who wish to be
considered for the Alumni Ofﬁce
Staff Associate position for the
1996-97 academic year are due by
Monday, March 11, 1996. Graduat-
ing seniors should submit a letter of
application and resume to Alumni
Secretary Jim Farrar at the Alumni
House. The Staff Associate posi-
tion is currently held by Justin King
’95 and becomes available July 1,
1996. Personal interviews will be
scheduled upon receipt of applica-
tions.

Dance Lessons

Frank Rupas is offering ballroom
dancing lessons. Learn how to dance
for Fancy Dress. First lesson is free.
New lessons will be taught on the
hour from 6 to 10 p.m. on Tuesday,
February 27.

Exercise Workshop

Women’s Forum is sponsoring a
“How to start Exercising” work-
shop 6 p.m. Sunday, Feb. 11 in
Doremus Gym.

 

Joining a state delegation is
the only way to SEE the

1996 Republican
Mock Convention

Alabama, Alaska, Arizona, Arkansas, California,
Colorado, District of Columbia, Florida, Guam,
Idaho, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota,
Mississippi, Missouri, New Jersey, New Mexico, New
York, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania,
Texas, Utah, Wisconsin, and Wyoming

All have spaces left on their delegations
This is your last chance to join a

delegation.

Monday, Febrauary 12 through
Friday, February16
11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.

In front of the co-op
$15 -- check, cash, or charge it home

 

The Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1996

ADVERTISEMENTS

     

 

    
  

      
 
 
 

   

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items   H a   »
Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.  : A B , t :
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 . . - .  5 ZS  E ,
. . ' ‘ ’ H ; : 8 am - 3 pm - Monday :

WINTER BLAH SALE prqcassing mail tor 58:‘;‘..;}‘ii’:.“..;?;::‘::y-';?:::2:y 5,
IN THE B 0 OK 8 T0 R E Mltolaal company! F139 5 9 am - 3 Pm - Sunday 5

BA  T     E Wednesday — Spaghetti & Salad '5' ‘
Great prices on sweatshirts —— even   . I   9 .. °"“3°3  : A”y°u°a"eat$4'99 :
hoods __ and other good Stuff 3  A Q  5 Thursday - 10% off food -with student ID :3

E  H   ‘A E Friday - Seafood Nite — E 1‘
February 12, 8 to 4:30   GHC: SUITE 215    gamma _  1I;fi§:eSR*{rbimPaTr°“t 

Snow date February 14 1351 N.FEDERBL " I   y 2Vegs, Sa1adl$8.95  ‘
 III-LYHOOD. FL 3302   E  §iWi’i"M§*i:m&,$;§,;§¢°tt*rr1~5° =
‘ﬁarbs  - aw. E iiiI.vst:>:i.s.t-. i<>.n..V.K.".2:i:i:t2...E

Don ’t Let
Your Student
Gommgrr

  _ ~Harbsf,.1?oint.ICard"Tiei , 'iL,;i
 The $100Mea1Tickei  
 Redeemableffor I i

41 Breakfast, ‘Lu eh‘, Dinner 9

 V   For en1y,$90.00s. 

   

Nutritious M uﬁins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

   

,   ,.  st
Tlxe Devil Made Tlscin Do it'll!

Keller Theatre - Lenfest Center
Tickets: 463-8000
Feb. 9, 10, 12 at 8 pm.
Feb. 11 at 2 p.m.

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our

Point Card
19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

FREE FINANCIAL AID

$Attention All Students$

SUMMER JOBS AT

FREE Money is currently available for College Students Nationwide. Over $6 Billion iin aid

is now available from private sectro grants & scholarships. All students are eligible to
receive some sort of aid, regardless of grades, income, or parents's income. Let us help you.
For more information, call:
Student Financial Services
{LI 0 5"  ‘

 

TEACH ENGLISH IN KOREA Positions available monthly. B./\. or 5.5.
degree required. US $l8,500—25,400/yr. Accomodatiori & rourid—trip
airfare provided. Send resume, copy of diploma arid copy of paeeport to:
Bok Ji Coprporatiori, Chum Bang Bldg, l54»l5 Sameurig Dong, Kang Nam Gu,
Seoul, Korea 155-090.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Counselors for Summer Scholars
July 3 - August 3, 1996
Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 rising senior high school
students in Graham—Lees dormitory and plan evening and weekend
activities. Ten positions are available. Application deadline is February
28, 1996.
Special Programs Resident Assistants
June 12 - August 3, 1996

The Office of Special Programs employs four W&L students to serve as
hosts/ hostesses for a wide variety of Special Programs including Alumni

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.

The Buffet is served from 8:00 a._m. until 1:30 p.m.

FAX: Oll—82-2—552—4F/\X(4529) We’ll be waiting for you_

TEL: 011982-2‘555—JOBS(5627> Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities

A’ _ . ,  .  managementand housekeeping, recepti0ns,and transportation. Appli-

I  cation Deadline is March 15, 1996.

" I For further information, please Contact the Office of Special
Programs, Howard House, 463-8723.

25 N. Main Street
  w “Wm/tat ﬁwmlc? J/la/2/oneﬁ at (2//0/M712/(y ,

Berky’s
Route 11 North - Lexin ton VA

 

 

 iiiestaurant and
I 9-[05Eie’5Lounge

 

Lexington, Virginia 24450 ‘ kg Cwld 
Near the Horse Center ' /0   7,5135. 00 0/; 5 c<>a'MZ1ﬂ/4 $2!/. 00
Phone 464-9499 cm 04/,  tr

°u¢imoul5

- ?
Lounge Open 4'00  to ‘ (€a///o4 (I/I/wlhlnwnlo/1./'mtl Mo/I 19/

Restaurant 11:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.

 

 
  
 
   
 
   
  

    

    
     

>~
§‘l1!ll’lSI:Il3§Al§;NRC]l\ASIl§8i%‘l) i=RSEEELih 7 ' ' ' '12". 3c'iR'l:»T ”§I3"1"1'z'23§' - ' ' ' ' ' " '7
StudentTravelServicesisnow hiring I 1501 B.H1lLL.A1~lDAI.E BCB BLVD 3
,°(‘,“"J§$,,,’i‘°’c‘§,"‘%,f,‘,',‘;‘,',¥,°S'1)‘;;‘,’(,°,,S,‘,”;‘,f ﬂaw you can have two at the moat remgnlaad and ' H3LL”‘m"‘LE ' FLOR U35 33909 ‘ 7-
p nama cit’), Beach (’ja111_g00_54g accepted cram. «junk in the w<§|d..VInIl and lilnuhswcunﬂ I 1
4§49 1! <=-I'h~ '0 Z  EVE" gY°'J NE "W E’. 3 twunt VISAS/MASTEROARD-O Credit I
Visit  Mask.-bread’! the credit end: you : anuapp I M hub" '00“ ouanlnjlﬁm :
d::ner'HentI3nccdfor—lI)—E)OR5—DEPARfMEN‘£‘ . NAME , ,_
am up «» széiiiliimiiing for en-is mama}‘.iE?r“¢‘«?‘sa'.1l'r‘fc”?<”m"£.‘7$$‘m"«.§.1‘ ' '
Ships or Land-Tourco.mpanies+ World Trave H MarEl3wcms_£AR g§NrA15_ I AD I
i§f‘§_°',L‘§,',‘§§,‘§’o‘:;‘,'.'jT‘"‘° °"“"°’"‘°"‘ "Va" nai>.iuss--mu -no auim mun cmmrr tvmnoi I. CITY STATE ._ ZIP :
(206)971-3550 ext. C53421 STUDENT? -Yes R” 8'5! .
.  In turn dawns! ' ‘ i ' ’“
RA\lELABl'<‘0ADAND\'l'0Rl\ New . .
. SIGNATURE '
g»! I!” In credit checks!
ﬁﬁglﬁaggﬁfia all security QEDIISHH ' I018; uaalaoud ls l uguvuudundnn-at cl " ‘“‘1MdInk:InlkhrIaL hc, '
om. Many employers provide mm & board y ‘agar:-.°,¢;1 I Sam “"5 cmpm ‘own : win It an  Ind;-ullrk d was ll$1L1!=x'. and visa Inktviiomd :
i§l§Lf§§s°l§iui'le3.‘°”§3l"§i§?§ ki§]f(d:r'r1:ati)dnA:all Your: cnemr cums Alli win nus! 3 mm "" H” “'5” °°uP°“ mm" . r
_ Zbtzxzuu1$¢$$$C$C$2&&$:$—Q

 

 

 

4!‘

 

‘T he Ring-tum Phi, February 9, 1996

if Sweet Savings

  
 

1 Dozen Bouquet

 Visa

Pre-Packaged
With Greenery
& Baby’s
Breath
S ray 99 1,8 [Inch 99
ose ar
Bouquet ea.4 galloons ea. 1

5Zl??[L£‘ZT5 or ‘me rm/££9(

Sweet

  Florida
1   fa berries

   
   

~:¥~e

Pint

     

s th R. at H ' r  
Sfytle er? 9""”‘°“-"’3'sr.o,,¢,,,£, 1 W?'ll';':e__Cleetel.iie Or 
Biscuits ___s ct. ToppingE"s‘;".?:.

Kellogg’s
Corn

   

15 Oz.
Soft Drink Feature

  
 

 

PEPSI

'1
ALL NATURAL

  

2

2 Liter

Pepsi Or Diet

Hunter

Ice Cream Pepsi

    

  

gal.
White Or chocolate Oscar Mayer Regular Or 3
Valentine 249 Light 49 I

Oup Oakes_f2 ct. Bologna mg.
Selected Varieties

Brach’s Valentine  gelghtggixfviiiiglies 69
Candys_a.2s.1a oz. ﬂ 5 “,1
Prices Effective Through February 13,1996

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, February 7 Through February 13, 1996 In Our Mecklenburg County Stores
Only. We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

PAGE 7

 

Jill Sheets

Women‘s Swimming

Senior co-captain Jill Sheets picked up a
pair of victories during the women’s swim-
mingteam’s meetwith Hollins. Sheets breezed
to wins in both the 100 and 200 breaststroke as
the Generalscapturedtheir25th straightODAC
meet, 128-97. Sheets and her teammates will
defend their ODAC/Atlantic States Champi-
onships title on February 23-25 at Radford.

  

is;

Senior tri-captain Cam Dyer played an im-
pressive game last Saturday against Eastern
Mennonite. Dyer led the Generals to a season
high 1 00-point performance over the EMU Roy-
als. He remains on top ofthe ODAC in scoring,
averaging 21.8 points per game. Dyer scored 23
points and matched his career-high 13 rebounds
in the victory over Eastern Mennonite.

Cam Dyer
Men’s Basketball

 The Magic is backin

I THE BIG FAN, from Page 3

and 7 reboundson Utah’s Karl Malone, a player who had
been veaemently opposed to Magic’s first comeback.

Magic has always been the consummate team player.
He made the triple-double a household term in the’80s
because of his brilliant play both offensively and defen-
sively. He makes the most difficult plays look easy.
More irnportantly, his determination to win is paralleled
only by Jordan. Magic has the type of personality and
leadership that can elevate atearn. The Lakers have been
talented but inconsistent so far. Here’s a guess that
Magic will help mold them into a coherent unit.

Why did Magic return? Maybe he felt he retired too
_, y , soon and had something left 7 to prove. He may love
L‘ playing basketball so much that he can’: stop. Or maybe

 

he just wants to enjoy fife  he still can.-1 Few of us

understand the urgency that lviagiegitrtay feel. Although ‘

he looks great now, he could live forlt) or_2
: , id

  

blown AIDS, who knows?‘
One thing l’ve learnedis
Lohaus orManute Bel who it
becomes a1in0Yiﬂ8- M3g.i?Wl11 ..  . . . ::
of Showtime, but ‘he’s?}§§tiil ion’ of . the; best‘ players ’ 
amund- He certainly has proved that thus far. -   .
Johnson and Jordan are probably the bestﬂbasketball. ’
players of our generation. .We should appreciate them [
for the players they have been anditghe players they still
are. But if things‘sourvthis tiugei, Ighope Magic will '
gracefully decide to permanently,xe:i,t¢ ysqthai his u:.3gf*:.. '
niﬁcent career does not turn iutoia farce. 1- I 2  _ 1 ‘A
The clock on Magigfslc eer and life is ticking down. i . a
We should givetlte ma “

    

H

   
 
  
 

 
  
 

Generals show improvement

HOOPS, from Page 8

time lead and then buried the Generals
with a 24-3 barrage to start the second
half. W&L would only be able to
reduce the gap to 19 points by the end
of the game.

Senior Allison Hull had a tremen-
dous game for the Generals, netting 14
points to go along with 7 assists and 6

rebounds. Sophomores Hicks and
Tonia Dean each scored 12 points.
The Generals came up on the short

‘ end of a 67-60 heartbreaker Tuesday

against Bridgewater. W&L rallied from
a double-digit deﬁcit in the second half
to close to 62-60 with 1:34 remaining.

That was as the Generals would get,
however. Bridgewater came up with
steals on the next two W&L posses-
sions to seal its win.

Despite the narrow loss, W&

refreshing original

folk/pop/rock
style

strong guitar
playing

poetic lyrics

passionate
performance

 

L dominated Bridgewater on the
boards with a 47-26 rebounding ad-
vantage. Sandra Holmes collected 14
of those rebounds to compliment her
14 points. Freshman Chrissy Burghardt
also had a strong night for the Gener-
als, tallying 16 points and 9 rebounds.

The Generals’ record now stands at
4-14 overall and 3-13 in the ODAC
after their 1-2 week. Washington and
Lee returns south to battle Roanoke
Saturday afternoon.

  
   

friday, february 9

in theAGHQ Pub

student activities/
pub committee

10 p.m.

free admission

sponsored by

  

MAIL!

START

§ﬁnﬁn——-II--n-:-----tun

5 PAID
W1‘-:E1£I.Y!
C   PROCESSING

 
   

   
 

  

 

DETAILS:

  EARN
can MON
AT ME!

  N0 EXPERIENCE:
NECESSARY! '
RUSH LONG SASE |
s..@*.1.S°,...

18:61 Ill... nrnnrasnzsx... l':l'II"I'
HOLLYW ?.ﬁ3;D 20

  
  
 

-- ._..aaa....
,,...-"“‘*

I
I
I
  _.l

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with

America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL

(800) 95-BREAK!

 

Last Week:

Ellie iliing-tum iﬂlii

This Week:

MBABKEFBALL - W, 100.79 vs, Eastern Mennonite, Wn.Bs'n.mG - Saturday at Virginia State Championships
L, 88-71, :15. Randolph-Macon‘ 1 (at Longwood College)
L 6865 at Lynchbur ’ MB.«sx:.'rnAu..- Saturday at Roanoke, 7:30 PM;
’ ' 3 Wednesday at. Eastern Mennonite, 7:30 PM
WBAsiu:raAu.- L, 79-60, vs. Roanoke; WBAEKEFMHH gaugday atvl.zl°m3)kl'.3’ 5:90 PM;_
L, 67-60, vs. Bridgewater; Tznsgy vs‘ ‘$.18. ‘ileV’v4'?0 PM’ .
W’ 62-46’ at Honing Thﬁrsgiyvit L1;rg1::Ttl?urges’le'l’)3nPM.0O PM;
PAGE 8 BASKETBALL, SWIIVIMING, WRESTLING, INDOOR TRACK

FEBRUARY 9, 1996

 

 
     
 
  
   
  
    

Return  
Showtime

‘THE BIG  
er Sccm‘ Booxwamsn

 

 

- Last spring, I wrote
column blasting i_v‘licha"
Jordan, Magic Johnson
and other athletes. w
hang on too long Vtojtli
respective careers or 
not decide about
neatly retiring. \   A
Well, I take that back 
Sort of. 3. M « ’

I still feel that itisfmo
honorable for a3 playctto
retire instead of his agree
becomingamemory. 
can’t piayers dec;,id_
whether they wautito pt;
or not?  i

Johnson retirediou No’-
vember7, 1991 aftetbcing , 
diagnosed with HIV. He 
had little other choice. ﬁe 
knew that NBA’ piayeérs, f_ .
like many others in»jt_lie'.
nation, would not under--. , ._
stand the minimal risks of-Pi
playing with-a 
tive player. . ‘ .

We mourned for Magi
We..dscric<* .th§..smi of '
era, me.rma1? curtaitt‘
Showtime.  Bverythia

 
   
  
     
   
  
  

 
  

    
  

bet. Magic played onithe _
1992 U.S.Oly:_npicDream 1
Team, but more as a»'tri'b~:.,..’
ute to his great career than? 2;
to his current status. ,We..:‘,
began towonderhow muclt“ ‘
time Magic had»Ieﬁ->..iV ‘
Magic attempted
comeback in 1992, but it , .
soon aborted it.» After a"
short stint as the Lake} 
coach, he retired again; We ‘
figured that was the end of ,
Magic’s public life, ; ” » i
So I didn’t know‘ what. 
to think when Magic an 
nounced that he _was_.re

  
 
  
    
  

 
 
 
   
    

 

has not played in the ieagu
for four years. B0lh_;\th
playersandtheteaguehav
changed. How product V V
could Magicbeat thissizagef 
of his career? Would he 
now be a benchwarmer? 3; Q
But after watching",
Magic ro.llup19poia1ts, 1 _
assists, and 8 reboundsgin, 
his first game back
Tuesday against G0l_d‘enf
State,lrealizedhowmuch .
the NBA needs Magic. _
The NBA has stepped
backwards inrecerttyears; 
After the “Bad  :1
troit Pistons. elbowed {and j 
chuckedtheirwaytoback-; . .
to-back titles in the late; 
’80s, the NBA. degeneiw 
axed into a physical, pound». 
it-insideleague. ’I‘l1eI{ock«.
cts and the Knicks‘ be;
good teams,but howm ‘
fun is it to.watchfthe_n‘1
This certainly, .isn’t nth
Lakers’ fast-breaking}
the Celtics’ preeisi
shooting of the ‘S08; 8 .
sides, who wouid you ,1-1
rather watch play basket-
ball: Magic Johnsozt:”’:’or £3
Anthony Ma'son?- ‘ A 
Even worse is the .atzi-, -
tude of today’s piayers.’
Dream Team l1,iie<};b
Derrick Coleman?-vv_‘.and“
Larry Johnsonpemba
rassed itseif withﬁs hot»
tendons sportsrnanshi;>'iri' at
the summer of 1994.,'I'he‘ "
NBA has changed fronielé -
°g3“9F?.i9.?‘¥P83n¢§:..  .. -
Magic canciiangesozne A 
of this. True, henowhas '
Elder: Campbeil; Cedric.
Cebailos, Vlade Divao,-l 
Nick Van Exe}, and Eddie‘ A ‘
Jiones as teammates; ad! ;
Kareem Abduljslabhar, 
James Worthy‘, Byfron
Scott, and A.C. Green.
Magic, now 27 poor:

 

   
 
 
 
   
 

  
  
  
   
  

 

   

   

    

A heavier, is playing power; .5

forward for the Lakets in-
stead of his customary A
point guard positioit;.t And 3
he hasn’t been starting.

But just think how
much better he can make, 
the Lakcrs. His first shot: 
last Tuesday wasa driving‘f‘= :
layup,acIassicMagicshot' 
In fact, the Lakers looked ‘
like they were reincamat-3 3
ing Showtime aszﬁgiey 
scored moretlian 70poin‘ts g» 
in the ﬁrs! half. Sunday, 6
Magic rung up 21 points

See THE BIG
FAN, Page 7

Generals gear themselves for playoff charge

By CHRIS PUGSLEY
Phi Staff Writer

 

The pressure put on the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s basketball
team to make the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tournament
culminated in a strong win over
Eastern Mennonite on Saturday.
The Generals kept their playoff
hopes alive by defeating Eastern
Mennonite 100-79 in an ex-
tremely physical matchup.

It was a game of extremes,
seeing both teams combine for a
total of 50 fouls and a combined
73 free throws and 51 three-point
attempts. But these extremes
were not to be outdone by the
physical play of both teams.

When the smoke and carnage
cleared, the Generals came out
on top. Cam Dyer led the Gener-
als with 23 points and 13 re-
bounds, but the talk of the game
was senior guard Jon Coffman.
His inspired play produced a sea-
son high 22 points, 4 assists and
2 steals, not to mention his out-
standing leadership and inten-
sity on the ﬂoor.

Chris Couzen continued his
consistent performance with 20
points, 5 rebounds and 4 steals

before fouling out.

The win sustained the Gener-
als’ position in ninth place in the
ODAC and kept them mathemati-
cally alive in the hunt for the
eighth and ﬁnal playoff berth in
the ODAC tournament.

The Generals put together
another impressive show on
Monday. In the stands for the
matchup against Randolph-Ma-
con College were the families of
seniors Cam Dyer, Jon Coffman
and Derek Carter as they played
theirlast career home game. With
the eyes of visiting lecturer and
Boston Globe sports columnist
Bob Ryan looking down from
the Warner Center press gallery,
the Generals battled against Kurt
Axe and the Randolph-Macon
Yellow Jackets.

It was extraordinary to see an
instance where an opposing
player refers to a road game as
“home cooking”, but then again,

Axe is deﬁnitely an extraordi-

nary player.
After an 11-point ﬁrst half,

Axe exploded for 20 second half
points en route to an 88-71 Yel-
low Jacket victory. Axe ﬁnished

the game with 31 points and 4
steals, hitting on 6 of 8 from three
point range.

But, the Generals would not

 

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor
Freshman Amber Hinkle looks to pass inside.

Women’s hoops
prevails at Hollins

From Phi Staff Reports

The women’s basketball
team continued its improved play
this week, capturing one win in
three attempts.

W&L journeyed to Hollins
Thursday night and returned with
a 62-46 victory.

The Generals were on ﬁre
early in the game, storming out
to a 19-2 lead. Hollins closed the
gap, but W&L ﬁnished as well
as it started. The Generals shut
out Hollins over the ﬁnal 4:29,
enabling W&L to snare the win.

Freshman Karin Treese
scored 11 points, all on foul shots.
Her 11-12 free throw shooting

performance set a W&L record.
Sophomore Michelle Hicks
scored 12 points and senior
Sandra Holmes had 14 rebounds.
After a 58-48 victory over
Randolph-Macon Women’s Col-
lege last week, snow prevented
W&L from trying to win its sec-
ond straight game Saturday
against Villa Julie. The contest
was postponed to this Sunday at
4:00 PM in the Warner Center.
W&L tried again Sunday
against Roanoke, but the Gener-
als proved to be no match for the
red-hot Maroons, losing 79-60.
Roanoke cruised to a 42-28 half-

See HOOPS, Page 7

go unheard from in the second
half. Kelly Dyer’s three-point
shot with 6:30 left brought the
Generals within seven and the
continued inspirational play of
Jon Coffman kept the Generals’
hopes alive.

But with 1:13 left, Axe pro-
duced a feat that would win a
place at the ESPY awards cer-
emony. Axe grabbed a loose ball
and, falling out of bounds, threw
up a shot from behind the
backboard and hit nothing but
net. Talk about extremes?

Nevertheless, the Generals
received strong performances
from Cam Dyer, with 22 points
and 8 rebounds, Jon Coffman,
who scored 14 points and dished
out 4 assists, and Derek Carter,
who hit two three-pointers for 6
of his 7 points.

On Wednesday, the men trav-
eled to Lynchburg College. The
game was close throughout, but
the Hornets handed the Generals
a tough loss.

W&L pulled within one with
two seconds left on Kelly Dyer’s
three-point basket. But two
Lynchburg free throws made the
ﬁnal score 68-65.

Cam Dyer turned in a 23-
point, 6-rebound performance
while Chris Couzen posted 16

points and 5 rebounds.

Couzen was helped in the back
court by Kevin Cobbin, who added
5 points, 4 assists and a career-
high 8 rebounds. W&L was hurt
by 22 turnovers, and 30 percent

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor
Jon Coffman drives toward the net in a recent W&L men’s basketball game.

ODAC tournament.

The Generals have two road
games remaining: Saturday’s
contest with Roanoke and next
Wednesday’s season finale
against Eastern Mennonite.

shooting from the ﬁeld in the
second half.

Despite the loss, which drops
their overall record to 3-19, the
Generals still remain in the hunt
for the final playoff spot in the

Freshmen women make immediate
contributions to W&L swimming

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

Five freshmen women joined the swimming team this winter with
a large void to fill and a lot of work ahead of them. ‘

For freshmen Margaret Hoehl, Laura Goodwin, Jen Selder, Greta
Richter and Courtney Tyler, all of the effort has paid off. They had
nine of the best times in the fourteen events that the Generals swam
this year, and they ﬁnished second in three events.

All ﬁve have made an impact this year. Senior co-captain Jill
Sheets noted the depth that they bring, and the points they have scored.
Fellow teammate sophomore Ali Kappel commented, “They’ve added
strength to our relay teams and a lot of team spirit.”

At the end of last year, the Generals lost several excellent seniors,
leaving a void in many events. Head Coach Kiki Jacobs is very
pleased with the contribution of the freshmen. “There is not one
person that could ﬁll Susan Fisher or Brandi Henderson’s spot, but
between all of them, they have stepped up. They can swim anything
you need them to.”

Margaret Hoehl has made the biggest impact on the team. A
prospective biology major from Tullahoma, TN, Hoehl holds the top
team times in seven events, four of those in freestyle. In addition, she
has the second best time in two events, both behind senior All-
American Rebekah Prince. “Margaret is our strongest freshman,”
said Jacobs.

Hoehl began swimming competitively when she was only ﬁve
years old, and stated that herbest moment in her swimming career was
her trip to states last year. She said her best moment of her freshman
year so far was the 500 free at the Sewanee meet. She only lost by four
hundredths of a second.

Greta Richter, who was a teammate of Hoehl’s at Tullahoma High
School, is very active outside the pool. Richter is a Kappa Kappa
Gamma pledge, on the Freshmen Leadership Council and is a tutor in
the community. She is currently undecided on a major.

Like Hoehl, she began swimming at age ﬁve. “My mom made me
at ﬁrst, I didn’t like the water because it was too cold. After that I loved
it and I love the competition.” v

Richter keeps swimming because she has so much fun on the team.
“I love everyone on the team here, we have a great time, and are all
friends.”

Her crowning achievement thus far was scoring the team’s best
time of 19:42.58 in the 1650 free against Johns Hopkins.

Courtney Tyler came to W&L from Anchorage, KY. Tyler is
also a Kappa pledge and a prospective biology major. She began
swimming at the age of four.

She is a strong butterﬂy swimmer, which helped fill an important
hole for the Generals. She has the top time for the Generals in the
200, and is second in the 100. Tyler also excels in the IM events,
where she claims to have the fondest memories of the season, so far.

“I broke the meet record in the 2001M. A lot of my friends were
there, and I was very nervous. When I touched the wall, everyone
was screaming, and I didn’t know what for. Then someone told me
I broke the meet record.”

Laura Goodwin is a member of Alpha Phi Omega service
fraternity, and is on the Freshmen Orientation Committee. She came
to W&L from Bridgeport, WV, and plans on majoring in biology and
French. She started swimming when she was six, and has loved it
ever since. “It makes me more motivated, and helps me with time
management.”

The Catholic meet this year stands out in her mind. Goodwin was
very sick and was having a lot of trouble swimming that night.
Prince and Sheets convinced her to swim the 200 ﬂy anyway,
because every point was needed. She finished last, but the one point
she earned was the difference in the meet.

A Princeton, NJ resident, Jen Selder only started :wimming
competitively this season. “During high school, I played water polo,
but when I came here there was only a men’s team. I missed being
on a team, sol ﬁgured maybe I’ll try swimming.” She claims to have
swam before she could walk.

She got turned on to W&L because she knew the late Robert
Banse, a trustee that passed away this summer. “He was a really
great man, and he and his wife convinced me to come here.”

Selder has done well for W&L in her first year, scoring personal
bests in several major meets. She plans on continuing to swim for
the remainder of her college career.

“I really like it, and the coaches (Jacobs and Chris Budvitis) are
always willing to help me.”

These five women will hopefully be helping the Generals con-
tinue their streak of ODAC championships well into the future.

In the meantime, the team looks for the freshmen to help them
when they go to the ODAC/Atlantic States Championships Febru-
ary 23-25th in search of their seventh victory in nine years.

It Doesn't Take A Math Maior
To ltetlucelne cue

COICQOODOCOO.’.OOUOO.ICCOCC..COOiU>

SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY.

$ TOYOTA

I Love Whu You Do For Me

 

 
  
  
 

 

 "i ?.&‘rB= 1%.: l_!léF:4.F'.Y
l'.»'.*.'.v'~»mU'I='b:»=«‘ 5 an t;.'4£v.'ﬁI6:‘I‘{

 iv,-l gig

is 91 

~.- -qu_w.-

 

OCK CONVENTION ISSUE

 
 

N.

* Meet the Big Four candidates

 

 

   

 

  Weekendweather
  FRIDAYS Mostly ctoudy,‘ I
O" _ chance of snow, highs
1: near 40, lowsinthe 20s :
, SAIURDA,Y: Mostlyetoudy, 
  itemps,3O»35 ; s V
{SUNDAK Partiy sunny, min:
20.3, lows in the teens is  _ 

 

Get the scoop on

‘Q ‘I
‘Q ‘Q
‘(ii
iii‘!

 

with our supplement

éwimmcrs emerge from

pool as winners

#1‘  

/-'7'
«f-3

VOLUME 96, NO. 15

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

You want it, we got it

Photo by Celeste Rasmussen

Among the preparations for Mock Con this Week was the memorabilia sale which took place in the
University Center. On sale was everything from cuzzis to keychains, and of course t-shirts are a given.

The Voting Regulations Board
would like to announce that Big
Four Elections will be held Mon-
day, March 4th from 8 a.m. to 4
p.m. Run-off elections, if neces-
sary, will be held on Thursday
during the same hours. Remem-
ber to vote in front of the Co-op,
Leyburn Library, and Law School.

President

Name: Sandy Hooper

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: European History and French

Hometown: Brownsville, Tennessee

What experience do you have? Sopho-
more E.C. representative

Why do you want to be elected? I
think it’s time an undergrad serve as President.
Ifelected, I’d like to see the (student autonomy)
issue resurface and would do what I could to let
the Hill know students are serious about keep-
ing their freedoms.

Favorite aspect of W&L? The friendly
rapport. There’s little friction or protest among
us which lends a great hand to the happiness
that our four years give us.

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? I don’t know. That’s a stupid question.

Name: Bill Rust

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: Public Policy and History

Hometown: Baltimore, MD .

What experience do you have? Board
member of Habitat, dorm counselor, editor of
Political Review, President of Leyburn Society

Why do you want to be elected?
Honor and the execution of the Honor System
are things I feel very deeply about. I sometimes
worry, however, that our atttitudes toward it are
becoming too ambivalent. We too often see
honor for what it is not, rather than for what it
is, that our system has become too much of a
rule-oriented one. The E.C. is free to consider
other matters and I believe it should do so. I'm
speaking of immoral matters not illegal ones.

Favorite aspect of W&L? Honor Sys-
tem and sense of community

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? no response

Vice-President

Name: Alex Christensen

Graduation Date: 1998

Major: Undecided

Hometown: San Marcos, CA

What experience do you have? lam
a member of Contact and served in the student
government in high school.

Why do you want to be elected? I
think student government works best when
different students rotate in and out so the focus
stays on the process and does nof become
focused on individuals.

Favorite aspect of W&L? I like every-
thing about W&L.

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? Phoebe. She’s the only one whose name
I can remember.

Name: Amy Gorham

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: Business Administration and Ac-
counting

Hometown: San Antonio, TX

What experience do you have? Two
years on the E.C. One year was as Secretary.

Why do you want to be elected? lwant
to maintain the integrity of the Honor System,
preserve the student self-governance on our
campus, and provide forthe equitable disburse-
ment of students funds so that our student-run
organizations can flourish.

Favorite aspect of W&L? The small
studentbody which lends itselfto such afriendly
campus as well as th perseverance of traditions
like the Honor System which would fall apart at
larger schools.

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? Chandler. I like his sense of humor and
I, too, could probably sit in front ofthe TV all
day and watch really mindless television shows.

Secretary

Name: Marcus Rayner

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: Politics

Hometown: Skillman, NJ

What experience do you have? Two
years as E.C. representative for the Class of
1997.

Why do you want to be elected? W&L

derives its strength from its traditions, and only
through a commitment to these traditions can
we hope to maintain them forthe future classes.
My commitment to the Honor System and
student autonomy has given me a desire to do
my part to uphold these W&L institutions.

Favorite aspect of W&L? Sense of
community. Individuals are respected, trusted,
and allowed to excel at this university.

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? Rachel. Did you actually get any other
answers?

SCC Chair

Name: Robert Covington

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: Chemistry

Hometown: Atlanta, GA

Whatexperience do you have? Of-
ficer on the Student Activities Board. Served
on the FOC, SDC, FCA, and the sophomore
housing committee.

Why do you want to be elected? Ifeel
strongly about the legacy of integrity and char-
acter at W&L. Through my involvement, I feel
I am in touch with the student body.

Favorite aspect of W&L? no response

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? no response

Name: Sasha Hartman

Graduation Date: 1997

Major: Management

Hometown: Vessy, Switzerland

What experience do you have? Class
officer for three years. Member of SCC for
three years. Vice-Chair of SCC.

Why do you want to be elected? I
would like to be part of the committee that
makes decisions based on students’ perspective
and supports democracy with utmost sincerity.

Favorite aspect ofW&L? There are too
many things that I love about W&L. Unlike
most schools, W&L doesn’t pay its student tour
guides. They give up there free time in order to
tell prospective students how much they love
this place. I think everyone will agree that this
says a lot about our university.

Favorite character on “Friends” and
why? No question about it —— Marcel. That’s
one cool monkey.

Compiled by Dan Odenwald

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

BY MICHAEL Hawusrr
Phi Associate Editor

Things are hectic for Mock Convention
people, especially since political commentator
Pat Buchanan pulled off a surprising win in
New Hampshire and Steve Forbes won in Ari-
zona. Now state delegations are doing last-
minute research around the clock to make sure
Washington and Lee picks the right nominee
for the Republican party.

Many students who are involved are look-
ing forward to the Mock Convention that starts
tomorrow and ends Saturday.

“We’re really excited,” said Oklahoma state
co-chairman Susan McMurry. “We’re work-
ing really hard this week because the races are
a lot closer than we had expected.”

Poltical director for Indiana Hank Cosby
agrees.

“Buchanan has thrown a wild card in the
race,” he said. “It’s hard to estimate his support
(in lndiana).”

Cosby said he has been impressed with the
whole idea of a Mock Convention.

‘‘I think it’s one of the highlights of the
Washington and Lee experience,” he said. “The
quality of the speakers and the level of sophis-
tication employed in the research has been a
real learning experience.”

Steve Frame, the state chairman for Indiana,
said he’ll be glad when the convention gets
people over this infatuation with Pat Buchanan.

U112 iliing-tum lﬁhi

MARCH 1, 1996

repares for 1996 Mock Con

He said his delegation has been working all
week to get the correct prediction and deter-
mine how many votes will go to each candidate
in their state. Still, he can’t wait until Mock
Convention.

“I’m looking forward to the whole process,
of getting to know how the convention is run,”
Frame said.

Jennifer Home has a slightly different rea-
son to look forward to the Mock Convention.
She will be celebrating her 21st birthday tomor-
row while performing her duties as state chair-
man of the Massachusetts delegation.

“I hope it’s going to be fun,” she said. “I
hope that everyone, even if they’re not politi-
cal, can enjoy it and get excited about it.”

Home said the Mock Convention has been a
lot of work, but it has been a real learning
experience. She had to do plenty of research on
her state because she’s not from there. But she
believes all the work will pay off in the end.

‘‘I think we’ll appreciate it more because of
all the work we’ve put into it.”

Christina Petrides, a delegate for Georgia
and who has participated in her state Republi-
can Convention in her senior year in high school,
is looking forward to being a part of a pseudo-
national convention. She also doesn’t mind
seeing her congressman, Speaker of the House
Newt Gingrich, again.

Nadiyah Howard, a delegate for Nevada,
agrees.

“I think it will be a great opportunity to
become involved in a positive W&L tradition.”

IFC passes rule regarding
mandatory sober drivers

BY MICHAEL HEWLETT
Phi Associate Editor

This weekend Washington and Lee students
can go to a fraternity party knowing that there
will be at least two sober drivers present, ac-
cording to a new Interfraternity Council law
passed unanimously on Tuesday, Feb. 13.

IFC president Anthony Mazzarelli said that
now fraternities are required to submit the names
of two people who will act as sober drivers

when they register for weekend parties.

Mazzarelli said that this is separate from
new efforts to revive Live Drive. Before the
new law, fraternities simply had to check off on
a form whether they will have sober drivers or
not, and it was not enforced, he said. Things
will be different with this new law; if a frater-
nity fails to submit two names, the IFC will ﬁne
it $100.

“The ultimate goal is that people will have
several options for sober driving,” said
Mazzarelli. “[The new rule] is a good starting

point.”

 

Photo by Mark McDannald

The Oregon Delegation diligently works on their ﬂoat for the Mock Con
Parade. The parade will be Friday at 10:30 a.m.

    

PAGE 2

@112 ‘filing-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Mock Con leads the pack

Cokie Roberts, Jeff Greenfield, and Hal Bruno are
three of the most successful political analysts ABC News
has on staff. Between the three, they have been reporting on
government for countless years. They are what you would
call experts. Viewers trust them implicitly and ABC pays
them quite well because they are very—very—good at what
they do.

Given this, it seems altogether odd that on Tuesday
night’s broadcast of Nightline, Ted Koppel told Roberts,
Greenfield, and Bruno that no matter how hard they tried,
they simply couldn’t do their jobs. You see, before too long
ago Senate Majority Leader Robert Dole was the “sure
thing” candidate for the Republican nomination. Pundits,
soothsayers, and wise men all over the land were predicting
a Clinton-Dole race this fall. Roberts, Greenfield, and
Bruno agreed. Dole was the shoe-in.

Then something happened. More specifically, Ameri-
can politics happened. The American electorate is a curious
beast. Just when you think you can figure them out, they
surprise the hell out of you. Case in point: Patrick
Buchanan.

Once an off-the-wall television commentator who
seemed more interested in bashing (fill in minority group
here), Buchanan has caught on with the proverbial disaf-
fected voter. His brash style of xenophobic populism has
won him votes. More importantly, it has won him delegates
to the San Diego convention.

Our three experts did not 1016866 "this scenario. Neither
did anyone else for that matter.

What does this have to with Washington and Lee? Try
visiting the Mock Con office.

Our very own experts are also breathlessly watching
Buchanan’s meteoric rise. After all, they had seemed
convinced of a Dole victory as well. Nevertheless, the
Mock Con people are busily scrambling to factor in the
Buchanan phenomenon to their original projections.

Indeed, Mock Con officials are no longer calling this a
convention of confirmation, but a convention of actual
prediction. Bob Ross, Dave Stewart, and Courtney Tucker
are in the same boat as the rest of the nation. No one can
predict who is going to win this race. Will it be Dole?
Buchanan? Forbes? Alexander?

Media machines are engaged in a similar race as the
Mock Con machine is on the third ﬂoor of the University
Center. The prize? Successfully determining who will be
the GOP alternative to Clinton in November.

We encourage ABC, Roberts, Greenfield, and Bruno to
look to us for guidance. Mock Con is based on extensive
research and painstaking observation. They are rightfully
confident in their ability to choose correctly. Perhaps the
media should peek over our shoulders. Chances are we
could beat them at their own game.

—D.O.

Quote of the Week

“Well, I’m white, but I’m not that white.”

-74 C 0-op worker on why she would
not vote for Pat Buchanan.

@112 ‘ﬂing-mm lﬂlrt

OPINION

The Ringtum Phi, March 1, 1996

Rights fall prey to

MY VIEW
Joshua Heslinga, ’98

One of the hottest issues on today’s
political landscape concerns the role
of religion in American politics. While
many people possess a fear of religion ’s
inﬂuence on government, there can be
little denial that religious persecution
pervades today’s culture, endorsed by
forces in the media, culture, and gov-
emment.

In their January 1996 issue, GQ
magazine published an article by re-
porter Scott Raab on the Promise Keep
ers Christian men’s movement, which
aims to encourage men to renew their
dedication to God and family through
large group rallies and personal net-
works. Raab’s article called Promise
Keepers founder Bill McCartney “a
raving lunatic,” compared a Sunday
school class to a group of Islamic ter-
rorists, labeled the rallies “the time-
tested snake oil of tent revivalism,”
and went so far as to describe the wives
of attenders as “ugly and uglier.”

On December 19th, the news pro-
gram All Things Considered on tax-
payer-funded National Public Radio
featured commentator Andrei
Codrescu, who described Christian
belief in the return of Christ as “crap”
and stated: “The evaporation of 4 mil-
lion people who believe in this crap
would leave the world an instantly
better place.”

In 1995, a federal judge in Denver
ordered the graduating seniors of Salt
Lake City, Utah’s West High not to
sing the song “Friends” at their June
graduation ceremony because it in-
cludes the words “God” and “Lord.”
When the students san g anyway, school
staff reviewed videotapes of the event
to punish non—graduating choir mem-
bers who sang the song.

At Texas’s Sam Houston Elemen-
tary school, third-grader Audrey
Schwab wanted to decorate the paper
sneaker award she won for jogging
five miles. School ofﬁcials told her

   

GENERATION Lax

  
 

  

HE INN? OUT
THAT COOLIO
l$N‘T comma-

rak ANOWEK
J’ TMEE UJEEKS.

   

' \\ﬁ
1.’ H \ Q‘ \
‘ a

 

r ‘*?3’if£?;7;?Iz.~:sn

that while her classmates could put rap
lyrics and other messages on their
sneakers, the message she wanted to
use in decoration was inappropriate.
Her message? ‘-‘Jesus loves us.”

These examples illustrate just some
of the many ways in which some ele-
ments of our society exhibit a fear of
religion that borders on paranoia. It
seems today that

 

Justice Blackmun went so far as to suggest
that religious people are, because of their
faith, potentially dangerous; Justice
Kennedy referred to religion’s “coercive”
elfectson young people; andlustice Souter
argued that religious belief was essentially

irrational.
What most people don’t know is that
for 150 years, the Supreme Court had no
such problems

...1"M Ills
Bl6(.£ST FR”!

any form of withreligiousex-
speech ispermis— _____ C ‘ ______ pression.Onlyin
sible, unless it 1947’sEversonv.
happens to be re- Board of Educa-
ligious, that all It seems today that tion did the Su-
slurs on groupsrn . preme Court be-
generalaretaboo, any form ofspeech ls gin to take the
unlesstheytarget permissible unless it radiaalviewofthe
politically incor- ’ _ F i r s t
rec: religious happens to be relr- Amendment’ses-
conservatives, - tablishment
and that no secu- glous! that all slurs clauseassuperior
lar liberal views on. groups in general to the same
are extreme, arrrendment’sfree
while those on are taboo, unless  exercise clause,
the conservative - - - arrdnotuntil1962,
side of the spec- target polltlcally tn‘ inEngelv.Vitale,
trum are derided correct religious con- did the Court ban

as “wing-nuts.”
U n f o r t u -
nately, when re-
ligious people
across America
look to the judi-
cial system to
secure their
rights, they ﬁnd
an even more
hostile environ-
ment. According

servatives, and that
no secular liberal
views are extreme,
while those on the
conservative side of
the spectrum are de-
rided as “wing-nuts. ”

non-sectarian
school prayer.
Ironically, in the
1962case,theSu-
preme Court
failed to cite a
single legal pre-
cedent for its ac-
tions.

By contrast,
our Founding Fa-
thers had no such

to the Supreme
Court, it is now
unconstitutional
for schools to merely post a copy of the
Ten Commandments on the wall (Stone
v. Graham), on the grounds that it
might cause children to read them,
meditate upon them, and obey them. It
is also unconstitutional to have a mo-
mentofsilencebeforebeginningtheschool
day (Wallace v. Jaffree), because such an
action was deemed not to have a secular
purpose.

In the 1992 Lee v. Weisman decision,

problem with the
relationship be-
tween religion
and government. Our country’s founding
document states: “We hold these truths to
be self-evident, that all men are created
equal, that they are endowed by their
Creator with certain unalienable Rights,
that among these are Life, Liberty and
the pursuit of Happiness.”

In 1789, George Washington ex-
pressed the universal feeling of our
Founders that “True religion affords to
government its surest support.” The

Supreme Court has managed to dis-
card this wisdom in the past 30 years.

Yet the rash of abuses heaped upon
religious people today has caused many
to rethink this hostile position. Rep.
Henry Hyde (R-IL) and Rep. Ernest
Istook, Jr. (R-OK) are leading the
charge in Congress to pass a Religious
Freedom Amendment that aims to se-
cure for Americans the right to exer-
cise the same freedom to practice their
religion that drove the original English
settlers to come to America.

The amendment simply states, “In
order to secure the right of the people

to acknowledge and serve their God .

according to the dictates of conscience,
neither the United States nor any state
shall deny benefits to or otherwise
discriminate against any persons be-
cause of their religious belief, exercise
or expression.”

We are being told that freedom of
religion takes a back seat and must be
restricted whenever anybody com-
plains that it makes them uncomfort-
able,” Rep. Istook explains.

Rep. Hyde adds, “The Supreme
Court has treated religion as some-
thing that might be OK fer consenting
adults behind closed doors, but is prob-
ably bad for kids.”

Quite frankly, the Supreme Court
has traveled too far down a path of
intolerance to wait for it to return to its
judicial and constitutional moorings.

And because the Court can simply .

invalidate any law seeking to return
religious freedom to its rightful stat-
ure, the amendment’s advocates be-
lieve that citizens must take more seri-
ous action to correct the Court consti-
tutionally.

No child deserves to be told that
legitimate religious expression is “in—
appropriate,” and America must not
tolerate a double standard where law-
abiding religious citizens are only the
victims, not the beneﬁciaries, of free
speech. Liberty minded Americans
everywhere should support these ef-
forts to recapture America’s religious
heritage and to expand freedom na-
tionwide.

P

54

oversensitivity

)'

:

Features Editor
Photography Editor
Editorial Cartoonists

Business Manager
Assistant Business Manager.....
Advertising Manager
Advertisement Composition Ar1ist.....

Phi is otherwise independent.

current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu.edu

Cindie Young, Courtney E. Miller
Betsy Green
Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace

Robert Nelson
Doug Gertner
Jennifer Grant
Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. betters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes

The Avitable

After secretly eavesdropping on a meeting of all
the state chairs of Mock Convention ’96, I have
decided to expose my discovery to the world. These
state chairs are not working night and day to make
the correct prediction of the presidential nominee-
they’re letting the computers do it for them! Unbe-
knownst to the rest of the Washington and Lee
community (but knownst to me and a few other),
there exists a virtual intelligence computer deep
within the bowels of Tucker Hall. This computer,
among many other wonderful actions (such as mak-
ing a damn good cup of cappuccino), can accurately
predict the future!

This esteemed Neo Automatic KE Digital 4000
has revealed to its operators the following newswor-
thy items: the resignation of President Wilson and
his succession by President Elrod, the appearance of
George Clinton for last year’s Fancy Dress (and the
subsequent appearances by 40 FBI and DEA agents),
the grades of all 1900+ W&L students Fall, Winter
and Spring terms, the breakup of the cocaine ring, the
rejoining of “Magic” Earvin Johnson to whatever
sports team for which he plays and the fact that a
stupid talking pig would be in line for more Oscars
than/lpollo I 3! The only fact that the NAKED 4000
did not accurately predict was the divorce of Michael
Jackson and Lisa Marie Presley, but none of us saw

managed to get into the NAKED system and have
found out some more recent tidbits of data that will
be interesting. I now know the number of FBI and
DEA agents that will attend this year’s FD (72, but
one will sprain his ankle and have to leave early),
which ﬂoat will win the “Best in Show” award for the

(C

These state chairs are not
working night and day to
make the correct prediction
of the presidential nominee-
they’re letting the comput-
ers do it for them!

Mock Convention parade (Nevada), and who will
win the 1996 presidential election (Candace Gingrich?)
Last week, these state chairs were all contacted in the
middle of the night by persons posing as Dionne
Warwick and LaToya Jackson, who presumably came
directly from consulting the NAKED 4000, and these
persons informed each chair of the winner of his or her

whining about all of the “hard work” that he or she has
had to do for his or her state, don’t you be believin’
that! Oh, and for those six people who are going to
attempt to commit honorviolations this year: don’t do
it—you’re gonna get caught!

Well, okay, for those of you who are clamoring
fora few ﬁnal predictions by the NAKED 4000, here
you go: Japan will purchase this ﬁne university in
1997, and it will be renamed Washington and Tanaka
University, Head of University Computing Bob
Williams will die in a freakish modem accident, but
thanks to his brilliance, his brain will live on forever
in Liberty and, ﬁnally, after being trapped at school
during the Blizzard of 1998 for two days straight, 98
percent of the students and 75 percent of the faculty
will die after succumbing to their withdrawal symp-
toms and consuming a total of 17 gallons of rubbing
alcohol left in the janitors’ closets.

This has been a ﬂashing expose by The Avitable
of the NAKED truth, and now for a ﬁnal shameless
plug: tune in to WLUR 91.5 FM every Wednesday

from midnight to two a.m. for some of the best music .

this side of the sun, courtesy of myself and Zach
Hanks! I don’t know why I’m trying this, because I
already know that we get kicked off the air in two
days after we burn Reid Hall down by accident after
President Elrod suddenly goes Simpson and drives

down Washington Street in a white Bronco while the V

entireAr1 Department is ﬁred fora huge, multimillion-
dollar acid ring, and...

Executive Editors Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald M I C 0 0 0 V
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett c 0 e  0 e t 0 S
News Editor... ........ .. Christine Gamavish 0 11 r ]' n r  ]' n

Editorial Page Editor. Hillary Coombs

SP0?“ E‘“‘°‘ _ §°°" B°°k“’“1‘°' that one coming! state. In conclusion, I guesswhat I’m trying to say here
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman MY VIEW By using my more-than-adept hacking skills, I is that if you hear one of these chairs bitching and

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 1, 1996

ADVERTISEMENTS A FAG“

 
 
  

  

    

 
 
 
      
   
     
 

 
   
 

‘ - ‘RYSl.l-'R0l’LYM0‘l'H-l)OD(lE-
\
   it  éjrc/tange E
- E and L U B E E
"   E COLLEGE SQUARE f
° (Next to Kro er)
1 '5 g I
(it I! 5 QUICK
 t  t “i 1 9.9 * T
4 ’  <2 $ 5 LUBE /_
,3 INCLUDES:
5 °Auto Transmission
T Check
if E °Up to 5 Quarts 10W/30
5.1 Valvoline Oil
? °Filter Chassis Lube
E’ *most cars
"‘ 1?’! rt: '1‘ The}! a old 3
Ten E. Nelson 0 t 0 am” e .
bexington, Virginia 24450 §
5-’«l0.463.984 1 2
~ 2
w 
1 3101138!
_~  8:30AM-5:0O}'M
; swans-soxmazwm
1 .1 S
‘ . ’t§;§{}tt amt Lee  “xx . E ~ ~ ~ .- A . . A 1 . A
 ,.  . -, -Sm-1:): - H  to
VA ..2e.r1an:;i Bxsexeai (.};;a;an __ “W N ' ‘W ’V'“‘'” ’
»«r C     , . . . . , . RAVELABRUADAND 1-\-‘ORR
30; Harry; reege,s;,,g;g' : GM. is Washington and Lee University s Gay, Lesbian and I k I 325 345 h I h. b I
I ’ ‘ ' ’. ' 3 Cl! 0 - 1' 0UI' CBC lll ESICCOIIVCT
cheese shces Bisexual Qrgamzatron. We are an organization by and for all mnafﬁngnsh abfgadp Japan’ Timmy and S
 and bfxslexual undergrzcnidatiatehand lawstfuden If. I. $:ai)el:1r::z;”:1ér.e§p)log'aecrls]iplrg<)\t:ii<l:<:( ;)(<)>lrJI:l gtohozdar
V 0 S mont y meenngs an S0 0515 an ln Gram ired. For more information call
‘ 71

   

Safehouse gathering on a variable basis. For more
information, call the G&L Hotline at 462-4110, visit our WWW

homepage at http://wwzuwlu.edzx/~aecitrist/grtlhtrnl, or write: 

SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!
Student Travel Services is now hiring
campus representatives. Lowest ratea

        
       
 

G&L
Washington and Lee University

University Center

to Jamaica, Cancun, Daytona an
Kgngma City Beach. Call 1-800-648
4

To find out how to get involved with the Law School's
Committee on Gay and Lesbian Legal Issues, contact:

&~v!-.~«9:v°1:~*£"£N!~v.£-'.l:-'b¢£~

‘ -..‘ r-- »
‘l
\
 \ p ) ,

6 02. Selected Varieties 8 02. Harris Teeter C  ' = 12 oz Hams Teeter Butter Oréuit

~t Wise Potato Chips ou ream Texas Style B

      
  
     

The Committee on Gay and Lesbian Legal Issues
Washington and Lee University School of Law
Lewis Hall

tudents ceded.
Earn up to $2000+/mo. working for Cruis
Ships or Land-Tour companies + World Travel
Seasonal and Full-Time employment avail
able. For info call:
206) 971-3550 ext. C53421

eeeeeeeeoee

Alvin-Dennis, Inc.
102 W. Washington St.

_x _ iscurts

.:é': “ ‘V ‘ ‘VA? ‘


  
 
   

  
 

    
    
 
 

~            V R       V   - Tuxedos for Rent
9 02. Marie CaIIender's 9~10.5 Oz. H rris Teeter Microwave 14.5-155 Oz. Reg. orunsatted Snyder's _
Przza Hard Pretzels — Formal Accessories

- Flasks
- Ray-Bans

- Embassy Boxers

— Red Wing Boots
up — W&L Belts, Ties, Dog Collars, Straw Hats
    \  —AmeriCan Flag Ties

74?

 
  

 
 
  

 
  
  

I 4  Varieties Wolfennans 12.5-15  Teeter”[:»‘. . ; .:3.8 02. Selected ‘Varietie .
Deluxe Muffms instant Oatm Vintage Seltzer

«» .;: VISA MASTERCARD STUDENT CHARGE

463-5383
5 '{ .4’
A A 5”“ W? °3"5l¢3"”°’d  I iA\nnomt:ruq' 0 new peorrorn r:ont:em|r. '1q  oi 

oda



'I3€COlTl€ C] tPClllI€C| sluclenl PQQP €C|l3|CCllOP

.‘ A1". ..
A 7

'G€l lPC]llI€CJ l0 pP€S€lIl PPOQPCITTIS CIIICI SPOIISOP €V€IIlS.

'Di(:l< up an c1pp|i(:<]li0n lorrm and siqn up ion on inlewiew

Lu Ttresdoq. Mar>(:h  in “T9 Universilq Cartier) oi
Carol Catrlhins, oﬂice.

M l
A 32 Oz. I-'lam's Teeter Refill‘  7 

Starterlogg Anﬁmal cracké; window cleaner ‘Gel involved and m<J|<e G CJlH€P€l1(i€ oi 
Prices Effective Through March 5, 1996 .Qlm.m7 462450]

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, February 28 Through March 5, 1996 |n Our Mecklenburg County Stores‘
On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps.

tr

 

  

 
 

0
Last Week‘ iﬂhi: Ztlin -tum iﬂhi T1115 Week‘
MINi)oon’l‘n.Aca - Finished third at ODAC Indoor Championship g BASEBMJV _ rlvhursday (2/29) as Mary washlngwm 3:00 PM; ?
WINnooR'[‘iuca- Finished third at ODAC Indoor Championship Sunday VSV west Vlrglnla Tech l2)V 1:00 PM;
Mswiiuumr; - Finished second at SCAC Invitational Monday vs_ wesl Vlrglnla Tech 3:00 PM
WSWIMMING - Finished first at ODAC/ Atlantic States         MLACROSBE - Saturday vs. Virginia Wesleyan, 2:00 PM
Cl“‘ml*“°“5h‘p I WIACROSSI - Wednesday at Bridgewater, 4:00 PM
BAEEBALL- L, 4-2, at Savannah A&D; W, 6-5, vs. Maryville; MrmNms_ Thursdaylz/29) at James Madlsom 2:30 PM
L, 11-1, vs. Benedict; L,4—1, vs. Savannah A&D; W'IkNNis- Wednesday at Hollins, 3:30 PM
MiaN's LACR(;v8‘E1-0-3’/, ‘llll-1IThla‘tyvGl.li?lford; W, 11-5, at Lynchburg G0”. Thursday (3/7) at Virginia Wesleyan 12:30 PM x
PAGE 4 BASKETBALL, SWIMMING, INDOOR TRACK, BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TENNIS MARCH 1, 1996
M k ° ° '
0° 0°“ Wllllllllllg COIICIII BS SBBSOII III Stylﬂ
and sports
H t tl ' “
nosxom 0 6 Prince, Jacobs get
BY Scorr BOOKWALTER
 Mock  goes to postseason honors .
tion occurs only pace in a L
college career or most 9
..ooe.mougwou:d NCAAS for women s team
dedicate part of this col-
umn to politics.
Youcan probably guess ~ )4
xvhat I'm about to attempt. By JASON ZACHER
Ye:-i, I will try comparing Phi Staff Writer BY llA50N ZAVCHER
politics to sports. Just as Pl" 5”“ Wm“
eVachVcarididate  a CllS- The meu>s swim team l~m_
tmctwe personality» many ished second at the SCAC Invi- rt.
5P0Yl5l53m5 l13V¢ fl“ OW!“ tational last weekend, but only The women’s swimteam competed atthe ODAC/ Atlantic States
all team personality: So, on the scorecard, meet last weekend at Radford University, and won their third
‘he lollofvlng *5, 5 ll“ Of The Generals ﬁnished sec- straight title by nearly 400 points.
Pl531dellll3l°3ﬂd1d3‘°§a“d 0nd by 17.5 points, but were Coach Kiki Jacobs was awarded ODAC Coach of the Year
‘he mam ‘he?’ Wmlld hk‘_"lY beaten because Sewanee earned honors, while senior Rebekah Prince was named ODAC Co-Swim-
Plal’ ll’? ll the)’ We” 1"‘ 108 points in diving competi- mer of the Year. 1
volved in sports. ' tion, events that W&L does not Prince also had NCAA provisional qualifying times in three '
Pat Buchanan: Dallas compete in. events, and will find out Friday if she qualiﬁes.
C0Wb0Y5- Llke llle COW‘ Junior Nathan Hottle earned The Generals won 12 of 18 events, which includes all five relay
boys, l30Cl13l13l1_ 15 H°V5lt a trip to the NCAAs for two events, and they raised their season record to 8-5.
glllly and Y(V’VUV9llVll‘°-1' 13.5 events: his 1:54.51 time in the Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor Osophomorfe Megan Wiedmaier led the way with victories in the F
17“ 07 Y0“ 3 5 ,"'“~ !5 200 IM, and his 2:07.37 time in v - - - - - 10 and 200 reestyle. -
sho(V)t~from—the-hip styleis the 200 hreast, He also scored a gi£I;:d ;nge::::?sdf:ﬁ tosheggtngesvlgﬁzefinliglatlghg Sogﬁtg Invltatlonal Freshman Margaret Hoehl finished her strong season with a
similarto Cowboy bigwigs provisional qualifying time with ' y y ' P ' victory in the 500 free and two other top-three ﬁnishes.
-lcll)’ 301155 and BF‘ 1' Y a 4:09.85 in the 400 IM. Also posting victories for W&L were sophomore Bligh Wollner
Switzer. Besides, Every swimmer posted per- and 40o1M_ Also qualifying for and senior Craig sears with his with an NCAA provisional time, in the 100 breast, junior Anne Spencer in the 400 IM, and freshman or
BUCl15ll5ll’5 f3V°Tl"_8 Cf sonal—best times in every event NCAA provisional times were second place ﬁnishinthe 2001M as did the 400 free relay team of Greta Richter in the 1650 free.
8”“ “glll5 makes mm 3 1 they swam. The Generals also sophomore John Reed with his in 1:57.27. Stillman, Hottle, Sears, and junior Junior Laura Marshall joined Prince and Wiedmaier in winning
natural 30 be 8 °0Wl30}’v set six meet records. vlotoryirrthe1()()breastm59_67, The 200 free relay team of Steve Brigance. four relays, and Hoehl won three.
30b D0193 Kansas Hottle won three individual senior David Stillman with his Stillman, Sears, Hottle,andfresh- The NCAAS are March 21-23 The NCAAsforthewomen are March 14—16at Emory University
-layllawks basketbau events: the 200 IM, 200 breast, victory in the 50 free in 21.33, man Brad Wymore won its race at Emory University in Atlanta. lll Atl3I1la«
What better team for Dole V
to play for than his home-
state Jayhawks? The
Jayhawks have little team
personality and rarely win A T H L E T E S
championships, but they ,
are nevertheless ef ective,
and are always contenders (C) 
late in the season. Inter- F T H E E E K
estingly, Kansas last won
a championship in 1988, V
the same year that Dole "
last ran for the Republican
presidential nomination.
LamarAlexander: In-
dianapolis Colts. After
looking like a normal, me- \,
diocre, plaid~shiit type of _
team for most of the sea-  
son, the Colts compiled a - _
late charge,suiprisirtgtheir Rebekah Prince Nathan Hottle
playoff opponents, V Women’s Swimming Men’s Swimming
Alexander’s Hail Mary at~ .. , P.  . . _ ,  t _ t . .  V 5‘
tempt to win the RePub1i- ‘  51 * ¥~'Yl1‘?l‘l’¥‘¥s l‘.’».:a.n-?d 78‘,5.p9*l3l5*[l°”.l”3 s°°°.‘l§l'?§ac§AR . Prince was named Hottle hadaterrific daY
can nomination will likely . _ _  . _ _ _ _ _ .  ..  V, _ 3’31,¢h_V £8 Saltlrdéys V h,‘6nd¢€l1IP;W1tl151,t>9*n*S4 VY.&l~t> $9115 thfrdwﬁth ODACCo-Swimmerofthe at the SCAC Invitational,
fall short, too. 1  the  sandW9m?9-5,1”d°9l?§i'a°l?l¢3n3$ﬁ“*§l?eFl 9°93‘?! glgaslgm M531-1‘9mle a3dl3.“‘lgV§W3§¢ 35.‘ Year for the 3rd time after capturing three events to
Steve Forbes: Phoe~ "..ll’l,m9“39fﬁY§=»lF3m5 Samnlay 3331$»Ol?Ac’l3‘l9‘s?£'Cll3mPl9R . ?°1m5j?n‘§  P9333» Y95P¢P‘3V§lY*   , V _ provisionally qualifying automatically qualify for
nix Suns. The Suns havea ship;  ‘€333  l.l,l!‘9§9‘}°V¢ A ll ’ ' -Wl!ll6-A.LY1l°l1l?“1'§ fmshman  . forthe NCAAS in 3 events. the NCAAS. 7
lot of cash, butcash rarely »‘7"“3'i5W"Pl._l’A,y h95.‘.ALY‘~‘°hh"‘.'.g COHEEEE‘. ‘ '“ ‘ L . 33°‘! 5 Rlrfqlmel of me Meelmlh ll 
winschampionsliips. Like ff ';:fT,l1°=-11:y:‘.’l‘7*l‘b‘A‘1'§“*"°3 P°mm'§°.’3.  « -  °s°?l“§1e§9ha§l§ferwasll’°s§°l7¥»‘?f§l3¢m°"l; I,   . ‘ - 
Forbes, the Suns figu red to . Ql.3AC;°ha3lPlQl1$5‘iP'.3ll‘l ‘h°.‘l;?'l1.lll.ll‘l¢ ll?i20.Y°3.l'5~. 51319.53” VA’°-t-A03’? ‘ll both lite» °“°"7.l'l§ “lid ‘w°3'm‘1°nl”Sl3
be strong contenders, but 5  l°tﬁl§sh°d-a°l°$°: ah  W&.L‘°°k7 A H A  ‘ll 93¢-5"°’le 
me), have played mes, of   ,l?.oarViV:o‘l;VtV::V:tiVid,l.:%:Va nnoiiiteroondectou  ; ‘ b  thanami‘ ¢:.Wlll1~l1e M Q h ,
this season as flat as A ‘ ‘ ' e 11 S O O P S
Forbes’s tax proposal. V .... ..
As for President
Clinton: Kentucky Wild-
   record does not .
%‘i‘{:F..‘.‘i °.“§“l22%‘i."él3‘;°‘:’$         
They have won everyllllng W§t11V1§8_;$€5aII1;'.-Th! weeitsa the  run wtth 3. time of A2: 9.6,8,AyaltlVioug2i she placed h
in blowouts. The weak 1 M“ A “dim ﬁ3°e§V°“l‘b°l"“d Lyncllbﬁl M1$5Y»’3°3."°‘:~.»;.,;t W S   
Southeastern Conference A 3 A ,,
may rate a couple notches K .
abm/6L nd0nLaRoucheV evin Moore to the basketball
though?’ It seems By (Vjlllus puusmsy program izlth the hopetshoft add-
     .
presldcnlbefme Kentucky 8 A A   style made basketball all enjol;/—
hoomglf W]? f%um,1ed‘fﬁ . 15. of Vnroffg dgaye Most sports analysts would able outlet for all his players and
C n d O 1: 6 ml egm igrswclgatcllgs  Greg .. look at the final statistics for the he became a popular member of
only Bob bole if not 1leV;;ﬁVn§shedsecond': V V  Washington and Lee men’sbas- the athletic department.
W ' b f  I ’ hornorewillolspn ‘ V A _  V ,. ketball team and decide the en- His skill at recruiting and his Y
Ivgglgillglnmﬁggfﬁzﬂefjig ‘V V  Vjf§‘_:.  I : Stili;_§plethotisV.Vfyoungta§e1it‘Sliould;make* V tire season was a loss. V positive attitude will surely at-
Passes from Jacque   _. xs..tit?t...9f‘t=35«0. av‘? i59“f“5.:.°°¥¥!P?*1‘*V°-"1 ‘h5°9A¢.‘f°"Y'°.335§*9 come» :  -   But, underneath. the 3-21 fr tract new Prospects *0 ‘ht Pro-
Vaughn “mi 2000 .. . , V:Vs‘l¢;uoA Amgtuast Kegue .  , .lose~:afewVVgood;3e0ple,buthopefu§ly e’}._lbesbletoV_rVrzak rial record and a missed ODAC gram and produce a formidable
Elsswheminlhéspons 6 logofﬁﬁ. . ”M0_ne;mVVsaVtd.V§=i 2; V . . ;   Tournament appearence, the rival for ODAC teams.
world those Washin to“ V ‘ . ‘ ' V  ’V  V V Generals have had moments that The Generals saw amazing
Bullegsareback atimgain VV  V Vdoorhaclejseasonsw ' promote good memories and a things happen this year, all of *’
Be lnnm ln1997_98gthe§_ who GenetaIs.host the   V positive outlook for the future. which rekindledinterestin men’s
wVVgbekng)WnasVhe“,VaSVV- V .  V V V. V   V , -V V  . ..sVcs.nﬁ llleV.GeVnem  V Thisseasonsawthreeseniors basketball. V
ington wizards What    V V rV;VVsl?e1fVfoVr;:jte;  is comiVi;g;Va1onVg'Vwe1 give all they had to make the V Coach Moore put his team to
. . ' " of th¢VMeet_ after capturing,twpjevei_its_A.aiic§ pla g in the top five \ nthe outdoorscaso ” .  team progress. Cam Dyer ended its biggest test of the year when
quahﬁes as wlzardry for    ’ T T   . ' ~ '3“ .1  I"     A = x1 A" —=‘ 7‘ '  A ' I * ‘  . . his career with l 507 points the Generals entered theconfines .
ll“? l3Ull5l5? Glleolglle . '5 A 5 5 ‘ V A A A I ‘L I V ' " V  averaging 22 2 poihts and 9 re: of Cameron Hall to face VMI a V
Mules“ leadlllg a fast bounds a game He played matchup which hadlast occurred
break? ,C.l“l5 Webb“ get” W 9 b k b a  1  S f‘ I through sore ankles, an injured almost a half—century ago.
mlg mlured? Thf’ Mail‘  S    d  hipandseveraidoubleandtriple- The Warner Center housed
Pﬁcelmde? Washmgton S team defenses to keep the Gen- the sports expertise of Boston
24—30 recorV(VlV?b This nétme . 0 erals competitive Globe writer Bob Ryan and saw ’
change cou eoneo t e K f h b  b h 1 k , ’ ,, .
oslsllleta3ll.Vlsl;lll. 9}’ P98 H1911 C0I1tI'1 ut0I‘S 0 91“ Hg 13 Out 00 ....£:y.::.::§:.$:.:r::.:.:‘:;:::::: ::‘:...E:r.';:;2;:..s:::..3%.:;“:.:
mo of ﬁle wé‘ekl’mme§V _ _ V 1 h h d f d b February 16th. He was named NBA contest. No sports analyst
frog my mam man. DaVe.VVV:; malmalned 3“ aggle551V° 5l)’l5 3 W3)’: gave 5’ leam 3 muc ' ‘fm Q the 55350" 3“ ecame 3 first team All-QDAC afterlead- can see these results and call this
Justice, , Justice did not VVV By CHRIS PUGSLEY of play that would scare any op- neeHeVV oosVl. V f h G ull-time startfer. h M mg the league m seO,mg_ season negallve ,-
have 2; good week Vase Phi Staff writer ponent. Afullrosterwould pro- V u :Val1VtdelV>Voint ort ebVl=.Vn- S Cjurrent ClVeVs me}; heggn J(V)n Colfman slarledme sea_ with names llke Kevln
week First police found V vide the means to expand this erfa s an a tff61’65P0ll5l£ElY A“°bgra3_5»kl Il(155_Y Tulg 37 la son in a bit of a slump bVut fin- Cobbin, Brian Jamison, Chris
hiscatrparkelﬁnthe middle V game plan oveVrafullV4O minutes. 3 VrVunning zVin od ense geare TVtV)r Am er Hind e, an: reesVeV:, an lslledllle yea, suOVngV luumg ml_ Couzem Kelly DVyer and Ella
Ofthe qtrcetinadmg and TheVWash1ngton and Lee But, despite this apparent Ga -C0ll1llO aVn passlnfg. V VV 3. nnVa Low en l'O(1jll‘Vl int! c rVe- merbus llueemmmers and m_ Zavolmsky relummglollleeoun
crimetsinfested South women sbasketballteam had its handicap, the Generals defeated Vhenera s p3lntVgudar V inis e tllrnéng rosVter an h 00 to ma e spumg lus fellow teammates next year end a new reemllmg V‘
Florida neighborhood ups and downs this year. Randolph—Macon Women sCol- eVyVear 233 V e ea pr indcVareeVl t e enera samuc strongerteam wlth lVlard_u0sed eVff0l—t and out- eless eme,mgV llle Generals look
While Justice med-de- But, they V say that lege and Lynchburg, two ODAC 35515 5 all 3 ‘{VaY5 P 3Y5 _ (‘"8 “ext )’531'- V standing leadership. primed and ready for a run at the
_ _ perseverenceisavirtue,andthese tournament teams. d6f6nS_€- Senior l6ad6rVSl1lP W85 PrV0gresS_1S llle kc)’ for Coach Derek Carterendured another ODAC Tournament next year.
flymglllallle Wasini/VolVvVed .. Generals are Vmueus The Generals’ two senior co- never in shortage on this team. Terri Dadio’s team and this knee injury, but fought his way Basketball fans around eam_
lgaalnyliugsavhtgy C:V‘VfV1VlC\V’1lVlV‘:_ Large deﬁcits turned into re- captains, Sandra Holmes and If you re looking fpr a tough nucleus of talent willfsurely pro- through rehab end was ableVt0 pus should be eagerly amlelpal_ Vs
deny “gm aannouncemem ; spectable resultsandevery game Allison HuVll, provided stellar group (V) hreturningnp ayer: t e videsome excitement orthecom- eoutmue hls solld playVe0utl-lb- mg next seasou just lo see these
that his wife Halle Berry Wawchallenge gladll’ aCC°PlVed~ Play f°ljlll°ll‘lea”l_ and lgul)’ WP‘ V e"°_llf‘ 5_ as 3 We VBVVSVSV9 h“iV5‘ "l2SYe3l5- _“ _ _ uting key points and rebounds names earn their place in Gener-
was divorcing him No coach could ask for anything resenlle VeVa<V1ershVip an VsporVts- Perk 0rViViVa Vean em V 1C is e d uCtCeSShWl rVeqillVrVe p:tiprViVee throughout the sVeas0u_ uls besketbull hlslury_
And we think we have mom - mans 1p" O mes a-gresswep ay lc S‘w] re ‘(Jim lilltcir hoflears an a lmg wot e ‘C’ U e The Senlors efforls have The Ph‘ SP0“ Staff blds
. . . The en<Vl0lll1l5 568500 P0S€d led her lo 800 P01lll5 alld 500 expellellce 3“ W1 91 9 00“ enera 5 °3”"0l get all)’ lougllel been appreciated and will be re- farewell to Cam Dyer, Derek
“bad Worryfng 3l?°“lm‘d' new questions for the Generals, rebounds for her career in only leaders for the Generals. Dean than they are. membered by their teammates Canenmd Vlem Coffman andluoks >-
lermsa Wglsllallong and including the need forafull ros- three years. Shewasconsistently Was. always a force in the post The future speaks for itself in and euaellesf0lseas0nsl0eOme_ forward to the Seemln l brl ht
Mock C0“ Pl’9P3l'3l1°ll5--- ter. Withon|ynineplayers,W&L in double-figures in scoring and and Hicks came on strong at the these players. The Generals welcomed future of Generals baslgglballg

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

    

 

Mock Convention 1996  

scheduled events

First Session (March 1). Call to
Order, Presentation of Colors, Pledge of
Allegiance, National Anthem, 2:13 p.m.
Invocation, 2:35. Call for Convention,
2:40. Greetings from the University,
Lexington, the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the district, 2:45.. Credentials
Committee Report, 3:40. Election of
Permanent Chairmen, 3:45. Opening
Remarks from Administrative, Personnel,
and Political Chairmen, 3 .'50. Rules
Committee Report, 4:05. Benediction,
Adjournment, 4:10. Second Session.
Call to Order, 7:45 p.m. Invocation, 7:50.
Opening Address of former V. P. Dan
Quayle, 7:55. Platform Address of RNC
Chairman HaleyBarbour, 8:20. Platform
Committee Report, 8:45. Platform
Debate, 8:50. Benediction, Adjournment,
9:30. Third Session (March 2).
Call to Order, 9:00 a.m. Presentation of
Colors, Pledge ofAlliance, National
Anthem, Invocation, 9:10. Address of
Sen. John Warner (R-Va.), 9:20. Address
of Secretary Bill Bennett, 9:40. Keynote
Address of Speaker Newt Gingrich,
10:10. Nominations for President and
Vice President of the United States,
10:40. Adjournment, 12:00 p.m.

/ mm/2, /9.96’

'\

‘xx 159
*5

4

’‘~.e'

:5
‘
~;

1:. ‘[1 ‘ﬁr _. .. ﬁg;
‘,§_-:.::, 3 ‘. ‘I .
-. F ‘\ ‘ It  $5..‘ $11,’ - ’

Once every four years the political

pulse of our nation beats strongest not within the Beltway
but in a stretch of grass and red brick along the

Shenandoah Valley. America turns her eyes
to one Washington and Lee Univer-
Sity, and in particular to its tradition of a MOCk

COHVCHtiOH. With remarkable accuracy the stu-

dents of W&L have cast votes foretelling the results of
actual party conventions in past years, and in their judg-

ment America once again is interested. For CH6

ffCI1ZiCd W€CkCI1d students will close their
books and enter 3  Of 

activity, donning straw hats assuming the responsibil-

ity of state delegates for the Republican Convention of
1996. The hours will ﬂy until each student casts his vote

for this year’s nominees, and with the final

tally Mock Convention 1996 will draw to a close. and the
political spirit of MC ’96 seems to fade, however, the en-
ergy soon transfers into preparations for the next Mock
Convention on W&L’s campus, and we leave behind the

legacy of 0111‘ Spit

  p 1   I
L  lively  on MC Platform issues  some words from our sponsorsl
‘.’9ocouege:,:.  noteworthy odds ehdehds.    e

, 5   1 k Con speakers, and at the Mock  of previous years 

 ~ an overview of the candidates in the 1996 presidential cam-

.‘_"- an  '0'
‘,“.il('\’7?‘-73’ ‘I’ r
‘. ' ”

Speakers/History

Gingrich leads
pack of impressive
speakers for Mock
Con weekend

it.

William Bennett

ROBIN SEATON
PHI STAFF WRITER

Four top Republicans are slated to ad-
dress Washington and Lee’s 166 Republi-
can Mock Convention, which begins Fri-
day, March 1. House Speaker Newt
Gingrich, Republican National Committee
Chairman Haley Barbour, former Vice Presi-
dent Dan Quayle, and fonner Secretary of
Education William Bennett will speak to the
W&L community during the weekend of
political fervor.

In addition to these Republican notables,
Majority Whip Tom DeLay of Texas, As-
sistant Whip Bob Goodlatte of Virginia,
Virginia Governor George Allen, and Vir-
ginia Senator John Warner will speak at the
convention.

Keynote speaker Newt Gingrich was
elected Speaker of the House in January
1995. He isalso known as a leader of the
Contract With America, which established
a political agenda and legislative course for
the Republican party.

Gingrich served as House Republican
Whip from 1989 until 1994 and was named
Time magazine “Man ofthe Year” in 1995.
The House Speaker will speak Saturday
morning during Mock Con’s third session.

Haley Barbour has served as Republican
National Committee Chairman since Janu-
ary 29, 1993 and also chairs the National
Policy Forum.

Under the Reagan Administration
Barbour functioned as Deputy Assistant to
the President and Director of the White
House Office of Political Affairs. Barbour
will present the Convention’s platform ad-
dress on Friday evening.

Former Vice President Dan Quayle will
deliver the opening address at Friday
evenings second session. In addition to his
position as Vice President of the United
States under George Bush, Quayle was
elected by the state of Indiana to two terms
in the House of Representatives.

His election to the Senate in 1980 made
him the youngest senator ever elected from
that state. Quayle served on the Senate
Armed Services Committee, the labor and
Human Resources Committee, and the Bud-
get Committee during his legislative stint.
He currently serves as chairman of the
Hudson Institute’s Competitiveness Cen-
ter, founded in 1993 to address global
competition’s challenges.

Speaking Saturday morning will be Wil-
liam Bennett, best known as the Secretary of
Education under Ronald Reagan. Bennett
assumed the role of chairman of the Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities in
1981, appointed by Reagan, and in 1989 he
was appointed director of the Office of
National Drug Control Policy by then—Presi—
dent George Bush.

Despite his departure from government,
Bennett remains active in the national po-
litical realm; he is currently co-director of
the Empower America organization, as well
as a senior editor ofNational Review maga-
zine and a Cultural Policy Studies distin-
guished fellow at the Heritage Foundation.
Bennett is also author of The Moral Com-
pass and The Book of Virtues, two recent
New York Times best-sellers.

Mock Con:
predicting
correctly

since 1908

CELESTE RASMUSSEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

No one would ever guess that in the fervor of primaries, political debates and campaign
appearances that are the prelude to our nation’s 1996 presidential election that all eyes
would turn to the small town of Lexington, Virginia this weekend. The reason that they
are here, however, is that the events in this small town may predict a presidential nominee,
indeed our nation’s next president.

The Washington and Lee Mock Convention has been a university tradition since 1908.
Inspired by the visit of William Jennings Bryan to the campus, a group of students decided
to hold a mock presidential convention patterned after the Democratic Convention that
would be held that summer in Denver.

This convention was a far cry from the conventions of today, however, but several
convention floor fights and small brawls later, W&L students picked their first successful
nominee—and a tradition was born.

To be sure, Washington and Lee’s Mock Conventions have been some of the most
successful in history. With a 15 out of 20 accuracy rate and only one incorrect nomination
since 1948, Newsweek has called us “the most realistic” of such gatherings.

The success rate of Mock Con stems from the fact that this is endeavor is not a measure
ofstudent opinion. Months before the actual convention State Chairs, Steering Committee
members, and hundreds of student delegates are making phone calls, following newspa-
pers, and consulting political experts to figure out the question that is foremost in
everyones mind, “Who will win the out—of—office nomination.”

Mock Con has certainly not been immune from the random turn of events that surround
all political guesswork. In 1936 a tie in the nominating process for candidate Arthur
Vandenburg was decided when a missing Pennsylvania delegate was brought in to vote
from the tennis courts.

In 1952, the correct nominee, General Dwight D. Eisenhower, was chosen only after
a last minute switch by the California Delegation which was siding with then California
Governor Earl Warren. Tragedy struck in 1956 when former Vice President and guest of
honor Alben Barkley collapsed from a heart attack and was pronounced dead after
delivering his speech.

In true W&L style, however, the seriousness of this weekend has often been
complimented by much festivity. In 1972 Former President Jimmy Carter’s press
secretary missed Carter's speech because he was out drinking and playing pinball with
students. Students have their fun as well, with numerous delegation parties held to
celebrate their hard work.

Perhaps it is this W&L spirit that brings the life and dedication to this endeavor. When
former housing secretary Jack Kemp visited the campus for the Mock Con kick off
weekend last spring the enthusiasm of the students “surpassed [his] expectations.”

Expectations ofthis year;s convention have certainly helped foster student excitement
with convention appearances by Newt Gingrich, Dan Quale, and Bill Bennett being added
to a long list of famous guests which include Richard Nixon, Harry Truman, and Tip
O’Neill.

Indeed with a weekend of parades, speeches, and convention ﬂoor excitement ahead
ofthem, the members ofthe Washington and Lee certainly have much to look forward to.
The rest ofthe country does as well, for the fate of our nation might be predicted here in
Lexington.

From Phi Archives. . .
Barkleys death turns Americas eyes on W&L

“I would tathet he a servant in the of the events surrounding Barkley’s ad-

house ofthe Lord than sit in the seats of dT°55 for f1 °‘{mP”5 radio 5h9W- He
the mighty}, grabbed his microphone after Barkley

After thundering those words at
Washington and Lee‘s I956 Mock Con-
vention, former US. vice president and
Mock Convention key—noter Alben
Barkley collapsed. the victim of a sud-
den heart attack.

Barkley, a former US. Senator and
Representative from Kentucky, served
asvice president under Harry S.Truman.
He was one ofthe few remaining politi-
cal figures ofthe Roosevelt era. One of
the most popular and influential Demo-
cratsofhis time, the 78 year-old Barkley
was known as the “old ﬁre—horse.”

Minutes later Barkley’s death would
thrust W&L into the national political
spotlight more than ever before, with his
final words, abiblical quotation, ringing
in its ears.

W&L Journalism Prof. John K
Jennings, who was a 22-year-old senior
at the time, taped the only commentary

collapsed and , with the sounds ofconfu—
sion and grief in the background, de-
scribed the stunned audience and at-
tempts to revive Barkley. His work was
broadcast by the Columbia Broadcast-
ing System throughout the evening.

The convention had been postponed
indefinitely, but latera faculty executive
committee and a student steering com-
mittee decided the convention would
resume one week after Barkley’s death.

In his re—opening address Dr. Gaines
said ofBarkley, “He came to us at a great
sacrifice. He had twenty-five invitations
to speak in Virginia in April, but he came
to Washington and Lee because of his
intense admiration fro the authenticity
of the Mock Convention... I know you
will measure up to the obligation upon
you, for the eyes of the nation are fo-
cused on the convention and the univer-
sity community.”

Executive Board

Ross: Mock Con’s political powerhouse

DAN ODENWALD
PHI EXECUTIVE EDITOR

Landing an interview with Mock Convention Political
Chairman Bob Ross is like fighting foradryer in the laundry
room of Graham-Lees on a Friday afternoon. Damn near
impossible. ,

Picture it: Monday afternoon (96 hours before the con-
vention) in the Mock Con ofﬁce on the third ﬂoor of the
University Center. Scores of C-School-types swarm about
—-- conversing on the phone, hammering away at comput-
ers, and huddling in intense debriefing sessions. There he
is. Feet perched up on the desk, he laughs loudly as the
phone hangs precariously between his ear and shoulder.
After a few minutes, Ross jumps up and strides over to
Platform Director Andrew Olmem’s corner where the two
begin speaking in GOPese. I stumble over, hoping only to
steal 30 seconds of his time.

"Excuse me Bob. could the Phi possibly get an interview
sometime today.” I inquire. “Perhaps 7 o’clock?”

“Let’s try 10.” Ross decides. "Yes, that will work.”

And it’s decided. Ross is known for his take-charge
style. Around the office, he’s often considered the loudest
and most outspoken ofthe three tri-chairmen. ln conjunc-
tion with Administrative Chairman David Stewart, and
Personnel Chairman Courtney Tucker, the three have been
leading Mock Convention for the last two years.

“I may be the loudest,” admits Ross. “But we comple-
ment each other and have grown together. Dave, Courtney,
and l —— all opinionated individuals -— balance each other
out.”

Ross is the self-proclaimed crazy-idea man. it was he
who wanted to see the Mock Con tradition of fireworks
continued, and it was he who lobbied for the fly—by of Navy
airplanes during Friday morning’s parade. Indeed, Ross is
illuminated with pre-Convention excitement. What he
wants more than anything is for that energy to catch. Ross
wants the campus to share in his Mock Con fever.

From the very beginning of his undergraduate career,
Ross has been a political horse. Active in the College
Republicans, Ross met Ted Elliot, a Mock Convention
trustee known for his hard edge and seriousness with which
he approached the event. Elliot answered questions Ross
had about Mock Con, eventually enticing him to apply.

The trustees had a difficult task, explains Ross. They
had to pick worthy successors who would work well to-
gether and pull off another successful Mock Con. “The tri-
chairmen have gelled together and developed nicely,” says
Ross.

Halfway through our interview, Media ChairJeffZeiger
enters the room. He motions to Ross who pauses the
questioning with a slight raising of his hand. Zeiger
requests the fax number of a Gingrich aide. Ross supplies
the information quickly, turns to me, and asks, “Where were
we?”

Ross’s days are filled with such Mock Con demands. If
it’s not fax numbers, it’s talking with a pollster, meeting
with a regional chairman, or researching on the lntemet. He
seems to be in a constant state of motion. Panic, he
concedes.

“This past month has been ridiculous,” laments

Gaursrmrron Lax

Ross. “I come into the office
every morning yelling.”

His most recent crisis? Pat
Buchanan. The renegade tele-
vision commentatorhascaused
quite a few headaches for Ross.
Dole is no longer the heir ap-
parent, causing some Mock Con
officials to label this a “con-
vention ofprediction instead of
confirmation.” Ross believes
the recent string of Buchanan
victories will make this the
strangest primary season in the
last 40 years.

“lt’s upinthe air,”says Ross.
However, Ross isn’t frightened
by the uncertainty. lndeed, he
believes that Mock Con’s
beauty lay in its opportunity to
predict.

“Mock Con can alter the na-
tional scene,” says Ross. it’s a
window into March. The coun-
try canlookto us because ofour
detailed and laborious research,
says Ross.

The path tothe March 1 and
2 extravaganza hasn’t always
been easy. Ross admits being
upset and disappointed withthe
negative reaction to the Spring
Kick-Off last year. Students
criticized the decision by Con-
tact and Mock Con to spend
$30,000 to bring Jack Kemp to
campus. Furthermore. some
criticized his speech as ram-
bling and opaque. Ross be-
lieves the nay-sayers failed to
see the big picture.

“Kempis alloverthe place,”
says Ross. “He’s the adviser to
Mock Con who single-handedly
got us Newt Gingrich.”

Ross also enjoys to highlight the Mock Con homepage
which has received national praise. lt’s a brand new
component of W&L’s Mock Convention that has never
been done before. Ross calls the accomplishment “the first
thing we did differently” from other Mock Cons.

He also points to the research done over the lntemet.
Ross praises the time and cost saving methods of the
lnforrnation Superhighway by which large amounts of
political legwork was done.

Mock Con has marked many personal victories for Ross
as well as the highly-touted public ones. Ross believes he’s
become more independent and has let go of his need to
micro-manage. He’s learned the beneﬁts of good organiza-
tional skills and how to write a decent letter.

Ross has personally befriended Lance Tarranoe, the
GOP pollster and Mock Con advisor. Ultimately, Ross
hopes to use his Mock Con experience to aid him in law
school back in his home state of Oklahoma. Or maybe he’ll
make use of all those contacts he’s made in Washington to

ﬁe MOCK CONVENNON 19% ak

No -, THEV
gor THEN
FLASKS

ARE THEY

wmmle To
MEET THE

SPEAKERS ?

1 4///////I////////”////I' .:

Bob Ross, Political C airman  Curtey Tucker, Person-
nel Chairmen, take a break from Mock Con activities.

win a job on the Hill.

Ross isn’t sure where exactly the future will take him,
but Mock Con has taught him to be aggressive and to go
after what he wants — a skill that will surely benefit him
in whatever he chooses to do after graduation. .

Ross has much to be proud of as the 1996 Mock
Convention approaches. The list of speakers is impres-
sive, the homepage will undoubtedly become an endur-
ing feature of Mock Con, and he has grown personally as
a result of his experience.

“Above all, I want Mock Con to to be something that
Washington and Lee students will remember forever,”
says Ross.

Upon the completion of the interview, Ross heads
back to his ofﬁce, probably to make good use of the few
hours remaining in the day. He has already scheduled a
9 a.m. appointment with Olmem to begin the daily round
of calls to pollsters.

As the elephant race marches on, Ross continues to
keep his ear to the ground — confident in the fact that he
can predict who will win.

' LONFISCATEV.

A?newspa_" P6!‘ or aﬂibf

favorite-’parties. —- .

ALEX CHRISTENSON
PHI STAFF WRITER

These are brief profiles of the men who are vying for the Republican presidential
nomination. They are listed in order of thenumber of delegates they have been allotted thus
far in the race, and then by the number of votes they have attracted. Delegate counts are
taken from CNN estimates. 1,990 delegates will be selected, and 996 are needed to
nominate. There are 3 uncommitted delegates and 5 are committed to Sen. Phil Gramm of
Texas, who has left the race.

Magazine publisher Steve Forbes of New Jersey

Malcolm Stevenson “Steve”
Forbes, Jr., was born in Morristown,
New Jersey in 1947. Forbes was presi-
dent ofthe Young Republicans in high
school and graduated from Princeton
with a degree in American History. He
founded a business magazine called
Business Today, which continues to
be published by Princeton undergradu-
ates.

During the Vietnam War, Forbes
joined the National Guard.

Forbes works at Forbes magazine.
He was a columnist until 1990, when
he became editor-in-chief upon his
father’s death. He also took over as
president and CEO of Forbes, Inc.
Forbes has also served as the head of
Radio Free Europe and Radio Libeny
during the Reagan and Bush adminis-

trations, and as chairman of the Board of Directors of Empower America, a conservative
think tank founded by Bill Bennett, Jack Kemp, and Jeanne Kirkpatrick.

Forbes has been married for 24 years to his wife Sabina (long i) Beekman Forbes, and
has ﬁve daughters, Sabina, Roberta, Catherine, Moira, and Elizabeth, who range in age
from 22 to eight.

Forbes won the Delaware and Arizona primaries, both of which award all theirdclegates
to the winner. Forbes has 60 pledged delegates to the Republican Convention.

Since he is paying for his own campaign with his personal fortune, while still accepting
outside contributions, Forbes is not subject to campaign spending limits and will not have
to quit the race for lack of funds. He has pledged to stay in the race until the end, and his
recent momentum in Delaware and Arizona may increase his chances in upcoming
primaries. Forbes has recently toned down what was perceived as a negative campaign, and
is emphasizing his ﬁat-tax message of “hope, growth and opportunity.”

Commentator Pat Buchanan of Virginia

Patrick Joseph Buchanan was bom
in 1938 in Washington, D.C.
Buchanan graduated from
Georgetown University with a degree
in English and Philosophy. He re-
ceived his master’s degree in Joumal-
ism from Columbia University.
During the Vietnam War,
Buchanan was 4-F with a bad knee.
He is now an avid runner.
From 1966-74, Buchanan served
as Richard Nixon’s assistant. In 1974,
he served as Gerald Ford’s assistant.
From 1985-87, Buchanan was Ronald
Reagan’s White House Communica-
tions Director. Buchanan wrote a na-
tionally syndicated column, appeared
as co-host of CNN’s Crossﬁre, and
hosted a nationally syndicated radio
show. In 1992, Buchanan was the only GOP primary opponent of incumbent President
George Bush.

Buchanan has been married to Shelley Ann Scamey Buchanan for 25 years. Shelley
Buchanan was also an aide to Richard Nixon.

Buchanan won contests in Alaska, Louisiana and New Hampshire. Buchanan has 37
pledged delegates to the Republican Convention.

Buchanan has sounded non-traditional themes such as fencing the border, imposing
trade sanctions and abandoning international trade treaties, and using the federal govern-
ment to attempt to create more jobs. Other candidates have denounced him as extreme, but
Buchanan’s supporters seem to be oblivious to criticism of him. Buchanan’s strategy
seems to be a “plug-away” strategy.

He is adequately funded and has momentum heading into thenext primaries. No
Republican has ever won the White House without first winning in New Hampshire since
that primary started in 1952, but then again, no Democrat had done it either until Bill
Clinton in 1992.

‘W;4P7¢5P&770.45
Si .5.. mza§..é
7wao¢dwze cued Séadee

I? S. zcurdadﬁé St.
463-2742

Candidates

Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana

Richard Lugar was born in In-
dianapolis, Indiana, in 1932. Lugar
received his B.A. from Denison Uni-
versity and received his master’s
from Oxford in the Rhodes Scholar
program.

Lugar served in the U.S. Navy
from 1957-60, as an executive at
Agriculture Industries from 1960-

' 64,wasanlndianapolisschoolcom-
missioner from 1964-67, and as
mayor of Indianapolis from 1968-
75.

He has been a senatorsince 1975,
serving as head of the Intelligence
and Agriculture Committees.

Lugar is married to Charlene
Smeltzer Lu gar.

They have four sons, Mark, 36,

Robert, 34, John, 31, and Davis, 30, and seven grandchildren.

Lugar has won no primaries or caucuses, and has no pledged delegates.

However, he seems determined to push on. Lugar often addresses overlooked national
security issues and advocates abolishing the income tax and replacing it with a national
sales tax. So far, he has not attracted much support.

Sen. Bob Dole of Kansas

Robert Joseph Dole was born
in Russell, Kansas, in 1923. Dole
attended the University of Kansas
from 1941 to 1943. Dole joined
the Army during WWII at the age
of 19. He was a second lieutenant
in the 10th Mountain Division
when he was wounded attempting
to rescue his wounded radioman.

Dole’s right shoulderwas shat-
tered. During rehabilitation, he
learned to write with his left hand.
Dole received two Purple Hearts
and a Bronze Star with Oakleaf
Cluster for his acts of heroism.
After the war and extensive reha-
bilitation, Dole earned his law de-
gree from Washburn University in
Topeka. Kansas.

Dole served as a Kansas state
legislator, county attorney, and congressman. In 1968, Dole was elected to the Senate.
He served as chairman of the Republican National Committee in 1971 and as Gerald
Ford’s vice-presidential running mate in 1976. Dole was elected Senate Majority
Leader in 1984, and served as Minority Leader until the Republicans recaptured the
Senate in 1994. Dole also ran for president in 1980 and 1988.

Dole was married to Phyllis Holden in 1948. They had one daughter, Robin, 41.
They divorced in 1972. Dole has been married to Elizabeth Hanford Dole for 20 years.
Elizabeth Dole served as Transportation Secretary under Reagan and as Labor Secretary
under Bush, and is now the president of the American Red Cross.

Dole has won Iowa, North Dakota and South Dakota. He has 35 pledged delegates
to the Republican Convention.

Dole seems still to be running as the front-runner, though he has no momentum
and has faltered dramatically thus far. Dole seems to have abandoned his sunny attitude
and has called Pat Buchanan “extreme” and accused Steve Forbes of “trying to buy the
election.” He is counting on a Southern ﬁrewall strategy and the endorsements of most
of the key Republican ofﬁceholders in the country.

l/llfllllllllllﬂlll .

Fmr Gov Lmar Alexander of Tennessee

Lam ar A nd rew
Alexander was born in 1940
in Nashville, Tennessee.
Alexander graduated from
Vanderbilt University and
received his law degree from
New York University.
During the Vietnam
War, Alexander received
student deferments while he
attended law school.
Lamar Alexander was
governor of Tennessee
1979-87. He served as chair-
man of the National Gover-
nors Association. He and
his wife co-founded Corpo-
rate Child Care Management
Services. Alexander then
1 sewed as president of the
University of Tennessee. He served as Education Secretary under Bush. Alexander has
also served as a co-director of the conservative think tank Empower America, and is now
counsel for the law firm of Baker, Donelson, Beannan & Caldwell.
Alexander has been married to Leslee “Honey” Buhler Alexander for ? years.
Honey Alexander served as an assistant to Texas Sen. John Tower and is currently vice-
chair of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. They have four
children, Andrew, 26, Leslee, 23, Kathryn, 21, and William, 16.
Alexander has won no primaries or caucuses, but has amassed 10 Republican
Convention delegates. ,
Alexander is attempting to present himself as the sensible, young, thoughtful
alternative to both Buchanan’s extremism and Bob Dole’s stasis. He has failed to win the
one crucial contest that might ignite his campaign, but is hoping to surge in the South.

an - idales

Page 5

Former Amb. Alan Keyes of Maryland

Alan Keyes was born
in 1950 in New York
City. Keyes attended
Comell University and
received his Ph.D. in
Government from
Harvard University.
During the Vietnam
War, Keyes was vehe-
mently pro-war, yet
skipped military service
on a deferment.
Alan Keyes served as
ambassador to the U.N.
Economic and Social
Council and Assistant
Secretary of State for In-
ternational Organiza-
tions under Reagan. He
was the interim president
ofAlabama A&M University. He was twice nominated for the US. Senate in Maryland,
wrote a nationally syndicated column and hosted his own nationally syndicated radio talk
show.
Keyes has been married to Jocelyn Marcel Keyes for 15 years. They have three
children, Francis, 12, Maya, nine, and Andrew, six.
Keyes has won no primaries or caucuses, and has no pledged delegates.
Keyes is running to be heard more than running for president. Despite his poor
showings, Keyes continues to try to bring “moral issues” such as abortion and school
prayer to the fore. A fiery orator, Keyes does not seem bothered by his lack of support.

r‘

PRlNCIPL!:S 0./ii S()l."2\'l) RI-‘.TlRl€.\lIZ.\"l'

[NV

Fireworks

and music a
la Mock Con

Following the close of Friday
night’s second session, Mock
Convention invites the Washing-
ton and Lee community to enjoy

COULD LIVE LONGER.
INVEST RBGULARLY SO YOU
CAN AFFORD T0.

EXERCISE REGULARLY AND YOU

a fireworks display. Simply look
to the night skies for a dazzling
presentation of fun with explo-
srves.

As if the fireworks were not

 399) ram: lv.w\A<xa amid-.v.t:.-m1CJ:._w ﬁn’-z.~mx.‘ }.,...'v.- Faun‘.  I}./«Aw.x. .\‘w Xvi. NT

At1t.‘(‘l\.iU)> am: living longer than ever. So its quite
possible you'll spend 20 or 30 _\’nars or more in

dc-rrlly wealthy. vlsanccs are you'll m>t‘»rl more lltzux
your pension and -Social Security to support the kind
nl lilcsrx-lo_voi1'll want.

I low turn you help (*t).\ttt‘£‘ that ymxill be in goocl
lixmncial :<lra;x*’.’ Sign up lor 'l‘l:\:\-Cl{l".l" SR3» 

l}ill|)l1 .Il\li l'P,V.(-‘,14f(‘l).
SKA: an easy. No pain, no sweat.

'|'lxn> lxtsr ’s\'.'\‘\' to build sumigth ~ pl*iysiml or lisml
» is to start at it lcvcl that's t‘0:nl0r't.\l>lc and add to
A OHII I-l.'E(iln‘~‘” Rb v\/(NJ S0 i-‘long.
With Tl:\:\-Cl{l’.l“ .\'R.‘\§_. you (0ll\¢l!lEI|lly cun-
trilmtc through Uvcmr employer‘: p'a_\‘l‘oll syslcrn. You

-
I L

' Ensuring the future
for those who shape it.”

u.-..s I'» .-...

l’\'llt\.‘lttL‘!Il. Can you .'|l’lot'<l Sr? lil\ll‘.‘4§‘§‘0\l‘f‘§‘ intlepvstu

lJX~(l\‘lt?l‘T(?(l nnnxxiriét .1\(1ll.'\l)l£ onlx to people in t‘tl\J'

.. an .~\r.aiv4n -I .\vn~:r~, Ia.
Atyl .~x;nm.~., . .|l ltluntu" ‘I733 (U: '55‘!
..; IA \.t‘s(..l ml. .1... .« t»...um,m_.n ‘sonnet

can start with at modest amount and xnt'r<>.'t.w_\'our
L'ontribution as _\-'our salary pmtx.

The impmunt thing is to start now. l,)el;I_ving lor
even ;« _vc.ur or two can have .1 big impact on (lu-
amounr ntincoxttc you'll lmvc ~.\-hen you retire.

'I'lAA~CREF:
Your ﬁscal ﬁtness program.

'l‘lAA~CR1il: l> the rxutionix largest retirement
>_v,'stmn. mamagim_; over’ $1.50 billion in assets lor more
than lf million p-mplt». We tiller .1 wirlr range of
SRA allxxution clmittvs. longvtrrm in\-‘esrim-.'nI ('.\pt:r‘~
list‘, and r'enmr'k.cl2l_v lmv (“<p(‘n'<4’$.

Call l 800 842-2776 lbran SKA limiollrm-nl
Kit or not inrnr.1rtiv.- SKA linrolltrierll Sulitwarv.
Or visit us on the lltterrwl at goplwr://tin-crel'.org,
or bttp:/lwww.tia|a-erulluqg.

..-t :t.... mu, «t_>»--u.vI_»-
: r... ﬂ_,!IUl;I¢\:IqIl
 ..i.-.~.. ...t.~.v:»zz:i .... =..»...~.

.u,-w.- n;./. : 

enough, Mock Con also invites
you to enjoy the sounds of the
Nathan Shephard Band and the
Screamin’ Cheetah Wheelies in
the Student Activities Pavilion.
Doors open at 8:30 p.m. and
students will be admitted free
upon presentation of their con-
vention admission passes. With-
out the pass, a ticket will cost $5.
General admission is $8. A beer
garden will be available for those
of legal drinking age. Enjoy!

..-e.. I

Debates

Page 6

Pound One:

Keith
Benedict

Pro

“If the
promised
benefits were
recieved, they
would

still amount
to a low

one percent
or less real
return on the

taxes paid.”

In a recent poll, more young Americans said they be-
lieved in UFO’s than said they believed they will recieve
their Social Security beneﬁts. The government says that the
Social Security Trust Fund will be broke in 2030. Some
would say that leaves plenty of time to fix the problem.
However, that attitude is indicative of the arrogance with
which the Washington politicians have approached this
problem.

The federal government has misused the Social Security
Trust Fund to hide the extent of the budget deﬁcits it has
approved year after year. When cash and other securities are
taken out of the Trust Fund, the government has been
putting in Treasury Bonds. The problem is going to occur
when those obligations become due.

The government really has only three options to con-
tinue paying out beneﬁts: 1) run larger deﬁcits, 2) increase
taxes, or 3) cutting spending in other areas. The problem is
not only in the way the system has been managed, but in the
financial policy behind the system’s inception.

Even if a good solution is found to meeting the needs of
the current Social Security in the future, the system is a raw
deal for young workers. If the promised beneﬁts were
received, they would still amount to a low one percent or
less real return on the taxes paid.

Quite simply, the present social security is a pyramid
scheme and a bad joke on the younger generations. If the
people who thought of the social security system were
private individuals instead of government ofﬁcials, they
would go to jail.

The answer to the problem is privatization. A “private”
social security system would still have government regula-
tion establishing required percentages of government secu- _,
rities and private securities. Each person would have an *5‘
account similar to the current individual retirement account
(IRA) used in the private sector.

Similar to a minimum wage, workers would have to
meet a certain level of expected annual retirement beneﬁts
under strict controls with low risk securities. Once above
that minimum, workers could invest in securities likely to
return a higher rate. Workers would pay the social security
tax into these personal accounts, which truly would be the
personal property of the individual.

This means the individual worker would have incentive
to choose wisely a fund manager and an acceptable level of
risk. Government requirements would give assurance that

minimal levels of ﬁnancial security are present in the
managed funds. A safety net would still need to be in place
to provide beneﬁts for those who are disabled or otherwise
unable to meet the minimum, but the ﬁnancial resources
necessary to have this net in place would be tremendously
smaller.

A similar system is in place in Chile. There, the govem-
ment has set up certiﬁcation qualiﬁcations for fund manag-
ers. Workers may choose funds based on performance, and
they cand decide how much resk they are willing to under-
take. The government requirements that workers pay in 10
percent of their earnings to the system.

The privatization became necessary in Chile in 1981.
Chile has had a social security system since 1926, longer
than the United States. Chile began having the same diff-
culties the U.S. is now having in meeting future obligations,
and Chile determined privatization was the best way to
solve the problem.

Social Security is a well intended program. The realities
of life, however, have doomed such a system to failure from
the inception. If we are interested in a society that will make
real provision for the retirement of its citizens, we need to
look at privatization now. With every passing day, this
society is making the transition to reality in retirement
beneﬁts more onerous. Further delay means further bor-
rowing on the collateral of our progeny.

(The general source for this article was the Testimony of
Michael Tanner, Cato Institute, before the Senate Finance
Subcommittee of Social Security and Family Policy, pub-
lished August 2, 1995 in the  ).

Marcus
Rayner
and
Tiffany
Gagliardi

“Social security

provides the

soul sourc e

of retirement

income for

almost

C.-“axe Qiwg c7uw\ (DRE.

rand. le aper
G ‘ O P

1/5 of
a

the

population.”

The Republican Party, believing that we must take action
to thwart the coming crisis over Social Security, resolves that
Social Security be immediately privatized.

’ an.’

Delgate from the 1992 Mock Convention attending sessions.

Social security reform is a topic that will not disappear
from American politics anytime soon, but it is necessary
that any change be implemented thoughtfully and deliber-
ately. Any effort to ﬁnd a “quick-ﬁx” will most likely result
in a failure of the program to continue to provide current
levels of beneﬁts to millions of tax-paying Americans.

Social security today provides the sole source of retire-
ment income for almost one-ﬁfth of the American popula-
tion. The Social Security Administration affects over 70%
of the elderly in the nation, and comprises nearly one-fifth
of the United States’ budget. Despite its ﬂaws, the program
has provided a major source of retirement income in the
United States for over 60 years. A program of this magni-
tude, affecting such a large number of people, indeed needs
careful examination before any major changes can be
implemented. While it is clear that reforms are necessary in
the future, alterations should only be made to the system
after careful deliberation. The 1996 Mock Republican
Platform offers a responsible basis from which to begin
reforms of the current social security system.

Those with the crisis mentality, who advocate immedi-
ate and fundamental reform, overlook the disastrous possi-
bilities should these changes fail. The Social Security
Rescue Act of 1983 is an example of such shon-sighted
refonn. By passing social security costs on to younger
generations, the reformers guaranteed the program ’s failure
as the baby-boom generation reached retirement age. In a
similar way, a quick move to a fully privatized system today
could leave lower-income Americans with inadequate fund-
ing. ln these two cases, social security’s two original goals
(maintaining progressivity and providing for individual
equity), are sacriﬁced for more immediate solutions. With
so many people reliant on social security for their future, are
the risks worth a fast solution? Americans’ defense of the
current system indicates their continuing desire for these
two goals to be met, and it is the obligation of the govem-
ment to ensure that they are.

Americans must look upon these next 20 to 40 years as
a critical turning point in which thoughtful and responsible
ways to maintain the current quality of beneﬁts should be
examined. The social security system will begin running a
deﬁcit in the year 2013, but it is important to note that the
trust fund is expected to cover this debt well into the 20305.
Reform is necessary, but there is time to make it work.
While some may argue that this is a zero-sum game with one
generation beneﬁting at another’s expense, this need not be
the case. It is, in fact, an opportunity to extend the American
dream to our children and our children’s children.

This is a time in history when America needs to make
some difﬁcult decisions. The balanced budget, the size of
government, and social security are three dramatic ex-
amples. Reforms can be quick and easy or responsible and
sometimes painful. It is only through thoughtful analysis
and long-terrn thinking that Americans can create a system
that will maintain the current level of beneﬁts while stand-
ing the test of time.

Debates

Pound Two:

There is little doubt that the current welfare system has
Jesse gone from a well-meaning program designed to sustain
Taylor people who are unable to work and provide for their
d children to a bureaucratic monster in which some $32.4

an billion is spent each year to provide for a system which
Amy almost encourages the problems it is supposed to resolve.
Gorham Considering the slowing economy and the lack of job

Con

“Our welfare
system must
encourage
work by giving
the unemployed
the necessary
education and
training they
so desperately
need to hold

only a job.”

security present today, reform is, indeed, a good idea.
During this time of reelection coupled with the concern for
balancing our federal budget, the welfare program has
become a favorite target for cuts. Though balancing the
federal budget is and should be on the tope of the national
agenda regardless of one’s political party, a balanced bud-
get should not take priority over the welfare of our people.

The first step for any welfare reform program must be
actually putting welfare recipients to work. Our welfare
system must encourage work by giving the unemployed the
necessary education and training they so desperately need
to hold a job. Said Mary Jo Bane, Assistant Secretary for
Children and Families, welfare refonn must give people
back the dignity and control that comes from work and
independence. The Family Support Act passed in 1988 set
up a program called JOBS (Job Opportunities and Basic
Skills). As of today, however, only 23 percent of welfare
recipients without a child under age three are actually
participating in this program. This ﬁgure is alarmingly low
and should serve as a wake-up call for how desperate our
current welfare system is in need of improvement. One
approach to training welfare recipients is through the use of
positive and negative incentive’programs. We must gi

ve recipients a time limit from which to ﬁnd jobs after
which their welfare support would be diminished or termi-
nated based upon the effort extended by the recipient and
the availability of jobs in the recipient’s area. An effective
system of welfare refonn must encourage personal respon-
sibility - a characteristic which our current system appears
to ignore altogether.

Though the concept of welfare through vocational train-
ing is difficult to dispute, it does have some inherent flaws.
First, because our economy is in a stage of slow growth,
there are simply not enough jobs for many educated Ameri-
cans, not to mention welfare recipients with minimal voca-
tional skills. If the private sector cannot provide jobs for
such individuals, then the public sector must pick up the
slack in order to see an effective welfare reform. Secondly,
once welfare recipients, an overwhelming majority ofwhich-
are single mothers, actually do gain employment, their
entry-level positions will still leave them short of the
fonnidable expenses associated with medical and child
care. In this case, it would be foolish to abolish welfare
altogether, as some very conservative thinkers advocate,
because we would actually be punishing recipients for
going out and ﬁnding work. A moderate welfare refomi
would provide for vocational education programs as well as
to subsidize health and child care costs, beneﬁts that are not
normally associated with entry-level positions. Abolishing
welfare altogether would continue to provoke poverty-
stricken Americans to resort to crime and the black market,
while moderate reforms would give lower class Americans
a work ethic in which personal responsibility is rewarded.

Four years ago, the American people voted to give a
Democrat the chance to make signiﬁcant inroads in the ever
eroding welfare system; he has failed. It is time to replace
Bill Clinton a Republican candidate who speaks for the
millions of Americans who want to see a welfare system
which ethic and personal responsibility in which children of
poverty-stricken families are not punished for the condi-
tions under which they were born and leaves their parent(s)
little incentive to work their way out of it.

DANCE CLASS

for FD

The Republican Party, believing that welfare should be a
transitional rather than a subsistence program, resolves that
welfare benefits be terminated after one year.

Megan
Fernstrum

F0

“The number of

welfare

recipients is

growing daily

with no

end in

sight, and

the majority

of the

children of

welfare

recipients

Welfare is the general term used to label the overall
package of government need-based beneﬁt programs. These
programs are designed to assist the section of the American
population which for reasons such as disability, unemploy-
ment, age, and child dependency are unable to subsist above
the poverty level.

Welfare assistance, given primarily in the form of mon-
etary support, food stamps, and health beneﬁts, was origi-
nally designed to be a temporary beneﬁt program. The goal
of the temporary assistance plan was to remove the pressure
on recipients to meet daily basic needs thereby allowing
them to focus their efforts on becoming economically self-
sufﬁcient. Sadly, the welfare program in the United States
has fallen short of this admirable goal.

Today’s welfare programs bear no resemblance to their
originally intended prototypes. Rather than temporary as-
sistance programs aimed at self-sufficiency, these pro-
grams have become self-perpetuating doles. Welfare has
become a means of subsistence for millions of Americans,
the vast majority of which could and should be productive
members of society.

Worse yet, the number of welfare recipients, most of
whom are able-bodied, is growing daily with no end in
sight. This trend is even more frightening when one consid-
ers the fact that the majority of children of welfare recipi-
ents become recipients themselves as adults. As the number
of beneﬁciaries has risen, the cost ofthe program’s admin-
istration has soared, creating an ever increasing financial
burden on the productive section of society.

The welfare program in the United States has clearly
failed. Rather than helping the less fortunate to reach the
American dream, welfare has created a culture of depen-
dency which stands in direct opposition to the free market
spirit upon which our country was founded.

It is for this reason that the welfare system must undergo
refonn. Welfare must become what it was originally in-
tended to be - a temporary assistance program designed to
help able-bodied Americans become economically self-

sufﬁcient.
To be effective, welfare reform must address the adverse

incentive structure of the current program, the root cause of
dependency. The incentive structure of the current program
actually encourages people not to seek employment.

The benefit package provides a disposable income only
slightly lower than the income earned when working a full
time job which pays $5/hour. In addition, there is no cap on
the beneﬁt period. Recipients can remain on welfare for
years at a time while essentially receivinga minimum wage
salary. What incentive is there to pursue employment when
you can receive the same amount of income without work-
ing? The answer is none.

Even more amazing is the fact that the current welfare
program actually provides incentives for illegitimacy and
the break down of the nuclear family. Under the current
beneﬁt program, women are rewarded for each additional
dependent child they have. In essence, the welfare system
encourages women to bring children into the world which
they are ﬁnancially unable to care for.

Worse yet is the fact that in order for these children to be
considered dependent under the program ’s guidelines, they
may not have an identiﬁable father who is capable of
supporting them.

The result is a soaring rate of illegitimacy and a genera-
tion of welfare children either do not know or have very
little contact with their fathers. The incentives for nuclear
family breakdown are further increased by the fact that
recipients who marry spouses who are employed full-time
lose their beneﬁts regardless of whether the spouse’s in-

Get ready for Fancy Dress
Register at first lesson on
Monday, March 4, at 6, 7, 8, or 9 pm.
Come with or without a partner.
$30 for six hours of instruction
Monday and Tuesdays March 4
through March 18
Classes in Fairfax Lounge

become come is sufﬁcient to support the family.

Welfare reform must eliminate the adverse incentive
structure of the current program and replace it with incen-
tives which encourage self-sufﬁciency.

This goal can be accomplished in one simple step: for all
able-bodied participants, the current beneﬁt period will be
limited to one year with no possibility for beneﬁt extension
or repetitive use. This simple refonn eliminates the possi-
bility of dependency by forcing people to become self-
sufﬁcient within one year‘s time, a period sufﬁciently long
to complete the training necessary and to ﬁnd employment.
Furthermore, a one year beneﬁt period eliminates the con-
cerns associated with increased beneﬁts for additional
dependent children.

A one year cap on benefits will make welfare what it was
designed to be-a temporary assistance package which fos-
ters self-sufﬁciency. A beneﬁt period cap should therefore

recipients

themselves

as adults.”

Advertisements

GOOD
WEEKLY
INCOME

processing mail for
national company! Free
su plies. postage! No
se ling! Bonuses! Stan
immediate! l Genuine
opportunity! shS.A.S.
GI-[Co SUITE 216
1861 ILPEDERAL
OLLYHOOD.FI. 3302

A Bistro

8 am — 3 pm - Monday
8 am — 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm — Friday — Saturday
9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

-1*

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
All you can eat $4.99

Thursday - 10% off food — with student ID

Friday — Seafood Nite —
Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib,
2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

Everyday Muffin & Cup of Coffee $1.50
-V: ?f ‘ j (8iam -.-:10 am)  p
Daily Lunch Special‘ with Drink $4.50

19 w. Washin ton St., Lexington, VA 24450

SUMMER JOBS AT
WASHINGTON AND LEE

Counselors for Summer Scholars
July 3 — August 3, 1996

Counselors serve as resident advisors for 10 rising senior high school
students in Graliam—Lees dormitory and plan evening and weekend
activities. Ten positions are available. Application deadline is February
28= 1996- . _ . Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Special Programs Resident Assistants _

June 12 - August 3, 1995 Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.

The Office of Special Programs employs four W&L students to serve as The Buffet is Served from 8:00 a_m_ until 1:30 p.m_
hosts/hostesses for a wide variety ofspecial Programs including Alumni

Colleges, Elderhostel, and adult conferences. Duties include facilities We,ll be waiting for you’
management and housekeeping, receptions, and transportation. Appli-

cation Deadline is March 15, 1996. Berky’s
For further information, please contact the Office of Special R t 11 N th _ Le ~ t VA
Programs, Howard House, 463-8723. 0“ e or xm on

WANTED NOW

voun RENTAL FOR
FANCY DRESS

SPECIAL PRICES

EARLY BIRD SPECIAL

ORDER BEFORE
MARCH 1 3th
ONLY $45.00

AFTER THE 1 3th

Basic Black Tux $48.00 Black Tails $52.00
Shoes $9.00 with Tux Rental
Buy a Tux fol‘ $265.00

The college Town Shop 1 1 1 West Nelson Street

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with
America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL
(800) 95—BREAK!

Advertisements . page 9

DO VOL! Want VISA 8: MasterCard Credit Cards? . 2 Bedroom Student

Nowyau an have two ofthe most recognized and apartment for rent

accepted cruIt¢_nnh In {In wn_r|d..VIu0 Ind Humfhrdﬁ above Alvin _Denn‘lS
ur.-dItar¢h.. lnynurmme. BVENEFYOUARBNEWIN _

CREDIT or HAVE BEEN  DOWN’ BEOREI Avallable June 

463-5383

EME@EFCY (391-TCKE'l8»-RESTAURANT$—
H(Tl‘ELS——MOTEL,S-——G§3—C,A,R RENl‘A[5— Counselors for residential
ni:wurts—mn-mawwvouuciu-znrr rumnol 5‘."“"‘e‘ Pr°9ra'“ at “VA f°‘
glfted students 6/17-8/3.

State VA appl' ation
ﬂu tﬂr. dqgnsl requir -refer to J Cat-

llo credit checks! 33?,’ Y°_rf‘. Q18’?/r1e_t“§{,'pf;
‘II security deposit! to UVA Dept. f B an Re-
sources 914 Emmet t., POB
55]]; 1}“; cgupa. "may 9007, éharlottesville VA

You“ CREMT cmns “"5 '5 ' 7 ""3! <2::ig6éo4 /923:3 1i8n2f.ormati°n

$Attention All StudenIs$
REE M0 is currently available for College Students Nationwide. Over $6 Billion iin aid
ai le from private sectrio grants & scholarships. All students are eligible to - - -   -235‘. - - - - - - -
I eceive some sort of aid, rdless of grades, income, or parents’s income. Let us help you.
0, mm mfommon, ca . 1 50] B - HALLAJIDLLE BCH BLVD
Student Financial Service: HALLHHDALB 4 FLOR I3 3 3009
.'I.I . 0" I v

hvuntVlSAOIlilAS'I‘l!RCARDOCredIt
cudanpproved Immedtntey. 100% OUAIIANTESDI
FEME
ADDRESS
CITY __.___._..._.._ STATE __.ZIP
STUDENT? Yes No 553

SIGNATURE

urrmuuuaoniiu-=1 ‘ ‘ ‘av ‘E-11'“ ‘ ‘it
Vllouangisumln-ad:-m1idVtsn|1s.n..tnr.uidVI5Ahnt«nIomi

1 MIN. THIS MD RISK COUPON YODIV

TEACH ENGUSH IN KOKE/\« Poaitiono available monthly. B./\. or 5.5.
degree required. U5 $l8,500~25,400/yr. Accorriodation & rouridtrip
airfare provided. Send reeume, copy of diploma and copy of paeeport to:
50k Ji Coprporatiori, Chum Bang Bldg, 15445 Sarrisurig Dong, Karig Nam Gu,
Seoul, Korea l55«O90.

TEL: Ol1~82»2—555—JOB8(5627) FAX: Oll—&2—2/552A4FAX(/+529)

Please consider me as a
candidate suitable and
fine for Vice President of
the Executive Committee.
1, Alex Christensen, beg
you to consider me. I am
willing to work hard and
. . . . would make an nt:
Lexington, Virginia 24450 vice presidentexgfrllaeny
Near the Home Center executive or unexecutive

Executive Committee.
Phone 464-9499 Gentlemen, please consider

me. Ladies, consider me.
~ Thank you. Thank you,
Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to? thank you- .

Restaurant 11:00 am. to 9:30 p.m. A   F
E. C. VICE PRESIDENT

 

WINTER SALE

50% off all Fall and
Winter Fashions
Sale continues plus lots of new Spring things

oppotqo9.Qo'

Applications from members of the
class of 1996 who wish to be consid-
ered fot he Alumni Office Staff As-

sociate position for the 1996-1997
academic year are due by Monday,
March II, 1996. Graduating seniors
should submit a letter of application
and resume to Alumni Secretary Tim
Farrar at the Alumni House. The
Staff Assoicate position is currently _
held by Tuskin King, '95, and be- 23 N- Mal" Street
Comes available Tuly L 1996. per .Hours.°Monday-Saturday10:00—5.°30 /

sonal interviews will be schedule   %

upon receipt of applications.

 §

The

  “ Blue
Ridge
Valley

 Oracle

1908 WILLIAM JENNINGS
BRYAN

1912 Judson Harmon
(WOODROW WILSON)

Time on the phone is time well spent. State Chairs and delegates scramble to collect last 1916 CHARLES EVANS
minute information that will help predict the correct Republican Presidential nominees. HUGHES

1922 N0 Mock Convention
held.

1924 JOHN W. DAVIS
1928 ALFRED E. SMITH
1932 FRANKLIN D.
ROOSEVELT

1936 Arthur Vandenburg
(ALF LANDON)

5 I 1940 Charles McNary
  " <WENDEI.»LwILKIE>

13:31.7. 80gt4  ,1  ‘ _ 1944 No Mock Convention

' held
HAVE A SAFE AND EBIICIYAIILE ED.  ~ ~ '
. 1948 Arthur Vandenburg

_ (THOMAS DEWEY)
V 9 1952, DWIGHT D.
 1 EISENHOWER
U  M D N 1956 ADLAI STEVENSON

1960 JOHN F. KENNEDY

AT HOME!  

. 'G0LD3zvATER , ; A ,
1972 - Edward Kennedjf V A
(GEORGE McGOVERN) I 4
11976 JIMMY CARTER 9“
1930 RONALD REAGAN
1984 WALTER MONDALE
1988 MICHAEL DUKAKIS
I 1992 BILL CLINTON

’ NO EXPERIENCE
NECESSARY!

SIR DETAILS: RUSH LONG 5.455
NOW! ANC

SUITE 216
1861 N-FEDERAL IIIIY

CAPITAL LE TFERS DENOT E PRESI~
DENT [AL NOMINEES CHOSEN BY
BOTH W&L AND THE NATIONAL
PARTY; lower case letters represent
those candidates selected by W&L but
not by the party (the nominees of which
Q:-in-:2-O “"‘”d‘°“‘“"‘"”“’““”"”?"’

huh--nun-Ii.

The Mock Convention office, located in the University center.
Many hours are spent here in preparation for the big event.

if
E
E
5
E
4, ,

, -V» A‘  « -V , " A . ,.  W 4
Students gather to help build the ﬂoats that will represent each
individual state. Awards are given to the outstanding ﬂoats, after
the parade Friday morning. The parade kicks off Mock Convention
weekend. There is also a band a‘t‘the pavilion Friday evening.

mnowans SYORES ”

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington

Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
463-2186

MC- Collage

J

This boat won't ﬂoat, but it is sure to make waves duringithe

parade. Media from all over the United States will attend.

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'

Your Student
G0 Hungry

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for
_ Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner

For only $90.00

Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our

Point Card
19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

footnotes 

Floats Past and Y

 Print 
The Making of a  
Major Madia Event  

Emily Baleer
Phi Executive Editor

o Come...
K  S S

~v

What began as a project for a political science class has become one of
the most highly regarded mock conventions in the country.

In 1908, only the News-Gazette covered the convention.

The media woke up in 1924, however, when W&L surprised the nation
by correctly nominating John W. Davis who was not a registered candi-
date.

"This was one of the key years that got people’s attention,”said Media
Chair Jeff Zeiger. r

Mock Convention drew national attention in 1956 when Kentucky
Senator Alben Barkley died after delivering the keynote address.

"That was the year people really sat up and took notice of it. After
Barkley’s death, people started paying attention,” saidlason Callen, one of
the editors of the Mock Convention Journal.

If these anomalies drew the attention of the nation, Mock Con’s
accuracy record has held it. Committee heads and delegates monitor the

' political pulse of each state, even to the last mjnute.VThe painstaking
research process has ensured an impressive track record - W&L has been
Wyvrongionly once since 1958. . .  V‘  _  . ,

The convention that started out attracting only a small-town newspaper \
now draws CNN, C-Sgian, and CBS. ‘ , t y B

This year’s eonventic has received even more attention due to its home \
page, rated in the tops percent of ail home pages on the Worid Wide Web.

“We the one waywe have of reaching people all across the nation,”
Callen said. S . . S B N ‘

“Four years ago, people would never have dreamed that we would have
anything like the ltomeipage. 1 can’t imagine what it will be like in another
four years.” . ‘ - .  , ~

Top and upper left pictures
Phi staff photos. Bottom left
and right photos courtesy of
the Calyx.

And our record thus far... 1995
Mock Con

\
Q.."'£&DO¢‘D"!OGCI1

State: Our call: Voters call:

Alaska Gramm Buchanan
Louisiana Buchanan Buchanan
Iowa Dole Dole

New Hampshire Dole Buchanan
Delaware Dole Forbes
Arizona Buchanan Forbes
North Dakota Dole Dole
South Dakota Dole Dole

coming up on Saturday, March 2: South Carolina

7

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
  
   
  
 
   
    
 
   
   
 
    
  
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
  

‘V

 
  
  
 
  
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
     
   
  
 
   
  

 
 
 

 

   
 

  
   

 

~..l1'\'r "
i\'. ﬁlivf .
\ nVilwN‘.;-,¢.4,\*i .

It um U"""‘”‘ '

 
 

CULTURE

TO CAMPUS 9

COMES

I‘1en’s Lax has
ﬂawless start

Chi: ‘ﬂing-tum Iﬂlit

9:’
VOLUME 96, N0. 16

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Watch those toes!

      
  
   

Photo by Christine N. Garnavish

Leading the parade and surrounded by "security" agents, the Republican National Party symbol comes to life at the
1996 Republican Mock Convention parade on Friday morning.

"Because ’ the

Board of Trustees names new member

From Phi Staff Reports

At a recent meeting, the Washington and Lee
University Board of Trustees named Glenn 0.

Thomhill, Jr. ’63 a new trustee.

Thornhill is the chairman, president and chief
$r..ecutive officer of Maid Bess Corp., a Salem,
irginia-based apparel manufacturing company
with 2,000 employees in southwest Virginia and

North Carolina.

A business and civic leader in the Roanoke
Valley, Thomhill is a member of the boards of the

 

First Union National Bank of Virginia and Commu-
nity Hospital, Roanoke Valley.

His current civic board memberships include the
City of Salem School Board, Roanoke College Board
of Trustees, United Way of the Roanoke Valley (past
chairman and campaign chainnan), Roanoke Valley
Business Council (past chairman), Roanoke Re-
gional Chamber of Commerce, Roanoke Regional
Partnership, Virginia Manufacturer’s Association,
and the Virginia Tech Advisory Council of the
Roanoke Valley.

Some of his past civic board memberships include
the Salem Rotary Club (past president), Salem-
Roanoke County Chamber of Commerce (past presi-

dent), and the Roanoke Symphony Society (past
president). He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa
and Beta Gamma Sigma.

Thomhill was named C.E.O. of the Year in 1993
by Bobbin Magazine, and in the same year was
named a Distinguished Citizen by the Roanoke Jay-
cees. In 1994, he received a Distinguished Alumnus
Award from Washington and Lee, and in 1995 he
won the Perry F. Kendig Award for Outstanding
Support for the Arts.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 8, 1996

Steering Committee
reveals F.D. theme

BY KELLEY T0'I'I'EN
Phi Staff Writer

“I’m late, I ’m late for a very impor-
tant date.”

The White Rabbit must have been
referring to Washington and Lee ’s 1996
Fancy Dress Ball, “A Mad Tea Party.”
The FD Steering Committee had to
push the date for the ball, Friday, March
22, back a month because of Mock
Convention.

The theme, based on Lewis
Carr0ll’s books, Alice in Wonderland
and Through

directions you can go with it...all the
fun characters...lots of colors, too!”

To many people’s regret, there will
be no camels or elephants at this event,
but Bell does promise that there will be
at least one or two characters roaming
the Ball. Not everyone is too excited
about this, though.

“I'm scared of the Cheshire cat be-
cause I once decapitated a cat in the
spokes of my bicycle. Now cats are
attracted to me- I think they all know,”
said a scared Jackie Terrebonne.

Others, however, are looking for-
ward to spending their FD in the com-
pany of some of their favorite child-

hood characters.

the Looking
Glass, sets the
scene for inter-
esting and
lively decora-
tions.

“ D e c o r a -
tions are going
to be different
because we are
working with
surreal images,”
said FD Steering
C o m m i t t e e
C h a i r m a n

“ T h e r e ’ d
have to be the
Mad Hatter and
the White Rab-
bit,” said senior
Anna Bentley.
“And there bet-
ter be a Cheshire
cat somewhere or
else l’ll be very
disappointed.”

Bentley also
suggested that
the gym should
be turned into a

Ashley Bell. giganticobstacle

The d6C0rat- course. Party-
ingcommitteeis goers would
basing their roam frombigto
decorations off small rooms,
the Original slidedownsecret

books rather
than the movies.

 

passages, and
celebrate happy

original illustra-

tions are under public domain, the com-
mittee is able to use all of the images
without having to worry about copy-
right restrictions.

“I think the theme is a really cre-
ative idea,” said freshman Amy Frazier.
“I am anxious to see what they do with
the decorations. I can imagine they’ll
really go all out.”

Bell said the committee wanted to
avoid geographic-related themes this
year after the past two years were
“spent” in foreign countries with “The
Magic Carpet Ride” in 1994 and “Une
Soiree Parisienne” last year.

With FD falling in the shadows of
Mock Convention, Bell thought this
was a good year to do something unique.
The “Alice in Wonderland” theme idea
has surfaced at steering committee
brain-storm meetings for the past few
years. Bell said they finally came up
with realistic ideas for sets and decora-
tions to make this year’s event pos-
sible.

“I think it is the best theme,” said
Katherine McF all. “There are so many

u n b i r t h d a y s
while trying to
escape the Queen of Hearts.

Although the steering committee
just sent out the invitations this week
(point of interest for those who are still
having difficulty reading their invites-
try reading it “through the looking
glass”), many W&L students already
knew the theme. While some are dis-
appointed that the theme was not a
highly-gaurded secret like in the past,
Bell said she is not concerned.

“FD is usually over by now. We’ve
been working since October and people
are really excited about the theme. lt’s
not surprising that it got out,” said Bell.

Many students are looking forward
to this year’s fairy tale FD weekend.
They’re nursing their hangovers and
exchanging their straw hats for party
hats in preparation for the perfect fol-
low-up to the Mock Convention. One
junior, however, doesn’t like all of
these events so close together. He
suggested doing away with FD every
fourth year during Mock Convention.

‘‘I’m still hurting from last week-
end,” he said.

Virginia 1996 or California 1981?

   

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

 

4 telelvision cop show “Chips.”

The California delegation’ s award-winning ﬂoat celebrated ﬁfteen years of the popular

 

 

   
   

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Citizens fight new Wal-Mart

Fredericksburg, VA—In yet another battle between the preservation of
historical land and suburban development, citizens of Virginia’s Stafford
County are fighting a plan to build a Wal-Mart on land that was once part
of Ferry Farm, George Washington’s boyhood home.

In 1990 the owners of the still-undeveloped parts of Ferry Farm donated
39 acres to Stafford County. The remaining land, which was zoned for
commercial development, would be the site of a colonial-style, brick Wal-
Mart which planners claim would be inconspicuous and would not disturb
the land on which Washington’s farmhouse once stood. County officials
say that a new Wal-Mart would meet the county’s need for increased tax
dollars and new jobs.

Several citizens groups oppose the building of the Wal-Mart, however,
claiming that the loss of the land and of the historical rural atmosphere
around the site of the old farmhouse would be a national tragedy. These
groups claim they are receiving strong support from around the country.

Wal-Mart needs only the approval of the Architectural Review Board
to go ahead with its plan.

Search for bombers intensified

Jerusalem, lsrael—lsraeli and Palestinian forces are increasing the
intensity of their search for those involved in a recent spree of suicide
bombings.

An Israeli Arab has been arrested for smuggling the suicide bomber who
killed himself and thirteen people in Tel Aviv on Monday. The suspect is
said to be a member of an Islamic group and to have accepted $1 100 to take
the man from Gaza to Tel Aviv.

Palestinian forces have already convicted and sentenced a man who
confessed to drafting three suicide bombers. The man is a member of
Hamas, the Islamic Resistance Movement, and recruited the two bombers
involved in the recent bus bombings in Jerusalem.

As fear mounts following these incidents in which 57 people have been
killed, Israelis are becoming increasingly suspicious of Israeli Arabs who
may be involved in the Islamic militant groups responsible for the bomb-
ings, a state of affairs which could threaten the state of the Israeli-
Palestinian Peace Accords.

Scientists clone sheep

Scotland——Scottish scientists have perfected a method for cloning
sheep embryos, and have produced ﬁve genetically identical lambs, giving
rise to predictions of mass production of genectically altered animals.

This is the first time that scientists have successfully cloned animals
larger than rodents, and experts say that this method unlike others, is
capable of producing thousands of identical, genetically enhanced ani-
mals. Researchers hope to use the technique to produce better quality
animals to be used in the food and clothing industries, and also to change
and improve organs in pigs in order to produce better matches for humans
in need of transplants.

The technique could feasibly be used to produce cloned human em-
bryos, but laws in both Scotland and the United States prohibit the testing
of such techniques in humans on grounds of ethical conflicts.

U.S. swimmer disqualified

Indianapolis, IN—On Wednesday at the U.S. Olympic swimming
trials, swimmer Kristine Quance, a US. hopeful for a gold medal in the
400-meter individual medley, was disqualified from that event for what the
turn judge ruled a faulty turn.

Despite critics’ protests that the turn was not incorrect, andwould in fact
have slowed her if it had been, Quance, who won the race by a large margin,
was disqualified from finals in the individual medley.

Quance will go on to finals in several other events, but officials say she
has much less chance of joining the Olympic team with these events than
she had with the individual medley.

Beyond the Blue Ridge
is compiled by Peggy Stuntz

GOP WATCH

 

Editor’s Note: GOP Watch will appear
two more times until a Republican presi-
dential candidate is chosen, in order for
students to compare the results of the
Mock Convention to the results of the
Republican primaries.

Dole wins eight states

Bob Dole moved into the delegate—count lead with his eight victories in
eight state primaries this past Tuesday. Appropriately “Junior Tuesday,”
which is a precursor to next week’s “Super Tuesday” contests, primaries
were held in Colorado, Connecticut, Georgia, Maine, Maryland, Massa-
chusetts, Rhode Island and Vermont. Dole, with his decisive victories in
all the states, has become the GOP’s presumptive cadidate.

Alexander, Lugar drop out

Lamar Alexander as well as Dick Lugar announced their withdrawl
from the Republican presidential race on Wednesday in the wake of their
poor showings in the Junior Tuesday primaries. Both of the former
candidates endorsed Dole as well as denied any interest in being the Vice
Presidential nominee. Both Pat Buchanan and Steve Forbes have an-
nounced that they will stay in the race until the Republican National
Convention in August.

Dole gets more endorsements

Bob Dole received four very important endorsements this past week.
On Monday, Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich threw his support behind
Dole. Texas Governor George W. Bush as well as his brotherleb Bush who
is highly inﬂuential in the Florida Republican Party endorsed Dole. Their
father, Former President George Bush did not formally endorse Dole but
did state that Dole does have the credentials to be the next President of the
United States.

GOP Watch is compiled by Laura Knapp

A wra

 

BY CHRISTINE N. GARNAVISH
Phi News Editor

 

The Washington and Lee 1996 Republi-
can Mock Convention was a tremendous
success, due in no small part to speakers Dan
Quayle, Newt Gingrich and Bill Bennett.

The speakers were greeted with an enthu-
siastic crowd, ready and willing to cheer the
virtues of the Republican National Party
and anyone preaching traditional conserva-
tive values.

Former Vice President Dan Quayle
warmed up the already roaring crowd by
proclaiming the Republican Party is not di-
vided but united.

He continued by outlining basic Republican ideals such as a ﬂat tax, term
limits and welfare system reform.

“We have created a culture of dependency,” he said. “Let’s start creating a
culture of independence...It is time we put our children first.”

Such staunch Republicanism animated the audience, and the security staff
began to eye the crowd suspiciously.

Quayle derided Bill Clinton for allowing the return of Castro and the shooting
of two American planes two weeks ago. He asserted that if George Bush or
Ronald Reagan had been president, this would not have happened.

“We are convinced, now more than ever, that we need a Republican
president,” said Quayle.

He continued to rail Clinton throughout his speech, citing the President’s
unfulfilled promises to govern from the middle.

“He says over and over again that he is a moderate, and people believe him,”
Quayle said. “Well if he can do that, then I will say over and over again that I
am a world champion speller.”

Quayle endeared himself to the W&L community by using the Honor Code
as a standard for politicians.

“[Honesty and trust] are the standards expected of you, and if you don’t meet
them, you’re gone,” Quayle said. “And if that is the standard for Washington
and Lee, shouldn’t that be the standard for the President of the United States?”

Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) also took note of his audience
in the first lines of his address.

“Amateurs are watching South Carolina today,” he said. “Sophisticated
folks are watching [the Washington and Lee Mock Convention].”

Dan Quayle Newt Gingrich

-u to the 1996

 

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
    
   
  
     
   
   
  
    
    
   
    
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

The Ring-tum Phi, March §, 1996

 

Gingrich’s speech revolved around the fu-
ture of an America with Republican leader- "
ship.

Echoing the standard platform, Gingrich
called for lower taxes, higher take-home pay,
less Washington bureaucracy, fewer lawsuits
and the traditional “simple, fair ﬂat tax.” to

He said that the government is focusing on
the wrong things right now, and pointed out
that the IRS is bigger than the FBI.

In reference to his position favoring lower
taxes, Gingrich said that Washington needs to
learn to use common sense. He gave the
example of giving mothers a tax break, saying
that it made more sense to let her keep her
money than to give it to Washington to hire a
bureaucrat to decide how to spend money on
her children. 1).

Gingrich also stated that the drug problem has escalated during the Clinton
administration, and that drugs were not as rampant during the Reagan and
Bush years.

After rejecting the idea of school uniforms, Gingrich said “Don’t get me
wrong, I’m for uniforms. I want to put striped uniforms on drug dealers.”

But perhaps the most crowd-pleasing speech was that of Bill Bennett, a John
M. Olin distinguished fellow in Cultural Policy Studies at the Heritage Founda-
tion and a co-director of Empower America.

Riding the enthusiasm of the crowd, Bennett opened with, “To heck with San
Diego, let’s just do [the Republican National Convention] here.”

Bennett said that America is the nation to which other countries turn in times
of need, but this should not eclipse the government’s duty to protect the American
people first.

Bennett endorsed stricter sentencing of criminals and tighter parole restric-
tions. He addressed other problems as well, calling welfare a “tragedy” and the
number of abortions a “national catastrophe.” it.

Other speakers at the Mock Convention included Virginia Governor George
Allen and Senator John Warner.

All the speakers praised Mock Con for its accuracy and energy.

But, as W&L President John Elrod said, “The most impressive was the
staggering amount of work involved.”

He said that at the end, every person involved in the Mock Convention will
“wear an A+.”

PHOTOS BY CHRISTINE N. GARNAVISH

Bill Bennett John Warner

The Lost Cause

Photo by Christine N. Garnavish

   
   
 
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
   

 

W&L safe with
student security "

 

BY EMILY BAKER
Phi Executive Editor

 

. ﬁr

Doremus Gym looked like a scene from the movie In the v
Line of F ire last weekend.

Thirty-seven burly W&L men and a handful of state and
capital police wearing wires from their ears kept Mock Con
delegates and speakers safe from outsiders and each other.

WhileTom DeLay, Newt Gingrich, George Allen brought ,,
their own security, Dan Quayle, Haley Barbour and the rest
of the crowd put their safety in the capable hands of student
security.

“Everybody we hired did a really good job,” said Cole
Costanzo ’96 who, with Rob Grant ’96L, led the student ‘
security force. Students earned $100 for working all three
sessions, and could earn more from working luncheons or
other functions throughout the weekend.

Even though their white “Security” shirts were not quite
as intimidating as the dark suits and ear phones worn by the
professionals, the student security force still got to rub 1.
shoulders with the V.l.P.s who came. Costanzo rode in the
limo with Quayle and Barbour.

Student security guards were stationed throughout the

#9!

The Indiana delegation maintained their position despite the futility
of their cause. Lugar dropped out of the race on Wednesday.

gym, checking tickets, escorting speakers, and monitoring
V.I.P. areas, and looking dangerous. Apparently, it worked.

“Everything went smoothly,” said “There were only
about one or two people arrested, and those were for
drunkenness.”

  

The Sistterlliootll of 6%/i Eﬁi Xi
Alplia Eta pi Clliapteir

would llilke to congratulate

OUII‘  plledlge ClldLSS2

 

‘Z21-kgung ‘Venice C/ian Tzraﬁ 5/iana grant
}[i[[ary Qietﬁ Coomﬁs
ﬂlncfrea Lauren fwing Jennifer Marie Mendocﬁa

ﬂawn ﬂlnnﬂvfarie Hewitt

  
 
  
  
  
   
  

.//lm/me .3
25./1/0/z/A.//lam Wheel
463-6003

$1“; /wﬂa  3/79.
9;:/Iuwny ﬂea’ /0  .
$35. 00 I, *  

e%/amjcwaea, awn/ﬁe nail) mm’ i/ze
émlezt  /mifméy/ea. I

  
  

 

e///afe you/a a/1/winlmenl /(ta/ay

 
 

 
  

\‘

' The Ring-tum Phi, March 8, 

Page 3

culture comes Zo campus

‘I

in the form of two distinguished artists, Phi Features Editor Cindie Young finds...

Michael S. Harper

“Poetry writing is labor,” Michael
S. Harper reﬂected during his poetry
reading in a crowded Northen Audito-
rium this past Tuesday evening; if so, it
is a labor at which Harper has suc-
ceeded by all accounts.

Hailed by the San Francisco Exam-
iner & Chronicle as “one of the ﬁnest
poets of our time,” Harper has indeed
earned much critical attention and many
devoted readers for his poetry in the
years since the publication of his ﬁrst
collection of poems, Dear John, Dear
Coltrane in 1970.

Among the many honors has re-
ceived are the Poetry Society of
America’s 1978 Melville Cane Award
for his Image of Kin, nominations for
both Images of Kin and Dear John,
’-‘ear Coltrane for the Natonal Book
’- ward, and the Black Academy of
Arts and Letters poetry award for his

' History Is Your Own Heartbeat.

Other books by Harper include Heal-
ing Song for the Inner Ear, Nightmare

‘Begins Responsibility, Song: I WantA

Witness, and a new anthology of Afri-
can-American poetry entitled Every
Shut Eye Ain ’t Sleeping. Harper now
serves as Israel J. Kapstein Professor
of English at Brown University, where
he has taught for the past 16 years.

For a man with so distinguished a
career, however, Harper spoke to his
audience this Tuesday in a friendly and
familiar voice. After all, he felt in his
own words “kinda talky.”

Thus Harper began his reading in
expressing his not quite pertinent re-
sentment of the Germans, which senti-
ment results directly from one malt
stain upon the first volume of poems

 

from which he read, a stain Harper
blames directly on certain customs of-
ﬂcials of Frankfurt Airport.
Throughout Tuesday’s reading
Harper’s wit often emerged in other
such amusing stories and observations

"t'.I::':':y

MICHAEL S. HARPER

mentioned apropos of his poems, and
yet aside such wit various words of
encouragement often emerged, espe-
cially for those young people present.
“Step out of yourself,” Harper coun-
selled; “do something that is not ex-
pected.” The something to which
Harper alludes, naturally enough, is
the artistic effort and in particular the
writing of poetry. .
Even the accomplished Harper con-
ceded days in which his poetry disap-
points him: “Sometimes I’m surprised

at how good I am, and at other times
I can’t believe I wrote this drivel.”
Within the artistic process, a cer-

“ tain values lies within the creation of

a work of art, regardless of how the
work itself might strike the author or
anyone else, Harper argued, insist-
ing that “the individual act is an
important thing.”

Thus poetry is important for
Harper not only as a complex and
well-crafted arrangement of struc-
ture and content, but also as a means
of expression available to all.

As accessible as poetry might be,
however, it has certainly become for
Michael S. Harpera powerful means
of self-expression.

With specific respect to Harper’s
book Dearlohn, Dear Coltrane, one
writer for the Virgnia Quarterly Re-
view alludes to the very meaningful
expression that Harper has achieved
within his poetry, noting that
“Harper’s is a poetry of classically
adorned statemtn, a direct, unﬂinch-
ing record of a man alive in his
time.”

“When he is at his best, in both
his public and private voice,” the
critic continues, “he creates a lan-
guage humming with emotion and
ennobled by a deeply felt human
dignity.”

The audience of Northen Audito-
rium, privileged to hear both the
poems and the reﬂections of so ac-
complished and active a poet, exited
with an appreciation not only for the
appeal and powerof Harper’s poems
but for the charm and genius of the

poet.

 

   

 

 ” PW

  

seasoii”‘ofth_e‘show.‘I suggest you tak the uiz and, 
answer. Byjthe time you get tqthe eii
enjoying the color and giossy piiotosof cast memberg’

between the quiz, In fact, test your knowledge right now.
the following is a stage name. that Joey uses; a) Hal»':?a¢Iu0
McGroin c)Ishmael d) MarceI?,For the right answer youlia

 



4

 

3ibii’l1speii<1 be

 

  

 

“Somehow or other there must be a
way of bringing stories back into paint-
ing,” Lincoln Perry declared in his
lecture in DuPont Auditorium Thurs-
day evening.

Himself a signiﬁcant painter from
Charlottesville, Perry - one can safely
say — has found that way of success-
fully composing stories within paint-
ings.

Speaking from a podium in front of
a crowd that drew as much from mem-
bers of the Lexington community as
from the W&L campus, Perry com-
mented on some 90 slides of his past
and present work, and on the process in
which he engages to produce a single
piece.

And far more goes into Perry’s pro-
cess than might be expected. The artist
begins with a spatial concept, sprung
from his interest in the relationship
between certain planes and shapes
within a particular setting (whether
imagined or real).

When beginning a larger painting,
Perry will often conceive not one but
quite a few spatial arrangements, all of

  

te a Saturday‘ afternoon, 
easy readir1g,,(especiaI:_ly, when, -j
& =80 lleyaifvyou 

     
 
  
 
 
 

   

which he works out in a series of
sketches; each sketch allows Perry to
explore a new perspective, a new color
palette or even a new focus.

Having ﬁnally arrived at a sketch
that satisiﬁes his eye and the curiosity
that drives each new effort, Perry then
moves from paper to canvas, translat-
ing his sketch onto a far larger space.

Perry freely admits that “to go to
nature is helpful,” and yet with each
new work he must choose whether to
work within the actual presence of his
subject or within his studio and all the
conveniences it provides.

Working within nature leaves Perry
at the hazard not only of weather con-
ditions and in some cases visiting hours
but also of capturing in only a handful
of minutes what information he can
about the particular effect of one
moment’s sunlight.

Wherever Perry chooses to create
each painting, however, the task of
creating a ﬁnished painting demands
much patience and diligent effort.
Speaking of such effort Peny refers to
Degas’ paintings of ballet dancers, in

which he reads a comment from Degas
himself upon the artistic process.

“He knew that dancing was a meta-
phor for painting,” Perry notes of De-
gas, each representing a creative pro-
cess comprised almost entirely of sweat
and toil.

However exhausting his work may
indeed be, Perry has certainly emerged
a successful artist with a studio ﬁlled as
much with prestigious commissions
from across the country as with his
own projects.

Perry describes himself as one who
began painting abstractly in 1971, in-
terested “in large simple planes of
color.”

In the years that have followed,
Perry has explored with great success
such interest, embracing as well many
new challenges, from form and com-
position to theory.

The result of all this effort has been
a wide range of works that engage the
eye but also the mind; a sampling of
Perry ’s range hangs now upon the walls
of DuPont Gallery and can be found
there through March 21.

Singer Tom Acousti performs tree this
Friday night at 10 p.m. in the GHQ Puh.
Acousti has visited more than 400 colleges across
the country, recently playing original songs on
television's Star Search.
music as "spiritually-hased roclz music."

The artist describes his

‘Broken Arrow fails to hit the marlz

Kirle Susong
Phi Reviewer

Director John Woo is originally from Hong Kong , where
he has developed a reputation for creating daring, intricate
crime dramas. ‘His excellent ﬁlms have received more
attention here in America than do most Hong Kong exports,
especially The Killer and Hard-Boiled.

However, he has not yet found Hollywood as easy to
conquer as Hong Kong. His first American ﬁlm was Hard
Target, starring Jean-Claude Van Damme. This didn’t live
up to expectations, so much is riding on his second effort,
Broken/irrow. All I can say is I hope he gets a third chance.

Broken/trrow revolves around Major Vic Deakins (John
Travolta), a smart but frustrated Air Force pilot who feels
he ’s not getting his due recognition. So he decides to get out,
and to go while the getting is good.

While on a test ﬂight over the desert, he ejects his friend
and co-pilot Capt. Reilly Hale (Christian Slater), then safely
drops the two nuclear bombs he is carrying before faking a

crash. The idea is that his ground team will retrieve the nukes
then meet up with him; they will spirit the bombs off to a
major city to blackmail the government for a few hundred
million.

Although it sounds like a pretty good plan, as you might
expect Capt. Hale is more resourceful than his one-time
friend gives him credit for. When he meets up with Park
Ranger Terry Carmichael (Samantha Mathis), they form a
capable duo who b'attle Deakins to the very end.

This film suffers from an extreme case of underachieve-
ment. Just like that kid that used to sit next to you in eighth-
grade, it could be so much more if it had just put its mind to
it. John Woo is a great director, whose sense of style and
psychology have suited him well in the past.

Here, though, it is clear that his considerable talents are
simply underused. The entire ﬁlm is set in a great desert
wilderness, and every shot takes maximum advantage of
this natural beauty. At the same time, Woo does a good job
of keeping us abreast of the action while simultaneously
keeping the screen interesting and lively. A great example
is the opening sequence where Deakins and Hale are box-
ing—it’s clever, intriguing, and clear.

So what goes wrong? Principally, it is two things: the

casting and the screenplay. Whoever cast this ﬁlm chose
people that somehow just don’t seem to ﬁt their parts.
Although everyone in the film does an admirable job, it
seems like they’re swimming against the current. For ex-
ample, Frank Whaley is Giles Prentice, the Defense
Department’s man on the job. But every time I looked at him
all I could see was the scared kid who is forced to share his
Kahuna Burger in Pulp Fiction.

I also couldn’t get over the feeling that Christian Slater
and John Travolta should switch roles. It seemed as if they
would be more comfortable and realistic in the role set aside
for the other. Travolta has said that he seized upon this film
as a chance to be the bad guy, but here he just looks strained
and confused. That coolness he epitomizes is lost in the
madness of his character.

But how much this is Travolta’s fault is another ques-
tion. The screenplay the cast is working with is not very
good. First, its development of Deakins, the central charac-
ter, is very weak. He moves very hastily and confusingly
from being a bitter, unethical genius to being simply another
criminally-insane idiot intent upon blowing up the world.

Another great problem is the action in the ﬁlm. This is
clearly not a straight action film, but the fight sequences

were far below the quality one would expect from any other 

John Woo ﬁlm. Few of the ﬁghts are really very interesting.
Take either the ﬁght in the cockpit or the gunﬁght in the

copper mine. The former looks more like two boys scufﬂing _
in a schoolroom than trained professionals trying to over- 3
come their ﬂight harnesses. The second is even more bland: ;
it’s just two guys at opposite ends of a tunnel, shooting atone ;
another. John Woo does all he can to make it interesting ;
(Slater’s well-choreographed dive, for instance), but ulti- ;
mately, nothing particularly entertaining is going on there. 1

So although I loved the cast, they seemed poorly utilized. ,
Similarly, I got the feeling that Woo’s talent was underused. :
He did everything he could, but it simply wasn’t enough to 1
rescue the ﬁlm. Instead, it becomes mildly interesting but :
not stirring, like watching a close game between two basket- 2
ball teams at the bottom of their division: everyone’s trying, I
but outside factors (here the screenplay) make the whole I
thing extraneous. The result is thatBrokenArrow would be I
a good film for video rental, but not worth the cost of a trip I
to Roanoke. Let’s just hope that Woo can comethrough with ‘I

a real blockbuster in his next attempt.

 

    

PAGE 4

@112 Tiling-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Confidential from the Phi

To the Steering Committe of Mock Conven-
tion: Congratulations. It seems as though you have
successfully predicted that Senator Robert Dole
will be the Republican presidential nominee. More
than that, this past weekend was one of the most
exciting this campus has seen in years. Mock Con
1996 will undoubtedly be remembered forever as
an incredible time. Thank you.

To Lewis Carroll: If the Fancy Dress
Committe has anything to do with it, you may
become the next Jane Austen. More than a century
later,Alice in Wonderland is as popular as ever. “A
Mad Tea Party” seems to have generated a positive
response among the students. Come March 22, will
there be a rush on mushrooms at Harris-Teeter?
Only time will tell.

To our esteemed colleague at The Trident,
Lamar Vrllerez Over the years, you have pissed off
quite a few people (us included), but your brash
sense of humor has always been entertaining to say
the least. We will certainly miss reacting to your
column. Unlike most journalists, you’ve ﬁgured
out that it doesn’t matter if you have something to
say if no one reads you. Turning to the back page
of The Trident will never be the same again.

To all those people who do too much: A wise
man once said, “You have one heart, treat it well.”
We couldn’t agree more. March can beta pretty
crazy month. Mock, Con, Fancy Dress, term pa-
pers, initiations, exams... It’s enough to make you
crazy. Remember to relax, go outside, and breathe.
College is supposed to be fun. You have the rest of
your life to be miserable.

To the Motion Pciture Academy: Can we say,
whatever? 'Moviegoers are getting fed up with the
Academy dissing our favorite ﬂicks. No one can
justify snubbing Clueless as this year ’s best picture.
Not only is Alicia Silverstone a major hottie, but
she’s one kick-butt actress. As if...

Quote of the Week

“When I was at W&L, Mock Con was--”
“Are you going to tell them what it was like when
Lee was here?”

—Dan Quayle, interrupting Sen. John Warner at a
press conference following Quayle ’s speech.

OPINION

The Rirg-tum Phi, March 8, 1996

Ganarurrou Lax

Some irrational patterns of behavior develop at an early age...

,-,._, .

Privatizing government services ‘

MY VIEW

Jason Sorens, ’98

Most people, even economists, be-
lieve that there are some services which
a free market cannot provide. As I
wrote in my last column, the only
justification for wasteful and distort-
ing taxes is that they are necessary to
fund certain government operations.
In this column, I will look into two
examples of alleged “public goods”
which the market cannot provide: cur-
rency and road maintenance.

Throughout history, governments
have controlled the making and valua-
tion of currency. Indeed, governments
have always had a strong incentive to
control the money supply. Such con-
trol allows them to tax their citizens
secretly. Governments always tend
to debase their currencies. They do so
by means of two weapons: legal ten-
der laws and minting privileges. Le-
gal tender laws force citizens to ac-
cept government money, at whatever
value the government sets! Com-
bined with the minting privilege, this
power allows the government to cre-
ate worthless money and force its
citizens to accept it. Thereby, the
government is able to pay its debts at
no cost: it can spend with impunity.
In fact, governments have sometimes
tried to avoid massive inﬂation of the
currency, because of the ﬁnancial in-
stability that could result. But all
governments have inﬂated signiﬁ-
cantly, quite literally destroying
people’s wealth.

Knowing that the government has a
vested interest in preserving its money
monopoly, we should be suspicious of
its justiﬁcations for such control. One
such justiﬁcation is that a free market
could not determine or punish fraud in
coinage. This argument rings hollow,
for in fact free markets have done so.
Periodically through history, govem-
ment money has so broken down that
private money has achieved wide cir-

culation despite being illegal. By mea-
suri ng size and weight, merchants may
easily determine a coin’s validity.
Scraping and notching coins are other
ready methods.

But wouldn’t it be inconvenient to
carry around gold and silver coins all

the time? Isn’t paper ﬁat money more

convenient? Where convenience calls,
the market answers. Banks would
issue paper notes
to customers

standstills, and rural highways lie in
disuse. Under a free-market system,
businesses would build roads where
and how their customers desired.

In the present system, commuters
beneﬁt from enormous subsidies on
urban freeways. The only cost for
driving on these highways is the gaso-
line tax, which punishes rural and ur-
ban travel alike. The result is over-
crowding, espe-
cially during

who would pre-
fer to deposit
their hard money
and use the pa-
perforexchange.
Laws would

Some people would
complain that prices
would be too high un-

rush hour, when
demand over-
whelms supply.
Under private
enterprise, a
market price

punish fraud, , , would lower
p rev e nting der (1 private [mter- quantity de-
banks from giv- ° manded at cer-
ing out paper state] system’  taintimes,ensurl
unbacked by now, few government ing smooth
metal. But ' travel. Toll
wouldn’t this raads have toll booths would
system fall into certainly not be
chaos? Surely b0oths'  _what undue burdens
weneedgovem- about the hldden compared to

merit to set up a

costs of government;

rush-hour traffic

universal stan- jams.

dard. Again, ' 2 Theinterstate
private busi- namely’ taxatl0n' highwaysshould
nesses will have also be private.

an incentive to
accommodate their customers. Coin-
makers and note-issuing banks will
try to grab the greatest demand for
their products. They can only get this
demand by making their products con-
venient and readily usable for their
customers. No customer will want a
coin whose validity is in doubt, or a
paper note whose worth is unreliable.
If the government is not suitable
for maintaining the money supply,
surely it must be the proper vehicle
for building and maintaining roads. It
is difﬁcult to envision how private
industry would deal with that issue.
But the fact is that government
roads have failed miserably. Local
roads suffer from disrepair, commuter
highways are burdened by rush-hour

The interstate
railroads of the 19th and early 20th
centuries were private; why not inter-
state highways too? Some people would
complain that prices would be too high
under a private system. Right now, few
government roads have toll booths. But
what about the hidden costs of govem-
ment; namely, taxation? We don’t see
how much we pay for roads now, but we
do pay. The cost hits us somewhere,
even if we don’t see it.

A more serious objection is that
private interstates would be monopo-
listic and thus more expensive and
inefﬁcient. But many highways are
already in place, enough to make the
market competitive. In plotting out a
long trip, we consider the various routes
we could take. Under a private system,

we would take price into account, and
the owners of the interstates would
compete for travelers by offering low
prices. Furthermore, airplane, ship,
and railroad services already compete
for our long-distance dollar. Competi-
tion in interstate travel would be plen-
tiful.

Finally, we consider local roads.
Only here does an incentive problem
seem to make private enterprise un-
workable. Surely we can’t charge toll
on local roads! I can imagine two
possible scenarios. First, neighbor-
hood developers could own the roads
of their own neighborhoods or con-
tract with road companies. They
would try to make their streets as safe
and accessible as possible in order to
raise property values; they could re-
coup the cost of maintenance in the

‘ price of houses. Second, roads could

have electronic devices that monitor
vehicles’ traveling distance without
inconvenient toll booths. Analogous
devices work to measure how much
electricity or water we use. Outﬁtting
vehicles with sensory devices would
allow road companies to send monthly
bills to users.

All these private systems are much
fairer than the current system because
they charge the users themselves for
the services they use, and they are
more efficient because they incorpo-
rate the proﬁt motive government lacks.

In these two examples, we see that
there are no fundamental reasons why
private enterprise cannot manage what
government currently does. The inge-
nuity of the entrepreneur overcomes
incentive problems by tying services
to cost (such as road service to house
prices). Thus, we see that government
does little if anything, to balance the
deleterious effects of taxation with its
“services.”

But almost everyone agrees that j

government must perform these two ’

functions: justice and protection. In
my next series of columns, I will
examine the proper role of govem-
ment in criminal justice.

@112 itling-tum lﬂlri

Executive Edith!‘ Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor Qnnlt Bookwgnef

Assistant Sports Editor
Features Editor

Bethany Bauman
(‘indie Young, Courtney E. Miller

Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Rnhert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Genner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail phi@wlu. edu

Dole fails to address local concerns

MY VIEW
Nova Clarke, ’96

Now that Mock Convention is over, I can stop
pretending to be a Republican-—thank God for small
favors. Actually what I was doing wasn’t too much
of a stretch. I am rooting for Buchanan because with
him as the Republican nominee, Bill Clinton would
be looking to a much smoother reelection campaign.
He also did bring up important issues like the shaft-
ing of the American worker. The Democrats have
used this as a means of bringing up the increase in the
minimum wage, and Bob Dole ﬁnally got the hint
that people other than the CEOs of major corpora-
tions are potential Republican voters and that they
are also worried about the future.

Personally, I am sick of the campaign already. I
mailed in my absentee ballot this week and I didn’t
even have to vote for President because Clinton is
running unopposed in Florida. Instead, I was voting
on the reorganization of the county government and
that is what’s truly important—local government.
Sure we need the national government to protect us
from hostile countries, but according to the Repub-
licans, that may be the only thing we need it for.
However, how many of the Republican candidates
are actually focusing on local government? Bob
Dole is racking up the support of senators and
governors but we never hear of him sitting down
with a local mayor, except for a photo-op or talking
with the mayor about what block-grants may mean
to that community or how the poor students in the
community are going to eat with the elimination of
food stamps. _

On to other things. The government is due to shut
down again next week. I think if Bob Dole had real

leadership capabilities and any connection to the
people of America he would make sure that this does
not happen. Realistically, people don’t really care
whether the budget is balanced in 5,7, or 9 years.
Clinton has made concessions and agreed to balance
the budget within 9 years—accept it. How realistic
is it to event think that we can balance the budget?

Sure we need the national
government ' to protect us
from hostile countries, but
according to the Republi-
cans, that may be the only
thing we need it for.

The future isn’t very predictable. Another disaster in
the Midwest and California would drive up costs.
What are we going to tell those farmers? “Sorry,
we’ve reached a balanced budget, and now we can’t
provide any relief for you.” Of course, Bob Dole just
requested that the expenditures of the US on UN
actions be detennined. It turns out that the US spent
between $6-7 billion on UN missions since 1993. To
you or me that sounds like a lot but when you
consider that it’s less than 4% of the defense bud-
get—it really isn’t that much. _

Other main events of the past week include the
meeting of TV executives with the President to unveil a
ratingsystem fortelevision programs. This panderstothe
desires of the religious right to protect children from the

violenoeonTV. lthink itwouldbeagreat idea if it actually
worked, but as someone else pointed out, if the parents
aren’t home to patrol the ratings, what’s the point?
Besides which, when something is advertised as being x-
rated and that children shouldn’t watch it, anybody who
is told not to watch it will be sitting intently in front of the
TV. I personally think everything on PBS should be rated
XXX,then peoplewould watch itandmi ght actually learn
something.

A commission was also established to reduce teenage
pregnancies. Now some groups are complaining that
there are too many celebrities on the panel and others are
complaining that there are too many Planned Parenthood
people on the panel. Actually the Republicans should be
happy to be represented by Planned Parenthood since
Barry Goldwater’s first wife was one of the founders of
the group (one of the random facts I learned doing
research for Mock Con). There is much more to reducing
pregnancy than not talking about abortion and one of the
main ways of doing so is demonstrating the people care.
Perhaps if the Republicans demomtrated that they have
ideas and care about what happens to people they ’d be in
a little better shape now.

I have to admit that Mock Convention was an
experience. I’ve been made an honorary Alaskan
Republican by some Republicans who watched the
convention on C-SPAN, now I need to break the fact
to them that I will be voting for Clinton in November.
I also need to remember that a couple of the speakers
who are W&L alumni are going to receive letters
pointing out that the next Mock Convention will still
be Republican. In addition I’ve fulﬁlled that require-
ment that you walk in the other side’s shoes. l’ve
been a Republican for a few days and P..I. O’Rourke
was right, it’s not that hard because they are devoid
of ideas, except dreams of defeating Clinton in
November—bring on San Diego and Pat Buchanan.
GO PAT GO!!!

~—-..»._...

 

w DREAM LAND

The?‘Ring-tum Phi, March 8, 1996

Richard Weaver

munism, because nobody in their right
mind could have denied America a
daily look into a perfect world. My

the Corral.

Jeeps, especially ones
with drivers who look like Daisy Duke,
could part wherever they wanted, in-

OPINION

9 ‘Hazzard: going back to the basics

Buena Vista.
W&L Security’s Suzukis would be
required to ram into each other at least

friends, it’stime to cludin g the once a day in pursuit of freshmen who
go back to this Lee Chapel parked in the Corral illegally. New,
I find myself wishing things were simpler time. spots and on unscratched Suzukis would be ready
like they used to be.’ We don’t need It’s amazing I I . d tl curbs. for use in the next day’s work.
more complications in life: the sim- how little it would rea lze recen y To create Every car, dorm room, library car-
pler the better. _ _ . take to'tum Lex- that there exists a Uta- the right reI,and Goshenrockwouldbeequipped
This wish applies to politics and ington into a full- . , Hazzard-like with its own CB radio. Some classes
educatioln and life in genplral. We have ﬂedged clone of P10 ofthis 3077, where atmosphere, would be conducted over the band:
to reeva uate what’s rea y important. Hazzard County. ' ' ' residents of ProfessorVelourPlaidjacket:
This came to me during the recent We’vegotenough pohtlcs ls based on Lexington and The Cold War was neither cold, nora
Mock Convention. . _ backroads, cows, harmless graft, where students would war. Discuss. Over.
 f:"“.":“::S rm‘ policemen are cheer-  “i ~“5°‘*£  
_ s ur e aco- _ _ more p ai , I noises s IS mg on.
to be the motto. Why make things hol. , “Uncle fully foyled by halnng thatisevenpos- Most prophetic for the
morecomplicated? Everyonegetswhat Jesse s” sounds the. h t ddo sible.Skintight Hazzardization of Lexington is the
they want and they’re happy about it. like a good name 1r a SP“ w n jeans would be name “General Lee.” The area outside
lrealized recently that there exists for a student over their eyes where a necessity, or Lee Chapel is calling out for the Gen-
a utopia of this sort, where politics is houseinthe coun- ’ , atthevery least, eral Lee car to be parked in front.
based 011 h31'm1€SS graft. Where P0- try. Noone would all roads  t0 dlrt skin tight kha- People who get married in Lee Chapel
licemen are cheerfully foiled by hav- blinkaneyeifyou ad ° ° kis. Women can use it instead of a horse-drawn
ing their hats pulled down oyer their said, “Hey, party ro 8' Thls place ls would be en- carriage. The rest of the time President
eryles,vyhereallrﬁargslqaadtogigroads. at Ur’ilcleT.Il::sse’s called H azz ard couraged tfq Elrolg can drive it. h Id b
isp ace isca e azzar oun y, tonig t. ey’re wear cut-o xington, in s on, wou e so
and it exists on “The Dukes of gonna have County‘ jean shorts, ex— much better if we shed our
Hazzard.” moonshine and cept if they re- sophistications and returned to life as it

“The Dukes of Hazzard” is the best

grain punch!”

sembled Boss

is in Hazzard, where the sun is always

TV show on cable now. I don’t know
why it hasn’t been in syndication in the
past couple of years. The only logical
reasons would be 1) Satan or 2) Com-

Next thing you could do to make
Lexington more like Hazzard County:
road construction. Students could
speed through barricades to park in

Hogg’s fat wife Lulu, in which case
she would never be seen by anyone,
ever. Clothing for Fancy Dress would
be purchased at the prom rental store in

shining, the roads are always dirt, and
the outdoors is covered with astroturf
and plaster rocks. If it doesn’t happen
soon, I’m moving to West Virginia.

5' Y VIEW
Paul Saboe, ’97

Honor has always been heralded as the comer-
stone of the Washington and Lee Community, a
notion that distinguishes us from other university
communities. Of late however, honor has become a
little too much a catch-phrase for self-congratulation
rather than an ideal that guides our every action. I
thought it ironic that every speaker during the Mock
Convention thought to praise our honor code while
some underage students thought only to praise a
ﬂask. I do not condemn drinking, but is it dishonor-
able to drink while underage? (In other words, is it
dishonorable to break the law?) Taken a step further,
is it dishonorable to purchase alcohol with a false ID,
to misrepresent oneself? Though a minority would
argue that such actions are indeed dishonorable, a
clear majority would probably argue “not” to one or
more of these questions. Does the fact that students
at other colleges drink underage and use false IDs
justify us doing the same when we have an honor
code and they do not? Can excuses ever replace
honor? , . . , _ V

 _.l-Ionor is not withou_t__i_ts_arnbiguities and perhaps ,

I have been taken in by a few. I therefore wonder

what responses would be to the following questions
of honor. Is it dishonorable to lie at a party or social
function? Is it dishonorable to take an unopened
cereal box from the D-Hall? Isis dishonorable to ﬁll
up one’s cup at the Co-op with Pepsi, gulp it down,
refill one’s cup, and then proceed to pay for one
drink? yes, these are minor, even silly infractions,
but is not honor an ever-present notion, even in the
mundane activities that make up the vast majority of
our lives?

We are all well-versed in the “do not lie, cheat or
steal” principle. But are there certain limits to this
principle? Is one required to tell the truth, but only
while on is in Rockbridge County? Is stealing
accepted as long as it is off campus and occurs during
non-school hours? Furthermore, since the honor
code does not specifically state

do not lie, cheat, steal or rape,” does that imply
that rape is both permitted and honorable?

Listening to my fellow students, I have begun to
realize that there are many who believe in the honor
code, albeit a very limited version (whether is be
limited geographically, to major infractions, or to
lying, cheating and stealing).

As a W&L student, I find this quite disheartening.

I do not recall ever having read General Lee discuss ,
the limits of honor. To such an esteemed man, honor

was without bounds, a principle, that was held to the

Honor not measured by part

heart and that guided all of one’s actions, not just
some of one’s actions or one’s actions at a certain
time or place. It is clear that we have abandoned our
duty to our namesake. Even more frustrating, we
have abandoned our duty to ourselves by placing
limits and qualiﬁcations on honor. In the Student
Handbook, itstates that “No violation of this trust
is too small to be ignored, for we understand that
honor is not measured by degree.” Obviously, we
do not understand what this statement suggests
since we make excuses and set limits on honor
every day.

Perhaps some of you agree with the notion that
honor is without bounds. And for those of you who
have embraced such a notion whether before or for
the first time today, the moment for acting on prin-
ciple is now. Put into practice the notion of honor
without bounds in all that ‘you do and in all that you
seek to do, wither it be on the hill, on campus, or a
thousand miles away. Make yourself a living ex-
ample of honor for all to imitate. For those who
demand to do more, hold accountable your friends
and fellow students to a similar notion of honor. The
Washington and Lee honor code will only be a
meaningful, strong, and all-embracing as the student

. body decides it shouldbe. We certainly, cannot wish
..f9r it to be less. f9.r.h0_n0.r is the om‘: tradition W‘? can
' least afford to lose. ‘

 

PAGE 5

Society of the Arts

The Society for the Arts invites
Washington and Lee faculty and
students to join us for an evening
including a showing of the award
winning documentary, “Patently
Offensive; Porrn Under Seige,” a
panel discussion of the critical is-
sues surrounding pornography in
the electronic age, and an opportu-
nity to voice your views and con-
cerns dealing with pornography,
ethics and individual freedom 7:30,
Mar. 12 in duPont Auditorium.

OCTAA meeting

Attend an OCTAA-On Campus
Talking about Alcohol-program
Wednesday, Mar. 13 and Sunday,
March 17 from 5:30-8:30 p.m. in
Room 113 of the University Center.
OCI‘ AA teaches students how al-
cohol affects their body based on
quantity/frequency choices, to esti-
mate their biological risk for alco-
hol related problems and to make
low-risk drinking choices. Call 462-
4501 to sign-up for this
nonjudgemental, research-based
program.

LAX coach needed

Help needed coaching middle
school girls’ LAX team. If inter-
ested, call Prof. Millon (law school)
at x8993.

4:

GENERAL

NOTES

 

SDC applications

The Student Development Com-
mittee is beginning its recruitment
for next year. Members of the SDC
participate and help organize
phonathons in which alumni are
asked for donations to the Annual
Fund. Members also maintain rela-
tions with alumni through activities
such as Write-a-thons.

Applications will be available
outside Carol Calkins office in the
University Center. They are due
outside this office by Mar. 13, and
10 minute interviews will be con-
ducted on Mar. 18 and 19. A sign-
up sheet for interview times is also
available outside Ms. Calkin’s of-
ﬁce.

EC petitions

Petitions for class officer and EC
representatives will be available in
front of Carol Calkins office begin-
ning on Monday, Mar. 11, 1996.
Petitions are due at the mandatory
meeting for all candidates at 5 p.m.
Monday, Mar. 18, 1996 in the EC
office.

Dance Lessons

Frank Roupas will be giving
dance lessons in the Fairfax Lounge
from 6 to 9 p.m. for the next ﬁve
Mondays. The lessons are $30 for
the series.

Challenge for Charity results announced

The results from the Student Development Committee’s “Challenge for
Charity” are in, and the winners are Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship and the
Society for the Arts! Six campus organizations competed during two night last
month: Inter-Varsity Christian Felllowship, Society for the Arts, Pi Beta Phi,
Lamba Chi Alpha, Alpha Phi Omega, and the Resident Assistance. They
collectively raised a total of $13,320 for Washington and Lee’s 1995-1996
Annual Fund. This fund provides for the operating costs of the university, such
as professor’s salaries and utility bills, which means it lowers tuition costs for all

students.

Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship raised the largest number of pledges, 32,
and the Society for the Arts raised the largest amount of money, $3,795, out of
all competing organizations. Each received $100 to donate to the charity of its
choice. Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship donated its prize to Family Life
Services’ Pregnancy Crisis Center, and Society for the Arts chose to donate its

$100 to RACES.

Thanks again to all the members of the

"Challenge for Charity’! '

 

  

   

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesda Th (1 F 'd S turd
’ 900 pm , Paviion
I i Mock Convention 1 M: . 5
Women’: History Zllont/9 1
lmnaﬁasebalvs. 3pm..8aehIlvs 7p.n1.NomenAnoluritn 4p.m.,Woimn‘sLac:om 8p.:n..Tiodnoour 10p.m..GHQPub
WestVa.TeotL WestVATedL Protassorsiwsonotitistniy vsjiidgawatat ‘ﬁlavanrlotheealous’ "romAoousti" J‘ 8
otwoinanatwﬁl.
8 pm. Troubadour
Q ‘Au Hovoiv. Les Enfants’
123 pm. Man‘: Lacrosse 8 pm, tontest 3 p.m., M&W1'ennis 3 pm, Women's Tennis 2.7 pm, my Lacrosse
,0m"wam.3Tam Ctmtconoert 1 vs.Univ.otSouth . vs.Keoyon 1 4 1
vs hwfngm Cologa 3 pm’ mm. vs, swam” T-stat day-Worrieefs History Monti id 30 pm. GHQ Pub 1 10112 wan Tennis
3P~m-TMMW , 3P'“"5°”°""‘s“"““" ‘csairseacir . 10 a.m., Track Invitational
'Vanyaon42ndStnaet‘ W ._ .. 4p.m.,wuneq~;t.actosse
' vatynchbwg  ?p.m. &9p.m.SABFrlm woos‘ 7p.m.&9p.m. SAB Film mos‘
St Patrick's D37 8 y.rri.. Lanlest ’ ‘P 9 pm, SA8 Concert ‘Cootio‘ FANCY DRESS H2 p.m.. W&M Lacrosse
 17 18 -«»-- 19 20 no .r 21 . 22 23
vs_ Sawﬂy st 5111680! Pavilion F
39.m., Men's Tennis 3} [-
3 Pm.}80l3$i vs. Averott Coﬁege 2 pm, M&W Track I,
aoemgesaaei A p ‘.3
1 Mt. WOMYS Temis 3:50 pm. Women‘: Tennis 12:30 pm. 60%!  3 ;.~m.. Sasebal vs. 4 pm, Women's Lacrosse :0 pm. GHQ Pub 30 ‘ W 5”“
vs.MWCo3899 2 vswiliamscolege 2 5 :3  Harfpden-Sydney  ,3 SW,” 2 8 Cmnem lg  2a.m..‘-Vomon‘staaosse
8 pm,’ Lgnfgst 8 D m Lewes‘ V 2 Lemst. Ocelot Pay:
a. . Uriversity Wind Ensemble J‘   9 pm Gm .,  om. Troubaooar 5,». m..Le1:te$t Um. smawomsza
6 Q Mays Comedian ‘Marx Pitta‘ ‘R959’ SM. Yroubam ‘Fresh’
8:00 pm, GHQ .   8 L 4 , 2pm.. zenhsa Omw PW:
Heatth Ed.. ‘Straight Talk‘  3;30;,sm., womeris Terms ~-V <_ Campy  myumowmgi

organizations who participated in the

‘‘WOMEN IN ART” LIBRARY DISPLAY CASES

 

 

 S The Ring-tum Phi, March 8, 1996 V

 

CATCH THE FEVER 7 PM U ’
 :1 II nnjjaa. *a:*FREE TRIPS & CASH!!*** 9

§%' I TIVII W ll-I27 Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS or CASH withr

—,  _ America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun

C6“  Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL

More Monday, More Games, 833! Sarvlcel‘ (800) 95‘BREAK! ‘

172 Walker Street, Summit Square, next to the DMV
(540) 483-9664

;:::::.;':::;:::;:°°"" :.;;_; s PAID  Oogﬁwﬁgu 
. Z13? '2ZI..,...... ..  WEEK! 47' HOME;
PROCESSING   '"

  
  
    
   
    

Products!

* we often California Tan,
the nations #1 best selling

   

  

 

 

     

   

   

 

     
 

latlon! Y
‘ Certiﬁed consultants!
' New Member Special:
30 Days for $30 ~ __ V "
\ Mr      
8*:.:;.°: .":r.'.r=        
‘° '.s.-'.':: ;‘:.:r"'- NO EXPERIENCE 
10 man. - 11 p.m. _ . V _ p _ . . .

.2 ..:=..:-.-:*-:*:.'......  NECESSARY! .

on: ma: 1-Anulua SESSION M *3  DETAILS: RUSH LONG SASE '
one Coupon Pct customer 5”“ 3’''~W : . I 7’

1:-inure.-an-oi-In-c-t____uouv!.clcO)46O-065‘ 77“ '  
" ' T “ " ' ""”""""""""“"""""""“""““"'"“"‘——-—==-I--I-“"'---* , ' - $t3II.7".'II'E 216 
,_ ’ I. 35 1 3]’ as FEDERAL Eff? ' _
Crre RING Tum Pl-1’-l IS BROUGHT TO you   HOLLTKOOD  3 3030 C A
THIS week BY Tl-Fe Numaea <l~ “""‘““"""“"”"I E “" —‘ II’

EACH ENGLISH IN KORE/\— Positions available monthly. BA or 5.5. 1'

One urn /imi lei! gunning - $ 4 0. 00 degree requgedd. 5LJSd$l8,5OO—25,4O(fDgyrI. /‘xccognodatuorg & roundtrtp FREEM l I ,]r,,f,e,,(.::1,, MS. ssudeﬁts d Ov “B H d ‘
, r‘ r , r , C 55 oft 1', ; one is current avaia e or e e tu ents ationwi e. er i ion iin ai
ma. a.:5.%a;;".:.....f2..:;::?;aﬁ:5ft;.-a%0;i.:“t..gag. 2;. ea, newfdjggg gljtgéflntsnjre 0
n5’outA G.#m».S’t~et,e£1m»-glen 560U|.l<0r6a1?>5-090~ _ , l:°§fI§§.i°§§ro?.°na3o..fe;Ir°}g sr...r...’i.rr,.1.‘,.e.-r.§"s.;§l'.a'l"’. "5 '°° °' "5 °"’ "'

463 9588 EL: Ol1—82—2—555—JOB5(5627) FAX: O11-82—2-5o2—4r/\X(452 9) (I-800-263-6495 e_J._;tF5342I
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII *
I I
I ‘ ' I’ // 9 E : \  ; / E
: -ex 31‘ S : 7/lac?/date : \ ‘ v// :
I I mtnomae stones” ' _ ._ . r
: : : E   :

I. , i . . I
E D 0" t Let - 5 Hardware, Paint, and Related Items : a I‘ S :
E Your Student 5 Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. E . : 7*
: G0 Hun : E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186 : A B  E
I I I I
u I 8 am - 3 pm - Monday
: : 58 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday 5 y. V
: : : 8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday :
: :  : 9am-3pm-Sunday I.-
‘ I = I I
' I I I
: : "hi" ’ _. _ : Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad :
: :    : All you can eat $4.99 '_'
' I I I _t‘
E Nutritious Muffins & Egg Specialties 5 ' . 3 . E Thursday — 10% off food — with student ID 5 pl
: Fresh Salads & Soups : . ~ ‘ ‘ - . 
: Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees - ‘A : Friday - Seafood Nite - : l
- I V I - I ‘
: Candlelight Diners : 3p '0   9   to t : Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout : ,1 ’
I I E  _ A _ Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib, I l
5 Give Your Student : ; ‘ 0' Ia‘ company! Ftae I 2 Vegs’ Salad $895 1*
I . V - . . I ..  I j
: H . ; su plies. postage! No - rt
. a omecooked Meal With Our .  - t ! B . ! . . ,, 1
. _  .  . . _ . p H
: Point Card : :6 ‘nod.   . -
' 19w.w h‘ s.,Le‘ ,VA2 so - ‘ ' : - ’  I - . . ..
: as   44 : '““‘° '3“ °"‘““° :..1?.W;Y‘£a§.:*s£°:1.S.ta.‘:ez<:n.Is£9I:».‘£.£4.§9....: *

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII   ‘p

E    sac. some 216  
9W“”’““‘ ‘W’ 1861 u.EBnEmu.   
.'7{05Ei£)5 Lounge   I

      

e 7, Box 99A ‘
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Near the Home Center Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.
phone 4649499 The Buffet is served from 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m. .,

We’ll be waiting for you.

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to ?
Restaurant 11:00 a.m. to 9:30 p.m.

Berky’s
Route 11 North - Lexin ton VA 7‘

'lF?R__£.$vTRlP$ u

 

 

  

      
 

SPRING BREAK '96 - SELL - . . ‘I’ " " ' 'Is'%1'c'1i§'n" "§ir'1'-r"é'2?§' ' ' ' ' ' ' - ‘
 Do ‘mu want VISA 8: Mastercard Credit Cards‘? 1501  Ban BLVD ,
°3“‘JP“5 ’°P"°5°“‘a‘i"°5' L°“’°S""“° O? ' 0 Now you can have two of the Inuit recognized and nhnhuinnnz ' 

‘° "“““°“’ C‘“‘°““’ D*‘Y'°““ 3“ $55 ‘ I cranium mm: mnct..vIuo tuna uuuscasda ~

Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648

4849 n ¢au|;_"In your slime.‘ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN

2 lwmtW3ﬂ &m|t
ctutorrar 3-IAVI: BEEN nznnm DOWN’ annual
mean and Mirlnomil the cram cudsynu

cuanppmved mmredmey. too-A cuanrmnzana
denerve Ird need Cor-— ID—!!)OKS—DEPa\H'.Tl-SEN!‘
EH

I
g I
3 I
| I
[ I
1 I
- :
5'l‘O1tE5—11Jl110t¢-~E1~I‘1“£.R’!‘A.1l~MENT—- : NAME 1;
EIIJEMZY OKSH-TI2KE’!8—-—RESTAURANT‘3-— ' ﬁDDRESS .
| I
3 I
. I
| C
| I
5 I
3 I
L .2

Earn up to $2000+/mo. working for Crui
Shipsorhnnd-Touroompanics-+WorIdTrave
Seasonal and Full-Time employment avail
able. For info call:

206 971-3550 ext. C53421

E wo'rr::.s—Ma'ret.s—uns——cr-.n RENTa\15-
' Izemtns-annwo nun» roux cmmrr RNIINGI CIIY . STATE ._ ZIP __._..__....
STUDENT? Yes Na 53:

SIGNATURE

503% Iklaﬁad III qiauui uI&1nIﬂt d Ilﬂitilllili llﬂrmltknuli. ht.
Vining-ngtamurl IndzIIrtd'Vl$I\ll$n.ir:I¢Imdvt5Amk«ndonIl

nut. runs an nisx coupon rotuv

 

In turn downs!

wnﬂwm in credit checks!
“gt “g1S""" in security dcnnsit!
-*2...---t we
gut IV" Seam ms couron romw
Your: cnsnn cmns ARE wurtuc!

  

   

The Ring-tum Phi, March 8, 1996

    
  
    
 

i

Pep eridge Farm
Gar ic

 10 oz.

 
 
 

ﬁe

ﬁTT

'._.;'

I Harristeeter

Harris Teeter

Pizza

20.5-
22.85 oz.

2/O0

Ore-lda
Tater

TO  32 oz.

ers All Natural

ogurt Or

lee Cream

 
   

Winter sports
look to future

THE BIG FAN, from page 8

petition, in which the Generals could not compete.

The losses ofDavid Stillman and Craig Sears will hurt the
Generals, butjunior Steve Brigance, sophomore John Reed
and freshmen Brad Wymore and Tom Cox will return.

Oh yeah, did I mentionjunior Nathan Hottle, who tore up
the pool once again this season? Hottle automatically
qualified for the Division III championships in the 2001M
and 200 breast.

With Hottle still around next year, it’s hard to imagine the
men not remaining competitive.

Women’s Swimming (8-5): The Generals pieced to-
gether an impressive season and capped it with their third
straight ODAC/Atlantic States title.

Along the way, W&L extended its domination of the
ODAC to 25 straight meet wins.

As expected, senior Rebekah Prince swam superbly. She
was awarded ODAC Co-Swimmer ofthe Year and qualified
for the Division III championships in the 200 back.

The loss of Prince to graduation deals a huge blow to the
team. Still, the Generals, who are composed of almost
entirely underclassmen, should only improve next season.
Juniors Laura Marshall and Anne Spencer, sophomores
Bligh Wollner and Megan Wiedmaier and freshmen Marg-
aret Hoehl and Greta Richter provide an impressive founda-
tion for the Generals.

Wrestling (1-5): Things did not go as well as hoped for
the wrestlers this season.

W&L beat Johns Hopkins, 33-14, for their lone victory,
although the Generals fought valiantly in close losses to
Davidson, 25-24, and Newport News Apprentice, 25-21.

Senior Colin Looney grappled superbly this season,
finishing with a 10-9 record at 190 pounds. Junior Adam
Branson, sophomore Allen West and freshman John
Grumbine also turned in impressive performances. This trio
will return next season when the Generals hope to offset the
losses of seniors Looney, Rob deClerk and Cary Hansel, and
return to wrestling prominence.

Indoor Track: It may take a long time before W&L
athletics ever sees the likes ofsuperhuman senior Josephine
Schaeffer again.

After all, Schaeffer has a sport for every season: cross

PAGE 7

ATHLETE
or the WEEK

Amie Jenkins
Men’s Lacrosse

J unior Ande Jenkins has been a major con» .
tributor in the men’s1acrosse team ’s 3-0 start.

Last Wedensday "at Lynchburg, Jenkins
struck in a big way for W& L. Hejnotched four. . . '
goals, inciuding three in the ﬁnal period, as
W&L blew open the doors for an '11-5 win. , j _~

Jenkins foliowed that upwith three goals , ~
and two assists in a=15-3 demolition of Vita 
ginia Wesleyan. . Jenkins ‘has coliected 13
goals and 4 assists so far this season.

country in the fall, indoor track in the winter, and outdoor
track in the spring, and she runs each with astounding
success. Her latest accomplishments are wins in the one-
mile and two-mile runs at the ODAC championships and a
trip to the Division III championships in the 5,000 meter run.

Schaeffer may be irreplaceable, but the women’s track
team will still have plenty ofweapons. Juniors Nat Messmore
and Erin Gnidziejko, sophomore Carson Flowers, and fresh-
men lsaris Bonilla and Lisa Brennan will all return.

The men will have to cope with the losses ofseniors Brad
Paye, Harris Morrison and Stuart Hogue, but their arsenal is

      

* l 0' Stock Up & Save

far from empty. Omar Moneim and Marc Granger have
developed into serious shot put threats, and Sandy Hooper,
Jason Callen, Greg Ruthig and Will Olson have left their
mark in the running categories. It should not be surprising
if W&L improves on its third place finish at the ODAC
championships next season.

It would be easy to sweep this 20-55 winter sports record
under the carpet and move on, but that would not be doing

 

00

Senior Cam Dyer was
seiected to the GTE Col~

Senior Josephine
Schaeffer will compete

  

in the I)iViSi0n H1 Indbor Iege Division Academic these athletes justice. They gave their respective sports their
Track and Field Champi- AiI~Districtteam, covering best shot and we should recognize them for their efforts.
1  onships this weekend at Divisionll and III schoois, Success usually does riot come easily; it requires dedica-
Smith College. Schaeffer’ forthe second straight year. tion and time for rebuilding. With the abundance of young
- ' ' had rovisio all ual‘- D r is candidate fo the : 1 h ' t t , h ‘
H3"'!5 79919’ 5°’e.°t°d Va"°t'e5 O9 ﬁedlior the 3.005 inetér Gigs iscademic 311- aabiiiriiiutZ¥'2h‘Z'airp?$isv5§."ﬁi §~i“iJirii§Lyerfri§t°§y"?rZii
En "SI!   Nablsco Grahan, run in a January 2'? meet. America award’. winter, the athletes’ hard work will begin paying off.
uffms act. Orackers_rs.... ’ t J

$ A& AAAAAA

Chunk L_ight    

Starkrst 
na

   
 
   
  

  
    

AAAAAQ

 

 

6. 12 oz.
' Soft Drink, Feature

AAAAAAAAAAA’

AAAAAA‘

Hearty i

in FIAVUIAL run smu.

      

6 Pk. 12 Oz. Cans

oke Or Diet
Coke  

Selected Varie,ti

Ra u
Pasta auce

2/ O0

 

 

27.5-30 02.
F shl Sliced To Order Pantene Pro-V , m e 4
Lbew Sglt conditioner Or 3.-..i.-erie: 299
Ham lb. Shampoo __13 oz.
White Or Yellow Alpine Nestlé Assorted

Lace American _ 99
heese”°%.€"«¥.f:if-‘r’°"rr..

an .3/99¢,
Prices Effective Through March 12,1996

Prices In This Ad Effective Wednesday, March 6 Through March 12, 1996 I in our Lexington store as
Only. We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal r-ooa stamps.

®iyQj

A

  

Last Week:

BAassAi.l.- L, 6-1, at Mary Washington; L, 24-16, vs. WestVirginia
Tech; W, 9-6, vs. West. Virginia Tech

MLl\cnoass- W, 15-3, vs. Virginia Wesleyan

Wlncaosss - W, 11-5, at Bridgewater

M'IsNNis - L, '7-0, at James Madison

W'lkNNls - W, 9-0, at Hollins

. O
This Week
0
BA£lBALL- Sat. vs. Randolph-Maeo (2), 1:00 PM; ’l‘uea. vs.
Bridgewater, 3:00 PM; Thurs. vs. Savannah A&D(2), 1:00PM

MI..Acn.ossI- Sat. vs. Hampden-Sydney, 3:00 PM; h

Sun. vs. TBA, l2:00or3:00 PM (W&L Tourney)
WLACROBBl- Sat. vs. Colby-Sawyer, 3:00PM;

Thurs. vs. Lynchburg, 4:00 PM
M'l‘s:NNis- Sat. vs. Wooster, 1:00 PM
W'I‘:NNls- Sat. vs. Nazareth, 10 AM; vs. Rand-Macon, 2PM
GOLF - Thurs. at Emory & Henry, 12:30 PM

@112 itttng-tum ihlli

SPORTS

BASEBALL, TENNIS, LACROSSE, GOLF

‘ I ‘rt
MARCH 8, 19967

W&L splits wild series with W. Virginia Tech * 1

PAGE 8

 

By CHRIS PUGSLEY
Phi Staff Writer

innings.

Also, the Generals left ten

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team has put its highly
touted preseason standing to the test three times in the past two weeks
with matches against Guilford, Lynchburg and Virginia Wesleyan.
The Generals ran to easy wins in all three ODAC contests.

The Generals posted their first win in a 17-1 ODAC victory over
Guilford College on February 24,. The Generals were up 11-0 at the
half, and were never in danger of losing their lead.

Junior attack Ande Jenkins opened his season by scoring six
goals, while senior midfielders Jason Hurst and Adam Butterworth,
and sophomore attacks Tom Fallace and Sam Horstman each added
two. Three W&L freshmen, Andy Beckler, Johnny Gilman and
Steve Birdsall, made the first

Esposito, and Graig Fantuzzi to take a little back from this give

Highly-rated lacrosse squads
start spring in perfect fashion

crosse Tournament is scheduled for this weekend and the Generals
will be playing host to some tough competition. Seventeenth-ranked
Cortland State will play St. Mary’s (19) on Saturday at noon. Then the
ninth-ranked Generals will take on Hampden-Sydney (16). The
championship and consolation games will be played on Sunday.
The W&L women’s lacrosse team kicked off its competitive
season this past Wednesday with an ODAC matchup at Bridgewater
College. The Generals led 7-0 at the half against the Eagles.

But Bridgewater calne back in the second half, scoring four straight A

goals and cutting the Generals lead to three. But this was as close as
the Eagles would get, as sophomore Emily Gipson went on to score
her second goal of the game and sophomore Lorraine Taurassi
knocked in three straight. The Generals toppled Bridgewater with a
final score of 11-5.

W&L will be back in action at home tomorrow against Colby-
Sawyer College.

goals of their college careers .
Sophomore goalie Scott Jackson
and junior goalie Chris TeStrake
combined to make six saves
while allowing only one goal.

W&L had its second game on
the 28th in Lynchburg. The Gen-
erals had an easy 11-5 win over
the 22nd ranked Hornets.

   

Leading 9-6 in the seventh

inning, the Golden Bears came
to bat and scored four runs in the
top of the seventh.

con in a doubleheader.

l

Tennis begins seasonl

l
l

FROM Pm STAFF REPORTS 3

The W&L women’s tennis team began their season in style by
shutting out ODAC rival Hollins College, 9-0, on Wednesday.
Leading the Generals in the number one spot was senior Julie

W&L scored three goals
within 36 seconds to take a 5-2
lead in the first quarter, but then
hit a scoring drought that lasted
for over 33 minutes.

Lynchburg scored three be-
fore Butterworth could break the
Generals’ scoreless streak, up-
ping the score to 6-5. Jenkins

Ayers, who won her individual match. Sophomores Ericka Shapard
and Berry Blankinship won their two and three spot individual
matches and combined to win their doubles match.

Senior captain Shelley Sunderlnan, senior Helen Chandler and
freshman Mary Celeste Foster also had victories for W&L. Chan-
dler and Sunderlnan combined for a doubles victory. Ayers and
Foster also dropped their Hollins opponents in doubles competition.

The women are coming off their third-place showing last year at
the Division III Championships. They are ranked fourth in this

then scored three of his four goals
to ice the game.

The team made their ﬁrst
appearence at home last Satur-
day against Virginia Wesleyan.
Butterworth and Jenkins each
knocked in three goals and two
assists on the way to a 15-3 vic-
tory. Senior attack Russell Croft
also added two goals and three
assists. Jackson made five saves
and again allowed only one goal.

The 3rd annual W&L La-

The men’s lacrosse team, shown here in the 1995 Lee-Jackson Classic, is
poised for another strong campaign. W&L has started this season 3-0.

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

year’s preseason.

The women host Nazareth at 10 AM Saturday and will take on
Randolph-Macon at 2 PM. Sunday, they will take on Washington

College at 10 AM.

The men’s team lost their opening match against Division I

opponent James Madison, 7-0.

Freshman Dale Pretila fought hard, taking his opponent to a
tiebreaker in the second set, but lost, 7-6(4).

This week’s match against Division I Radford University was
postponed due to inclement weather.

This weekend, the men will take on Division III powerhouse
College of Wooster at 1 PM Saturday. Last season, the Generals beat

Wooster, 5-2.

Publications Board Notice

The Washington and Lee Universitg Publications Board is now accepting applications for the following positions: Executive
Editor and Business Manager of The Ping-tum Phi and Editor and Business Manager of the Calyx Those interested in opplging
should submit a resume and cover letter to The Ping-tum Phis mailbox in the Universitg Center bg March 25. I996. at 5 p.m.

Though experience is the most desirable qualitg of candidates. there are no official requirements for these positions and
all interested students are stronglg encouraged to applg.

Generals survive controversial second game ending after dropping 24-16 slugfest ,

J

Then, in the bottom of the ‘
_ seventh the Generals came to bat
It has been 3 season °_f gwe and attempted to at least tie the’
and lake for the Washlnglon score to force extra innings.
and‘-ee hasehah team ' _ With two out and a runner on
Afterdroppmgae-1decision second, freshman shortstop Pat to
t°M31')’ Washington Cehege °n Hall came to bat and ripped at
Thursday, the Generals settled single to left ﬁeld, scoring the
in at Smith Field for a weekend tying inn and evening the score
series with West Virginia Tech. at 10_10_ ,
Shnda)’ 3fte1'n°°n’s double‘ At that moment, the umpires .
headerwasshortenedtoonenine- stopped the game and gave the ll’
inning contest, and the Generals win to the Gene,aiS_
attempted to eutseere the highly The logic behind the decision
Poienl Golden Bea’ °ffense- was that the Generals tied the
This 3PPT°3eh Was n°lf3V°" score and calling the game re-
ableforthe Generals. Bothteams Vet-ted the official score hack to ‘,
enlnhlned for 40 runs and 34 the previous full inning, giving
hits, showing that the American the Genet-his a 9-5 win_
Pastime is not Yeah)’ that h°"ing- Matt Ennigiotti picked up his
This Ohtslanding slhgfest Te’ first win of the season, giving up
sulted in a 24-16 win for the only two earned nine in six in_ V
Golden Bears after only seven nings of work. ’‘
innings of 3°h°n- Freshman Bob Weston closed
But, the Generals showedthat the game out for his first ea 
a steep deficit is no call for giv- save ‘
ing up. Trailing 13-It in'the bot- pat Haiias gatne-tying sing
torn 0f the fohrlh lnnlnga the will neverbeseen in the offlcia
Generals stormed back with scoring not win Chad Reynolds’
seVen 1'“ns- _  ‘ performance in relief because ev-
b They vgreret lecztvliiyl/lsenlc;1rt;i‘rs‘; Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor erythihg that happened in that
aseman eson 1 er,w o a , , _ _ , , _ - '
two hits nd a ame_hi h four The baseball team rolled up a football score Sunday at windswept Smith Field, losing to West Virginia S°V°“t.h "mmg was chased‘
a - g g T h 24 16 Th bat c 01 d ff Monda b t th Generals still scored nine runs to earn a series s lit Th1stw°'gameS°"°Spr°V°d ‘t
runs halted 1n- ec ’ ' ' e S 0 e 0 y’ u e P ’ to be a give and take series forthe
J D_eSl>1te the eonstant barrage Generals, who now stand at 3-5
°f hns b)’ the Golden Bears: of‘ The Generals were hurt by runners On base and squandered each had two hits apiece and Will and take situation against West for the season.
fensea the Generals sllstalned Seventotalerrorsinthegameand SeV6ra10pp0rtuni1i6St0SCOr6ad- Jordan added two RBIs forWash- Virginia Tech. This time, Gen- Washington and Lee opens
the” Own Sconng anackasconng letting the Bears maintain their diti0n8l IUIIS» ington and Lee. erals baseball was sparked with up its ODAC schedule at home
lhlfteen runs In the final fol" scoring attack. Mark Sappenﬁeld, Tommy Monday, the Generals aimed a bit of controversy. Saturday against Randolph-Ma- *

D‘.

I

7

$-

I

V

4

 
 
  
  
 

I

 

 

    
     
 
 

  - tows iaiheaos
Mosﬂy"st;nny.' ‘ I
j  from‘

   

 
 

 

' .Q“'E\""lt.‘ .l..lEI-IARY
. Luz: UNIVEFISITY
<:ilON. VA 24450

  
 

 

1985-1995:

BREAKING THE  
GLASS CEILING 9

Women’: tennis

still perfect  ®

Uh ﬂing-tum lﬂhi

U!

3?

VOLUME .96, NO. 17

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

The Middle Ages the way they were meant to be

Contributed by M. Milagros Daly

 

The Society for Creative Anachronisms, which reenacts the dress and excitement of the Middle Ages, held a
mini-event at the Pavillion on Saturday.

   

(.

1

BY KERI ANNE DUNPHY
Phi Staff Writer

Last Thursday marked the convocation of
W&L’s Pi Beta Kappa Chapter, Gamma of Vir-

I ginia. Twenty-nine seniors and 12 juniors were

elected to join the 15 current seniors who, having
been inducted in their junior year, are already
members.

To achieve Pi Beta Kappa election, students
must have both “outstanding character and superior
academic records.” As a junior, this means having
a GPA at summa cum laude standing—a 3.80 or
higher.

Dr. Jarrad, Professor of Psychology and presi-
dent of the W&L chapter, introduced the keynote
speaker, Dr. Paul R. McHugh, Professor of Psy-
chiatry at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
McHugh, a graduate of Harvard College and Medi-
cal School, gave a lecture entitled “Consciousness
Revisited.”

McHugh ’s lecture addressed the so-called “mind-
brain” problem that pervades modern psychology.

Basically the problem is that we don’t know
what exactly consciousness is. That .is, we know
what we mean when we refer to consciousness;
McHugh explains that we recognize it as “subjec-
tive experience of our thoughts, feelings...the pain-
fulness of pain, the realness of real...ultimately the
me-ness of me.”

He says that “consciousness is the most imme-
diate of our experiences...[we are] more conscious
of ‘me’ than of anything else.” This consciousness,
however, somehow escapes explanations.

We do know, from various experiments and
tests, that it is a product of the brain, but just how the
brain is sufﬁcient enough to infer the subjective-
ness of experience remains a mystery. This is the
essence of the mind—brain problem.

The implications and importance of this prob-
lem differ in different branches of psychology. The
two main branches, neurosurgeons and therapists,
disagree on the relative importance of the problem.

The neurosurgeons, with a tendency to reduce
the “mind” to merely the brain, are suspicious of the
prtoblem, fearing that viewing the “mind” as any-

thing other than the brain introduces ghosts—the
infamous homunculus. This is anathema.

The clinical psychologists, however, hold that the
thing we call consciousness is untrustworthy in that
its contents are, or can become, distorted, ultimately
resulting in a false reflection of the truth. These

« 0
Speaker explains consciousness

this consciousness, compels us to see the truth.
McHugh quoted the seal of John Hopkins which
reads, “You shall know the truth and the truth
shall set you free.” The new Pi Beta Kappa
inductees are among the most outstanding in this
search for truth.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 15, 1996

Pornography sparks
heated debate at W&L

BY MICHAEL Hawusrr
Phi Associate Editor

For about two hours Tuesday, Wash-
ington and Lee University students and
faculty members debated, sometimes
hotly, the issue of pornography and
individual freedom.

The program, which was sponsored
by the Society for the Arts, included an
hour-long video called “Patently Of-
fensive: Porn Under Seige” that ex-
plored this controversal issue. After
the video, Associate Professor of Jour-
nalism Brian Richardson, Professor of
Law Randall Bezanson, Assistant Pro-
fessor of Religion Winifred Sullivan,
Assistant Professor of Art George Bent,
Justine LaMont ‘96, and Julie Doring
‘96 responded to the film.

Richardson started the discussion
by holding up a printout of a down-
loaded advertisement for sexually ex-
plicit videos off the net. The problem
he had was the definition of pomogra-
phy and who defines what is offensive
and what is not.

“The problem with freedom of ex-
pression is that I have to deal with
every nutcase’s definition of erotica.”

You also have to deal with the idea
of control that says you can’t see some-
thing because it is deemed offensive,
he argued. The question is where do
you draw the line, he said.

Sullivan said that to watch these
images in the film was to feel violated
as a woman, but she also had problems
with the film’s failure to make distinc-
tions between mainstream films and
hardcore porn. She also argued that the
film sets up a strict dichotomy between
women and men and portrays women
as victims.

Doring saw the problems of deﬁn-
ing community standards and not know-
ing how to stop the pornography.

Bezanson said he was most inter-
ested by the feminist critique of por-
nography that argues the increased ex-
posure by men to violent sexual images
of women leads to a legitimation of
certain behaviors by men toward
women.

I_aMont said she felt depressed af-
ter she saw the film by herself the first
time.

“I thought, ‘It sucks to be a
woman’,”she said.

But after she thought about it, she
said there needed to be a distinction
between men who can separate the
images he sees and reality and those
men who do not.

One student argued that community
standards usually hurt individual rights
and objected to the idea that ‘watching
pornography necessarily means that
one is sexist or disrespects women.

Awomaninthe audience responded
that she is simply tired of being seen as
a sexual object by men, and she said
she fears that men who watch pomo-

, graphic material might be more likely
to think that way.

Sullivan agreed.

“The women who are the victims
are the second hand victims who must
deal with men who have certain images
of women.”

Bent argued that economic forces
must’ be dealt with and that images are
more powerful than words.

“Everyone is virtual literate. Im-
ages are always struck down first.”

Still most agreed that pornography
represents the ultimate tension between
free speech and the toleration of what
many argue are dangerous and destruc-
tive images of women.

Journalists to talk
ethics in Roanoke

From Phi Staff Reports

Bill Kovach, curator of the N ieman
Foundation for Journalism at Harvard
University, will present a lecture, “Tom
Carlson or His Dog,” at Washington
and Lee University’s Journalism Eth-
ics Institute at the Hotel Roanoke on
Friday, March 15, at 5 p.m.

This year the Journalism Ethics In-

illusions, they
claim, are the cre-
ationsofself-serv-
ingwishes and de-
sires. The mes-
sage of reality,
then, is not clear
as the neuroscien-
tists claim, but
rather a distortion.

Both sides,
however, ignore
the fundamental
issue of con-
sciousness: what
brings it to life. - ---- 2 "

This question ‘
is, for now, un-
answered. The
implications of
what conscious-
ness is, how-
ever, are far-
reaching.

M c H u g h
claims that con-
sciousness intro-
duces freedom,
that “radical, fun-
damental deﬁning
aspect of our be-
ing” into our na-
ture. Human be-
ingsare,by nature,
free. Itisthis free-

dom that allows us
to see the implica-
tions of our ac-

 

Never fear...Spring is almost here!

 

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

tions, thus allow-
ing us to be brave,
courageous, or
even just us.
This freedom,

With the disappearance of_ snow and the recent stretch of warmer weather, we are reminded
that spring is coming. The season officially begins March 20.

stitute will be held at the Hotel Roanoke
in conjunction with a regional meeting
of the Association for_ Education in
Journalism and Mass Communication
in Roanoke. The public is invited to
attend.

Kovach, a member of the Nieman
Class of 1988-89, is former editor of
the Atlanta Journal and Constitution
and former Washington bureau chief
of The New York Times. During his
tenure in Atlanta, the Atlanta Journal
and Constitution newspapers were
nominated for seven Pulitzer Prizes
and received one each year.

Prior to that, Kovach had a distin-
guished two-decade career with The
New York Times as an editor and re-
porter. From 1978-86, he served as
chief of The Times’ Washington bu-
reau. Before joining The Times,
Kovach was a reporter for six years
with The (Nashville) Tennessean where
he covered Appalachian poverty, the
civil rights movement, and Southern
politics. He began his career at the
Johnson City (Tenn) Press-Chronicle.

Kovach was awarded the New York
State Bar Association Award in 1968,
the Society of the Silurians Award for
spot news writing in 1969, and the
National Mental Health Association
Bell Award in 1965. he is a member of
the board of directors of National Pub-
lic Radio, and is on the advisory board
of the International Media Fund; the
20th Century Fund Task Force on Presi-
dential Debates; the International
Women’s Media Foundation; the War-
saw Journalism Center Foundation; the
Committee to Protect Journalists; the
James Agee Film Project; Africa News;
the Encyclopedia of the Appalachians;
the television program Frontline; the
Knight Program for Specialized Jour-
nalism at the University of Maryland;
as well as other journalism programs.

The Journalism Ethics Institute is
part of Washington and Lee’s program
in applied ethics, society and the pro-
fessions. The Institute brings nation-
ally recognized scholars to the campus
each year to engage in an intensive
schedule of seminars with undergradu-
ate students and visiting practitioners
in the ﬁeld ofjournalism ethics.

 

 

BEYOND
THE BLUE RIDGE

Scottish children, teacher

shot by former scout leader

Dunblane, Scotland—‘Sixteen kindergartners and their teacher were
killed Tuesday when a fonner boy scout leader stormed their school,
shooting first the children and then himself.

The man, identiﬁed by police as Thomas Hamilton, was carrying four
handguns for which he had a permit, although he had been investigated
numerous times for charges of child abuse and child pornography. Twenty
years ago, Hamilton was also dismissed as a scout leader because of
allegations that he conducted himself improperly with the young boys.

Hamilton had recently expressed his anger concerning his dismissal in
a letter to Queen Elizabeth; however, police say that they have not yet
established his motive for the mass killing.

Abdul-Rauf fined for breaking
NBA rule regarding anthem

Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf of the Denver Nuggets is losing $31,707 per
game missed for his violation of NBA policy which states that all players
must stand in an orderly fashion for the playing of the National Anthem.

Abdul-Rauf, a devout Muslim, insists that standing for the Anthem is
against the principles of the Koran which he says ban nationalistic
ceremony.

Critics, including other Muslim NBA players, say that the Koran
requires respect for national symbols, and that it forbids only the worship
of such symbols. Officials also maintain that Abdul-Rauf’s suspension
without pay is a matter not of religion, but of adherence to league rules. The
suspension will remain in effect until Abdul-Rauf expresses his willing-
ness to comply with the league requirements.

Clinton hosts summit of world

leaders in search of peace

Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt—Along with Egyptian President Hosni
Mubarak, President Clinton hosted a summit of world leaders Wednesday
in order to establish a new mood of peace for the Arab world.

All those attending, including the leaders of Arab countries, expressed
their grief at the tragic suicide bombings in Israel. Many leaders also called
for an effort by the summit to locate the terrorist group, Hamas, which is
being held responsible for the bombings, and to send a ﬁrm message to all
countries that the age of terrorism is over.

Arab leaders, however, also expressed their concern that Israel will
punish innocent Palestinians within its borders for the workings of the
Palestinian terrorist group, and warned that such action on the part of the
Israelis will not be taken lightly.

Beyond the Blue‘Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

GOP WATCH

 

Editor’s Note: GOP Watch will con-
tinue to appear until a Republican presi-
dential candidate is chosen, in order for
students to compare the results of the
Mock Convention with the results of the
Republican primaries.

Forbes withdraws from race

Steve Forbes formally announced his withdrawal from the race for the
Republican presidential nomination on Thursday. Forbes had originally
planned to stay in the race until next week’s Midwestern primaries. Forbes
endorsed front-runner Bob Dole and urged Dole toadopt his ﬂat tax plan.
In the end, Forbes has collected 71 delegates, less than 10% of the 996
needed to win the nomination, and spent $25M and $30M of his own
money.

Dole sweeps Super Tuesday

Bob Dole won a commanding victory over Pat Buchanan and Steve
Forbes in Tuesday’s Super Tuesday primaries in 7 states, which included
Texas, Florida, Louisiana, Tennessee, Oregon, Oklahoma, and Missis-
sippi. With the gain of 345 delegates on Tuesday, Bob Dole has virtually
locked up the Republican presidential nomination. Analysts have pre-
dicted that Dole will reach the needed number of delegates on March 26
with the California, Nevada and Washington primaries, if the race contin-
ues without any major controversies. Dole stated on Tuesday, “Today the
American people in seven states chose the conservative they want to lead
America, chose the conservative that they want in the White House, and all
seven states chose Bob Dole...The only Tuesday that is going to be more
super than this is Tuesday, November 5.”

Buchanan threatens to run as

a third party candidate

In Toledo, Ohio, conservative commentator Pat Buchanan sent a clear
message to Sen. Robert Dole (R-Kan.) and the GOP establishment: keep
up the insults and I might spoil your party next fall. “If they keep slamming
the door in your face and they tell your people you don’t want them, then
you’ve got to think about what you’re going to do?” What people fear he
might do is bolt the GOP and mount a third party candidacy, which might
hurt the Dole campaign and divide the Republican Party. Still, he still
maintains his loyalty to the party.

GOP Watch is compiled
by Laura Knapp

BY MANDY STALLARD
Special to the Phi

So you thought you had fun at Mardi
Gras? You should have seen the par-
ties in Managua! Wild parties, drunken
nights, and good times are what col-
lege is all about.

Most W&L students, not wanting to
break the tradition just because school
is out, flee to hot spots like Cancun or
the Bahamas for break.

One daring new professor, Cathy
Cuppett, and our group of 15 W&L
students managed to forego this cus-
tomary wild week in order to do some-
thing “better” over February break.
Taking the reigns of responsibility, J enn
Beam and Dave Foster led our group of
“brigadistas” to Nicaragua for some
crazy times of our own.

“So what’s the night life like in
Nicaragua?” you may be asking, as did
one freshman brigadista, Sam Levine.

After spending some time in a night-
club in Managua, Nicaragua’s capital,
sophomore Stefan Neumeister can tell
you about his experiences with a former
Miss Nicaragua.

Race Cannon can show you some
dance moves he learned to such

Wild nights in Ilicaragua,

The Rin -tum Phi March 15 1996

 

P

wonderful sources of just about any-
thing you could need, which became
important to us after five days of not

We were fortunate to have time to
spend “seeing the sights”, visiting the
beach, and were rewarded with a
beautiful sland excursion at the end
of the trip.

was not in Manic Managua, however,
but in the peaceful Acedades. We drove
into the little town, where eager chil-
dren awaited to catch sight of the “grin-

what we could offer their impover-
ished town. We came as more than just
visitors. We came as “amigos” and
“hermanos” that lived as they lived, ate
what they ate (rice and beans), slept
under their serene stars, awoke when
they awoke (to roosters with no con-

 

Nicaraguan favorites as “We Ain’t
Gonna Take It” and “Pour Some
Sugar on Me.”

I, myself, can tell you about 38-
year-old men who like blondes.

Although fun and excitement
permeated our trip throughout, what
most of us would rather tell you about
is what we did there and what it

One 7//n/imifecl janning - $40.00

cept of time), and did for them as much
as we were able. We worked hard all
day, helping to build a lavandero and a
school. We made friends and memo-
ries to last a lifetime.

The impression of the children, with
their beaming innocent smiles and
malnourished little bodies, will remain
imprinted on our minds forever.

The goodness of the people, their
sense of community, and the happiness
they held in their hearts despite their
situation will remain permanently in
our hearts as well.

The excitement of the trip may fade
over time, but our memories and the

meant to us.

Nicaragua has always been a hot
bed of excitement, following years of
military dictatorship and revolution.
The world will be watching this presi-
dential year to see if a new government
can-take over peacefully so that stabil-
ity may finally be established.

The instability and poverty we found
in Nicaragua are common among such
Third World nations, but we’re quite a
shock to us. Americans can’t quite
grasp the concept of hotels with barbed
wire, attack dogs, and guards carrying
AK 47’s. Despite these few foreboding
aspects, however, we found Managua
beautiful and welcoming.

The Managuan markets are an ex-
citing world unto themselves, as you
try to haggle in a language you can
barely understand. The markets are

will not. I may get to Mardi Gras on’
these breaks, and have a wonde
time, but this trip will remain the mo '
meaningful and important experience
of my life.

 

having our luggage. .,(

The most memorable part of the trip’

gos” and adults waited patiently to see+

impact we had on theirtiny communit M

V

up

I

V

TEACH ENGLISH IN KOREA Positions available monthly. B./\. or 5.5.
degree required. U5 $i8,500—25,400/yr. Accomodatiori & rourid-trip

  
 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
. *— '.'_

   

Go Hungry

Nutritious M uﬁins & Egg Specialties
Fresh Salads & Soups
Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

Candlelight Diners

Give Your Student
a Homecooked Meal With Our

Point Card
19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

   
 

   

  

iiiestaurant and
9{o65ie’5 Lounge

e 7, Box 99A
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Near the Horse Center
Phone 464-9499

Lounge open 4:00 p.m. to ?
Restaurant 11:00 am. to 9:30 p.m.

7

   

 

. airfare provided. Send resume, copy of diploma and copy of passport to: ‘S
7/”""""‘ Bok Ji Coprporatiori, Chum Bang Bldg, 15445 Samsurig Dong, Karig Nam Gu,
7 1 gulh gielﬁrréon .S)lree[, ollexinglon 5COUl, KOV58  .
4639388 TEL: on-s2-2—sss—.JoBs(se27) FAX: Oll~&2-2—552—4FAX(4529)
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII Y
mnowaae SYORES "’
)
D0” t Let Hardware, Paint, and Related Items 
Your Student Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m. I “
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

coon
WEEKLY
INCOME  
processing mail for
national company! Free
su plies. postage! No
se ling! Bonuses! Start
immediate! l Genuine
opportunity! shS.A.S.  
GHC. SUITE 216
1861 mrmmnnr. -  
oI.I.‘1HooD.FI. 3302  

 

mt, ._ ..r

 

“The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 

Page 3

TARAH GRANT

., PHI STAFF REPORTER

Coeducation has been an exciting topic of
conversation in Lexington this year. In this
week’s issue of The Washington Post Maga-

V zine journalist Liza Mundy suggests that VMI

peer over their obstinate walls at its neighbor
Washington and Lee University. While VMI
continues to debate the admission of women,
W&L is amidst a celebration of the ﬁrst decade

,( of coeducation.

In charge of this celebration is Decade, a
group of women students, faculty, and admin-
istration.

“The purpose of Decade is to celebrate that
we have been coeducated for ten years and also
to recognize the contribution coeducation has
made to the campus,” said senior Kelly del
Campo, a member of the Decade Steering Com-
mittee.

The positive effect coeducation has had on

if the university is clearly evident in admission

trends. Ten years ago, W&L admitted 60% of

its applicants; 45% of those students were ranked

‘the ﬁrst quintile of their high school class.

. st year, W&L had a 29% acceptance rate and

4» 0% of those students were ranked in the ﬁrst

‘ quintile. Several college guide books describe

W&L as progressing from the “Best Kept Se-

cret of the South” to one of the most prestigious
schools in the nation.

But coeducation did much more than raise

"I admission standards. “What it really did was

give a necessary dimension to our university,”

~Chan,
master
«of pain
Rumbles
to U.S.
theaters

‘IIIIIIIIIII

prize as an incentive. The winner will be
chosen not necessarily on talent but on popular

appeal.”
Decade is also looking into the possibility of

said Professor Russell Knudson who is now in
his third decade of teaching at W&L.

“It brought in different ways of thinking,
different perspectives, and different points of
view. The campus was terribly monochro-
matic before and coeducation brought an en-
ergy, the kind of energy that comes from
diversity.”

When planning a calendar of events for the
Decade celebration, the steering committee
wanted to highlight this diversity and show
how women have contributed to all aspects of
university life.

to a Decade fund that will establish a $250
award to be presented to a rising junior each
year.

Selected by co-ed panel of student lead-
ers, the recipient will be a female student
who demonstrates excellence in academics
and extracurricular activities and inspires
leadership in others.

Some female students believe that the
award is one of the only positive aspects of
the Decade celebration because it is recog-
nizing women’s academic achievements.
“The Decade Committee seems to be illus-

[n_]anuary’[he De- trating that women’s
cade committee pre— m3}fl C0F_1C9TnS are
pared a library display their physical appear-
case on women in ath- ance and social activi-
1etics_ ties,” said Rachel

This monththere is G0ddU- _

a display of artwork 5heP°1“t5°“th°W

by university women
on the second ﬂoor.

Decade also sponsored several female guest
lecturers and performers for the GHQ.

Currently, Decade is planning a Battle of
the Bands which will be held in conjunction
with the spring carnival on May 24.

“We wanted to plan an activity that the
entire student body would enjoy,” explained
Junior Megan Flohr who is in charge of the
Battle of the Bands competition.

“We had initially thought about reviving
confetti’s, which were what the ﬁrst class of
women called the co-ed parties that they orga-
nized, but there were problems concerning fund-
in .
gThe low cost of sponsoring a Battle of the
Bands will allow us to offer a substantial cash

sponsoring a “kissing booth” at the spring car-
nival.

Money collected from these events, as well
as on-going T-shirt and bake sales, contributes

KURT SUsoNG
PHI MoviE REviEwER

Rumble in the Bronx-79i"kﬁ'

Rumble in the Bronx is Jackie Chan’s latest attempt to jump into the American market. After
a few failed ﬁlms in the eighties, this mega-star from the East decided to try once again. Like
another Hong Kong export, John Woo, he is likely to fare much better the second time around.

Chan plays Keung, who has just come across the Paciﬁc to New York for his uncle’s marriage.
But his uncle is also selling his grocery store in the Bronx to a successful Asian businesswomen,
Elaine (Anita Mui), so Keung decides to stay around and help her transition into the business. This
being the Bronx, Keung soon enough gets caught up in some gang warfare and stolen diamonds,
all while befriending a crippled boy and his attractive older sister Nancy (Francoise Yip).

The plot is a horrid mishmash of ideas, running in several different directions at once. At the
same time, the characters are absurd caricatures and stereotypes, most of them not interesting in
the slightest. But who cares?

To be fair, Rumble in the Bronx is the type of film that movie reviewers and ﬁlm critics have
absolutely no business talking about. This movie could care less about character development,
plot twists, camera angles or realistic dialogue. It has one purpose and one purpose only: to let
Jackie Chan amaze us.

Luckily, it does this very well. This ﬁlm is all about Jackie Chan’s incredible athleticism and
the ﬁght choreography which demonstrates this superbly. Action stars come in a wide range of
types: Van Damme uses a dancer’s quickness and grace, but Wesley Snipes relies upon pure,
animalistic power and force.

Jackie Chan is simply in a league all his own. He is more impressive than any of them, while
moreover being unexpectedly clever. When you consider that he does all his own stunts, it would
also be fair to call him braver than the rest of his American colleagues.

In fact, be sure you sit through the credits at the end of the film, where out-takes show all the

failed stunts. In some of them Chan seriously hurts himself, and many people are carried of the -

set in stretchers. Apparently he acted in much of the film with a broken foot in a cast.

#6

several of the events

on the Decade calen-
dar deal with eating, cooking, ad exercise an
how the T-shirt design is a picture of women
at a party.

In response to opinions such as this and
comments that the Decade events seem to
celebrate women rather than coeducation,
the Decade Committee sent out a newsletter
to faculty and administration last week ask-
ing for ideas on other activities to include.

“Members from Women and Leader-
ship, Women’s Forum, and Panhellenic have
planned the event but it celebrates everyone
and we want to include other organizations
as well,” said del Campo.

The coeducation celebration is not just
about women. It is about W&L.

Celebrate coeducation

He Said...

“Better Coeds than Dead-
heads.”
--Banner at the 1984 Mock
Democratic
Convention

“Most girls are going to enroll
here becaue this is Where the boys
are.”

--W&L Professor

“Women are the most beautiful
things God put on earth, but they’re
so much messier than men.”

--Big “John” Alexander W&L
custodian.

“I will truly miss the mystical
all-male quality of W&L, but I am
confident that admitting women is
a postiive move, and one that will
make W&L a stronger institution
in the future.”

—Co1e Dawson 1984 student

But more than action, this ﬁlm is also part comedy. Jackie Chan combines tremendous agility

 

with humor and light——heartedness of physical comedian. Numerous reviewers have pointed out
that he has more in common with Buster Keaton and Charlie Chaplin than with Van Damme or
Steven Seagal, and I would completely agree. He is not afraid to lighte the tension of a violent
sequence by ﬁghting with all sorts of silly objects, from exploding mustard bottles to refrigerator
doors.

Although I am completely willing to dismiss Rumble in the Bronx's disastrous plot and
character, there is one terrible mistake which is too obvious to let go unmentioned. The ﬁlm
supposedly takes place in New York, but it was actually ﬁlmed in British Columbia to cut costs.
The result is that the location looks nothing like New York at all.

In several sequences, we can see towering mountain ranges in the background, followed by a
distant shot of the Manhattan skyline to remind us where this is suppose to occur. Oddly enough,
there is nothing particularly important about setting the ﬁlm in the Bronx; it is completely
incidental to the action of the ﬁlm. A'Ithough‘Ri'4mb‘le in Vancouver'l'acks some of the punch, it ;
would have been a much less perplexing title. I

On the whole, Rumble in the Bronx is not going to win any Oscars. But it doesn’t want to,
anyhow. This ﬁlm is simply a lot fun, and at the heart of it is Jackie Chan’s dynamic personality
and excellent ﬂair for action sequences. Rumble in the Bronx bodes well for the future of Jackie
Chan’s American career.

ﬁﬁﬁﬁ-Go by this as soon as it comes out on video.
It is an instant classic. “You’ll laugh; you’ll cry; and
maybe, just maybe, you’ll learn something about your-
self.”

75757}-Go see this ﬁlm now, while it’s still on the big
screen. It’s woi1h a few Oscar nominations and the
seven bucks you’ll pay if you see it outside Lexington.
Overall, “Better than Cats!”

7375'-Okay, so there have been better ﬁlms. Neverthe-
less, it is a good exgmple of its genre, and you should

probably see it on videotape. Still, probably “Better tharj
Cats!”

SQ’-It happens to be on HBO, and you’re blowing off
tomorrow’sreading. Although your time would probably
be better served on your education, its free and you’re
bored, so go ahead and watch it.
0-Even if its free and your best friend said he never

laughed harder, trust me, this one sucks. Don’t waste your
time, or at least don’t waste it on this. (There’s always

MTV)

The teenage movies that Larry Clark really grew up with
always struck him as curiously ﬁctional. “They never used
kids the right age, always actors playing younger. They
make it a happy ending, or do something that doesn’t ring

,3 true,” Clark recalls. “It’s never real.”

In his directories debut, Larry Clark has indeed deﬁed the
pattern of movies past — employing a host of actors barely
past adolescence, ensuring an all but happily ever after
ending — and just how “real” the resulting motion picture
Kids is remains for its viewer to decide.

Certainly the movie is based very solidly upon the grim
adolescence the American inner city now offers its young.

“This is a story that has to be written from the inside,”
Clark decided when first considering the project that has
produced Kids. “It needs to be written by a kid.”

4 And so to a kid he turned, to one Harmony Korine, whom

he had met while practicing his skateboarding technique in
Manhattan’s Washington Square Park.
Korine had introduced himself to Clark as a filmmaker
and a writer, with a 35 page screenplay behind him, and he
. now found himself presented with the challenge of capturing
in print the young world of the American city.
“I ’ve been waiting all my life to write this story,” Korine
told Clark as he undertook the project.
Three weeks later, the script was ﬁnished. Clark received
the work with excitement, meanwhile, ﬁnding in the very

V same park in which he and Korine had first met kids who

seemed perfect for the parts the script created.
A year’s setback followed, however, as the forces of

able to get the ﬁlm I wanted.”

The ﬁlm that stems from Clark’s steadfast belief is a
ﬁctional drama covering 24 compelling, violent, powerful
and yet typical hours in the everyday lives of four teenagers

 

V.
4
,, producers Gus Van Sant, Michael ambers and Patrick KIDS
CINDIE YOUNG I’/anilzlarellaa Ed co-£rlpduc_e:'(s lCatpy Kograda Christine ***1/2
ac an an uren aznic s ow y com me .
PHI FEATURES EDITOR Some 75 kids were eventually were assembled to act
within the movie, with a core cast of about 40 actors. SCALE;
“I always wanted to make the teenage movie that I felt “I know what I was doing because I know what I wanted
8' America never made,” director Larry Clark admits. the ﬁlm to be,” Clark says, “and I just believed I would be ****

Like, orgasmic

and the circles within which they move. *,§*

The ﬁlm is so convincing that the audience member
might well forgetwhat the are watchin is not actuall real.

“Some people ask me if Kids is a dgocumentary. yThey Pretty good
can’t believe it’s scripted and acted, but it is,” Clark says.

If the movie itself is engaging, its power lies not just as **1/2
much in the reﬂection it provokes in its audience.

The controversy that has surrounded this movie, earning I511’: ANYTHING
it an NC-17 rating amidst a storm of praise and criticism.

All this talk doesn’t really upset Clark, though. “Maybe else playing?
it will start a dialog, you know. That would be good,
between parents and their kids. Maybe they’ll talk about ‘kﬁ

some things that, you know, maybe they don’t normally talk
about.”
If nothing else, Kids promises much to consider.
“These kids aren’t stylish, pretty or terribly expressive,”

Not recommended

critic Janet Maslin writes. “But they are frighteningly *7

familiar. You could ﬁnd their counterparts on any New _

York comer, and if you see Kids, you’ll never look at them Insulting

in the same way again.”

The SAB will present Kids Friday, March 15, and N0 STARS

Saturday, March 16, in the Troubadour Theater; there will

be a 7 p.m. and 9 p.m. showing both nights. Entrance will be PURE CRAP

free, but seating will be limited.

ALEX CHRISTENSEN
PHI STAFF WRITER

Kids is probably the hardest-to-review ﬁlm of
the year. It’s hard because Kids aspires to a lot by
exploring the lives of some New York kids who
are especially repellent. You can’t like them. You
can barely sympathize with them.

It’s easy to say that that is the whole point of the
ﬁlm, but it’s too easy. In this explanation, the
makers ofKr'ds, Larry Clark, a photographer turned
director, and Harmony Korine, the screenwriter
who wrote the ﬁlm while not yet out of high
school, are showing us this ﬁlm to show us that our
society is creatingthese people who have no moral
center, no concept of the future, no reason to act
like anything other than the animals they treat
others as.

It’s an absolute trip to hell. I have also been
sayingthat I would never want to see itagain, since
it was so jarring and repulsive. But lately I have
begun to reconsider the part about never seeing it
again. I have realized that these kids are not just
characters in a cheap, documentary-style morality
tale, but they get under your skin after a time.

Telly, played by Leo Fitzpatrick, who also
contributed to the storyline, is an unforgivably
horrible kid, no one you’d want to know, but after
seeing the ﬁlm, you feel you do know him. It’s
unpleasant that you could get to know someone
like that so well. It’s fun escapism when it’s
Anthony Hopkins as Hannibal Lecter. But when
Clark and Fitzpatrick show you the inner workings
of Telly, you can’t just stop shuddering when you

 

e makin ..........The movie

step out of the theater and go have ice cream (or,
like, Kool Aid). It’s not a fun, icy scare, but a deep,
chest-centered, emotional reaction.

Justin Pierce as Casper, Telly’s friend, is a lost
kid. He seems to have the feelingthat he’s missing
the party, and we want to tell himthat this is just the
best party to miss that there ever will be, but in the
end, there’s no other direction for him to go. I
mean, there is, of course. Anyone could tell you
what it is. But there are no signiﬁers in Casper’s
life that would give him the hint. He probably
wouldn’t take it anyway. So why is he the most
likable character in the ﬁlm (besides the little kid
who loves Jesus Christ)? There’s no answer. You
can run the movie over and over in your head and
ﬁnd every reason to hate the boy. But finally, you
smile when remembering him.

Jennie is the third unforgettable character. She
seems to be the only one who has a conscience, a
hope. Chloe Sevigny plays Jennie almost as a
victim of that hope. It victimizes her, then leaves
her. The only character who dared to look beyond
her surroundings is the first to feel the conse-
quences. But Jennie is not an innocent victim. No
one in this film is.

Maybe that’s what makes it hard to shake. As
audiences, we are used to having a hero to do battle
with the forces of evil. This ﬁlm is ambivalent,
realistic, truthful about characters who have not
had the luck to be written for such a clear-cut ﬁlm.

Finally, a word about the idea that the ﬁlm is
cheap exploitation of children. I can’t agree with
this, but I can certainly understand where that
sentiment comes from. There’s nothing in this ﬁlm
that young kids should see. Get it?!

 

  

PAGE 4

Ellie Ring-tum lﬂlii

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

Journalism’s invisible choices

In today’s political climate, journalists, whether in
print or broadcast, are vilified as cold-hearted,
aggressive, liberal and amoral individuals. James
Fallows recently authored a book entitled Why
Americans Hate the Media. The answer is simple:
Americans hate the media because they do not perceive
the media doing anything ethical or anything
worthwhile. Instead, they see journalists grab for the
lowest and basest common denominator. The prime
example of this was the O.J. Simpson trail, a trail that
both attracted and sickened many Americans at the
same time.

Surely, journalists cannot be all that bad, but they
can do better. This weekend’s Journalism Ethics
Institute, which is sponsored by the W&L Journalism
Department, certainly could be a start. Institutes like
these bring forth issues such as confidentiality and
invasion of privacy that journalists might not think
about on a daily basis. When deadlines cut close,
editors and reporters mustmake quick decisions, and
ethics gives them a framework from which to work. It
allows them to consider the implications of their
decisions and who will be affected by them.

Besides, as journalists, we don’t write for
ourselves. We provide information to the public as a
service. It only makes sense that we think about the
consequences of our decisions. If we don’t, then we are
being irresponsible and not fulfilling our obligations to
the readers. Of course, not every decision that we
make will make readers happy nor will it always make
us happy.

What counts is the careful weighing of the ethical
decisions and having the ability to make the tough
choices. Readers need to know that they can trust us
and that we will make at least a fair decision even if
they don’t agree with it—whether that involves
publishing a controversial article or dealing with
anonymous sources.

The moment we stop asking, “What is the right
thing to do?”, that is the moment we forfeit our
responsibility as journalists and our right to call
ourselves journalists. If we don’t take heed the notion

‘ of public service that’journalisrn'req‘uires and the

ethical decisions that are involved, then we really can’t
complain when we are hated by the public. It only
means that we’re not doing our jobs.

-- M.H.

Quote of the Week

“Ah, signs of spring... a couple of Thetas jogging
down my road in very short shorts.”

-- Students commenting on the gifts of spring.

@112 mug-him lﬂlii

Executive Editors Fmily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett
News Editor Christine Gamavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary C00mbS
Sports Editor 591'" B00l<W3ll°|'
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor Cindie Young, Courtney E. Miller
Photography Editor 3&5)’ Glee"
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager R0b¢l'l Nelson
Assistant Business Manager D0118 G°“"°l'
Advertising Manager lcnnlfef Glam
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne AlV0|’d

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, roorri 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail phi@wIu.edu

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996

Alarmist authors

 
    
   

MY VIEW
Joshua Heslinga, ’98

Any_of you guys out there had a
problem with your manhood lately?
Well, the environmental movement has
now come galloping to your rescue to
proclaim that unseen toxic manmade
chemicals that act like human hor-
mones are the problem.

What am I talking about? Thisweek,
a new book, called Our Stolen Future,
purports to document that synthetic
chemicals, such as those in everything
from detergents to plastic water jugs,
are responsible for a plunge .-'2 world-
wide sperm counts, among other things.
Esquire magazine went a step further
when it quoted a former government
ofﬁcial linking the same chemicals to
lesbian birds on the Great Lakes. (I
wonder who’ll be the first gay rights
activist to object to this link between
homosexuality and chemical contami-
nation.) No less an authority than our
vice-president has written a foreword
to the book, proclaiming it the next
great step forward in the tradition of
chemophobic environmental books
like 1962’s Silent Spring.

There’s only one problem. Even
the authors admit that they can’t prove
their thesis. Indeed, much of the evi-
dence that does exist clearly seems to
contradict the authors’ doomsday pre-
dictions of the loss of humanity’s abil-
ity to reproduce, as The Washington
Times documented recently in an edi-
torial.

A 1992 article in the Wisconsin

Medical Journal “found no evidence
of a decline in semen quality in our
Wisconsin population over a 10-year
period.” A study mentioned in the April
1995 Journal of Urology concluded
that there had been “no signiﬁcant
change in semen parameters over the
past 25 years.” And Newsweek ac-
knowledged in its article on the scare
that a comprehensive Columbia Uni-
versity study is expected to reveal no
decline in sperm counts at all.

GENERATION Lax

Spring is in the air...

cwu onus!

we're Havma T .
cuss ourswt!

 

Sadly, this type of pseudo-scien-
tiﬁc environmental hysteria is the rule
rather than the exception for the radi-
cal environmental movement. I was
recently forced to suffer through read-
ing a book titled The Green Revolu-
tion, by Kirkpatrick Sale, that offered
all the environmentalist propaganda
you could want (and a whole lot more).

i The author repeatedly attempts to
bias his readers

     
     

  

 

>
Y
1-
1'9 HEMP Till” 5»
u&L fR0T55'5°3S
were gcczurrucr
i
7
‘ﬁr
3-7 V
R”: I

sound eco-threa  I r

countries don’t merit the same criti-
cism that the United States receives,
despite the fact that they cause many of
environmentalists’ pet peeves, such as
rainforest destruction or the popula-
tion explosion. (When was‘ the last
time you saw Midwestern farmers tak-
ing their John Deeres to dense patches
of rainforest? More seriously, when
was the last time Virginia performed

forced abortions

against Western in order to adhere
capitalist cul- —-T  -T-— to a restrictive
ture, twisting _ o n e - c h i l d
tfgcstziand events  ofyou guys out policy?)
political, Sale even
not scientific, there  aproblem finds a way to

purposes. Atone
point, he argues
that evidence of
environmental
deterioration
“shows us that

sumptions upon
which the mod-
ern urban-in-
dustrial ediﬁce
of Western cul-
ture rests are er-
roneous and
highly danger-
ous.Anecologi-
cally harmoni-
ous paradigm

r-the,,:.basic;~.as.- 

with your manhood
lately? Well, the en-
vironmental move-
menihas now come
gallogiingfo your res-
cue to proclaim that
unseen toxic man-
made chemicals that
act like human hor-
mones are the prob-
lem.

blame the Bush
administration
for the environ-
mental damage
caused by the
Persian

hundreds of oil
wells set on ﬁre
in the Middle
East. Maybe the
fact that the Ira-
qis started the
war and burned
the oil wells
doesn’t matter to
him.

And you can

Gulf '
War, citing the.

shift is going to
require a total A
reorientation of the thrust of Western
culture.”

What is this evidence he praises? In
one instance, he cites the 1989 scare
revolving around Alar, the preserva-
tive put on apples to enhance their
shelf life. What he doesn’t tell you is
that the charges of Alar’s carcinogenic
effects were quickly refuted, but not
before the hoax cost Washington apple
growers millions of dollars. Ironically,
the same company that promoted the
Alar scare, Fenton Communications,
now promotes the sperm scare men-
tioned above (with apparentlyjas little
scientiﬁc integrity).

Somehow Eastern and Third World

forget any at-
tempt to encour-
age environmentalists to recognize
good news about progress on the envi-
ronment. Moderate Newsweek colum-
nist Robert Samuelson presented much
of this evidence in an April 10, 1995
article titled “The Rise of Ecorealism ’ .”

Samuelson notes that air is much
cleaner now than it was just several
years ago. Between 1982 and 1992
(under the same Reagan and Bush ad-
ministrations that environmentalists
love to vilify), the number of Ameri-
cans living in counties that failed fed-
eral air-quality standards dropped by
half. While smog warnings were is-
sued in East Coast cities on 39% of the
days when the temperature rose above

90 degrees in 1988, warnings occurr ,
on only 14% of such days in 1993.
Samuelson states that acid rain is‘
“declining and neverwas as dangerous
as claimed.” In 1970, U.S. industrial’
plants and factories released 28 mil-
lion tons of sulfur dioxide, the cause of a
acid rain, into the atmosphere. By the
year 2000, this will have dropped to 9
million tons, even though use of coal to
generate electricity has doubled. In
1991, a ten year government study
concluded there was “no evidence of a
general or unusual decline of forests in
the United States or Canada due to acid
rain.” Furthermore, while environmen-
talists had warned that 50% of lakes
would be acidic, only 4% actually were. it
Most stunningly, forestation in the
United States is now greaterthan it has
ever been. In the mid 19th century,
about 35% of Vennont, Massachu-

' setts, and Connecticut was forest land; ‘

today the ﬁgure is 59%. Western Eu- '
rope also has 30% more forest than it
did 50 years ago.

Environmentalists sensationalize
news and promote a crisis mentality in
order to justify increased government Gr
regulation and control, despite the fact
that business has shown extraordinary
ability to develop environmentally safe
innovations. As an example, a Boeing
757 burns 30% less fuel per passenger It
mile than the previous gzneration of
Boeing jets.

Alarrnist environmental rhetoric now
presents one of the greatest obstacles to
real scientiﬁc progress on environmen—~t
tal issues, and condemnation is the knee-
jerk response for all those who criticize
this sensationalism. Dubious theories
like global warming and the ozone hole
now are promoted as fact, despite grow- _
ing scientiﬁc evidence contradicting
these notions.

It’s time for government to adopt
sensible environmental policies that
recognize regulations’ costs and ben-
eﬁts and look for the most efficient
way to solve problems, and it’s time
for relentlessly pessimistic environ-
mentalists to adopt a more productive
and scientiﬁc approach. 7

How I learned to hate the media

‘F

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

I hate the media. Perhaps you do, too?

I must admit that I used to think that some
conservatives who complained about the liberal
bias in the media were paranoid, or just bitter about
their defeats and looking for someone to blame, but
now I see it very differently.

I mean, certainly the press has no obligation to
be stupid or silent when a candidate says something
outrageous, or false, or even silly.

And certainly the complaints about coverage of
Pat Buchanan are just spurious. Every campaign
stop has him saying, “I’m a man who means what
he says, my friends,” but whenever the press reports
something stupid he said, he explains how he didn’t
really. say it, and the press just doesn’t like him.
That’s not bias, it_’s rising to the bait, and the press
doesn’t have much else to do. But watching the
1996 Republican presidential nomination race has
left me almost completely disgusted with the way
the news is delivered to me.

Just for a little disclaimer here, what you are
listening to is, in fact, just another conservative
whining about the media, but I think I have a bit of
a different slant, a bit of a different reason for my
disgust. Just one more disclaimer: I am a Forbes
supporter who thinks that he got a raw deal from the
media, so I’m especially bitter now, on the day after
he left the race.

So here’s my take on it: you see, while I do think
that the media has a bit of a liberal bias, I don’t see
that as their main problem. I’ve come to expect it,
and I sort of mentally excise it from all of the news

reports I see or read. So the bit of a problem it is
becomes a minor annoyance. But the whole nature
of the coverage has become such that any candidate
with an idea is driven from the race by a pack of
howling media hounds.

Former candidate Dick Lugar said part of it at a
forum in New Hampshire when he was asked why
he didn’t think his campaign was getting much
attention. “I’m out running a great campaign with
some real ideas, but I can’t get any of you folks to
cover it.”

The press makes a summary judgment about
candidates before the starting gun goes off, and can
almost never be persuaded to change it. Now, of
course these judgments are inevitable to some
extent. There are clearly major and minor
candidates, but some deliberation needs to go into
it. I’ve heard pundits saying over and over that
Lugar’s messages “don ’t seem to be resonating”——
what the hell does that mean?

I’ll give you a hint. Nothing. What really
happened is Jim and Sue Media were drinking in a
bar and said, “Get rid of the IRS? Is he serious?
That’ll never happen!” Then they went home and
went to sleep and never thought about little Dickie
Lugar again. They did this just before Dick Lugar
announced his candidacy for the presidency!

I hate the media.

Which brings us to Steve Forbes. Steve Forbes
was the slam-bang action hero of this campaign.
The press tried to do the same thing to him they did
to Lugar. They said, “Flat tax, schmat tax,” and
went ﬁshing.

But Forbes fought back. He took on all comers.
He knew why he was for what he was for, and he
pounded on that message so hard that he actually
made himself a contender.

Now, you can say he was just trying to “buy the
election,” but then the question becomes from
whom? The press!

If you can’t get coverage with new ideas, or
substantial backing from top party ofﬁcials, or
even, in the case of Lu gar, both of those and a three-
term Senate career, what can you do? Buy the
election. It’s the only way to go. So instead of
abusing the political system with his hard cash,

what Forbes was really doing was showing the ,5‘

American people one of the most essential problems
with the way the press works. It’s essentially the
same thing he did politically for the New York
primary, opening it up to more than just one

candidate, looking the establishment and telling ,

them to do something to themselves that I can’t
adequately express in a family newspaper.

Then the press got evil. They couldn’t get him
by ignoring him, because he started to go places
with his money and his ideas. So they jumped on

the ideas, willy nilly. They found establishment ’‘

Republicans who had been for the ﬂat tax the day
before Forbes’s numbers went up and became their
mouthpiece. They ran debunking stories about the
ﬂat tax, when the month before, their editorial

pages had been ﬁlled with thoughtful articles 1

entitled, “Time for a ﬂat tax?” with little boxes
inside that said, “Analysis.” They did all of this to
Steve Forbes because he had not been previously
approved by them.

They did it until they had eliminated every
candidate with an idea, in fact, except Pat Buchanan,
whose ideas and supporters are loopy already, and
guess who was standing? Bob Dole. Now there’s
not one candidate in the race who believes a word
he says. J

I hate the media. ‘V

I

l

1‘,

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996

OPINION I

Tlow to pick your FD dream date

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

Fancy Dress is only a week away.
It Your reaction to that statement tells
me a lot about you. If you threw down
your newspaper in rage and disgust,
you probably don’t have a date yet,
think FD is no fun, and see no reason
for me to bring up the stupid thing,
"which you don’t want to go to anyway
and could I help you ﬁnd a date?
If you’re still reading, rage free, it
could be for one of two reasons. 1:
You have a date. 2: You are a guy. FD

"‘ is the biggest social event of the year,

but you’d never know it from the lack
of urgency with which the typical W&L
guy goes about ﬁnding a date. In spite
of this trend, I am willing to wager that

3 there people out there reading this——

guys and girls both who would like
some advice on how to ﬁnd a date. A
good date.

First of all, for God’s sakes, go out!
See! Be seen! Do not just stand around
with a group of your friends talking
about how much you wish you had a
date and how men/women suck. Do
you honestly believe that FD Date will
think, “Wow, I want to ask that pa-

It thetic person!” Prove how much fun

you can be by actually having ﬁm. If

this seems like a challenge to you, then

you have problems greater than any I
can solve.

Keep in mind the realities of FD
when considering the sort of person
you’d like to go with. l’ve heard many
a story about guys
finding dates like

than an organized treatise on FD. If I
can’t get away with it in a term paper,
maybe I can do it here.) l’ve heard the
decorations described as surreal, and
considering the state the average
ballgoer is in,
that sounds

ordering from a
catalog. Do you
really want to
spend a weekend
with someone that
you know nothing
about other than
“Blonde, not too
tall?” I like more
informationabout
asweaterI’mbuy-
ing, and I don’t
have to talk to it at
dinner. So before
you decide to go
with your big
b r o t h e r ’ s
girlfriend’s
roommate’s lab

CC

“Blonde, not too tall?”
I like more informa-
tion about a sweater
I’m buying, and I
don’t have to talk to
it at dinner. So be-
fore you decide to go
with your big
brother 3 girlfriends
roommate’s lab part-

like a good
way to go. But
as always, I
have some
other ideas for
possible future
FD themes.
One of them is
even another
c h i 1 d r e n ’ s
book.
—Charlie
and the Choco-
late Factory. I
honestly think
this would be
cool. Fountains
of chocolate, a

glass elevator,

partner, think for ners  for a grass made Of
a minute. What ' sugar. Phi ex-
aboutthat girl you minute‘ ecutive editor
eat lunch with ev- Emily Baker
ery day who’s fun expressed un-

and doesn’t have a date yet? Hello?
The theme this year sounds pretty
cool. (By the way, in case you haven’t
ﬁgured it out yet, this is kind of a
stream 0’ consciousness deal, rather

NATIONAL PARKS HIRING

tudents Needed! Tour guide, instructor,
ifeguard, hotel staff, fireﬁghter+ volunteer
. nd government positions available at National
arks. Excellent benefits + bonuses! For
utdoor Employment Program call: (206)
71-3620 ext.N53421

   
  
       
       

  

qualiﬁed enthusiasm for edible deco-
rations. Freshmen without dates would
be forced to be Oompaloompas. And if
your date turns out to be irritating,
maybe she’ll turn into a giant blue-

berry.

——Night In Jail. Guests would be
fingerprinted upon entering the ball.
Concrete ﬂoors and urinals complete
the decor. Hard cots would be avail-
able for weary dancers to rest on.

_A Very CadaverFD. W&L’sinfa-
mous Cadaver Society would provide
the decorations for this predictable yet
mysterious ball. .

—Inside Your Sock Drawer. You
thought A Mad Tea Party was sur-
real...

—Cats! W&L salutes this long-
running musical by ﬁlling the gym
with huge trash cans, balls of yarn, and
a litterbox motif in the bathrooms.

—FD: AmazingBut True. Asalute
to East Lex, complete with kegs,
NASCAR merchandise, and
Lexington’s most extensive collection
of pornography.

—Mock Con 11. Let’s keep all of
the red, white, and blue decorations
from this month’s other big event. The
money we’d save would make for one
ragin’ bar.

—Gangsta ’sParadise. A theme that
the typical W&L student will be just
as receptive to as he will be to the
Coolio concert. Expect to see a lot of
townies.

——What Do You Care? You’re
Drunk? Sure I suggested this theme in
last year’s column, but what do you
care? You were drunk.

PAGE 5

   
  

Fancy Dress Specials

76 77aZax;ga

Shrimp Scampi - $12.95

Chicken Marsala - $10.95
Served with salad or soup and garlic bread

Group Take-out Dinners - You

.01‘.

GENERAL

NOTES

 

OCTAA meeting

Attend an OCTAA-On Campus
Talking about Alcohol-program
Sunday, March 17 from 5:30-8:30
p.m. in Room 113 of the University
Center. OCI‘AA teaches students
how alcohol affects their body based
on quantity/frequency choices, to
estimate their biological risk for al-
cohol related problems and to make
low-risk drinking choices. Call 462-
4501 to sign-up for this
nonjudgemental, research-based
program.

EC petitions \

Petitions for class ofﬁcers and
EC representatives will be avail-
able in are due at the mandatory
meeting for all candidates at 5 p.m.
Monday, Mar. 18 in the EC office.

Candidate speeches for class of-
ﬁcers and EC representatives will
be held on Tuesday, Mar. 19 in
Commerce School 221.

Dance lessons

Come to the Fairfax Lounge from
6 p.m. to whenver Monday and Tues-
day for dance lessons from Frank
Roupas. This is the last chance.

Live Drive

Live Drive is now available at
W&L from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. every
Wednesday, Friday and Saturday
night. Anyone interested in being a
volunteer driver, please call 463-
6371. Anyone interested in becom-
ing involved with the program,
please come to Payne 2 Tuesday
night at 7:30. Call 462-4055 for
more information.

Film Society

The Washington and Lee Stu-
dent Activities Board and the Film
Society are pleased to announce
co-sponsorship of the controver-
sial ﬁlm KIDS (USA, 1995), di-
rected by Larry Clark.

Please note that KIDS will be
screened twice nightly, at 7 :00 and
9:00 PM on Friday 15 March and
Saturday 16 March in the Trouba-
dour Cinema, at the comer of Main
and Henry Streets. There is no
charge for admission.

CDPO news

There will be an internship work-
shop for those interested in getting
internships in the communications
ﬁeld on March 20th at 4:30 p.m. in
the Career Development Ofﬁce.

There will be a career focus
workshop on Thursday, March 21st
at 4 p.m. in Room 114 of the Uni-
yersity Center. All students need-
Ing help with decisions regarding
their major or career choices, are
encouraged to attend.

Stop by the CareerDevelopment
Ofﬁce on a weekly basis. New jobs
are oorning in daily, many with
quickresume submission deadlines.
Students may pick one copy of the
1996-97 catalog from the Univer-
sity Registrar’s Ofﬁce.

FD tickets

Fancy Dress tickets go on sale
March 18 in University Center
Room 109 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
Tickets are forty-five dollars.
Memorabilia packages are eighty
dollars.

can serve your own dinner,
completewrth salad, garlic bread &
dessert. You can feed a grou of

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.

  

- . - . r‘ d f l'ttl $.00 , -,-— ,
The Buffet 18 Served froni .800 aim. umll 1'30 pm. I eIC1Iai1 L(1)sr azitslelasfgz hours in PC7171! Smith Of Mar1e’s
We’l1 b6 waltlng fOf you. advance, and see what we can do for 1] $_]eﬁer5on Street
, y°“' specializing in hair failing
Berky S FINE ITALIAN CUISINE 453'9533

Route 11 North - Lexinton VA

 

Buy Your Tickets To
A MAO TEA PARTY

Monday through Friday

(March 18 to March 22)
10:00 to 2:00

University Center Room 100

Cetitia ‘Pate Evans Dining flail
‘Presents.-

”’Posi fancy Dress Brunch Buffet"

Saturday ~ Marcl1Z3.1996
11:30 am. ~ 1:00 pin.

fresh fruit Cup
Eggs Benedict
Country Cink Sausage
]{as/1 Browns
Make Your Own Waffles
Jlotcakes n7~ /"lssorted Syrups
/issorted Bastries
Breakfast I/ogurt n7~
fresh fruit Toppings
fruit Julces ~ Coffee ~ Milk
‘Hus Much, Much More

Tickets Cost $45

Memorabilia Packages Cost $80

and include 2 T-shirts,
2 Posters, 2 Shot Glasses, 4 Cups and 2

Playhills

UC $4.75 Cash $5.40 Contract ?\//C

/7111 Members 0t”'I7Ie University Comnzuni
& Guests /'lre Invited e_

Coolio Tickets are also available at this time

The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996

ADVERTISEMENTS
I1££D A IlO7£I300I( comrumz _ ‘ _ _ _ _ 9
Bu; gooﬁng gag A 635,41 mm; The Phi -- We re in touch with our Amish side.

     

 

Apple Powerbook 520 ’
Notebook Computers
-recently discontinued modeI- _ T ,
(4mb& 12MB RAM Conﬁgurations) , A   R   Z577"; , I _   L‘ ' l  .7

L In Stock & On Sale!  pp  V A  M L ‘’

Contact University Computing I
Tucker 229 463-8847 rfloyd@w/u.edu , ‘

rorpn-cmgaetais Let Peebles Accessorize

W“ "W ’"‘W'~' Your Fancg Dress Needs

(0RD£R A Pi2.1nI£2 {wane Wm! .77 B£‘:'OR£ MARCH 16. MD ‘ﬂl
2  Peebles Department Store

***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!***

Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with    LI  C    V

America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL H . M S O 9 S I 6
(800) 95-BREAK! O U  . — _ , U n "

5 p511) I EARN   i‘1itcI’\e||’sTuXedo Rental
WEEKLY!  MON   Ladies’ Dress/Casual Shoes

  A T HUME.’ A — Nine West ‘
PROCESSING   -  

— Etienne Aigner
Ladies’ Fine Hosieru 5*
- Hones Si|R Reflections
—JocRg t

EXPERIENCE. Elizabeth Arden

  SIR DHA,Ls:§E§E%5,fGR§5EE Calvin Klein Fregrances

I   ANC ' — Ch One ,,

-   sum:-1-E 216 - ESCGDC

  
      
    
 
 

          
    

1-""'"

._ No

  

1.851 lI'-E‘EI3ER.&’l.'.u I!il"’I'—

OCRYSI l'l{-|’l \ MOI ll-l)()l)(}l-.0
<

     
 

  

 
    
 
   

    
   
 

           
 
 
 

i

$19.9

INCLUDES:
°Auto Transmission
Check
°Up to 5 Quarts 10W/30
Valvoline Oil
°Filter Chassis Lube

*most cars

 |lIl0eSn'lTa|le__A_|Vlal|| iiiiaior  
erezzzsie  To Reduce the coemeientot Ilrau to .31 I

oi
I-3
'5:
mo
‘.I(i

 
 
 

-N |t):)Ni I-(I

   
    

   
 

ll/\l{ - NISSAN 0 I(>\'0|/\ 0 I I \'|i\‘ - lN|-INIII I /\(ilJR
'>|L)IIl$|° \}‘lil'.>}l |l\E

    
 

ﬂ " - ’“.r -- .; .--- ..» . "' ' W

  
 

   
       
  

 

 
     

 

   

   
         
 
 

    

 

 
    

é
5 -
  ' 015 I
; 2 (And Do It with A Lot ty e.
§ .3; . A r
9 Ms»,.I=-s. staoaiwssooru ,1. ‘  I A
: Sutmdays-.30AM«-2£0PM 3  
~ *5. 7 Q “*."*?'  .i   . TOYOTA
 siri l.) i iw Ntlllli. .>\ |l|(i\.) . R    ‘tﬁvmu You 00 yo’ W
é SPRING BREAK ’96 - SELL I _ ’ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
1. TRIPS,EARNCASH&GOFREE!!! . - ~ _ » " “" " "' "' " " ‘ "' "' "" "' " " " ""
1‘. StudentTravelServicesisnowhiring Do    & M3SiEfC3fd Cfadlt  ’ Ez CARD’ SUITE 275 I V‘
‘; campusrepresentatives. Lowest rates f ' ' 1501 E‘“’hLLn-“DALE BC“ BLVD '
~ to Jamaica, Cancun, Daylona and _ 0 I .- . Nnilryouanhava tn-oaﬂhe moctmcugnlaadurd ' EIALI.AﬂDA_L8. ?LDRIl}h 33009 I
 Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648- ' - lcceplied czmdltgnnh in the 1iv:1dd....VIul and Iihatucnnlo I "‘ """"""""""""""""““’-"'-"'i" g
[ 4849 _ """'gg-,,';:_ “;E“B§FEN"m§'5$ g : Iwantvls-AOIMASTERIIIIRDO Credit I *
- ' ' ctutitupptmnsd Immediately. we-its nmmnmnssnz ’
t V$K9&d 9 tltcltdliclﬂisynu I g
 it  R L   . "er"-'t:t2.ee;-;~,.i°s;e:s.*::$:.*,r.mEmez - mm .
3 Eitigs3§’ﬁ§,,f%Z{,";?,;a‘,fff;kﬁ’{§o§‘f§%;'3e  I i ' EMEK3E:iiK2Y _0A.SH-TICKE'TS-—8E5TAURAPlT‘S-- : ADDRESS '
[ Seasonal and Full-Time employment avail '" _ ‘ as REPA]'RSu[EAN£$*“‘D  ' aw ‘I i
o bl . F ' f I): °’- ~ -' . -
-2 izois) 93i-lZI3‘5§(<)::xt. c53421 = . ‘ p 1 S  sTATE““zlP :
3   ﬁg In turn downs! -' ' ‘£§ KO 55" I
T; F h_ I d t E t mo _, L QEE witnhgﬂcnqg no credit citeem I SIGNATURE u
 $(',§,0'0"f Pen,  R:':":'pan% Board;  “5L§l.:;“g¢;‘:a_ *9 5'9’-"‘“'“»J deposit!  mm Maison: in ugua-untndemnuuumuaa Intmuituot-1 Inc. ' V
' Transporalionl Male or Female. No expe- . , Gnu‘ gall‘. 5 ' V5‘ “ ’  "*‘*""l d “55 '-151L. 95¢ IN‘ V15-‘ Mkftlﬂonil I
rience necessary. For more information  0‘ END THE CKIJPIXI TOl3.ﬂ‘|" ' '
call:(206) 971 . 3510 ext AS3421 I  YOUR CREDIT CARDS MIE IMITIIIG! 3 ' '
’ CG & : Q ¢ — — — w$CC$$ﬂﬂi$8&—::—au

 

-7 The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996 ADVERTISEMENTS PAGE 7

The Washington and Lee Publications Board announces that it will
be accepting applications for several positions for the 1996-1997
school year. Those interested in serving as editors of any of the fol-
lowing publications need to drop a resume and cover letter in the
folder outside of Carol Calkins’ o "ice by Monday, March 25. Busi-
ness editors are also needed for the Phi and Calyx. Those applying
also need to sign up for an interview on Wednesday, March 27.

Ring-tum Phi
Calyx
Ariel
Political Review
Journal of Science
Arete

"\

Although experience is desirable, there are no o "icial requirements
for these positions and all interested students are encouraged to apply.

k   2

CéLé'BRATé ST. PATT‘/S DAV UUITH
Rem. Lll/6 TRISH Qaeuc music!

 

Located 112 mile from W811. in a quiet, relaxed setting. You‘ve seen
it; the red barn with the riding ring and paddocks on Rt. 60 west,
just outside of Lexington. It doesn't get any closer or better.

We provide
Feeding, 12 hr. mm out, stall cleaning,
blankcting, and minor gmnming. We help
maintain health and shoeing records.
Come enjoy nut? '12 stalls, heated tackroom,
bathroom, 2 wash stalls and grain room.
There are private trails and river access.
We will provide any extra services.
Please call Cabell German 463-4467

 
  
 
    

an

Alvin-Dennis, Inc.
102 W. Washington St.

, .        GET QEADV FQQ
Friday, March 15  F/=\l‘|CV D9555
N  p.m.  the  Pub - Tuxedos for Rent
. . . - 100% Worsted Wool Tuxedos For Sale
4 Free AdmlSSl0n and - Fancy Cummberbund & Tie Sets
9 St‘ Pattyls Day apparel - gtzizlliread Shorts

Spring arrivals daily

Sponsored by Student Activities/Pub Committee VISA MAf6TERCARD STUDENT CHARGE
3-5383

t—— ._ H

 

 

DAVE
by David Miller

ADVERTISEMENTS

The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996

MOTHER GOOSE 8: GRIMM

by Mike Peters

\\

Weekend Warriors 72 1. financial backbone

of billion-dollar recreation industry,
2. Visual entertainment for Serious
athletes. Also see Sports medicine
industry and Instant expertitis.

oar? David mum. Ali ' ms yesevved

byTnbuneMedia ,Inc - ~ ”~

   

 
  

 

I)» RELIEVED WITH THIS NEW

I I GUESS I SHOULD BE
In EQUIPMENT OF HIS.
 .8»:

7 - ﬁg!

 

..:‘ 7%!‘-7
. WE FINALLY GOT <’ ,
VOICE MAIL AT " OF COUR5E HE
THE PAPER. _ 0N
ﬂ/V '

   

 

 T "“\|
aw; \M\6t\IH£rr‘oM R231’ wszir-12¢ <.¢=aut=- ‘

 

 
 

-%

I LEASE.

4

CAT:

" °I ""I"'Y0€- . .
.  /> I V — — .I7ynneMedIaServIccs.Inc

I .\\\N\\\.

  

   
    

NOW I DON'T HAVE

MY COLUMN...

©95TrIbune Mediaserdces. Inc. All Rights Reserved

-7 YES. IT IS TRUE TI-IAT ~ ‘ ‘ BUT IT IS NOT TRUE, Tpmr Hg “AD
" MY CAMPAIGN RELIED A5 MY OPPONENT To 55 TREATED
HEAVILY ON NASTY ~ ASSERTS IN Frog 52 A5155

soono smas... \_ HIS LAWSUIT.

   

 

‘ BUT I'M GETTING
TO SEE HI5 FACE ’.- A LITTLE SICK OF
WHEN HE READ5 ~’ THE GA5 MASK.

 

09.-IIII »
ﬁt, -- » .,
3/_’;*'m“  A \\l
_;,,”_m ” 4 s O
‘ yn‘ 5:‘ -‘III’: I,E:'(

' \‘\.\:'v*
" 1 ‘<1
\ \‘I
. I;
|\\

. .\.\\\

    
  
 

  

\' v 5“ ‘.a*"\\>‘ ' \\ \
\ I\" ‘ . *<“\\ .
«xi _ . - I
.\\ I _. ‘ .

995 Tribune Media Servites, Inc. All Rights Reserved

   
   
     
   
     

 

V/ 

WINTER SALE

50% off all Fall and
Winter Fashions
Sale continues plus lots of new Spring things

app oqo9.Qo'

23 N. Main Street
Hours: Monday — Saturday10:00 - 5:30

  

 

   
  

  

\\

7/,427¢$P&P0AZ

79 5. zcmdatﬁé St.
463-2742

   
  
 

{xx

 

%%(<KR\\\N\\
kv.\\\\~\\~\

  

 

I woMI7ER IF I
CAN unvo HER
FLEA ANV TICK
COLLAR WITH

ONE PAW ..
1/  H

 

../‘/;/~p7A §
; ei995'éFnmy Inc.
.——~ ‘*2 D81. tr;Tn'bune Media Semces. Inc.

‘Ii AW,MAM...IdU5‘I‘lI}IdECTED
\ A TI-iEVENOM.N0w IT5 GOING
\ GETALL soaev

     

\‘

; ‘‘_\‘
O
5"

K?

\\s

 
 

.. _\\
\“" WI-IEN CAMARIES DRINK

     

OKm COME OUT

   

N0
KICANGARO

ll

 

. “ 1 ‘ \ .\ .

' .

   

 

T’



VON «we ‘OF 11-45 «JUNGLE

5/2 I

A Bistro

8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday

8 am - 3 pm - Monday

9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
All you can eat $4.99

Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID

Friday - Seafood Nite -
Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
Saturday - 8 02. Prime Rib,
2 Vegs, Salad $8.95

» Everyday“IM_-u;ffin’& Cup of Coffee‘ $1.50

 (8L*i'7ai1i 9-» 10 am)
Daily Lunch Special with Drink $4.50

995 G ' I .
Eﬁedia Services, Inc.

at AN? TO M
LEAVE 1383 I
PIECES OF STRING
A sum: cmuo
AN ORANGE PEEL.



.\\‘

‘F’
8
3%.
§

_..

APACKRAI3 LASTWILLAIIVTESI-IIMENT

  

For Rent
Bed/Bath for non-smoking female
student in a quiet and clean
home:Houston Street

96-97 academic year. All the amenities

of home including washer and dryer/

telephone/TV cablel AC and Kitchen
Privilages

Call 463-3315 after 5 p.m. or 462-1313

9 a.m. to ‘I p.m.

 

W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

.///a/1/one 3 _
2'5 9/  Wteel
4’ 63- 6'00)’

3%! ml 179%; you  /teat/y .99.
.%4mm,, am’ /0 mm;
$35. oo
oi/mu'('u/zoo, amgﬁc MM mu/é/to
ﬁloﬂao mwm/ﬂy /zazim//;/£0».
.//[(1/fa 4/out 0/I/mt71alnwn/ loalagl

   

     
 
  
   
   
 
  
     
 
  

    

PAGE 9

The Ring-tum Phi, March 15, 1996  
l H at   Generals stumble in first

     
   

 

  
   
    
 

 

V MEANS LOW PRICES ODAC baseball C011t9St
E 2 a  to progression by turning three double plays and committing 7';
‘V ” ’   R By CHRIS PUGSLEY (Smly twp ejrrors, one 8f whisch washquestionably scored. »‘
 . . eniort ir baseman wen mith s owed off his love at
Q N. T E '  a I H H” 3”“ Wm“ his newly found position and solidiﬁed defense at tghe “hot 1 ,
corner”. Senior outﬁelder Graig Fantuzzi showed off the '-i
lce-ridden, soggy ﬁelds forced the Washington and Lee leather by making a tremendous over-the-shoulder catch in t‘.
( baseball team to change their first ODAC matchup to the left ﬁeld to rob Bridgewater of an extra-base hit. '"
conﬁnes of Bridgewater College. Washington and Lee continued its play Thursday after-
Unfortunately, the home-field advantage was in effect noon at home against the Savannah College of Art and
for the Eagles. Bridgewater, behind the sweet stroke of Design by edging out a 5-4 victory.
junior outﬁelder Cory Heimbaugh, defeated the Generals, W&Ltrailed 3-0 heading into the bottom of the ﬁfth, but _‘;
4 10-2, in an exchange of home runs. the Generals quickly tied the game when junior Tucker ‘;
Generals’ senior first baseman Preston Miller took a belt- Bixby smashed a three—run home run. The Generals took the .;
high pitch overthe right field fence to close the Eagles’ third lead for good in the bottom of the seventh on RBIs from -. ‘»
inning lead to 5-2. But the Eagles stormed back for ﬁve more Tommy Esposito and Fantuzzi.
runs, including a home run, and silenced the Generals’ hopes Chad Reynolds pitched 3 1/3 shutout innings for the win,
of winning their ﬁrst ODAC conference game. and Matt Reedy struck out the final batter on three pitches
‘/ But the Generals were not to be outdone in some aspects to pick up the save.
of the game. First, the Generalsreceived animpressive late- It seems as if all cylinders are starting to click for
inning relief effort from freshman Dave Clements, who Washington and Lee, and it is only a matter of time before
continues to maintain a 0.00 ERA through two appearances. this machine explodes for a run at the ODAC Tournament in
Despite a slow start, freshman pitcher Bob Weston contin- May.
,1 ued to maintain a strong presence on the mound. The Generals will travel to Virginia Wesleyan for a
The Generals’ defense showed its continued committment doubleheader Saturday afternoon at 1:00 PM.
‘ I '
Pillsbury Harris Teeter
Toaster 3/ O0 Sour 
-  Strudel “.5 Cream um.
Selected Varieties
'‘ Erika Snyder Matt Ermigiotti
Women's Lacrosse Baseball
Snyder has ex- Ennigiotti pitched
V ploded for eight goals six terriﬁc innings in
in the past two games. an exciting 9-6 vic-
She racked up seven tory over West Vir-
points against Colby- ginia Tech March 4.
Sawyer on Saturday. He gave up only two
She followed this up runs. The seniorwas
R’ with four goals Thurs- also a batting force as
day versus Lynchburg. he plated two runs.
‘T  one 8 Oz, Gfound Many thanks to W&L Sports Information

’i'i’3i32,il’5‘f§  Free i-°a°‘£n-es ".159 "‘
4 pp Harris Teeter Regular

Butte’ The R ing-tum Ph 1'

 Quarters 

i ‘ .
I V," \ ‘ “
\ i ii ‘
.
, \ \ ‘ 
\i\ . ~

 White Space Is NOT Your
Friend.

5;;
i tea -
'/ /R’
p at
é/£5
Hui E
/V‘ 
,4 
»J:-Te‘
K:

   
 

  
  
 

     

‘.
.§,_
, “ ‘V.
.‘ 1
.4.

4

.

.

     
 
 

 

Y

\i\\\lI\ll(\‘\

 

k l
N \\“ “N ,, E  1.
 SALTED SWEET “  .n.\ii

   

 

 

 

    

K ~»~.«..-
Watch Us Fill It Every Week
V"
4’ -mt.“ uﬁ u anjsjaas
:5: I TIVII U ll-IE6’ .
Alon! atonfas, Mora Games, Best Service!
172 Walker Street, _Sumrnt1 Square, next to the DMV
(540) 463-9354
. " Private, Individual Roorns
V aaovgy
’ Selected Varieties 5 Pk- 20 02- N33 * ""‘°"“‘V ’“'“°'P"°'° ”"”“""

cheefias COKE OF Diet ' §;“£..1'§’.§’.‘§' "“"“'"“ 3”’ ‘""" 833'"
“ Cereal COKE ‘.e.::.:*.:.::°e*°" °' 

 1 the nations #1 best somng
 14-15 oz. ..

lotion!
' Certified consultants!
33.’. S D _ R L O A’ A (‘La r New Member Speclatz ‘ 
 o- rt 9 . emon r oe n no in 30 Days for $30
 Paper 2/88¢ cu eite 149 mm mm
Towelsﬁm... ft. Foamy 11 .1. no». — m».

10 mm. - 10 p.m.

’  Tropicana Sweet  “"- ‘ M

 Season's ﬂ Florida    
 Best 54 oz. 3 Strawberrlesa.  .~~- ‘

 

  

 . .l « oi; ;;.;.;:.‘;i;';.;.i;.“.;""..s‘“****'"Mr-
it Prices Effective Through March 19, 1996 : .,... ..,..,,,.,.,.,,._,,,§,,, 5’°'%.....«.... 5
5' Prices In This Ad Effective March 13 Through March 19, 1996 In Our Mecklenburg County Stores r f ""‘ '°" -' --I-I---0 No-9.... (nu) 453-5034 '7“ .
 On|y.We Reserve The Right To Limit Quantities. None Sold To Dealers. We Gladly Accept Federal Food Stamps. I- — - ... _ _ _ _ . ” _ _ _ _ _ , _ _ _ _ “ “ __ __ 7044-7! *

,1’ ‘

 

  
     

   

I\-1_[.M:rzossr:- W, 16-9, vs. Hamp.-Sydney; L, 11-7, vs. Cortland St.

W l_JtCROBSE- W, 21-3, vs. Colby-Sawyer; W, 12-5, vs. Lynchburg

l$’i'l‘izNNrs- L, 4-3, vs. Wooster; W, 6-1, at Mary Washington;
W, 4-3, vs. Sewanee

\‘~.«"!i?.NNrs- W, 8-1, vs. Randolph-Macon; W,8-1, vs. Washington

fltast Week: ~ ~ _ ° This Week:
[ S @112 181119 tum lﬁht .......  ..   .... . ,

Bast-zimu. - L, 10-2, vs. Bridgswater; W, 5-4, vs. Savannah A&D Lynchburg, 3:00 PM; Thurs. at E. Mennonite, 3:00 PM
Mlncnosss - Sat. vs. Gettysburg at RCHS, 7:00 PM
WLAcnoss: - Sat. vs. Guilford, 2:00 PM; Wed. at Hollins, 4:30 PM
M'I‘sNNrs- Sat. at l-lamp.-Syd., noon; Sun. vs. Salisbury

St.., 11:00 AM; Tues. vs. Averett, 3:00 PM

W'I‘sNNrs - Fri. vs. Kenyon, 3 PM; Sat. vs. Va. Wesleyan, 10 AM
Gou='- ’ Mon.-’I‘ues. at Ferrum Invitational, 9:00AM

College; W, 6-3, vs. Sewanee; W, 7-2, vs. Bridgewater
K Gum? - Finished second at Emory & Henry/ ODAC Invitational jmcx . sag, in W&L Invitational, 10:00 AM
 ,... V
 1o BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TENNIS, GOLF, TRACK AND FIELD MARCH 15, 1996

Men pick up i
first victory ’

  
   
  
  
  
   
    

.9, ,,,,,...,,t,..,,~.,. Generals roll past Mary »
i*‘or.tiienex'ttW ' .
Washington College, 6- 1
again gave W&L victories. 3-
By JASON ZACHER SeniorsAndyHorenandJesse
9 I Phi Staff writer Taylorwontheir matches in very
nafionaichamp different fashion. _
Wm the 3,3,‘; Horen was taken to the wire
. The men’s tennis team won in the second set, winning 6-2, 7- W
if, two of its three matches last 5. Taylor had it easy, winninga
week, picking up wins against perfect 6-0, 6-0 match.
Mary Washingtonand Sewanee, Led by the team of
but dropping to Wooster. MacNaughton and Hammond,
The Generals moved their the Generals won all of their
overall record to 2-2. doubles matches. V

Against a talented Wooster The teams of Pretila and Tay-
team, the Generals were de- lor, and freshman Scott Babka

feated, 4-3. and junior Chris Higgs also won
Picking up wins for W&L in their matches.
singles were junior Peter The Generals rallied froma3- .‘

Hammond, freshman Dale 1 deficit Thursday to stun
Pretila and senior Ryan Aday. Sewanee,4-3. Pretila capped of
Senior Chris MacNaughton and the thrilling comeback by ca
Julie Ayers (above) combined with Natalia Garcia to capture three doubles matches last weekend. Hammond won their numberone turing the ﬁnal match in a thir
doubles match against Wooster. set tiebreaker, 7-5.

On Tuesday, the Generals This weekend, the men will
won their first match of the sea- take on Salisbury State at home

Phi File Photo

 

.. ; .
   Women’s tenms off to fast start     on   
- §,appe,,¢¢‘;;  6-1.Hammond,Pret1la and Aday Sydney away on Saturday.

hit campus N

l5 an 33?. Pugh  Sophomore All-American Natalia Garcia also had two wins in the
§V°l"30n *§OOlO3 5  *3 By JASON ZACHER number one slot, and only dropped one game in those two matches.
PO? g3n’*°--- W113‘, phi Staff Wm“ Sophomore Berry Blankinship, captain Shelley Sunderman and

bettertelllverseiill dfohti
Thompson is II; it
lloyas worft advat1oe~‘far

senior Helen Chandler each had two wins for the Generals. Fresh-
men Cathy Moore, Laura Cohen and Mary Celeste Foster also had

The women’s tennis team continued its strong start this past multiple singles victories.

:

   
 
    
   
   

lfﬂa”ing.t°*—‘ iS'n.’1_al weekend, pushing its record to 5-0 overall, 4-0 in the ODAC. In doubles competition, the Generals did not drop a match. The
_1 J85“?!-:‘?e3WS““ 3- Randolph-Macon, Washington College, Lynchburg College doubles team of senior Julie Ayers and Garcia won three number
lfh“«°k7= K and Emory & Henry all dropped their matches to the Generals. one doubles matches.

Villanova:

W&L only lost three individual matches out of the 36 played. The teams of Shapard and Blankinship, sophomore Bryce
The wins give W&L momentum as it heads into matches Bendall and Foster, and Chandler and Sunderman each won two

against #1 -ranked and defending national champion Kenyon Col- matches.

lege this afternoon and #6-ranked Amherst College tomorrow. The Generals had another strong day Thursday, defeating na-

The Generals are ranked fourth nationally. tionally-ranked Sewanee, 6-3, despite not having two starters in
“Our goal is nationals. We want to win it, and we think this their lineup. Also Thursday afternoon, the women bounced

could be our year. This week is going to be our test,” said Bridgewater, 7-2. The wins raised W&L’s record to 7-0 overall.

sophomore Ericka Shapard. Coming up on the Generals’ schedule are Kenyon today, Vir-
Shapard led the women last week with three ﬂawless singles ginia Wesleyan and Amherst tomorrow and Salisbury State on

victories, two of which were in the number one slot. She rolled Sunday. All of the matches will be at home.

over her competition, winning all three matches, 6-0, 6-0. “We arevery excited. We want to drop Kenyon,” said Shapard.

Vitale. are A st pity
«sally imposrnggwlthey--r
downright scary;  Yo’,
would think Ken‘y’}(itt¥es
was charging longed‘
ﬁance calls to
phone card, _Lw_i;h the ex’.
pression the~.biiriy.
‘wears. Komegay_g ate
a few ﬁght'sl_earlie1f *
season bat. no ‘
more corrtea
patients. on di
was goingitewar
Komegay anti? ’
xttyside. acne‘ ,
ere‘ are.:;;s_‘ , 5

    
   
  
 
        
   
 
 
      
     
 
   
    
  

 

Men eliminated in lacrosse tournament final
W&L succumbs to Cortland State, 11-7, after trouneing Hampden-Sydney in opener

  

Y .
continue to=rn't1Inidate pp?-
porzents ~f.fo1“': Vi ilanov§-_';.t

‘ _ V g g V A Tigers scoreless forover23 min- firstthree goals ofthe second half. to their matchup against the Bul- W&L Goals: Jenkins, Croft,
avoid Zaaothfst; smzbartass

utes and giving the Generals a The Dragons led 9-4 early in lets of Gettysburg College. The Butterworth, 3; McLaughlin 2; ll‘
commanding 13-6 lead. the fourth, but W&L made a late game will take place at Dougherty,Stanley,Myers,Fallace,
The drive was led by senior drive and managed to cut the Rockbridge County High School S1ide1l,1
midfielder Adam Butterworth Cortland lead to 10-7 with 8:30 Saturday at.7:00 PM.
and junior midfielder Shane remainingin the match.

    

McLaughlin, with each scoring But Ronayne and his team- March 9 March 10 is
two goals during the nine-goal mates spoiled the drive, scoring 1 2 3 4 Tot 1 2 3 4 Tot
_ run. his ﬁfth goal ofthe afternoon with
1 . . Washin ton and Lee so ho- 4:55 remainin .
V=/liii?OpSWlliit§l'}ll1§IlCiﬂgi’\ more goali§Scott Jackson nliade The Generalstook second place  52 15 16 3 1% $‘?§I'_lSt' 3 21 a El; 1.;
most underaehi’ an impressive sixteen saves for in the tournament with the loss to
, ent,bntnot 13611 the Generals and helped them Cortland. Photos mums “Ron W&LGoals: Croft, Horstman, lh
take the game by a final score of Washington and Lee now looks Bookwany 2; Butterworth, Jenkins, Fallace,1
. . Cl‘
16-9. Butterworth, _]uIll0l' attack

Ande Jenkins and senior attack
Russell Croft each added three

 

  
     
   
  
  

        

goals in the victory.
' - 9 W&L met the 17th-ranked
W&L scoops m a goal past Cortland s Brent Coye. Cortland State Dragons Sunday
in the championship game of the
Tigers managed to score the first l°lll’n3ln°nl-

By BETHANY BAUMAN fO"l gO3lS Of Bum": Gen"
Phi Assistant Sports Editor llle game and  _. . , emlswereoutof
took a 5-1 lead ‘ ' ' lllell ‘OP fOlln
late in the first and COl'llan‘l {an
The Washington and Lee’s quarter. ‘O an ll‘7 ‘"9’

men’s lacrosse team hosted its But the ‘Oly-
third annual tournament Satur— Generals cut The DlagOnS
day and Sunday at Wilson Field. the lead to 5-4 Went into half-
The ninth-ranked Generals before Jody lllnO Wllll 3 5'3
faced the Tigers of Hampden- Garlissnetteda “Vantage fOl'
Sydney in the opening round goal for lOWlng38OalbY
Saturday. The Tigers entered H a m p d e n - Justin Ronayne.
.  the toumamentwith a2-Orecord, Sydney, mov- Ronayne had
 ?a.W.l_5l0» having just come off an unex— ing the score to "0 lnlOnllOn Of
actually need.‘ {O 3llO‘W 11? pectedvictory over1acrossepow- 6-4, letting up On the
fm llle 5O°Ol'-*3  erhouse Gettysburg College. W&L then Generals 35 he

W&L got off to a slow start went on a 9-0 ‘ ' ' ' " Came 0111 l0
against Hampden-Sydney. The run, holding the Shane Mcl-“ughlln Score C0rtland’S Sophomore Paul Stanley (7) leads the break for the Generals in Sunday's game.

l...2....3...1i...

Get your booty on the ﬂoor with
end. By Fancy?" _ttme..,

  5739 .Ring»-tum J~"ﬁi *

     A Gangsters Paradise cvcrg Friclau   *
Valparais0?,  _  vi

round - 
Pri ncetoti, th
one hates tefaee
makes r11is‘aIin:it:st-
ucra audits  pow,
pace facing. ‘theiiprodding _— 2“-
Tigers, a team forlwhich 
55-50 game is-ap shootout

Enjoy the ﬁtsrweek
end of the‘touraan3en’t and
those few games in‘
volvingan ACCEV an: Era
you may random

1:
counter on .TV3,thi_sTvveei;«  .3

   
   
   
    

  

   

 

    
 
  

k

as

at

-4

  

LlE§tZAP.‘1’
‘JGTGN. VA 2.:,.»;5g

FANCY DRESSLAND:
Yours to play 9

   

 

MEN

3 LAX ROUTS

  

GETTYSBURG 6

0112 ‘iﬂtttg-tum {ﬂirt

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

/

VOLUME 96, N0. 18

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

Millions of mushrooms...mushrooms for me!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

This year’s Fancy Dress Ball theme, A Mad Tea Party, guarantees Washington and Lee students white rabbits,
talking caterpillars, smiling felines and, yes, mushrooms.

Journalists mull over ethics

BY MICHAEL HEWLEIT
Phi Associate Editor

This past weekend, March 15-16,
students in Journalism Ethics and Pro-
fessor Brian Richardson went to the
Hotel Roanoke to mull over some ethi-
cal decisions.

This was part of the annual Joumal-
ism Ethics Institute that brings work-
ing journalists from various newspa-
pers such as ThePhilade1phia Inquirer,
The Richmond Times-Dispatch, and
The Roanoke Times.

The journalists and students tack-
led such issues as publishing the
names of rape victims and airing a
story in which a woman is shot by
her husband.

Journalists brought cases in which
they were faced with ethical dilemas.
Cases ranged from whether to publish
a pictures showing burned children to
revealing in a story a woman who
committed suicide six months after her
boyfriend was murdered.

The Washington and Lee chapter of
Society of Professional Journalists

sponsored a cocktail for the partici-
pants at the Radisson-Patrick Henry. A
dinner sponsored by The Roanoke
Times was held afterward.

Many students thought the .loumal-
ism Ethics Institute offered an oppor-
tunity to see actual cases that involved
the ethical issues they had discussed in
class.

the case that Mark Holmberg, a re-
porter from TheRichmond Times-Dis-
patch. discussed. The paper decided to
publish pictures that cropped out chil-
dren who had been brought out of a
burning building.

Senior Justin Dardani said one of
the most interesting things for him as

a business management major was
that many of the more difficult
ethical issues had to do with financial
concerns.

“It was interesting to see how pro-
fessional journalists grapple with eth-
ics in comparison with our discussions
in class.”

‘‘I think it was very
useful for both students
and professionals,” Me-
lissa Byrd ’96 said. “We
[students] don ’t have the
experience of dealing
with ethical decisions on
a daily basis.”

Senior Dani Wong
agreed.

“I thought it helped
students a lot to see pro-
fessionals have to deal
with ethical questions
such as ‘Should I pub-
lish this?’,” she said.

She also thinks the
cases stimulated a lot of
discussion.

Byrd said she was
particularly interested in

 

MARCH 22, 1996

Car accident injures
two; damages wall

BY ERIKA SNYDER
Special to the Phi

Two Lexington residents were in-
jured Friday when a woman lost con-
trol of her car, hitting a pedestrian and
a brick wall.

Lexington Police Chief Bruce Beard
said 62-year-old Margaret Knapp-
wife of former Virginia Military Insti-
tute Superintendent John Knapp—was
driving on North Main Street when she
hit 18-year-old Natalie Wallace.

The car continued almost 500 feet
before striking the brick wall on
Jefferson Street that borders the Wash-

ington and Lee campus.

Knapp and Wallace were taken to
Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

Wallace was treated for minor inju-
ries, then released a few hours later.

Knapp was admitted, then trans-
ferred to Roanoke Memorial Hospital
Monday morning. Although she is still
hospitalized, her husband said she is
doing well.

Authorities are still investigating
the cause of the accident.

Acquaintances of Knapp say she is
known to have a history of heart trouble,
which may have been a factor in the
incident.

W&L Buildings and Grounds
worker Jim Arthur said that the esti-
mated damage to the wall is $3,300.

lNlVF.RSlT‘{

MAR 2 2 T1936“

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

The brick wall that borders Jefferson St. sustained $3,300
in damage from a car crash Friday. ‘

Sawyer chosen as

Truman Scholar

From Phi Staff Reports

Washington and Lee junior Melissa
Sawyer has been chosen a 1996 Truman
Scholarwinner and winnerof a $30,000
Truman Scholarship. v

The scholarships are awarded to
students with outstanding leadership
potential, who have extensive records
of public and community service, pos-
sess intellectual strength, communica-
tion skills, and analytical abilities.
Selected recipients must intend to pur-

sue careers in government or elsewhere
in public service, and wish to attend
graduate school to help them prepare
for their careers.

This year the scholarships were
awarded to approximately 85 students
out of over 800 nominated. Truman
scholarships participate in leadership
development programs and have spe-
cial opportunities for internships and
employment with the federal govem-
ment.

Sawyer is an economics major at
W&L. Her public policy interests are
focused upon rural poverty in the
midwest, with a particular interest in
child warfare.

S The Ring-tum Phi, March 22, 191;‘)

 

BEYOND named V
1
From Phi Staff Reports
U S Circuit Court rules
0 C
. . . . Senior Jennifer Beam of Spring, Texas has been named ‘
agalnst afflrmatlve actlon a Luce Scholar for 1996-1997. Sponsored by the Henry A. f
Luce Foundation, the highly competitive Luce Scholars
Program every year offers 15-18 young Americans an
Austin, TX—A U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals handed down a ruling °_"P°rie"°° in Asia designed both *0 _br°ad°h {heir Pr0f";S'
against afﬁrmative action policies in public universities Tuesday. Srohal P°_r5P°C"V°5 and to 5h3rP¢h the" Per°°Ph°h5 °fA5ras
The case, which involved four white plaintiffs denied entrance to the 0f Amcrrcag ahd ‘ff th°m5°1Ve5- _ a
University of Texas Law School in favor of minority applicants with fewer After °“°"‘3“‘?" 3‘ ‘hf? W0°dr0“_’ Wrrsoh School f0r
qualiﬁcations, comes in a series of rulings in recent years against afﬁrma- International. Studies at Princeton UnIV6r5|rYs the _SCh0l3r5
ﬁve action programs in universities. continue their orientation in Asia under the auspices of a
The ruling applies only in a few states, and states that unless the l°3d1hEA5rah “hrV°r5h)’ 3hdrh°htr3Ve1t°a°°"hrr)/rhthe
university can clearly demonstrate that their policy compensates for past east or S9“th°ast AS‘a- , V
wrongs, it is unlawful to discriminate solely for the purpose of producing APPh°3ht5_ for thc I-“Q9 Scholar Program are Judged 0"
an ethnically diverse campus the basis of high academic achievement, aclearly deﬁned
The decision sets a signiﬁcant precedent, and most experts agree that it :3::r:5t» 1ead°r5hrP Pmehhars and adaptability 10 Other 0111'
:rr:)tI:(s)rq‘tiv<i:‘sjtcions concerning afﬁrmative action in colleges and Beam is a double major. in Spgnish anq Politics at W&L.
She has been named to Phi Eta Sigma, Phi Beta Kappa, and 5;.
‘‘Who’s Who Among Students in American Colle es and
Universities.” An active participant in communitygservice
0 o activities, Beam has organized two groups of W&L students
Chlna threatens Talwan to travel to Central America to participate in “Bridges to
Community,” a program sponsored by the Presbyterian y
Church.
Beijing———China continues to conduct threatening military maneuvers, ""13?
which U.S. ofﬁcials claim are designed to intimidate Taiwan. Chinese
refusal to cease their activities has prompted Secretary of State Warren
Christopher to announce a meeting with the Chinese Foreign Minister at
the Hague on April 21 to discuss the implications of further Chinese is
aggression.
As Taiwan embarks upon its ﬁrst democratic elections, China has Betsy Gm", phiphoto Edna,
increased its threats against the democratic separatist regime in Taiwan. In
response, the ‘US. has sent heavy military personnel to the waters around The unofficial theme of F_D.?
China and Taiwan, and ofﬁcials are questioning the outcome of Congres-
sional debate on China’s Most Favored Nation trade status, which is h ‘-c
desperately "°.°d°d bx ‘hf’ Chinese. economy‘ . . . As if you didn’t know, this weekend hundreds of W&L students will 
At the meeting, China s aggression toward Taiwan and other incidents, ﬂ k _ , i
such as possible nuclear weapons violations with Pakistan, and possible C“: to the Fancy Dress Ball for dancmg andmuhv dan°1ng°
repercussions will be discussed.

Baseball owners to discuss

possible revenue sharing

Fort Lauderdale, FL—Revenue sharing in National League baseball
will be up for debate at the owners meeting beginning Wednesday.

Though most owners agree that revenue sharing is needed to support
smaller teams, ofﬁcials predict difﬁculties in ratifying the plan without
ﬁrst establishing a players’ salary cap.

Jackson, Waleed to promote
family ivalues around world

Paris—Michael Jackson and Saudi Prince Waleed bin Talal announced
Tuesday their plan to collaborate on a project to create movies, television
programming, and vacation spots designed around family values.

Jackson and multi-billionaire Waleed met at Euro-Disney, and will
combine resources to form Kingdom Entertainment.

Allegations that Jackson is not ﬁt to promote family values are being
denied, and Prince Waleed insists that the venture will be sound and that
Jackson is a victim of the circumstances of his celebrity.

ANNUAL FUND STAFF ASSOCIATE POSITION

‘xrashington and Lee is seeking a creative and mature “

individual with excellent written and verbal skills to fill
the position of Annual Fund Staff Associate, a one-year appoint-
ment renewable for a second year.

Beyond the Blue Ridge is
compiled by Peggy Stuntz

This position assists in the development and management of
strategies to increase involvement in the Annual Fund, a $3
million effort that supports the University's budget. The suc-
cessful candidate will have demonstrated initiative, experience
F __ with working under specific deadlines, and an ability to manage
Betsy Green, Ph Pom Editor itudent workprs and alumni volunteers. Candidates should also
. . e re ared or evenin and weekend work and some travel.
Alice In Winterland? Fanliilialtiity with computirs and with public relations principles
is a plus.

    

GOP WATCH

 

Despite these signs of spring, the weather for F.D. may

not cooperate' See the Weekend Weather’ A bachelor’s degree is required, with preference given to

recent W&L graduates. A complete job description is available
For Rent in the Office of Personnel Services. Apply with letter of interest
and resume by Friday, April 5, to:

Editor’s Note: GOP Watch will con-
tinue to appear until a Republican presi-
dential candidate is chosen, in order for

students to compare the results of the Bed./Bath for n0h‘5r“0kr“8 female
Mock Convention with the results of the -  5‘”dl‘:'(')‘:n(ie’}H‘:ng‘t‘:fr§ g{‘r‘:e‘t3lea“ Roam w, Fox
Republican primaries’ 96-97 academic year. All the amenities DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL SERVICES

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

of home including washer and dryer! LEXINGTON’ VIRGINIA 24450_0303

. . o ‘ telephone/TV cablel AC and Kitchen
Dole WIIIS Rust Belt primaries privileges V A“ E 10 It In Em 10 er
Call 433-3315 after 5 p.m. or 462-1313 9”" PP“ “ ‘Y P V
BobDo|eswepttheRust Beltprimariesin Ohio, Michigan,Illinoisand 9 a,m, to 4 p.m. ‘ '

Wisconsin this past Tuesday and dealt yet another blow to Pat Buchanan’s
campaign. The television networks and the Associated Press reported that

 

  
     

. . O0O00000O000000000000000.0000000000000
with his victories on Tuesday Dole had secured Ithe nominatign for tltie 6‘ , , 5',
Republican presidential nomination. But the Do e campaign enies e . o o
claims that Dole had reached the required number of 1996 delegates._ Dole  . umﬁed W a :    CO :
did state, however, ‘‘I think it’s safe to say now, I will be the nominee. . , .
. Political analysts are predicting that Dole will win the California primary W . .
2 next Tuesday and thus win the needed amount of delegates. v : : F
 Oi Q5/L664  : CD'S l\l©\V IN STCDCK: :
. ‘ ° 0 o
5 Buchanan aides see him as i ' .   : A Qe]\[‘|'g QF: Q0013 RQQTS ,
i ’ ° t 3 UN M 3 v
: Dole s furture running ma e , (Le INQQ _
; o o
I O Q
: Prompted by favorable early exit polls in Michigan on Tuesday, Pat : Lr TT [E  B ROT H ER 0
5 B h n’s to aides declared that Senator Bob Dole will have to consider _ '
 Biighztriin as aprunning mate this November. Buchanan has somewhere : O H YEAH I ANd T H E : yt
; between 83 and 133 delegates, and presents no real threat to Dole In any of o E o
; the remaining primaries. Buchanan did admit that it was “grossly prema- : B I  : 1
: ture” to talk about the number two spot on the ticket and Dole refused to , . ,-
 entertain any questions on the matter. : AN T H O lOC.y P A RT TWO : Y
 Harlot To The Homestead ' °
‘ GOP Watch is compiled ‘Fen  Nelson : 25 S’ Jﬁtiferson 464 4059 :
b L Kna Lexington. Virginia 24450 0 Open 11 a.m. til 7 p.m. Monday - Friday, 0
Y 3”” PP 540.463.9841 . : Saturday 11 a.m. - 5 p.m. :
  ......................................\Y .
- .» .- »- H. . 7. s .  «: * .. - » -we: -r-: e-«—‘a'o:nJa" ‘ "'

§ ‘, ‘ . . . .. -

 

 

Page 3

 

 I
   ‘ ‘ill:  
 Tize Ring-tum Pizi, March 22, 1996

iﬁke ‘Du; Brings yet. this year; spin on tug

:QcaJew\x_; oiw.....i.

. Ciiiisnifs Brave/mart: liiis _vca1"s winner? Wm Cross the Stage M°“da3’ mght“3“d how 0fte”-

NOMINEES

Best picture: Babe, Tire Postman,
Apollo 13, Sense anai Sensibility,
Braveiieart. Best Actor: Nicolas
Cage, MassimoTroisi, Richard
Dreyf-uss, Sean Penn, Anthony
Hopieins. Best Actress: Susan

‘ hoopla of previous years--and more.

Whoopi Goldberg will host the extravaganza with the
assistance of Producer Quincy Jones, who promises in
addition to the announcement of the award-winners one
“killer musical.”

it On the stage will appear such musical talents as Vanessa

Williams, Bruce Springsteen, Bryan Adams and Randy
Newman, performing the tunes for which they received
nominations.

The real story, though, is who in Hollywood and for what

4

 

 

’//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////ﬂ ////ﬂ////////ﬂ//%%//W//////WV////////////W////////W///////W/WW/W/ﬂﬁﬂﬂ%WWﬂﬂ/0%/WWWﬂ%W 

tain as they are--will doubtless surprise. Even Hollywood’s

most important pundits admit as much.

“Nothing would surprise me after those nominations,”
renowned Holloywood marketing executive Lloyd Leipzig
says. “I’ve never seen a more wide-open race.”

Just who will win in each category seems truly to be a

matter of anyone’s speculation.

“One billion people around the world want those an-
swers,” Whoopi Goldberg reminds this week's TV Guide,
adding, “and they want to see what everybody's wearing.”

Michael Hewlett
Pizi Associate Editor

Can 1 get a witness? A testimony to
what God has done?

Well, Michael Eric Dyson, an or-
dained minister as well as Professor of
Communications Studies at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill,
testiﬂes to something otherthan God in
his new book, Between God and
Gangsta Rap: Bearing Witness toBlack
Culture. He contends that the variety
within black culture is between these
two extremes of religious faith and
gangsta rap.

At times personal and at othertimes
intellectually engaging, Dyson analyzes
trends in contemporary black culture
with the precision of a scholar and the
passion of a preacher.

And he makes interesting connec-
tions such as one between Smokey
Robinson and Shakespeare. The no-
tion of black culture and how it adds to
and is inﬂuenced by Western civiliza-
tion. Many white authors saw their

4' The card bearing the name of each soon-to-be owner of
. _ ' _ _ a golden Oscar ﬁgurine lies now tucked away within a little Safanfloﬂz Meryl Sheep, Emma
The 513819 M8855‘ ‘Ugh’ 1“ H°“YW0°d 15 now only One white envelope; despite their being hidden, however, the jﬂmmpson, E],-Sakai], Sjme, Sharon
Weekend 3“’3)’- names those envelopes contain are already the focus of _
‘V Airing on ABC this Monday, March 25, at 9 p.m., the every Viewervs anemic“ Stone. Supporting Actor: 

4 68th annual Academy Awards promises all the glamour and This year, perhaps more than usual, the answers--unceﬁ Harris, Kevin Spacey, James Cromwell,

Tim Rotii, BTGJ Pitt.
Actress:
Kate iVinsiet, Mare ivinningizam,
Kati:/een Quinlan. Director: Cizris
Noonan, Michael Ratiforai, Miiee Ffggis,
Tim Robbins, Mel Gibson.

Supporting
Ioan Aiien, Mira Sorvino,

writing inﬂuenced by black writers just
as writers including Richard Wright
and James Baldwin were inﬂuenced by
white authors.

I think Dyson makes an important
point. So much of the debate about the
centrality of Western civilization in
American society seems to reach for
romantic past. The same criticism can
be made of Afrocentricity in which the
more vulgar proponents point to the
great Egyptian past without seeking to
find any complexity.

Both African and Western civiliza-
tions have value, but they also have
baibaristicqualitieswithinthemaswell.
Both sides of the argument forget-to
see how both cultures have comple-
mented each other and ignore the whole
notion of cultural exchange.

Dyson also tackles controversial
issues such as afﬁrmative action, O.J.
Simpson (are you surprised?), and the
idea of racial purity. More impor-
tantly, he offers a refreshing evalua-
tion of Martin Luther King, Jr. that
shows he was more radical than some
have claimed, especially in his later

///////////////////////////////ﬂﬂﬂl/ﬂﬂ/////////////////ﬂ/////////////////////ﬂ//////////////////////////////////////////ﬂ/////////////////////////////////////////ﬂ/////////////////////////////////ﬂ

ac 2 cu ‘cure

years.

Another controversial issue is
gangsta rap. C. Delores Tucker and
William Bennett have made it their
point to criticize gangsta rap as trash-
ing American culture. Dyson answers
the critics, arguing that censoring
gangsta rap is not the way in which to
solve the problems that these rappers
bring up in their music.

Furthermore, he contends that while
the rampant sexism and violence con-
tained within the lyrics need to be chal-
lenged on all levels, a criticism of this
music should not overlook its legiti-
mate critiques of American society and
its failures to extend democracy and
equality to all people.

In the end, Dyson writes a book that
bears witness to black culture and to
American society as a whole. His
voice needs to be heard in this hostile
political climate in which we live.
Certainly, the reader will not agree
with all his views, but he might, as I
did, ﬁnd himself saying, “Amen” a
couple times before he ﬁnishes the
book.

Roanoke mall out
of your size!

   

   
 
  

local hairdresser
horror story...

Lgmw  and yours .0 play.

OBJECT: Race to “sleep” through one hectic weekend collecting happy memories.

  

lucky enough to get
Coolio tickets

    
  
 
  

 
  
 

 
 

    

oh yeah,

homework

 

  
 

Thursday
party

 

  

PAGE 4

@112 iﬁtng-tum lﬂlri

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

That FD feeling

Fancy Dress is here again. The dresses are
bought, the dinner reservations have been made,
and the Coolio tickets are burning a hole in your
pocket. What exactly is it about FD that gets
this campus so worked up? It can’t be the
excessive amounts of alcohol being consumed -
— that ’s no different than any other weekend. It
can’t be the intolerable amounts of work your
professors pile on you the week of the big
event. Any student who has ever survived mid-
term week can tell you that. It can’t be the
balloons or fireworks or whatever the hell
they’re planning to drop on this year (or aren’t
planning to drop on us). The theme? C’mon, I
haven’t read Alice in Wonderland since the
second grade (and even then we read the Cliff
Notes).

So why is FD such a big deal? March
Madness is a whole lot more interesting. The
Whitewater debacle is a whole lot more impor-
tant.

Perhaps FD means something to everyone.
For one guy I know, it’s the dozen roses he
bought his girlfriend. For one young lady, it’s
the excitement of getting to fox trot in a real
gown. Well, whatever it is (shameless Clueless
plug), it’s usually fun.

So be merry, be smart, and be safe.

Happy Fancy Dress! (Tarah Grant and
Kelley Totten, our FD Supplement editors
rock!)

Quote of the Week

"Go with a girl from out of town. That way, she

won't know about the memorabilia package and
you’ll save money.”

—An anonymous junior co-op worker who
asked to be described as ruggedly good-looking,

OPINION

The Ring-tum Phi, March 22, 1996

GENERATION Lax

Respect yourself. respect others. Please drink responsibly this weekend.

it

Drug War: ’90’s style Prohibition

MY VIEW

Jason Sorens, ’98

Crime is one of the fastest—growin g
problems in America today. But in
proponion to the magnitude of this
problem, the solutions politicians have
offered us have been extremely mild.
Quick—fix “solutions” like building
more prisons and issuing longer sen-
tences are expensive and ineffective.
More drastic measures, such as ex-
ecuting drug dealers and rolling back
civil liberties are totalitarian and unac-
ceptable.

I think that we can solve the crime
problem with two fundamental
changes: decriminalizing victimless
crimes and ending government control
over the justice system. In this col-
umn, I will focus on the first option. In
particular, I will show that ending the
War on Drugs is a necessary first step
toward reducing crime drastically.

The War on Drugs has been both a
moral and a practical failure. In moral
terms, the War on Drugs has spawned
a hideous government takeover of
Americans’ civil liberties. In practical
terms, the War on Drugs has not re-
duced drug use but hasinstead spawned
a massive crime wave throughout the
United States.

There is no moral justification for
banning substances. The logic that
would justify prohibiting people from
voluntarily buying selling, and using
drugs is the same logic that would
justify prohibiting people from eating
candy or drinking alcohol. Those who
subscribe to this twisted view would
like to imprison people “for their own
good.” No matter how they might
sugar-coat it with excuses such as,
“Society needs a sober and healthy
working force,” the fundamental rea-
son is just the same: intolerance of
other lifestyles. Using the abstraction
“society” just ignores the real forces at

work. Getting rid of drugs is not as
simple a matter as cleaning out
“society’s” house. What the govem-
ment really is doing is trying to clean
out the houses of all 250 million Ameri-
can individuals.

Some people say that we need to
ban drugs to prevent people from act-
ing violently under the inﬂuence of
drugs. But the fact is that narcotics are
sedatives; they make people less likely
to become violent. Indeed, alcohol is
more likely than marijuana or LSD to
promote violence, but we rejected pro-
hibition of alcohol long ago.

And even if drugs did promote vio-
lence, shouldn’t we concentrate on
those violent acts instead of the sub-
stance itself? Shouldn’t we punish the
people who commit violence instead
of everyone who might use a particular
substance? It is a grossly backward
policy to prosecute people for using a
substance that might cause them to
become violent instead of prosecuting
those who do become violent. The
basic fact is that the government is
trying to do too much. If we concen-
trated our resources on ﬁghting real
violence instead of all manner of “vic-
timless crimes,” we would do a lot
more to reduce violence. This theory
is borne out by the fact that our prisons
are now crowded with drug dealers
and users. In 1990, for the first time,
the number of people sentenced to
prison for drug crimes exceeded the
number of people sentenced for vio-
lent crimes. Meanwhile, murderers
and rapists walk free.

As I wrote before, the drug war has
all the marks of a failed government
policy. After years of futile battles, the
government has decided to extend its
power in yet another attempt to crush
the enemy. Here is a list of a few
atrocities that the U.S. government has
perpetrated in its drug assault. I am
taking these examples from James
Bovard’s book, Lost Rights.

Willie Jones of Nashville was de-

tained by Drug Enforcement Agency
agents at an airport because he was
black and used cash to pay for his
airplane ticket. After a two-year legal
battle, he got his money back.

In Volusia County, Florida, the
police department has used forfeiture
laws to seize motorists’ vehicles and
money. Between 1989 and 1992, they
seized over $8 million, but in three-
fourths of these cases, no criminal
charges were ever filed.

On October 2, 1992, thirty-one fed-
eral agents stormed the California ranch
of sixty-one year old Donald Scott.
Bovard writes, “Scott's wife screamed
when she saw the intruders, Scott came
out of the bedroom with a pistol in his
hands, and the police gunned him down.
After killing Scott, the agents thor-
oughly searched his house and ranch
but failed to ﬁnd any illicit drugs.”
Furtherinvestigation revealed that the
Los Angeles County Sheriff’ s Depart-
ment had cooked up a bogus warrant in
an attempt to seize the ranch, which
was worth $1.1 million.

“In Fort Lauderdale, Florida, po-
lice seized the $250,000 home of a
dead man from his heirs who had cared
for him while he was dying of cancer.”
The sole justification for the seizure
was an anonymous inforrnant’s vague
assertion that the owner had once taken
$10,000 from drug dealers. The police
had no other evidence.

The federal government officially
encourages children to turn in their
parents, a technique reminiscent of the
Communist Bloc. In Maryland, Colo-
rado, Wisconsin, and Georgia, chil-
dren turned in their parents to the drug
authorities, who congratulated the kids
on their service to the state.

Aside from these most egregious
intrusions, the government has caused
a widespread crime disaster through
drug prohibition, just as it did during
alcohol prohibition. Just as in alcohol
prohibition, the controlled substances
have become more potent since the

government launched full-scale efforts.
‘‘In the early 19805, $10 heroin bags in
New York contained only 3 or 4 per-

cent heroin; now the average purity is 5,.

64 per cent,” Bovard reports. Because
of higher concentrations, the number
of addicts has gone up. The number of
heroin addicts rose from 500,000 to
700,000 in the mid-1980s.

The drug war has lowered the sup-
ply of drugs, but thereby raised the
potency and the prices, just as oc-
curred during alcohol prohibition. The
result has been more addicts, more

theft by addicts who need to support “

their habits and more turf wars be-
tween drug dealers who fight over the
lucrative drug trade. According to
economist Clark Warburton, during
alcohol prohibition, alcohol use in-
creased dramatically: liquor by 520%
per capita, wine by 97% per capita, and
beer by 447% per capita. Prohibition
also made alcohol more potent: of the
480,000 gallons of liquor confiscated

in New York state during one year of ‘

Prohibition, 98% contained poison.
Also, younger people became more
involved in became associated with
gang warfare, just as drug dealing is
today.

The parallels between the drug war
and alcohol prohibition are too exact to
be ignored. Just as alcohol prohibition
failed miserably, so the drug war is

failing miserably. Before we banned .
drugs in 1914, we had no national drug '

problem, and before we stepped up the
War on Drugs in 1968 and again in
1981, we had less of a problem than we
do now. One estimate holds that re-

legalizing drugs would reduce violent T

crime by seventy-five per cent. The
overwhelming evidence suggests that
it’s time to end the drug war. And
while we’re at it, let’s decriminalize
other nonviolent activites, such as pros-
titution, gambling, voluntary sodomy,
and gun ownership. Let’s take the first
step toward reducing true crime in
America.

“I

 

 

Ellie ‘filing-him lﬁlii

Executive Editors
Associate Editor

Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Michael Hewlett

News Editor Christine Garnavish
Editorial Page Editor Hillary Coombs
Sports Editor Qmtt Bookwalter
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor Cindie Young, Courtney E. Miller
Photography Editor Betsy Green
Editorial Cartoonists Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace
Business Manager Rnhert Nelson
Assistant Business Manager Doug Gertner
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant
Advertisement Composition Artist Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi‘
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-rum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu.edu

Revamped presidential debates;

MY VIEW
Nova Clarke, ’96

I’m sure everyone would like to hear about some-
thing other than presidential politics. I’m a bit tired
of them and it’s only primary season—-but there
really isn’t a way to talk about politics that isn’t
related to presidential questions. I was in DC this
weekend for a conference on the presidency so I got
a full four days on all aspects of the presidency and
the election. We did have several very good speak-
ers. One of my favorites was General McCaffery,
the new drug czar. He is a great speaker and if I was
a drug dealer or addict, I would be a lot more worried
about having him afterme than any of the other drug
czars like Bill Bennett. By the time he was done
speaking, there was almost a movement on the ﬂoor
to draft him for President. However, one of the more
interesting speakers and one who was trying to be
non-partisan but didn’t quite succeed when it came
to questioning was Frank Farrenkoph, the former
chairof the RNC and current co-chairof the commis-
sion on presidential debates.

He talked about the presidential debates and the
actual election. The debate scheme was sort of inter-
esting. The first debate is going to be a roundtable
with the candidates sitting at a table and not behind
a podium. This is because studies show they are
more likely to be open in such a situation. The
second one is a townhall meeting where a selected
group of voters who have not made up their mind
about who they are going to vote for will get to ask
questions of the candidates. The final presidential
debate will have‘ the candidates back behind the
podiums. The interesting part of the setup is that
there will only be one moderator for each of the
debates in order to prevent the reporters and network
anchors from upstaging the candidates. It will also
give the candidates more time to actually answer
each of the questions. He pointed out that the 1992
debates set a record for viewing, the first debate
having the largest audience in history and the

audience’s increasing each time. This is definitely a
positive sign of the public’s engagement in politics
and their inclination to look beyond the simple 30
second sound bites that dominate network TV. Rupert
Murdoch, of all people has also offered to lose some
money and help educate the public by donating spots
on Fox for presidential candidates. This isn’t quite
the same as forcing every voting-age person in
America to closely examine the exact stands of all
the candidates on the issues but it will give them a
view beyond the 30 second sound bite.

The other interesting part of his speech was his
insight into the way the campaign will play out. He
pointed out that the American public is generally
divided into three groups: the 40% that always vote
with the Democrats, the 40% that always vote with
the Republicans and the 20% that are up for grabs
and provide the winning majorities. 1992 proved
this rule. Clinton got 43%, Bush 38%, and Ross
Perot 19%. The two major party candidates got a
base vote of around 40% and Perot swept the unde-
cided middle. Therefore the political parties both
target this middle 20% but they only do it in 20 states,
the ones with the most electoral votes and where the
respective parties think they have the best chance of
winning. States like California, Florida, Texas, New
York, and the big Midwest states like Illinois, Indi-
ana, and Ohio. These states have enough electoral
votes that they can make or break a winner who can
then ignore states like Montana, Alaska, and Dela-
ware or Rhode Island.

The parties target their advertising and spend
their money in these few states. The citizens become
the recipients of the attention that was paid the voters
of Iowa and New Hampshire in February. The
candidates spend half their campaigns in these states
and are very careful to make sure nothing is done that
might upset the citizenry like not responding to a
disaster fast enough. These states have media at-
tacks blasted at them about the issues that appeal to
them the most. I can assure you that you won’t be
hearing many ads directed at allowing subsistence
hunting but you will hear a lot about education and
welfare reform.

The issues that Mr. Farrenkoph mentioned were
also sort of interesting although we had heard a
completely different perspective two days earlier at
the Brookings Institute. He didn’t think the cam-
paigns would bring up affirmative action because
neither side would want to antagonize any major
groups of voters. His feeling was that the economy
and welfare and healthcare reform would be major
issues. The economy because at this rate there will
never be a budget approved for this ﬁscal year and
the U.S. will be in some pretty tough times if that
happens. Welfare and healthcare reform are very
important and if there was not a presidential election
this year than these issues would probably be re-
solved. The President and the Congress both agreed

on a welfare reform bill that would have been signed I

if the Republicans in the Senate hadn’t added a
Medicare rider that was unacceptable to the Presi-
dent and the Democrats. A straight bill would have
made it through and the Dole would not have been
able to point to the President as a stumbling block, a
strategy that was more or less admitted to by one of
the Republican governors and potential vice presi-
dential candidates. He also suggested that the char-
acter issue might not be that much of an issue. The
press really hasn’t started looking to hard at Bob
Dole and one never knows what might be dug up-
his handlers also haven’t given him free reign to
speak to the press either and when that happens Bob
Dole might be done for. The American public has
already heard so much about Whitewater that there
really is nothing that the Republicans can do with
that unless they force every voter to read James
Stewart’s new book—Bloodsport about Whitewater.

Well, speaking of vice presidential candidates.
Who knows—l don’t think Colin Powell will go for

it despite all the speculation. It will probably be a ‘,

midwestern governor like John Engler of Michigan
or Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin. In the end it
doesn’t make that much of a difference because most

people don’t really consider the vice presidential .

candidate when they vote; although there are excep-
tions like me who liked Clinton a lot better when he
chose Al Gore as his running mate.

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 22, 1996

The good or bad, happy or sad

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

I guess you all know what Friday
is...it’s a regular day of classes, with
real work and everything!

SOME of you may have the Fancy
Dress Ball on your minds, and for the
approximately four people don’t, and

M are actually reading the Phi today, I

,1;

present to you the reason for staying
home that you’ve been looking for:
I’m announcing the Third Annual
Dream Land Awards of Achievement.

These prestigious awards, known
as the “Dreammys,” are not decided on
lightly. I spent nearly an entire after-
noon thinking of things that amused
me in different ways this past year. lt’s
something I can do while watching TV
at the same time.

In the category of Best Item Avail-
able for Purchase at the Lee-Hi Truck
Stop, this year’s winner is Cookin’ in
Reba Country, a recipe book which
includes instructions for preparing
Kentucky Fried Rabbit, as well as
Friend Brains (“Place brains in cold
water for 30 minutes, then remove
membranes...”). The recipe for Texas

Rattlesnake includes the helpful first
step: 1) Find and capture a Western
Diamondback Rattlesnake as well as
8) Eat It!. Sounds like a good Letitia
Pate Evans Dining Hall theme night, if
I ever heard

    

Roanoke . Though in normal circum-
stances Glamour Shots is a classy op-
eration, it became that much more chic
when it offered “NASCAR photo ses-
sion” in January. Instead of the latest in

fringe and se-

One. quined fashion,

Thewinner people could be
for Best Ad- photographed
Vertisement wearing their fa-
goes to our lo- vorite NASCAR
cal Wal-Mart, memorabilia. Pets
which in Oc- were not eligible
tober ran an ad for this offer.
for “Foto Pet TheBestBusi-
Day,” where ness Car
people could Dreammy is
bring their pets award awarded to
to be profes- A..l. and Amy
sionally pho- A _ . , Panebianco, pro-
tographed. , prietors of Back
The b3Ck 0f i m ‘WANG 00* I I Street Tattoos in
the brochure  $5 "°"“"”"""   Buena Vista.
for the com— '"'""""‘”'"”"”“'"‘”""*“""*"~'

pany reads:
“We are the leading pet photographers
on the east coast.” And they’re proud
of it. They’ve been doing “Petography
Since 1988.”

An honorable mention for Best
Advertisement has to go to Glamour
Shots in the ValleyView Mall in

Their card prom-
ises a $5 discount
for their services, which by the way,
are by appointment only. What really
make this car special, though, is the
little picture of a wizard holding a
sparking staff in they sky. I’m not sure
what it has to do with tattoos but per-
haps it relates to the “RN Needle Care”

listed on the card. Sign me up.

The Dreammy for Best New Stop-
In Food Item goes to the microwaveable
cod sandwich, fresh from the freezer. I
recently purchased one of these from
my Least Favorite Stop-In Employee,
Don. They taste slightly like fish,
which is a bonus.

I never thought of cod as a conve-
nience store staple, but who knows,
this could be the beginning ofa whole
new offering of Stop-In seafood. Imag-
ine, if you will, live Stop-In lobsters in
an aquarium next to the hot dog roller.
Don would happily kill one for you
while he’s waiting for you to show him
your ID for the beer to go with it.

The Best World Wide Web Site
Dreammy goes to the homepage called
“Richard Weaverand His Pants” (http:/
/www.ccc.nottingham.ac.uk./!llykstw/
richmain.html). It was created by a
British student with an incredible sense
of humor, as you can imagine. “Do
you know, you just would not believe
how many people want to examine my
pants!” Richard says. In another sec-
tion he adds, “...My main interests
include beer (pronounced “BEEEEEE-
OOOR”). I have to meet this guy.

These are just a few of my favorite
things. Maybe you’ll like them too.

GENERAL
NOTES

Scholarship

Discouraged by the dearth of
jobs for English profs? Consider
the possibility of library science.
The Va. Library Association is
sponsoringtwo$2,000scholarships
for students pursuing a Masters
degree in Library Science. Must be
a VA resident of two years. See or
phone Dean West- Settle (x8748).

SRS applications

Students interested in joinin g the
Student Recruitment Committee
and being a tour guide should fill
out an application and sign up for
an interview in the Admissions
Office by Friday, March 29. Inter-
views will be held in the Admis-
sions Office on Sunday, March 31
and Tuesday, April 2.

 

Straight talk

“Straight talk” is a theater pre-
sentation of sexual assault issues.
Actors will lead a discussion after
the play. Tuesday, Mar. 26 at 8
p.m. in the GHQ.

Class Elections

Class Elections will be held
Monday, Mar. 25 from 8 a.m. to 4
p.m. Run-off elections on Thurs-
day 8 to 4 pm. at the Co-op and the
library. Everyone please remem-
ber to vote in front of the Co-op and
Leybum Library.

Class Elections

Cecily Tynan will give a Women
& Leadership Lecture at Lee Chapel
Tuesday, 8 p.m. .

Seniors
Company
Booz~Allen & Hamilton Inc.

DMG Securities
Barnett Bank

Advisory Board Company
Cravath, Swaine & Moore
Rubino & McGeehin

Norwcst Financial

St. Stephens & St. Agnes School

Pfizer, Inc.

Interstate/Johnson Lane
Sidley & Austin

National Endowment for the Arts
Shandwick USA
Project Performance Corporation

Robert W. Woodrufl Arts Center

C. H. Powell and Co.
InterVest, LTD.

The Advisory Board Co.

Rubino & McGeehin

Chaney, Thomas Stephenson & Hill

Internships open to all students

CAREER DEVELOPMENT AND PLACEMENT NEWS
THE FOLLOWING OPPORTUNITIES ARE AVAILABLE IN OUR OFFICE

Position Deadline
Jr. Analyst & Environmental Records Mgt. Resume Mailing 3/22
at noon
Account Executive Open Si gn~up 3126
Corporate Banking Training Program Resume Mailing 3/27
at noon

Research for Health Care & Banking Resume Mailing 3/29
Legal Assistants Resume Mailing 3/29
Entry-levelAceountant Resume Mailing 3.129
CreditManagement Trainee Program Submit Resume 3/29
Development Position Resume Mailing 3129
Research Chemist Resume Mailing 415
Sales Associate Submit Resume 45
Financial Consultant Resume Mailing 4/ 12
Legal Assistants Resume Mailing 4/30
Research Assistant Resume Mailing 380
Public RelationsFinn Resume Mailing 3222

Environmental Policy Research

Development

Internships open to Sophomores and Juniors

International Commerce

Financial Counseling

Internships open to Juniors only

Custom Health Care and
Banking Research

Accounting lntemship

Resume Mailing 3/28
Rolling Deadline

Resume Mailing 3/30
Resume Mailing 3f3l

Resume Mailing 3/29

Resume Mailing 3/29

VISIT OUR OFFICE FOR INFORMATION ON THESE AND FUTURE OPPORTUNITIES!

industry.

Bank.

 

1996

First Union‘ National Bank
Scholars Day

9 Learn more about the fast paced, changing world of banking and the ﬁnancial services
0 Spend time exchanging ideas with key corporate executives from First Union National

9 Participate in an intensive leadership simulation where you can experience first hand the
challenges of today’s business environment.

SOUND INTERESTING?
THEN FIRST UNION SCHOLARS DAY MAY BE FOR YOU 2

Application
Deadﬁnez
April 5, 1996

What is Scholars Day? It is a 1 1/2 day program hosted by First Union National Bank
of Virginia and designed to give you first hand experience and knowledge about what IS
happening in the banking industry. You‘ll also have a chance to put into practice your
academic experience as you participate in a fun and fast paced leadership activity.

Who Can Apply? RISING SENIORS will be selected to attend. Key qualifications
include an interest in banking, scholastic and leadership excellence and ALL MAIORS
(including all liberal arts or science majors as well as commerce majors).

For More Information, Contact: Washington and Lee University
Career Development and Placement Office.

 

 

 

PAGE 6 S The Ring-tum Phi, March 22, 1995

   
  
    

 

v
9
Y
j; ***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!*** ‘ 4-1-Qatari-. up In 1.1:; 341
Z A Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH witli  ' W i W '
1 . America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun .3 ,._.____.
‘ Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL év  1»
(800) 95-BREAK! More Mowes Mara Gangs, Best Service!

172 Walker Street, Sumrnit Square, next to the DMV

y I E I D '  ~ Private, individual Roon1(:4m‘8&9654 2_mW \r i

I I A I  M  H I : ::1:n:\::l:n::::!:ereBed with  ' I
WEE“ ATHDMEI 32 ° '
PROCESSING   *      

* Great Selection of Tanning
Products!

     
 
     
   
 
   
       
       
   
 
 
  

* We offer California Tan, y
the nations #1 hast seizing
Eotlon!

///x

" Certified Consultants!
" New Member Speciai:  ‘ ‘’
30 Days for $30

Store Hours

Mon. - Thu.
10 mm. - 10 pm.

Fri. a: sun.
10 mm. - ‘I1 p.m.

Sundays
12 p.m. - 10 p.m.

  
  
 

N0 EXPERIENCE
  t T NECESSARY!
START   DETAILS: RUSH LONG sAse'

    ANC  

0 SUITE 2 1 6

1351 hlr_E-3ﬁ-_~EE‘a_:[- 3"."-1' 0u¢0IIlIp0ﬂI’cI'CIl8toQ.cl'

   

Qcunnnﬁg

 
  
 

 

Hannrwoon FL :-33020 “""""“"""“"""""'-'—‘—'——"""““"""""‘ '7“
‘j:1X$1§1!ZZZ1ZZ1Z11$zj——’ - — — ~ — — - — - ~ ~ — - - ~ — — — — — ~ « ~ — — ~ — ~ . __71“"’=..__g

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIY

.7Iia7/z&az

mnowaae STORES 5’

   

Your Student
Go Hungry

' Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. — 6 p.m. Sun. 1 — 5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

A Bistro

8 am - 3 pm - Monday
8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday
8 am — 11 pm - Friday - Saturday
9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

 

Harbs’ Point Card
The $100 Meal Ticket
Redeemable for
Breakfast, Lunch, Dinner

_ For only $90.00

E
99
"1
6'‘
Wu

_ _ Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad
Nutrztzous Mu ns & Egg Specialties All you can eat $4.99
Fresh alads & Soups

Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees

WEEKLY

C dl l_ htD_ C  Thursday - 10% off food - with student ID __
an e lg mers . A _ . ' .
G. Y ' _ ' ~ Friday - Seafood Nite -
1V6 Our Student ‘_ . _ ' 5 Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout
a Homecooked Meal With Our P '?ice aging Ina" . '0 I : Saturday - 8 oz. Prime Rib, -
Point Card in anal company! Free 2vegs,sa1adss»9s

   
   

mg! Bonuses! Stan
immediate! !, Genuine
opportunity! §1S.A.S. 
  cue. SUITE 216  
1861 ILFBDERAL '   
0I.I.YHO0D.FL 3302,

Harbs, gﬂplios. postage! No

19 W. Washin ton St., Lexington, VA 24450 ..

.M.___.¢,_ _
----I-IlII-un-unn-unuuquaauunllnluunuuunuunnnuuuuu
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII

.19 W. Was 'ng 11 St. Lexin'g_tor=,_\:" 4  - A

IIIIIIIII

Restaurant ancf
9{oE5ie’5 Lounge

  

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.

Route 7, Box 99A

Lexington, Virginia 24450 _ .
Near the Home Center The Buffet is served from 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m.
Phone 4649499 We 11 be wa1t1ng for you.

Berky’s
Route 11 North - Lexington, VA 463-3478

 

 

    
 

  

   

 

 

Resfftggﬁf i) : £10 ‘I;n91..3t(())  m  George Brokenshire
' i I ' ' ' ’ V,    " V T " Restaurant Manager
V Q Q u an
SPR‘NG BREAK 996 _ SEL C _ -    — - .' - '
TRIPS EARNCASH&GO FREE!!! ‘ 1531 E-“ALI-RNDLLE BCH BLVD '
Studen’tTravelServicesisnow hiring ' mL LE.   ‘ V
cam usrepre%;1tativesbLo\:/estrate | ' I
‘ , a ona an
g)an2fr'ri‘2‘iilC(2:i?yBea[11c‘:!il.nCall1):800-648 I I wunwismmasrmcmoo cu.-an :
4849 ’ cazau um-ed mmaeumey. 100% ouanamzanz
vgsprogjauggmoual tlaccrzdlicudsyeu I pp 3 _
ulesuve and need 5ur-  : NnME .
Ea to $2S(‘)l(l)((1)‘-:»l;iIsi(l)%vf':1)‘1.:l‘<1i!ng for Cruise   EuE%E"cY (x$‘—TcKE&3..REAsar  '  .

‘.'“ “V ' - . MOTELS-— 5——C 315- I
225:.fa:-::::;:‘;'F:::t'r:::‘;::,,;.,§”.,‘::§ ~   Rem m auxwvounculanrr Iumnm -_ cm sm-s_.zu= |
available. For info call:  - u t d ! . STUDENT? YES NO as! ___,,_____.......... . *
 ‘ ' ‘pi. 0 an: nuns » .

L 5” ‘f '9‘ :0 cred‘§|‘.chlIeIc:IsI;itl : §I;'&Ia&Ia'*&iu Iluueladtnd-ewliltdl-luuiusmllvhtnath-walla: '

II? E * ' ’ '
Fishing Industry. Earn up to $3000 ; ﬁ5‘‘l’‘::t¢§::.S’_ “ ‘EC ’ ' vb. “.  ...*..¢dmg\ ngygtnu ndwsh Iultnnlloml I
§°°°°*,§:°.:,,.'."‘;:;{‘.;,‘}%:$,;“°NE2i;i: “‘ *°‘‘ 86-0 WE CW0" TOW B ' v
I . -

ﬁ;ann°sepoW5,,,,. For more information Your: cmznn mans M!£ wanna! !_ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ .2

call:(206) 971 - 3510 ext AS3421

 

/-o’

«X

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 22, 1996

Generals pick up victory
in nightcap at Norfolk

BASEBALL, from page 8

ball hard consistently, but the Marlins
played sufficient defense to silence the
Generals offense.

But, an immediate loss did not
dampen the Generals’ spirits.

The second game was a battle of
pitching and was in large part won by

Ermigiotti.

The Generals’ veteran southpaw
pitched his first complete game of the
year, yielding no earned runs and sti-
ﬂing the Marlins for seven innings.

He also maintained a strong pres-
ence at the plate, driving in two runs to
clinch the Generals’ first ODAC win of
the season, despite a slow day for the
Generals at the plate.

Ermigiotti currently leads the team
in innings pitched and has solidified

his place as the Generals’ number one
pitcher.

The W&L baseball team’s sched-
uled game at Lynchburg Tuesday was
postponed because of rain. The game
will be made up at a date and time to be
announced.

The Generals continue their ODAC
action Thursday at Eastern Mennonite,
weather permitting, and return home
for a game against Hampden-Sydney
March 27th.

SPORTS

 

 

Generals’ senior co-captain Matt

Men’s tennis squad splits with
Hampden-Sydney, Salisbury State

On Sunday, the Generals were defeated by Salisbury
State, 4-3. W&L dropped its top three singles matches and
all three doubles matches. Senior Andy Horen, Taylor, and
Aday won their singles matches.

Taylor won Athlete of the Week honors last week after
compiling a perfect 4-0 singles record against Sewanee,
Hampden-Sydney, Salisbury State, and Mary Washington.

W&L’s scheduled home match with Averett College
was rained out Tuesday. The match is rescheduled for April
30 at 3:00 PM.

The Generals will be in action again next Wednesday at
Emory and Henry.

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team split its matches last weekend,
beating Hampden-Sydney, 5-2, but dropping to Salisbury
State, 4-3.

Against Hampden-Sydney, senior Chris MacNaughton,
freshman Dale Pretila, senior Jesse Taylor, and senior Ryan
Aday all picked up singles victories for the Generals. They
also won all of their doubles matches.

ONLY vou

can prevent white space. Do you part. Write for the Phi.

for the last time a winner.

year total to twelve.

Rebekah Prince climbed out of the pool

There is not much that Prince hasn’t ac-
complished in her four years on the swim-
ming team. Yet, she traveled down to At-
lanta last week and broke her own school
record in the 200 backstroke in a time of
2:07.67. She captured three All-America
awards at nationals, bringing her final four-

 
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

Rebekah Prince

Women's Swimming

The men’s tennis team thus far has had
an up and down season, but senior Jesse
Taylor hasn’t.

The tri-captain compiled a spotless 4-0
record in singles competition last week for
the Generals, who went 3-1 on the week.
Taylor helped the Generals pull off a 4-3
comeback win against Sewanee last Thurs-
day by capturing a third-set victory in his
singles match.

Jesse Taylor
Men’s Tennis

  

Rodman’s performance earns a 6

THE BIG FAN, from page 8

only too happy to oblige, sticking Rod-
man with a 6-game suspension and a
$20,000 fine.

It will be interesting to see how
Rodman’s suspension will affect the
Bulls. Scottie Pippen is already in-
jured and a host of frontcouit backups
are shelved for various reasons. Even
if Michael Jordan scores 40 points per
game, not too many teams will be
scared ofToni Kukoc and Luc Longley.
Or the Bulls could bring big, bad, Bill
Wennington off the bench.

The Bulls nearly lost the other night
to the Sixers, a team so bad that Derrick

Coleman won’t even play for them.
Even Shawn Bradley, of all people,
improved once he left town.

Getting back to the Bulls, no matter
how flaky Rodman is, the truth is that
he’s a good player. Chicago may not
have to worry much now, but Rodman’s
presence could ultimately be the dif-
ference in winning a championship.
Wonder if Dennis knows that?

The Bulls will need to concentrate
as much on keeping Rodman under
control forthe rest of the season as they
will on winning 70 games.

Believe it or not, winter sports are
still playing. Well, the teams have
finished, but Rebekah Prince and
Nathan Hottle keep marching along.

Seoul, Korea 155-090.
TEL: O‘]_l‘-S2-__.2_-5SS—JOBS(5627)

l’Rl.\1('3II'LliS

TEACH ENGLISH lN KORE/\— Positions available monthly. B./\. or B. .
degree required. US $18,500-25,400/yr. Accomodation & rourid—trip
airfare provided. Send resume, copy of diploma and copy of passport to:
Bok Ji Coprporatiori, Churi Bang Bldg, l54—l5 Sameung Dong, Karig Nam Gu,

0} S()l.’.~‘\'I)

FAX: oii—eg_:g-_e_e2-4x(4529)

 

  

.R.!‘.'I‘lR!7.l\iF.NT

One week before Darvin Ham hit
Atlanta, Prince stormed the city herself
with an amazing fourth place finish in
the 200-yard backstroke. This gave
her a first team All-America award.
Congratulations, Rebekah- there could
not be a better way to cap off a terrific
swimming career than with a school-
record time of 2:07.67!

Nathan Hottle will also pursue
NCAA swimming glory this weekend
in, you guessed it, Atlanta. Rebekah
Prince, Nathan Hottle, Darvin Ham
and Allen Iverson. That’s a happening
place! It’s too bad that Dave Justice
and the Braves aren’t playing yet...

Should we even need to care about
the Olympics?

NATIONAL PARKS HlRlNG

Students Needed! Tour guide, instructor,
lifeguard, hotel staff, firefighler+ volunteer
and government positions available at Na-
tional Parks. Excellent benefits + bonuses!
For Outdoor Employment Program call:
206 971-3620 ext.N53421

     
  
 

  

     
   

  

  
    
  

 
 
   

Il\‘\-‘°l.iS’I‘Ii\'(i

EXERCISE REGULARLY AND YOU
COULD LIVE LONGER.
INVEST REGULARLY SO YOU

CAN AFFORD T0.

1-ivi. .’>')‘

at iil}~.\'t};lr: yirzti illﬁasit.

Aiicr'ie.zitis ;xi‘L- lix=ii:;._g iun§.;t~r ili.s.n i"‘c’Pl'. So ii'.< quite
[.’5.\‘:\‘>"ll.!}&’.f.'K)t|‘i-il 1<pcml ‘E0 or 3ll’_\»*mr< or more in

i‘c'limiiit*til. Q.‘-I11/\.‘(‘itl £4l'l(§t‘xl it? i;{)l<’$.<‘\’1.)it’2't’ imlepizw
lll.'!‘lli‘\‘ m:.4lti\y. (‘lb-liJt‘!.’.’§ are _«.‘m:‘|l ism’.--l iI'ioi\* ilum

yciiii‘ i>ms'mn riiirl Soirinl E5-e<'xxi'ii_x‘ to ‘:Llp})Ull. the l<in<l

l low <;in_vmi in.-ip ct:-aiiw tltnlf ymill be in goml

L‘{lll ﬁklli Vt  U. In()(lC.‘<'l :UIIUIKnl Juli lnlfl |"¢'l.\(""\ Will"
¢.‘1.)fXlt’il.)Utt0!l a\.\_x'nut‘ s.iil.‘ujy grows.

The l!Tlp<)l1.‘tl'ti thing is to sizivi ii«:>w. l)¢:l:s3.":ri«t: lvl
i.'\'cn is ytnir in’ two rim tiziwi .'t lug iiup(ti_‘l, mt tlw

aunoum ol‘in<*oiii::‘vi_iii'll lmi.-c sxlmi you retire.

’I‘lAA~CKJ$F:

I '.
-‘I_~L

{.3 3"?“ 2I~.i<$:".- .'m.1sc-«tavx!.<l«4.iks- .{«-.s1.s:s}ae"{Z~.‘.‘._w kxxlwc.-4.’ .'.;.m:».-.< hm.-5. IR‘ iT$u.«-‘Aw.-.-.-.~, .52»-

liiiaii<.ial t~liapc'.’ Sigii up liar ‘l‘l.i'\.'\‘Cl{l".l“ 3R:\:’« 

tax-<lt.-l}.~:rr.cl Jtnlllllllvi {lV~'ill(Ii$ll‘ Uillf to pui.xp§c in min-

ration amt rt'.u>m‘(~li,
SRAs are easy. No pain, no sweat.

‘l'lw iwi v..i_~.- iu l.-uilsl mciigili —- p'h,wai<‘a.l or iisml
~ is to slam at it level (liars (‘Ol't‘|l€)l1.'il)l1‘ .‘in<l .'i<lil to
_\voui‘ i‘vgiiiiuxi rigs-cu go along.
\\"illi TI.-\.v‘\-Cl‘(l"Il*’ Sl{:\<. _vx,iii «'<iinetiiuii(ly con-
triliuli: ilirmigli youi‘ miplu_~.~ci":. })&l_\,'i‘Ull s_\-zslciit. You

Ensuring the future
for those who shape it."

  

‘I .| l~»|>\ ~ii.u A In-(imimr..xS

Your ﬁscal fitness program.

list‘. and rciix.ul»<.‘il:l_\' low i~xp<~n.<(*s.

oi‘ littp://www.liua-ci'cl‘.org.

 

. i‘.,v,\~ 1‘? 3 t.‘

-, Ali I Mai VA" "“.'\\ an

 

7‘ ‘.1 -.
’. :‘:."..~‘

‘l‘l.«*\r\»CRl‘:l"' is (lie iitttiiixﬁx largest l‘&"llY{Tf'(t(‘nl
sjxstt-iii. iiiaiiagiiig over $130 billion in .’t$S(*l$ lor moi‘r iii
\'.'
illélll l,/‘ million pcnpic. \\"c otter .1 wiiie iamgv (it "I:
~ ~ . . “\ ‘
§R;\ ailloi:.itu.m (‘l\()!t'(".\. lnn,i;~t(~rin Il"1‘.'(‘:1!ll1i’lll expel» . 1-
5'5
Call l 800 842-2776 for an 3R.-‘\ l",iti‘t)lltIicitt .4;
Kit or our lllH‘.t‘.‘lt‘fl\.’t" SR*\ l‘}i'it‘i)lli1i-silt Soi’t»\.it'u. :1
Or visit us on (lie lnieriiz-1 ail gopher://tiua-«trellnrg, 
(fl
‘A
. ‘.
I‘:
‘.3’
3:
‘s
5
5
a
O‘
9'
5'
’:
.‘
3
.5

 
 

 

 

Last Week:

Ellie ‘titling-htm iﬂhi

This

Week:

Mon. at Shenandoah, 3 PM; Wed. vs. Harnpden-

BASEBALL - L, 63; W, 2-1, vs. Virginia Wesleyan Sydney, 3 PM

Mlgicnossz - W, 12-5, vs. Gettysburg MLAcnoau- Sat. vs. Bowdoin, 2PM

wucnosgg. w‘1s.6, vs. Guilford; w,21.4_ at Hollins WLAcItoaaI- Sat. vs. Denison, 1PM; Sun. va. N. Dame (Md). noon
M'IkNN1s- w, 52, vs. Hampden-Sydney; L, 4-3, vs. Salisbury St. . M'l‘nmus- Wed. at Emory&Henry. 3PM

W'I‘smus- W,B-1, vs. Virginia Wesleyan; W, 6-3, vs. Amherst; W'lkNNu1- Sun. vs. Mary W8-Ihin8l»0n. 1PM: Mon. VB.

w, 7.2, vs. Salisbury State; w,so, at Guilford Williams. 3:30 PM; Tues. at Roanoke. 3:30PM
Gour- Finished 4th at Ferrum Invitational G0!-|" - Tll95- in W&L InVi?-8'-10081. 12130 PM
’l‘n.Acx- Men 12th, Women 5th in W&L Invitational 'l‘nAcK- Thurs. (3/21) at Brid8°“"l’°1’. 3PM
PAGE 8 BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TENNIS, GOLF, TRACK AND FIELD MARCH 22, 1996

     
  
  
    
 
 
   
  
 

ifs. . ‘
s‘enit‘chilis ._
utspineg Unless“ .
' gorthicarolina 
an; i‘... i. ‘

'iall}_Wtinnounced_ their '
.-’-presenc*_e}=.oa Sun-

am, asyou may. I
rnstmdafsgame .»
us. fthgef 

  
    

‘ " __l3_ing»a-backboard

      
    
  
  
    
     
  

girl was unaware that "
pl ‘_ kept-suchistatistics
 -course of esca-
so ‘ guess he isnow one
ahead-lofithe competition
' ’ " he fnitimate slam” cat-
egoiry,’as“Ham refers to it.
, Of course, you realize
fthat anyone who smashes
aj backboard deserves a
" Ldptaee in The Big =
all of Fame. Move

    

ion .1.

 

 {demote
ls . ’

  

    

    

ttettiiaofﬁ-I‘ 

 

P

Men’s lacrosse picks up key Victory .
Generals leave # 3 Gettysburg in the mud, 12-5, at R.C.H.S.

W&L, shown here in a recent game with Cortland State, leapt over Gettysburg, 12-5, on Saturday, improving its record to 5-1.

Track has mixed
results in W&L
Invitational

By Scorr BOOKWALTER
Phi Sports Editor

The Generals track squads.
displayed contrasting perfor-
mances in Saturday’s 5th An-
nual W&L Invitational.

While the men struggled to a
12th place finish out of 16
schools, the women picked up
the slack by ﬁnishing ﬁfth out of
the 17 competing schools as
Washington and Lee kicked off
its outdoor track season.

The women ﬁnished with a
total of 58 points, trailing John
Carroll’s 65 points, Thiel’s 74
points, Allegheny’s 75 points
and Williams’s 121 points. Wil-
liams cruised to an easy team
victory in both the men’s and
women’s events.

Once again, the women were
led by senior Josephine
Schaeffer. Schaefferdidn’twaste
much time picking up where she
left off in the indoor season, as
she lit up the 10,000 meter run

with a meet record time of
36:45.7.

HertimeproVedtobeanauto-
matic qualiﬁer for the NCAA
Outdoor Championships by more
than 25 seconds.

Sophomore Carson Flowers
also turned in a stellar perfor-
mance in the 10,000 as she
crossed the line second behind
Schaeffer with a time of 38:47.00.

Senior Lyrae Van Clief had
an outstanding meet, as she shat-
tered a W&L school record by
ﬁnishing second in the 400 meter
dash in 1:00.19. Junior Hollis
Leddy ﬁnished the 400 in Van
Clief’s tracks, placing third in
1:01.77.

Leddy and Van Clief also ﬁn-
ished right behind each other in
the 200 meter dash, with Leddy
placing fifth with a 27.42 and
Van Clief crossing the line in
sixth with a 27.53.

Junior Nat Messmore and
freshman Natasha Dorofeeva ﬁn-
ished ﬁfth and sixth, respectively,
in the 1 ,500 meterrun. Messmore
recorded a 5:04.24 and Dorofeeva

Mm  

logged a 5:07.92.

Freshman lsaris Bonilla raced
into ﬁfth place in the 400 meter
dash in 1:03.57. Senior Sandra
Holmes looked strong in the jav-
elin, as she tossed it 105-6 1/2.

Both the 400 and the 1,600
meter relay teams fared ex-
tremely well. The 400 relay team
placed ﬁfth in 52.79 and the 1,600
relay team dashed into the third
spot in 4:15.35. Both times were
good enough for school records.

The men had a rougher time
on Saturday, closing with only 8
points. Williams, with 136
points, captured the men’s cham-

pionship by 67 points over sec-
ond-place ﬁnisher Susquehanna.

Sophomore Jason Callen was
the men’s standoutwith his fourth
place ﬁnish in the 5,000 meter run
in 15:37.34.

Senior Harris Morrison and
junior Sandy Hooper also placed
for the Generals. Morrison
grabbed ﬁfth place in the pole
vault with a 13-6, and Hooper
crossed the ﬁnish stripe in 2:01.54
in the 800 meter run.

The Generals track teams will
next be in action this Thursday
when they compete at Bridgewater
starting at 3:00 PM.

By CHRIS PUGSLEY
Phi Staff Writer

The Washington and Lee
baseball team traveled four
hours east Saturday to chal-

lenge ODAC powerhouse Vir-
ginia Weselyan in a double-
header.

The Generals split their games
with the Marlins, with Wesleyan
taking the ﬁrst game, 6-3, and the
Generals winning the second
game, 2-1.

 

Photo by Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

In the ﬁrst game, freshman
pitcher Bob Weston got the start
and pitched well, holding the
hi gh-powered Marlins offense to
only six runs. Weston demon-
strated excellent control, plac-
ing his pitches well.

Greg Pope closed the game’

W&L left the conﬁnes of Smith Field Saturday when it split with Virginia Wesleyan in Norfolk.

Baseball splits at the beach

with one shutout inning and so-
lidiﬁed the presence of the Gen-
erals’ bullpen. The three runs
the Generals scored appear a bit
deceiving. The Generals hit the

See BASEBALL,
page 7

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

The men’s lacrosse team
picked up one of its bi ggest wins
in several years by defeating
third-ranked Gettysburg Col-
lege, 12-5, under the lights Sat-

‘urday at Rockbridge County

High School.

Despite persistent rain, the
Generals won for the ﬁrst time
since 1990 over Gettysburg.

W&L led by as much as 12-
2 before Gettysburg scored the
ﬁnal three goals of the" game.

At one stretch, sophomore
goaltender Scott Jackson held
Gettysburg for 42 minutes with-
out a goal. Jackson ﬁnished
with 10 saves.

Sophomore Jason Myers net-
ted three goals and an assist in
his first start for W&L and se-
nior Russell Croft added two
goals and two assists.

This weekend, the Generals
(5-1) will host Bowdoin at 2 PM
on Saturday. .

It is only the second meeting
between the two schools. W&L
lost the other match 17-11 in
1988.

Women’s tennis
cruises to ]1-0

Generals stomp Guilford,
Salisbury State, Amherst

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team defeated Guilford Wednesday, 8-0.
This win extended their perfect record to 11-0 over:-ll, 7-0 in the
ODAC. Last weekend, the Generals defeated Salisbury State and

third-ranked Amherst.

The Generals were expected to have a difﬁcult time on the road
with Guilford, but they ended up having no problems against the
Quakers. Leading the way for the Generals against Guilford were
senior Julie Ayers and Shelley Sunderman, and sophomores Berry
Blankinship, Ericka Shapard, and Bryce Bendall all captured their

singles matches.

The match was called due to darkness during the number-six
singles match, so the ﬁnal count remained at 8-0. .

Last weekend, W&L dropped national power Amherst College,
6-3. Sophomores Natalia Garcia and Shapard led the way for the
Generals in the number-one and number-three slots, with each
rallying to win after dropping the ﬁrst set.

Sunderman and freshman Mary Celeste Foster also won their

singles matches for the Generals.

In doubles action, the top two teams from W&L, Ayers and
Garcia, and Shapard and Blankinship, both won their matches.

Last Sunday, Salisbury State became another victim of the
Generals, losing 7-2. Ayers, Shapard, senior Helen Chandler,
freshman Martha Kieckhefer, and freshman Laura Cohen all won

their singles matches.

Garcia and Ayers combined to win their doubles match. Chan-
dler and Sunderman picked up the other doubles victory.

This weekend, the Generals will be looking to extend their
winning streak when they host Mary Washington at 1 PM Saturday,
and Williams College at 3:30 PM Sunday.

Generals extend
perfect season

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

The women’s lacrosse team
defeated Hollins Wednesday,
21-4, extending their record to
5-0 overall, 4-0 in the ODAC.

The Generals, helped by
goaltender Brooke Glenn's two
saves, charged out to a 10-0 lead
at halftime. W&L did not let up
in the second half, piling on 11
more goals for the ﬁnal margin
of 21-4.

Junior Erika Snyder and
sophomore Anne—Lamar Brown
had huge games for the Gener-
als,with each scoringfour goals.
Snyder also had two assists.

Also contributing in the Gen-
erals’ rout were sophomore
Lorraine Taurassi and freshman
Lauren Francis with three goals

apiece, and sophomores Mary Jo
Mahoney and Susie Creamer,
with two goals each. Junior
Hilton Hines added two assists.

Last weekend, the Generals
dropped Guilford, 16-6. Guilford
tied the game at 1-1, but that was
as close as they would get.

Led by senior Cynthia Logan
and Snyder’s sixtotal goals (three
apiece), the Generals opened a
10-1 lead by halftime. Francis
scored four goals and had three
assists.

Snyder is leading the ODAC
in scoring with 18 goals.

Glenn was the star of the game,
stopping 21 shots and increasing
her save percentage to 73 per-
cent

Sophomores Emily Gipson,
Whitney Parker, Creamer, and
junior Hines all added goals.

This weekend, the Generals
host Denison at 1 PM Saturday.

‘6

‘§—

 

;.._. _
:..._&2

45457‘-Ra ?'o"}'£~.=. . -

€diIor.s:
Tarah Grant
and ffizlleg
Tolfen

c»3am be vine
and
J3
Qzdenbaugh

ﬂrtwork:
. 93 vid Balslzg
front

c§igni Page

 . ~ in

/996 743a; Dwu 5:¢p(ea¢att

Owe «ﬁrm at 

Alice was beginning to get very tired of waiting in the freshman quad for her friends to pick her up. As she leaned
against the railing and sighed, her dream Fancy Dress date rounded the corner and ran by her. So, with nothing better
to do she decided to see where he was going.

Just after he crossed bee Avenue, he ducked into a mysterious comer. Of course, Alice blindly followed.
Suddenly, she felt herself falling down a deep, deep hole. When she ﬁnally landed, her dream date was nowhere to

be found, but she was in a room with dozens of doors. Naturally, Alice assumed that there was a party behind one‘

of them, but she didn’t know which door belonged to which fraternity.

Thankfully, before she became too distressed about ﬁnding a party, she spotted a tall glass bottle labeled “Drink
Me," ﬁlled with red liquid. Although the drink wasn’t in a trash can, she immediately recognized it and relaxed. She
chugged it as quickly as she could and waited a few minutes, until she began to feel the effects. “What a curious
feeling!” she said.

Growing a little more adventurous, she opened one of the doors to ﬁnd a lovely garden. Well, this looks sort of
like Davidson Park, she thought. She walked through the door, and was having a terriﬁc time dancing until an intense
hunger gripped her. With thoughts of Stop-in and Domino’s racing through her head, she searched madly for food.
She was relieved to ﬁnd a cake sitting in the comer with speciﬁc instructions to eat it. Satisﬁed, she returned to the
party to dance and caught another glimpse of her elusive dream date. In her excitement, she knocked over a trash can,
spilling the fruity punch which ﬂooded the garden.

Caught in the current, Alice ﬂoated alongside the pigs, lions, vultures, stallions, and dodo birds that had been at
the party, but W & L had well-prepared her for being surrounded by such creatures. The punch ﬁnally drained away,
leaving only a sticky and dirty ﬂoor. After drying herself off, Alice decided to venture to another party.

She found herself in a room where an unmarked bottle waited for her. She said to herself, “I know something
interesting is sure to happen whenever I drink anything, so l’ll just see what this bottle does.”

Feeling a little dizzy, she decided to step outside for some fresh air. The next thing she knew, she was lost in
the woods and completely disoriented. But, a familiar sight quickly put her at ease. Several yards away, a blue
caterpillar smoking a long hookah sat atop a large mushroom. This is more like it, Alice thought. The caterpillar asked
her how she was doing, so she answered, “I feel different. I can’t remember things as I used to.” She giggled
incessantly as she stumbled on.

She soon ran into the handsome Cheshire Cat, whose charming grin appealed to Alice. But like her dream date,
he kept appearing and disappearing, so she kept wandering.

After strolling through the forest for some time, Alice ﬁnally happened upon a party. Unfortunately, it consisted
of a mad hatter and a march hare sipping on tea. They invited her in, suggesting that she relax with a glass of wine.
But when Alice sat down she discovered that the tea party was dry. Furious, she stormed out and continued her trek.

Eventually, she found the garden again. Walking in with a sigh of relief, she came upon three gardeners ﬁghting,
another familiar sight. I never thought I’d be comforted by such meatiness, she thought. As she strolled further into
the garden, she was thrilled to see all the party-goers playing a new drinking game that they called croquet. Anxious
to join in the fun, she grabbed a mallet and began to play.

After losing several games and paying the consequences, Alice’s gripping hunger returned. The scent of
delicious tarts from a plate beside the Queen of Hearts’ throne caught her attention. Desperate for anything she could
get her hands on, she crept behind the throne and devoured the pastries.

Several minutes later, as Alice was teaching her new friends how to play I Never, a horriﬁed shout came from
the Queen. Her tarts had been stolen and immediately a nearby knave of hearts was accused. The Queen quickly
called an open trial to order and asked Alice to testify. Although Alice knew the consequences of lying, she didn’t
want to admit to stealing the tarts, so she swore that she had seen the knave commit the offense.

As she stepped off the witness stand, Alice brushed some crumbs from her shirt. The Queen gasped and pointed
her ﬁnger at Alice. “Off with her head!,” the Queen cried. Just as the Queen’s army of cards descended upon her,
Alice woke up to the sound of the Lee Chapel bell and her friends’ laughter as they approached.

“Oh, l’ve had such a curious dream!” Alice said.

*All quotes are directly from Alice’s Adventurres in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll.

by Molly Norton & Alison Beard

/44¢4¢w44¢‘¢9¢wd«9:o9ecaozq:oec¢a{4¢:ata«9Je/loeazazotaa
réel4a:6,¢4¢¢¢{4aa(x9v¢atl¢’a¢9todo. $4kwm 
4o:oa~uu(xd,(a4wct£a444eea¢&{,{a¢:4eéa¢c(4qm4¢(¢4o;
{¢duozq4(ee,éqaud4t:¢ﬁ(d.)«a4a%nt4eﬁ(¢44wcea/maéduga.
daaq-c4¢ammt¢lewo«:4t4ooza«Jtea;gez:a»¢«,em¢d/zaeéazg
t4edaa£e4,w4m4«dd¢¢d¢4w4éte¢4ll(tw(té,6a¢€e¢;e¢m»
 ?wu¢do¢9:adtéc:o2da¢dtc;,4A€e¢a»aora44tle{4¢t¢£
¢{tov(t.m¢dwa4/catdntauetouoétﬁoﬁdaeamalaxtgeaalld“
 Vxmwtéozmaueatdawwwart/4lJee¢{.vb¢
(:,xeaozaa¢eeca«4a{ota¢94owavt£ew¢e€¢a4e«aa¢(a9e¢o¢¢t
4940».

BY EMILY BAKER
Executive Editor

As you glide down the rabbit hole into
the garden of live ﬂowers Friday night,
give a little thought to what it took to
transform Doremus Gym into Wonder-
land.

The process begins when the decora-
tions committee brainstorms for scenery
ideas.

The gym is divided into seven differ-

The FD Steering Committee
hires contract workers to help
with the physical construction
and manual labor necessary to
carry out their elaborate plans.
Workers get two FD tickets for
25 hours of work.

ent areas, each of which has a committee.
The head of each formulates an idea for his
or her area and submits a design and a
budget.

Materials are ordered from Lexington
Building Supply and the Farmers’ Co-op.
Once everything comes in, the long process
of constructing it all culminates in aweek of
late nights.

“The decorations this year are very
surreal,” says Anne Howard, decorations
chairman. “We wanted to do something

different than all the other years.”

Here’s a tour through Wonderland:

Upon stepping through the pages of
the book, you will fall down the rabbit hole,
past plants and flowers.

Turn right into the Queen’s Garden, or
left into the forest. Explore the forest, walk-
ing past trees and ﬂowers and a giant mush-
room.

Climb the stairs to the Mad Tea Party,
where refreshments will be sold.

At the start of the week, the gym still
looks more like the gym than Wonderland.

Tuesday,12:52 p.m. Japanese lanterns
hang from the balcony ceiling, which, by
Friday will be the scene of the Tea Party.
Buildings and Grounds workers begin to
lay down the tarp that party-goers will
walk on in the big gym Friday night. Sheets
of blue celophane cover the ﬂourescent
lights in the hallway.

Wednesday, 4:11 p.m. Apileofpapier-
mache mushrooms lies on the ﬂoor of the
big gym, waiting to be placed upright. The
echos of seven hammers reverberate off
the gym walls as workers nail together the

/996 7ao¢¢q Dam Sxﬁydeauatt

Workers create Wonderland in Warner Center

boards that will form
the sets in the four cor-
ners.

In the small gym,
strips of blue gossa-
merhangfromtheceil-
ing,asdoarowofplay—
ing cards.

Thursday, 12:02
a.m. Day-glo
styrofoam cut—outs line
the walls ofthe tunnel.
The small gym is basi-
cally ﬁnished; all that
remains is to put the
tree heads on the trees
that line the gym.

The drapes
around the edges of the
big gym are hung, and
the talking flower
heads are in place. The
risers are in place for
the 10 foot mushroom.

“A lot of the work
has to wait until the
last minute,” said Kris
Fegenbush, who’s
working on the en-
trance. “All the ﬂoral
stuff has to wait till the
last day, so the ﬂowers
won’t die. We’ll be here at the crack of
dawn Friday.”

Around 80 people take part in decora-
tion and construction process, spending
hours on details most party-goers fail to
notice.

Faculty at FD
...it's not all kid's play

BY HILLARY MARTIN
Special to the Phi

“Doing us a service by not going?”
What? How could Wayne Dymacek, pro-
fessor of mathematics, say that about FD?

Apparently, he is under the delusion
that students don’t want to see their profes-
sors at the 89th annual Fancy Dress. He
couldn’t be more wrong.

But this year, especially, he will be
missed. If Dymacek is not the Cheshire cat
incarnate, I don’t know who is.

Luckily, economics professor Linda
Hooks does not share Dymacek’s opinion
about sparing her students. On the con-
trary, she’ll be there with bells on-and also
with a date. She estimates that about halfof
the single faculty bring dates.

Hooks even changed her homework
assignments’ due dates from Friday to
Wednesday. Her students appreciate her
beneficence since the Coolio show will
leave no time for schoolwork.

Don’t expect to see too many profes-
sors at the Coolio concert. When Holger
Gottstein, a transfer German teaching as-
sistant was asked about Coolio, he said,
“Oh is that what they are selling tickets for?
Never heard of him.”

With regards to a date, Holger is hop-
ing to be set up. Apparently, sophomore
Steve Komonytsky promised he would
“manage something for him.”

German Professor Roger Crockett
thinks Coolio is a fine choice for entertain-
ment, if rap is the sound of choice. Crockett
likes Coolio’s anti—drugs, anti—violence
positions.

Everyone’s favorite bow-tied baby
boomer is very excited about this FD. Dean
Manning thinks the theme is “very imagi-
native,” although he, like many of his co-
horts, was a “little perplexed” by the invita-
tions.

Michelle Richardson just assumed it
was a major printing problem.

She remembers fondly last year’s FD
since it was also her birthday.

“We danced a lot and had a really good
time,” she said.

For most of the faculty, this will not be
their first FD. Michelle Richardson has
been once; Linda Hooks, twice; Roger
Crockett, five times; Dean Manning,
eleven; and, oh, Wayne Dymacek, never.

When asked what character they would
most like to see in the Warner Center,
heregs how they responded:

Holger Gottstein: Alice, because he
didn’t know any other characters.
Roger Crockett: the Mad Hatter

Linda Hooks: Alice

Wayne Dymacek: the Queen of Hearts
“because she cut off people’s heads”
Michelle Richardson: The Mad Hatter
Dean Manning: Alice

Well, down the rabbit hole with all of
you...we’ll see you in ajif.

The FD worker above places the finishing
touches on tone of the mushrooms.
Workers spend endless nights the week
before FD painting, constructing, and
transforming the gym into a fairy tale.
Although much of the detail goes
unnoticed by the majority of its
intoxicated admirers, those involved in the
decorations gain a great deal of
satisfaction from their hard work.

“There are so many details that
most people will never pay attention
to,” says Fegenbush. “But at least those
of us who work on it will know.”
Check out the map to Wonderland on

page 8.

COOO0OIO0ODO0COCO000000COCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOIOOOO0OOOOOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

do 24!!» uattwzed to can at, «mat
fzadargitaotqxdce, ((6444, («(444
cteaetafmaedjtauoanafcéovrq-taizt.
tag:/, and ‘at Jaﬂozed taut.) 44¢
aotqdow {waded it  "7044: at
cw¢(aa¢{¢¢la¢9/"datd/4(J¢e. "‘7u¢mt
le44«¢c'a¢9:¢ﬁ(¢'ée¢tde4eoﬁe." $4.:

#4963

Suﬁﬂleaeatt

.—*z- "V

1|¢wo¢H((ée%e«aue.'hwwn.¢utq
Llpyalxxedelﬁewtdoe. "70aa¢(¢go¢td€
‘» .  ~“me.ﬁ(ea4e,wl¢e4€«aa¢‘7a¢9lttoaa4l6

aw."mmee«z. "4¢««««z«mat««¢m«e4." Aawzea
a4ae:4z4caat4meJede«ee4,u¢leme¢ua:4agaa:(u. "7044:
uaza;,aa¢(e(eaealoa¢low7" "7»c£¢eJme¢'aa»,"t4e€a¢aazd.
waazxgétoatgltﬁaeaumal, "(dae4¢W4do'z.°¢«daetlat
daedéan," aaaaaageéeatéapaw, "la-e44 Wtaaeé ﬁlm. ‘I/me
eetéoeyaaaée.-:£a;'uJaa€auad." "?c¢7doae'cw¢«t¢‘o9oau¢ao¢9
aua4£ﬁ¢¢ﬁle.";4(Jceuouw:£ed. "0£,¢a¢eaa/tl¢lﬁ&£¢t,"44£dt£e
€ac:¢ae'¢e¢(tu¢ad£ew. 7'0» mad. ?o¢'u mad."

Wonderland

Pick-Up Lines
Quoted directly from Lewis Carroll's
Aligg’§A¢vggmrg§ in Wgndgrlggd.

"When I used to read fairy tales, I fancied that kind of thing
never happened, and now here I am in the middle of one." -Alice

"I really need to get home; the night air doesn't suit my throat."
-Alice

"Whoever saw one that size?" -The Rabbit
"Who are y_Q__u_? -The Caterpillar to Alice
‘'1 think you ought to tell me who ygm are first."
-Alice to the Caterpillar

"Have some wine."
-The March Hare to Alice, in an ‘encouraging tone‘

"Oh, 'tis love, 'tis love, that makes the world go round."
-The Duchess

"I daresay you're wondering why I don't put my arm around
your waist." -The Duchess

"I'm so very tired of being all alone here." -Alice
lliulf ..~ 

AsW&Lstudents’prep
for Wonderland, a few t
time out to reminisce ab
past FDs, while others

 pressed their anticipation

celebrate"A MadTea Part
Looking Brick. ..

From deathly-iudate§.:;
paying pranks, FDs of the «
have never lacked in excitem
exhaustion, and, in some ca.
exposure. I‘

"I got mono the night of
and had a 104 degree tempera
fever. I went and had a good t
anyway. I went to the hospital ’
afternoon and to FD that night
Ashley Vanarsdall, sophomor

"Two years ago they had ox
dancers as entertainment at
ball. Some guy went and dan
with them. I don't think th
have anything like that this y
but it was kind of funny." '-
Carrott, senior *

"Last year, I forgot my tic
They made me go all the way b
to the fraternity house toyfin
Once I got in, it was fun. But
a pretty long walk from the gy I
the SAE house." -Forrest Stew
sophomore

0

"My freshman year as
mate was paid $350 to we
brown paper bag over his h
and streak FD. He pulled it
without getting caught."""7B
Gately, senior

I didn't take my tux off u
Sunday last year." -an, ano
mous senior '

"I'm glad I'm not havin
sober drive. Last year, as a pie '
I had to do more work and di
have much time to enjoy mys -
-Greg Ruthig, sophomore

"I had fun the last two tim
went, I just felt like doingso
thing different, so my roomm
and I are going out of town.
Amy Mears, senior

"My date and I drﬁnk
much and my date passed 0
thought he was dead and spen
whole time in mourningwhile
friends consoled me." g-mo
mous senior

sough the looking glass...

are “5'

Ok

ut

. x_
to ,

"My grandmother went to
Hollins and she is always telling
me stories about when it was the
big Ball-Masque event and they
ordered the costumes for you and
your date. I think that would be an
interesting twist on the event. I
thought about renting a baby blue
tux. Things like that sound fun

I two weeks before the event, but

then there's always just too much
to do. I'll deﬁnitely do something
different, though." -Doak Sergent,
senior.

Looking at the ball...

Fancy Dress Ball, W&L's
$80,000 answer to the high school
prom, brings a unique experience
to the social scene. While some
may disagree about the number of
students who attend, no one will
contest the perty atmosphere
which prevails over campus.

"FD is unique because of the
hundreds of thousands of dollars
that are spent in total by all the
participants by the time it is all
over. The fact that that kind of
money is spent is mind-boggling."
—Ethan Krupp, junior.

"FD gives you a chance to
escape from the doldrums of Win-
ter term and work." -Claudia
Arcuri, sophomore

"I've heard the decorations
are great and I was really impressed

I with the invitations. It sounds like

0 n't»,r
lf. "

everyone is planning on going." -
Megan Davis, freshman.

"FD is a social event that the
whole student body can enjoy- it
is the social event of the South." —
Deborah Zollmann

"I think it'll be equivalent to

the fun of mock con- so I've heard." -

-Courtney Tyler, freshman.

"I'm excited because this is

’ my last one. I'll be sure to make it

a memorable one." —Frank Spar-
row, senior.

''It seems that there aren't as

While many get caught up in
the frills of their dresses and the
capacity of their ﬂasks, one can
overlook the multitude of bands
tooting their horns throughout the
weekend.

"I'm conﬁdent that Coolio is
going to put on a good show. I
think Coolio and Skee-lo are the
highlights of FD this year. Next
year, we need Dr. Dre and TuPac."
-Byron Burns, sophomore.

''I'm excited about all the
bands. I'm not going to be able to
go to‘Coolio because I have too
much work. I like Freddy Jones,
and the list of bands playing Sat-
urday- two at each fraternity— that
sounds like fun." -Catherine Ruth
Felton, freshman.

Looking at Wonderland...

Providing plenty of atmo-
sphere and opportunity for cre-
ative theme-related pre-parties, "A
Mad Tea Party" allows student to
fancy themselves as characters in
a weekend full of childhood magic.

"Alice in Wonderland has al-
ways been oneof my favorite child-
hood stories and I'm delighted to
see it come to life in the Warner
Center." -Matt O'Brien, sopho-
more

"I can't wait to see the big

"I really like the Mad Tea
Cup ride at Disney WOrld. I hope
they have a ride like that at FD." —
Kathryn Mayumik, sophomore.

"I think/llice in Wonderland
appeals to everyone- adults, fac-
ulty, as well as their kids. We've
been selling a lot of memorabilia
for their children." -Jennifer
Galardi, senior.

"I'm a big fan of the Cheshire
Cat. It's got a great smile." -John
Tissue, junior.

Looking for advice...

Although FD's primary pur-
pose is to offer the dedicated stu-
dents of this ﬁne establishment a
chance to leave the library and
their studies behind fora few nights
of madness, below are a few words
of wisdom to help maximize the
potential fun of the event.

"Let me warn you in the most
solemn manner against the bane-
ful effects of the spjmof party." -
George Washington

"Drinking when we are not
thirsty and making love all year

‘ round, madam; that is all there is

to distinguish us from other ani-
mals." -The Marriage of Figaro

"Tis not the drinking to be
blamed but the excess." -Selden

mushroom." -Karen Watts, sopho-

more.

"7044 an auto?" Mai (la

/996 7¢4¢cq Dude Suﬁpleatact

.a¢e¢¢o:a9a¢9oﬁa¢a¢9{u¢eao¢aou4td¢a¢. /4l(ceu;t&'a¢. 14:40:
aégty. "9—‘7awaq£u«», an, ;«4¢a:th,m4e«a—a:t¢aa:9£xau-
aa4o7wa4a«lu‘79ac«,e:4au¢¢ua¢9.l«c7ca«67aua:£aaa
leavelaageduao-ra€¢‘ane44a¢cetée4v." "70lat¢£oqoau¢¢¢««lq
flat?" 446:! do éatnﬁdllaa ataualq. "Ezﬁtaan cpcouolf/" "‘7
aaodtexﬁlaat awed], ‘7'm aftad, 4&5, " 4a(4£;4l¢ee, "lemme ‘7'u¢
ucua;g_e4.c;a«'uea." "7x.»'c4¢e,"u¢¢:4qgag_o_.gea¢..

many people going this year. But
hopefully I'll be proved wrong on
Friday." -Melissa Foote, sopho-
more.
ny-I:
Looking to the stage...

7loww¢¢4:al(e4¢a«tmdo:ao:caav{¢o«:¢{t4c£om¢.a«da€e7I(¢u£3‘au.
a(¢9’¢a‘a:.aa¢¢¢Du»¢aa4e¢aowl4aa¢9teaa¢&t. 7£¢(4l(cwa4¢(aa9¢ax¢.
"7Iouaon/ 7huom/"
 "74ow'4ﬁ(e«t4;¢{uam/"4a(a¢;4(£eo
arddgxaoxtiﬁaadaéeaatdawuavalaagaaau-clazaataxcexdoftécazllo. "Waco
4¢ou¢¢aaw,"tlo7I(aac£76"aac44da¢aueucawza9(a9toa¢. ﬂkeehaéedaduaad
a€¢&zJ(¢.6'«tt4€owwa4a¢atl(«9a¢(t6'c¢tte4. "7daa¢'c4¢e¢ou/waw,"44eu4uam€a{.

BY KELLEY Torn-:N
Co-editor, Phi supplement

For freshmen, FD can be as foreign
and scary as the first days of school.

Without an orientation committee or a
small group support system, how will the
freshmen possibly survive the three+ days
of extravaganza?

In the halls of the library, the carrels of
the C-school and booths in the Co—op lurk
experienced upperclassmen, willing to dis-
patch their FD wisdom to the naive fresh-
men.

Most likely, those who are planning to
attend this weekend's events have already
found dates. But for those of you who
pulled the typical "Wednesday-night-be-
fore-the-function-grab -a-date" and failed,

/996 7¢m:¢ Dam Scqtﬁleweort

Frats must provide
sober drivers for FD

BY SARA MCCRONE
Phi Staff Writer

Not only will frat members be re-
sponsible for making sure guests and
their dates have a good time at their
parties this weekend, but they also have
to make sure that they get home safely.

Live Drive, a student-run program
that provides rides for those who cannot
drive safely themselves, does not have
enough volunteers to cover the 10:00 pm
- 2:00 am shifts on Wednesday, Friday,
and Saturday night.

“We are counting on fraternities to
provide their own rides since we need
volunteers [for Live Drive],” said Meg
Kinder, one of the students who was
instrumental in setting up the program.

Five volunteers work on a typical

party night; one student receives calls in
the University Center while four others
drive their own vehicles to pick up call-
ers. Kinder said that Live Drive receives
ﬁfteen calls on an average night, and
volunteers have been able to respond to
the demand.

“The response has been positive so
far,” Kinder said. “It involves a behav-
ioral change with the student body, and
we expect to see the demand increase.”

Kinder said that some may have
been confused about the Live Drive num-
ber, which is an on—campus number at
462-4055. She encouraged anyone- in-
dependent or Greek- to call her at 463-
6371 to volunteer to drive his own car for
Live Drive and said that there are leader-
ship positions available for the 1996-
1997 school year.

Fancy Dress 101
Veterans offer survival tips to freshmen

blind dates are not always the answer.

"lt's better to go with a friend than
someone you don't know," says junior Vic-
tor Lamas.

At this point, though, all your friends
of the opposite sex have dates, right? Well,
you can always go stag.

''I think that people shouldn't be afraid
to go by themselves if they want to go," says
Betsy Howe, a sophomore. "No one cares
if you have a date or not- well, at least l
don't."

Junior Marie Lamb remembers her
freshmen year when she invited a friend
from home whom she was dating.

"lt was a really, really long weekend,"
she said. "The donns are small places- I
think my roommate got pretty sick of him."

Every year, stories circulate about the
amount of alcohol consumed before, after,

and during
the Ball.

ikas pre-party for last year's FD.

/ma‘

Chances
are, the
story-tell-
ers didn't
actually
drink as
much as
they claim,
otherwise
they prob-
a b l y
wouldn'tre-
memberthe
event quite
so fondly.
Usually,

those who drank too much sim-
ply nod their heads, mumbling
something about having a good
time, while their friends relate
the real story.

"Don't pass out before the
Ball," senior Phil Carrott sug-
gests. ''I know someone who did
that three years running— he didn't
like that."

Sophomore Claudia Arcuri
agrees that toleration is the key to
enjoying the actual Ball.

"Make it to the Ball- it's a
big plus," Arcuri, a steering com-
mittee member, advises.

She also cautions against
stumbling into professors in your
slightly altered states of mind.
Although it could provide for
some interesting comments in
class on Monday, it could also lead to
embarrassment and endless humiliation.

An intoxicated junior last year offered
his ﬂask to all of his professors- an action
for which he still receives harassment and
mocking.

Despite the fact that many of W&L's
gentlemen are experts in ballroom dancing,
accidents can still occur.

According to one senior, guys need to
becarefulwhenswingingtheirdates around.
In her freshmen year at FD, her shoe flew
off and hit a band member when her date
became careless in his swinging style.

She and her friends also warn girls to
wear the proper undergarments. Between
all the reckless dancing and mayhem ofthe

Upperclassmen brave the dance ﬂoor at
last year's FD. Be Weary of dipping if you
are not a professional.

Ball, one never knows when she might just
bare all for the W&L crowd.

Senior Gretchen Hall unfortunately
found out that the dance floor is not the only
place for exposure.

" If your date is wearing a short dress,
don't pick her up for pictures," she says,
remembering the incriminating Party Pics
of herself.

FD, despite the high risk factor for
embarassment, is a party few will forget (or
remember, depending on your blood-alco-
hol level). Upperclassmen, however, warn
against high expectations for the Ball.

"[f you expect it to be the time of your
life, you can be let down," said senior
Grellan I-larty. "lfyou relax, and go with it,

39 non Inc a nnnd timn "
"V .. .. nob

/996 7¢m:q 3:414 Sacﬁﬁlecxext

W&L: this ain't no Gangsta's Paradise

BY JENNIFER MENDOCHA
Phi Staff Writer

1... 2... 3... 4...? That's about
as many Coolio songs as the aver-
age W&L student can name. Still,
an overwhelming number of them
plan to "get up" and "get down" to
the pavilion tonight for the much-
awaited concert.

When theStudent Activities
Board first announced that Coolio
was going to be the entertainment
for Fancy Dress weekend, reac-
tions ranged from enthusiasm to
dissatisfaction. After all, it seems
that Lexington more closely re-
sembles Wierd Al Yankovic's
"Amish Paradise" than the
"Gangsta's Paradise" of Coolio‘s
lyrics.

In spite of one student's opin-
ion that the selection of Coolio
was "wildly inappropriate for one
of the most conservative schools
in the U.S.," anticipation for the
concert is growing. Anyone with
as much fame as Coolio coming to
W&L is bound to attract attention.

Although Coolio may not be
the most popular artist on campus,
it seems as if most W&L students
havebeconeenthusiasticaboutthis
Thursday's performance.

Freshman Liz Meloy declares
that she is "thrilled with SAB's
selection of Coolio," though she
would have been even more elated
had the Beastie Boys been chosen.

Liz adds, "It sucked that tickets
were open to the townies so soon"

Elizabeth James,excited
about the Coolio concert, ex-
presses disappointment at its quick
sellout.

The 1800 available tickets
were able to be purchased for ﬁve
days by the W&L community,
and for only one day by outsiders.
The last ticket was sold on Mon-
day at 3pm.

Senior Ted Waters says that
he approves of the different sched-
uled performance at W&L, but
expresses some concern that
Coolio may be received by a less
than ideal audience, "given the
taste of most W&L students."

Elizabeth Huston, though ea-
gerly anticipating the concert,
adds, ''I wouldn't say that I own
his boxed set."

Director of Security Mike
Young says that three local police
officers will be added for the pur-
pose of maintaining security at
Thursday's performance. Al-
though Coolio had originally re-
quested the presence of metal de-
tectors and a search at the door.
Young informed them that these
measures were not feasible. In-
stead, signs will be posted to re-
mind those attending that they may
be subject to random searches.
According to Young, this proce-
dure is not out of the ordinary.

In spite of the fame resulting
from his 1994 Platium, Coolio re-
marks that ''I still hang with the
same people, still do the same

things.... life on the streets, regu-
lar life and everyday life, that's
reality."

GANGsTA’“s PARA

Perhaps Thursday's concert

will give us all a glimpse of the
reality which exists beyond W&L's
campus.

llllllﬂll

 was

By Jennifer Miller
Special to the Phi

Put your dancing shoes
on for a great night of enter-
tainment at this year's 89th
annual Fancy Dress Ball on
Friday, March 22. FD Enter-
tainment Coordinator Chris
Wick had lined up two hot
acts, including Guy
Lombardo's Royal Canadians
and the Freddy Jones Band with
opening act Catfish Jenkins.

Guy Lombardo's Royal

In the small gym, Catﬁsh
Jenkins will start performing soon
after the doors open, to be fol-
lowed by the Freddy Jones Band.
Based in Chicago, the 5-member
band, none of which are named
Freddy Jones, have spent the past
year opening for Big Head Todd
and the Monsters and Widespread

Panic.
They have two albums

out, which they originally
self-produced in 1992 be-O
fore signingon in 1993 with
Capricorn Record, titled

f 0 ’ 0
Dancm the mght away

Three bands oﬁer plenty of opportunities to
Show some style on the dance ﬂoor

Canadians will take center "Waiting for the Night"
stage in the large gym of the and "North Avenue
Warner Center as soon as the Wake up Call."

doors open at 9:30 p.m. FD Doors open at 9:30 _
Chairman Ashley Bell de- p,m_ for what promises
scribed the act asaswing band to be an entenainmem— - -
with jazz inﬂuence. packed evening,

dead/4(éce. "0{{aa(t44n£e¢d/"t4e2t¢e¢o¢44¢r4ted¢8a€¢taﬁa{
loaaodce.  "ﬂaa'Iwuot4d«9l«ta.ﬁacéoj¢a2rd4,"
4aa£24(¢'co. /4tt414t4ew4a(oﬁ4céu¢o:¢au:ot4e4£¢,m¢¢¢m¢¢o
ﬂ(;a¢9da¢a¢«,eo«4o¢,'44e94ae¢(cwc4oz¢am,4al{a{[/adgltaud
44l{a{a«9o¢.¢o¢dowedtale4tt4ema{{.¢o¢at[oa4d4oud{tqa¢9
mt4eJax€.wdt44o¢4e4dav:4o(a,ea{c4/zaatoz. "W4éet¢,6.r€((ce
de¢w/"4ad4ou(4:n,- "wig. w44t4l¢«¢4tuﬁ¢a«'ao 444/" "04,
‘7'uc4ad4acé¢cmda«4ahea.a«./"4ad;4((ec.

I996 7aa¢cq Dun $¢¢ﬁleu¢a¢t

OF w1LD~%§5j‘

£:%%5‘.i';RP1LLAR FL°wERSx"f‘i

¢’;_/M}‘= (‘W RABBIT HOLE )
3?.‘ —

-.( '5 ‘

| ‘ ‘ t .. i.  . . L ;; SI.--_. ,5-._  Ff: .
I. I: I.‘ "II ..'V-K ‘ - I ' I -
. t   '5  -- - - '.
    ‘ .   1!

N4 it/I/1‘_Kl/\A/1/v‘ﬁ1ld\/m//<I>( ,\N\//,n.L1\\,,/1.oM.‘L

 

d

is

V

JAMES:  i.sv!3i.i.:=.~.«
wAsHws.roN 2. LEE

Lﬁxlbﬁw, 

   

an ex/oo./re’

(D

CIHZEI1 KTUDD: Mixed drinks:
boon or boomioggle?

 
 

(9

hi: Etna um Iﬂlti

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Courtesy of Lesbian Dolphinsglric.

Inha1e...exhale

Radical PCW leader Greta Von Braun leads demonstrators and others in an exercise to allow them to
feel the pain and the anguish of being a lesbian dolphin.

Troika denies ad to group

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

MARCH 29, 1996

W&L demonstrates
for lesbian dolphins

BY LITTLE WElNER Enrroa
Warrior for the Politically Correct

The Washington and Lee chapter of the
Politically Correct Warriors, also known as
PCW, held a demonstration on the Front Lawn
on Tuesday afternoon in support of saving
lesbian baby dolphins. This is the third demon-
stration the PCW has held in the last month.

“The slaughter of lesbian baby dolphins has
been completely ignored by the mainstream
press,” said PCW President Owen “Tree-Licker”
Labegia-Rodriguez. “Feel their pain, God
dammit!”

Labegia-Rodriguez, a junior majoring in
Feminist Studies, has also led other campus
demonstrations calling for the banishment of
Western studies and the return of Sexpert Suzi
Landolphi.

PCW distributed informational literature
aimed at raising awareness of the plight of
lesbian baby dolphins. According to one mate-
rial, Flipper’s wayward daughter, an acknowl-
edged homosexual, was caught and drowned in
a French ﬁshing net.

~ The French skipper was report_e~d_to have
said, “No nukes, no tuna, no'mon'ey — I don’t
care which side that dolphin’s bread is buttered
on as long as I can spread tuna on that bread.”

University officials refused to comment on
the group’s message, but did object to the
widespread use of mushrooms by the demon-
strators.

“Why can’t these kids get high in their frat
houses,” complained Dean of Greek Affairs
Buddy Atkins. “We wouldn’t bust them there
— especially if they had a special predisposi—
tion for lions.”

The crowd began to disperse in the early
afternoon, but returned shortly thereafter with
kegs of beer plastered with “Buchanan for Presi-
dent” bumper stickers.

When asked about the seeming contradic-
tion, Labegia-Rodriguez informed the media
some members of PCW had beat up some Mock
Con people on their way to a party and stole
their kegs.

The main attraction came when the Indigo
Girls, a popular folk music duo, traveling
through Lexington on way to a gig in
Charlottesville, stopped by campus and partici-
pated in the demonstration. They played for
two hours punctuating their performance with
calls for tolerance of minority groups.

“I’m not sure I’d sleep with a dolphin, but
they should be free to do in their bedrooms what
other dolphins do. Wait, dolphins don’t have
bedrooms, do they? Well, they can frolic in the
coral reefs then. But what if the coral reefs are
all extinct...” Indigo Girl Amy Ray pondered.

The event was ﬁnally broken up after dark
when patrolmen from the Lexington Police
Department began ticketing those who were
carrying open containers.

‘‘I think the event was a success,” said
Labegia-Rodriguez. “If we saved just one
lesbian baby dolphin today, then it’s all been
worth it.”

The Troika’s office) NMQ: Oh. Okay. So, ah, why didn’t you
BY NELSON M_QU,RKE Chrisford Holewick: What in the holy run it? O _ _
Phi staff writer fuc*ing f*ck do you want? CH: It was inappropriate subject matter. We

Flyers appeared Cadaver Society-like across
campus this week as The Troika, the quasi-
independent leech newspaper of Washington
and Lee, was reprimanded by the Washington
and Lee Racquetball Union for not running
their ad providing information about how to
join and participate in the new group.

The ﬂyers claim that “The Troika sold our
group space for (a somewhat larger version of)
this ad in this issue, knowing which organiza-

' tion was purchasing it. At the last moment

before going to press, they informed us that
they would not run it because of its ‘subject
matter.”’ I

The reprinted ad contained basic contact
information and a logo consisting of pictures of
George Washington and Robert E. Lee with the
heading, “Washington and Lee Racquetball
Union.”

This reporter conducted an interview with
Chrisford Holewick, one of the co-editors and
the business manager of The Troika, yesterday.
It is reprinted here in full:

Nelson M. Quirke: Hello? (through door of

NMQ: Uh...here for the interview?

CH: Oh, sorry. What do you want to know?

NMQ: Are you going to open the door?

CH: What are you now, the f*c*i*g
Gestapo?

NMQ: Like I said, I’m the reporter.

CH: Oh yeah. Sorry. What do you want
to know?

NMQ: Are you going to open the door,
then?

CH: This door is not going to be opened! If
you have a question, you would be doing your-
self a favor if you’d ask it!

NMQ: Okay! Why wouldn’t you run the
Racquetball Union ad last week?

CH: We lost it.

Unidentiﬁed female voice from inside: lt’s
right here!

NMQ: Uh, so did you lose it?

Unidentiﬁed female voice from inside: lt’s
right here!

(Sounds of a short scufﬂe.)

CH: Yeah, we lost it.

NMQ: But the girl just said it was right there.

CH: That’s just your paranoid schizophre-
nia talking.

lost the ad. We don’t have to run anything;
we’re independent. It was clearly implying that
General Washington and General Lee had been
racquetball players.

NMQ: Excuse me?

CH: Pick one.

NMQ: Actually, that was the point of me
asking you.

CH: Well, tough s*it.

NMQ: But how do you mean, it im-
plied that Washington and Lee were
racquetball players? Why exactly would that
worry you?

CH: Sure, we should just let them use our
paper to imply that our founders were a couple
of racquetsuckers. R-A-C—Q-U-E-T-B-A—L-L.
Notice anything? Like a ‘Q’? Take my hint, Q-
U-I-R-K~E? Now why don’t you just back
away from the door? Git.

NMQ: Oh, ah...oh. Okay. Just one last
question?

CH: What, g**dammit?

NMQ: What exactly is the air like on
your planet?

CH: lt’s good old Troika air. Racquetball I

ain’t the only thing we don’t like.

   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
     
      
   
  
 
 

_.un$eling services; .-
'the.gbehg§vior   _.

  

Gop WATCH

   

Editor’s Note: GOP Watch is a
regular election. season feature
designed to warn you should Pat
Buchanan decide to come to town
so you can hide your valuables.

Buchanan saves U.S.
from the Canadians

Although Pat Buchanan has absolutely no chance of
winning the Republican presidential nomination, he is
continuing with his campaign in order to inﬂuence the
party’s platform. Along with his isolationist economic
policies, Buchanan is advocating building a “really big
wall” to “keep those damn Canadians” out of the United
States as well as the revocation of all driver’s licenses
for women.

Samoa to leave GOP

Pago Pago—After being entirely ignored during the
race for the Republican presidential nomination, the
Republican Party of American Samoa is threatening to
secede and forge its own party. The Republican National
Committee responded to this late-breaking development
with profuse giggling, smokers and jeers.

BEYOND THE

BLUE RIDGE

 

After extensive studies, researchers have concluded
that the world beyond the Shenandoah Valley no
longer exists.

The search for more extensive information surround-
ing this phenomenon continues. Experts speculate that
the cuas could have been anything from a nuclear disas-
terto natural selection finally eliminating all but the most
perfect members of the human race.

Officials do agree however, that, as there is nothing
Beyond the Blue Ridge, this column is obsolete.

Photo by Elsbeth Von Wasser

Flags at hﬂalf-mast

Rebel Confederate forces surrendered to government forces this week in Lee Chapel,
admitting they were really just a bunch of old, middle class white people.

 

 

Page 2

 

w&life

REAL

 

LENA P. KRUMPWEILLER
PHI SPECIAL FEATURES CORRESPONDENT

This is the story of seven students picked to live in a house together. "Real
World", MTV’s hit documentary has come to Lexington. They recently revealed
that since they couldn’t get the Rock the Vote Van down here for Mock
Convention weekend that Lexington would be the site of Real World VI.

When MTV announced the new site location and, in addition, the show would
include a new change in the fact that all participants would be chosen from the
town of Lexington. Auditions were set, and the selection process began. Now
you can meet the seven students (and a townie) whose lives you will get to live
vicariously for the next six months.

First from down-home Georgia, John Davis Jefferson Lee, Junior. He is
currently a senior Economics major and his favorite pastimes include drinking
beer and listening to Dave, (you know, the guy who sings that Ants marching
son .

I%)ext we have Mary Lou Virginia from Texas. She is proud of her hometown
heritage, and hopes to make it home this year for her coming—out party. This is
her second year at W&L, and although her mamma went to Sweet Briar, her father
and his father and way back when have all been graduates of the good ole
Generals. She is an English major and hopes to someday marry well, practice law.

Virginia Military Institute in a landmark Supreme Court decision decided to
allow one if its students, Bud “Big” Arms, to live off—campus for the six-month
filming process. Bill hopes to enter the Marines as an ofﬁcer in two years, and
is thankful once again that his rat year is over and he can now start bossing around
the new recruits.

When asked about living with Washington and Lee students, Bud replied,
“Wimmen, did you say I will be living with wimmen?”

I

The Ring-tum Phi, Marcia 29, 1996

John Davis is concerned that “some of the animosity sponsored by them there
boys in uniform will cross over to the living conditions, I wouldn’t want to have
ta throw no one out.”

The fourth roommate actually lives in Rockbridge County He graduated from
Rockbridge High in 1984, and is named after his uncle, Bo Duke. His interests
include riding around town in his 1979 Dodge pick-up truck with a gun rack on
top (no gun) and leering at anything with long hair two legs, and no Adam's apple.

“I think all those W&L wimmen are just snobs, nice-looking snobs, but snobs.
I don’t know about living with them, but the SEM chick, she should be fun,” said
Duke.

The SEM chick he is referring to is none other than Elizabeth (Lizze) Lane.
She hails from Floyd, Virginia, and after ﬂunking out of community college her
parents sent her to the SEM in the hopes that she could marry a Washington and
Lee student.

“I’m looking forward to living with all those people, ljust can’t imagine what
we are going to do about the bathrooms. I have always had my own bathroom and
I don’t know what I would do if I had to share one,” said Lane.

An exchange student, Jean—Luc Peeair, will be living with them also. His
native home is blocks away from the Eiffel Tower and although he is used to
living with his...ummm...“friend,” he feels that the small province of Lexington
might be a little lonely. The Frenchman notes that “Americans have quite a
rugged appeal.”

The seventh member of the house is actually a dog. Rex has appeared in such
cool commercials as Purina, the better chow, and Kibbles and Bits and Bits. His
trainer, a professor of politics at Washington and Lee, feels the exposure he will
gain on MTV may launch him into a starring role in a Pauly Shore ﬁlm.

The crew of seven strangers will move into the newly refurbished house on
Washington Street at the beginning of September, 1996. MTV crews will spend
all summer installing cameras around the house, and crews will be following the
students to class, and B0 on his trips to Stop-In.

We’ll have to see how the lives of these seven individuals change in the next
six months. Inside sources say the Jean—Luc will reveal a painful secret, and John
Davis and Rex will become very “close.”

Natural Light Beer commercial

FLOWER SPRING
PHI WRITER

Washington and Lee University was chosen as the new location for the
ﬁlming of the latest Natural Light Beer commercial.

The company first heard about Washington and Lee by watching the Mock
Convention on C—SPAN. One of the top level advertising executives realized
that the strongest supporters of Pat Buchanan were also drinkers of Natural
Light, and from the looks of the delegates, heavy drinkers.

He felt that the school could perhaps provide the new image Natural Light
is looking for. They no longer want to be known as “that cheap beer,” and
instead want to cultivate a reputation as a beer of choice among fraternities.

Natural Light sent four representatives to “feel” out the possibility of
filming a commercial on the campus. The reputation of Washington and Lee’s
students as “intellectual” was at first a detriment to the executives, but they
soon changed their minds. The advertising executives were swayed by
arguments from the IFC council president, who felt that the idea of intellec-
tuals could be worked into the new advertising campaign. New slogans--such
as, “Drink Natty Light, you’ll be smarter in school, and drunker at night”--
helped to sway the executives’ minds.

  during Fancy Dress

Although the administration was at first reluctant to allow the Washington and
Lee name tobe used in conjuction with a major beer label, they soon relented after
an anonymous ten million dollar contribution was given to the school.

Student reactions vary, but most concur that it is a cool way to advertise beer.

Lorilee Snout, a senior, is looking forward to viewing the commercial.

“I feel like now when I tell people I go to Washington and Lee the response
will be more positive. More along the lines of, 'Ohhhh, the one in the beer
commercial."’

The filming took place over Fancy Dress Weekend, and many students are
featured as extras in the commercial. Actors were hired for the main parts of
Handsome Fraternity Boy #1, and Sexy Hollins Girl.

J .D. Lancaster was excited to be cast as Handsome Fraternity Boy #2, and he
feels that the role will add much to his resume, not to mention his sex appeal.

“I was so excited when they called and told me I would be playing a guy in the
commercial who drinks beer, and bobs his head to Dave. It was like a dream come
true, and then they said they would pay me with beer, something like 25 free
cases. I mean free. Wow.”

The commercial will air in May, 1996. The students plan on getting together
to watch the beer commercial that will celebrate the spirit of Washington and Lee.
In fact, most of the students will be drinking all the free beer provided by Natural
Light. After all, it is the beer of choice among college students, and it makes you

7

Lo

Spring Break

Horosocope

O0O0COCOOOOOOAOmEsOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

(MAR 2 l To APRIL I 9)

Drink of the week: Strawberry Daiquiri. The zodiac's usually
very upbeat pepper is at an all time low. This is the week to drink until
you forget your name, or at least that signiﬁcant other's name. You
may not make it to tropical love paradise, but sometimes a week of
home town loving can cure all your ails. Heck, if you can't ﬁnd it at
home come back for Spring Term

TAURUS

(APRIL 20 TO MAY 20)

Drink of the week: Fuzzy Navel. The hull is in full force,
knocking down walls and trampling those too slow to keep up with
your fast paced life. Spring break will give you the output for all the
restless energy you've been feeling lately. Start early, shotgun those
ﬁnals and get the hell out of Lexington. Anywhere with a building

over ﬁve stories high will be enough outlet for you raging personality.

GEMINI

(MAY 2| To JUNE 2|)

Drink of the week: Gin Tonic (and make it a double). Twin's
personalities have been pulling in separate directions. But this is the
week your social self and responsible studious self come together. It
is time to give those books a rest and think about the beauty of spring
term, if you are registered for two classes forget it, drop one as soon

as you sober up from the week long bender you'll be on.

CANCER

(JUNE 22 To JULY 22)

Drink of the week: Mai Tai. The crab as usual is going at
everything sideways, only this time it will pay off. That special
someone you've been tailing will finally come around to your side as
soon as he/she pulls herself out of the dredges of ﬁnals week. In fact
find that person and propose a post finals pre spring break celebration
in your room. Use some cheesy line and pray that it works. Remem-
ber people are weak after high periods of stress. Then head off to

break happy as a clam and send them a postcard for Pete's sake.

The End of Racism has many
logical conclusions to debate

ASKIA BARAKA
PHI BOOK REvIEwER

The debate over the issue of race
has continuously been contaminated
by lies and illusions, full of name—
calling and labeling. Neither side seems
to contemplate thoughtfully the ques-
tion of race; instead, they hurl epithets
with no hope of understanding each
other.

Dinesh D’Souza has brilliantly
cleared away the intellectual manure
and paved a new conception of race in
his fervently argued book, The End of
Racism.

In this book, D’Souza knocks down
the politically correct theories of racial
ideology that have dominated the de-
bate. Many historians incorrectly con-
clude that slavery was a racist institu-
tion.

He points out that slavery occurred
throughout human history-even in
Greece and Rome. In fact, Africans
owned slaves. In all three cases, how-
ever, slaves maintained some human-
ity and eventually became a part of that
particular community or tribe.

Still, slavery existed. Why is sla-
very in the Americas, especially in the
South, always condemned as some-
thing unique? Sure, in the Americas,
the slaves happened to be black, but
D’Souza notes that this was because of
economics, not race. Besides, there was
a tremendous free black population,
and some blacks owned slaves so how
could it be racist?

Nor does it help matters that most

black slaveowners only purchased their
relatives because they did not have the
money to free them and did not want to
risk them from going down South.

He also attacks the absurd notion
that segregation and Jim Crow hurt
African-Americans and were inherently
racist. D’Souza accurately points out
that these laws were set up to help
blacks. Blacks had neither the educa-
tion nor the mental fortitude to survive
in a white patriarchal capitalistic soci-
ety. Besides, segregation served as a
way for blacks to operate in America
without antagonizing the white popu-
lation with its presence.

It served as a sensible solution to the
race problem, and blacks and whites
enjoyed an incredible intimacy. Black
women working in the white man’s
kitchen bonded with the white women
they worked for. They laughed and
cried together while the black women
cleaned the toilets of the white women.

Things simply fell apart, D’Souza
argues, when Martin Luther King, Jr.,
and other black activists fought for
their rights as American citizens.

Of course, blacks had a moral high
ground in the argument, but they went
too far in passing the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 and the Voting Rights Act of
1965. Both laws had the effect of vio-
lating the 10th amendment of the Bill
of Rights in the U.S. Constitution that
guarantees states’ rights. Massive re-
sistance after the horrible Brown v.
Board of Education was a reasonable
protest against the federal govemment’s
intrusion on the states’ rights to govern
themselves.

Separate butequal worked, and ever

since segregation has ended, blacks
have not progressed but regressed.
Since the Civil Rights Movement, wel-
fare, crime, illegitimacy, single-mother
households-all of these things have
increased, and blacks’ position in this
country has not improved.

D’Souza, with an impressive cata-
log of evidence, proves that black
peoples’ problems in this country are
not the cause of racism. America has
not been racist, and liberals’ conten-
tion that it is only hurts black people-
not help them. Blacks must realize that
it is their culture that is the problem and
not their race.

Black culture implicitly approves
ofviolence, rampant sexuality, illegiti-
macy, and dependence on welfare. In
other words, black culture has at its
base a number of pathologies like jazz
that cause these problems.

Liberal arguments about discrimi-
nation and racism are based on hog-
wash. None of these arguments ex-
plain why Asian Americans and other
immigrants have surpassed blacks in
gettingjobs and owning businesses. Of
course, the majority of CEO’s in this
country are white males, but that is
besides the point.

Europeans knew what they were
talkingaboutwhenthey cameintocon-
tact with Africans. They were simply
reacting to the primitive cultures of
these dark-skinned peoples. How would
you react if you came into contact with
a people who had politically sophisti-
cated civilizations such as the Asante
Empire, Mali, Songhay, Ghana and
others? Obviously, these people had
inferior religions compared to the Eu-

ropean conception of God.

And they seemed to these whites,
coming from a Victorian perspective,
to act like apes or uglier animals. More
importantly, Africans certainly could
not win any contest when compared to
Western Civilization.

Only Western Civilization had the
intellectual and technological prowess
to contribute literature and philosophy
while at the same time making con-
quests of Africa, Asia, and Latin-
America. It was only ﬁtting that Eu-
rope share its gifts of civilization to
these continents, forcing Christianity
on these peoples of color and
disempowering their political and eco-
nomic systems.

Furthermore, D’Souza argues quite
persuasively that rational discrimina-
tion is justiﬁed. Of course, white women
should be afraid of black men, despite
the fact that the majority of crimes
committed against white people are
committed by white people. It makes
sense even if it goes against every
concept of American democracy.

In the end, D’Souza writes exquis-
itely with prose that makes the heart
sing with each elongated sentence. He
provides us with a refreshing perspec-
tive of race in America that goes be-
yond emotion. Instead, he approaches
the subject from an ahistorical, rea-
soned voice that convinces me that the
problem of black people in this country
is that they have clung to their black
identity. As he argues, black people
need to discard their savage black cul-
ture and embrace the civilizing notions
of white culture. Only then will blacks
achieve the American dream.

F

LEO

(JULY 23 To AUGUST 22)

Drink of the week: Sloe Comfortable Screw Up Against a
Wall. After a depressing dreary winter, spring has finally arrived.
Your life has been on the up since Fancy Dress weekend. Take
advantage of your friends, they know what is best for you. Besides
when all else fails, they will waste hours and hours drinking with you.
Spring break may not be tropical for you, but Spring Term will bring
you together with one cool tropical fish. Lion and Pisces go together

like. ummrnwell .you get the picture.

VIRGO

(AUGUST 23 TO SEPTEMBER 22)

Drink of the week: Martini, shaken not stirred. Mercury is
feeling a little daring, a little adventurous. This is the week to try
something new, dance naked under a virgin moon, or better yet, spend
all the money you don't have on things you will never need. The
usually uptight Mercury will break loose this week, enjoy, and don't

take any pictures you might regret in the morning.

LIBRA

(SEPTEMBER 23 TO OCTOBER 2 2)

Drink of the week: Tom Collins. It is your week to cool down,
you have been boiling over all term, and what you need to do now is
calm down. You must break up with that person you've been seeing,
they are cheating on you, cheating on you more than once if they are
a Scorpio. So go away find someone new, someone fresh, enjoy not

knowing their last name.

SCORPIO

(OCTOBER 23 TO NOVEMBER 2 I )

Drink of the week: Rum, any shape any form. Forget
moderation, you really need to break out, become your evil twin, let
loose all those morals you've kept so tightly constrained all this time.
Deﬁnitely do not go home this week you do not want to be anywhere

near your parents, or anywhere near any parental life forms.

SAGITTARIUS

(NovEMBER 22 To DECEMBER 2 I)

Drink of the week: Flaming Dr. Pepper. Hot! Hot! Hot!
Anything you touch is going to burst into a fiery passion this week.
Only be careful, most likely any random one night stands will result
in a fatal attraction situation. Avoid anyone with long ﬁngernails,
knife collections, Harleys, or multi-colored hair. Not only is that
trouble but pure stupidity. And whatever happens never give your ral
name think up cool a cool alias

CAPRICORN

(DECEMBER 2 2 TO JANUARY I 9)

Drink of the week: Water. Sorry to put out your ﬂames, but you
can't handle any alcohol this week. Since you will be drinking all of
ﬁnals week (Whiskey Sours) You'll need to be sober enough to talk
your way out of serious punishment for ﬂunking the entire winter
term. If you do manage to escape wrath, drink in the closet, only don't
get caughtl AA meetings are not that fun.

AQUARIUS

(JANUARY 20 To FEBRUARY l 8)

Drink of the week: Sex on the Beach. Go tropical, you must
get out of the cold dull spring of Lexington and into the tropical
paradise of Florida, think Ft. Lauderdale. Don't worry , that psycho
chick who has been bothering you will be run over by a Mack truck
in the very near future. I am not saying she will die, just live out a
horribly painful existence as the new "Large Marge" While you on
the other hand will meet a lovely beautiful person in a skimpy bathing
suit (speedo or string) and fall madly and hopelessly in lust for the
week, just don't ask them to speak.

PISCES

(FEBRUARY I 9 To MARCH 20)

Drink of the week: Beer. The fish has been ﬂying high for the
past couple of weeks, and the trend will only continue with break.
Take it easy, kick back enjoy the sun, get a tan. Don't worry about
finding that special someone, what you have going on right now is as
close to perfection as you've been able to find all year. After all those
crazy twilight episodes you've been living, you need to take this week
easy. Read books on the beach build sand castles, laugh. Life is
kexcellent, and it isn't getting any better.

4

 

PAGE 3

@112 iking-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

V Our favorite Phi quotes

“We could use a little sexual harassment in this
place.” —Dan Odenwald, warrior for the
Politically Correct

Emily: Do you guys want to hear the worst
thing I did?
Betsy: Does it involve a boy?
Emily: A baby boy.

Christine: If you’ll excuse me, I have to push
an editorial page editor out of the window.
Michael: No! Wait! I need him!

“You can always get more from a chick face to
face.” —Darcey

Dan: Do you know what pyromania means?
Christine: FUN!

_ “I read Betsy and I read Rich Weaver. Not
because it’s funny, just because I do.” -—Hillary,
who better hope she still has some columnists next

week

“I like stretch class. You just sit there on the
ﬂoor for an hour. And sometimes you move your
legs around. But I do that in bed anyway...” —Dan
Odenwald, warrior for moving his legs around

“He owes me $40. No, no, I mean for the
night I went out and bought the Polaroid.” -—Emily,
star of the stage and screen

“I’m just a cheese person. I’m a boring guy.”
—Keith Grant, W&L ’95 and boring guy

Dan: Nobody’s allowed to play with my hair
because I’m trying to train it.

Christine: Are you going to lay down paperon
the ﬂoor for it too?

“I didn’t quite want him. I want songs from
him. I want songs, not sex.” —Emily, music fan

“I just get the fu*kers done and forget about
it.” ——Anne, dedicated Advertising Composition
- Artist

" : Christine: That’s what the news editor does——
_t she sits in Dan’s lap.
Anne: That’s why I quit.

_ “One. Two. Three. Four. Get your road
3 cheese on the ﬂoor.” —Alex, getting in the Coolio
} mood
" :
v E

@112 itting-tum lﬂhi

Executive Editors Puck
’' Associate Editor Rachel
News Editor Mnhamrned
Editorial Page Fdilnr Corie
Sports Editor Pam
Assistant Sports Editor Judd
‘ Features Editor Pedro, Cher Horowitz
Photography Editor Dion from Silverspoon
Editorial Cartoonists Elton, Al Roker
Business Manager I-Iugh Jass
Assistant Business Manager Iran-Luc Piquard
,4 Advertising Manager Jeff Shaw
Advertisement Composition Artist I-‘Isa Klensch

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-tum Phi
H contes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi office, roont 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week's edition. Letters, columns, and “My
47 Views” do not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-rum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

7 Post Office Box 899

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Telephone (540)462-4059
Fax (540) 462-4060
E-mail phi@wlu.edu

OPINION

GI:ulnA'rron Lax

The Ring-tum Phi, March 31, 1996

.‘ 4
-‘\I\'§.‘.*,:u \

3
g.
s
F.
.

 
 

Pteswenlr ELROP.
ms UNION ms
1'09. 5&6 ME‘

HERE To sEE t-bu.

  
 
     

 

I’ll show you mine if you show me...

GREEN LAND
Betsy Green

The Phi office. Thursday night.
Richard Weaver, who describes him-
self asastarof stage, television, music,
screen, and paper joined me and a
couple bottles of Andre, the official
champagne of humor columnists try-
ing to interview each other.

Me: What’s in your CD player?

RW: The Jacksons’ Victory al-
bum, Tina Tumer’s What ’s Love Got
toDo with It, Willie Nelson’s Greatest
Hits, David Hasselhoff, and Dave
Matthews.

Me: I think that’s a graduation
requirement. Speaking of which, what
PE class was your favorite?

RW: Ice skating, with the evil
nymph Millie. That woman... her fa-
vorite expression was, “You kids are
crap. You make me work. You come
out here, you skate like an idiot, I’ve
been out here all day. My feet hurt,
etc... ” Millie’s a bitter woman.

Me: She may have a point, though.

RW: I can deﬁnitely understand
about her feet hurting.

Me: Those skates can’t be comfort-
able. So, urn, what’s your footwear of
choice? (Swigs some Andre)

RW: Black boots, like the kind
Johnny Cash wears. While drinking
bourbon and singing about women
who’ve dumped him.

Me: What, are you gonna cry?

RW: NO. Shut up.

Me: So, urn you’re a senior. What
was your best W&L experience?

RW: When I met Selma, the Queen
of Sweet Briar.

Me: Tell the people about Selma.

RW: It’s a little-known fact that her
actual name is J_en. We call her Selma
because it saves us time when people
want to know what her name is and
where she’s from. She has her own
BMW, pearl party jewelry, a pewter
ﬂask, and a I-Iollins sweatshirt that she
wears as a disguise.

Me: Sounds like a hell of a woman.
I think the two of you would be very
happy together.

RW: Selma can scream the lyrics to
“Sweet Home Alabama” louder than
any band playing it, so we would prob-
ably have really loud children. Woo-
Hooo!

Me: What’s the best thing about
living in Lexington?

RW: The local economy exists on
the fines from arresting students and
then towing theircars. Makes me want
to be mayor.

Me: So, did Coolio kick your ass? I
would have kicked your as if I were
Coolio.

RW: When I had my picture taken
with him, he kind of glared at me, but
I think he was just blinded by my
whiteness.

Me: Do you feel you have more
rhythm than the average W&L stu-
dent?

RW: Yes. You can’t listen to
Whitney Houston without wanting to
dance, dance, dance.

Me: So what did you think of my
brother from Harvard when he came to
visit?

RW: I was impressed that he wanted
to meet me and Paducah Joe Framptom.

Me: Um, he was just being polite.

RW: Oh, about Paducah Joe?

Me: Okay. So, what J acksons’ song
best sums up your life?

RW: “You’re Gonna Get Rocked”
by La Toya Jackson, because she re-
ally means it.

Me: Matching your own sincerity.
So, I know you’re a material boy and
like it when you get merchandise from
various W&L and road school events.
What’s the best merchadise you ever
got?

RW: I got a plastic laurel from a
Hollins formal that made me look like
Ceaser when I wore it. »

Me: Who is your favorite Triden
columnist?

RW: I don’t want to get into that. I
feel I now have a certain detente with
the Trident reminiscent of Soviet-
American relations in the late 1970’s.

Me: I guess that about wraps things
up. Wannna go smash these empty
bottles against the Trident office?

RW: Shut up, let’s not ruin a good
thing.

DREAM LAND
Richard Weaver

She’s the chick in the ﬂak jacket
with the camera you see on campus:
Betsy Green. An inhabitor of local
coffee shops, Betsy makes no secret of
her affections. In the past year she’s
picked out Christmas gifts for people
she hates, discussed Barbie, and pro-
posed that we use old Mock Con deco-
ration for FD. Now she is interviewed
by the man who’s typing this: Richard
Weaver.

Q: So, I hear coffee causes cancer...

A: Actually, a study has shown that
women who drink two or more cups of
coffee a day are considerably less likely
to commit suicide; I’ve been told that’s
because they can’t hold the gun steady.
Regardless, I drink mine black, like
my soul.

Q: What’s in your CD player now?

A: Alanis Morrissette; she’s so an-
gry. Also, the Velvet Underground box
set, because I like to listen to the song
“Heroin” before I go to class every
morning. It inspires me.

Q: You can help with questions,
too. What should I ask you?

A: Maybe you should drink some
more champagne.

Q: So, I understand you’re living in

sin...
A: That is true. I won’t deny that.
This summer whenever I was living in
sin in Seattle, my fellow sinner, Steve,
and I walked by a religious guy giving
out pamphlets. We wanted to come up
to him and ask ‘We’re living in sin, and
we wondered what you would think
about that?’

Q: What about Washington and Lee
would you change?

A: 8 a.m. classes should really be 8
p.m. classes, and Fucking Zollman’s
would be banned.

Q: Have you had a bad Zollman’s
experience? Did you not bring your
own toilet paper?

A: I always bring my own toilet
paper, but I think a Fucking ZolIman’s
experience is by definition bad. I al-
ways end up thinking I could be at
home having a bad time, and then I
wouldn’t have to worry about getting a
ride home.

Q: So, the Subaru you drive is a real
machine, huh?

A: I would highly recommend the
1985 Subaru GL to anyone. lt’s red, it
has a tape deck, it gets kick-ass gas
mileage, and it makes that cool grind-
ing sound when you accelerate. Subaru:
It’s what to drive.

Q: Kind of like “Beef: It’s what’s
for dinner.”

A: I like beef because it’s high in fat
and I like to live dangerously.

Q: Who is your favorite road school ,

girl?

A: I have several: Ashley from
Hollins, because she frightened Lamar
Villere with the simple words “I’m
from Hollins;” Jen from Randolph-
Macon because she’s actually married
and she brings her husband to parties,
Selma from Sweet Briar, ’nuff said;
and Patrick from Sem, because he’s
not actually a girl.

Q: How did you meet Patrick?

A: We work together at the coffee
shop. At first I thought of him as
Generation X boy; now I think of him
as a friend, even if he doesn’t have his
own horse like most of the girls at
Sem.

Q: What’s your favorite Jim Carrey
movie?

A: Dumb and Dumber shows some
moments of true wit. The only thing
that would make it better was full fron-
tal nudity.

Q: What’s your advice for future
Phi humor columnists once I am gone?

A: Don’t piss me off.

Richard: She has more to say.

My new pathetic attempt at self-parody

 

THE FAR MIDDLE
Alex Christensen

Okay, funny boy, be funny!

Oh, geez, did I just say that in front of my reading
audience? Damn microphones.

So anyway, I know that parody relies on “buying
into the concept” of a parody issue, but it seems that
for these last two I’ve written for, I’m just in too bad
a mood to play along. Sol invite you inside my head
as I prepare the stunning and brilliant self-parody for
the April Fool’s issue.

So——-to parody myself—I need to come up with
some sort of theoretical construct of exactly what
tendencies I tend to overexaggerate, or that could be
overexaggerated to comic effect, in my regular writ-
ing. The problem I’m having is that I try to be funny
anyway, in my usual column, and I really straddle
that thin line between good taste and Don Imus (see,
a little wry joke slipped in there in the supposedly
unfunny part of my column: this will very likely be
the trend throughout this article). (I mean, as op-
posed to a funny idea that might overarch the entire
column.) Except, inventing this construct would be
very boring. I just won’t do it.

Okay, I’m bored of that part now, too, so what I’m
going to do is do what I did last year, which is to start
a bunch of possible parody columns that I don’t want
to write but might get a good idea for, then when I get
bored, move on to the next one. Or, like, I might just
insult people. A snappy name for this would be
“quick shots.” If I were going to come up with a
snappy name for it.

PARODY START #1: I have worked really late
in the Robinson computer lab exactly twice in my

entire career, and both times I became suspicious at
hearing odd hooting noises below. Stealthily creep-
ing onto the Colonnade, I found, both times, a bunch
of guys in ski masks putting up Cadaver Society

(C

John Donne said, “Tb write
threescore: this is the sec-
ond of our raigne.” And
Bruce Springsteen, “The
Boss,” said, “You ain’t a
beauty, but hey, you’re all
right.” What does this have
to do with anything ? you may
ask. Nothing really, but if I
were going to write an inco-
herent eleven-part letter to
The Thident, I would prob-
ably start it like that.

 

posters with duct tape. “Helllllooooo!” they hoot.
“How are yoooouuuu?”

“Fine, how are yoooouuuu?”

This raises several questions: (1) Are these guys
following me?, (2) Wouldn’t Scotch or masking tape

cause less damage to the paint job?, (3) Why the
hooting? Is it part of the ancient tradition, or just
good-natured fun?, and (3a) Could this hooting pos-
sibly be pitched out of the hearing range of Security,
like a dog whistle? We may never know the answers
to these questions....

PARODY START #2: John Donne said, “To
write threescore: this is the second of our raigne.”
And Bruce Springsteen, “The Boss,” said, “You
ain’t a beauty, but hey, you’re all right.” What does
this have to do with anything? you may ask. Nothing
really, but if I were going to write an incoherent
eleven-part letter to The Trident, I would probably
start it like that. To make it more incoherent, I mean.
Then I would start a campus-wide search for hy-
phens, the great destroyers of our culture. Damn,
there’s one in that last sentencel...

PARODY START #3: Well, I’ve done my best to
be involved here at Washington and Lee. I audi-
tioned for the spring play, I ran for EC vice president,
I applied forA riel editor. Is it three strikes and you’re
out? Well, I fooled you then, because I’ve had many
more strikes than three! Ha! Ha! Ain’t we got fun!
I’m still not down forthe count. But I do seem to have
a bit of trouble playing nice in groups. It’s not that I
wasn’t polite and friendly and great through all my
various recent rejections, and it’s not even that I
think any of them should have turned out differently,
but somehow there is a perception out there that I’m
a bit unstable, maybe ﬂighty or combative. I want to
put that to rest right now. lt’sjust not true. l’ll ﬁght
anybody who says different. Wait, scratch that, what
was I thinking?...

All right, all right, so I can’t write a great
parody column with a straight face! So sue
me! At least I don’t work for the campus
weekly that hates women.

  

Last Week: '

' * ° This Week
I 2 mg-tum I -
B - s . Les 1 , ; . ‘-
BAB3BAu- W. 10-7. at-Mlanta: W. 24-20. at Colorado N&.s::;:az- S:  RCiiggi:sG«:i)t3i)s1rur:?30aAii8ame'8PM V
Mlurcnossz W, 22-3, vs. Gettysburg WLACROB8E- Sat. vs. Parry Mccluer at Glasgow, 4:30AM
M'l'r:NNia - Beat Andre Agassi, Boris Becker, and Pete Sampras M'l‘r.i~mis - Mon. at US. Open, 10 AM
W'l‘:NNia - Beat Steffi Graf, Monica Seles. and Chris Evert W'I‘:NNis - Tues. at Wimbledon, 2 PM
Gouv - Tommy Dudley shot. a 59 at The Masters G0‘-F ' Thu|'S- 81 PGA Championship. 11 AM
Tiucir - Wed. at Boston Marathon, 9 AM
PAGE 4
BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TENNIS, GOLF, TRACKAND FIELD MARCH 29, 1996

Schaeffer jogs on Maury

By DAVE JUSTICE
Phi Sports Scapegoat

Jesus is no longer the only
person who can walk on water.

Witnesses claim that senior
cross country and track legend
Josephine Schaeffer dashed
across the Maury River Wednes-
day. Schaefferacknowledged her
feat but downplayed it.

“lt’s really not that big of a
deal,” she said. “It just kind of
happened.”

Schaeffer, the W&L female
Athlete of the Decade, had been
jogging on the Woods Creek Trail
Wednesday afternoon when she
arrived at the Maury River. Rather
than turn around or take the Route
11 bridge across the river, she
kept running.

“lt’s been bothering me since
that other bridge had collapsed,
which made it more difﬁcult to
cross the river,” Schaeffer said.

Besides, it was a warm day and I
didn’t really mind getting wet.”

But Schaeffer never did get
wet, according to a Lexington
resident and a W&L freshman,
who were ﬁshingalongthe bank.

“Ya’ll should’ve seen that,”
the resident said. “That girl’s
amazing! She had the power of
Jesus in her! I nearly dropped my
ol’ rod here from the whole
thing.”

The W&L student was in a
similar state of shock.

“Damn,wasthatsomething!”
he said. “I thought a big ﬁsh
jumped out there in the river, but
when I went to cast my rod, 1 saw
it was a girl. Man, I’ve gotta lay
off the JD for a while. I must be
seeing things.”

The freshman wished to re-
main anonymous in the event
that his fraternity brothers could
find out and force him to repeat
Schaeffer’s feat.

Schaeffer jogged on top of
the Maury for its entire width

before deciding to return on Route
11. There was no word on
whether Schaeffer parted the river
as she ran across.

Head women’s track coach
John Tucker did not appear
stunned by Schaeffer’s feat.

“I know she’s capable of do-
ing things like that,” Tucker said.
“That isn’t the first superhuman
thing Josephine has done.”

Indeed it is not. She has
smashed just about every dis-
tance record that exists, and re-
cently qualiﬁed for the NCAA
Outdoor Championships with a
meet record time in the 10,000
meters, which is slightly longer
than the distance across the
Maury River.

Schaeffer is also a force in the
classroom and is the head RA in
Gaines Hall.

Her next-door neighbor, Phi
Sports Editor Scott Bookwalter,
said he was pleased to learn that
a superhuman was living next to
him, at least while he was still

living.

“That’s cool,” he said.
“Maybe she can magically stop
my suitemate from playing the
same taped songs over and over
again.”

Schaeffer refused to accept
her immortal status and the in-
evitable comparisons with Jesus.

“It really didn’t deserve this
much attention,” she said. “I’m
sure anybody could walk or run
across a river if they really tried.
I just felt like doing something
different, that’s all.”

Tucker said he has no plans to
hold women’s track practice on
the Maury from now on, since
somebody may fall in.

Schaeffer said she would re-
frain from jogging the Maury in
the near future.

“I wouldn’t want people try-
ing this at home, because they
might not make it,” she said.
“And ifa VMI guy saw me doing
this while he was jogging, he
might try it too.”

- shortly after midnight on March

    

Photo by Jeff Fishbein, T Sprting News
Wow! Allen Iverson actually CAN pass the ball.

By THE Bro SLEEP-DEPRIVED FAN
Phi Deceased Sports Editor

Yes, back by popular demand is the Second Annual Bookwalter
Dream Sequence.

The title in itself is ironic enough, because I NEVER dream.
Well, I used to, but that was before I came to college and got four
hours of sleep every night.

This year’s dream sequence was scheduled to be a baseball game,
but it was canceled due to poor ﬁeld conditions at W&L’s Ham
Smith Field. So it was moved inside to the John Warner Center for
a basketball game tipping off at 2:30 AM, which of course is when
I’d be awake to write about it.

Don’t worry if you missed it. Only two students showed up, one
of which has passed out. R.D. Clark and Baner were the ofﬁcials and
Keith Grant, the former “Voice of the Generals” who loves Metro
Lex so much that he can’t leave it, was at the mike, while Bob Ryan
was covering the game for the Boston Globe.

A team of Washington area sports players, coming off of last
year’s thrilling 28-27 defeat, hoped for better luck this year. It
started Othella Harrington at power forward, Dennis Rodman at
small forward, Gheorghe Muresan at center, Allen Iverson at point
guard, and Chris Webber at shooting guard. Bob Knight and John
Thompson split the coaching duties.

Their opposition, the W&L All-Stars, countered with George
Clinton at power forward, Coolio at small forward, Bob Dole at
center, W&L President Suzi Landolphi at point guard, and Dave
Matthews at shooting guard. Kevin Moore handled the coaching
and Weird Al Yankovic assisted him.

It was clear from the beginning that Moore’s uptempo system
was ﬁnally working. W&L was running and gunning like Loyola
Marymount, circa 1990. Clinton and Coolio repeatedly dunked and
Matthews nailed a couple threes. Iverson scored the ﬁrst 15 points
for Washington, who trailed 20-15 with 15:49 left in the first half.

With W&L up 27-24, disaster struck for Washington. Webber,
who had started the game 0-7 from the ﬁeld and 1-6 from the line,
left with an injury and was replaced by Heath Shuler. W&L
promptly went on a 12-2 run, punctuated by an alley-oop pass from
Landolphi, who was standing on her head, to Dole, who power
dunked it over Harrington.

Rodman had grabbed 17 rebounds by the midway mark of the
first half, but things kept getting worse for Washington. For the third
straight time, Coolio slammed over Muresan, with the ﬁnal one
putting W&L in front, 54-34.

“Get the f— off my stage!” Coolio screamed at Muresan.

Muresan had taken enough abuse in last year’s game and wasn’t
about to tolerate an encore performance. He decked Coolio, tied his
hair in a knot, and stuffed him in the basket.

“I’ll show you who the gangsta is in this paradise!” Muresan
bellowed.

Clark ejected Muresan and tried getting Lexington Towing to
haul him away, but Gheorghe balked, saying he was going to start
filming the movie he is starring in. Boubacar Aw replaced him.

Derek Carter replaced Coolio and picked up four quick fouls, but
he soon recovered to drain four straight 3-pointers as W&L bol-
stered its lead to 70-47 with 3:17 left.

Iverson went on a 16-7 run for Washington, which closed to 77-
63 by halftime. Iverson led all scorers with 51 points in the half and
Rodman grabbed 28 rebounds.

Turmoil reigned in the W&L locker room at halftime. Dole
nominated Clinton to be his vice president, and the two left the game
to begin campaigning.

“Now the real Clinton’s gonna be in the White House,” George
said.

W&L professor of politics Newt Gingrich had no comment on
the nomination of Clinton.

Meanwhile, Landolphi left to inspect the condom machines
around campus and Matthews, who was supposed to provide half-

 

Late night at the John Warner Center

time entertainment, was instead watching ants marching over in the
Gaines courtyard.

The coaching situation was no better. Moore ﬁnally became tired
of Yankovic, who was attired in black and was churning butter while
Moore was trying to give a chalk talk.

“If you think you’re so great, than YOU coach,” Moore yelled,
and walked out.

Yankovic didn’t think he was so great and decided he would
rather erect a barn instead, so he also departed. Out of options, W&L
called up associate guru of journalism Brian Richardson, and his
sidekick, Lexington/Buena Vista/Glasgow police chief L.B. “Skeet”
Thrasher to coach.

Richardson immediately conﬁscated W&L’s playbooks and
handed them AP Stylebooks instead.

Over in the Washington locker room, the team was grousing about
Iverson, who had no assists thus far.

The second half began with Washington starting Harrington,
Rodman, Aw, Iverson, and Shuler. With their starting ﬁve gone,
W&L sent out Carter, Cam Dyer, Shaquille O’Neal, and Buena Vista
residents Bo and Luke Duke.

The Dukes didn’t last too long. After each made two baskets,
Lexington Mayor J .D. “Boss” Hogg and Rockbridge County Sheriff
Roscoe sauntered into the Warner Center and spotted Bo and Luke.

“That’s them Duke boys,” Roscoe pointed out. “Oooh, Boss, I got
‘em this time! I’m gonna git them Duke boysl”

      

Before his death, the editor found a very old fi
photo. No, that’s not Green Bay in the picture.

Sports editor dies

“This is a victory for the
athletic department,” stated

By THE RACQUETBALL WIZARD
Phi Staff Cool Guy

McKinley.
R,',,g_,u,,, phi Sports editor Hull was unavailable for
Scott Bookwalterwastragically Commem _
killed last week by enraged Th°a”eS““g°fﬁ°°rrF-W-

Smith, is also the one who
found Bookwalter’s body.

Ofﬁcer Smith reported that
Bookwalter was found laying
on the 50-yard line of Wilson
Field, dressed in a tutu, and
with pee-wee shoulder pads
wrapped around his neck.

Bookwalter was moaning
faintly, his face was a dark
shade of blue, and there was a
sign taped to him that said:
“Who’s the big fan now?”

“In all my years on this
police force, I have never seen
such a sight,” said an aston-
ished Smith.

UVA doctors said that suf-
focation from the shoulder
pads caused the death.

“He had it coming to him,”
said McKinley. “Which sea-
son did he think this was?
There are pictures from years
ago, with my name on them. I
couldn’t take it anymore.”

Thethree players willhave
their court date on April 1.
All are being advised to plead
that Bookwalter was insane.

membersofthewashingtonand

Lee football team.
Bookwalter’s body was

found on the football field

20. He was taken to Stonewall
Jackson and subsequently air-
lifted to Charlottesville. Unfor-
tunately, the UVA doctors were
unable to save him. He was
pronounced DOA at 12:40 AM.
The Lexington Police De-
partment has arrested several
people in connection with the
murder: football defensive line-
man Robert Hull, sophomore
offensive lineman Stefan
Neumeister, and sophomore
running back Seth McKinley.
Professors of journalism
Ham Smith, Ed Yoder, and
Brian Richardson were also sus-
pected in Bookwalter’s death,
but have not yet been arrested.
“We weren’t very happy
with the coverage he gave us,
and when we sawwhat he did to
those other teams...we couldn’t
take it anymore,” said
Neumeister in his deposition.

was running circles around the fatigued W&L team.

Carter drilled a three and Komegay and Dyer converted back-to-
back 360 dunks to give W&L a 135-124 advantage, but Iverson
swished two more threes to make it 135-130 with 4:01 left. Coffman

missed a jumper and Iverson, with 97 points and pumping his arms in .

the air, poised himself for 100. He never got the chance because
Komegay cold-cocked him at midcourt.

“It was about time somebody did it,” Chuck said. “I wasn’t about
to let him score 100, not on our defense.”

Despite his sacriﬁce to the team, Komegay was ejected and Darvin
Ham entered for the ﬁrst time. At this point, the four Washington
players returned with Iverson now out. Marion Barry took over for
Iverson at the point.

Washington continued its comeback even with Barry at point

guard. Barry, high on crack, raced around like Iverson, draining 
jumpers right and left. Washington closed to 141-140 with two ‘-

minutes left, and it seemed like there was no stopping them. Aw and
Harrington each made layups to give Washington its ﬁrst lead of the
game at 144-141.
Shaq made a layup, but Shuler hit one of two free throws to make
it 145-143 with 58 seconds left. Richardson called a timeout.
“You told me you would win this game,” he said. “Ifyou don’t, I’m
going to give you all fact errors.”
Spurred on by this impassioned speech, W&L worked the ball to
Carter, who drained a 3 with 37 seconds left.

Roscoe ran across the court after them, shoving
Iverson to the ﬂoor en route. Roscoe chased them
outside as the Dukes headed for the General Lee.

“At least we don’t have to worry about them
towing our car in this town,” Luke said.

Chuck Komegay and Jon Coffman replaced the
Duke boys, but it was Washington which was con-
tinuing to have problems. It trailed 98-90 with 15:22
remaining, and Dyer was having a ﬁeld day scoring
over forwards Aw and Rodman.

Rodman, who had 42 rebounds but still hadn’t
attempted a shot, ﬁnally lost his cool and violently
checked Dyer. Baner signalled a flagrant foul.

“That was no * !#@$ flagrant foul, you * !#@$!”
Rodman screamed.

Baner began motioning for an ejection, but Knight
saved him the trouble by hurling a chair at Rodman.
Dennis, even more incensed, threw a water cooler,
his jersey, a bench, two basketballs, and the scorer’s
table at Knight. Baner immediately gave Rodman
hours scrubbing the D-hall floor, which Rodman
loudly protested.

“If you don’t shut up, I’ll make one of the
fraternities put you on clean-up,” Baner warned.

Dennis shut up and left.

Gus Frerotte, who had been openly ﬁghting with
Shuler over a starting position, ﬁnally got his wish
as he replaced Rodman. By this time, the entire

    

Photo by Joel Richardson,
The Washington Post

Darvin Ham. Do you want
to mess with him?

entered the lineup.
“Oh no!” screamed Grant, who ﬁnally
looked up from the book he was writing.
Sure enough, Barry passed to Laettner,

line with 6.2 seconds left. Dyer quickly passed

are. With time running out, a confused Shaq
heaved up a 3. It found nothing but net, but lo
and behold, Barry, with his high starting to
wear off, hacked him with 2.2 seconds left.

Shaq, a 92% free throw shooter, calmly
stepped to the line and bricked the ﬁrst. He
airballed the second. Finally, the third shot
rolled around the rim and dropped through,
tying it at 147.

From the inbounds line, Shuler tried to
heave it to Laettner, but the pass was inter-
cepted by Coffman. In the same motion, Jon
flung it up near the basket, where Ham was
hovering. Darvin caught the ball in midair,
and as the buzzer sounded, he jammed the
ball through with everything he had.
SMASHH Glass shards and supports went
flying everywhere. Ham ripped the rim off,
hung it over his neck, and headed off to East

Washington team was at war. Harrington, Aw, and

Iverson all fought for control of the ball on every inbounds play.
Iverson still had no assists for the game and Harrington had not
touched the ball the entire second half.

Finally, at the 10:05 mark, with Washington trailing 116-101,
Harrington, Aw, Frerotte, and Shuler walked off the court.

“You may as well play yourself,” Harrington said. “You’re the
only one getting a chance to play.”

“Good riddancel” Iverson retorted.

W&L couldn’t believe its luck getting to play against a one-man
team, but yet they began blowing their lead. Iverson, free from
worrying aboutrunninginto his ownteammates,beganlightingitup.
He sank 3-pointers from halfcourt and was all over the floor on
defense. W&L, startled by lverson’s superhuman play, began miss-
ing easy baskets and Shaq bricked several dunks.

By the 7:43 mark, the W&L lead had decreased to 124-114.
Iverson now had 81 points and appeared to be getting stronger as he

Lex to celebrate.

W&L had prevailed, 149-147.

Knight failed to show for the post-game press conference. He was
later seen cussing out a clerk at the Buena Vista Stop-In / Burger King/
Baskin Robbins megaplex.

Although he was not allowed into the building, associate professor
of Spanish Pat Buchanan said he enjoyed the game.

Dave Matthews wasn’t so sure. When reached for comment at a
concert in Charlottesville, Matthews said, “I don’t know. What would
you say?”

Richardson would not comment on the record but said off the
record, “Those guys [Washington] are a bunch of losers. I bet they
don’t even know how to write a lead. And that lverson’s a runt, too.”

Harrington, Komegay, and Shaq felt like doing something after
the game, but at 5 a.m., not many places were open. Except one.

“Hey, why don’t we go over to the Phi office and finish laying out
the sports page?” Komegay asked. Good idea.

 

if
‘Ive_rs_o_n'_ ’{>'et_ter_ not ‘etite‘r_2 met:-;.
‘this-year.‘ _in’the'==j
pQin(._guards'._a;‘g’3¢(~g.i.;Ee..

   
 
 
 
  
 

W&Lwas back in front, 146-145. ButWash- 
ington called time, and Christian Laettner 1

who hit a turnaround jumper from the foul ;

 
 
   

it to Shaq, but Shaq-Fu was still behind the I

 

__ Tina BIG FAN V
 I ‘*1?-Y, JOHNNY 0, ,

 

GENBRALS FAN!!

W; vhighlightsjy at Patric
  T '3; Michae!.;.J6rdan;'
‘~‘1any.,Krystokowiak dunkin
over the Bullets. Or the Pen

   

 

     
   
  
   

‘ djkescri t.3  P--
eaI:Big-:F2.mr ..
_ kwa1ter,_ asked-(me. if

 in my honor, so he
:'thoughi'it was only fair that I.
get to write a column.

 
  
  
 
 
 

he in IL“:

    

.1’?  , ntgway too _much}time

_Well it

 

 

'-.;)3i:As ‘ for Georgetown»

 NB:

 

apposed topass the 5211
 Geéxgw
_ Ome. .PI‘i*Y° ‘Si ‘W hi’
fits 1 Proilriuntfé? T 131:1
ck  of . always ‘ -sayii

»'-Mahmoud Abdul~Raufs. V

itheyfre not that greateither.
».:<$firi’th°‘Reéskins?_ 'Ihey"'re
s:hope1e$., They can’t even

 
 
 
    

V _us_:?*mrone  iitiarter

ther one. 2

like alijof you. lgraduated

casting job. So where do I
end up? In this damn HTS

surrounding me.

-station? It’s not iike they
show ESPN and CNN too.
l’m getting sick and tired
of having to lie to keep my
job. People think I’m happy
all the time, but I’m really
not. Would you be if you

Ymstartingto like thisooi-
uinn. This is the first time
I’ve ever gotten to bash my
employers, and it feels pretty
damn good. Now that the
sports editor is dead, maybe 1

page permanently each week.

W&L would admit me,
wouldn’t it? I promise i’ll.
never steal any mushrooms

ms or the administration. i’ll
even avoid beer slides and
show up at the D-Hal} for
Taco Bar night.

But I guess until then, re-
member, I’m a big fan!

. 5 ':-OK, —I’m sure some 'of'youf.
have no elite wholarni If you -.~ . ;
.watch_eti-i_lome Team Sports  ‘
togimoreithan 15 minutes ata ;
= time, chances areyou’v'e seen‘ 
;{m_e. ~;J’m the gufwearing the ';:
._w_li_ite HTS cap and shi_rt.whoV '

gives the,promtiona!s‘for ttp- ‘
‘  events. Occasionally, 
ji. ge,t_.to‘go to cook placestike "

’skiing1‘or to a ‘baseball .dia_-E:
'_ rrioxidjbutlnrostofthegtime, I 
fv3"3=é°>li;"st‘a’nd‘ifI' the st::di5<s,‘éa:i. 

  
 
  
 
   

 j;o1*1 Flyers checkingzav ,
‘ player into the boards. N

,  Peoplenotice my extrava-.« 
gant {'_liarrd* _ motions,‘ . vibrant.’
;'$‘mi!,e;and ‘upbeat personaiity, ’~ ‘
f_arrd.ask}howI do it; , How do .

I j‘g§:t3excited over suchlousy . 2

d wﬁte‘,th_is‘:eolumnvthis'

 is dead; “Aftéi*.,.
. .mg.rri¢"3111astyear.‘r1i¢got 
-’_the, inspiration to name“ his

parvéiying .things_-— 82°13 day 1;,
:31. work, Tim ._forced _.to;..,.say ‘
 Ithgatj are eoirip1ete1y‘_ .-
funtrue, like “big Butlers fan!" 
’s_timc.tobe frank -and

 Ya~Ya.’¥‘ouO.m0u. :3
‘~aﬂndJahidi. Broadcasters  .
:2 n1oref::Ch’ris. Jacksons, not i I

  Capitals are on, but

between Heath Shuler . '

l V  fI‘hat’s,likc"the voters ’
‘ off. 3 Louisiana deeidingbe ,
_tween:~Bdwin Edwards and;
»I),av’id”Dakei»a few years ago.
Youire not gonna winjwith ’

 Better‘ yet, I should speak

"frankly about myself.'. You;-;
‘know, Ionce had dreams too; -
.fro:_n college and. figured ,I_’d ‘

> land.sor_ne high-proﬁle broad’-‘ :: ;

studio with 300 televisions .
Why the

hell do they need 300 We if ‘-
they’re all tuned to the same i

were stuck in a dead end job? ‘

can stay on this side of the.

orbust on any of the oounsel—. I

 
 

 Hey, Johnny  here, BIG   I

 

  
   

 Solisaid sure. Scott was 3:,
-_i~p.re_t§y  to be around, but?
’r*:‘got enough sleep. ,
 , ‘got these wild ideas;
at story he wrote else?’ ‘

I ir1ij=.‘tiiii::ginthiscoli:nin;tiu£.‘‘-; ,

  
  
 

—_

 
    
  
 
  
   
   
    
 
  
 
   
  

 

1

 

 I‘ ' " ~=- " " -=~' ""2"" "" ' -"" '  ' '

 
   

1
-(Il~'.\.\I l'|{-|’l \ MOI ll-l)Ul)(}l

Oi/alum‘/range
and L U B E

COLLEGE SQUARE
(Next to Kroger)

*QUIGK
$ 1 9.95 LUBE
INCLUDES:

°Auto Transmission
Check

°Up to 5 Quarts 10W/30
Valvoline Oil

°Filter Chassis Lube

* most cars

JR /\

The F?ing—tum
Phi:  
We’re not
makin this 0

Our ALL YOU CAN EAT Sunday Breakfast
Buffet can handle the BIGGEST appetite.
The Buffet is served from 8:00 a.m. until 1:30 p.m.
We’ll be waiting for you.

Berky’s
Route 11 North - Lexinton VA

W&L Students

Reserve your se1f—storage unit
now for the summer months

Goon   DEii°§§l3$’§ i.‘2§?.'iig"J$n

Basement of Domino’s Pizza

‘_O
'2.
_.
>
\
C
>
.
7
.3
‘/7
7
.
x—-
C
.
2
5*,
2
.
7
_
/_v
:-
'-’.
.
x
.
C
:
2/"
"P
_.

No Appointment Necwnxy

nouns:
Mm.-Fd 8:30AM-5:00PM .
8atwd:y8-.30AM«2=ﬁ)PM

SPRING ‘ BREAK ’96 - SELL
TRIPS, EARN CASH & GO FREE!!!

E campus representatives. Lowest rates I . . ‘

STATES
, _ ' 3 StudentTravelServicesisnowhiring _
0 ,_ to Jamaica’ Cancun, Dayton, and J Caterzng to W&L students
-   it   'Nc0ME   Walk to storage from campus .-
I A = 2 minutes

ﬂI'OO383iD9 '  '0' Reasonable Low Rates
mnowaaesronasa:    By Month 07‘ Year
supplies. postage! No 0 Mam _5 m Daﬂ
    By Iappointment  Saturdiy
immediate! l. Genuine A1 Siz‘?1S{:'1"‘?‘C§"X8’t° 1?’f§3’
opportunity! §1S.A..S. - caiiﬂlﬁii Maiiagii

 '   C&I Associates

l$M\\' - \'m \'o . s1»\/\Is-ml-:s<:liI -/\lIl)I- /\(‘.H/\|{ o NISSAN - norm/\ - I l\|lS - INHNHI - /\(Zl
U1’)-Il|t):l\ll|'.)-Ill

o
r
‘-7

     

Hardware, Paint, and Related Items

Open Mon. - Sat. 8:30 a.m. - 6 p.m. Sun. 1 - 5 p.m.
E. Nelson St., Lexington 463-2186

I-loueemate Wanted:

 

   
 
 
     
   
  
  

,« Female, l’lOl’l~E5l’l’lOl<6l” _ .. _ 463-3013 or
Ram bagad Om exchanga of 1851   N.-,FEDERAI-W    After5_p.m.: 463-123
eervieee ll .0LI:YWO0D: FL 3302 i _
4; Very CD56 to tow}/I ii laslZ...tlme Bug  But
465-5546

vvasvxl J’. Fuvx along like way;

  It nuesn’t TaIte_A_IvIatn Ivlaiur
To ﬂetluce The coewicientotnraa 10.31

     
  

tu ems ee e .

Earn up to $2000+/mo. working for Crui
,( Shipsorland-Touroompanies+WorldTi-ave
Seasonal and Full-Time employment avail
able. For info call:

(206) 971-3550 ext. C5342]

ALASKA EP'lPLDlr'l“lENT

FishingIndustry.Eamupto$3000- 9ontonooncoooooccooocuoooo9oooano~ 
$6000+ per nomth Room and Board! '
Transporation! Male or Female. No expe-
rience necessary. For more infonnation
call:(206) 971 - 3510 ext AS3421

 

,,.,,..... .......,. 

NATIONAL PARKS HIRING

 

tudents Needed! Tour guide, instructor,
. ifeguard, hotel staff, ﬁrefighter+ volunteer
. nd government positions available at Nationa
arks. Excellent beneﬁts + bonuses! For
utdoor Employment Program call: (206)
.' 71-3620 ext.N53421

Put .«\’l;&’£l‘ on
your resume
l)q/0/‘cyou graduate

T996 FALL LVIARKETTNG
()l’PORTUNl'l'IF.S AVAILABLE
.»'\T&T in $('('.‘l{lY\_i.‘; aml>m't>u.~s. szalcs-uri<'nIul
stutlt-:nrs to p'.It'l£('l[)3lK(' in our 7-<.l:iy
mi-<.«\tm>w's m.U‘lwting pmgrarrx selling
AT&'l' pr<sdu:'I.~ & st.-‘rv1u.‘.\. il4)l.IT‘S am
l'lexihlt- with tap <:mnpcn.\'.It2I<»rz &
l,\i)t‘ku\’.i?.S Mus; he ;iv.::l;zl’1lu l»-2 M-.-ks

pg-my In the stain of t‘la.~~;«:.\. We m-ml.

ATSIF STI l1)lEN'l'
CA.\»‘lP'US MANAGER
Tn lw re3~’pc)n.stl8le fur ¢x\*m‘.t'§l L"-/(‘Ill
1xizplumritlntiun. tl;tIl\ r1'uinz1;,zmm-m cs‘;
trsnnizsg ml" s’tn<l<~m gm"-1.1;). Requirzax
strong ltr.idxcr,~.hxp ahllit)-1 Prior in;m:z;:c.~
xm:r11.z.~".il<:~;»rclarctl <rx1x-:rit:nn2 a plus.

AT&'l' ASSISTANT S'l'l.ll)EN’I’

(An Do It ilh Lot Of Style.

 

  O R TOYOTA DEALER TODAY. 

 

 

.—nu-u-'ﬁ-QInna-un----I""'!""""""""'i
(IZAMPUS MANAGER Ez—cann. SUITE 275 _ .
'!'¥>‘Iv1';rmxtr ulxmun «if -'m<k~1‘-rs ->n A I 1501 B-IlR!.I.llIDLLE BCH BLVD .
tla‘ ' .i' s s .‘ 1!. A.~s.'.\’l mil‘: nw Jll '.“\' t 1
ll:};>Lt.’lI.::'¥llJlllm. .‘6;al«~.~/lnnlt-r-sing) cx;>:>:':'T  an hgqg [pg Qf ﬂy: unﬁt liecuﬁllﬁd Ilﬂ :   '
 J rm the wudd...VluuO Ind lﬁaltzifklii
accepted cram. guru: in _ I
 -mve-'w"'~.';=..*.:.°'ra'3s.. mm: : '-'*"‘~**"“*$'°‘°*“°°°"°" -
R131"/(.1/\MPl.§$ (.iR(.)l.?l’ C“’’”"‘‘‘'' “V” ’ - caxdanwmred Inurneumey. wows ouananrzsna ‘
‘its act .r~'- our n<1~r:iin;>z1.< rcpn'~<cnr;naw» V335’ gﬁ pgjskgcﬁﬁﬂ [It cltdlf iﬁ you '
_\.l{l.>&i- he <>u£§&<»in,u and .\’.ll<‘.‘<»~‘>llt‘!I‘.(‘€l. '1“ ‘ti "ad £°r__  '  '
,‘.‘}Z,-.i::i‘.i..‘,:?:i“:i$i;"}*‘.i::::‘:..‘§i:::.?ii::‘ sImm—wtmMmT!=W~mENT- u I
.556» of _5.’~7. UT .\('l1(l H"-»t1l3l1.’ (U Mxznpus EMEKJEICY CW3T‘—TcKEI3—REST  '  I
l)i£Ilt3£‘s.\lUl1.\. ln<:._ A‘l&‘l‘ llw -"UiIm<'m.  RENT.K!.5—- '   I
-W ‘Hi. W‘ W *~.<‘«'=-,,-i"*3???<:5:~ net-wrcs-mum BUILD mun cm-:nn~ summon CITY . -- '
lii'u:l.’itlc|pm;s, l>;\ it/l{>§.:2z':;sx.£lw w.-..».-,i...-: “ t d ! : 5-1-uuguj-'3 Yes No 53$ .
§-'.§.,.,§ 5' )fj«!'v->ll‘.lf':ll} ';:=;\=- -ws 0  
6°‘ I Gmm my-:, '
 :0 cre“Ttch:::IsI:Itl ' gm uuuaca-a I: n uegbtcuadondtnllt a uuaucua mmncuu-.1 ht. '
1\5‘_';:u3“:gp€-‘- 0 “cur ’ I van II a ctglsmud lmhiniid visa mm. in: -at VISA Iunmnum-I I
wait "'°" SEW "*5 CWPW 79"“; 3 run. was no rust: coupon room I
Youn CREDIT cums Mu-: wunnc. !_____________________________

 

The Ring-tum Phi, March 29, 1996

 

CARTOONS

  
    

 

      
   

 
   

  
 
  

  
 

 

   

  
  

           

   

   

    

       
    
 
  
 
     

  
   
  
  
       
 

. ‘T I ll.l‘l'lflli1l'lllllllll123llll‘lllllil1l‘lll“llllllllllll / 

-TIA:  I ITS QKFE-. TO  I    .IIllIlIIIIl_IIIlillli;li /  Ex V
ClM\RN\ Sﬁl-\0OL °c.‘;‘é“;‘;?a”‘;L.i ‘°“‘$é‘°E°F “E W‘ : llmliliillllllliii‘ / ;%
HAPPEN WIXEN W I   lililll  ‘ . 
‘loll FORGET      ~~ “‘   
. ~" ‘   3
‘I1 ' , Q-_  3

 

.,_I\N\7 \T eweene  I I _" if W‘
tr FORTUNE IN " ‘  I 

TI>~X\DER N\‘l

 
      
   
   
   
  
  

I We AL\Nlx‘<e ‘YDE
exam oN$, Neuiiie
ma Lime oe N\l\N'$
ENTERTAINMENT
Cl>~?l\cﬁ‘(, THAT

60 OUT Tuv, ‘NM .

ii:-i%;..i;W

 

  
    

 
 

Moving to Richmond?
Go For It! Your Own Apartment!

  
     

Don’t Let
Your Student
G0 Hungry

UTILITIES
INCLUDED

FOR HEATING HOT
WATER & cookme
T

A Bistro

8 am - 3 pm - Monday

8 am - 10 pm - Tuesday - Thursday

8 am - 11 pm - Friday - Saturday
9 am - 3 pm - Sunday

 

(yam

I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
' I l
I Eight minutes to Broad St. -Eight minutes to Downtown! I
I Enjoy your own patio or balcony, modern kitchen, two I
I clubhouses, hot tub, and playgound! Other models available. I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
I I
i :

Wednesday - Spaghetti & Salad

     
  
 
    

One Bedroom $443°$S49

 

All you can eat $4.99
_ Two Bedroom $490-$638
Thursday - 10% Off food - with student ID Three Bedroom $665°$675 Nutritious Muﬂins & Egg Specialties
. , Fresh Salads & Soups
Fnday ‘ Seaf°°d Nlte ' - w Q Hearty Sandwiches & Mexican Entrees
Crab Legs, Shrimp, Trout ‘ 0° . .
Saturday _ 8 OZ Prime Rib’ I III” cl-ca COLONIAL C andlelzght Diners
2 Vegsa Salad $8-95 ‘ﬁx ‘ om"! 321-3509 321-4840
_ 1-300-349-5603 1-300-542-5753 -
II.» .  Igotfee $150 I I I ______________________ - .. Give Your Student

     

if,

       
  
    
  

a Homecooked Meal With Our

Point Card
19 W. Washington St., Lexington, VA 24450

TEACH ENGUSH IN KORE/\~ Positions available monthly. B./\. or 5.5.
degree required. U5 $l8,500~25,400/yr. Accornodation & round—trip
airfare provided. Send resume, copy of diploma and copy of paeeport to:
Bok di Coprporation, Cnun Bang Bldg, 15445 Sarneung Dong, Kang Narn Gu,
Seoul, Korea 155090.

TEL: Oll~82~2—55E3—o’OBS(5627) F/\,><: O’ll«82~2—552—4F/\><(4529)

    rink $4-so  

 

19 W. Washington  Lexington, VA 24450

   
 

  
 
       
    

W 
/ APARTMENT FOR RENT
Z WIN TE R SA L E g 306 MCLAUGHLIN STREET
% % Restaurant and 3 BEDROOM
g 5 0 %   0 a II Fa It a n d % -q_[065ie)5 Lounge WASHER/DRYER, REFRIGERATOR,
% Winter Fashions / MICROWAVE
% % Rome 7, BOX 99A WALKING DISTANCE TO SCHOOL
% Sale continues plus lots of new Spring things / Lexington, Virginia 24450 CALL‘ 4634690 (OFFICE)
/ /
% % Near the Horse Center 464'2034 (PACER)
% % Phone 464-9499
  d  LOUI'1g€Op€Il4Z00p.fl'1.IO? ooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo
%    Restaurant 11:00 am. to 9:30 p.m. E  E
g 23 N. Main Street % ;  ;
g Hours: Monday - Saturday10.'00 - 5:30 %  7WM¢'¢'¢¢"w W64 5444“ E
4 E E
***FREE TRIPS & CASH!!*** 3 '9 5‘ 2“““°4‘4 5" 3
Find out how hundreds of students are already earning FREE TRIPS and LOTS OF CASH with :  :
America’s # 1 Spring Break company! Sell only 15 trips and travel free! Choose Cancun ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ' ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ' ° ° ' ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° ° °
Bahamas, Mazatlan, or Florida! CALL NOW! TAKE A BREAK STUDENT TRAVEL :——  A - 1: I dug jg
(800) 95‘BREAK!  I CIVIJ V ‘MT

_ Jwaro Mowea, Mara Gangs, Bast Service!‘

‘I72 Walker Street, $w1'wnIt Square, next to this DMV
(540) 463—9354

5 pg 1 D  EARN   Rooms

, any
I   . * Friendly Atmosphere ”‘”Ev_'y"“"'
. ' ' ' " New Wolff Tanning Beds with s“md'y’

32 bulbs!

   

* Great Selection of Tanning
Products!

A r HOME!
PROCESSING    
MAIL!

 

* We offer California Tan,
the nations #1 best solllng

    

 I I lotion! I
,9-3,.» $5.;-”’ ' "' certified Consultants!
/  I " New Membar Special:   I
’ NO EXEERIENCE I "‘:m’jf'f ’°' *3”  
  T   NEC SSARY! ii ,.,  - ~33?‘  
, I I ‘;='::: ;‘§.."."""
  $'|'AR]' DETAILS: RUSH LONG 5.45: : :: ;§,,I,,I,I=I,:.: ’
NOW! m§t1§9.u6 III ‘‘‘‘““'a;‘.'.; ;§._§;‘;;;.;;.;.“a ;E§§§6;§“;“‘“‘§ Y
~  ’ ¢.u....:.“3-"a;’g‘I.“..':";-a.-5e"a"a:>'-1'»... 77.. E

 

\
:
:
l
I
I
l
:
S
l
:
E
I
I
i

~XX$hZ1$ZZZZ‘ZZZZ$ZZZj—ﬂ

 

 

Clhiz ifting-tum iﬁlti

@ne Acts:

from the c[irect0r’5 chat’

r
9

Dudley, golf team prevail

at W&L Invitational

E)

VOLUME 96, NO. 19

-a

.3.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Just ducky!

Betsy Green, Phi Photo Editor

As Spring Term approaches so do the proverbial April showers. The rainy day on Thursday will
be followed by a sunny and warm weekend. See Weekend Weather for details.

‘W&L Life educates campus

BY JAY WHITE
Phi Staff Writer

Washington and Lee has a new organization
on campus, W&L Life.

The purpose of W&L Life is to educate the
campus about general health issues such as
health and wellness, nutrition, exercise, sexu-
ally transmitted diseases, AIDS, alcohol and
substance abuse, eating disorders, and sexual-
ity.

Founders Mary Lynn King, Karlene N.
Jennings, both seniors, and University Health
Educator, Jan Kaufman came up with the idea
for bringing the organization to Washington
and Lee after attending the Virginia State Alco-
hol held in Richmond last October.

At the conference King, Jennings, and
Kaufman viewed a performance by the mem-
bers of “Straight Talk” from Longwood Col-
lege concerning sexual assault. The gyst ofthe
performance was peer education, that is, edu-
cating and counseling students on a more egali-
tarian level, rather than the same coming from

   

 
  Steven“ Fanning‘. 
   Acuff 

   

   A   
  Maggie Ogilvie
Alvin”

 

an adult source.

From “Straight Talk,” which performed at
Washington and Lee this past week, the founders
of W&L Life gleaned ideas on how to present
material and information to students.

Now firmly established at Washington and
Lee, W&L Life takes the place of several cam-
pus organizations and committees: Health
Education, SAGE (Sexual Awareness Group
Educators), AIDS education project, The WELL
(Wellness Eaating Living and Learning) Group,
and the Alcohol Review Committee.

Under King, Jennings, and Kaufman are a
group of 70 “LIFErs.” These peer educators
were initially nominated by faculty and student
leaders, and then further interviewed by King,
Jennings, and Kaufman.

Of the over 200 initial nominees, 70 were
chosen as peer educators. The educators repre-
sent ten fraternities, all sororities, and nearly all
campus organizations.

The LlFErs are more group-oriented than
the Peer Counselors, who focus more on one-
to-one counseling and support.

Junior Chris Higgs, one of the new peer

 

    

  

 if A 
Mary, Jdimjahoney

Vice President
 Reps »

Z. Taylor Shultz
Chris Baldwin

 
   
    

Stefan N etimeister

educators expressed his personal goals for the
new organization.

“I want to further educate myself on prob-
lems we all face so that, in return, I can inform
other people.”

Mary Lynn King expressed her desire for
W&L Life to continue long after she and
Jennings graduate.

‘‘I would like to see W&L Life continue
through the Fall and ensuing years, sponsoring
programs for various student groups and cam-
pus events so that all W&L students may learn
more concerning wellness and health issues.”

The organization would intially like to per-
form as a part of Freshman orientation.

As King and Jennings are graduating, they
have been conducting interviews for leadership
positions, as well as coordinating three sub-
groups concerning Alcohol and Substance
Abuse, Sexuality, and Health and Wellness.

The organization enjoys complete univer-
sity support and is looking forward to the pros-
pects of educating and counseling on a group
level to students in the near future and a training
program in the Spring Term.

Greta ataxia

 

E.C. Reps

James Haslanri  . 

Brad Baker

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

FD: Successes
and surprises

//’

BY DAVID BALSLEY
Phi Staff Writer

This last weekend witnessed Washing-
ton and Lee’s eighty-ninth annual Fancy
Dress Ball. Although hailed as a success by
the student body, this year’s F.D. included
a few unwanted surprises.

The SAB began the weekend by spon-
soring Coolio in the Pavilion on Thursday
evening. Anticipated with trepidation,
Coolio’s performance delighted some and
disappointed others.

Freshman Mary Celeste Foster com-
mented that she initially had been con-
cerned about the rumors of Coolio’s poor
performance in past concerts, but added
that she enjoyed the show.

This enthusiasm was not shared by all
members of the W&L community. Betsy
Howe, a sophomore, remarked that she did
not like Coolio’s performance, stating that
“he talked too much.”

First-year law student Scott DeMai1ino
encapsuled the feelings of some of W&L’s
students, commentingthat he did not attend

the show because he simply is not “a Coolio man.”

MARCH 29, 1996

Despite the mixed approval of the student body, the concert’s huge turnout seems to testify to
its success. As Chris Wick, Entertainment Chairman of the SAB stated, “There were at least 1,804
people who enjoyed that show.”
The Coolio concert provided the weekend’s first minor crisis.
According to Chris Wick, early in the evening a ticket was turned in which did not match the
tickets sold by the SAB.
“One came in that was just a little darker blue,” he commented.
The Rockbridge Area student who attempted to use this ticket was turned away, as were three

others who produced similarly counterfeited tickets.

Wick indicated that plans are being made to prevent the spread of counterfeit tickets in the
future, including the use of computers to create tickets which would be more difficult to reproduce.
Wick did not feel that the appearance of counterfeit tickets at the concert dampened its success,

 

stating that ﬁnding four
counterfeit tickets out of
thousands of legitimate
ones was “not bad.”
Through the persever-
ance of some of W&L’s
students, the Warner
Center became Alice’s
Wonderland on Friday
evening. The night’s fes-
tivities were generally

enjoyed by all.
Freshman John
Farringer enjoyed being

able to choose between
Guy Lombardo’s Royal
Canadians and The
Freddy Jones Band, and
Mike Callahan, also a
freshman, stated that the
evening was the “best
time I ever had.”

Sarah Wood, a junior,

commented that this year’s theme was the best that she has witnessed, but added that she wished
more had been done with that theme.

A second crisis occurred on the evening of the Ball. Near the end of FD, students began to carry
away the decorations which had filled the Warner Center.

Fancy Dress Chairman Ashley Bell commented that this was disappointing because the
decorations had been promised to the local high school for their prom, because the people who had
created those decorations were thereby denied the products of their hard work, and lastly because

some of the things which were taken were rented.

Bell speculated that the students may have assumed that they were permitted ‘to take the
decorations because they were allowed to take ﬂowers last year. She added, “For future reference, '

FD decorations should not be taken apart.”

Despite FD’s difficulties, this year’s ball has been a success both socially and financially.
The financial success of this year’s Ball had not been anticipated; by the

conclusion of the weekend, however, Committee Auditor Jen Greenly could

state that this year’s FD had made a “slight proﬁt.”
According to Greenly, the Ball had been budgeted for $65,000, but costed

    

  

only about $60,000. Fancy

Dress pays for itself
through the sale of tick-
ets and memorabilia.
Aturnoutwhich was
greater than what had
been expected, as well
as the successful sale of
both current and old
memorabilia, combined
to provide the funds
necessary for the Ball,
as well as a surplus.
Plans are already being
made for the surplus;
Ashley Bell com-
mented that the money
may be put into a fund
for next year’s FD, or it
may be spent on an FD

‘ band for this spring.

Bell prefers the lat-
teroption,commenting
that the FD Committee
and the senior class
should have the oppor-
tunity to reap the ben-
efits of their labor.

Bell added that all
plans are currently ten-
tative.

 

  

.1-_o;.:.,¢1.v.-v. v.,u. Ll. -.-.

 

 

   

Page 8 The Ring-tum PiiiMarci'1 29, 1996

FROM THE DIRECTOR'S CHAIR

“The plays cover a wide range of topics and time periods, from the 13th century to the present day,” says Professor
Thomas Ziegler. “They’re all basically about sex in some way or other, but it’s spring and people’s attention turns toward
those kinds of things.”

The One Act Festival has been an annual event on campus for over 20 years. Comprised of completely student-run
productions, the Festical showcases the talents of the entire theater department.

Work on the Festival. began in January, when advanced directing students selected plays and held auditions.

Over the following 11 weeks they worked on Ii ghting and scenic design classes to create the sets and prepare for opening
night.

The six ﬁnal products have been dividendinto two bills. The ﬁrst--set opened on Wednesday night and the second will
open this Frida. No tickets are required, and‘all are invited to attend.

Taraii Grant
Plii Staff Writer

A week after Coolio and his “explicit lyrics” came to campus, a parental advisory note has been posted outside the
Lenfest box ofﬁcc reading, “The One Act plays contain adult situations and strong language. Not suitable for children.”

This year’s one acts promise to bring not only adult content but, continuing tradition, a rich display of talent to W&L’s
stage. Some unusual works will indeed be a part of the Annual Festival of One Acts, works that are not typically produced
during the theater season.

  

 A Saturday, 2 p.m.; Monday, 8 p.m.

“I’m deﬁnitely not a feminist
but I had a great time playing the
part,” said Erin Mullaney, who
plays Alicia (the “Fervent Femi-
nist”). “I understand that frustra-
tion with her husband; there is a lot
of miscommunication in their re-
lationship. The problem is that
Alicia doesn’t acknowledge that
it’s a misunderstanding on both
sides.”

_The Cow oy, The In-
dian, _ t e Fervent
Femzmst centers around a
powerstruggle between Alicia and
her husband, Stanford (Jed Hazlet),
who has taken on the persona of a
cowboy. '

“The cowboy is very retro; he
thinks and acts like a cowboy and
the feminist attempts to deal with
him on his level.” said Director
Maria Hardin. “She talks about
the suffragettes, women’s move-
ment in the cowboy era, and tries
to bring him, kicking and scream-
ing, into the 20th century.”

Nearing the edge of her sanity,
Alicia turns to Dr. Bibberman (Ian
Leavey) for help. However,
Stanford manages to convince the
doctor that he is his Indian side-

Director Emily Pﬁster wanted to
choose a play that had a message
concerning the importance of toler-
ance, She found exactly what she
was looking for in Dou Wri ht’s
drama, T heSt0newa er a -
ture.

“It spoke to me a lot,” explained
Pﬁster, who considers herself to be a
survivor of adolescent strife.

“The play is about peer abuse; it
focuses on two people who actually
give into it all. I think it should warn
other people not to.”

Pfister wanted the character
Whitney (played by Gary Hill) to
parody the stereotypical W&L, stu-
dent dressed in khakis and a polo
shirt. Whitney’s greatest desire is to
be accepted by his high school’s foot-
ball team, the “cool guys” in their
backwater town. Instead, he becomes
the victim of their ridicule. He turns
to his best friend Carlyle (Andrea
Rosa) for help.

But Carlyle ends up being the one
needing Whitney’s support after the
team gang rapes her at a barn party.

The two teenagers seek redemp-
tion in each other.

Dreamers was written by Shel
Silverstein; however, those students
expecting a live performance of the
childhood favorite Where the Side-
walk Ends will be in for quite a sur-
prise.

Director Chris Buford initially
thought that Dreamers “would be a
quirky, funny play suitable for both
children and adults." A page into the
script, he realized his misconception
and laughed the rest of the way through.

Set in a bathroom, two disgruntled
plumbers plumb not only the sink but
the human psyche.

Richie (played by Joe Merlino), on
of the plumbers, has had a dream that
makes him question his sexuality. His
wisecracking sidekick coworker Nick
(Tory Noto) tries to convince him that
dreams aren’t something to get all
clogged up about.

“It’s funny and it’s very realistic,”
said Merlino who plays the part of
Richie.

“Hopefully when the audience
watches it they’ll think they are watch-
ing two plumbers talking like every
day plumbers.”

 

Only in solitude can one realize
the beauty of the sound of a voice.
This is only part of the wisdom that
a Japanese woman shares with her
unex ected visitor in Dan Tiptpn’s
play he Sound of a Voice.

Zach Hanks stars as a samurai
who sets out on a journey to ﬁnd
glory by destroying a woman who is
known to the village as “the witch in
the woods.” What he ﬁnds is a
beautiful, lonely woman (played by
Hillary Lewis) who offers weary
travelers food and shelter.

The only spell she casts on him is
an incantation of kindness. The
samurai is intrigued by the woman
and he realizes that the longer he
stays with her, the more difﬁcult it
will be to leave.

In her world of serenity, he can’t
find inner peace because he is
haunted by the shame that he can’t
bring himself to kill this “witch.”

“The man must choose between
following the dictates of a society
that holds duty and honor above all,
or the dictates of his heart,” Hanks
describes his character. “He can be
man or samurai or both.”

 B Friday, 8 p.m.; Sunday, 2 p.m.; Tuesday, 8 p.m.

Law student Kristopher Ahrend
plays Yuri, a vampire who refuses
to die. After trapping him in a cof-
fin, the town decides to hold an
exorcism to stop his pranks and
hauntings. Misha (Michael Leaser),
the 11-year-old nephew of Yuri, is
left in charge of the cofﬁn the night
before the exorcism and the play
focuses on the conversation that
they have that night.

To Kernan chose 0 direct
Wzl Rose Branc es be-
cause he feels that the characters
“represent many different aspects
of [his] life and personality and the
show is a catharsis for an anxious
senior who is about to enter a world
that at once excites him and at other
times frightens him.”

Kernan’s cast, however, hasn’t
had as easy of a time relating to the
characters.

“As far as I see, a vampire who
refuses to die doesn’t have any ob-
vious parallels with a future law-
yer,” laughed Ahrend, who did his
undergraduate work in theater. “But
I like my character. It’s a heck of a
part to step back into the theater
with, but I’ve enjoyed the chal-

  

Sheri Hamilton was in quite a
predicament when it came to finding
props for this sex comedy by
Terrence McNaully.

“I just didn’t know where to look
for the S.M. things,” explained
Hamilton. “We bought some of the
things at the Virginia Horse Center
and ended up making up the rest.”

A Sedan chair, riding crops, a
bull whip, and a “eat of nine tails”
are just some of the props that are
involved in N 0071, a play about
ﬁve characters who seek meaning-
less sex through personal ads.

Director Denis Riva believes that
he has chosen the perfect cast for his
play, describing them as “an ex-
tremely talented group of people.”

His actors and actresses were
warned at auditions about the “scant-
ily clad” roles and erotic scenes.

“I have a whole new appreciation
for Kurt Douglas in Sparticus,” said
Rob Neel who plays Cecil, a
dominatrix.

After weeks of rehearsals, they
are ready to toss in a little voyeur-
ism.

 

Ienge.”
kick.

Fargo’ s Humor
with an Edge

Kiri: Susong
Plii Reviewer

Fargo: ﬂ ﬁ '{ _ _

Ethan and Joel Coen are probably the two most talented film makers in America
today. These gifted brothers have co-written six ﬁlms, all of them directed by Ethan,
and produced by Joel._ Their ﬁrst feature, Blood Simple, is easily among my ‘top-ten
favorite ﬁlms, and RaisingArizona, starring Nicholas Cage and Holly Hunter, is a cult
classic. So it was with great anticipation that I saw their latest feature _

The movie revolves around a set of events that took place in Minnesota in 1987.
When Jerry Lundegaard (William Macy) needs several hundred thousand dollars to
cover a failed scheme, he knows his rich father-in-law will not help him. So he devises
a plan: hire some thugs to kidnap his wife, demand a ransom from the father-in-law for
the safe return of his daughter, and split the money with the kidnappers. No one gets
hurt, he can pay off his debts, and everything turns out happy - or so the plan goes.
Unfortunately, things almost immediately begin to go wrong, and the result IS ultimately
nothing but a lot of unhappiness. _ O _

What gives this film its real edge, and where we see the Coen brothers’ distinctive
touch, is that it is ﬁlmed not as an unfolding drama but as a black comedy. The heroine
of the film in Margie Gunderson (Frances McDonnand), sheriff in Brainerd, Minnesota.
She is a remarkable, earthy, genuinely nice woman, who also happens to be ‘seven
months pregnant. Her condition makes every aspect of her police work tinged with the
absurd. When she investigates the scene of two slayings, she feels nauseous - not from
the blood and gore of the murder scene, but from morning sickness.

The same sort of odd humor infects every part of the ﬁlm. We hear distinctive
midwestern accents and see sturdy homes and mid-line American sedans. all within the
context of random, malicious violence. This isn’t a cynical, rough, or depressed there
are a few bad eggs in the basket who are spoiling everyone’s picnic. ’ “ .

A good example of this brand of black comedy is the scene where Shentt Ivlurgie
captures the principal wrong-doer. The setting is a lonely fishing cabin l'1C.\lt0lIil'0ZCI‘I
lake; in the dead of winter everything is white. When the sheriff turn her head around
a corner, what does she see? The demented kidnapper, trying to destroy :1 human leg
in a wood chipper. There is a huge stream ofred coming from the chipper. standing out
from the whiteness all around. He looks up, as ifcaught in the middle ofbziking biscuits.
The whole scent is full of complete incongruities. The situation is repulsive. but the
characters act as if nothing abnormal is going on.

The result is that when I came away from Fargo, I was left with a lot of mixed
emotions. On the one had the random violence and the complete breakdown of the
kidnapping plan were disturbing, hinting at the arbitrariness of a Godless world.
Conversely, the police catch their man, the wrongdoers are punished, and sotiftelives go
on perfectly unmolested, happy, content and successful. Basically this ﬁlm is Hoosiers
meets Bonnie & Clyde, meets Heathers. It’s a well-made but confueedaafilaar-and I
emerged mysteriously unsatisfied. But I suppose that is sort oftheir point; after all, this
is a cinematic re-telling of very real, very confusing events.

says Fisher. ‘ A
Jhe exact history
‘Stillman, before gat ering ., '
" opinions with fellow meat,‘ "
“We get together and  3
‘ . Fisher recalls. The result? -
. r A- 40 pages of student art- ‘Ii ‘
I tions, but sheer interest is  
V “We’re alwaysbokittg fornewpea ewith-
' new ideas,” Fis§ier;affi_rms  __

 3  Qualiﬁcations 81’€i8'lPOT‘33§1§f9.i't.il€liﬁPi

       

. poemsghe 40 page length’,
. l_,1While thefcriticism is ofte

 

, I  I1 leveled at the

Ariel staff thatthe work of staff members‘
dominates those Works published, Stillman
emphasizes tha_t'eVeryone’s work receives
equal attention.

 . . , gazirieigattra s. submis-
file variety, of students.§ Fisher
 A __ . tlie’s_'taif eonsidered,over.70
;  studentworks of art and1iterature£er_the winter

 

Background art from cover art, Trans:
tion, by Jason Treat.

,_-vs

The Ring-tum Phi, March 29, 1996

it Ellie iﬂtttg-tum lﬂlti

The Student Voice of Washington and Lee
Founded September 18, 1897

And the Oscar goes to...

Like millions of Americans, many Washington

l and Lee students watched all or at least some of the
68th Annual Academy Awards Monday night.
Undoubtedly, you were bedazzled by all the glitter,
glamour, and style. Likewise, you yawned at the
meaningless and unending acceptance speeches that
droned on and on and on...

' You remember those actors who thanked
everyone from the director of the film down to the
guy who applied their rouge during the breaks.
Well, The Ring-tum Phi is not up for any awards
this year, but we refuse to be outdone by Oscar.

, As you may know, our old regime is moving
out and the new one is moving in. Emily and Dan
wish the new staff well and would also like to take
this opportunity to thank everyone who has helped
make this year a success. (Don’t worry, we will not
drone on forever—our producers said they would
cut to commercial if we ran too long.)

A very special thanks to our un-sung heros:
Associate Editor Michael Hewlett, News Editor
Christine Gamavish, Editorial Page Editor Hillary
Coombs, Sports Editor Scott Bookwalter, Assistant

‘ Sports Editor Bethany Bauman, Features Editor
Cindie Young, Features Editor Courtney e. Miller,
Photography Editor Betsy Green, Editorial Car-
toonist Phil Flickinger, and Editorial Cartoonist
Tom F allace.

We would also like to thank our wonderful
ansd talented staff writers and columnists: Tarah

‘ Grant, Keri Dunphy, Laura Knapp, Peggy Stuntz,
Darcey Livingston, Sara McCrone, Robin Seaton,

». Celeste Rasmussen, Kelley Totten, Jason
Zacher,Chris Pugsley, Alex Christensen, Jason

‘ Sorens, Nova Clarke, Joshua Heslinga, Betsy
Green, and Richard Weaver.

And finally a special thanks to our money-
minded business office: Business Manager Bob
Nelson, Assistant Business Manager Doug-Gertner,
Advertising Manager Jennifer Grant, and Advertis-
ing Composition Artist Anne Alvord.

To the W&L family

Thank you so much for all the support you have given us throughout this
horrendous loss we have had to endure. Your wonderful tributes, letters, notes,
and contributions have indicated your genuine caring and love for David (D.T.).

, Your thoughtfulness has been unending and kept us functioning. The incredible
A number of you who came to Baltimore for his service (despite the snow) was a
huge tribute to him and really meant a lot to us.

Eventually I will get individual “thank yous” written, but I know it will take
me a long time, and it is important to me that you know how special you all are
and that your kindness has been extremely appreciated. I have never been
surrounded by so many wonderful, caring, and loving people. I know you were
special to David and that he was very happy at W&L. You are a very caring
“family” and will always be part of my life.

Good luck with your futures and know that David (D.T.) is smiling and
asking you to be careful and try to make good decisions. I am asking that you
be careful and make good decisions so that David did not die in vain.

My door is always open to you if you are ever in the area.

Many many thanks for your support-

Very fondly,
Midge Thompson (D. T. ’s mom)

(lite ‘ﬂing-mm lﬂht

Executive Editors
Associate Editor
News Editor
Editorial Page Editor
Sports Editor gm" Bookwane,
Assistant Sports Editor Bethany Bauman
Features Editor ............................................................. ..Cindie Young, Courtney E. Miller
Photography Editor Betsy Gfegn
Editorial CarI00ni<!< Phil Flickinger, Tom Fallace

Emily Baker, Dan Odenwald
Michael Hewlett
Christine Gamavish
Hillary Coombs

Business Manager.
Assistant Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Advertisement Composition Artist

Robert Nelson
Doug Gertner
Jennifer Grant
Anne Alvord

The Ring-tum Phi is published Fridays during the undergraduate school year at
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia. Funding for The Ring-rum Phi
comes primarily from advertising and subscription revenues. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the executive editor and business manager, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

Letters and other submissions must be in the Phi ofﬁce, room 208 of the University
Center, by noon on Tuesday to appear in that week’s edition. Letters, columns, and “My
Views” do not reflect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertising
does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi

Post Office Box 899
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone (540)462-4059

Fax (540) 462-4060

E-mail phi@wIu.edu

PAGE 9

US needs tougher China policy  

MY VIEW
Joshua Heslinga, ’98

While BillClinton’s administration
has shown progress in the area of for-
eign policy, it remains utterly unable
and unwilling to take an uncompro-
mising stand for the interests of the
United States in its dealings with its
largest adversary, the People’s Repub-
lie of China.

Almost a week ago, Taiwanese vot-
ers returned President Lee Teng-hui to
ofﬁce with a landslide 54% majority in
a historic election that marked the first
time there has been a directly-elected
democratic leader in Chinese history.
Yet this triumph came only after a
tense stand-off between the United
States and China over a series of live-
fire drills run by the Chinese military
in an effort to intimidate voters in
Taiwan into electing a president that
would kowtow to Beijing’s commu-
nist regime. These drills included ﬁr-
ing unarmed missiles into the Taiwan
Strait a bare eleven miles from Tai-
wanese cities, requiring redirection of
international air and sea travel to avoid
the exercises.

U.S. policy toward Taiwan is gov-
erned by the 1979 Taiwan Relations
Act. That act prevents U.S. recogni-
tion of Taiwan while stating clearly
that communist China cannot resort to
force to determine the future of Tai-
wan, as it clearly attempted to do in
this clumsy effort at political manipu-
lation.

Mainland Chinese communist lead-
ers still regard Taiwan as a mere ren-
egade province that must one day be
reassimilated into China. And while
U.S. policy does hold to a vague future
one-China policy, the undeniable eco-

nomic and political progress of the
Taiwanese continues to make such a
future absorption a problematic affair
at best.

Unfortunately, the tendency of Chi-
nese communists to bully Taiwan has
been only one in a series of irrespon-
sible actions that compel the U.S. to
take seriously whether it can continue
to reward China for its behavior with
incentives such as Most Favored Na-
tion trading status.

China has
violated nuclear
nonproliferation

when Hong Kong reverts to Chinese
control in 1997, the harassment of dis-
sidents could expand there.

It continues a coercive and mur-
derous one-child population policy
that frequently leads to forced abor-
tions and other abuses. This policy,
which the United Nations still praises
and helps to enforce, even led re-
cently to documented incidents of can-
nibalism of aborted fetuses, condoned
by arms of the Chinese government.
This culture of
death is respect for
human rights and

agreements with
i m p u n i t y
through its sale
of sensitive
nuclear material
‘to Pakistan,
threatening the
balance of power.
in Asia. Just this
week, it com-
pleted the sale of
conventional
sea-based cruise-
missiles and mis-
sile boats to Iran,
which could
pose a threat to
unlimited access to the Persian Gulf.
It has refused to make a real effort
to stop widespread black market pi-
racy of U.S. software and other tech-
nologies in China, costing U.S. busi-
nesses about $2 billion each year.
China’s backward commercial
economy ignores global rules on trade
and provides virtually no mechanism
for the enforcement of contracts. As a
result of these unfair practices, China’s
trade surplus with the U.S. is $33.8
billion and growing rapidly.
It has continued to crack down on
democratic dissidents inside China, and

(C
The Chinese have
happily ignored U.S.
concerns and warn-
ings,secureintheim-
pression that they
face a weakpresident
whose foreign policy
allows them to get
 

dignity?

T h r o u g h o u t
these incidents,
the Chinese have
happily ignored
U.S. concerns and
warnings, secure
in the impression
that they face a
weak president
whose foreign
policy allows
them to get away
with anything.
And sadly, the
Clinton adminis-
tration has only
bolstered such impressions by.--refus-
ing to do anything more than repeat-
edly wam the Chinese government.-

By doing so, the United States has
abdicated its responsibility as leader of
the free world and abandoned its posi-
tion as the only nation powerful enough
to resist and overwhelm the forces of
communism worldwide, particularly
in Asia. U.S. ofﬁcials told Newsweek
that any failure to defend Taiwan will
destroy the U.S. ’s credibility in efforts
to keep a peace in Asia and could ignite
an Asian arms race where advanced
nations like Japan and South Korea

that normally rely on the U.S. for their
security quickly acquire the capability
for nuclear weapons.

Where President Reagan won peace
through strength, Bill Clinton has won
more conﬂict through appeasement by
refusing to apply the economic sanc-
tions that China’s military and com-
mercial actions merit under U.S. law.

Foreign policy has historically been
an arena largely free of partisan com-
bat. However, many in Congress are
now coming to the realization that the
Clinton administration’s actions have
seriously weakened the United States’
position internationally and that the
U.S. must stop mere posturing and
stand up for principle and national
interest.

Upcoming debate over the renewal
of China’s MFN trade status and
Clinton administration decisions re-
gardingthepossibleapplicationoftrade
sanctions will make it clear whether
Bill Clinton is willing to act as a strong
advocate for U.S. interests or whether
he is capable only of token reactions to
the most extreme provocations. Since
China’s exports to the U.S. account for
a third of its total, compared with the
mere 2% of U.S. exports that go to
China, sanctions provide the U.S.’s
best hope to force the Chinese to act
responsibly on crucial military and
trade issues.

Whether or not Congress decides to
increase its symbolic recognition of
Taiwan, it should make it clear to the
Chinese communists that tyrannical
and irresponsible behavior will not be
tolerated. And while the need for a
more hawkish policy should not pre-
vent recognition of positive Chinese
actions or descend to counterproduc-
tive hard-line posturing, the U.S. must
show China that ideas have power and
actions have consequences.

Private justice: moderate anarchy

MY VIEW

Jason Sorens, ’98.

The ultimate key to reforming the justice system
is to end government control over it.

Many of you know that I apply the label “libertar-
ian” to my political philosophy, and my arguments
flow outof that tradition. But what I will argue in this
column is not necessarily the opinion of most self-
described libertarians.

Second, my argument will doubtless provoke
indignation and knee—jerk denial in almost all of you.

Ialso recoiled at the idea of a privatejustice system,

whenl first heard it. But I hope that you will give this
argument a fair hearing in the long run.

Government is always morally illegitimate. Po-
litical philosopher Murray Rothbard made the clas-
sic moral case against government in his treatise For
a New Liberty. He wrote:

If we analyze taxation, we ﬁnd that, among all the
persons and institutions in society, only the govem-
ment acquires its revenues through coercive vio-
lence. Everyone else in society acquires income either
through voluntary gift (lodge, charitable society,
chess club) or through the sale of goods or services
voluntarily purchased by consumers. If anyone but the
government proceeded to “tax,” this would clearly be
considered coercion and thinly disguised banditry.
Yet the mystical trappings of “sovereignty” have so
veiled the process that only libertarians are prepared to
call taxation what it is: legalized and organized theft
on a grand scale (11-12).

No matter how good and noble the ends may be,
using taxation as a means is immoral. The ends
never justify the means.

Thus, we find it absurd to call government a
“necessary evil.” If the government is evil, it is
absolutely not necessary, but rather wholly unjust.
We should then end taxation and regulation com-
pletely, and let the private sector assume all of the
govemment’s previous functions, including crimi-
nal justice.

But in many Americans there runs a pragmatic
streak that deﬁnes the good in termsof usefulness. But
even by this standard, a private justice system would
be more useful and efficient than the tax-supported,
monopolistic justice system we currently have.

David Friedman, son of Milton, has written a
clear and entertaining defense of “radical capital-
ism,” in which he shows why we should privatize the
whole government, piece by piece. His book makes

the strongest case to date for a private, competitive
justice system. The book is called The Machinery of
Freedom, and I will quote from it liberally.

Let us imagine how a private, competitive justice
system would work. In the case of businesses’
seeking to enforce contracts, the disputing parties
would go to an agreed-upon arbitrator. Neither firm
will want to break an arbitrator’s decision, because
such an act would ruin the ﬁrm’s reputation, and no
other ﬁrms will ever want to make contracts with that
firm again. Indeed, arbitration already works in the
private sector.

In the case of violence between individuals, arbi-
tration will likely not occur. The person who steals

..fr.0m.,y.0_u will not want to arbitrate with you. Thus,

we peaceful citizens have an incentive to find other
means of protecting ourselves. Hence the wide-
spread demand for burglar alarms, locks, and hired
guards. Under a wholly private justice system, we
might imagine an even greater array of private police
companies who would provide protection to their
customers.

But how would we prevent these protection com-
panies from going to war with one another? David
Friedman employs the following scenario to de-
scribe what might happen (115-116).

I come home one night and find my television
missing. I call my protection company, “Tannahelp,
Inc.” to report the theft. They send an agent, who
checks the automatic camera which Tannahelp has
installed in my living room. He discovers that one
“Joe Bock” has lugged the television set out the door.
Tannahelp contacts Joe and suggests that he return
the TV, along with an extra ten dollars for their
trouble. Joe maintainsthat he is innocent. Tannahelp
sends six employees to Joe’s home to collect the set.
Joe calls his protection agency, “Dawn Defense,” to
protect himself from the Tannahelp agents.

Friedman argues that the protection agencies will
do their utmost to avoid coming to blows, a situation
that would be quite messy and expensive indeed. So
Tannahelp and Dawn Defense get together to nego-
tiate. They can’t afford to waste money on a war
when their competitor “Murbard, Ltd.” could under-
cut their prices. So Tannahelp and Dawn eventually
decide to go to a neutral arbitrator to decide the case.

Private protection agencies would have incen-
tives not to go to war, and private arbitrators would
have incentives to maintain fair reputations.

But won’t the wealthy would get better treatment
under a private justice system through bribes?
Friedman argues plausibly that the incentives against
bribery would be much greater for private protection

agencies and arbitrators than for tax-supported,
monopolistic police departments and courts.

The only incentives against bribery in today’s
socialized system are jail time and getting voted out
of ofﬁce——only if they get caught. It is unlikely that
judges and policemen would be caught for bribery;
they are the very ones enforcing and interpreting the
laws. And voting is usually ineffective; the vast, vast
majority of incumbents are habitually re-elected,
and many judges don’t have to go through popular
elections.

Under a private system, customers would have
incentives to leave the company if it ceased to protect
them. Friedman writes, “The worse the job the

protection agency does, the lower the fee it must;
charge. If the customers of one agency ﬁnd they}
lose, on average, ten dollars a year more to thieves

than the customers of another, they will do business
with the inferior agency only if it is at least ten dollars
a year cheaper.” The only bribe a protection agency
would take is one that is greater than the amount of
the goods stolen, hardly a good deal for the thief who
wants immunity from punishment. A private protec-
tion agency would have no incentive to take bribes,
even if it could avoid getting caught.

Customers would have nothing to do with a
justice company that sells its services to the highest
bidder. Unlike other goods, justice is a good that, if
distributed more to one person, must be distributed
less to another. If I’m wealthy, and I buy a Jaguar,
I’m not taking anything from any poor person. On
the other hand, if I buy immunity from prosecution,
I am taking rights away from other people. These
people will therefore strenuously resist my pur-
chase.

Since the middle and lower classes vastly out-
number the wealthy even in total wealth, it would be
devastating to a rich person’s fortune to buy off a
protection agency at the level required to outbid all
the non-rich. Such an act would also be suicidal for
a protection agency ’s reputation. In short, no wealthy
person would be willing to shell out $20 million to a
protection agency to gain the freedom to steal from
the poor, and no protection agency will be willing to
sacrifice the vast majority of its potential income for
the sake of one ﬁckle customer.

The theories I have just described usually fall
under the labels “anarcho-capitalist” or “libertarian
anarchist.” According to these theories, we should
have law, but not government.

At the least, I hope this essay has provoked some
deep thought about the corruption and inefficiency
of our modern political structures.

Response to Saboe

Paul Saboe’s excellent article on
the honor system should have given
every member of the Washington
and Lee community occasion to
puase and reﬂect on themeaning of
living in a community that is truly
honorable. Students, alumni, and
faculty often boast about the honor
system without knowing its history
or ever engaging in any kind ofcriti-
cal reevaluation of the way we study,
work, or live. We do, however, need
to broaden our deﬁnition of honor-
able behavior.

Douglass Southall Freeman pro-
vides an interesting account of the
honor system in his biography of
Lee. After becoming president of the
college, Lee suspended all rules gov-
erning student life and appealed to
the honor and self-respect of each
student. Usually, he was successful,
but sometimes there were serious
problems. Freeman vividly describes
an 1867 breach of honor involving
an armed student, who planned to
dirupt a meeting oflocal black citi-
zens with the help of three of his
peers. Upon his arrival at the school
where the meeting was being held,

the students separated and surrounded
the building. A black man discovered
the leader of the group peering through
a weindow and began cursing him.
The student assaulted the man and left
the scene with his peers. He eluded
arrest but failed to escape discipline at
the college. Freeman writes: “In ac-
cordance with the honor system..., he
explained the circumstances and as-
sumed the entire blame.” Lee promptly
expelled him and reprimanded the oth-
ers. This incident suggests that Lee
intended the honor system to apply to
offenses other than lying, cheating,
and stealing.

A The white book gives a broad def"-
nition ofhonorand states: “The system
applies to any conduct considered dis-
honorable by the student generation
involved.” I think Lee would have
approved of every word of this state-
ment except the last five. Deﬁnitions
of honor do not change from one stu-
dent generation to another. The 1867
expulsion involved conduct that many
bitter and unreconstructed southern
students would have applauded. The
black man had violated a time-hon-
ored southern prohibition by speaking

to a white man in a disrespectful man-
ner. Yet Lee judged his action as dis-
honorable and punished him accord-
ingly. Assault is always unacceptable
behavior.

If deﬁnitions of honor do not sepa-
rate individual student generations, the
list of possible infractions does. Gen-
eral Lee did not have to worry about
fraternity hazing, students driving un-
der the inﬂuence of alcohol beverages,
drug trafficking or illegal drug use, or
students programming viruses onto
university computers. Today we also
worry about offenses like rape and
other forms of sexual misconduct. Each
of these are serious honor offenses that
have involved members of our com-
munity. Unfortunately, some students
will disagree and refuse to categorize
such actions as dishonorable. I only
hope that the rest of us can appeal to
their sense of self-respect and honor.

Fortunately, the vast majority of
students will never be guilty of any of
the offenses listed above, but let me
suggest a few less serious honor viola-
tions that may be more common prob-
lems at W&L:

——The person who removes a book
from the library without checking it
out and argues that this does not con-
stitute an honor violation because he

intends to return it.

——The students who highlights,
underlines, or defaces library books.

—Students who reﬁll drink cups
in the coop and do not pay extra, in
spite of a sign that prohibits free
refills.

—Those who engrave graffiti into
the doors of the library elevators and
marble bathroom stalls or mar the
surfaces of table tops, desks, and
other university furniture.

——A twenty-one year old student
who willfully purchases alcoholic
beverages for younger students in
violation of Virginia state law.

Most of us have seen evidence
that some of the minor infractions
listed above occur with some regu-
larity. A few people will argue that
my deﬁnition of honorable behavior
is far too conservative and is out of
step with the views of this student
generation. Gray hair and a bald head
certainly place me in an older genera-
tion, but I assert that some aspects of
an understanding of honorable be-
havior are timeless. Dishonorable
actionsoccurfrequently,andthe fail-
ure to recognize them as such is a
problem.

——Ted DeLaney,

assistant professor of History

 

 

Last Week:

Ellie iaing-tum Iﬁlﬁ

 

This

Week:

Sat. vs. Emory & Henry (2), 1 PM;

  

BASEBAI.L~ W, 16-15, at Lynchburg; W, 9-5, vs. Harnpden-Sydney '1‘ue3_ V5, Eﬁgtern Me,-monn‘ ' 3 PM
MLAcnoss2 - W, 19-5, vs. Bowdoin MIACROSSE - Sat. at Franklin & Marshall, 1:30 PM
WLAcRoss: - L, 10-9, vs. Denison; L, 97, vs. Coll. of Notre Dame Wlaacnossa - Sat. vs. Mary Washington, 2 PM;
M’I‘zNNis - W, 7-0, at Emory and Henry Wed. vs. Longwood, 4 PM
W'l‘zNNIs- W, 7-2, vs. Mary Washington; M'l‘aNN|s- Sat. at Emory, 10 AM; Tues. vs. E. Mennonnite
W, 5-1, vs. Williams; and Roanoke, 3 PM; Wed. vs. Lynchburg, 3PM
W, 9.0, at Roanoke GoLr- Wed. at Roanoke, 1 PM
GOLF - Finished first in W&L Invitational Tmcx - Sat. at Battleground Relays, 10 AM
PAGE 10 BASEBALL, LACROSSE, TENNIS, GOLF, TRACK AND FIELD

  

MARCH 29, 199

    

  .

‘unimpressed,  the. I

' ‘ ‘M83593, Wh<.>'i$‘ iii‘???

—gamesinithcf’99s.FecI ‘

I ‘ tournamet_1t’s taterrouads

..comc out of novvheieitlta
V year to  to.”v:natio

.. fumbled vthei.’b«_'tll, V 18 ' ti
. b9undswi:hV..Z.§¢‘q9ad$i¢

‘cake, at’ writes Spot’

’ -°113mPi°P5VhlP? 
 - :Mi¢1iig&9..??§dV$l¥¥YiY¢¥¥~
one c}ose:‘..giim6}*afte,f

the Fab Five might escape . —

,Michigan_didu’t'hav =
,; -Atechu_icalfoalwas;ca __
7. and UNC’.s' I)onalt't.,W

* this game, cither._ Nobody
“.stood‘mnch of a’cltao'ce' ,
' ‘against i-UNLV,‘ the most .-

 
  
   

memorie

 

sr SCOTI‘ Boot<wAL'r8s 

 

   
  
 
  
   

the NCAA.?I‘ournamentfo_r
the last ti§n1é,‘}ct {IS have a
moment "of; ‘siI<j:!,tc_ej‘
<>°3<=hil B01’ H_“ési1$=3'

thetancinaati Bear. 5 5  

 $136.. ,
citmati fonyard rocked the:
sporting estabiishntcnt by 
announcittgthatcight,yes,§:<—-1
eight Bearcats can .be:1ch..V 
over 300 pounds, Missis»-pp
sippi State"; obviousiy

 

    
   
  
 

e

V Bearcats at their own" go
and‘, named,‘ at trip?-:03"
Final Four.,VT1fh.,is Te

his good, days; ranting 
raving over 5 thc}'»’iack“{‘of
fouls calittd; white. Bali-"ft
dogs coach  W34“ 
liams, who has spentthc‘ ——_.i
whole tournament whine ‘ 
ing about”the‘=}3uildogs’.
lack of respect, finaliy had I -‘ .
something to smile about. 
Mississippi . State‘ is-‘
ciassic exampie ofa t ,
that bumbles around d_Ll2"~.<
ing the regular season,  .
gets hot at tournament time... .1.
and charges ,throt1gltt_
brackets. Mucitof this 
be attributed to the  ,
shooting of forward 5.
Dontae Jones, who is _i-_
bringingbackmemoriesof
Michigarfs Glen Rice 
the 1989 tourn‘ameat.. ;i ’
Meanwhile, Syracuseg:
has put together an out- .
standing run of its own,_ff
puilirig off conscctitiv.e£”'
he art-stopping? tiictorie ,
against Georgia and Kan» 
sas to reach the Fine} Four ‘A ._ ‘
and exercise‘ gitostsof ‘C
past totunanzentifaihzres. ~ V » V
5  SP9?-Ki*¥g*0f*9“.1'
narnent memories, _I
compiled a list of the’? ,
best NCAA‘ tournajn ‘

 
 

 
   

    

      

  
  
 
     
   

   

    
 
 
    
   
  
 

to disagree, atthoughicee
in mind _ that"‘I’m_§fm3i'aI
sticking toif ga,tncs'3'in' t

which carry more weigh
4.Ciemsoa‘v’s.UCoun,i V

l 3990 regiotiat_sc‘miﬁna!;‘V Q —

You have aproailyl j
memory if you rcmetgtber "
this game..1‘UConn "ha

    
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
  

pxominencégbut
playingintheir ast

season, sectningiyi 
the Huskies" xulagicai year
when it h_i_t,a iayu{5fota?t}e'
69 toad with a; ‘mere .1.
secondsleft-. But thenSco ,3
Burrell, who doubted as at;
minor league baseball»
pitcher, huried the ball
length of the couiftto

George; was céélaaly. 
the winningbaskets with
baseline jumper‘  i I
70 win. Ironiwtil 6.0.1812.

  

in UConn’s next game

 

Duke’s Christian taetta"
hi£theﬁI$!0fhiS_£foV9Sh0
Heard Round the World: "

.. 3..NorthCaroliaa‘
Michigan';1993natio ;

other‘:"durin‘g‘ this Vtoitrn
ment, audit aPPe3.r€d mat,»

again when it took control? ‘

' of the ball, trailing 7331.‘ . 

1\«iichigan’sChrisWebber, _;j'
playing his last cotlegiatec‘ 

same; -wascornered-gait "
cooity. cailed _aTtinteo,
ws:n9seconcs1‘et:.Exce

 
   
    
  

 

liams iced Ithei "1"-7-'71 mu
by sinkizigfourstraightfr
throwsfhcffab Fiye never
returned to the Final Fottrﬁ 
2. Duke Vs.‘ UNLV, '_
i991nat¥ona1 semtftnatt A 5
Duke, the 1990 rut1ue_r.~ 1 .
up to UNLV, didn’t figure , ‘ 5
to staad.f;much.chauce“imv ’ ’ *

 

    
 

 

See THE BIG
FAN,
V. column 6

Ande Jenkins netted four goals by halftime in W&L’s 19-5 win Saturday.

By BETHANY BAUMAN
Phi Assistant Sports Editor

The Washington and Lee Uni-
versity men’s lacrosse team added
to its already crowded win col-
umn last Saturday with a victory
over the Polar Bears of Bowdoin
College.

This was only the second meet-
ing ever between the two teams.
The ﬁrst matchup came in 1988,
when Bowdoin defeated W&L,
17-11. But the Polar Bears were
not destined to continue theirwin-
ning ways.

The game marked the begin-
ning of 24th—ranked Bowdoin’s
spring training trip, and the Gen-
erals proved more than up to the
task of showing the Polar Bears
what they need to work on during
the season.

The ninth-ranked Washington
and Lee squad jumped to an early
lead, scoring five goals to
Bowdoin’s one in the ﬁrst quarter.
The scoring in the first half was
led by junior attack Ande Jenkins,
who put all four of his goals in
before halftime.

The Generals opened the sec-
ond half with a comfortable 13-2

Photo courtesy of W&L Media Guide

Generals continue winning
ways versus Hampden-Sydney
Baseball team’s 3-2 ODAC log best in sixteen years

By CHRIS PUGSLEY
Phi Staff Writer

tributed four hits, and second baseman Tucker Bixby got credit for
that amazing double play that sealed the Hornets’ fate.

The Generals’ bats came alive after a slow offensive day against
Virginia Wesleyan. But, if you thought the Generals were content at
the .500 mark in the ODAC, you obviously were not at Smith Field on

Amid all the action of Fancy Dress the Washington and Lee
baseball team still managed to play two games this past week and
avoid the plague of April showers. The Generals moved above the
.500 mark in the ODAC with two straight victories.

On Monday, the Generals travelled to Fox Field to battle the
Lynchburg Hornets in a key ODAC matchup. The Hornets always
seem to be the nemesis of the Generals, defeating Washington and
Lee 17-4 and 3-2 last year, the ﬁnal loss coming on a suicide squeeze

bunt in the ﬁnal inning.

But, the Generals would not be denied their due revenge. In what
was termed a “slugfest”, the Generals squeezed a 16-15 victory out
of a game which saw the Generals smack twenty hits.

Senior pitcher Matt Ermigiotti continued his strong pitching and
survived a slow start in the ﬁrst ﬁve innings. With his seven innings
pitched he now leads the Generals’ staff with over forty total innings

pitched.

Matt Reedy came on in the ninth and induced an inning-ending
double play grounder with the bases loaded and one out to notch

another save.

Golf team captures
W&L Invitational

Dudley cards three-under-par 74
at Lexington Country Club

By JASON ZACHER
Phi Staff Writer

The W&L golf team took the
Washington and Lee Invitational
golf tournament on Tuesday,
placing first out of seven teams
with a score of 328.

Hampden-Sydney placed sec-
ond with a 331, Lynchburg ﬁn-
ished third with a 335,
Bridgewater and Roanoke tied
for fourth with 337, and Virginia
Wesleyan came in sixth at 348.

The Generals were led by
Tommy Dudley’s tournament
low, a three over par 74. Four
other Generals, freshman Rick
Burrice, senior Gam Mattingly,
sophomore Tim Zink, and fresh-
man John Huntingdon also
placed in the top 20.

Burrice scored an 82,
Mattingly shot an 84, and Zink
and Huntingdon each carded an
88. Jay Ingram and Trevor Spen-
cer both ﬁnished with an 89.

The Generals will next com-
pete at Roanoke on Wednesday.

Wednesday.

The Generals welcomed archrival Hampden-Sydney to Lexington
on Wednesday, determined to continue their winning streak. For a
brief moment it looked as if the streak might be over.

The Tigers jumped out to a quick 5-0 lead and it looked as if the
Generals might lose. But that was short-lived. The Generals inched
their way back into the game over the next three innings and exploded
to score four runs and hand the Tigers a 9-5 loss.

Junior pitcher Rob Boston picked up his ﬁrst collegiate victory on
the mound and pitched masterfully after an initial slow start. Boston
kept the Tigers off—balance and kept Tigers’ slugger Mark Hazelwood
hitless.

Matt Reedy came on in the ninth for the ﬁnal out and maintained
his place as the Generals’ all-time career save leader.

Matt Errnigiotti ripped a double to right ﬁeld to start the scoring
barrage and continued his strong play at the bat.

The Generals are now 7-7 overall and 3-2 in the ODAC.

Washington and Lee plays host to Emory and Henry for a double-
header -at Smith Field at 1PM on Saturday. Then, the Generals host
Eastern Mennonite for a game at 3PM on Tuesday before exam break.
Tuesday’s game will also be carried exclusively on WLUR FM 91.5.

Men’s lacrosse crushes
Bowdoin Polar Bears

edge over the Polar Bears.
Sophomore attack Jason Myers
quickly netted two goals for
Washington and Lee. The Gen-
erals went on to win, 19-5, with
Jenkins and Myers leading the
way with four goals apiece.
Junior midfielder Shane
McLaughlin, sophomore
midﬁelder Ed Dougherty, and
sophomore attack Tom Fallace
each added two goals, while se-
nior attack Russell Croft, senior
midﬁelder Adam Butterworth,
sophomore midfielder Robb

Greenfield, and senior
midﬁelder Duncan Slidell each
put in one.

Washington and Lee’s
goaltenders saw more rotation
than usual during the matchup
with Bowdoin._ Sophomore
goalie Scott Jackson, who made
ﬁve saves for the afternoon, was
backed up by junior Chris
TeStrake, who blocked three
shots, and freshman Chris
Noland, who stopped one. The
win put W&L at 6-1 for th
season so far. a

The Generals are now look-
ing forward to their next game,
which could be one of the tough-
est they play all season. They
will travel to Pennsylvania to

   
   
    
    
     
   
    
     
  
   
    
     
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
     
    
   
   
   
       
  
 
 

meet the Diplomats of Franklii
& Marshall College this Satur-
day. »

Fifth-ranked F&M goes intt
the matchup with a record of3-2-
This record includes a win OV(
Cortland State, who upset tb
Generals in the championshi,
round of the W&L Men’s Lad
crosse lnvitational earlier in the ,
season. The Diplomats are led
by two of the best attackmcn in
Division III, seniors Chris’
Mergardt and Don Gervais.

This game could bring back .
fond memories for W&L goalie
Scott Jackson. During last year’s
meeting with the Diplomats,
Jackson saw his ﬁrst substantial
playing time of the season, and ,
turned in a solid performance’
with nine saves and only ﬁve
allowed goals.

The series between Franklin ’
& Marshall and W&L stands a
5-5, with the Generals looking
for their first victory over tht
Diplomats since 1993.

Whichever team wins on Sat
u_rday will probably move int
the top five of the USILI
coaches’ poll, following 12t
ranked Middlebury College
upset of fourth-ranked Roano v.
on Wednesday.

 

J ockShorts

  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
  
    
   
    
    
   
   
   
     
   
   
    
     
    
   
  
    
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 

THE BIG FAN,
from column 1

dominant team in the last de-
cade. UNLV was 34-0 on the
season and had annihilated ev-
eryone in its path, but Duke
wouldn’t go quietly into the
night. In fact, they didn’t go at
all. Laettner nailed two free
throws to give Duke a 79-77
lead with about 10 seconds left.
A confused Larry Johnson aired
up a wild three-pointer as time
ran out on UNLV’s perfect sea-

 

Women’s Tennis

Photo courtesy of W&L Media Guide T
The Generals tee off at the Lexington Country Club

ATHLETES 0F

    

Ericka Shapard

Shapard had a huge week on the courts
as she won the #1 doubles and #2 singles at
Guilford, and captured the #2 doubles and
the #3 singles versus Mary Washington.

THE WEEK

 

Nathan Hottle

Men's Swimming

Hottle dominated the NCAA Cham-
pionships last weekend by winning All-
Amcrica awards in the 200 IM, the 200
breast, and the 100 breast.

son and Duke escaped with on«
of the most stunning upsets ever ,

1. Kentucky vs. Duke, 1992
regional ﬁnal:

From halftime on, emotion
rode on every basket. Kentucky
rallied back from a double-digit,
second half deﬁcit, and the lead‘
kept bouncing back and forth
through the end of regulation and
into overtime. Finally with time
running out, Kentucky’s Sean }
Woods, one of a few players who '
had remained at UK despite sev-
eral years of probation during the
Eddie Sutton era, hit a running ‘
jumper in the lane, giving UK a ‘
103-102 lead. With only 2.1 sec- T
onds left, Duke’s repeat title g
hopes were all but dashed. But A
then Duke’s Grant Hill threw a
long outlet pass similar to
Burrell’s pass two years earlier.
Laettner grabbed it at "the foul ’
line, turned around, and the rest
you’ll see forever on CBS’s tour-
nament intro. Duke carried its
incredible 104-103 win onto an-
other national championship _
over, yes, the Fab Five.

It would be great if we could
see a game in this year’s Final —
Four with the same intensity and
excitement of one of those ﬁve
games, as well as the many oth-
ers which deserve mention. And -
maybe the next Laettner, George, -
Rumeal Robinson, Keith Smart, ,
or Chris Webber will develop.

 
 
  
   
 
 
    
  
  
   
  
   
 
    
   
 
 

  

    

 

